The 12–6 curveball is one of the types of pitches thrown in baseball. It 
is categorized as a breaking ball because of its downward break. The 12–6 
curveball, unlike the normal curveball (also referred to as the "11 to 
5 curve" or a "2 to 8 curve" for its motion), breaks in a downward motion 
in a straight line. This explains the name "12–6", because the break of 
the pitch refers to the ball breaking from the number 12 to the number 
6 on a clock.[1][2] While the 11-5 and 2-8 variations are very effective 
pitches, they are less effective than a true 12–6 because the ball will 
break into the heart of the bat more readily.[1][3] The pitch is used throughout 
Major League Baseball. It has several nicknames, including the "yellow 
hammer".[4] The 12 to 6 curveball is the toughest type of curveball to 
hit as a batter, because it moves vertically, and has no horizontal break. 
The difference of the speed from a fastball and the break make the pitch 
difficult to hit if a pitcher uses it correctly in a pitching sequence.[2] 
The 12 to 6 curveball is usually pitched from the overhand motion, as a 
three-quarters or sidearm delivery would cause the ball to break 2 to 8 
instead of 12 to 6.[2] The sharp vertical break on the 12–6 curveball is 
created when pitchers apply topspin to the ball with their fingers in the 
process of releasing it.[2] Depending on the situation and the type of 
pitcher, the 12–6 curveball may be more or less effective. Against a batter 
with the same handedness as the pitcher, the 12 to 6 curveball has been 
proven to be a very effective pitch in general. However, the pitch is much 
easier for the batter to hit if they are the opposite handedness of the 
pitcher, making an 11 to 5 curveball the more effective pitch type in that 
situation.[1] The effectiveness of the pitch also depends on the ability 
of the pitcher to apply topspin to the ball, creating movement. When stats 
for a high level pitcher's average 12 to 6 curveball are factored in, the 
12 to 6 and the 11 to 5 are much more effective against hitters than Major 
League Baseball's average throwers of the pitch due to the pitcher's high 
level of ability for that pitch.[1] The 12–6 curveball is thrown similar 
to most curveballs. The pitch is generally thrown using a four-seam grip, 
in which the middle finger on the pitcher's throwing hand is placed in 
the gap between the two seams on the right side, and the index finger is 
placed directly next to it. The pitcher's thumb is placed directly on the 
bottom of the baseball. This grip allows the pitcher to create a high amount 
of topspin while still having a good control of the pitch. The pitch is 
then thrown with an exaggerated 12–6 motion with both the middle finger 
and the thumb simultaneously helping move the baseball towards home plate, 
while the pitcher's index finger giving the ball topspin. This extensive 
combination of mechanics makes this one of the most difficult pitches to 
