16-inch softball (sometimes called "clincher", mushball,[1] cabbageball[2][3] 
or blooperball) is a variant of softball, but using a bigger, squishier 
ball with no gloves or mitts on the fielders. Although it most closely 
resembles the original game as developed in the 19th century by George 
Hancock, today it remains popular almost exclusively in Chicago but is 
also popular in Portland, Oregon, where Mushball has had leagues since 
the 1960s.[4] The first set of rules were published in 1937 by the Amateur 
Softball Association, in the same manual as the rules for fastpitch softball.[5] 
16 inch softball game play is mostly consistent with standard softball 
game play. 16 inch softball, compared to standard or 12 inch softball, 
is played with a ball 16" in circumference. Leagues may form co-ed, all-male 
or all-female teams. Additionally, teams may choose competitive or recreational 
leagues. There may be rule variations associated with the specific field 
or league of play. When playing in a co-ed league, there may be other rules 
that apply related to the male to female ratio of team members and batting 
order.[6][7] The National Softball Association (NSA) also has a published 
set of rules governing 16 inch softball play.[8] The earliest known softball 
game of any kind was played in Chicago on Thanksgiving Day 1887. The first 
softball was a wrapped up boxing glove and the bat was a broom. Harvard 
and Yale students invented the game while waiting to hear the results of 
the annual Harvard-Yale football game. Until the turn of the 20th century, 
ball sizes ranged from 12 to 17 inches in circumference. The 16 inch softball 
was eventually adopted in Chicago because it didn't travel as far as the 
popular 12 or 14 inch balls. This allowed for play on smaller playgrounds 
or even indoors accommodating the Chicago landscape and climate. Another 
advantage of the 16 inch ball was that it allowed everyone to play barehanded. 
Gloves were a rare luxury as the Great Depression hit Chicago particularly 
hard. After the first national championship held in 1933 at the Century 
of Progress World's Fair, the sport grew in popularity. A professional 
league was formed that lasted through the 1950s. Teams drew crowds of over 
10,000 each night. Leagues continue today but not at the same level of 
popularity. There are co-ed recreational leagues, competitive leagues and 
even a league for Chicago Public School students.[9] Many local organizations 
host regular season play, typically weekly games, as well as their own 
playoff systems. National organizations, such as the NSA, host a variety 
of tournaments. By placing well in NSA tournaments, teams can qualify and 
compete for the 16 inch softball world series.[10] Because local leagues 
may have slight variations in rules, the NSA world series is played by 
its own set of world series rules. One notable change is that Chicago area 
players, who typically are not allowed to wear gloves, may choose to wear 
gloves in world series games.[8] In the Bay City, Michigan area the game 
is known as "blooperball". Bay City Blooperball is a league for those players 
forty years old and over. The games are played with an official DeBeer 
Clincher 16" ball. The league provides a quality recreational experience 
for ballplayers as they enter another phase of their careers. There are 
two ball fields located at Defoe Park in Bay City Michigan. Together with 
the two blooperball fields Defoe Park provides the venue for "The Rehab", 
a popular charity blooperball event that has taken place the weekend after 
Labor day, for almost forty years. Ten teams and over 150 players participate 
in the 40 & Over Blooperball League.[11] The Bay City players do use gloves 
during play because the ball tends to be hit very hard by the batters. 
Blooperball has been played in the area continuously since the 1930s down 
to the present. Organization Mission: The Chicago 16" Softball Hall of 
Fame has been formed to promote the great game that started in Chicago 
by honoring and recognizing the game's best players, teams and supporters. 
In 1996 Al Maag and Tony Reibel established the 16" softball hall of fame. 
Since inception, the organization has held annual inductee dinners that 
are attended by over 600 guests. The organization is currently raising 
money to erect a museum in Forest Park, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago. 
The Chicago 16" Softball Hall of Fame is a registered 501(c) not-for-profit 
