The following are the baseball events of the year 1869 throughout the world. 
At its December 1868 meeting the NABBP permitted professional clubs for 
the first time. There had been no professional clubs outside the Association 
and no brand new professional clubs were established for 1869. Rather, 
the entire first-year effect of the change was that twelve existing members 
declared professional status. All of them had fielded at least regionally 
strong teams in 1868 and most if not all had compensated at least some 
of their players. (Some compensation of players continued in the amateur 
field.) The Cincinnati Red Stockings were first to sign an all-salary team, 
ten men for eight months. From the west, the strongest team in Cleveland 
also joined the pro field. From the eastern corridor there were ten including 
all of the one-time champions and claimants. Cincinnati was unbeatable. 
Otherwise the record of professional matches (see table) is remarkable 
for its balance, relative to the records of the stronger teams during the 
amateur era and to most of the following pro seasons. The Irvingtons did 
not travel, or win; after July they played only two matches with the Mutuals 
(four in all). Forest City of Cleveland did not travel far, only to Cincinnati 
and upstate New York. Those two did not face each other or any of the three 
teams standing just above them. That imbalance, typical of the time, contributed 
to the losing records of all five. Weaker teams were weaker gate attractions 
with less incentive and almost always less ability to travel. The Irvingtons 
disbanded and the Keystones returned to amateur ranks but all the others 
remained in the professional field for 1870. Indeed, all but Cincinnati 
remained in operation at least to 1872. The amateur ranks during 1869 probably 
included some clubs who compensated their players by traditional methods 
such as division of the gate receipts (as Spalding said of Rockford by 
the end of the decade). Four of the amateurs would "go pro" in 1870, including 
the Forest City of Rockford, Illinois with some success. The professional 
field was relatively strong in 1869 and its weaker teams did not play many 
games. The Forest Citys did not beat any pro teams, but they played only 
four matches with Cincinnati, losing three by twenty runs and one by merely 
14–15 on July 24. (They traveled no further than Detroit and Ohio while 
eastern pros also traveled no further than Ohio, home of their westernmost 
rivals. Even so, the Forest Citys of Rockford and Cleveland did not get 
together.) The Stars of Brooklyn, led pitcher Candy Cummings, won 2 of 
7 matches with pro teams, beating the Mutuals 26–12 on June 19 and the 
visiting Olympics of Washington 49–11 on July 19. They lost five to the 
Mutuals and Atlantics by only 28 runs, total margin. Harvard college won 
1 of 6 against pros, beating the powerful Athletics of Philadelphia 35–21 
on July 9; next day they lost a close one to the much weaker Keystones. 
Against amateurs Star won fourteen with one defeat; Harvard won thirteen 
with one draw. Next season they would win six each against the slightly 
larger pro field. Lowell of Boston, listed among the major teams by Bill 
Ryczek, played three fairly close game against the pros, losing 21–26 to 
the Mutuals, 9–29 to undefeated Red Stockings, and 33–38 to the Eckfords. 
Pastime of Baltimore won 2 of 9 against pro teams, including 1 of 4 local 
matches Maryland and one with the Troy Haymakers. The Olympics, Mutuals, 
Athletics, and Keystones beat them four teams by only 32 runs, total margin. 
Resolute of Elizabeth, New Jersey beat Irvington 16–15 and lost twice to 
the Eckfords. Their records against pro teams: These six amateur teams 
barely faced each other on the field: Lowell lost six to its local rival 
Harvard and one to Star (July 5, the Fourth being a Sunday that year). 
Harvard toured for ten days but played only the professional Eckfords in 
