In baseball, the 1884 World Series was a post-season championship series 
between the Providence Grays of the National League and the New York Metropolitans 
of the American Association at the Polo Grounds in New York City. While 
the 1884 post-season championship series was the first such to be referred 
to as the "World's Series," Major League Baseball considers the 1903 World 
Series the first. In 1884, Metropolitans manager Jim Mutrie issued a challenge 
to his NL counterpart, Frank Bancroft of the Grays. Mutrie's challenge 
was for a best-of-three series. Each team would put up a thousand dollars 
with the winner taking the booty. This pre-modern-era World Series would 
feature a pitching match-up of future Hall of Famers and 300-game winners 
Charles "Old Hoss" Radbourn and Tim Keefe. That was the year Radbourn won 
his season-record 59 games (some sources say 60) for the Grays. Keefe was 
a "mere" 37–17. Playing under American Association rules, Radbourn and 
the Grays defeated the New York team in the first two games, 6–0 and 3–1. 
Only the first game went the full nine innings; the others were called 
after seven and six, because of darkness and extreme cold, respectively. 
The third game arguably should never have been played as the format was 
best-of-three, and Providence clinched in two. It was played with the hope 
of generating further revenue. The crowd for the third game comprised only 
300 people due to bitter cold. The Gray did not want to play due to the 
weather but were given the option of choosing the umpire if they would 
play. The Grays accepted and strategically chose Keefe, the Mets best pitcher. 
Radbourn, pitching his third complete game in three days, led the Grays 
to a 12–2 rout. For the series, Radbourn allowed 11 hits and no earned 
runs in 22 innings. Local newspaper The New York Clipper called the series 
"The Championship of the United States." Several newspapers such as The 
Sporting Life penned the Grays as "World Champions", and the new title 
stuck. The total attendance for the three games was 3,800. Despite the 
low attendance, the two leagues continued the series, and attendance and 
prize money increased each of the next two years. Providence Grays (NL) 
(84–28) vs New York Metropolitans (AA) (75–32) Thursday, October 23, at 
the Polo Grounds. Providence defeats New York 6–0 Umpire: John Kelly Time 
of game: 2:00 W: Old Hoss Radbourn(1–0) Friday, October 24, at the Polo 
Grounds Providence defeats New York 3–1 (7 innings) Umpire: John Remsen 
Time of game: 1:35 Saturday, October 25, at the Polo Grounds Providence 
defeats New York 12–2 (6 innings) Umpire: Timothy Keefe Time of game: 1:20 
