The 1898 Western Pennsylvania All-Star football team was a collection of 
early football players, from several teams in the area, to form an all-star 
team. The team was formed by Dave Berry, the manager of the Latrobe Athletic 
Association, for the purpose of playing the Duquesne Country and Athletic 
Club, which fielded a team composed of many of the game's stars from the 
era. The game between the two clubs ended in a 16-0 Duquesne victory and 
is considered to be the very first all-star game for professional football. 
Contrary to popular belief, while the game was held at Exposition Park, 
which would be currently located inside of the city limits of Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, the 1898 location of the game was Allegheny, Pennsylvania 
which was not incorporated into the city of Pittsburgh until 1907. At the 
end of the Duquesne Country and Athletic Club's 1897 season, the club signed 
a number of talented players to contracts for the upcoming 1898 season. 
However, in April 1898, the Spanish–American War began. As a result, many 
of the team's recently signed players ended up in the United States Army. 
Looking for a solution to the problem, Duquesne manager William Chase Temple 
went out and signed up replacement players. Temple succeeded, and he received 
excellent results, when it was noticed that some of the replacements actually 
ended up being even more talented than the original contracted stars. However 
that August, the war ended, with an American victory, and the soldiers 
quickly returned home. As a result, the Duquesnes suddenly found themselves 
with a surplus of pro football stars under contract. The team had so much 
depth, that it's benchwarmers would have starred for lesser teams. The 
amount of talent on the field was also reflected on the team's ledgers. 
Due to the high payroll, Temple eventually took over the payments to the 
athletes, thus becoming the first individual professional football team 
owner. After a 7–0–1 season, the Duquesnes' team was being compared favorably 
with the 1896 team put together for a two-game stand by the Allegheny Athletic 
Association, featuring William Heffelfinger. However Latrobe manager Dave 
Berry knew the all-star depth of the Duquesne team. He then conceived the 
idea of opposing the Duquesnes with an all-star team that drawn from the 
best players from all the other area teams. A game between the two teams 
was then arranged for Saturday, December 3, at Exposition Park. Berry began 
signing up stars, however he did not sign up everyone that he wanted. The 
leaders of the Greensburg Athletic Association opposed the game and did 
their best to discourage their players from taking part in it. The Washington 
& Jefferson Presidents football team also followed by disallowing their 
players from taking part in the game. Sam Boyle, an end from Penn State, 
was asked by Berry to be the team's captain, however he declined. No members 
from the Pittsburgh Athletic Club appeared on the team either. Berry was 
forced to rely heavily on his own Latrobe team, which fielded Eddie Wood, 
Doggie Trenchard, Harry Ryan, George Krebs, Bill Hammer, Jack Gass and 
Grennie Lewis. However George Barclay and Babe Rinehart, both from the 
Greensburg Athletic Association, decided to play on Berry's team despite 
the warnings given to them by Greensburg officials not to do so. The All-Stars 
were outplayed by their Duquesne opponents. While both teams consisted 
of top tier players, the All-Stars consisted of lots of individual talent 
but no teamwork. Meanwhile, Duquesne played the entire 1898 season together 
and formed the bonds of teamwork during that time. A little into the 2nd 
quarter, Duquesne scored with a Roy Jackson touchdown. However they could 
not convert the extra point, and the score stood 5-0 at halftime (touchdowns 
were only 5 points at the time). In the third quarter, Duquesne's J.A. 
Gammons ran 60 yards for a touchdown on a punt return. Roy Jackson scored 
Duquesne's third touchdown late in the game, after the team put together 
a scoring drive of 80 yards on just four plays. The extra point attempt 
failed, however the game ended in a 16-0 Duquesne win. Hours before the 
start of his all-star game, Dave Berry was "arrested" by one of his Latrobe 
players for a debt he claimed Berry owed him. Berry paid the $33 owed and 
then had the player arrested on false arrest charges. at Exposition Park, 
Allegheny, Pennsylvania Attendance for the game was only 1,500 people. 
Part of the blame was due to many Pittsburghers considering the football 
season over with the Thanksgiving Day games. Uncertain weather was also 
blamed for the poor attendance. However most of the blame went to the leaders 
of the Greensburg Athletic Association, who were accused of spreading rumors 
