The 1903 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the 22nd year the Pittsburgh Pirates[1] 
played in Major League Baseball. The club finish their season as National 
League champions, beating the second-place New York Giants by 6½ games. 
They went on to participate in the 1903 World Series, the first to be played 
between the champions of the National League and American League. The Pirates 
started off well, winning 3 of the first four games, but the Boston Americans 
won the last four straight to win the series five games to three. The Pirates 
set a record of 52 consecutive innings without scoring a run, a record 
that still stands today.[citation needed] [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] 
Infielders Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Pittsburgh Pirates 
vs. Boston Americans October 1, 1903, at Huntington Avenue Grounds in Boston, 
Massachusetts The Pirates started Game 1 strong, scoring six runs in the 
first four innings. They extended their lead to 7–0 on a solo home run 
by Jimmy Sebring in the 7th, the first home run in World Series history. 
Boston tried to mount a comeback in the last three innings, but it was 
too little, too late, as they ended up losing by a score of 7–3 in the 
first ever World Series game. Both starting pitchers, Deacon Phillippe 
of the Pirates and Cy Young of Boston, threw complete games, with Phillippe 
striking out 10 and Young fanning 5, but Young also gave up twice as many 
hits and allowed 3 earned runs to Phillippe's 2. October 2, 1903, at Huntington 
Avenue Grounds in Boston, Massachusetts After starting out strong in Game 
1, the Pirates simply shut down offensively, managing to get a meager 3 
hits, all of which were singles. Pirates starter Sam Leever went only one 
inning and gave up 3 hits and 2 runs before being replaced by Bucky Veil 
in the second inning due to injury, who finished the game for Pittsburg. 
Bill Dinneen struck out 11 and pitched a complete game for the Americans, 
while Patsy Dougherty hit home runs in the first and sixth innings to produce 
2 of the Boston's 3 runs. October 3, 1903, at Huntington Avenue Grounds 
in Boston, Massachusetts Deacon Phillippe, pitching on only one day rest, 
started Game 3 for the Pirates, and did not let them down as he pitched 
his second complete game victory of the series to put the Pirates up two 
games to one. October 6, 1903, at Exposition Park in Allegheny, Pennsylvania 
After two days of rest, Deacon Phillippe was ready to pitch his second 
straight game. He threw his third complete game victory of the series against 
Bill Dinneen, who was pitching in his second start of the series. However, 
Phillippe's second straight victory was almost not to be, as the Americans, 
down 5–1 in the top of the ninth, staged a rally to bring the game within 
one. The comeback attempt failed, though, as Phillippe managed to put an 
end to it and give the Pirates a commanding 3–1 series lead. October 7, 
1903, at Exposition Park in Allegheny, Pennsylvania Game 5 was a pitcher's 
duel for the first five innings, with Boston's Cy Young and Pittsburgh's 
Brickyard Kennedy giving up no runs. That changed at the top of the sixth, 
however, when the Americans scored a then-record 6 runs that inning. Young, 
on the other hand, managed to keep his shutout intact before finally giving 
up a pair of runs in the bottom of the eighth. He went the distance and 
struck out four for his first World Series win. October 8, 1903, at Exposition 
Park in Allegheny, Pennsylvania Game 6 featured a rematch between the starters 
of Game 2, Bill Dinneen (Boston) and Sam Leever (Pittsburg). This time, 
Leever would pitch the entire game, but despite throwing a complete game 
he was outmatched by Dinneen, who ended up with his second complete game 
victory of the series. After losing three of the first four games of the 
World Series, the underdog Boston Americans had tied the series at three 
games apiece. October 10, 1903, at Exposition Park in Allegheny, Pennsylvania 
The fourth and final game in Allegheny City saw Deacon Phillippe start 
his fourth game of the series for Pittsburg. This time, however, he wouldn't 
fare as well as he did in his first three starts. Cy Young, pitching in 
his third start of the series, would face a much more favorable fate, holding 
the Pirates to only three runs. October 13, 1903, at Huntington Avenue 
Grounds in Boston, Massachusetts The final game of the inaugural World 
Series started out as an intense pitcher's duel, with no runs being scored 
until the fourth inning – when a Hobe Ferris single scored two runners. 
Deacon Phillippe started his fifth and final game of the series, while 
Bill Dinneen started his fourth game of the series. As he did in Game 2, 
Dinneen threw a complete game shutout while striking out seven, leading 
the Boston Americans to victory, while Phillippe, who also threw a respectable 
game, just couldn't pitch at Dinneen's level due to wearing out his arm 
in the series (as a result of playing so many games in such a short time 
span) and gave up three runs in the defeat. Honus Wagner struck out to 
