The 1905 World Series matched the National League (NL) champion New York 
Giants against the American League (AL) champion Philadelphia Athletics, 
with the Giants winning four games to one. Four of the five games featured 
duels between future Hall of Fame pitchers. Each of the five games was 
a shutout. Three of those, over a six-day span, were pitched and won by 
Christy Mathewson, a 25-year-old Giants hurler who established himself 
as a first-magnitude star in doing so. NL New York Giants (4) vs. AL Philadelphia 
Athletics (1) Monday, October 9, 1905, at Columbia Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania The opening game was a pitchers' duel between Christy Mathewson 
and Eddie Plank. Both got out of jams, shutting the offense down. In the 
Giants' top of the fifth, Mathewson singled but was forced by Roger Bresnahan, 
who stole second shortly afterwards. After George Browne popped out, Mike 
Donlin singled to left, scoring Bresnahan and advancing Donlin to second. 
After Dan McGann walked, Sam Mertes doubled, bringing home Donlin. In the 
Athletics' half of the sixth, Ossee Schreckengost doubled, advanced to 
third on a wild pitch but did not score, and was the lone runner to reach 
third base against Mathewson in the entire Series. The Giants added an 
insurance run in the ninth, when Billy Gilbert scored on Bresnahan's single. 
This was the first of Mathewson's three complete game shutouts, a Series 
record that may never be matched. Tuesday, October 10, 1905, at the Polo 
Grounds (III) in upper Manhattan, New York The A's called on Chief Bender 
to turn the tables on the Giants. His opponent was 21-game winner "Iron 
Man" Joe McGinnity. The game was scoreless until the top of the third. 
Ossee Schreckengost, leading off, reached on a Dan McGann's error. Bender 
sacrificed, moving Schreckengost to second. After a groundout by Topsy 
Hartsel moved Schreckengost to third, Bris Lord singled to left and drove 
Ossee home with an unearned run. The slim margin held until the top of 
the eighth, when the A's put a crooked number on the board. With one out, 
Schreckengost was once again the catalyst, singling to center. After Bender 
flied out to right field, Hartsel's double scored Schreckengost all the 
way from first (helped by an error from Bresnahan), and a single by Lord 
brought Hartsel home, making it 3–0 in favor of the A's with all three 
runs unearned. Bender continued to cruise, got out of late-inning jams 
and ended up with a complete game shutout that tied the Series at one game 
apiece. Thursday, October 12, 1905, at Columbia Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Christy Mathewson once again took the mound for the Giants in Game 3. Opposing 
him this time was Andy Coakley, who hit the first batter he faced, Roger 
Bresnahan, with a pitch. A single to right by Mike Donlin moved Bresnahan 
to third with one out. Dan McGann singled to right, bringing Bresnahan 
home. An error by Danny Murphy scored Donlin and put Sam Mertes on base. 
Bill Dahlen walked, loading the bases with one out. But Art Devlin hit 
into a double play, to end the rally. But the Giants put the game away 
in the top of the fifth. Bresnahan walked with one out. George Browne singled 
and went to second on the throw to third base. Donlin was walked intentionally, 
setting up a possible inning-ending double play, but things continued to 
crumble for Coakley and the A's. McGann reached on another error by Danny 
Murphy, reloading the bases and scoring a run. Mertes singled, reloading 
the bases and driving in another run. Bill Dahlen hit into a force play 
at second, scoring Donlin. After Dahlen stole second, Devlin singled, bringing 
home McGann and sending Dahlen to third. Devlin then stole second and Dahlen 
stole home on a double steal, scoring the fifth and last run of the Giants' 
fifth. They scored two more runs in the top of the ninth, when McGann doubled 
home Browne and Donlin. Mathewson pitched his second complete game shutout, 
giving the Giants a 2–1 lead in the Series. This was the first 9–0 World 
Series game. The next one had to wait until the Cubs shut out the Tigers 
by that lopsided score in Game 1 of the 1945 World Series, although Detroit, 
with Hank Greenberg and Hal Newhouser, ended up taking that Series four 
games to three. Friday, October 13, 1905, at the Polo Grounds (III) in 
upper Manhattan, New York Eddie Plank returned for the A's against Joe 
McGinnity for the Giants in Game 4. Both left men on in scoring position 
early on, and kept the game scoreless until the bottom of the fourth, when 
Sam Mertes led off the inning by reaching on an error by Monte Cross. After 
Bill Dahlen flied to right Art Devlin grounded out, moving Mertes to second. 
With two outs, Billy Gilbert singled to left, bringing Mertes home for 
the only run of the game, McGinnity outdueling Plank 1–0 and giving the 
Giants a three-games-to-one lead. Saturday, October 14, 1905, at the Polo 
Grounds (III) in upper Manhattan, New York The Giants looked to wrap up 
the Series behind the perennial Christy Mathewson, who faced Chief Bender 
this time. The game was scoreless until the bottom of the fifth, when Sam 
Mertes scored during a bizarre double play involving Bill Dahlen and Billy 
Gilbert: with one out, Mertes on third, and Dahlen on second, Gilbert hit 
a sacrifice fly that scored Mertes, but Dahlen was out attempting to advanced 
to third, and this third out was recorded after Mertes had scored. In the 
eighth, the Giants got an insurance run when Mathewson scored on George 
Browne's groundout after Roger Bresnahan's double had sent him to third 
with less than two out. Mathewson then took the mound for the top of the 
ninth and induced three groundouts, thereby completing arguably the single 
greatest performance by any player in World Series history with his third 
complete game shutout of the Series. 1905 World Series (4–1): New York 
