The 1906 World Series featured a crosstown matchup between the Chicago 
Cubs, who had posted the highest regular-season win total (116) and winning 
percentage (.763) in the major leagues since the advent of the 154-game 
season; and the Chicago White Sox. The White Sox, known as the "Hitless 
Wonders" after finishing with the worst team batting average (.230) in 
the American League, beat the Cubs in six games for one of the greatest 
upsets in Series history. The teams split the first four games; then the 
Hitless Wonders (a name coined by sportswriter Charles Dryden) exploded 
for 26 hits in the last two games. True to their nickname, the White Sox 
hit only .198 as a team in winning the series but it bettered the .196 
average produced by the Cubs. In Game 3, Ed Walsh struck out 12 Cubs, breaking 
the previous record of 11 set by Bill Dinneen in 1903. The 1906 Series 
was the first to be contested between two teams from the same city. It 
remains (as of 2016) the only World Series contested between the two Chicago 
teams, and one of only two Series (the other being the 1944 World Series) 
played outside New York City that featured two teams from the same city 
(although the 1989 World Series was played between the San Francisco Giants 
and the Oakland Athletics, which are roughly 10 miles apart[1]). AL Chicago 
White Sox (4) vs. NL Chicago Cubs (2) Tuesday, October 9, 1906, at West 
Side Grounds in Chicago, Illinois Cub starter Mordecai "Three-Fingered" 
Brown was chosen for his dominance against White Sox starter Nick Altrock. 
Both were perfect through three innings. The Cubs put a runner on second 
in the bottom of the fourth, but couldn't score. In the top of the fifth, 
George Rohe tripled to lead off, then scored on an error at home when Patsy 
Dougherty reached on a fielder's choice. The Sox scored a second run in 
the top of the sixth. Altrock walked, and was sacrificed to second base 
by Ed "Noodles" Hahn. Fielder Jones then singled to center but Altrock 
was thrown out at the plate, Jones taking second on the throw home. He 
took third on Cub catcher Johnny Kling's passed ball, and Frank Isbell 
drove him home with a single. The Cubs struck back in their half of the 
sixth. Kling walked and Brown singled with nobody out. After Solly Hofman 
sacrificed the runners to second and third, Altrock's wild pitch scored 
Kling and sent Brown to third, giving him little margin for error with 
only one out, but he got Jimmy Sheckard to pop out and Frank Schulte to 
ground out to end the threat. He pitched beautifully for the rest of the 
game, allowing only one more Cub to reach second, retaining the 2–1 lead 
for a Game 1 Sox win. Wednesday, October 10, 1906, at South Side Park (III) 
in Chicago, Illinois Ed Reulbach was called on for the Cubs to stem the 
tide against White Sox hurler Doc White. After matching 1–2–3 first innings, 
things started to fall apart for White. After cleanup-hitting first baseman 
Frank Chance led off the top of the second with a strikeout, third baseman 
Harry Steinfeldt singled to left and shortstop Joe Tinker beat out a bunt. 
Cub second baseman Johnny Evers would then reach on a two-base error by 
Sox second sacker Frank Isbell, scoring Steinfeldt for an unearned run 
and moving Tinker and Evers to second and third. Catcher Johnny Kling was 
then intentionally walked to load the bases and bring up the pitcher, still 
with only one out. Reulbach squeeze-bunted Tinker home for a second (unearned) 
run, moving Evers to third and Kling to second with two out. Solly Hofman 
followed with an infield single to shortstop Lee Tannehill, scoring Evers 
for a third unearned run, but when Kling tried to score from second, he 
was thrown out at the plate, ending the rally. The Cubs added a fourth 
unearned run in the third, ending Doc White's day on the mound. The Sox 
got on the board in the bottom of the fifth with an unearned run, thanks 
to a wild pitch and an error. The Cubs would score three more runs, all 
earned, in the sixth and eighth to take Game 2 7–1 and tie the Series at 
one game apiece. Thursday, October 11, 1906, at West Side Grounds in Chicago, 
Illinois After allowing two first-inning hits, Sox starter "Big Ed" Walsh 
didn't give up another and struck out twelve, giving the Sox a 2–1 edge 
in the series. Third baseman George Rohe cracked a two-out, bases-loaded 
triple to left in the top of the sixth off Jack Pfiester for the only runs 
of the game. Friday, October 12, 1906, at South Side Park (III) in Chicago, 
Illinois "Three-Fingered" Mordecai Brown pitched 5 2⁄3 innings of no-hit 
ball for the Cubs before settling for a two-hitter to even the series once 
more at two games apiece. Nick Altrock was the hard-luck loser, with the 
only run of the game coming on Johnny Evers' two-out single in the top 
of the seventh scoring Frank Chance. The Sox put the tying run on second 
base in the top of the ninth thanks to a two-out walk and a passed ball, 
but Frank Isbell grounded out to end the threat. The game took just 96 
minutes. Saturday, October 13, 1906, at West Side Grounds in Chicago, Illinois 
Game 5 was a wild affair with a total of eighteen hits, ten walks, six 
errors, two hit batsmen, three wild pitches and a steal of home. The Cubs 
allowed a first inning run to the Sox, then scored three of their own to 
take an early lead. The Sox tied the game in the third on George Davis' 
theft of home on the front end of a double steal and then took the lead 
for good with a four-run rally in the fourth and held on for the victory 
to take a 3–2 lead in the series. A 12-hit attack led by Frank Isbell's 
four doubles were enough to overcome six errors committed by the porous 
Sox defense. "Big" Ed Walsh earned his second win of the series, although 
he needed three innings of relief help from Doc White. Sunday, October 
14, 1906, at South Side Park (III) in Chicago, Illinois Mordecai Brown, 
pitching on only one day of rest, didn't make it out of the second inning 
as the Hitless Wonders White Sox stunned the 116–36 Cubs in the Series 
finale. The Sox battered Brown for seven runs on eight hits while getting 
a solid pitching performance from Doc White. Although the Cubs scored a 
run and loaded the bases in the ninth but White got Frank Schulte to ground 
out for the final out of the series and the White Sox won the World Series 
over the powerful Cubs, who would compensate by winning the next two World 
Series from young Ty Cobb, Hugh Jennings and the Detroit Tigers even though 
they fell far short of 116 wins in 1907 or 1908, for the last Cub Series 
wins in over a hundred years. This game is notable for being the first 
and only time the Chicago White Sox have ever clinched a postseason series 
at home. It remained the only time a Chicago-based team had ever clinched 
a series at home until the Cubs won the 2015 NLDS on their homefield. 1906 
