The 1907 World Series featured the Chicago Cubs and the Detroit Tigers, 
with the Cubs winning the Series four games to none (with one tie) for 
their first championship. The Cubs came back strong from their shocking 
loss in the 1906 World Series. The Tigers' young star Ty Cobb came into 
the Series with the first of his many league batting championships. With 
pitching dominance over the Tigers and Cobb, the Cubs allowed only three 
runs in the four games they won, while stealing 18 bases off the rattled 
Tigers. Tigers pitcher "Wild Bill" Donovan struck out twelve Cubs in Game 1. 
Although that matched Ed Walsh's total in Game 3 against the Cubs in 1906, 
it was across twelve innings. Donovan struck out just ten Cubs in the first 
nine innings of the game. NL Chicago Cubs (4) vs. AL Detroit Tigers (0) 
Tuesday, October 8, 1907, at West Side Grounds in Chicago, Illinois The 
Tigers scored three runs, largely due to three Cub errors, in the eighth 
inning and held a 3–1 lead going into the bottom of the ninth. The Cubs 
loaded the bases on a single, walk and infield error with one out. Detroit 
conceded a run on a ground ball for the second out, and Cub player-manager 
Frank Chance then pinch-hit Del Howard for Joe Tinker. Wild Bill Donovan 
(25–4 in the regular season) struck him out, but the ball got away from 
catcher Boss Schmidt, allowing Harry Steinfeldt to score the tying run. 
Donovan got the next hitter, but the damage had been done. The teams then 
played three scoreless extra innings before the game was called on account 
of darkness and declared a tie, a World Series first. This was the closest 
the Tigers would come to winning a game in this, their first Series. The 
Cubs committed five errors and struck out twelve times in the game, but 
nine stolen base attempts (seven successful) and five bunts (two for hits) 
set an aggressive offensive tone that would pressure the Tigers for the 
rest of the series. Wednesday, October 9, 1907, at West Side Grounds in 
Chicago, Illinois George Mullin, who both won and lost 20 games for Detroit 
in the regular season, and who had walked over 100 batters in each of his 
last five seasons, issued a bases-loaded walk in the bottom of the second, 
matching the Tiger run in the top of the inning and tying the score at 
1–1. Chicago scored two more in the fourth on a single, sacrifice bunt, 
RBI single, stolen base and double to take a 3–1 lead. Jack Pfiester, while 
allowing ten hits, benefited from two double plays and three caught-stealings 
by battery-mate Johnny Kling and was the winning pitcher for the Cubs. 
Joe Tinker scored a run and drove in another in Game 2 after being pinch-hit 
for in the ninth inning of Game 1. Thursday, October 10, 1907, at West 
Side Grounds in Chicago, Illinois Cub pitcher Ed Reulbach scattered six 
hits as Chicago jumped on Tiger starter Ed Siever for four runs on seven 
hits in only four innings en route to their second win. Johnny Evers had 
three hits, including two doubles, as the Cubs took a 2–0 lead in the Series. 
Friday, October 11, 1907, at Bennett Park in Detroit, Michigan In their 
first World Series home game, the Tigers took a 1–0 lead on a triple by 
their 20-year-old batting champion Ty Cobb and an RBI single by Claude 
Rossman in the bottom of the fourth, shortly before a rain delay in the 
top of the fifth. Soon after play resumed in the same inning, two Cubs 
reached base on an error and a walk. After Joe Tinker sacrificed, pitcher 
Orval Overall drove both runners home on a single to right. The Cubs scored 
three more in the seventh without the ball leaving the infield, on four 
bunts (two for hits) and two ground balls. Regular-season 23-game winner 
Overall was masterful after the rain delay, allowing only one hit in Detroit's 
final five innings, giving his Cubs a commanding 3–0 lead in the Series. 
Saturday, October 12, 1907, at Bennett Park in Detroit, Michigan Chicago 
wrapped up the series with a 2–0 victory on "Three-fingered" Mordecai Brown's 
seven-hit shutout. The Cubs scored a run in the top of the first on a walk, 
stolen base and RBI single by Harry Steinfeldt and scored again in the 
second on an error, a single, a double-steal and a groundout to drive in 
the last run of the Series. Detroit had runners on second and third with 
one out in the last of the fourth, but left them there and never seriously 
threatened after that. This Series would be the closest to a four-game 
sweep until the first true Series sweep in 1914, when George Stallings' 
"miracle" Boston Braves surged from last place in mid-July to win the NL 
pennant and upset Connie Mack's haughty Philadelphia Athletics in the Series. 
1907 World Series (4–0–1): Chicago Cubs (N.L.) over Detroit Tigers (A.L.) 
