The 1909 World Series featured the Pittsburg Pirates[1] and the Detroit 
Tigers. The Pirates won the Series in seven games to capture their first 
championship of the modern Major League Baseball era and the second championship 
in the club's history. They had won the pennant in 1909 behind the brilliant 
play of Honus Wagner, who led the league with a .339 batting average and 
100 RBI. Detroit returned for their third consecutive Fall Classic determined 
to erase the memories of their previous efforts. The Tigers were also backed 
up by the heavy bat of Ty Cobb (who had just won his third consecutive 
American League batting title) and a formidable pitching staff. They might 
have finally won the Series in their third try had it not been for Pirates 
rookie Babe Adams. Manager Fred Clarke started him, on a hunch, in Game 1. 
Adams won that game and two more, setting a World Series record for rookies. 
The Tigers thus became the first AL team to win three consecutive pennants 
and the first team to lose three straight World Series (the New York Giants 
would lose three straight Series during 1911–1913). The Pirates ran at 
will against the weak Detroit catching corps, stealing 18 bases in seven 
games. Ty Cobb had a fairly quiet Series, going 6 for 26 with two stolen 
bases and one caught stealing. There is a long-standing legend that Cobb, 
standing on first base, called the German-ancestored Honus Wagner "Krauthead", 
told him he was going to steal second, and was not only thrown out but 
that Wagner tagged him in the mouth, ball in hand, drawing blood from Cobb's 
lip. However, an examination of the play-by-play does not indicate that 
such a play occurred. In the one "caught stealing" charged to Cobb, during 
the first inning of Game 4, he was actually safe at second due to a throwing 
error by first baseman Bill Abstein. This story is largely attributed to 
the creative press at the time, and Wagner and Cobb were actually on good 
terms. For the first time, four umpires were used at the same time, with 
the standard plate umpire and base umpire along with two outfield umpires. 
On June 14, 2009, the series' 100th anniversary was celebrated, when the 
Tigers and Pirates played each other in Pittsburgh. Both teams wore throwback 
uniforms similar to those worn in 1909. The stadium's public address and 
sound systems were also turned off, simulating the game conditions in 1909. 
The Pirates won the game, 6–3.[2] NL Pittsburg Pirates (4) vs. AL Detroit 
Tigers (3) Friday, October 8, 1909, at Forbes Field in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania 
I'll never forget the look on Adams' face when I told him I wanted him 
to pitch the opener. Rookie Babe Adams, who had compiled a 12–3 record 
during the regular season, unexpectedly drew the start for Game 1. He responded 
with a six-hit, 4–1 victory sparked by Clarke's game-tying home run in 
the bottom of the fourth. Saturday, October 9, 1909, at Forbes Field in 
Pittsburg, Pennsylvania The Tigers began their 7–2 comeback win (after 
a two-run Pirate bottom of the first) with three runs in the top of the 
third, tying the Series at one game apiece. Ty Cobb stole home to start 
the rally. Monday, October 11, 1909, at Bennett Park in Detroit, Michigan 
Honus Wagner had three hits, three RBI and three stolen bases as the Pirates 
regained the lead in the Series, two games to one. Tuesday, October 12, 
1909, at Bennett Park in Detroit, Michigan The win-swapping continued with 
Detroit taking Game 4. Tiger ace George Mullin threw a five-hit shutout 
while striking out 10 Pirates, again evening the Series at two games apiece. 
Wednesday, October 13, 1909, at Forbes Field in Pittsburg, Pennsylvania 
Babe Adams threw another six-hitter, for an 8–4 triumph and a 3–2 Series 
lead for his Pirates. Thursday, October 14, 1909, at Bennett Park in Detroit, 
Michigan Mullin, after being roughed up for three first-inning runs, surrendered 
only one more and wound up with the win, knotting the Series at three games 
apiece. Saturday, October 16, 1909, at Bennett Park in Detroit, Michigan 
With the Series coming down to a climactic seventh game (the first to go 
the distance), Pittsburgh's Fred Clarke went with two-game winner Babe 
Adams as his pitcher, while Detroit Manager Hugh Jennings decided on Bill 
Donovan, a complete-game winner in Game 2. Donovan got off to a miserable 
start. He hit the first Pirate batter and went on to walk six in the first 
two innings. He was pulled after three with Adams confidently holding a 
2–0 lead. Pittsburgh never looked back, as Babe nailed his third six-hitter 
of the Series for an 8–0 championship victory. Honus Wagner continued to 
prove his Cooperstown worthiness by hitting .333, with seven RBIs and six 
stolen bases. On the other side, Ty Cobb didn't fare as well. Appearing 
in what would be his last Series (although he would remain active through 
1928), Cobb batted only .231 although he did lead the Tigers, losers of 
their third Series in three years, with six RBIs. 1909 World Series (4–3): 
