The 1910 Chalmers Award scandal was an incident in which a Major League 
Baseball team tried to give Nap Lajoie the batting title over Ty Cobb. 
Before the 1910 Major League Baseball season, Hugh Chalmers of the Chalmers 
Automobile Company announced a promotion in which a Chalmers Model 30 automobile 
would be given to the batting champions for Major League Baseball's American 
and National Leagues. At the start of the final day of the season, Ty Cobb 
of the Detroit Tigers held a slim lead in the race for the American League 
batting title, just a few percentage points ahead of the Cleveland Naps' 
Nap Lajoie. Cobb was generally disliked by opponents, whereas Lajoie was 
more popular. Cobb did not play in the Tigers' final two games of the season,[1] 
and he finished with a batting average of .385. Lajoie played in a doubleheader 
on the last day of the season against the St. Louis Browns. Browns manager 
Jack O'Connor ordered rookie third baseman Red Corriden to play on the 
outfield grass. This all but conceded a hit for any ball Lajoie bunted. 
Lajoie had eight hits in eight at bats and finished the season with a .384 
batting average (227 hits in 591 at bats). His final at bat resulted in 
a wild throw to first base, which was scored as an error. After news broke 
of the scandal, a writer for the St. Louis Post claimed: "All St. Louis 
is up in arms over the deplorable spectacle, conceived in stupidity and 
executed in jealousy." The issue was brought to American League president 
Ban Johnson, who declared all batting averages official, and Cobb the champion 
(.385069 to .384095). Chalmers, however, awarded automobiles to both Cobb 
and Lajoie (essentially declaring a tie). O'Connor and coach Harry Howell, 
who tried to bribe the official scorer to change the error to a hit, were 
banned from baseball for their role in the affair.[2] The following season, 
Chalmers gave an award to the league's most valuable player instead of 
the player with the highest batting average. Cobb won the Chalmers Award 
in 1911 in his best year, hitting .420. Chalmers continued the award through 
the 1914 season, after which it was discontinued. Chalmers ceased to exist 
in 1923, however it is a direct predecessor to modern-day Chrysler. Both 
Cobb and Lajoie were eventually elected into the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
In 1978, Pete Palmer discovered a discrepancy in Cobb's career hit total, 
and the story was broken by The Sporting News in April 1981.[3] Cobb is 
credited with 4,191 hits (still the total on MLB.com), but researchers 
say that a Detroit Tigers box score was counted twice in the season-ending 
calculations. The statisticians gave Cobb an extra 2-for-3. Not only did 
this credit Cobb with two non-existent hits, it also raised his 1910 batting 
average from .383 to .385. As Lajoie had a .384 average for the season, 
the revised figure would have cost Cobb one of his 12 batting titles and 
reduced his career average to .366. The mathematical mess was described 
by one writer as follows: "It could be said that 1910 produced two bogus 
