In the 1911 World Series, the Philadelphia Athletics beat the New York 
Giants four games to two. Philadelphia third baseman Frank "Home Run" Baker 
earned his nickname during this Series. His home run in Game 2 off Rube 
Marquard was the margin of victory for the Athletics, and his blast in 
Game 3 off Christy Mathewson tied that game in the ninth inning, and the 
Athletics eventually won in the eleventh. The Giants never recovered. An 
ironic sidelight was that Mathewson (or his ghostwriter) had criticized 
Marquard in his newspaper column after Game 2, for giving up the gopher 
ball, only to fall victim himself the very next day. Baker was swinging 
a hot bat in general, going 9 for 24 to lead all batters in the Series 
with a .375 average. According to his New York Times obituary [July 28, 
1971], Giants catcher Chief Meyers threw out 12 runners, creating a record 
for the most assists by a catcher during the World Series.[citation needed] 
The six consecutive days of rain between Games 3 and 4 caused the longest 
delay between World Series games until the earthquake-interrupted 1989 
Series (which incidentally featured the same two franchises, albeit on 
the West Coast). With the sixth and final game being played on October 
26, this was also the latest-ending World Series by calendar date until 
the 1981 Series. AL Philadelphia Athletics (4) vs. NL New York Giants (2) 
Saturday, October 14, 1911, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York With a perfect top of the first, Christy Mathewson set the record 
with 28 straight shutout innings in World Series play, a record that would 
be broken by Boston Red Sox Babe Ruth with 29 2/3 innings in the 1918 World 
Series. Mathewson's postseason record for consecutive scoreless innings 
against one team would not be broken until 2013 when Detroit Tiger's Justin 
Verlander shut out the Athletics (now playing in Oakland) for 30 consecutive 
innings in the 2012 and 2013 ALDS. Monday, October 16, 1911, at Shibe Park 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania With the score tied at 1 and with Eddie Collins 
on second, Frank Baker blasted a two run home run off Rube Marquard to 
deep right field for the go ahead score and the Athletics held on to win 
game 2, 3–1. Tuesday, October 17, 1911, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper 
Manhattan, New York With the Giants up 1–0 going into the ninth with Mathewson 
on the mound, it appeared the series was going to be 2–1 New York, but 
with one out, Baker stepped up to the plate and blasted his second home 
run in as many games to tie the game at 1. Thus the nickname "Home Run" 
Baker was born. Two innings later with the score still tied at 1, Baker 
would single and scored on an error to make it 3–1. The Giants would rally 
for one run in the bottom half but the game ended with a runner being thrown 
out on a stolen base attempt. Tuesday, October 24, 1911, at Shibe Park 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania After six days of rain the series resumed. 
Chief Bender, after getting roughed up for two runs in the first shut out 
the Giants the rest of the way on his way to a 4–2 win and 3–1 Series lead. 
Wednesday, October 25, 1911, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York On the verge of elimination, the Giants fought back. They tied 
it at 3 with two runs in the bottom of the ninth, and then won it with 
a run in the tenth when Larry Doyle scored on a sacrifice fly. Home plate 
umpire Bill Klem later said[citation needed] Doyle had failed to touch 
home plate after sliding in. Since none of the Athletics noticed this and 
Philadelphia failed to appeal, Klem had to let the winning run stand. Thursday, 
October 26, 1911, at Shibe Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 1911 World 
Series (4–2): Philadelphia Athletics (A.L.) over New York Giants (N.L.) 
