In the 1912 World Series, the Boston Red Sox beat the New York Giants four 
games to three (with one tie). This dramatic series showcased great pitching 
from Giant Christy Mathewson and from Boston fireballer Smoky Joe Wood. 
Wood won two of his three starts and pitched in relief in the final game. 
In the deciding game, Boston rallied for two runs in the tenth inning thanks 
to two costly Giants fielding misplays. Nearly all of the games were close. 
Four games in this Series were decided by one run. A fifth ended in a tie. 
A sixth was decided by two runs. Game 7 was the only one with a margin 
greater than three runs. Two games, including the decisive Game 8, went 
to extra innings. In Games 1 and 3, the losing team had the tying and winning 
runs on base when the game ended. This was one of only four World Series 
to go to eight games, and the only best-of-seven Series to do so. While 
the 1912 Series was extended to eight games due to a tie game being called 
on account of darkness, the 1903, 1919, and 1921 World Series were all 
best-of-nine affairs that happened to run eight games. Also, it was at 
Game 4 of this Series that the World Series drew its 1,000,000th fan.[citation 
needed] The total attendance for this Series of 252,037 shattered the previous 
mark of 179,851 set the previous year, though the fact that this World 
Series went eight games, compared to six in 1911, was the difference. The 
total attendance record for this Series would stand as a record until 1921, 
when 269,977 attended the 1921 World Series, the first with Babe Ruth as 
an everyday player. Like this World Series, the 1921 World Series also 
went eight games, though unlike this World Series, which was a best-of-seven, 
the 1921 World Series was a best-of-nine. AL Boston Red Sox (4) vs. NL 
New York Giants (3) Tuesday, October 8, 1912, at the Polo Grounds (IV) 
in upper Manhattan, New York In batting practice before Game 1, Tris Speaker 
drove a ball not only over the right field grandstand but completely out 
of the Polo Grounds.[1](p65) The Series opened with the Red Sox as 10–8 
betting favorites.[1](pp52–53) Giants manager John McGraw surprised everyone 
by starting rookie Jeff Tesreau rather than the great Christy Mathewson 
against Boston ace Smoky Joe Wood. He preferred to save Mathewson for Game 2 
and the hostile crowd at Fenway Park.[1](pp66–68) New York struck first. 
Josh Devore walked with one out in the third, and advanced to third base 
on a single by Larry Doyle lost in the sun by Duffy Lewis.[1](p69) After 
Fred Snodgrass struck out, Red Murray's single scored Devore and Doyle 
for a 2–0 Giants lead. Tesreau and his spitball[1](p68) held the Red Sox 
hitless for the first five innings, but Boston then cut the lead to 2–1 
in the sixth on a triple by Tris Speaker that fell to the ground untouched 
when neither Snodgrass nor Devore called for the ball (in an Alphonse-Gaston 
act),[1](p70) and an RBI groundout by Lewis. The Red Sox scored three runs 
in the very next inning, on an RBI double by Harry Hooper and a two-run 
single by Steve Yerkes, after Giants second baseman Doyle had muffed Wood's 
potential inning-ending double play grounder and had to settle for the 
one out at second.[1](pp70–71) In the bottom of the ninth, the Giants scored 
a run and had the tying run on third and the winning run on second, but 
Wood, a spectacular 34–5 in the regular season, struck out the last two 
batters for the 4–3 Boston win in a complete game with eleven strikeouts. 
Oddly, McGraw let relief pitcher Doc Crandall bat for himself for what 
turned out to be the last out rather than using backup catcher Art Wilson 
to pinch-hit.[1](pp74–75) After the game Wood said, "I threw so hard I 
thought my arm would fly right off my body."[10](p8) Wednesday, October 
9, 1912, at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Christy Mathewson later 
said of the moment when he took the mound at Fenway Park, "This was the 
only place in the world that I wanted to be. I could think of nothing greater 
than pitching this game for the glory of the New York Giants."[1](p86) 
An error by Giants shortstop Art Fletcher led to three first-inning unearned 
Boston runs off Mathewson. Single tallies in the second and fourth by the 
Giants cut the lead to 3–2. Another error by Fletcher, who failed to tag 
Harry Hooper on a stolen base attempt, led to a fourth Boston run in the 
fifth when Yerkes followed the error with an RBI triple. In the top of 
the eighth Boston returned the favor, allowing New York to strike back 
for three runs. Left field at brand-new Fenway Park was unique for a ten-to-fifteen-foot 
incline in front of the wall (later to be called "The Green Monster"). 
Red Sox left fielder Duffy Lewis was so proficient at negotiating this 
incline that it was first named "Duffy's Cliff" in his honor, but this 
time Lewis tripped on the hill and failed to catch Fred Snodgrass' fly 
ball, putting him on first base.[1](pp88–89) He scored on Fred Murray's 
double, and two batters later third baseman Buck Herzog hit a two-run double 
to give New York a 5–4 lead. The Giants' lead was brief. Lewis doubled 
in the bottom of the eighth, and then Fletcher's terrible day continued 
with his third error allowing Larry Gardner to reach base and Lewis to 
score. This tied the game 5–5. In the ninth, Boston reliever Charley Hall, 
who had replaced Ray Collins in the eighth, got the first two outs but 
proceeded to walk Snodgrass, Larry Doyle and Beals Becker consecutively. 
But with the bases loaded, Red Murray grounded into a forceout and the 
Red Sox escaped. Boston went quietly in the bottom of the ninth, setting 
up extra innings. Fred Merkle led off the New York tenth with a triple 
and scored on a sacrifice fly to give the Giants a 6–5 lead. Mathewson, 
who pitched the entire game for New York, came back to the mound in the 
bottom of the tenth with a chance to slam the door on Boston and even the 
Series at one game apiece, but Tris Speaker, who had hit .383 in the regular 
season, slammed an extra-base hit to center field. Giant third baseman 
Buck Herzog deliberately collided with Speaker to prevent an inside-the-park 
home run, but Speaker got up and came home anyway.[1](pp95–96) Becker threw 
the ball in to cutoff man Tillie Shafer, who threw to the plate but catcher 
Art Wilson dropped the ball—for New York's fifth error of the game—and 
Speaker, who was credited with a triple on the play, scored to tie the 
game 6–6. McGraw claimed, and reporters in the press box agreed, that Speaker 
had missed first base, but base umpire Cy Rigler ruled that he hadn't on 
appeal.[1](p96) Lewis followed with a double to put the winning run in 
scoring position, but Mathewson retired Gardner and Stahl to escape the 
inning with a tie. New York had one last chance in the top of the eleventh. 
Snodgrass led off the inning by being hit by a pitch, but was then thrown 
out attempting to steal second. After Doyle struck out, Becker drew a walk 
but was also thrown out on an attempted steal of second, ending the inning. 
After the Red Sox went down in order in the bottom of the eleventh, the 
game was called on account of darkness tied 6–6, Boston retaining a 1–0 
lead in the Series. Baseball's National Commission ruled that the players 
would still get a share of the gross receipts from only the first four 
games despite the Game 2 tie, a decision which caused much discontent among 
the players.[1](pp99–104) Thursday, October 10, 1912, at Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts In the top of the second, Red Murray doubled to center. 
He advanced to third on a sacrifice bunt by Merkle and scored on a sacrifice 
fly by Herzog, giving the Giants a 1–0 lead. Three innings later, Herzog 
doubled and scored on a single by Fletcher, stretching New York's lead 
to 2–0. It stayed that way until the bottom of the ninth. Rube Marquard, 
who pitched a complete game for the Giants, got Speaker to pop up to start 
the inning. Lewis followed with a grounder to first baseman Merkle, who 
flipped to Marquard covering first, but Marquard couldn't find the bag 
and Lewis reached with an infield single.[1](p115) Gardner followed with 
an RBI double, narrowing the Giant lead to 2–1. First baseman / playing 
manager Jake Stahl grounded to Marquard, who threw out Gardner at third 
base for the second out as Stahl took first. Manager Stahl then took himself 
out of the game for pinch-runner Olaf Henriksen. The next Boston hitter, 
Heinie Wagner, reached on an error by Merkle, with Henriksen, representing 
the tying run, advancing to third. Wagner, the potential winning run, then 
stole second to get into scoring position but the next batter, Hick Cady, 
lined out to right field to end the game. Although Josh Devore missed the 
ball with his glove, he managed to catch it with his bare left hand,[1](p119) 
allowing the Giants to hang on for a 2–1 victory and even the series at 
a game apiece. Friday, October 11, 1912, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper 
Manhattan, New York The Red Sox won 3–1 on Wood's complete game, eight-strikeout 
effort. Boston took a 1–0 lead when Gardner tripled in the second and scored 
on a wild pitch by Tesreau, who had lost the nail on the middle finger 
of his right (pitching) hand when a Harry Hooper grounder ripped it off 
in the first.[1](p137) Boston made it 2–0 on an RBI single by Cady in the 
fourth. In the seventh, Herzog singled and scored on Fletcher's double 
to cut the lead to 2–1, but in the top of the ninth Wood helped his own 
cause with an RBI single and the Giants went down in order in the bottom 
of the ninth. Red Sox 2, Giants 1 in the Series. Saturday, October 12, 
1912, at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Red Sox scored two quick 
runs in the bottom of the third against Mathewson when Hooper led off with 
a triple, Yerkes also tripled, and Speaker reached on an error by Giants 
second baseman Doyle allowing Yerkes to score. That was all Boston pitcher 
Hugh Bedient needed. Merkle doubled and came around to score in the seventh 
inning to make the score 2–1, but Mathewson struck out to end the rally. 
Bedient retired the last seven Giant hitters in order for a three-hit complete 
game. Boston now led the Series three games to one, and was one victory 
away from a championship. Monday, October 14, 1912, at the Polo Grounds 
(IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Boston pitcher Buck O'Brien, who had 
pitched well in Game 3 but lost to Marquard, started again in Game 6 and 
was shelled for five runs in the bottom of the first inning. After left 
fielder Devore led off the inning with a groundout, Doyle singled and Snodgrass 
struck out, five Giants hitters in a row hit safely, with Buck Herzog scoring 
on a steal of home. The inning didn't end until O'Brien picked Fletcher 
off first base. Marquard took over from there, throwing a complete game 
for his second victory of the series, and the Giants won 5–2. New York 
stayed alive, but Boston still led the series three games to two. Buck 
O'Brien started this game over Red Sox ace Wood at the insistence of Red 
Sox owner Jimmy McAleer, over the protests of Boston manager Stahl. Disgruntled 
Red Sox players believed their own front office was trying to extend the 
series and gather more box office receipts by starting a weaker pitcher.[10](p9) 
O'Brien, meanwhile, was not told he was pitching until the morning of the 
14th, too late to prevent him from going out drinking and starting Game 6 
with a hangover.[1](p176) Tuesday, October 15, 1912, at Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts Wood, who had pitched and won Games 1 and 4 for the 
Red Sox, started Game 7 with a chance to win Boston's second championship. 
But in a replay of Game 6, the Giants blew the game open in the first inning. 
Seven of the first nine Giants batters reached base, and six of them scored. 
Wood faced ten batters, threw them only thirteen pitches[1](p202) and retired 
only one of them, with the first out coming on a sacrifice and the third 
when Giant starter Tesreau was caught stealing second. New York cruised 
from there, winning the only truly lopsided game of the series 11–4. This 
game featured two "bounce" home runs, one from Gardner of the Red Sox and 
another from Doyle of the Giants. This type of play, where a ball lands 
in fair territory and goes over the wall on a bounce, was changed by rule 
to a ground rule double in 1930. Game 7 also featured an extremely rare 
unassisted double play by an outfielder. Tris Speaker, who was known for 
playing a very shallow center field, caught a liner by Fletcher with one 
out in the top of the ninth inning and ran in, stepping on second to double 
off Wilson. The game was delayed because of a demonstration by the Royal 
Rooters, the primary Red Sox fan organization of the day, because their 
normal seats on Duffy's Cliff had been double-sold to other fans. The Royal 
Rooters were lined up along the left field foul line since they had indeed 
paid their way in.[10](pp10–11) They were not satisfied, however. Their 
leader, Michael "Nuf Ced" McGreevy, led a further demonstration after the 
game in front of the Red Sox offices and called for a boycott of Game 8. 
Wood's awful start, the fact that he'd continued to pitch with a full windup 
instead of going into the stretch position with Giants on base,[1](p200) 
and the sloppy play of the Red Sox led to ugly rumors. Boston fans and 
respected sportswriter Tim Murnane each believed that the Boston players, 
angry that they didn't get a cut from the gate receipts for Game 2 and 
further alienated by O'Brien's Game 6 start, bet on the Giants to make 
their losses good.[10](p12) Whatever went down, the Series was tied three 
games apiece, setting up a decisive Game 8 for the championship. Wednesday, 
October 16, 1912, at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The location 
of this game was determined by a coin flip, which the Red Sox won. Because 
this game was scheduled at the last minute as a makeup of the Game 2 tie, 
and due as well to the game-fixing rumors and the Royal Rooters' boycott, 
the riveting finale of the 1912 World Series was played to a half-capacity 
crowd at Fenway.[10](p13) Mathewson started for the Giants, and Bedient 
for the Red Sox. In the Giants' third inning, Devore led off with a single, 
advanced on groundouts by Doyle and Snodgrass, and scored on Murray's RBI 
double. New York held on to the 1–0 lead until the bottom of the seventh 
inning, when Stahl singled with one out and Heinie Wagner drew a walk. 
Henriksen pinch-hit for pitcher Bedient and doubled to left to tie the 
game at one, but Hooper flied out to center to end the rally. Smoky Joe 
Wood, who had taken a pounding the day before for Boston, replaced Bedient 
in relief. Wood and Mathewson, still pitching for the Giants, matched zeroes 
in the eighth and ninth innings, and the game went to extra innings tied 
1–1. In the top of the tenth, Murray doubled with one out and scored on 
an RBI single from Merkle. Wood struck out Herzog and got the Giant catcher, 
Chief Meyers, to ground out to end the inning, but the game went to the 
bottom of the tenth with the Giants leading 2–1 and three outs away from 
a World Series victory. Clyde Engle, pinch-hitting for Wood, led off with 
an easy fly ball to Fred Snodgrass in center field. Snodgrass dropped the 
ball, and Engle reached second base. The next day's New York Times described 
the play as follows: "And now the ball settles. It is full and fair in 
the pouch of the padded glove of Snodgrass. But he is too eager to toss 
it to Murray and it dribbles to the ground."[11] Hooper flied out to deep 
center—Snodgrass making a fine running catch[1](p240) right after his error—but 
Engle advanced to third. Yerkes was then inexplicably walked by control 
expert Mathewson, putting the winning run on base. Tris Speaker, who hit 
an even .300 in the 1912 World Series, lifted a foul popup on the first 
base side, but first baseman Merkle, pitcher Mathewson, and catcher Meyers 
allowed the ball to fall untouched in foul territory. Snodgrass later claimed 
that the Red Sox bench jockeys had disrupted the players' timing. Strangely, 
Mathewson called for catcher Meyers to take it even though Merkle was closer. 
Meyers couldn't reach it and it fell to the ground.[10](p20) Speaker then 
shouted, "Well, you just called for the wrong man and it's gonna cost you 
the ball game!"[10](p21) Given new life, he singled home Engle to tie the 
game 2–2, Yerkes advancing to third. Mathewson walked Lewis intentionally, 
loading the bases and setting up a force at every base, but the next hitter, 
Larry Gardner, flied to Devore in right field deep enough for Yerkes to 
tag up and score, and the Red Sox won the 1912 World Series. Fred Snodgrass's 
error went down in history as "the $30,000 muff", a reference to the difference 
in the winning and losing shares, $29,514.34.[1](p246) After the series 
Snodgrass tried to explain, saying "I didn't seem to be able to hold the 
ball. It just dropped out of the glove, and that was all there was to it."[12] 
Christy Mathewson later wrote that "As I look back upon the 1912 series, 
when we lost to the Boston Red Sox, I see it was the same. Pitchers, outfielders, 
the whole team collapsed under the strain."[13] He had been ill-served 
by his team's defense. Five New York errors led to all six runs' being 
unearned in the Game 2 tie, an error scored the second run in Boston's 
2–1 Game 5 victory and Snodgrass's $30,000 muff, along with the failure 
to catch Speaker's foul popup, resulted in the loss in Game 8. Mathewson 
started three games, completed all three and compiled a 0.94 earned-run 
average for the Series, but was charged with two losses and a no-decision 
for his efforts. The 1912 World Series was the second of three consecutive 
Fall Classic appearances for the Giants, all of which they lost, and Mathewson 
retired in 1916 with the 1905 championship the only one of his brilliant 
career, in which he pitched three complete-game shutouts for 27 scoreless 
innings, Series records that may well never be equaled. After the Series 
was over, McAleer issued a statement apologizing to the Royal Rooters for 
selling their Game 7 seats out from under them.[1](p249) The Red Sox victory 
in 1912 marked the beginning of the most successful run in franchise history. 
Between 1912 and 1918, they played in four World Series and won all of 
them. But after star pitcher/outfielder Babe Ruth was sold to the Yankees 
following the 1919 season, Boston had to wait 28 years for its next pennant 
and 86 years for its next World Series victory. The 1912 World Series was 
the first to be decided in the last inning of the final game. It was also 
the first Series where a team within one inning of losing came back to 
win. The next time a team that close to elimination recovered to win was 
the 1985 World Series, when the Kansas City Royals rallied in the bottom 
of the ninth to beat the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 6, then won Game 7 
and the championship. Other World Series that have ended with a Game 7 
(or in this case Game 8, due to the tie) going to extra innings include 
the Series of 1924, 1991, 1997, and 2016. Other World Series won by the 
home team in its last at-bat in a Game 7 include the Series of 1924, 1960, 
1991, 1997, and 2001. The 1913 Spalding's Official Baseball Guide said 
of the 1912 World Series, "No individual, whether player, manager, owner, 
critic or spectator, who went through the world's series of 1912 ever will 
forget it. There never was another like it. Years may elapse before there 
shall be a similar series and it may be that the next to come will be equally 
sensational, perhaps more so."[14] 1912 World Series (4–3–1): Boston Red 
