In the 1913 World Series, the Philadelphia Athletics beat the New York 
Giants four games to one. The A's pitching gave the edge to a closer-than-it-looked 
Series in 1913. The great Christy Mathewson lost his Series swan song in 
the final game to an old college rival and eventual fellow Baseball Hall 
of Fame member, Eddie Plank. The Giants thus became the first National 
League team since the Chicago Cubs (1906–1908) to win three consecutive 
pennants. They were also the second club (following the Detroit Tigers 
1907–1909) to lose three consecutive World Series; and, as of 2014, the 
last to do so. The Series itself was an ironic face-off, as the Giants 
and A's would eventually become crosstown rivals. The A's would win again 
in a four-game sweep in the 1989 World Series, famous for the earthquake 
that struck before Game 3, which would be the last World Series victory 
for the A's. AL Philadelphia Athletics (4) vs. NL New York Giants (1) Tuesday, 
October 7, 1913, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York 
In the opener, J. Franklin "Home Run" Baker drove in three runs with three 
hits for the A's, including a home run. Frank apparently liked his nickname 
and wanted to hang on to it. Wednesday, October 8, 1913, at Shibe Park 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Mathewson and Plank matched craft and guile, 
and after nine innings it was as it had been at the beginning: 0–0. In 
the bottom of the ninth, the Giants had put on a stirring baseball version 
of the "goal-line stand". With none out, the A's had Amos Strunk on third 
and Jack Barry on second. The next batter, Jack Lapp, grounded to first, 
where Hooks Wiltse, a pitcher, was filling in. Wiltse made a good stop 
and threw home to nab Strunk. With Barry on third now and Lapp on first, 
Plank grounded to Wiltse and Hooks fired home again, getting a sliding 
Barry. Mathewson retired the next hitter, and the game went into extra 
innings. In the top of the tenth the Giants broke the ice with three runs, 
with Matty sprinkling a bit more stardust over his legend by singling in 
the winning run and then completing the extra-inning shutout by retiring 
the A's in their half of the tenth. Thursday, October 9, 1913, at the Polo 
Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Friday, October 10, 1913, at 
Shibe Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania The home team finally won a game, 
although the visiting Giants made it close in the late innings. Saturday, 
October 11, 1913, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York 
So all but one of the five games of the 1913 World Series were won by the 
visiting team. 1913 World Series (4–1): Philadelphia Athletics (A.L.) over 
