In the 1914 World Series, the Boston Braves beat the Philadelphia Athletics 
in a four-game series. The "Miracle Braves" were in last place on July 
4, then won the National League pennant by 10 1⁄2 games.[1][2](p84) The 
Braves' relatively unknown starting trio of pitchers, with a combined career 
record of 285–245, outperformed the Athletics vaunted rotation (929–654) 
in all four games.[3](p30) Hank Gowdy hit .545 (6 of 11) with five extra-base 
hits and also drew five walks for Boston in the series and was the difference 
maker in Games 1 and 3. Adding to their supposed disadvantages, the Braves 
arguably lacked a notable home-field advantage. They had abandoned their 
43-year-old home field South End Grounds in August 1914, choosing to rent 
from the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park while awaiting construction of Braves 
Field (1915). Thus their home games in this Series were also at Fenway. 
This was the first four-game sweep in World Series history. The Cubs had 
defeated the Tigers four games to none in 1907, but Game 1 had ended in 
a tie before the Cubs won the next four in a row. At least one publication, 
To Every Thing A Season by Bruce Kuklick,[4] has suggested other factors 
that might have contributed to the sweep, noting that some of the A's may 
have been irritated at the penny-pinching ways of their manager/owner Connie 
Mack and thus did not play hard, and also noting the heavy wagering against 
Philadelphia placed by entertainer George M. Cohan through bookmaker Sport 
Sullivan, who was also implicated in the 1919 Black Sox scandal. Chief 
Bender and Eddie Plank would jump to the rival Federal League for the 1915 
season. Mack unloaded most of his other high-priced stars soon after and, 
within two years, the A's achieved the worst winning percentage in modern 
history (even worse than the 1962 New York Mets or the 2003 Detroit Tigers). 
Because the AL had won the last four World Series, including three in the 
last four years by the A's, and the fact that the Braves were in last place 
in July and rose to win the pennant, it was assumed the AL was superior 
to the NL. The heavily favored A's with all their hall-of-fame talent were 
assumed to win as they were the better team on paper. This attitude was 
reflected in the team's case when the pennant was assured in the A's case, 
Connie Mack gave star pitcher Chief Bender the week off and told him to 
scout the Braves personally. Instead Bender took a vacation. When scolded 
by Mack, he replied: "Why should I check out a bunch of bush league hitters?" 
NL Boston Braves (4) vs. AL Philadelphia Athletics (0) Friday, October 
9, 1914, at Shibe Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 26-game winner Dick 
Rudolph scattered five hits while striking out eight as the Braves won 
the opener in convincing fashion against the Athletics ace, Chief Bender. 
Catcher Hank Gowdy had a single, double and triple as well as a walk in 
leading Boston's offensive attack. He was also on the back end of a double 
steal in the eighth inning, with Butch Schmidt's steal of home the Braves' 
final run. According to Tom Meany's 1950 book "Baseball's Greatest Teams", 
with one chapter on each of the then 16 major league teams' one most outstanding 
season in the author's opinion, the chapter on the Boston Braves was naturally 
on their one world championship year, 1914. Meany recalled that manager 
Stallings and the Braves showed utter contempt for Connie Mack's heavily 
favored A's by spurning the Shibe Park visiting clubhouse for the one in 
the National League Phillies' deserted home park, Baker Bowl (the NL site 
of the next World Series, which again featured Boston defeating Philadelphia, 
but this time Red Sox 4, Phillies 1). Meany may also have been the source 
for the sensational sidelight that Stallings' motive for this may have 
been the rumor that the A's may have sabotaged the Shibe Park visiting 
clubhouse (with war clouds gathering in Europe as World War I was just 
beginning). Saturday, October 10, 1914, at Shibe Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania Bill James, Boston's other 26-game winner, hooked up against 
Philadelphia's Eddie Plank in a classic pitcher's duel. James allowed only 
three base runners in the first eight innings, picking off two of them 
in holding Philadelphia scoreless. Plank matched him until the ninth, when 
Amos Strunk lost Charlie Deal's fly ball in the sun for a double. Deal 
then stole third, and scored on a two-out single by Les Mann. James walked 
two batters in the ninth, but got Eddie Murphy to ground into a game-ending 
double play to give Boston a 2–0 advantage in the series coming back home 
to Fenway. Monday, October 12, 1914, at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts 
Lefty Tyler of the Braves went up against Bullet Joe Bush in a twelve-inning 
thriller. Frank "Home Run" Baker's two-out single in the tenth plated two 
runs to give the Athletics a 4–2 lead and a seeming victory to get them 
back in the series. But Hank Gowdy led off the bottom of the tenth with 
a home run, and the Braves then tied the game on Joe Connolly's sacrifice 
fly later in the inning. Game 2 winner Bill James, coming on in relief 
for Boston in the eleventh, would get the win after Gowdy led off the bottom 
of the twelfth with a double and pinch-runner Les Mann scored when Bush 
threw wildly to third on Herbie Moran's bunt, giving the Braves a commanding 
3–0 lead in the series. Tuesday, October 13, 1914, at Fenway Park in Boston, 
Massachusetts Johnny Evers' two-out, two-run single in the bottom of the 
fifth broke a 1–1 tie and the collective backs of the heavily favored Athletics 
as the "Miracle Braves" completed their improbable sweep. Game 1 winner 
Dick Rudolph allowed only one baserunner after Evers' tie-breaking hit 
and struck out seven in notching his second win of the series. 1914 World 
