In the 1915 World Series, the Boston Red Sox beat the Philadelphia Phillies 
four games to one. In their only World Series before 1950, the Phillies 
won Game 1 before being swept the rest of the way. It was 65 years before 
the Phillies won their next Series game. The Red Sox pitching was so strong 
in the 1915 series that the young Babe Ruth was not used on the mound and 
only made a single pinch-hitting appearance. Arrangements for the Series 
were made on October 2, 1915, in a meeting of the team owners, league presidents 
and the so-called National Commission at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in midtown 
Manhattan, New York City. Red Sox owner Joseph Lannin lost the coin toss 
for home field advantage, and Phillies owner William F. Baker chose to 
have the first two games of the Series in Philadelphia. The league presidents 
selected the umpires, and it was announced that J. G. Taylor Spink would 
be one of the official scorers. One controversy surrounded the allocation 
of tickets to the Red Sox' Royal Rooters fan club. Each visiting team was 
allocated 200 tickets, but the Red Sox requested an additional 400 on behalf 
of their supporters. The Phillies' Baker Bowl sat only 20,000, and their 
above-cited owner, William Baker, refused to allocate additional tickets 
for visiting fans. The matter was resolved by National Commission chairman 
Garry Herrmann, who gave the Red Sox tickets from the Commission's own 
Series allocation.[1] The Phillies won Game 1, 3–1, although New York Times 
reporter Hugh Fullerton wrote of the future 300+ game-winning Hall of Famer, 
"[Grover Cleveland] Alexander pitched a bad game of ball. He had little 
or nothing" in his review of the game, headed "Nothing but luck saved the 
Phillies." The Times also reported that a crowd of 10,000 gathered in Manhattan's 
Times Square to view a real-time mechanical recreation of the game on a 
giant scoreboard sponsored by the newspaper.[2] The Phillies were not to 
win another postseason game until 1977, nor another World Series game until 
1980. The Red Sox swept Games 2–5, all by one run, and by identical scores 
of 2–1 in Games 2–4. In Game 2, Woodrow Wilson became the first U.S. President 
to attend a World Series game. This was the second straight year that a 
Boston team beat a Philadelphia team in the World Series after the Braves 
had swept the Athletics the year before. Unlike the 1913 Series, where 
the home team won only one of the five games, home field was often very 
much an advantage in the 1915 October classic. Fenway Park, paradoxically 
the Braves' home field in their 1914 Series sweep of the A's while Braves 
Field was still being built, had been the home of the Red Sox for four 
seasons and was fully functional in 1915; yet the Red Sox played their 
1915 Series "home" games in the brand-new Braves Field to take advantage 
of its larger seating capacity. Beyond the added revenue, the long ball 
was affected by this arrangement, as follows: AL Boston Red Sox (4) vs. 
NL Philadelphia Phillies (1) Friday, October 8, 1915, at Baker Bowl in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Saturday, October 9, 1915, at Baker Bowl in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Monday, October 11, 1915, at Braves Field in 
Boston, Massachusetts Tuesday, October 12, 1915, at Braves Field in Boston, 
Massachusetts Wednesday, October 13, 1915, at Baker Bowl in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania The Red Sox won on three home runs by two of their outfielders, 
two cheapies by Harry Hooper (see above) and one by Duffy Lewis. Those 
were the only round-trippers in the entire Series, the first four games 
being pitchers' duels. 1915 World Series (4–1): Boston Red Sox (A.L.) over 
