In the 1916 World Series, the Boston Red Sox beat the Brooklyn Robins (a.k.a. 
Dodgers) four games to one. Casey Stengel shone on offense for the Robins 
in the 1916 Series but the Red Sox pitching core ultimately proved too 
much for the denizens of Flatbush. The Sox's Babe Ruth pitched thirteen 
shutout innings in Game 2, starting a consecutive scoreless innings streak 
that would reach 29 in 1918. As with the 1915 Series, the Red Sox played 
their home games at the larger Braves Field, and it paid off as they drew 
a then-record 43,620 people for the final game. Brooklyn fielded some strong 
teams under their manager and namesake Wilbert Robinson in the late 1910s. 
The Robins, also interchangeably called the Dodgers, would win the pennant 
again in 1920, but the American League teams were generally stronger during 
that interval. It would be 39 years before the Dodgers would win their 
first World Series title in 1955. The Series had the longest game in terms 
of innings (14) in World Series history until Game 3 of the 2005 World 
Series. AL Boston Red Sox (4) vs. NL Brooklyn Robins (1) Saturday, October 
7, 1916, at Braves Field in Boston, Massachusetts Until the ninth, Boston 
starter Eddie Shore was in control. Holding a comfortable 6-1 lead, a walk, 
hit batter, error and bases-full walk to Fred Merkle finally forced the 
Red Sox to call on Carl Mays from the bullpen to preserve a 6-5 win. Monday, 
October 9, 1916, at Braves Field in Boston, Massachusetts The Robins scored 
in the top of the first on an inside-the-park home run by Hy Myers, and 
the Red Sox tied it in the bottom of the third, Ruth himself knocking in 
the run with a ground ball. The game remained 1–1 until the bottom of the 
14th, when the Red Sox won it on a pinch-hit single by Del Gainer. Tuesday, 
October 10, 1916, at Ebbets Field in Brooklyn, New York A seventh-inning 
home run by Larry Gardner chased Brooklyn starter Jack Coombs and brought 
Boston to within 3-2. Jeff Pfeffer came through with 2.2 innings of hitless 
relief to save the victory for Coombs. Wednesday, October 11, 1916, at 
Ebbets Field in Brooklyn, New York Brooklyn's first three batters reached 
safely off Dutch Leonard in a two-run first inning, but that's all the 
Dodgers would get off him. Larry Gardner's second home run in two days 
was an inside-the-park one to left-center that scored two teammates ahead 
of him, giving Leonard all he'd need. Thursday, October 12, 1916, at Braves 
Field in Boston, Massachusetts The final game was over in a snappy 1 hour, 
43 minutes. Ernie Shore threw a three-hitter. Boston scratched out a run 
on a walk, sacrifice bunt, groundout and passed ball. The Red Sox added 
more in the third, thanks to an error and a Chick Shorten RBI single, and 
the fifth when Harry Hooper singled and scored on a Hal Janvrin double. 
Casey Stengel led off the Dodger ninth with a hit, but Shore allowed no 
more. 1916 World Series (4–1): Boston Red Sox (A.L.) over Brooklyn Robins 
