In the 1917 World Series, the Chicago White Sox beat the New York Giants 
four games to two. The Series was played against the backdrop of World 
War I, which dominated the American newspapers that year and next. The 
strong Chicago White Sox club had finished the 1917 season with a 100–54 
record: their first and only one-hundred-win season in franchise history 
as of 2015. The Sox's next World Series winner in 2005 would finish the 
regular season with a 99–63 record. The Sox won Game 1 of the Series in 
Chicago 2–1 behind a complete game by Eddie Cicotte. Happy Felsch hit a 
home run in the fourth inning that provided the winning margin. The Sox 
beat the Giants in Game 2 by a score of 7–2 behind another complete game 
effort by Red Faber to take a 2–0 lead in the Series. Back in New York 
for Game 3, Cicotte again threw a complete game, but the Sox could not 
muster a single run against Giants starter Rube Benton and lost 2–0. In 
Game 4 the Sox were shut out again 5–0 by Ferdie Schupp. Faber threw another 
complete game, but the Series was even at 2–2 going back to Chicago. Reb 
Russell started Game 5 in Chicago, but only faced three batters before 
giving way to Cicotte. Going into the bottom of the seventh inning, Chicago 
was down 5–2, but they rallied to score three in the seventh and three 
in the eighth to win 8–5. Faber pitched the final two innings for the win. 
In Game 6 the Sox took an early 3–0 lead and on the strength of another 
complete game victory from Faber (his third of the Series) won 4–2 and 
clinched the World Championship. Eddie Collins was the hitting hero, batting 
.409 over the six game series while Cicotte and Faber combined to pitch 
50 out of a total 52 World Series innings to lead the staff. The decisive 
game underscored the Giants' post-season frustrations, featuring a famous 
rundown in which Giants' third baseman Heinie Zimmerman futilely chased 
the speedy Eddie Collins toward home plate with what would be the Series-winning 
run. Catcher Bill Rariden had run up the third base line to start a rundown, 
expecting pitcher Rube Benton or first baseman Walter Holke to cover the 
plate. However, neither of them budged, forcing Zimmerman to chase Collins 
while pawing helplessly in the air with the ball in an attempt to tag him. 
Two years before the issue of baseball betting reached its peak, Zimmerman 
found himself having to publicly deny purposely allowing the run to score, 
i.e. to deny that he had "thrown" the game. In truth, McGraw blamed Benton 
and Holke for failing to cover the plate. A quote often attributed to Zim, 
but actually invented by writer Ring Lardner some years later, was that 
when asked about the incident Zim replied, "Who the hell was I supposed 
to throw to, Klem (umpire Bill Klem, who was working the plate)?" Conventional 
wisdom has it that Collins was much faster than Zimmerman, but existing 
photos of the play show that Zimmerman was only a step or two behind Collins, 
who actually slid across the plate while Zim jumped over him to avoid trampling 
him. Zimmerman would eventually be banned for life due to various accusations 
of corruption. The great athlete Jim Thorpe, better known for football 
in general, made his only World Series "appearance" during Game 5, where 
he was listed in the lineup card as starting in right field; but for his 
turn at bat in the top of the first inning he was replaced by a left-handed 
hitting Dave Robertson. The White Sox, who were essentially dismantled 
following the 1920 season by baseball commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis 
due to the Black Sox Scandal in the 1919 World Series, did not make it 
to another World Series until 1959, and did not win another World Series 
until 2005. AL Chicago White Sox (4) vs. NL New York Giants (2) Saturday, 
October 6, 1917, at Comiskey Park (I) in Chicago Fred McMullin drove in 
Chicago's first run, and Happy Felsch's homer made it 2-0. Giants pitcher 
Slim Sallee knocked in his side's only run with a single after a Lew McCarty 
triple. Sunday, October 7, 1917, at Comiskey Park (I) in Chicago Shoeless 
Joe Jackson's two-run single capped a five-run fourth inning for the White 
Sox, who knocked out Giants starter Ferdie Schupp in the second inning. 
Wednesday, October 10, 1917, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York The home team won for the third straight time as the series moved 
to the Polo Grounds. The only runs of a snappy 1 hour, 55 minute game came 
on a Dave Robertson triple, Walter Holke double and a single by George 
Burns. Thursday, October 11, 1917, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York The first of a pair of homers by Giants center fielder Benny Kauff 
was an inside-the-park one that sailed over Sox center fielder Happy Felsch's 
head. The other came in the eighth off Chicago reliever Dave Danforth. 
Saturday, October 13, 1917, at Comiskey Park (I) in Chicago Even though 
Red Faber would start Games 4 and 6, he was brought in from the bullpen 
to close Game 5. Taking no chances, the Sox yanked starter Reb Russell 
after just three batters, all of whom reached base. A three-error third 
inning behind Eddie Cicotte put the Giants up 4-1. But after a game-tying 
rally in the seventh, the Sox won it in the eighth as Hap Felsch greeted 
reliever Pol Perritt with an RBI single. It was the fifth consecutive win 
by the home team in this Series. Monday, October 15, 1917, at the Polo 
Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York A pair of errors proved costly 
to the Giants in a three-run fourth when Chick Gandil and Ray Schalk followed 
with RBI hits. New York's hopes rose with a Buck Herzog triple in the next 
inning that pulled the team to within 3-2. But with the workhorse Faber 
holding the Giants at bay the rest of the way, the Sox got an insurance 
run in the ninth on hits by Buck Weaver and Nemo Leibold, and the Series 
was theirs. It would be their last championship until 2005. 1917 World 
