The 1919 World Series matched the American League champion Chicago White 
Sox against the National League champion Cincinnati Reds. Although most 
World Series have been of the best-of-seven format, the 1919 World Series 
was a best-of-nine series (along with 1903, 1920, and 1921). Baseball decided 
to try the best-of-nine format partly to increase popularity of the sport 
and partly to generate more revenue.[1] The events of the series are often 
associated with the Black Sox Scandal, when several members of the Chicago 
franchise conspired with gamblers to throw (i.e., intentionally lose) the 
World Series games. The 1919 World Series was the last World Series to 
take place without a Commissioner of Baseball in place. In 1920, the various 
franchise owners installed Kenesaw Mountain Landis as the first "Commissioner 
of Baseball." In August 1920, eight players from the White Sox were banned 
from organized baseball for fixing the series (or having knowledge about 
the fix). The 1919 Chicago White Sox were one of baseball's elite teams. 
Most of the same players had defeated the New York Giants in the 1917 World 
Series, four games to two. They had fallen to sixth place in the American 
League in 1918, largely as a result of losing their best player, Shoeless 
Joe Jackson, and a few of his teammates as well, to World War I service. 
Team owner Charlie Comiskey fired manager Pants Rowland after the season, 
replacing him with Kid Gleason, who had played over twenty years in the 
majors but had never managed before. The 88–52 White Sox won the American 
League pennant again in 1919, by 3 1⁄2 games over the Cleveland Indians 
(world champions the following year). Jackson was the unquestioned star 
of the team. The left fielder hit .351 that season, fourth in the league 
and in the AL's top five in slugging percentage, RBI, total bases and base 
hits. He was not the only star in a lineup with hardly a weak spot, as 
former A's superstar leadoff hitter Eddie Collins, one of the greatest 
second basemen of all time,[2] was still going strong in his early thirties, 
hitting .319 with a .400 on-base percentage. Right fielder Nemo Leibold 
hit .302 with 81 runs scored. First baseman Chick Gandil hit .290, third 
baseman Buck Weaver .296, and center fielder Oscar "Hap" Felsch hit .275 
and tied Jackson for the team lead in home runs with only 7 (as the dead-ball 
era was coming to a close). Even typical "good field, no hit" catcher Ray 
Schalk hit .282 that year, and shortstop Swede Risberg was not an automatic 
out with .256 average and 38 RBI. Manager Gleason's bench contained two 
impressive hitters, outfielder Shano Collins and infielder Fred McMullin, 
both veterans of the 1917 world championship. The 1919 pennant-winning 
pitching staff was led by a pair of aces and a very promising rookie. Knuckleballer 
Eddie Cicotte had become one of the AL's best pitchers after turning 30 
and discovering the "shine ball;" he had won 28 games for the 1917 champions, 
and after an off-year in 1918 had come back with a hefty 29–7, leading 
the league in wins and second in earned run average to Washington's veteran 
"Big Train," Walter Johnson. Next came Claude "Lefty" Williams, at 23–11 
and 2.64. Twenty-six-year-old rookie Dickie Kerr started only 17 games, 
but turned in a solid 13–7 and 2.88. Fourth in the rotation was Urban "Red" 
Faber, who had beaten the Giants three times in the 1917 World Series but 
had an off-year in 1919 at 11–9 and 3.83 in 20 starts. He was ill and unable 
to pitch in the Series in any event, limiting Gleason to three top-of-the-line 
starters for what could be nine games. But all was not well in the White 
Sox camp. Tension between many of the players and owner Comiskey was quite 
high, given his penny-pinching ways memorialized in two urban legends: 
(1) that he told Gleason to shut down Cicotte in the last days of the regular 
season to prevent him from winning 30 games, a milestone which would have 
earned him a sizeable $10,000 bonus; (2) that many derided the White Sox 
as the Black Sox because Comiskey wouldn't pay to have their uniforms laundered 
regularly, and they became blacker and blacker due to accumulated sweat, 
grime, and dirt. In contrast to the White Sox, the 1919 Cincinnati Reds 
were upstarts. They had finished no higher than third since 1900, and then 
only twice, before winning the NL pennant handily in 1919. Under new manager 
Pat Moran, best known as the leader of another bunch of unlikely newcomers 
to the World Series, the 1915 Philadelphia Phillies, the Reds finished 
nine games in front of the runner-up New York Giants at 96–44 and at least 
20 games ahead of the other six, with the second highest NL won-lost percentage 
since 1910 at .686. Their greatest star was center fielder Edd Roush, who 
led the league in hitting at .321 and, like the White Sox's Jackson, was 
in the top five of their respective leagues in most important hitting categories. 
Third baseman Heinie Groh was the other great hitter on the team at .310 
with a .392 on-base percentage and 79 runs scored. Slick-fielding first 
baseman Jake Daubert, a two-time National League batting champion with 
Brooklyn earlier in the decade, also scored 79 runs and hit .276, while 
catcher Ivey Wingo hit .273. The rest of the team was unheralded, including 
second baseman Morrie Rath, a .264 hitter with no power but a good on-base 
percentage, and shortstop Larry Kopf, a .270 singles hitter. The corner 
outfielders were decidedly weaker hitters, with former Phillies star left 
fielder Sherry Magee's .215 in 56 games and right fielder Earle "Greasy" 
Neale's .242 with little power. This would prompt Moran to start rookie 
Pat Duncan in left field in the World Series. The Reds' pitching was universally 
solid, however. The team's big three included Hod Eller (20–9, 2.39), Dutch 
Ruether (19–6, 1.82) and Slim Sallee (21–7, 2.06), all among the league 
leaders in various categories. They were backed by three other pitchers 
who were almost as successful: Jimmy Ring at only 10–9 but 2.26, Ray Fisher 
at 14–5 and 2.17 with five shutouts, and Cuban Dolf Luque at 10–3 and 2.63, 
former and future Giant who would win the last game of the 1933 World Series 
in long relief for New York. It was a deep and talented staff, a definite 
advantage in a Series whose format had just been changed from best of seven 
to best of nine. The conspirators got an unexpected assist when flu-stricken 
Faber was left off the World Series roster. Indeed, years later catcher 
Schalk said that had Faber been healthy, there never would have been a 
fix (since he almost certainly would have gotten starts that went to Cicotte 
and/or Williams).[3] Stories of the "Black Sox" scandal have usually included 
Comiskey in its gallery of subsidiary villains, focusing in particular 
on his intentions regarding a clause in Cicotte's contract that would have 
paid Cicotte an additional $10,000 bonus for winning 30 games. According 
to Eliot Asinof's account of the events, Eight Men Out, Cicotte was "rested" 
for the season's final two weeks after reaching his 29th win presumably 
to deny him the bonus, but the truth may be more complex. Cicotte won his 
29th game on September 19, had an ineffective start on September 24 and 
was pulled after a few innings in a tuneup on the season's final day, September 
28 (three days before the Series opener). In addition, Cicotte reportedly 
agreed to the fix the same day he won his 29th game before he could have 
known of any efforts to deny him a chance to win his 30th.[4] The story 
was probably true with regard to the 1917 season, however, when Cicotte 
won 28 games and hurled the White Sox to the world championship. Although 
rumors were swirling among the gamblers (according to Tom Meany in his 
chapter on the 1919 Reds in "Baseball's Greatest Teams," "Cincinnati money 
was pouring in" even though the White Sox were regarded as the overwhelming 
favorite) and some of the press, most fans and observers were taking the 
Series at face value. On October 2, the day of Game 2, the Philadelphia 
Bulletin published a poem which would quickly prove to be ironic: NL Cincinnati 
Reds (5) vs. AL Chicago White Sox (3) Wednesday, October 1, 1919, at Redland 
Field in Cincinnati, Ohio The first game began at 3 PM at Cincinnati's 
Redland Field, with 30,511 fans in the stands and ticket scalpers outside 
the park raking in at least $50 per ticket. Chicago failed to score in 
the top of the first. In the bottom of the inning, Cicotte (who was paid 
his $10,000 the night before the series began) took the mound and hit the 
leadoff hitter, Morrie Rath, in the back with his second pitch, a prearranged 
signal to Arnold Rothstein that the fix was on. Even so, the game remained 
close for a while, due in part to some excellent defense from the conspirators, 
seeking to deflect suspicion from themselves. In the fourth, however, Cicotte 
"went haywire" (again according to Meany, op. cit.), allowing a number 
of hits in succession climaxed by a two-out triple to the opposing pitcher, 
as the Reds scored five times to break a 1–1 tie. Cicotte was relieved 
at that point, but the damage was done and the Reds went on to add three 
more runs in later innings and triumph 9–1. By that evening, there already 
were signs that things were going wrong. Only Cicotte, who had shrewdly 
demanded his $10,000 in advance, had been paid. "Sleepy" Bill Burns and 
Maharg met with Abe Attell, former world boxing champ and Rothstein's intermediary, 
but he withheld the next installment ($20,000) nonetheless to bet on the 
next game. The next morning Gandil met Attell and again demanded money, 
but again to no avail. Thursday, October 2, 1919, at Redland Field in Cincinnati, 
Ohio Although they had not received their money, the players were still 
willing to go through with the fix. "Lefty" Williams, the starting pitcher 
in Game 2, was not going to be as obvious as Cicotte. After a shaky start, 
he pitched well until the fourth inning, when he walked three and gave 
up as many runs. After that he became virtually unhittable again, giving 
up only one more run; but lack of clutch-hitting, with Gandil a particularly 
guilty party, led to a 4–2 White Sox loss. Attell was still in no mood 
to pay up afterwards, but Burns managed to get hold of $10,000 and gave 
it to Gandil, who distributed it among the conspirators. The teams headed 
north to Comiskey Park in Chicago for Game 3 the next day, with no days 
off for travel in this Series. Friday, October 3, 1919, at Comiskey Park 
(I) in Chicago, Illinois Rookie pitcher Dickie Kerr, the Game 3 starter 
for the Sox, was not in on the fix. The original plan was for the conspirators, 
who disliked Kerr, to lose this game; but by now dissent among the players 
meant that the plan was in disarray. Burns still had faith and gathered 
the last of his resources to bet on Cincinnati. It was a decision that 
would leave him broke, as Chicago scored early—Gandil himself driving in 
two runs—and Kerr was masterful, holding the Reds to three hits in a 3–0 
complete game shutout. Saturday, October 4, 1919, at Comiskey Park (I) 
in Chicago, Illinois Cicotte, the Game 4 White Sox starter, was determined 
not to look as bad as he had in Game 1. For the first four innings, he 
and Reds pitcher Jimmy Ring matched zeroes. With one out in the fifth, 
Cicotte fielded a slow roller by Pat Duncan but threw wildly to first for 
a two-base error. The next man up, Larry Kopf, singled to left; Cicotte 
cut off the throw from Jackson and fumbled the ball, allowing Duncan to 
score. The home crowd was stunned by the veteran pitcher's obvious mistake. 
When he then gave up a double to Greasy Neale scoring Kopf to make it 2–0, 
that was enough of a lead for Ring, who threw a three-hit shutout of his 
own matching Kerr's in Game 3. The Reds led the Series 3–1. After the game 
"Sport" Sullivan came through with $20,000 for the players, which Gandil 
split equally among Risberg, Felsch, and Williams, who was due to start 
Game 5 the next day. Monday, October 6, 1919, at Comiskey Park (I) in Chicago, 
Illinois Game 5 was postponed by rain for a day. Both starters, Williams 
and Cincinnati's Hod Eller, pitched excellently at first, with neither 
allowing a runner past first until the top of the sixth, when Eller himself 
hit a blooper that fell between Felsch and Jackson. Felsch's throw was 
off-line, sending Eller all the way to third. Leadoff hitter Morrie Rath 
hit a single over the drawn-in infield, scoring Eller. Heinie Groh walked 
before Edd Roush's double—the result of more doubtful defense from Felsch 
brought home two more runs, with Roush scoring shortly thereafter. Eller 
pitched well enough (he struck out nine batters, including a then-World 
Series record six in a row, since tied by Moe Drabowsky in the 1966 World 
Series opener) for the four runs to stand up, and the Reds were only one 
game away from their first world championship. Tuesday, October 7, 1919, 
at Redland Field in Cincinnati, Ohio The Series reverted to Cincinnati 
for Game 6. Dickie Kerr, starting for the White Sox, was less dominant 
than in Game 3. Aided and abetted by three errors, the Reds jumped out 
to a 4–0 lead before Chicago fought back, tying the game at 4–4 in the 
sixth, which remained the score into extra innings. In the top of the tenth, 
Gandil drove in Weaver to make it 5–4, and Kerr closed it out to record 
his—and Chicago's—second win. Wednesday, October 8, 1919, at Redland Field 
in Cincinnati, Ohio Despite the rumors already circulating about Cicotte's 
erratic performances in Games 1 and 4, ChiSox manager Kid Gleason showed 
faith in his ace for Game 7. This time, the knuckleballer did not let him 
down. Chicago scored early and, for once, it was Cincinnati that committed 
errors. The Reds threatened only briefly in the sixth before losing 4–1, 
and suddenly the Series was relatively close again. This did not go unnoticed 
by Sullivan and Rothstein, who were suddenly worried. Before the Series 
started, the Sox had been strong favorites and few doubted they could win 
two games in a row—presuming that they were trying to win. Rothstein had 
been too smart to bet on individual games, but had a considerable sum riding 
on Cincinnati to win the Series. The night before Game 8, Williams—the 
scheduled starter—was supposedly visited by an associate of Sullivan's 
known as Harry F who left no doubt that if he failed to blow the game in 
the first inning, he and his wife would be in serious danger. Thursday, 
October 9, 1919, at Comiskey Park (I) in Chicago, Illinois Whatever Williams 
had been told made its impression. In the first, throwing nothing but mediocre 
fastballs, he gave up four straight one-out hits for three runs before 
Gleason relieved him with "Big" Bill James, who allowed one of Williams' 
baserunners to score. James continued ineffective and, although the Sox 
rallied in the eighth, the Reds came away with a 10–5 victory for a five-games-to-three 
Series win. Jackson hit the only homer of the Series, a solo shot in the 
third inning after the Reds had built a 5–0 lead. Immediately after the 
Series ended, rumors were rife from coast to coast that the games had been 
thrown. Journalist Hugh Fullerton of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, disgusted 
by the display of ineptitude with which the White Sox had "thrown" the 
series, wrote that no World Series should ever be played again.[13] 1919 
World Series (5–3): Cincinnati Reds (N.L.) over Chicago White Sox (A.L.) 
Jackson led all players with his .375 average. Some[15] believed that most 
of his offensive potency came in games that were not fixed and/or when 
the game seemed out of reach. He hit the Series' lone home run in the final 
(eighth) game, a solo shot in the third inning, by which time the Reds 
were already ahead by a score of 5–0. His five hits with runners in scoring 
position came in: Game 6, sixth inning with Kerr pitching; Game 7, first 
and third innings; Game 8, two in the four-run eighth. This theory is extremely 
faulty though, as it would have to be assumed that Jackson could have batted 
1.000 if he had wanted to, and simply chose to pick the precise spots in 
which he would get a hit. Shoeless Joe had 12 hits overall, a World Series 
