The 1920 Major League Baseball season, was the first to be presided over 
by the newly created office of Baseball Commissioner. In the wake of the 
Black Sox scandal, the credibility of baseball had been tarnished with 
the public and fans and the owners of the teams clamored for credibility 
to be restored. A three-person National Commission ran the major and minor 
leagues – composed of the American League President, National League President, 
and one team owner – but the owners felt that creating one position with 
near-unlimited authority was the answer. In the World Series, the Cleveland 
Indians triumphed over the Brooklyn Robins, 5–2. Persisting rumors of the 
Chicago White Sox throwing the previous year's World Series to the Cincinnati 
Reds and another game during the 1920 season led to the game's brass looking 
for ways of dealing with the problems of gambling within the sport. At 
the time, MLB was governed by a three-man National Commission composed 
of American League President Ban Johnson, National League President John 
Heydler and Cincinnati Reds owner Garry Herrmann. At the request of the 
other owners, Herrmann left the office reducing the Commission to be deadlocked 
by two. With the owners disliking one or both presidents, calls began for 
stronger leadership, although they opined they could support the continuation 
of the leagues' presidencies with a well-qualified Commissioner.[1] A plan 
that began to circulate and gain support was dubbed the "Lasker Plan," 
after Albert Lasker, a shareholder of the Chicago Cubs, called for a three-man 
commission with no financial interest in baseball. With the Black Sox scandal 
exposed on September 30, 1920, Heydler began calling for the Lasker Plan. 
All eight NL teams supported the plan, along with three AL teams. The three 
AL teams were the White Sox, the New York Yankees and the Boston Red Sox.[2] 
The teams in support of the Lasker Plan wanted federal judge Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis to take the office of Baseball Commissioner. Johnson, who opposed 
the plan and thus, the appointment of Landis, had allies the other five 
AL clubs, and attempted to get Minor League Baseball to side with him. 
However, the minor leagues would not, and when the AL teams learned their 
position, they relented and instead went along with the Lasker Plan.[3] 
The owners agreed that they needed a person with near-unlimited authority 
and a powerful person to fill the position of commissioner.[4] The owners 
approached Landis, and although reluctant at first, accepted the position 
as the first Commissioner of Baseball.[5] He drafted the agreement which 
gave him almost unlimited authority throughout the major and minor leagues 
– every owner on down to the batboys was accountable to the Commissioner 
– including barring owners from dismissing him, speaking critically of 
him in public or challenging him in court.[6] He also kept his job as a 
federal judge. Of course, a near autocratic leader was probably what was 
needed for baseball at the time as the Black Sox scandal had placed the 
public's trust in baseball on shaky ground as the owners accepted the terms 
of the agreement with a scant trace of opposition, if any.[7] After an 
August 31 game between the Philadelphia Phillies and Chicago Cubs, allegations 
began to arise that the game was fixed. The state court in Chicago opened 
a grand jury to investigate gambling within baseball. Gambler Billy Maharg 
came forward with information that he worked with New York gambler Arnold 
Rothstein and former boxer Abe Attell to get the White Sox to throw the 
1919 World Series.[8] The White Sox again were contending for the American 
League title and were in a near-dead heat with the Cleveland Indians and 
New York Yankees. However, on September 28, eight White Sox players were 
indicted and suspended by owner Charlie Comiskey.[9] The Indians pulled 
