In the 1920 World Series, the Cleveland Indians beat the Brooklyn Dodgers, 
then known interchangeably as the Robins in reference to their manager 
Wilbert Robinson, in seven games, five games to two. This series was a 
best-of-nine series, like the first World Series in 1903 and the World 
Series of 1919 and 1921. The only World Series triple play, the first World 
Series grand slam and the first World Series home run by a pitcher all 
occurred in Game 5 of this Series. The Indians won the series in memory 
of their former shortstop Ray Chapman, who had been killed earlier in the 
season when struck in the head by a pitched ball. The triple play was unassisted 
and turned by Cleveland's Bill Wambsganss in Game 5. Wambsganss, playing 
second base, caught a line drive off the bat of Clarence Mitchell, stepped 
on second base to put out Pete Kilduff, and tagged Otto Miller coming from 
first base. It was the second of fifteen (as of 2009) unassisted triple 
plays in major-league baseball history, and it remains the only one in 
postseason play. Mitchell made history again in the eighth inning by hitting 
into a double play, accounting for five outs in two straight at-bats. The 
fifth game also saw the first grand slam in World Series history (hit by 
Cleveland's Elmer Smith) and the first Series home run by a pitcher (Cleveland's 
Jim Bagby, Sr.). And in that same game, Brooklyn outhit Cleveland but lost 
8–1. Cleveland had won the American League pennant in a close race with 
the Chicago White Sox and the New York Yankees. The Sox's participation 
in the Black Sox Scandal the previous year had caught up to them late in 
the season, and their star players were suspended with three games left 
in the season, when they were in a virtual tie with the Indians. The Yankees, 
with their recently acquired star Babe Ruth, were almost ready to start 
their eventual World Series dynasty. For Cleveland, it would prove to be 
one of their few successes in a long history of largely either poor or 
not-quite-good enough clubs. It is notable that all seven games of the 
1920 World Series were won by the team who scored first. In fact, Game 4 
was the only game in which the losing team scored a run before the winning 
team had scored all of its runs. The lead never changed hands in any game. 
This would be the last World Series until 1980 to feature two franchises 
that had not previously won a championship. AL Cleveland Indians (5) vs. 
NL Brooklyn Robins (2) Tuesday, October 5, 1920, at Ebbets Field in Brooklyn, 
New York Game 1 took a mere 1 hour, 41 minutes. Steve O'Neill supplied 
RBI doubles in the second and fourth innings in support of Stan Coveleski, 
who won it for the visiting Indians with a five-hitter. Wednesday, October 
6, 1920, at Ebbets Field in Brooklyn, New York A first-inning run on a 
Jimmy Johnston single and Zack Wheat double would be all Dodger pitcher 
Burleigh Grimes would require in a complete-game shutout. Thursday, October 
7, 1920, at Ebbets Field in Brooklyn, New York Brooklyn scored twice in 
the first on hits by Zack Wheat and Hi Myers that chased Cleveland starter 
Ray Caldwell from the game. The only run winning pitcher Sherry Smith gave 
up in a three-hitter came when Tris Speaker came all the way around on 
a double that was misplayed in left field. Saturday, October 9, 1920, at 
Dunn Field in Cleveland, Ohio Brooklyn starter Leon Cadore didn't make 
it past the first inning. His relievers didn't fare much better, Al Mamaux 
being removed in the third and Rube Marquard greeted by a George Burns 
two-run double. Stan Coveleski cruised with a five-hitter for his second 
win of the Series. Sunday, October 10, 1920, at Dunn Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio The Cleveland Times ran the following article on Monday, October 11, 
1920, recounting Game 5 and Wambsganss' triple play: Wamby Makes Unassisted 
Triple Play Monday, October 11, 1920, at Dunn Field in Cleveland, Ohio 
Even faster than Game 1, this one was done in just 94 minutes. Duster Mails 
twirled a three-hit shutout, and the lone run came in the sixth on a Tris 
Speaker two-out single, followed by a George Burns double. Tuesday, October 
12, 1920, at Dunn Field in Cleveland, Ohio The Dodgers didn't score in 
the last two games. Their pitcher, Burleigh Grimes, committed an error 
on a Cleveland double steal that resulted in the game's first run. Stan 
Coveleski needed no more, but got one in the fifth from a Tris Speaker 
run-scoring triple and another in the seventh on Charlie Jamieson's RBI 
double. Spitball pitcher Coveleski won for the third time and the Indians 
celebrated before their home fans. 1920 World Series (5–2): Cleveland Indians 
