The much-anticipated 1921 World Series featured John McGraw's New York 
Giants, dedicated practitioners of the dead-ball era's "inside game", and 
the New York Yankees, who relied on the "power game" exemplified by Babe 
Ruth, who was coming off of what was arguably his best year ever statistically. 
This was the first World Series appearance by the Yankees, who have gone 
on to play in the Series a record 40 times. The 1921 Series was a closely 
contested matchup that ended on a double play featuring a baserunning miscue. 
The Series was the last of the experimental best-five-of-nine series, which 
the Giants won five games to three. All eight games were played at the 
Polo Grounds in upper Manhattan, New York, each team alternating as the 
nominal "home team" since the Yankees had subleased the stadium from the 
Giants for the 1913 through 1922 seasons, so that it was the home park 
for both teams during the regular season in those ten years. This marked 
the first time in World Series history that the series occurred at a single 
site. It happened again the following year in the same place with the same 
two teams, and in 1944 at St. Louis' Sportsman's Park between the Cardinals 
and the Browns. For New Yorkers, this was the first subway Series in World 
Series history. It was also the first World Series to be broadcast on radio, 
with Grantland Rice covering the games live through Pittsburgh's KDKA. 
It was rebroadcast on WBZ in Massachusetts. Announcer Tommy Cowan also 
recreated the games over Westinghouse-owned WJZ in Newark as he listened 
to phoned-in reports from the stadium.[2] Because of an infected arm and 
a bad knee (which he wrenched in Game 5), Babe Ruth played only part-time 
in the series and did not start the final game, appearing only in the bottom 
of the ninth pinch-hitting for first baseman Wally Pipp. Following the 
Series, Ruth and Bob Meusel did some postseason barnstorming, against the 
rules for Series participants at that time. Both were suspended for a number 
of games at the start of the 1922 season. Ruth filed a personal appeal 
with Commissioner Landis, who upheld their suspensions but agreed to rescind 
the rule effective the end of that season. Then New York Governor Nathan 
L. Miller, described as "a big baseball fan" by the New York Times, made 
plans to attend games as a guest of the National Commission (the Commissioner 
of Baseball).[3] The Series drew fans to New York City from across the 
continent, from as far west as California and Mexico to as far south as 
Cuba. Hotels were booked up, and both the New York Central and Pennsylvania 
Railroads made plans to add cars and run their trains in sections if necessary 
to handle the extra traffic expected. Harry L. Davis, then the Governor 
of Ohio, was expected to attend the games as were several other VIPs of 
the time.[4] This was the fourth World Series for Giants' assistant coach 
"Eee-yah!" Hughey Jennings, who had managed young Ty Cobb and the pennant-winning 
but Series-losing 1907, 1908 & 1909 Detroit Tigers and had been brought 
in as an assistant coach for the Giants by John McGraw the previous October 
after Jennings had resigned from the Tigers. The two were teammates on 
the old Baltimore Orioles in earlier seasons.[5] Several players on both 
teams didn't start the 1921 season with either the Giants or the Yankees, 
and several others moved to other teams during the regular season earlier 
that year. For the Giants, Johnny Rawlings, Irish Meusel, Casey Stengel 
and Red Causey started the season as Philadelphia Phillies, who finished 
last in the National League that year. Outfielder Bill Cunningham had played 
for the Seattle Rainiers of the Pacific Coast League, nor did Cozy Dolan 
or Red Shea start the season with the Giants, while the Yankees acquired 
outfielder Elmer Miller and pitcher Tom Rogers during the season. Nonparticipants 
from either team in the Series included Curtis Walker, Lee King, Johnny 
Monroe, Rube Benton, Goldie Rapp, Ping Bodie, Tom Sheehan and Tom Connolly.[6] 
NL New York Giants (5) vs. AL New York Yankees (3) Wednesday, October 5, 
1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Thursday, October 
6, 1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Pitching 
Ruth carefully, the Giants walked the Babe three times; but after the third 
walk he stole second and then third base, much to the delight of Yankee 
fans. But when he slid into third, he scraped his elbow severely and the 
site became infected. Friday, October 7, 1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) 
in upper Manhattan, New York After getting outscored 6–0 in the first two 
games of this series and falling behind 4–0 in the top of the third, the 
Giants tied it with four runs of their own in the bottom half. Later on, 
an 8 run 7th inning highlighted by Ross Youngs' bases loaded triple turned 
the tide as the Giants got their first win of this series. Ruth was taken 
out in the eighth after again scraping his elbow sliding into a base. The 
Yankees announced after the game that the elbow would have to be lanced 
and that he would not return for the rest of the Series. Sunday, October 
9, 1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Ruth suited 
up, but stayed on the bench during batting practice. When the game began, 
however, to everyone's surprise, he popped out of the dugout and jogged 
to his outfield position. The crowd roared. He kept touching his bandaged 
arm throughout the game. Despite the injury, he got two hits including 
a ninth-inning homer, his first World Series home run as well as the first 
World Series home run in Yankees franchise history. But the Giants won 
the game and tied the series at 2–2. Monday, October 10, 1921, at the Polo 
Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Ruth's arm was still bandaged, 
but he played again. In the fourth, with the score tied 1–1, he shocked 
everyone by bunting and beating it out. His teammate Meusel then doubled, 
scoring Ruth all the way from first base for the go-ahead run in a 3–1 
Yankee win. Tuesday, October 11, 1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper 
Manhattan, New York The Giants battled back from 3–0 and 5–3 deficits to 
take game 6. Wednesday, October 12, 1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper 
Manhattan, New York Thursday, October 13, 1921, at the Polo Grounds (IV) 
in upper Manhattan, New York Facing elimination, Yankee manager Miller 
Huggins sent Ruth out to pinch-hit in the bottom of the ninth. The Babe, 
nursing both elbow and knee injuries, had sat out this game and missed 
all of Games 6 & 7. The bases were empty and the Yankees still trailed 
by the lone run of the game scored by the Giants in the top of the first. 
A HR would tie the game, and a hit or a walk would give the Yankees a chance. 
But Ruth grounded out, and shortly afterwards infielder Aaron Ward would 
make the final out of the Series, giving the Giants their first world championship 
since Christy Mathewson's record three complete shutouts in 1905. 1921 
World Series (5–3): New York Giants (N.L.) over New York Yankees (A.L.) 
