In the 1922 World Series, the New York Giants beat the New York Yankees 
in five games (four games to none with one tie; starting this year the 
World Series was again best-of-seven). By now, the term "World Series" 
was being used frequently, as opposed to "World's Series". As with the 
1921 World Series, every game was played at the Polo Grounds because it 
housed both teams, with the home team alternating. The Giants pitched around 
Babe Ruth and scored just enough runs to win each of the games outside 
of the controversial Game 2 tie. That game was called on account of darkness, 
but many thought there was sufficient light to have played some more innings 
(the sun was still in the sky), and there were some suspicions that one 
or both teams might have "allowed" the tie to happen to increase the overall 
gate receipts. Commissioner Landis was among those who was dissatisfied 
with the result. One story is that Landis asked Umpire Hildebrand, "Why 
the Sam Hill did you call the game?" The umpire answered, "There was a 
temporary haze on the field." The game decision was in the hands of the 
umpires, but the Commissioner's Office controlled the gate receipts. Landis 
ordered the money, more than $120,000, turned over to World War I charities, 
thus nullifying any impropriety. The tied game would turn out to be the 
third (and final) tied game in the history of the World Series. The other 
two tied games occurred in 1907 and 1912. No ties are possible under later 
rules, which allow for suspension of a tied game and resumption of it at 
a later date, as with Game 5 of the 2008 World Series. This would prove 
to be Giants' manager John McGraw's third and final World Series win. NL 
New York Giants (4) vs. AL New York Yankees (0) Wednesday, October 4, 1922, 
at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York The game and Series 
remained scoreless until the sixth inning. Whitey Witt tripled, then was 
cut down at home trying to score on a fielder's choice, but a Babe Ruth 
hit got the run home. A three-run Giant rally in the eighth knocked out 
Yankee starter Bullet Joe Bush, with the winning run coming off reliever 
Waite Hoyt on a Ross Youngs sacrifice fly. Thursday, October 5, 1922, at 
the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York This was the controversial 
tie (see above). Pitchers Bob Shawkey and Jesse Barnes went all 10 innings. 
The Yankees had tied the game in the eighth on doubles by Babe Ruth and 
Bob Meusel, but that's the way the game ended. Friday, October 6, 1922, 
at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Knuckleballer Jack 
Scott kept the Yankees off the board. His own single sparked a two-run 
third inning for the Giants, who added an insurance run in the seventh 
on Frankie Frisch's RBI single. The game took just 1 hour, 48 minutes. 
Saturday, October 7, 1922, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York This contest moved along even faster than Game 3. It was over 
in a snappy 1:41, with Giants pitcher Hugh McQuillan going the distance 
for a 4-3 win. Dave Bancroft's two-run single in the fifth was the key 
hit. Sunday, October 8, 1922, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York Art Nehf's five-hit pitching combined with a three-run eighth 
inning won the Series for the Giants. The decisive rally began with a Heinie 
Groh single and Frankie Frisch double. After an intentional walk to Ross 
Youngs, a two-run single by High Pockets Kelly put the Giants on top. Next 
batter Lee King, inserted in the outfield that inning for defensive purposes, 
delivered an RBI single to make it 5-3, and that's how it ended. This is 
the last World Series the Giants won at home. Their championships of 1933 
and 1954 (for New York) and 2010, 2012 and 2014 (for San Francisco) all 
came as the visiting team. 1922 World Series (4–0–1): New York Giants (N.L.) 
