In the 1923 World Series, the New York Yankees beat the New York Giants 
in six games. This would be the first of the Yankees' 27 World Series championships 
(as of 2016). The series was not played in a 2–3–2 format: as with the 
previous two Series (where both clubs had shared the Polo Grounds) the 
home field alternated each game, though this time it involved switching 
ballparks, as the first Yankee Stadium had opened this season. The Yankees 
opened their new stadium in April on a home run by Babe Ruth, setting the 
tone for the season and this Series, in which Ruth hit three home runs 
along with drawing eight walks. In Game 2, second baseman, Aaron Ward hit 
a home run. The Giants' one bright spot was "Old Casey" Stengel, who hit 
game-winning homers in each of the two Giants' victories. In typically 
eccentric Stengel fashion, one of them was inside-the-park at the cavernous 
Yankee Stadium, and his shoe came loose during his run around the bases. 
Stengel was traded after the season, leading him to quip later in life, 
"It's a good thing I didn't hit three homers in three games, or McGraw 
would have traded me to the Three-I League!". A quarter century later, 
Stengel would take on the role of Yankees manager, and would guide the 
Bronx Bombers through one of their most successful eras. In Game 6, The 
Yankees overcame the 4–1 deficit by staging a five-run rally in the eighth 
inning to clinch the series. The three consecutive matchups between the 
Yankees and Giants (1921–1923) marked the only time (as of 2016), that 
three straight World Series featured the same two clubs. Thanks to the 
large seating capacity of the new Yankee Stadium, coupled with expansion 
of the Polo Grounds the same year, the 1923 Series was the first to eclipse 
300,000 in total attendance (301,430), averaging over 50,000 per game (50,238), 
with gate receipts over $1 million ($1,063,815.00). This was the third 
time that a team had inaugurated a new stadium with a World Series win, 
and would be the last until the St. Louis Cardinals victory in their new 
ballpark in 2006 and the New York Yankees again won the World Series in 
2009 in their new Yankee Stadium. Babe Ruth had a great series, his first 
great one as a Yankee, batted .368 and hit three home runs in the series. 
Neither Lou Gehrig, Bill Terry nor Hack Wilson played in the Series. These 
future Hall of Famers were each in their first season and had played no 
more than thirteen games in the regular season. Gehrig had been called 
up from Hartford to play for the Yankees that year. In that time, however, 
a team had to have the permission of both the commissioner and the opposing 
team's manager to make a roster change so late in the season eligible for 
postseason play. The Yankees gained the permission of Commissioner Kenesaw 
Mountain Landis who then told them to get John McGraw's permission. McGraw 
and the Yankees had a long history of disdain after both teams had shared 
a stadium and the Giants had won both the 1921 and 1922 World Series from 
New York. Therefore, he declined permission and Gehrig would not be allowed 
to participate in the series which otherwise would have been his first 
World Series. As noted baseball historian John Thorn said, "As if the Yankees 
needed any more reason to hate John McGraw."[1] AL New York Yankees (4) 
vs. NL New York Giants (2) Wednesday, October 10, 1923, at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in the Bronx, New York A ninth-inning inside-the-park homer by Casey 
Stengel beat the Yankees on their home field. Babe Ruth scored in the first 
inning on a Bob Meusel double. Yankee center fielder Whitey Witt's two-run 
single in the next inning made it 3-0. The Giants fought back with a four-run 
third, knocking out Yankee starter Waite Hoyt from the game. It was tied 
at 4-4 in the ninth until Casey came to bat, legging out a long drive to 
the left-center gap. Thursday, October 11, 1923, at the Polo Grounds (IV) 
in upper Manhattan, New York After trading solo home runs by Aaron Ward 
and Irish Meusel, a pair of Babe Ruth blasts in the fourth and fifth innings 
turned out to be the difference. Friday, October 12, 1923, at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in the Bronx, New York A scoreless pitching duel lasted until the seventh 
inning, when Casey Stengel struck again, this time with a homer that left 
the park. It gave Sad Sam Jones the win over Art Nehf, despite the Giants 
getting just four hits. Saturday, October 13, 1923, at the Polo Grounds 
(IV) in upper Manhattan, New York A six-run second inning chased Giant 
starter Jack Scott, the first four Yankee batters of that inning reaching 
safely. Bob Meusel added a two-run triple. A ninth-inning leadoff inside-the-park 
homer by Ross Youngs gave the home team a flicker of hope, but Herb Pennock 
mopped up in relief. Sunday, October 14, 1923, at Yankee Stadium (I) in 
the Bronx, New York It was over in a hurry. Bob Meusel's two-run triple 
and a Wally Pipp sacrifice fly made it 3-0. Then the Yankees got four more 
in the second, Joe Dugan's three-run inside-the-park homer the big blow. 
Bullet Joe Bush surrendered just three hits to the Giants, who now faced 
elimination. Monday, October 15, 1923, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper 
Manhattan, New York Right off the bat, the Yankees struck with a Babe Ruth 
two-out homer in the first. But then the Giants and their Polo Grounds 
crowd came to life. Three singles in the first tied the score. Center fielder 
Bill Cunningham knocked in a go-ahead run in the fourth, followed by catcher 
Frank Snyder's homer in the fifth. Down 4-1, the Yankees took advantage 
of three singles, three walks and an error for a five-run eighth that put 
the game and the Series in the bag. 1923 World Series (4–2): New York Yankees 
