In the 1924 World Series, the Washington Senators beat the New York Giants 
in seven games. The Giants became the first team to play in four consecutive 
World Series, winning in 1921–1922 and losing in 1923–1924. Their long-time 
manager, John McGraw, made his ninth and final World Series appearance 
in 1924. This was the second extra-inning World Series-deciding game (1912) 
and the last until 1991. The winning team of the 1991 World Series was 
the very same franchise, now known as the Minnesota Twins. Walter Johnson, 
after pitching his first 20-victory season (23) since 1919, was making 
his first World Series appearance, at the age of 36, while nearing the 
end of his career with the Senators. He lost his two starts, but the Senators 
battled back to force a Game 7, giving Johnson a chance to redeem himself 
when he came on in relief in that game. Johnson held on to get the win 
and give Washington its first and only championship. The seventh game is 
widely considered to be one of the most dramatic games in Series history. 
Johnson struck out twelve Giants batters in Game 1 in a losing cause. Although 
that total matched Ed Walsh's number in the 1906 World Series, it came 
in twelve innings. Johnson only struck out nine in the first nine innings. 
In Game 7, with the Senators behind 3–1 in the eighth, Bucky Harris hit 
a routine ground ball to third which hit a pebble and took a bad hop over 
Giants third baseman Freddie Lindstrom. Two runners scored on the play, 
tying the score at three. Walter Johnson then came in to pitch the ninth, 
and held the Giants scoreless into extra innings. With the score still 
3–3, Washington came up in the twelfth. With one out, and runners on first 
and second, Earl McNeely hit another grounder at Lindstrom, and again the 
ball took a bad hop, scoring Muddy Ruel with the Series-winning run. This 
was the only World Series championship victory during the franchise's time 
in Washington. As the Minnesota Twins, the team won the World Series in 
1987 and 1991. AL Washington Senators (4) vs. NL New York Giants (3) Saturday, 
October 4, 1924, at Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C. The Senators tied 
it at 2–2 with a run in the bottom of the ninth. The Giants scored two 
in the top of the 12th off the Big Train; Washington fought back for a 
run in the bottom of the inning, but left the tying run on third. Sunday, 
October 5, 1924, at Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C. Washington fought 
back early in the game, scoring 3 runs in 5 innings. But the Giants would 
quickly fight back in the final three frames to tie the game as it went 
to the bottom of the ninth. With Joe Judge representing the potential winning 
run and 1 out, Roger Peckinpaugh hit a double to win the game and tie the 
series. Monday, October 6, 1924, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, 
New York Washington threatened in the ninth. Ossie Bluege, the only man 
reliever Claude Jonnard faced, drew a bases-loaded walk to make it 6-4. 
Mule Watson then came in to nail down the last two outs. Tuesday, October 
7, 1924, at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Goose Goslin 
had a big game for the Senators, with three singles and a home run to go 
4-for-4 and drive in four runs. Wednesday, October 8, 1924, at the Polo 
Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Thursday, October 9, 1924, at 
Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C. Both Washington runs scored on a clutch 
two-run single in the fifth inning by manager Bucky Harris. Friday, October 
10, 1924, at Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C. The unheralded Curly 
Ogden was given the Game 7 start for Washington – it was his first and 
only World Series appearance. He gave up a hit and a walk, and then was 
pulled for George Mogridge. It was later revealed that manager Bucky Harris 
started righthander Ogden so that the Giants would be locked into their 
"righthanded" lineup, before he switched to the lefthander Mogridge. With 
the Senators trailing 3–1 in the eighth inning with bases loaded and two 
outs, Bucky Harris hit a "bad hop" ground ball to third which Fred Lindstrom 
failed to catch (no error was charged). As a result, two runs scored for 
a 3–3 tie. In the ninth inning, Walter Johnson would step up as pitcher 
and pitch four scoreless innings. In the bottom of the 12th inning, Giants 
catcher Hank Gowdy stepped on his own discarded mask while trying to catch 
a Muddy Ruel foul pop-up, and dropped the ball for an error. Given a second 
chance in the at-bat, Ruel doubled. Johnson reached first on another error, 
and with Ruel on second and Johnson on first, Earl McNeely hit a "bad hop" 
ground ball to Lindstrom that was almost identical to Harris' eighth inning 
hit. Lindstrom again failed to catch the ball as it bounced over him into 
left field, and Ruel scored the series-winning run. The game holds the 
record as the longest Game 7 (by innings) in World Series history, and 
is tied with the 2014 American League Wild Card Game as the longest "winner-take-all" 
game in postseason history.[8] In 2014, the Library of Congress acquired 
a newsreel of highlight footage from Game 7, including McNeely's Series-winning 
base hit.[9] CNN subsequently released this footage on its website.[10] 
1924 World Series (4–3): Washington Senators (A.L.) over New York Giants 
