In the 1925 World Series, the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the defending champion 
Washington Senators in seven games. In a reversal of fortune on all counts 
from the previous 1924 World Series, when Washington's Walter Johnson had 
come back from two losses to win the seventh and deciding game, Johnson 
dominated in Games 1 and 4, but lost Game 7. The Senators built up a 3–1 
Series lead. After Pittsburgh won the next two games, Johnson again took 
the mound for Game 7, and carried a 6–4 lead into the bottom of the seventh 
inning. But errors by shortstop Roger Peckinpaugh in both the seventh and 
eighth innings led to four unearned runs, and the Pirates become the first 
team in a best-of-seven Series to overcome a 3–1 Series deficit to win 
the championship. Peckinpaugh, the Senators' regular shortstop and the 
1925 American League Most Valuable Player, had a tough Series in the field, 
committing a record eight errors. Playing conditions were of no help. The 
1925 Series was postponed twice due to poor weather, and Game 7 was played 
in what soon became a steady downpour, described as "probably the worst 
conditions ever for a World Series game."[1] Senators outfielder Goose 
Goslin reported that the fog prevented him from clearly seeing the infield 
during the last three innings of the game, and claimed that the Series-winning 
hit was actually a foul ball.[2][3] In the next day's New York Times, James 
Harrison wrote "In a grave of mud was buried Walter Johnson's ambition 
to join the select panel of pitchers who have won three victories in one 
World Series. With mud shackling his ankles and water running down his 
neck, the grand old man of baseball succumbed to weariness, a sore leg, 
wretched support and the most miserable weather conditions that ever confronted 
a pitcher."[4] A memorable play occurred during the eighth inning of Game 3. 
The Senators' Sam Rice ran after an Earl Smith line drive hit into right 
center field. Rice made a diving "catch" into the temporary stands, but 
did not emerge with the ball for approximately fifteen seconds. The Pirates 
contested the play, saying a fan probably stuffed the ball into Rice's 
glove. The call stood and Rice parried questions about the incident for 
the rest of his life—never explicitly saying whether he had or had not 
really made the catch. His typical answer (including to Commissioner Landis, 
who said it was a good answer) was always "The umpire said I caught it." 
Rice left a sealed letter at the Hall of Fame to be opened after his death. 
In it, he had written: "At no time did I lose possession of the ball." 
Writer Lamont Buchanan wrote, "In 1925, the Senators hopped the Big Train 
once too often... earning Bucky [Harris] the criticism of many fans and 
American League head [Ban] Johnson who dispatched an irate wire to the 
Senators manager." In his telegram, Ban Johnson accused the manager of 
failing to relieve Walter Johnson "for sentimental reasons." Despite the 
second-guessing, Harris always said, 'If I had it to do over again, I'd 
still pitch Johnson.'" [5] NL Pittsburgh Pirates (4) vs. AL Washington 
Senators (3) Wednesday, October 7, 1925, at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania This game remains to date the last road World Series game 
the Washington Senators/Minnesota Twins franchise has won. They have lost 
their last fourteen since. Thursday, October 8, 1925, at Forbes Field in 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Saturday, October 10, 1925, at Griffith Stadium 
in Washington, D.C. Sunday, October 11, 1925, at Griffith Stadium in Washington, 
D.C. Monday, October 12, 1925, at Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C. 
Tuesday, October 13, 1925, at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Thursday, October 15, 1925, at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
1925 World Series (4–3): Pittsburgh Pirates (N.L.) over Washington Senators 
