In the 1928 World Series, the New York Yankees swept the St. Louis Cardinals 
in four games. This was the first time a team had swept consecutive Series. 
Babe Ruth hit .625 (10 for 16) as the Yankees demolished their opponents 
by a combined score of 27 to 10. As he had done against the Cards in the 
1926 Series, Ruth rocketed three home runs over the right field pavilion 
in Sportsman's Park in Game 4, the only one to do it twice in the World 
Series through the 2014 season. Unlike 1926, however, it occurred in the 
final game of a Series won by the Yanks and put an exclamation mark on 
their two consecutive World Series sweeps. Lou Gehrig also had a good Series. 
He drove in as many runs by himself as the entire Cardinal team combined. 
Bill McKechnie became the second manager to lead two different teams to 
the World Series, and like Pat Moran, won one and lost one. AL New York 
Yankees (4) vs. NL St. Louis Cardinals (0) Thursday, October 4, 1928, at 
Yankee Stadium (I) in the Bronx, New York Friday, October 5, 1928, at Yankee 
Stadium (I) in the Bronx, New York Sunday, October 7, 1928, at Sportsman's 
Park (III) in St. Louis, Missouri Tuesday, October 9, 1928, at Sportsman's 
Park (III) in St. Louis, Missouri Leading 2–1 going into the seventh, Game 4 
was the first time the Cards led the Yanks in the entire Series. In the 
top of the seventh, 21-game-winning southpaw Will Sherdel had an 0–2 count 
on Babe Ruth, who turned to say something to catcher Earl Smith, Sherdel 
"quick-pitched," or threw without a windup, for what he thought was strike 
three on the Babe.[5] "Quick pitches" were legal in the National League, 
but not in the American League or the World Series. So NL plate umpire 
Cy Pfirman called "no pitch," touching off a vociferous argument with the 
Cardinals they couldn't win. Ruth then took two balls to even the count 
at 2–2 before homering to tie the game at two apiece. Gehrig's ensuing 
back-to-back home run, his fourth of the Series, gave the Yanks a lead 
they never relinquished. They scored twice more in the seventh, and Ruth 
capped things off with his third homer of the game in the two-run Yankee 
eighth.[6] St. Louis scored a lone run in the bottom of the ninth to make 
it 7–3, but that was their last gasp as future Hall of Famer Frankie Frisch 
hit a left field foul fly caught on the run by none other than the Babe 
up against the stands, as angry Cardinal fans swatted the "Sultan of Swat" 
with newspapers and programs. But Ruth merely kept running right into the 
dugout, holding the ball in the air and giving the Yanks their second straight 
World Series sweep. In 1930, Ruth called this game the biggest thrill of 
his career.[5] 1928 World Series (4–0): New York Yankees (A.L.) over St. 
