The 1929 World Series featured the Philadelphia Athletics and the Chicago 
Cubs. The Athletics beat the Cubs decisively in five games. This was the 
Series of the famous "Mack Attack" (so called in honor of longtime A's 
owner-manager Connie Mack), in which the Athletics overcame an eight-run 
deficit by scoring 10 runs in the home half of the seventh in Game 4 (before 
two straight strikeouts by Pat Malone ended it) to snatch a 10–8 victory 
from the jaws of a defeat which would have evened the Series at two games 
apiece. The Cubs were further humiliated in the middle of that record rally 
when center fielder Hack Wilson lost Mule Haas' fly ball in the sun for 
a fluke three-run inside-the-park home run, bringing the A's to within 
a run at 8–7. It was the last occurrence of an inside-the-park home run 
in a World Series game until Game 1 of the 2015 World Series. Because seven 
of the eight regulars in the Cubs' lineup hit right-handed (except for 
first baseman Charlie Grimm), Mack started only right-handed pitchers and 
kept all his lefties in the bullpen even though two of his best starters, 
300-game-winner-to-be Lefty Grove and Rube Walberg, were southpaws. Accordingly, 
Game 1 will be remembered mostly for the surprise start of aging A's pitcher 
Howard Ehmke, whose record thirteen strikeouts in a stellar complete game 
3–1 win bested "Big" Ed Walsh's 1906 Series record by one, and stood until 
Carl Erskine broke it by one in 1953. Ehmke went on to start Game 5 but 
failed to get out of the fourth inning, the bullpen and a ninth-inning 
A's come-from-behind walk-off rally bailing him out. AL Philadelphia Athletics 
(4) vs. NL Chicago Cubs (1) Tuesday, October 8, 1929, at Wrigley Field 
in Chicago This was the first World Series game ever played at Wrigley 
Field. The 35-year-old Ehmke's first-game appearance was no sentimental 
move by Mack even though he was considered "over the hill", having won 
only seven games for the slugging A's, pitched only two complete games 
and worked a scant 55 innings in the regular season. Mack chose Ehmke over 
Grove or George Earnshaw because he thought Ehmke's stuff would baffle 
the hard-hitting Cubs, and that his sidearm delivery would make it hard 
for them to pick up the ball against the white-shirted "bleacher bums" 
of Wrigley. He proved his shrewd manager right, striking out thirteen Cubs 
for a Series record that would stand until 1953. Mack had rested Howard's 
arm by sending him to scout the Cubbies for the last few weeks of the season, 
with both A's and Cubs far ahead in their respective standings.[6][7] Ehmke 
notched 13 strikeouts in the game, besting the World Series record of 12 
set by Ed Walsh in 1906. Attending Game 1 was 9-year-old John Paul Stevens, 
who would grow up to become a Supreme Court Justice. A lifelong Cub fan, 
Stevens later said, "And that was my first game, a tragic game for a young 
boy to go and see in person!"[8] Wednesday, October 9, 1929, at Wrigley 
Field in Chicago Jimmie Foxx became the first player to homer in his first 
two World Series games. Friday, October 11, 1929, at Shibe Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania Game 3 was a strong showing of two defensive teams at their 
best, a classic pitchers' duel and a "nail-biter." Saturday, October 12, 
1929, at Shibe Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Sticking to his righties-only 
policy, Mack rolled the dice again in Game 4 by starting 46-year-old Jack 
Quinn. Unlike Ehmke, however, Quinn was no challenge to the Cubs hitters, 
who torched him for seven runs before Mack pulled him in the sixth inning, 
setting the stage for the "Mack Attack" in the bottom of the seventh. After 
Wilson's miscue on Haas' hit, an unknown fan wrote lyrics to "My Old Kentucky 
Home" beginning with "The sun shone bright into poor Hack Wilson's eyes..." 
and ended "So we'll sing one song for the game and fighting Cubs, for the 
record whiffing Cubs far away." After seeing his seemingly safe 8–0 lead 
implode to a 10–8 loss after the A's record seventh and a scoreless last 
two innings, Cub skipper Joe McCarthy was anything but jovial. When a boy 
came by after the game asking for a baseball, "Marse Joe" muttered, "Come 
back tomorrow and stand behind Wilson, and you'll be able to pick up all 
the balls you want!"[9] That eight-run deficit overcome by the A's that 
momentous Columbus Day in Philly is still the largest in playoff history 
through the 2016 season, and Mule Haas' 7th inning inside-the-park home 
run was the last in a World Series game for 86 years.[10][11] Monday, October 
14, 1929, at Shibe Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Mack gave Ehmke his 
second start of the Series, but without the advantage of surprise and without 
the white shirts in Wrigley's bleachers he was ineffective, touched for 
two runs and taken out in the fourth inning. The A's rallied for their 
only three runs in the bottom of the ninth to come from behind yet again 
and win the Series on home turf, 3–2. Haas tied it up with dramatic suddenness 
on a two-run homer; and after a double by Al Simmons and an intentional 
walk to Jimmie Foxx, Bing Miller's walk-off double scored Simmons to end 
the game and give the A's their first world championship in sixteen years.[7] 
1929 World Series (4–1): Philadelphia Athletics (A.L.) over Chicago Cubs 
