The 1932 World Series was a four-game sweep by the American League champions 
New York Yankees over the National League champions Chicago Cubs. By far 
its most noteworthy moment was Babe Ruth's called shot home run, in his 
10th and last World Series. It was punctuated by fiery arguments between 
the two teams, heating up the atmosphere before the World Series even began. 
A record 13 future Hall of Famers played in this Series, which was also 
the first in which both teams wore uniforms with numbers on the backs of 
the shirts. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Chicago Cubs (0) Wednesday, 
September 28, 1932, at Yankee Stadium (I) in the Bronx, New York The Cubs 
opened the scoring with two runs in the top of the first inning, but the 
Yankees jumped ahead 3–2 on a home run by Lou Gehrig. New York scored nine 
runs in the last three innings to win 12–6 on only eight hits. Yankee starter 
Red Ruffing pitched a complete game, striking out 10 Cubs but walking six 
and giving up six runs, only three of which were earned. Thursday, September 
29, 1932, at Yankee Stadium (I) in the Bronx, New York Chicago got nine 
hits but only two runs off Lefty Gomez, and went back to Wrigley behind 
two games to none. This was the last World Series game Babe Ruth ever played 
in Yankee Stadium, with a single in his last Fall Classic home at-bat. 
Saturday, October 1, 1932, at Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Roughly 
50,000 Cubs fans showed up for Game 3, a very large crowd for the time 
made possible by the construction of temporary bleachers fronting Waveland 
and Sheffield Avenues. In a prelude of things to come, Ruth and Gehrig 
put on an impressive batting display in batting practice. Ruth launched 
nine balls into the outfield stands, while Gehrig hit seven. As reported 
in the first edition of A Day at the Park, by William Hartel, p. 82, Ruth 
said while batting: "I'd play for half my salary if I could bat in this 
dump all the time!" Cub starter Charlie Root struggled in the opening frame. 
The first two Yankees reached base, and Ruth followed with a homer into 
the right-center-field bleachers to put the Yanks up 3–0. The existing 
newsreel footage showed Gehrig giving Ruth a friendly swat on the buttocks 
as Ruth crossed the plate. Gehrig hit a solo home run of his own in the 
top of the third, bringing back memories of one he had hit in a prep game 
at Wrigley in high school. This put the Yankees up 4–1. The Cubs battled 
back with two in the third and one in the fourth, tying the score at four. 
Joe Judge, who scored the tying run in the fourth, had doubled to right 
after Ruth's futile dive for the ball. What happened in the top of the 
fifth is legendary, immortalizing this Series sweep in many history books 
for that and nothing else. Ruth and Gehrig hit back-to-back home runs, 
but Ruth’s is perhaps the best-known in Series history. Ruth supposedly 
predicted his home run by pointing to the stands as Root was preparing 
to pitch. While newsreel footage shows the Babe pointing somewhere during 
this momentous at-bat, much debate has swirled around whether this meant 
he was actually "calling" the home run, given the lack of solid evidence 
as to just what he was pointing at. Sunday, October 2, 1932, at Wrigley 
Field in Chicago, Illinois Chicago tried to delay the inevitable by rocking 
young Yank starter Johnny Allen for four runs in the first inning in the 
two-thirds of an inning he lasted before Wilcy Moore relieved him and put 
the fire out, giving up only one additional run in 5 1⁄3 innings. The Yankees 
took the lead in the sixth on a two-run single by Gehrig and extended it 
in the seventh on three straight hits by Earle Combs, Joe Sewell and the 
Babe, the last-ever World Series hits for Sewell and Ruth. Herb Pennock 
retired Riggs Stephenson on a fly ball to right for the last out of the 
Series. The Yankees had won their fourth World Series, and their 12th consecutive 
Series game. It was the last Series for Yankee mainstays Ruth, Combs and 
Pennock. The Cubs extended their World Series victory drought to 24 years 
with their humiliating loss, their fourth consecutive in the Fall Classic 
after 1910, 1918 & 1929 (to the A's, Red Sox and A's again respectively). 
The Cubs' drought would end up lasting 108 years, having been finally ended 
when the Cubs defeated the Cleveland Indians in seven games to win the 
2016 World Series. 1932 World Series (4–0): New York Yankees (A.L.) over 
Chicago Cubs (N.L.) Bench jockeying, called "trash talk" nowadays, was 
standard procedure in baseball then as now. No verbal punches were ever 
pulled, but the jockeying was supposedly taken to new heights (or depths) 
in this Series stemming from Yankee disrespect for the way the Cubs treated 
their former teammate, shortstop Mark Koenig, after his acquisition from 
the Detroit Tigers' Triple-A Mission Reds of the Pacific Coast League on 
April 25, 1932.[6] Despite Koenig's regular-season contributions (hitting 
.353 and fielding well), his stingy Cub teammates voted him only half a 
player's postseason share before the start of the Series because he had 
only played in 33 games and was unable to play in the Series due to injury. 
When some of Koenig's Yankee friends got wind of this, they dissed the 
Cubs as "cheapskates" in the press, "tight" with their Series money.[7] 
Ruth infuriated the Cubs the most when he called them cheapskates.[7] Adding 
spice to the verbal stew was that Yankee manager Joe McCarthy had been 
fired by the Cubs a year or two after leading them to the 1929 NL pennant. 
When the Series started in New York, the Cubs retaliated by calling the 
Babe "fat" and "washed up" along with every obscenity they could think 
of. Guy Bush, Cub starter in Game 1, led the verbal attack on Ruth, calling 
him "nigger" (a common bench-jockey slam against the Babe for his broad 
nose and thick lips despite his German origin), and banter like this went 
on for most of the Series. Babe Ruth's Called Shot refers to the home run 
he hit in the fifth inning of Game 3. Existing film shows Ruth made a pointing 
gesture during this at-bat, but what this signified is ambiguous. Though 
neither fully confirmed nor refuted, the story goes that Ruth pointed to 
the center field bleachers, supposedly predicting he would hit a home run 
there. On the next pitch, he hit what was estimated as a nearly 500' "Ruthian" 
homer to deep center past the flagpole and into the temporary seating in 
the streets. A few reporters later wrote that Ruth had "called his shot" 
(like a pool shark), and thus the legend was born. Ruth, ever aware of 
his larger-than-life public image, was quick to confirm the story once 
he got wind of it. Conflicting testimony and inconclusive film footage 
