The 1933 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 1st edition of the 
All-Star Game known as the "Midsummer Classic". This was the first official 
playing of the midseason exhibition baseball game between Major League 
Baseball's (MLB's) National League (NL) and American (AL) All-Star teams. 
The game was held on July 6, 1933, at Comiskey Park in Chicago, Illinois, 
the home of the AL's Chicago White Sox. The game resulted in the AL defeating 
the NL 4–2, in two hours and five minutes. The first MLB All-Star game 
(unofficial all-star game called the Addie Joss Benefit Game) was held 
on July 24, 1911, in Cleveland at Cleveland League Park (League Park, 1891–1946), 
the American League All-Stars versus the Cleveland Naps (1903–1915).[1][2] 
The AL All-Stars won 5-3. The first official MLB All-Star exhibition game 
on July 6, 1933, was held at Comiskey Park (1910–1990) and was part of 
the 1933 Chicago World's Fair during the city's centennial. The 1933 MLB 
All-Star Game was the idea of Arch Ward, the sports editor of the Chicago 
Tribune, after the Mayor of Chicago, Edward J. Kelly, had first approached 
the Tribune's publisher for a major sport event.[3] The game was intended 
to be a one-time event to boost morale during the Great Depression. Ward 
decided that the fans would select the starting nine players and the managers 
the other nine players for each of the NL and AL All-Star teams. The Tribune 
called it the "Game of the Century", and 55 newspapers across the country 
printed the fans' ballots in their papers.[4] The Tribune estimated the 
game's attendance on July 6, 1933, at 49,000. The proceeds ($45,000, net 
gate receipts) from the game went to a charity for disabled and needy major 
league players. The All-Star Game would afterwards be known as MLB's "Midsummer 
Classic". The legendary baseball player Babe Ruth of the Yankees highlighted 
the game by hitting a two-run home run to right field in the bottom of 
the third inning and catching a fly ball up against the scoreboard in right-center 
field in the top of the eighth inning. Ruth was greeted at home plate by 
the AL/Chicago White Sox batboy John McBride and teammate Lou Gehrig. Twenty 
of the game's thirty-six All-Stars including Ruth would later be inducted 
into the National Baseball Hall of Fame at Cooperstown, New York. Both 
the game's managers, five out of six coaches, and two out of the four umpires 
on the field that day would also be future Hall of Famers. Two AL All-Stars 
were White Sox players, starting third baseman Jimmy Dykes and starting 
center fielder Al Simmons. Yankee Lefty Gomez was the winning pitcher for 
the American League. The NL team wore specially made gray uniforms and 
navy blue caps with "National League" in navy blue felt letters on the 
front of the jersey, a large navy blue felt number on the back and "NL" 
in white letters printed on the navy caps. The AL team members each wore 
their home uniform. The NL members were allowed to keep their All-Star 
uniforms and caps. In 1934, each NL member used their home uniform and 
cap. The game's official AL baseball was changed to an official NL baseball 
and the AL home plate umpire was replaced by a NL home plate umpire after 
the top of the 5th inning.[5] 60 baseballs autographed by All-Star players 
were given out before the game started. Personnel in italics have since 
been inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. The umpires rotated 
positions clockwise in the middle of the fifth inning, with Klem moving 
behind the plate. Chick Hafey of the National League had the first hit, 
a bloop single to center field to lead off the second inning. The American 
League got on the board first in the bottom of the second. NL pitcher Bill 
Hallahan issued one-out walks to Jimmy Dykes and Joe Cronin. Two batters 
later, the game's winning pitcherLefty Gomez, singled home Dykes for the 
AL's first run. In the bottom of the third, after a walk to Charlie Gehringer, 
Babe Ruth famously hit the first home run in All-Star Game history, putting 
the AL up 3–0. Hallahan was chased from the game after walking Lou Gehrig 
immediately afterward, and was replaced by Lon Warneke. General Crowder 
replaced Gomez to start the fourth inning. In the sixth, Warneke hit a 
one-out triple and scored on a Pepper Martin groundout. Frankie Frisch 
followed with a home run to bring the NL to within a run, but after a Chuck 
Klein single, Crowder would escape the inning without giving up any more 
damage. Cronin led off the bottom of the sixth with a single. After advancing 
on a bunt, he scored on an Earl Averill single to extend the lead to 4–2. 
Crowder would be replaced by Lefty Grove in the top of the seventh, while 
Warneke was replaced by Carl Hubbell in the bottom of the inning. The NL 
looked to have a chance in the top of the eighth. With Frisch on first 
with two outs, Hafey lined a shot to right field that looked like it could 
be home run, but Ruth reached over the wall to catch it, denying the NL 
a chance to tie the game. Grove retired the side in order in the ninth 
