The 1934 World Series matched the St. Louis Cardinals against the Detroit 
Tigers, with the Cardinals' "Gashouse Gang" winning in seven games for 
their third championship in eight years. The Cards and Tigers split the 
first two games in Detroit, and Detroit took two of the next three in St. 
Louis. But St. Louis won the next two in Detroit, including an 11–0 embarrassment 
in Game 7 to win the Series. The stars for the Cards were Joe ("Ducky") 
Medwick, who hit .379, a Series-high five RBI and one of St. Louis' two 
home runs, and the meteoric ("Me 'n' Paul") Dean brothers, Dizzy and Paul 
(or "Daffy") Dean, who won two games apiece with 28 strikeouts and a minuscule 
1.43 earned run average. 1934 was the last World Series in which both teams 
were led by player-managers. The two teams have met twice in the World 
Series since 1934; in 1968 (Tigers won in seven) and 2006 (Cards won in 
five). Tiger pitcher Denny McLain, winner of Game 6 in 1968 (coasting home 
on the Tigers' record-tying ten-run second inning rally on the road), had 
gone 31–6 during the season, upstaging "Diz" with his mere 30–7 that year, 
who at 57 went onto the Tiger Stadium field in a big cowboy hat to be photographed 
with McLain moments after the walk-off hit that had given the latter his 
thirtieth win of the season. They were the last two 30-game winners in 
the major leagues, as of 2015[update]. The Cards, led by the Dean brothers, 
used only six other pitchers in amassing a team earned-run average of 2.34 
for their 1934 Series victory, Pete Fox played for the losing team, yet 
became the only player in Series history, as of 2012[update], to hit six 
doubles in a World Series. For his top-of-the-sixth triple in Game 7, Joe 
Medwick slid hard into Tiger third baseman Marv Owen. They tangled briefly, 
and when Medwick went back to his position in left field for the bottom 
of the inning enraged Tiger fans, knowing the game was all but lost (the 
score was 9–0 by then), vented their frustrations on him, pelting him with 
fruit, vegetables, bottles and cushions among other things. It was a feat 
for him to make the catch of a fly ball instead of the orange thrown close 
to it. Commissioner Landis ordered Medwick out of the game, ending the 
ruckus. Newsreel footage shows Medwick slamming his glove against the dugout 
bench in disgust. It was the only time a Commissioner has ever ejected 
a player from any major league game, as of 2012[update].(Audio) Dizzy Dean 
nearly took himself out of the Series on a play in Game 4. In the fourth 
inning, he pinch-ran and broke up a double play the hard way; i.e., by 
taking the errant relay throw to first flush on the noggin. The great Dean 
lay unconscious on the field. (He was later to protest, "Hell, it was only 
a glancing blow.") He was rushed to a hospital for observation, where he 
was given a clean bill of health. Legend has it that at least one newspaper 
the next day featured the headline, "X-ray of Dean's head shows nothing." 
Be that as it may, ol' Diz recovered rapidly enough to start Game 5 (a 
3–1 loss to Tiger curveballer Tommy Bridges) the very next day. According 
to Charles Einstein's The Fireside Book of Baseball, in the midst of the 
Cards' Game 7 rout, player-manager Frankie Frisch, the "Fordham Flash", 
called time and walked out to the mound from second base to warn Diz, "If 
you don't stop clowning around, I'll take you out of the game." Dizzy said, 
"No you won't." Frisch thought about this a moment, then retreated to second. 
NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL Detroit Tigers (3) The series opener 
in Detroit pitted the Cardinals' 30-game winner, Dizzy Dean, against the 
Tigers' "General" Crowder. The subpar Tiger defense behind the General 
let him down with five errors and three unearned runs. In the top of the 
second, the Gashouse Gang loaded the bases with a single and two errors; 
a single by Jack Rothrock then brought home both Ernie Orsatti and Dean 
to make it 2–0. In the third, St. Louis tacked on another run due to more 
shoddy Detroit fielding. Medwick singled and was forced out at second by 
Ripper Collins, but a throwing error by Tiger shortstop Billy Rogell allowed 
Collins to move to second and then score on another error by Detroit's 
star first baseman, Hank Greenberg. In the bottom of the third, Charlie 
Gehringer got the Tigers on the board with a single that drove in Jo-Jo 
White, but in the St. Louis fifth Medwick tattooed a solo home run off 
Crowder for a 4–1 Cardinal lead. The Gang then exploded for a four-run 
sixth off Firpo Marberry (who had relieved Crowder) and Chief Hogsett, 
as Pepper Martin and Medwick each cracked RBI singles and Bill DeLancey 
lashed a two-run double to left. Though Detroit put up single runs in the 
sixth and eighth (via a Goose Goslin single that scored Greenberg and a 
solo home run by Greenberg), they could get no closer, as Dean struck out 
Gee Walker to give the Cards an 8–3 win and a 1–0 lead in the series. The 
second game of the Series was much closer than the first, pitting the Cards' 
Bill Hallahan against the Tigers' Schoolboy Rowe. In the top of the second, 
St. Louis drew first blood on DeLancey's single and Orsatti's triple. They 
added another run in the third as a Medwick single brought in Martin, but 
the Tigers came back and edged them 3–2 in 12 innings. 1934 World Series 
(4–3): St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) over Detroit Tigers (A.L.) Other brothers 
who appeared in the same World Series, either as teammates or opponents, 
