The 1935 World Series featured the Detroit Tigers and the Chicago Cubs, 
with the Tigers winning in six games for their first championship in five 
Series appearances. They had lost in 1907, 1908, 1909, and 1934. The Tigers 
won despite losing the services of first baseman Hank Greenberg. In Game 2, 
Greenberg collided with Cubs catcher Gabby Hartnett and broke his wrist, 
sidelining him for the rest of the Series. Marv Owen replaced him at first 
base and went 1 for 20. Utility infielder Flea Clifton was forced to fill 
in for Owen at third base and went 0-for-16 in the Series. The Cubs had 
won 21 consecutive games in September (still a record as of 2016[update]), 
eventually taking the National League pennant by four games over the defending 
World Series champions, the St. Louis Cardinals. In Game 6, Tommy Bridges 
pitched a complete game victory to win the Series for Detroit. With the 
score tied 3–3 in the top of the ninth inning, Bridges gave up a leadoff 
triple to Stan Hack, but retired the next three batters without the runner 
on third scoring. In the bottom of the ninth, Goose Goslin drove in the 
winning run with two outs. After the game, manager Mickey Cochrane said 
the following of Bridges' gutsy performance: "A hundred and fifty pounds 
of courage. If there ever is a payoff on courage this little 150-pound 
pitcher is the greatest World Series hero."[1] In addition to Bridges, 
the Tigers had a hitting hero. Right fielder Pete Fox accumulated ten hits 
and an average of .385 for the Series. Fox hit safely in all six games. 
Detroit owner Frank Navin, then 64 years old, had been running the organization 
for 30 years and had seen four of his teams win American League pennants, 
only to lose four World Series. Six weeks after the Tigers finally won 
the World Series in October 1935, Navin suffered a heart attack while riding 
a horse and died.[2] AL Detroit Tigers (4) vs. NL Chicago Cubs (2) A pitching 
duel between Lon Warneke and Schoolboy Rowe, both of whom went the distance, 
was decided by its leadoff batter, Augie Galan, doubling, advancing on 
an error by Rowe and scoring on a Gabby Hartnett single. Frank Demaree 
added a homer in the ninth for the visiting Cubs. Detroit's first four 
batters got hits and Cub starter Charlie Root was pulled without recording 
an out. The Tigers scored four times in the first and pulled even in the 
series, Tommy Bridges tossing a six-hitter. Detroit brought back Game 1 
starter Schoolboy Rowe in relief. He gave up a pair of Cub runs in the 
ninth to send the game into extra innings, but nailed down the victory 
after Jo-Jo White's RBI single in the 11th. Alvin "General" Crowder did 
it all for Detroit, pitching a complete-game five-hitter, scoring his team's 
first run after a single, and getting the game-winner home with a groundout 
in the sixth. Chicago threatened against Crowder with a pair of one-out 
hits in the ninth, but Stan Hack grounded into a game-ending 6-4-3 double 
play. Staving off elimination, the Cubs got a two-run homer from Chuck 
Klein. They replaced Lon Warneke after six innings with right-hander Bill 
Lee, who gave up Detroit's only run in the ninth on three consecutive hits 
before settling down to retire the final three batters. This was the first 
of three World Series games that the Cubs have won in Wrigley Field. The 
others were Game 6 in 1945, and Game 5 in 2016. Goose Goslin's walk-off 
single won it in front of Detroit's home fans, pitcher Tommy Bridges getting 
his second win of the Series. 1935 World Series (4–2): Detroit Tigers (A.L.) 
over Chicago Cubs (N.L.) When the Detroit Tigers won the 1935 World Series, 
the city of Detroit was mired in the Great Depression, which had hit the 
city and its industries particularly hard. However, with the success of 
the Tigers and other Detroit teams and athletes in 1935/36, Detroit's luck 
appeared to be changing, as the City was dubbed the "City of Champions." 
The Lions continued Detroit's winning ways by capturing the 1935 NFL Championship 
Game, followed by the Detroit Red Wings winning the 1935–36 Stanley Cup 
championship. With the Stanley Cup win, the city had seen three major league 
championships in less than a year. Detroit's "champions" included Detroit's 
"Brown Bomber", Joe Louis, the heavyweight boxing champion; native Detroiter 
Gar Wood who was the champion of unlimited powerboat racing and the first 
man to go 100 miles per hour on water; and Eddie "the Midnight Express" 
Tolan, a black Detroiter who won gold medals in the 100- and 200-meter 
