The 1936 World Series matched the New York Yankees against the New York 
Giants, with the Yankees winning in six games to earn their fifth championship. 
The Yankees played their first World Series without Babe Ruth and their 
first with Joe DiMaggio, Ruth having been released by the Yankees after 
the 1934 season. He retired in 1935 as a member of the Boston Braves. AL 
New York Yankees (4) vs. NL New York Giants (2) †: postponed from October 
1 due to rain Carl Hubbell won Game 1, but it was mostly downhill after 
that for the Giants. The Yankees won Game 2 at the Polo Grounds by an 18–4 
count, setting Series records (as of 2012[update]) for the biggest margin 
of victory in a World Series game (14 runs) and the most runs scored in 
one game with 18. DiMaggio made a tremendous play in Game 2. With two outs 
in the bottom of the ninth inning, Hank Leiber drove the ball 490 feet 
(150 m) deep into dead center, and Joe caught the ball running up the steps 
of the clubhouse.[7] This remarkable catch was at least 40 feet (12 m) 
further than Willie Mays' far more celebrated catch of Vic Wertz's drive 
to deep straightaway center in Game 1 of the 1954 World Series. After DiMaggio's 
game-ending grab, President Roosevelt, who was in attendance, saluted Joe 
for his great catch as he rode off in the presidential limousine.[8] All 
three ninth-inning outs were made by DiMaggio. Yankee second baseman Tony 
Lazzeri became only the second player ever to hit a grand slam home run 
in the World Series. Prior to that, Elmer Smith of the Cleveland Indians 
had been the sole achiever of that feat in World Series play, doing so 
in Game 5 of the 1920 World Series. Hard luck-loser Fitzsimmons allowed 
only two hits over seven innings, one of them a tremendous homer by Gehrig 
in the second, but Crosetti's single off his glove with the count 0–2 and 
two out scored Jake Powell with the decisive run. 1936 World Series (4–2): 
New York Yankees (A.L.) over New York Giants (N.L.) The Yankees' fifth 
championship tied the record at that time, which was shared by the Boston 
Red Sox and the Philadelphia Athletics, who also had five World Series 
titles. The Yankees also tied the American League record at that time for 
the most World Series appearances with eight, also shared with the Athletics. 
They broke both records the following year. The Giants appeared in their 
11th World Series, extending the record they already held at that time, 
and their seventh World Series defeat also extended the record they already 
owned. DiMaggio would go on to be the only person to play on four World 
Championship teams in his first four years in the big leagues, the 1936–39 
Yankees. The Yankee left fielder Jake Powell started the year with the 
Washington Senators before coming over in the middle of the year in a trade 
for Ben Chapman. In this Series, the unheralded Powell would lead all hitters 
in hits (10), batting average (.455), runs (8) and walks (4), add a home 
