The 1937 World Series featured the defending champion New York Yankees 
and the New York Giants in a rematch of the 1936 Series. The Yankees won 
in five games, for their second championship in a row and their sixth in 
fifteen years (1923, 1927–28, 1932, 1936). This was the Yankees' third 
Series win over the Giants (1923, 1936), finally giving them an overall 
edge in Series wins over the Giants with three Fall Classic wins to the 
Giants' two (after they lost the 1921 and 1922 Series to the Giants). Currently 
(as of 2012[update]), the St. Louis Cardinals are the only "Classic Eight" 
National League (1900–1961) team to hold a Series edge over the Bronx Bombers, 
with three wins to the Yankees' two. The 1937 victory by the Yankees also 
broke a three-way tie among themselves, the Philadelphia Athletics and 
the Boston Red Sox for the most World Series wins all-time (five each). 
By the time the Athletics and Red Sox won their sixth World Series (in 
1972 and 2004, respectively), the Yankees had far outpaced them in world 
championships with 20 in 1972 and 26 in 2004. The 1937 Series was the first 
in which a team (in this case, the Yankees) did not commit a single error. 
Game 4 ended with the final World Series innings ever pitched by Hall of 
Famer Carl Hubbell who, during the ninth inning, gave up Hall of Famer 
Lou Gehrig's final Series home run. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL New 
York Giants (1) Wednesday, October 6, 1937 at Yankee Stadium (I) in the 
Bronx, New York The Series opener was a battle of aces, as the Giants sent 
their "Mealticket", screwballer Carl Hubbell, who had won 22 games during 
the season, to the mound against the Bombers' Lefty Gomez, who had won 
21. Hubbell and Gomez matched zeroes until the top of the fifth inning, 
when Jimmy Ripple singled, moved to third on another single by Johnny McCarthy, 
and scored the only Giant run of the game when Gus Mancuso hit into a double 
play. Hubbell kept the Yankees at bay in the bottom half of the inning, 
but the wheels came off for him in the sixth. Two-run singles by Joe DiMaggio 
and George Selkirk keyed a five-run outburst that chased King Carl, and 
the Yankees scored two more runs off Hubbell's replacements to turn the 
game into a rout. Tony Lazzeri added a solo home run in the eighth inning 
off Al Smith, while Gomez stymied the Giants, holding them to one run and 
six hits in a complete game, 8–1 victory for a 1–0 Yankee lead in the Series. 
Thursday, October 7, 1937 at Yankee Stadium (I) in the Bronx, New York 
For Game 2, the Yankees started veteran Red Ruffing against Giant rookie 
Cliff Melton. Ruffing would give Melton a rude welcome to postseason play 
with both his arm and his bat. The Giants touched Ruffing for a run in 
the first, as Dick Bartell doubled and Mel Ott drove him in with a single 
with nobody out. This did not faze Ruffing, who whiffed the next three 
batters to end the inning. As in Game 1, this would be the only Giant run 
of the day. Melton was able to neutralize the potent Bombers for the next 
four innings, giving up only two hits and striking out two. In the fifth, 
however, the Yankees chased the youngster from the game when they took 
a 2–1 lead on RBI hits by George Selkirk and Ruffing. Just as in Game 1, 
the pinstripers opened up the game in the sixth, when Selkirk and Ruffing 
came through again, this time with two-run doubles. In the seventh, the 
Yankees tacked on two more runs with a Bill Dickey single that scored Joe 
DiMaggio and a fly ball by Myril Hoag that plated Lou Gehrig. Ruffing held 
the fort the rest of the way, scattering seven hits with one run and eight 
strikeouts. For the second straight game the Yankees won 8–1, for a 2–0 
Series lead as the teams moved a few miles south to the Polo Grounds. Friday, 
October 8, 1937 at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York Saturday, 
October 9, 1937 at the Polo Grounds (IV) in upper Manhattan, New York This 
is the second time in World Series history that a team down 0-3 has won 
a World Series game. Sunday, October 10, 1937 at the Polo Grounds (IV) 
in upper Manhattan, New York Myril Hoag's solo homer leading off the second 
inning and a Joe DiMaggio blast in the third gave Lefty Gomez a 2-0 lead. 
Mel Ott's two-run homer in the bottom of the third tied it. The Yankees 
got the game-winning (and Series-winning) runs they needed in the fifth 
on a Tony Lazzeri triple, a hit by Gomez and an RBI double by Lou Gehrig. 
1937 World Series (4–1): New York Yankees (A.L.) over New York Giants (N.L.) 
