The 1938 World Series matched the two-time defending champion New York 
Yankees against the Chicago Cubs, with the Yankees sweeping the Series 
in four games for their seventh championship overall and record third straight 
(they would win four in a row from 1936 to 1939, and five in a row later 
from 1949 to 1953). Dizzy Dean, who had helped carry the Cubs to the National 
League pennant despite a sore arm, ran out of gas in the Series as the 
Yanks crushed the Cubs again, as they had in 1932. Yankee starting pitcher 
Red Ruffing won two games, although he allowed 17 hits in 18 innings pitched. 
After Game 2 of the Series, the Bronx Bombers would not return to Wrigley 
Field for nearly 65 years until a three-game interleague series with the 
Cubs beginning June 6, 2003. This was the first World Series at Wrigley 
Field since the bleacher reconstruction of 1937 which had significantly 
shortened the left-center field power alley. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. 
NL Chicago Cubs (0) Wednesday, October 5, 1938, at Wrigley Field in Chicago, 
Illinois Game 1 of the Series matched the Yankees' Red Ruffing, who had 
won 21 games during the season, against the Cubs' 22-game winner Bill Lee. 
In the top of the second inning, Lou Gehrig walked and moved to third on 
a single by Bill Dickey. George Selkirk then reached on an error by Cub 
second baseman Billy Herman scoring Gehrig, and Joe Gordon drove Dickey 
in with a single for a 2–0 Bomber lead. In the bottom of the third, the 
Cubs cut the lead in half when Ripper Collins singled to lead off and moved 
to second on a groundout by Lee. Stan Hack's single to right scored Collins, 
Hack taking second on the throw home. But when he attempted to score on 
an infield single by Herman, he was gunned down at home. The top of the 
sixth saw New York extend its lead to 3–1 when Tommy Henrich belted a double 
to right and scored on a Dickey single. The Cubs could muster nothing further 
off Ruffing, who scattered nine hits over the course of the game, and the 
Yankees held on for the win and a 1–0 lead in the Series. Thursday, October 
6, 1938, at Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Game 2 pitted the Yankees' 
Lefty Gomez against the Cubs' former St. Louis Cardinals ace Dizzy Dean, 
who had been traded to Chicago in April and won seven of his eight regular-season 
wins for his new team on finesse after having lost his fastball by changing 
his pitching motion to avoid putting weight on the toe he had fractured 
during the 1937 All-Star Game (on a low line drive back to the mound by 
Earl Averill). Game 2 of the 1938 Series thus became known as "Ol' Diz's 
Last Stand". The Cubs gave Dean a 1–0 lead in the bottom of the first when 
Hack singled, advanced to third on a single by Frank Demaree and scored 
on Joe Marty's fly ball. But the Bronx Bombers took the lead in the next 
half-inning when a Gordon double scored both DiMaggio and Gehrig. In the 
bottom of the third, the Cubs went back out in front by a run when Hack 
and Herman hit back-to-back singles, were sacrificed to third and second 
by Demaree, and scored on Marty's double. Dean pitched effectively for 
the next four innings, giving up only a single to Gehrig in the fourth. 
But in the top of the eighth, the Yankees stormed back on a two-run homer 
by Frankie Crosetti that scored pinch-hitter Myril Hoag for a 4–3 Bomber 
lead, and DiMaggio added a two-run dinger of his own in the top of the 
ninth that scored Henrich. Johnny Murphy, in relief of Gomez, held Chicago 
at bay for the final two innings for a 6–3 Yankee win as the Series moved 
east to New York with a 2–0 Series advantage for the Yankees. Saturday, 
October 8, 1938, at Yankee Stadium (I) in the Bronx, New York For Game 3 
at Yankee Stadium, the Cubs threw Clay Bryant against the Bombers' Monte 
Pearson. Both pitchers matched zeroes for the first four innings. In the 
top of the fifth, the Cubs drew first blood when Hack doubled, moved to 
third on Gordon's error on Phil Cavarretta and scored on Marty's forceout 
of Cavarretta at second. In the bottom half of the inning, however, Gordon 
atoned for his mistake by walloping a solo home run off Bryant to tie the 
game. Pearson followed with a single to right, advanced to second on a 
Crosetti walk and scored on a Red Rolfe single to give the Yankees a 2–1 
lead. In the bottom of the sixth, New York, tacked on two more runs with 
a two-run single by Gordon. In the top of the eighth, the Cubs cut the 
lead in half when Marty hit a solo home run to notch his fifth RBI of the 
Series, but Dickey answered for the Yankees with a solo shot of his own 
in the bottom half. The Bombers held on for a 5–2 win and a 3–0 Series 
stranglehold. Sunday, October 9, 1938, at Yankee Stadium (I) in the Bronx, 
New York Game 4 was a rematch of the Game 1 starters, Ruffing vs. Lee. 
Like the closely contested series opener, it stayed close until New York 
pulled away with four runs in the bottom of the eighth. In the bottom of 
the second, the Yankees struck for three runs. Hoag reached on Hack's throwing 
error from the hot corner, and advanced to third on a Gordon single. Ruffing 
helped his own cause by singling in Hoag, and Crosetti's triple to left 
scored Gordon and Ruffing. The Cubs broke the shutout with a Billy Jurges 
fielder's choice scoring Demaree, but in the sixth the Bombers got the 
run back with Henrich's solo homer off veteran Cub reliever Charlie Root. 
In the top of the eighth, the Cubs cut the New York lead to one with a 
Ken O'Dea home run scoring Cavarretta ahead of him. But in the bottom half, 
the Yankees broke the game open with a four-run outburst off four Cub pitchers—Vance 
Page, Larry French, Tex Carleton and Dean. Crosetti drove in two with a 
double off Dean, giving him four RBI for the game and six for the Series. 
As in Game 1, Ruffing went the distance, allowing two earned runs and eight 
hits with six strikeouts. 1938 World Series (4–0): New York Yankees (A.L.) 
