The 1939 World Series featured the three-time defending champion New York 
Yankees against the Cincinnati Reds, who were making their first Series 
appearance since winning the scandal-tainted 1919 World Series. The Yankees 
swept the Series in four games for the second straight year, winning their 
record fourth consecutive title (they would later win five straight from 
1949 to 1953). Yankee manager Joe McCarthy won his fifth title, tying the 
record held by Philadelphia Athletics manager Connie Mack. In the 10th 
inning of the final game, a famous play at the plate typified the Series. 
"King Kong" Charlie Keller scored when he and the ball both collided with 
catcher "Schnoz" Ernie Lombardi, and then Joe DiMaggio also scored while 
Lombardi, rolling on the ground, tried in vain to retrieve the ball. Lombardi 
had been smacked in the groin, but the puritanical press reported it as 
Lombardi "napping" at the plate. The Yankees matched the Reds in hits with 
27, but out-homered them 7 to 0. Keller led the Yanks with seven hits, 
three home runs, six RBI, eight runs scored, a .438 average and a 1.188 
slugging percentage. Keller broke the record for most homers by a rookie 
in a World Series game with two in Game 3. Also in Game 3, Junior Thompson 
gave up five hits in 4 2⁄3 innings worked. Four of the five were home runs, 
tying the record for long balls allowed during a Series game set by the 
Cubs' Charlie Root in 1932. Despite the loss, the Reds were an organization 
on the rise, having improved from eighth and last in the National League 
in 1937 (56–98, .364) to fourth in '38 (82–68, .547) and first as NL champions 
in '39. Ironically, despite being dominated by the Bronx Bombers in the 
1939 Series, the Reds would return in 1940 to win the World Series while 
the Yankees finished behind Detroit and Cleveland in the AL pennant race, 
snapping their consecutive World Series streak at four. AL New York Yankees 
(4) vs. NL Cincinnati Reds (0) In the opener, starters Ruffing and Derringer 
put on a fine show. In the bottom of the ninth with one out and the score 
tied 1–1, Keller tripled. The Reds walked Joe DiMaggio, but Bill Dickey 
ended it with a walk-off single to center. Lasting just 87 minutes, both 
pitchers threw complete games, Monte Pearson winning it with a two-hitter. 
A three-run third inning, keyed by Charlie Keller's double, gave Pearson 
all he'd need, with Babe Dahlgren adding a solo homer in the fourth. Yankee 
ace Lefty Gomez lasted just one inning. Bump Hadley replaced him on the 
mound and promptly gave up go-ahead runs in the second, but the Yankees 
turned on the power with four home runs, half of them by Charlie Keller 
and all served up by Reds starter Gene "Junior" Thompson. Neither side 
scored until the seventh. Homers by Keller and Dickey put the Yankees on 
the board, but the Reds struck back with three in their half of the inning. 
A wild play involving Joe DiMaggio (described above) gave the Yankees three 
runs in the 10th to wrap up another Series sweep. 1939 World Series (4–0): 
