The 1940 World Series matched the Cincinnati Reds against the Detroit Tigers, 
the Reds winning a closely contested seven-game series for their second 
championship 21 years after their scandal-tainted victory in 1919. This 
would be the Reds' last World Series championship for 35 years despite 
appearances in 1961, 1970, and 1972. Meanwhile, Bill Klem worked the last 
of his record 18 World Series as an umpire.[1] Other story lines marked 
this series. Henry Quillen Buffkin Newsom, the father of Detroit's star 
pitcher Bobo Newsom, died in a Cincinnati hotel room the day after watching 
him win Game 1. Newsom came back to hurl a shutout in Game 5 in his memory. 
Called on to start a third time after a single day of rest by Tiger manager 
Del Baker, he pitched well in Game 7 until the seventh inning, when the 
Reds scored two runs to take the lead and eventually the game and the Series. 
The Reds' star pitchers Paul Derringer and Bucky Walters won two games 
apiece, with Derringer winning the decisive seventh game. Walters hurled 
two complete games, allowing only eight hits and three runs combined. He 
also hit a home run in Game 6 in the midst of his 4–0 shutout, which sent 
the Series to a Game 7. It was redemption of sorts for the Reds, who returned 
to the World Series after being swept by the Yankees squad in 1939. The 
Reds' win in Game 2 against Detroit snapped a 10-game losing streak for 
the National League in the Series going back to Game 6 in 1937. The victory 
culminated a somewhat turbulent season for the Reds, who played large stretches 
of the season without injured All-Star catcher Ernie Lombardi. And on August 
3, Lombardi's backup, Willard Hershberger, committed suicide in Boston 
a day after a defensive lapse cost the Reds a game against the Bees. Hershberger 
was hitting .309 at the time of his death. The Reds dedicated the rest 
of the season to "Hershie." Ironically, one of the stars in the World Series 
was 40-year-old Jimmy Wilson. Wilson had been one of the Reds' coaches 
before Hershberger's suicide forced him back onto the playing field as 
Lombardi's backup. With Lombardi hurting, Wilson did the bulk of the catching 
against Detroit and hit .353 for the Series and recorded the team's only 
stolen base. Reds' manager Bill McKechnie became the first manager to win 
a World Series with two different teams, at the helm of the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in 1925, after trailing three games to one against Walter Johnson 
and the Washington Senators. NL Cincinnati Reds (4) vs. AL Detroit Tigers 
(3) Game 7 was over in a snappy 1 hour, 47 minutes. Detroit and pitcher 
Bobo Newsom clung to a 1-0 lead until the seventh. Leadoff doubles by Frank 
McCormick and Jimmy Ripple tied the score, followed by a sacrifice bunt 
and Billy Myers' sacrifice fly for the game-winning (and Series-winning) 
run. 1940 World Series (4–3): Cincinnati Reds (NL) over Detroit Tigers 
(AL) Bucky Walters, converted to pitching only after a torn cartilage (not 
repairable in those days) had slowed him down as a runner, was the fourth 
National League pitcher to hit a home run during a World Series game. The 
