The 1941 World Series matched the New York Yankees against the Brooklyn 
Dodgers, with the Yankees winning in five games to capture their fifth 
title in six years, and their ninth overall. The name "Subway Series" arose 
for a World Series played between two New York City teams. The series was 
punctuated by the Dodgers' Mickey Owen's dropped third strike of a sharply 
breaking curveball (a suspected spitball) pitched by Hugh Casey in the 
ninth inning of Game 4. The play led to a Yankees rally and brought them 
one win away from another championship. The Yankees were back after a one-year 
hiatus, having won 13 of their last 14 Series games and 28 of their last 
31. This was the first Subway Series between the Brooklyn Dodgers and New 
York Yankees (though the Yankees had already faced the crosstown New York 
Giants five times). These two teams would meet a total of seven times from 
1941 to 1956 — the Dodgers' only victory coming in 1955 — with an additional 
four matchups after the Dodgers left for Los Angeles, most recently in 
1981. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Brooklyn Dodgers (1) †: postponed 
from October 3 due to rain Pinch-hitter Lew Riggs' single scored Cookie 
Lavagetto in the seventh as the Dodgers pulled to within 3-2. Then they 
threatened in the ninth with hits by Joe Medwick and Pee Wee Reese, before 
Yankee pitcher Red Ruffing was able to get Herman Franks to ground into 
a game-ending 4-6-3 double play. Dolph Camilli's single off relief pitcher 
Johnny Murphy in the sixth broke a 2-2 deadlock. Whit Wyatt gave up a pinch 
single to George Selkirk leading off the ninth, but nailed down a complete-game 
victory. With the veteran Fitzsimmons dueling young southpaw Russo, there 
was no score into the top of the seventh. With two outs, Russo lined a 
drive off Fitzsimmons' knee that broke his kneecap. The ball caromed into 
Pee Wee Reese's glove for the third out, but Fitzsimmons was forced from 
the game. Hugh Casey, who came out to pitch in the eighth for Brooklyn, 
promptly gave up four hits and two runs, and Russo hung on to win, 2–1. 
With two out, two strikes and no runners on base in the ninth, the Yankees 
rallied. First Tommy Henrich swung and missed, which would have ended the 
game, but Dodger catcher Mickey Owen failed to catch the ball and Henrich 
reached first base. Owen recollected the incident:[6] Joe DiMaggio followed 
with a single and Charlie Keller hit a double to drive in Henrich and DiMaggio 
and take the lead. Bill Dickey would follow up with a walk and, along with 
Keller, score on a Joe Gordon double to make the final score 7–4. Meyer 
Berger of The New York Times covered the events in "Casey in the Box", 
a poem derived from the 1888 classic "Casey at the Bat".[7] In the fifth 
inning, Wyatt and DiMaggio almost came to blows on the mound as DiMaggio 
returned to the dugout after flying out. 1941 World Series (4–1): New York 
