The 1942 Negro World Series was a best-of-seven match-up between the Negro 
American League champion Kansas City Monarchs and the Negro National League 
champion Washington-Homestead Grays. In a six-game series, the Monarchs 
swept the Grays four games to none, with two additional games not counted 
in the standings. The Monarchs actually won the 1942 series 5-1, but a 
second game played in Yankee Stadium on September 13 (a seven-inning victory 
by the Monarchs) was not counted by prior agreement, and the only game 
played in Kansas City was thrown out on appeal when the Grays used unauthorized 
players from other NNL teams. It was the first World Series between eastern 
and western Negro Leagues champions since 1927, resuming after a 14-year 
lapse since the collapse of the Eastern Colored League had ended the previous 
post-season meetings. The series featured seven members of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame, three from the Monarchs (Satchel Paige, Hilton Smith, and 
Willard Brown) and four from the Grays (Josh Gibson, Jud Wilson, Ray Brown, 
and Buck Leonard). One additional Hall of Famer, Leon Day, played in one 
of the games that was not counted, Monarchs legend Bullet Rogan umpired 
in that same game. The Monarchs and Grays had met during the regular season 
in two exhibition games, in which the Grays had twice defeated Monarch 
ace Satchel Paige in extra innings. Some of the pre-Series publicity had 
concentrated on whether Paige would be seeking revenge for his losses or 
whether the Grays truly held a "jinx" over him and would continue to dominate 
him. Paige pitched in all four official games and earned one victory and 
one save. This was the Grays' first appearance ever in the Negro World 
Series, though this was their third consecutive NNL pennant, and fifth 
in six seasons. They would appear in the next three CWS, winning in 1943 
and '44. It was the third appearance by the Monarchs (going back to 1924) 
in the CWS, their second championship, and their fifth NAL pennant in six 
seasons. They would appear one more time, losing to the Newark Eagles in 
1946. Kansas City Monarchs vs. Washington-Homestead Grays Monarchs won 
the Series, 4-0 Managers: Frank Duncan (Kansas City); Vic Harris (Washington-Homestead) 
September 8, 1942, at Griffith Stadium in Washington, DC September 10, 
1942, at Forbes Field in Pittsburgh September 13, 1942, at Yankee Stadium 
in New York September 13, 1942 (game 2) at Yankee Stadium in New York September 
20, 1942, at Ruppert Stadium in Kansas City September 27, 1942, at Wrigley 
