The 1944 World Series was an all-St. Louis World Series, matching up the 
St. Louis Cardinals and St. Louis Browns at Sportsman's Park. It marked 
only the third time in World Series history in which both teams had the 
same home field (the other two being the 1921 and 1922 World Series in 
the Polo Grounds in New York City). 1944 saw perhaps the nadir of 20th-century 
baseball, as the long-moribund St. Louis Browns won their only American 
League pennant. The pool of talent was depleted by the draft to the point 
that in 1945 (but not 1944), as the military scraped deeper and deeper 
into the ranks of the possibly eligible, the Browns actually used a one-armed 
player, Pete Gray. Some of the players were 4-Fs, rejected by the military 
due to physical defects or limitations which precluded duty in the trenches.[1] 
Others divided their time between factory work in defense industries and 
baseball, some being able to play ball only on weekends. Some players avoided 
the draft by chance, despite being physically able to serve. Stan Musial 
of the Cardinals was one. Musial, enlisting in early 1945, missed one season. 
He rejoined the Cardinals in 1946. As both teams called Sportsman's Park 
home, the 2–3–2 home field assignment was used (instead of the wartime 
3–4). The Junior World Series of that same year, partly hosted in Baltimore's 
converted football stadium, easily outdrew the "real" Series and attracted 
attention to Baltimore as a potential major league city. Ten years later, 
the Browns transferred there and became the Orioles. Another all-Missouri 
World Series was played 41 years later, with the Kansas City Royals defeating 
the Cardinals in seven games. The Series was also known as the "Trolley 
Series", "Streetcar Series", or the "St. Louis Showdown." Coincidentally, 
this World Series was played the same year Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer released 
the musical film Meet Me in St. Louis. It remains (as of 2015) the most 
recent World Series played outside New York City that featured two teams 
from the same city. The only other such Series to be played prior to 1944 
was the 1906 World Series between the two Chicago teams. Despite the Philadelphia 
Phillies becoming the last "Original Sixteen" MLB team to have won a World 
Series (in 1980), the loser of this Series would not win its first until 
1966, 12 years after relocating to Baltimore. Many of the game's best players 
were called away for World War II, and the result was a seriously depleted 
pool of talent.[2] The top team in the American League was the St. Louis 
Browns, who collectively batted .252 en route to their only pennant in 
52 seasons. They only had one .300 hitter in outfielder Mike Kreevich (who 
barely made it at .301), one man with 20 home runs, shortstop Vern Stephens 
(who hit exactly 20), and one player over the 85 runs batted in mark, Stephens, 
who knocked in 109 to lead the league. On the mound, the Browns boasted 
Nels Potter and Jack Kramer, who combined for 36 victories. The team squeaked 
into first place by winning 11 out of their final 12 games, including the 
last four in a row over the defending champion New York Yankees. The last 
victory, combined with Detroit's loss to Washington, enabled St. Louis 
to finish one game ahead of the Tigers in the American League. Their 89–65 
record was the worst ever for an AL champion. On the other side of Sportsman's 
Park, the other Major League team from St. Louis was doing business as 
usual. In making off with their third straight National League pennant 
(leading by 14 1⁄2 games over Pittsburgh), manager Billy Southworth's Cardinals 
had won 105 games and ran their three-year victory total to 316. The Cardinals 
were the first National League franchise with three consecutive 100 win 
seasons. The 1944 club featured league MVP Marty Marion and future Hall 
of Famer Stan Musial. NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL St. Louis Browns 
(2) George McQuinn hit the Browns' only home run of the series to put his 
team ahead in the fourth inning, while Denny Galehouse outpitched World 
Series veteran Mort Cooper to hold on for the win. Blix Donnelly came in 
as a relief pitcher in the eighth inning, and tallied no runs, two hits 
and seven strikeouts for the win. Ken O'Dea's pinch-hit single in the eleventh 
scored the winning run. Jack Kramer struck out ten batters on the way to 
a 6–2 Browns triumph, the last World Series game the team would win until 
the 1966 World Series, as the Baltimore Orioles. Browns starter Sig Jakucki 
had been away from baseball for five years, but returned to win thirteen 
games in 1944. He lasted only three innings giving up four runs. Stan Musial 
hit a two-run homer in the first, and the Browns never recovered. Mort 
Cooper recovered from his opening game loss to beat Galehouse with a seven-hit, 
2–0 shutout. In the Cardinals' 1942–1944 stranglehold on the National League 
championship, Cooper had won 65 games and thrown 23 shutouts. For Game 6, 
it was Max Lanier and Ted Wilks (who both had seventeen wins and shared 
a 2.65 ERA) that wrote the final chapter to the Browns' "Cinderella season" 
with a 3–1 victory that wrapped up the Cardinals' second Series title in 
three years. Ted Wilks was brilliant in relief, retiring all 11 Browns 
he faced, clinching the Cardinals 5th World Series title. 1944 World Series 
