The 1946 World Series was played in October 1946 between the St. Louis 
Cardinals (representing the National League) and the Boston Red Sox (representing 
the American League). This was the Red Sox's first appearance in a World 
Series since their championship of 1918. In the eighth inning of Game 7, 
with the score 3–3, the Cardinals' Enos Slaughter opened the inning with 
a single but two batters failed to advance him. With two outs, Harry Walker 
walloped a hit over Johnny Pesky's head into left-center field. As Leon 
Culberson chased it down, Slaughter started his "mad dash". Pesky caught 
Culberson's throw, turned and—perhaps surprised to see Slaughter headed 
for the plate—supposedly hesitated just a split second before throwing 
home. Roy Partee had to take a few steps up the third base line to catch 
Pesky's toss, but Slaughter was safe without a play at the plate and Walker 
was credited with an RBI double. The Cardinals won the game and the Series 
in seven games, giving them their sixth championship. Boston superstar 
Ted Williams played the Series injured and was largely ineffective but 
refused to use his injury as an excuse. The World Series returned in 1946 
to the 2–3–2 format for home teams, which has been used ever since. NL 
St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL Boston Red Sox (3) The Red Sox won Game 1 
when Rudy York hit a home run into the left field bleachers. The Red Sox 
scored three runs in the first inning on Rudy York's blast then won by 
a score of 4–0. This is the only game in World Series history that three 
players on the same team (St. Louis) had four or more hits (Enos Slaughter, 
Whitey Kurowski and Joe Garagiola had four each). Red Sox outfielder Wally 
Moses got four hits as well and second baseman Bobby Doerr hit a two-run 
home run and would hit .409 in the Series. Ted Williams hit a RBI single, 
his only RBI of the whole Series. Leon Culberson homered while Joe Dobson 
got the victory for Boston. St. Louis staved off elimination at home, chasing 
Boston starter Harris with a three-run third. Marty Marion added an RBI 
double in the eighth to back Harry Brecheen's second win of the Series. 
The Cardinals led 3–1 in the eighth inning when Dom DiMaggio tied the game 
with a two-run double but was pulled from the game after pulling a hamstring 
and Leon Culberson took his position in the center field. Enos Slaughter 
scored from first base on a play called the Mad Dash. As the runner started, 
Walker lined the ball to left-center field, where Culberson fielded the 
ball. As he threw a relay to shortstop Johnny Pesky, Slaughter rounded 
third base, ignored third base coach Mike González's stop sign, and continued 
for home plate. What exactly happened when Pesky turned around is still 
a matter of contention. Some claim that Pesky, assuming that Slaughter 
would not be running home, checked Walker at first base instead of immediately 
firing home, while others contend that Pesky was so shocked to see Slaughter 
on his way to score that he had a mental lapse that accounted for the delay. 
Whatever the reason, the delay and a weak and rushed throw home allowed 
Slaughter to score just as Red Sox catcher Roy Partee caught it up the 
line from home plate. The run put the Cardinals ahead 4–3 and proved to 
be the winning run. Harry "The Cat" Brecheen had come out of the bullpen 
during Boston's rally in the eighth when the Red Sox had two men on base, 
and he gave up the double by DiMaggio that tied the game. Brecheen allowed 
two singles to start the ninth inning, but then retired the Red Sox without 
giving up a run, to record his third victory of the Series. 1946 World 
