The 1947 World Series matched the New York Yankees against the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. The Yankees won the Series in seven games for their first title 
since 1943, and their eleventh World Series championship in team history. 
Yankees manager Bucky Harris won the Series for the first time since managing 
the Washington Senators to their only title in 1924. In 1947, Jackie Robinson, 
a Brooklyn Dodger, desegregated major league baseball. For the first time 
in World Series history, a racially integrated team played. AL New York 
Yankees (4) vs. NL Brooklyn Dodgers (3) There were 73,365 in the house 
for Game 1. Brooklyn starter Ralph Branca was knocked out in a five-run 
fifth by Johnny Lindell's two-run double. About the only highlight for 
Dodger fans came in the seventh, when Pee Wee Reese scored all the way 
from second base on a wild pitch. Already ahead 6-2, the Yankees broke 
it wide open in the seventh, courtesy of Dodger relievers Hank Behrman 
and Rex Barney, with four singles, two wild pitches, two walks and an error 
turning the Yanks' advantage into 10-2. Allie Reynolds scattered nine hits 
in a complete-game win. The series shifted to Ebbets Field and the stadium 
shook in the second inning as the Dodgers rang up six runs. Eddie Stanky's 
two-run double was the end for Yankee starter Bobo Newsom, but the runs 
kept coming with a Carl Furillo two-run double. The rest of the day, the 
Yankees pecked away. Sherm Lollar and Snuffy Stirnweiss provided RBI hits 
in the fourth. Brooklyn padded its lead to 9-4, but Joe DiMaggio and Yogi 
Berra homers suddenly made it 9-8. In a panic, Dodger fans let out a sigh 
of relief as reliever Hugh Casey set down Billy Johnson, Phil Rizzuto and 
Berra in order in the ninth. The Yankees entered the game leading the series 
two games to one, and they sought to take one step closer to the Series 
title. They entered Game 4 aiming to take a three games to one lead in 
the best-of-seven series, and came one out away from doing this. Bill Bevens, 
the Yankee starter, pitched 8 2⁄3 innings without allowing a base hit. 
No pitcher had ever thrown a no-hitter in a major league World Series game 
(although the so-called "Negro World Series" had produced complete-game 
no-hit pitching performances prior to 1947).[8][9][10] Going into the bottom 
of the ninth inning, Bevens and his team led 2–1. Bevens got Bruce Edwards 
to fly out, and then walked Carl Furillo. Spider Jorgensen fouled out for 
the 2nd out. Al Gionfriddo pinch-ran for Furillo. Pete Reiser pinch-batted 
for pitcher Hugh Casey; during the at-bat, Gionfriddo stole second base. 
The Yankees then intentionally walked Reiser. This was criticized in hindsight 
for two reasons. One was the old axiom of never intentionally putting the 
winning run on base. The other is that Reiser was playing injured, and 
the odds of getting him out seemed reasonable. Eddie Miksis pinch-ran for 
Reiser. The Dodgers sent Cookie Lavagetto to pinch-bat for Eddie Stanky. 
Lavagetto lined a 1–0 fastball to right field. The ball ricocheted off 
of the right field barrier with a peculiar bounce and hit Yankee right 
fielder Tommy Henrich in the shoulder, as Gionfriddo and Miksis raced around 
to score. The play ended the no-hitter and won the game for the Dodgers. 
The hit was the last of Lavagetto's career. Additionally, neither Lavagetto 
nor Bevens nor Gionfriddo would play in the majors again following this 
Series. The Dodgers, with this hit, avoided a three-games-to-one deficit, 
avoided becoming the victim of a no-hitter, and tied the Series at two 
games each. The rapid and dramatic reversal of fortunes may have provided 
a momentum swing. However, the Yankees checked this momentum, winning Game 5. 
The Yankees triumphed in the Series, winning the deciding seventh game. 
Nine walks in fewer than five innings proved the undoing of Rex Barney 
in this start for Brooklyn. A pair of walks and RBI single by opposing 
pitcher Spec Shea in the fourth put the Yankees up 1-0. Joe DiMaggio homered 
to left in the fifth. That was all the runs the visiting Yanks would get 
at Ebbets Field, but this was Shea's stadium this day. A hit by Jackie 
Robinson in the sixth scored Al Gionfriddo to pull the Dodgers within 2-1. 
Then in the ninth, after a Bruce Edwards leadoff single and sacrifice bunt 
by Carl Furillo, the tying run died on base. Shea got Spider Jorgensen 
on a fly to right, and with Brooklyn's fans on their feet, pinch-hitter 
Cookie Lavagetto struck out. The Dodgers won Game 6 to force a seventh 
and deciding game. A catch made by Al Gionfriddo, replayed countless times, 
may be the most remembered play of this game, and one of the most remembered 
plays of the Series. In the top of the sixth, the Dodgers scored four runs 
to take an 8–5 lead. In the last of the sixth, the Dodgers sent Al Gionfriddo 
to left field as a defensive replacement for Eddie Miksis. Joe Hatten came 
in to pitch. With two on and two outs, Joe DiMaggio came to bat for the 
Yankees, representing the potential tying run. Radio announcer Red Barber 
provided the play-by-play, which has often accompanied re-played film footage: 
Swung on, belted... it's a long one... back goes Gionfriddo, back, back, 
back, back, back, back... heeee makes a one-handed catch against the bullpen! 
Oh, Doctor! The gusto Barber produced, along with his "back-back-back" 
expression, inspired future generations of sports broadcasters. Many announcers 
since that time have used variations of the call, especially Chris Berman 
of ESPN. These announcers have tended, for whatever reasons, to describe 
the ball itself as going "back-back-back". In Barber's call, it was the 
outfielder who was going "back-back-back". The ball was hit so hard and 
deep that Gionfriddo, already playing deep, did not have time to turn around, 
literally having to "back-back-back"-pedal to snare the ball just in front 
of the bullpen-alley fence, near the 415-foot (126 m) marker posted to 
the center field side of the bullpen alley (the sign on the left field 
side of the alley was posted as 402). It is also worth noting that had 
DiMaggio hit the ball in Ebbets Field, whose left-center area was some 
50 feet (15 m) closer, it might have landed in the upper deck and certainly 
would have been a game-tying homer. The final segment of at least one film 
clip reveals the habitually calm and cool DiMaggio kicking dirt near second 
base, apparently as he saw Gionfriddo secure the catch. Three of the 1947 
Series' prominent figures, Gionfriddo, Lavagetto and Bevens, finished their 
playing careers in this Series. Gionfriddo did not play in Game 7, and 
his catch of DiMaggio's drive was his only put-out in this game. So Gionfriddo's 
famous catch was his final put-out in his major league career.[11] Joe 
Page pitched five innings of one-hit, shutout relief as the Yankees racked 
up yet another World Series championship. Starting pitcher Spec Shea was 
removed in the second inning, and Brooklyn's Spider Jorgensen greeted reliever 
Bill Bevens with an run-scoring double to right field to put the Dodgers 
on top 2-0. In the fourth, a two-out, two-on Bobby Brown single helped 
the Yanks go up 3-2. Allie Clark's RBI single off Joe Hatten in the sixth 
made it 4-2. Then another run for good measure came on Aaron Robinson's 
sac fly following a Billy Johnson triple. And with Page breezing through 
the Brooklyn lineup, Yankee Stadium's home fans began to celebrate. 1947 
World Series (4–3): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Brooklyn Dodgers (N.L.) 
For the first time, a World Series produced total receipts over $2,000,000 
dollars: Gate Receipts = $1,781,348.92, Radio Rights = $175,000.00 and 
Television Rights = $65,000. Yogi Berra pinch-hit for Sherm Lollar in the 
seventh inning of Game 3 and hit the first pinch-hit home run in World 
Series history. Ralph Branca served the pitch. This was the first World 
Series to be televised, although games were only seen in a small number 
of Eastern markets with stations connected via coaxial cable: New York 
City, New York; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Schenectady, New York; Washington, 
District of Columbia; and environs surrounding these cities. The October 
1947 edition of Billboard reported over 3.9 million people viewed the games, 
primarily on TV sets located in bars (5,400 tavern TV sets in NYC alone). 
The October 13, 1947 edition of Time magazine reported that President Truman, 
who had just made the first Oval Office TV appearance on October 5, 1947 
and received the first TV for the White House, watched parts of the Series 
but "skipped the last innings". At the direction of Commissioner Happy 
Chandler, the Series, for the first time, used six umpires to make calls.[13] 
Series from 1918 through 1946 used four umpires in the infield, with two 
alternates available for security. However, no alternate had ever been 
needed, and Chandler believed that enlisting these umpires to make calls 
along the outfield lines would put these men and their skills to better 
use. However, not until 1964 would the additional two umpires rotate into 
