The 1948 World Series matched the Cleveland Indians against the Boston 
Braves. The Braves had won the National League pennant for the first time 
since the "Miracle Braves" team of 1914, while the Indians had spoiled 
a chance for the only all-Boston World Series by winning a one-game playoff 
against the Boston Red Sox for the American League flag.[1] Though superstar 
pitcher Bob Feller failed to win either of his two starts, the Indians 
won the Series in six games to capture their second championship and their 
first since 1920 (as well as their last to the present date). It was the 
first World Series to be televised on a nationwide network and was announced 
by famed sportcasters Red Barber, Tom Hussey (in Boston) and Van Patrick 
(in Cleveland).[2] This was the second appearance in the Fall Classic for 
both teams, with the Indians' lone previous appearance coming in a 1920 
win against the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Braves' lone previous appearance 
coming in a 1914 win against the Philadelphia Athletics. Consequently, 
this was the first, and to date only, World Series in which both participating 
teams had previously played in, but not yet lost, a previous World Series. 
Currently, this phenomenon can only be repeated if either the Miami Marlins 
or the Arizona Diamondbacks play against either the Toronto Blue Jays or 
the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in a future World Series. Television 
coverage of the World Series increased this year, but due to the medium 
still being in its infancy coverage was strictly regional. Games played 
in Boston could only be seen in the Northeast, while when the series shifted 
to Cleveland those games were the first to be aired in Chicago, Pittsburgh, 
Milwaukee, St. Louis, Detroit and Toledo. This was the only World Series 
from 1947 to 1958 not to feature a New York team, and also the last World 
Series until 1957 not won by a New York team (which the Braves won over 
the Yankees, after they had relocated to Milwaukee). The teams would meet 
again in the 1995 World Series won by the Braves—by then relocated to Atlanta. 
AL Cleveland Indians (4) vs. NL Boston Braves (2) Braves pitcher Johnny 
Sain and Indians pitcher Bob Feller were engaged in a scoreless pitchers' 
duel when the Braves came to bat in the bottom of the eighth inning. Feller 
walked Braves catcher Bill Salkeld to open the inning. Braves manager, 
Billy Southworth then replaced the slow-footed Salkeld with Phil Masi, 
who entered the game as a pinch runner. Mike McCormick followed with a 
sacrifice bunt, advancing Masi to second base. Feller issued an intentional 
walk to Eddie Stanky, who was replaced by Sibby Sisti. Feller then tried 
to pick off Masi at second base. Indians' shortstop Lou Boudreau appeared 
to tag Masi out, but umpire Bill Stewart called him safe.[9] Tommy Holmes 
proceeded to hit a single that allowed Masi to score the only run of the 
game, giving the Braves a 1–0 victory.[3] The umpire's controversial ruling 
touched off heated debates among the media and fans, especially after Associated 
Press photographs of the play were published.[9][10] Although Feller allowed 
only two hits, he took the loss in what would be the closest he ever came 
to winning a World Series game.[9] Upon his death in 1990, Masi's will 
revealed that he really was out on the pick-off play.[11] The second game 
also made television history when a live broadcast of the Indians–Braves 
matchup was shown aboard the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad's Marylander passenger 
train travelling between Washington, D.C. and New York City, using a receiver 
operated by Bendix Corporation technicians.[12] An Associated Press reporter 
observing the demonstration said, "Technically, it was surprisingly good."[12] 
For the third straight game, no home runs were hit by either team. This 
would not happen again in a World Series until 2014. Satchel Paige appeared 
for the Indians, becoming the first black pitcher to take the mound in 
World Series history. The previous day's single-game attendance record 
was broken with 86,288 fans. 1948 World Series (4–2): Cleveland Indians 
