The 1948 Cleveland Indians season was a season in American baseball. The 
team won a one-game playoff against the Boston Red Sox and then went on 
to win its second (and, so far, most recent) World Series in franchise 
history, its first in 28 years. Sporting News ranked the 1948 Indians the 
9th-best team ever.[1] In the 1947–48 off-season, owner Bill Veeck signed 
recent St. Louis Browns manager Muddy Ruel as a coach to join player-manager 
Lou Boudreau and coach Bill McKechnie, the latter who was also a long-time 
manager.[2] Player transactions: Boudreau became the first shortstop in 
the history of the American League to win the MVP Award.[8] [1] [2] [3] 
[4] [5] [6] [7] [8] The Indians made baseball history on July 9. In a game 
against the St. Louis Browns, with the Browns leading the Indians, 4–1, 
in the bottom of the fourth inning, Boudreau pulled his starting pitcher, 
Bob Lemon and brought Negro leagues legend Satchel Paige into the game. 
The first batter Paige faced was Browns first baseman Chuck Stevens. Paige 
did not yet know the signs, and Stevens lined a single into left field. 
Jerry Priddy bunted Stevens over to second. Next was Whitey Platt, and 
Paige threw an overhand server[clarification needed] for a strike and one 
sidearm for another strike. Paige then threw his "Hesitation Pitch", which 
puzzled Platt and led him to throw his bat forty feet up the third base 
line. Browns manager Zack Taylor bolted from the dugout to talk to umpire 
Bill McGowan about the pitch. Taylor argued that it was a balk, but McGowan 
let it stand as a strike. Paige got Al Zarilla to fly out and the inning 
was over. In the next inning, Paige gave up a leadoff single to Dick Kokos. 
His catcher simplified his signals, and Paige got Roy Partee to hit into 
a double play. Larry Doby, the player who broke the American League's color 
barrier, pinch hit for Paige the following inning. Paige got his first 
big league victory on July 15. This was accomplished the night after he 
pitched in an exhibition game against the Brooklyn Dodgers in front of 
65,000 people in Cleveland's Municipal Stadium. The victory came against 
the Philadelphia Athletics at Shibe Park. The Indians were up 5–3 with 
the bases loaded in the sixth inning of the second game of a double header. 
Paige got Eddie Joost to fly out to end the inning. Unfortunately, he gave 
up two runs the next inning when Ferris Fain doubled and Hank Majeski hit 
a home run. Paige buckled down and gave up only one more hit the rest of 
the game, getting five of the next six outs on fly balls. Doby and Ken 
Keltner would hit home runs in the ninth to give the Indians an 8–5 victory. 
On August 3, the Indians were one game behind the Athletics. Boudreau started 
Paige against the Washington Senators in Cleveland. The 72,562 people that 
saw the game set a new attendance record for a major league night game. 
Paige showed his nervousness as he walked two of the first three batters 
and then gave up a triple to Bud Stewart to fall behind 2–0. By the seventh, 
the Indians were up 4–2 and held on to give Paige his second victory. Paige's 
next start was against the Chicago White Sox at Comiskey Park. 51,013 people 
paid to see the game, but many thousands more stormed the turnstiles and 
crashed into the park, overwhelming the few dozen ticket-takers. Paige 
pitched a complete game shutout, beating the White Sox 5–0. By August 20, 
the Indians were in a heated pennant race. Coming into the game against 
the White Sox, Bob Lemon, Gene Bearden and Sam Zoldak had thrown consecutive 
shutouts to run up a thirty-inning scoreless streak, eleven shy of the 
big league record. For this game, played in Cleveland, 78,382 people came 
to see Paige. This was a full 6,000 more people than the last time that 
the night attendance record was set. Paige went the distance again, giving 
up two singles and one double for his second consecutive three-hit shutout. 
Paige now had a 5–1 record and a low 1.33 ERA. At the end of the season, 
Cleveland and the Boston Red Sox were tied for first place. This led to 
the first-ever one-game playoff in the American League. The Indians defeated 
the Red Sox 8–3 in the 1948 playoff game. Knuckleballer Gene Bearden was 
given the start for the Indians. Red Sox manager Joe McCarthy picked pitcher 
Denny Galehouse, who had an 8–7 pitching record.[11] Ken Keltner contributed 
to the victory with his single, double, and 3-run homer over the Green 
Monster in Fenway Park in the 4th inning. The Indians moved on to the 1948 
World Series against the Boston Braves. Later, McCarthy said he had no 
rested arms and that there was no else who could pitch.[11] Mel Parnell 
and Ellis Kinder claimed that they were both ready to pitch.[11] Infielders 
Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts On October 
9, 1948, a new World Series single game attendance record was set during 
Game 4. 81,897 fans packed Cleveland Stadium but one day later, that record 
was broken during Game 5. 86,288 fans attended the game. Satchel Paige 
appeared in Game 5 for the Indians, becoming the first black pitcher to 
pitch a game in World Series history. He pitched for two-thirds of an inning 
in Game Two while the Indians were trailing the Boston Braves, giving up 
a sacrifice fly to Warren Spahn, got called for a balk and struck out Tommy 
Holmes. AL Cleveland Indians (4) vs. NL Boston Braves (2) October 6, 1948 
at Braves Field in Boston, Massachusetts October 7, 1948 at Braves Field 
in Boston, Massachusetts October 8 at Cleveland Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, 
Ohio October 9, 1948 at Cleveland Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, Ohio 
October 10, 1948 at Cleveland Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, Ohio October 
11, 1948 at Braves Field in Boston, Massachusetts All-Star Game LEAGUE 
