The 1948 American League tie-breaker game was a one-game extension to Major 
League Baseball's (MLB) 1948 regular season, played between the Cleveland 
Indians and Boston Red Sox to determine the winner of the American League 
(AL) pennant. The game was played on October 4, 1948, at Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts. It was necessary after both teams finished the season 
with identical win–loss records of 96–58. This was the first-ever one-game 
playoff in the AL, and the only one prior to 1969 when the leagues were 
split into divisions. The Indians defeated the Red Sox, 8–3, as the Indians 
scored four runs in the fourth inning and limited the Red Sox to five hits. 
The Indians advanced to the 1948 World Series, where they defeated the 
Boston Braves, four games to two, giving them their second and most recent 
World Series championship. In baseball statistics, the tie-breaker counted 
as the 155th regular season game by both teams, with all events in the 
game added to regular season statistics. The 1948 Major League Baseball 
season was predicted to be a close race between the Yankees and Red Sox. 
In a United Press poll conducted just before the season started, the majority 
of sportswriters chose the Yankees, who had won last year's World Series, 
to face the Braves or St. Louis Cardinals that year, while others chose 
the Red Sox; only one sportswriter chose the Indians to reach the World 
Series.[1] Most of the American League managers had the Yankees finishing 
first, followed by the Red Sox, Indians, and Detroit Tigers.[2] Tension 
and confidence was evident between the teams, as two months into the season, 
after defeating the Red Sox 7–0, Yankees manager Bucky Harris declared 
that the Yankees would win the pennant, though they were currently at second 
place at the time.[3] The pennant race continued between the three teams 
throughout the entire season. On September 25, after playing 147 games, 
with seven games left to play, all three teams had a record of 91–56.[4] 
After each team played four more games, the Indians were up two games, 
meaning the Yankees and Red Sox had to win their games on September 30 
to stay in the pennant race. They did, and the month of October opened 
up with both teams 1.5 games behind the Indians.[5] The Indians' last series 
was a three-game stand against the Tigers, while the Red Sox and Yankees 
had a two-game series against each other. The Indians lost their first 
game 5–3 against the Tigers on October 1, giving them a one-game lead with 
two games left to play. As a result, speculation arose about the possibility 
of a three-way tie.[6] On October 2, Cleveland beat Detroit to clinch at 
least a tie, and Boston beat New York 5–1, ending the Yankees' pennant 
run and bringing the race down to two teams.[7] On the last day of the 
season, October 3, Boston won their game and Cleveland lost, giving them 
identical 96–58 records and forcing a tiebreaker the following day at Boston.[8] 
The Indians chose rookie Gene Bearden to start against Boston in the tie-breaker, 
despite only having one day of rest, as he had beaten the Red Sox twice 
that season, and the Red Sox chose Denny Galehouse, passing on Mel Parnell, 
who had beaten the Indians on three separate occasions that season.[9] 
Monday October 4, 1948–1.15 p.m. (ET) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts 
Galehouse started off the game by quickly getting outs from Dale Mitchell 
and Allie Clark. American League MVP Lou Boudreau then hit a solo home 
run off Galehouse to make the score 1–0.[10] After another out, Bearden 
came on the mound in the bottom of the first. Johnny Pesky doubled, then 
scored on a hit by Vern Stephens to make the score 1–1 at the end of the 
first inning.[10] Both pitchers allowed one baserunner the following inning; 
Ken Keltner reached base for Cleveland and Birdie Tebbetts reached base 
for the Red Sox. Both pitchers then got three quick outs in the third inning.[10] 
In the fourth inning, the Indians opened up the game. Boudreau and Joe 
Gordon hit back-to-back singles, which brought Keltner to the plate. The 
Red Sox expected a bunt, but instead the third baseman hit his 31st home 
run of the season to put the Indians ahead, 4–1.[11] Galehouse was then 
replaced with Ellis Kinder, who was met with a double by Larry Doby. Kinder 
responded by getting the next three batters out, which brought the score 
to 5–1 as Doby also scored.[10] After Bearden got three Red Sox out, the 
Indians started the fifth inning with the top of their lineup. Mitchell 
and Eddie Robinson, who came in for Clark, were out. Boudreau then stepped 
up to the plate and hit his second home run of the night to make the score 
6–1.[10] The rest of the fifth inning saw no more hits, and after a Keltner 
double, three Indians were out in the top of the sixth inning. The Red 
Sox began to fight back in the bottom of the sixth inning. After getting 
Pesky out, Ted Williams reached first base on an error by Gordon. Stephens 
struck out, and with two outs in the inning, Bobby Doerr hit his 27th home 
run of the season to make the score 6–3.[11] No runs were scored in the 
seventh inning, though Bearden and Mitchell both reached base. The Indians 
were able to score another run in the eighth inning after Jim Hegan was 
intentionally walked. Bearden then hit a fly ball to Williams, who dropped 
it, allowing Hegan to score and making it 7–3 in the Indians' favor.[11] 
The Indians were able to score one more run in the ninth when Robinson 
scored after Keltner grounded into a bases-loaded double play. Bearden 
got the final three Red Sox out in the bottom of the ninth, finishing the 
game with an 8–3 Indians victory and giving Bearden a complete game.[10] 
With the victory, the Indians received their first playoff berth since 
the 1920 World Series. Indians' Manager Lou Boudreau dedicated the victory 
to pitcher Don Black, who suffered a cerebral hemorrhage the previous month.[12] 
The Indians went on to face the Boston Braves in the 1948 World Series, 
winning it four games to two. The Red Sox fans experienced disappointment 
when Boston mayor James M. Curley ordered the fire department sirens sounded 
when Boston won the pennant. The sirens did sound, but it was instead for 
a fire in the Boston navy yard.[12] The Red Sox's defeat disappointed Boston 
fans, who had been rooting the entire season for an All-Boston World Series. 
Prior to the October 4 game, the oddsmakers gave the Red Sox the advantage, 
meaning that an all-Boston World Series was likely.[13] The Red Sox did 
not make another playoff appearance until 1967, when the St. Louis Cardinals 
defeated them in the 1967 World Series. The game counted as a regular season 
game in baseball statistics. As a result, Dom DiMaggio and Vern Stephens 
led the league with 155 games played, which could not have been equaled 
by any team other than the Red Sox or Indians.[14] DiMaggio's four at-bats 
in the game also gave him the league lead with 648, four ahead of Bob Dillinger 
of the St. Louis Browns.[14] Dale Mitchell's one single also gave him the 
league lead in that statistics, beating out Dillinger by one.[14] Gene 
Bearden's nine inning, one earned run performance brought his earned run 
average (ERA) down to 2.43, which led the American League.[15] Boudreau 
finished the season with a .355 batting average, 116 runs, 18 home runs, 
and 106 runs batted in, and won the Major League Baseball Most Valuable 
