The 1949 World Series featured the New York Yankees and the Brooklyn Dodgers, 
with the Yankees winning in five games for their second defeat of the Dodgers 
in three years, and the twelfth championship in team history. This victory 
would start a record run of five consecutive World Series championships 
by the Yankees, and was also the first of 14 AL pennants in 16 years (1949–1964 
except for 1954 and 1959) for the Yankees. Both teams finished the regular 
season with exactly the same records and winning their respective leagues 
by exactly one game. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Brooklyn Dodgers (1) 
Don Newcombe of the Dodgers threw a complete game, five-hitter allowing 
only one run in a 1–0 losing effort. He struck out eleven Yankees during 
that game to tie the record for most strikeouts during a World Series game 
by a losing pitcher. Tommy Henrich led the bottom of the ninth tagging 
Newcombe for the first walk-off home run in World Series history. Preacher 
Roe pitched a six-hit shutout, getting the only run he needed early when 
Jackie Robinson doubled and Gil Hodges singled. Yankee Stadium came alive 
in the ninth with Joe DiMaggio's leadoff hit, but Roe retired the next 
three Yankees for the win, the second straight 1-0 result of the Series. 
A wild ninth inning ended with Joe Page the winning pitcher, even though 
he gave up two homers in the inning. The game had stood 1-1 until the ninth, 
when Johnny Mize delivered a two-run pinch single. Brooklyn starter Ralph 
Branca was then replaced by Jack Banta, who gave up an RBI hit to Jerry 
Coleman that made it 4-1. It seemed safe until Luis Olmo and Roy Campanella 
both homered in the bottom of the ninth, but Page hung on for the win after 
5.2 innings of relief. Cliff Mapes broke a scoreless tie in the fourth 
inning with a two-run double. Yankee pitcher Eddie Lopat aided his own 
cause with an RBI double, and the advantage ballooned to 6-0 after a bases-loaded 
Bobby Brown triple scored three more in the fifth. A seven-single inning 
chased Lopat and cheered Ebbets Field's fans in the sixth, bringing the 
Dodgers back to within 6-4. After that, though, Allie Reynolds held the 
home team scoreless and hitless. A shaky start by Rex Barney, including 
two walks and an error on a pickoff play, proved costly for Brooklyn. He 
was lifted in the third after a Jerry Coleman two-run single, and the Yankees 
padded their lead with a Joe DiMaggio homer in the fourth and a Bobby Brown 
two-run triple in the sixth. It was 10-2 by then, so Gil Hodges's three-run 
homer for the Dodgers in the seventh was too little, too late. History 
was made in the ninth inning when the Ebbets Field lights were turned on, 
making this the first World Series game finished under artificial lights. 
The first scheduled Series night game would not be held until 1971. 1949 
World Series (4–1): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Brooklyn Dodgers (N.L.) 
