The 1949 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 16th annual midseason 
exhibition game for Major League Baseball all-stars between the American 
League (AL) and the National League (NL). The AL continued its early dominance 
of the Midsummer Classic with an 11–7 win at Ebbets Field, home field of 
the NL's Brooklyn Dodgers. The win moved the AL's all-time record in the 
game to 12–4. The 1949 All-Star Game was the first to have African-Americans 
in the line-up. Jackie Robinson of the Dodgers started for the NL at second 
base, while his teammates catcher Roy Campanella and pitcher Don Newcombe 
also played for the NL. Cleveland Indians' outfielder Larry Doby played 
the final four innings of the game for the AL. The Dodgers hosted the game 
and were well-represented. Pee Wee Reese and Jackie Robinson were starting 
infielders for the NL. Ralph Branca, Don Newcombe, and Preacher Roe were 
on the pitching staff, while Roy Campanella and Gil Hodges were reserve 
position players. All of the Dodgers' representatives, with the exception 
of Branca, played in the game. Players in italics have since been inducted 
into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. The umpires changed assignments 
in the middle of the fifth inning – Gore and Hubbard swapped positions, 
while Barlick left the game, Summers moved behind the plate, and Ballanfant 
move to third base.[2] This was the first All-Star Game to field a 6-man 
umpiring crew,[3] although after Barlick's departure the remainder of the 
game was played without an umpire in right field.[4] The starting pitchers 
were Mel Parnell of the Boston Red Sox for the AL, and Warren Spahn of 
the Boston Braves for the NL. The AL opened a high scoring game in the 
top of the 1st inning; with a man on first (who reached on an error) and 
two outs, a sequence of single-wallk-single-error-single pushed across 
4 runs. The NL got 2 runs back in the bottom of the inning, with a double 
from Jackie Robinson followed by a home run by Stan Musial. In the bottom 
of the 2nd, the NL cut the AL's lead to 4–3; with bases loaded and no outs, 
Don Newcombe hit a lineout to left field that Willard Marshall scored on, 
but the NL was unable to score more as the next batter grounded into a 
double play. The NL then pulled ahead 5–4 by scoring twice in the bottom 
of the third, on two walks and three singles during the inning. The AL 
pulled back ahead 6–5 in the top of the 4th inning; with men on second 
and third with two out, Eddie Joost hit a single to score both runners. 
The AL's lead was extended to 8–5 in the top of the 6th inning; with runners 
on first and third with one out, Joe DiMaggio drove in both men with a 
double. Ralph Kiner of the NL hit a two run home run in the bottom of the 
6th inning, which cut the AL lead to 8–7. The AL extended their lead in 
the top of the 7th inning; with a man on second and two out, a sequence 
of single-single-double scored three runs. That brought the AL lead to 
11–7, and completed the scoring for the game. The game wasn't crisp defensively, 
as there were six errors, five of them by the NL. All four of the AL's 
runs in the first inning were unearned. Detroit Tigers pitcher Virgil Trucks 
got the win, and Vic Raschi of the New York Yankees earned a save, while 
