The 1950 World Series was the 47th World Series between the American and 
National Leagues for the championship of Major League Baseball. The Philadelphia 
Phillies as 1950 champions of the National League and the New York Yankees, 
as 1950 American League champions, competed to win a best-of-seven game 
series. The Series began on Wednesday, October 4, and concluded Saturday, 
October 7. The Phillies had home field advantage for the Series, meaning 
no more than three games would be played at the Yankees' home ballpark, 
Yankee Stadium. The Yankees won their 13th championship in their 48-year 
history, taking the Series in a four-game sweep. The final game in the 
Series resulted in the New York Yankees winning, 5–2 over Philadelphia. 
It was the only game in the Series decided by more than one run. The 1950 
World Series title would be the second of a record five straight titles 
for the New York Yankees (1949–1953). The two teams would not again meet 
in the Series for 59 years. This was also the last all-white World Series 
as neither club had integrated in 1950.[1] It was also the last World Series 
where television coverage was pooled between the four major networks of 
the day: that season, the Mutual Broadcasting System, who had long been 
the radio home for the World Series, purchased the TV rights despite not 
(and indeed, never) having a television network. They would eventually 
sell on the rights to NBC, beginning a long relationship with the sport. 
The Phillies, a particularly young team which came to be known as the "Whiz 
Kids", had won the National League pennant in dramatic fashion on the final 
day of the season to garner their second pennant—their first in 35 years.[2] 
But writing in the New York Times on October 3, 1950, John Drebinger picked 
the Yankees to win the Series in five games: "The Stengelers simply have 
too much over-all pitching. They have the long range power. They posses 
[sic] rare defensive skill, and they have the poise and experience gained 
through the past four years which brought them two world championships 
and three pennants."[3] Odds makers made the Yankees 2–5 favorites to win 
the Series.[4] Curt Simmons, a 17-game winner for the Phillies in 1950, 
had been called to military duty in September and was unavailable for this 
Series. Simmons was stationed at Camp Atterbury and requested and was granted 
a leave on October 4 to attend the Series. The Phillies chose not to request 
that Commissioner Chandler rule Simmons eligible for the Series but Simmons 
chose to attend to support the team. Simmons' place on the Series roster 
was taken by pitcher Jocko Thompson.[5] Phillies ace Robin Roberts didn't 
start Game 1 because he had had three starts in five days including the 
pennant winner on the final day of the regular season—played October 1, 
1950 (three days before Game 1). AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Philadelphia 
Phillies (0) Because his #1 starter, Robin Roberts, had just pitched in 
three of the last five games of the frantic 1950 pennant race, Phils manager 
Eddie Sawyer surprised the world by naming his bullpen ace, Jim Konstanty, 
to open on the mound for Philadelphia, opposing 21-game winner Vic Raschi 
of the Yankees.[10] Konstanty was outstanding, allowing just four hits 
and a run in eight innings, but Raschi was tougher, shutting out the Phils 
on only two hits en route to a 1–0 victory in the opener. This marked the 
third consecutive year that the World Series opened with a 1–0 game, and 
the third consecutive year a two-hitter was thrown in the opening game 
of the World Series. In what would be the last postseason game ever played 
in Shibe Park, 20-game winner Robin Roberts and Allie Reynolds both pitched 
outstanding baseball for nine innings, as strong pitching and stout defense 
again prevailed in the Series. Gene Woodling drove in Jerry Coleman for 
a Yankee run in the second, and Richie Ashburn tallied Mike Goliat in the 
fifth, forcing a 1–1 tie which held up through nine full innings. This 
set the stage for Joe DiMaggio, leading off the tenth inning for the Yankees. 
With one swing, DiMaggio smashed a home run to left field to provide the 
difference in a 2–1 extra-inning win for the Yankees as the Series shifted 
to New York. DiMaggio had a hand in holding the Phillies at bay long enough 
to get his key at-bat. Leading off the sixth inning, Del Ennis hit a deep 
fly to center, but DiMaggio made a spectacular over-the-shoulder running 
catch, near the 400-foot (120 m) marker at the base of the scoreboard in 
right-center. This play is far less well-known but was similar-looking 
to the famous Willie Mays catch in the 1954 World Series. DiMaggio made 
this play on the road, although in a ballpark which he played in during 
the regular season (Shibe Park was also the home of the Philadelphia A's). 
Because there was nobody on when the ball was hit, he was not in a hurry 
to get the ball back to the infield (Mays' famous 1954 catch was deeper, 
with two runners on base and nobody out when the ball was hit). Phils lefty 
Ken Heintzelman started the third game against Yankee stalwart Eddie Lopat. 
Heintzelman continued the Phils' great pitching, carrying a 2–1 lead into 
the eighth inning, when he lost control and walked the bases loaded. Konstanty 
relieved him and got Bobby Brown to ground to shortstop Granny Hamner, 
but Hamner misplayed the ball to allow the tying run to score. Russ Meyer 
came on for the Phillies in the last of the ninth. After retiring the first 
two batters, Meyer allowed consecutive singles to set the stage for Jerry 
Coleman, who drove in the winning run with a base hit to give the Yankees 
a 3–2 win. In attendance at the game was Grover Cleveland Alexander, who 
had led the Phillies to their previous pennant in 1915. It was his first 
World Series game in twenty years. Ill from the effects of long term alcohol 
abuse, Alexander was generally ignored.[11] He would be dead less than 
a month later on November 4, 1950 at age 63.[12] Phillies starter Bob Miller 
matched up against rookie Whitey Ford, making his first World Series appearance, 
as the Yankees tried to wrap up the Series in four straight. New York scored 
two runs in the first inning, and with the help of Yogi Berra's homer, 
three more in the sixth to take a commanding 5–0 lead. With a 5–0 shutout, 
the first two Phils reached base in the ninth, before Ford got the next 
two out. Andy Seminick then flied to left, but left fielder Gene Woodling 
dropped what looked like the Series-ending out, allowing two runs to score. 
Mike Goliat kept the inning going with a hit, and Stengel removed Ford 
to bring in Allie Reynolds. Reynolds struck out pinch-hitter Stan Lopata, 
giving the Yanks a 5–2 win and the World Series victory. 1950 World Series 
