The 1951 National League tie-breaker series was a best-of-three playoff 
series at the conclusion of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 1951 regular 
season to decide the winner of the National League (NL) pennant. The games 
were played on October 1, 2, and 3, 1951, between the New York Giants and 
Brooklyn Dodgers. It was necessary after both teams finished the season 
with identical win–loss records of 96–58. It is most famous for the walk-off 
home run hit by Bobby Thomson of the Giants in the deciding game, which 
has come to be known as baseball's "Shot Heard 'Round the World". This 
was the second three-game playoff in NL history. After no tiebreakers had 
been needed since the American League (AL) became a major league in 1901, 
this was the third such tie in the previous six seasons. The Dodgers had 
been involved in the previous one as well, losing to the St. Louis Cardinals 
during the 1946 season in two straight games. In addition to the 1946 series, 
the AL had a one-game playoff in 1948. The Giants won game one, while the 
Dodgers came back to win game two. After trailing for most of game three, 
the Giants rallied to win the game and the series. Consequently, they advanced 
to the 1951 World Series, in which they were defeated by the New York Yankees. 
In baseball statistics, the tie-breaker series counted as the 155th, 156th, 
and 157th regular season games by both teams; all events in the games were 
added to regular season statistics. Sportswriters projected that the Giants, 
Dodgers, and Philadelphia Phillies would face off during the 1951 Major 
League Baseball season. The previous season, the Phillies won the NL pennant 
with a 91–63 record, while the Dodgers and Giants finished in second and 
third place, two and five games behind the Phillies, respectively.[1] In 
the annual Associated Press poll, Brooklyn was projected as the favorite 
to win the pennant with 1,413 points, New York was second with 1,281, and 
Philadelphia was third with 1,176.[2] The United Press, however, had New 
York winning the pennant; they had 81 votes compared to 55 for Brooklyn 
and 18 for Philadelphia.[3] Throughout the first half of the season, the 
Dodgers stayed in first place by a large margin. By August 10, they were 
12 1⁄2 games ahead of the Giants and 14 1⁄2 games ahead of the Phillies, 
and as a result they were already looking ahead to facing the New York 
Yankees in the 1951 World Series; the Associated Press commented on their 
dominance, saying that "unless they completely fold in their last 50 games, 
they're in."[4] While the Phillies fell out of contention, the Giants won 
16 consecutive games from August 12 to August 27, cutting their deficit 
from 12 1⁄2 games to six.[5] By September 20, the Dodgers had ten games 
left to play while the Giants had seven, and the Dodgers had a 4 1⁄2 game 
advantage, making a pennant win appear imminent.[6] However, the Giants 
won their last seven games, and the Dodgers needed to defeat the Phillies 
in the final game of the season to force a playoff; they did so by winning 
9–8 in 14 innings, leaving both teams with a record of 96–58.[7] The National 
League used a three-game playoff (prior to 1969) to break a tie for the 
pennant, the winner of which would face the American League champion Yankees 
in the 1951 World Series. The Dodgers won the coin toss for home field 
advantage, but opted to host game one at Ebbets Field on October 1, while 
the Giants would as a result get to host games two and three at the Polo 
Grounds on October 2 and 3.[8][9] The Dodgers chose Ralph Branca, who also 
started the first game of the 1946 tiebreaker, to start game one because 
he had beaten the Giants twice in the regular season, while the Giants 
chose Jim Hearn, who had beaten the Dodgers twice that year.[10] Branca 
began the game by retiring the first three batters; Eddie Stanky and Alvin 
Dark flied out while Don Mueller grounded out. In the bottom of the first, 
Carl Furillo grounded out, and Pee Wee Reese hit a single. After Duke Snider 
flied out, Reese was caught stealing second base to end the inning.[11] 
In the second inning, Branca retired all three hitters; when the Dodgers 
came up to bat, Jackie Robinson flied out and Roy Campanella grounded out. 
Andy Pafko scored the game's first run with a home run to left field to 
make the score 1–0.[12] After the third out, Willie Mays walked to start 
the third inning, and after the first out Stanky got the Giants' first 
hit, a single. After a fly out by Dark, the Giants remained without a run; 
Hearn retired all three batters in the bottom of the third to end the inning.[11] 
In the fourth inning, Monte Irvin was hit by a pitch between outs by Mueller 
and Whitey Lockman. Bobby Thomson then hit a home run to put the Giants 
up, 2–1. After the third out, the Dodgers came back to the plate. Reese 
grounded out, but Snider and Robinson hit back-to-back singles. Campanella 
grounded into a double play to end the inning.[11] The Giants got one man 
on base in the top of the fifth inning, when Stanky singled with two outs. 
Pafko reached on an error to start off the bottom of the fifth, but was 
caught stealing second base; Gil Hodges and Branca both struck out to end 
the fifth. The only hit in the sixth inning was a single by Lockman, and 
the two teams entered the seventh inning with the score still 2–1.[11] 
There were no hits in the seventh inning, as both pitchers retired the 
first three batters they faced. In the top of the eighth inning, Irvin 
hit the third home run of the game, his 24th of the year, to make the score 
3–1.[12] Lockman then reached first base on an error and was able to advance 
to third base, but Mays and Hearn both struck out to keep the score intact.[11] 
No Dodgers managed a hit in the bottom of the eighth, though the Dodgers 
brought in Jim Russell to use as a pinch hitter for Branca. In the ninth 
inning, Alvin Dark doubled for the Giants, but he was the only player on 
either team to earn a hit; Hearn retired all three Dodgers hitters to end 
the game with the 3–1 victory, earning a complete game win after allowing 
five hits to the Dodgers.[13] Those in attendance included Bill Dickey, 
a coach for the Yankees who attended the game to scout both teams.[14] 
The series moved to the Polo Grounds for game two. Sheldon Jones took the 
mound for the Giants despite a 6–10 record going into the game, allowing 
the Giants to save Sal Maglie for the series' game three or the first game 
of the World Series. The Dodgers used Clem Labine, a rookie who had started 
just six games for the Dodgers in his career, because they lacked pitchers 
who were ready for the game.[15] The Yankees were among those in attendance 
as spectators.[14] Pee Wee Reese singled and Jackie Robinson homered, scoring 
two runs for the Dodgers in the first inning; the Giants had one player 
reach base on an error, making the score 2–0 after one inning.[16] In the 
second inning, Gil Hodges singled and reached third base on an error, allowing 
the Dodgers to potentially score again. After Rube Walker's hit the Giants 
threw Hodges out at home plate, and two further outs ended their turn at 
bat. The Giants had two consecutive hits in their half, a double hit by 
Thomson and a single hit by Mays, but they failed to score as well after 
two groundouts, leaving the score 2–0. After one out, Duke Snider walked 
and Robinson singled to start the third inning, and Jones was removed from 
pitching duties, replaced by George Spencer.[16] Spencer ended the inning 
by throwing Snider out at home to keep the score 2–0. Eddie Stanky reached 
base after a Dodgers error, marking the second error for both teams; after 
another hit, the inning ended with a strikeout by Thomson.[16] In the fourth 
inning, three players hit singles but did not score. Snider doubled in 
the fifth inning with one out, and a Jackie Robinson single made the score 
3–0 for the Dodgers. The inning ended for the Dodgers on a double play, 
and Don Mueller hit a single in the bottom of the fifth before the Giants 
recorded three straight outs.[16] The Dodgers opened up the game in the 
sixth inning, as Hodges led off with a home run. Billy Cox then reached 
base on an error and scored on a second error to make the game 5–0. After 
Labine walked to get on base, there was a rain delay, and play did not 
resume until that night.[17] After the game resumed, Labine scored on back-to-back 
singles by Reese and Snider. The Giants then came up to bat, failing to 
earn a hit as the score became 6–0 after six innings.[16] To start the 
seventh inning, Al Corwin replaced Bill Rigney for the Giants, who had 
pinch hit for Spencer. Andy Pafko hit a home run to start the inning, and 
Hodges walked; he later scored on the fifth and final error made by the 
Giants to make the score 8–0.[16] The bottom of the seventh and the eighth 
inning passed without a hit. In the ninth inning, Walker hit a home run, 
the fourth of the game, to make the score 10–0.[16] The Giants failed to 
get a hit in the bottom of the ninth, ending the game. Labine pitched a 
six-hit shutout, not allowing a hit in the final four innings as the series 
went to a deciding third game.[18] Game three was also held at the Polo 
Grounds. With each team having won one game, it was time for a matchup 
between the two teams' ace pitchers. Sal Maglie was on the mound for New 
York, while Brooklyn called on Don Newcombe; both pitchers had winning 
records against the opposing team heading into the matchup.[19] After Maglie 
walked two batters in the top of the first inning, Jackie Robinson singled, 
scoring the game's first run when Pee Wee Reese crossed home plate. No 
further hits were allowed until the bottom of the second, when Whitey Lockman 
and Bobby Thomson singled; neither scored, and it remained 1–0 through 
two innings.[20] The game then became a pitcher's duel; Maglie and Newcombe 
did not allow a hit in the third or fourth innings. In the fifth, Billy 
Cox singled on a bunt, and Thomson hit a double, but the score remained 
1–0 through five innings. Duke Snider singled in the sixth inning, but 
was caught stealing second. Neither team got another hit until the seven 
inning. Rube Walker singled for the Dodgers, and Monte Irvin led off the 
bottom of the seventh with a double for the Giants. He reached third base 
after a bunt, and scored on a sacrifice fly by Thomson, tying the score 
at one run each.[20] In the top of the eighth, the Dodgers scored three 
runs off Maglie. Reese and Snider hit back-to-back singles, and Maglie 
threw a wild pitch, allowing Reese to score. After Robinson was walked, 
Andy Pafko hit a single to score Snider. Cox added another single to score 
Robinson before the inning ended, making made the score 4–1 in favor of 
the Dodgers.[20] Newcombe got the Giants out in order in the bottom of 
the eighth, and Larry Jansen did the same in relief of Maglie in the top 
of the ninth.[21] Alvin Dark led off with a single in the bottom of the 
ninth, and Don Mueller followed with another. After Monte Irvin popped 
out to first base, Whitey Lockman hit a double to left-center field, scoring 
Dark and putting Mueller on third. Upon sliding into third, Mueller sprained 
his ankle and had to leave the game.[22] As Mueller went to the locker 
room, Dodger manager Chuck Dressen summoned game 1 starter Ralph Branca 
in to relieve Newcombe on only one day's rest. Bobby Thomson came up to 
bat, and on Branca's second pitch, Thomson drove a pitch to deep left field 
for a walk-off home run to clinch the pennant for the Giants.[21] This 
home run came to be known as the "Shot Heard 'Round the World" as the Giants 
won the National League pennant, advancing to the World Series.[23][24] 
The following day, sportswriter Red Smith opened his recap of the game 
for the New York Herald Tribune with the following lead: "Now it is done. 
Now the story ends. And there is no way to tell it. The art of fiction 
is dead. Reality has strangled invention. Only the utterly impossible, 
the inexpressibly fantastic, can ever be plausible again."[25] After winning 
the pennant, the Giants lost to the Yankees in the World Series four games 
to two.[26] The Brooklyn Dodgers rebounded to win the National League pennant 
in 1952, but lost the 1952 World Series to the Yankees four games to three.[27] 
The three games counted statistically as regular season games. As a result, 
Hodges and Furillo led the league with 158 games played, which could not 
have been equaled by anyone but a Brooklyn or New York player.[28] Monte 
Irvin increased his runs batted in total to 121, leading the NL that year.[29] 
Larry Jansen's win in the final game gave him 23 wins on the year, tying 
him for the MLB lead with Maglie; had he finished the game he would have 
led all of baseball with 24.[30] Newcombe's two strikeouts in game three 
totalled 164 on the season for him, tying him for the NL lead with Warren 
Spahn and the MLB lead with Spahn and Vic Raschi.[30] Campanella finished 
the season with a .325 batting average, 33 doubles, 33 home runs, and 108 
runs batted in, and won the Major League Baseball Most Valuable Player 
Award at the end of the season.[31] Mays finished the season with a .274 
batting average, 22 doubles, and 20 home runs in 121 games, and won the 
Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award.[32] In 2001, Journalist 
Joshua Prager published that the Giants secretly learned opponents' finger 
signals, when several players told the Wall Street Journal that beginning 
on July 20, 1951, the team used a telescope and buzzer wire to steal the 
finger signals of opposing catchers careless enough to leave their signs 
unprotected. Giants catcher Sal Yvars told Prager that he relayed to Thomson 
the stolen sign for Branca's fastball.[33] Thomson always insisted that 
he had no foreknowledge of Branca's pitch. Branca had been aware of the 
rumors and was skeptical of Thomson's denial, but later told The New York 
Times in 2001, "I didn't want to diminish a legendary moment in baseball. 
And even if Bobby knew what was coming, he had to hit it.... Knowing the 
pitch doesn't always help."[34] There's a long drive... it's gonna be, 
I believe...THE GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT!! THE GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT! THE 
GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT! THE GIANTS WIN THE PENNANT! Bobby Thomson hits 
into the lower deck of the left-field stands! The Giants win the pennant 
and they're goin' crazy, they're goin' crazy! HEEEY-OH!!!'' [ten-second 
pause for crowd noise] I don't believe it! I don't believe it! I do not 
believe it! Bobby Thomson... hit a line drive... into the lower deck... 
of the left-field stands... and this blame place is goin' crazy! The Giants! 
Horace Stoneham has got a winner! The Giants won it... by a score of 5 
to 4... and they're pickin' Bobby Thomson up... and carryin' him off the 
