The 1952 World Series featured the 3-time defending champions New York 
Yankees beating the Brooklyn Dodgers in seven games. The Yankees won their 
4th consecutive title—tying the mark they set between 1936 and 1939 under 
manager Joe McCarthy, and Casey Stengel became the second manager in Major 
League history with 4 consecutive World Series championships. This was 
the Yankees' 15th World Series championship win, and the 3rd time they 
defeated the Dodgers in 6 years. In Game 7, the Yankees' second baseman 
Billy Martin made a game-saving catch. Also, the home run hit by Mickey 
Mantle during the 8th inning of Game 6 was significant because it was the 
first of his record 18 career World Series home runs. The NBC telecasts 
of Games 6 and 7 are believed to be the oldest surviving television broadcasts 
of the World Series, as they were preserved via kinescope by sponsor Gillette. 
AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Brooklyn Dodgers (3) In 1952 the Dodgers, 
led by manager Chuck Dressen, paced the NL in runs scored (775), home runs 
(153) and stolen bases (90). Duke Snider, Jackie Robinson and George Shuba 
batted over .300, while Roy Campanella (97) and Gil Hodges (102) paced 
the team in RBIs. The Dodgers had no dominant pitchers with Carl Erskine 
(206.2) the lone pitcher with over 200 innings and rookie Joe Black leading 
the team with 15 wins. Manager Dressen used 14 starting pitchers on the 
year, but as a unit, the pitchers combined to finish second in the NL in 
team ERA. Defensively, the Dodgers led the NL with a .982 fielding percentage, 
and Campanella gunned down 29 of 52 (56%) would-be base stealers.[8] The 
Yankees, led by the effusive Casey Stengel, recovered from the retirement 
of Joe DiMaggio, and the loss of Bobby Brown, Joe Coleman and Tom Morgan 
to the service. The Yankees matched the Dodgers in hitting as they finished 
first or second in the AL in runs scored, home runs, batting average, and 
slugging percentage. Mickey Mantle had a breakout season leading the Yankees 
in batting (.311), and slugging (.530). Yogi Berra led the Yanks in runs 
(97), HRs (30) and RBIs (98). The Yankees had a pitching staff that led 
the AL in ERA (3.14). Allie Reynolds led the team with 20 wins and led 
the league with 2.08 ERA. Casey Stengel rotated his pitchers all year with 
seven having at least 12 starts, but none working more than 35 games. Defensive 
standout Phil Rizzuto led AL shortstops with 458 assists and made only 
19 errors.[9] Joe Black became the first black pitcher win a World Series 
game. His support came from three Dodger home runs, by Jackie Robinson 
in the second, Duke Snider in the sixth and Pee Wee Reese with two out 
in the eighth, after the Yankees had come within 3-2 on a Gene Woodling 
triple and Hank Bauer sac fly in the top of the eighth. Vic Raschi's complete-game 
three-hitter and nine strikeouts dominated this game. He was behind 1–0 
after a Roy Campanella RBI single in the third, but the Yankees tied it 
when Mickey Mantle doubled, took second on a groundout and scored on a 
Yogi Berra sacrifice fly. A five-run Yankee sixth broke it open, including 
a two-run Billy Martin homer off reliever Billy Loes. Twice with Andy Pafko 
at bat, Jackie Robinson's speed and baserunning skill paid off for Brooklyn. 
With the game 2-1 in the eighth, Robinson tagged and scored on Pafko's 
fly to left. In the ninth, he and Pee Wee Reese pulled a double steal, 
then both scored—Robinson from second base—on a passed ball. The score 
was 1-0 in the eighth, a Johnny Mize home run being the difference, when 
Dodgers reliever Johnny Rutherford came into the game. The first batter 
he faced was Mickey Mantle, who tripled to deep left-center, then kept 
coming home when the throw to third got away. Both sides got just four 
hits in the contest, a pitching duel between Allie Reynolds and Joe Black. 
Carl Erskine pitched all 11 innings for Brooklyn, closing it out by retiring 
future Hall of Famers Mickey Mantle, Johnny Mize and Yogi Berra 1-2-3 in 
the 11th. A five-run fifth was nearly Erskine's undoing, Mize's three-run 
homer rallying the Yankees after they fell behind 4-0. In the top of the 
11th, Billy Cox got his third hit of the game, moved up on a Pee Wee Reese 
hit and scored on Duke Snider's double off reliever Johnny Sain for what 
turned out to be the winning run. In Game 6, with a 3–2 Series lead and 
the final two at Ebbets Field, the Dodgers looked to chase away the demons 
of 1951.[10] Billy Loes (13–8) faced Vic Raschi (16–6). Dodger Manager 
Chuck Dressen made a curious lineup change with George Shuba batting fifth, 
replacing Andy Pafko. Dressen placed Roy Campanella in the sixth spot and 
left Gil Hodges to bat seventh. In the Dodger half of the first inning, 
with Duke Snider on second and Jackie Robinson on first, Shuba grounded 
out to Billy Martin to end the inning. In the Yankee fourth Yogi Berra 
reached second base when Pee Wee Reese uncorked a wild throw on a double-play 
attempt, but the Yankees could not capitalize. In the fifth inning the 
Dodgers turned a remarkable double play. Yankee Irv Noren led off with 
a single, followed by a Vic Raschi bunt. Gil Hodges picked up the bunt, 
turned and fired to Reese at second, who in lightning succession fired 
to Robinson covering first just in time to retire Raschi. In the Dodger 
sixth, Snider sent Raschi's first pitch over the 40 feet (12 m) of screen 
in back of right field and onto Bedford Ave for 1–0 lead. In the top of 
the seventh, Yogi Berra matched Snider blast with one of his own, again 
onto Bedford Avenue. Gene Woodling followed with a single and Dodger pitcher 
Billy Loes balked him to second. Raschi then made up for his bunt-turned-double-play 
by getting a hit, literally off Loes. The ball ricocheted off Loes and 
into right field bringing Woodling home for a 2–1 lead. In another curious 
move Dressen allowed pitcher Billy Loes to hit for himself in the seventh. 
Loes singled and promptly stole second. But Raschi struck out Billy Cox 
to end the inning. Mantle led off the Yankee eighth inning with the first 
of his 18 World Series home runs. Mantle's shot set a record for home runs 
by one team and for both teams in a single Series at 13.[10] Snider continued 
the home run fest by launching another shot in the bottom of the eighth. 
Jackie Robinson then sent left fielder Gene Woodling to the wall for an 
out and Shuba doubled to send Raschi to the showers. Allie Reynolds relieved 
and quickly ended the Dodger eighth. Reynolds, known as "The Chief"[10] 
again made quick work of the Dodgers in the ninth including striking out 
Rocky Nelson, who had pinch hit for Hodges, preserving the 3–2 win. Game 7 
pitted Joe Black (15–4) vs Eddie Lopat (10–5). Black, who came out of the 
Negro Leagues and was not even on the Dodgers spring training roster,[10] 
had already pitched a complete game win in Game 1 of the Series, pitched 
seven innings in a 2–0 loss in Game 4 and would be starting his third game 
in seven days. At that time there were no days off between games as both 
teams played in New York. For the Yankees, Billy Martin continued his solid 
play. Martin sat on the bench for most of the season's first two months 
and took over second base duties when Casey Stengel moved Gil McDougald 
from second to third base to replace military bound Bobby Brown. Phil Rizzuto 
led off the Yankee fourth with a double and Johnny Mize singled him home 
for a 1–0 lead. In the Dodger fourth, a single by Snider followed by two 
consecutive sacrifice attempts by Robinson and Campanella, intended to 
move runners over, loaded the bases instead. Allie Reynolds replaced Lopat 
and retired Hodges with a fly to left that scored Snider. Reynolds struck 
out Shuba, then induced Furillo to ground out, leaving Robinson at third 
and the game tied 1–1. In the fifth inning, Gene Woodling homered for the 
Yanks, and the Dodgers' Billy Cox doubled followed by a Pee Wee Reese single 
kept the game tied at 2–2. Mickey Mantle demonstrated his penchant for 
coming up big in World Series play with a home run in the sixth inning 
and RBI single in the seventh to give the Bronx Bombers a 4–2 lead. The 
Brooklyn boys loaded the bases again in the seventh, when Vic Raschi walked 
Furillo, Cox singled and Reese walked. Stengel called on Bob Kuzava who 
retired Snider, setting the stage for Billy Martin. With two out and the 
runners moving, Jackie Robinson popped-up to the right of the mound. Kuzava 
hesitated looking to his fielders. Martin charged hard from his position 
deep at second and caught the ball off his shoetops, to end the inning 
and save a run. Kuzava then quickly put the Dodgers down in the eighth 
and ninth to give the Yankees their fourth consecutive World Championship. 
1952 World Series (4–3): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Brooklyn Dodgers 
