The 1953 World Series matched the 4-time defending champions New York Yankees 
against the Brooklyn Dodgers in a rematch of the 1952 Series, and the 4th 
such matchup between the two teams in the past seven seasons. The Yankees 
won in 6 games for their 5th consecutive title—a mark which has not been 
equalled—and their 16th overall. Billy Martin recorded his 12th hit of 
the Series scoring Hank Bauer in Game 6. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL 
Brooklyn Dodgers (2) Before a full house of New Yorkers, a four-run first 
inning put Yankee fans in a good mood right off the bat. Brooklyn starter 
Carl Erskine didn't last past the first. A pair of triples by Hank Bauer 
and Billy Martin were the big blows, and the Dodgers pinch-hit for Erskine 
in the top of the second. They didn't score off Allie Reynolds until the 
fifth, though, on a Jim Gilliam solo homer. Yogi Berra matched it in the 
bottom of the fifth with a homer of his own, and the Yankee lead looked 
safe until homers by Gil Hodges and pinch-hitter George Shuba chased Reynolds 
in the sixth. Brooklyn tied it an inning later against Johnny Sain with 
singles by Roy Campanella, Hodges and Carl Furillo. A homer by unsung first 
baseman Joe Collins proved the game-winner, with winning pitcher Sain providing 
two more runs himself in the eighth off Ben Wade with a surprise two-base 
hit. He looked shaky in the first, walking three and hitting a batter, 
but Brooklyn's Preacher Roe settled down after that and engaged Eddie Lopat 
in a complete-game pitching duel. Billy Cox's two-run double in the fourth 
put the Dodgers up 2-1. Billy Martin's leadoff homer off Roe in the seventh 
tied the score. The game-winning blast came from Mickey Mantle, a two-run 
shot to left field in the bottom of the eighth. Brooklyn got two runners 
aboard in the ninth, but Lopat was able to retire Duke Snider on a game-ending 
grounder to second base. Although the Yankees won the Series, Brooklyn 
had at least one shining moment, as pitcher Carl Erskine set a new Series 
record by striking out 14 Yankees in Game 3. That broke Howard Ehmke's 
1929 record by one. Ersk's record would stand until Sandy Koufax got 15 
in 1963. In that same game, Yogi Berra was hit twice by Erskine, making 
him the first American League player in World Series history to be a hit-batsman 
twice during the same game. After the game became tied at 2-2 in the eighth 
on an RBI single by the Yankees' Gene Woodling, the decisive blow came 
in the bottom of the inning when Vic Raschi surrendered a Roy Campanella 
home run. The home team won for the fourth consecutive time. Whitey Ford 
lasted just one inning as the Yankees' starter, giving up a Duke Snider 
two-run homer in the first. Brooklyn's lead was cut in half in the fifth 
when Billy Loes gave up a two-run homer to Gil McDougald. But the Dodgers 
pulled away with Snider driving home runs in the next two innings. Mickey 
Mantle's bases-loaded single ended the game, Billy Martin being thrown 
out trying to score from second base. Yankees manager Casey Stengel gave 
the ball to unheralded pitcher Jim McDonald for Game 5 and, while he gave 
up a dozen hits, he got them a win. Brooklyn starter Johnny Podres was 
jolted by a Gene Woodling home run to begin the game. Podres was chased 
in a five-run third, and the first man his replacement Russ Meyer would 
face, Mickey Mantle, greeted the reliever with a grand slam home run. The 
Yankees were coasting 10-2 until the eighth, when McDonald tired and gave 
up a three-run Billy Cox homer. He was relieved by Bob Kuzava, and in the 
ninth, Allie Reynolds was brought in to retire Jackie Robinson for the 
final out. Down 3–1 in the ninth, Brooklyn rallied back on a Duke Snider 
walk and a Carl Furillo homer. However, Yankee second baseman Billy Martin—who 
made a game-saving catch in Game 7 of the 1952 World Series—again ruined 
the Dodgers' dreams of a championship. In the bottom of the ninth, with 
a runner on second base, Martin drilled a Clem Labine sinker up the middle 
for a Series-winning RBI single. Dropping their seventh Series without 
a victory, the Dodgers terminated manager Chuck Dressen's contract; Dressen 
was demanding two more years. Walter Alston took his place and managed 
the Dodgers for the next 23 seasons (1954–1976), leading them to four World 
Series championships in 1955, 1959, 1963, and 1965 before being replaced 
by Tommy Lasorda who would manage the team for twenty years himself (1976–1996). 
Lasorda would lead the Dodgers to a pair of World Series championships 
in 1981 and 1988. 1953 World Series (4–2): New York Yankees (A.L.) over 
Brooklyn Dodgers (N.L.) The Series was broadcast on NBC television, with 
Yankees announcer Mel Allen and Dodgers announcer Vin Scully describing 
the action; and on Mutual radio, with Al Helfer and Gene Kelly announcing. 
Red Barber, Vin Scully's senior on the Dodgers' broadcast crew, was originally 
selected to work with Allen on NBC, but was removed from the Series due 
to a salary dispute with Gillette, which sponsored the broadcasts. Scully, 
at the age of 25, became the youngest man to broadcast a World Series game 
