The 1954 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 21st playing of the 
midsummer classic between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and 
National League (NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. 
The game was held on July 13, 1954, at Cleveland Municipal Stadium in Cleveland, 
Ohio the home of the Cleveland Indians of the American League. The American 
League rallied in the bottom of the eight inning, to defeat the National 
League in an 11–9 slugfest at Cleveland Stadium. Both teams combined for 
an All-Star Game record 20 runs, on 31 hits, which included six home runs. 
Al Rosen led the American League offense, going 3-for-4 with two home runs 
and five runs batted in. Starters Whitey Ford (AL) and Robin Roberts (NL) 
matched zeroes until the third inning, when the American League hitters 
stacked themselves to an early 4–0 lead in the bottom of the inning. Minnie 
Miñoso opened the frame with a single and Nellie Fox walked, while Roberts 
struck out Mickey Mantle and retired Yogi Berra on a grounder, but could 
not overcome a three-run homer by Rosen to make it a 3–0 game. Ray Boone 
followed with a solo homer before Roberts retired Hank Bauer. Opening the 
fourth inning, the National League rallied for five runs to take a 5–4 
lead. Sandy Consuegra retired the first batter he faced, but Duke Snider, 
Ted Kluszewski and Ray Jablonski hit consecutive singles and Jackie Robinson 
a double, tying the game at four. Bob Lemon relieved Consuegra, but gave 
up a two-out, RBI-double by the pinch-hitter Don Mueller before retiring 
Granny Hamner for the third out. Meanwhile, Chico Carrasquel kept the American 
League attack alive with a lead-off single in the bottom of the fourth 
against Johnny Antonelli. Carrasquel moved to third on a one-out single 
by Miñoso and scored on a sacrifice fly by Beto Ávila, tying the score 
at five. The National League picked up two more two-out runs off Bob Porterfield 
in the fifth to pull back in front, 7–5, after a single by Snider and a 
two-run homer by Kluszewski. In the bottom of the inning, Berra hit a single 
off Antonelli and Rosen belted his second home run of the game to tie the 
score at seven. The American League regained the lead in the sixth, 8–7, 
with an RBI-single by Avila off Warren Spahn that brought home Williams. 
In the eight inning, the National League bats stayed hot against Bob Keegan. 
Willie Mays singled and Gus Bell unloaded it with a pinch-hit, two-run 
homer to put again away the game, 9–8. Dean Stone came in relief with two 
outs and Red Schoendienst running on third. Schoendienst attempted to steal 
home and was thrown out by Stone. This third out set the stage for Larry 
Doby, who pinch hit for Stone with one out in the bottom of the inning 
and tied the game with a solo home run against Gene Conley, and with it 
became the first black player to hit a home run in an All-Star Game. After 
that, Mantle and Berra singled and Rosen walked to load the bases. Carl 
Erskine replaced Conley and retired Mickey Vernon for the second out, but 
gave up a two-RBI single to Fox that sealed the 11–9 victory for the American 
League. The American League (7) and the National League (6) used 13 pitchers 
in the game. Stone took the win (without retiring a batter) and Conley 
was tagged with the loss while Virgil Trucks earned the save. Trucks walked 
Snider to open the ninth inning, but retired Stan Musial, Gil Hodges and 
Randy Jackson for the last three outs of the game. The win broke a four-game 
All-Star losing streak for the American League. After this game, the AL 
led the all-time All-Star Series 13–8. Players in italics have since been 
inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches  * = Did not play Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager 
