The 1955 World Series matched the Brooklyn Dodgers against the New York 
Yankees, with the Dodgers winning the Series in seven games to capture 
their first championship in franchise history. It would be the only Series 
the Dodgers won in Brooklyn (the team relocated to Los Angeles after the 
1957 season). This was the fifth time in nine years that the Yankees and 
the Dodgers met in the World Series, with the Yankees having won in 1947, 
1949, 1952, and 1953; the Yankees would also win in the 1956 rematch. This 
Series also marked the end of a long period of invulnerability for the 
Yankees in World Series. It was the Yankees' first loss in a World Series 
since 1942 and only their second since 1926. While the Yankees were 15–2 
in Series appearances during that time, they would lose again in 1957, 
1960, 1963, and 1964, for a record of 4–5 in World Series over the next 
decade. NL Brooklyn Dodgers (4) vs. AL New York Yankees (3) The Yankees 
took Game 1 behind two homers from Joe Collins and one by rookie Elston 
Howard in his first World Series at bat. Carl Furillo homered for Brooklyn 
and Duke Snider hit his first of the Series, all of which would eventually 
help establish a new HR record for a seven-game series (17). Jackie Robinson 
stole home, but Whitey Ford won with relief help in the ninth from Bob 
Grim. Tommy Byrne tossed a five-hit complete game victory and singled in 
New York's final run during the Yanks' big four-run fourth inning, putting 
New York up 2–0. Johnny Podres went all the way and won with home run help 
from Roy Campanella. A limping Mickey Mantle hit his only home run of the 
Series. This was the last World Series game to take place in the month 
of September. Brooklyn evened the Series at 2–2 as Roy Campanella, Gil 
Hodges and Duke Snider all hit home runs. Sunday, October 2, 1955 at Ebbets 
Field in Brooklyn, New York Duke Snider hit two home runs (four in the 
Series) and Sandy Amorós helped the Dodgers beat the Yankees for the third 
straight day. Dodgers rookie Roger Craig won in his first World Series 
start. Bob Cerv and Yogi Berra hit Yankee homers off Craig and reliever 
Clem Labine. Snider became the only player from either league with four 
home runs in two different Series. Whitey Ford held the Dodgers to four 
hits and a single run while striking out eight as the Yankees evened the 
series at 3–3. New York scored all five runs in the first inning, led by 
Bill Skowron's three-run blast. The Dodgers scored one run in the fourth 
and sixth innings on a single and sac fly, both by Gil Hodges. With runners 
on first and second and one out, left fielder Sandy Amorós made a dramatic 
game-saving catch of a deep fly ball down the left field line off the bat 
of Yogi Berra in the sixth inning, to start a double play. Amorós then 
threw to Pee Wee Reese and Reese relayed to Gil Hodges, who tagged Yankee 
Gil McDougald before McDougald could get back to first. This stymied possibly 
the Yankees' best chance of the day. Elston Howard grounded out to Reese 
for the final out; the two shared the dubious record for playing in the 
most losing World Series (six each). This would be the only time in Jackie 
Robinson's career when he did not play in his team's World Series game. 
Don Hoak replaced Robinson in the line-up, and played third base. For the 
first time in Series history, an MVP was selected—Johnny Podres (winning 
Games 3 and 7). He was 2–0, with two complete games and an ERA of 1.00, 
Game 7 was a shutout. 1955 World Series (4–3): Brooklyn Dodgers (N.L.) 
