The 1957 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 24th playing of the 
midseason exhibition baseball game between the all-stars of the American 
League (AL) and National League (NL), the two leagues comprising Major 
League Baseball. The game was held on July 9, 1957 at Busch Stadium in 
St. Louis, Missouri, the home of the St. Louis Cardinals of the National 
League. The game was marked by controversy surrounding Cincinnati Reds 
fans stuffing the ballot box and electing all but one of their starting 
position players to the game. The game resulted in the American League 
defeating the National League 6–5. Six runs were scored in the final inning, 
three by each team, for an exciting ending as the American League eked 
out a 6-5 victory. The game's scoring began in the second inning with a 
Mickey Mantle single, Ted Williams walk and Vic Wertz base hit, followed 
by walks to Yogi Berra and Harvey Kuenn that put the AL on top, 2-0. The 
score remained that way until the sixth, when a Moose Skowron double and 
Berra single made it 3-0. Scoring twice in the seventh, the NL closed the 
gap with a two-run double by Gus Bell, pinch-hitting for Frank Robinson. 
In the ninth, the AL appeared to seal the victory with a two-run double 
by Al Kaline and RBI double by Minnie Miñoso for a 6-2 advantage. Stan 
Musial walked and Willie Mays tripled to begin the bottom of the ninth. 
After Ernie Banks delivered a run-scoring single, with its lead trimmed 
to 6-5, the AL brought in Bob Grim to face pinch-hitter Gil Hodges, who 
lined out to left field to end the game. When fan voting to determine the 
game's starters was completed, seven Cincinnati Redlegs players (Ed Bailey, 
Johnny Temple, Roy McMillan, Don Hoak, Frank Robinson, Gus Bell and Wally 
Post) had been elected to start in the All-Star Game; the only non-Redleg 
elected to start for the National League was St. Louis Cardinal first baseman 
Stan Musial. Most baseball observers agreed that while the Redlegs were 
known to be a great offensive team with many outstanding position players, 
they did not deserve seven starters in the All-Star Game. An investigation 
launched by Commissioner Ford Frick found that over half of the ballots 
cast came from Cincinnati, with the Cincinnati Enquirer printing up pre-marked 
ballots and distributing them with the Sunday edition of the newspaper 
to make it easy for Redlegs fans to vote often for their favorite players, 
while stories emerged of bars in Cincinnati refusing to serve alcohol to 
customers until they filled out a ballot. Frick appointed Willie Mays of 
the New York Giants and Hank Aaron of the Milwaukee Braves to substitute 
for Bell and Post, and to strip the fans of their voting rights; Bell was 
kept as a reserve, while Post was injured and would have been unable to 
play in any event. Managers, players, and coaches picked the entire team 
until 1970, when the vote returned to the fans, and to avoid a repeat of 
this incident, MLB officials evenly distributed the 26 million ballots 
to 75,000 retail outlets and 150 minor and major league stadiums, while 
a special panel was also created to review the voting. Players in italics 
