The 1957 World Series featured the defending champions, the New York Yankees 
(American League), playing against the Milwaukee Braves (National League). 
After finishing just one game behind the N.L. Champion Brooklyn Dodgers 
in 1956, the Braves came back in 1957 to win their first pennant since 
moving from Boston in 1953. The Braves won the Series in seven games, behind 
Lew Burdette's three complete game victories, and became the first team 
to win a championship after relocating. The Yankees had home field advantage 
in the series. Games 1, 2, 6, and 7 were played at Yankee Stadium, while 
Milwaukee County Stadium hosted Games 3, 4, and 5. This was the first time 
since 1946 that the Series included scheduled off days after Games 2 and 
5. Of the previous ten World Series, the Yankees had participated in eight 
of them and won seven. This was also the first World Series since 1948 
that a team from New York did not win. This is the first of four Yankees-Braves 
matchups, and the only Series that was won by the Braves; they lost in 
1958, 1996 and 1999, with the last two instances occurring in Atlanta. 
Hank Aaron led all regulars with a .393 average and eleven hits, including 
a triple, three home runs and seven RBI. As of April 2015, four original 
television broadcasts from this Series (Games 1, 3, 5 and 6) had been released 
on DVD.[1] NL Milwaukee Braves (4) vs. AL New York Yankees (3) Note: It 
was the Braves' first championship since the "Miracle Braves" of 1914. 
In the third inning, the Yankees replaced first baseman Bill Skowron, who 
was complaining of back pain, with Elston Howard. In the fifth inning the 
Braves had a runner in scoring position after an error by Howard. The Braves 
did not manage to capitalize on this opportunity, as second baseman Red 
Schoendienst grounded out. By the end of the fifth inning, the Braves had 
left four men on base, with the score still tied at 0–0. The Yankees broke 
through that inning with a leadoff single by Jerry Coleman, followed by 
two ground outs which moved the runner to third base, and then a triple 
by slugger Hank Bauer making the score 1–0. After three consecutive batters 
reached first base in the Yankees' half of the sixth inning, and a run 
scored on Andy Carey's single, Milwaukee manager Fred Haney pulled starter 
Warren Spahn and replaced him with Ernie Johnson. The Yankees scored once 
more in the sixth inning when Coleman executed a squeeze play, allowing 
Yogi Berra to score from third base. The Braves managed to score only once, 
when Wes Covington scored in the seventh on a single by Schoendienst. Whitey 
Ford pitched a complete game for the Yankees. Hank Aaron led off the second 
inning with a triple, then made it safe at home on Joe Adcock's single. 
The Yankees responded with one of their own in the bottom half of the second. 
Again in the third inning, the Yankees and Braves each scored one run, 
leaving the score 2–2 heading to the fourth inning. Both managers were 
worried about their starting pitchers, and after three straight singles 
from Adcock, Andy Pafko, and Wes Covington and with two runs in, Yankees 
manager Casey Stengel replaced Bobby Shantz with reliever Art Ditmar. Ditmar 
had finished the regular season with an 8–3 record, a 3.25 ERA and six 
saves. Ditmar was able to prevent the Braves from scoring any more runs, 
but the score was 4–2 in favor of the Braves. After that, Braves starter 
Lew Burdette's pitching improved significantly. He only gave up four hits 
for the rest of the game, two of them coming in the ninth inning. After 
a ground out, Tony Kubek singled to right to start things off. Stengel 
decided to pinch hit lefty Joe Collins, who was 30-for-149 (.201) that 
year and was playing what turned out to be his final year, for the right-handed 
Coleman, who was a better 42-for-157 (.263) and also playing in his final 
season, to face right-handed pitcher Burdette. Collins popped to Johnny 
Logan at shortstop for the second out. Then, Stengel again opted to pinch 
hit for the pitcher, Bob Grim. Howard came up in his spot and singled to 
advance Kubek to second. Bobby Richardson pinch ran for Howard. Burdette 
recorded the final out as he got Bauer, the next batter, to ground to short, 
where Logan forced out Richardson. The Braves' win in Game 2 was the first 
World Series game won by a non-New York City team since 1948. In every 
World Series between 1948 and 1957, either both teams were from New York 
City or a New York City team won in a sweep (1950 and 1954). New York's 
Tony Kubek began the scoring with a one-out solo homer in the first inning. 
After that, things quickly fell apart for Bob Buhl, who had pitched quite 
well in the regular season (18–7, 2.74 ERA). He walked Mickey Mantle and 
Yogi Berra, then made an error attempting to pick Mantle off at second 
base. After a sacrifice fly by Gil McDougald and a single by first baseman 
Harry Simpson, manager Fred Haney pulled Buhl and brought in rookie Juan 
Pizarro. Pizarro got the final out in the first inning, and followed that 
with a solid second inning. In the third inning, however, the Yankees began 
to capitalize on their lead. After allowing hits from Mantle, Berra and 
Jerry Lumpe, and a walk to Elston Howard, who was pinch-hitting for Harry 
Simpson, Pizarro was removed from the game. Gene Conley was called in to 
finish the inning. He did get the last two outs, but gave up a two-run 
home run to Mantle in the fourth inning. By the bottom of the fifth inning, 
the score was 7–1 in favor of the Yankees. Logan led off with a single, 
and Eddie Mathews flied to left. Hank Aaron stepped to the plate and hit 
one of his six postseason homers to make the game 7–3. After a Covington 
walk, Joe Adcock and Bob Hazle each made outs to end the fifth. Yankees 
relief pitcher Don Larsen had his comfortable lead cut down to just four 
runs. In the seventh inning the Yankees secured their lead with a five-run 
inning against reliever Bob Trowbridge. The five runs started with a two-run 
bases-loaded single by Bauer and a three-run home run by Kubek. The score 
was 12–3 heading in to the bottom of the seventh. There was only one more 
hit in the rest of the game, a single by Aaron in the ninth. Del Crandall 
made the last out and the series was on to Game 4 with the Yankees up 2–1. 
Left fielder Kubek was only the second rookie in history to hit two home 
runs in a World Series game. This was the first World Series game played 
in the state of Wisconsin. After a game with two homers and four RBIs, 
Tony Kubek led off the first inning for the Yankees. Kubek bunted, which 
ultimately led to a run after Mickey Mantle reached on a fielder's choice, 
Yogi Berra walked, and Gil McDougald singled. The second inning started 
with a single by Hank Aaron and then a stolen base by Wes Covington, but 
they could not convert. The fourth inning began with a walk to Johnny Logan. 
Eddie Mathews doubled to right field, which sent Logan to third. Aaron 
then hit a three-run home run which completely cleared the stadium. The 
next batter, Covington, grounded out. This was followed by a solo shot 
off the bat of Frank Torre, a part-time first baseman who was giving Joe 
Adcock a day off. The Braves were then up 4–1 against Yankees starter Tom 
Sturdivant. The next four innings for the Yankees were plagued by double 
plays. Warren Spahn was getting ground out after ground out and the Yankees 
looked helpless until the ninth. With two outs and a three-run deficit 
in the top of the ninth, New York found new life in two back-to-back singles. 
Spahn gave up one to Berra, followed by one to McDougald. With two runners 
on, Howard hit a three-run homer to tie the game. Left-handed Tommy Byrne 
had replaced right-handed Johnny Kucks in the eighth inning for New York. 
This prompted Haney to pinch hit Adcock for Torre. Adcock grounded to shortstop 
and Milwaukee went 1–2–3 that inning. The game thus went on to extra innings. 
Milwaukee starter Spahn came out for the tenth. Kubek got his second hit 
in the top of the tenth, followed by a triple by Hank Bauer to score a 
run. After Mantle flied to right, the Braves got ready for the bottom of 
the tenth down one. Spahn was due up first for the Braves, and Haney opted 
to pinch hit with Nippy Jones, who had played in just 30 games that year. 
In what turned out to be his final appearance, Jones was part of a pivotal 
play in the inning. A wild Tommy Byrne pitch bounced near Jones, but umpire 
Donatelli initially called a ball. After an argument hinging on a spot 
of shoe polish on the baseball, Jones convinced umpire Augie Donatelli 
that he was hit on the shoe. The inning continued with Felix Mantilla running 
for Jones. Red Schoendienst hit a sacrifice bunt to advance Mantilla, who 
scored the tying run on a double by Logan. Mathews followed with a towering 
two-run home run to win it for the Braves, 7–5, and tied the series at 
two games apiece. With the opposing team's top two pitchers, Whitey Ford 
and Lew Burdette, facing each other, Game 5 was expected to be a low-scoring 
affair. However, the game started out with the Yankees looking to score 
in the first inning. After a leadoff single by Hank Bauer and a sacrifice 
bunt by Tony Kubek, Gil McDougald hit a line drive that turned into the 
second out of the inning. Yogi Berra then grounded out. After that, Burdette 
only allowed multiple Yankee baserunners in the fourth inning. At the start 
of the sixth inning, the game was still scoreless. In the bottom of the 
sixth with two outs and nobody on, Eddie Mathews, Hank Aaron, and Joe Adcock 
singled, scoring Mathews and giving the Braves a 1–0 lead that would hold 
up for the rest of the game. The Yankees' best scoring chance came in the 
eighth inning after a hit by Jerry Coleman to right field. Mickey Mantle 
came in to pinch-run for Coleman, but was caught stealing at second base 
by catcher Del Crandall. Ford was then taken out and Yankee reliever Bob 
Turley came in, striking out two batters while giving up no hits in the 
inning. Yogi Berra made the last Yankee out in the 1–0 complete-game by 
Burdette, and the Milwaukee Braves took the series lead three games to 
two. Bob Buhl started for the Braves but would not last very long. In the 
first two innings, no one scored, although there were some opportunities, 
including the Yankees' first inning when Enos Slaughter reached third and 
Yogi Berra got to second on Buhl's wild pitch. Fortunately, Buhl would 
strike out Gil McDougald to end the inning. In the bottom of the third, 
the Yankees scored two runs to take the lead on a Berra two-run homer, 
scoring Slaughter. After that Ernie Johnson would mercifully replace Buhl. 
Johnson then held the Yankees scoreless until the seventh inning. The Braves 
cut the lead in their half in the fifth on Frank Torre's solo home run, 
his second of the series. The Braves then tied it in the top of the seventh 
with a solo homer by Hank Aaron, his third. The game was now tied and Braves' 
pitcher Johnson was holding the Yankees to just one hit in 3-1/3 innings. 
Leading off the seventh, pitcher Bob Turley was out on a bunt attempt with 
two strikes. Then, right fielder Hank Bauer hit a solo home run off the 
left-field foul pole, which would prove to be the game-winning hit, to 
give the Yankees a one-run lead. In the Braves' ninth, after an Eddie Mathews 
walk, Turley got lefty Wes Covington to ground into a 1–6–3 double play 
to end the game and force a deciding Game 7. Lew Burdette was called in 
to start game 7 for the Braves on two days rest when the expected starter, 
Warren Spahn, was struck with the flu. After two scoreless innings, the 
Braves broke through in the third, started by a Bob Hazle single and an 
error by Tony Kubek at third base; one of three Yankee errors in the game. 
The inning continued with a hard-hit Eddie Mathews double, which prompted 
Casey Stengel to take out starter Don Larsen and bring in lefty Bobby Shantz. 
Shantz then gave up an RBI single to Hank Aaron and a single by Wes Covington 
advancing Aaron to third. Frank Torre grounded into a fielders' choice 
which scored Aaron. Felix Mantilla then flied to Hank Bauer in right to 
end the inning, ending the Braves' scoring at four runs. The Yankees' best 
chance came in the sixth, when they had runners on first and second with 
two outs after a Mickey Mantle single and an error by Mathews at third. 
Gil McDougald then grounded out forcing Mantle at third to end the inning 
and the threat. In the ninth, after Milwaukee made it 5–0 on a Del Crandall 
homer, the Yankees attempted to mount a rally. With two outs and McDougald 
on first base, Jerry Coleman singled to right. Then, Tommy Byrne singled 
to load the bases for Bill Skowron. With the tying run on deck, Burdette 
retired Skowron on a ground out to third with Mathews making the final 
out. In the game, the Yankees were limited to seven hits and one walk. 
Burdette was named the Series MVP after pitching three complete games and 
two shutouts. He was the first pitcher since Christy Mathewson to pitch 
two shutouts in a World Series. 1957 World Series (4–3): Milwaukee Braves 
