The 1958 World Series was a rematch of the 1957 Series, with the New York 
Yankees beating the defending champion Milwaukee Braves in seven games 
for their 18th title, and their seventh in 10 years. With that victory, 
the Yankees became only the second team in Major League Baseball history 
to come back from a 3–1 deficit to win a best-of-seven World Series; the 
first was the 1925 Pittsburgh Pirates. (The 1903 Boston Red Sox came back 
from a 3–1 deficit in a best-of-nine affair.) Both teams would meet again 
in the fall classic thirty-eight years later—by that time, the Braves had 
moved to Atlanta. As of 2016, this is the most recent World Series featuring 
the two previous Series winning teams. This was the first year New Yorkers 
had only one local team to root for; both the Giants and the Dodgers were 
now playing their home games more than 3,000 miles (4,800 km) away (in 
San Francisco and Los Angeles respectively). Both returnees to the Series 
had no problems repeating as league champions during the regular season. 
Milwaukee coasted to an eight-game lead over the Pittsburgh Pirates in 
the National League and the Yanks bested the Chicago White Sox by ten games 
in the American. With no pennant race in either league, managers Casey 
Stengel of the Yankees and Fred Haney of the Braves could rest their aces 
in preparation for an exciting repeat of the 1957 World Series. Both teams 
would meet again in the 1996 World Series—by that time, the Braves had 
moved to Atlanta. Of note, the 1958 World Series was also the first World 
Series filmed in color. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Milwaukee Braves 
(3) Casey Stengel called on 14-game winner Whitey Ford (14–7, 2.01) to 
start Game 1 although teammate Bob Turley had a better regular season record 
at 21–7, the experienced, perennial winning southpaw had five post-season 
victories under his belt. Fred Haney countered with a lefty of his own, 
22-game winner Warren Spahn. Bill "Moose" Skowron started the scoring with 
a solo home run in the top of the fourth inning but the Braves came storming 
back with two of their own in the bottom of the frame. Hank Aaron walked 
and quickly took second on a Yogi Berra passed ball. Joe Adcock grounded 
out to third for the first out. Aaron held second but advanced to third 
on Wes Covington's groundout to second for the second out. Then three straight 
singles; Del Crandall to left scoring Aaron, Andy Pafko to center, and 
Warren Spahn to left-center scoring Crandall, put the Braves up by one. 
Red Schoendienst would strike out to end the inning but the Braves were 
up early 2–1. In the top of the fifth, Spahn retired Tony Kubek on a flyout 
to left but walked the opposing pitcher, Ford. Lead-off hitter, Hank Bauer 
then deposited a Spahn fastball into the left-field bleachers to give the 
Yankees a slim 3–2 lead. Milwaukee would tie the game in the eighth on 
an Eddie Mathews walk, an Aaron double, and a tying sac-fly by Wes Covington 
on a deep flyout to Mickey Mantle in left-center. With no runs tallied 
in the ninth, extra-innings were played with the Yankees going down 1–2–3 
with Spahn still on the hill for the Braves. Ryne Duren, who came into 
the game to pitch the eighth inning, took his turn at-bat in the tenth 
and grounded out to the pitcher, Spahn. Aaron started the bottom of the 
tenth by striking out and was barely thrown out at first base by Yogi Berra 
on a dropped third strike. Adcock followed with a clean single to center 
but Covington made the second out on a flyout to left. Crandall then singled 
up the middle sending Adcock to second base. Bill Bruton, who came into 
the game pinch-hitting for Pafko in the ninth, lined a single into right-center 
scoring Adcock with the game-winning run. Looking to go up two games in 
the Series, manager Fred Haney wisely sent Lew Burdette (20–10, 2.91), 
who won three games in the 1957 World Series, to the mound for the Braves 
while the Yankees went with righty Bob Turley (21–7, 2.91), who won twenty 
games for the only time in his career during the regular season. Burdette 
started shaky giving up a lead-off single to Hank Bauer. Eddie Mathews 
fielded a grounder by Gil McDougald but threw wide to first setting up 
runners on second and third. Mickey Mantle was then intentionally walked 
loading the bases for cleanup hitter Elston Howard. But Howard would groundout 
forcing Mantle at second while Bauer came in from third scoring the game's 
first run. Burdette calmed down enough to get the next batter, Yogi Berra, 
to ground into an inning ending 4–6–3 double-play; Red Schoendienst, to 
Johnny Logan, to Frank Torre. A shakier Bob Turley would last only a third 
of an inning as the Braves lit up the scoreboard with seven (7) first inning 
runs sparked by a lead-off Bill Bruton home run who hit just three (3) 
in the season. The inning continued with Schoendienst doubling to right 
while Eddie Mathews watched a third strike go by for the first out. Hank 
Aaron walked and dependable Wes Covington singled home a run to right-center. 
Mid-season pickup Duke Maas relieved Turley to get Frank Torre to fly to 
right for the second out. Catcher Del Crandall walked loading the bases 
with Johnny Logan keeping up the onslaught with a two-run scoring single. 
With the score already 4–1, pitcher Burdette helped his own cause with 
a three-run homer that left-fielder Elston Howard thought he had a bead 
on only to crash into the fence. Burdette was just the sixth pitcher (to 
date) with a World Series home run. Norm Siebern was summoned to take over 
for Howard and Johnny Kucks came in to pitch to try to stop the bleeding. 
The tenth batter of the inning, Bruton, lined to short but the damage was 
done as the Braves were staked to a 7–1 lead. The Braves added to their 
lead in the second inning on another Covington single this time scoring 
Eddie Mathews. Things would quiet down a little; Mickey Mantle's solo shot, 
over the center-field fence, in the fourth was the only other scoring until 
the seventh when the Braves would score twice more and then thrice more 
in the eighth. The Yankees would find some life in the top of the ninth 
scoring three runs off a tiring Burdette. Hank Bauer led off with a home 
run followed by a Gil McDougald single to left and then Mantle's second 
homer of the game, into the left-center field bleachers made it 13–5. Burdette 
showed some tenacity by retiring Berra, Bill Skowron, and Bobby Richardson, 
in order, for the win and a 2–0 series lead. Arriving at the Bronx for 
Games 3 through 5, the Yankees found themselves at home in hopes of their 
first Series win. Milwaukee should have saved some runs from Game 2 as 
they were shut down on a finely pitched game by Don Larsen with a little 
help from reliever Ryne Duren. The Yankees needed this win to stay within 
striking distance of the semmingly run-away Braves. Hank Bauer drove in 
all the Yankees' runs going 3 for 4 with four runs batted in and scoring 
once. Bauer singled in Norm Siebern and Gil McDougald in the fifth, to 
extend his Series hitting streak to seventeen games, and then in the seventh 
hit a 400-foot (120 m), two-run homer into the left-field stands. Larsen 
went seven innings on a six-hitter, striking out eight with three walks. 
Duren closed the game for his first save, pitching two scoreless innings 
with three walks and a strikeout. Bob Rush pitched well for the Braves 
but his loss helped the Yanks get back into the Series. Warren Spahn was 
at his much-needed best, winning Game 4, 3–0, on a two-hit shutout over 
Yankee ace Whitey Ford. Yankee left-fielder, Norm Siebern (playing for 
the injured Elston Howard), had trouble fielding with the afternoon sun 
blazing, losing fly balls in the sixth and eighth innings accounting for 
two Milwaukee runs. It was a much-heralded pitching duel until the top 
of the sixth when Red Schoendienst led off tripling into deep left-center 
the ball slicing between "The Mick" in center and Siebern in left. Tony 
Kubek, who had 28 errors during the season, let a Johnny Logan grounder 
slip through his legs for an error letting in the game's first run. In 
the seventh, Spahn blooped a single scoring Andy Pafko who had just doubled 
to right. In the eighth, Johnny Logan was credited with a ground-rule double 
when Siebern lost a flyball in the sun. Eddie Mathews followed with another 
double scoring Logan with the game's final run. Up three games to one, 
the Milwaukee Braves were on the cusp of back-to-back championships, but 
the indomitable New Yorkers would show that they had some fight left in 
them. Game 2 starters, loser Bob Turley and winner Lew Burdette, returned 
with quite different results. Good-luck charm Elston Howard also returned 
to take his rightful spot in left-field for ineffective Norm Siebern. The 
game did not start out very promising for the Yankees as the first six 
batters were retired without much fanfare. The Braves didn't fare much 
better as a walk and a single by Schoendienst in the third was all they 
could muster. Second baseman Gil McDougald would open up the scoring in 
the bottom of the third with a home run into the screen next to the left-field 
foul pole. Turley kept cruising retiring the side in order in the fourth 
and fifth until his Yankee teammates opened the floodgates with a six-run 
sixth. Burdette could only get one out in the inning giving up five earned 
runs before being relieved by Juan Pizarro. Hank Bauer would lead off with 
a single to left. After Jerry Lumpe struck out bunting a third strike foul, 
Mickey Mantle singled to left-center advancing Bauer to third. Yogi Berra 
doubled into the right-field corner scoring Bauer, Mantle stopping at third. 
Howard was intentionally passed loading the bases but Moose Skowron kept 
the rally going with a short single to right scoring just Mantle. Pizzaro 
relieved Burdette, who was responsible for all baserunners, and was greeted 
with a two-run scoring double into the Milwaukee bullpen by Gil McDougald. 
With runners on second and third, Tony Kubek struck out but had to be thrown 
out by Del Crandall at first. Turley stayed in the game to hit and delivered 
a single to left scoring the sixth run, Skowron, and the seventh, McDougald. 
Hank Bauer was the third strikeout victim in the inning but six runs had 
crossed the plate. The Braves would put runners on in the seventh, eighth, 
and ninth innings but would fail to score giving the Yanks a 7–0 victory 
although Milwaukee still led 3–2 in the Series. Milwaukee, back at home, 
still needed one win to sew up their second consecutive championship. Two 
future Hall-Of-Famers, Whitey Ford and Warren Spahn, started for New York 
and Milwaukee. Top of the first, two quick outs by Spahn, and then the 
man who would be the Series top hitter, Hank Bauer, stepped to the plate. 
Hank, who would hit .323, with four HRs and eight RBIs, would hit his fourth 
homer into the left-field bleachers to give the Yanks an early 1–0 lead. 
The Braves would answer with a run of their own in the bottom of the inning 
on a Red Schoendienst single, a sacrifice bunt by Johnny Logan, and a run-scoring 
single to left by Hank Aaron. Spahn settled in and retired the Yankees 
without a hit in the second. Pitching on only two-days rest, Ford quickly 
withered in the bottom of the second. After striking out Del Crandall, 
Wes Covington singled to center on a trap by center fielder Mickey Mantle. 
Andy Pafko singled to right advancing Covington to third. Spahn singled 
to right-center scoring Covington for a 2–1 lead. An exhausted Ford walked 
Schoendienst loading the bases and Casey Stengel had seen enough, motioning 
to the bullpen for reliever Art Ditmar. Ditmar faced one batter, Logan, 
who flied out to Elston Howard who in turn threw home with a perfect throw 
to Yogi Berra, doubling up Pafko trying to score on the sac-fly. The RBI 
single by Spahn would be the last run scored against Ford in the World 
Series for 33 2/3 innings. Milwaukee held on to the lead until the top 
of the sixth inning when the Yankees tied the score on a defensive replacement 
miscue. Bill Bruton had entered the game to play center for Pafko. After 
Mantle singled just over the reach of shortstop Johnny Logan's glove; Elston 
Howard followed with single to center but Bruton fumbled the ball allowing 
Mantle to reach third on the error. The great bad-ball hitting Berra hit 
a sacrifice fly to center, Mantle scoring after the catch, to tie the game 
at two apiece. Warren Spahn was still on the mound for the Braves going 
into the tenth despite throwing 290 regular season innings and another 
19 in the post-season. Gil McDougald, who was having a fine series himself, 
led off the tenth hitting a Spahn fastball over the left-field fence. Bauer 
almost went back-to-back but Bruton made the catch in deep center. Mantle 
grounded to second for the second out but Howard and Berra followed with 
singles setting up runners on first and third. Haney called on Don McMahon 
to replace Spahn. Moose Skowron struck a single to right scoring Howard 
and a two-run lead. Pitcher Ryne Duren stayed in the game to hit but struck 
out to end the inning. The Braves made some noise in the bottom of the 
tenth but it wasn't enough to overcome the Yankee lead. Logan, on first 
after a walk and with two outs, went to second on the defensive team's 
indifference (not a stolen base). The ever-dependable Aaron singled to 
left, scoring Logan, and the Braves were within one run of tying the game. 
Joe Adcock then singled sending Aaron to third. Bob Turley came in to relieve 
Duren and Felix Mantilla pinch-ran for Adcock. With two outs, two on, Frank 
Torre, pinch-hitting for Del Crandall, lined-out to McDougald at the very 
edge of the outfield grass to end the game and Milwaukee's chance to win 
the game and the Series. Trying to beat fantastic odds and come back from 
a 3–1 deficit, Yankee manager Casey Stengel again chose Don Larsen to start 
Game 7. Larsen had only lasted 2 1⁄3 innings starting Game 7 in the 1957 
World Series and once again lasted 2 1⁄3 innings in 1958. Lew Burdette, 
who pitched a complete game win in Game 2 but gave up six runs in a Game 5 
loss, would start for Milwaukee. The Yankees failed to score in the first 
while the Braves tallied a single run on some lack of control by Larsen. 
Red Schoendienst led off with a single to left, Bill Bruton walked and 
Frank Torre sacrificed up both runners, Jerry Lumpe to Gil McDougald, who 
was covering first base. Hank Aaron walked loading the bases; things looking 
pretty good for the Braves thus far. Wes Covington grounded out to first 
but Schoendienst scored on the play. Eddie Mathews took an intentional 
pass but Del Crandall struck out ending the threat. The Yankees had a wake-up 
call and came out "swinging" in the second inning. Clean-up hitter Yogi 
Berra led off with a walk. Slow-footed but hustling Elston Howard laid 
down a sacrifice and, incredibly, was called safe on a poorly tossed throw 
by Torre to pitcher Burdette. Jerry Lumpe grounded again to Torre, who 
again threw too high to Burdette for another error, loading the bases. 
The left-handed hitting Torre got the start in place of veteran right-hander 
Joe Adcock who may have been more sure-handed in the field. The next batter, 
Bill Skowron, forced Lumpe at second, scoring Berra and moving Howard to 
third. Tony Kubek lifted a sacrifice fly to left, scoring Howard giving 
the Yankees a 2–1 lead which would hold up until the bottom of the sixth. 
Two singles in the bottom of the third brought Stengel out to replace Larsen 
with a short-rested Bob Turley. The stocky right-hander would escape a 
bases-loaded situation and pitch superb ball the rest of the way. As it 
was in Game 6, the score was tied 2–2 after six innings of play when, with 
two outs, Del Crandall homered into the left-field stands giving the Braves 
fans a reason to cheer and promise of another championship. But that hope 
would fade as the Yankees came to bat in the top of the eighth inning. 
With tiring Lew Burdette looking for another complete-game victory, the 
"Bronx Bombers" started an improbable two-out rally. After a Gil McDougald 
flyout and Mickey Mantle looking at a third called strike, Yogi Berra stepped 
to the plate and doubled off the wall in the right-field corner. Howard 
followed with a run-scoring single to center. Andy Carey singled past the 
glove of Eddie Mathews. William Joseph (Moose) Skowron would then deliver 
the crushing blow with a three-run homer into the left-field bleachers 
and cap an incredible, storybook comeback. The Milwaukee Braves would not, 
could not recover, giving the New York Yankees their eighteenth World Championship. 
Hank Bauer (a nine-Series veteran) led with most runs scored (six), most 
hits (ten), most home runs (four) and most runs batted in (eight). He also 
topped the Yankees sluggers with a .323 average. Despite less-than-stellar 
stats in his first four Classics (seven for fifty-seven with a .123 avg.), 
he combined for eighteen hits, six home runs, fourteen RBIs and a .290 
average against the Braves in '57 and '58. Turley became the first relief 
pitcher to be named World Series MVP, going 2–1 with a save. (Neft and 
Cohen 270–273) 1958 World Series (4–3): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Milwaukee 
