The 1959 World Series featured the National League champion Los Angeles 
Dodgers beating the American League champion Chicago White Sox, four games 
to two. Each of the three games played at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum 
drew record crowds, Game 5's attendance of 92,706 continues to be a World 
Series record to this day. It was the first pennant for the White Sox in 
40 years (since the 1919 Black Sox Scandal). They would have to wait until 
their world championship season of 2005 to win another pennant. The Dodgers 
won their first pennant since moving from Brooklyn in 1958 by defeating 
the Milwaukee Braves, two games to none, in a best-of-three-games pennant 
playoff. It was the Dodgers' second World Series victory in five years, 
their first in Los Angeles, and marked the first championship for a West 
Coast team. It was the first World Series in which no pitcher for either 
side pitched a complete game. As Vin Scully remarked at the beginning of 
the official World Series film, "What a change of scenery!" This was the 
only Series from 1949 through 1964 in which no games were played in New 
York City, breaking the streak of the city that documentary filmmaker Ken 
Burns later called the 1950s' "Capital of Baseball". After finishing seventh 
in 1958, the Dodgers rebounded in 1959. The National League pennant race 
was a season-long three-way battle between the Dodgers, the two-time defending 
N.L. champion Milwaukee Braves and the San Francisco Giants. The Dodgers 
never led by more than two games (and that was at the end of a tie-breaker) 
and never trailed by more than five. On September 20, the Dodgers completed 
a three-game sweep in San Francisco so that, with five games to play, they 
had a  1⁄2 game lead on the Braves and a one-game lead over the Giants. 
Going into the final day, the Dodgers and Braves were tied for first and 
the Giants were 1 1⁄2 games back; the Giants needed to sweep a doubleheader 
from the Cardinals and have the Dodgers and Braves both lose to force a 
three-way tie. But the Dodgers won in Chicago 7–1 and the Braves won at 
home against the Phillies 5–2; this made the fact that the Giants lost 
both games of their doubleheader irrelevant. In Game 1 of the best-of-three 
playoff in Milwaukee, the Dodgers took a 3–2 lead in the top of the sixth 
inning. Dodger reliever Larry Sherry then retired 12 of the last 13 Braves 
hitters to secure the win. Games 2 and 3 (if necessary) were scheduled 
for Los Angeles. In Game 2, the Dodgers trailed 5-2 in the ninth inning, 
but rallied to tie the game with five singles and a sacrifice fly. In the 
top of the 11th, the Braves loaded the bases with two out, but Stan Williams 
got pinch hitter Joe Adcock to ground out to end the threat. In the bottom 
of the 12th, Gil Hodges drew a walk with two out and nobody on. Joe Pignatano 
singled Hodges to second. Carl Furillo hit a ground ball to shortstop Félix 
Mantilla; Mantilla's throw to first base was in the dirt and skipped past 
Frank Torre, allowing Hodges to score all the way from second with the 
pennant-clinching run. Managed by Al Lopez, the White Sox were built on 
pitching, speed and defense. Nicknamed the "Go-go Sox", they were last 
in the A.L. in home runs but led the league in stolen bases, fielding percentage, 
and lowest team ERA. They battled the Cleveland Indians for the American 
League pennant, and after a close race, the White Sox built a 6 1⁄2 game 
lead in early September. The Indians could get no closer than 3 1⁄2 games, 
and when the White Sox beat Cleveland 4–2 on September 22, they clinched 
the pennant with three games to play. The White Sox were only the second 
team besides the Yankees to win the A.L. pennant between 1949 and 1964 
inclusive; the other was the 1954 Indians, also managed by Al Lopez. NL 
Los Angeles Dodgers (4) vs. AL Chicago White Sox (2) Historic Comiskey 
Park hosted a crowd 48,103 that includes Hollywood's Joan Crawford and 
Orson Welles and 1956 presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson II in the 
first playoff game in 40 years for the White Sox as well as the first playoff 
game in Chicago in 14 years. On the pitching mound, Early Wynn faced Roger 
Craig. After scoring twice in the first inning, the Sox pounded across 
seven runs in the third and two more in the fourth, with a pair of titanic 
home runs by midseason acquisition Ted Kluszewski. Banging the ball all 
over the park, the Sox routed the Dodgers 11–0. This would be the last 
postseason game the White Sox ever won at Comiskey Park, and their last 
home playoff win until 2005. Game 2 featured Bob Shaw vs. Johnny Podres. 
Once again, the Sox jumped out to a quick 2–0 lead in the first inning. 
In the fifth, Charlie Neal homered for the first Dodger run of the series. 
With the game tied 2–2 in the seventh, Neal hits his second home run of 
the day to put the Dodgers ahead for the first time, 4–2. During a Sox 
uprising in the eighth against Larry Sherry, Smith doubles to left with 
two men on. However, Sherm Lollar is thrown out by a mile at the plate 
trying to score due to Wally Moon faking a catch that fooled Lollar. Sherry 
pitched a perfect ninth to notch a save and give Podres the win. In contrast 
to the crowd of 36,528 for the tie-breaker playoff game at the Los Angeles 
Coliseum, 92,394 showed up in the first ever World Series game played in 
Los Angeles. Dick Donovan faced off against Don Drysdale in Game 3. Six 
scoreless innings were thrown by the two, with Donovan giving up only one 
hit. However, Donovan would load the bases in the 7th inning before being 
replaced by Gerry Staley. A single by Carl Furillo scored two runs. Drysdale 
gives up a run in the eighth, but Sherry shuts down the Sox as the Dodgers 
win, 3–1. Wynn and Craig faced off against each other once again before 
a crowd of 92,650. The Sox tied the game in the 7th, but Gil Hodges blasts 
a home run in the next inning and Larry Sherry pitched a scoreless 9th 
to give the Dodgers the win. A record-breaking crowd of 92,706 turned out, 
a majority hoping to celebrate a Los Angeles championship. For the first 
time in World Series history, however, three pitchers combined for a shutout, 
as Bob Shaw, Billy Pierce and Dick Donovan quieted the Dodgers and their 
fans 1–0 in Game 5, sending the series back to Chicago. The game's only 
run scored in the fourth off starter Sandy Koufax, coming when Nellie Fox 
scored as Lollar grounded into a double play. To date, this remains the 
largest crowd in World Series history. The victory in Game 5 gave the Sox 
hope, heading home to again play in a "real ballpark", as opposed to L.A.'s 
converted football stadium. But the change in scenery was no help. Wynn 
started with only two days rest, and after surrendering two runs in the 
third inning, the Dodgers broke open the game with six more in the fourth 
for an 8–0 lead. Podres was also knocked out in the fourth by Chicago's 
last gasp, another towering home run by the hottest Sox hitter of the series, 
Ted Kluszewski. In the ninth inning, Chuck Essegian set a World Series 
record with his second pinch-hit homer of the series, and the Dodgers captured 
the championship, four games to two. Larry Sherry (who finished with a 
2-0 record on 2 saves and allowed 1 run in 12.2 innings) was voted Most 
Valuable Player of the series. 1959 World Series (4–2): Los Angeles Dodgers 
(N.L.) over Chicago White Sox (A.L.) The Dodgers found an unlikely hero 
when Chuck Essegian, who hit only one home run in 1959 and had only six 
in his career to that point, set a World Series record with two pinch-hit 
home runs. Due to the best-of-three N.L. playoff, Game 1 was deferred from 
Wednesday, September 30, to Thursday, October 1. The normal travel days 
were retained between Games 2 and 3, and Games 5 and 6, resulting in the 
rare event of a Series with no Saturday game scheduled. Games 3, 4 and 
5 were: This was the first World Series to draw more than 400,000 fans. 
Larry Sherry of the Dodgers was the fifth consecutive pitcher to win the 
World Series Most Valuable Player Award (in only the fifth year it was 
awarded), following Johnny Podres (Brooklyn, 1955), Don Larsen (New York, 
1956), Lew Burdette (Milwaukee, 1957), and Bob Turley (New York, 1958). 
Sherry, who had been born with club feet, finished all four games the Dodgers 
won, winning two and saving two. His brother Norm was the Dodgers' backup 
catcher. Although he was not voted MVP, Dodger second baseman Charlie Neal 
batted .370 for the Series, and his two-homer performance in Game 2 came 
after Chicago's pitching had held L.A. scoreless for 13 consecutive innings. 
Ted Kluszewski played for the losing "Pale Hose" but still managed to drive 
in a World Series record-tying ten runs, joining Yogi Berra, who drove 
in ten in the 1956 World Series. "Big Klu" did so in just six games, and 
his 10 RBIs in the 1959 World Series remain a record for a 6-game World 
Series, as Berra's 10 RBIs in 1956 came in a 7-game World Series. (However, 
Bobby Richardson would break the record for RBIs in a World Series, regardless 
of length, the next year with 12 against the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 
1960 World Series.)[citation needed] The Dodgers became the second National 
League team to win a World Series after relocating (the 1957 Milwaukee 
Braves being the first). The Dodgers became the first team to go from 7th 
place in one season to World Champion the next. The 1959 World Series was 
the last one for Comiskey Park, and the only one for Los Angeles Memorial 
Coliseum. The White Sox would move into U.S. Cellular Field, originally 
"New Comiskey", in 1991; the Dodgers would move into Dodger Stadium in 
1962. This was the most recent World Series to host the final World Series 
games of both its host venues, a "distinction" it lost to the 2003 World 
Series after the original Yankee Stadium (1923) closed following the 2008 
Major League Baseball season and the Florida Marlins moved out of Sun Life 
