The 1959 National League tie-breaker series was a best-of-three playoff 
series at the conclusion of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 1959 regular 
season to decide the winner of the National League (NL) pennant. The games 
were played on September 28 and 29, 1959, between the Los Angeles Dodgers 
and the Milwaukee Braves. The first game was played at Milwaukee County 
Stadium and the second took place at Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. The 
playoff series was necessary after both teams finished the season with 
identical win–loss records of 86–68. The Dodgers won a coin flip late in 
the season that gave them home field advantage for the series, although 
the series did not reach a third game. Following a rain-delayed start, 
the Dodgers won Game 1 by a close 3–2 score, with a home run by John Roseboro 
providing the margin of victory. The Dodgers then won the series and the 
pennant with another close victory in Game 2; they came back from a three-run 
deficit to tie the game in the ninth and then ultimately defeated the Braves, 
6–5, in extra innings. This victory advanced the Dodgers to the 1959 World 
Series, in which they defeated the Chicago White Sox, four games to two. 
In baseball statistics, the tie-breaker series counted as the 155th and 
156th regular-season games for both teams, with all events in the series 
added to regular-season statistics. The Dodgers had a poor 1958 season, 
posting a 71–83 win-loss record, finishing in seventh place (out of eight 
teams) in the NL, and never holding the league lead.[1][2] By contrast 
the Braves won the NL that year with a 92–62 record and advanced to the 
1958 World Series where the New York Yankees defeated them in seven games.[3] 
Despite their success the Braves made several changes leading into the 
1959 season. First, they selected Jim Pisoni in the Rule 5 draft from the 
Yankees in December 1958, although he returned to the Yankees by May 1959.[4] 
The Braves then traded with the Philadelphia Phillies for Ted Kazanski, 
Stan Lopata, and Johnny O'Brien just prior to the season.[5][6][7] Finally, 
the Braves traded for Mickey Vernon from the Cleveland Indians and selected 
Bobby Ávila, Ray Boone, and Enos Slaughter off of waivers during the 1959 
season.[8][9][10][11] The Dodgers traded for Rip Repulski and Wally Moon 
during the offseason and then acquired Chuck Churn, Solly Drake, and Chuck 
Essegian during the year.[12][13][14][15][16] The NL race was tight throughout 
the 1959 season between the Braves, Dodgers, and San Francisco Giants. 
Neither the Giants nor the Braves ever fell five or more games back of 
the league leader, and the Dodgers never faced a deficit of six or more.[17][18][19] 
The Dodgers had the best record in games played amongst the three, posting 
a combined 26–18 record against the other two before the tie-breaker.[19] 
However, the Dodgers spent just 21 days with at least a share of the lead 
while the Braves and Giants each led the league for 86 days.[17][18][19] 
The Giants led the National League by two games on September 17, 1959 over 
the Dodgers and Braves who were tied.[17] However, the Giants were swept 
by the Dodgers over their next three games, including a doubleheader which 
the Los Angeles Times described as a "breeze" for Los Angeles.[20] Giants' 
starting pitcher Sam Jones threw a no-hitter on September 26, 1959 which 
was cut short by rain in the eighth inning for his 21st win of the season.[21][22] 
The Giants had considered pitching Jack Sanford in that game due to Jones' 
recent heavy pitching workload.[23] Because the game was shortened to less 
than nine innings it is no longer considered an official no-hitter.[24] 
The rain also forced the second game of the Giants' scheduled doubleheader 
that day to be moved, leaving them with two games to play on the final 
day of the season.[22] The Giants needed to win both games and have the 
Braves and Dodgers both lose to tie for the lead, but the Giants lost both.[17][22] 
Jones' no-hitter was the Giants' only win for the season after September 
17 as the team went 1–7 over that span, going from a two-game lead to a 
three-game deficit by season's end.[17] The Braves and Dodgers went 6–4 
over that period to maintain their tie.[18][19] This included a five-hit 
complete game by Warren Spahn to win the Braves' final game of the season 
3–2.[25] This was Spahn's 21st win of the season and 267th of his career, 
breaking Eppa Rixey's record for most wins by a left-handed pitcher.[25] 
Both the Dodgers and Braves finished the regularly scheduled 154-game season 
tied with records of 86–68, forcing a tie-breaker to decide the pennant 
winner. The two team's managers flipped a coin to decide home field advantage 
and Dodgers' manager Walt Alston won.[26] The Dodgers opted to play the 
second and third (if necessary) games at home, choosing to play Game 1 
in Milwaukee.[27] The tie-breaker was scheduled for the 28th, 29th, and 
the 30th if necessary, which required moving the start of the World Series 
from the 30th to October 1.[27] The Giants falling out of the pennant race 
avoided a potentially disruptive situation involving their home field. 
Candlestick Park was under construction during the 1959 season and the 
Giants would not begin play there until 1960. However, Giants vice president 
Chub Feeney had said earlier in the season that if the Giants won the pennant 
they would play their World Series home games in Candlestick.[28] Several 
potential problems were suggested with this move including a lack of seating, 
lack of toilet facilities, and insufficient access roads to the stadium.[28] 
The Dodgers were 12–10 against the Braves overall for the season, though 
the Braves actually outscored them by a single run (96 to 95) in those 
games.[29] The Braves were a 5–8 betting favorite in Las Vegas on September 
25 to win the pennant while the Dodgers had 6–5 odds.[30] The World Series 
odds were evenly split, with 11–10 odds available at that time for either 
the Chicago White Sox (the American League champion) or the eventual NL 
pennant winner.[30] Box score for Monday September 28, 1959 – 2:17 pm (CST) 
at Milwaukee County Stadium in Milwaukee Chicago White Sox manager Al Lopez 
watched the game along with his pitching coach to scout their potential 
NL opponents for the World Series.[31] The start of Game 1 was delayed 
45 minutes due to rain, leaving only 18,297 fans in the stadium once the 
game was underway.[31][32] The Dodgers opened the game quickly as Charlie 
Neal singled with one out, advanced to second base on a ground out, and 
scored on a single by Norm Larker to give the Dodgers an early 1–0 lead. 
Dodgers starter Danny McDevitt held the Braves scoreless in the first inning, 
but was driven from the game in the second. After a line out to open the 
inning Johnny Logan walked, Del Crandall singled, and Bill Bruton singled 
to bring home Logan and tie the game at 1. Larry Sherry entered in relief 
of McDevitt, who pitched just 1 1⁄3 innings. Carl Willey, the Braves' pitcher, 
reached base on an error to load the bases. Crandall then scored on a ground 
out by Bobby Ávila to give the Braves a 2–1 lead before Sherry finished 
out the second. The Dodgers re-tied the game the next inning, however. 
Neal singled with one out and Wally Moon grounded into a force out at second 
base. Moon then advanced to second on a Larker single and scored on a Gil 
Hodges single to make the score 2–2. Don Demeter hit a single, the third 
consecutive and fourth of the inning, to load the bases but John Roseboro 
flew out to end the inning without further scoring. Sherry held the Braves 
scoreless in the bottom of the third, opening the inning with a walk but 
then inducing a double play and a foul out to quickly close it. Sherry 
and Willey traded scoreless innings in the fourth and fifth although the 
Braves threatened against Sherry in both innings, allowing two base-runners 
each time but escaping with no runs. Roseboro led off the top of the sixth 
inning with a home run to give the Dodgers a 3–2 lead. Roseboro had also 
hit a home run the day before against the Chicago Cubs, a game the Dodgers 
won to force the tie-breaker.[31] Willey put out the next three batters 
to quickly end the inning, but the damage had been done. Sherry pitched 
a perfect top of the sixth and Don McMahon relieved Willey in the bottom 
of the frame. The Dodgers could not add to their lead in facing McMahon, 
he held their run total at three. Sherry, however, was nearly perfect for 
the remainder of the game, allowing just one single to the Braves over 
the final three innings. The Los Angeles Times labeled Sherry and Roseboro 
the "heroes" of the game.[31] Sherry's only "horrible moment", according 
to the Times, was a long fly ball by Bill Bruton to the deepest part of 
center field which Demeter managed to haul in for the first out of the 
bottom of the ninth. Box score for Tuesday September 29, 1959 – 2:00 pm 
(PST)[27] at Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in Los Angeles, California The 
Dodgers had proposed playing Game 2 at night to allow a longer rest period 
following the travel from Milwaukee to Los Angeles.[27] The Braves took 
issue with this prior to the start of the series, however, and NL president 
Warren Giles insisted the game be played during the day.[27] The afternoon 
crowd was 36,528, short of the over-90,000 seating capacity of the Coliseum.[33][34][35] 
The Braves opened the scoring in the top of the first inning. Eddie Mathews 
drew a one out walk and Hank Aaron followed that with a double. Aaron's 
double drew some argument, however, as outfielder Duke Snider recovered 
Aaron's ball quickly and threw to second. Dodgers' second baseman Charlie 
Neal believed he had easily tagged out Aaron, but umpire Augie Donatelli 
said Neal had missed the tag entirely.[36] Frank Torre then singled to 
score the two runners and give the Braves the early 2–0 lead. The Dodgers 
responded in their half of the inning, however. Neal hit a deep fly ball 
to right center field with one out, reaching third base "easily" for a 
triple as outfielder Bill Bruton missed catching the ball on a difficult 
play.[36] Wally Moon then singled to score Neal, but was caught stealing 
for the second out and Snider struck out to end the first inning. Johnny 
Logan led off the second for the Braves with a single. Then, after two 
outs, Logan scored on an odd error charged to Snider in center field. The 
Braves' starting pitcher Lew Burdette hit a single up the middle and Logan 
had attempted to advance from first to third base on the play.[36] Snider 
threw the ball in from center to third baseman Jim Gilliam, but Gilliam's 
vision was "obstructed" and the throw "escaped" him, allowing Logan to 
score and Burdette to advance to third.[36] Bruton grounded out to end 
the inning with the Braves in a 3–1 lead. The game went scoreless in the 
third inning, but Neal led off the bottom of the fourth with a home run 
to make the score 3–2. The Dodgers threatened further that inning, getting 
runners on first and second base, though did not score additional runs. 
Dodgers' starter Don Drysdale recorded the first out of the top of the 
fifth but then gave up a solo home run to Mathews and walked Aaron before 
being relieved by Johnny Podres. Podres escaped without further scoring, 
putting out Torre and Andy Pafko who pinch hit for Lee Maye. The sixth 
inning was uneventful, though the Braves then threatened in the top of 
the seventh. After the first out Mathews singled to start the offense. 
Aaron followed that with a single, Mathews was put out trying to advance 
to third base on a "brilliant throw" by Moon, and Aaron moved to second 
on the throw.[36] Then Podres threw a wild pitch as Torre batted, allowing 
Aaron to move to third. Finally, Podres walked Torre and was replaced by 
Chuck Churn. Enos Slaughter pinch hit for Pafko but hit a flyout to end 
the threat and the inning. John DeMerit then replaced Slaughter defensively 
in the bottom of the seventh and Norm Larker singled leading off. However, 
John Roseboro hit into a ground ball double play to end that threat. Roseboro 
crashed into Logan, the Braves' shortstop, trying to break up the double 
play and Logan had to be carried from the field on a stretcher.[36] Félix 
Mantilla, the second baseman, moved to play shortstop and Red Schoendienst 
entered to play second. Finally Churn struck out Burdette to end the seventh. 
The Braves scored their fifth run in the eighth as Del Crandall hit a one-out 
triple and then scored on a sacrifice fly by Mantilla. Don Demeter pinch 
hit for Churn, the pitcher, in the bottom half of the inning but the Dodgers 
were put out in order. Sandy Koufax pitched the top of the ninth for the 
Dodgers and though he loaded the bases with three successive walks to Aaron, 
Torre, and DeMerit he did not allow any runs. Moon and Snider led off the 
bottom of the frame with successive singles. Bob Lillis pinch ran for Snider 
and Gil Hodges hit another single to load the bases. Don McMahon relieved 
Burdette, but allowed a fourth consecutive single to Norm Larker which 
scored Moon, Lillis, and advanced Hodges to third leaving the score 5–4. 
Warren Spahn relieved McMahon, Carl Furillo pinch hit for Roseboro, and 
Joe Pignatano pinch ran for Larker. Furillo tied the game, hitting a sacrifice 
fly which scored Hodges. Spahn allowed a single to Wills and was pulled 
in favor of Joey Jay. Ron Fairly grounded out as a pinch hitter and Gilliam 
flew out, leaving the game tied at five runs apiece and forcing extra innings. 
Following the heavy substitutions in the bottom of the ninth the Dodgers 
made several defensive moves in the top of the tenth. Stan Williams entered 
as the pitcher, Pignatano came in as the catcher, Moon moved from right 
to left field, and Fairly and Furillo took over center and right field 
respectively. The tenth went by quickly with only a single baserunner, 
but both teams threatened in the eleventh. Mathews was walked with one 
out in the top half. Aaron grounded into a force out at second, then advanced 
to second on a passed ball to Torre. The Braves intentionally walked Torre 
and Al Spangler then drew a pinch hit walk to load the bases, but Joe Adcock 
ground out to end the half-inning. Pignatano was hit by a pitch and Furillo 
walked to open the bottom half. After two flyball outs Joey Jay walked 
Gilliam, loading the bases, but Bob Rush relieved him and got Neal to ground 
out ending the inning. The Braves went quickly again in the twelfth, retired 
in order. Rush recorded the first two outs of the twelfth, but then walked 
Hodges. Hodges then advanced to second on a Pignatano single. Finally he 
scored on a single by Furillo followed by a throwing error by the shortstop 
Mantilla to give the Dodgers a 6–5 walk-off victory and the National League 
pennant. The Chicago Tribune noted the impact of Johnny Logan's seventh 
inning injury as it was his replacement, Mantilla, who made the costly 
final error.[36] Mantilla was "close to tears" after the game, saying he 
made the error because the ball "took a crazy bounce... before I got it."[37] 
However, Braves' manager Fred Haney insisted Mantilla "didn't make a bad 
play," that he was "lucky to stop the ball at all," and that the run would 
have scored even if Mantilla had delivered a perfect throw.[37] The Dodgers' 
win earned the franchise its 10th playoff berth, the first since the team 
moved to Los Angeles the previous year.[38] In the playoffs they faced 
the Chicago White Sox in the 1959 World Series which they won in six games.[19] 
The Dodgers faced another tie-breaker in 1962, but lost to the Giants, 
who would lose to the New York Yankees in the 1962 World Series in seven 
games.[38] The Dodgers have appeared in five of the eight NL tie-breakers, 
more tie-breaker appearances than any franchise in either league.[39] The 
Dodgers' most recent playoff appearance came in 2009 where they lost in 
the League Championship Series to the Philadelphia Phillies.[40] The Braves' 
high-water mark while in Milwaukee had been their World Series win in 1957. 
They had also appeared in the 1958 Series, losing to the Yankees. After 
failing to win the pennant in 1959, the Braves would not play for a championship 
again until they moved to Atlanta. They next returned to post-season play 
in 1969, their fourth season in Atlanta, where they were swept in the League 
Championship Series.[41] The Braves returned to the World Series again 
in the 1990s, losing the 1991, 1992, 1996, and 1999 World Series but winning 
in 1995.[41] In baseball statistics tie-breakers count as regular season 
games, with all events in them added to regular season statistics. For 
example, Eddie Mathews overtook Ernie Banks of the Chicago Cubs for the 
league lead in home runs, hitting his 46th of the season in Game 2.[42] 
Banks won the NL Most Valuable Player Award but Mathews, Hank Aaron, and 
Wally Moon finished 2nd, 3rd, and 4th respectively in the voting.[43] Aaron, 
Del Crandall, Gil Hodges, and Charlie Neal all won Gold Gloves for their 
fielding ability.[44] MLB played two All-Star Games in 1959. Five Braves 
and two Dodgers were named to the first while six Braves and four Dodgers 
played in the second.[44] Five future Hall of Famers were on the Braves 
roster in 1959 (Aaron, Mathews, Schoendienst, Slaughter, Spahn) while the 
Dodgers had three (Drysdale, Koufax, Snider).[45] Dodgers' manager Walt 
