The 1960 World Series was played between the Pittsburgh Pirates of the 
National League (NL) and the New York Yankees of the American League (AL) 
from October 5 to 13, 1960. It is most notable for the Game 7, ninth-inning 
home run hit by Bill Mazeroski, the only time a winner-take-all World Series 
game has ended with a walk-off home run. Another unusual aspect of this 
World Series is that the losing team scored more than twice as many runs 
as the winning team, as the Yankees won three blowout games (16–3, 10–0, 
and 12–0), while the Pirates won four close games (6–4, 3–2, 5–2, and 10–9). 
The Series MVP was Bobby Richardson of the Yankees, the only time in history 
that that award has been given to a member of the losing team. This World 
Series featured seven past, present, or future league Most Valuable Players. 
The Pirates had two – Dick Groat (1960) and Roberto Clemente (1966) – while 
the Yankees had five: Yogi Berra (1951, 1954, 1955), Bobby Shantz (1952), 
Mickey Mantle (1956, 1957, 1962), Roger Maris (1960, 1961), and Elston 
Howard (1963). As noted in the superstition called the "Ex-Cub Factor", 
this was the only Series after 1945 and until 2001 in which a team with 
three or more former members of the Chicago Cubs (Don Hoak, Smoky Burgess 
and Gene Baker) was able to win a World Series. The World Championship 
for the Pirates was their third overall and first since 1925. The Yankees, 
winners of their 10th pennant in 12 years, outscored the Pirates 55–27 
in this Series, outhit them 91–60, outbatted them .338 to .256, hit 10 
home runs to Pittsburgh's four (three of which came in Game 7), got two 
complete-game shutouts from Whitey Ford—and lost. The Pirates' inconsistent 
pitching and Stengel's controversial decision not to start Ford in Games 
1 and 4 resulted in the peculiar combination of close games and routs. 
Ford (Games 3 and 6) and Vern Law (Games 1 and 4) were both excellent, 
while Pirates relief pitcher Roy Face was a major factor in three games. 
NL Pittsburgh Pirates (4) vs. AL New York Yankees (3) The Yankees threw 
Art Ditmar against the Pirates' Vern Law in Game 1. In the top of the first 
inning, New York right fielder Roger Maris, the eventual 1960 AL MVP, drilled 
a home run off Law to give the Yankees a 1–0 lead. In the bottom half, 
however, the Pirates evened the score when Bill Virdon walked, stole second, 
advanced to third on an error by shortstop Tony Kubek, and scored on a 
double by Dick Groat (the eventual 1960 NL MVP). Bob Skinner then singled 
to drive in Groat and stole second, coming home on a single by Roberto 
Clemente. Pittsburgh now led 3–1. This was enough to compel Casey Stengel, 
the Yankee manager, to pull Ditmar in favor of Jim Coates, who ended the 
inning. In the fourth, New York cut the lead to one run when Maris singled, 
moved to second on a Mickey Mantle walk, took third on a fly out by Yogi 
Berra, and scored on a single by Bill Skowron. But the Pirates extended 
their lead to 5–2 when Don Hoak walked and Bill Mazeroski homered. Pittsburgh 
added an insurance run in the sixth, and although the Yankees sliced the 
lead to two on a ninth-inning home run by Elston Howard, reliever Roy Face 
successfully closed out the inning to give the Pirates a 6–4 victory and 
a 1–0 lead in the Series. Game 2, matching New York's Bob Turley against 
the Pirates' Bob Friend, saw the Yankees pummel the Pirates 16–3. The game 
was scoreless until the top of the third, when the Yankees jumped out to 
a 2–0 lead. Second baseman Bobby Richardson walked, was sacrificed over 
to second by Turley, and scored on a single by Tony Kubek. Gil McDougald 
then doubled, plating Kubek all the way from first base, and Turley aided 
his own cause in the fourth, driving home Richardson with a single. Although 
Hoak doubled home Gino Cimoli in the bottom of the fourth to break the 
shutout, the Yankees extended their lead to 5–1 courtesy of a two-run home 
run by Mantle that also scored Maris. In the sixth, the solid Yankee lead 
turned into a rout, as the Bronx Bombers erupted for seven runs and chased 
reliever Fred Green from the game. Richardson and Berra led the way with 
two RBI each, while McDougald, Skowron, and Howard accounted for the other 
runs. Mantle continued the onslaught by popping a three-run homer in the 
seventh and scoring on a wild pitch by Tom Cheney in the ninth, making 
it 16-1. Although the Pirates tacked on two runs in the bottom half of 
the frame, the game was well out of reach for them by this time. The decisive 
Yankee victory tied the series at a game apiece. For Game 3, the Series 
shifted to Yankee Stadium as Stengel sent Whitey Ford to the mound against 
Pittsburgh's Vinegar Bend Mizell. Ford had somewhat of an off year (12–9, 
3.08 ERA and 192.2 IP), but was brilliant against the Pirates. The Yankees 
continued the same kind of offensive onslaught they displayed in Game 2. 
They grabbed a 6–0 lead by the end of the first inning, as Skowron and 
Howard ripped RBI base hits while Richardson clubbed a grand slam (during 
the regular season, Richardson had hit only one home run, off Baltimore's 
Arnie Portocarrero on April 30). In the fourth, the Bombers added on four 
more runs, courtesy of a two-run home run by Mantle and a two-run single 
by Richardson. The Pirates, meanwhile, simply could not get anything going 
against Ford, who tossed a masterful four-hitter. The Yankees now led the 
series, 2–1. The Pirates had seen their pitching fail them in the previous 
two games, as the team fell victim to the powerful Yankee bats. This was 
not the case in Game 4, however, as Pittsburgh sent Vern Law to the hill 
against Ralph Terry. The game was scoreless until the bottom of the fourth, 
when Skowron launched a home run off Law to give New York a 1–0 advantage. 
The very next half-inning, though, Pittsburgh stormed back, as Law doubled 
in Cimoli and Virdon added a two-run single. Law kept the potent pinstripers 
at bay, though the Yankees did scratch and claw for a single run in the 
bottom of the seventh when Skowron doubled, moved to third on a single 
by McDougald, and scored on a fielder's choice by Richardson. However, 
after the Yankees scored that run, Pirate manager Danny Murtaugh brought 
in reliever Roy Face, who held the fort for the final two innings as Pittsburgh 
tied the series at two games each. With the series now tied at two apiece, 
Yankee manager Casey Stengel started pitcher Art Ditmar, his Game 1 starter, 
against the Pirates' Harvey Haddix, who had become famous for losing a 
perfect game in the thirteenth inning of a game against the Milwaukee Braves 
the previous year. As it turned out, on this day Ditmar could not get out 
of the second inning. Dick Stuart singled and was forced out at second 
by Gino Cimoli, who then moved to third on a double by Smoky Burgess. Don 
Hoak then slapped a ground ball toward Yankee shortstop Kubek, who flipped 
it to third baseman McDougald in an attempt to retire Burgess. However, 
McDougald missed the catch for an error, allowing Cimoli to score, Burgess 
to be safe at third, and Hoak to end up at second. Mazeroski then lashed 
a double to left, scoring both Burgess and Hoak. After this small offensive 
outburst, Stengel yanked Ditmar and replaced him with Luis Arroyo, who 
finally got out of the inning. The next half-inning, New York picked up 
a run when Elston Howard doubled, moved to third on a ground out by Richardson, 
and scored on another grounder by Kubek. However, the Pirates extended 
their lead to three runs in the third, when Roberto Clemente singled home 
Groat, who had led off with a double. In the bottom of the third, Roger 
Maris touched Haddix for a home run to deep right field. Otherwise, however, 
the Pittsburgh hurler was in fine form, holding the Yankees at bay until 
the seventh, when he was replaced by Face. In the ninth, the Pirates added 
an insurance run when Hoak singled in Joe Christopher, and Face shut down 
the pinstripers in the bottom half of the frame to give the Pirates a 5–2 
victory and a 3–2 edge in the Series. For the sixth contest in Pittsburgh, 
the Yankees threw Whitey Ford against the Pirates' Bob Friend. And as was 
the case the last time Ford had toed the rubber for the Yanks in Game 3, 
his teammates relentlessly mashed the ball en route to a resounding 10–0 
victory. In the top of the second, the Yankees went to work. After a Yogi 
Berra walk and a Bill Skowron single, Elston Howard was hit by a pitch 
to load the bases. Ford himself then notched the first RBI of the game, 
with a ground ball single to his counterpart Friend that scored Berra. 
The next inning, Mantle cracked a two-run single that scored Kubek and 
Maris. After a Berra single moved Maris to third, Pirates skipper Danny 
Murtaugh removed the clearly ineffective Friend in favour of Tom Cheney. 
Cheney, however, fared no better, as a Skowron sacrifice fly scored Mantle 
and a triple to deep left field by Richardson scored Berra and Johnny Blanchard, 
making the score 6–0. The Yankees then began to run away with the game, 
scoring two runs in each of the sixth, seventh, and eighth innings. Richardson 
ripped his second RBI triple of the contest, and Ford added his second 
RBI courtesy of a fielder's choice on a sacrifice bunt. As in Game 3, Ford 
was his masterful self, not letting the Pirates mount anything resembling 
a rally for the full nine innings. His second shutout of the series was 
a critical one, as it tied the series at three games each. For the deciding 
seventh game, Bob Turley, the winning pitcher in Game 2, got the nod for 
the Yankees against the Pirates' Vern Law, the winning pitcher in Games 1 
and 4. Turley lasted only one inning. After retiring the first two batters, 
Turley walked Bob Skinner, then Rocky Nelson homered, Pittsburgh's first 
home run since Bill Mazeroski's in Game One, to give the Pirates a 2–0 
lead. Turley was then pulled after giving up a single to Smoky Burgess 
leading off the second. Don Hoak then drew a base on balls against Bill 
Stafford, and a bunt single by Mazeroski loaded the bases. Stafford appeared 
to get the Yankees out of trouble after inducing Law to hit into a double 
play, pitcher to catcher to first. But Bill Virdon's single to right scored 
both Hoak and Mazeroski and increased the Pirates' lead to 4–0. The Yankees 
got on the scoreboard in the fifth on Bill Skowron's leadoff home run, 
his second of the Series. In the sixth, Bobby Richardson led off with a 
single and Tony Kubek drew a walk. Elroy Face relieved Law and got Roger 
Maris to pop out to Hoak in foul territory, but Mickey Mantle singled to 
score Richardson. Yogi Berra followed with a home run that gave the Yankees 
their first lead, 5–4. The Yankees scored two more runs in the eighth. 
With two out, Berra walked, and Skowron singled when the Pirates couldn't 
get a forceout. Johnny Blanchard then singled to score Berra, then Clete 
Boyer doubled to score Skowron. The Pirates opened the bottom of the eighth 
inning with singles by Gino Cimoli (pinch-hitting for Face) and Virdon 
(on a ground ball to short for what could have been a double play; the 
ball instead took a bad hop and struck Kubek in the throat, causing Kubek 
to be replaced). Dick Groat then chased Bobby Shantz (who had entered the 
game in the third and had pitched five innings, after not pitching more 
than four during the regular season) with a single to score Cimoli and 
send Virdon to 2nd. Jim Coates relieved Shantz and got Skinner out on a 
sacrifice bunt, which moved the runners up. Nelson followed with a fly 
ball to right, and Virdon declined to challenge Maris' throwing arm. Coates 
then got two quick strikes on Roberto Clemente and was one strike away 
from getting the Yankees out of their most serious trouble of the afternoon. 
Clemente eventually hit a Baltimore Chop towards first with first baseman 
Skowron and Coates trying to get to the ball at the same time at the cut 
of the infield grass. Clemente's speed forced Skowron to just hold onto 
the ball as Coates, after trying to get the ground ball, could not make 
it to first base in time to cover. The high chopper allowed Virdon to score, 
cutting the Yankee lead to 7–6. Hal Smith followed with a three-run home 
run to give the Pirates a 9–7 lead. Ralph Terry relieved Coates and got 
the last out. Bob Friend, an 18-game winner for the Pirates and their starter 
in Games 2 and 6, came on in the ninth to try to protect the lead. Bobby 
Richardson and pinch-hitter Dale Long both greeted him with singles, and 
Pirates manager Danny Murtaugh was forced to bench the veteran pitcher 
in favor of Harvey Haddix. Although he got Roger Maris to foul out, Haddix 
gave up a key single to Mickey Mantle that scored Richardson and moved 
Long to third. Yogi Berra followed, hitting a short grounder to first, 
with Rocky Nelson easily getting the second out. In what, at the moment, 
stood as a monumental play, Mantle, seeing he had no chance to beat a play 
at second, scurried back to first and avoided Nelson's tag (which would 
have been the third out) as Gil McDougald (pinch-running for Long) raced 
home to tie the score, 9–9.[8] Had Mantle been out on the play, the run 
would still have counted if it had scored before the tag. With Mantle safe, 
the top of the ninth continued, but ended when Bill Skowron hit into a 
force play. Ralph Terry returned to the mound in the bottom of the ninth. 
The first batter to face him was Bill Mazeroski. With a count of one ball 
and no strikes, the Pirates' second baseman smashed a historic long drive 
over the left field wall, ending the contest and crowning the Pirates as 
World Series champions. As the Pirates erupted, the Yankees stood across 
the field in stunned disbelief. The improbable champions were outscored, 
outhit, and outplayed, but had managed to pull out a victory anyhow. Years 
later, Mickey Mantle was quoted in Ken Burns' documentary Baseball as saying 
that losing the 1960 series was the only loss, amateur or professional, 
he cried actual tears over. For Bill Mazeroski, by contrast, his Series-clinching 
home run was the highlight of a Hall of Fame career otherwise noted mostly 
for excellent defense. Mazeroski became the first player to hit a game-ending 
home run in the seventh game, to win a World Series. Thirty-three years 
later, Joe Carter would become the only other player to end the World Series 
with a home run, doing so for the Toronto Blue Jays in the 1993 World Series 
against the Pirates' in-state rivals, the Philadelphia Phillies, albeit 
in Game 6. Although most noted for the series-ending homer, Game 7 is also 
the only game in all of postseason history with no strikeouts recorded 
by either side. Bobby Richardson of the Yankees was named MVP of the Series, 
the only time that someone from the defeated team has been so honored. 
Prior to the mid-1970s, television networks and stations generally did 
not preserve their telecasts of sporting events, choosing instead to tape 
over them. As a result, the broadcasts of the first six games are no longer 
known to exist. The lone exception is a black-and-white kinescope of the 
entire telecast of Game 7, which was discovered in a wine cellar in Bing 
Crosby's former home in Hillsborough, California in December 2009.[9] A 
part-owner of the Pirates who was too superstitious to watch the Series 
live, Crosby listened to the decisive contest with his wife Kathryn and 
two friends on a shortwave radio in Paris, France. Wanting to watch the 
game at a later date only if the Pirates won, he arranged for a company 
to record it. After viewing the kinescope, he placed it in his wine cellar, 
where it went untouched for 49 years. It was finally found by Robert Bader, 
vice-president of marketing and production for Bing Crosby Enterprises, 
while looking through videotapes of Crosby's television specials which 
were to be transferred to DVD. The five-reel set is the only known complete 
copy of the historic game, which was originally broadcast in color.[9] 
The NBC television announcers for the Series were Bob Prince and Mel Allen, 
the primary play-by-play voices for the Pirates and Yankees respectively. 
Prince called the first half of Game 7 and conducted postgame interviews 
in the Pittsburgh clubhouse, while Allen did the latter portion of the 
game.[9] On October 13, 2010, for the 50th anniversary of the series winning 
home run, a gala was hosted by the Byham Theater in downtown Pittsburgh. 
Bill Virdon, 1960 MVP Dick Groat and Yankee Bobby Richardson were guest 
speakers. The MLB Network would air the game and gala on December 15, 2010.[10] 
The telecast was also released on DVD by A&E Home Video. 1960 World Series 
(4–3): Pittsburgh Pirates (N.L.) over New York Yankees (A.L.) This would 
prove to be Casey Stengel's last World Series, as the Yankee club soon 
sent him into retirement. This led to his famous remark, "I'll never make 
the mistake of turning 70 again." Mazeroski and Clemente were the last 
two remaining Pirate players from the 1960 World Series winners, when the 
Pirates won the World Series in 1971. To date, this is the last world championship 
in any of the four major sports to be won in Pittsburgh by the home team, 
as the Pirates two subsequent World Series championships (both against 
the Baltimore Orioles) were clinched in Baltimore while the Pittsburgh 
Penguins (who were not yet in existence for another seven years) have won 
all four of their Stanley Cup championships on the road and the Pittsburgh 
Steelers have won all of their Super Bowl championships at neutral sites. 
(Pittsburgh has never hosted a Super Bowl.) The only championship since 
the 1960 World Series to be clinched in Pittsburgh was the 2008 Stanley 
Cup Finals, won by the Detroit Red Wings.[12] We made too many wrong mistakes. 
Dick Groat on third base. Bob Clemente on first base. Two runs in, 7–6 
New York. Two balls, two strikes...And Hal Smith hits a drive to deep left 
field...That ball is way back out there, going, going, gone! There's a 
drive into deep left field, look out now… that ball is going, going gone! 
And the World Series is over! Mazeroski… hits it over the left field fence, 
and the Pirates win it 10–9 and win the World Series! Well, a little while 
ago, when we mentioned that this one, in typical fashion, was going right 
to the wire, little did we know… Art Ditmar throws—here's a swing and a 
high fly ball going deep to left, this may do it!… Back to the wall goes 
Berra, it is…over the fence, home run, the Pirates win!… (long pause for 
crowd noise)… Ladies and gentlemen, Mazeroski has hit a one-nothing pitch 
over the left field fence at Forbes Field to win the 1960 World Series 
for the Pittsburgh Pirates by a score of ten-nine!… Once again, that final 
score… The Pittsburgh Pirates, the 1960 world champions, defeat the New 
