The 1961 Major League Baseball expansion was the formation of two new Major 
League Baseball (MLB) franchises that started in time for the 1961 season. 
The Los Angeles Angels and the Washington Senators were added to the American 
League (AL), becoming the 17th and 18th teams in MLB's two leagues. The 
expansion franchise in Los Angeles became the second MLB team in the city, 
after the Dodgers moved there from Brooklyn in 1958. The Senators replaced 
a previous franchise of the same name that moved to Minneapolis–St. Paul 
in 1961 and became the Minnesota Twins. The expansion was part of an initiative 
that resulted in the addition of four clubs to MLB, in response to the 
threat of a proposed third major league, the Continental League. The following 
year the National League also added two new teams, the Houston Colt .45s 
(later named the Astros) and the New York Mets. For a 50-year period from 
1903 to 1952, MLB's 16-team (split into the American and National Leagues 
(NL)) structure remained intact. No franchises were relocated during this 
period, and five markets—Boston, Chicago, New York City, Philadelphia, 
and St. Louis—had two or more teams. According to authors Andy McCue and 
Eric Thompson, "The less financially successful clubs in two-team cities 
were finding it increasingly difficult to compete" by the early 1950s.[1] 
In addition, population changes in the United States were leading to many 
citizens moving away from the Northeast, where many MLB teams were based, 
to southern and western locations.[1] From 1953 to 1955, three franchises 
were relocated, all of which had been in markets with two or more teams. 
Prior to the 1958 season, the two New York City teams in the NL—the Brooklyn 
Dodgers and New York Giants, moved westward; the Dodgers relocated to Los 
Angeles, while San Francisco became the new home of the Giants.[1] New 
York City sought a replacement NL franchise, and by December 1958 MLB had 
created an Expansion Committee.[1] Despite the formation of the group, 
MLB displayed little intention of adding a New York team.[2] The relocation 
of the Dodgers and Giants led to a proposal for a third major league: the 
Continental League, which would have started by 1961 with franchises in 
markets MLB had previously ignored. In addition, MLB was facing pressure 
from the U.S. Congress, which indicated that efforts to prevent future 
expansion would arouse interest in weakening the sport's exemption from 
antitrust laws.[3] Congress voted on a bill aimed at repealing the exemption, 
but it failed to pass. However, MLB moved to expand after a rival league 
became a possibility.[2] The threat posed by the Continental League ended 
in August 1960, when the NL proposed expanding to include four of the new 
organization's clubs. The AL then became interested in the idea of expansion. 
Expansion Committee chairman Del Webb initially backed the addition of 
a Houston-based franchise, but the NL spoiled the idea when it announced 
the addition of teams in that city and New York for 1962.[1] For many years, 
Los Angeles had been rumored to be a potential site for an AL franchise. 
At the time of the expansion, the Los Angeles area was the second-most 
populated in the U.S., and several sports teams had already moved into 
the city, including the NL's Dodgers. Actor Gene Autry led a group that 
paid $2.1 million for the right to place an MLB team in Los Angeles.[4] 
Autry, who owned radio stations, had been seeking to acquire a contract 
to broadcast baseball games when he traveled to MLB's Winter Meetings. 
After the Meetings, on December 6, 1960, his group received franchise rights. 
The Los Angeles team was initially scheduled to begin play in 1962, but 
a relocation plan elsewhere in the AL resulted in the start date being 
changed to 1961.[5] The second new AL team brought the league's return 
to Washington, D.C. The city had been the location of the Washington Senators 
starting in 1901, but after winning the 1924 World Series the club had 
slipped towards the bottom of the AL standings in most seasons after 1940. 
Senators owner Calvin Griffith, believing that the team could not prosper 
in the capital city, sought to relocate to Minneapolis, Minnesota. In response, 
in October 1960 MLB permitted the Senators to move in time for the upcoming 
season, and gave Washington, D.C. an expansion team to replace the departing 
Senators.[6] The decision was partially in response to pressure from Congress, 
which had wanted a replacement for the former Senators. As with the Angels' 
ownership group, the new Senators' owners paid a $2.1 million fee for the 
right to an MLB franchise.[7] A draft was held on December 14, 1960, to 
stock the new teams with players from the existing AL clubs. All teams 
were required to make seven players draftable from their regular rosters, 
along with eight more from their expanded rosters of 40 players, with the 
number of players that could be selected from one franchise capped at seven. 
The Angels and Senators were limited to 28 picks each, and were forced 
to pay $75,000 per pick. There were also requirements to choose certain 
numbers of players for each position.[8] The Angels were given the first 
overall pick in the expansion draft and used it to select New York Yankees 
pitcher Eli Grba. The Senators followed by taking another Yankees pitcher, 
Bobby Shantz, with their first choice.[9] Later in the draft, both teams 
violated the rules prohibiting existing clubs from losing more than seven 
players from their normal rosters; by the 43rd pick, the Cleveland Indians 
and Detroit Tigers had each seen eight of their players chosen, and another 
rule mandating that the Angels and Senators not take more than four players 
from any one team was also ignored. Angels manager Bill Rigney later said 
that the teams had not been notified about the rules by the AL.[1] Despite 
an effort by AL president Joe Cronin that required both teams to relinquish 
earlier selections and choose different players, imbalances still existed 
in player selections; seven of the eight AL teams had had five or more 
players drafted by the Angels or Senators. In response, player trades between 
the expansion teams were mandated by Cronin. In the last of these trades, 
future Cy Young Award-winning pitcher Dean Chance was sent to Washington 
by the Angels.[1] In 1961, Wrigley Field, a former minor league stadium, 
served as the home of the Angels; for the next four seasons, they shared 
Dodger Stadium with the Dodgers. Los Angeles won 70 games in its first 
season, exceeding expectations. The following season, they held first place 
in the AL as late as July 4, ending the year with 86 victories. However, 
the team's performance declined in future years, as its strategy of drafting 
"recognizable names" led to a barren minor league system that was unable 
to replace aging talent.[3] The Senators experienced a lack of strong fan 
interest in their inaugural season, drawing under 600,000 fans for the 
year. The team annually posted about 90 defeats in most future years, and 
did not win more games than it lost until 1969, when Washington ended the 
season with an 86–76 win–loss record. The original owner of the club left 
early in the Senators' existence, and a second shift occurred shortly after 
stockbrokers James Johnson and James Lemon purchased the team from Elwood 
Quesada. In September 1971, then-owner Bob Short announced that the Senators 
would move to the Dallas area after the season; the team's last game in 
Washington was forfeited due to "unruly behavior" by Senators fans.[10] 
The 1961 expansion was the first in a series of moves that resulted in 
MLB nearly doubling in size to 30 franchises. As part of MLB's effort to 
prevent the formation of the Continental League, the NL added the New York 
Mets and Houston Colt .45s (who later changed their nickname to the Astros) 
for the 1962 season.[3][11] Another expansion draft was made to stock the 
new teams for the 1962 season.[12] Four new clubs joined the AL and NL 
in 1969, in San Diego, Kansas City, Montreal, and Seattle (although the 
team moved to Milwaukee the following year). Further two-team expansions 
took place in 1977, 1993, and 1998.[3][13] The expansions had the effect 
of placing MLB teams across the country; before 1961, only 3 of the 16 
