The 1961 Cincinnati Reds season was a season in American baseball. It consisted 
of the Reds winning the National League pennant with a 93–61 record, four 
games ahead of runner-up Los Angeles Dodgers, but losing the World Series 
in five games to the New York Yankees. The Reds were managed by Fred Hutchinson, 
and played their home games at Crosley Field. The Reds were also the last 
team to win the National League in the 154-game schedule era, before going 
to a 162-game schedule a year later. Cincinnati's road to the World Series 
was truly a remarkable one, as the Reds went through significant changes 
in a single season to improve from a team that won just 67 games and finished 
28 games behind the eventual World Series Champion Pittsburgh Pirates in 
1960. The architect of the turnaround was the Reds' new general manager 
Bill DeWitt, who left his role as president and general manager of the 
Detroit Tigers after the end of the 1960 season to replace Gabe Paul as 
the Reds' GM. Paul was hired as the general manager of the expansion Houston 
Colt .45s. DeWitt, who had a short history of successful trades in Detroit 
including acquiring Norm Cash and Rocky Colavito, went to work at the 1960 
Winter Meetings for Cincinnati. DeWitt found trade partners in the Milwaukee 
Braves and the Chicago White Sox. In essentially a three-team trade, the 
Reds acquired pitchers Joey Jay and Juan Pizarro for slick-fielding shortstop 
Roy McMillan on Dec. 15, 1960. On that same day, the Reds then traded Pizzaro 
and pitcher Cal McLish to the White Sox for third baseman Gene Freese. 
It was the fourth time Freese had been traded in 18 months. Most recently, 
the White Sox had acquired Freese from the Philadelphia Phillies for future 
all star Johnny Callison in December 1959. Thirteen days before the start 
of the season, Reds owner Powell Crosley, Jr., died suddenly of a heart 
attack at his home in Cincinnati. DeWitt would eventually purchase 100% 
of the team ownership from Crosley's estate. The Reds started the season 
with Freese at third base, sure-handed Eddie Kasko moved from third (where 
he played in 1960) to shortstop and long-time minor leaguer Jim Baumer 
started at second base. Baumer was one of MLB's "feel good" stories. After 
playing in nine games with the White Sox in 1949 as an 18 year old rookie, 
Baumer returned to the minor leagues and didn't make it back to the big 
league for 11 years. After a solid spring training with the Reds, Baumer 
was named starting second baseman to open the season. As the season began, 
expectations were low for the Reds among baseball "experts." The Reds won 
their first three games, but then went into a slump, losing 10 of 12. To 
the surprise of many, it was the Reds' offense that struggled most. Baumer 
in particular was hitting just .125. DeWitt then made a bold move on April 
27, 1961, trading all-star catcher Ed Bailey to the San Francisco Giants 
for second baseman Don Blasingame, catcher Bob Schmidt and journeyman pitcher 
Sherman Jones. Blasingame was inserted as starter at second base, and Baumer 
was traded to the Detroit Tigers on May 10 for backup first baseman Dick 
Gernert. Baumer never again played in the majors. On April 30, the Reds 
won the second game of a double-header from the Pittsburgh Pirates to begin 
a 9-game winning streak. Exactly a month after the trade of Bailey, the 
Reds began another win streak, this time six games, to improve to 26-16. 
Those streaks were part of a stretch where the Reds won 50 of 70 games 
to improve to 55-30. Cincinnati led Los Angeles by five games at the All 
Star break. After the break, the Dodgers got hot and the Reds floundered. 
After Aug. 13 games, Los Angeles was 69-40 and led Cincinnati (70-46) by 
2 1/2 games, but six in the loss column as the Dodgers had played seven 
less games than the Reds due to multiple rainouts. On Aug. 15, the Reds 
went into Los Angeles to begin a three-game, two-day series highlighted 
by a double-header. In the first game of the series, Reds' righty Joey 
Jay bested Sandy Koufax and the Dodgers, 5-2, as Eddie Kasko had four hits 
and Frank Robinson drove in two for Cincinnati. In the Wednesday double-header, 
knuckle-baller Bob Purkey threw a four-hit shutout as the Reds won Game 
1, 6-0. In Game 2, Freese hit two home runs off Dodgers' lefty Johnny Podres 
and Jim O'Toole hurled a two-hitter as the Reds completed the sweep with 
an 8-0 victory. The Reds left Los Angeles with a half-game lead. It was 
the Dodgers' fourth-straight loss in what would turn out to be a 10-game 
losing streak to put the Dodgers in a hole, while the Reds stayed in first-place 
the rest of the season. The Reds clinched their first pennant in 21 years 
on Sept. 26 when they beat the Cubs, 6-3, in the afternoon and the Dodgers 
lost to the Pittsburgh Pirates, 8-0, in the second game of a doubleheader. 
The Reds finished four games ahead in the National League and earned a 
chance to face the mighty New York Yankees in the 1961 World Series. Outfielders 
Frank Robinson and Vada Pinson led the Reds offense while starting pitchers 
Bob Purkey, Jim O'Toole and newcomer Joey Jay were the staff standouts. 
Robinson (37 homers, 124 RBI, 117 runs scored, 22 stolen bases, .323 average) 
was named National League MVP. Pinson (208 hits, .343 average, 101 runs 
scored, 23 stolen bases) and a Gold Glove recipient, finished third in 
MVP voting. Purkey won 16 games, O'Toole won 19 and Jay won an NL-best 
21 games. Jay also finished a surprising fifth in NL MVP voting, one spot 
ahead of future Hall of Famer Willie Mays who hit 40 home runs and drove 
in 123 for the Giants, such was the respect the Baseball Writers had for 
Jay's contributions to the Reds' pennant. Freese was also a significant 
contributor, slugging 26 home runs and driving in 87 runs to go with a 
.277 average. At a position (3B) that the Reds had received little offensive 
production from in the recent years leading up to 1961, Freese provided 
a major boost. Hutchinson, a former MLB pitcher, was masterful in his handling 
of the pitching staff as well as juggling a lineup that included part-timers 
(and former slugging standouts) Gus Bell, Wally Post (20, 57, .294) as 
well as Jerry Lynch (13, 50, .315). For the second straight season, Lynch 
led the National League with 19 pinch hits. Hutchinson was named NL Manager 
of the Year. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = 
Games pitched; CG = Complete games; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = 
Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; 
CG = Complete games; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; SV = Saves; ERA = 
Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
Pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO 
= Strikeouts AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Cincinnati Reds (1) LEAGUE 
