The 1961 World Series matched the New York Yankees (109–53) against the 
Cincinnati Reds (93–61), with the Yankees winning in five games to earn 
their 19th championship in 39 seasons. This World Series was surrounded 
by Cold War political puns pitting the "Reds" against the "Yanks". But 
the louder buzz concerned the "M&M" boys, Roger Maris and Mickey Mantle, 
who spent the summer chasing the ghost of Babe Ruth and his 60 home run 
season of 1927. Mantle finished with 54 while Maris set the record of 61 
on the last day of the season. With all the attention surrounding the home 
run race, the World Series seemed almost anti-climactic. The Yankees were 
under the leadership of first-year manager Ralph Houk, who succeeded Casey 
Stengel. The Yankees won the American League pennant, finishing eight games 
better than the Detroit Tigers. The Bronx Bombers also set a Major League 
record for most home runs in a season with 240. Along with Maris and Mantle, 
four other Yankees, Yogi Berra, Elston Howard, Bill Skowron, and Johnny 
Blanchard, hit more than 20 home runs. The pitching staff was also led 
by Cy Young Award-winner Whitey Ford (25–4, 3.21). The underdog Reds, skippered 
by Fred Hutchinson, finished four games ahead of the Los Angeles Dodgers 
in the National League and boasted four 20-plus home run hitters of their 
own: NL MVP Frank Robinson, Gordy Coleman, Gene Freese and Wally Post. 
The second-base, shortstop, and catcher positions were platooned, while 
center fielder Vada Pinson led the league in hits with 208 and finished 
second in batting with a .343 average. Joey Jay (21–10, 3.53) led the staff, 
along with dependable Jim O'Toole and Bob Purkey. The American League added 
two teams, the Los Angeles Angels and the Washington Senators, through 
expansion and also increased teams' respective schedules by eight games 
to 162. The National League was a year away from its own expansion as the 
Reds and the other NL teams maintained the 154-game schedule. The Most 
Valuable Player Award for the series went to lefty Whitey Ford, who won 
two games while throwing 14 shutout innings. Ford left the sixth inning 
of Game 4 due to an injured ankle. He set the record for consecutive scoreless 
innings during World Series play with 32, when, during the third inning 
he passed the previous record holder, Babe Ruth, who had pitched 29 2⁄3 
consecutive scoreless innings for the Boston Red Sox in 1916 and 1918. 
Ford would extend that record to 33 2⁄3 in the 1962 World Series. The 1961 
five-game series was the shortest since 1954, when the New York Giants 
swept the Cleveland Indians in four games. These two teams would meet again 
at the Fall Classic 15 years later, but this time, the Reds won in a four-game 
sweep. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Cincinnati Reds (1) At Yankee Stadium, 
Whitey Ford established himself as the premier post-season pitcher by tossing 
his third straight World Series shutout. Two home runs were all Ford would 
need, a fourth-inning shot into the lower right-field stands by Elston 
Howard, and a sixth-inning shot into the lower left-field stands by Moose 
Skowron. The two-hour, 11-minute game featured only two hits by the Reds, 
a first-inning bloop single to left by Eddie Kasko and a fifth-inning single 
by Wally Post. The only other Reds baserunner was Frank Robinson, who walked 
in the seventh. Otherwise, "The Chairman of the Board" Ford was dominant, 
adding six strikeouts. Jim O'Toole pitched well for the Reds, allowing 
just six hits in seven innings, striking out two and walking four. Ford 
was also aided by two excellent defensive plays by third baseman Clete 
Boyer. In the second inning, Boyer backhanded a Gene Freese ground ball 
close to the bag, wheeled, and threw out his third-base counterpart from 
his knees. In the eighth, Boyer dove to his left onto his stomach after 
a Dick Gernert ground ball; coming up with the ball, Boyer threw Gernert 
out, also from his knees. The Reds came charging back on superb pitching 
by Joey Jay to win Game 2 and even the series. Reds first baseman Gordy 
Coleman and Yankees' left-fielder Yogi Berra traded two-run homers in the 
fourth. Coleman hit his homer into the right-center field bleachers after 
Frank Robinson reached on an error by Yankees' third-baseman Clete Boyer. 
After Roger Maris led off the bottom half of the inning with a walk, Berra 
tied the score with a drive into the lower right-field stands. From there, 
Jay would give up only two more hits, a Berra single in the sixth and a 
Tony Kubek single to center in the eighth. The Reds continued to score 
with single runs in the fifth and sixth and two in the eighth. The Reds 
went ahead for good with two outs in the fifth when Elio Chacón sprinted 
home from third on an Elston Howard passed ball that didn't get much further 
than 15 feet away. Yankee starter Ralph Terry would give up one more run 
in the sixth on a Wally Post double and a run- scoring single by eighth-place 
hitter Johnny Edwards, before being lifted in the seventh for pinch-hitter 
Héctor López. Luis Arroyo took over in the eighth and walked Robinson, 
gave up an infield single to Coleman on a roller between third and the 
mound and then threw wild to first, with Robinson scoring; Coleman was 
thrown out trying for third. The next batter, Wally Post, reached safely 
when Berra misplayed his fly for a three-base error. With Post on third, 
Gene Freese was intentionally walked for the second time in the game and 
Edwards followed with his second hit, a bloop double to left, scoring Post. 
Jay would seal the victory for the Reds by retiring six of the remaining 
seven batters, allowing only a walk to Clete Boyer in the ninth. The series 
shifted to Cincinnati with the pressure on New York. After falling to a 
perceived inferior team (the Pittsburgh Pirates) in the 1960 World Series, 
a loss that cost long-time manager Casey Stengel his job, fans and media 
were wondering if it could happen again as the Yankees limped into Cincinnati 
with the series tied, having scored a total of just four runs and 10 hits 
in the first two games as several of the Yankee hitters struggled including 
the "M&M Boys." Cincinnati hosted its first World Series in 21 years at 
Crosley Field. Game 3 pitted New York's 23-year-old right-hander Bill Stafford 
against Reds' veteran knuckleballer Bob Purkey. Stafford, the winning pitcher 
when Roger Maris hit 61st home run, pitched well for 6 2⁄3 innings. Purkey 
had outstanding control and kept the Yankee hitters off balance, but New 
York would triumph on a Maris solo home run in the ninth. Cincinnati struck 
first with a run in the bottom of the third when Elio Chacón beat out a 
bunt and took second when Stafford threw wildly to first. Eddie Kasko fouled 
out to Bill Skowron and Vada Pinson grounded out to send Chacón to third 
before Frank Robinson hit a double off the left-field wall to make it 1–0. 
In the seventh, the Yankees got a big break to tie the game. Tony Kubek 
led off with a single to center, then took second on a Johnny Edwards passed 
ball. After Mickey Mantle struck out, Yogi Berra blooped a ball into short 
right field that neither second baseman Chacón nor right fielder Robinson 
called before the two collided, allowing the ball to drop as Kubek scored. 
The Reds regained the lead in their half of the inning when Edwards doubled 
into the right-field corner and eventually scored on a Kasko single to 
left. Bud Daley came in to relieve Stafford and retired Pinson on a flyout 
to right to end the inning. The Reds' lead would be short-lived, as the 
Yankees tied the score in the eighth. With two outs, Johnny Blanchard (pinch-hitting 
for Daley), smacked a Purkey knuckler into the right-field bleachers. The 
Reds went quietly in the bottom of the inning, the score tied at 2–2. In 
the ninth, Maris recorded what would be one of only two hits in the Series, 
but this one went into the right field bleachers for a go-ahead home run. 
With ace reliever Luis Arroyo on the mound for the Yankees in the ninth, 
the Reds had one last shot. After Gene Freese struck out, Leo Cárdenas, 
batting for Johnny Edwards, doubled off the left-center field scoreboard. 
Dick Gernert, pinch-hitting for Purkey, grounded out to short, Cardenas 
holding. The third pinch-hitter in the inning, Gus Bell, ended the Reds' 
comeback attempt by grounding back to the mound, Arroyo to Skowron, to 
end the thriller and give the Yankees a two games to one Series lead. Whitey 
Ford started Game 4 for the Yankees in an attempt to continue his post-season 
shutout streak, but more importantly to give the Bombers a 3–1 lead in 
the Series. He accomplished both. Ford retired the first nine batters of 
the game; when Elio Chacón grounded out to Bobby Richardson at second base 
for the final out in the third, Ford broke Babe Ruth's record of 29 2⁄3 
consecutive scoreless innings. Ford remained in the game until the end 
of the fifth, when an apparent ankle injury forced him to leave, his new 
record at 32 consecutive shutout innings. Jim Coates entered the game in 
the sixth and pitched four shutout innings. The Yankees scored the game's 
first run in the fourth. Roger Maris led off with a walk and went to third 
on a single to left-center by Mickey Mantle. Elston Howard grounded into 
a double play, Maris scoring. The Yankees added another run in the fifth 
on a walk to Ford, a Bobby Richardson single to right-center and a run-scoring 
single by Tony Kubek. In the sixth, O'Toole was relieved by Jim Brosnan 
who got into a jam. With one out, Howard doubled to right-center. After 
Yogi Berra was intentionally walked, Skowron loaded the bases by beating 
out a slow roller to third. Clete Boyer then doubled to left to plate two 
runs. The Yankees put on the safety squeeze, only to have Ford bunt right 
to Reds first baseman Gordy Coleman who tagged first base. Boyer had moved 
to third and Skowron had come halfway home before stopping. Coleman then 
raced across the diamond and tagged Skowron, who was trapped between third 
and home, for an unassisted double play. The Yankees would add three more 
runs in the seventh to put the game away. New York's seven-run output equaled 
what the Bronx Bombers were able to put up combined in their first three 
games as solid Reds starting pitching, combined with a wounded Mantle, 
kept the New York offense sputtering. That would change in Game 5. Future 
Hall-of-Famers Yogi Berra and Mickey Mantle sat out Game 5, Berra with 
a stiff shoulder, Mantle still suffering from a hip abscess. But substitutes 
Héctor López and Johnny Blanchard more than made up for the absence of 
the two stars. Lopez drove in five runs with a triple and a home run, and 
Blanchard had three hits, including a double and a homer. In the first 
four games, the Yankees scored a total of nine runs off Cincinnati's starting 
pitchers. In Game 5, New York scored five in the first inning. Reds starter 
Joey Jay, with 14 regular-season complete games, would uncharacteristically 
get just two outs before being relieved. After Bobby Richardson singled 
to start the game, Jay retired Tony Kubek and Roger Maris on fly balls. 
But the flood gates opened when the next batter, Blanchard, hit a two-run 
homer into the right-field bleachers. Elston Howard was awarded a ground-rule 
double when his blast went through an opening in the left-center field 
scoreboard. Bill Skowron followed with a long single off the left-field 
fence, scoring Howard. Jim Maloney entered the game and was greeted with 
a Lopez triple that scored Skowron. Clete Boyer continued the assault doubling 
off the scoreboard, scoring Lopez. The ninth batter of the inning, Yankee 
pitcher Ralph Terry mercifully struck out to end the inning but not until 
five Yankees had touched home plate. New York added to its lead in the 
second on a Kubek single and a Maris double just inside the left-field 
line. The Reds cut the lead in half in the bottom of the third and chased 
Terry in the process. Don Blasingame led off with a single to center, Eddie 
Kasko singled to left and Vada Pinson hit a fly moving Blasingame to third. 
Frank Robinson then took Terry deep with a three-run shot over the right-center 
field fence. Bud Daley replaced Terry and shut the door on the Reds. The 
Yankee offense added to its lead with five runs in the fourth, the big 
blows were a two-run single by Skowron and a three-run home run to dead 
center by Lopez. The Reds got a little closer after scoring two runs in 
the bottom of the fifth (on a two-run Wally Post home run) to cut it to 
11–5. Then Yankees finished the rout by added two more runs in the sixth 
on sacrifices by Lopez (on a squeeze play) and Daley (on a fly ball). Houk 
became only the third skipper in history to win the World Series in his 
first season. 1961 World Series (4–1): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Cincinnati 
