The 1962 National League tie-breaker series was a three-game playoff series 
at the conclusion of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 1962 regular season 
to determine the winner of the National League (NL) pennant. The games 
were played from October 1 to 3, 1962, between the Los Angeles Dodgers 
and the San Francisco Giants. The Giants won the series, two games to one. 
The first game took place at Candlestick Park and the second and third 
were played at Dodger Stadium. The playoff series was necessary after both 
teams finished the season with identical win–loss records of 101–61. The 
Dodgers won a coin flip late in the season, which gave them home field 
advantage for the series. The Giants won the first game in an 8–0 shutout 
by starting pitcher Billy Pierce over Sandy Koufax. The Dodgers evened 
the series with an 8–7 victory in Game 2, breaking their 35-inning scoreless 
streak in what was then the longest nine-inning game in MLB history. However, 
the Giants closed out the series in Game 3 with a 6–4 victory to clinch 
the NL pennant. This victory advanced the Giants to the 1962 World Series 
in which the defending champion New York Yankees defeated them in seven 
games. In baseball statistics, the tie-breaker series counted as the 163rd, 
164th, and 165th regular-season games for both teams, with all events in 
the series added to regular-season statistics. The 1962 series was the 
last MLB tie-breaker to use a three-game format, as the NL subsequently 
adopted the single-game style used in the American League (AL). The Dodgers 
and the Giants finished the 1961 season second and third respectively in 
the NL, with records of 89–65 and 85–69.[1] In an offseason trade with 
the Chicago White Sox the Giants acquired Billy Pierce and Don Larsen for 
Bob Farley, Eddie Fisher, Dom Zanni, and Verle Tiefenthaler.[2][3] The 
Dodgers moved to a new home field, Dodger Stadium, for the 1962 season.[4] 
The Giants opened the 1962 season by establishing an early lead and, though 
they fell back by mid-April, held at least a share of that lead continuously 
from April 28 to June 7.[5] At that point the Dodgers overtook the Giants, 
and for the next month the lead was traded between the two sides five times. 
The Giants held the lead for the last time on July 7.[5] The Dodgers went 
20–6 in July while the Giants went 16–11, allowing the Dodgers to take 
the league lead on July 8 and hold it until season's last regular game.[6] 
The Los Angeles Times described the Dodgers' season as a "gamut of sublime" 
and "ridiculous", noting their successes—such as Maury Wills' 100 stolen 
bases breaking Ty Cobb's single-season record, Don Drysdale's 25 wins, 
and Sandy Koufax's no-hitter on June 30—together with problems such as 
the 18 unearned runs the defense had allowed for the season behind Drysdale, 
and other fielding issues.[7] The Dodgers lost 10 of their final 13 games 
from September 16 to 30, while the Giants lost just 6 over the same span.[5][6] 
However, with seven games remaining the Dodgers were still ahead in the 
league by four games, and held a two-game lead with three left to play.[6] 
They entered their final game with a one-game lead over the Giants, but 
fell 1–0 to the St. Louis Cardinals. Meanwhile, the Giants won 2–1 over 
the Houston Colt .45's, after an eighth-inning home run by Willie Mays.[8] 
These results left the Dodgers and Giants tied in the league at 101–61, 
necessitating a tie-breaker to decide the NL pennant. The two teams had 
also played closely against one another during the regular season to this 
point, with each winning 9 of their 18 match-ups prior to the tie-breaker.[6] 
Dodgers' manager Walt Alston and Giants' manager Alvin Dark could not agree 
on dates and sites for the tie-breaker, so they flipped a coin to decide 
home field advantage.[9] Alston won the flip, opting to play the first 
game in San Francisco and the remaining two games in Los Angeles.[9] The 
Dodgers had been more successful at home in the season, holding a 53–28 
(.654 winning percentage) record there while going 47–34 (.580) on the 
road.[6] Alston had also won the flip for the 1959 tie-breaker, which the 
Dodgers had gone on to win, and had chosen the same format.[9] Box score 
for Monday October 1, 1962 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco Sandy Koufax 
had missed two months of the season, not starting from July 17 until September 
21.[10][11] He started three games in his return prior to the tie-breaker, 
losing all three and pitching just seven-and-two-thirds innings across 
the three starts.[10] The night before the first game of the tiebreaker, 
Walt Alston asked Koufax to start the game, as Don Drysdale and Johnny 
Podres, the Dodgers' two front line starting pitchers, had pitched the 
prior two days; Koufax agreed.[12][13] In the game the Giants were the 
first to score, on a double by Felipe Alou in the bottom of the first inning, 
followed by a home run by Willie Mays to make the score 2–0. Billy Pierce 
quickly retired three Dodgers in order for the second consecutive inning 
and the Giants continued to hit in the bottom of the second inning. Jim 
Davenport led off the inning with a home run to make the score 3–0 and 
Ed Bailey followed with a single. Koufax was then relieved by Ed Roebuck, 
having allowed three runs in the game without recording an out in the second 
inning.[14] Roebuck recorded three straight outs to end the inning without 
further scoring. The Dodgers and the Giants each managed a single in their 
halves of the third inning. Neither Pierce nor Roebuck allowed a baserunner 
in the fourth or fifth innings, though the Giants further added to their 
lead in the sixth. The Dodgers pinch hit for Roebuck to lead off the top 
of the inning with Ken McMullen and although he singled he did not score. 
Larry Sherry entered to pitch for the Dodgers in the bottom of the inning 
and after recording the first out he allowed back-to-back home runs to 
Mays and Orlando Cepeda to give the Giants a 5–0 lead. Davenport then singled 
and Sherry was relieved by Jack Smith who finished the inning without further 
damage.[14] The game continued without scoring until the eighth inning. 
The Dodgers managed to get their second runner in scoring position as Doug 
Camilli pinch hit for Smith, but they did not score. Phil Ortega entered 
to pitch for the Dodgers in the bottom of the eighth and the Giants continued 
their offensive performance. Willie Mays walked to open the inning and 
then stole second base with one out. Davenport and Bailey both walked to 
load the bases and José Pagán doubled to empty the bases and make the game 
8–0. Pierce remained in the game to pitch the ninth, finishing his complete 
game shutout.[14] Koufax later said of his Game 1 performance, "I had nothing 
at all."[12][13] Box score for Tuesday October 2, 1962 – 1:06 PM (PST) 
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California The Giants scored first for 
the second consecutive game, as Orlando Cepeda singled with one out in 
the second inning and scored on a double by Felipe Alou against Dodgers' 
starter Don Drysdale. The Giants then extended their lead in the top of 
the sixth inning. Alou struck out to open the inning but Tom Haller then 
walked and advanced to third base on a double by José Pagán. Giants' starter 
Jack Sanford then reached based on a throwing error by Drysdale, which 
also allowed Haller to score and advanced Pagán to third base. Chuck Hiller 
and Jim Davenport followed this with successive singles which scored Pagán 
and Sanford respectively. This made the score 4–0 in favor of the Giants 
with Hiller on second and Sanford on first, still with only one out in 
the inning. Ed Roebuck entered in relief of Drysdale, inducing an out at 
second base on a groundball by Willie Mays, to leave runners at the corners 
with two outs. Willie McCovey singled, allowing Hiller to score and make 
the game 5–0; Cepeda was then retired to end the inning.[15] Jack Sanford 
had allowed just four baserunners through his first five innings, only 
one of whom reached scoring position. However, after he walked Jim Gilliam 
to open the bottom of the sixth inning, Giants' manager Alvin Dark double 
switched to bring Stu Miller in to relieve Sanford, and replaced McCovey 
in left field with Matty Alou. After the game Dark explained his decision 
to remove his thus far successful pitcher: "Sanford was suffering from 
a cold and he was pooped."[16] Duke Snider doubled, advancing Gilliam to 
third. Tommy Davis then hit a sacrifice fly, scoring Gilliam and advancing 
Snider. This run made the game 5–1 and ended what had been a 35 consecutive 
scoreless inning stretch by the Dodgers.[16][17] The Dodgers increased 
their score as Wally Moon walked and Frank Howard singled, to bring Snider 
home and make the game 5–2. Billy O'Dell relieved Miller and Doug Camilli, 
who was pinch hitting for John Roseboro, singled to load the bases. Andy 
Carey then pinch hit for Willie Davis and was hit by a pitch to score Moon. 
The Dodgers continued substituting players, pinch hitting Lee Walls for 
Roebuck and bringing in Larry Burright to pinch run for Carey. Walls then 
hit a double which emptied the bases, giving the Dodgers a 6–5 lead in 
the game, and advanced to third base on the throw.[15] Walls' double continued 
his success as a pinch hitter, making him 13-for-26 with 12 runs batted 
in in such situations for the season.[16] Don Larsen entered to relieve 
O'Dell, who had not recorded an out but had earned a blown save for his 
performance. Maury Wills hit a ground ball to the first baseman, who threw 
home in an attempt to put out Walls who slid hard into the Giants' catcher 
Haller. The slide, which cut Haller's arm deep enough to later require 
six stitches, caused him to drop the ball, leaving Walls safe on Haller's 
error and extending the Dodgers' lead to 7–5. John Orsino entered as the 
new catcher to replace the injured Haller. Wills then stole second, his 
101st stolen base of the season, before the batter Gilliam saw a single 
pitch. Orsino's throw to try to catch Wills went past second base and into 
center field. Wills attempted to advance to third, but was thrown out by 
Willie Mays.[16] Larsen then induced a flyball out by Gilliam and the inning 
was over. Between the two halves of the sixth the two teams had scored 
a combined 11 runs and used six pitchers, three pinch hitters, two defensive 
replacements, and a pinch runner.[15] Ron Perranoski entered as the new 
pitcher for the seventh, Camilli took his place as the new catcher, and 
Ron Fairly replaced Wally Moon at first base. Burright became the new second 
baseman, replacing Gilliam who moved to third base while the previous third 
baseman, Tommy Davis, moved to center field. Perranoski allowed singles 
to Orsino and Pagán after a ground out by Felipe Alou. The Giants pinch 
hit Harvey Kuenn for Matty Alou and Bob Nieman for Hiller, but both recorded 
outs to end the top of the seventh. Ernie Bowman replaced Nieman at second 
base for the Giants in the bottom of the inning and no runs scored in the 
frame. The Giants continued to hit Perranoski in the top of the eighth, 
with singles by Davenport and Mays to open the inning. Jack Smith entered 
in relief but allowed a single to Ed Bailey pinch hitting for Larsen which 
scored Davenport to cut the Dodgers' lead to 7–6. Mays attempted to advance 
to third on the play but was called out. The play drew arguments from Mays, 
Alvin Dark, and third base coach Whitey Lockman as third base umpire Jocko 
Conlan appeared to call Mays safe before changing it to out.[17] Carl Boles 
pinch ran for Bailey, and Cepeda reached on an error on his fly ball which 
allowed Boles to move to third. Stan Williams relieved Smith and walked 
Felipe Alou to load the bases. Orsino hit a sacrifice fly to tie the game 
at seven runs apiece and Pagán grounded out to end the inning.[15] Bobby 
Bolin entered as the new pitcher for the Giants in the bottom of the eighth. 
Bolin kept the game tied, as did Williams who pitched a perfect top of 
the ninth inning. Wills walked to leadoff the bottom of the ninth, however, 
and Dick LeMay relieved Bolin. Gilliam then also walked, advancing Wills 
to second. The Dodgers announced Daryl Spencer as a pinch hitter for Snider 
and the Giants countered by bringing Gaylord Perry in relief of LeMay.[17] 
Spencer laid down a successful sacrifice bunt, advancing the two runners 
to second and third base. The play drew comment after the game, as some 
writers believed Perry had a chance to throw to third base to put out the 
lead runner Wills. He threw to first instead, allowing the sacrifice.[16][17] 
Mike McCormick relieved Perry, intentionally walked Tommy Davis, and then 
allowed a game-winning walk-off sacrifice fly to Fairly driving in Wills.[15] 
Game 2 lasted 4 hours and 18 minutes, breaking the previous record of 4 
hours and 2 minutes for the longest 9-inning game in major league history.[16][17] 
Coincidentally Wills, who scored the winning run, celebrated his 30th birthday 
on the same day as Game 2.[18] Box score for Wednesday October 3, 1962 
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California Game 3 matched the Giants' 
Juan Marichal against Johnny Podres, though Dodgers' manager Walt Alston 
had considered starting reliever Larry Sherry.[19] The pair kept the game 
scoreless through two innings before the Giants opened the scoring in the 
top of the third. José Pagán singled to lead off the inning, Marichal reached 
on a throwing error by the pitcher on a throw to second base which allowed 
Pagán to move to third, and Pagán scored on a Harvey Kuenn single. Then, 
while Chuck Hiller was batting, John Roseboro made an error in attempting 
to pickoff Marichal on second base, allowing him to advance to third. Hiller 
hit a fly ball to shallow left field and Marichal held at third base. Left 
fielder Duke Snider threw home but the ball was cut off by the third baseman, 
who threw to second to try to catch Kuenn in a rundown between first and 
second.[20] However, the second baseman's throw to first hit Kuenn in the 
back, leaving him safe at first and allowing Marichal to score, to make 
the game 2–0.[20] Felipe Alou then singled, Kuenn went to third, and Alou 
advanced to second on the throw. Podres intentionally walked Willie Mays 
to load the bases with one out, and induced a double play from Orlando 
Cepeda to end the inning.[21] The Dodgers cut into the lead in the fourth,as 
Snider doubled to leadoff, advanced to third on a Tommy Davis single, and 
scored on a groundout by Frank Howard. The Giants threatened against Podres 
in the top of the sixth with singles by Cepeda, Ed Bailey, and Jim Davenport 
on a bunt to load the bases. However, Ed Roebuck relieved Podres and escaped 
the inning without allowing a run. The Dodgers took a 3–2 lead in the bottom 
of the inning as Snider singled and scored on a home run by Tommy Davis. 
They extended this lead in the bottom of the seventh as Wills singled and 
then stole second as Jim Gilliam batted. Manager Alvin Dark had chosen 
not to try to hold Wills to the first base bag as Dark did not believe 
his Giants' defense could stop Wills from stealing regardless of their 
positioning.[20] Gilliam was put out for the second out of the inning, 
but Wills stole third base and then scored on a throwing error by the catcher 
trying to catch him. This extended the Dodgers' lead to 4–2. The Dodgers 
further threatened in the bottom of the eighth. Don Larsen entered in relief 
of Marichal midway through Davis' at bat but Davis walked to lead off the 
inning regardless. Ron Fairly sacrificed him to second base and Davis then 
stole third as Howard struck out. However, Larsen intentionally walked 
both Roseboro and Willie Davis to load the bases and induced a ground out 
by Roebuck to end the inning.[21] The Giants took the decisive lead in 
the top of the ninth inning. Matty Alou pinch hit for Larsen and singled 
to lead off the inning and Kuenn grounded into a force out at second base. 
Willie McCovey pinch hit for Hiller and walked to advance Kuenn. Ernie 
Bowman pinch ran for McCovey and Felipe Alou walked to load the bases. 
Mays hit a line drive single scoring Kuenn. Roebuck barely managed to knock 
the ball down to hold Mays to a single and Mays said he was "still mad" 
after the game because he had expected more off of the hit.[20] Stan Williams 
relieved Roebuck and Cepeda hit a sacrifice fly to tie the game at 4–4 
and advance Alou to third. Mays moved to second on a wild pitch to Bailey 
and Williams intentionally walked him to reload the bases. Williams walked 
Davenport to give the Giants a 5–4 lead, and they added to it as Pagán 
reached on an error by second baseman Larry Burright allowing Mays to score 
and extend the lead to 6–4. Billy Pierce pitched a perfect bottom of the 
ninth to end the game, earning his only save of the season.[21] Had the 
Dodgers not yielded the lead in the final inning they instead would have 
earned a postseason berth, their first since winning the pennant via a 
tie-breaker in 1959.[22][23] The Giants' win earned the franchise its 17th 
playoff berth, the first since moving to San Francisco from New York in 
1958.[24] In the playoffs they faced the New York Yankees in the 1962 World 
Series which they lost in seven games, ending the Giants' season.[5] They 
returned to the playoffs in 1971 and the World Series in 1989 and 2002. 
In 2010, the Giants won their first World Series since moving to San Francisco.[24] 
The Dodgers returned to the World Series in 1963 and swept the Yankees.[22] 
The Dodgers set a new attendance record in 1962, topping the previous mark 
of 2,641,845 set by the Cleveland Indians in 1948 with a total of 2,755,184 
fans.[25][26] Game 2 was the longest nine-inning game in MLB history with 
a time of 4 hours and 18 minutes, a record which stood until April 30, 
1996 when a game between the Yankees and the Baltimore Orioles lasted 4 
hours and 21 minutes.[27][28] The record was again broken on August 18, 
2006 during a game in which the Yankees beat the Boston Red Sox 14–11 in 
4 hours and 45 minutes.[29][30][31] In baseball statistics tie-breakers 
count as regular season games, with all events in them added to regular 
season statistics. For example, Willie Mays extended his league-leading 
home run total to 49 and Maury Wills raised his record-breaking stolen 
base total from 100 to 104, the most since 1900.[32][33] Additionally Wills, 
José Pagán, and Tommy Davis played in 165, 164, and 163 games respectively, 
totals which could not have been matched by players not on the Dodgers 
or Giants.[32] Wills also won the NL Most Valuable Player Award narrowly 
over Mays, with Davis placing third in the voting.[34] Don Drysdale won 
both the Cy Young and Sporting News Pitcher of the Year awards and Jim 
Davenport, Wills, and Mays each won Rawlings Gold Glove Awards.[35] MLB 
played two All-Star Games in 1962. Four Dodgers and five Giants were named 
to the first while four Dodgers and four Giants played in the second.[35] 
Five future Hall of Famers were on the Giants roster in 1962 (Cepeda, Marichal, 
Mays, McCovey, and Perry) while the Dodgers had three (Drysdale, Koufax, 
and Snider).[26] Dodgers' manager Walt Alston was also inducted to the 
Hall as a manager in 1983.[36] Additionally, this 1962 series was the last 
MLB tie-breaker to use the three-game series format. The AL had always 
used a one-game format and all future NL tie-breakers were played in that 
