The 1962 Los Angeles Dodgers season was the fifth for the team in Southern 
California, and the 73rd for the franchise in the National League. After 
spending the previous four seasons at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, 
they began the season by opening Dodger Stadium, the team's new ballpark. 
The stadium opened on April 10 with a game against the Cincinnati Reds. 
The Dodgers proceeded to win a Los Angeles record 102 games and tied the 
San Francisco Giants for first place in the National League. The Giants 
won the ensuing playoff series two games to one. The Los Angeles Times 
described the Dodgers' season as a "gamut of sublime" and "ridiculous", 
noting their successes—such as Maury Wills' 100 stolen bases breaking Ty 
Cobb's single-season record, Don Drysdale's 25 wins, and Sandy Koufax's 
no-hitter on June 30—together with problems such as the 18 unearned runs 
the defense had allowed for the season behind Drysdale, and other fielding 
issues.[5] The Dodgers spent most of the early part of the season trying 
to keep pace with the San Francisco Giants, who established an early lead 
in the standings and continued to hold at least a share of that lead continuously 
from April 28 to June 7.[6] At that point the Dodgers overtook the Giants, 
and for the next month the lead was traded between the two sides five times. 
The Giants held the lead for the last time on July 7.[6] The Dodgers went 
20–6 in July while the Giants went 16–11, allowing the Dodgers to take 
the league lead on July 8 and hold it until season's last regular game.[7] 
The Dodgers lost 10 of their final 13 games from September 16 to 30, while 
the Giants lost just 6 over the same span. While the schedule says the 
Dodgers lost the pennant in late September/early October, it was probably 
lost on July 17 in Cincinnati. That is when star left-hander Sandy Koufax 
left his start against the Reds in the first inning with a bruised tendon 
on his finger. Koufax would miss 58 games and approximately 13 starts due 
to the injury. At the time, Koufax was 14-5 with a league-best 2.15 ERA. 
The desperate Dodgers brought Koufax back on Sept. 21 when he was clearly 
not ready. He started three games, but lasted a total of 6 2/3 innings 
and gave up nine runs and went 0-2 along with a no-decision. [6][7] However, 
with seven games remaining the Dodgers were still ahead in the league by 
four games, and later held a two-game lead with three left to play.[7] 
They entered their final game with a one-game lead over the Giants, but 
fell 1–0 to the St. Louis Cardinals. Meanwhile, the Giants won 2–1 over 
the Houston Colt .45's, after an eighth-inning home run by Willie Mays.[8] 
These results left the Dodgers and Giants tied in the league at 101–61, 
necessitating a tie-breaker to decide the NL pennant. The three-game tiebreaker 
series was considered part of the regular season for statistical purposes. 
The Giants won game one, while the Dodgers took game two. The Giants then 
took game three to capture the NL pennant. In 1962 two players set Los 
Angeles Dodgers team records that still stand. Tommy Davis, batting in 
the heart of the Dodgers' batting order, had a season that in another season 
might have earned him the National League Most Valuable Player (MVP) award. 
Davis set Dodger records with 230 hits and 153 runs batted in that have 
never been matched. In addition, Davis won the National League batting 
title with a .346 batting average, he scored 120 runs himself, and he also 
hit 27 doubles and 27 home runs. Davis finished third in the voting for 
the MVP trophy. The winner of the MVP was Davis's teammate Maury Wills, 
who set the all-time Dodger record of 104 stolen bases. This was also a 
major league season record until it was broken in 1974 by Lou Brock. Wills 
also led the league in playing in all 165 of the Dodgers' games (including 
their three-game playoff with the Giants) and with 695 at-bats. The 165 
games played in a single season remains an all-time major league record, 
and is unlikely to be broken under the current major league rules. Wills 
totaled 208 hits and 130 runs scored, and he also led the league with 10 
triples. To top it off, Wills won the Gold Glove at shortstop. All of this 
impressed the voters for the MVP more than Davis's performance did. Another 
Dodger, Don Drysdale, won the Cy Young Award as the best pitcher in Major 
League Baseball. Drysdale led the league with 25 wins, 41 games started, 
19 complete games, 314 innings pitched, and 232 strikeouts. He only suffered 
nine lost games, and he also finished fifth in the voting for the MVP trophy. 
In addition, a young pitcher named Sandy Koufax had a breakthrough year 
of a kind for the Dodgers. Koufax led the league with an earned-run average 
(ERA) of 2.54, and this was first time that he had had an ERA nearly that 
low, and it was the first of five consecutive years in which he led the 
league in ERA in just 28 games played, Koufax has a won-loss record of 
14–7, 11 complete games, and 216 strikeouts. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos 
= Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned 
