The 1962 Cincinnati Reds season was a season in American baseball the team 
finished in third place in the National League standings, with a record 
of 98–64, 3½ games behind the NL Champion San Francisco Giants. The Reds 
were managed by Fred Hutchinson, and played their home games at Crosley 
Field. The Reds entered the season as the defending NL Champions, having 
won the '61 pennant by four games over the second-place Dodgers. The Reds' 
lineup returned intact, although sophomore Leo Cardenas was set to replace 
veteran Eddie Kasko at shortstop, putting the versatile Kasko in a "super-sub" 
role. That all changed in spring training when slugging third-baseman Gene 
Freese broke his ankle during an intra-squad game and missed virtually 
the entire season. The light-hitting Kasko was moved to third base, and 
played well, but the Reds sorely missed the 26 home runs and 87 RBI that 
Freese had provided the year before. The lack of Freese's big bat severely 
hurt the Reds' chances to repeat. The Dodgers and Giants dominated the 
National League most of the year, with the Reds a distant third. Aided 
by two expansion teams (the Houston Colt .45s and the New York Mets), the 
top NL teams were winning at a very high rate. By June 6, Giants were 40-16 
(.714) and the Dodgers 40-17 (.702). The Reds were playing solid baseball 
themselves (29-20, .592), but still trailed the Giants by 7 1/2 games and 
the Dodgers by seven. Cincinnati stayed a relatively distant third for 
most of the season until a nine-game winning streak Aug. 5-13 drew the 
Reds to within 6 1/2 games of the Dodgers and four games of the Giants. 
By Aug. 25, the Reds had crept to within 3 games of the Dodgers and 3 1/2 
games of the Giants, thanks to a six-game winning streak. The Giants came 
to Crosley Field to play a two-game set with the Reds Sept. 12-13, the 
last time the Giants and Reds would meet. The Reds won both games to pull 
to within 3 of the Giants with 13 games to go. The Reds had made up ground 
on both the Giants and the Dodgers, who had finally started to fade. Los 
Angeles lost star pitcher Sandy Koufax to a finger injury on July 17 against 
the Reds. The lefty missed 58 games and approximately 13 to 14 starts. 
By the time Koufax returned on Sept. 21, Los Angeles was in a tailspin. 
The Dodgers lost 10 of their last 13 regular season games including their 
last three games against St. Louis. Koufax was not fully recovered and 
was ineffective in his three late-season starts, going 0-2 plus a no decision, 
allowing nine runs in just 6 2/3 innings. The Reds couldn't fully take 
advantage of LA's struggles. After sweeping the visiting Giants in two 
games, the Reds went on a crucial nine-game road trip to New York, Philadelphia 
and Pittsburgh, and won just three of nine games, going 1-2 in each city. 
Meanwhile, the Giants also stumbled. After leaving Cincinnati, the Giants 
went to Pittsburgh and promptly got swept in a four-game series at Forbes 
Field, which marked six-straight losses. San Francisco righted the ship 
and won seven of its last 11 to tie the Dodgers at 101-61. San Francisco 
beat Los Angeles 2 games to 1 in the best of three playoff series, and 
went on to face the New York Yankees in the World Series. The Reds finished 
with virtually the same winning percentage (.605) as the one (.604) that 
was good enough to win the NL pennant in 1961. Reds right fielder Frank 
Robinson followed up his '61 MVP season with another monster year at the 
plate, slugging 39 home runs (3rd in the NL), 136 RBI (3rd in the NL), 
and his .342 batting average was just .004 behind the Dodgers' Tommy Davis 
in a race for the batting crown. Robinson also led the league with 134 
runs scored and a 1.045 OPS, while he was second in the Senior Circuit 
with 208 hits and 380 total bases. Robinson finished fourth in the NL MVP 
voting behind Maury Wills, Willie Mays and Davis. Bob Purkey emerged as 
the Reds' staff ace with a career year, compiling a 23-5 record while pitching 
288 innings. Purkey was third in the NL Cy Young Award voting behind the 
Dodgers' Don Drysdale and San Francisco's Jack Sanford. Purkey also finished 
eighth in the NL MVP voting. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos 
= Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned 
