The 1962 San Francisco Giants season was the Giants' 80th year in Major 
League Baseball, their fifth year in San Francisco since their move from 
New York following the 1957 season, and their third at Candlestick Park. 
The team finished in first place in the National League with a record of 
103 wins and 62 losses. They finished the season tied with their arch-rivals, 
the Los Angeles Dodgers, for first place in the league, necessitating a 
three-game tiebreaker playoff to determine the pennant winner. The Giants 
won two of the three games to take their first National League title since 
moving to San Francisco, making the Giants the first NL Champions of the 
162-game schedule era. They went on to the 1962 World Series, where they 
lost in seven games to the New York Yankees. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos 
= Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; SB = Stolen 
bases [6] Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; SB = Stolen 
bases Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = 
Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts October 4, 1962 at Candlestick Park in San 
Francisco Roger Maris' two-run double in the first inning set up Yankee 
starter Whitey Ford with a lead, but Willie Mays scored for the Giants 
in the second, ending Ford's record consecutive scoreless inning streak 
at 33 2⁄3. Chuck Hiller's double and Felipe Alou's hit in the third tied 
the game, but the Yankees broke the tie in the 7th on Clete Boyer's HR 
and scored three insurance runs in the final two innings. Ford's complete 
game victory was the first of six in the series, four for the Yankees and 
two for the Giants. October 5, 1962 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco 
With the Giants protecting a 1–0 lead in the 7th inning, Willie McCovey 
smashed a tremendous home run over the right field fence to boost 24-game 
winner Jack Sanford to 2–0 shutout of the Yankees, who managed only 3 hits. 
October 7, 1962 at Yankee Stadium in New York City The Yankees ended a 
scoreless tie in the 7th, scoring three times. Roger Maris drove a base 
hit off starter Billy Pierce for two runs batted in, and alert base-running 
allowed him to score the winning run in a 3–2 Yankee victory. Giants catcher 
Ed Bailey's 2-run homer in the top of the 9th left the Giants a run short. 
October 8, 1962 at Yankee Stadium in New York City For the second time 
in two days, a Giants' catcher stroked a two-run homer when Tom Haller 
hit his off Whitey Ford in the second inning. After the Yankees tied the 
score at 2–2, second baseman Chuck Hiller hit the first National League 
grand slam in World Series history in the 7th, and the Giants went on to 
win 7–3. The game marked the only appearance in this series of future Hall-of-famer 
Juan Marichal, who started for the Giants. Don Larsen was the winning pitcher 
in relief, six years to the day of his perfect game in the 1956 World Series. 
October 10, 1962 at Yankee Stadium in New York City Hot hitting José Pagán 
drove in two runs with a single in the third and a home run in the 5th, 
but with the score tied 2–2 in the 8th, Tom Tresh walloped what proved 
to be the winning homer, a three-run shot that scored Bobby Richardson 
and Tony Kubek in front of him. With the series returning to San Francisco 
the Yankees had the edge, 3 games to 2, only to have the sixth game delayed 
four days by rain. October 15, 1962 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco 
In a battle of left-handed starting pitchers, Pierce out-dueled Ford and 
tossed a brilliant complete-game 3-hitter as the Giants evened the series 
at three wins apiece with a 5–2 victory. The Yankees' only runs came on 
a Maris solo home run in the 5th inning and an RBI single by Tony Kubek 
in the 8th inning. October 16, 1962 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco 
The only run of this classic game occurred in the 5th inning when Tony 
Kubek grounded into a double play, with Bill Skowron scoring from third. 
Ralph Terry, pitching the seventh game instead of Jim Bouton because of 
the rain delays, had given up Bill Mazeroski's Series-winning walk-off 
home run two years earlier in Pittsburgh but in his third start completely 
stifled the Giants' power hitters. In the bottom of the 9th, pinch-hitter 
Matty Alou, batting for relief pitcher Billy O'Dell, led off the inning 
with a bunt base hit after first having a foul ball dropped, but Terry 
struck out the next two batters, Felipe Alou and Hiller. Mays hit a double 
into the right field corner, but Maris brilliantly played the carom, then 
hit cut-off man Richardson with a throw that was relayed perfectly to home. 
Alou, already aware of Maris' great arm, stopped at third. Facing Willie 
McCovey with two outs, Terry elected to pitch to him rather than walk the 
bases loaded and bring up Orlando Cepeda. Terry's inside fastball on the 
second pitch completely handcuffed McCovey, who nonetheless adjusted his 
bat in mid-swing to extend his arms and hit what he later claimed was the 
hardest ball he had ever struck. The line drive appeared at first to be 
going over the head of a perfectly positioned Richardson, but was in fact 
sinking from topspin, and Richardson made the catch without leaping to 
end the game. The Yankees won their 20th World Championship; they would 
