The 1963 World Series matched the two-time defending champion New York 
Yankees against the Los Angeles Dodgers, with the Dodgers sweeping the 
Series in four games to capture their second title in five years, and their 
third in franchise history. Starting pitchers Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale, 
and Johnny Podres, and ace reliever Ron Perranoski combined to give up 
only four runs in four games. The dominance of the Dodgers pitchers was 
so complete that at no point in any of the four games did the Yankees have 
the lead. This was the first time that the New York Yankees were swept 
in a World Series in four games (the 1922 World Series had one tie). Of 
the Los Angeles Dodgers four World Series championships since the opening 
of Dodger Stadium, this was the only one won at Dodger Stadium. Also, of 
the six championships from the Dodgers franchise, it remains the only one 
won at home. This series was also the first meeting between teams from 
New York City and Los Angeles for a major professional sports championship.[1][2] 
Seven more such meetings have followed with three more times each in the 
World Series and the NBA Finals, and the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals.[2] Despite 
injuries that limited Mickey Mantle to just 65 games, the Yankees went 
104–57 to win their fourth straight American League pennant—this one by 
10 1⁄2 games. Catcher Elston Howard (.287 BA, 28 HRs, 85 RBI) won the MVP 
Award, while Joe Pepitone, Roger Maris, and Tom Tresh also topped the 20 
home run mark. Their pitching was anchored by Whitey Ford (24 wins, 2.74 
ERA) and Jim Bouton (21 wins, 2.53 ERA). The Dodgers' road to the World 
Series was much more challenging. After blowing a four-game lead with seven 
to play in 1962, the Dodgers again built a lead in 1963. On August 21, 
the Dodgers beat the Cardinals 2–1 in 16 innings to take a 7 1⁄2 game lead. 
When they went to St. Louis for a three-game series on September 16, their 
lead was one game over the Cardinals, who had won 19 of 20 games. Sports 
fans around the country were saying how the Dodgers were going to blow 
it again. But the Dodgers swept the three games from the Cardinals to move 
four games ahead with nine to play; a 4–1 win over the Mets clinched the 
pennant in the season's 158th game. NL Los Angeles Dodgers (4) vs. AL New 
York Yankees (0) Sandy Koufax started it off with a then record fifteen-strikeout 
performance in Game 1. It bested fellow Dodgers pitcher Carl Erskine's 
mark in 1953 by one, and would be surpassed by Bob Gibson in 1968. Koufax 
also tied a World Series record when he fanned the first five Yankee batters 
he faced in that game. Since "K" is the time-honored scoring symbol for 
"strikeout" (Vin Scully once remarked that "Koufax's name will always remind 
you of strikeouts"), some newspapers' headlines for the game coverage consisted 
simply of Koufax's surname prefixed by fifteen K's. Clete Boyer was the 
only Yankee regular not to be struck out against Koufax. Mickey Mantle, 
Tom Tresh and Tony Kubek were struck out twice each, and Bobby Richardson 
was struck out three times—his only three-strikeout game in 1448 regular 
season/World Series games. (Just that regular season, Richardson had been 
struck out only 22 times in 630 at-bats, without even being struck out 
twice in one game.) Koufax also struck out three pinch-hitters, including 
Harry Bright to end the game. Willie Davis doubled in two runs in the first 
inning, former Yankee Bill Skowron homered, and Tommy Davis had two triples 
to lead the Dodger offense. Dodger manager Walt Alston went with #3 starter 
Johnny Podres over #2 starter Don Drysdale because he was left-handed and 
the Yankee Stadium was favorable to left hand pitchers. Podres delivered 
a six-hitter through 8 1⁄3 innings; ace reliever Ron Perranoski got the 
last two outs, and the Dodgers headed home with 2–0 Series lead. Don Drysdale 
pitched a masterful three-hitter at Dodger Stadium in his complete-game 
win. Manager Walter Alston called Drysdale's performance "one of the greatest 
pitched games I ever saw." Jim Bouton, making his first World Series start, 
dueled Drysdale throughout, permitting only four hits. The lone Dodger 
run came in the bottom of the first on a Jim Gilliam walk, a wild pitch 
and a single by Tommy Davis. The final out came on Joe Pepitone's drive 
that backed Dodger right fielder Ron Fairly up against the bullpen gate 
to make the catch of a ball that would have been a home run in Yankee Stadium. 
The Dodgers scored first in the bottom of the fifth on a monumental Frank 
Howard home run into the second deck at the Dodger Stadium. The Yankees 
tied it on a Mickey Mantle home run in the top of the seventh. But in the 
bottom of the inning, Gilliam hit a high hopper to Yankee third baseman 
Clete Boyer; Boyer leaped to make the grab, and fired to first base. But 
first baseman Joe Pepitone lost Boyer's peg in the white-shirted crowd 
background; the ball struck Pepitone in the arm and rolled down the right 
field line, allowing Gilliam to scamper all the way to third base. He then 
scored a moment later on Willie Davis' sacrifice fly. Sandy Koufax went 
on to hold the Yankees for the final two innings for a 2–1 victory and 
the Dodgers' third world championship. The World Series Most Valuable Player 
Award went to Sandy Koufax, who started two of the four games and had two 
complete game victories. To date, Game 4 is the only time the Dodgers have 
won the deciding game of a World Series at home. 1963 World Series (4–0): 
Los Angeles Dodgers (N.L.) over New York Yankees (A.L.) World Series Teams 
