The 1963 Major League Baseball season was contested from April to October 
1963. The American League and National League both featured ten teams, 
with each team playing a 162-game schedule. In the World Series the Los 
Angeles Dodgers swept the New York Yankees in four straight games. The 
Dodgers' stellar pitching staff, anchored by left-hander Sandy Koufax and 
right-hander Don Drysdale, was so dominant that the vaunted Yankees, despite 
the presence of sluggers such as Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris in their 
lineup, never took a lead against Los Angeles the entire Series. 1 National 
League Triple Crown Pitching Winner In the American League, the Yankees 
were in the 4th of 5 straight pennant winning years, and, led by MVP Elston 
Howard, cruised to the American League title by 10.5 games over the 2nd 
place White Sox. In the National League, most experts figured the San Francisco 
Giants and Los Angeles Dodgers would be locked in another battle for the 
pennant, much like 1962 when the Giants came from behind and beat the Dodgers 
in a playoff. The Dodgers started slowly, perhaps feeling the hangover 
effect from blowing the pennant the year before. They were 2 games under 
.500 in early May, and trailed the surprising St. Louis Cardinals by 4.5 
games. Then their pitching asserted itself, and on August 28, the Dodgers 
led the Giants by 5.5 games and the Cardinals by 6.5 games. The Cardinals 
proceeded to win 19 of their next 20 games and, while the Dodgers didn't 
exactly slump, they went "only" 14–7 during that same period. Thus, the 
Dodgers went into St. Louis on September 16 to play the Cardinals in a 
3-game series leading by only 1 game. With the memory of blowing the 1962 
pennant fresh in their minds, the Dodgers proceeded to sweep the Cardinals 
and take a 4-game lead with 7 games to go. The key game was the third one; 
the Cardinals led 5–1 in the 8th inning and a win would move them back 
to within 2 games of L.A. But the Dodgers got 3 in the 8th and in the top 
of the 9th, late season call up Dick Nen, in only his 8th major league 
at bat, hit a pinch hit homer to force extra innings. The Cardinals got 
a leadoff triple from Dick Groat in the 10th but could not score. The Dodgers 
then scored an unearned run in the 13th inning and won, 6–5. The disheartened 
Cardinals then lost their next 3 games as well while the Dodgers won 3 
of their next 4 to clinch the pennant with 6 games left. In an attempt 
to create an identity distinguishable from all other teams, Kansas City 
Athletics owner Charlie Finley changed the team uniforms to kelly green 
and yellow. This tradition of "green and gold" has been preserved to this 
day, although the kelly green has since been replaced with forest green. 
Finley also changed the Athletics' cleats to white instead of the standard 
black. Coaches and managers were also given white hats, which were dropped 
when the Athletics adopted new colors in 1993. The white cleats were dropped 
