The 1964/1965 New York World's Fair was the third major world's fair to 
be held in New York City.[1] However, the fair did not receive official 
sanctioning from the Bureau of International Expositions (BIE). Hailing 
itself as a "universal and international" exposition, the fair's theme 
was "Peace Through Understanding", dedicated to "Man's Achievement on a 
Shrinking Globe in an Expanding Universe". American companies dominated 
the exposition as exhibitors. The theme was symbolized by a 12-story high, 
stainless-steel model of the earth called the Unisphere.[2] The fair ran 
for two six-month seasons, April 22 – October 18, 1964 and April 21 – October 
17, 1965. Admission price for adults (13 and older) was $2 in 1964 (equivalent 
to $15.29 in 2015) but $2.50 in 1965, and $1 for children (2–12) both years 
(equivalent to $7.64 in 2015).[3] The fair is noted as a showcase of mid-20th-century 
American culture and technology. The nascent Space Age, with its vista 
of promise, was well represented. More than 51 million people attended 
the fair, though fewer than the hoped-for 70 million. It remains a touchstone 
for New York–area Baby Boomers, who visited the optimistic fair as children 
before the turbulent years of the Vietnam War, cultural changes, and increasing 
domestic violence associated with the civil rights movement. In many ways 
the fair symbolized a grand consumer show covering many products produced 
in America at the time for transportation, living, and consumer electronic 
needs in a way that would never be repeated at future world's fairs in 
North America. Most major American manufacturing companies from pen manufacturers 
to auto companies had a major presence. This fair gave many attendees their 
first interaction with computer equipment. Many corporations demonstrated 
the use of mainframe computers, computer terminals with keyboards and CRT 
displays, teletype machines, punch cards, and telephone modems in an era 
when computer equipment was kept in back offices away from the public, 
decades before the Internet and home computers were at everyone's disposal. 
The site, Flushing Meadows Corona Park in the borough of Queens, was previously 
Manhattan's Corona Ash Dumps featured prominently in F. Scott Fitzgerald's 
The Great Gatsby as the Valley of Ashes. Prior to that, the site had been 
a natural wetland — literally wetland meadows that would flush the nearby 
runoff entering the adjacent bay. Flushing Meadows had been a Dutch settlement, 
named after the village of Vlissingen (which translates from Dutch to English 
as "flushing"). Subsequently the site was reclaimed for the 1939/1940 New 
York World's Fair, one of the largest world's fairs to be held in the United 
States, occupying nearly a square mile (2.6 km2) of land. The 1939 fair 
also occupied space that was filled in for the 1964/1965 exposition. Preceding 
these fairs was the 1853–54 New York's World's Fair, called the Exhibition 
of the Industry of All Nations, located in the New York Crystal Palace 
on what is now Bryant Park in the borough of Manhattan, New York City (All 
three of New York's world's fairs were the only international expositions 
to run for two years, rather than one). The 1964/1965 Fair was conceived 
by a group of New York businessmen who remembered their childhood experiences 
at the 1939 New York World's Fair. Thoughts of an economic boom to the 
city as the result of increased tourism was a major reason for holding 
another fair 25 years after the 1939/1940 extravaganza.[4] Then-New York 
City mayor, Robert F. Wagner, Jr., commissioned Frederick Pittera, a producer 
of international fairs and exhibitions, and author of the history of International 
Fairs & Exhibitions for the Encyclopaedia Britannica and Compton's Encyclopedia, 
to prepare the first feasibility studies for the 1964/1965 New York World's 
Fair. He was joined by Austrian architect Victor Gruen (creator of the 
shopping mall) in studies that eventually led the Eisenhower Commission 
to award the world's fair to New York City in competition with a number 
of American cities. Organizers turned to private financing and the sale 
of bonds to pay the huge costs to stage them. The organizers hired New 
York's "Master Builder" Robert Moses, to head the corporation established 
to run the fair because he was experienced in raising money for vast public 
projects. Moses had been a formidable figure in the city since coming to 
power in the 1930s. He was responsible for the construction of much of 
the city's highway infrastructure and, as parks commissioner for decades, 
the creation of much of the city's park system. In the mid-1930s, Moses 
oversaw the conversion of a vast Queens tidal marsh/garbage dump into the 
fairgrounds that hosted the 1939/1940 World's Fair.[5] Called Flushing 
Meadows Park, it was Moses' grandest park scheme. He envisioned this vast 
park, comprising some 1,300 acres (5 km2) of land, easily accessible from 
Manhattan, as a major recreational playground for New Yorkers. When the 
1939/1940 World's Fair ended in financial failure, Moses did not have the 
available funds to complete work on his project. He saw the 1964/1965 Fair 
as a means to finish what the earlier fair had begun.[6] To ensure profits 
to complete the park, fair organizers knew they would have to maximize 
receipts. An attendance of 70 million people would be needed to turn a 
profit and, for attendance that large, the fair would need to be held for 
two years. The World's Fair Corporation also decided to charge site rental 
fees to all exhibitors who wished to construct pavilions on the grounds. 
This decision caused the fair to come into conflict with the Bureau of 
International Expositions (BIE), the international body headquartered in 
Paris that sanctions world's fairs: BIE rules stated that an international 
exposition could run for one six-month period only, and no rent could be 
charged to exhibitors. In addition, the rules allowed only one exposition 
in any given country within a 10-year period, and the Seattle World's Fair 
had already been sanctioned for 1962.[5] The United States was not a member 
of the BIE at the time, but fair organizers understood that a sanction 
by the BIE would assure that its nearly 40 member nations would participate 
in the fair. Moses, undaunted by the rules, journeyed to Paris to seek 
official approval for the New York fair. When the BIE balked at New York's 
bid, Moses, used to having his way in New York, angered the BIE delegates 
by taking his case to the press, publicly stating his disdain for the BIE 
and its rules.[5] The BIE retaliated by formally requesting its member 
nations not to participate in the New York fair.[5] The 1939/1940 and 1964/1965 
New York World's Fairs were the only significant world's fairs since the 
formation of the BIE to be held without its endorsement.[citation needed] 
Many of the pavilions were built in a Mid-Century modern style that was 
heavily influenced by "Googie architecture". This was a futurist architectural 
style influenced by car culture, jet aircraft, the Space Age, and the Atomic 
Age, which were all on display at the fair. Some pavilions were explicitly 
shaped like the product they were promoting, such as the US Royal tire-shaped 
Ferris wheel, or even the corporate logo, such as the Johnson Wax pavilion. 
Other pavilions were more abstract representations, such as the oblate 
spheroid shaped IBM pavilion, or the General Electric circular dome shaped 
"Carousel of Progress". The pavilion architectures often expressed a new-found 
freedom of form enabled by modern building materials, such as reinforced 
concrete, fiberglass, plastic, tempered glass, and stainless steel. The 
facade or the entire structure of a pavilion served as a giant billboard 
advertising the country or organization housed inside, flamboyantly competing 
for the attention of busy and distracted fairgoers. By contrast, some of 
the smaller international, US state, and organizational pavilions were 
built in more traditional styles, such as a Swiss chalet or a Chinese temple. 
After the fair's final closing in 1965, some pavilions crafted of wood 
were carefully disassembled and transported elsewhere for re-use. Other 
pavilions were "decorated sheds", a building method later described by 
Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown, using plain structural shells embellished 
with applied decorations. This allowed designers to simulate a traditional 
style while bypassing expensive and time-consuming methods of traditional 
construction. The expedient was considered acceptable for temporary buildings 
planned to be used for only two years, and then to be demolished. The BIE 
rejection was nearly a disaster for the fair. The absence of Canada, Australia, 
most of the major European nations and the Soviet Union, all members of 
the BIE, tarnished the image of the fair.[5] Additionally, New York was 
forced to compete with both Seattle and Montreal for international participants, 
with many nations choosing the officially sanctioned world's fairs of those 
cities over the New York Fair. The fair turned to trade and tourism organizations 
within many countries to sponsor national exhibits in lieu of official 
government sponsorship of pavilions. New York City, in the middle of the 
20th century, was at a zenith of economic power and world prestige. Unconcerned 
by BIE rules, nations with smaller economies (as well as private groups 
in (or relevant to) some BIE members[8][9][10][11][12]) saw it as an honor 
to host an exhibit at the Fair.[citation needed] Therefore, smaller nations 
made up the majority of the international participation. Spain,[13] Vatican 
City,[14] Japan,[15] Mexico,[16] Sweden,[17] Austria,[18] Denmark,[19] 
Thailand,[20] Philippines,[21] Greece,[22] and Pakistan,[23] and Ireland 
to name some, hosted national presences at the Fair. Indonesia sponsored 
a pavilion, but relations deteriorated rapidly between that nation and 
the USA during 1964, fueled by anti-Western and anti-American rhetoric 
and policies by Indonesian president Sukarno, which angered U.S. President 
Lyndon Johnson. Indonesia withdrew from the United Nations in January 1965, 
and officially from the Fair in March. The Fair Corporation then seized 
and shut down the Indonesian pavilion, and it remained closed and barricaded 
for the 1965 season.[24] One of the fair's most popular exhibits was the 
Vatican Pavilion, where Michelangelo's Pietà was displayed and brought 
in from St Peter's Basilica with the permission of Pope John XXIII; a small 
plaza, exedra monument, marking the spot (and Pope Paul VI's visit in October 
1965) remains there today. A modern copy, replica had been transported 
beforehand to ensure that the statue could be conveyed without being damaged. 
This copy is now on view at St. Joseph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, in Yonkers. 
It is currently in the Immaculate Conception Seminary in Douglaston, NY. 
The exedra monument is now utilized with permits since 1975 for prayer 
Vigils by Our Lady of the Roses relocated from Bayside, NY. A recreation 
of a medieval Belgian village proved very popular. Fairgoers were treated 
to the "Bel-Gem Brussels Waffle"—a combination of waffle, strawberries 
and whipped cream, sold by a Brussels couple, Maurice Vermersch and his 
wife.[25] Fairgoers could also enjoy sampling sandwiches from around the 
world at the popular Seven Up International Gardens Pavilion which featured 
the innovative fiberglass Seven Up Tower.[26][27] While dining, visitors 
were treated to live performances of international music by the 7-Up Continental 
Band as well as musical selections from the Broadway stage.[28][29] Emerging 
African nations displayed their wares in the Africa Pavilion. Controversy 
broke out when the Jordanian pavilion displayed a mural emphasizing the 
plight of the Palestinian people. The Jordanians also donated an ancient 
column which remains at their former site. The city of West Berlin, a Cold 
War hot-spot, hosted a popular display. The US Pavilion was titled "Challenge 
to Greatness" and focused on President Lyndon B. Johnson's "Great Society" 
proposals. The main show in the multimillion-dollar pavilion was a 15-minute 
ride through a filmed presentation of American history. Visitors seated 
in moving grandstands rode past movie screens that slid in, out and over 
the path of the traveling audience. Elsewhere, there were tributes to President 
John F. Kennedy, who had broken ground for the pavilion in December 1962 
but had been assassinated in November 1963 before the fair opened. A 2-acre 
(8,100 m2) United States Space Park was sponsored by NASA, the Department 
of Defense and the fair. Exhibits included a full-scale model of the aft 
skirt and five F-1 engines of the first stage of a Saturn V, a Titan II 
booster with a Gemini capsule, an Atlas with a Mercury capsule and a Thor-Delta 
rocket. On display at ground level were Aurora 7, the Mercury capsule flown 
on the second US manned orbital flight; full-scale models of an X-15 aircraft, 
an Agena upper stage; a Gemini spacecraft; an Apollo command/service module, 
and a Lunar Excursion Module. Replicas of unmanned spacecraft included 
lunar probe Ranger VII; Mariner II and Mariner IV; Syncom, Telstar I, and 
Echo II communications satellites; Explorer I and Explorer XVI; and Tiros 
and Nimbus weather satellites.[30] New York played host to the fair at 
its six-million-dollar open-air pavilion called the "Tent of Tomorrow." 
Designed by famed modernist architect Philip Johnson, the 350-foot-by-250-foot 
pavilion was supported by sixteen 100-foot-high concrete columns, from 
which a 50,000-square-foot roof of polychrome tiles was suspended. Complementing 
the pavilion were the fair's three high-spot observation towers, two of 
which had cafeterias in their in-the-round observation-deck crowns. The 
pavilion's main floor, used for local art and industry displays including 
a 26-foot scale reproduction of the New York State Power Authority's St. 
Lawrence hydroelectric plant, comprised a 9,000-square-foot terrazzo replica 
of the official Texaco highway map of New York State, displaying the map's 
cities, towns, routes and Texaco gas stations in 567 mosaic panels.[31] 
An idea floated after the fair to use the floor for the World Trade Center 
did not materialize. The Fair was held in New York in honor of the 300th 
Anniversary of the naming of New York when King Charles II sent an English 
fleet to reclaim it from the Dutch in 1664. Prince James, the Duke of York 
named it New York from New Amsterdam. Wisconsin exhibited the "World's 
Largest Cheese." Florida brought a dolphin show, flamingos, a talented 
cockatoo from Miami's Parrot Jungle, and water skiers to New York. Oklahoma 
gave weary fairgoers a restful park to relax in. Missouri displayed the 
state's space-related industries. Visitors could dine at Hawaii's "Five 
Volcanoes" restaurant. At the New York City pavilion, the "Panorama of 
the City of New York", a huge scale model of the City was on display, complete 
with a simulated helicopter ride around the metropolis for easy viewing.[32] 
Left over from the 1939 Fair, this building had also hosted the United 
Nations from 1947 to 1952. And prior to 1947 it was used partially as a 
recreational public roller skating rink. Louisiana had a pavilion called 
"Louisiana's Bourbon Street" (later renamed to just "Bourbon Street"), 
which was inspired by New Orleans' French Quarter. It started off with 
financial trouble, not being able to complete its construction and subsequently 
filing for bankruptcy. A private company, called Pavilion Property, bought 
up the assets and assumed its debts. This prompted Louisiana Governor John 
McKeithen to sever all ties and withdraw state's sanction, leaving the 
pavilion completely to private enterprise. Special media attention was 
given to a racially integrated minstrel show, that was intended to be satirical 
anti-bigotry, called "America, Be Seated", produced by Mike Todd Jr. During 
the opening of the fair, several civil rights protests were staged by members 
of the NAACP, who believed that the "minstrel-style" show was demeaning 
to African-Americans. The pavilion included ten theater restaurants, which 
served a variety of Creole food, a Jazz club called "Jazzland" which hosted 
live jazz artists, miniature Mardi Gras parades, a teenage dancing venue, 
a voodoo shop, and a doll museum. Due to the presence of the various bars, 
the pavilion was especially popular at night. Notable go-go dancer Candy 
Johnson headlined a show at a venue called "Gay New Orleans Nightclub". 
Near the closure of the fair, the pavilion was reported to have achieved 
the highest gross income of any single commercial pavilion at the fair. 
The 26-year-old director of operations, Gordon Novel, was called an "Entrepreneurial 
Prodigy & Boy Wonder" in Variety for his accomplishments.[33][34][35][36][37][38][39][40][41][42][43] 
At the New York World's Fair of 1939/1940, industrial exhibitors played 
a major role by hosting huge, elaborate exhibits. Many of them returned 
to the New York World's Fair of 1964/1965 with even more elaborate versions 
of the shows they had presented 25 years earlier. The most notable of these 
was General Motors Corporation whose Futurama, a show in which visitors 
seated in moving chairs glided past elaborately detailed miniature 3D model 
scenery showing what life might be like in the "near-future", proved to 
be the fair's most popular exhibit. Nearly 26 million people took the journey 
into the future during the fair's two-year run. The IBM Corporation had 
a popular pavilion, where a giant 500-seat grandstand called the "People 
Wall" was pushed by hydraulic rams high up into an ellipsoidal theater 
designed by Eero Saarinen. There, a film by Charles and Ray Eames titled 
Think was shown on fourteen projetors on nine screens, illuminating the 
workings of computer logic.[44] At ground level beneath the theater, visitors 
could explore Mathematica: A World of Numbers... and Beyond (an exhibit 
of mathematical models and curiosities) and view the Mathematics Peep Show 
(a series of short films illustrating basic mathematical concepts).[45] 
IBM also demonstrated handwriting recognition on a mainframe computer that 
would look up what happened on a particular date that a person wrote down—for 
many visitors, this was their first hands-on interaction with a computer. 
The Bell System (prior to its break up into regional companies) hosted 
a 15-minute ride in moving armchairs depicting the history of communications 
in dioramas and film. Other Bell exhibits included the Picturephone as 
well as a demonstration of the computer modem. DuPont presented a musical 
review by composer Michael Brown called "The Wonderful World of Chemistry". 
At Parker Pen's exhibit, a computer would make a match to an international 
penpal. The Westinghouse Corporation planted a second time capsule next 
to the 1939 one; today both Westinghouse Time Capsules are marked by a 
monument southwest of the Unisphere which is to be opened in the year 6939. 
Some of its contents were a World's Fair Guidebook, an electric toothbrush, 
credit cards (relatively new at the time) and a 50-star United States flag. 
The Sinclair Oil Corporation sponsored "Dinoland", featuring life-size 
replicas of nine different dinosaurs, including the corporation's signature 
Brontosaurus.[46] The statues were created by Louis Paul Jonas Studios 
in Mahopac, New York.[47][48] The Ford Motor Company introduced the Ford 
Mustang automobile to the public at its pavilion on April 17, 1964. The 
Ford pavilion featured the "Ford's Magic Skyway" ride, in which guests 
rode in Ford convertibles past scenes featuring dinosaurs, cavemen, and 
a futuristic cityscape.[49] The Chunky Candy Corporation put on what was 
then a state-of-the-art, transparent display of candy manufacturing in 
full sight for visitors, where they were able to view "all the steps in 
a highly automated process..."[50] The Pavilion also included an interactive 
sculpture playground, 'Sculpture Continuum,' designed by Oliver O'Connor 
Barrett."The individual sculptures were assembled in a particular array 
so that peepholes in the pieces provided sight lines that resulted in composite 
forms becoming visible to the viewer."[51] The fair was also a showplace 
for independent films. One of the most noted was a religious film titled 
Parable, which showed at the Protestant Pavilion. It depicted humanity 
as a traveling circus and Christ as a clown.[52] This marked the beginning 
of a new depiction of Jesus,[53] and was the inspiration for the musical 
Godspell. Parable later went on to be honored at Cannes, as well as the 
Edinburgh Film Festival and Venice Film Festival.[53] Another religious 
film was presented by the evangelist Billy Graham (who had sponsored his 
own pavilion) called Man in the 5th Dimension, which was shot in the 70mm 
Todd-AO widescreen process for exclusive presentation in a specially designed 
theater equipped with audio equipment that enabled viewers to listen to 
the film in Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Russian, and Spanish.[54] 
The 13 and one-half minute film Man's Search for Happiness was made for 
the Mormon Pavilion[55] and was shown within The Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints for decades.[citation needed] The surprise hit of 
the fair was a non-commercial movie short presented by the SC Johnson Company 
(S.C. Johnson Wax) called To Be Alive!. The film celebrated the joy of 
life found worldwide and in all cultures, and it would later win a special 
award from the New York Film Critics Circle and an Academy Award for Best 
Documentary (Short Subject).[citation needed] The fair also is remembered 
as the venue Walt Disney used to design and perfect his system of "Audio-Animatronics", 
in which a combination of electromechanical actuators and computers controls 
the movement of lifelike robots to act out scenes.[56] WED Enterprises 
designed and created four shows at the fair: WED also created the 120-foot-high 
Tower of the Four Winds, which was located at the It's a Small World pavilion. 
In addition, costumed versions of Walt Disney's famous cartoon characters 
roamed around the fairgrounds and interacted with guests. After the fair, 
there was some discussion of the Disney company retaining these exhibits 
on-site and converting Flushing Meadows Park into an East Coast version 
of Disneyland,[citation needed] but this idea was abandoned. Instead, Disney 
relocated several of these exhibits to Disneyland in Anaheim, California 
and subsequently replicated them at other Disney theme parks. Today's Walt 
Disney World in Orlando, Florida is essentially the realization of the 
original concept of an "East Coast Disneyland" with Epcot Center designed 
as a "permanent" world's fair.[57] All four attractions from 1964 are still 
represented in one way or another: Two attractions from the fair are relatively 
unchanged, including a replica of "It's a small world" and the original 
(albeit updated) Carousel of Progress. Versions of "It's a small world" 
are an attraction at all five Disney Magic Kingdom-style parks, and its 
theme song is among the most widely known on the planet.[citation needed] 
The two remaining attractions exist as evolutions of the originals. The 
dinosaurs from Ford's Magic Skyway became the Disneyland Railroad Primeval 
World diorama, and the motorized tires embedded in the track which propelled 
and regulated the speed of ride vehicles inspired Disneyland's PeopleMover, 
and later the Tomorrowland Transit Authority of Walt Disney World Resort's 
Magic Kingdom. "Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln" was expanded into The Hall 
of Presidents. Meanwhile, Disneyland still hosts the original "It's a small 
world" and "Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln" transferred from New York, 
as well as the now-unused track of the original Disneyland PeopleMover 
based on the Ford's Magic Skyway. The original Carousel of Progress was 
first moved to Disneyland in 1967 and then to its current home at the (Florida) 
Magic Kingdom in 1973. Disney later used technologies developed for the 
fair to create the Pirates of the Caribbean attraction. Epcot Center's 
original attractions borrowed heavily from the audio-animatronic advances 
of the fair and its general design guidelines.[citation needed] One of 
the fair's major crowd-attracting and financial shortcomings was the absence 
of a midway. The fair's organizers were opposed, on principle, to the honky-tonk 
atmosphere engendered by midways, and this was another thing that irked 
the BIE, which insisted that all officially sanctioned fairs have a midway. 
What amusements the fair actually had ended up being largely dull. The 
Meadow Lake Amusement Area was not easily accessible, and officials objected 
to shows being advertised. Furthermore, although the Amusement Area was 
supposed to remain open for four hours after the exhibits closed at 10 pm, 
the fair presented a fountain-and-fireworks show every night at 9 pm at 
the Pool of Industry. Fairgoers would see this show and then leave the 
fair rather than head to the Amusement Area; one was hard pressed to see 
anyone on the fairgrounds by midnight. The fair's big entertainment spectacles, 
including the "Wonder World" at the Meadow Lake Amphitheater, "To Broadway 
with Love" in the Texas Pavilion, and Dick Button's "Ice-travaganza" in 
the New York City Pavilion, all closed ahead of schedule, with heavy losses. 
It became apparent that fairgoers did not go to the fair for its entertainment 
value, especially as there was plenty of entertainment in Manhattan.[58] 
A notable exception to this situation was Les Poupées de Paris (The Dolls 
of Paris), an adults-only musical puppet show created, produced and directed 
by Sid and Marty Krofft. This show, modeled after the Paris revues Lido 
and Folies Bergère, was heavily attended, and financially successful.[59] 
The fair ended in controversy over allegations of financial mismanagement. 
Controversy had plagued it during much of its two-year run. The Fair Corporation 
had taken in millions of dollars in advance ticket sales for both the 1964 
and 1965 seasons. However, the receipts of these sales were booked entirely 
against the first season of the fair.[5] This made it appear that the fair 
had plenty of operating cash when, in fact, it was borrowing from the second 
season's gate to pay the bills. Before and during the 1964 season, the 
fair spent much money despite attendance that was below expectations. By 
the end of the 1964 season, Moses and the press began to realize that there 
would not be enough money to pay the bills and the fair teetered on bankruptcy.[5] 
In March 1965 a group of bankers and politicians asked showman Billy Rose 
to take over the fair, which he declined stating: "I'd rather be hit by 
a baseball bat" and "cancer in its last stages never attracted me very 
much".[34][60] While the 1939–1940 New York World's Fair returned 40 cents 
on the dollar to bond investors, the 1964/1965 fair returned only 19.2 
cents on the dollar.[5] New York City was left with a much improved Flushing 
Meadows Park following the fair, taking possession of the park from the 
Fair Corporation in June 1967. Today, it is heavily used for both walking 
and recreation. The paths and their names remain almost unchanged from 
the days of the fair. At the center of the park stands the symbol of "Man's 
Achievements on a Shrinking Globe in an Expanding Universe" – the fair's 
Unisphere symbol, depicting our earth of "The Space Age". The Unisphere 
was made famous again in 1997 when it was featured in the film Men in Black 
(in the film, The Unisphere is destroyed by a crashing space ship). The 
Unisphere has become a symbol of Queens, and has appeared on the cover 
of the borough's telephone directory books. The city also inherited a multimillion-dollar 
Science Museum and Space Park exhibiting the rockets and vehicles used 
in America's early space exploration projects. The Space Park deteriorated 
due to neglect, but in 2004 the surviving rockets were restored and placed 
back on display. The outdoors exhibit is now part of the expanded New York 
Hall of Science, a portion of whose building is also a remnant of the fair. 
The carousel that was the centerpiece of Carousel Park in the Lake Amusement 
Area (which was previously two carousels from Coney Island that were merged 
for the fair) was relocated to the former Transportation Area outside of 
the Queens Zoo in the park where it still operates today. Both the New 
York State Pavilion and the United States Pavilion were retained for future 
use. No reuse was ever found for the U.S. Pavilion; however, and it became 
severely deteriorated and vandalized; the U.S. Pavilion building was ultimately 
demolished in 1977. The New York State Pavilion found no residual use other 
than as TV and movie sets, such as an episode of McCloud; for The Wiz; 
and part of the setting (and the plot) for Men in Black. In the decades 
after the fair closed, it remained an abandoned and badly neglected relic, 
with its roof gone and the once bright floors and walls almost faded away. 
Once the red ceiling tiles were removed from the pavilion in the late 1970s 
for safety reasons, the Texaco terrazzo floor map of New York State was 
subject to the elements of weather and was ruined. In 1994, the Queens 
Theatre took over the Circarama adjacent to the towers and continues to 
operate there, using the ruined state pavilion as a storage depot. Some 
conservation and restoration efforts were demonstrated in 2008 by researchers 
from the University of Pennsylvania, and a handful of local groups advocated 
for funds to complete the floor's restoration. The New York State Pavilion 
was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2009.[61] In 
the fall of 2013, New York City's Department of Parks and Recreation announced 
plans to restore the pavilion with new landscaped paths and event spaces 
at an estimated cost of $73 million, as opposed to the $14 million cost 
to demolish the structure.[31] Nearby, the fair's Heliport has been repurposed 
as an elevated banquet/catering facility called Terrace on the Park. Of 
the two structures from the 1939-1940 New York World's Fair that survived 
though the 1964-65 Fair—the New York City Pavilion, and the Billy Rose 
Aquacade and Amphitheater—only the New York City building is still standing. 
The Amphitheater fell into disrepair in the 1980s and was torn down in 
1996. The former New York City Pavilion is now home to the Queens Museum, 
which also continues to display the multimillion-dollar scale model "Panorama 
of the City of New York", updated from time to time.[32] As of 2012[update], 
the historic 1939 structure also has an excellent display of memorabilia 
from the two world's fairs. For many years, the section where the early 
United Nations General Assembly once met was reverted to its historic role 
as an ice skating rink, but in 2009 the skating rink was moved to a new 
recreation center across the park. In April 2011, the Queens Museum broke 
ground on an ambitious expansion project at the old skating rink that almost 
doubled its floor space, bringing the total to about 100,000 square feet 
(9,300 m2).[62] In 1978, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, as it is now called, 
became the home of the United States Tennis Association, and the US Open 
tennis tournament is played there annually. The former Singer Bowl, later 
renamed Louis Armstrong Stadium, was the tournament's primary venue, until 
the larger Arthur Ashe Stadium was built on the site of the former Federal 
Pavilion and opened in August 1997. Collectively, the complex is called 
the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. Shea Stadium, while not 
part of the fairgrounds proper, was listed in the fair's maps and was served 
by the same subway line. During the 1964 and 1965 baseball seasons, the 
New York Mets added a World's Fair commemorative patch to the left sleeve 
of their home jersey and the right sleeve of their road jersey.[63] The 
stadium—with its distinctive blue-and-orange steel panels that matched 
the colors of the World's Fair girding its exterior—opened five days before 
the Fair on April 17, 1964 at a site across Roosevelt Avenue from the Fairgrounds 
(The panels were removed in 1980). The New York Mets baseball team moved 
to the stadium from the aging Polo Grounds in Manhattan. The building then 
served as home for the Mets from 1964 to 2008, when it was demolished and 
the space used for parking for the adjacent new stadium (Citi Field) in 
2009. Shea stadium played host to the World Series four times, in 1969, 
1973, 1986, and 2000 and Citi Field hosted games 3, 4, and 5 of the 2015 
World Series. Shea Stadium also served as the home of the New York Jets 
from 1964 to 1983, the New York Yankees in 1974 and 1975 while Yankee Stadium 
was being renovated, and the NFL's New York Giants in 1975. In the Mets' 
new ballpark, Citi Field, there is a food court called the "World's Fare 
Market" which pays homage to the team's historic connection to the fair. 
The Unisphere and the top of the New York State Pavilion can be seen from 
the food court entrance/exit.[64] Like its predecessor, the 1964/1965 New 
York World's Fair lost money. It was unable to repay its financial backers 
their investment, and it became embroiled in legal disputes with its creditors 
until 1970, when the books were finally closed and the New York World's 
Fair 1964–1965 Corporation was dissolved. Most of the pavilions constructed 
for the fair were demolished within six months following the fair's close. 
While only a handful of pavilions and exhibits survived, some of them traveled 
great distances and found new homes following the fair: Commemorative postage 
stamps were produced for the fair, souvenir medals were issued, and a large 
amount of memorabilia remains in private hands. There is significant interest 
in collecting these pieces. Items of all types, many quite inexpensive, 
frequently appear in sales.[citation needed] The Queens Museum has on permanent 
display a selection of some 900 items from its archive of 10,000 artifacts 
from both the 1964/1965 and 1939/1940 World's Fairs.[78] (Alphabetical, 
by series) Westinghouse Time Capsule RCA Pavilion Johnson Wax Pavilion 
Kodak Pavilion Ford Pavilion Transportation and Travel Pavilion Alaska 
Pavilion Hong Kong Pavilion General Motors Pavilion Unisphere Fountain 
Aerial tramway "Pods" The Hall of Science is a science museum today 1964-1965 
