The 1964 Philadelphia Phillies season was the 82nd season for the franchise 
in Philadelphia. The Phillies finished in a second-place tie with the Cincinnati 
Reds. Both posted a record of 92–70, finishing one game behind the National 
League (NL) and World Series champion St. Louis Cardinals, and just two 
games ahead of fourth-place San Francisco. Gene Mauch managed the Phillies, 
as they played their home games at Connie Mack Stadium. The team is notable 
for, after being in first place in the National League since the opening 
day, suffering a drastic collapse during the final two weeks of the season. 
The "Phold of '64", as it became known, is one of the most infamous collapses 
in baseball history. From 1919 through 1947, the Phillies finished last 
a total of 17 times and next to last seven times. A 1962 cartoon in a baseball 
magazine depicted a ballplayer arriving at a French Foreign Legion outpost, 
explaining, "I was released by the Phillies!" Things began to change slowly 
beginning in 1960 when Gene Mauch was hired as manager to replace Eddie 
Sawyer, who had resigned after the club's opening game of the regular season. 
Although the Phillies slumped to 47–107 in 1961 (including a 23-game losing 
streak), they began to climb back to respectability in 1962 and 1963. The 
front office, headed by John Quinn as General Manager, had replaced most 
of the players of the 1950s with new, young talent. Chris Short was a rookie 
on the 1959 team, and by the end of 1963 was the ace of the staff. He was 
joined by Art Mahaffey in 1960, Dennis Bennett in 1962 and Ray Culp in 
1963 as starters. The bullpen had Ed Roebuck, who was purchased from the 
Washington Senators in April 1964, as the primary relief pitcher, along 
with John Boozer and Dallas Green. Rookie Rick Wise, primarily a reliever 
but also a spot-starter, joined the club in June. Jack Baldschun was the 
closer.[3] The catching duties were platooned between Clay Dalrymple, who 
was the regular catcher since 1960 and Gus Triandos, who acted both as 
Bunning's personal catcher and as Dalrymple's backup, having come over 
from Detroit in the Bunning trade (below).[4] The infield had two fine 
shortstops in Bobby Wine and Rubén Amaro, and two fine second basemen in 
Tony Taylor and Cookie Rojas. Mauch could and did platoon them depending 
on the pitcher they were facing. Richie Allen (who years later would be 
called Dick Allen) came up in September 1963 as a rookie showing much promise, 
and during spring training, made the club as the starting third baseman. 
John Herrnstein was at first.[3][5] In the outfield Johnny Callison was 
in right field, Tony Gonzales in center, and Wes Covington was in left 
field.[3] Covington was first platooned with rookie Danny Cater in left, 
however Cater suffered a broken arm in a game against Milwaukee on 22 July 
and didn't return to the lineup until late September.[6] The most important 
acquisition by the Phillies in the off-season of 1963 was the acquisition 
of Jim Bunning. Bunning had been with the Detroit Tigers since 1955 and 
was one of the best pitchers in the American League, throwing a no-hitter 
against the Boston Red Sox in 1958 and was a five-time All-Star. However, 
in 1963 he began having problems with the front office of the Tigers, and 
did not get along well with the Tigers' new manager, Charlie Dressen. Also, 
Bunning was having a mediocre season with Detroit, and Dressen believed 
that Bunning's career was over at the age of 31. Denny McLain, a rising 
star with the Tigers, began to get Bunning's starts in September and by 
the end of the season after going 12–13, Bunning was asking the Tiger management 
for a trade. His wishes were complied with, and he and Triandos were sent 
to the Phillies in exchange for outfielder Don Demeter and pitcher Jack 
Hamilton.[5] Throughout the 1964 season, the Phillies seemed destined to 
make it to the World Series. Since the beginning of the season, with 8–2 
start, the team had been in first place, and had led the National League 
all season, sometimes by as many as nine or ten games.[7] During the season 
Johnny Callison was having a career year and was the top contender for 
the National League Most Valuable Player award. Richie Allen was the leading 
candidate for Rookie of the Year (which he won in the post-season). In 
addition to his pitching, Bunning also added another dimension to the club. 
Chris Short had been the ace of the staff prior to Bunning joining the 
club. However, he never was comfortable being the leading pitcher and having 
that responsibility. With Bunning joining the staff, the pressure was off 
Short and he thrived as the number-two starter.[5] The 1964 National League 
All-Star team had three Phillies: Chris Short, Jim Bunning, and Johnny 
Callison. Callison was named the game's Most Valuable Player, hitting a 
fast ball by Boston Red Sox ace Dick Radatz into the right field stands 
at Shea Stadium for a 3-run home run in the 9th Inning for the win.[8] 
Then in early August, the Phillies acquired Frank Thomas from the New York 
Mets and Vic Power from Los Angeles Angels to shore up the bench for the 
pennant run in September. The Phillies were having their best season since 
the 1950 "Whiz Kids" giving Pennant Fever to its fans for the first time 
in 14 seasons. From opening day, Bunning thrived in the National League 
being 6–2 in the first two months of the season, and becoming the ace of 
the pitching staff. On Father's Day he got the start for the first game 
of a doubleheader against the New York Mets, and on that day, June 21, 
he threw the first perfect game in the National League since 1880. Tracy 
Stallard started for the Mets in the first game of the doubleheader that 
day. As the game progressed, Philadelphia scored single runs in both the 
1st and 2d innings and had a big inning in the 6th, scoring four runs to 
give him a 6–0 lead. On the mound, Bunning was having a strong performance 
against the Mets hitters striking out 10.[9] For perhaps the only time 
in the stadium's history, the Shea faithful found themselves rooting for 
the visitors, caught up in the rare achievement, and roaring for Bunning 
on every pitch in the ninth inning.[10] His strikeout of John Stephenson 
for the last out capped the performance. On 1 September the Phillies held 
a 5 1/2 game lead over the Cincinnati Reds and it seemed were in cruise 
mode to clinching the pennant.[11] TV Guide went to press with a World 
Series preview that featured a photo of Connie Mack Stadium. (Through the 
1968 season, both first-place teams automatically went to the World Series, 
the only postseason play of that time.) On 7 September, Labor Day, the 
Phillies split a doubleheader with the Dodgers in Los Angeles while the 
Reds lost 2 games to the St. Louis Cardinals. That increased the Phillies' 
lead to 6 1/2 games with 25 left to play. Then things started to go wrong, 
first with a string of injuries. The next game, Frank Thomas broke his 
right thumb sliding into second base against Maury Wills, the Dodger shortstop. 
The number four starter, Ray Culp, started to have problems with his right 
elbow; Dennis Bennett began having a sore arm. Art Mahaffey began to have 
control problems, being taken out in the first inning on 8 September and 
then in his next start, against the San Francisco Giants, being taken out 
in the third.[5] Things appeared to settle down on 13 September when Bunning 
beat the Giants for his 17th win, and Short and Bennett followed up with 
wins over the Houston Colt .45s. However, Bunning replaced Culp for the 
start on the 16th for the last game against Houston and, pitching on two 
days rest, gave up a two-run home run by Rusty Staub and lasted only 4 
1/3 innings (charged with 4 more runs).[12] On 20 September, Bunning beat 
the Dodgers 3–2, throwing a five-hitter. Bunning remembered that the club 
had been shaky; the Phillies almost blew the game in the ninth when Vic 
Power made an error, leading to two unearned runs. Then Bunning finished 
the game by striking out the Dodger catcher, Johnny Roseboro. After the 
game, a reporter from Sports Illustrated photographed Bunning. It was to 
be on the cover of the magazine for its World Series edition in October.[5] 
During the month, the club had gone 12–9[7] and the lead over Reds remained 
at 6 1/2 games with 12 games to play.[13] However, the win over the Dodgers 
on the 20th would be the last win by the Phillies in September. On 21 September, 
the team returned to Philadelphia to begin a three-game series (a sweep 
of that series would've clinched the flag for the Phils) against the Reds 
as part of a seven-game homestand, which included four against the Milwaukee 
Braves. Then the Phillies would go on the road, play three games in St. 
Louis, and end the season with 2 games in Cincinnati.[7] Art Mahaffey began 
his first start since a 9–1 loss to the Giants on the 12th, pitching against 
John Tsitouris in the first game against the Reds. It was a pitchers' duel 
until the 6th inning when Chico Ruiz hit a single which was followed up 
by Vada Pinson hitting a line drive through the pitcher's box and past 
second base until Johnny Callison got the ball and threw out Pinson as 
he tried to reach 2d base. Ruiz made it over to third on the play. Frank 
Robinson then came up to bat, and swung and missed for strike one. Ruiz, 
on third, noted that Mahaffey had not checked him before pitching. On the 
next pitch, Ruiz broke for home plate. Surprised, Mahaffey pitched high 
and wild and the Phillies' catcher, Clay Dalrymple, jumped high but missed 
the ball, which went back to the screen. Ruiz successfully stole home plate, 
giving the Reds the lead and the game's only run.[5] Richie (later Dick) 
Allen said of the play: "The play broke our humps."[14] Chico Ruiz's steal 
of home has evolved into a popular culture legend. Some Philadelphia sports 
fans still refer to the "Curse of Chico Ruiz" as the reason for many of 
their teams' misfortunes.[15] In the next game, manager Gene Mauch rode 
Robinson, Ruiz and the rest of the Reds hard from the dugout, yelling over 
at them constantly about Ruiz and his stealing home the night before. The 
Reds responded with Frank Robinson hitting a two-run homer off Chris Short, 
who had to be taken out in the fifth inning. The Phillies lost and their 
lead was down to 4 1/2 games. In the third game of the series with the 
Reds, things went from bad to worse, when Dennis Bennett lasted six innings 
with a sore arm as the Phillies lost again, 6–4, with Pinson and Ruiz hitting 
home runs. The lead was now down to 3 1/2 games.[5] Milwaukee came in next 
and Bunning was the starter in game one. Joe Torre drove in three runs 
with two triples due to misplays in the outfield in a 5–3 loss, the fourth 
in a row. Then Chris Short pitched on two days rest in the next game, the 
Phillies lost, and the losing streak was at five, with the lead now down 
to a game and a half. The Braves then beat the Phillies, 6–4 (Art Mahaffey 
starting for the Phillies), and the lead dropped to a half-game over the 
Reds. Bunning then came in for game four, also pitching on two days rest, 
and lasted three innings in a 14–8 loss. With the fourth loss against the 
Braves and the 7th loss in a row, the Phillies dropped to second and the 
Reds, having swept a doubleheader, took first place by 1 game. The Cardinals 
were right behind, a game and a half out of first place. The Phillies had 
lost every game of their last homestand of the season.[5] The crucial series 
came when the now second-place Phillies traveled to St. Louis to play the 
Cardinals after their losing home stand. They dropped the first game of 
the series to Bob Gibson by a 5–1 score, their eighth loss in a row, dropping 
them to third place. The Cardinals would sweep the three-game set and assume 
first place for good.[16][17][18] The losing steak ended in Cincinnati 
during the last two games of the season with wins of 4–3 and 10–0 over 
the Reds. However, there were no playoffs in 1964 and the second-place 
Phillies ended the season at 92–70, tied with the Reds. It was the best 
season by the Phillies since the 1950 pennant winning Wiz Kids, but there 
was no joy in the city of Brotherly Love. The "Phold", as the ten-game 
loss streak is known, is one of the most notable collapses in sports history. 
Richie Allen (later known as Dick Allen) had one of the greatest seasons 
by a Rookie ever in major league baseball in 1964. He led the National 
League in runs (125), triples (13), extra base hits (80) and total bases 
(352); he finished in the top five in batting average (.318), slugging 
average (.557), hits (201), and doubles (38); and won Rookie of the Year. 
Allen boasted a powerful and muscular physique, and 18 of his 29 home runs 
cleared Connie Mack Stadium's 65-foot-high left field Grandstand, and twice 
cleared that park's 65-foot-high right center field scoreboard, a feat 
considered virtually impossible for a right-handed hitter.[19] Allen was 
also one of the most controversial players in Philadelphia for some notable 
non-baseball incidents. Allen spoke his mind, combatted racism, and bucked 
organizational hierarchy; he almost ended his career in 1967 after mangling 
his throwing hand by pushing it through a car headlight. Allen was fined 
$2,500 and suspended indefinitely in 1969 when he failed to appear for 
the Phillies twi-night doubleheader game with the New York Mets. (He would 
be reinstated, and, despite wanting to be traded, agreed to finish the 
season with the Phillies.) Allen had gone to New Jersey in the morning 
to see a horse race, and got caught in traffic trying to return.[20] He 
was traded in 1970 to the Cardinals for Curt Flood, and even this caused 
controversy, though not of Allen's making. Flood refused to report to the 
Phillies and subsequently sued Major League Baseball in an unsuccessful 
attempt to overthrow the reserve clause and to be declared a free agent 
(Flood's lawsuit failed, however the reserve clause was thrown out in 1975).[21] 
After leaving the Phillies, he asked to be called "Dick", saying Richie 
was a little boy's name. He played for several teams, and then went into 
a controversial retirement in 1974.[19] Early in the 1975 season, Phillies 
general manager Paul Owens wanted a right-handed power hitter and a first 
baseman. Both Mike Schmidt and Dave Cash lobbied Owens to acquire Dick 
Allen. Allen had to be persuaded by several of his future teammates that 
both the organizational and racial climate in Philadelphia had changed 
for the better since his 1969 departure from the team. On May 4, the Phillies 
traded their first baseman Willie Montañez (who came from the Cardinals 
in 1970 as compensation after Curt Flood refused to report as part of the 
Allen trade) to the Giants for Garry Maddox which provided a bat for the 
outfield and opened first for Allen. The Phillies acquired Allen three-days 
later on May 7, 1975.[22] Allen found Veterans Stadium much to his liking, 
putting several home-run balls into the far parts of the upper deck.[19] 
He was part of the 1976 Phillies National League East Championship team, 
before leaving for the Oakland Athletics for his final season in 1977.[19] 
Many people believe that Allen is the best major league player not in the 
Baseball Hall of Fame. The perfect game was the highlight of the Philadelphia 
career of Bunning, who became a fan favorite and the club's ace starter 
for the next four seasons, being one of the most dominant pitchers in the 
Major Leagues. From 1964 through 1967, Bunning led MLB pitchers in fWAR 
and innings pitched, ranked second in the NL in wins, ranked second in 
the NL in games started, and ranked third in the NL in ERA.[23] He was 
traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates prior to the 1968 season, was briefly 
with the Dodgers, then returned to the Phillies for two mediocre seasons 
during 1970 and 1971. He pitched the first game at Veterans Stadium in 
April 1971, beating the Montreal Expos. Largely on account of the perfect 
game and three 19-win seasons (1964–1966) with the Phillies, today Bunning 
is memorialized in the Philadelphia Baseball Wall of Fame (1984), and was 
inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame by the Veterans' Committee in 1996. 
Thirty years later, Bunning, by then a member of Congress, talked about 
The "Phold" to David Halberstam and said that to understand what happened, 
you had to be there and be caught up in the emotions and excitement of 
the pennant race. Also, there was a belief by the Phillies that they could 
prevail simply by sheer will. Pitching on short rest, the injuries, and 
the reality that pitching with a good deal more fatigue than he recognized 
all led to a loss of confidence. Players began to have doubts when before 
there were no doubts. The team began to run the bases poorly and throw 
badly, missing easy plays and making errors they would not normally have 
made.[5] Rick Wise, who won the second game against the Mets after Bunning's 
perfect game, became a solid starter and the ace of the Phillies pitching 
staff in the years after the 1964 season. In 1971 he threw a no-hitter 
against the Reds and hit two home runs in the game at Riverfront Stadium.[24] 
As a result of a salary dispute, he was traded by the Phillies in the spring 
of 1972 to the Cardinals for Steve Carlton, who was also having salary 
issues.[24] Carlton went on to anchor the Phillies pitching staff for the 
next thirteen seasons, ultimately winning 329 games and a place in the 
Baseball Hall of Fame.[25] Wise went from the Cardinals to the Red Sox 
in 1974.[24] He was the winning pitcher for the Red Sox in Game 6 of the 
1975 World Series over the Cincinnati Reds, considered by some to be the 
greatest Series game ever played.[24] Wise was the last member of the 1964 
Philadelphia Phillies team to be active in the major leagues, pitching 
2 innings of relief (7th & 8th innings) for the San Diego Padres against 
the Los Angeles Dodgers on 10 April 1982.[24] The Phillies finished sixth 
in the National League in 1965, and began to slide back into mediocrity. 
It was not until the 1976 season, twelve seasons later, that the Phillies 
won the National League Eastern Division Championship; losing to the Reds 
in the playoffs (Dick Allen and Tony Taylor were part of the 1976 Phillies). 
The 1977 and 1978 teams also won the National League East, but both lost 
to the Dodgers in the playoffs; it was not until the 1980 Philadelphia 
Phillies (managed by 1964 alumnus Dallas Green, with Bobby Wine and Rubén 
Amaro as coaches) won both the National League Pennant against the Houston 
Astros and also the World Series against the Kansas City Royals that the 
stigma of the 1964 "Phold" was fully erased after sixteen seasons.[5] The 
1964 Phillies are immortalized in American pop culture via numerous book 
chapters, magazine articles, and newspaper columns. At least three full-length 
books are devoted to the 1964 Phillies: non-fiction books The 1964 Phillies: 
The Story of Baseball's Most Memorable Collapse by John P. Rossi and September 
Swoon: Richie Allen, the '64 Phillies, and Racial Integration by William 
C. Kashatis; and a novel based on the 1964 Phillies collapse titled '64 
Intruder, by Gregory T. Glading, which centers on a Phillies fan going 
back in time and preventing Chico Ruiz from stealing home in the "Phold's" 
first loss. A 2014 Twitter feed @epic64collapse provides a day-by-day account 
of the entire season. The Philadelphia Baseball Wall of Fame honors no 
less than five 1964 Phillies players: Richie Allen, Jim Bunning, Johnny 
Callison, Dallas Green and Tony Taylor. Manager Gene Mauch is also honored. 
Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted In; SB = Stolen bases [37] Note: G = Games played; AB 
= At bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted In; SB = Stolen bases Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts [38] 
