The 1964 World Series pitted the National League champion St. Louis Cardinals 
against the American League champion New York Yankees, with the Cardinals 
prevailing in seven games. St. Louis won their seventh world championship, 
while the Yankees, who had appeared in 14 of 16 World Series since 1949, 
did not play in the Series again until 1976. In an unusual twist, the Yankees 
fired Yogi Berra after the Series ended, replacing him with Johnny Keane, 
who had resigned from the Cardinals after the Series. His job had been 
threatened by Cardinals management, and it was unexpectedly saved by the 
Cardinals' dramatic pennant drive. This was also the last World Series 
that matched the Yankees up against the Cardinals; in the previous four 
meetings, each team had won twice, with the Yankees winning in 1928 and 
1943, and the Cardinals in 1926 and 1942. This pennant for the Yankees 
concluded their remarkable run of 15 World Series appearances over 18 years. 
Indeed, they had won 29 American League championships in the 44-year span 
from 1921 through 1964. After 1964, the Yankees would go 12 years before 
their next World Series appearance. The 1964 World Series, and the season 
leading up to it, later became the subject for the David Halberstam New 
York Times bestseller October 1964. The Series is seen as a bellwether 
point in baseball history as it was the last hurrah for the 1950s Yankee 
Dynasty of Mantle, Maris, Ford and Berra, among others, and it demonstrated 
that the National League's growing enthusiasm to sign black and Latino 
players (such as those of the '64 Cardinals) was a permanent paradigm shift 
in fielding a championship team. The Yankees would be in last place by 
1966, and they did not appear in another World Series until 1976. During 
that time, the expansion Mets appeared in two World Series, winning in 
1969 and losing in 1973. The Series featured the brother-against-brother 
match-up of Ken Boyer of the Cardinals and Clete Boyer of the Yankees, 
both of whom started at third base for their respective teams. For the 
first time in Series history, all six umpires rotated through their positions. 
In all Series from 1947 through 1963, only the four infield umpires had 
rotated, with the last two umpires working only in the outfield throughout 
the Series. As of 2013[update], the Cardinals are the only one of the "classic 
eight" National League teams to hold a winning edge over the Yankees, winning 
three (1926, 1942, 1964) while losing only two (1928, 1943). The expansion 
Arizona Diamondbacks and Florida Marlins have single Series wins over the 
Yankees, in 2001 and 2003 respectively. Mickey Mantle, playing in his last 
Series, hit three home runs, raising his total to a record-setting 18, 
surpassing Babe Ruth's mark of 15. Utility infielder Chet Trail, who had 
no prior major league experience, appeared on the Yankees' World Series 
roster to fill the opening created by an injury to Tony Kubek. Trail did 
not play in the series (Phil Linz played in place of Kubek), and Trail 
never appeared in a major league game during his career.[1] After winning 
the American League pennant in 1963, the Yankees faced strong challenges 
from the pitching-rich Chicago White Sox and up-and-coming Baltimore Orioles 
in 1964. On August 22, the Yankees were in third place, 5 1⁄2 games out 
of first. Led by recently called up pitcher Mel Stottlemyre (who went 9–3), 
and helped by the post trade deadline acquisition of relief pitcher Pedro 
Ramos (2–0 with seven saves for New York) from Cleveland, the Yankees went 
27–8 to take a 3 1⁄2 game lead with five to play. After losing two games 
in Detroit, the Yankees clinched the pennant on the next-to-last day of 
the season with an 8–3 win over the Indians. The Cardinals were coming 
off a second-place finish in 1963, and their road to the World Series was 
even more dramatic than that of the Yankees. After a season long four way 
race between the Cardinals, San Francisco Giants, Philadelphia Phillies, 
and Cincinnati Reds, the Phillies appeared to have the pennant in hand 
as they built a 6 1⁄2 game lead with 12 games to play. But they proceeded 
to lose 10 straight games. With two games remaining, four teams still had 
a mathematical chance to win the pennant. The Giants were the first to 
be eliminated when they lost on October 3 to the Cubs, 10–7. The Cardinals 
lost to the lowly Mets, 15–5, while the Phillies ended their 10-game losing 
streak with a 4–3 win over the Reds. Going into the last day of the season, 
the Cardinals and Reds were tied for first and the Phillies were one game 
back; the Phillies hoped to force the first three-way tie in major league 
history by defeating the Reds and hoping the Mets would beat the Cardinals. 
The Phillies did their part by defeating the Reds, 10–0, but the Cardinals 
overcame an early 3–2 deficit and beat the Mets, 11–5, to win the pennant. 
During the season the Cardinals would be involved in the Lou Brock-for-Ernie 
Broglio trade, which would later be considered the most lopsided trade 
in baseball history. NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL New York Yankees 
(3) The Cardinals' scouting report indicated that injuries had taken their 
toll on Mickey Mantle's defense and that he could be run on.[9] They acted 
on this intelligence, taking extra bases repeatedly and scoring from second 
on singles in the second and sixth innings.[10] The Cardinals also believed 
that they should swing early in the count against Whitey Ford, and this 
strategy also paid off, as Ray Sadecki, Carl Warwick and Mike Shannon all 
drove in runs on the first or second pitches of at-bats.[11] The Yankees 
led this game 4–2 after 5 1⁄2 innings behind the pitching of Whitey Ford, 
but the Cardinals sent eight men to the plate in the sixth inning and scored 
four runs, including two on a home run by Mike Shannon. Ford pitched with 
severe pain and numbness in his arm for much of the 1964 season, and that 
day he was again in pain and missing with sliders inside. Shannon came 
up looking for sliders and hit one 500 feet.[12] This was the last World 
Series appearance by Ford, whose shoulder had been injured during the season. 
Ford had pitched in 22 World Series games with the Yankees, compiling ten 
victories, going back to the sweep of the Philadelphia Phillies in 1950, 
and set a record which still stands by pitching 33 2⁄3 consecutive scoreless 
innings in three different World Series (1960–62). Rookie Mel Stottlemyre, 
called up from the minors in August, dominated for New York and the Cardinal 
bullpen wilted in the late innings, and the Yankees won 8–3 to even the 
series up.[11] Curt Simmons and Jim Bouton were both very effective. Simmons 
got 17 ground-ball outs. Bouton stranded the go-ahead run four times and 
held the top five hitters in the Cardinal lineup to a 2 for 21 day.[11] 
In the bottom of the ninth, Mickey Mantle reached deep for one of the last 
ounces of Yankees magic. With the game tied at one, Mantle, the leadoff 
hitter, told on-deck hitter Elston Howard to go back to the clubhouse because 
he was going to hit a home run.[13] Mantle swung at the first pitch from 
Cardinal pitcher Barney Schultz, a knuckleball that failed to move,[11] 
and hit it into the right field stands to win the game for the Yankees. 
Schultz had been a mainstay of the Cardinals' stretch run and Yankee scouting 
reports had advised his knuckler was most vulnerable on the first pitch 
when he threw harder than usual to try for a strike. Mantle's home run 
(his sixteenth Series home run) broke Babe Ruth's record for most home 
runs hit in World Series play. Cardinal starting pitcher Ray Sadecki let 
the first four Yankees hit safely and was promptly removed by manager Keane 
with the Yankees already up 2–0. Roger Craig came in to pitch and gave 
up an RBI single to Howard but allowed no more damage. After five innings, 
New York was still up 3–0 and St. Louis had only one hit off of Downing. 
The turning point of the Series came in the top of the sixth. Carl Warwick 
led off with his third pinch hit base hit, tying a World Series record. 
Curt Flood singled to put runners on first and second. After Lou Brock 
flew out, Dick Groat reached base on a slow roller that was bobbled by 
Yankee second baseman Bobby Richardson. Instead of runners on second and 
third with two out, the bases were loaded with one out. In the first game, 
Yankee Al Downing struck Cardinal Ken Boyer out with a high changeup. Downing 
faced Boyer again with the bases loaded, and Boyer guessed that he'd see 
the high changeup again. He guessed right, and hit a grand slam home run. 
Ron Taylor relieved Craig and gave up one hit over the last four innings. 
The Cardinals won the game 4–3; instead of trailing three games to one, 
Boyer's grand slam enabled then to even the Series at two games apiece.[11] 
This game was as exciting as the previous. The game was scoreless in the 
top of the fifth inning when trouble came. Pitcher Bob Gibson led off the 
inning with a single. Then Richardson fumbled a possible double-play ground 
ball struck by Curt Flood with one on and one out. Now there were two on 
with one out, instead of the inning being over. Lou Brock, 0 for his last 
14 in the series, promptly singled in one run, and another came in on a 
ground ball hit by Bill White after Phil Linz made another misplay, throwing 
a ball into the dirt at first on what should have been the back end of 
a double play.[14] The Yankees were still down 2–0 when they rallied in 
the ninth inning. Mantle reached base on an error by Dick Groat. With one 
out and one on, Joe Pepitone smashed a bouncer off Bob Gibson's leg, the 
ball ricocheting towards the third-base line. Gibson recovered quickly 
and threw to first, and the Cardinals were one out away.[15] With two out, 
though, Tom Tresh crushed a long drive into the right center field bleachers 
and the game was tied. The game went to extra innings, and it was the Cardinals 
who seized the initiative. With two on and one out and lefty hitter Tim 
McCarver up, Berra stuck with right-hander Pete Mikkelsen rather than using 
lefty specialist Steve Hamilton.[16] McCarver delivered a three run home 
run in the tenth inning to send the Cardinals back to St. Louis with a 
3–2 lead in the series.[11] Just 22 years old at the time, McCarver would 
go 11-for-23 (.478) in the series. For his entire career McCarver would 
hit .271. This was the last postseason game at Yankee Stadium before its 
renovation after the 1973 season. Mickey Mantle hit his second home run 
of the Series and Joe Pepitone broke the game open with a grand slam onto 
the right field pavilion roof in the eighth inning. The Series was tied 
at three games apiece. "Something had to give" in Game 7, as the Yankees 
had lost back to back World Series only once (to the New York Giants in 
1921–22, and were in danger of doing so again, having lost to the Dodgers 
in 1963) and the Cardinals had never lost a World Series Game 7. Bob Gibson 
pitched his third start in this Series on two days rest. He was tired but 
deliberately worked fast to hide his fatigue from the Yankees.[17] In the 
bottom of the fourth the Cardinals scored three times. Again the Yankees 
botched a double play when Linz's throw to first went wide, and Bill White 
scored. McCarver then scored from third on a double steal.[10][18] Al Downing 
came in for the fifth after Stottlemyre developed shoulder stiffness[19] 
and Lou Brock hit his first pitch for a home run. Two more runs made it 
6–0. Mantle cut the gap in half with a three-run homer in the sixth, adding 
to his own record for total home runs in the World Series. Ken Boyer responded 
with a home run in the seventh that pushed the lead to 7–3. Bobby Richardson 
broke a World Series hit record in the seventh with his 13th hit, later 
tied by Brock in 1968, and Marty Barrett in 1986. Gibson continued to tire, 
but manager Keane left him in.[20] Ken Boyer's brother Clete hit a home 
run for New York with one out in the ninth, making the score 7–4. Pinch-hitter 
Johnny Blanchard struck out. Linz hit another home run, pulling New York 
to within two, 7–5, but the next batter, Richardson, popped up to second 
baseman Dal Maxvill and the Cardinals won the Series. Bob Gibson won the 
Series MVP award for his 2–1 record, 3.00 ERA, and 27 IP. Jim Bouton, pitching 
for the Yankees, started two games and won them both, compiling a 1.56 
Series ERA. Six years later, he would write the classic baseball memoir, 
Ball Four. After the series, the Yankees fired manager Yogi Berra and replaced 
him with the Cardinal manager, Keane, who quit St. Louis due to his differences 
with Cardinal owner Gussie Busch. Yogi Berra would go on to join the New 
York Mets, the following season and be re-united with Casey Stengel as 
a player/coach. The 1964 Cardinals were the only team between 1962 and 
1972 to win the World Series when owning home-field advantage. Game 7 was 
the last postseason game to be played at the first Busch Stadium, and the 
last such game to be played in St. Louis until 1967 (at Busch Memorial 
Stadium, which opened during the previous season), when the Cardinals defeated 
the Boston Red Sox to win their next world championship. The first non-World 
Series postseason games to be played in St. Louis occurred in 1982, when 
the Cardinals defeated the Atlanta Braves in the NLCS and the then-American 
League Milwaukee Brewers in the World Series. The Cardinals also ended 
their first season at the current Busch Stadium with a World Series win 
over the Detroit Tigers in 2006; the Yankees (then in their first season 
at the current Yankee Stadium) did the same thing in 2009 by defeating 
the Philadelphia Phillies in that year's World Series. 1964 World Series 
