The 1964 St. Louis Cardinals season was the team's 83rd season in St. Louis, 
Missouri and its 73rd season in the National League. The Cardinals went 
93–69 during the season and finished first in the National League, edging 
the co-runners-up Cincinnati Reds and Philadelphia Phillies by one game 
each on the last day of the regular-season to claim their first NL pennant 
since 1946. They went on to win the World Series in 7 games over the New 
York Yankees. The Cardinals entered 1964 having gone 18 years without a 
pennant and not even contending for a pennant since the 1949 team finished 
one game behind the Brooklyn Dodgers. However, the 1963 team went 93–69. 
It was the best record for St. Louis since that 1949 team won 96 games. 
The Cardinals finished six games behind the now-Los Angeles Dodgers, but 
seemed primed for future success. Tim McCarver was emerging as a star catcher. 
Bob Gibson had his first big season in 1963, going 18–9. Veteran power 
hitters Bill White and Ken Boyer returned to help power the Redbirds, as 
did pitchers Ray Sadecki and Curt Simmons. 1964 saw the Cardinals without 
the best hitter in franchise history. Stan Musial, whose 3,630 career hits 
were second on the all-time list and remain fourth today, retired after 
the 1963 season, at the age of 42, after 22 years in St. Louis. His absence 
left a hole in the Cardinal lineup and in left field, and as the early 
weeks of the 1964 season passed, St. Louis hovered at the .500 mark. Cardinals 
GM Bing Devine, worried about both the team and his own job security, looked 
for a deal to make before the June 15 trading deadline.[3] He consulted 
with manager Johnny Keane and they decided that the team needed more speed. 
Keane and Devine focused on Lou Brock, an outfielder with the Chicago Cubs 
that the Cardinals had scouted years before and who had struggled since 
coming to the big leagues.[4] In June, with the trading deadline near and 
the Cardinals still around .500, Devine made the call to the Cubs and the 
deal was done.[5] On June 15, they traded star pitcher Ernie Broglio, who 
went 18–8 in 1963 and was having another good year in 1964, to the Chicago 
Cubs as part of a six-player deal for Brock. Many people thought the Cubs 
had gotten the better of the deal, including Chicago sportswriters and 
many Cardinal players.[6] However, Broglio would have a mediocre half-season 
for the Cubs and then two more ineffective, injury-riddled years in 1965 
and 1966 before disappearing from the big leagues forever. Brock hit .348 
for the 1964 Cardinals, and as a Cardinal went on to break the all-time 
record for stolen bases (since broken by Rickey Henderson), amass over 
3000 base hits, and go into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1985. For most 
of the 1964 season, the Philadelphia Phillies looked like the team to beat. 
Philadelphia spent almost the entire first half in first or second place, 
and in July moved in first place seemingly to stay. The Cardinals, on the 
other hand, spent much of the season mired in the middle of the pack, and 
sometimes close to the bottom. As late as June 17, the Cardinals were eighth 
in a ten-team league, although they were only six back of the lead. Lou 
Brock joined the team and immediately began to hit but St. Louis still 
could not dent Philadelphia's lead. The Cardinals called up prized prospect 
Mike Shannon in early July, and still they stagnated.[7][8] They were seventh 
as late as July 24. One problem was first baseman Bill White; the Cardinal 
slugger, one of the few power hitters on the team, was bothered by a sore 
shoulder and struggling badly.[9] On August 16, with the Cardinals at 61–54 
and 9 1⁄2 games out of first place, an impatient Gussie Busch fired general 
manager Bing Devine.[10] Devine had been GM of the Cardinals since 1957,[11] 
but would not be around to see how the team he had built would finish. 
Busch considered firing Keane as well, but held back out of reluctance 
to further disrupt the team by firing both the manager and GM during the 
season.[12] Shortly thereafter, however, Busch met with Leo Durocher and 
made him a verbal offer to manage the Cardinals in 1965. Word soon got 
out that Keane was a lame duck.[13] On August 23, the Cardinals fell 11 
games behind Philadelphia, tied for the farthest back they'd been all year, 
although they'd actually improved to fourth place in the overall standings. 
The Cardinals reeled off a six-game winning streak immediately after falling 
11 back and continued to play well in September, but the Phillies seemed 
to be too far ahead to catch. On Sep 20 the Cardinals were tied with Cincinnati 
for second place, 6.5 games behind Philadelphia. A Sports Illustrated article 
described the Cardinal surge as "far too late".[10] Injuries accumulated 
for the first-place Phillies as the season wore on. Slugger Frank Thomas 
broke his thumb. Starting pitcher Ray Culp hurt his elbow and had to go 
to the bullpen. Starting pitcher Art Mahaffey was slumping badly.[14] Starting 
pitcher Dennis Bennett was plagued by tendinitis.[15] Philly manager Gene 
Mauch, in a move that has remained controversial ever since, reacted to 
his rotation's problems by using star pitchers Jim Bunning and Chris Short 
on less than normal rest six times down the stretch. Philadelphia lost 
all six of those games.[16] Still the Phillies held on to their lead. On 
September 20, Philadelphia was 90–60 and led the National League by 6 1⁄2 
games with only twelve games to go. A pennant seemed assured. The Phillies 
even started taking applications for World Series tickets.[17] Then came 
the infamous "Phillie Phold". The Phold started on September 21, when Philadelphia 
lost 1–0 to Cincinnati with the only run scoring on a steal of home.[18][19] 
The Phils were swept in three games by Cincinnati, who crept to within 
3 1⁄2 games of first place. Then they were swept in four games by Milwaukee. 
On the 25th the Braves beat Philly in 12 innings. On the 26th they beat 
Philly by scoring three in the top of the ninth. On the 27th Milwaukee 
beat the Phils 14–8, extending their losing streak to seven games and dropping 
them out of first place for the first time in two months. Philadelphia 
was one game behind Cincinnati, while the Cardinals, who'd gone 6–1 during 
Philadelphia's streak, were in third place, 1.5 games back. The Phillies 
were feeling the pressure and making mistakes on the bases; in one fifteen-game 
stretch, 10 Phillies were thrown out trying to take an extra base.[19] 
St. Louis and Philadelphia met for a crucial three-game series starting 
in St. Louis on September 28. The Cardinals won the first game 5–1, vaulting 
past Philly into second place, one game behind the idle Reds, with the 
Phils 1.5 games back. On the 29th the Cards beat the Phils 4–2 behind a 
strong start from Sadecki, and Cincinnati lost to visiting Pittsburgh. 
The Cardinals were in first place for the first time all year, tied with 
the Reds, with Philly 1.5 games back. On the 30th the Cardinals beat the 
Phillies again, 8–5, with Curt Simmons beating Bunning. Cincinnati lost 
to Pittsburgh at home again, and the Cardinals had sole possession of first 
place. Philadelphia had lost ten in a row and the Cardinals had won eight 
in a row. The Cardinals lost 1–0 on October 2 at home to the terrible Mets 
while the Phillies beat the Reds in Cincinnati to finally snap their losing 
streak. On the 3rd the Cardinals lost again to the Mets while the Phillies 
and Reds remained idle. St. Louis and Cincinnati were tied for first place 
with 92–69 records, while Philadelphia was one game behind at 91–70. On 
the last day of the season, October 4, the Phillies beat the Reds at Cincinnati 
again, but the Cardinals beat the visiting Mets 11–5 to win the pennant 
by one game, with a 93–69 record; if the Cardinals had lost that game, 
the regular schedule would have ended in a 3-way tie for the pennant. The 
"Phold" is remembered as one of the worst late-season collapses in baseball 
history.[20] The Cardinals, having won their first pennant since 1946, 
would go on to face the mighty Yankees in the World Series. Infielders 
Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Playing 
in their first Series in eighteen years, and one that resembled a rematch 
of the two franchises' first encounter in 1926, the upstart "Redbirds" 
took on the veteran New York Yankees, featuring Ken Boyer's younger brother 
Clete, also an All-Star third baseman. Ken Boyer's stunning grand slam 
home run in Game 4 at Yankee Stadium, along with Gibson's overpowering 
pitching, resulted in a 4 games to 3 win by the Cardinals – their seventh 
World Series championship. This marked the end of the Yankee dynasty that 
saw 15 pennants in 18 seasons from 1947 to 1964. The Cardinals are the 
only of the original eight National League teams to hold an overall World 
Series edge against the Yankees, 3 Series to 2. Before the regular season 
had ended, both the owners of the Cardinals and the Yankees had decided 
to replace their managers, Keane and Yogi Berra, after the season – regardless 
of outcome. When these two teams happened to meet in the World Series, 
this plan received a great deal of attention. NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) 
vs. AL New York Yankees (3) Thirty years later, David Halberstam would 
chronicle the 1964 Cardinals and their World Series opponents the 1964 
Yankees in the book October 1964. Busch changed his mind about Durocher 
and attempted to rehire his Series-winning manager, but Keane, angry at 
the way Busch had treated him and Devine, quit and became manager of the 
Yankees.[25] Red Schoendienst took over as manager and led the team to 
two pennants and a championship in 1967 on his way to twelve seasons at 
the helm. Ironically, The Sporting News named Bing Devine Baseball Executive 
of the Year a few months after he was fired and Keane Manager of the Year.[26] 
