The 1965 World Series featured the National League champion Los Angeles 
Dodgers against the American League champion Minnesota Twins. It is best 
remembered for the heroics of Sandy Koufax, who was named the series MVP. 
Koufax would not pitch in Game 1, as it fell on the Jewish holy day of 
Yom Kippur, but did pitch in Game 2 and then tossed complete-game shutouts 
in Games 5 and 7 (with only two days of rest in between) to win the championship. 
The Twins had won their first pennant since 1933 when the team was known 
as the Washington Senators. The Dodgers, prevailing in seven games, captured 
their second title in three years, and their third since moving to Los 
Angeles in 1958. Both teams improved from sixth-place finishes in 1964; 
the Twins won the A.L. pennant with relative ease while the Dodgers were 
locked in a season long five-way battle in the N.L. between themselves, 
the Giants, Pirates, Reds, and Braves. After the Giants won their 14th 
consecutive game to take a 4 1⁄2 game lead on September 16, the Dodgers 
went on a 13-game winning streak over the final two weeks of the season 
to clinch the pennant on the next to last day of the season over the second 
place rival Giants. During the 1965 Season, the Dodgers relied heavily 
on the arms of Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale, and would rely on them even 
more in the World Series, as the Dodgers only used seven pitchers. The 
Dodgers' strong core of pitchers, which also included Claude Osteen and 
Ron Perranoski, kept them in the pennant race and into the Series. Koufax, 
surviving on a steady diet of Cortisone and pain killers for his arthritic 
left elbow,[1] pitched five times in 15 days down the stretch, winning 
four (three shutouts), including 13 strikeouts in the pennant winner against 
Milwaukee.[2] Dodger hitting however remained strictly popgun, especially 
after Tommy Davis went down in late April for the season with a broken 
ankle.[3] Manager Walter Alston promptly called up 12-year minor league 
veteran Lou Johnson from Spokane. Johnson led the Dodgers, along with ROY 
Jim Lefebvre, in home runs with just 12. The Twins, managed by Sam Mele, 
had a more balanced attack, equally strong in pitching and hitting, although 
their defense committed 173 errors including 39 by shortstop Zoilo Versalles. 
Offensively Mele again had balance with good hitting, power and speed up 
and down his lineup that included AL's leading hitter Tony Oliva (.321), 
and 20-plus home runs from five different players. Pitching was spearheaded 
by 20-game winner Mudcat Grant, Jim "Kitty" Kaat, and Camilo Pascual. This 
was only the second World Series where both teams were located west of 
the Mississippi River. The first occurred in 1944, when the St. Louis Browns 
faced their Sportsman's Park tenants, the St. Louis Cardinals. This was 
the first of eleven consecutive World Series that did not have the New 
York Yankees playing in it; it was the longest such streak until 1993, 
when the Toronto Blue Jays claimed the second of their back-to-back World 
Series championships by defeating the Philadelphia Phillies. It was also 
the first series in which both teams had had losing records the previous 
year. This has since been repeated two other times, both times also involving 
the Twins—in 1987 and 1991. This World Series was the first in which all 
games were played in cities that did not have National League or American 
League teams in 1903, the year of the first modern World Series. Also, 
it is the earliest World Series whose telecasts are known to survive in 
their entirety; the CBC has complete kinescopes of all seven games in its 
archives. The Twins won the first two games of the series against Don Drysdale 
and Sandy Koufax, but once Claude Osteen shut out the Twins in Game 3, 
things turned around. Willie Davis of The Dodgers tied a World Series record 
stealing 3 bases in one Game, game 5, the record was set by Honus Wagner 
in 1909. The Dodgers proceeded to win the three middle games at Dodger 
Stadium and Koufax would pitch two shutouts including a three-hitter with 
ten strikeouts to clinch. Ron Fairly hit two home runs for the Dodgers, 
both in losing efforts. NL Los Angeles Dodgers (4) vs. AL Minnesota Twins 
(3) Game 1 was set to be a pitching duel between Dodgers' Don Drysdale 
and the Twins' Mudcat Grant (21–7, 3.30 ERA on the year). Drysdale was 
starting because the game fell on Yom Kippur, the holiest day of the year 
for people of the Jewish faith. Dodger ace Sandy Koufax, who was Jewish, 
stated he would not pitch that day. In the Twins' third inning any thought 
of a pitchers' duel was put to rest. Going into that inning, it was 1–1. 
Coming out, it was 7–1. It started with a Frank Quilici double to left 
field, followed by an error by Jim Lefebvre, allowing the pitcher Grant 
to reach. Then, shortstop Zoilo Versalles stepped to the plate. He had 
hit nineteen home runs in the regular season and would later win the AL 
MVP Award for that year. He crushed a pitch from Drysdale for a three-run 
home run to make the score, 4–1. However, the Twins' scoring wasn't over. 
With still no one out, left fielder Sandy Valdespino began things again 
with a double. After a few outs and baserunners, and a single by Harmon 
Killebrew, the Twins had two runners again. With three straight singles 
(Earl Battey, Don Mincher, and Quilici), scoring three unearned runs, the 
Twins had jumped out to a six-run lead and would never look back, winning 
the game 8–2. Frank Quilici set a World Series record with his two hits 
in the third inning. Mudcat Grant was the first black World Series game-winner 
for an American League team, and just the seventh pitcher to homer in a 
World Series game. The Dodgers had scored their runs on a Ron Fairly homer 
and a Maury Wills bunt single that scored Lefebvre. Grant received the 
win while Drysdale took the loss. In the postgame news conference, a reporter 
jokingly said to Dodger manager Walter Alston, "I bet you wish Drysdale 
was Jewish too." In Game 2, the Twins this time got to Dodger ace Sandy 
Koufax. Minnesota's pitcher, this time Jim Kaat, again shut down the Dodgers' 
weak offense. A heavy rain storm soaked Metropolitan Stadium overnight, 
and the two teams slogged their way through the first five innings. In 
the top of the fifth, Ron Fairly singled, then left-fielder Bob Allison 
made a diving, sliding catch of a fly ball off the bat of Jim Lefebvre, 
preventing a run. Aided by an error, the Twins broke the scoreless tie 
in the sixth, Versalles hit a missile shot and when Jim Gilliam bobbled 
the ball at third base, the ball ricocheted off Gilliam and into left field. 
Versalles reached on the two-base error, then scored on a Tony Oliva double. 
Killebrew followed with a single, plating Oliva. That is all the runs the 
Twins would need, though Kaat added insurance in the eighth with a two-run 
base hit of his own. The Twins went up 2–0 in the Series. In Game 3, pressure 
was on Claude Osteen to have a good start so Los Angeles would not go down 
0–3. He faced Camilo Pascual, who had a quality (though somewhat injury 
plagued) year (9–3, 3.35 ERA). Dodger Stadium was filled to capacity and 
fans were treated to an appearance from Casey Stengel, a member of the 
1916 Dodgers World Series team. Stengel, sans his cane despite a broken 
hip, hobbled on to the field and threw out the first pitch. In the first 
inning, Versalles led off with a double. But with two men on, Versalles 
was caught stealing home on the front end of an attempted double steal. 
In the fourth, Johnny Roseboro put the Dodgers on the board with a two-run 
single. The play cost the Dodgers dearly, Jim Lefebvre bruising his heel 
crossing the plate with the second of the two runs. The Dodgers, already 
short on hitting (Lefebvre was batting .400 at the time), went with Dick 
Tracewski (.118 for the Series) at second base the rest of the way. The 
Twins received a scare of their own in the seventh inning. Catcher Earl 
Battey, chasing a popup, collided full speed with the railing used to cover 
sub-field level "dugout seats" next to the Twins dugout. Battey crumpled 
in a heap holding his neck and was replaced by Jerry Zimmerman. Los Angeles 
continued to score runs on a Willie Davis single and a Lou Johnson double 
in the fifth, then a Wills double in the sixth. Osteen, who as a pitcher 
for the Senators had had a perfect 5–0 record against the Twins, completed 
the game by getting Zimmerman to ground into a double play. He allowed 
only five hits, succeeding where the Dodger aces hadn't in Games 1 and 
2. In a rematch of Game 1 pitchers Drysdale and Grant, the Dodgers ace 
prevailed, allowing only two runs on five hits. He had eleven strikeouts, 
fanning Jimmie Hall and Don Mincher three times each. Grant gave up three 
runs in the first five innings, then was removed in the sixth, when the 
Dodgers got three more. The Twins opened the game with aggression when 
Sandy Valdespino tried to stretch a single into a double. Lou Johnson, 
not known as a great fielder, gunned down Valdespino at second. The Dodgers 
scored twice without getting the ball out of the infield. Maury Wills collided 
at first base with Twins second baseman Frank Quilici on an infield single 
as pitcher Grant was slow to cover the bag. The play cartwheeled Wills 
backwards, but the Dodger dusted himself off and promptly stole second. 
Wills went to third on another infield single, this time by the speedy 
Willie Davis, as Grant was again slow to cover. Wills scored when Ron Fairly 
beat out a potential double-play grounder. In the bottom of the second, 
Dodger speed made up for what seemed a lack of power. Parker bunted a single, 
then stole second and took third when Grant's throw went wild. Parker scored 
when Roseboro's grounder to second got through Quilici. The Dodgers then 
showed power with Parker and Johnson home runs. The Twins had scored their 
two runs on home runs from Killebrew and Oliva. Back in form, Drysdale 
evened the series as L.A. won, 7–2. In Game 5, the Minnesota pitcher who 
had done so well in Game 2, Jim Kaat, did not do as well this time, as 
the Dodgers won their third straight. Koufax give up only four hits and 
one walk, striking out ten. Kaat gave up two runs quickly in the first 
inning, then again in the third. Dave Boswell came in to attempt to stop 
the bleeding and Jim Perry did the same. Koufax basically put the game 
out of reach in the seventh, when he helped himself out with an RBI single 
to score Fairly. The Dodgers won went up 3–2 in the series. Fourteen-year-old 
future major league pitcher Craig Swan, a member of the Long Beach, California 
Pony League champions, threw out the first pitch. In the first inning, 
Dodger speed forced the Twins into fielding mishaps. Wills doubled and 
Gilliam singled in the run. Willie Davis bunted and third-baseman Killebrew's 
hurried throw to first went high, enabling the streaking Davis to make 
it all the way to third and plating Gilliam. The Dodgers collected 14 hits 
and four stolen bases, while Koufax steadily kept the Twins in check for 
the shutout. In Game 6, Osteen did not fare as well as he had in his last 
start. In the fourth inning, Battey reached on an error by Dick Tracewski, 
followed by a Bob Allison two-run home run. Grant, for the Twins, was on 
his game once again. He also helped himself, as had Koufax for L.A. the 
game before, but in this case with a towering three-run home run, after 
Quilici was intentionally walked to get to Grant. A Fairly home run, his 
second of the series, put the Dodgers on the board to make the score 5–1, 
but that's all they would get as Grant pitched a complete game. Twins manager 
Sam Mele chose to leave veteran pitchers Pascual and Perry and youngster 
Jim Merritt in the bullpen, instead going with Grant on two days rest. 
Twins catcher Earl Battey brought the nearly 50,000 Metropolitan Stadium 
fans to their feet by leading off with a triple past a diving Willie Davis 
in center. Battey showed no outward ill-effects of his collision with the 
railing in Game 3, diving headfirst into third base on the play. Osteen 
promptly struck out Allison and Quilici, however, to quell the threat. 
Battey continued his fine play in the fourth by hustling to first when 
Tracewski booted his groundball, and Allison followed with a home run. 
Grant pitched solidly and the Twins tied the series at 3–3. Dodger manager 
Walt Alston was torn between starting Drysdale on normal rest or Koufax 
with only two days' rest. He decided on the left-handed Koufax, figuring 
if needed he would use the right-handed Drysdale in relief, then go back 
to his left-handed relief ace Ron Perranoski. Koufax told announcer Vin 
Scully in a post-game interview that he and Drysdale had come to the ballpark 
not knowing which would be on the mound. According to Koufax, the manager 
announced the decision purely in strategic terms regarding lefty vs. righty, 
saying he worded his announcement without even using the pitchers' names, 
saying only that he thought he'd "like to start the left-hander." The Twins 
went with Kaat, also starting on two days' rest. Both managers had relief 
pitchers warming up as their starters began the game. Koufax had trouble 
throwing his curveball for strikes but escaped a couple of early jams, 
including one in the third inning when Zoilo Versailles stole second base 
with one out, but was called back after batter Joe Nossek was ruled out 
for interference. Koufax effectively gave up on his curveball and pitched 
the late innings almost exclusively with fastballs, still baffling the 
hard-hitting Twins. In the fourth inning, Dodger left fielder Lou Johnson 
told Koufax that he would get him the only run he would need. Johnson promptly 
stepped to the plate and hit one off the left-field foul pole to give the 
Dodgers a 1–0 lead. Ron Fairly followed with a double and scored on a Wes 
Parker single. The two runs came on three consecutive pitches. Knowing 
Kaat was on short rest, manager Mele pulled him quickly. Al Worthington, 
Johnny Klippstein, Jim Merritt, and Jim Perry combined to shut out the 
Dodgers for the rest of the game. The Twins threatened again in the fifth 
inning when they had runners on first and second with only one out. Versailles 
hit a hard grounder down the third base line that appeared to be going 
for a double. This could have ended Koufax's day as Drysdale was warming 
up in the bullpen. But third baseman Jim Gilliam (who was often replaced 
late in games for defensive reasons) made a diving, backhanded stop and 
stepped on third for a force. Koufax bore down and got the third out. He 
ended up tossing a three-hit shutout, striking out ten in one of the greatest 
Game 7 pitching performances ever. "Sweet Lou" Johnson hit two home runs, 
including the game-winner in the clinching Game 7. No relief pitchers were 
used by the winning team in any game of this series; the winning starting 
pitcher went the distance in all seven games. This had not happened since 
1940, and has never been repeated since. The Twins' loss in Game 7 remains 
the only World Series game the Twins have lost at home, having later won 
all their home games in 1987 and 1991. Through 2015, the Twins have never 
won a road World Series Game (not including when the franchise was the 
original Washington Senators). The National League won its third consecutive 
World Series (Dodgers in 1963, St. Louis Cardinals in 1964). The Senior 
Circuit would not claim back-to-back titles again until 1975 and 1976, 
when the Cincinnati Reds did so. 1965 World Series (4–3): Los Angeles Dodgers 
(N.L.) over Minnesota Twins (A.L.) The Dodgers would return to the World 
Series the following year, only to be swept in four straight games by the 
Baltimore Orioles. The Dodgers scored twice in Game 1, but those would 
be only runs they would score in the entire series. Sandy Koufax retired 
after the series at age 30, due to chronic arthritis and bursitis in his 
pitching elbow. Meanwhile, the Twins would have to wait twenty-two more 
years before returning to the World Series in 1987, when they would finally 
win their first championship since 1924 (known then as the Washington Senators), 
and their first since moving to Minnesota, by beating the St. Louis Cardinals 
