The 1966 World Series matched the American League (AL) champion Baltimore 
Orioles against the defending World Series champion and National League 
(NL) champion Los Angeles Dodgers, with the Orioles sweeping the Series 
in four games to capture their first championship in franchise history. 
It was also the last World Series played before Major League Baseball (MLB) 
introduced the Commissioner's Trophy the following year. This World Series 
marked the end of the Dodgers dynasty of frequent postseason appearances 
stretching back to 1947. Conversely, it marked the beginning of the Orioles 
dynasty of frequent postseason appearances that continued until 1983. Despite 
the general consensus that the Orioles were short of pitching when compared 
to the likes of Don Drysdale and Sandy Koufax, Orioles pitching allowed 
only two runs in the entire series and ended up with a 0.50 team ERA, the 
second lowest in World Series history. The Orioles scored more runs in 
the first inning of the first game than the Dodgers would score in the 
whole series. The Dodgers' young Jim Barbieri became the first player to 
play in both a Little League World Series and the Major League World Series 
when he pinch-hit for Dodger relief pitcher Joe Moeller in Game 1 of the 
series. Barbieri struck out in what would be the final appearance of his 
brief career. After the 1965 season that saw the Orioles finish in third 
place, they acquired Hall of Famer Frank Robinson from the Cincinnati Reds 
in exchange for starting pitcher Milt Pappas. Robinson won the Triple Crown 
and A.L. MVP honors in leading the Orioles to the A.L. pennant by nine 
games over the Minnesota Twins. The Dodgers were in a tight pennant race 
for the fourth time in five years. Going into a season ending double header 
in Philadelphia, the Dodgers led the San Francisco Giants by two games. 
The Giants were in Pittsburgh for a single game, and if they won that game 
and the Dodgers lost twice, the Giants would have headed to Cincinnati 
to play a make up game of an earlier rain-out; a win there would force 
a tie for first place. In the first game of the double header, the Dodgers 
made two errors in the bottom of the eighth inning to turn a 3–2 win into 
a 4–3 loss. Meanwhile, in Pittsburgh, the Giants kept their slim hopes 
alive by getting a run in the ninth to tie, and four in the 11th to win, 
7–3. The Dodgers needed to win the second game of the doubleheader. Sandy 
Koufax pitched the Dodgers to a 6–3 win to clinch the pennant. AL Baltimore 
Orioles (4) vs. NL Los Angeles Dodgers (0) In the top of the first inning, 
after Luis Aparicio flied to right, Drysdale walked Russ Snyder, and then 
Frank Robinson and Brooks Robinson hit back-to-back home runs to give the 
Orioles an early 3–0 lead. In the bottom half of the frame, Dave McNally 
walked Dodger leadoff man Maury Wills, who subsequently stole second. However, 
the Dodgers failed to score. In the second inning, with Andy Etchebarren 
on second base, Snyder slapped a base hit past L.A. shortstop Wills and 
Etchebarren scored to widen the lead to 4–0. However, McNally soon began 
to struggle with his command. In the bottom of the second inning, second 
baseman Jim Lefebvre tagged him for a 400-foot home run. First baseman 
Wes Parker hit a fair ball down the right-field foul line, but a fan reached 
over the wall and picked the ball out of the dirt, turning a possible triple 
into a fan interference double. After McNally walked Jim Gilliam, John 
Roseboro hit a fly ball to right center, but Snyder saved at least a run 
with a lunging catch, and neither baserunner scored. Drysdale was pulled 
from the game in the third and replaced with Joe Moeller, who allowed another 
run in the fourth when Davey Johnson scored from second on a fielder's 
choice by Aparicio. This third-inning run, however, would be the Dodgers' 
last run of 1966. With one out in the bottom of the third inning, McNally 
was replaced by Moe Drabowsky after loading the bases on walks. Drabowsky 
struck out Parker and walked Gilliam, forcing in a run, before Roseboro 
fouled out. Drabowsky struck out six consecutive batters in the next two 
innings, tying Hod Eller's record from Game 5 of the scandal-tainted 1919 
World Series. Drabowsky's total of 11 strikeouts in 6 2⁄3 innings of relief 
are a record for a relief pitcher in a World Series game. The Orioles won, 
5–2, and the Dodgers would not get another runner across the plate in the 
series. Game 2 pitted 20-year-old Jim Palmer against the Dodgers' ace Sandy 
Koufax (both future members of the Hall of Fame), whose 1966 season was 
among his best with 27 wins, 317 strikeouts, 5 shutouts, and his career 
best 1.73 ERA. Palmer got into trouble in the second with two on and two 
out, but walked Roseboro and induced Koufax to pop up to second base. Despite 
the obvious mismatch, Palmer and Koufax traded zeroes on the scoreboard 
until the top of the fifth inning, when Koufax's defense let him down. 
Boog Powell singled, and then Paul Blair hit a routine fly ball to center, 
but normally reliable Willie Davis lost the ball in the sun and both runners 
were safe on the error. Then, Etchebarren hit another fly to center, but 
Davis bobbled the ball and then dropped it. Powell scored on the error, 
and Davis rushed the throw to third base. The throw was high, and Blair 
scored on the throwing error, Davis' third of the inning. Aparicio then 
cracked a stand-up double, scoring Etchebarren from third. Davis was charged 
with three errors in this inning alone, a World Series record, and all 
three runs were unearned. The O's then earned one from Koufax in the sixth 
as Frank Robinson tripled and Powell drove him in with a single to right-center. 
Johnson followed with a single to right, and the runners advanced on an 
error by Ron Fairly. Koufax escaped the inning after walking Blair intentionally 
and getting Etchebarren to ground into a double play. Etchebarren would 
be the final batter that Koufax ever faced in his career. Koufax was replaced 
in the seventh by Ron Perranoski, who set the Orioles down 1–2–3. They 
would get two from him in the eighth, however, on a walk to Frank Robinson, 
a single by Brooks Robinson, a sacrifice bunt from Powell and a Johnson 
single off of Perranoski's shins. Perranoski threw the ball away in a desperate 
play for an out at first, and Brooks scored on the error. Palmer completed 
the shutout when Roseboro popped to Aparicio, the Orioles' shortstop. Jim 
Palmer, just nine days shy of his 21st birthday, became the youngest pitcher 
to throw a complete game shutout in the World Series. Baltimore won by 
a decisive 6–0 score, and took a 2–0 lead in the Series. The Dodgers became 
the third team to make 6 errors in one game. The Chicago White Sox, both 
in Game 5 of the 1906 World Series and in Game 5 of the 1917 World Series 
were the others. The series moved to Baltimore with the Orioles enjoying 
a 2–0 series lead. Wally Bunker, plagued with injuries in the regular season, 
pitched a six-hit, complete game gem, while Osteen allowed only three hits 
in seven innings. Unfortunately, one of those hits was a home run from 
Paul Blair in the fifth, which turned out to be the game's only run. The 
Dodgers' defense woke up after Game 2's six-error embarrassment, and they 
turned several excellent plays, most notably first baseman Wes Parker's 
robbing Curt Blefary of a base hit with a spectacular jump to snare his 
sixth inning line drive. Bunker, without a complete game shutout in the 
regular season, completed the Orioles' second consecutive shutout in this 
World Series, and they won 1–0. On the brink of a sweep, Game 4 was a rematch 
of the first game, pitting the young pitcher Dave McNally against the veteran 
Don Drysdale, both of whom had struggled in their previous match-up. However, 
in this outing, both pitchers excelled as Drysdale and McNally each allowed 
only four hits. Again, the only run scored was on a home run, this one 
by Frank Robinson. Willie Davis redeemed himself from his miserable Game 
2 defensive blunders by robbing Boog Powell of a home run in the fourth, 
but to no avail as Paul Blair did the same to Jim Lefebvre in the eighth, 
and the Dodgers were shut out for the third consecutive time and for 33 
consecutive innings, a World Series record. The Orioles won Game 4, 1–0, 
and swept the World Series. Ironically, the trio of Palmer, Bunker and 
McNally had pitched one shutout total during the regular season, that by 
McNally on August 6 against the Washington Senators. The Orioles became 
the first non-Yankee American League team to win the World Series since 
the 1948 Cleveland Indians. The Orioles also became the last of the original 
eight American League teams to win a World Series at all. The Orioles had 
played in the Fall Classic as the St. Louis Browns in the 1944 World Series, 
in which they were also the last of the original eight AL teams to participate 
in a World Series. They became the second-to-last "Original Sixteen" MLB 
team to win the World Series fourteen years later, when the 1980 Philadelphia 
Phillies did it. Frank Robinson became the first non-pitcher from a winning 
World Series team to win the World Series MVP trophy. (Bobby Richardson 
had won it for the Series-losing New York Yankees in the 1960 World Series.) 
1966 World Series (4–0): Baltimore Orioles (A.L.) over Los Angeles Dodgers 
(N.L.) NBC broadcast the Series on both television and radio. In prior 
years, the local announcers for both the home and away team had split calling 
the play-by-play for the telecast of each Series game; however, beginning 
this year and continuing through 1976, only the home-team announcer would 
do TV for each game, splitting play-by-play and color commentary with a 
neutral NBC announcer, while the visiting-team announcer would help call 
the radio broadcast. Thus, in 1966 NBC's Curt Gowdy (completing his first 
season as the network's lead baseball voice) worked the telecasts with 
the Dodgers' Vin Scully for the games in Los Angeles and with the Orioles' 
Chuck Thompson for the games in Baltimore. Bob Prince, in turn, worked 
the radio broadcasts with Thompson (in Los Angeles) and Scully (in Baltimore). 
This was the last hurrah for the Dodgers of this era. In an eight-year 
span from 1959 to 1966, they played in four World Series, winning three 
of them. In addition, they finished second twice (once losing in a playoff) 
and fourth once. Sandy Koufax, though arguably at the peak of his career, 
announced his retirement following the World Series because of the chronic 
arthritis and bursitis in his pitching elbow. In addition, shortstop and 
1962 Most Valuable Player Maury Wills was traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
in December. Tommy Davis, the 1962 and 1963 NL batting champion, still 
not fully recovered from a severely broken ankle suffered in 1965, was 
traded to the New York Mets after the 1966 season. Finally, third baseman/utility 
man Jim Gilliam announced his retirement. The Dodgers still had decent 
pitching, but their offense was among the worst in the majors. They finished 
in eighth place in 1967 and in seventh in 1968, before a new group of young 
players led the team back into contention in 1969. For the twenty-year 
period from 1969 to 1988, the Dodgers won 2 World Series (1981 and 1988), 
5 National League pennants (1974, 1977, 1978, 1981, 1988), and 7 National 
League Western Division titles (1974, 1977, 1978, 1981, 1983, 1985, 1988). 
Meanwhile, the Baltimore Orioles became a dominant team in the late 1960s 
and early to mid-1970s. Injuries slowed the team down in 1967, and they 
finished second to the 103 win Detroit Tigers in 1968. They won three straight 
A.L. pennants from 1969 through '71 (winning over 100 games in each of 
those seasons), including the 1970 World Series. The Orioles won the American 
League Eastern Division again in 1973 and 1974, but they fell to the Oakland 
Athletics dynasty, which went to (and won) the World Series three years 
in a row. The Orioles returned to the World Series in 1979, but they lost 
to the Pirates in seven games. The Orioles won at least 90 games in all 
but three seasons from 1968 through 1983, culminating in their 1983 World 
Series victory over the Phillies. Top American League World Series pitching 
