The 1966 Los Angeles Dodgers won the National League championship with 
a 95–67 record (1½ games over the San Francisco Giants), but lost to the 
Baltimore Orioles in four games in the World Series. Sandy Koufax became 
the first pitcher to win three Cy Young Awards in a career.[1] The defending 
world champion Dodgers relied upon the same model that brought them the 
championship in 1965; great pitching, tight defense, and speed. However, 
ace pitchers Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale held out nearly all of spring 
training in a celebrated contract dispute, finally signing just before 
the start of the regular season. The hold out did not seem to affect Koufax, 
who went 27–9 with a 1.73 E.R.A. However, Drysdale had a sub par season 
going 13–16 with a 3.42 E.R.A. Fortunately for the Dodgers, Claude Osteen 
had his best season to date, winning 17 games with a 2.85 E.R.A., and rookie 
Don Sutton replaced aging Johnny Podres in the rotation, chipping in with 
12 wins and a 2.99 E.R.A. Finally, reliever Phil Regan had a remarkable 
year, going 14–1 with 21 saves. The National League race was basically 
a 4 team affair between the Dodgers, Giants, Pirates, and Phillies, with 
all but the Phillies taking their turn in 1st place during the summer. 
The Dodgers vaulted to the top with an 8-game win streak in mid-September. 
However, the pennant was still not decided going into the final day of 
the season. The Giants, who had eliminated the Pirates by beating them 
on the next to last day of the season, needed to beat the Pirates in the 
season's final game, and then hope the Dodgers would lose both games of 
a double header in Philadelphia to the Phillies. If that happened, the 
Giants would have trailed the Dodgers by 1/2 game, and would have had to 
fly to Cincinnati to play the Reds in a make-up game, needing a win to 
tie for 1st. The Giants defeated the Pirates in extra innings, and the 
Dodgers lost the first game of the double header, blowing a lead in the 
8th inning. However, while the Giants were waiting at the Pittsburgh airport 
(not knowing if they were going to fly to Cincinnati or go home), Koufax 
beat the Phillies in the second game of the double header. While they were 
waiting, a reporter asked Giants pitcher Ron Herbel "you guys don't know 
where you're going yet, do you?" Herbel replied "we know where we're going. 
No way superman (Koufax) loses the second game." Infielders Other batters 
Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts October 5, 1966 at 
Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles. Attendance: 55,941 October 6, 1966 at Dodger 
Stadium in Los Angeles. Attendance: 55,947 October 8, 1966 at Memorial 
Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland. Attendance: 54,445 October 9, 1966 at Memorial 
Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland. Attendance: 54,458 LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Tri-City, 
Ogden This was the second Major League Baseball Draft. The Dodgers drafted 
67 players in the June draft and 9 in the January draft. The top draft 
pick was pitcher Lawrence Hutton from Greenfield High School in Greenfield, 
Indiana. He played in the Dodgers farm system through 1971 and finished 
with a 22–28 record and 4.33 ERA in 117 games, never advancing past AA. 
The most successful picks from this draft class were Bill Russell and Charlie 
Hough. Russell, the ninth round pick out of Pittsburg High School played 
with the Dodgers through 1986, mostly as a shortstop and later managed 
the team from 1996–1998. Hough was drafted in the eighth round out of Hialeah 
High School as an infielder but quickly converted to pitcher. He played 
with the Dodgers through 1980 and then with three other teams until he 
retired in 1994. He later became a coach for the Dodgers organization. 
[7] This was the first year that a January draft was held for college and 
