The 1967 Boston Red Sox season, often referred to as The Impossible Dream, 
consisted of the team's first winning season since 1958, as the Red Sox 
shocked all of New England and the rest of the baseball world by winning 
the American League Championship (also called the AL Pennant) and reached 
the World Series for the first time since 1946. The season had one of the 
most memorable finishes in baseball history, as the AL pennant race went 
to the very last game, with Boston (92–70) beating out the Detroit Tigers 
and Minnesota Twins by one game. The Red Sox entered the 1967 season as 
"doormats" of the American League, with low expectations, low attendance 
to begin the season, and little known talent outside of team captain Carl 
Yastrzemski. They had had losing seasons for each of the previous eight 
years. Two years earlier, the Red Sox had finished the 1965 season with 
a league-worst 100 losses. In addition, the team posted ninth-place finishes 
in 1965 and 1966. Low expectations for the season were demonstrated by 
the measly 8,324 fans who attended Opening Day, which about matched their 
average attendance throughout the 1960s.[5] Boston historians consider 
the 1967 Red Sox season as the "re-invention" of Boston Red Sox baseball.[citation 
needed] Every aspect of Boston baseball was transformed at the hands of 
this club. For instance, in 1966, the Red Sox ranked eighth out of ten 
American League teams in home attendance (811,172). The 1967 season set 
a Fenway Park record and the Sox finished first in the league in home attendance 
(1,727,832). Jerry Remy (current Red Sox television broadcaster for NESN) 
is quoted as saying, "The 1967 created the Red Sox craze and Red Sox Nation 
we have today. They re-invented baseball in New England." In 1967, Dick 
Williams became the manager of the Red Sox. Previously, he had coached 
the Red Sox’ farm club in Toronto. Williams was a stern disciplinarian 
and enacted a get tough policy. He stressed the fundamentals. In spring 
training, he had called George Scott "a fat".[6] The Red Sox also made 
two major acquisitions down the stretch. The first came on August 3, when 
the Red Sox acquired catcher Elston Howard from the New York Yankees. Howard 
would hit just .147 while replacing Mike Ryan as the starting catcher, 
forcing the Red Sox to turn to third-stringer Russ Gibson more and more 
often down the stretch.[7] While Gibson hit just .203, it was better than 
either Howard or Ryan (who hit .199) had managed during the season. The 
second was on August 28, when they signed outfielder Ken Harrelson after 
the Kansas City Athletics released him.[8] Harrelson replaced José Tartabull 
as the starting right fielder.[7] Tartabull himself had replaced the injured 
Tony Conigliaro,[7] who was out for the season after a brutal beaning, 
detailed below. Throughout the season of 1967, the Red Sox were clicking 
offensively and defensively right from Opening Day. One of the keys to 
the Red Sox instant success was young, fan-favorite Tony Conigliaro. Entering 
his fourth season in 1967, Conigliaro set the bar for his personal success 
very high, as he achieved immediate success his first three years in the 
major leagues. In fact, Conigliaro slugged an amazing 24 home runs his 
rookie season in 1964, followed by an AL leading 32 home runs his sophomore 
season in 1965 and 28 in 1966. As the Red Sox showed promise in the early 
part of the 1967 season, Conigliaro's expectations from the fans rose exponentially. 
Throughout Conigliaro's first three seasons, minor and typical baseball 
injuries struck the young player. He had broken his left arm his rookie 
season, broken his left wrist his sophomore season after being hit by a 
pitch, and missed day-to-day action on other various minor injuries. Nothing 
serious had prevented Conigliaro from bouncing back and continuing to see 
offensive success at an unparalleled rapid pace. Some Red Sox die-hards 
in fact predicted Conigliaro would finish his career with better numbers 
than the great Ted Williams. On August 18, 1967, In the fifth inning of 
a mid-summer game between Boston and the California Angels at Fenway Park, 
Conigliaro was beaned by a pitch from Angels pitcher Jack Hamilton right 
above the left cheek bone. Conigliaro was immediately knocked unconscious 
and was taken off the field on a stretcher. It was later announced that 
the slugger had sustained severe damage to his cheek bone and the retina 
of his eye. Conigliaro missed the remainder of the 1967 season and, as 
Boston held its breath for their young phenom, memories of the long drought 
of being a winning team in baseball had crept over the Fenway crowd. (No 
mentions of a curse, however. The idea of the "Curse of the Bambino" would 
not be entertained for another 20 years.) Though their young All-Star was 
out indefinitely, the Red Sox won the game and continued on to win the 
American League Championship. However, faith from Red Sox fans had to be 
found without Conigliaro. He would return a year later, and earn Comeback 
Player of the Year Award in 1969. In 1970, he would reach career-high numbers 
in HRs (36) and RBI (116). Problems with Conigliaro's eyesight returned 
in 1971 and he had to retire from major league baseball following a stint 
with the California Angels that year. His eyesight improved to the point 
that he attempted—and briefly succeeded—in a comeback attempt with the 
Red Sox during the Spring of 1975. However following an early season injury 
he was replaced in the lineup by rookie and future Hall-of-Famer Jim Rice, 
and was released shortly thereafter, never to return to professional baseball. 
During the "impossible dream" of 1967, Red Sox slugger and the 1963 batting 
champion, Carl Yastrzemski, led the Red Sox in his break-out season, transforming 
his young career and elevating himself from All-Star to Most Valuable Player. 
"Yaz" led the Red Sox in batting average, hits, home runs, runs batted 
in, on-base percentage, slugging percentage, on-base + slugging, games 
played, at bat appearances, runs scored, total bases, doubles, base on 
balls (walks) and extra base hits. He was also named to his fourth All-Star 
Game, which was the third straight year he received this honor. All of 
these team categories in which he led the club is overshadowed by his accomplishments 
in offensive statistics league-wide. Yastrzemski batted .326 on the season, 
slugged 44 home runs, and drove in 121 RBIs, which was good to lead the 
American League in all three of these main offensive categories. In leading 
the league in home runs, RBIs, and batting average, Yastrzemski achieved 
the Triple Crown. Only one Red Sox player in history had reached this milestone 
(Red Sox legend Ted Williams did it twice, in 1942 and 1947). It was the 
second consecutive year that the Triple Crown was achieved in the American 
League, Frank Robinson having won the honor in 1966 during his first year 
with the Baltimore Orioles. It took 45 years before another triple crown 
was won, by Miguel Cabrera of the Detroit Tigers in 2012. In 1967 Yastrzemski 
was actually tied in the home run category with Harmon Killebrew of the 
Minnesota Twins that year. In the scope of this season that had begun with 
low expectations for the Boston Red Sox, the leadership and outstanding 
batting by Yastrzemski added to the "impossible" feeling that the season 
overall had overwhelmed the New England region. Yastrzemski ended the season 
with numerous awards and honors: 1967 All-Star, 1967 Most Valuable Player, 
1967 Outfield Gold Glove, 1967 Major League Player of the Year. Statistically, 
Yastrzemski dominated the American League, as he had his own team. He led 
the league in: batting average, runs batted in, home runs, runs, slugging 
percentage, on-base plus slugging, hits, on-base percentage, and total 
bases. Red Sox second baseman Mike Andrews says of the times: "This chaotic 
war was going on while we were playing baseball. To think that baseball 
could be meaningful to these wounded soldiers was unbelievable."[5] Four 
Red Sox players—All-Stars Jim Lonborg and Tony Conigliaro, along with Dalton 
Jones and Jim Landis—were drafted for military service. The four served 
two-week stints in the military reserve. As a 21-year-old rookie, Billy 
Rohr made his first start on April 14 at Yankee Stadium facing Whitey Ford. 
He was one strike away from a no-hitter when Elston Howard, who would join 
the Red Sox later that season, hit a soft single into right-center field. 
Yastrzemski had saved Rohr's no-hit bid earlier in the game when he made 
an over-the-shoulder running-away catch deep in left field. Following Howard's 
single, Rohr proceeded to retire the next batter for a 3–0 shutout. Four 
days later at Fenway Park, he beat the Yankees again, 6–1. Mel Stottlemyre 
was charged with the loss. However Rohr only won one more major league 
game and was out of the majors after the 1968 season. Right out of the 
gates, the Red Sox showed contender capabilities and entering August, were 
only two and a half games behind the league-leading Chicago White Sox and 
were eight games over .500. By month's end, the White Sox lost hold of 
first-place and on August 26, the Red Sox sat atop the American League 
at 72–56. A five-way race between the Red Sox, White Sox, Detroit Tigers, 
Minnesota Twins, and the California Angels developed for the American League 
pennant. The Angels slumped in early September to fall out of the race, 
and the White Sox slumped in the next to last week of the season. Starting 
September—the last month of the season—the Red Sox sat atop of the American 
League, but were caught in a dog-fight with Chicago, Minnesota and Detroit. 
The four teams were separated by half a game and all jumped between first 
to fourth sporadically. The pennant race was coming down to the last weekend 
of the season. Unfortunately for the White Sox, a three-game sweep at the 
hands of the Washington Senators left Chicago three games out of first 
place and left the pennant scramble a three-team race. The Red Sox faced 
the Twins in a two-game series at Fenway Park on that last weekend. The 
Twins were in first place and were ahead by one game over the Red Sox.[8] 
To win the pennant, The Red Sox had to sweep the Twins and the Detroit 
Tigers, playing the California Angels, would have to lose one more game. 
Carl Yastrzemski, vying for the triple crown, led the American League in 
batting average and RBI, and shared the home run lead with Harmon Killebrew 
of the Twins. Both players hit one home run in the series, so Yastrzemski 
won the triple crown. Yastrzemski went 7 for 8 with a home run and 6 RBI 
in the two-game series. In the last game of the season, 21 game winner 
Jim Lonborg got the start for the Red Sox vs. the Twins' 20 game winner 
Dean Chance. The Red Sox won the game 5–3 with a five-run fifth inning, 
and Lonborg finished the season with 22 victories. In Detroit, the Tigers 
won the first game of a double header vs. the Angels, and needed to win 
the second game to tie the Red Sox for first place. But their bullpen failed, 
and the Angels' Rick Reichardt hit a home run in an 8–5 Angel win. The 
Red Sox had won their first American League pennant in 21 years.[8] Although 
the Red Sox did not complete the unbelievable task and lost to the St. 
Louis Cardinals in the 1967 World Series, the overachieving club is considered 
among the greatest Red Sox teams in club history. Beyond Yastrzemski completing 
one of the best single season offensive campaign, Red Sox players dominated 
the American League across the board. Pitcher Jim Lonborg won the Cy Young 
Award. The two Sox All-Stars, joined by Tony Conigliaro and Rico Petrocelli, 
comprised the four Red Sox named to the American League All-Star team. 
[1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = 
Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL Boston Red 
Sox (3) The 2007 season marked the 40th anniversary of The Impossible Dream, 
which was honored and marked with Opening Day ceremonies featuring members 
of the 1967 Red Sox team and an hour-long documentary on NESN (a regional 
sports network part-owned by the Red Sox) called Impossible to Forget.[16] 
The Red Sox went on to win the 2007 World Series, a four-game sweep over 
