The 1967 World Series matched the St. Louis Cardinals against the Boston 
Red Sox in a rematch of the 1946 World Series, with the Cardinals winning 
in seven games for their second championship in four years and their eighth 
overall. The Series was played from October 4 to 12 in Fenway Park and 
Busch Memorial Stadium. The "Impossible Dream" Red Sox were led by triple 
crown winner Carl Yastrzemski (who won the Most Valuable Player award for 
his 1967 performance) and ace pitcher Jim Lonborg, who won the American 
League Cy Young Award. The Red Sox reached the World Series by emerging 
victorious from a dramatic four-team pennant race that revitalized interest 
in the team after eight straight losing seasons. Going into the last week 
of the season, the Red Sox, Detroit Tigers, Minnesota Twins, and Chicago 
White Sox were all within one game of each other in the standings. The 
White Sox lost their last five games (two to the lowly Kansas City Athletics 
and three to the similarly inept Washington Senators) to fall out of the 
race. Meanwhile, the Red Sox and Twins met in Boston for the final two 
games of the season, with Minnesota -- who won the AL Pennant two years 
earlier -- holding a one-game lead. Boston swept the Twins, but needed 
to wait out the result of the Tigers' doubleheader with the California 
Angels in Detroit. A Detroit sweep would have enabled them to tie the Red 
Sox for first place. The Tigers won the first game but the Angels won the 
nightcap, enabling the Red Sox to claim their first A.L. pennant since 
1946. The Cardinals won 101 games en route to the National League pennant, 
with a team featuring All-Stars Orlando Cepeda (selected as the National 
League Most Valuable Player), Lou Brock, Tim McCarver, and 1964 World Series 
MVP Bob Gibson, as well as former two-time Yankee MVP Roger Maris and Curt 
Flood. Twenty-two-year-old Steve Carlton won 14 games in his first full 
major league season, beginning what was to be a lengthy and very successful 
career. The Cardinals overcame the absence of Bob Gibson, who missed almost 
one-third of the season with a broken leg on July 15 (on disabled list, 
July 16 – September 6) suffered when he was struck by a ball hit by Pittsburgh's 
Roberto Clemente. Gibson still managed to win 13 games, and while he was 
out, Nelson Briles filled his spot in the rotation brilliantly, winning 
nine consecutive games as the Cardinals led the N.L. comfortably for most 
of the season, eventually winning by 10½ games over the San Francisco Giants. 
Pitching dominated this World Series, with Bob Gibson leading the Cardinals. 
Cy Young winner Jim Lonborg pitched the decisive final game of the regular 
season, so he was unable to start Game 1. Facing Boston's José Santiago, 
Gibson and St. Louis won, 2–1. Roger Maris, (obtained from the Yankees 
in December 1966) knocked in both of St. Louis' runs with third and seventh-inning 
grounders. Santiago pitched brilliantly and homered in the third inning 
off Gibson for the Red Sox' only run. Gibson cemented his reputation as 
an unhittable postseason pitcher in this series, allowing only three total 
runs over three complete games. His efforts allowed the Cardinals to triumph 
despite the batting of Yastrzemski (.500 OBP, .840 SLG), and pitching of 
Lonborg, who allowed only one run in each of his complete-game wins in 
Games 2 and 5. In Game 2, Yastrzemski belted two homers but the story was 
Lonborg. The Boston ace retired the first 19 Cardinals he faced until he 
walked Curt Flood with one out in the seventh inning. He had a no-hitter 
until Julián Javier doubled down the left field line with two out in the 
eighth inning; Lonborg settled for a one-hit shutout in which he faced 
only 29 batters. In St. Louis, the El Birdos (as Cepeda had nicknamed them) 
took Games 3 and 4, with Briles pitching the home team to a 5–2 victory 
(Mike Shannon's two run blast proved to be the decisive factor), and Gibson 
tossing a 6–0 whitewashing (with two RBIs apiece by Maris and Tim McCarver). 
Now leading three-games-to-one, Lonborg kept the Bosox in the series with 
a 3–1 victory. The 25-year-old righty tossed two-hit, shutout ball over 
8 2⁄3 innings, then finally gave up a run when Maris knocked a home run 
to right. Going for the clincher at Fenway Park in Game 6, the visiting 
team took a 2–1 lead going into the fourth inning when Dick Hughes (who 
led the National League with a .727 winning percentage and won 16 games 
during the regular season) gave up a record three homers in a single inning. 
Yastrzemski led off the fourth with a long drive over the wall in left-center 
and, two outs later, rookie Reggie Smith and Rico Petrocelli both hammered 
consecutive shots. Brock managed to tie the game with a two-run homer in 
the seventh, but Boston retaliated with four runs of their own and went 
on for the 8–4 triumph to tie the series at three games all. The Cardinals 
set a World Series record using eight pitchers. The decisive Game 7 featured 
Gibson and Lonborg facing each other for the first time in the series, 
but Lonborg was starting on only two days' rest, and was unable to compete 
with Gibson, who only allowed three hits over the course of a complete 
game. Both pitchers were 2–0 in the series with Gibson giving up four hits 
in 18 innings and Lonborg surrendering a single run and four hits in his 
18. Something had to give—and it was Lonborg. The Cardinal ace clearly 
dominated the finale, permitting only three hits, striking out 10 batters 
and even adding a home run blast of his own in the fifth. Julián Javier 
added a three run shot off Lonborg in the sixth and Gibson cruised to the 
decisive 7–2 victory. He now boasted a 5–1 record and a 2.00 ERA in World 
Series competition, with 57 strikeouts in 54 innings and only 37 hits allowed. 
This was the first year since 1948 that neither the Yankees, the Giants, 
nor the Dodgers played in the World Series. It would be another seven years 
before the Dodgers would return to the series and nine before the Yankees 
came back. The Giants would not play in a World Series until 1989. Lou 
Brock stole three bases in Game 7 for a record seven (7) thefts in a seven-game 
series. The Cardinals tied a World Series record by using eight pitchers 
in their Game 6 loss. Ken Brett, the older brother of George Brett, became 
the youngest pitcher in World Series history at 19 years, 20 days, when 
he pitched one inning of relief at the end of Game 4. He also pitched  1⁄3 
of an inning at the end of Game 7. He gave up no hits or runs in either 
appearance. He was the only left-hander on the Boston pitching staff. Red 
Sox catcher Elston Howard had the dubious distinction of tying Pee Wee 
Reese's record for most losing World Series teams (6). St. Louis catcher 
Tim McCarver said the Boston newspapers made the Cardinals angry with their 
headline "Lonborg and Champagne" that basically declared that Jim Lonborg 
would win before Game 7. The 1967 Series was the first non-exhibition meeting 
between Major League teams from St. Louis and Boston since the departures 
of the Boston Braves and St. Louis Browns following the 1952 and 1953 seasons 
respectively ended regular season meetings between teams from those cities. 
It also marked the last time (as of 2015) that a St. Louis-based team defeated 
a Boston-based team in the championship round of any professional sport. 
Three years later, the Boston Bruins swept the St. Louis Blues in the National 
Hockey League's Stanley Cup Finals with Bobby Orr scoring the memorable 
series-winning goal in Game 4. The New England Patriots followed suit by 
defeating the St. Louis Rams' "Greatest Show on Turf" team in Super Bowl 
XXXVI after the 2001 NFL season, with kicker Adam Vinatieri scoring the 
game-winning field goal. Then in the 2004 World Series, the Red Sox swept 
the Cardinals in four to break the Curse of the Bambino, after which they 
repeated their triumph in a six-game World Series nine years later. St. 
Louis is only one of two teams to take a 3–1 series lead only to lose the 
next two games and still win the championship. The other was the 1972 Oakland 
Athletics. 1967 marked the first time that the Commissioner's Trophy was 
presented to the World Series-winning team. For the Cardinals, this was 
their first World Series that was not played in Sportsman's Park, which 
had closed partway through the 1966 season. It was also the first of two 
consecutive World Series appearances for the Cardinals (they lost to the 
Detroit Tigers in 1968). NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL Boston Red Sox 
(3) Ace Bob Gibson (13–7, 2.98), who sat out July and August with a broken 
leg, started Game 1 for the Cardinals while 21-year-old José Santiago (12–4, 
3.59) suited up for the Red Sox. Jose, starting because Sox ace Jim Lonborg 
had pitched the final day of the regular season, won seven straight second-half 
games helping Boston stave off the Detroit Tigers and Minnesota Twins to 
win the pennant by one game in a tightly fought pennant race. Pitching 
was prime as Gibson and Santiago seemed to have their best stuff for this 
afternoon game at Fenway Park. The Cards got on the board in the top of 
the third on a lead-off single to center by Lou Brock, a double by Curt 
Flood, and a Roger Maris ground-out to first scoring Brock from third. 
The Sox came right back to tie the score in the bottom of the same inning. 
After Gibson (Bob) struck out Gibson (catcher, Russ), Santiago helped his 
own cause by homering to left-center field. But Bob Gibson was masterful 
the rest of the way finishing with ten strikeouts allowing just six hits 
with one walk. José Santiago matched Gibson until the top of the seventh 
when Brock again led off with a single to right (his fourth hit), promptly 
stole second-base, and eventually scored on back-to-back groundouts by 
Flood and Maris. That run would hold up for a 2–1 Cardinal win but the 
Red Sox ace, Jim Lonborg was waiting in the wings to start Game 2. Jim 
Lonborg enjoyed his best season as a professional in 1967 capturing the 
Cy Young Award with an A.L. best 22 wins (against nine losses), was tops 
with 246 strikeouts, and had an impressive earned run average of 3.16. 
Lonborg continued his superb pitching starting Game 2 for the Red Sox and 
for seven and two-thirds innings, the Cardinals could only manage one baserunner, 
a seventh inning walk by Curt Flood. After Tim McCarver and Mike Shannon 
led off the eighth with groundouts, Julián Javier turned a Lonborg fastball 
around, lining a double into the left-field corner breaking up his no-hitter. 
Bobby Tolan, pinch-hitting for weak-hitting Dal Maxvill, ended the inning 
by grounding out to second-base. Lonborg retired the side in order in the 
ninth ending the game as close to perfect, giving up just one hit and one 
walk while striking out four. Carl Yastrzemski provided more than enough 
offense by homering in the fourth and adding a three-run shot in the seventh 
(scoring Jose Tartabull and Dalton Jones.) The other Red Sox run came in 
the sixth inning on walks to George Scott and Reggie Smith and a run-scoring 
sacrifice-fly by shortstop Rico Petrocelli. The final score was 5–0 to 
even up the series at one game apiece with an upcoming journey to St. Louis 
for Game 3. After "Sleepwalking in Boston", the St. Louis Cardinals came 
out of their hitting slumber and tagged Boston starter Gary Bell for three 
runs on five hits in the first two innings of Game 3. A former sixteen-game 
winner for the Cleveland Indians, Bell was an early-season pickup who pitched 
well in 29 games for the Sox going 12–8 with an ERA of 3.16. But he didn't 
have his best stuff against the Cardinals' starter, 23-year-old Nelson 
Briles. Briles, after losing fifteen games in 1966, alternated between 
middle-relief and starting pitching in '67, and finished with a neat fourteen-win, 
five-loss record (.737 winning percentage—best in the N.L.) and an even 
neater 2.43 ERA. The great table-setter Lou Brock started things rolling 
in the first with a triple to left-center. Curt Flood followed with a single 
to center scoring Brock for the game's first run. In the second, Tim McCarver 
led off with a single to center followed by a Mike Shannon home run to 
left. Ineffective Gary Bell was pinch-hit for in the third inning, replaced 
by Gary Waslewski. Waslewski pitched three perfect innings, striking out 
three before leaving in the sixth for relief pitcher Lee Stange. Boston 
scored their first run in the sixth with Mike Andrews, (pinch-hitting for 
Bell), singling to center. Andrews took second on a Tartabull sacrifice, 
immediately scoring on a Dalton Jones basehit to right. But the Cards added 
some insurance in the bottom of the frame with the disconcerting Brock 
bunting for a hit, eventually going to third when Stange, attempting a 
pick-off, threw wild into right-field. Roger Maris, in his next-to-last 
season, would have a good Series with ten hits and a home run, scored Brock 
with a single to right-center. In the seventh Reggie Smith would hit a 
lead-off home run for Boston, trimming the score to 4–2 but the Cards stifled 
any further Sox comeback scoring their fifth run in the bottom of the eighth 
when Maris beat out an infield tap for a single and Orlando Cepeda muscled 
a double off the wall in right-center making the score 5–2. Briles would 
finish his complete-game victory with a 1–2–3 ninth, the second out recorded 
when Reggie Smith would interfere with McCarver who was trying to catch 
his pop-up foul down the first-base line. Up two games to one, St. Louis 
would send Bob Gibson back to the mound, a championship within reach. 54,000 
plus fans packed Busch Memorial Stadium in anticipation of yet another 
Bob Gibson post-season, pitching gem. Again, all St. Louis needed was a 
spark from Lou Brock and this time four runs crossed the plate in the first 
inning. Brock started things rolling with a slow-roller to third—nothing 
Dalton Jones could do could match Brock's speed, for an infield-hit. Curt 
Flood singled to shallow left and Roger Maris powered-up going the other 
way, doubling into the left-field corner scoring both base-runners. Orlando 
Cepeda then flied out, Maris advancing to third. Tim McCarver hit a clutch 
single to right to score Maris. After Mike Shannon fouled out to Rico Petrocelli 
for the second out, Julián Javier would single in the hole between short 
and third followed by .217 lifetime hitter Dal Maxvill's run-scoring single 
to left for the Cardinals' fourth run. That would be it for Game 1 starter 
José Santiago who would only last two-thirds of an inning this time out. 
Gary Bell would relieve, getting the ninth batter of the inning, Bob Gibson 
to fly out to left. Gibson would be on cruise-control the remainder of 
the game while the Cards would add two more runs off reliever Jerry Stephenson 
in the third. Cepeda would double into the left-field corner and move to 
third on a wild pitch. McCarver would add a second RBI on a sac-fly to 
center scoring Cepeda. Shannon would walk and score on a Julián Javier 
double just inside the third-base line. That would be it for the scoring 
as Gibson would win his second Series game, a five-hit complete-game that 
put his Cardinals up, three games to one. With their backs up against the 
wall, manager Dick Williams again put his trust in the dependable Jim Lonborg. 
The 25-year-old righty was faced by Steve "Lefty" Carlton. Carlton was 
14–9 in 30 games with a 2.98 ERA, striking out 168 in 193 innings during 
the regular season. The game played out very tentatively, with just one 
early run scored by Boston in the top of the third. After Lonborg struck 
out leading off the inning, Joe Foy struck a single to left field. Mike 
Andrews reached safely at first after a sacrifice attempt was fumbled by 
Cardinal third-baseman Mike Shannon. With two on and one out, Carl Yastrzemski 
looked at a third strike for the second out, but Ken Harrelson followed 
with a clutch single to left, scoring Foy. Pitching with a slight cold 
(and a paper horseshoe in his back pocket) Lonborg again sparkled, at one 
point retiring twelve straight. After a Roger Maris single in the fourth, 
the next batter to reach base was Julián Javier, who got on base in the 
eighth on an error by Rico Petrocelli. Carlton was just as good but left 
after six innings of work, replaced by Ray Washburn, who then pitched two 
scoreless innings. St. Louis Manager Red Schoendienst brought in Ron Willis 
to pitch the ninth. The Red Sox greeted Willis by loading the bases on 
a George Scott walk, a Reggie Smith double, and an intentional walk to 
Petrocelli. Jack Lamabe relieved Willis after a 1–0 count on Elston Howard 
who promptly popped a single to right scoring Scott. Maris threw high to 
the plate, allowing Smith to score the second run. With the score 3–0, 
St. Louis came to bat in the last of the ninth in a last attempt comeback 
bid. But Lonborg's luck continued, getting Brock and Flood to ground out 
to second and third respectively. Maris spoiled the shutout bid by homering 
over the right-field fence but Orlando Cepeda ended the game on a ground-out 
to third. The Boston Red Sox were now back in the Series although still 
down three games to two. Pivotal Game 6 matched rookie Gary Waslewski (2–2, 
3.21) who had only pitched in twelve regular season games, versus one-year 
wonder Dick Hughes (16–6, 2.67) who pitched three seasons, winning only 
twice more in 1968 before retiring due to arm problems. Rico Petrocelli 
gave the Red Sox an early lead with a second inning blast over the Green 
Monster in left field. St. Louis came back with two runs in the top of 
the third when Julián Javier hit a lead-off double off that same Green 
Monster. After retiring the next two batters, Waslewski gave up a single 
to Lou Brock, scoring Javier. Then after a Brock steal, Curt Flood singled 
to left, scoring Brock. In the Sox half of the fourth, Carl Yastrzemski, 
Reggie Smith, and Rico Petrocelli would all go long setting a new World 
Series record with three home runs in the same inning. A demoralized Hughes 
wouldn't finish the inning and Ron Willis would be summoned from the bullpen 
to get the last out, an Elston Howard groundout to third. Waslewski was 
very workmanlike, but started to tire in the sixth inning when, after walks 
to Roger Maris and Tim McCarver, was replaced by John Wyatt who would get 
out of the jam retiring Mike Shannon on a popup to short and Petrocelli 
on a fly to short right. The Cards would come back and hit Wyatt hard in 
the seventh. After pinch-hitter Bobby Tolan walked, Lou Brock hit a homer 
into the right-center field bleachers. Flood and Maris hit long fly-outs 
to center but their hits stayed in the park to end the inning, St. Louis 
had tied the score at four apiece. The Red Sox would send ten batters to 
the plate in the bottom of the seventh inning and regain the lead. Elston 
Howard would lead off making both the first and last outs but four runs 
would cross the plate in-between. After all was said and done, the Cardinals 
would send four pitchers to the mound in the inning and when Hal Woodeshick 
would come into pitch the eighth, a Series record would be tied with eight 
(8) pitchers used also setting a two team record of eleven pitchers used. 
St. Louis had one more good chance to win the game loading the bases in 
the eighth, but highlighted by a great Yastrzemski catch in left-center, 
the Cards couldn't push one across and wouldn't score again going quietly 
in the ninth; with Gary Bell pitching the last two innings for the save. 
The Red Sox survived to play another day and the Series was now tied at 
three games apiece. The seventh game finally matched up the aces, Bob Gibson 
against Jim Lonborg. Lonborg was pitching on two-days rest, while Gibson 
had rested an extra day since his last outing. From the start, it was apparent 
that Lonborg was struggling. Three Cardinal hits and a wild pitch put St. 
Louis ahead 2–0 in the third inning. Two more scored in the fifth on a 
home run by Gibson, Lou Brock's single and two stolen bases (his seventh 
steal—a new Series record), and a Roger Maris sacrifice-fly to right. A 
Boston run in the fifth cut the score to 4–1, but the Red Sox dream was 
abruptly halted in the sixth on a three-run homer by Julián Javier off 
the arm-weary Lonborg. With the 7–2 defeat, Boston's "Impossible Dream" 
ended one game too soon and the St. Louis Cardinals were World Series Champions 
for the second time in the 1960s, and eighth overall. Only once before 
had a seventh game of a Series brought together starting pitchers who both 
had 2–0 won-lost records in that Series. It happened in 1925, when the 
Washington Senators' Walter Johnson pitched against the Pittsburgh Pirates' 
Vic Aldridge. 1967 World Series (4–3): St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) over 
