The 1968 Detroit Tigers won the 1968 World Series, defeating the St. Louis 
Cardinals four games to three. The 1968 baseball season, known as the "Year 
of the Pitcher", was the Detroit Tigers 68th since they entered the American 
League in 1901, their eighth pennant, and third World Series championship. 
Detroit pitcher Denny McLain won the Cy Young Award and was named the American 
League's Most Valuable Player after winning 31 games. Mickey Lolich pitched 
three complete games in the World Series – and won all three – to win World 
Series MVP honors. Denny McLain had a remarkable season in 1968, as he 
went 31–6 with a 1.96 earned run average (ERA), was an All-Star, won the 
Cy Young Award, won the AL Most Valuable Player Award, and won Game 6 of 
the World Series. He is the only pitcher since 1934 to win 30 games in 
a season. Beleaguered by legal and financial troubles in later years, McLain 
was at his best in 1968. Perhaps worn down by pitching 336 innings during 
the regular season, McLain's 1968 World Series performance was not as stellar. 
He lost Games 1 and 4 to NL Cy Young Award winner, Bob Gibson. McLain did, 
however, win the crucial Game 6 on just two days rest, holding the Cardinals 
to one run in a 13–1 victory. The Tigers No. 2 starter, Mickey Lolich, 
allowed just five runs in three complete games, winning all three including 
the final and decisive game. Lolich also helped himself at the plate in 
Game 2 when he hit the only home run of his 16-year career. Lolich was 
given the World Series MVP Award for his performance. During the regular 
season, Lolich went 17–9 with 197 strikeouts and a 3.19 ERA. He was actually 
moved to bullpen briefly in August after a few poor starts, but returned 
to pitch well down the stretch.[1] Earl Wilson was the team's No. 3 pitcher, 
going 13–12 for the season with a 2.85 ERA. Known as one of the best power 
hitters of all time among major league pitchers, Wilson hit seven home 
runs in 88 at-bats in 1968. Wilson's at bat-to-home run ratio of 12.57 
was higher than any player in the major leagues in 1968 — higher even than 
home run leaders Frank Howard and Willie Horton. Wilson was the losing 
pitcher in Game 3 of the World Series, allowing 10 baserunners and three 
earned runs in 4 1⁄3 innings pitched. The Tigers No. 4 starter, Joe Sparma, 
was the starting quarterback of the undefeated 1961 Ohio State football 
team. In 1968, Sparma lost his spot in the rotation after a run-in with 
manager Mayo Smith. Sparma was pulled from a game and made critical comments 
about Smith to sportswriter Joe Falls. When Falls asked Smith for a response, 
Smith said he "didn't want to get into a spitting contest with a skunk."[2] 
Smith refused to start Sparma for several weeks afterward. When Sparma 
finally got another start on September 17, 1968, he pitched a one-run complete 
game against the Yankees to clinch the pennant. The Sparma–Smith feud continued, 
and Sparma pitched only 1⁄3 of an inning in the 1968 World Series, giving 
up two earned runs for a 54.00 ERA in postseason play. The Tigers bullpen 
in 1968 included Pat Dobson, John Hiller, Daryl Patterson, and Fred Lasher. 
Catcher Bill Freehan posted career highs with 25 home runs (fifth in the 
AL) and 84 runs batted in (RBIs) (sixth in the AL) and broke his own records 
with 971 putouts and 1,050 total chances, marks which remained AL records 
until Dan Wilson topped them with the 1997 Seattle Mariners. Freehan was 
hit by a pitch 24 times in 1968 – at that time an AL record. Freehan was 
the starting catcher for the AL All Star team in 1968 (and every other 
year from 1966 to 1972) and finished second in the 1968 American League 
MVP voting, behind McLain. First baseman Norm Cash, known as "Stormin' 
Norman", was one of the most popular players on the team. In 1968, he hit 
.268 with 25 home runs despite being limited to 127 games. In the 1968 
World Series, Cash hit .385 (10-for-26). Cash singled to start a three-run 
rally in the seventh inning of Game 7. The rally broke a scoreless tie 
in a pitching duel between Lolich and Gibson. Second baseman Dick McAuliffe 
had a .344 on-base percentage, led the AL with 95 runs scored, and showed 
power with 50 extra base hits, including 16 home runs. He also tied a Major 
League record by going the entire 1968 season without grounding into a 
double play. A converted shortstop, McAuliffe also improved defensively, 
reducing his error total from 28 in 1967 to nine in 1968. He finished No. 
7 in the 1968 AL MVP voting. On August 22, 1968, McAuliffe was involved 
in a brawl in which he drove his knee into pitcher Tommy John's shoulder 
after almost being hit in the head by a pitch. McAuliffe played well in 
the 1968 World Series, with five runs, six hits, four walks, three RBIs, 
and a home run in Game 3, a colossal solo shot into the top of the upper 
deck in right at Tiger Stadium. Shortstop Ray Oyler managed only 29 hits 
(21 of them singles) in 1968 for a career-low batting average of .135. 
However, his glove remained valuable as he had a .977 fielding percentage 
– 15 points above the league average for shortstops. Late in the season, 
and in the World Series, Oyler was replaced at shortstop by outfielder 
Mickey Stanley in a historic gamble by manager Mayo Smith. In the offseason, 
Oyler was drafted by the expansion Seattle Pilots. Third baseman Don Wert 
was hit in the head by a pitch that shattered his batting helmet on June 
26, 1968.[3] He was carried off on a stretcher, spent two nights in the 
hospital, missed several games, and was never the same hitter again.[4] 
He had never hit lower than .257 in five prior seasons, but his 1968 batting 
average dropped to a career-low .200. Wert was selected for the AL All 
Star team in 1968 and is remembered for his ninth inning, game-winning 
hit on September 17 to clinch the American League pennant. Ernie Harwell 
described the scene as follows in his radio broadcast of the game: Left 
fielder Willie Horton led the way among the outfielders in 1968. He finished 
second in the American League behind Frank Howard in home runs (36), slugging 
percentage (.543), and total bases (278). In a year in which the league 
batting average was .230, Horton's .285 average was good for fourth in 
the AL, and he also finished fourth in the AL MVP voting. In the World 
Series, Horton batted .304 and had a solo home run to give the Tigers an 
early lead in Game 2. He also made a pivotal defensive play in the fifth 
inning of Game 5. When Lou Brock tried to score from second base on a single 
to left field, Brock was tagged out on a throw from Horton that hit Freehan's 
glove on the fly. Horton was the only African American position player 
to start for the team. Mickey Stanley covered center field for the 1968 
Tigers, won a Gold Glove Award at the position and led all American League 
outfielders with a perfect 1.000 fielding percentage. Prior to 1968, Stanley 
had been used mostly as a backup outfielder, but an injury to Al Kaline 
expanded his playing time, as Jim Northrup moved to right field to sub 
for Kaline. When shortstop Ray Oyler went "0 for August", and his batting 
average fell to .135, manager Mayo Smith made one of the most talked-about 
managerial moves in baseball history, moving Stanley to shortstop for the 
last 9 games of the regular season and for all 7 games of the 1968 World 
Series. The move also allowed Smith to play both Kaline and Northrup in 
the outfield. Stanley had not played the shortstop position before the 
1968 season, but was a talented athlete with a good glove. Though Stanley 
made 2 errors in the World Series, neither error led to a run being scored. 
In its "The End of the Century" series, ESPN rated Mayo Smith's decision 
to move Stanley to shortstop for the World Series as one of the 10 greatest 
coaching decisions of the 20th Century in any sport.[5] Jim Northrup was 
the Tigers' right fielder for most of the 1968 season, and was among the 
American League leaders with 90 RBIs (3rd in the AL), 57 extra base hits 
(4th in the AL), 259 total bases (5th in the AL), and 29 doubles (5th in 
the AL). Northrup also hit five grand slams during the 1968 season. He 
hit two in consecutive at bats on June 24, 1968,[6] and then hit another 
five days later, becoming the first major league player to hit three grand 
slams in a single week.[7] Northrup's fifth grand slam came in Game 6 of 
the World Series. With Stanley moving to shortstop, Northrup started in 
center field during the World Series. Northrup also had the Series-clinching 
hit in Game 7 off Cardinals ace Bob Gibson. After Gibson held the Tigers 
scoreless through the first six innings, Northrup hit a triple over center 
fielder Curt Flood's head, driving in Norm Cash and Willie Horton. In the 
7-game series, Northrup had a .536 slugging percentage, with 8 RBIs, 7 
hits, 4 runs scored, and 2 home runs. Northrup placed 13th in the 1968 
AL MVP voting. The only future Hall of Fame member who played regularly 
for the 1968 Tigers was Al Kaline. (Hall of Famer Eddie Mathews played 
in 31 games for the 1968 Tigers.) However, Kaline broke his arm after being 
hit by a pitch in May and missed part of the season. He played 70 games 
at his usual spot in right field and another 22 games at first base. His 
.287 batting average would have placed him 4th in the league, but he did 
not have enough at bats to qualify. Kaline excelled in his only World Series 
appearance by batting .379 with 2 home runs and 8 RBIs. Pinch-hitter Gates 
Brown also had a huge year for the Tigers in 1968. Signed by the Tigers 
while serving time in an Ohio prison, Brown led the team with a .370 batting 
average (34-for-92) and .685 slugging percentage in the "year of the pitcher" 
when the league batting average was only .230. He also led the American 
League in pinch hits and came off the bench with clutch hits to spark a 
number of dramatic ninth inning come-back victories. In a doubleheader 
against the Boston Red Sox on August 11, 1968, Brown had a clutch game-winning 
home run off Lee Stange in the 14th inning of the first game, then had 
a game-winning single off Sparky Lyle in the ninth inning of the second 
game. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] Infielders Coaches After 
losing the 1967 American League pennant by one game to the Red Sox, the 
Tigers got off to a 9–1 start in 1968. By April 29, they were 12–4. On 
May 10, the Tigers moved into first place and remained there for the rest 
of the season. In baseball's final season before the leagues each split 
into two divisions, the Tigers finished with a record of 103–59 and outscored 
their opponents 671 to 492. The Orioles stayed close through much of the 
season, but the Tigers wound up winning the pennant with a 12-game lead 
over Baltimore. The 1968 Tigers also won the season series against all 
nine league opponents‚ the first team to accomplish that since the 1955 
Dodgers. The 1968 Tigers developed a reputation for dramatic comebacks, 
often with winning late-inning home runs. The Tigers led the major leagues 
with 185 home runs in 1968. They won 40 games from the 7th inning forward, 
and won 30 games in their last at bat. In each game, there seemed to be 
a new hero, with even the light-hitting Don Wert, Ray Oyler and Tom Matchick 
providing clutch hits to win ballgames. The 1968 Tigers were also known 
for their esprit de corps. The starting lineup had been intact since 1965, 
and several of those starters had grown up in Michigan as Detroit Tigers 
fans: Willie Horton in Detroit's inner city, Bill Freehan in suburban Royal 
Oak, Jim Northrup in a small town 25 miles (40 km) west of Saginaw, and 
Mickey Stanley from the west of the state in Grand Rapids. The 1968 Tigers' 
winning percentage ranks as the fifth-best in team history, as follows: 
Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: Pitchers' batting statistics not included Note: G = Games 
pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; 
SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; GF = Games finished; ERA = Earned run 
average; SO = Strikeouts The 1968 World Series featured the Detroit Tigers 
and the St. Louis Cardinals, with the Tigers winning in seven games for 
their third championship in seven World Series appearances. In Game 1, 
the Cardinals' ace Bob Gibson threw a shutout, striking out 17 batters, 
as St. Louis won 4–0. As of 2011, Gibson's 17 strikeouts is still the record 
in a World Series game. The only positive the Tigers could take away from 
Game 1 was the fact that Mickey Stanley, having moved from center field 
to shortstop at the end of the season, handled five chances without an 
error. In Game 2, Mickey Lolich hit a home run and pitched the first of 
his three complete game victories, as Detroit won, 8–1. Norm Cash and Willie 
Horton both homered, and perennial Gold Glove winner, Al Kaline, made two 
sensational catches in right field. The Cardinals followed with wins in 
Games 3 and 4, including another victory by Bob Gibson over Denny McLain 
in Game 4. Lou Brock stole three bases in Game 3 and had six steals in 
the first three games. In Game 4, McLain pitched poorly, giving up six 
runs in three innings. Game 4 also saw one of the most bizarre strategic 
battles in World Series history. The Cardinals led 4–0 in the third inning, 
when the game was delayed by rain for over an hour. When play resumed, 
the Tigers began to stall, hoping to have the game called before it became 
official. The Cardinals responded by intentionally trying to make outs 
to move the game forward. As a result of the tactics, Game 4 of the 1968 
series was criticized as one of the worst games in World Series history. 
After Game 4, with the Cardinals up 3 games to 1, a Detroit team that had 
made dramatic comebacks all year was forced to make its biggest comeback 
yet. Game 5 began with the unconventional, soulful singing of the national 
anthem by José Feliciano, drawing boos from some Detroit fans. When the 
game got underway, the Cardinals immediately scored three runs in the first 
inning off Mickey Lolich. In the fifth inning, Lou Brock doubled, and the 
Cardinals had a chance to break the game open, but Brock tried to score 
from second base on a single to left field. Brock was out in a collision 
with Bill Freehan at home plate, as Willie Horton's throw hit Bill Freehan's 
glove on the fly, and Brock elected not to slide. Brock later remarked 
that he never slid because no one had ever tried to throw him out at home. 
In the 7th inning, the Cardinals led, 3–2. Mickey Lolich led off for the 
Tigers in the 7th inning with a bloop single, and the Tigers loaded the 
bases for Al Kaline to slap a single into right field, driving in two runs. 
Cash drove in another run, and the Tigers led, 5–3, which proved to be 
the final score. Mickey Lolich pitched his second complete game victory. 
In Game 6, Mayo Smith passed over Earl Wilson and elected to start Denny 
McLain on two days' rest. McLain held the Cardinals to one run, and the 
Tigers scored 13 times. The Tigers scored ten runs in the 3rd inning, capped 
by Jim Northrup's grand slam. Game 7 was a pitching duel between Bob Gibson 
and Mickey Lolich, pitching on only two days' rest. In a pre-game pep talk, 
Mayo Smith told his team that Gibson was not Superman, prompting Norm Cash 
to ask: "What was he doing in a telephone booth changing his clothes?"[14] 
The game was scoreless after six innings, as the two pitchers dominated. 
In the 7th inning, the Tigers broke through on a triple by Jim Northrup 
that went over center fielder Curt Flood's head, driving in Norm Cash and 
Willie Horton. Curt Flood initially misread Northrup's hit, taking a step 
in, and then slipping as he chased the ball over his head. Flood was tagged 
a "goat" for having misplayed the ball. The Tigers won Game 7 by a score 
of 4–1. Mickey Lolich, who pitched three complete game victories, was named 
the MVP of the World Series. On the plane ride back to Detroit after Game 
7 of the World Series, Lolich turned to newspaper columnist, Pete Waldmeir, 
and said: "I guess I'm an unlikely hero. Pot belly. Big ears. Just a guy 
who shows up every day and gets the job done as best as he knows how."[15] 
But it was precisely those "average man" qualities that made Lolich one 
of the most popular sports figures in a working man's city. As the Detroit 
News put it, "He didn't act like a big shot superstar, he was one of us."[16] 
The 1968 baseball season occurred in a year of upheaval. The Tet Offensive 
earlier in the year increased opposition to the Vietnam War. The City of 
Detroit had suffered through one of the worst riots in American history 
during the summer of 1967. Less than a week before Opening Day, Martin 
Luther King, Jr. was assassinated in Memphis, triggering civil unrest in 
60 American cities. The assassination of Robert Kennedy followed in June. 
And in late August, the Tigers played a series in Chicago, as Chicago police 
had violent confrontations with thousands of anti-war protesters during 
the Democratic National Convention. Yet, through the summer of 1968, the 
people of Detroit were united by their passion for the Tigers and the calming 
radio voice of Tigers broadcaster, Ernie Harwell. When the Tigers won the 
World Series, the headline in the Detroit Free Press read: "WE WIN!" The 
headline told the story. Amidst all the turmoil, the people of Detroit 
came together behind their baseball team. In a column published on October 
11, 1968, Detroit's senior baseball writer, Joe Falls, described the impact 
of the Tigers championship on the city. Even the Governor of Michigan, 
George Romney, credited the Tigers with helping calm the city. In a letter 
to owner John Fetzer, Romney wrote: "The deepest meaning of this victory 
extends beyond the sports pages, radio broadcasts, and the telecasts that 
have consumed our attention for several months. This championship occurred 
when all of us in Detroit and Michigan needed a great lift. At a time of 
unusual tensions, when many good men lost their perspective toward others, 
the Tigers set an example of what human relations should really be."[17] 
Bill Freehan Dick McAuliffe Denny McLain Mickey Stanley 1968 Major League 
Baseball All-Star Game The following members of the 1968 Tigers have been 
ranked among the Top 100 of all time at their position in The New Bill 
