The 1969 American League Championship Series was the first ALCS held after 
Major League Baseball adopted the two-division format that season. It featured 
the Baltimore Orioles vs. the Minnesota Twins, with the Orioles winning 
the series 3–0 and advancing to the 1969 World Series, where they would 
lose to the New York Mets in five games. The Orioles and Twins would meet 
again the following year, with similar results. This was the first of three 
straight appearances in the ALCS for the Orioles. Baltimore won the series, 
3–0. Saturday, October 4, 1969 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland 
In the opener, 20-game winner Jim Perry held a 3–2 lead over the Orioles 
entering the ninth inning, Boog Powell tied the score with a smash over 
the right-field fence. Reliever Ron Perranoski, who worked in all three 
games, shut off Baltimore's offense at that point. Then, with two down 
in the 12th and Mark Belanger on third, Paul Blair stepped to the plate. 
Acting on his own, he bunted toward third. Neither third sacker Harmon 
Killebrew nor catcher John Roseboro could make the play as Belanger sped 
across the plate with the winning run. Dick Hall, who pitched two-thirds 
of an inning, was the winner. Perranoski didn't allow a ball to leave the 
infield in the 12th, but was the loser nonetheless. Sunday, October 5, 
1969 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland Winner of 15 games in a 
row during the season, McNally was saddled with a "lucky" tag because Baltimore 
frequently rallied to win after McNally had left on the short end of the 
score. He won the second game of the playoffs on his own exceptional pitching 
and Curt Motton's 11th inning pinch-hit single. It scored Powell from second 
base with the only run of the game. McNally's victim was Dave Boswell, 
who was a mighty tough opponent. McNally yielded only three hits, none 
after the fourth inning. Monday, October 6, 1969 at Metropolitan Stadium 
in Bloomington, Minnesota The Orioles easily won this game and advanced 
to the World Series. Paul Blair, the swift center fielder who enjoyed a 
banner season, whacked five hits and drove in five runs. Left fielder Don 
Buford contributed four hits after going 0-for-9 in the first two games. 
Oriole Manager Earl Weaver employed simple strategy to deal with Minnesota's 
Harmon Killebrew, AL MVP winner that year: Walk him in any dangerous situation. 
The killer got nothing good to swing at until Game 3 was on ice. Baltimore 
pitchers walked him five times in the first two games and pitched to him 
only when he could not wreck them with one swing. Rod Carew and Tony Oliva 
were the Twins' other top hitters during 1969. Carew, AL batting champ, 
was a dud in the playoffs, going 1-for-14. Oliva hit safely in each of 
the three games, including a homer in the opener, but was guilty of some 
shoddy fielding in the third game. This Monday game at Metropolitan Stadium 
forced the NFL's Minnesota Vikings to play their game against division 
rival Green Bay the previous day at the University of Minnesota's Memorial 
Stadium in Minneapolis. It was the first NFL game ever played in a Big 
Ten stadium. That same day, because the Atlanta Braves were hosting Game 
2 of the NLCS, the Atlanta Falcons had to move their home game against 
the Baltimore Colts from Atlanta Stadium to Grant Field on the campus of 
