The 1969 New York Mets season was the team's eighth as a Major League Baseball 
(MLB) franchise and culminated with them winning the World Series over 
the Baltimore Orioles. They played their home games at Shea Stadium. The 
team was managed by Gil Hodges. The team is often referred to as the "Amazin' 
Mets" (a nickname coined by Casey Stengel, who managed the team from their 
inaugural season to 1965) or the "Miracle Mets". The 1969 season was the 
first season of divisional play in Major League Baseball. The Mets were 
assigned to the newly created National League East division. In their seven 
previous seasons, the Mets had never finished higher than ninth place in 
the ten-team National League and had never had a winning season. In fact, 
they lost at least one hundred games in five of the seasons. However, they 
overcame mid-season difficulties while the division leaders for much of 
the season, the Chicago Cubs, suffered a late-season collapse. The Mets 
finished 100–62, eight games ahead of the Cubs. The Mets went on to defeat 
the National League West champion Atlanta Braves three games to none in 
the inaugural National League Championship Series and went on to defeat 
the American League champion Baltimore Orioles in five games. First baseman 
Donn Clendenon was named the series' most valuable player on the strength 
of his .357 batting average, three home runs, and four runs batted in. 
On Saturday, August 22, 2009, many of the surviving members of the 1969 
championship team reunited at the New York Mets' present park, Citi Field.[1] 
The 1969 New York Mets held spring training at Al Lang Stadium in St. Petersburg, 
Florida for the 8th season. The Mets had never finished higher than ninth 
place in a ten-team league in their first seven seasons. As an expansion 
team, they went 40–120 in 1962, the most losses by an MLB team in one season 
in the 20th century, and the 1962 Mets' .250 winning percentage was higher 
than only the .248 posted by the 1935 Boston Braves. The Mets never had 
been over .500 after the ninth game of any season. Seven years after their 
disastrous inaugural season, "The Amazin' Mets" (as nicknamed by previous 
manager Casey Stengel) won the World Series, the first expansion team to 
do so. With great pitching and decent defense, but not much offense, the 
Mets were an uninspired 18–23 through their first 41 games. They then reeled 
off a club-record 11 straight wins, equaled on several occasions. Starting 
with their 42nd game, the Mets went 82–39, an impressive .678 winning percentage, 
the rest of the season. Despite that performance, the Mets suffered two 
mid-season three-game series sweeps at the hands of the Houston Astros, 
and were also no-hit by Bob Moose of the Pittsburgh Pirates on September 
20, five days after becoming the first major league team to strike out 
19 times in a nine-inning game, which they won, 4–3, on a pair of two-run 
home runs by Ron Swoboda, against the Cardinals' Steve Carlton. In second 
place most of the season behind the Chicago Cubs, the Mets were in third 
place, 9.5 games back, on August 13.[3] They won 14 of their last 17 games 
during August, and 24 of their 32 games during September and October, to 
surge past the Cubs, finishing 100–62, eight games ahead of the Cubs. That 
17 game differential is one of the largest turnarounds in MLB history.[clarification 
needed] All times are EASTERN time All times are EASTERN time Infielders 
Coaches With two outs in the top of the ninth inning, starting pitcher 
Jerry Koosman faced Orioles second baseman Davey Johnson (who later managed 
the Mets to their second World Series championship in 1986). After taking 
a pitch of two balls and one strike, Johnson hit a fly-ball out to left 
field which was caught by Cleon Jones.[4] Three future Hall of Fame members 
were on the Mets' roster: pitcher Tom Seaver (who won twenty-five games 
en route to winning the Cy Young Award), a young Nolan Ryan (playing in 
his third season), and New York Yankees legend Yogi Berra (who briefly 
played for the Mets in 1965), who was their first base coach. Berra was 
inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1972, Seaver in 1992, and Ryan in 1999. 
The Baltimore Orioles boasted four future Hall of Famers on their roster: 
pitcher Jim Palmer, outfielder Frank Robinson, third baseman Brooks Robinson, 
and manager Earl Weaver. Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At 
bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Saturday, 
October 4, 1969 at Atlanta Stadium in Atlanta Sunday, October 5, 1969 at 
Atlanta Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia Monday, October 6, 1969 at Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York Saturday, October 11, 1969 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, 
Maryland Sunday, October 12, 1969 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland 
Tuesday, October 14, 1969 at Shea Stadium in Flushing, Queens, New York 
Wednesday, October 15, 1969 at Shea Stadium in Flushing, Queens, New York 
Thursday, October 16, 1969 at Shea Stadium in Flushing, Queens, New York 
In the movie Oh, God!, God, as played by George Burns, explains to John 
Denver that "the last miracle I performed was the 1969 Mets." Part of the 
movie Frequency is set in Queens, New York in 1969, as firefighter and 
avid Mets fan Frank Sullivan (Dennis Quaid) and his family follow the "Amazin's" 
throughout the World Series. In Moonlighting, Season 2, Episode 13, "In 
God We Strongly Suspect", when David is attempting to define the parameters 
of Maddie's skepticism and atheism by inviting her to provide logical explanations 
for various phenomena seemingly beyond man's understanding, he mentions 
the "'69 Mets" which she immediately dismisses as "a myth and a hoax". 
In his song "Faith and Fear in Flushing Meadows", twee/folk artist Harry 
Breitner makes mention of Tom Seaver and Jerry Koosman. In the TV sitcom 
Everybody Loves Raymond episode "Big Shots", Ray and Robert visit the Baseball 
Hall of Fame to meet members of the '69 Mets. In the film Men in Black 
3, set shortly before the Apollo 11 launch in July 1969, Griffin, an alien 
from the fifth dimension who can see the future, says the Mets' title is 
his favorite human history moment for "all the improbabilities that helped". 
In the TV show Growing Pains, the family's name was the Seavers and their 
neighbors were the Koosmans. Outfielders Pitchers LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Memphis 
