The 1969 Chicago Cubs season was the 98th season of the Chicago Cubs franchise, 
the 94th in the National League and the 54th at Wrigley Field. The season 
involved the Cubs gaining renown as "the most celebrated second-place team 
in the history of baseball.".[1] In the first season after the National 
League was split into two divisions, the Cubs finished with a record of 
92–70, 8 games behind the New York Mets in the newly established National 
League East. Caustic 64-year-old Leo Durocher was the Cubs manager. The 
ill-fated season saw the Cubs in first place for 155 days, until mid-September 
when they lost 17 out of 25 games. The 1969 season marked the first year 
of divisional play in Major League Baseball. The Atlanta Braves (along 
with the Cincinnati Reds) were placed in the NL West division, despite 
being located further east than the 2 westernmost teams in the NL East 
Division, the Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals. This was because the New York 
Mets wanted to be in the same division as the reigning power in the NL, 
which was the Cardinals at the time (to compensate for playing against 
the Dodgers and Giants fewer times each season). The Cubs consequently 
demanded to be in the NL East as well in order to continue playing in the 
same division as the Cardinals, one of the Cubs' biggest rivals. A side 
effect of this alignment is that it set the stage for what is considered 
one of the greatest pennant races – and comebacks in such a race – in MLB 
history. Hoping to improve on the previous year's 84–78 record, the Cubs 
began the 1969 season by winning 11 of their first 12 games, and on August 
16, they were 75–44, up by a season high nine games over second place New 
York. By September 2, they had soared to an 84–52 record, well on pace 
to exceed the previous season's mark, but their lead over the Mets had 
fallen to five games. From there the Mets went on a tear. The Cubs ultimately 
lost 17 of the last 25 games of the season, while the Mets went 23–7 to 
overtake the Cubs and finish eight games ahead of them. It was one of the 
most astounding late season collapses in history, with the seventeen-game 
turnaround being one of the biggest ever. The Cubs finished 92–70, while 
the Mets won the National League East and would go on to win the World 
Series. Throughout the summer of 1969, led by future Hall of Famers Ernie 
Banks, Ferguson Jenkins, Ron Santo, Billy Williams, and the game calling 
skills of Randy Hundley behind the plate, the Chicago Cubs had built a 
substantial lead in the newly created National League East. At the conclusion 
of each victory 3rd baseman Santo would jump and click his heels in celebration. 
After starting pitcher Ken Holtzman's no-hitter on August 19, the Cubs 
led the division by 8 1⁄2 games over the St. Louis Cardinals and 9 1⁄2 
games over the New York Mets. The 1969 season was bookended by a pair of 
homers that were memorable in a good and bad way respectively. On opening 
day at Wrigley Field, April 8, the Cubs trailed the Phillies 6–5 in the 
bottom of the 11th inning. With a runner on base, Willie Smith hit a game-winning 
home run into the right field bleachers.[5] This event essentially "lit 
the fuse" to the Cubs' successful first five months of the season. They 
would win the next three games, and 11 out of their first 12, and create 
a cushion that would extend to 8½ games in mid-August. After the game of 
September 2, the Cubs' record was 84–52 with the Mets in second place at 
77–55. But then a losing streak began just as a Mets winning streak was 
beginning. The Cubs lost the final game of a series at Cincinnati, then 
came home to play the resurgent Pittsburgh Pirates (who would finish in 
third place). After losing the first two games by scores of 9–2 and 13–4, 
the Cubs led going into the ninth inning in the series finale. A win would 
be a positive springboard since the Cubs were to play a crucial series 
with the Mets the very next day. But Willie Stargell drilled a 2-out, 2-strike 
pitch from the Cubs' ace reliever, Phil Regan, onto Sheffield Avenue to 
tie the score in the top of the ninth. The Cubs would lose 7–5 in extra 
innings.[6] Meanwhile, the Mets had taken two of three against Philadelphia 
over the same weekend. Burdened by a four-game losing streak, the Cubs 
traveled to Shea Stadium on September 8 for a short two-game set. The Mets 
won both games, and the Cubs left New York with a record of 84–58 just 
1⁄2 game in front. Disaster followed in Philadelphia, as a 99-loss Phillies 
team nonetheless defeated the Cubs twice, to extend Chicago's losing streak 
to eight games. In a key play in the second game, on September 11, Cubs 
starter Dick Selma threw a surprise pickoff attempt to third baseman Ron 
Santo, who was nowhere near the bag or the ball. Selma's throwing error 
opened the gates to a Phillies rally. After that second Philly loss, the 
Cubs were 84–60 and the Mets had pulled ahead at 85–57. The Mets would 
not look back. The Cubs' eight-game losing streak finally ended the next 
day in St. Louis, but the Mets were in the midst of a ten-game winning 
streak, and the Cubs, wilting from team fatigue, generally deteriorated 
in all phases of the game.[1] The Mets (who had lost a record 120 games 
7 years earlier), would go on to win the World Series. The Cubs, despite 
a respectable 92–70 record, would be remembered for having lost a remarkable 
17 1⁄2 games in the standings to the Mets in the last quarter of the season. 
Some superstitious fans attribute the Cubs collapse to an incident at Shea 
Stadium: A black cat (an omen of bad luck) walked behind the Cubs' on-deck 
circle where captain Ron Santo was standing.[7] Some fans blame key errors 
by center fielder Don Young and Santo's immediate criticism. According 
to Santo, "At no time did I give the impression, let alone a direct quote, 
that Don Young cost us the ballgame".[8] Banks stated, however, that after 
an error by Young, Santo "went crazy. Young was so upset, he ran out ... 
I had never seen something so hurtful". According to Banks, "They say one 
apple can spoil the whole barrel, and I saw that", with the incident dividing 
the team into factions.[7] Still others blame the number of day games that 
the Cubs had to play. (Lights were not installed in Wrigley Field until 
1988.) Chicago's summers are quite humid (85–90 degrees Fahrenheit on average), 
and playing in this heat day after day may have taken a toll (although 
the average temperature that summer was 71.8 degrees, which was relatively 
low).[9] From August 14 through the end of the season, the Mets had an 
amazing 38–11 record,[10] while the Cubs record was 18–27 for the same 
period, slumping to 8–17 in September and 9–18 for September and October.[11] 
The Book Baseball Hall of Shame 2 places the blame squarely (and perhaps 
unfairly) at the feet of one man, stating, "In the heat of battle, Leo 
Durocher, field general of the Cubs, went AWOL once too often. It was because 
of his lack of leadership that his team lost the fight for the 1969 pennant." 
Durocher did not believe in using the platoon system. He believed in putting 
his best eight players on the field every day.[12] Five of the Cubs' regular 
players finished the season with over 150 games played.[13] Two more had 
more than 130 games played.[13] In his book, The Bill James Historical 
Baseball Abstract, baseball historian Bill James cited manager Durocher's 
method of using his regular players everyday without any rest days as a 
factor in the Cubs' collapse.[14] Overuse of the pitching staff may have 
played a part. During the first 118 games (74–43 record on August 13), 
the Cubs averaged about 4.7 runs a game and gave up only 3.5 runs per game, 
a 1.2 run per game advantage over the opposition. The last 45 games (18–27 
record) saw a major reversal, with 3.7 runs per game for the team and 4.5 
runs per game for the opposition (average Cub score would be a negative 
−0.8 runs per game versus opponents, almost a complete reversal from earlier 
play). Both the hitters and pitchers may have wilted as the season wound 
down. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos. = Position; G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in; Avg. = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: G = Games played; AB 
= At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = 
Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; 
IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO 
= Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts All-Star Game LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
