The 1970 World Series matched the American League champion Baltimore Orioles 
(108-54 in the regular season) against the National League champion Cincinnati 
Reds (102-60), with the Orioles winning in five games. In this series Emmett 
Ashford became the first African American to umpire in the Fall Classic. 
It also featured the first World Series games to be played on artificial 
turf, as Games 1 and 2 took place at Cincinnati's first-year Riverfront 
Stadium. This was the last World Series in which all games were played 
in the afternoon. Also this was the third time in a World Series where 
a team leading 3-0 in the series would fail to complete the sweep by losing 
game 4 but still win game 5 to win the series. 1910 and 1937 were the others. 
The Baltimore Orioles won the American League East division by 15 games 
over the New York Yankees and the Cincinnati Reds won the National League 
West division by 14 1⁄2 games over the Los Angeles Dodgers. Coming into 
the World Series, the Orioles had won 14 straight including the final 11 
during the regular season then defeated the Minnesota Twins, three games 
to none, in the American League Championship Series for the second straight 
year. The Reds went 32-30 in their last 62 regular season games, but swept 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, three games to none, in the National League Championship 
Series. The World Series set up to as a classic matchup of a pair of teams 
laden with all-star players. The 1970 Cincinnati Reds squad was the first 
edition of the "Big Red Machine." Sparky Anderson's first year as a major 
league manager produced 102 wins and the first of four NL pennants. The 
Reds featured a heavy-hitting lineup that included future Hall of Famers 
in catcher Johnny Bench (45 home runs, 148 RBI and .293 batting average) 
and third baseman Tony Pérez (40, 129, .317), as well as all-time hits 
leader Pete Rose (15, 52, .316) in right field, NL stolen base leader Bobby 
Tolan (16, 80, .316) in center field and power-hitting first baseman Lee 
May (34, 94, .253). The Reds led the National League in batting average 
and finished third in runs scored.[1] Cincinnati pitching, however, would 
be a weak spot throughout the Series. Two-time 20-game winner Jim Maloney 
could only make three starts during the regular season and was shelved. 
Two 1970 All Star game representatives, Jim Merritt (20–12) and rookie 
Wayne Simpson (14–3), were suffering arm injuries. Merritt, who won 20 
games by the end of August, pitched less than four regular season innings 
after September 4.[2] Merritt started Game 5 against Baltimore, but was 
unable to get through the second inning. Simpson started 8–1 and had 14 
wins by July 26,[2] but was shelved thereafter. He did not pitch in the 
post season. Right-hander Gary Nolan (18-7, 3.26 ERA) would assume the 
ace role for the Reds. By contrast, pitching was a strength for the Baltimore 
Orioles as manager Earl Weaver had three, healthy 20-game winners.[3] Mike 
Cuellar (24–8, 3.48 ERA), Dave McNally (24–9, 3.22) and future Hall of 
Famer Jim Palmer (20–10, 2.71) were all well-rested and ready for the Series. 
Weaver balanced good pitching with the hitting of 1970 AL MVP Boog Powell 
(35, 114, .297), Merv Rettenmund (18, 58, .322), as well as future Hall 
of Famers Frank Robinson (25, 78, .306) and Brooks Robinson (18, 94, .276). 
The Orioles led the AL in most runs scored (792), fewest runs allowed (574), 
complete games by starting pitchers (60), lowest team earned run average 
(3.15) and they were second in the AL in fielding percentage (.981) establishing 
themselves as the most dominant Orioles team in the modern era. The 1970 
World Series appearance by Baltimore was the second of what would be three-straight 
World Series appearances. The Reds would go on to amass four WS appearances 
in a seven-year stretch (1970, '72, '75 & '76, winning the last two). This 
was the only World Series in which Earl Weaver managed the Orioles to a 
win. AL Baltimore Orioles (4) vs. NL Cincinnati Reds (1) The Reds got off 
to a fast start, taking a 3–0 lead off Jim Palmer on a first-inning RBI 
single by Johnny Bench and a third-inning two-run homer by Lee May. The 
Orioles' offense answered with a two-run homer by Boog Powell in the fourth 
off Reds starter Gary Nolan. Elrod Hendricks tied it with a homer in the 
fifth, and Brooks Robinson hit the game-winning homer in the seventh. In 
the sixth, Robinson made a spectacular backhanded grab of a hard grounder 
down the line by May before spinning to throw him out. It was one of several 
spectacular plays the Gold Glove third baseman would make in the series. 
The game turned in the sixth inning on a controversial call by home-plate 
umpire Ken Burkhart. The Reds had Bernie Carbo on third and Tommy Helms 
on first when Ty Cline, batting for Woody Woodward, hit a high chopper 
in front of the plate. Burkhart positioned himself in front of the plate 
to call the ball fair or foul as Carbo sped home. O's catcher Hendricks 
fielded the ball and turned to tag Carbo with Burkhart blocking the way. 
Hendricks tagged the sliding Carbo with his glove hand while holding the 
ball in his other hand; all the while, Burkhart was knocked to the ground 
and had his back to the play. When Burkhart turned around, he saw Carbo 
out of the baseline away from the plate as Hendricks held the ball. Burkhart 
signaled Carbo out without asking for help from the other umpires. Carbo 
and Sparky Anderson vehemently argued the call, but to no avail. Robinson's 
home run put the O's ahead for the first time, while Palmer settled into 
a groove on the mound. Palmer allowed no hits in his final 2 2⁄3 innings 
of work. After he walked Pete Rose with two outs in the ninth, Pete Richert 
relieved Palmer and got Bobby Tolan to line out to shortstop Mark Belanger 
to end the game. The Jackson 5 performed "The Star-Spangled Banner" prior 
to the game, which almost became an embarrassment when the group realized 
shortly before their performance that they weren't familiar with the lyrics. 
The Jackson brothers were able to quickly prepare themselves in transit 
to the stadium and performed the song adequately. Again, another fast start 
by the Reds fell by the wayside. The Reds scored three in the first on 
a two-run double by Lee May, who went to third when Orioles center fielder 
Paul Blair bobbled the ball. Hal McRae squeeze-bunted May home for the 
third run. They pushed the lead to 4–0 on a homer by Bobby Tolan in the 
third. The Orioles began their comeback innocently enough on a Boog Powell 
solo homer in the fourth. In the fifth, the floodgates opened. With one 
out, Reds' starter Jim McGlothlin gave up successive singles to pinch-hitter 
Chico Salmon and Don Buford. Paul Blair singled home Salmon, chasing McGlothlin 
and bringing in Milt Wilcox. Wilcox gave up RBI singles to Powell and Brooks 
Robinson and the crushing blow, a two-run double to Elrod Hendricks. The 
Reds would get back one run in the sixth on a Johnny Bench home run, but 
that was it. Left-hander Dave McNally had a banner day, pitching a complete 
game, scattering nine hits, while also connecting for a grand slam in the 
sixth inning off reliever Wayne Granger to break the game open. McNally 
became the first and only pitcher to hit a World Series grand slam. Baltimore 
third baseman Brooks Robinson added to his highlight reel with a spectacular 
display of fielding. After Pete Rose and Bobby Tolan led the game off with 
consecutive hits, Robinson made a sensational, leaping grab of Tony Pérez's 
hopper, stepped on third and fired to first for a double play. In the second 
inning, Robinson snagged a slow grounder hit by Tommy Helms and threw out 
the sprinting second baseman. And in the sixth, Robinson made a diving 
catch of a line drive by Johnny Bench. The Memorial Stadium fans gave Robinson 
a standing ovation as he came to bat in the bottom of the sixth. He responded 
by doubling to left. The Reds staved off a Series sweep thanks to clutch 
hitting by Lee May and stellar relief pitching by rookie Don Gullett and 
veteran Clay Carroll. With a 2–1 lead in the third, Reds' starter Gary 
Nolan gave up two-out RBI singles to Frank Robinson and Brooks Robinson. 
Gullett relieved Nolan and surrendered another RBI single to Elrod Hendricks. 
The Reds crept back in the fifth on a homer by Pete Rose. Gullett gave 
up an unearned run in the sixth when Hendricks singled Brooks Robinson 
to third and Robinson scored when Rose's attempted throw from right field 
sailed past Tony Pérez at third. In the eighth, Perez walked and Johnny 
Bench singled. Lee May then slammed a three-run homer on the first pitch 
he saw from Orioles' reliever Eddie Watt to put the Reds ahead. Carroll, 
who had entered in the seventh, made the lead stand up. Gullett and Carroll 
combined to pitch 6 1⁄3 innings, giving up four hits and one unearned run, 
allowing the Reds to claw back on May's heroics. The Reds' victory snapped 
Baltimore's 17-game winning streak. It also ended Cincinnati's six-game 
World Series losing streak including the last three games in the 1961 World 
Series. Rain showers threatened to delay Game 5, but it only kept the Memorial 
Stadium crowd from being less than capacity. Seemingly re-energized from 
their Game 4 win, the Reds rocked Orioles starter Mike Cuellar for three 
runs in the first on an RBI single by Johnny Bench and a two-run double 
by Hal McRae. Cuellar, a notoriously slow starter, stayed in the game and 
got Tommy Helms to ground out to Mark Belanger for the final out. The Orioles 
scored two runs in the bottom of the first against Reds' 20-game winner 
Jim Merritt, who had been battling a sore arm and had not pitched in 10 
days. Merritt allowed more two runs in the second inning before being lifted. 
Frank Robinson hit a two-run home run, Merv Rettenmund also had a homer 
and two RBI, and Davey Johnson had two RBI to pace the Orioles' attack. 
After the rocky first inning, Cuellar settled down and allowed no runs 
and two hits in the final eight innings for a complete-game victory. Brooks 
Robinson won the World Series Most Valuable Player Award hitting .429, 
broke the record for total bases in a five-game series with 17, tied the 
record for most hits in one game with four, and tied teammate Paul Blair 
for most hits in a five-game Series with nine. Total Baseball described 
Brooks Robinson's fielding with, "other-worldly defense at third (which) 
gave Reds right-handed hitters nightmares through the Series." Upon hearing 
that Robinson won the MVP award and a new car from Toyota, Reds' catcher 
Johnny Bench said, "If we had known he wanted a car that badly, we'd all 
have chipped in and bought him one." The victory was redemption for Baltimore, 
which lost to the underdog New York Mets in the 1969 World Series. The 
game was the last in the majors for Ashford, who became the first black 
umpire to make it to the top level of baseball when he was hired by the 
American League in 1966. Ashford reached MLB's then-mandatory retirement 
age of 55 in late 1969, but was allowed by AL president Joe Cronin to come 
back for 1970, giving him the opportunity to break the World Series color 
barrier for umpires. A black umpire did not call balls and strikes in a 
World Series game until 1993, when the NL's Charlie Williams worked the 
plate in Game 4. 1970 World Series (4–1): Baltimore Orioles (A.L.) over 
