The 1970 National League Championship Series was a match-up between the 
East Division champion Pittsburgh Pirates and the West Division champion 
Cincinnati Reds. The Reds swept the Pirates three games to none and went 
on to lose the World Series to the Baltimore Orioles. The series was notable 
for featuring the first postseason baseball played on artificial turf (which 
was used in both ballparks). It was also the first of ten NLCS series between 
1970 and 1980 that featured either the Philadelphia Phillies or the Pittsburgh 
Pirates.[1][2] The only time neither team appeared in the NLCS during that 
period was in 1973. (Note: Due to a one-day strike by major league umpires, 
the series was begun using four minor league umpires, with the regularly 
assigned crew—including union president Wendelstedt—returning for Games 
2 and 3.) Cincinnati won the series, 3–0. Saturday, October 3, 1970 at 
Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Cincinnati boasted dual 
heroes in subduing the Pirates in the opening game. Gary Nolan, an 18-game 
winner during the regular season, pitched nine shutout innings to edge 
Dock Ellis. Nolan departed for pinch-hitter Ty Cline in the 10th, which 
turned out to be a stroke of genius by Reds manager Sparky Anderson. Cline 
socked a triple to lead off the inning. He scored the decisive run on Pete 
Rose's single, and Lee May doubled to provide two insurance tallies, sealing 
Ellis' fate. Reliever Clay Carroll protected Nolan's victory by holding 
Pittsburgh hitless in the 10th. Another key contributor was second baseman 
Tommy Helms. With Pirate runners on second and third inning, Dave Cash 
rifled a shot to Helms' right. Helms' diving stop and quick throw to first 
prevented two runs. Sunday, October 4, 1970 at Three Rivers Stadium in 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania The Reds continued to pound the Pirates in Game 2. 
Bobby Tolan was a complete mystery to Buc starter Luke Walker. Bobby began 
his three-hit salvo with a single in the third inning. He stole second 
base and wound up at third on catcher Manny Sanguillén's wild peg into 
center field. Walker's wild pitch permitted Tolan to score. Bobby delivered 
his kayo punch in the fifth, belting a home run over the wall in right-center, 
and capped his big day with a single off relieve Dave Giusti in the eighth. 
Lefty Jim Merritt, Cincinnati's lone 20-game winner, was the second-game 
starter. Arm trouble had kept Merritt on the shelf in the closing weeks 
of the regular season, but Manager Anderson had precedent going for him 
in this case. Merritt had beaten the Pirates six times in six starts over 
the two-year period. He made it seven for seven by lasting 5 1⁄3 innings 
this time. Carroll relieved Merritt in the sixth, but gave up two hits 
and had retired only one batter when Anderson signaled for Gullett. That 
did it. Gullett shut off the Pirate threat immediately, striking out the 
side in the seventh and finishing with 3 1⁄3 hitless innings for the save. 
Monday, October 5, 1970 at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio The Pirates 
started the Game 3 scoring by a run in the first inning off Tony Cloninger, 
who averted disaster three times before Anderson finally yanked him for 
a pinch-hitter in the fifth with the score 2–2. The slugging Reds uncorked 
their only power show of the playoffs in the first inning, Tony Pérez and 
Johnny Bench smacking successive homers off Bob Moose. Pirate starter Moose 
showed more courage than stuff in the early going. But he hung on and proceeded 
to halt the Reds until he had two outs in the eighth. Then he walked pinch-hitter 
Ty Cline and gave up a single to Pete Rose. With Tolan coming up, Pirate 
manager Danny Murtaugh brought in lefty Joe Gibbon. Tolan whacked a single 
to left. Cline took off from second and sped for the plate. he arrived 
just a hair ahead of Willie Stargell's peg, and the Reds had a 3–2 lead.The 
Reds had a pitching star in this one, too, young Milt Wilcox, who worked 
three shutout innings in relief of Cloninger and earned the victory. Wilcox 
vanished for pinch-hitter Cline in the eighth. Wayne Granger tried to protect 
the Reds' 3–2 lead in the ninth, but was removed with two down and a runner 
on first. Gullett was Anderson's choice to wrap it up. The teenager wasn't 
invincible this time, yielding a single to Stargell. But with runners on 
first and third, Al Oliver swung at Gullett's first pitch and grounded 
to Helms and the NL pennant belongs to the Reds. 1970 NLCS (3–0): Cincinnati 
