The 1970 American League Championship Series was a match-up between the 
East Division champion Baltimore Orioles and the West Division champion 
Minnesota Twins. Like the year before, the Orioles swept the Twins three 
games to none. The Orioles went on to win the World Series against the 
Cincinnati Reds. (Note: Due to a one-day strike by major league umpires, 
the series was begun using AL supervisor Berry, veteran umpire Stevens—who 
had been used in a substitute capacity in 1970—and minor league umpires 
Deegan and Satchell, with the regularly assigned crew returning for Games 
2 and 3.) Baltimore won the series, 3–0. Saturday, October 3, 1970 at Metropolitan 
Stadium in Bloomington, Minnesota Baltimore only had to use their bullpen 
once in the series when Dick Hall came on to relieve Mike Cuellar in Game 1. 
Dave McNally and Jim Palmer both pitched complete games in Games 2 and 
3. The Twins enjoyed the lead only once, a 1–0 edge in Game 1. Their only 
tie was forged one inning later. At all other points, the Baltimore behemoths 
dominated the action. With the teams deadlocked, 2–2, the Orioles put the 
game out of reach in the fourth inning, aided by Cuellar's bat and the 
lusty blasts of a strong wind blowing across Metropolitan Stadium. Two 
singles and Brooks Robinson's sacrifice fly produced one fourth-inning 
run off Jim Perry, the Twins' 24-game winner, and the Orioles loaded the 
bases with one out. The lefthanded-hitting Cuellar, with a .089 batting 
average and 7 RBIs to show for his season's efforts, then pulled a Perry 
pitch toward foul territory in right field. As the ball passed first base 
it was patently foul, maybe as much as 15 feet. Cuellar himself stood transfixed 
at the plate, watching the pellet transcribe a high parabola in the direction 
of the right-field seats. As the ball soared into the 29-mile-an-hour current, 
however, it started drifting toward fair territory. Cuellar started jogging 
from the plate. By the time he arrived at first base, the wind had worked 
its devilry against the home forces, depositing the ball over the fence 
in fair territory, and giving Cuellar a grand slam. Before the inning was 
completed, Don Buford cuffed Perry for a knock-out homer and Bill Zepp 
yielded a left-field round-tripper to southpaw-swinging Boog Powell to 
complete the seven-run outburst. Although the O's had an early 9–3 lead, 
Mike Cuellar was unable to attain maximum efficiency on the cool and windy 
afternoon and departed in the fifth inning, Dick Hall, 40-year-old relief 
specialist, allowed only one hit in the final 4 2⁄3 innings to pick up 
the victory. Sunday, October 4, 1970 at Metropolitan Stadium in Bloomington, 
Minnesota Dave McNally received the second-game assignment and once again 
delivered another great pitching performance en route to another O's victory. 
The Orioles handed McNally a four-run cushion. Boog Powell doubled home 
Mark Belanger in the first inning, Frank Robinson homered with Belanger 
aboard in the third and McNally himself singled home Andy Etchebarren in 
the fourth. The Twins nearly erased the lead with two swings of the bat 
in their turn, Killebrew connecting for a homer after a pass to Leo Cárdenas 
and Tony Oliva hitting a solo smash. Stan Williams, following Tom Hall 
and Bill Zepp to the mound, blanked Baltimore the next three frames and 
Ron Perranoski zeroed the visitors in the eighth before the East Division 
champs erupted for their second seven-run rally in the series. McNally's 
bat ignited the conflagration with an opposite-field double and Davey Johnson 
concluded with a three-run homer. All the Birds except Blair participated 
in the 13-hit feast, Belanger and Powell accounting for three apiece. Monday, 
October 5, 1970 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland When the series 
shifted to Baltimore, Earl Weaver called on his workhouse Jim Palmer to 
wrap it all up. The big righthander, just 10 days short of his 25th birthday 
and two years removed from an arm ailment that threatened his career, was 
razor sharp, scattering seven hits. In fairness, Palmer was entitled to 
a shutout. A brilliant sun blinded Frank Robinson while he was tracking 
down Cesar Tovar's fifth-inning fly that fell for a single. Cardenas' single 
produced a run, but that was all for the Twins. A 20-game winner with a 
2.71 ERA in regular season, Palmer set a personal career high of 12 strikeouts 
and issued only three walks. He also laced a double and figured prominently 
in the second-inning Oriole run when his blooper to short center field 
was misplayed for a two-base error. Palmer subsequently scored on Buford's 
double. The Twins starting assignment went to Jim Kaat, a 14-game winner 
who had been handicapped by late-season arm miseries. The left-hander departed 
with none out in the third after yielding six hits. By that time the trend 
of the game had been established and three successors, while more effective, 
were helpless to change the outcome, the Birds cruising to an easy victory 
and the AL pennant. 1970 ALCS (3–0): Baltimore Orioles over Minnesota Twins 
This was Bill Rigney's only division title and playoff appearance as a 
