The 1971 American League Championship Series was a matchup between the 
East Division Champion Baltimore Orioles and the West Division Champion 
Oakland A's. The Orioles swept the A's in three games, despite the fact 
that each team had won 101 games. The Orioles won their third consecutive 
pennant in the process, but lost the 1971 World Series to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. This was the first of ten ALCS series between 1971 and 1981 that 
featured either the Oakland A's or the Kansas City Royals.[1] The only 
time neither team appeared in the ALCS during that period was in 1979 American 
League Championship Series. Baltimore won the series, 3–0. Sunday, October 
3, 1971 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland Dave McNally, a 20-game 
winner for the fourth season in a row, survived a rocky start to win the 
opener. He trailed, 3–0, after four innings pitched, giving up three doubles 
and a triple. The A's had McNally tottering in the second inning. With 
two runs home, a runner on second and none out, second baseman Dick Green 
came to bat. It was at this point that A's manager Dick Williams made the 
first of several ultra-cautious moves which were to fuel criticism of his 
playoff strategy. He ordered Green to sacrifice, which put runner Dave 
Duncan on third with one out. The next batter was Blue, whose bunting ability 
is well known, Vida tried to squeeze the run home, But the O's had guessed 
correctly on what was coming. McNally pitched out and Duncan was nailed 
in a rundown. Blue proceeded to strike out, and the A's splurge was over. 
McNally gave up another run in the fourth, but that ended the A's scoring 
forays. Meanwhile, 24-game winner Blue yielded just one run and three hits 
during the first six innings. However, disaster overtook Vida in the very 
next frame. Frank Robinson led off with a walk and Boog Powell struck out. 
Brooks Robinson's single sent Frank Robinson to second, after which Andy 
Etchebarren's fly to right advanced Frank Robinson to third. Now there 
were runners on first and third with two down, and Blue appeared likely 
to quell the flurry without damage. After all, he'd beaten the O's twice 
in two tries during the season. And the next hitter was shortstop Mark 
Belanger, hardly a nemesis to any pitcher. But Belanger rifled a single 
to center to score Frank Robinson and ignite thunderous cheering from the 
crowd of 42,621. Then Curt Motton, pinch-hitter hero of a '69 Oriole playoff 
victory over Minnesota, stepped up to bat for McNally. Curt slammed a double 
to the left-field corner, plating Brooks Robinson and tying the score. 
Center fielder Paul Blair followed with the blow that doomed Blue, a two-run 
double to left. Reliever Eddie Watt blanked the A's the last two innings 
and Oakland was one game down. Skipper Williams was subjected to further 
sharpshooting for his failure to remove Blue, or even visit the mound, 
during the seventh-inning barrage. Monday, October 4, 1971 at Memorial 
Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland Catfish Hunter held Baltimore to seven hits, 
but unfortunately for him, four of them were home runs. Boog Powell walloped 
two, Brooks Robinson and Elrod Hendricks the others. Cuellar displayed 
his usual pitching artistry, a baffling assortment of curves and change-ups 
which the A's solve for a mere six hits. Typical of the A's super-cautious 
approach to their task was an incident in the sixth inning when they were 
trailing, 2–1. Reggie Jackson led off against Cuellar with a double. Cleanup 
hitter Tommy Davis was up next and to the surprise of everyone in the park, 
he bunted. The next two hitters were easy outs. Davis' sacrifice, it turned 
out, was not ordered by Williams. Tuesday, October 5, 1971 at Oakland-Alameda 
County Coliseum in Oakland, California Jim Palmer's performance in the 
deciding game was not among his most noteworthy—he permitted three home 
runs, two of them by the slugging Jackson and the other by Sal Bando. But 
all three shots were struck with the bases empty, and Palmer had more than 
enough to pitch Baltimore's pennant clincher for the third straight year. 
Loser of his only two starts against Baltimore during the season, Diego 
Segui reached the fifth inning of Game 3 with the score 1–1. Then he met 
his "Waterloo". The crusher was Brooks Robinson's two-run single. It came 
after Williams ordered an intentional pass to Hendricks. loading the bases. 
Bando's homer cut the A's deficit to 3–2 in the sixth. But in the seventh, 
Frank Robinson's double and Darold Knowles' wild pitch put Baltimore out 
of danger. The Orioles collected 12 hits off Segui and his four successors, 
with Don Buford's triple and two singles leading the way. 1971 ALCS (3–0): 
