The 1972 National League Championship Series was played between the Cincinnati 
Reds and the Pittsburgh Pirates from October 7 to 11. Cincinnati won the 
series three games to two to advance to the World Series against the Oakland 
A's. The Reds became the first team in major league history to advance 
to the World Series without the best record in their respective league, 
made possible by the Junior and Senior Circuits each splitting into two 
divisions in 1969. In the previous three post seasons, the team with the 
best record in each league advanced to the World Series. The 1972 NLCS 
ended with a dramatic ninth inning in the fifth and deciding game. Cincinnati 
catcher Johnny Bench tied the game with a leadoff home run in the inning, 
and George Foster would later score the winning run on a wild pitch by 
Pittsburgh's Bob Moose. The series was also notable as the last on-field 
appearance by Pittsburgh's Roberto Clemente, who would die in a plane crash 
on December 31. Cincinnati won the series, 3–2. Saturday, October 7, 1972 
at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania The Reds got a first-inning 
homer from second baseman Joe Morgan to take a short-lived 1–0 lead. But 
Pittsburgh bounced back with three in the bottom of the inning, highlighted 
by an RBI triple from Al Oliver and an RBI double from Willie Stargell. 
Pittsburgh never looked back, getting a two-run homer from Oliver in the 
fifth and coasting to the win behind the strong pitching of Steve Blass. 
The frustrated Reds ultimately stranded 11 baserunners, and their manager 
Sparky Anderson was ejected in the fourth inning. The time of game was 
a brisk 1 hour and 57 minutes. Sunday, October 8, 1972 at Three Rivers 
Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Cincinnati bounced back to even the 
series with a much tighter win in Game 2. Pittsburgh starter Bob Moose, 
who would suffer an even worse fate in the final game of the series, got 
nobody out as the Reds began the game with five straight hits. Bobby Tolan 
and Tony Pérez both hit two-run doubles to give the Reds a 4–0 lead and 
chase Moose. The Pittsburgh bullpen stopped the Reds offense, though, and 
the Pirates came back to make it a 4–3 game with single runs in the fourth, 
fifth and sixth, as Milt May, Roberto Clemente and Dave Cash picked up 
RBIs. Joe Morgan homered in the eighth to give the Reds a crucial insurance 
run, and Cincinnati reliever Tom Hall finished a long and strong relief 
stint to get the victory. Monday, October 9, 1972 at Riverfront Stadium 
in Cincinnati, Ohio The series moved to Cincinnati and produced a tense, 
low-scoring contest. Cincinnati's Darrell Chaney and Bobby Tolan hit RBI 
singles to open the scoring in the bottom of the third. The Pittsburgh 
hurlers would shut down the Reds offense for the remainder of the game, 
however, while the Pirates managed just enough hitting of their own. In 
the fifth Pittsburgh catcher Manny Sanguillén homered to get his team on 
the board, and Rennie Stennett tied the game in the seventh with an RBI 
single. The Pirates scored the go-ahead and decisive run in the eighth 
on a groundout by Sanguillen. Pirates closer Dave Giusti, who would yield 
a memorable homer in Game 5, came on in the eighth to get the save. Pittsburgh 
was now just one win from a series victory. Tuesday, October 10, 1972 at 
Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio The Reds evened the series with 
an easy win in Game 4 behind a sparkling two-hitter from Ross Grimsley. 
The Reds got three early runs off Pirates starter Dock Ellis, aided by 
Pittsburgh errors in the first and fourth. Grimsley himself singled in 
another run in the sixth and the Reds eventually added three more. Grimsley 
hardly needed the extra runs as he shut down the Pirates almost completely, 
allowing only two hits, both by Roberto Clemente. Pittsburgh got their 
only run on a seventh-inning homer by Clemente, the last he would ever 
hit. Wednesday, October 11, 1972 at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio 
Game 5 proved to be one of the most memorable postseason contests in baseball 
history. Pittsburgh took an early 2–0 lead with second-inning RBIs from 
Richie Hebner and Dave Cash. The Reds got one back in the third on an RBI 
double by Pete Rose. But Pittsburgh inched further ahead with another run-scoring 
hit from Cash in the fourth. César Gerónimo cut the Pirates' lead to 3–2 
with a homer in the fifth, and the pitchers for both teams kept any more 
runs off the board until the bottom of the ninth. With Pittsburgh needing 
only three outs in the ninth to get to the World Series, Pirates closer 
Dave Giusti yielded a dramatic game-tying homer to Johnny Bench on a hanging 
change-up. The inning rapidly turned chaotic for the Pirates. Tony Pérez 
singled and was replaced by pinch-runner George Foster. Denis Menke followed 
with another single, and the Pirates replaced Giusti with Game 2 starter 
Bob Moose. A fly ball out advanced Foster to third. After Darrell Chaney 
made the second out on a popup with nobody scoring, Moose threw a wild 
pitch to pinch-hitter Hal McRae. Foster came home with the winning run 
amid wild scenes of jubilation in the stadium. The Reds went on to the 
World Series where they would lose to the Oakland A's, the first of three 
consecutive World Series championships for Oakland. 1972 NLCS (3–2): Cincinnati 
