The 1972 World Series matched the American League champion Oakland Athletics 
against the National League champion Cincinnati Reds, with the Athletics 
winning in seven games. These two teams would meet again in the fall classic 
18 years later in 1990. Their managers would meet again in the fall classic 
a dozen years later in 1984, managing different teams and swapping leagues. 
The A's won the American League West division by 5 1⁄2 games over the Chicago 
White Sox, then defeated the Detroit Tigers three games to two in the American 
League Championship Series. The Cincinnati Reds won the National League 
West division by 10 1⁄2 games over both the Los Angeles Dodgers and the 
Houston Astros. The Reds defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates three games to 
two in the National League Championship Series, marking the first year 
in which an LCS series in either league went the full five games since 
divisional play was introduced in 1969. The Reds, who won one fewer game 
than the Pirates during the regular season, became the first team in MLB 
history to reach the World Series without having the best record in its 
respective league. In each of the first six League Championship Series, 
the team with the better record advanced to the World Series. This was 
Cincinnati's second trip to the World Series in three years. It was Oakland's 
first-ever trip to the Series, and the first for the franchise since 1931 
when the team was located in Philadelphia. This turned out to be a matchup 
of the two premier MLB dynasties of the 1970s, with the Reds winning two 
World Series in four WS appearances, while the A's would win three-straight 
(1972–74). Iconoclastic club owner Charlie Finley's "Swingin' A's" featured 
day-glo uniforms, lots of facial hair, colorful nicknames, and explosive 
personalities, while "The Big Red Machine" was a more traditional franchise 
with a more traditional look (including a facial-hair ban)—and an everyday 
lineup with multiple future Hall of Famers as well as all-time hits king, 
Pete Rose. The Series was dubbed "The Hairs vs. the Squares."[1] Oakland 
played the Series without its star outfielder Reggie Jackson, who was injured 
(pulled hamstring) stealing home in the final game of the ALCS against 
Detroit. Left-handed reliever Darold Knowles was also missing for the A's, 
breaking his thumb on September 27, less than three weeks before the Series 
opener. With Jackson out, the Athletics were decided underdogs. George 
Hendrick was inserted into center field for Jackson. And while Hendrick 
only went 2-for-15 (.133 avg.), unheralded catcher Gene Tenace stepped 
up. Tenace had a poor regular season, hitting only .225 with five home 
runs. He was even worse in the AL Championship series against Detroit, 
going 1 for 17 (.059), although his one hit drove in the go-ahead run in 
Game 5. In the World Series however, Tenace was spectacular, hitting four 
home runs equaling the World Series mark set by Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, 
and Hank Bauer. He also had nine RBI in the Series—no other Oakland player 
had more than one. Tenace was voted World Series MVP. By contrast, the 
stellar Oakland pitching kept the middle of the Reds lineup quiet for most 
of the series. Johnny Bench (.270 avg., 40 HR, 125 RBI, NL MVP), Tony Pérez 
(.283 avg., 21 HR, 90 RBI), and Denis Menke (9 HR, 50 RBI), combined for 
only two homers and five RBI the entire Series. It didn't help that the 
Reds' "table-setters," Pete Rose and Joe Morgan were a combined 1 for 28 
through the first four games, when the Reds lost three of those games. 
The teams were fairly equal statistically, each club totaling 46 hits with 
the same .209 batting average (the combined batting averages were the lowest 
recorded in a 7-game World Series). The Reds out-scored the A's, 21–16, 
but lost each of their four games by a single run. Six of the seven games 
in the series were decided by one run, marking perhaps the most closely 
contested World Series in MLB history. AL Oakland A's (4) vs. NL Cincinnati 
Reds (3) †: postponed from October 17 due to rain Oakland jumped out to 
a one-game series lead behind catcher Gene Tenace, who hit a home run in 
each of his first two at-bats. Tenace became the first player ever to homer 
in his two initial Series plate appearances, a feat later matched by Andruw 
Jones of the Atlanta Braves in 1996. Only two Oakland players collected 
hits, a pair each from Tenace and Bert Campaneris. The A's received a combined 
four innings of shutout relief from Rollie Fingers and Vida Blue to secure 
the victory for starter Ken Holtzman. Blue stranded the potential tying 
run at third base to end the game by inducing Pete Rose to ground out to 
second base. The Game 2 hero would be A's left fielder Joe Rudi, who smacked 
a home run and added a sparkling, game-saving catch up against the wall 
in the ninth inning on a ball hit by Denis Menke. Catfish Hunter pitched 
eight strong innings, consistently wiggling out of trouble, and also added 
an RBI single in the second off Ross Grimsley. The Reds' failure to produce 
in the clutch was as much the story as Rudi's heroics as Cincinnati had 
leadoff baserunners in five innings but only scored a run in the ninth. 
In the ninth, Tony Pérez led off with a base hit before Rudi's catch of 
Menke's drive for the first out. Oakland first baseman Mike Hegan then 
made another great defensive play when César Gerónimo, the next Reds hitter, 
lined a shot that appeared headed down the line for extra bases. Hegan 
dove for the ball, knocked it down, and dove for the bag, barely beating 
Geronimo. Pérez took second and scored on a Hal McRae single through the 
middle. Rollie Fingers then relieved Hunter and induced pinch hitter Julián 
Javier to pop out to Hegan in foul territory to end the game. The World 
Series home loss was Reds' seventh-straight, which included three in the 
1961 World Series against the New York Yankees (at Crosley Field) and two 
in the 1970 World Series against the Baltimore Orioles. Jackie Robinson, 
the first black major-league player of the modern era, made his final public 
appearance in Cincinnati before Game 2 (he would die nine days later). 
In a brief speech, he expressed his desire to see a black manager in Major 
League Baseball, a color barrier that had not yet been broken. Former Reds 
great, Frank Robinson, would eventually be hired to manage the 1975 Cleveland 
Indians to break that barrier. Heavy storms delayed Game 3 by a day, but 
the Reds got back into the series behind a strong performance from starter 
Jack Billingham, who held the A's to three hits in eight innings. The Reds 
pushed across the game's only run in the seventh when César Gerónimo singled 
home Tony Pérez. Pérez scored despite slipping on the still damp grass 
as he rounded third. Oakland second baseman Dick Green was apparently unaware 
that Perez had slipped; otherwise, it appeared Green may have had a play 
at the plate. Clay Carroll pitched the ninth for the save. A rare trick 
play occurred in the eighth inning. The Reds had Joe Morgan on third and 
Bobby Tolan on first base with Rollie Fingers pitching to NL MVP Johnny 
Bench. Fingers pitched carefully to Bench before Tolan stole second base 
on ball three. After the stolen base, with the count 3–2 on Bench, A's 
manager Dick Williams visited the mound. After a long discussion, he motioned 
for an intentional walk to Bench. A's catcher Gene Tenace stood to catch 
ball four, but at the last second returned to his crouch as Fingers delivered 
a strike on the outside corner. Bench watched the pitch go by for strike 
three. Probably the one game that swung the entire series, and it was Gene 
Tenace and Oakland non-starters who came through in the ninth inning to 
rally the Athletics to victory. Oakland left-handed starting pitcher Ken 
Holtzman shut out the Reds on four hits through seven innings and had a 
1–0 lead behind Tenace's third homer of the series. With two outs in the 
eighth inning and Dave Concepción on second base, A's manager Dick Williams 
brought in left-hander Vida Blue to face left-handed hitters Joe Morgan 
and Bobby Tolan. But Blue walked Morgan and allowed a clutch two-run double 
to Tolan, giving Cincinnati the lead as the Reds seemed poised to tie the 
series at 2 games apiece. In the bottom of the ninth, however, with one 
out, the A's strung together four consecutive hits to score two runs. Pinch 
hitter Gonzalo Márquez singled, Tenace followed with a single, Don Mincher 
followed with another pinch-hit single scoring pinch-runner Allan Lewis 
to tie the game before a third pinch-hitter, Ángel Mangual, singled off 
Clay Carroll to score Tenace with the game-winner to put Oakland up three 
games to one. It was the first time that a team collected three pinch hits 
in the same World Series inning.[citation needed] Up three games to one 
and with ace Catfish Hunter on the mound, the A's looked to close out Cincinnati. 
But the Reds got a home run by Pete Rose to lead off the game and Rose 
also drove in the game-winner in the ninth. The dramatic game ended when 
Joe Morgan threw out the potential game-tying run at the plate as the Reds 
staved off elimination.[9] Trailing 1–0 in the second, Gene Tenace hit 
his fourth home run of the series, a three-run shot, to put Oakland up 
by two. The Reds cut the lead to 3–2 in the fourth on a solo homer by Denis 
Menke. Ángel Mangual came through with another pinch RBI single in the 
A's half of the fourth to make it 4–2. With two outs in the fifth, Joe 
Morgan walked. With a 3–2 count on Bobby Tolan, Morgan broke for second 
and was able to score when Tolan lined a base hit into right-center field. 
The speedy Morgan and Tolan collaborated once again to tie the game in 
the eighth. Morgan again walked and stole second and Tolan brought him 
in with a single. In the ninth, Rose singled in the go-ahead run. The Reds 
preserved the lead when, with one out and runners on first and third, Bert 
Campaneris hit a foul pop on the first-base side that first baseman Tony 
Pérez appeared to call. Second baseman Morgan raced over, waved Perez off, 
caught the ball, and fired home to nail pinch runner Blue Moon Odom, who 
had tagged from third. The Friday afternoon contest was the last non-weekend 
World Series day game. The three games in Oakland were all scheduled to 
be played at night, but Game 3 was rained out, forcing Game 5 to be played 
on a Friday, originally scheduled as a travel day. The game was played 
in the afternoon (1 p.m. PT)[10] to allow ample time for the teams to travel 
to Cincinnati for Game 6 the next day. Back at the friendly confines of 
Riverfront Stadium, the Reds tied the series at 3 games apiece with a rout. 
Johnny Bench, who had no homers or RBI in the series to that point, broke 
a scoreless tie in the fourth with a solo homer off starter Vida Blue. 
The A's fought back on a Dick Green RBI double in their half of the fifth, 
but from then on it was all Reds. Dave Concepción had a sacrifice fly in 
the fifth, and Tony Pérez an RBI single in the sixth (his first RBI of 
the Series). The Reds then broke it open with a five-run seventh an RBI 
single by Joe Morgan and a pair of two-run singles by Bobby Tolan and César 
Gerónimo. Gene Tenace capped a spectacular World Series with two hits, 
two RBI and he also scored the game-winning run in the sixth inning on 
Sal Bando's double. Oakland scored an unearned run in the first inning 
off Jack Billingham when Reds center fielder Bobby Tolan misplayed a fly 
ball by Mangual into a 3-base error. Mangual scored on a two-out infield 
single by Tenace on a ball that hit a seam in the Astroturf and bounced 
over Denis Menke. The Reds tied the game in the fifth on a bases loaded 
sacrifice fly to the center field wall by Hal McRae. However, McRae was 
pinch hitting for Billingham who had allowed no earned runs in 13 2⁄3 innings 
in the series against the A's. His replacement in the sixth inning, Pedro 
Borbón, surrendered RBI doubles to Tenace and Bando. Bando's drive appeared 
catchable, but Tolan pulled up short of the wall due to a strained hamstring 
and the ball went over Tolan to the base of the wall. He was later removed 
from the game on a double switch. The Reds closed to within 3–2 in the 
eighth on a sacrifice fly by Perez, but A's closer Rollie Fingers shut 
down the Reds in the ninth. The World Series victory for the Oakland A's 
was the first for the franchise since the days of Connie Mack when the 
team was in Philadelphia and had won in 1930. The victory ensured manager 
Dick Williams' return for another year. It was the Athletics' sixth World 
Series title. This is the last time to date that an American League team 
has won a World Series Game 7 on the road. 1972 World Series (4–3): Oakland 
