The 1972 Detroit Tigers won the American League East division championship 
with a record of 86-70 (.551), finishing one-half game ahead of the Boston 
Red Sox. They played one more game than the Red Sox due to a scheduling 
quirk caused by the 1972 Major League Baseball strike—a game which turned 
out to allow them to win the division. They lost the 1972 American League 
Championship Series to the Oakland A's three games to two. [2] [3] [4] 
[5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] After having a losing record in 
1970, the Tigers were reinvigorated in 1971 and 1972 by their fiery manager, 
Billy Martin. The 1972 Tigers were an aging team whose best hitters (Al 
Kaline and Norm Cash) were both 37 years old. Together with the late-season 
acquisition of 38-year-old slugger Frank Howard, this led to a group of 
Tigers batters who were past their prime, and the team finished the year 
with an anemic .237 batting average—seventh in the AL. Light-hitting third 
baseman Aurelio Rodríguez led the team with 142 hits, and the 37-year-olds 
Kaline and Cash led the way in batting average (Kaline hit .313), RBIs 
(Cash had 61), and home runs (Cash had 22). The strength of the 1972 team 
was pitching. The team's ace, Mickey Lolich, won 22 games, struck out 250 
batters (2nd best in the AL), and had a 2.50 ERA. Joe Coleman had 19 wins 
and 222 strikeouts, and the early August acquisition of Woodie Fryman proved 
to be a key element in a tight pennant race. Between August 1 and 17, the 
Tigers went 5-12, and three of the team's wins were by Fryman. Excluding 
Fryman's wins, the Tigers were 2-12 in the first half of August. In the 
final two months of the season, Fryman had a 10-3 record with a 2.06 ERA 
(Adjusted ERA+ of 154). Defense also played an important role in the team's 
success. Rodríguez led AL third basemen with 150 putouts and 348 assists, 
and shortstop Ed Brinkman won the Gold Glove award and led AL shortstops 
with a .990 fielding percentage (33 points above the league average). Brinkman 
set a record going 72 games and 331 total chances without an error from 
late May through early August. Despite a .205 batting average, Brinkman 
won the "Tiger of the Year" award from the Detroit baseball writers and 
finished ninth in the American League MVP voting. The 1972 Tigers outscored 
their opponents 558 to 514. The pennant race came down to the final series, 
a matchup between the first place Red Sox and the second place Tigers. 
The Tigers won two of three games and finished a half game ahead of the 
Red Sox. (Because of cancellation of games missed during the early-season 
strike, the Tigers were scheduled for one game more than the Red Sox.) 
Detroit's attendance total of 1,892,386 was tops among the twelve American 
League teams and second in the majors behind the New York Mets. Infielders 
Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: pitchers' batting statistics 
not included Note: G = Games; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; W= Wins; L= Losses; SV = Saves; GF = Games finished; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 1972 Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game Ed Brinkman Joe Coleman Woodie Fryman Fred Holdsworth Al Kaline Mickey 
Lolich Aurelio Rodríguez Chuck Seelbach Mickey Stanley The following members 
of the 1972 Tigers have been ranked among the Top 100 of all time at their 
position in The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract in 2001: The 
Tigers lost to the Oakland Athletics in the 1972 American League Championship 
Series, losing three games to two. The A's were 93-62 in the regular season 
and went on to beat the Cincinnati Reds in the 1972 World Series. October 
7, 1972 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum Game 1 was a pitching duel with 
20-game winners, Mickey Lolich (22-14) and Catfish Hunter (21-7). Norm 
Cash hit a solo home run in the second inning to put the Tigers ahead, 
but the A's struck back in the third inning as Bert Campaneris walked, 
moved to third on a single, and scored on a sacrifice fly by Joe Rudi. 
The score remained tied, 1-1, through ten innings. In the top of the 11th 
inning, Al Kaline hit a solo home run off Rollie Fingers to put Detroit 
ahead. After Sal Bando and Mike Epstein singled to open the bottom of the 
11th, Chuck Seelbach came on in relief of Lolich who had pitched 10 innings. 
Gonzalo Márquez singled to right, driving in two runs to give the A's the 
win in Game 1. October 8, 1972 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum Game 
2 was a lopsided 5-0 win for the A's, as Blue Moon Odom (15-6) pitched 
a complete game shutout and held the Tigers to three hits. Woodie Fryman 
(10-3), who had been virtually unhittable in August and September, gave 
up four runs in 4-1/3 innings. Bert Campaneris singled in the first inning, 
stole second and third on successive pitches, and then scored on a single 
by Joe Rudi. Campaneris singled again in the third inning, and singled 
and scored again in the firth inning. When Campaneris came to bat in the 
seventh inning, Lerrin LaGrow's first pitch hit Campaneris in the ankle. 
Campaneris staggered for a moment, glared at LaGrow and then flung his 
bat toward the mound. The bat spiraled at LaGrow five feet off the ground, 
but LaGrow ducked, and the bat narrowly missed LaGrow, landing a few feet 
behind the mound. A bench-clearing brawl ensued, and Tigers manager Billy 
Martin had to be restrained by umpires and teammates to prevent him from 
going after Campaneris. Both LaGrow and Campaneris were suspended for the 
rest of the ALCS.[5] October 10, 1972 at Tiger Stadium The Series moved 
to Detroit for the final three games. In Game 3, Joe Coleman (19-14) pitched 
a complete game shutout and set an ALCS record by striking out 14 A's batters. 
The Tigers won, 3-0, as Ike Brown hit a single in the 4th inning that drove 
in Al Kaline and Bill Freehan. Freehan also hit a home run in the 8th inning 
to complete the scoring. Ken Holtzman (19-11) was the losing pitcher for 
the A's. October 11, 1972 at Tiger Stadium Game 4 was the most exciting 
game of the Series and was rated by The Sporting News as one of the five 
greatest games ever played at Tiger Stadium.[6] The game featured a rematch 
of Game 1 -- Mickey Lolich for Detroit and Catfish Hunter for Oakland. 
Detroit took the lead in the 3rd inning on a solo home run by Dick McAuliffe, 
and Lolich held the A's scoreless through six innings. The A's tied the 
game, 1-1, on a Mike Epstein home run in the 7th inning, and the game went 
into extra innings with the score tied, 1-1. In the top of the 10th inning, 
Chuck Seelbach replaced Lolich and gave up two runs. With the Tigers on 
the verge of elimination, the Tigers staged a dramatic comeback in the 
bottom of the 10th inning. Dick McAuliffe and Al Kaline opened the inning 
with singles, and Gates Brown walked to load the bases with nobody out. 
Bill Freehan bounced a double play ball to third, but Sal Bando's throw 
to second baseman Gene Tenace was dropped, allowing McAuliffe to score. 
Norm Cash walked, and Kaline scored to tie the game at 3-3. Jim Northrup 
ended it with a walk-off game-winning single, as Gates Brown scored the 
winning run. October 12, 1972 at Tiger Stadium The decisive Game 5 was 
another pitching duel between Blue Moon Odom and Woodie Fryman. Both teams 
combined for only nine hits, and the only extra-base hit was a double by 
Odom. The Tigers scored first in the bottom of the first inning, as Dick 
McAuliffe singled, moved to second on a walk, moved to third on a passed 
ball, and scored on a groundball by Bill Freehan. The A's tied in the top 
of the second inning, as Reggie Jackson walked, stole second base, advanced 
to third on a fly ball, and then stole home. In the fourth inning, George 
Hendrick reached base on a controversial throwing error (umpire John Rice 
ruled that first baseman Norm Cash had pulled his foot off the bag but 
replays showed otherwise).[7] He advanced to second on a bunt, and scored 
on a Gene Tenace single to left field. Neither team scored a run after 
the top of the fourth, and the A's won the game, 2-1. In the 9th inning, 
Norm Cash singled, but pinch hitter Mickey Stanley hit into a fielder's 
choice and Tony Taylor hit a fly ball to center for the final out. Odom 
and Vida Blue combined to hold the Tigers to four hits. Despite allowing 
only one earned run, Fryman took the loss. Note: G = Games played; AB = 
At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Montgomery, 
