The 1972 American League Championship Series took place between October 
7 and 12 of 1972. The Oakland A's (93–62 on the season) played the Detroit 
Tigers (86–70 on the season) for the right to go to the 1972 World Series, 
with the A's coming out on top in the five-game series, 3–2. Games 1 and 
2 took place at the Oakland Coliseum, and 3 through 5 took place at Tiger 
Stadium. The two teams would meet again in the 2006 American League Championship 
Series. The A's won the first two games of the series at home. One of the 
Series' most memorable moments came in the seventh inning of Game 2. Bert 
Campaneris came to bat, having had three hits, two runs scored, and two 
stolen bases in his first three at-bats in the game. Lerrin LaGrow's first 
pitch hit Campaneris in the ankle. Campaneris staggered for a moment, glared 
at LaGrow and then flung his bat toward the mound. The bat spiraled at 
LaGrow five feet off the ground, but LaGrow ducked, and the bat narrowly 
missed LaGrow, landing a few feet behind the mound. The benches cleared, 
and while there were no punches thrown or other incidents involving players, 
Tigers manager Billy Martin had to be restrained by umpires and teammates 
to prevent him from going after Campaneris.[1] Both LaGrow and Campaneris 
were suspended for the rest of the ALCS.[2] After Game 2, the Series moved 
to Detroit, where the Tigers would fight back, winning the next two. Game 
4 was one of the more historic playoff games, going 10 innings, with the 
Tigers pulling out the victory. After it was 1–1 at the end of nine innings, 
the A's scored two runs in the top of the 10th, and it looked as if the 
series was over. But amazingly the Tigers scored three in the bottom of 
the 10th to win it. Two singles, a walk, and an error on a potential double 
play grounder produced the first run. With the bases loaded, Norm Cash 
walked, forcing in the tying run. With both the A's infield and outfield 
playing in, Jim Northrup hit a deep fly ball off Dave Hamilton to drive 
in the winning run.[3] In Game 5, Blue Moon Odom of the A's would be facing 
Woodie Fryman of the Tigers. After two innings, the game was 1–1. But by 
the fourth, it was clear runs wouldn't come easy, so when George Hendrick 
scored on a Gene Tenace RBI single, the Tigers knew they were in trouble. 
By the ninth inning, Odom and Vida Blue had combined to pitch seven scoreless 
innings. With the A's up 2–1, it all came down to the Tigers ninth when 
they would still face Vida Blue. Norm Cash would single, but that would 
be it as Tony Taylor would fly to center for the final out. Odom got the 
win, Blue got the save, and the A's were a World Series team for the first 
of three straight years. Oakland won the series, 3–2. Saturday, October 
7, 1972 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California Game 
1 pitted ace pitchers Catfish Hunter for the A's and Mickey Lolich for 
the Tigers, and, as expected, both were brilliant. Norm Cash homered to 
give the Tigers a 1–0 lead in the second inning, and the A's tied it in 
the third on a Joe Rudi sacrifice fly. The score remained at 1–1 until 
the eleventh, although the Tigers threatened in their half of the ninth. 
Duke Sims led off with a double off Hunter. Vida Blue came on in relief 
to pitch to left-handed hitting Norm Cash. Cash laid down a sacrifice bunt, 
but reached first when second baseman Ted Kubiak, covering first, dropped 
Sal Bando's throw. Sims reached third. Rollie Fingers then came in to face 
pinch hitter Gates Brown and got him on a foul pop fly. Jim Northrup then 
bounced into a 4–6–3 double play to end the threat. Al Kaline gave the 
Tigers a 2–1 lead in the eleventh with a solo homer off Fingers and looked 
like a hero at that point. In the bottom of the eleventh, Lolich gave up 
back-to-back singles to Sal Bando and Mike Epstein. Chuck Seelbach relieved 
Lolich. Gene Tenace attempted a sacrifice bunt, but third baseman Aurelio 
Rodríguez pounced on it and forced Blue Moon Odom, running for Bando, at 
third. Gonzalo Marquez pinch hit for Dal Maxvill and grounded a base hit 
to right, scoring Mike Hegan, running for Epstein, and tying the game. 
Tenace attempted to advance to third, and Kaline's throw from right field 
sailed past Rodriguez, allowing Tenace to score and win the game for the 
A's. Sunday, October 8, 1972 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, 
California Bert Campaneris was a sparkplug from the start. He led off the 
game for the A's with a single off Woodie Fryman and promptly stole second 
and third. Joe Rudi then batted him in with a one-out single. The A's plated 
four more runs in the fifth when George Hendrick pinch-hit a single and 
went to second on a Blue Moon Odom sacrifice. Campaneris singled Hendrick 
to third and Matty Alou singled him in. Chris Zachary relieved Fryman and 
threw two wild pitches, scoring Campaneris and sending Alou to third. After 
Rudi walked, Reggie Jackson blasted a two-run double to make it 5–0. Odom 
got the win for the A's, who now had a 2–0 lead, but would play without 
Campaneris for the remainder of the Championship Series, on account of 
a suspension he was issued due to the bat-throwing incident described in 
the Overview above. Tuesday, October 10, 1972 at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, 
Michigan Joe Coleman put the Tigers back into the series by throwing a 
complete-game, seven-hit shutout, striking out a then ALCS record 14 batters. 
Coleman was aided by a two-run single in the fourth by Ike Brown and a 
solo homer by Bill Freehan in the eighth. Wednesday, October 11, 1972 at 
Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Michigan Game 4 was the most exciting of the 
series. For eight innings it was a tight pitching duel between Game 1 aces 
Catfish Hunter and Mickey Lolich. The only runs across were a Dick McAuliffe 
solo homer for the Tigers in the third and a Mike Epstein solo homer for 
the A's in the seventh. In the sixth, A's second baseman Dick Green was 
hurt on a hard slide by Norm Cash trying to break up a double play. A's 
manager Dick Williams had to move catcher Gene Tenace to second due to 
no other healthy players available. Tenace had last played second base 
in high school, and this inexperience would prove costly later. The Tigers 
threatened in both the eighth and ninth innings. In the eighth, McAuliffe 
walked and was sacrificed to second by Al Kaline. Mickey Stanley reached 
on an infield hit, sending McAuliffe to third. Rollie Fingers relieved 
Hunter and Billy Martin had McAuliffe attempt to steal home, but Fingers 
gunned him down and struck out Bill Freehan for the final out. In the ninth, 
with two outs, Tony Taylor doubled and Vida Blue intentionally walked Aurelio 
Rodríguez. Blue then retired pinch-hitter Willie Horton on a fly to center. 
In the tenth, the A's took a two-run lead when Gonzalo Marquez continued 
his pinch-hitting heroics with a one-out single. Matty Alou doubled home 
Marquez and went to third on the throw home. Ted Kubiak then hit a bloop 
single to right that Kaline overran, and Kubiak reached third with Alou 
scoring for a 3–1 lead. After Joe Rudi was retired for the second out, 
Reggie Jackson lifted another blooper that fell for a hit, but Kubiak strangely 
stayed at third and tagged, not realizing there were two outs. Sal Bando 
made the last out of the inning, and Kubiak's running mistake would come 
back to haunt the A's. The Tigers rallied in the bottom of the tenth, starting 
with singles by McAuliffe and Kaline. A's reliever Joe Horlen wild-pitched 
the runners to second and third and then walked Gates Brown to load the 
bases with no outs. Bill Freehan then grounded an apparent double play 
ball to third, but the inexperienced Tenace at second dropped Sal Bando's 
throw. McAuliffe scored and everybody was safe. Dave Hamilton then relieved 
Horlen and promptly walked Norm Cash to tie the game, and then gave up 
a walk-off single to Jim Northrup, a ball hit over right fielder Matty 
Alou's head (the outfield was drawn in), scoring Brown with the winning 
run. Thursday, October 12, 1972 at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Michigan The 
Tigers struck in their half of the first off Blue Moon Odom when Dick McAuliffe 
led off with a single. After a one-out walk to Duke Sims, a passed ball 
by Gene Tenace put the runners on second and third. McAuliffe scored when 
Bill Freehan grounded out. In the second, Reggie Jackson led off for the 
A's with a walk and stole second. Sal Bando's fly to right sent Jackson 
to third. After a walk to Mike Epstein, Dick Williams ordered a double 
steal. Jackson collided with Freehan and scored, but, the bad news was, 
Jackson tore his left hamstring and would be out for the World Series if 
Oakland won. The A's got the winning tally in the fourth when George Hendrick, 
Jackson's replacement, reached on a ground ball to shortstop McAuliffe 
that was ruled a throwing error when Norm Cash's foot was pulled off first 
base. Cash and Billy Martin argued that the foot never left the base, but 
to no avail. Bando sacrificed Hendrick to second, and Gene Tenace, making 
amends for his earlier passed ball, singled Hendrick home for his only 
hit and RBI of the series. Odom got the win and Vida Blue the save in four 
innings of relief as the A's, minus Jackson, moved on to the 1972 World 
Series. As an odd precursor to what would become an explosive relationship 
years later, Martin visited the A's locker room and consoled Jackson, expressing 
regret that he would miss the Series. Even without Jackson, the A's went 
on to beat the Cincinnati Reds in the World Series in seven games. 1972 
