The 1972 Cincinnati Reds season consisted of the Reds winning the National 
League West title with a record of 95-59, 10½ games over the Houston Astros 
and the Los Angeles Dodgers. They defeated the previous year's World Series 
Champion Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1972 National League Championship Series, 
but lost to the Oakland Athletics in seven games in the 1972 World Series. 
The Reds were managed by Sparky Anderson. The theme for the Reds was "Redemption" 
after a disastrous 1971 season that saw the Reds fall from a World Series 
participant in 1970 to a sub .500 team a year later. In fact, the March 
13, 1972, Sports Illustrated edition featured the Reds on the front cover 
headlining "Redemption for the Reds." The Reds won 102 games in 1970, but 
only 79 a year later. A major catalyst for the Reds, Bobby Tolan, ruptured 
his Achilles' tendon in the winter of 1971, and he missed the entire MLB 
season. Nearly every Reds regular, including Pete Rose, Johnny Bench, Tony 
Pérez, Bernie Carbo and David Concepcion, had significant decreases in 
their production from 1970. The lone exception was popular first baseman 
Lee May, who set career highs in home runs (39) and slugging percentage 
(.532). Reds fans, en masse, were shocked and dismayed when, on Nov. 29, 
1971, Cincinnati Reds General Manager Bob Howsam traded May, Gold Glove 
winning second baseman Tommy Helms and key utility man Jimmy Stewart to 
division rival Houston Astros for second baseman Joe Morgan, third baseman 
Denis Menke, pitcher Jack Billingham, little used outfielder Cesar Geronimo 
and minor leaguer Ed Armbrister. The trade turned out to be one of the 
best trades in Reds history. Morgan would escape the cavernous Houston 
Astrodome to a more hitter-friendly Riverfront Stadium home park. Surrounded 
by more talent in Cincinnati, Morgan would become one of the more productive 
power-speed players in the entire decade on his way to eventual induction 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame. Morgan and Geronimo would also go on to 
each win multiple Gold Glove awards, as Geronimo manned right field until 
1974 when he would take over in center field. Billingham would go on to 
win 12 games in 1972 and 50 total in his first three years with the Reds. 
Billingham's best moments came in the 1972 World Series when he threw 13 
2/3 innings allowing no earned runs in collecting a win, a save, and a 
no decision in Game 7. With Rose, Morgan and a healthy Tolan at the top 
of the lineup, a rejuvenated Bench was the recipient as the Reds' cleanup 
hitter. Rebounding from the 1971 disaster when Bench only drove in 61 runs, 
he slammed 40 home runs and had a major league-best 125 RBI. Bench also 
walked a career-high 100 times on his way to NL MVP honors. Cincinnati 
got off to a slow start, winning only eight of their first 21 games before 
winning nine straight. The Reds were still only 20-18 when they went into 
Houston to play the retooled Astros for a four-game series, May 29-June 
1, at the Astrodome, a notorious pitchers park. But the Reds scored 39 
runs in the series and won all four games. The Reds went into the July 
23 All-Star break with a 6 1/2 game lead over the Astros and an 8-game 
lead over the Dodgers. Neither team seriously threatened the Reds in the 
second half. Reds ace Gary Nolan won 13 of his 15 decisions by July 13, 
only 79 games into the season. But Nolan suffered a series of neck and 
shoulder ailments that forced him out of the All Star game and limited 
him to a total of 25 starts. He spent much of the second-half on the disabled 
list resting and then rehabbing. He won two games after the All-Star break. 
Nolan still finished second in the National League in ERA (1.99) to Philadelphia's 
Steve Carlton (1.97). Morgan (122 runs scored, 16 home runs, 73 RBI, 58 
stolen bases, .292 average) finished fourth in MVP voting, while Rose (107 
runs, 198 hits, 11 triples, .307 avg.) and reliever Clay Carroll (37 saves, 
2.25 ERA) were 12th and 13th, respectively, in the MVP voting conducted 
by the Baseball Writers Association of America. The Reds beat the Pittsburgh 
Pirates, three games to two, in an exciting National League Championship 
Series, the first time in its four-year history the NLCS had gone five 
games. The World Series against the Oakland A's was equally as epic, with 
the Reds falling 3-2 in Game 7, the sixth game of the series decided by 
a single run. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; 
SO = Strikeouts The Reds rallied to defeat the Pittsburgh Pirates in five 
games to win the National League title. In Game 5, Johnny Bench's ninth-inning 
home run tied the game before George Foster scored the game-winner on a 
wild pitch by Pirates' reliever Bob Moose. October 7: Three Rivers Stadium, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania October 8: Three Rivers Stadium, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
October 9: Riverfront Stadium, Cincinnati October 10: Riverfront Stadium, 
Cincinnati October 11: Riverfront Stadium, Cincinnati The Reds were a prohibitive 
favorite to win the World Series over the Oakland Athletics, who lost top 
slugger Reggie Jackson to a hamstring injury in the playoffs. But Gene 
Tenace, who hit just five home runs in the regular season, crushed four 
against the Reds in a series that saw six of the seven games decided by 
one run. Oakland dealt the Reds three losses on their home AstroTurf of 
Riverfront Stadium. Tenace had two hits and two RBI in Game 7 as Oakland 
scored two in the sixth inning and held on for a 3-2 victory for the A's 
first World Series title since 1930. AL Oakland Athletics (4) vs. NL Cincinnati 
