The 1972 Major League Baseball season was the first to have games cancelled 
by a player strike. It was also the last season in which American League 
pitchers would hit for themselves on a regular basis; the designated hitter 
rule would go into effect the following season. 1972 was tainted by a players' 
strike over pension and salary arbitration. The strike erased the first 
week and a half of the season, and the Leagues decided to just excise the 
lost portion of the season with no makeups. As a result, an uneven number 
of games were lost by each team; some as few as six, some as many as nine. 
The lack of makeups, even when they affected the playoffs, led to the Boston 
Red Sox losing the American League East by half a game to the Detroit Tigers. 
1972 marked the first year for the Texas Rangers, who had moved to Arlington 
from Washington, D.C. (where they played as the Washington Senators) after 
the 1971 season. The team was one of the worst ever fielded by the franchise, 
losing 100 games for the first time since 1964. Manager Ted Williams hated 
it in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, and resigned at the end of the season. 
To make room for the Rangers in the American League West Division, one 
of the teams already in that division would have to switch to the East 
Division. Technically, both the Chicago White Sox and the Milwaukee Brewers 
were the easternmost teams in the West Division, but only one of them could 
move. It was decided that Milwaukee, as the newer franchise, would make 
the move. The Brewers and White Sox would again become divisional rivals 
in 1994 with the formation of the American League Central, but this would 
last only through 1997, when Milwaukee transferred to the National League. 
1972 would mark the Kansas City Royals' final year at Kansas City Municipal 
Stadium, as the next year they would move to Royals Stadium at the Truman 
Sports Complex in suburban Kansas City. Most teams (18 of 26) switched 
from wool flannel uniforms to double knit uniforms made of nylon and rayon 
at the outset of 1972. The Pirates were first to adopt double knits when 
they moved from Forbes Field to Three Rivers Stadium in July 1970. The 
Cardinals switched at the start of the 1971 season, and the Orioles gradually 
phased out their flannels throughout 1971, becoming all-double knit in 
time for the postseason. The Giants wore flannels until midseason, going 
to double knits at home only; the flannels would not be phased out for 
the road uniforms for 1973. The Red Sox switched to double knits midway 
through 1972. Only the Royals, Expos and Yankees wore flannels full-time 
during the 1972 season, and all three converted to double knits for 1973. 
The World Series was won by the Oakland Athletics, the first of three straight 
behind the bats of Reggie Jackson and Bert Campaneris, and the pitching 
cadre of Catfish Hunter, Rollie Fingers, and Vida Blue. The year ended 
on a sad note when Roberto Clemente died in an airplane crash off the coast 
of San Juan, Puerto Rico, on New Year's Eve, while participating in aid 
efforts after the 1972 Nicaragua earthquake. 1 National League Triple Crown 
