The 1973 World Series matched the defending champions Oakland Athletics 
against the New York Mets with the A's winning in seven games to repeat 
as World Champions. The New York Mets won the National League East division 
by 1 1⁄2 games over the St. Louis Cardinals then defeated the Cincinnati 
Reds, three games to two, in the National League Championship Series. The 
Oakland Athletics won the American League West division by six games over 
the Kansas City Royals then defeated the Baltimore Orioles, three games 
to two, in the American League Championship Series. This was the first 
World Series in which all weekday games started at night. The three weekday 
games the previous year were scheduled to be played at night, but a postponement 
of Game 3 eliminated the scheduled off day between Games 5 and 6, and Major 
League Baseball moved Game 5 to an afternoon start to allow the teams enough 
time for traveling. This was the last World Series in which each team produced 
and sold its own game programs for its home games. Starting in 1974, Major 
League Baseball printed an official World Series program that was sold 
in both stadiums. The 1973 Mets' .509 season winning percentage is the 
lowest posted by any pennant winner in major league history. Injuries plagued 
the team throughout the season. Stumbling through the summer in last place, 
the Mets got healthy and hot in September, ultimately winning the division 
with a mere 82 victories, marking the only time between 1970 and 1980 that 
neither their rival Philadelphia Phillies, nor the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
won the division.[1][2] The final standings: At 82–79, the 1973 New York 
Mets had the worst record of any team ever to play in a World Series. They 
had only the ninth-best record in the 24-team major leagues, behind the 
Oakland A's, the Cincinnati Reds (who they beat in the National League 
playoffs), the Baltimore Orioles (who were defeated by Oakland in the American 
League playoffs), the Los Angeles Dodgers, the San Francisco Giants, the 
Boston Red Sox, the Detroit Tigers and the Kansas City Royals (none of 
whom made the postseason). The 1973 New York Mets had the lowest winning 
percentage (now the second-lowest) of any postseason team (the San Diego 
Padres finished 82–80 in 2005). 1969 holdovers Bud Harrelson, Jerry Grote, 
Tom Seaver, Jerry Koosman, and Tug McGraw joined forces with the Mets' 
farm-system alumni John Milner and Jon Matlack and trade-acquired Rusty 
Staub, Félix Millán, and Willie Mays, now 42 years old. Don Hahn and Mays 
alternated in center field, although they both batted right-handed. The 
Mets' National League playoff opponents: an imposing Cincinnati Reds squad 
that posted 99 victories during the regular season, was the favorite to 
return to the Series for a second consecutive year. (The Reds had fallen 
to the A's in the previous year's Series.) The 1973 NLCS went the full 
five games, and featured a now-famous brawl between Pete Rose and Mets 
shortstop Bud Harrelson. In the end, the Mets continued their improbable 
rise and bumped Rose and the rest of the mighty Reds from the playoffs. 
Willie Mays recorded the final hit of his career in Game 2. In four World 
Series (1951, 1954, 1962, and 1973), Mays did not hit a single home run. 
He hit only one in the postseason, during the 1971 NLCS—San Francisco Giants 
versus the Pittsburgh Pirates. Mays also fell in the outfield. He commented, 
"Growing old is just a helpless hurt."[citation needed] The Oakland A's 
secured the pennant by overcoming the Baltimore Orioles in the 1973 ALCS. 
The A's, defending champions, still possessed a formidable lineup headed 
by a healthy Reggie Jackson, (.293, 32 HR, 117 RBI, 22 stolen bases) who 
would be named league MVP in 1973. Jackson was joined in the lineup by 
standouts like third baseman Sal Bando, the fine defensive outfielder Joe 
Rudi, the speedy shortstop Bert Campaneris, and the A's catcher, 1972 World 
Series hero Gene Tenace. The pitching staff featured three 20-game winners, 
Ken Holtzman (21–13), Catfish Hunter (21–5), and Vida Blue (20–9), with 
Rollie Fingers (22 saves, 1.92) serving as the A's ace relief pitcher. 
The A's offered entertainment both on and off the field in 1973; their 
day-glo uniforms were the perfect metaphor for a team notable for clashing 
personalities. The stars engaged regularly in conflicts with each other 
and with owner Charles O. Finley. With the designated hitter rule in effect 
for the first time in 1973, American League pitchers did not bat during 
the regular season. They were, however, expected to take their turn at 
the plate during each game of this Series. So it was that a man who had 
played no offensive role during the regular season came to make a key batting 
contribution for the A's during the Series. With some extra batting practice, 
A's pitcher Ken Holtzman would stroke a double that helped the A's to win 
Game 1—and another double that helped them secure the deciding seventh 
game. This Series was also made famous[citation needed] when Oakland A's 
owner Charlie O. Finley attempted to "fire" second-baseman Mike Andrews 
for his errors in Game 2 (see below). Commissioner Bowie Kuhn would reinstate 
Andrews and fine Finley. Despite the hostility of the Oakland players toward 
the team's owner, the A's would be the first to repeat as World Champions 
since the 1961–62 New York Yankees. Oakland manager Dick Williams resigned 
after the Series was over, having had enough of owner Charles O. Finley's 
interference. Oakland reliever Darold Knowles became the only pitcher to 
appear in every game of a seven-game World Series. AL Oakland A's (4) vs. 
NL New York Mets (3) The Mets and A's opened the Series in Oakland with 
Jon Matlack and Ken Holtzman as the Game 1 starters (Matlack, with a 14–16 
record during the 1973 season, is one of only four pitchers in history 
to start Game 1 of a World Series after a regular season losing record). 
Willie Mays started in place of the injured Rusty Staub and batted third 
in what turned out to be his final big league start. In the third, pitcher 
Holtzman doubled and scored when Bert Campaneris hit a routine grounder 
that inexplicably bounced between Mets second baseman's Félix Millán's 
legs. Campaneris then stole second and scored on a single to right by Joe 
Rudi. The Mets came up with a run in the fourth on an RBI single by John 
Milner that scored Cleon Jones. Holtzman, Rollie Fingers, and Darold Knowles 
then shut the door on the Mets offense; Knowles earned the save. Game 2, 
eventually won by the Mets 10–7 in twelve innings, set a new record for 
the longest game in Series history at four hours and thirteen minutes. 
Along with blinding sunshine "turn{ing} every fly ball into adventure" 
(especially for a 42-year-old Willie Mays), Curt Gowdy described the contest 
in the official MLB 1973 Fall Classic highlight film as one of the "longest 
and weirdest games in World Series history". Vida Blue opposed Jerry Koosman 
on the mound, but neither pitched well. In the first inning, the A's jumped 
on Koosman for two runs as the flyball adventures began. With one out, 
Joe Rudi reached second on a fly ball to left that Cleon Jones lost in 
the sun as he drifted to the warning track and the ball dropped in front 
of him. Rudi scored when the next batter, Sal Bando, hit a ball to right 
center that Don Hahn misplayed and allowed to bounce to the wall as Bando 
reached third. After Gene Tenace walked with two outs, Bando scored on 
a Jesús Alou double. The A's scored again in the second on Joe Rudi's single 
scoring the ubiquitous Bert Campaneris, who had tripled. The Mets got solo 
home runs from Cleon Jones and Wayne Garrett in the second and third innings, 
respectively. The A's were still up 3–2 going into the sixth when things 
got even more strange. With one out and two on, Horacio Piña relieved Blue 
and promptly hit Jerry Grote with his first pitch, loading the bases. Don 
Hahn then drove home Cleon Jones with an infield hit and Bud Harrelson 
followed with an RBI single to put the Mets ahead 4–3. Jim Beauchamp then 
pinch-hit for reliever Harry Parker and hit a comebacker to the mound. 
Darold Knowles, who had relieved Pina, fielded the ball but lost his balance 
hurrying the throw home and threw wildly past Ray Fosse on the attempted 
force play. Two more Mets runs scored for a 6–3 lead. Reggie Jackson had 
an RBI double in the seventh to make it 6–4. In the ninth, Deron Johnson, 
batting for Blue Moon Odom, lifted a fly ball to center that Willie Mays 
lost in the sun and fell down while chasing. Johnson reached second. Allan 
Lewis pinch-ran and scored on a single by Jackson after Sal Bando walked. 
Gene Tenace singled in Bando to tie it. The Mets threatened in the 10th 
when Harrelson led off with a single. Tug McGraw bunted for a sacrifice 
and Rollie Fingers threw to second, but Harrelson ran with the pitch and 
was safe. McGraw was retired on the relay to first. Harrelson went to third 
when Garrett bounced a high grounder to Tenace at first and reached when 
Tenace's throw pulled Fingers off the bag. Harrelson then tagged and attempted 
to score on a Félix Millán fly to left. Harrelson appeared to have sidestepped 
Fosse's tag at the plate (and replays from NBC's broadcast clearly showed 
Fosse missed him), but he was called out by umpire Augie Donatelli, prompting 
a heated outburst from Harrelson, on-deck batter Willie Mays, and manager 
Yogi Berra. The game stayed knotted at 6–6 until the top of the twelfth. 
Harrelson led off with a double and went to third when McGraw reached first 
on a bunt that Sal Bando overran. With two outs, Mays drove in Harrelson 
with a single that would turn out to be the final hit and RBI of his storied 
career. It gave the Mets a 7–6 lead. After Jones walked to load the bases, 
John Milner grounded to second baseman Mike Andrews, but the ball went 
through his legs. McGraw and Mays scored to make the lead 9–6. The next 
batter, Grote, hit another grounder to Andrews, but his throw to first 
pulled Tenace off the bag (though NBC replays showed Tenace kept his foot 
on the bag). Jones scored to make it 10–6. The A's added a run in the bottom 
of the inning when Jackson reached third as Mays lost yet another fly ball 
in the sun and Alou singled him home, but Andrews' errors proved too much 
to overcome. McGraw, who pitched six innings total, earned the win, and 
George Stone the save and the Mets evened the series. A's Owner Charlie 
Finley was furious at Andrews' twelfth-inning miscues; he proceeded to 
punish Andrews (and further alienate A's manager Dick Williams) by placing 
the infielder on the disabled list—citing a fake injury that would have 
sidelined Andrews for the rest of the Series. Commissioner of Baseball 
Bowie Kuhn stepped in, reactivated Andrews, and disciplined Finley. Game 3 
matched up Tom Seaver and Catfish Hunter. Hunter had trouble early on when 
Wayne Garrett homered to right and Félix Millán scored on a wild pitch, 
but then found his rhythm. Seaver kept the A's off the board until the 
sixth, when Sal Bando and Gene Tenace broke through with consecutive doubles 
that delivered a run and cut the Met lead to 2–1. Joe Rudi came up with 
another clutch hit in the eighth when he singled in Bert Campaneris to 
tie the game. In the tenth, Willie Mays would make his final appearance 
in an MLB game, unsuccessfully pinch-hitting for Tug McGraw. Campaneris 
delivered the game-winning RBI in the eleventh when he singled off Harry 
Parker to score Ted Kubiak. Rollie Fingers got the save. The tide seemed 
to turn in the Mets' favor beginning in Game 4. A's starter Ken Holtzman 
couldn't make it out of the first inning after Rusty Staub smashed a three-run 
homer to left-center. Blue Moon Odom relieved and gave up a two-run single 
to Staub in a three-run Mets fourth. Jon Matlack got the win by pitching 
eight innings of five-hit ball. Mike Andrews entered the game as a pinch-hitter 
in the eighth, prompting a standing ovation from the Mets' home crowd, 
in a display of defiance toward A's owner Charlie Finley. Andrews grounded 
out in what would be his last ever major league at-bat. Game 5 was a rematch 
up of Vida Blue and Jerry Koosman. This time, both pitchers threw well. 
John Milner had an RBI single in the second, and Don Hahn's triple to center 
field scored Jerry Grote with the second Mets run in the sixth. Koosman 
pitched well and got the win, with a save from Tug McGraw. The A's won, 
thanks to the clutch pitching of Catfish Hunter (who outdueled Tom Seaver), 
and the timely hitting of Reggie Jackson. Jackson doubled and drove in 
Joe Rudi in the first inning and doubled in Sal Bando in the third to give 
Oakland a 2–0 lead. In the eighth inning, the Mets threatened, knocking 
Hunter out of the game after Ken Boswell singled in a run. Reliever Darold 
Knowles put out the fire by striking out the sore-shouldered Rusty Staub 
on three pitches with two men on base. In the bottom half of the inning, 
the A's added an insurance run when Jackson singled, advanced to third 
on center fielder Don Hahn's error, and scored on Jesús Alou's sacrifice 
fly. Rollie Fingers got the save in the ninth inning to force a seventh 
game. Ken Holtzman outdueled Jon Matlack in a rematch of the Game 4 starters. 
The third inning proved to be the difference, as Holtzman lined a one-out 
double off Matlack to left, his second of the Series after not batting 
at all during the season. Matlack then surrendered a two-run opposite-field 
homer to Bert Campaneris (Oakland's first home run of the series), and 
then another two-run blast to Reggie Jackson later in the inning, giving 
the A's a 4–0 lead and Holtzman all the runs he needed. The Mets came back 
with two runs after Oakland increased their lead to 5–0 in the fifth inning, 
but it was not enough. Campaneris snagged a Wayne Garrett pop fly to end 
the series; and Jackson was named the World Series MVP.[10] In the third 
inning, Gene Tenace walked for the eleventh time tying the Series record 
set by Babe Ruth of the Yankees in 1926. In the seventh inning, Wayne Garrett 
struck out for the eleventh time tying the Series record set by Eddie Mathews 
of the Milwaukee Braves in 1958. Darold Knowles got the save and became 
the only pitcher ever to appear in all seven games of a seven-game World 
Series.[11] Vern Hoscheit, a coach with the A's in 1973, would win a World 
Series with the Mets as a coach in 1986. 1973 World Series (4–3): Oakland 
