The 1973 New York Mets season was the 12th regular season for the Mets, 
who played home games at Shea Stadium. Manager Yogi Berra led the team 
to a National League East title with an 82–79 record, the National League 
pennant and a defeat by the Oakland Athletics in the World Series. Their 
.509 winning percentage is the lowest of any pennant-winner in major league 
history as of 2015. The season was well known for pitcher Tug McGraw's 
catchphrase "Ya Gotta Believe!!!" The 1973 Mets were much improved from 
their "miracle" 1969 team. They had a group of young proven stars—including 
Jon Matlack, Rusty Staub, John Milner, and Félix Millán—mixed in with veterans 
from the 1969 club, such as Jerry Grote, Cleon Jones, Wayne Garrett, and 
Bud Harrelson. Their pitching staff, led by Tom Seaver, was among the finest 
in baseball. But injuries hampered the Mets throughout the entire season. 
The Mets got off to a 4-0 start to the season, and were still at first 
place by April 29 with a 12-8 record. But then, injuries to their key players 
caused turmoil. By July 26, the Mets were in last place, yet still only 
7 1⁄2 games behind. On August 16, they were 12 games below .500, with 44 
games to play. On August 30, the Mets were in last place, with only a month 
left to play. However, the division was so tight-knit that that last place 
standing consisted of only a 6.5 game deficit. At the completion of August 
(one day later), the Mets were in fifth place, nine games under .500,[3] 
but, in the balanced mediocrity of that year's Eastern Division, just 5 1⁄2 
games out of first. The mathematical inequities of divisional play were 
beginning to show up. On September 11, the Mets were in fourth place, five 
games under .500, but just three games out. Ahead of them were the St. 
Louis Cardinals, Pittsburgh Pirates, and Montreal Expos. With Tug McGraw 
urging his teammates on and celebrating victories with what soon became 
the catch phrase of 1973, "You Gotta Believe!!!" the Mets kept zigging 
and zagging away from would-be tacklers, and taking an occasional side-swipe, 
headed for this most unlikely of pennants. Down the stretch, Yogi Berra, 
veteran of many a pennant race, ran four starters at the league: Tom Seaver, 
Jerry Koosman, Jon Matlack, and George Stone, with the suddenly unhittable 
McGraw coming out of the pen with boisterous-and justified-confidence. 
(For his last 19 games, the screwball-throwing lefty showed 12 saves, 5 
wins, and an ERA of 0.88). After sweeping a three-game series from the 
Pirates at Shea on September 21, the Mets' record stood at an even 77-77, 
but that .500 record was good enough for first place and a half-game lead. 
Illustrating just how dense the crowd was at the top, fifth-place Chicago 
was just 2 1⁄2 out. The Mets won five of their last seven to finish as 
National League East Division Champions. The Cardinals finished second, 
1 1⁄2 games behind, Pittsburgh third at 2 1⁄2, Montreal fourth at 3 1⁄2, 
and Chicago fifth, 5 games out. This was the only NL East title between 
1970 and 1980 not to be won by either Philadelphia Phillies or the Pittsburgh 
Pirates.[4][5] Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G 
= Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = 
Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; 
SO = Strikeouts October 6: Riverfront Stadium, Cincinnati October 7: Riverfront 
Stadium, Cincinnati October 8: Shea Stadium, New York City October 9: Shea 
Stadium, New York City October 10: Shea Stadium, New York City AL Oakland 
Athletics (4) vs. NL New York Mets (3) All-Star Game LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
