The 1973 Cincinnati Reds season consisted of the Reds winning the National 
League West with a Major League-best record of 99-63, 3½ games ahead of 
the Los Angeles Dodgers, before losing the NLCS to the New York Mets in 
five games. The Reds were managed by Sparky Anderson, and played their 
home games at Riverfront Stadium. The Reds were coming off a devastating 
loss to the underdog Oakland Athletics in the 1972 World Series. In the 
winter, a growth was removed from the lung of Cincinnati's star catcher, 
Johnny Bench. While Bench played the entire 1973 season, his power numbers 
dropped from 40 home runs in 1972 to 25 in '73. He never again reached 
the 40 homer mark, something he accomplished in two of the three seasons 
prior to the surgery. Coming into the season, the defending NL Champion 
Reds were still favored to win the strong NL West against the likes of 
the Houston Astros, the Los Angeles Dodgers, and the San Francisco Giants. 
The Reds' lineup returned virtually intact, with the exception of third 
base where the Reds tried to make a third baseman out of rookie Dan Driessen, 
a solid hitter (.301 average) who had played mostly first base in the minor 
leagues. With Tony Perez fully entrenched at first base, the Reds wanted 
to get Driessen's bat in the lineup and his playing time was at the expense 
of the anemic hitting Denis Menke (.191), although the Reds were sacrificing 
defense with Driessen at the hot corner. The other change was at shortstop, 
where David Concepción emerged from a 1972 timeshare with Darrel Chaney 
to full-time starter a year later, finally realizing his potential in his 
fourth year in the majors. Concepción was outstanding both at bat and in 
the field and was named to the NL All-Star team. But two days before the 
mid-summer classic on July 22, in a game against the Montreal Expos, Concepción 
broke his ankle sliding into third base after moving from first base on 
a Menke base hit, and missed the second half of the season. Concepción 
was batting .287, with eight home runs, 46 RBI, 39 runs scored and 22 stolen 
bases, all career highs despite missing almost half a season. The Reds 
had other hurdles to overcome. Cincinnati's pitching ace, Gary Nolan (15-5, 
1.99 ERA in '72), suffered from a sore arm that limited him to two starts 
and 10 innings pitched before it was discovered he had a torn ligament 
in his right elbow. The injury would force Nolan to also miss the entire 
1974 season. There was also an issue with centerfielder Bobby Tolan. He 
slumped badly to .206, became a malcontent, and had several squabbles with 
members of Reds management, who were still unhappy with his 1971 basketball 
injury that cost him that season as well as Tolan's error in Game 7 of 
the 1972 World Series against Oakland that was arguably the key play in 
that game. Tolan went AWOL for two days in August 1973, and broke team 
rules by growing a beard. On September 27, the team suspended Tolan for 
the remainder of the season including the NLCS. The Reds started well, 
and were 25-16 about a quarter of the way through the season and led the 
second-place Dodgers by a 1½ games on May 23. But with Tolan, Menke and 
Bench mired in slumps and the Reds starting pitchers struggling, the Reds 
began to flounder. Reds general manager Bob Howsam determined the Reds 
offense would eventually come around, but the pitching staff needed help. 
With Nolan sidelined indefinitely and starters Jim McGlothlin and Roger 
Nelson struggling, Howsam traded for San Diego Padres left-hander Fred 
Norman on June 12. At the time of the trade, the 5-foot-8 lefty was 1-7 
for the last-place Padres, but Norman would go 12-6 in 24 starts for the 
Reds to provide a major boost. The Reds were still in a slump when they 
met the Dodgers for a July 1, doubleheader in Cincinnati. The Reds were 
39-37 and trailed the Dodgers (51-27) by 11 games. Just as they had done 
12 years earlier, the Reds swept the Dodgers in a doubleheader to jumpstart 
their pennant hopes. In Game 1, Cincinnati's third-string catcher, Hal 
King, belted a game-winning, three-run home run with two outs in the bottom 
of the ninth inning to give the Reds a 4-3 victory. In Game 2, Tony Perez 
singled in the game-winner off knuckleball specialist Charlie Hough in 
the bottom of the 10th as the Reds won 3-2. The doubleheader sweep was 
part of a stretch where Cincinnati won 10 of 11 games and by July 10, had 
cut the Dodgers' lead to 4½ games. Both teams stayed close throughout the 
season, but on Aug. 29, the Reds beat Pittsburgh, 5-3, to begin a seven-game 
winning streak. After losing two to the Braves, the Reds began another 
seven-game winning streak to gain some space between the Dodgers. Los Angeles 
came into Cincinnati for a two-game series, Sept. 11-12, trailing the Reds 
by 3 games with 18 left on the schedule. A two-run home run by rookie Ken 
Griffey was the big hit in the Reds' 6-3 victory on Sept. 11, and the Reds 
completed the sweep the next day as Jack Billingham hurled a complete-game 
and, the typically poor hitter (.065 average), also belted a bases-clearing 
double off LA starter Claude Osteen in a 7-3 victory. The Dodgers left 
Cincinnati trailing by five games. On Sept. 24, the Reds beat San Diego, 
2-1, to clinch their second-straight division title and third in four years. 
It sent the Reds to the playoffs against the New York Mets. The Reds offense 
was led by Pete Rose (team-record 230 hits, 115 runs scored, an NL best 
.338 batting average), Joe Morgan (116 runs, 26 home runs, 82 RBI, 67 stolen 
bases, .290 avg.) and Perez (.314, 27, 101). Rose was voted the National 
League MVP, while Morgan finished fourth and Perez seventh in a vote by 
the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Jack Billingham emerged as 
the staff ace, leading the National League in both innings pitched (293) 
and shutouts (7) to go with 19 victories, while young lefty Don Gullett 
won 11 of his last 12 decisions to finish 18-8. Future stars Griffey and 
George Foster also played well in short stays with the Reds. Griffey batted 
.384 in 86 at bats in his major league debut, while Foster hit .282 and 
smacked four home runs in just 39 at bats. Journeyman third-string catcher 
Hal King also emerged as an unsung hero. King hit three pinch hit home 
runs, all of which either tied or won games late including a three-run 
home run off Los Angeles Dodger starter Don Sutton on July 1 to win a game 
for the Reds. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; 
IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO 
= Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L 
= Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
The Reds lost the National League Championship Series to the Mets 3 games 
to 2 despite heroics by Rose and Bench in Game 1 and Rose again in Game 
4. Rose's eighth-inning home run against Tom Seaver tied the score at 1-1 
and Bench won it in the 9th with another solo home run. Rose also hit a 
game-winning home run in the 12th-inning to tie the series at 2-2. During 
Game Three of the series, Rose got into a fight with the popular Mets shortstop 
Bud Harrelson while trying to break up a double play; the fight resulted 
in a bench-clearing brawl. The game was nearly called off when, after the 
Reds took the field, fans threw objects from the stands at Rose, causing 
the Reds team to leave the field until order was restored. October 6: Riverfront 
Stadium, Cincinnati October 7: Riverfront Stadium, Cincinnati October 8: 
Shea Stadium, New York City, New York October 9: Shea Stadium, New York 
