The 1974 World Series matched the two-time defending champions Oakland 
Athletics against the Los Angeles Dodgers with the A’s winning the Series 
in five games. Rollie Fingers figured in three of the four Oakland victories, 
posting a win and two saves, and was honored as the Series MVP. Oakland 
became the first team to win three consecutive Series since the New York 
Yankees won five in a row between 1949 and 1953; the win secured the Athletics' 
status as one of the truly dominant teams of the 1970s. (The other "team 
of the decade," the Cincinnati Reds, would check in with consecutive Series 
victories in 1975 and 1976.) The 1974 Fall Classic was the first all-California 
World Series. These two teams would meet again in the fall classic 14 years 
later in 1988. The 1974 Los Angeles Dodgers were the second (after the 
runner-up 1962 squad) Dodger team to win at least 100 games since moving 
west from Brooklyn; they won the National League West division after a 
season long battle by four games over the Cincinnati Reds, then defeated 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, three games to one, in the National League Championship 
Series. The Oakland A's won the American League West division by five games 
over the Texas Rangers, then defeated the Baltimore Orioles, three games 
to one, in the American League Championship Series. The Oakland A's, dynasty 
or not, had become something of a running joke in the American League, 
consistently matching their on-field heroics with locker-room meltdowns 
and intra-squad theatrics. After yet another banner year (Catfish Hunter 
won 25 games, Reggie Jackson knocked in 105 runs, and Billy North stole 
54 bases), the team seemed to be winning more attention for its dysfunctional 
communication patterns than for its superior lineup. Hunter was threatening 
to file for free agency in 1975 if owner Charles O. Finley didn't come 
through with back pay Hunter claimed he had coming. Traumatized former 
second baseman Mike Andrews was considering legal action for the shabby 
treatment he received in the previous year's World Series. Teammates Rollie 
Fingers and Blue Moon Odom had gotten into a fistfight. And the Series-winning 
manager of the previous year, Dick Williams was long gone, having had one 
personality clash too many with the A's front office. Despite all the melodrama, 
or perhaps because of it, the A's won the A.L. pennant for the third straight 
year, dispatching the Baltimore Orioles in a four-game ALCS. Despite all 
of the off field troubles, between the lines. They were fundamentally sound, 
had strong pitching, and combined speed and power. The businesslike Los 
Angeles Dodgers, for their part, looked downright corporate, and seemed, 
to many, to be the better team. On paper, at least, they were. L.A. won 
102 games, boasted the best team ERA in the National League, and led their 
league in runs scored. Steve Garvey hit .312, Jimmy Wynn knocked in 108 
runs, Bill Buckner hit .314 in one of the best years of his career, Davey 
Lopes stole 59 bases, Andy Messersmith won 20 games, and Don Sutton won 
19. It was all very brisk and efficient—Big (Dodger) Blue, with the unflappable, 
perennially studious Walt Alston, in his twenty-first year as manager of 
the club, holding everything together. Unlike the Oakland squad, nobody 
in the Dodger clubhouse appeared to need therapy to work out any simmering 
interpersonal issues. The Series promised, at the very least, to be a memorable 
conflict of worldviews. However, as the World Series would prove, there 
was no substitute for experience; the A's did not beat themselves and the 
Dodgers made a number of mental errors. AL Oakland A's (4) vs. NL Los Angeles 
Dodgers (1) Reggie Jackson put the A's on the board first with a solo homer 
in the top of the second off 20-game winner Andy Messersmith. The A's added 
another run in the fifth when starting pitcher Ken Holtzman, batting for 
the first time all season because of the designated hitter rule, doubled 
to left, went to third on a Messersmith wild pitch, and scored on a Bert 
Campaneris suicide squeeze bunt. The Dodgers crept back with a run in their 
half of the fifth when Davey Lopes reached first on an error by shortstop 
Campaneris. Bill Buckner then bounced a single to right that Jackson misplayed, 
allowing Lopes to score. The A's scored their final run in the eighth when 
Campaneris singled to shallow center, was sacrificed to second by Bill 
North, and scored when Dodger third baseman Ron Cey threw wildly to first 
on a grounder hit by Sal Bando. Bando reached third on the error, and attempted 
to score on a flyout to right by Jackson, but right fielder Joe Ferguson 
gunned him down at the plate. In the bottom of the ninth, with Rollie Fingers 
on the mound, Jimmy Wynn hit a solo homer that just escaped the reach of 
Joe Rudi and North in left center. Catfish Hunter relieved Fingers and 
made the final out by striking out Ferguson. Fingers got the win with 4 1⁄3 
innings of relief, having relieved Holtzman in the fifth. Don Sutton pitched 
superbly, shutting out the A's on four hits through eight innings. The 
Dodgers scored first in the second off Vida Blue when Ron Cey walked, Bill 
Russell singled, and Steve Yeager singled home Cey. Joe Ferguson slammed 
a two-run homer off Blue in the sixth to make it 3–0. The A's threatened 
in the eighth when pinch hitters Jim Holt and Claudell Washington hit back-to-back 
singles with one out. Bert Campaneris reached on an infield error to load 
the bases. The rally was squelched when Bill North hit into a double play 
in which first baseman Steve Garvey made an exceptional pickup of a low 
throw by Russell. In the ninth, the A's finally got on the board when Sal 
Bando led off with being hit by a pitch, Reggie Jackson followed with a 
double, and Joe Rudi singled both runners home. Mike Marshall then relieved 
Sutton and struck out Gene Tenace. Herb Washington was sent in to pinch-run 
for Rudi, and Marshall picked him off. Herb Washington was the only "designated 
runner" to appear in a World Series. Washington was a track star with no 
baseball experience whom the A's Charles Finley signed solely to appear 
as a pinch runner in late game situations. His stats for 1974 were 92 games, 
zero at bats, 29 runs scored, 29 stolen bases, but he was caught stealing 
16 times. Sure enough, with the A's trailing 3–2 in the ninth inning of 
Game 2, Washington pinch ran. Just after announcer Vin Scully said that 
Washington better be careful because pitcher Mike Marshall has a good pickoff 
move, he was promptly picked off first base. Marshall then retired Ángel 
Mangual for the final out. With the Series shifting back to Oakland, it 
was A's ace Catfish Hunter's turn to be brilliant. Hunter shut out the 
Dodgers on four hits through seven innings, and his teammates provided 
him with two runs in the third when Bill North scored on an error by catcher 
Joe Ferguson and an RBI single by Joe Rudi. The A's added another run in 
the fourth on Bert Campaneris' RBI single. The Dodgers got their only runs 
on solo homers by Bill Buckner in the eighth and Willie Crawford in the 
ninth. Rollie Fingers was not awarded the save because in 1974, tougher 
criteria were adopted for saves where the tying run had to be on base or 
at the plate when the reliever entered to qualify for a save.[6] The A's 
struck first on a solo homer by the surprising Ken Holtzman in the third. 
The Dodgers came right back in their half of the fourth on a two-run triple 
by Bill Russell. Holtzman settled into a groove after that, surrendering 
no runs before yielding to Rollie Fingers in the eighth. The A's took control 
of the game with four runs in the sixth off Andy Messersmith. Bill North 
led off with a walk and went to second on a wild pickoff throw by Messersmith. 
Sal Bando singled home North to tie it. After a Reggie Jackson walk, a 
Joe Rudi sacrifice bunt, and an intentional walk to Claudell Washington, 
Jim Holt pinch-hit for Ray Fosse and singled in two runs. An RBI groundout 
by Dick Green capped off the rally. Fingers pitched the final 1 2⁄3 innings 
for his first save of the series. The A's staked Vida Blue to a 2–0 lead 
with single runs in the first and second innings on a sacrifice fly by 
Sal Bando and a solo homer by Ray Fosse. The Dodgers tied it in the sixth 
with two runs on a sacrifice fly by Jimmy Wynn and an RBI single by Steve 
Garvey. Joe Rudi got what would turn out to be the game-winning RBI when 
he tagged Dodger ace reliever Mike Marshall with a solo homer in the seventh. 
On a cool, damp night in Oakland, Marshall, who always pitched in short 
sleeves, disdained his allowance of eight warm up pitches after coming 
in from the bullpen. Rudi hit his first pitch out. In the Dodgers half 
of the eighth, Bill Buckner led off with a base hit to center that got 
past center fielder Bill North. Buckner had an easy double, but tried to 
stretch it to a triple and Reggie Jackson, backing up North, fired a perfect 
throw to Dick Green, who relayed to Sal Bando at third to nail Buckner 
and squelch the last Dodger threat. In his youthful exuberance, Buckner 
broke the unwritten baseball rule to never make the first or third out 
at third base. It was even more critical given that he was the potential 
tying run. Rollie Fingers got his second save and was named Series MVP. 
Four of the five games had the score of 3–2, and in all five games the 
losing team scored two runs. Mike Marshall of the Los Angeles Dodgers was 
the only pitcher to appear in all five games of a five-game World Series, 
as of 2014[update]. The Dodgers got six more hits than the A's but scored 
five fewer runs, showing their lack of timely hitting. They also made six 
errors in five games, in addition to a number of mental errors. The A's 
won the Series despite batting only .211 in the Series, the lowest in a 
five-game Series since the Baltimore Orioles hit .146 in the 1969 Series. 
As of 2015[update], the A's are the only non-Yankee team to win three consecutive 
World Series. 1974 World Series (4–1): Oakland A's (A.L.) over Los Angeles 
