The 1974 American League Championship Series was a best-of-five matchup 
between the East Division Champion Baltimore Orioles and the West Division 
Champion Oakland A's. It was a rematch of the previous year's series and 
third overall between the two teams. The A's beat the Orioles three games 
to one and received their third straight pennant in the process. They defeated 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1974 World Series and won their third straight 
World Series championship. Oakland won the series, 3–1. Saturday, October 
5, 1974 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California The Birds 
jumped all over the ace of the Oakland staff, Catfish Hunter, pounding 
him for six runs and eight hits, including three homers in less than five 
innings. Hunter had a skein of seven straight decisions over the Birds 
going into the game. Southpaw Mike Cuellar pitched steady ball for the 
winners and got the decision with relief help in the ninth inning from 
Ross Grimsley. A portent of things to happen came in the first inning when 
Paul Blair, second man in the batting order, hit a Hunter pitch for a home 
run. Bert Campaneris' single that followed a fielder's choice and a stolen 
base by Bill North gave the A's a temporary tie in the third inning. But 
a double by Bobby Grich and Tommy Davis' single put the Orioles ahead to 
stay in the fourth. A four-run outburst in the fifth, featuring homers 
by Brooks Robinson and Bobby Grich, locked up the game and sent Hunter 
to the showers. When Cuellar yielded a single to Jesús Alou and a double 
to Claudell Washington, both pinch-hitters, to open the last of the ninth, 
he was pulled in favor of Grimsley, who got the last three outs without 
trouble. Sunday, October 6, 1974 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in 
Oakland, California The A's assumed command the next day when Ken Holtzman 
permitted the Orioles only five hits en route to a 5–0 triumph. The Oakland 
club got an unearned run in the fourth when Bobby Grich dropped a foul 
pop by Sal Bando for an error. Two pitches later, Bando drove a Dave McNally 
pitch over the left-field fence for a homer. Joe Rudi tripled home North 
in the sixth for the second run. In the eighth inning, with two men on—the 
result of a walk and an error—Ray Fosse hit a home run off reliever Grant 
Jackson to put the game on ice. Tuesday, October 8, 1974 at Memorial Stadium 
in Baltimore, Maryland It was a great pitching battle between Jim Palmer 
and Vida Blue. Blue hurled a two-hitter and Palmer a four-hitter. But one 
of the four safe blows yielded by the Oriole right-hander was a home run 
by Sal Bando in the fourth inning. It was the only run of the game. Wednesday, 
October 9, 1974 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland The fourth game 
belonged to the A's, although their offense was able to produce only one 
safe hit for the afternoon. Cuellar pitched a no-hitter for four and two-thirds 
innings but walked four consecutive batters to give Oakland a run. During 
his stint on the mound, the Oriole lefty walked no less than nine batters 
and was removed while yet to give up a hit. The run that was to prove decisive 
came in the seventh off reliever Ross Grimsley. Sal Bando walked and Reggie 
Jackson stroked a double off the left-field wall to plate Bando. The Orioles 
almost pulled the game out of the bag in their last turn at bat. With one 
out and Rollie Fingers pitching in relief of Hunter, Paul Blair walked 
and Bobby Grich singled. A force play provided the second out of the inning 
but Boog Powell's single drove in one run. Fingers, however, was equal 
to the occasion, striking out Don Baylor on a fast ball to clinch the league 
crown for Oakland. 1974 ALCS (3–1): Oakland A's over Baltimore Orioles 
