The 1975 Boston Red Sox season was a season in American baseball. It involved 
the Red Sox finishing first in the American League East with a record of 
95 wins and 65 losses. Following a sweep of the Oakland Athletics in the 
ALCS, the Red Sox lost the World Series to the Cincinnati Reds in 7 games 
(similar to 1946 and 1967).[citation needed] The 1975 baseball season should 
have dawned for Red Sox fans with bright hopes. After all, the team had 
made a legitimate run for the pennant the previous year, and this time 
the team would have Carlton Fisk and Rick Wise for full seasons. Rick Burleson 
had surprised everyone by playing outstanding shortstop and hitting higher 
in the majors than he ever had in the minors. In addition, they were the 
two rookies who gave every indication they would be phenoms, Fred Lynn 
and Jim Rice. But the memory of the collapse of 1974 still hung heavy over 
New England fans.[citation needed] At first most of the pre-season talk 
had to do with the decision by Tony Conigliaro to try one more comeback 
and with the salary hassle concerning Luis Tiant, who felt he deserved 
more than $70,000 he was earning and wouldn't show up at Winter Haven, 
Florida, causing team owner Tom Yawkey to meet with "El Tiante", agree 
on a raise (to 90,000) and get the Sox pitching ace back in camp.[citation 
needed] Still, it didn't take too long before the stories and pictures 
coming out of Florida about the two phenoms got Sox fans thinking. The 
betting lines in Las Vegas had Boston as a long shot, although not the 
100-1 shot they were in 1967. The odds against them went up, however, after 
Fisk, returning from the serious knee injury of 1974, was hit in the right 
arm and broke it. Even the positive talk about young Mr. Lynn couldn't 
drive away the gloom over Fisk's injury. Catching is absolutely vital to 
a successful team, and Fisk was going to be sidelined for at least a couple 
of months.[citation needed] The word out of Florida on Lynn was pretty 
positive. The young man who had gone to Southern California as a football 
linebacker, but gave up football for baseball, seemed to be doing it all. 
Not only did he hit and run and field, he was a good-looking, charming 
young man. He would be a hit with Boston and New England fans, no question. 
What's more, he was hitting with power, and with the way big Jim Rice was 
clobbering the baseball, Boston appeared to have a real power punch that 
could only get better when Fisk got back into the lineup.[citation needed] 
Rick Wise, back after a year of shoulder trouble and then a broken finger, 
looked ready to boost a pitching staff, which already had Luis Tiant, Bill 
Lee, Reggie Cleveland, and the stringbean flame-thrower Roger Moret. The 
bullpen also looked strong, with Dick Drago as the closer and hard-thrower 
Dick Pole and veteran Diego Seguí.[citation needed] Additionally, the word 
on Tony Conigliaro was encouraging, and that boosted spirits back home. 
Carl Yastrzemski would be playing first base, and after three short trials 
in previous years Cecil Cooper was going to make this team and probably 
be the designated hitter.[citation needed] The season opened with El Tiante 
beating the Milwaukee Brewers, and after the first week the Sox shared 
first place with Milwaukee. Rice was playing some left field, and his defense 
left a lot to be desired; people were already saying that Rice might be 
a one-dimensional player who had to be the designated hitter only. On the 
other hand, Lynn was doing well, and the problems at catcher were not apparent 
yet. The Red Sox fell out of first place in late April and didn't get back 
into it until the end of May. Lynn was bombing American League pitching 
and playing great center field, and Rice was clobbering the ball. But the 
Red Sox were winning a lot of high-scoring games which didn't augur well 
for pitching when the pennant race reached the dog days of August and September. 
In June, the Red Sox made what appeared to be a minor move to bolster the 
bench when they bought journeyman second baseman Denny Doyle from the California 
Angels. The Angels would get cash and a player to be named later, the quality 
depending on what Doyle did for the Sox. Little did anyone know this would 
be even better than the pickup of Jerry Adair back in 1967. Second base 
was a problem. Doug Griffin was playing there and doing an adequate job, 
but he was injury-prone, and the Sox had been particularly anixous about 
him ever since he had been hit in the face by a Nolan Ryan fastball back 
in April 1974. Doug had seemed tentative at the plate since the beaning, 
and Boston had concerns about his durability and about his ability to stand 
in there on inside pitches. Doyle arrived on June 14, and to make room 
for him on the roster Tony Conigliaro was sent to Pawtucket in the minor 
leagues. Tony's attempt to come back hadn't really worked out. On his first 
at bat he homered for the Red Sox, but soon thereafter it became apparent 
that the eye damage had been too great and that the once-promising career 
now was over for good. So, the Red Sox got Denny Doyle into the lineup, 
and no one could get him out of it for the rest of the season. He ended 
up hitting .310, had a 22-game hitting streak and was outstanding in the 
field. In fact, he cemented an infield which featured Carl Yastrzemski 
at first, Rick Burleson at short and Rico Petrocelli at third. A major 
step toward the pennant had been taken with the Doyle deal. On June 18, 
Fred Lynn had one of those games that players can only dream about. The 
Red Sox were in Detroit and had won the first two games of the series, 
with second-year regular Juan Beníquez having two big games – a triple 
to start a winning rally in the opener and a homer to win the second. Unable 
to sleep, Fred Lynn got up, got dressed and walked the streets of downtown 
Detroit for an hour or two after 6 a.m. Still restless, he had breakfast 
and then went to Tiger Stadium to get extra batting practice. Whatever 
it was in the recipe that worked, it worked remarkably well. In the four-run 
first inning he crashed a homer into the upper deck in right. In the three-run 
second he clubbed one off the roof of the upper deck in left center. In 
the third he just missed when his long drive to left center hit the top 
of the fence and came back for a triple. In the sixth he beat out an infield 
single, and then in the ninth he smashed a three-run homer to the upper 
deck in right again. Lynn had hit his 12th, 13th and 14th home runs, had 
knocked in 10 runs, tying the Red Sox record for RBIs in a game, and Luis 
Tiant had no trouble winning his ninth game, 15-1. The Sox went in and 
out of first place three different times in late June, but at the end of 
the month they led the New York Yankees by a game. The Baltimore Orioles 
were 7.5 games back, five games under .500. In early July the Red Sox put 
Jim Rice into left field. Since Carlton Fisk had returned a week earlier, 
the Sox now had a power-laden lineup that was the talk of baseball. But 
Baltimore was getting ready to make a move, looking for a third consecutive 
division crown. And after the Orioles clobbered Boston on July 1, 10-6, 
Oriole manager Earl Weaver suggested that whereas his team would emulate 
the 1974 Baltimore Orioles season, picking up a game a week, Boston would 
emulate its 1974 team and fade, which made for good reading. Jim Rice broke 
in as a regular with two homers in a 6-3 win at Milwaukee, in which Wise 
had a no-hitter through 8 2⁄3 innings but lost it when George Scott homered 
in the ninth. The Red Sox completed a sweep of the Minnesota Twins in Minnesota 
and did the same to the Texas Rangers in Texas, and by the All-Star break 
they held a 4.5 game lead over the Yankees and Brewers. The Sox then put 
together a 10-game winning streak, moved 6 ahead of the Yankees and finally 
put the Yankees away with a three-out-of-four series victory in New York, 
featuring two shutouts pitched by left-handers, on Sunday, July 27. Bill 
Lee beat Catfish Hunter in the first 1-0, with Lynn making a spectacular 
play on a Graig Nettles drive. As Lynn ran into left-center field, he dove 
for the ball and caught the ball in his glove. When he hit the ground, 
the ball popped out of the glove, but Lynn reached up and grabbed it again 
before it hit the ground. Roger Moret pitched his seventh win, against 
one loss, in a 6-0 Boston win in the nightcap, featuring Yaz's 12th home 
Run. By the end of July Boston enjoyed an eight-game lead over the Orioles, 
who had moved to 51-47, over .500 for the first time. The lead got to 9.5 
games and then began to dwindle down to six by September 1. But there was 
no question that the fans now believed: the crowds filled Fenway. Boston 
next took two from the Orioles at Baltimore. Weaver was subdued, and Boston 
led by seven. By September 15, the Sox had not collapsed as they had in 
1974, but the lead over the Orioles was down to four. The game that may 
have decided the season was played on Tuesday, September 16, at hot, humid 
and jammed Fenway. Luis Tiant against Jim Palmer. The crowd chanted "Loo-ee!, 
Loo-ee!, Loo-ee!", and he responded, twirling, looking into center and 
then blowing the ball by the Orioles. Palmer was good, but Loo-eee! was 
better. Boston won 2-0 on homers by Fisk and Petrocelli. It stayed close 
until Friday, September 26. It had rained for five days. Contingency plans 
to make up rained-out games had been made, but it became academic on Friday,for 
the rain had stopped. But the field at Fenway was soggy, and there was 
a lot of fog. Nevertheless, they played a twi-night doubleheader with Cleveland. 
Tiant won the opener 4-0, besting Dennis Eckersley in a game in which part 
of left field was in fog. Reggie Cleveland won the second game, also 4-0 
and the Sox clinched a tie for first. The next day the Yankees finished 
off the Orioles, winning a twin bill at New York. Boston was thus the AL 
East champ, and Oakland was their next obstacle on the way ot the World 
Series. After a great season, The Red Sox continued their magical season 
by sweeping the Oakland Athletics in 3 games in the 1975 American League 
Championship Series to advance to their first World Series since 1967. 
In the historic World Series that followed, it came down to Carl Yastrzemski 
with the Red Sox trailing 4 to 3 with 2 outs in the 9th inning of Game 
7. Yaz's drive fell into the hands of Reds outfielder César Gerónimo, and 
Boston's magical season fell one game short. Boston would not be back in 
the World Series for 11 years. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] 
[11] [12] Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. 
= Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games 
pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; 
SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
October 4 at Fenway Park October 5 at Fenway Park NL Cincinnati Reds (4) 
