The 1975 National League Championship Series was a best-of-five match-up 
between the East Division champion Pittsburgh Pirates and the West Division 
champion Cincinnati Reds. The Reds swept the Pirates in three games and 
went on to win the World Series against the Boston Red Sox. Cincinnati 
won the series, 3–0. Saturday, October 4, 1975 at Riverfront Stadium in 
Cincinnati, Ohio The Reds cuffed four Pirate hurlers for 11 hits in the 
opener, breezing to an 8–3 triumph. Even Reds pitcher Don Gullett got into 
the act, getting two hits--one a home run--and driving in three runs. Sunday, 
October 5, 1975 at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio The Cincinnati 
regulars took batting practice in Game 2, banging out 12 hits as four more 
Pirate hurlers trudged to the mound. Tony Pérez was the big cannon in the 
Reds' artillery, getting three hits, one a homer, as he drove in three 
runs. The final score was 6–1. Tuesday, October 7, 1975 at Three Rivers 
Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania The only drama of the Series came in 
Game 3 played at Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Stadium. The home team sent 
left-hander John Candelaria to the hill to try to stem the Red tide and 
the 21-year-old rookie responded magnificently. He yielded a solo homer 
to Dave Concepción in the second inning, but going into the eighth had 
a 2–1 lead, the result of Al Oliver's two-run homer in the Pirate sixth 
inning. Candelaria struck out the first two batters in the eighth. That 
gave him a total of 14 for the game, a new playoff record. Concepción's 
circuit clout had been the only Reds hit to that point. But, inexplicably, 
he lost his control and walked the weak-hitting Merv Rettenmund, a pinch-hitter. 
Pete Rose then blasted a home run to put the Reds ahead, 3–2. When Joe 
Morgan followed Rose's homer with a double, Candelaria left the game. The 
Pirates tied the game in the ninth when Reds relief pitcher Rawly Eastwick 
walked in the tying run with two out. But it all served to merely delay 
the inevitable. The Reds got three hits and two runs off veteran Ramón 
Hernández, the third Pittsburgh hurler, in the top of the tenth and then 
held on to clinch their third pennant of the decade. This game, and Game 
3 of the 1975 American League Championship Series, were the first league 
championship series games ever played at night. Both were regionally televised 
by NBC. Four years earlier, Three Rivers Stadium also had hosted the first 
World Series game played at night. 1975 NLCS (3–0): Cincinnati Reds over 
