The 1975 World Series of Major League Baseball was played between the Boston 
Red Sox (AL) and Cincinnati Reds (NL). It has been ranked by ESPN as the 
second-greatest World Series ever played.[1] Cincinnati won the series 
four games to three. The Cincinnati Reds won the National League West division 
by 20 games over the Los Angeles Dodgers then defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
three games to none, in the National League Championship Series. The Boston 
Red Sox won the American League East division by 4½ games over the Baltimore 
Orioles then defeated the three-time defending World Series champion Oakland 
A's, three games to none, in the American League Championship Series. The 
Reds won the seventh and deciding game of the series on a ninth-inning 
RBI single by Joe Morgan. The sixth game of the Series was a 12-inning 
classic at Boston's Fenway Park. While there are many memorable moments 
from that game (among them Red Sox pinch hitter Bernie Carbo hitting a 
game-tying home run in the eighth; Reds reliever Will McEnaney pitching 
out of a bases loaded, no out jam in the bottom of the ninth; and Boston's 
Dwight Evans making a spectacular eleventh-inning catch to rob Joe Morgan 
of a go-ahead home run), it is remembered in Boston for the walk-off home 
run hit in the bottom of the twelfth by Carlton Fisk. Fisk's home run gave 
the Sox a 7–6 win to send the series to a deciding seventh game, which 
the "Big Red Machine" won to clinch the first of back-to-back World Series 
championships. The series also included a controversial play involving 
Fisk and the Reds' Ed Armbrister in Game 3, Tony Pérez's home run off Bill 
Lee's blooper pitch in Game 7, and many other memorable events. This was 
also the eleventh consecutive World Series that did not feature the New 
York Yankees, the Red Sox' archrival. The Yankees would win the next three 
pennants afterwards, and the last two World Series in that same run, as 
well as a memorable tiebreaker game against the Red Sox in 1978. This pennant 
drought was matched in 1992, and surpassed in 1993, with the Toronto Blue 
Jays (an expansion team that would debut two years after this Series) winning 
in both years. NL Cincinnati Reds (4) vs. AL Boston Red Sox (3) †: postponed 
from October 18 due to rain Luis Tiant and Don Gullett were locked in a 
scoreless pitching duel until the seventh. Tiant, batting in this game 
for the first time all season (pitchers didn't bat in the American League 
due to the designated hitter rule), led off with a single. He later scored 
the Red Sox' first run on a single by Carl Yastrzemski. Then the floodgates 
opened: Reds reliever Clay Carroll walked Carlton Fisk to force in a run, 
Rico Petrocelli slapped a two-run single, Rick Burleson had an RBI single, 
and Cecil Cooper ended the scoring with a sacrifice fly. In another stellar 
pitching performance for the Sox, Bill Lee held the Reds to four hits and 
a run through eight innings, the Reds' run scoring in the fourth when Joe 
Morgan walked, went to third on a Johnny Bench single, and scored on a 
Tony Pérez forceout. The Red Sox sandwiched the Reds' run with single tallies 
of their own in the first on an RBI single by Carlton Fisk and in the seventh 
on an RBI single by Petrocelli. The Reds, however, rallied in the ninth 
to tie the series. Bench led off the inning with a double down the right 
field line. Dave Concepción tied the game by singling in Bench and then 
stole second. With two outs, Ken Griffey doubled in Concepción with the 
go-ahead run. Rawly Eastwick retired the Sox in the ninth to get the victory 
and close the win. Back at home, the Reds prevailed in another squeaker 
that showed just how much this Series was destined to become a classic. 
For nine innings, the game was a homer-fest. Carlton Fisk put the Sox on 
the board in the second with a solo homer off Reds starter Gary Nolan. 
The Reds countered by taking a 2–1 lead in the fourth when Tony Pérez walked 
and Johnny Bench hit a two-run shot off Sox starter Rick Wise. The Reds 
then chased Wise in the fifth when Dave Concepción and César Gerónimo hit 
back-to-back solo shots. Pete Rose followed with a one-out triple and scored 
on Joe Morgan's sacrifice fly to give the Reds a 5–1 lead. The Sox scratched 
back in the sixth when Reds reliever Pat Darcy issued consecutive walks 
to Carl Yastrzemski and Fisk, wild-pitched Fisk to third, and then gave 
up a sacrifice fly to Fred Lynn. In the seventh, Bernie Carbo closed the 
gap to 5–3 with a pinch-hit solo homer off Clay Carroll. In the ninth, 
with ace reliever Rawly Eastwick on the mound, the Reds looked poised to 
close the game out and take a 2–1 Series lead. But, Eastwick gave up a 
single to Rico Petrocelli and a tying two-run homer to Dwight Evans, sending 
the game into extra innings. Eastwick retired the Sox in the top of the 
tenth, setting the stage for a wild and controversial finish. Geronimo 
led off the Reds' half of the tenth with a single off Jim Willoughby. Manager 
Sparky Anderson then sent Ed Armbrister up to bat for Eastwick. Armbrister 
attempted a bunt that bounced high near the plate toward the first-base 
line. Armbrister hesitated before running, apparently thinking the ball 
would go foul, and Carlton Fisk appeared to collide with him as he was 
retrieving the ball. Fisk attempted to fire to second to force out Geronimo, 
but his throw sailed high over shortstop Rick Burleson. As Geronimo went 
to third and Armbrister pulled into second, a brouhaha ensued, with Fisk 
and Sox manager Darrell Johnson arguing that Armbrister should have been 
ruled out for interference. Umpire Larry Barnett ruled otherwise, however. 
Now, the Reds had the winning run on third with no outs. Willoughby then 
intentionally walked Pete Rose to load the bases and set up a force play 
situation. Johnson then brought in left-hander Roger Moret, and Anderson 
countered by pinch-hitting Merv Rettenmund for Ken Griffey. Rettenmund 
struck out, but Joe Morgan knocked in Geronimo with the winning run by 
hitting a deep fly to center over a drawn in outfield. With the Reds leading 
the series 2-1, Luis Tiant would pitch his second complete game win of 
the Series. More importantly, this win would force the Reds to have to 
win at least one of two games at Fenway Park to win the Series. The Reds 
struck first off Tiant in the first on RBI doubles by Ken Griffey and Johnny 
Bench. The Sox, however, would get all the runs they needed in the fourth. 
Dwight Evans tied the game with a two-run triple, then Rick Burleson put 
the Sox ahead by doubling in Evans off Reds starter Fred Norman. Tiant, 
continuing his surprising hitting, singled Burleson to third. Burleson 
then scored on a Tony Pérez error on a ball hit by Juan Beníquez, while 
Tiant went to second. Carl Yastrzemski drove in Tiant with a single for 
what would turn out to be the winning run. The Reds were able to counter 
with two runs in their half of the fourth on an RBI double by Dave Concepción 
and an RBI triple by César Gerónimo, but that was it as Tiant gutted it 
out the rest of the game. The Reds had a shot at winning the game in the 
bottom of the ninth when, with two on and one out, Ken Griffey sent a deep 
drive into left-center that Fred Lynn made an over the shoulder catch of. 
Joe Morgan then popped out to first on Tiant's 163rd pitch of the game. 
The Reds salvaged their home stand by winning Game 5 as Tony Pérez picked 
the right time to shake a batting slump. Pérez, who had no hits in the 
Series up to this point, rectified that by slamming two home runs and driving 
in four runs off Sox starter Reggie Cleveland. Pete Rose contributed an 
RBI double and Dave Concepción a sacrifice fly for the other Reds runs 
as Don Gullett pitched eight strong innings and won with relief help from 
Rawly Eastwick in the ninth. This game would go down as one of the greatest 
games not only in World Series and postseason history, but baseball history 
as well. Thanks to three days of rain in Boston, Sox manager Darrell Johnson 
now had the luxury of both of his best starters, Luis Tiant and Bill Lee, 
available for Games 6 and 7 at home to try to stave off the Reds. Fred 
Lynn opened the scoring in the first with a two-out, three-run homer off 
Reds starter Gary Nolan. Meanwhile, the fresh Tiant breezed through the 
first four innings, holding the Reds to all zeros. The Reds finally broke 
through in the fifth. With two on, Ken Griffey sent a drive to deep center 
that Lynn almost made a spectacular leaping catch on against the wall. 
Lynn would suffer a rib injury, but would continue the game. Lynn told 
moderator Bob Costas during MLB Network's "Top 20 games in the last 50 
years" that, for a short time, he was barely conscious and couldn't feel 
his legs.[9] Both runs scored as Griffey ended up with a triple. Johnny 
Bench singled Griffey home to tie the game at 3–3. In the seventh, George 
Foster put the Reds ahead with a two-run double and, in the top of the 
eighth, César Gerónimo hit a solo homer to chase Tiant and give the Reds 
a 6–3 lead. In the bottom of the eighth, Pedro Borbón was on the mound, 
with Rawly Eastwick warming up in the Reds' bullpen. Borbon gave up a single 
to Fred Lynn, and then walked Rico Petrocelli. Eastwick was brought in 
to pitch, and proceeded to strike out Dwight Evans and retire Rick Burleson 
on a line-out to left. Eastwick looked on his way out of the inning. Bernie 
Carbo, a former first-round pick of the Reds, who had a pinch-hit home 
run in Game 3, was called on to bat for Roger Moret. Sparky Anderson was 
on the top step of the dugout, ready to call in left-hander Will McEnaney 
to pitch to the left-hand hitting Carbo. Anderson said later that he was 
concerned that the Sox would call on Juan Beníquez to pinch hit for Carbo 
if he made the move. Carbo looked hopelessly overmatched by Eastwick, and 
on a 2–2 pitch, fouled off a pitch on a swing that was described as having 
"all the athletic grace of a suburbanite raking leaves." On the next pitch, 
however, Carbo tied the game with a three-run home run just to the left 
of dead center field. Supposedly, as Carbo approached third base on his 
home run trot, Carbo yelled out to former teammate Pete Rose, "Hey, Pete…don't 
you wish you were that strong?" To which Rose replied, "This is fun." Carbo 
admitted in an interview with ESPN in 2010 that he was stoned on drugs 
and alcohol during this at-bat as well as in Game 7.[10] The Sox looked 
poised to win the game in the bottom of the ninth. With McEnaney, the Reds' 
seventh pitcher, on the mound, the Sox loaded the bases with no outs. Denny 
Doyle walked and went to third on a Carl Yastrzemski single. McEnaney then 
intentionally walked Carlton Fisk to load the bases to face the left-handed 
hitting Lynn. Lynn flied out on a short fly ball to Foster in foul territory 
in left, and Foster gunned down Doyle, who tagged up and attempted to score. 
McEnaney then retired Petrocelli, ending the jam. Doyle would later claim 
that, when he tagged at third, he thought he heard Sox third-base coach 
Don Zimmer yelling "Go, go, go!", when, in reality, Zimmer was screaming, 
"No! No! No!". In the top of the eleventh, with Ken Griffey on first, Joe 
Morgan hit a deep drive to right off Dick Drago that looked to be headed 
over the fence. Evans, however, made a spectacular catch near the visitors 
bullpen in deep right to rob Morgan and double Griffey off first. The Reds 
mounted another threat in the top of the twelfth. Tony Pérez and Foster 
slammed one-out singles off Rick Wise, but Wise retired Dave Concepción 
on a fly to right and struck out Geronimo. Finally, Fisk faced Pat Darcy, 
the eighth pitcher that Reds manager Sparky Anderson used. Fisk took Darcy's 
second pitch and lifted a high drive down the left-field line. The ball 
struck the foul pole well above the Green Monster. In what has now become 
an iconic baseball film highlight, the NBC left-field game camera[11] caught 
Fisk wildly waving his arms to his right after hitting the ball and watching 
its path while drifting down the first base line, as if he was trying to 
coax the ball to "stay fair". The ball indeed stayed fair and the Red Sox 
had tied the Series. (According to the NBC cameraman Lou Gerard, located 
inside the left field wall scoreboard, cameramen at the time were instructed 
to follow the flight of the ball. Instead, Gerard was distracted by a rat 
nearby, thus he lost track of the baseball and instead decided to capture 
the image of Fisk "magically" waving the ball fair).[12] The game was ranked 
Number 1 in MLB Network's 20 Greatest Games.[9] After an exciting Game 6, 
there was no worry about Game 7 being anti-climactic. Reds starter Don 
Gullett started having control problems in the third inning. After giving 
up an RBI single to Carl Yastrzemski, Gullett walked Carlton Fisk to load 
the bases. He then walked Rico Petrocelli and Dwight Evans to force in 
two more runs. However, that would be the only Sox scoring of the game. 
Bill Lee shut out the Reds through five innings, but, in the sixth with 
a man on, he threw a slow, lobbing pitch (his famous "Space ball" or "Leephus 
pitch", an Eephus pitch) to Tony Pérez. Pérez patiently waited, blasting 
it high over the Green Monster for a two-run home run, his third HR in 
three Series games. The score was then 3–2, Red Sox. The Reds tied it in 
the seventh when Ken Griffey walked, stole second, and scored on a two-out 
single by Pete Rose. In the ninth, Griffey led off with a walk, was sacrificed 
to second by César Gerónimo, and went to third on a groundout. Sox pitcher 
Jim Burton then walked Rose to set up a forceout, but then gave up a bloop 
single to Joe Morgan to score Griffey with the go-ahead and Series-winning 
run. In the ninth, Will McEnaney retired the Sox in order – last-chance 
batter Carl Yastrzemski flying out to center – to end a thrilling World 
Series. 1975 World Series (4–3): Cincinnati Reds (N.L.) over Boston Red 
Sox (A.L.) NBC broadcast the Series on television and radio, with Curt 
Gowdy and Joe Garagiola alternating play-by-play on both media along with 
team announcers Dick Stockton and Ned Martin (Red Sox) and Marty Brennaman 
(Reds). Tony Kubek provided color commentary on the telecasts. This was 
the final World Series play-by-play assignment for Gowdy, who had been 
NBC's lead baseball announcer since 1966. Garagiola would take over full-time 
as the network's main play-by-play voice for baseball the following season. 
This was also the final Series broadcast for NBC Radio, which had retained 
exclusive rights to the event since 1957. CBS Radio would become the exclusive 
national radio network for MLB beginning the following season. This was 
the only World Series broadcast for Stockton, who would become a prominent 
