The 1975 American League Championship Series pitted the Boston Red Sox 
against the three-time defending world champion Oakland A's for the right 
to advance to the 1975 World Series. During the regular season, the Red 
Sox posted a 95–65 record and won the AL East division title, while the 
A's went 98–64 to win the AL West. The Red Sox came up with experienced 
players such as Carl Yastrzemski, Carlton Fisk and Dwight Evans, and two 
sensational rookies—Fred Lynn and Jim Rice. Lynn took most of the headlines 
by playing a flawless center field, hitting .331 with 21 home runs and 
105 RBIs, and becoming the first major league player to win the MVP and 
Rookie of the Year awards in the same season. Rice, although suffering 
a broken wrist in late September, finished with a .309 average, 22 homers 
and 102 RBIs. Meanwhile, the A's seemed ripe to be overthrown without Catfish 
Hunter in the starting rotation and with generally lackluster offensive 
support during the regular season. To supplement the familiar faces of 
Reggie Jackson, Sal Bando, Joe Rudi, Bert Campaneris and Gene Tenace on 
the roster, Oakland included Claudell Washington, who blossomed into a 
dangerous hitter, and Billy Williams, who came over from the National League. 
Boston won the series, 3–0. Saturday, October 4, 1975 at Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts Boston Red Sox starter Luis Tiant allowed just one 
run on three hits to defeat the Oakland A's, 7–1, in the ALCS opener. Tiant 
struck out eight and walked three in a complete game effort, retiring the 
side in order in three innings. Juan Beníquez went 2-for-4 with an RBI 
and a run scored, Fred Lynn ended 1-for-4 with two RBIs, and Carlton Fisk 
1-for-4 with two runs scored for the Red Sox. Oakland starter Ken Holtzman 
took the loss by yielding five hits and four runs (two unearned) with four 
strikeouts and a walk in 6 1⁄3 innings of work. Sunday, October 5, 1975 
at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Carl Yastrzemski hit a two-run 
home run to lead the Boston Red Sox past the Oakland A's, 6–3, in the second 
ALCS game. Boston starter Reggie Cleveland was solid through five innings, 
allowing three runs on five hits with two strikeouts and one walk. Rico 
Petrocelli also homered, Carlton Fisk went 2-for-4 with an RBI and a run 
scored, and Fred Lynn hit 2-for-4 with one RBI for the Red Sox. Oakland 
starter Vida Blue lasted three innings and gave up just three runs on six 
hits. The win went to Roger Moret, who tossed one scoreless inning of relief. 
Dick Drago worked the final three innings to close out the contest. The 
loss went to Rollie Fingers, who allowed three runs on five hits over four 
innings. Reggie Jackson hit a two-run home run and Sal Bando went 4-for-4 
with two doubles and a run for the A's. Tuesday, October 7, 1975 at Oakland-Alameda 
County Coliseum in Oakland, California After winning three consecutive 
championships, the Oakland A's dynasty came to an end as they were swept 
by the Boston Red Sox, 5–3, in the third game of the ALCS. Boston starter 
Rick Wise allowed three runs (two unearned) on six hits in 7 1⁄3 innings 
of work. Both Denny Doyle and Carlton Fisk collected two hits with one 
run and an RBI and Rick Burleson went 2-for-4 with one run scored to lead 
the Red Sox. Ken Holtzman started for Oakland and was tagged for four runs 
on seven hits in just 4 2⁄3 innings to take the loss. Dick Drago earned 
the save for pitching 1 2⁄3 innings of shutout ball for Boston while Carl 
Yastrzemski made two great defensive plays at left field and collected 
two hits. Sal Bando went 2-for-4 with two RBIs while Reggie Jackson hit 
2-for-4 with one RBI for the A's. This game, and Game 3 of the 1975 National 
League Championship Series, were the first league championship series games 
ever played at night. Both were regionally televised by NBC. 1975 ALCS 
