WPIX The 1976 New York Yankees season was the 74th season for the Yankees 
in New York, and the 76th season overall for the franchise. The team finished 
with a record of 97-62, finishing 10½ games ahead of the Baltimore Orioles 
to win their first American League East title. In the ALCS, the Yankees 
defeated the Kansas City Royals in 5 games. Chris Chambliss's walk-off 
home run in Game 5 clinched the pennant for the Yankees. In the World Series, 
they were defeated in a four-game sweep by the defending champion Cincinnati 
Reds, marking only the second time that the Yankees had ever been swept 
in a World Series in their history (following the 1963 Los Angeles Dodgers). 
New York was managed by Billy Martin. The Yankees returned to the newly 
renovated Yankee Stadium. The Yankees returned to their home stadium in 
The Bronx after a two-year absence. The team had played home games at Shea 
Stadium in Queens, the home of the New York Mets, while renovations to 
Yankee Stadium were completed. The 1975 club had finished in third place 
in the AL East with a record of 83-79, finishing 12 games behind the division 
winning Boston Red Sox. The club was beginning their first full season 
under manager Billy Martin, who had been hired following the mid-season 
firing of Bill Virdon. Owner George Steinbrenner made three off-season 
moves to try to help the club. First, they brought in power-hitting outfielder/DH 
Oscar Gamble, who would find the 'short porch' in right field very inviting 
for his power swing. Then the club made two deals on the same day: they 
sent Doc Medich to Pittsburgh for three players, primarily seeking the 
services of pitcher Dock Ellis; and shipping outfielder Bobby Bonds to 
California for leadoff man Mickey Rivers and starter Ed Figueroa. The Pirates 
trade had the longest lasting impact, as then-unheralded minor leaguer 
Willie Randolph was included in the deal, and was a major catalyst on championship 
teams for years to come. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] 
[12] The Yankees won 97 games in 1976 and captured the eastern division 
title of the American League, marking their first postseason appearance 
since 1964. Two monumental things happened as the season opened. First, 
the club returned to Yankee Stadium to play home games, with a special 
pre-game ceremony for the April 15 home opener that included Joe DiMaggio, 
Mickey Mantle, Whitey Ford, Don Larsen, and the widows of Babe Ruth and 
Lou Gehrig. Eighty-five-year-old Bob Shawkey, who had pitched in the stadium 
in its opening season of 1923, threw out the first pitch, and the Bronx 
Bombers defeated Minnesota 11-4. Second, the team announced that Thurman 
Munson would serve in the role of team captain. This was significant because 
no Yankee player had been captain since the death of Gehrig in 1941. The 
team started fast with a 10-3 record in April, including a 5-1 West Coast 
swing through California and Oakland. On May 20, they authored another 
memorable chapter in their on-going rivalry with the Boston Red Sox. Lou 
Piniella collided with Carlton Fisk at home plate, igniting a huge bench-clearing 
brawl during which Graig Nettles injured Bill Lee's pitching arm. By mid-June, 
the club had built a 7-game lead. On the June 15 trading deadline, they 
made two significant moves to secure post-season success. First, they completed 
a 10-player deal with Baltimore, upgrading the pitching staff by acquiring 
starters Ken Holtzman and Doyle Alexander. Second, they were sold the rights 
to all-star pitcher Vida Blue from Oakland for $1.5 million. However, Commissioner 
Bowie Kuhn, invoking the "best interests in baseball clause", invalidated 
the sale of Blue, returning him to Oakland. In July, six players represented 
the team in the All-Star Game in Philadelphia: Thurman Munson, who was 
elected to start by the fans; Chris Chambliss; Catfish Hunter; Willie Randolph; 
Mickey Rivers; and Sparky Lyle. By the end of the month, their lead in 
the division ballooned to 14½ games. In August, they continued to cruise 
towards the division title, and took part in a marathon 19-inning affair 
with Minnesota. By September, the club was poised to secure the spot in 
the American League Championship Series, and did so on September 25 by 
defeating the Detroit Tigers 10-6 to clinch the division title. The Yankees 
opened "Monument Park" at the stadium in 1976. The origin of Monument Park 
is dated back to May 30, 1932, when the Yankees dedicated a monument to 
former manager Miller Huggins. The monument was placed it in front of the 
flagpole in center field at Yankee Stadium. Huggins was the first of many 
Yankees players granted this honor. The 1976 Yankees saw the team restore 
the franchise to glory following the mismanaged years when CBS owned the 
club and failed to finish in the top half of the league or division from 
1965 through 1972. Owner George Steinbrenner delivered on his promise to 
return the Yankees to greatness, and the fans responded as attendance reached 
over 2 million for the first time since 1950. Munson won the American League 
MVP, hitting .302 with 105 RBI. Munson became the first, and to date the 
only, Yankee player ever to win the MVP and the Rookie of the Year award 
while wearing the Yankees uniform. However, the loss to Cincinnati in the 
World Series only consumed Steinbrenner to try to further improve the ball 
club. Thanks to the Seitz decision which made the reserve clause obsolete, 
Steinbrenner took advantage of the new era of free agency. In an era where 
other owners such as Charlie Finley were unwilling to spend money to keep 
players, and other clubs were still run by families not ready for the 'balance 
sheet' era of sports ownership, Steinbrenner ushered in the big salary 
era of sports by signing Reggie Jackson to a five-year contract worth just 
under $3 million. The idea of bringing in Jackson for 1977 would be to 
try to put the Yankees over the top. Still, the 1976 version of the Yankees 
marked a return of prominence to the organization. It marked the first 
of three consecutive American League titles, and a stretch of six seasons 
where the club won five division titles, four league championships, and 
two World Series titles. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = 
Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: 
G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts After splitting the first two 
games with the Western Division champion Royals in Kansas City, the Yankees 
returned home to try to capture the pennant. The two clubs split the next 
two games as well, setting up a deciding Game Five showdown. The Yankees 
had a 6-3 lead after seven innings, but the Royals rallied for 3 runs in 
the top of the 8th to tie the game at 6-6. Then in the bottom of the ninth, 
Chris Chambliss hit the first pitch thrown by Mark Littell over the right 
field wall for the game-winning walk-off home run. Of course, it was anything 
but a walk-off, as fans stormed the field with delight, making it nearly 
impossible for Chambliss to round the bases. The win put the Bombers into 
the World Series for the first time since 1964. October 9, 1976 at Royals 
Stadium October 10, 1976 at Royals Stadium October 12, 1976 at Yankee Stadium 
October 13, 1976 at Yankee Stadium October 14, 1976 at Yankee Stadium The 
Yankees were confident heading into the Fall Classic, but proved to be 
little match for their opponents. The Cincinnati Reds were the defending 
world champions, and were making their fourth World Series appearance over 
a seven-year span. The Big Red Machine dominated the series, sweeping the 
Yankees in four straight games. NL Cincinnati Reds (4) vs. AL New York 
Yankees (0) Team captain Thurman Munson won the AL MVP. Graig Nettles was 
the AL home run champion with 32 home runs in the season. Munson, Chris 
Chambliss, Catfish Hunter, Sparky Lyle, Willie Randolph and Mickey Rivers 
all represented the Yankees at the 1976 Major League Baseball All-Star 
