The 1976 National League Championship Series faced off the Cincinnati Reds 
(known for their nickname at the time, The Big Red Machine) and the Philadelphia 
Phillies. The Reds swept the best-of-five series in three games, winning 
easily in the first two games, and in their last at bat in Game 3. Stars 
of the series for the Reds included batters Johnny Bench (4 for 12, HR), 
Dave Concepción (4 runs scored), George Foster (2 H, both home runs), Ken 
Griffey (5 for 13, triple), Pete Rose (6 for 14, 2 RBIs, 3 runs scored), 
and pitchers Don Gullett (win, 8 IP, 2 hits), Pedro Borbón ( 4 1⁄3 IP, 
0.00 ERA), and Pat Zachry (win, 5 IP, 3 SO). Cincinnati won the series, 
3–0. Saturday, October 9, 1976 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Reds starter Don Gullett held the Phils to two hits in eight strong innings 
and helped his own cause with an RBI single in the sixth and a two-run 
double in the eighth. George Foster added a solo homer. Sunday, October 
10, 1976 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Buoyed by an 
RBI single by Bob Boone and a solo homer by Greg Luzinski, Phils starter 
Jim Lonborg no-hit the Reds until the sixth. After giving up an RBI single 
to Pete Rose, Lonborg was inexplicably removed from the game by manager 
Danny Ozark. Two more runs came across on an error by first baseman Dick 
Allen on a ball hit by Tony Pérez, and those would turn out to be the deciding 
runs as the Reds cruised to their second victory and an almost insurmountable 
2–0 lead going back to Cincinnati. Tuesday, October 12, 1976 at Riverfront 
Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio Once again, the Phillies got a strong starting 
pitching performance that went for naught. Jim Kaat held the Reds to one 
hit after six innings. Meanwhile, his teammates provided him a 3–0 lead 
via a consecutive doubles in the fourth by Mike Schmidt and Greg Luzinski 
and RBI doubles by Garry Maddox and Schmidt in the seventh. But, in the 
bottom of the seventh, Kaat began to lose it. Ken Griffey led off with 
a single, Joe Morgan walked, and Tony Pérez singled home Griffey. George 
Foster followed with a sacrifice fly. After a walk to Johnny Bench, Phillies 
reliever Ron Reed retired Dave Concepción, but then surrendered a two-run 
triple to César Gerónimo to put the Reds ahead 4–3. The Reds then sent 
Rawly Eastwick in to close the game out in the eighth. The Phillies rallied 
against the closer as Jay Johnstone led off with a double and went to third 
on a wild pitch as Bob Boone walked. Larry Bowa doubled in Johnstone and 
Dave Cash hit a sacrifice fly to give the Phillies the lead back at 5–4. 
The Phillies added another run in the top of the ninth on an RBI triple 
by Johnstone to make it 6–4. With Reed still on the mound for the ninth, 
Foster and Bench hit back-to-back solo homers to tie the game. Gene Garber 
relieved and promptly gave up a single to Concepción. Tom Underwood came 
on to surrender a walk to Geronimo. Pinch-hitter Ed Armbrister sacrificed 
the runners to second and third. Underwood then intentionally walked Pete 
Rose to load the bases. With the infield drawn in, Griffey hit a high bouncer 
toward Bobby Tolan playing first. Tolan charged, but the ball got past 
him and Concepción scored to send the Reds to their second straight World 
