The 1976 World Series matched the defending champions Cincinnati Reds of 
the National League against the New York Yankees of the American League, 
with the Reds sweeping the Series to repeat, avenging their 1939 and 1961 
World Series losses to the Yankees in the process. The Reds became (and 
remain) the only team to sweep an entire multi-tier postseason. The Reds 
are also the last National League team to win back-to-back World Series. 
It also marked the second time that the Yankees were swept in a World Series 
(the Los Angeles Dodgers were the first to sweep them in 1963). The Cincinnati 
Reds won the National League West division by 10 games over the Los Angeles 
Dodgers then defeated the Philadelphia Phillies, three games to none, in 
the National League Championship Series. The New York Yankees won the American 
League East division by 10 1⁄2 games over the Baltimore Orioles then defeated 
the Kansas City Royals, three games to two, in the American League Championship 
Series. This World Series was the first in which the designated hitter 
rule, which had been introduced in the American League three years prior, 
was in effect. The use of the DH wound up benefiting the Reds, who were 
able to get utility infielder Dan Driessen's bat in the lineup. Driessen 
hit .357 with one home run. Elliott Maddox, Carlos May, and Lou Piniella 
shared the role for the New York Yankees. Game 1, played at Cincinnati's 
Riverfront Stadium, marked the first time the DH was used in a National 
League ballpark. Game 2, also at Riverfront Stadium, was the first World 
Series weekend game to be scheduled at night. After spending the last two 
years sharing home field with the New York Mets at Shea Stadium, the New 
York Yankees returned home to a re-built Yankee Stadium. George Steinbrenner 
had now owned the team for three years, since 1973, with Billy Martin serving 
the first of his five stints as manager since 1975. General Manager Gabe 
Paul made numerous trades getting Mickey Rivers and Ed Figueroa from the 
Angels for Bobby Bonds; Willie Randolph and Dock Ellis from the Pirates 
for Doc Medich; and Doyle Alexander, Ken Holtzman, and Grant Jackson from 
the Orioles for Rudy May, Tippy Martinez, Scott McGregor, and Rick Dempsey. 
The heart of the team was Yankee captain, Thurman Munson, whose grit and 
determination were factors in his winning the 1976 American League MVP 
award. Third baseman, Graig Nettles, and first baseman, Chris Chambliss 
were the key run producers, while speedy outfielders Roy White and Rivers 
set the table for the power hitters. Super free agent Catfish Hunter headed 
the staff while reliever Sparky Lyle led the A.L. in saves with 23. The 
Yankees finished 10 1⁄2 ahead in the A.L. East advancing to the World Series 
by beating the Kansas City Royals in the fifth game of the playoffs on 
a ninth-inning walk-off home run by Chambliss. The defending champion Cincinnati 
Reds were piloted by Sparky Anderson who had a star-studded lineup led 
by second baseman Joe Morgan. Catcher Johnny Bench, first baseman Tony 
Pérez, and outfielder George Foster provided enough power to drive in sparkplugs, 
Pete Rose, Ken Griffey and Morgan, who combined power (27 homers, 111 RBI) 
and speed (67 stolen bases) from the third-spot in the batting order. Morgan 
went on to win his second-straight National League Most Valuable Player 
award, outdistancing runner-up teammate Foster. But Foster would go on 
to win the 1977 MVP award, giving the Reds six MVPs in an eight-year stretch. 
Bench won MVP honors in 1970 & '72 while Rose took home the hardware in 
'73. The Reds led the NL in every significant offensive category including 
runs scored, batting average, slugging percentage, on-base percentage, 
and stolen bases. On the mound, the Reds relied on left-handers Don Gullett 
and Fred Norman to pacify the Yankee hitters in Games 1 and 2, respectively. 
Gullett had come back from a mid-season injury to start Game 1 but had 
to leave the game in the eighth inning due to a twisted ankle while Norman 
out-pitched ace Hunter in Game 2. Game 3 in New York pitted effective 1976 
NL Rookie of the Year Pat Zachry for the Reds against newly acquired Yankee, 
Dock Ellis. Ellis only lasted 3 1⁄3 innings, exiting in the fourth after 
a home run by Driessen. Game 4 was delayed a day due to rain, but the Reds 
were ready for the sweep. Bench's 2 run home run gave the Reds a 3-1 lead. 
In the bottom of the eighth, a frustrated Billy Martin threw a baseball 
from the dugout onto the field towards home plate umpire Bill Deegan, causing 
his ejection from the game. In the ninth, Bench's second home run followed 
by back-to-back doubles by César Gerónimo and Dave Concepción made the 
score 7-2 and essentially blew the game open. The Cincinnati Reds outscored 
the New York Yankees, 22–8, and became the first NL team to repeat as World 
Champions since the 1921–1922 New York Giants. The Reds did not make a 
single offensive or defensive substitution (save pitching changes) during 
the entire series. Bench would claim the MVP of the series hitting .533 
with two home runs and six runs batted in. His catching counterpart, Thurman 
Munson, had nine hits, all singles, and a .529 batting average. NL Cincinnati 
Reds (4) vs. AL New York Yankees (0) †: postponed from October 20 due to 
rain Joe Morgan got the Reds off to a booming start with a solo home run 
off Doyle Alexander. (Alexander had to start because Catfish Hunter had 
a sore arm and needed another day of rest). Tony Pérez had RBIs in the 
third and sixth innings and Johnny Bench had an RBI triple and then scored 
on a Sparky Lyle wild pitch in the seventh. The only bad news for the Reds 
was an injury to starting pitcher Don Gullett, who pulled a calf muscle 
in the eighth and would be unavailable for the remainder of the Series. 
It turned out to be Gullett's last appearance in a Reds uniform. The Reds 
scored three runs in the second off Catfish Hunter on RBI singles by George 
Foster and Dave Concepción and a sacrifice fly by Ken Griffey. The Yankees 
got on the board on an RBI single by Graig Nettles in the fourth. In the 
seventh, the Yankees tied things up on an RBI double by Fred Stanley and 
an RBI groundout by Thurman Munson. Meanwhile, Hunter settled into a groove, 
pitching a complete game and shutting out the Reds until the ninth. With 
two outs, Ken Griffey reached second when Stanley threw wildly past first 
after fielding his slow bouncer. Joe Morgan was walked intentionally and 
Tony Pérez ended the game by driving in Griffey with a single. The Sunday 
night contest was the first weekend World Series game to start after dark. 
MLB commissioner Bowie Kuhn responded to criticism of the scheduling, which 
was done to accommodate NBC television, by attending the game without wearing 
an overcoat in spite of the cold nighttime weather.[5] As the Series moved 
to Yankee Stadium, the Reds struck first with three runs off starter Dock 
Ellis. An RBI double by George Foster, RBI force-out by César Gerónimo, 
and an RBI single by Dave Concepción provided the tallies. Dan Driessen 
smacked a solo homer in the fourth, and Joe Morgan had an RBI double and 
Foster an RBI single in the eighth. Yankee backup shortstop Jim Mason entered 
the game as a defensive replacement in the fifth inning, and in the seventh 
inning hit a solo homer, thus becoming the first player to hit a home run 
in his only World Series at-bat (the second being Geoff Blum). Also, in 
the seventh, Yankee left-handed reliever Grant Jackson provided a defensive 
gem by catching a hard-hit ground ball off the bat of Johnny Bench behind 
his back and retiring Bench, thereby robbing him of a base hit. This was 
the first World Series game at Yankee Stadium to open with opera star Robert 
Merrill's famous rendition of the National Anthem. The Yankees got on the 
board in the first (which would be their only lead in this Series) on a 
Thurman Munson single and a Chris Chambliss double. Munson would collect 
four hits in the game. In the fourth, Joe Morgan walked, stole second, 
and came home on a George Foster single. Johnny Bench followed with his 
first home run to give the Reds a 3–1 lead that they never relinquished. 
Bench would later add to his heroics with a three-run shot in the ninth, 
followed by consecutive doubles by César Gerónimo and Dave Concepción. 
Bench's performance earned him the Series MVP, while fellow catcher Munson 
had a fine Series himself with nine hits and a .529 average. 1976 World 
Series (4–0): Cincinnati Reds (N.L.) over New York Yankees (A.L.) This 
was the last of 30 consecutive World Series telecasts by NBC, which had 
aired the event since 1947; under Major League Baseball's new television 
contract, Series coverage would now alternate between NBC (in even-numbered 
years) and rival network ABC (in odd-numbered years) each year; this arrangement 
would end after the 1989 World Series, and CBS would hold exclusive rights 
to MLB games for the next four years afterwards. (A similar setup occurred 
between 1996 and 2000, when Series telecasts would alternate between NBC 
and Fox.) It was also the last time that local announcers for the participating 
teams (the Reds' Marty Brennaman and the Yankees' Phil Rizzuto, in this 
case) would be regularly featured on the network telecast. This was the 
