The 1976 American League Championship Series was won by the New York Yankees, 
who defeated the Kansas City Royals, 3–2. New York won the series, 3–2. 
Saturday, October 9, 1976 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri The 
opener was played on a bright Saturday afternoon at Royals Stadium and 
pitted Yankee ace Jim "Catfish" Hunter against left-hander and ex-Yankee 
Larry Gura. The Yankees got off to a quick start, scoring two in the first 
aided by a pair of George Brett throwing errors. Hunter was in top form 
and went the distance, not going to a three-ball count the entire game. 
While the Royals were able to halve that margin going into the ninth, Roy 
White's two-run double in the top of the frame gave the Yanks two insurance 
runs that were the final scoring in a tidy 4–1 win. Sunday, October 10, 
1976 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Five Yankee errors helped 
key the Royals series-tying win. Lefty Paul Splittorff was solid with 5 2⁄3 
innings of work in relief of Brooklyn native Dennis Leonard, while Yankee 
reliever Dick Tidrow was ineffective and permitted three more KC runs to 
score in the eighth after relieving starter Ed Figueroa with one out in 
the sixth. The series, now tied at one, moved to New York and newly remodelled 
Yankee Stadium for the remaining three games. Tuesday, October 12, 1976 
at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York The first Yankee post-season home 
game since 1964 started ominously for the Bombers, as the Royals tagged 
righty Dock Ellis for three runs in the first. He settled down immediately 
after though and went eight solid innings, aided by several double plays 
and two base runners caught stealing. The Yankees narrowed the margin to 
one in the fourth on Chris Chambliss two-run homer off Andy Hassler and 
then tacked on three more in the sixth, as KC manager Whitey Herzog carted 
in four relievers in that inning alone. Sparky Lyle got the save by pitching 
a scoreless ninth inning, as the Bronx Bombers took a two games to one 
lead. Wednesday, October 13, 1976 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York 
Hoping to wrap up the series in four, Yankee manager Billy Martin brought 
back Catfish Hunter on three days rest while the Royals did the same, bringing 
back Larry Gura. Neither fared well, as Gura gave up six hits and two runs 
in two innings, while Hunter lasted three and surrendered five runs on 
five hits. Though the Yankee bullpen was able to hold KC to only two runs 
over six innings, winning pitcher Doug Bird only gave up one in 4 2⁄3, 
while lefty Steve Mingori pitched 2 1⁄3 and allowed only one tally, picking 
up the save. The Yankee offense was highlighted by Graig Nettles' two homers 
and three RBI. The series was now knotted at two, with a deciding Game 
5 to be played the next night. Thursday, October 14, 1976 at Yankee Stadium 
in Bronx, New York The deciding game was a fitting ending to a thrilling 
series, as both teams fought tooth and nail to bring home the AL flag. 
It culminated in a moment of sheer, unbridled joy for the winners and stunned 
disbelief for the losers. The Yankees started Ed Figueroa on three days 
rest, as the Royals did likewise, starting Dennis Leonard. The Royals jumped 
out on top in the first, as Brett doubled and scored on John Mayberry's 
two-run homer. The Yankees quickly countered in their half, with Mickey 
Rivers tripling and scoring on Roy White's infield single. White went to 
third after Thurman Munson singled. Herzog removed Leonard and brought 
in Game 2 winner Paul Splittorff, who limited the damage by allowing only 
Chambliss' sacrifice fly. The Royals countered with one in the second, 
but the Yanks jumped ahead in the third, as they tacked on two; one on 
a Munson single and the other on a Chambliss' ground out. The Yanks added 
on in the sixth, scoring twice; once on a Munson single and a second time 
on a Brett throwing error. Figueroa held that lead going into the eighth. 
After Al Cowens led off with a single, Billy Martin brought in lefty Grant 
Jackson. He allowed a single to pinch hitter Jim Wohlford. Brett then stunned 
the sell-out crowd of 56,821 by planting Jackson's second pitch just over 
the short right-field wall, tying the game at six. All this was a prelude 
to the bottom of the ninth inning, when, at 11:43 pm, Chris Chambliss hit 
KC reliever Mark Littell's first pitch over the right center field wall. 
Thousands of fans vaulted over the dugouts and walls and celebrated. Chambliss 
reached second, then dodged hordes of spectators in trying to reach third. 
He then proceeded to make a beeline towards the safety of the clubhouse, 
as the area around home plate and much of the field was covered with celebrating 
fans. Some time later, Chambliss was escorted back out onto the field to 
touch home, but the plate had been stolen. He touched the area where the 
plate had been. He was later informed by the umpires that given the circumstances 
of the situation, they would have counted the run regardless.[6] 1976 ALCS 
(3–2): New York Yankees over Kansas City Royals Chambliss was later cornered 
in the Yankee locker room by Graig Nettles, who asked him if he had touched 
home. Chambliss responded that he had not, because there were too many 
people in the way. Nettles then told him that home plate umpire Art Frantz 
was waiting for him out on the field for him to touch home so that the 
home run could be ruled official. Chambliss was then escorted out to the 
field and touched the area where home had been. KC manager Whitey Herzog 
did not attempt to contest the home run, although major league rules state 
that a player must touch all the bases on any hit or when running the bases. 
In this case, the mayhem on the field made that task impossible, and the 
magnitude of the game was such that Herzog would have never tried to have 
it restarted or protested it due to a technicality. As a result, MLB amended 
rule 4.09 calling it "The Chris Chambliss Rule" [7] The exception states: 
Rule 4.09(b) Comment: An exception will be if fans rush onto the field 
and physically prevent the runner from touching home plate or the batter 
from touching first base. In such cases, the umpires shall award the runner 
the base because of the obstruction by the fans. Brett's home run was the 
first of nine that he would hit in ALCS competition. Six of those came 
against the Yankees: one in 1976, three in 1978, and two in 1980. Interestingly, 
his other three ALCS home runs, which came in the 1985 ALCS, were all against 
one pitcher, Doyle Alexander of the Blue Jays. Alexander was a Yankee in 
1976. He warmed up in the bullpen during Game 5, and started the first 
game of the World Series for them against the Cincinnati Reds. The series 
also contained some interesting side stories. KC pitcher Larry Gura publicly 
criticized Yankee manager Billy Martin prior to the series, saying that 
Martin treated him shabbily in the short time Martin was his manager in 
New York. Gura was on the Yankees roster from spring training till the 
time he was traded to KC, on May 16. He did not appear in one game for 
the Yanks in that time. Martin responded by saying that if he had him there 
with the Yankees at that moment, he'd get rid of him again. George Brett 
also had harsh words for Martin, as he claimed that Martin had lied to 
his brother, pitcher Ken Brett, when Ken spent the first two months of 
1976 with the Yanks. George's brother appeared in two games for the Yankees 
over two months, and was then traded to the Chicago White Sox. This was 
the first of three consecutive ALCS between the two teams. They would also 
go head to head in 1977 and 1978, with the Yankees coming out on top again. 
The Royals, however, exacted a big measure of revenge when they met again 
