The 1977 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 48th playing of the 
midsummer classic between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and 
National League (NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. 
The game was held on July 19, 1977, at Yankee Stadium in The Bronx, New 
York, New York the home of the New York Yankees of the American League. 
The game resulted in the National League defeating the American League 
7–5. The host Yankees would go on to win the World Series; the third time 
in history that a team hosting the All-Star Game would win the World Series 
in the same year. As of 2008, the 1977 Yankees were the last team to accomplish 
this. The previous teams to accomplish this were the 1939 New York Yankees 
and the 1959 Los Angeles Dodgers. This was Yankee Stadium's third time 
as host of the All-Star Game, and it would be its last until 2008; the 
last year of the park's use by the Yankees. Players in italics have since 
been inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. The National League 
started with Joe Morgan blasting American League starter Jim Palmer's sixth 
pitch into Yankee Stadium's "short porch" in right field. Dave Parker followed 
with a single and scored on a double by George Foster. Greg Luzinski made 
it 4-0 with a two-run homer. Steve Garvey then sent Palmer to the showers 
in the third with a solo homer to make it 5–0 in favor of the NL. Meanwhile, 
National League starter Don Sutton cruised along with three shutout innings 
and Gary Lavelle added two more in the fourth and fifth. The American League 
first scored off of Tom Seaver in the sixth as Rod Carew led off with a 
single and went to second when Seaver stopped a lightning-fast shot up 
the middle hit by Willie Randolph. Seaver recovered to retire Randolph 
and retired George Brett, but then walked Fred Lynn and surrendered a two-run 
double to Richie Zisk. Seaver allowed the AL another run in the seventh 
when Butch Wynegar led off with a single, took second when Graig Nettles 
reached on an error, and scored on a single by Randolph. The National League 
got their final runs in the eighth when Dave Winfield hit a two-run single 
off Sparky Lyle. George Scott hit a two-run homer in the ninth for the 
