The 1977 World Series was the 74th edition of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 
championship series.[1] The best-of-seven playoff was contested between 
the New York Yankees, champions of the American League (AL) and defending 
American League champions, and the Los Angeles Dodgers, champions of the 
National League (NL). The Yankees defeated the Dodgers, four games to two, 
to win the franchise's 21st World Series championship, their first since 
1962, and the first under the ownership of George Steinbrenner. The Series 
was played between October 11 and 18, broadcast on ABC. During this Series, 
Reggie Jackson earned his nickname "Mr. October" for his heroics. Billy 
Martin won what would be his only World Series title as a manager after 
guiding the Yankees to a second straight pennant. The New York Yankees 
returned to the Fall Classic after being swept by the Cincinnati Reds the 
previous year. In free agency, the Yankees signed slugging right fielder 
Reggie Jackson for US$2.96 million ($12,329,871 in current dollar terms) 
over five years[2][3] and Cincinnati Reds ace pitcher Don Gullett for $2 
million ($8,330,994 in current dollar terms) over six years.[4] Two other 
key players were acquired by the Yankees through trades. Shortstop Bucky 
Dent was picked up from the Chicago White Sox for outfielder Oscar Gamble, 
pitcher LaMarr Hoyt, and $200,000. And after only one year with the Oakland 
Athletics, pitcher Mike Torrez was acquired in exchange for pitcher Dock 
Ellis and utilitymen Marty Perez and Larry Murray. After a lackluster first 
half, the Yankees finished strong, winning 38 of their last 51 games edging 
both the Boston Red Sox and the Baltimore Orioles by 2 1⁄2 games. In amongst 
the star-laden lineup was an emerging superstar in the left arm of Ron 
Guidry. Early in the season Guidry was moved from the bullpen into the 
starting rotation, finishing with sixteen wins against just seven losses 
with a 2.82 ERA. The Yankees advanced to the World Series after beating 
the Kansas City Royals in an exciting fifth and final 1977 American League 
Championship Series (ALCS) game, winning it with three runs in the top 
of the ninth on a string of singles and a costly error by George Brett. 
The National League champion Los Angeles Dodgers were skippered by Tommy 
Lasorda who was in his first full season as manager.[5] The 1977 Dodgers 
became the first team to have four players hit thirty or more home runs 
in one season,[6] as Steve Garvey hit 33, Reggie Smith hit 32, Ron Cey 
hit 30, and Dusty Baker hit 30.[7] The deep pitching staff which led the 
National League in ERA, 3.22, were led by twenty-game winner, Tommy John 
and closer Charlie Hough with 22 saves. The Dodgers won 22 of their first 
26 games, winning the Western Division easily by ten games over the Cincinnati 
Reds and then eliminated the Philadelphia Phillies in the 1977 National 
League Championship Series (NLCS) in four games. The matchup of the Yankees 
and the Dodgers hearkened back to the World Series matchups between the 
two teams of the 1950s.[5] AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Los Angeles Dodgers 
(2) The Dodgers scored in the top of the first inning, when Davey Lopes 
walked and scored on a Bill Russell triple off of Don Gullett.[15] Ron 
Cey made it 2–0 on a sacrifice fly. In the bottom of the inning, the Yankees 
responded with consecutive two-out singles by Thurman Munson, Reggie Jackson, 
and Chris Chambliss, scoring Munson.[15] In the top of the sixth, Steve 
Garvey beat out a bunt and, with one out, attempted to score from first 
on a hit-and-run single to center field by Glenn Burke. Mickey Rivers, 
who did not possess a strong throwing arm, threw home. Replays showed Garvey 
clearly beat the tag but he was called out at the plate.[citation needed] 
The Yankees tied it in their half of the sixth when Willie Randolph hit 
a home run off Don Sutton.[15] The Yankees took the lead in the eighth 
when Munson doubled home Randolph. Later in the inning, the Yankees loaded 
the bases with one out, but Dodger reliever Elías Sosa struck out Lou Piniella 
and retired Bucky Dent on a forceout to end the threat.[15] The Dodgers 
tied it at 3–3 in the ninth. Dusty Baker led off with a single and was 
almost picked off first when pinch-hitter Manny Mota failed on a bunt attempt. 
Mota flied out, but Steve Yeager walked and pinch-hitter Lee Lacy drove 
Baker home with a single.[15] In extra innings, the Yankees got their leadoff 
hitters on in both the tenth and eleventh innings, but couldn't score due 
to failure to lay down sacrifice bunts. Finally, in the twelfth, Randolph 
led off and doubled and Munson was walked intentionally. Yankee manager 
Billy Martin at first wanted Paul Blair, the next hitter, to try to sacrifice 
again, but after two failed attempts, Martin had Blair hit away and Blair 
singled home Randolph with the game-winner. With aces Ron Guidry and Mike 
Torrez having both pitched in Game 5 of the ALCS, Billy Martin was forced 
to use a sore-shouldered Catfish Hunter in Game 2.[15] The Dodgers hit 
three homers in the first three innings off Hunter, as Ron Cey hit a two-run 
home run in the first, Steve Yeager a solo home run in the second, and 
Reggie Smith a two-run home run in the third.[6] Steve Garvey hit a solo 
home run in the ninth. Burt Hooton pitched a five-hit complete game. Hooton 
made amends for his meltdown in Game 3 of the 1977 NLCS. About an hour 
before the first pitch, a fire had started in Public School 3, an abandoned 
elementary school a few blocks west of Yankee Stadium. During the game, 
ABC cut to a helicopter camera for an overhead view of Yankee Stadium and 
the surrounding neighborhood, catching the fire. Howard Cosell intoned, 
"There it is, ladies and gentlemen, the Bronx is burning."[16] This became 
the title for a book and television miniseries focusing on the year 1977 
in New York City. The Yankees struck for three runs in the first off Tommy 
John. Knowing that John was a control pitcher that liked to keep the ball 
down, the Yankee hitters' strategy was to go the opposite way. And, in 
the first, it paid off. Mickey Rivers led off with a double to right and 
scored on a Thurman Munson double to right. Reggie Jackson singled to left 
to score Munson and went to second when Dodger left fielder Dusty Baker 
fumbled the ball bare-handed. Lou Piniella then scored Jackson on an opposite-field 
RBI single to make it 3–0. Baker atoned for his first-inning error by connecting 
for a three-run homer in the third off Yankee starter Mike Torrez. The 
Yankees came back with single runs in the fourth and fifth on an RBI groundout 
by Rivers, who finished the game with three hits (including two doubles), 
and an RBI single by Chris Chambliss. Torrez settled into a groove after 
Baker's home run, shutting out the Dodgers for the rest of the way. Torrez 
finished with nine strikeouts in the complete-game win. With Don Sutton 
needing another day of rest, Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda started left-hander 
Doug Rau to counter the Yankees' left-handed power. Rau was rusty, having 
only pitched in relief in one game of the 1977 NLCS. After a relatively 
easy first inning, Reggie Jackson greeted Rau with a leadoff double in 
the second. Lou Piniella singled Jackson home with the first run and was 
doubled to third by Chris Chambliss. Lasorda then pulled Rau in favor of 
Rick Rhoden, resulting in a heated argument between the two on the mound. 
The Yankees scored two more runs in the inning on an RBI groundout by Graig 
Nettles and an RBI single by Bucky Dent. The Dodgers pushed across two 
in the third. Rhoden, a good hitting pitcher, hit a ground-rule double 
to left and Davey Lopes followed with a two-run homer off Yankee starter 
Ron Guidry. The Dodgers scored nothing else off Guidry, as he settled down 
and pitched a four-hit complete game. The Dodgers almost tied the game 
in the fourth when Ron Cey sent a drive to deep left that Lou Piniella 
leaped up and caught, robbing him of a home run. Jackson ended the scoring 
with an opposite-field solo homer off Rhoden in the sixth. Needing a win 
to send the Series back to New York, the Dodgers took out their frustrations 
in Game 5 on Don Gullett. Davey Lopes led off the first with a triple and 
came home when Bill Russell singled. In the fourth, the Dodgers broke the 
game open on an RBI single by Dusty Baker and a three-run homer by Steve 
Yeager. Baker added another RBI single in the fifth, Lee Lacy singled home 
a run, and Yeager batted in another run with a sacrifice fly. Reggie Smith 
completed the rally with a two-run homer in the sixth. The Yankees pushed 
across two runs each in the seventh and eighth; the two runs in the eighth 
coming on back-to-back homers by Thurman Munson and Reggie Jackson. Nevertheless, 
Dodger starting pitcher Don Sutton pitched a complete game for the win. 
Jackson's solo shot in the eighth came on the first pitch from Sutton, 
setting the stage for a memorable finale. Game 6, shifted the series back 
to New York, where 56,407 fans filled Yankee Stadium.[13] Steve Garvey 
put the Dodgers on the board first with a two-out, two-run triple in the 
first off Mike Torrez. The Yankees came back and tied it in the second 
on a Chris Chambliss two-run homer after Reggie Jackson walked on four 
pitches. Reggie Smith put the Dodgers up 3–2 with his third homer of the 
Series, a solo shot in the third. Jackson hit a two-run homer in the fourth 
on the first pitch he saw from starter Burt Hooton to give the Yankees 
the lead.[17] Lou Piniella made it 5–3 by adding a sacrifice fly. Once 
again, in the fifth with a man on, Jackson connected on the first pitch 
off Elías Sosa to make the score 7–3.[17] In the eighth, Jackson strode 
to the plate, amid the chants of "REG-GIE, REG-GIE, REG-GIE!", and drove 
the first Charlie Hough knuckleball he saw 475 feet (145 m) into the stands, 
becoming the first player to hit three home runs in a World Series game 
since Babe Ruth (in 1926 and 1928). The score was now 8–3.[17] With his 
Game 5 first-pitch homer (in the eighth) and his four-pitch walk in the 
second inning of Game 6, Jackson homered on his last four swings of the 
bat in the Series, each off a different Dodger pitcher. Indeed, the last 
eight pitches delivered to Jackson in the Series were all productive for 
the Yankees—the four-pitch walk in the second inning allowed him to score 
on the Chambliss homer. The Dodgers pushed across a run in the ninth, but 
Torrez pitched his second complete game win of the Series. This was the 
first World Series televised by the ABC network since 1949, and the first 
since television of the Series started in 1947 not to be televised, at 
least in part, by rival network NBC. NBC had been the exclusive television 
network of the Series from 1950–1976, and had covered that year's Yankees–Royals 
and Dodgers–Phillies playoff series that year. It was also the first time 
that the participating teams' local announcers were not featured during 
game play on the network telecast, though the Yankees' Bill White and the 
Dodgers' Ross Porter did pre-game TV features and White handled the post-game 
celebration in the Yankee clubhouse after they clinched the title. White 
and Porter also split the CBS Radio play-by-play for the Series. This World 
Series cemented Jackson's legacy as a postseason performer, giving him 
the nickname "Mr. October".[17] Jackson won the World Series Most Valuable 
Player Award and Babe Ruth Award.[18] Lyle won the AL Cy Young Award. Nettles 
and Garvey both won Gold Glove Awards. The Yankees and Dodgers met again 
in the 1978 and 1981 World Series. The 1977 New York Yankees is one of 
the key plot points, along with the Son of Sam and the New York City Blackout 
of 1977, in the movie Summer of Sam directed by (Yankees fan) Spike Lee. 
In the film BASEketball, Reggie Jackson is shown hitting his third home 
run of the game. The 1977 Yankees season, including the World Series, is 
one of the subjects of Jonathan Mahler's 2005 non-fiction book Ladies and 
Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning, which was subsequently adapted into the 
2007 ESPN mini-series The Bronx Is Burning. After the 1977 World Series, 
Melissa Ludtke, a reporter for Sports Illustrated, sued Bowie Kahn, the 
Baseball Commissioner, since she was denied access to the Yankees Clubhouse. 
She asserted her 14th Amendment right was violated. Ludtke won her case.[19] 
