The 1977 National League Championship Series was a best-of-five matchup 
between the West Division champion Los Angeles Dodgers and the East Division 
champion Philadelphia Phillies. The Dodgers beat the Phillies three games 
to one and went on to lose the 1977 World Series to the New York Yankees. 
Los Angeles won the series, 3–1. Tuesday, October 4, 1977 at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California The Phillies took the opening game of the series, 
winning their first postseason game since Game 1 of the 1915 World Series. 
They had lost the final four games in 1915, been swept in the 1950 World 
Series and were swept again in the 1976 National League Championship Series. 
Game 1 had been billed as a classic pitching matchup between 1977 Cy Young 
award winner Steve Carlton and twenty-game winner and Comeback Pitcher 
of the Year Tommy John. It didn't really live up to that, as neither figured 
in the final decision. The Phillies drew first blood in the first on a 
two-run homer by Greg Luzinski. They stretched the lead to 4–0 in the fifth 
on a bases-loaded, two-run single by Davey Johnson. In that inning, the 
Phils were helped when, on an apparent force-out of Bake McBride by Larry 
Bowa, Dodger shortstop Bill Russell glided off the second base bag as he 
received the throw before completing an attempted double play. The Dodgers 
finally got on the board in their half of the fifth when Davey Lopes singled 
in Lee Lacy, who had pinch-hit for John and singled. Lacy scored after 
being advanced to second on a Carlton balk. The Phillies countered in the 
sixth on an RBI single by Carlton. With two outs in the seventh and Lopes 
on first, Carlton appeared to be on his way out of the inning. However, 
he issued walks to Bill Russell and Reggie Smith. Ron Cey then made Carlton 
pay dearly for his loss of control by tying the game at five with a grand 
slam. The Phils bounced back in the top of the ninth on an RBI single by 
Mike Schmidt, his only RBI of the NLCS. They added another run to close 
out the scoring when Bowa scored on a balk by Dodger reliever Elías Sosa. 
Wednesday, October 5, 1977 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California 
The Phillies got on the board first once again via homer, with Bake McBride 
hitting a solo shot off Dodger starter Don Sutton in the third. The Dodgers 
tied it in the bottom half on an RBI single by Davey Lopes, then broke 
it wide open on a grand slam by Dusty Baker in the fourth off Jim Lonborg. 
Meanwhile, Sutton settled in and combined with Charlie Hough to shut the 
Phils down the rest of the way. The Dodgers added single runs in the sixth 
and seventh on an RBI single by Steve Yeager and an RBI triple by Reggie 
Smith. Friday, October 7, 1977 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Game 3 went down in Philadelphia baseball annals as "Black Friday."[5] 
The Dodgers opened the scoring in the second off Larry Christenson when 
Dusty Baker doubled home Steve Garvey from first on a close play at the 
plate. The Phillies tried to claim Garvey never touched home plate, but 
to no avail. Steve Yeager followed with a single to score Baker to make 
it 2–0. In the bottom of the second, with two outs and Richie Hebner on 
second and Bob Boone on first, Dodger starter Burt Hooton began to dispute 
a number of borderline ball/strike calls issued by home plate umpire Harry 
Wendelstedt. The normally unflappable Hooton's visible frustration aroused 
the displeasure of Philadelphia's infamous "boobird" fans, who took out 
their wrath upon their team's opponent. As the volume of more than 63,000 
fans escalated, including derisive chants of "Hoot, Hoot, Hoot" in unison, 
the rattled Hooton uncharacteristically lost control of both his composure 
and his pitching. He walked Ted Sizemore to load the bases and then walked 
pitcher Larry Christenson, Bake McBride, and Larry Bowa in succession to 
force in three runs and give the Phillies a 3–2 lead. Dodger manager Tommy 
Lasorda then pulled Hooton in favor of Rick Rhoden, who induced Mike Schmidt 
into popping up to end the threat. While Rhoden and Doug Rau were busy 
shutting down the Phils, the Dodgers tied the game in the fourth on an 
RBI single by Baker. The score stayed tied at 3–3 until the bottom of the 
eighth, setting up a wild finish. Hebner led off the eighth with a double. 
Garry Maddox singled home Hebner and went all the way to third as Reggie 
Smith's throw home to try to nail Hebner went wild. Maddox then scored 
when Bob Boone grounded to Ron Cey at third and Cey threw wildly to first. 
With a 5–3 lead entering the ninth and ace reliever Gene Garber on the 
mound, the Phillies seemed in control. Garber retired the first two hitters 
and got ahead of pinch-hitter Vic Davalillo 0–1. But Davalillo, noticing 
Ted Sizemore playing unusually deep at second, shocked the Phillies with 
a drag bunt for a single.[6] Lasorda then sent another pinch hitter, Manny 
Mota, to hit for pitcher Lance Rautzhan. Mota, on an 0–2 pitch, sent a 
deep drive to left that Greg Luzinski reached, but the ball caromed off 
his glove, onto the wall, and back. Luzinski threw to second to try to 
nail Mota, but his throw skipped wildly past Sizemore allowing Davalillo 
to score and Mota to reach third. Phillie manager Danny Ozark came under 
fire for not having Jerry Martin, a faster outfielder, in left field (a 
defensive substitution Ozark made often throughout the season) as Martin 
likely would have reached Mota's liner easier than the bigger, slower Luzinski. 
Davey Lopes followed by hitting a blistering grounder to third that took 
a wicked hop and struck Mike Schmidt in the left knee. Larry Bowa barehanded 
the ricocheted ball out of the air, and fired to first. On a very close 
play, umpire Bruce Froemming called Lopes safe. The Phillies protested, 
but to no avail. Meanwhile, Mota scored to tie the game at 5–5. Garber, 
in an attempt to pick off Lopes at first, threw wildly past Hebner, sending 
Lopes to second. Bill Russell then singled to center to score Lopes with 
the go-ahead run, before the stunned crowd. Mike Garman retired the side 
in the ninth for the Dodgers, who narrowly escaped defeat. It was the first 
time since Game 4 of the 1947 World Series that the Dodgers won a postseason 
game when trailing going into the ninth inning. Saturday, October 8, 1977 
at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania The Phillies would not 
recover after a controversial finish of game 3 as the Dodgers would clinch 
the pennant in a game that was delayed two hours by rain after the first 
inning. The Phillies, facing elimination, brought ace pitcher Steve Carlton 
back on 3 days rest. In a game played in anything from a drizzle to a steady 
rain, the Dodgers punched their ticket to the World Series on the strength 
of a two-run homer in the second by Dusty Baker, who was named NLCS MVP. 
Tommy John atoned for his Game 1 performance by getting the better of Steve 
Carlton this time, only allowing a single run in the fourth on an RBI double 
by Richie Hebner. Two more Dodger runs came across in the fifth when Baker 
scored on a Carlton wild pitch and Steve Yeager came home on a Bill Russell 
suicide squeeze bunt that the wet surface made difficult to field. Baker's 
homer was all John needed, however. Throughout the game, the umpires appeared 
to consult witih National League President Warren Giles, who was in attendance, 
about delaying or postponing the game. But the game was completed despite 
nearly unplayable conditions. 1977 NLCS (3–1): Los Angeles Dodgers over 
