The 1977 American League Championship Series was a five-game series played 
between October 5 and 9, 1977, at Yankee Stadium (Games 1–2), and Royals 
Stadium (3–5). The Yankees took the series 3–2, and would later go on to 
beat the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1977 World Series to take the title. 
Kansas City was given home-field advantage as it rotated back to the West 
Division; the Royals held a 102–60 record to the Yankees' 100–62 record. 
This was the second straight year in which the Royals and the Yankees squared 
off in the ALCS. The year before in the 1976 ALCS, the Yankees took the 
series in five games on a Chris Chambliss home run in the ninth inning 
of Game 5. This series, they would again win it in their last at bat. Each 
game of the series was dominated by, mostly, hitting. However, the pitchers 
of each team held their own and it made for some exciting games. The first 
game's matchup was Paul Splittorff (16–6) versus Don Gullett (14–4). Although 
the matchup seemed to not exactly be the classic Game 1 pitcher's duel, 
these two pitchers were the best of their profession for that season, although 
Gullett's was plagued with some shoulder injuries. New York won the series, 
3–2. Wednesday, October 5, 1977 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York The 
visiting Royals jumped on the sore-shouldered Don Gullett early and never 
looked back. Hal McRae hit a two-run homer in the first, Freddie Patek 
had a two-run double in the second, and John Mayberry a two-run blast in 
the third. Thurman Munson provided the Yankee runs in the third with a 
two-run homer of his own, but that was the only blemish on a pitching gem 
by Paul Splittorff. Splittorff went eight strong innings and Doug Bird 
closed it in the ninth. Al Cowens added a solo homer for the Royals. Thursday, 
October 6, 1977 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York The Royals had hopes 
of putting the Yankees down 2–0 going back to KC, and for a while that 
appeared possible. Beating new-found Yankees' ace Ron Guidry would be a 
tough task. The Royals scraped a run in the third when Freddie Patek drove 
in Darrell Porter with a sacrifice fly. Royals' starter Andy Hassler had 
a shutout going for four innings, but Cliff Johnson broke the drought with 
a solo homer in the fifth. The Yankees took a 2–1 lead in the same inning 
when Willie Randolph singled, Hassler balked him to second, and Bucky Dent 
drove him home with a single. Hard base-running helped the Royals tie it 
in the sixth. Patek led off with a double and Hal McRae walked. The next 
batter, George Brett, grounded to Graig Nettles, who threw to Randolph 
at second to force McRae. McRae, however, barreled into Randolph with a 
body-block, breaking up the double play attempt and enabling Patek to score 
the tying run. McRae's aggressive ploy seemed to ignite the Yankees in 
their half of the sixth. Johnson doubled in a run and an error by Brett 
on a Randolph grounder allowed two more runs to score to make it 5–2. Randolph 
also had an RBI single in the eighth. Meanwhile, Guidry stymied the Royals, 
pitching a complete game and allowing the Royals only three hits and the 
two runs. Friday, October 7, 1977 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri 
Back at Kauffman Stadium, Dennis Leonard pitched a four-hit complete game 
to give the Royals a 2–1 series lead. Leonard was buoyed by two RBIs each 
from Al Cowens and Amos Otis (on a pinch-hit double in the sixth) and RBIs 
from Freddie Patek and John Mayberry. Saturday, October 8, 1977 at Royals 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri This game was a barn-burner early on, 
with the Yankees precariously clinging to the upper hand. New York jumped 
out to an early 4–0 lead after 3 1⁄2 innings on RBIs by Thurman Munson, 
Bucky Dent, Mickey Rivers, and Lou Piniella. The Royals clawed back in 
the home half of the third when Freddie Patek, having a fine series for 
himself, tripled and scored on a short fly ball hit by Frank White, barely 
beating Reggie Jackson's throw to the plate. George Brett tripled in a 
run in the same inning. After Graig Nettles singled in a run in the fourth 
to make it 5–2, the Royals got two more in their half. With two outs, Patek 
doubled in a run, chasing Yankee starter Ed Figueroa. White doubled in 
Patek and Hal McRae drew a walk off reliever Dick Tidrow. At this point, 
Yankee manager Billy Martin made a gutsy move, bringing in his ace closer 
and AL Cy Young Award winner, Sparky Lyle. Lyle was rarely used this early 
in a game, but Martin figured he was fresh, having only pitched one inning 
the whole series and, in Martin's own words, "I wanted my best pitcher 
out there." But, the move paid off. Lyle shut the Royals down for the remaining 
5 1⁄3 innings, allowing only two hits and no runners past second base. 
The Yankees added insurance in the ninth on a Munson sacrifice fly. Sunday, 
October 9, 1977 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri In order for 
the Yankees to advance to their second straight World Series, they would 
have to win again at the Royals' home park. To do that, they would have 
to beat their Game 1 nemesis, Paul Splittorff. Given that, Yankee manager 
Billy Martin decided to sit out Reggie Jackson on the grounds that he was 
1-for-15 so far in the series and, in his own words, "can't hit Splittorff." 
Lou Piniella started in right field and batted fourth. The Royals struck 
for a pair in the first when Hal McRae singled and George Brett tripled 
him in. Brett slid hard into Graig Nettles at third and Nettles responded 
by kicking Brett, which started a bench-clearing brawl. Yankees' starting 
pitcher Ron Guidry rushed in to defend Nettles. After order was restored, 
Al Cowens drove in Brett with a groundout. The Yankees crept back in the 
third on a Thurman Munson RBI single, but the Royals matched that in the 
bottom half on a double by McRae and RBI single by Cowens with one out. 
Martin then pulled Guidry, who had gotten hurt in the first-inning brawl.[citation 
needed] Mike Torrez came in and pitched shutout ball over the next 5 1⁄3 
innings. The Yankees began to claw back in the eighth. Right-hander Doug 
Bird relieved Splittorff after Willie Randolph led off the inning with 
a single. With one out, Piniella singled Randolph to third. With the "unhittable" 
Splittorff out of the game, Martin decided to send Jackson to the plate 
to hit for Cliff Johnson. Jackson put aside all frustrations over not starting 
the game and came through with a pinch-hit RBI single to cut the Royal 
lead to 3–2. The Royals mounted a threat in their half of the eighth. Torrez 
walked both Amos Otis and Pete LaCock with two outs, but relief ace Sparky 
Lyle came in and struck out Cookie Rojas, the Royals' DH playing in what 
would be his last major-league game. With apparently very little confidence 
in regular closer Mark Littell, who struggled in 1977, Royals manager Whitey 
Herzog sent Game 3 stopper Dennis Leonard out to preserve the lead in the 
ninth. Leonard, unaccustomed to short relief, yielded a bloop single to 
Paul Blair and walked Roy White with no outs. Herzog, going with percentages, 
replaced Leonard with another normal starter, left-hander Larry Gura. The 
strategy backfired as Gura gave up a game-tying RBI single to Mickey Rivers, 
with White reaching third. Herzog then brought in Littell, who retired 
Willie Randolph on a deep drive to center as White tagged and scored the 
go-ahead run. Munson was retired, but Piniella hit a grounder to third 
that Brett threw away at first, scoring Rivers with the final run. Lyle 
then retired the Royals in the ninth, the final outs coming when Freddie 
Patek hit into a double play. As the Yankees celebrated, Patek sat in the 
dugout, dejected, for several minutes. (Coincidentally, it was Patek's 
33rd birthday that day.) Tony Kubek, commentating for NBC, summed up: "The 
Yankees know how to win." 1977 ALCS (3–2): New York Yankees over Kansas 
