The 1978 National League Championship Series was a best-of-five matchup 
for the second straight year between the West Division champion Los Angeles 
Dodgers and the East Division champion Philadelphia Phillies. The Dodgers 
beat the Phillies three games to one once again and would go on to lose 
the World Series to the New York Yankees, as they had the year before. 
Los Angeles won the series, 3–1. Wednesday, October 4, 1978 at Veterans 
Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Because of having to start an NL 
East-clinching game a few days earlier, Phillies ace Steve Carlton wasn't 
available for the start of the series, leaving the task to Larry Christenson. 
Christenson didn't fare well, as he was rocked for seven runs in five innings, 
the big blows coming on a three-run homer by Steve Garvey in the third 
inning and a two-run homer by Davey Lopes in the fourth. Garvey also added 
a triple and run scored in the fifth and another solo homer in the ninth. 
Steve Yeager also homered for the Dodgers. Rookie Bob Welch took the win 
for the Dodgers. Thursday, October 5, 1978 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania The Dodgers won their second straight on the road in this 
series on the strength of a complete-game four-hit shutout by Tommy John. 
Davey Lopes continued to swing a hot bat, driving in three of the runs 
on a home run, single, and triple. Friday, October 6, 1978 at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California With Steve Carlton finally available to pitch, 
the Phillies cut the series deficit to 2–1 at Dodger Stadium. In addition 
to pitching a complete game, Carlton helped himself with the bat by hitting 
a three-run homer in the second off Don Sutton. Carlton added an RBI single 
in the sixth and scored on a double by Jerry Martin. The Dodgers lost a 
run in the second inning when, with runners on first and second, Bill Russell 
hit a line drive double that would have scored both runners, but a fan 
reached over the railing to touch the ball, resulting in a ground rule 
double, and the latter runner had to return to the third base. Greg Luzinski 
also homered for the Phillies, while Steve Garvey belted his third homer 
of the series for the Dodgers. Saturday, October 7, 1978 at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California The Phillies fought for their playoff lives 
in Game 4. They loaded the bases with nobody out in the first inning but 
could not score. The Dodgers then struck first in the second inning on 
a double by Ron Cey and an RBI single by Dusty Baker, the first of four 
hits he would collect in this game. Greg Luzinski put the Phillies back 
on top with a two-run homer in the third. Cey tied it in the fourth with 
a home run, then Steve Garvey gave the Dodgers the lead with a homer, his 
fourth of the series, in the sixth. The home run was also his fifth extra 
base hit of the Series and tied Bob Robertson's 1971 NLCS records for home 
runs and extra base hits in a League Championship Series. But, Bake McBride 
tied it once again for the Phillies in the seventh with a home run of his 
own. In the bottom of the tenth, Tug McGraw retired the first two Dodger 
batters, but then surrendered a walk to Cey. Baker then hit a soft line 
drive to center field. Garry Maddox (who by 1978 had won the fourth of 
his eight gold gloves) got a late break on the ball, appeared to recover 
in time, but dropped the ball. Now, Cey was on second and Baker on first. 
The next batter, Bill Russell, lined a base hit to center. With Cey running 
because there were two out, Maddox faced a do or die play to get the ball 
and fire home; Maddox charged, but the ball skipped past him, enabling 
Cey to score the winning run. 1978 NLCS (3–1): Los Angeles Dodgers over 
