The 1978 American League Championship Series was held between the New York 
Yankees and the Kansas City Royals for the third consecutive year. The 
Royals won 92 games that year and won the Western Division title by five 
games over the Texas Rangers. The Yankees overcame a midseason deficit 
of fourteen games and went on to win a one-game playoff against the Boston 
Red Sox to win the Eastern crown and finish with 100 wins. Unlike the prior 
two ALCS which went five games, this one only took the Yankees four games 
to wrap up, and the Yankees went on to represent the American League in 
the 1978 World Series. Notable performers in this series included Reggie 
Jackson, who hit two home runs, and Chris Chambliss, who had six base hits 
in fifteen at bats. George Brett and Amos Otis were the hitting stars for 
the Royals. New York won the series, 3–1. Tuesday, October 3, 1978 at Royals 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Prior to the start of this game, both 
teams had to deal with bad news. Ron Guidry, he of the incredible 25–3 
Cy Young Award-winning season, would be unavailable to start until Game 
4, if played, at least. Guidry pitched the AL East division tie-breaker 
game against the Boston Red Sox and was starting to have arm trouble. Also, 
second baseman Willie Randolph would miss the entire postseason with a 
hamstring injury and be replaced by a platoon of Fred Stanley and Brian 
Doyle. For the Royals, star George Brett was suffering from a bout of hemorrhoids. 
Without Guidry, the Yankees went with young Jim Beattie. Beattie pitched 
five shutout innings and Ken Clay went the rest of the way. The Royals 
would manage just two hits and one run off the two young pitchers. Meanwhile, 
the Yankee bats knocked Dennis Leonard and Steve Mingori around for thirteen 
hits and four runs, Doyle chipping in an RBI single. Reggie Jackson put 
an exclamation point on the win with a three-run homer in the eighth off 
Al Hrabosky. Wednesday, October 4, 1978 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, 
Missouri Royals' starter Larry Gura pitched six shutout innings and won 
with relief help from Marty Pattin and Al Hrabosky. The Royals' hitting 
stars were Darrell Porter, Frank White, and Fred Patek with two RBIs each, 
Patek's on a home run. Friday, October 6, 1978 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, 
New York Yankee starter Catfish Hunter pitched a fine game, going six innings, 
except for one thing: three consecutive solo home runs by George Brett. 
Still, Hunter had a 4–3 lead after six thanks to a solo homer, RBI single, 
and sacrifice fly by Reggie Jackson. Jackson also scored a run in the fourth 
when Fred Patek overthrew Darrell Porter at home plate as Jackson was attempting 
to score on a hit by Lou Piniella. The Royals, however, got to Goose Gossage 
in the top of the eighth. Amos Otis doubled to right and Porter singled 
him in to tie it. After a Clint Hurdle single, Porter scored the go-ahead 
run on a groundout by Al Cowens. But, the Yanks would not be denied. After 
a one-out single by Roy White, Royals manager Whitey Herzog replaced his 
starter, left-hander Paul Splittorff, with right-hander Doug Bird to face 
Thurman Munson. Munson then greeted Bird with a 460-foot, game-winning, 
two-run blast into the Yankee bullpen in deep left-center field. Gossage 
retired the Royals in the ninth and got the win. The other irony of this 
game, besides Brett's three homers in a losing effort, was that Reggie 
Jackson was so productive against Paul Splittorff after former manager 
Billy Martin's claims that Jackson couldn't hit Splittorff during the 1977 
American League Championship Series the year prior. Brett was the second 
player to hit three home runs in a League Championship Series game. Bob 
Robertson was the first, doing so in Game 2 of the 1971 NLCS. Saturday, 
October 7, 1978 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York Yankee manager Bob 
Lemon decided to use the sore-armed Ron Guidry to close out the series 
at Yankee Stadium. Guidry turned in an effective performance, going eight 
innings and giving up one run on seven hits and striking out seven. It 
didn't start out that way, though. George Brett led the game off with a 
triple off Guidry and Hal McRae immediately followed by driving in Brett 
with a single. But, the Royals would come up zeros the rest of the way. 
Meanwhile, Graig Nettles tied it with a solo homer in the second inning, 
and Roy White hit the deciding solo homer in the sixth off Dennis Leonard. 
Guidry left in the ninth after giving up a leadoff double to Amos Otis 
and Goose Gossage set down the next three Royal batters to close out the 
win and the series. 1978 ALCS (3–1): New York Yankees over Kansas City 
