The 1978 World Series matched the defending champions New York Yankees 
against the Los Angeles Dodgers in a rematch of the 1977 Series, with the 
Yankees winning in six games to repeat as champions. 1978 was the first 
of ten consecutive years that saw ten different teams win the World Series. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers would break the string with a World Series win 
in 1988 (as they won in the 1981 World Series). This Series had two memorable 
confrontations between Dodger rookie pitcher Bob Welch and the Yankees' 
Reggie Jackson. In Game 2, Welch struck Jackson out in the top of the ninth 
with two outs and the tying and go-ahead runs on base to end the game. 
Jackson would avenge the strikeout, when in Game 4 he singled off Welch 
which moved Roy White to second, from which White would score the game 
winning run on a Lou Piniella single to tie the series at 2-2. In Game 
6, Jackson smashed a two-run homer off Welch in the seventh to increase 
the Yankees' lead to 7–2 and put a final "exclamation point" on the Yankees' 
victory to win the series. It wasn’t easy for these two teams to repeat 
as their respective league’s champions, both scrambling back to the Fall 
Classic late in the season. The New York Yankees were as far back as fourteen 
games behind the Boston Red Sox at mid-July suffering from injuries to 
pitchers Catfish Hunter and Jim Beattie. A public display of antipathy 
between manager Billy Martin and slugger Reggie Jackson resulted in the 
replacement of Martin by the amenable, easygoing Bob Lemon on July 17. 
With time running out, the Yankees, four games behind the Red Sox in the 
American League East, began a crucial four-game series in Boston. On September 
7, the Yanks began the "Boston Massacre" with a 15–3 drubbing of the “Sox” 
with second baseman Willie Randolph driving in five runs. The assault continued 
with the Yankees winning game two, 13–2, game three, 7–0 (Ron Guidry winning 
his 21st—a two-hitter) and game four, an eighteen-hit, 7–4 victory completing 
the sweep. The Yankees and Red Sox were now tied for first place with twenty 
games remaining for both clubs. Overall, New York would win 48 of their 
last 68 games finishing the regular season in a dead-heat with Boston. 
The Yanks went on to win a one-game playoff (5–4) on October 2 made famous 
by light hitting Bucky Dent's clutch three-run homer in the seventh inning 
(his fifth of the year). Ron Guidry would win his 25th game (against only 
three losses); Goose Gossage pitching the last 2 2⁄3 innings picking up 
his 27th save, retiring hall of famer Carl Yastrzemski with a man on base 
for the final out. In the National League the Los Angeles Dodgers were 
locked in a tight three way race with the rival San Francisco Giants and 
Cincinnati Reds falling as far as 6 1⁄2 games back. Taking a lesson from 
the in-fighting Yankees, this normally close-knit group caught fire after 
a clubhouse fight between teammates Steve Garvey and Don Sutton in August, 
ultimately finishing 2 1⁄2 games ahead of the Cincinnati Reds. Unlike the 
1977 Dodgers with four 30+ home run hitters, this squad’s leader in home 
runs was Reggie Smith with 29. No pitcher won twenty or more games but 
five pitchers did win at least ten games. Rookie Bob Welch was a key after 
being promoted from the minors, winning seven games and saving three while 
being utilized as both a starter and reliever. During the World Series 
the Dodgers wore on their uniforms a black patch with the number 19 in 
dedication to coach Jim Gilliam, who died from a brain hemorrhage two days 
before the start of the Series. His uniform number was retired by the Dodgers 
prior to the start of game one. In a repeat of the 1977 playoffs the Yankees 
again dispatched the Kansas City Royals, this time three games to one as 
the Dodgers did the same to the Philadelphia Phillies by the same margin. 
After losing the first two games of the World Series, the Yankees would 
become the first team ever to come back to win the Series in six. AL New 
York Yankees (4) vs. NL Los Angeles Dodgers (2) With Yankee ace Ron Guidry 
unavailable at least until Game 3, the Dodgers pounded twenty-game winner 
Ed Figueroa. Figueroa left after two innings, allowing home runs to Dusty 
Baker and Davey Lopes. Lopes would add a three-run shot in the fourth off 
Ken Clay to make it 6–0. Another Dodger run crossed the plate in the fifth; 
Ron Cey scoring on a Clay wild pitch. The Yankees tried to claw back in 
the seventh as Reggie Jackson homered and Bucky Dent singled in two runs, 
but the Dodgers bounced back with three of their own, two coming on a Bill 
North double. The Dodgers would cruise to an easy Game 1 win from there. 
Ron Cey drove in all the Dodgers' runs with an RBI single in the fourth 
and a three-run homer in the sixth off Yankee starter Catfish Hunter. Reggie 
Jackson would try to keep pace by batting in all three of the Yankee runs 
with a two-run double and RBI groundout, but this game would be remembered 
for one memorable Jackson at-bat. Rookie Bob Welch was brought in to pitch 
the ninth to save the game for Burt Hooton. He allowed Bucky Dent and Willie 
Randolph to reach base between outs, bringing up Jackson. Welch ran the 
count to 3–2. Jackson fouled off several pitches before Welch finally got 
a fastball by him, sending the Dodger Stadium crowd into a frenzy. In post-game 
interviews, Jackson initially blamed his striking out on Bucky Dent running 
from second with the 3–2 pitch and distracting him from focusing on Welch. 
In later interviews, however, Jackson would give Welch his proper due. 
With the Yankees desperately needing a win, ace Ron Guidry provided a victory 
aided by the stunning defense of third baseman Graig Nettles. Guidry pitched 
a complete game, even though he allowed eight hits, walked seven, and struck 
out only four. Nettles' defense saved at least four runs. The Yankees got 
on the board in the first off Don Sutton on a Roy White solo homer and 
added a run in the second on an RBI forceout by Bucky Dent. In the third, 
the Dodgers began to come back against an apparently tired Guidry. However, 
Yankees third-baseman, Graig Nettles, helped to stop the comeback with 
his defense. With a runner on third, Nettles snared a Davey Lopes hard 
liner to turn a certain extra-base hit into a key out and temporarily save 
a run. Bill Russell followed with a single to drive in the Dodgers' only 
run. The next batter, Reggie Smith, hit a hard ground ball to third. Nettles 
made a diving stop to save another extra-base hit and probable run, and 
threw Smith out at first to end the inning. In the fifth, the Dodgers had 
runners on first and second with two outs when Smith came up to bat. Nettles 
knocked down Smith's sharply hit ground ball down the third base line. 
Smith reached first, but no runs scored. Steve Garvey, the next batter 
up, hit another hard ground ball down the third base line and Nettles made 
a backhanded stop and forced Smith at second base to end the inning. The 
Dodgers loaded the bases again with two outs in the sixth, but Nettles 
again made a great stop on a ball hit by Davey Lopes, and threw to second 
to complete the inning-ending force play. The Yankees would later add three 
more runs. Thurman Munson and Reggie Jackson had RBI singles in the rally 
that put the game out of reach, despite an otherwise fine pitching performance 
by Sutton. In the top of the ninth inning, when Lopes came to bat, he jokingly 
waved Nettles away from the third base line. Nettles shook it off. Starters 
Ed Figueroa and Tommy John were locked in a scoreless duel before Reggie 
Smith struck with a three-run homer in the top of the fifth. John continued 
his shutout through the fifth, but, in the Yankees' half of the sixth, 
things got a little crazy. Reggie Jackson finally got the Yankees on the 
board with a one-out RBI single. With Thurman Munson on second and Jackson 
on first, Lou Piniella hit a low, soft liner that shortstop Bill Russell 
fumbled (some claim intentionally). Russell recovered the ball, then stepped 
on second to force Jackson, but his attempted throw to first to complete 
the double play struck a "confused" Jackson in the right hip and caromed 
into foul territory. Munson scored, partially because first baseman Steve 
Garvey stopped to yell at the first-base umpire over the non-interference 
call before retrieving the ball. The Dodgers' protests went for naught 
but would not have been necessary if Russell had made the proper play. 
Thinking Russell was going to catch Piniella's liner, Munson retreated 
towards second and was on second base when Russell picked up the ball. 
Munson then turned to third and Russell stepped on second to force Jackson 
and threw to first. The inning would have been over if Russell had tagged 
Munson (out #2) and stepped on second (out #3) to force Jackson or Russell 
steps on second to force Jackson (out #2) and gets Munson in a rundown 
between second and third (out #3); the score would have remained 3–1, instead 
the score was then 3–2. But of course, Russell had no reason to think his 
throw would not reach first base. Later review of the play showed that 
Jackson had stopped midway between first and second when Russell had made 
his throw to first. As the ball carried very close to Jackson's immediate 
right, Jackson had moved his hips to the right just as the ball sailed 
past, deflecting the ball down the first base line. While Jackson continues 
to deny it, Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda, along with other eyewitnesses, 
steadfastly believes the Yankee outfielder purposefully interfered in the 
play.[citation needed] The Yankees tied it in the eighth when Munson doubled 
home Paul Blair. The score remained tied until the bottom of the tenth. 
Dodger rookie and Game 2 hero Bob Welch walked Roy White with one out. 
After Welch retired Munson, Jackson strode to the plate for his first confrontation 
with Welch since Game 2. This time, Reggie got the better end by singling 
White to second. Lou Piniella then lined a single to center, scoring White 
and tying the Series. The bungled Russell/Jackson play changed the game 
and the entire Series; instead of the Dodgers going up 3–1 in games, the 
Series was then tied and the momentum shifted to the Yankees who outscored 
the Dodgers 19–4 in the final two games. The Yankees took one step closer 
to a repeat World Series championship on the strength of an unexpected 
complete game victory by young Jim Beattie. Beattie scattered nine Dodger 
hits and was buoyed by an eighteen-hit Yankee performance, including a 
World Series-record sixteen singles. Early on, the Dodgers tried to run 
to take advantage of a sore-shouldered Thurman Munson behind the plate. 
Davey Lopes led the game off with a single, stole second, and scored on 
a Reggie Smith single. The Dodgers stretched their lead to 2–0 in the third 
when Lopes scored again on a double by Bill Russell. But, that would be 
it as Beattie settled down and shut out the Dodgers the rest of the way. 
The Yankees countered with a four-run third on a two-run single by Munson 
and RBI singles by Roy White and Lou Piniella. They added three in the 
fourth, four in the seventh, and one in the eighth to complete the blowout. 
Munson was the star Yankee hitter with five RBIs, while White had three. 
The Dodgers were understandably distracted in this game, having lost the 
controversial Game 4 the day before. Game 6 turned out to be the Bucky 
Dent–Brian Doyle show. Davey Lopes gave the Dodger home crowd a ray of 
hope with a leadoff home run off Catfish Hunter. Dent and Doyle put the 
Yankees ahead in the second; Doyle with a two-run double, Dent with an 
RBI single. Lopes had an RBI single in the third to cut it to 3–2 through 
the fifth inning, but that would be it for the Dodgers. Sutton pitched 
well until the sixth. Dent and Doyle pushed the score to 5–2 in the sixth 
with RBI singles and Reggie Jackson put the final nail in the coffin with 
a tremendous two-run blast in the seventh off his Game 2 nemesis, Bob Welch. 
Dent would be named World Series MVP, batting .417 with 10 hits, 7 RBI, 
and 3 runs scored. Doyle would make a claim for the MVP himself with a 
.438 average, 7 hits, 2 RBI, and 4 runs. While Lopes had a monster series 
with three homers and seven RBIs and Bill Russell had eleven hits, the 
Dodgers' power hitters lack of production and the Dodgers shoddy defense 
was their downfall. Steve Garvey (5-for-24, no RBIs) was no factor, and 
neither were Dusty Baker (5 for 21, one RBI) or Ron Cey (no RBIs after 
Game 2) and the Dodgers defense committed seven errors. Thurman Munson 
caught the final out of the game on a foul pop by Ron Cey. This would be 
the final post-season game of Munson's career before his death during the 
1979 season. 1978 World Series (4–2): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Los 
Angeles Dodgers (N.L.) This Series is tied with the 1980 World Series for 
the highest overall television ratings to date, with the six games averaging 
a Nielsen rating of 32.8 and a share of 56.[8] The Yankees became the last 
repeat World Champions until fifteen years later (1992–1993; Toronto Blue 
Jays). This would be the last time the Yankees would win a World Series 
until 1996. The Dodgers would go on to win the World Series in 1981, against 
the Yankees in the same way they won this series (losing the first two 
games, then winning the next four), and 1988, against the Oakland Athletics. 
This would be the last World Series championship for the city of New York 
