The 1979 World Series matched the National League's Pittsburgh Pirates 
(98–64) against the American League's Baltimore Orioles (102–57), with 
the Pirates becoming the 4th team in World Series history to come back 
from a three games to one deficit to win the Series in seven games. The 
Pirates were famous for adopting Sister Sledge's hit anthem "We Are Family" 
as their theme song. Willie Stargell, pitcher Bruce Kison, and catcher 
Manny Sanguillén were the only players left over from the Pirates team 
that last faced the Orioles in the 1971 World Series, and Orioles' pitcher 
Jim Palmer, Mark Belanger, and manager Earl Weaver were the only ones who 
were still with the team that faced the Pirates in that same previous meeting. 
Grant Jackson pitched for the Orioles in the 1971 series and for the Pirates 
in the 1979 series. In this Series, it was the American League team's "turn" 
to play by National League rules, meaning no designated hitter and the 
Orioles' pitchers would have to bat. While this resulted in Tim Stoddard 
getting his first major league hit and RBI in Game 4, overall, it hurt 
the Orioles because Lee May, their designated hitter for much of the season 
and a key part of their offense, was only able to bat three times in the 
whole series. Willie Stargell, the series MVP, hit .400 with a record seven 
extra-base hits and matched Reggie Jackson's record of 25 total bases, 
set in 1977. The 1979 Pirates were the last team to win Game 7 of a World 
Series on the road until the San Francisco Giants defeated the Royals in 
Kansas City to win Game 7 of the 2014 Series. They were also the last road 
team to win Game 7 of a championship round, in any major league sport, 
until the Pittsburgh Penguins defeated the Detroit Red Wings 2–1 at Joe 
Louis Arena to win the 2009 Stanley Cup Finals.[1] With the Steelers having 
already won Super Bowl XIII, Pittsburgh also became the second city to 
win both the Super Bowl and the World Series in the same year, with the 
New York Jets and the New York Mets winning titles in 1969. New York repeated 
the feat in 1986 (New York Mets and New York Giants), as did the New England 
area in the 2004 season (Boston Red Sox and New England Patriots). These 
same two teams met at the beginning of the decade, in 1971. Earl Weaver's 
Orioles had won the first two games of that series only to lose to Danny 
Murtaugh's Pirates in seven. This time Pittsburgh manager Chuck Tanner 
was looking to win a Series of his own. Gone were the likes of slugger 
Boog Powell and defensive wizard Brooks Robinson—shortstop Mark Belanger 
and pitcher Jim Palmer were the only two remaining players from the 1971 
roster. A young (23-year-old) "Steady Eddie" Murray was a staple at first-base 
and an emerging superstar. The only other real "star" hitter on the team 
was right-fielder Ken Singleton who set career highs in home runs, 35, 
and runs batted in, 111, in the regular season. Center fielder Al Bumbry 
provided the speed, 37 swipes, and outfielder Gary Roenicke and third-baseman 
Doug DeCinces provided some additional power. The talented pitching staff 
was captained by veteran catcher Rick Dempsey. The starters were led by 
1979 Cy Young Award winner, Mike Flanagan (23–9, 3.08), Scott McGregor 
(13–6, 3.35), Steve Stone (11–7, 3.77) and Jim Palmer (10–6, 3.30). The 
bullpen helped with 30 wins against only 13 losses led by Don Stanhouse 
(7–3, 21 saves) and Tippy Martinez (10–3, 2.88). The Orioles won the American 
League East rather easily, finishing eight games ahead of second place 
Milwaukee Brewers. On the other hand, these Pittsburgh Pirates struggled 
early in the season eventually winning the National League East by just 
two games over the Montreal Expos. Only after getting infielders, Tim Foli 
(from the New York Mets) and Bill Madlock (from the San Francisco Giants), 
did the Pirates start winning consistently. The great Roberto Clemente 
had inspired the 1971 team toward the title and the key ingredient to this 
team was his successor and spiritual leader, 38-year-old Willie "Pops" 
Stargell. His clubhouse demeanor, a simple good-heartedness and friendly 
manner, helped keep the Pirates loose during a tight divisional race with 
a surprise sweep of the always powerful Cincinnati Reds in the League Championship 
Series. The Bucs lineup featured the National League leader in stolen bases, 
Omar Moreno with 77; team runs batted in leader, Dave Parker with 98, and 
two-time batting champion, Bill Madlock (1975, 1976). Madlock would add 
two more batting titles in 1981 and 1983. The pitching staff was a ragtag 
bunch led by the "Candy-Man", John Candelaria's fourteen wins (nine losses) 
with five other pitchers winning ten or more games. The tall and lean Kent 
Tekulve had 31 saves, good for second in the league, while winning ten 
games. "Pops" Stargell would hit three home runs in this series becoming 
the oldest player to win both the regular season MVP and the World Series 
MVP. His "Family" would persevere after losing three out of the first four 
games, giving Earl Weaver and his Orioles a déjà vu nightmare when the 
Bucs came back to win in seven games. NL Pittsburgh Pirates (4) vs. AL 
Baltimore Orioles (3) Game 1 was originally scheduled for Tuesday October 
9 but was postponed due to a wintry mix of rain and snow.[9] When it was 
played the following night, the first-pitch temperature of 41°F (5°C) was 
the coldest in the history of the Fall Classic until it was eclipsed 18 
years later in Game 4 of the 1997 World Series. A steady rain that fell 
throughout the contest also factored into the six total errors, three committed 
by each team.[10] All five Orioles runs were scored in the first inning; 
two on a throwing error by second baseman Phil Garner, followed by one 
on a wild pitch by starter Bruce Kison and the final two on a Doug DeCinces 
home run. A pair of RBIs each for Garner (two-out single in the sixth) 
and Willie Stargell (groundout in the fourth, leadoff solo homer in the 
eighth) sparked a Pirates comeback that fell a run short. This time, the 
Pirates struck first with two in the second on an RBI single by Bill Madlock 
and a sacrifice fly by catcher Ed Ott. The Orioles countered in the bottom 
half of the inning with an Eddie Murray solo homer. Murray would also tie 
the game in the sixth by doubling in Ken Singleton. Murray tried to put 
the Orioles ahead in the same inning by tagging and attempting to score 
on a line-out to right by John Lowenstein, but Dave Parker threw him out 
easily. Making the decision to send Murray that much more odd was the fact 
that Parker's throw to the plate arrived well ahead of him. Murray tried 
to bowl Ott over at the plate, but the stocky Ott held fast, staying on 
his feet. Murray also made a questionable base running decision in the 
eighth. With Murray on second and Doug DeCinces on first with no outs, 
Lowenstein grounded to shortstop Tim Foli. Murray strangely stopped instead 
of running out the force play. Foli attempted a tag which Murray eluded, 
and then threw to Phil Garner at second to force DeCinces. Murray's hesitation 
allowed Garner to throw to third and catch him in a rundown. Murray slowed 
up returning to second when he should have sped back since he was entitled 
to the base with DeCinces being forced out. Murray would not collect another 
hit or RBI for the rest of the Series. In the ninth, after a two-out single 
by Ott and a walk to Garner, Manny Sanguillén pinch-hit for Don Robinson 
and hacked a high and outside fastball from Don Stanhouse into right for 
a single. Ott barely slid past the outstretched arms of catcher Rick Dempsey 
to score the winning run, after Murray had questionably cut-off a strong 
throw from RF Ken Singleton. Kent Tekulve retired the side in the ninth 
for the save. The Pirates jumped out to an early 3–0 lead on a Dave Parker 
sacrifice fly in the first and a one-out, two-run double by Garner in the 
second. A Benny Ayala one-out, two-run homer cut the Orioles' deficit to 
one just before a 67-minute rain delay in the middle of the third inning. 
The Orioles seized the momentum after play resumed by scoring five runs 
in the fourth, highlighted by a Kiko Garcia bases-loaded triple that chased 
Pirates starter John Candelaria from the game. Garcia added a two-out RBI 
single in the seventh, finishing the evening going 4-for-4 with four RBI. 
The Pirates seized an early 4–0 lead in the second on a leadoff solo homer 
by Stargell, a two-run double by Ott and an Omar Moreno two-out RBI single. 
The first two were among five straight hits that effectively ended starter 
Dennis Martínez's afternoon. The Orioles countered with three runs in the 
third off Jim Bibby on consecutive one-out doubles by Garcia (2 RBI) and 
Ken Singleton. The Pirates stretched their lead to 6–3 on RBI doubles by 
John Milner and Parker in the fifth and sixth innings respectively. In 
the eighth, Earl Weaver once again showed some strategic genius. With one 
out and the bases loaded, Pirates manager Chuck Tanner sent in submarining 
relief ace Kent Tekulve to face right-handed hitting Gary Roenicke. Weaver 
countered by pinch-hitting lefty John Lowenstein, figuring the lefty would 
be better able to hit Tekulve's sidewhip pitches. Lowenstein made the move 
pay off by slamming a two-run double. After a walk loaded the bases again, 
Weaver sent another lefty hitter, Terry Crowley, to bat for Dave Skaggs. 
Crowley smashed another two-run double off Tekulve to give the Orioles 
the lead. To add insult to injury, pitcher Tim Stoddard, batting because 
Weaver was out of pinch hitters at that point, followed with an RBI single. 
An RBI force-out by Bumbry ended the scoring. With a world championship 
on the line and Game 1 starter Bruce Kison injured, Chuck Tanner decided 
to go with little-used veteran left-hander Jim Rooker as his starter. He 
would let Rooker go as long as possible, then bring in Bert Blyleven to 
finish, saving his two best pitchers, sore-shouldered John Candelaria and 
Jim Bibby for Games 6 and 7, if played. The risky move more than paid off 
as Rooker gave Tanner five good innings, holding the Orioles to one run 
in the fifth when Gary Roenicke scored on a double play grounder. The Pirate 
bats finally came alive against Mike Flanagan in the sixth on a sacrifice 
fly by Willie Stargell and an RBI single by Bill Madlock. The Pirates added 
two more in the seventh on a RBI triple by Tim Foli and a RBI double by 
Dave Parker, and then three more in the eighth on a RBI single by Phil 
Garner and a two-run single by Foli. Thanks to the unexpected performance 
from Rooker, a 4-for-4 day from Madlock, and Foli's three RBIs, the Pirates 
had staved off defeat. Chuck Tanner's mother died the morning of Game 5 
(this was mentioned during the telecast by announcer Howard Cosell). 1960 
World Series hero Bill Mazeroski threw out the first ball in Game 5, which 
would be Three Rivers Stadium's final World Series game; PNC Park has not 
hosted a World Series since it opened. Back home at Memorial Stadium, local 
baseball coach Mary Dobkin threw out the ceremonial first pitch.[11] The 
Oriole bats continued to be unexpectedly cold as John Candelaria and Jim 
Palmer locked into a scoreless duel through six innings. Dave Parker broke 
the ice with a RBI single in the seventh, followed by a Stargell sacrifice 
fly. The Pirates added two more runs in the eighth on a Bill Robinson sac 
fly and a RBI single by Omar Moreno. After the game Howard Cosell in his 
limo was surrounded and attacked by angry Oriole fans with shaving cream, 
which prompted Baltimore police to complement his private security for 
Game 7.[12] The Pirates capped an amazing comeback on the strength of Willie 
Stargell, who went 4 for 5 with a single, two doubles, and a towering two-run 
homer in the sixth off Scott McGregor. For insurance in the ninth, Omar 
Moreno collected an RBI single, while another run scored when Dave Parker 
and Bill Robinson were hit by pitches back-to-back, scoring Moreno. Orioles 
manager Earl Weaver made five pitching changes in the ninth inning in an 
attempt to keep the game within reach. The O's only run came on a Rich 
Dauer solo homer in the third, the team's second RBI in the last three 
games. Significantly, Eddie Murray, the Orioles' main offensive threat, 
was 0 for 21 in the final five games of the Series, including a fly-out 
to Parker to end the 8th with the bases loaded and two outs (following 
an intentional walk to Ken Singleton). Following their six run outburst 
in the eighth inning of Game 4, the Birds scored only twice more over the 
series' final 28 innings. U.S. President Jimmy Carter made an appearance 
in Game 7—he threw out the first pitch—and after the game made a visit 
to the victorious Pittsburgh clubhouse. Prior to the ceremonial first pitch, 
The United States Army Field Band played the National Anthem, as they had 
In the finales of the Orioles' two previous World Series. 1979 World Series 
(4–3): Pittsburgh Pirates (N.L.) over Baltimore Orioles (A.L.) The Pirates 
wore four different uniform combinations during the series: The Orioles 
wore three different uniform combinations of their own: This was the first 
World Series in which the participating teams' announcers were not involved 
in the play-calling on national radio. (Network television had done the 
same in 1977.) For the '79 Classic, Vin Scully and Sparky Anderson handled 
the play-by-play work for the CBS Radio Network. But because of their lead-announcer 
status for CBS Radio, Scully and Jack Buck did wind up calling their regular 
teams' Series games on CBS Radio in the 1980s—Scully in 1981 (his Los Angeles 
Dodgers vs. the New York Yankees) and Buck in 1985 and 1987 (Buck's St. 
Louis Cardinals against the Kansas City Royals and Minnesota Twins), as 
would Jon Miller for ESPN Radio in 2002 (his San Francisco Giants against 
the Anaheim Angels and 2010 against the Texas Rangers). The Series was 
televised by ABC, with play-by-play announcers Keith Jackson (in Baltimore) 
and Al Michaels (in Pittsburgh), and color commentators Howard Cosell and 
Don Drysdale, who also covered the World Series Trophy presentation ceremony. 
