The 1979 American League Championship Series was a best-of-five series 
that pitted the East Division champion Baltimore Orioles against the West 
Division champion California Angels, who were making their first postseason 
appearance. The Orioles won the Series three games to one and would go 
on to lose to the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1979 World Series. This was 
the only ALCS between 1971 and 1981 that did not feature either the Oakland 
Athletics or the Kansas City Royals.[1] Baltimore won the series, 3–1. 
Wednesday, October 3, 1979 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland Game 
1 was a match-up of Nolan Ryan in his final season with the Angels, and 
Jim Palmer for the Orioles. The Angels jumped out to the early lead when 
Dan Ford homered in the top of the first. The Angels extended the lead 
to 2–0 in the third when Rick Miller singled and scored on Ford's double. 
The Orioles tied it in the bottom of the third when Doug DeCinces reached 
on a two-base error by Bobby Grich, Rick Dempsey doubled to left and scored 
DeCinces, and a single by light-hitting Mark Belanger scored Dempsey with 
the tying run. In the bottom of the fourth, Pat Kelly singled, stole second, 
went to third on a wild pitch and scored on a sacrifice fly. A Rod Carew 
single and a Grich double tied it in the sixth, and the game stayed tied 
until the tenth. John Montague gave up a single to DeCinces, who moved 
to second on a bunt by Rich Dauer. Terry Crowley pinch-hit for Dempsey 
and popped to center. Hoping to get to Belanger, a .167 hitter during the 
season, the Angels walked Al Bumbry. Pinch-hitter John Lowenstein then 
hit a three-run walk-off homer to take Game 1 for the Orioles, 6–3. Don 
Stanhouse was the winner while Montague wound up the loser. The win gave 
the Orioles a 1–0 lead in the best-of-five series. Thursday, October 4, 
1979 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland A sensational comeback 
effort by the Angels fell just short and the Orioles swept the home games 
to take a 2–0 lead in the best of five series. Game 2 pitted eventual Cy 
Young Award winner Mike Flanagan against Dave Frost. And the early going 
was all Orioles. For the second straight day, Dan Ford hit a first-inning 
solo homer to give the Angels a 1–0 lead. But the Orioles came back quickly 
in the bottom of the first. Bumbry singled and stole second, and Kiko Garcia 
walked. The inning seemed harmless when Frost got Ken Singleton to ground 
into a 6–4–3 double play that put Bumbry at third with two out. But Eddie 
Murray singled to tie it, Lowenstein walked, Pat Kelly singled to score 
Murray, and DeCinces' single plus a Dan Ford error plated two runs to give 
the Orioles a quick 4–1 lead. After Dempsey grounded out to lead off the 
second, Bumbry again singled and again stole second. Garcia's single scored 
Bumbry, and that was all for starter Frost. Mark Clear relieved Frost and 
promptly gave up a single to Singleton and a three-run homer to Murray 
to give ace Flanagan a seemingly insurmountable 8–1 lead after two innings. 
A DeCinces walk preceded singles by Bumbry and Garcia to make it 9–1 after 
three. The Angels, however, fought back valiantly. In the sixth, a Carew 
double and Carney Lansford single made it 9–2. Singles by Baylor and Downing 
followed by a sacrifice fly from Grich made it 9–3. In the eighth, the 
Angels got within striking distance by scoring three runs and chasing Flanagan. 
The inning began with a walk to pinch hitter Merv Rettenmund, who Dickie 
Thon replaced at first. A Murray error put two on with nobody out, and 
Lansford's single sent Thon home with the fourth run and Flanagan to the 
showers. Don Stanhouse, known by the moniker "Stan The Man Unusual" took 
the hill with Carew at third, Lansford at first and nobody out. He got 
Ford to line out to second for the first out of the inning, but Baylor's 
single scored Carew and sent Lansford to third. Stanhouse then got Downing 
on a sacrifice fly that scored Lansford and ended the inning on ground 
out to Grich. But the Angels, left for dead a few innings earlier, were 
back in it. In the ninth, pinch hitter Larry Harlow walked but was forced 
at second by Rick Miller. Long-time Dodger standout Willie Davis, playing 
in his last professional game, pinch-hit for Thon and doubled to left putting 
runners at second and third and the tying run at the plate in the person 
of eight-time batting champion Carew. Carew grounded to second for the 
second out, while Miller scored and Davis went to third. With two outs 
and the tying run at the plate, Carney Lansford singled to make it 9–8. 
Dan Ford continued his rather fine LCS with a single that put the tying 
run at third. MVP Don Baylor was walked to load the bases with two outs. 
And Stanhouse put an end to the proceedings by inducing Downing to ground 
to DeCinces at third to end the game. Despite a valiant comeback effort, 
the Angels now were facing elimination. Friday, October 5, 1979 at Anaheim 
Stadium in Anaheim, California Two outs from making it to the World Series, 
the Orioles had to wait another day as the Angels rallied in the bottom 
of the ninth inning to take game three and cut Baltimore's lead in the 
series to 2–1. Dennis Martínez took the mound against Frank Tanana and 
small ball netted the Angels a run in the first when Lansford singled, 
stole second, and came home on Ford's single to make it 1–0 California. 
The Orioles tied it in the fourth when Ken Singleton doubled, moved to 
third on Murray's single and scored on Lee May's follow-up single. The 
Angels regained the lead in the bottom of the fourth when Don Baylor homered 
to make it 2–1. The Orioles tied it in the sixth but left the dugout angry 
when they turned bases loaded and nobody out into only one run. Singleton 
reached on a base hit to center and Murray followed with another single. 
A walk to Lee May loaded the bases and brought Don Aase in to relieve Tanana. 
Aase got out of the jam when DeCinces hit a sacrifice fly to center that 
scored Singleton, pinch hitter John Lowenstein walked, and Rich Dauer hit 
a seeming sacrifice fly to center for the second out that Rick Miller turned 
into a double play by gunning down Murray at home to keep the score 2–2. 
In the seventh inning, Al Bumbry tripled and scored on Terry Crowley's 
single to give the Orioles their first lead of the day. It stayed that 
way until the ninth. Martinez had his work cut out for him as the three 
hitters he was scheduled to face were 1979 MVP Baylor, eight-time batting 
champion Rod Carew, and third in the AL in 1979 in hitting Brian Downing. 
He got Baylor to fly out, but Carew doubled. Earl Weaver yanked Martinez 
and replaced him with Don Stanhouse. A walk to Downing put the winning 
run on first, and disaster struck when Bumbry dropped a fly ball by Grich 
that scored Carew to tie it and put Downing on second with only one out. 
Larry Harlow doubled to center and the Angels had won in dramatic fashion, 
4–3. Don Aase got the win with four innings of relief while Stanhouse, 
who faced only three hitters got the loss. Saturday, October 6, 1979 at 
Anaheim Stadium in Anaheim, California Scott McGregor closed out the series 
for the Orioles by pitching a complete game shutout gem, allowing only 
six hits (all singles) and getting out of a bases loaded situation in the 
5th. Ken Singleton had three hits and two RBI and Pat Kelly provided the 
crushing blow in the seventh with a three-run homer. 1979 ALCS (3–1): Baltimore 
