The 1979 National League Championship Series was played between the National 
League West champion Cincinnati Reds and the National League East champion 
Pittsburgh Pirates. It was the fourth time in the 1970s that the Pirates 
and Reds had faced off for the pennant; Cincinnati had won all three previous 
meetings in 1970, 1972 and 1975. The Pirates prevailed in three consecutive 
games played from October 2 to 5. Pittsburgh won the series, 3–0. Tuesday, 
October 2, 1979 at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio Both sides threw 
their aces in Game 1 as fourteen-game winner John Candelaria started for 
the Pirates, and Tom Seaver started for the Reds. After Omar Moreno grounded 
out to start the game, a 45-minute rain delay stalled the contest. When 
play resumed, Seaver retired Tim Foli and Dave Parker for an unusually 
long 1-2-3 inning. Pittsburgh struck first in the third inning when second 
baseman Phil Garner led off with an opposite-field home run. After Candelaria 
struck out, Omar Moreno hit a sinking liner to right that Dave Collins 
attempted a sliding shoestring catch on. The ball skidded off the wet Riverfront 
Stadium turf in front of Collins and rolled to the wall. The speedy Moreno 
ended up with a triple, but it could have easily been an inside-the-park 
homer if not for the hustle of Héctor Cruz in center. A sacrifice fly by 
Foli gave the Pirates a 2–0 lead. Seaver then walked Dave Parker and Willie 
Stargell, but John Milner popped out to end the inning. The Reds tied it 
in the bottom of the fourth when George Foster hit a two-run homer into 
left center with Dave Concepción aboard. Despite a sore shoulder, Candelaria 
gutted out seven painful innings before giving way to Enrique Romo. The 
score stayed at 2–2 until the top of the eleventh inning. Tim Foli and 
Parker singled off Reds reliever Tom Hume. Willie Stargell drilled a three-run 
homer to almost dead center to make it 5–2, Pirates. The Reds didn't go 
away silently, though. After Grant Jackson retired the first two batters 
in the bottom of the eleventh, Dave Concepción singled and George Foster 
walked. Don Robinson came on to replace Jackson and walked Johnny Bench 
to load the bases. At that point, Chuck Tanner visited the mound, and Willie 
Stargell jokingly asked Robinson, "Why don't you move to first and I'll 
pitch?" The barb relaxed Robinson, who settled down and struck out Ray 
Knight for the final out. Wednesday, October 3, 1979 at Riverfront Stadium 
in Cincinnati, Ohio In another extra inning affair, the Pirates beat the 
Reds 3–2 to earn a road sweep and send the series to Pittsburgh needing 
just one win in three home games to make the 1979 World Series. The starting 
pitchers were Jim Bibby for the Pirates and Frank Pastore for the Reds. 
Pastore helped himself with an RBI sacrifice fly to center in the bottom 
of the second that scored Dan Driessen. Driessen was aboard after singling 
and moving to third on a Ray Knight single. In the top of the third, Tim 
Foli and Dave Parker led off with singles. Willie Stargell followed with 
a base hit to right, but he rounded first base too far and Reds right fielder 
Dave Collins threw behind him. Stargell was caught in a rundown and retired. 
Foli, however, surprisingly stayed at third instead of trying to score 
while Stargell was in the rundown. John Milner was walked intentionally, 
loading the bases, and Bill Madlock beat out a double-play grounder to 
score Foli with the tying run. The Pirates took the lead in the fifth when 
Phil Garner sent a sinking liner towards Dave Collins in right that Collins 
attempted a shoestring catch on, much like his attempt in Game 1. Collins 
appeared to have caught the ball, but umpire Frank Pulli ruled he trapped 
it, giving Garner a base hit. Garner moved to second on a sacrifice bunt 
by Bibby and scored on a double by Foli. Bibby left after seven innings 
with discomfort in his neck, having held the Reds to four hits and the 
single run. The Reds mounted a threat in the eighth against the Pirate 
bullpen. Left-hander Grant Jackson retired lefty-hitting Joe Morgan for 
the first out, but Chuck Tanner, managing by percentages, brought in Enrique 
Romo to face right-handed hitting Dave Concepción. The move backfired as 
Romo gave up back-to-back singles to Concepción and George Foster. Kent 
Tekulve relieved Romo to face Johnny Bench and, on his second pitch to 
Bench, wild-pitched the runners to second and third. Tekulve recovered 
to strike out Bench, intentionally walked Dan Driessen, and then retired 
Ray Knight for the last out. Tekulve encountered trouble in the ninth. 
With one out, Héctor Cruz, batting for Tom Hume, doubled. Collins then 
doubled in Cruz to tie the game. Tekulve was then replaced by lefty Dave 
Roberts, but Roberts walked Morgan. Tanner then brought in Game 1 saver 
Don Robinson, who struck out Concepción and retired Foster on a groundout 
to end the threat. The Pirates won it in the tenth when Moreno singled, 
went to second on a bunt by Foli and scored on Parker's single. Robinson 
retired the Reds in the tenth and the Pirates had a two games to none lead 
over the Reds. Robinson got the win and Doug Bair got the loss. Friday, 
October 5, 1979 at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania The 
Pirates made it to their first World Series since 1971 with a blowout win 
to complete a three-game sweep of the Reds. The starting pitchers were 
Bert Blyleven for the Pirates, and Mike LaCoss for the Reds. For the second 
time in three games, the start was delayed by rain. After allowing a hit 
in the first, the Pirates got on the board quickly when leadoff hitter 
Omar Moreno, a pain in the Reds' side all series, singled and stole second. 
Tim Foli then grounded to LaCoss, who tried to catch Moreno in a rundown 
between second and third, but Moreno reached third safely and Foli to first. 
Dave Parker then hit a sacrifice fly for a 1–0 Pirates lead. In the second, 
Phil Garner tripled and scored on Foli's sacrifice fly. LaCoss was then 
replaced by Fred Norman, who gave up Willie Stargell's second home run 
of the series and another solo homer to Bill Madlock in the third. Stargell 
doubled home two more runs in the fourth for a 6–0 Pirate lead and essentially 
clinched the NLCS MVP. The Reds got one run back in the fifth when Johnny 
Bench homered, but it was their last run of the year. The Pirates got that 
run back in the eighth when Garner scored on an error. Blyleven went the 
distance and the Pirates had completed an unexpected sweep in advancing 
to the 1979 World Series. 1979 NLCS (3–0): Pittsburgh Pirates over Cincinnati 
