The 1980 American League Championship Series featured the Kansas City Royals 
facing the team that had defeated them three straight years in the ALCS 
from 1976–78, the New York Yankees. Kansas City won the series, 3–0. Wednesday, 
October 8, 1980 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri The series opener 
saw the Yankees throw their ace, Ron Guidry, against the Royals' Larry 
Gura. In the top of the second, the Bronx Bombers jumped out to a 2–0 lead 
when Rick Cerone and Lou Piniella smacked back-to-back solo home runs. 
However, in the bottom of the inning, the Royals struck back. Amos Otis 
singled to center and stole second, and John Wathan walked. A wild pitch 
moved Otis to third and Wathan to second, and Frank White doubled both 
men home to tie the game. The Royals moved ahead in the third, when George 
Brett walked and moved to third on a ground-rule double by Otis. A single 
by Willie Aikens plated both Brett and Otis, chasing Guidry from the game. 
Brett added a solo home run off Ron Davis in the seventh, and a Willie 
Wilson double off Tom Underwood in the eighth scored Darrell Porter and 
White to give Kansas City a 7–2 lead. The Yankees, meanwhile, could not 
score against Gura after the back-to-back home runs of the second inning, 
and the Royals' hurler went the distance as his team drew first blood in 
the series with a 7–2 victory. Thursday, October 9, 1980 at Royals Stadium 
in Kansas City, Missouri Game 2 proved to be much more exciting after the 
Royals blowout of Game 1. For this contest, the Yankees sent Rudy May to 
the hill to face the Royals' Dennis Leonard. Kansas City opened the scoring 
in the bottom of the third, as Darrell Porter and Frank White reached base 
with consecutive singles. Willie Wilson followed with a triple to right 
to bring both runners in, and then scored himself on a double to center 
field by shortstop U L Washington. The Yankees came back with two in the 
fifth, with Graig Nettles hitting an inside-the-park home run and Willie 
Randolph lashing a double to right to score Bobby Brown. The eighth inning, 
however, proved to be the most memorable inning of the game, with the Royals 
clinging to their 3–2 lead and the Yankees threatening. Willie Randolph 
singled, and with two outs Bob Watson ripped a liner to deep left field. 
Confident in Randolph's speed, Yankee third base coach Mike Ferraro decided 
to wave Randolph home. Left fielder Willie Wilson overthrew his cutoff 
man, Washington, but third baseman George Brett made a heads-up play by 
backing up Washington. He then whirled and threw Randolph out at the plate. 
Television cameras panned the stands where Yankees Owner George Steinbrenner 
and General Manager Gene Michael were sitting. A furious Steinbrenner appeared 
to shout Ferraro's name as he turned to Michael.[4] The Royals ended up 
winning that game by a 3–2 margin and Steinbrenner continued to fume over 
the play. Friday, October 10, 1980 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York 
With a 2–0 series lead, the Royals headed to Yankee Stadium for Game 3. 
The Royals led by a run until the bottom of the sixth inning when one of 
the most bizarre plays of the series occurred. Oscar Gamble hit a ground 
ball up the middle fielded by the eventual ALCS MVP Frank White. White, 
a multiple Gold Glove winner, inexplicably threw to third base in an apparent 
attempt to get Reggie Jackson on a tag play. However, George Brett could 
not come up with the throw, allowing Jackson to score. The Yankees later 
added another run to gain a 2–1 advantage. Holding on to a 2–1 lead in 
the seventh inning, pitcher Tommy John gave up a two-out double to Willie 
Wilson. Yankee manager Dick Howser brought in hard-throwing Goose Gossage, 
who gave up a single to U L Washington, bringing up George Brett. Brett 
had wowed the majors during the year, flirting with a .400 batting average, 
holding an average above .400 as late as September 19 before finishing 
the year at .390. Brett blasted a Gossage fastball into the upper deck, 
a three-run home run which stunned the Yankee Stadium crowd. The Royals 
had a 4–2 lead with All-Star reliever Dan Quisenberry on the mound. The 
Yankees mounted a major threat in the eighth, loading the bases with no 
one out. Quisenberry then got Rick Cerone to line into a double play and 
the next batter to ground out to close out the inning. The ninth went one-two-three 
as the Royals and the long-suffering Kansas City baseball fans finally 
won the American League Pennant. 1980 ALCS (3–0): Kansas City Royals over 
New York Yankees Dick Howser was fired shortly after the conclusion of 
the 1980 ALCS.[5][6] Ironically, Howser would go on to win the 1985 World 
Series as manager of Kansas City. After losing the 1981 World Series to 
the Los Angeles Dodgers (whom they had beaten in consecutive World Series 
in the 1977 and 1978 after besting the Royals for the American League crown), 
the Yankees would not again appear in the Fall Classic until winning in 
1996 under veteran manager Joe Torre—in a coincidental twist, their best 
subsequent opportunity prior to 1996 was also during a strike-shortened 
season: when the 1994 season prematurely ended, the Yankees had the best 
record in the American League, which was also the second best in baseball.[7][8][9] 
Four men involved with the 1980 ALCS (Dick Howser, Bobby Murcer, Johnny 
Oates, and Dan Quisenberry) have died of brain cancer. (Tug McGraw and 
John Vukovich of the Philadelphia Phillies, who played against the Royals 
in that year's World Series, also succumbed to the disease, as did Ken 
