The 1980 Houston Astros season was a season in American baseball. The team 
finished in a tie for first place in the National League West with a record 
of 92-70 with the Los Angeles Dodgers. The teams played a one-game playoff 
to determine the division champion, which the Astros won, marking the first 
time in franchise history that the team qualified for the postseason. They 
went on to face the Philadelphia Phillies in the NLCS, losing three games 
to two. On July 4, pitcher Nolan Ryan recorded the 3,000th strikeout of 
his career by striking out César Gerónimo of the Cincinnati Reds. Infielders 
Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV 
= Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts October 7: Veterans 
Stadium, Philadelphia October 8: Veterans Stadium, Philadelphia October 
10: Astrodome, Houston, Texas October 11: Astrodome, Houston, Texas October 
12: Astrodome, Houston, Texas Game 5 capped the series in fitting fashion, 
with seemingly endless surprises and excitement. The Astros jumped to an 
early lead in the first on a run-scoring double by José Cruz. Philadelphia 
bounced back to take the lead on a two-run single by Bob Boone in the second. 
The Astros saw Luis Pujols and Enos Cabell thrown out at the plate in the 
second and fifth, but finally broke through to tie the game 2-2 on an unearned 
run in the sixth, thanks to an error by Philadelphia's less than surehanded 
left fielder Greg Luzinski. Houston took what seemed like a solid 5-2 lead 
in the seventh on an RBI single by Denny Walling, a wild pitch from Phillies 
reliever Larry Christenson, and a run-scoring triple by Art Howe. A three 
run deficit in the eighth inning against Nolan Ryan seemed insurmountable. 
But the Phillies would not die. They loaded the bases with nobody out on 
three straight singles, including two infield hits, and then got two runs 
on a walk to Pete Rose and a groundout by Keith Moreland. An RBI single 
by Del Unser tied the game 5-5, and then Manny Trillo put the Phillies 
ahead with a two-run triple. The Astros promptly came back to tie the game 
in the bottom of the eighth, with Rafael Landestoy and José Cruz each singling 
in a run. Neither team scored in the ninth, but the Phillies got doubles 
from Unser and Garry Maddox in the tenth to take an 8-7 lead. Philadelphia's 
Dick Ruthven retired the Astros in order in the bottom of the tenth, and 
the Phillies had won their first pennant since 1950. They went on to defeat 
