The 1980 National League Championship Series was played between the Philadelphia 
Phillies and the Houston Astros from October 7 to 12. Philadelphia won 
the series three games to two to advance to the World Series, eventually 
defeating the Kansas City Royals for their first Major League Baseball 
world championship. The 1980 NLCS is widely regarded as one of the most 
exciting postseason series in baseball history. Ramón Avilés, Bob Boone, 
Larry Bowa, Warren Brusstar, Marty Bystrom, Steve Carlton, Larry Christenson, 
Greg Gross, Greg Luzinski, Garry Maddox, Bake McBride, Tug McGraw, Keith 
Moreland, Dickie Noles, Ron Reed, Pete Rose, Dick Ruthven, Kevin Saucier, 
Mike Schmidt, Lonnie Smith, Manny Trillo, Del Unser, George Vukovich. Joaquín 
Andújar, Alan Ashby, Dave Bergman, Bruce Bochy, Enos Cabell, César Cedeño, 
José Cruz, Ken Forsch, Danny Heep, Art Howe, Frank LaCorte, Rafael Landestoy, 
Jeffrey Leonard, Joe Morgan, Joe Niekro, Terry Puhl, Luis Pujols, Craig 
Reynolds, Vern Ruhle, Nolan Ryan, Joe Sambito, Dave Smith, Denny Walling, 
Gary Woods. Philadelphia won the series, 3–2. Tuesday, October 7, 1980 
at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Game 1 was the most ordinary 
contest of the series. Starters Ken Forsch and Steve Carlton dueled for 
the first five innings, with only one run scored by Houston in the third 
on an RBI single by Gary Woods. Philadelphia's Greg Luzinski essentially 
decided the game in the sixth when he homered after Pete Rose had singled. 
This was the only home run of the entire series. The Phillies added another 
run in the seventh on a run-scoring single by pinch-hitter Greg Gross. 
Tug McGraw relieved Carlton at the start of the eighth and allowed only 
a walk over the last two innings for the save. Despite pitching fairly 
well in a complete game effort, Forsch took the loss. The Astros arrived 
in Philadelphia only hours before the first pitch after defeating the Los 
Angeles Dodgers at Dodger Stadium in a one-game playoff the previous afternoon 
to win the Western Division championship. It was the fourth consecutive 
game in Los Angeles for the club, as the Dodgers swept Houston in the final 
three games of the regular season to force the playoff. This was the first 
home postseason win for the Phillies since the 1915 World Series. Wednesday, 
October 8, 1980 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Houston 
evened the series in Game 2, a seesaw contest that would prove typical 
of the series as a whole. Houston opened the scoring in the third when 
Terry Puhl singled home Craig Reynolds after a sacrifice bunt by Nolan 
Ryan. The Phillies took the lead with two runs in the fourth on RBIs from 
Greg Luzinski and Garry Maddox. Houston evened the score in the seventh 
when Ryan walked and was doubled home by Puhl, and went ahead in the eighth 
after Joe Morgan doubled and scored on a single by José Cruz. After loading 
the bases in the seventh but failing to score, the Phillies got a run in 
the eighth to tie the game 3–3 when Maddox singled home pinch-runner Lonnie 
Smith. The Astros went 1-2-3 in the ninth but the Phillies loaded the bases 
with one out in their half of the inning on singles by Bake McBride, Mike 
Schmidt and Smith. But Manny Trillo, who would eventually win the series 
MVP award, struck out and Maddox fouled out to end the threat. The tenth 
inning turned disastrous for the Phillies as Houston used three hits to 
score four runs, with an RBI single by Cruz, a run-scoring groundout by 
César Cedeño, and a two-run triple by Dave Bergman. The Phillies got an 
unearned run in the bottom of the inning on an error by Reynolds at shortstop. 
But Astros reliever Joaquín Andújar came in and held on for the save to 
tie the series at 1-1. Friday, October 10, 1980 at Astrodome in Houston, 
Texas Houston's Astrodome was always known as a pitcher's park, and the 
domed stadium lived up to its reputation when the series moved there for 
Game 3. The two teams' pitching staffs combined to yield only thirteen 
hits and one run in the game's eleven innings. Houston's Joe Niekro pitched 
ten strong innings but missed out on what would have been a win, while 
Phillies closer Tug McGraw took the loss. Both teams did get men to third 
on a few occasions: Houston in the first and fourth and Philadelphia in 
the third. But the staffs held firm until the bottom of the eleventh. Joe 
Morgan led off the inning for the Astros with a triple to right. After 
two intentional walks Denny Walling hit a sacrifice fly to bring home the 
game's only run and give Houston the victory. The Astros were now just 
one win away from the franchise's first-ever appearance in the World Series. 
Saturday, October 11, 1980 at Astrodome in Houston, Texas In what was by 
now a familiar pattern, Game 4 turned into a back-and-forth contest that 
wasn't decided until extra innings. The fourth inning of this game was 
especially eventful. In the top, Bake McBride and Manny Trillo opened with 
back-to-back singles off Vern Ruhle. Garry Maddox then hit a low liner 
back to the mound that Ruhle reached down and appeared to catch (replays 
were inconclusive). At first, plate umpire Doug Harvey signaled "no catch", 
but then when Ruhle threw to first baseman Art Howe to either double off 
Trillo or retire Maddox (according to the call), Harvey called time to 
confer with the other umpires. Ed Vargo and Bob Engel concurred that Ruhle 
caught the ball, and Harvey changed his ruling. Howe, seeing McBride at 
third base, then ran down and touched second for an apparent triple play 
as Phillies manager Dallas Green and the Phillie infielders (especially 
Pete Rose) heatedly protested that Ruhle trapped the ball. Meanwhile, Harvey 
allowed McBride to return to second (determining that his original ruling 
of "no catch" was what caused McBride to run to third) and declared Trillo 
out from being doubled off first. Astros manager Bill Virdon protested 
that decision, but to no avail. The umpires then consulted with National 
League President Chub Feeney, who was seated in the first row behind home 
plate, and Feeney agreed with the ruling. Green and the Phillies then resumed 
their heated disagreement, and both the Phillies and the Astros decided 
to play the game under protest. After a total of 20 minutes worth of arguing 
from both sides, it hardly mattered as Larry Bowa grounded out for the 
third out. The bottom of the fourth featured two fielding gaffes by Phillie 
left fielder Lonnie Smith as the Astros got their first. Enos Cabell doubled 
to left on what appeared to be a catchable fly ball. Smith mistakenly turned 
to face the left field wall as if the ball would carom, but the ball instead 
dropped on the warning track a few feet away from him. After Joe Morgan 
grounded Cabell to third, Gary Woods walked. Howe then hit a fly ball to 
left that Smith caught as both runners tagged. As Smith attempted to throw 
home to retire Cabell, the ball slipped from his hand and Cabell scored. 
Woods reached second and attempted to advance to third on the miscue, but 
Smith recovered the ball and threw him out on a close play as the Astros 
protested once again. The Astros got another run in the fifth as Luis Pujols 
tripled and scored on a single by Rafael Landestoy. In what would prove 
to be critical failings, the Astros loaded the bases in both the sixth 
and seventh but couldn't add to their lead. In the sixth, a run for the 
Astros was taken off the board when Woods left third base too early on 
a sacrifice fly attempt and the Phillies successfully appealed. The Phillies 
took advantage by going ahead with three runs in the eighth. Pinch-hitter 
Greg Gross and Smith opened the inning with singles off Ruhle and Rose 
singled in Gross on a close play at the plate. Smith advanced to third 
and Rose to second on the throw home. Mike Schmidt then beat out a grounder 
up the middle, scoring Smith to tie it and moving Rose to third. After 
McBride struck out, Trillo hit a sinking line drive that Jeffrey Leonard 
made a shoestring catch on and Rose tagged and scored the go-ahead run. 
However, on yet another "catch/no catch" controversy, Schmidt was doubled 
off first (ending the inning), thinking Leonard trapped the ball. The Astros 
didn't go quietly and leveled the score in the bottom of the ninth on an 
RBI single by Terry Puhl. But the tenth was ruinous for Houston. The Phillies' 
Greg Luzinski doubled home Rose with the go-ahead run on a close play at 
the plate where Rose ran over Astros catcher Bruce Bochy. Manny Trillo 
then singled home Luzinski with an insurance tally. The Astros went 1-2-3 
in the bottom of the tenth, and the series was tied. Game 4 of the series 
was a Saturday afternoon affair that ran into the early evening of October 
11. A NCAA football game between the University of Houston and Texas A&M 
had been scheduled to begin at 7:00 p.m. Rather than move the game to a 
different day or to another stadium, the schools elected to play the game 
at the Astrodome as scheduled. The conversion of the Astrodome from baseball 
to football took several hours and the football game did not kick off until 
11:33 p.m. The game ended at 2:41 a.m. with the Houston Cougars taking 
a 17–13 victory over Texas A&M. The Astrodome crew then began work on converting 
the Dome back to a baseball setup for Game 5 of the NLCS. Sunday, October 
12, 1980 at Astrodome in Houston, Texas Game 5 capped the series in fitting 
fashion, with seemingly endless surprises and excitement. The Astros jumped 
to an early lead in the first on a run-scoring double by José Cruz. Philadelphia 
bounced back to take the lead on a two-run single by Bob Boone in the second. 
The Astros saw Luis Pujols and Enos Cabell thrown out at the plate in the 
second and fifth, but finally broke through to tie the game 2–2 on an unearned 
run in the sixth, due to an error by Philadelphia's LF Greg Luzinski. Houston 
took what seemed like a solid 5–2 lead in the seventh on an RBI single 
by Denny Walling, a wild pitch from Phillies reliever Larry Christenson, 
and a run-scoring triple by Art Howe. A three run deficit in the eighth 
inning against Nolan Ryan seemed insurmountable. But the Phillies would 
not die. They loaded the bases with nobody out on three straight singles, 
including an infield hit by Bob Boone and a bunt single by Greg Gross. 
Two runs came in on a walk to Pete Rose and a groundout by Keith Moreland. 
An RBI single by Del Unser tied the game 5–5, and then series MVP Manny 
Trillo put the Phillies ahead with a two-run triple. The Astros promptly 
came back to tie the game in the bottom of the eighth, with Rafael Landestoy 
and José Cruz each singling in a run. Neither team scored in the ninth, 
but the Phillies got doubles from Unser and Garry Maddox in the tenth to 
take an 8–7 lead. Philadelphia's Dick Ruthven retired the Astros in order 
in the bottom of the tenth the last out being a soft liner to Maddox, and 
the Phillies had won their first pennant since 1950, while the Astros had 
to wait 25 years before they would make a World Series appearance. Philadelphia 
went on to defeat the Kansas City Royals four games to two in the World 
