The 1980 World Series matched the Philadelphia Phillies against the Kansas 
City Royals, with the Phillies winning in six games to capture the first 
of two World Series titles in franchise history to date. The series concluded 
after Game 6, which ended with Tug McGraw striking out Willie Wilson at 
11:29 pm on October 21, 1980. Wilson set a World Series record by striking 
out twelve times (after getting 230 hits in the regular season) in the 
six-game set. Game 6 is also significant because it stands as the "most-watched 
game in World Series history" with a television audience of 54.9 million 
viewers.[1] The Kansas City Royals became the second expansion team, and 
the first American League expansion team, to appear in the World Series. 
The AL would have to wait until 1985 before one of their expansion teams—the 
Royals themselves—would win a World Series. This was the first World Series 
played entirely on artificial turf. This was also the first World Series 
since 1920, and the last to date, in which neither team had won a World 
Series before. With their victory, the Phillies became the final team out 
of the original sixteen MLB teams to win a World Series. However, a Philadelphia 
team had won a World Series before, the last being the Philadelphia Athletics 
in 1930, exactly a half-century before this Series; in a twist of fate, 
the Athletics would play thirteen years in Kansas City before eventually 
settling in Oakland. The Philadelphia Phillies won the National League 
East division by one game over the Montreal Expos then defeated the Houston 
Astros, three games to two, to win the National League Championship Series. 
The Kansas City Royals won the American League West division by fourteen 
games over the Oakland Athletics then swept the New York Yankees for the 
American League pennant. Two first-year managers, Dallas Green of the Phillies 
and Jim Frey of the Royals, found themselves with an opportunity to do 
what no other manager had done before them, win a first World Championship 
for their respective clubs. This was the first appearance for the Phillies 
since losing to the New York Yankees in the 1950 Series and just their 
third overall, having lost also to the Boston Red Sox in 1915. The Royals 
entered the league as an expansion team in 1969. They had early success 
under the leadership of Whitey Herzog, winning their division from 1976 
to 1978, but each year they would lose to the New York Yankees in the American 
League Championship Series, exacting revenge with a sweep of the Yankees 
in the 1980 ALCS. The Phillies had a strikingly similar run entering this 
Series, as they were also divisional winners from 1976 to 1978, losing 
to the Cincinnati Reds in 1976 NLCS and the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1977 
and 1978, before regrouping in 1980 and triumphing over the Houston Astros 
in the League Championship Series. The Phillies seemed to have it all, 
including eventual 1980 Most Valuable Player, third-baseman Mike Schmidt 
(48 HR, 121 RBI, .286 BA) and Cy Young Award winner, lefty Steve Carlton 
(24–9, 2.34 ERA). This mostly veteran club finished between first and third 
in almost all offensive categories in the National League. Thirty-nine-year-old 
Pete Rose led the club in hits (185) and doubles (42), while speedsters 
center fielder Garry Maddox and utility outfielder Lonnie Smith combined 
for 68 steals. The pitching staff was just good enough, led by Carlton 
and 17-game-winner Dick Ruthven. In the bullpen was the ever enthusiastic 
screwballer Tug McGraw, who was making his third trip to the Series, having 
ridden the bench with the New York Mets, winning in 1969 and losing in 
1973. Third time was the charm for both the cheerleading McGraw and the 
bad-luck Phillies.[citation needed] The Royals had a Most Valuable Player 
of their own in the indomitable superstar, third-baseman George Brett, 
who flirted with the sacred .400 mark all summer with an average above 
.400 as late as September 19, before settling for a .390 batting average. 
The unquestioned heart and soul of the Royals was surrounded by a solid 
corps including veteran Royals, Amos Otis, super-designated-hitter, Hal 
McRae, solid second-baseman, Frank White and switch-hitter Willie Wilson 
who finished the season with 230 hits and 79 stolen bases. The pitching 
staff had six players with ten or more wins, led by twenty-game-winner 
Dennis Leonard (20–11, 3.79) and left-hander Larry Gura (18–10, 2.95). 
Submariner Dan Quisenberry won twelve games out of the bullpen and accumulated 
33 saves, tied for best in the American League with Rich Gossage.[2] NL 
Philadelphia Phillies (4) vs. AL Kansas City Royals (2) The Royals jumped 
on Phillies rookie starter Bob Walk (who became the first rookie to start 
the first game of a World Series since Joe Black of the Brooklyn Dodgers 
in 1952) early with a pair of two-run bombs, one by Amos Otis in the second 
and another by Willie Aikens in the third. In their half of the third, 
the Phils rallied to take the lead, with the key blow coming on a three-run 
homer by Bake McBride. They would add two more runs late to extend their 
lead. Despite Aikens' hitting another two-run homer to cut the lead to 
one, Tug McGraw was able to hold on for a 7–6 Phillies victory. Prior to 
1980, the Phillies had not won a World Series game since Game 1 of the 
1915 World Series against the Boston Red Sox.[citation needed] Game 2 was 
a pitchers' duel between left-handers Larry Gura and Steve Carlton. Carlton 
looked in control up 2–1 until, acting on a complaint from Kansas City 
manager Jim Frey that Carlton was using a foreign substance on the ball, 
the umpires made Carlton wash his hands.[9] Carlton then loaded the bases 
on three walks and Amos Otis ripped a double into the left-field corner 
to drive in two, setting up a third score. Down 4–2, the Phillies rallied 
to go up on the Royals in the eighth. The big hits in this inning came 
on an RBI double by Del Unser and a game-tying RBI single by Bake McBride 
past the drawn-in infield. Mike Schmidt drove in the go-ahead run with 
a double off the right-center-field wall and Keith Moreland added an insurance 
run. Ron Reed picked up the save in the ninth as Philadelphia went up 2–0 
heading to Kansas City.[citation needed] George Brett had to have minor 
surgery after Game 2. In Game 3, a fully recovered Brett hit a home run 
as his Royals wound up winning in ten innings by the score of 4–3.[citation 
needed] K.C. got back in the series with a thrilling extra inning victory 
in Game 3. George Brett began the scoring with a blast into the right-field 
stands in the first. Amos Otis gave the Royals a 3–2 lead in the seventh 
with a home run but Mike Schmidt tied it with a homer of his own in the 
eighth. The game headed into extra innings and in the bottom of the tenth, 
Willie Aikens drove in Willie Wilson with a double to left-center for the 
game-winning run.[citation needed] A beautiful Saturday afternoon was the 
setting for Game 4. The Royals jumped all over Phillies starter Larry Christenson 
in the bottom of the first. Willie Wilson doubled, George Brett tripled 
him in, and Willie Aikens smashed his third homer of the series. The onslaught 
continued when Amos Otis doubled in Hal McRae to give the Royals a 4–0 
lead right out of the gate. Aikens would add another blast an inning later 
and despite the Phils' attempt at another comeback, the Royals would triumph 
5–3. Aikens became the first player in World Series history to have a pair 
of two-homer games. Despite the Royals victory, Game 4 is best remembered 
for Dickie Noles' fourth-inning brushback pitch under Brett's chin that 
ultimately prompted the umpires to issue warnings to each team. Brett told 
Baseball Digest in March 1998 that he had "no idea if that [brushback pitch 
by Noles] turned the Series around. All I know is we lost." Mike Schmidt, 
in his book Clearing The Bases, called it "the greatest brushback in World 
Series history." Aikens later said that he had been expecting it to happen 
to him, in retaliation for his two home runs.[10] Game 5 would be the pivotal 
game as the Phillies went up 3 games to 2. The game was scoreless until 
the fourth when Mike Schmidt hit a two-run bomb to right-center. The red-hot 
Amos Otis led the Royals back with another homer, and by the sixth, K.C. 
was in front 3–2. After the Phillies threw out a K.C. runner at the plate 
to keep the game a one-run affair, they marched to victory by coming back 
in the ninth. Schmidt led off the inning with a single, and Del Unser drove 
him home all the way from first with a double down the right-field line. 
After a bunt moved Unser to third, Manny Trillo drove in the go-ahead run 
with a line shot that ricocheted off pitcher Dan Quisenberry for an infield 
hit. In the bottom of the ninth, the Royals threatened by loading the bases 
with two out. The Royals Stadium crowd were standing hoping for a dramatic 
K.C. win. But Tug McGraw silenced the crowd by striking out José Cardenal 
with a high fastball to end the game.[citation needed] Game 6 would be 
the culmination of the first Phillies championship ever. Philadelphia scored 
two in the third on a Mike Schmidt single. It was all that Steve Carlton 
and Tug McGraw would need for the 4–1 win. Kansas City threatened by loading 
the bases in the eighth and the ninth. However, in the final frame, a foul 
popup by Frank White near the first base dugout came out of Phillies catcher 
Bob Boone's glove only to be caught by Pete Rose, who came right by Boone's 
side. Then McGraw struck out Willie Wilson for the third and final out. 
It was the 12th time Wilson struck out in this Series, setting a new World 
Series record. The previous mark had been eleven, jointly held by Eddie 
Mathews and Wayne Garrett in 1958 and 1973, respectively. Ryan Howard would 
break Wilson's record by striking out 13 times in the 2009 World Series, 
ironically on a Phillies team which lost to the New York Yankees.[citation 
needed] Boone's knees were so sore by the end of the World Series that 
he could barely make it to the mound after the final out was recorded.[citation 
needed] When the modern-day World Series began in 1903, the National and 
American Leagues each had eight teams. With their victory in the 1980 World 
Series, the Phillies became the last of the "Original Sixteen" franchises 
to win a Series (although it should be noted that the St. Louis Browns 
never won a Series in St. Louis, having to wait until 1966, twelve years 
after they had become the Baltimore Orioles).[citation needed] While Mike 
Schmidt was the official MVP of the 1980 World Series, the Babe Ruth Award 
(another World Series MVP) was given to Tug McGraw.[citation needed] 1980 
World Series (4–2): Philadelphia Phillies (N.L.) over Kansas City Royals 
(A.L.) NBC broadcast the Series on television, with play-by-play announcer 
Joe Garagiola, color commentators Tony Kubek and Tom Seaver, and field 
reporter Merle Harmon. Bryant Gumbel anchored the pre- and post-game shows, 
while former pitching great Bob Gibson and umpire Ron Luciano also contributed 
to NBC's coverage. CBS Radio also carried the Series nationally, with Vin 
Scully handling the play-by-play and Sparky Anderson the color commentary. 
Win Elliot anchored the pre- and post-game shows for the network. At this 
time CBS Radio held total broadcast exclusivity for the World Series, including 
in each team's market. Thousands of Phillies fans were outraged that they 
could not hear local team announcers Harry Kalas and Richie Ashburn call 
the games. They deluged the team, the networks, and the Commissioner's 
office with angry letters and petitions. The following year Major League 
Baseball changed its broadcast contract to allow the flagship radio stations 
for participating World Series teams to produce and air their own local 
Series broadcasts. The CBS Radio feed could potentially be heard in those 
markets on another station which held CBS's rights.[12][13] When the Phillies 
next won a World Series, in 2008, Kalas was able to make the call of the 
final out. This Series is tied with the 1978 World Series for the highest 
overall television ratings to date, with the six games averaging a Nielsen 
rating of 32.8 and a share of 56.[14] Minutes after the final out, Pennsylvania 
Governor Dick Thornburgh issued a proclamation declaring the next day "Philadelphia 
Phillies Day" in the state.[15][16] That day, a parade down Broad Street 
celebrated the Phillies win.[17] About half a million attended the parade, 
the first ticker-tape parade down Broad Street since the Flyers won the 
Stanley Cup in 1975,[17] as it made its way to John F. Kennedy Stadium.[17] 
Another 800,000 gathered around the stadium.[17] The parade was part of 
a day of statewide celebrations throughout Pennsylvania, per Thornburgh's 
proclamation.[17] In 1980, all four of Philadelphia's major professional 
sports teams played for the championship of their respective sports, but 
only the Phillies were victorious. The Sixers lost to the Los Angeles Lakers 
in mid-May, eight days later the Flyers lost to the New York Islanders, 
and the Eagles would lose to the Oakland Raiders in Super Bowl XV in January 
1981.[citation needed] Soon after the World Series, members of both teams 
played for a week on Family Feud with host Richard Dawson. The week of 
shows was billed as a World Series Rematch Week. The Phillies won three 
out of the five games played, with all the money going to charity.[citation 
needed] The 1980 World Series was the first of numerous World Series that 
journeyman outfielder Lonnie Smith (then with the Phillies) participated 
in. He was also a part of the 1982 World Series (as a member of the St. 
Louis Cardinals), 1985 World Series (as a member of the Kansas City Royals), 
and the 1991 and 1992 World Series as a member of the Atlanta Braves. The 
two Braves seasons were the only years in which he played for the losing 
team in the Series.[citation needed] Three men who played in the 1980 Series 
(John Vukovich, Dan Quisenberry, and Tug McGraw) have died of brain cancer. 
(Bobby Murcer and Johnny Oates, who played for the New York Yankees against 
the Royals in that year's ALCS, also succumbed to the disease, as did 1980 
Yankees manager Dick Howser, who also managed the Royals to the 1985 World 
Series title, and Ken Brett, who pitched for Kansas City in the 1980–81 
regular seasons.) Royals pitcher Paul Splittorff died of melanoma and oral 
