The 1981 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
1981 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 6, and ended on 
Sunday, October 11. The Division Series were created on August 6 in response 
to the 1981 Major League Baseball strike, which caused the cancellation 
of roughly one-third of the regular season between June 12 and August 9; 
by the time play was resumed, it was decided that the best approach was 
to have the first-half leaders automatically qualify for postseason play, 
and allow all the teams to begin the second half with a clean slate. The 
first half and second-half champions in both the East and West divisions 
would meet in best-of-five series, with the winners advancing to the AL 
Championship Series (ALCS). If the same team won both halves, a wild card 
team—the second-place team, based on overall record, in the division—would 
qualify for the postseason, but this proved unnecessary in both leagues. 
There were no plans to continue the format in later seasons, although the 
Division Series resumed in 1995 after both major leagues realigned into 
three divisions. The teams in the 1981 ALDS were: The second-half champions 
played the first two games at home, with the first-half champions potentially 
hosting the last three; the first-half champions all posted better records 
in their half of the season than the second-half champions did. The Yankees 
and Athletics went on to meet in the AL Championship Series. The Yankees 
became the American League champion, and lost to the National League champion 
Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1981 World Series. Oakland won the series, 3–0. 
New York won the series, 3–2. Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Mike 
Norris faced Dennis Leonard and the defending AL Champions in Game 1. Both 
pitchers were on their game and the game was scoreless through three innings. 
But in the top of the fourth, the A's got a boost on a three-run home run 
by Wayne Gross. Then Dwayne Murphy's solo homer in the eighth put the game 
away as Norris went on to pitch a four-hit complete game shutout. Royals 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Steve McCatty and Mike Jones dueled in 
Game 2. After giving up an RBI double to Tony Armas in the first, Jones 
settled into a groove and kept the A's from scoring for the next six innings. 
McCatty would give up a run in the bottom of the fifth on Willie Wilson's 
RBI hit. In the eighth, Armas again delivered the game-winning RBI double 
to make it 2–1 A's. McCatty went on to pitch a complete game masterpiece. 
Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California Game 3 pitted Larry 
Gura against Rick Langford. With their backs to the wall, the Royals and 
Gura ran into trouble in the first. Tony Armas would come through once 
again with another RBI hit that scored Rickey Henderson. Then an error 
by Frank White in the third allowed another run to score to make it 2–0 
A's. The Royals would scratch out a run in the fourth on Amos Otis's forceout. 
But in the bottom of fourth the A's scored two runs on a Dave McKay solo 
homer and an RBI double by Dwayne Murphy. Langford would allow only one 
run in 7 1⁄3 innings despite giving up ten hits. Dave Beard would close 
out the series with a save in the ninth. 1981 ALDS (3–0): Oakland Athletics 
over Kansas City Royals County Stadium in Milwaukee, Wisconsin In Game 
1, Ron Guidry faced Moose Haas. In the bottom of the second, the Brewers 
struck first on Charlie Moore's RBI single. Then Robin Yount's sac fly 
made it 2–0 in the third. But the Yankees would break through and take 
the lead for good in the fourth. Designated hitter Oscar Gamble tied the 
game with a two-run homer. Then the Yanks would take the lead on a two-run 
double by Rick Cerone. But the Brewers would cut the lead in half with 
an RBI single by Ted Simmons. In the ninth, the Yankees managed to score 
a pivotal run off Rollie Fingers. The run scored due to an error by Yount. 
Goose Gossage shut the door in the ninth. County Stadium in Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin Dave Righetti faced Mike Caldwell in Game 2. The Brewers needed 
to win this game to stay in contention and it certainly looked good with 
Caldwell having allowed only run in the fourth on Lou Piniella's homer. 
But the decision to allow Caldwell pitch the ninth proved costly as he 
surrendered a two-run homer to Reggie Jackson. Dave Winfield collected 
three hits while Righetti pitched a dominant four-hit shutout for six innings 
and Goose Gossage got his second consecutive save. Yankee Stadium in Bronx, 
New York Randy Lerch faced Tommy John, who was looking to end the series 
with a sweep. Both pitchers were on their game and John got a run in the 
fourth thanks to Bob Watson's RBI hit. The Yankees were closing in on a 
sweep in the seventh when the Brewers came back. Ted Simmons gave the Brewers 
the lead thanks to his two-run homer. Then Sal Bando's RBI hit made it 
3–1. The Yankees would waste little time in responding as back-to-back 
RBI singles tied the game in the bottom of the seventh. But Paul Molitor's 
leadoff homer in the eighth seemed to turn the tide as John then allowed 
a single to Robin Yount. His night was done but Simmons came through once 
again with an RBI double to make it 5–3 Brewers. Rollie Fingers won in 
relief and slammed the door on the Yankees in the ninth. The Brewers' win 
in Game 3 was their first ever postseason win. Yankee Stadium in Bronx, 
New York Having taken Game 3, the Brewers looked to Pete Vuckovich to take 
Game 4. Opposing him would be Rick Reuschel. In the top of the fourth, 
the Brewers jumped in front 2–0 on a sac fly by Cecil Cooper and an RBI 
double by Ben Oglivie. The Yankees would get a run in the sixth on a fielder's 
choice by Lou Piniella. The Yankees would get chances in the seventh and 
ninth to win the series but Rollie Fingers escaped with the save and evened 
the series at two games apiece. Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York No team 
had ever come back down two games to none with the first two losses at 
home. The Yankees started Ron Guidry while the Brewers went with Moose 
Haas. Guidry allowed single runs in the 2nd and 3rd on Gorman Thomas' solo 
homer and Cecil Cooper's sac fly, respectively. The Yankees looked helpless 
until the bottom of the fourth. Reggie Jackson's titanic two-run home run 
in the fourth tied the game. Oscar Gamble followed Jackson's homer with 
a solo homer to give the Yankees a 3–2 lead. A forceout later in the inning 
scored Graig Nettles to make it 4–2. Dave Righetti relieved Guidry after 
the 4th and held the Brewers in check. MIlwaukee would strike in the seventh 
on Cooper's second RBI of the game to close the gap. That was as close 
as they would get. Rick Cerone's homer in the seventh made it 5–3. The 
Brewers mounted a threat in the eighth. After recording two quick outs 
Goose Gossage walked Bando and Howell before getting Don Money to fly out 
to deep left. A double and a sac fly put the series away as the Yankees 
took a commanding 7–3 lead to the ninth. Gossage shut the Brewers out in 
the ninth for his third save of the series and to keep a historical collapse 
from happening. 1981 ALDS (3–2): New York Yankees over Milwaukee Brewers 
