The 1981 National League Championship Series was a best-of-five series 
between the first-half West Division champion Los Angeles Dodgers and the 
second-half East Division champion Montreal Expos. The Dodgers won the 
NLCS three games to two over the Expos, thanks to a ninth-inning home run 
in Game 5 by Rick Monday in what has ever since been referred to as Blue 
Monday by Expos fans. It was the first postseason appearance for the Expos, 
and their only appearance during their time in Montreal (the team moved 
to Washington, D.C. in 2005, becoming the Washington Nationals). Due to 
the 1981 Major League Baseball strike, a team had to win two postseason 
series in order to go to the World Series. Teams that finished first in 
their division in the first and second halves of the season advanced to 
the postseason. This was the first year the baseball postseason had three 
rounds, an arrangement that would become permanent beginning with the 1995 
season. The Expos advanced to the NLCS after defeating the defending world 
champion Philadelphia Phillies in the NL Division Series three games to 
two, and the Dodgers made their way to the NLCS after beating the Houston 
Astros three games to two in the NLDS. This was also only the third NLCS 
that did not feature either the Phillies or their cross-state rival Pittsburgh 
Pirates, the other two being 1973 and 1969. In both of those years the 
Phillies rival New York Mets won the NL East and the pennant, beating the 
Baltimore Orioles in the '69 World Series and losing to the Oakland A's 
in '73. Los Angeles won the series, 3–2. Tuesday, October 13, 1981 at Dodger 
Stadium in Los Angeles The Dodgers took the first game of the series behind 
the strong pitching of starter Burt Hooton. For the first seven innings 
the game stayed close, with the only scoring coming in the second inning 
when the Dodgers got two runs on an RBI double by Ron Cey and a squeeze 
bunt by Bill Russell. Hooton and reliever Bob Welch made the 2–0 lead stand 
up until the eighth when the Dodgers broke the game open with three more 
runs on back-to-back homers by Pedro Guerrero and Mike Scioscia. The Expos 
got one run back in the ninth when Larry Parrish doubled home Gary Carter. 
But reliever Steve Howe came on for the Dodgers and got the final three 
outs to preserve Los Angeles' victory. Wednesday, October 14, 1981 at Dodger 
Stadium in Los Angeles Montreal's Ray Burris almost single-handedly evened 
the series with a masterful complete game shutout in Game 2. The Dodgers 
managed only five singles against Burris, and their only real threats, 
in the sixth and ninth, were foiled by double plays. Typically in what 
would be a very low-scoring series, the Expos didn't do much more hitting 
against Dodger starter Fernando Valenzuela. But Montreal did manage to 
push across two runs in the second on RBI hits by Warren Cromartie and 
Tim Raines. Montreal added another run in the sixth, aided by Dusty Baker's 
error in left. Burris did the rest to notch his 3–0 victory. Friday, October 
16, 1981 at Olympic Stadium in Montreal, Quebec Montreal got another superb 
pitching performance in Game 3, this time from Steve Rogers, to take a 
2–1 lead in the series. Rogers allowed only a single run on a Ron Cey groundout 
after singles by Dusty Baker and Steve Garvey in the fourth. For a while 
it looked like Dodger starter Jerry Reuss might make that 1–0 score hold 
up. But Montreal finally rallied for four runs in the sixth on a run-scoring 
single by Larry Parrish and a three-run homer by Jerry White. Rogers easily 
preserved the 4–1 lead over the final three innings, and Montreal was now 
only one victory away from the World Series. Saturday, October 17, 1981 
at Olympic Stadium in Montreal, Quebec For the first seven innings Game 
4 followed the usual pattern of the series, with dominant performances 
from both starting pitchers. Montreal's Bill Gullickson allowed an unearned 
run in the third, after Bill Russell reached on Larry Parrish's error and 
scored on Dusty Baker's double. Los Angeles' Burt Hooton gave up the game-tying 
run in the fourth on another unearned tally, when Gary Carter reached on 
Ron Cey's error and scored on a single by Warren Cromartie. The starters 
yielded nothing more until the eighth, when Steve Garvey's two-run homer 
put the Dodgers up 3–1 and chased Gullickson. The Dodgers blew the game 
open with four more runs in the ninth, highlighted by Baker's two-run single. 
Hooton finally tired in the eighth but the Dodger bullpen got the last 
five outs and the series was even. Monday, October 19, 1981 at Olympic 
Stadium in Montreal, Quebec After a rainout (actually a snow/cold out) 
on Sunday, October 18, the Montreal ballpark was only two-thirds full for 
Game 5 on a cold and drizzly Monday afternoon, which turned out to be the 
series' most dramatic contest. As usual in the series, the starting pitchers 
dominated, with the Dodgers' Fernando Valenzuela and the Expos' Ray Burris 
matching zeros for most of the game. Montreal broke on top with a single 
run in the first when Tim Raines led off with a double and eventually scored 
on a double play. The 1–0 lead held until the fifth when the Dodgers tied 
the game after Rick Monday singled, went to third on a Pedro Guerrero single, 
and scored on a groundout. Burris finally left the game in the eighth when 
the Expos pinch-hit for him. Montreal brought on their ace Steve Rogers 
to pitch the ninth, and with two out in the inning, he gave up a solo homer 
to Monday on a 3–1 count to put the Dodgers up 2–1. The Expos got a couple 
of two-out walks in the bottom of the ninth off Valenzuela, but Bob Welch 
came on to get the final out and send the Dodgers to the World Series. 
It would take another 31 seasons until the Expos returned to the postseason 
again as the Washington Nationals. The date came to be known as Blue Monday 
by Expos fans.[6][7] Dave Van Horne described it as the low point for the 
team.[8] 1981 NLCS (3–2): Los Angeles Dodgers over Montreal Expos The Dodgers 
went on to defeat the New York Yankees four games to two in the 1981 World 
Series. This would be the Expos' only postseason appearance—in a coincidental 
twist, their best subsequent opportunity prior to the team moving to Washington, 
D.C. was also during a strike-shortened season: when the 1994 season prematurely 
