The 1981 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
1981 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 6, and ended on 
Sunday, October 11. The Division Series were created on August 6 in response 
to the 1981 Major League Baseball strike, which caused the cancellation 
of roughly one-third of the regular season between June 12 and August 9; 
by the time play was resumed, it was decided that the best approach was 
to have the first-half leaders automatically qualify for postseason play, 
and allow all the teams to begin the second half with a clean slate. The 
first half and second-half champions in both the East and West divisions 
would meet in best-of-five series, with the winners advancing to the NL 
Championship Series (NLCS). If the same team won both halves, a wild card 
team – the second-place team from both halves combined – would qualify 
for the postseason, but this proved unnecessary in both leagues. There 
were no plans to continue the format in later seasons, although the Division 
Series resumed in 1995 after both major leagues realigned into three divisions. 
The teams in the 1981 NLDS were: The second-half champions played the first 
two games at home, with the first-half champions hosting the last three; 
the first-half champions all posted better records in their half of the 
season than the second-half champions did. The results of the format were 
highly controversial, as the Cincinnati Reds failed to qualify for the 
postseason despite having the best record in baseball (66–42) over the 
full season (they lost 101 games the following year); the St. Louis Cardinals, 
with the NL's second-best record (59–43), were also left out. The Reds 
had finished the first half of the season just a half-game behind the Dodgers, 
while the Cardinals finished the second half just a half-game behind the 
Expos, who were making their first postseason appearance after thirteen 
years of play. Both series went the full five games. The home team won 
every game in both series save for one: Game 5 of the Eastern Division 
series, which Montreal won 3–0 at Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium. The 
Dodgers and Expos went on to meet in the NL Championship Series. The Dodgers 
became the National League champion, and defeated the American League champion 
New York Yankees in the 1981 World Series. Los Angeles won the series, 
3–2. Montreal won the series, 3–2. Astrodome in Houston, Texas Fernando 
Valenzuela faced Nolan Ryan, a matchup worthy of a pitcher's duel. The 
game remained scoreless until the bottom of the sixth. Tony Scott singled 
home Terry Puhl to score the game's first run, but Steve Garvey tied the 
game with a solo home run in the top of the seventh. The game would remain 
1–1 into the bottom of the ninth. Dave Stewart retired the first two men, 
but surrendered a single to Craig Reynolds and Alan Ashby stepped to the 
plate. He then slugged a two-run walk-off home run to end the game. Astrodome 
in Houston, Texas Jerry Reuss was pitted against Joe Niekro. Both pitchers 
kept the game scoreless, but both teams had trouble scoring runs when they 
managed to get men on. Reuss pitched nine innings and Niekro eight. It 
remained 0–0 until the bottom of the eleventh. Dave Stewart was brought 
in once again, although having lost the last game. He surrendered back-to-back 
singles to open the inning. He was taken out and the bases were loaded 
thanks to an intentional walk to César Cedeño. The bullpen had managed 
to get two outs but pinch hitter Denny Walling hit the game winner, a single 
to right field. Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles Houston was now one win away 
from winning their first ever postseason series and moving one step closer 
to the franchise's first pennant. However, Burt Hooton was there to stop 
the streaking Astros against Bob Knepper. Hooton held the Astros to three 
hits over seven innings and the bullpen held them to no hits through the 
last two innings. After an RBI double by Dusty Baker, Steve Garvey hit 
a two-run homer to make it 3–0 in the bottom of the first. Art Howe would 
drive the only run of the game for the Astros by hitting a leadoff solo 
home run in the third. The Dodgers would add insurance in the eighth to 
win by a final score of 6–1. Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles Fernando Valenzuela 
would take the hill for the Dodgers once again, this time against Vern 
Ruhle. Both pitchers would pitch complete games for their respective teams. 
Eventual co-World Series MVP Pedro Guerrero got the Dodgers on the board 
first with a solo homer in the bottom of the fifth. Bill Russell would 
drive in the potential winning run in the bottom of the seventh with an 
RBI single. A two-out RBI single in the ninth would be all the Astros would 
get as the Dodgers won Game 4 2–1. Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles Nolan 
Ryan was brought in on clinching day to win the Astros their first ever 
postseason series. Opposing him would be Jerry Reuss, who had pitched so 
well in Game 2. Thanks to a few walks and an error, the Dodgers struck 
for three runs in the bottom of the sixth. A two-out triple by Steve Garvey 
made it 4–0 Dodgers in the seventh. In the end, Reuss went the distance 
again and pitched a brilliant five-hit shutout to put the Dodgers in the 
1981 National League Championship Series. In addition, the Dodgers avenged 
their loss to the Astros the previous year in a one-game playoff for the 
NL West title. 1981 NLDS (3–2): Los Angeles Dodgers over Houston Astros 
Olympic Stadium in Montreal, Quebec In the other division series, the Expos, 
making their first and only playoff appearance in Montreal (they would 
make the playoffs again 31 years later, as the Washington Nationals), would 
have to defeat the defending World Champions, the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Steve Rogers faced Steve Carlton in Game 1 in Montreal, the first-ever 
MLB postseason game played outside the United States. A Gary Carter double 
scored the first Expo run in postseason history in the first. But the Phillies 
wasted no time in responding. Keith Moreland homered to lead off the second. 
The game was tied at one. A Chris Speier double gave the Expos the lead 
for good. Warren Cromartie would double in the third and final Expo run 
of the game. The score would remain the same. Rogers pitched 8 2⁄3 innings 
and gave up ten hits, but only one run was allowed. Jeff Reardon got the 
final out and the save. This was the Expos' first postseason victory. Olympic 
Stadium in Montreal, Quebec Dick Ruthven was called on to stem the tide 
against Bill Gullickson. Chris Speier's RBI single in the second made it 
1–0 Expos. Then a two-run homer in the third by Gary Carter made it 3–0. 
Gullickson was masterful, allowing only one run and six hits in 7 2⁄3 innings. 
Jeff Reardon got the save for the second consecutive game. Veterans Stadium 
in Philadelphia Ray Burris was called on in the potential clincher against 
Larry Christenson, hoping to keep the Phillies alive. In the second, Chris 
Speier's amazing postseason continued with another RBI single to give the 
Expos the lead. But Manny Trillo's two-run single in the bottom of the 
second gave the Phillies the lead. Two more RBI singles made it 4–1 in 
the sixth. Two more runs for the Phillies in the seventh gave them six 
for the night. The Expos would get another on a sac fly in the seventh 
but the score would remain 6–2 as the Phillies won. Veterans Stadium in 
Philadelphia Arguably the best game of the series took place in Game 4. 
Scott Sanderson started against Dickie Noles. The Phillies jumped out to 
a 2–0 lead in the first on a two-run homer by Mike Schmidt. Keith Moreland's 
two-run single made it 4–0 in the third. But the Expos refused to go quietly. 
Gary Carter homered to lead off the fourth to make it 4–1. A Jerry White 
sac fly made it 4–2 in the fifth. The Expos would tie the game thanks to 
Chris Speier's RBI single and he would later score. Gary Matthews would 
homer to give the Phillies the lead. Gary Carter would double to tie the 
game again in the seventh. In the bottom of the tenth, George Vukovich 
would walk the game off with a leadoff homer off Jeff Reardon. It tied 
the series at two games apiece and set up the clinching Game 5. Veterans 
Stadium in Philadelphia In Game 5, the defending Champions sent their best, 
Steve Carlton, to the mound. Carlton would once again face Steve Rogers. 
Carlton was hoping to avenge his Game 1 loss. Both pitchers kept the game 
scoreless into the fifth inning. A single and two walks loaded the bases 
for Rogers. In what proved to be the series winning hit, Rogers singled 
to center that would score Larry Parrish and Chris Speier. An RBI double 
by Parrish in the sixth made it 3–0. That would be all Rogers would need. 
He allowed only six hits and one walk in a complete game shutout of the 
defending World Champions. His brilliance led the Expos to the NLCS and 
their first ever postseason series win. 1981 NLDS (3–2): Montreal Expos 
