The 1981 World Series matched the New York Yankees against the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, marking their third meeting in the Series in five years as well 
as a record eleventh Series meeting overall and last Series meeting to 
date. The Dodgers won the Series in six games in a reverse carbon copy 
of the last Series meeting between them in 1978, for their first title 
since 1965 and their first victory over the Yankees since 1963 and third 
over them overall. This is the last World Series that a team won after 
losing the first two games on the road. This also was the last meeting 
between teams from New York City and Los Angeles for a major professional 
sports championship until the NHL's Los Angeles Kings and New York Rangers 
reached the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals.[1][2] Due to the players' strike, 
which ran from June 12 to August 8, the 1981 season was split into two 
halves, with the first-place teams from each half in each division (or 
a wild card team if the same club won both halves) meeting in a best-of-five 
divisional playoff series. The four survivors would then move on to the 
two best-of-five League Championship Series. The expanded playoffs led 
to Game 1 of the World Series being pushed back to October 20, the latest 
starting date for a Fall Classic up to that time. In the National League, 
the Dodgers led the National League West prior to the strike. The Houston 
Astros, however, won the second-half division title. The Dodgers then defeated 
the Astros, three games to two, in the National League Division Series 
before beating the Montreal Expos, three games to two, in the National 
League Championship Series. The Yankees, who led the American League East 
in the season's first half, took on the Milwaukee Brewers, winners of the 
second half division title, in the American League Division Series. New 
York was victorious three games to two, then went on to sweep the Oakland 
Athletics in the American League Championship Series. The split-season 
decision was not a popular one, both among teams and their fans. The arrangement 
resulted in teams with the best overall record in either their division 
or league that year, in particular the Cincinnati Reds (the majors' best 
team with 66 wins, 42 losses), being left out of the postseason. The Dodgers 
got to the Series with help from Mexican-born rookie phenom Fernando Valenzuela, 
who won his first eight games including five by shutout. Valenzuela would 
pitch eight shutouts in all and win both the National League's Rookie of 
the Year and Cy Young awards. Joining Valenzuela in the rotation were veterans 
Burt Hooton (11–6, 2.28) and Jerry Reuss (10–4, 2.30). The core of the 
position players remained intact with perennial all-star Steve Garvey at 
first, Davey Lopes at second, Bill Russell at shortstop, and team leader 
in home runs with thirteen, Ron Cey at third. Budding star, Pedro Guerrero, 
would move to the outfield becoming a regular starter for the first time 
in his career, in place of the aging and often injured Reggie Smith. Manager 
Tommy Lasorda was looking for his first World Series win in his fifth full 
season with the Dodgers after losing to the Yankees in 1977 and 1978. The 
Yankees, managed by Bob Lemon (in his second stint, having replaced Gene 
Michael), had a losing second-half (25–26) but won the first-half (34–22) 
to qualify for the playoffs. Ace starter Ron Guidry won eleven games against 
five losses. Rookie Dave Righetti emerged as an important starter, winning 
eight games with a 2.05 ERA. Righetti would win the American League's Rookie 
of the Year award after the season. Reliever Goose Gossage recorded twenty 
saves and an 0.77 ERA, striking out 48 in 47 innings. Dave Winfield was 
signed as a free agent in the off-season, joining Reggie Jackson in the 
outfield, and would lead the club with 25 doubles and 68 RBIs. Winfield's 
huge contract (US$21 million over ten years), along with a strong lineup 
and terrific left-handed starting pitching, which many consider one of 
the greatest teams in Yankee history, was not enough to deny the Dodgers 
their first world championship since 1965. NL Los Angeles Dodgers (4) vs. 
AL New York Yankees (2) †: postponed from October 27 due to rain Bob Watson 
smashed a three-run homer off Jerry Reuss in the first to get the Yankees 
started. Lou Piniella chased Reuss with an RBI single in the third, and 
Dodger reliever Bobby Castillo walked four batters in the fourth to give 
New York a 5–0 lead. Ron Guidry held the Dodgers to four hits and a run 
(on a Steve Yeager homer) through seven innings. Ron Davis gave up two 
in the eighth, but Goose Gossage closed out the win in the ninth. Yankee 
third baseman Graig Nettles suffered a hairline fracture of his left thumb 
when he made a diving stop. The injury caused him to miss Games 3, 4, and 
5, but he played in Games 2 & 6. Former teammates Burt Hooton and Tommy 
John were locked in a scoreless duel until the fifth, when Larry Milbourne 
doubled in Willie Randolph for the only run John would really need. The 
Yankees pushed across two more in the eighth off Steve Howe on a RBI single 
by Bob Watson and a sacrifice fly by Randolph. John pitched seven shutout 
innings, and Goose Gossage closed for his second save in two games. Prior 
to this game, Yankee manager Bob Lemon sat Reggie Jackson. Jackson injured 
himself running the bases in Game 2 of the ALCS and missed the first two 
games of the World Series, but was medically cleared to play Game 3. Jackson 
was not even allowed to pinch-hit. Lemon said he was resting Jackson as 
a precaution and because the Dodgers were starting a left hand pitcher.[citation 
needed] NL Rookie of the Year, pitcher Fernando Valenzuela, lasted the 
entire game despite allowing nine hits and walking seven and constantly 
pitching out of trouble. He walked two Yankee batters in the first, but 
pitched out of it. Ron Cey, meanwhile, provided him a 3–0 lead in the Dodger 
half with a three-run homer off Dave Righetti. The Yankees cut it to 3–2 
in the second on a Bob Watson homer and a Larry Milbourne RBI single. Valenzuela 
stranded two runners in this inning. Rick Cerone gave the Yanks a 4–3 lead 
in the third with a two-run homer, but the Yankees left two on once again. 
Watson led off the fifth with a double, but no one scored as Valenzuela 
pitched out of it again. In both the third and fifth innings, the Dodgers 
were helped by the Yankees' being unable to use a designated hitter (since 
it was used in last season's Series). In both innings, Valenzuela issued 
two-out intentional walks to Larry Milbourne in order to pitch to Dave 
Righetti and George Frazier. Valenzuela struck out the pitchers both times. 
The Dodgers gave Valenzuela the lead back in the bottom of the fifth when 
Pedro Guerrero doubled in Steve Garvey to tie it, and Cey scored on a double 
play grounder by Mike Scioscia. With a lead and the Dodger Stadium crowd 
behind him, Valenzuela appeared to finally settle down. After pinch hitting, 
Valenzuela's regular catcher Mike Scioscia took over behind the plate. 
This seemed to have a calming effect on the rookie, as Scioscia knew Spanish 
and was better able to talk with Valenzuela than Steve Yeager.[9] The Yankees 
mounted their final threat in the eighth when Aurelio Rodríguez and Milbourne 
led off with back-to-back singles. Pinch-hitter Bobby Murcer attempted 
a sacrifice bunt, but popped it foul. Cey dove and caught it, then doubled 
Milbourne off first. Saturday, October 24, 1981 at Dodger Stadium in Los 
Angeles After being held out of game 3, Reggie Jackson was back in the 
starting lineup for this game. The Yankees batters had early success against 
Dodgers pitcher Bob Welch, who faced four batters without recording an 
out before being relieved by Dave Goltz. Willie Randolph led the game off 
with a triple and scored on a Larry Milbourne double. Dave Winfield walked 
and Jackson singled before Goltz gave up a sacrifice fly to Bob Watson. 
Randolph smashed a two-out solo home run in the second and Rick Cerone 
batted in a run with a single in the third for a 4–0 Yankee lead. Yankee 
starter Rick Reuschel then had problems of his own. He allowed an RBI single 
to Davey Lopes and an RBI groundout to Ron Cey in the third before leaving 
in favor of Rudy May. May gave up a double to Steve Garvey and an RBI single 
to Cey in the fifth, but the Yankees countered with two in the sixth on 
RBI singles by Oscar Gamble and Watson off Tom Niedenfuer. With a 6–3 lead, 
the Yankees turned the pitching over to their relief combination of Ron 
Davis and Goose Gossage. Davis had troubles in the sixth. He issued a one-out 
walk to Mike Scioscia and gave up a pinch-hit homer to Jay Johnstone to 
make the score 6–5. Then, Lopes lifted a fly ball to right that Jackson 
lost in the sun and dropped. Lopes reached second and stole third with 
no throw by Cerone three pitches later. Davis then gave up a game-tying 
single to Bill Russell. In the seventh, Dusty Baker led off with an infield 
hit off George Frazier and went to third on a Rick Monday liner that got 
past centerfielder Bobby Brown when he tried to make a shoestring catch. 
Monday reached second. Pedro Guerrero was then walked intentionally. Yankee 
manager Bob Lemon then brought starting pitcher Tommy John out of the bullpen 
instead of Gossage. Steve Yeager, hitting for Scioscia, promptly gave the 
Dodgers the lead when he drove home Baker with a sacrifice fly. Lopes followed 
with an infield single that drove Monday home for an 8–6 lead. Gossage 
never got in the game. Jackson brought the Yankees closer with a home run 
in the eighth off lefty Steve Howe, capping a 3-for-3 day. But Howe was 
able to close out the win, despite Willie Randolph pinning Dodger centerfielder 
Derrell Thomas against the centerfield wall with a deep fly ball. The series 
was now tied 2–2. According to Johnstone's book Temporary Insanity (1985), 
Steinbrenner confronted Davis in the Yankees' locker room after the game 
and demanded, "Why did you throw Johnstone a fastball?" Needing a win to 
stop the Dodgers' momentum in this series, the Yankees trotted out their 
ace, Ron Guidry. Guidry was sharp through six innings, holding the Dodgers 
to two singles. Reggie Jackson, continuing his torrid hitting, helped provide 
Guidry a lead by doubling to left in the second off Jerry Reuss, moving 
to third on a Davey Lopes error, and scoring on an Lou Piniella infield 
single. The game then took a turn in the seventh inning. After fanning 
Dusty Baker, Guidry surrendered back-to-back solo home runs to Pedro Guerrero 
and Steve Yeager. After he had struck out, Baker suggested to Yeager and 
Guerrero that they move up in the batter's box to take away Guidry's late 
breaking slider. Both home runs were hit on sliders almost to the same 
place in left-center. Meanwhile, Reuss was as effective as Guidry, holding 
the Yanks to five hits and the lone run and going the distance. A tense 
moment occurred in the eighth when Goose Gossage beaned Ron Cey. Cey had 
to be helped off the field with a concussion, but was cleared to play Game 
6 after it was delayed one day by rain. This was the latest-ending World 
Series by calendar date up to that time (surpassing the 1911 Series, which 
ended on October 26). Originally scheduled for Tuesday, October 27, Game 
6 was delayed a day by rain. This allowed Bob Lemon to start Tommy John 
opposite Dodger starter Burt Hooton. This also allowed Ron Cey to be in 
the Dodger lineup. Willie Randolph provided John an early lead with a solo 
homer in the third. The Dodgers tied it in the fourth on an RBI single 
by Game 5 hero Steve Yeager. In the bottom of the fourth, Yankee manager 
Bob Lemon made a controversial decision. Graig Nettles led off the inning 
with a double. After Hooton retired the next two batters, he intentionally 
walked Larry Milbourne to face John (there was no designated hitter in 
this series). At that moment, Lemon decided on the very unusual strategy 
to pinch-hit for his starting pitcher in the fourth inning of a 1–1 game. 
As ABC cameras clearly showed, John could not believe the move and paced 
up and down the Yankee dugout in disbelief. Pinch hitter Bobby Murcer flied 
out to end the inning. In his autobiography, "T.J.: My 26 Years in Baseball" 
(1991), John revealed that before the game, Lemon and team owner George 
Steinbrenner settled on the following strategy: get the lead early in the 
game and then protect the lead with the bullpen. John observed that such 
preconceived strategies are impractical in baseball because of the sport's 
many unpredictable variables that come into play during a game. In the 
fifth, George Frazier, who relieved John, gave up an RBI single to Ron 
Cey and a two-run triple to Pedro Guerrero. Frazier would take the loss 
and become the first pitcher to lose three games in a best of seven World 
Series and second pitcher to lose three games in any World Series (the 
first being Lefty Williams, a member of the Chicago White Sox team that 
threw the best of nine 1919 World Series). The Yankee bullpen further collapsed 
in the sixth. Ron Davis issued one-out walks to pitcher Hooton and Davey 
Lopes. Bill Russell singled to short left field, and Hooton unexpectedly 
rounded third and headed home. Dave Winfield stumbled on the wet grass, 
fell forward, and uncorked an errant throw that bounced off the dirt part 
of the infield. Hooton scored standing, and Lemon pulled Davis in favor 
of Rick Reuschel. On Reuschel's second pitch, Lopes and Russell pulled 
a double steal. Reuschel walked Steve Garvey intentionally and gave up 
an RBI force-out to pinch-hitter Derrel Thomas. After Dusty Baker reached 
on an error by Nettles, loading the bases again, Guerrero singled in two 
more runs. Guerrero would cap a five-RBI night, and the Dodgers' World 
Series win, by blasting a solo home run in the eighth. Winfield's throw 
typified his struggles in this, his first World Series. At the plate, he 
went 1-for-22 with one RBI. After the series Steinbrenner issued a public 
apology to the City of New York for his team's performance, while at the 
same time assuring the fans that plans to put the team together for 1982 
would begin immediately.[10][11] The Yankee owner was criticized heartily 
by players and press alike for doing so, as most people felt losing in 
the World Series was not something that needed to be apologized for.[12] 
In addition, Steinbrenner dubbed Winfield "Mr. May" to contrast him with 
Reggie "Mr. October" Jackson. After the final out, Keith Jackson, the play-by-play 
man for ABC Sports that time said: "The Dodgers, are the 1981 champions 
of baseball."[citation needed] For the first time ever, there were co-MVP's 
in this World Series. Cey (.350 avg., 7-for-20, HR, 6 RBIs), Yeager (4-for-14, 
2 HR's), and Guerrero (.333 avg, 7-for-21, 2 HR's, 7 RBIs) would share 
the award. After combining for ten division titles and eight World Series 
appearances between 1974 and 1981, the 1981 World Series marked the end 
of an era for both teams as they lost key contributors over the next few 
years. The Yankees lost Reggie Jackson, Graig Nettles, Goose Gossage, and 
Tommy John among others. The Yankees would not reach the post season again 
until 1995 and would not win another title until 1996. Key Dodger losses 
included Ron Cey, Steve Garvey, Davey Lopes, Reggie Smith, and Don Sutton. 
But with a stronger farm system and adding key players via trade or free 
agency, they won division titles in 1983 and 1985, while narrowly missing 
in 1982. Their success culminated with a world championship in 1988, becoming 
the only team to win two World Series between 1978 and 1990. However, since 
their 1988 World Series win, the Dodgers have yet to appear in another 
World Series (up to 2015) with their best efforts being reaching the NLCS 
in 2008, 2009, 2013, and 2016. The Yankees on the other hand have appeared 
in seven World Series (1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003 and 2009), winning 
all but 2001 and 2003. 1981 World Series (4–2): Los Angeles Dodgers (N.L.) 
over New York Yankees (A.L.) Yankees pitcher George Frazier tied a World 
Series record for losing three of the six games in 1981. The only other 
pitcher to lose that many was the Chicago White Sox's Lefty Williams, who 
intentionally lost his three starts in the infamous 1919 World Series. 
ABC covered this World Series on television, its third under the then-present 
contract of alternating Series coverage with NBC. Keith Jackson and Al 
Michaels shared play-by-play duties, with Michaels replacing Jackson when 
the latter deferred to his primary role as ABC's lead college football 
announcer. Color commentary was handled by Howard Cosell and Baltimore 
Orioles pitcher Jim Palmer; Palmer would later join ABC's baseball broadcast 
team after retiring as a player. ABC's coverage was also simulcast over 
the Yankees' and Dodgers' local television outlets, respectively WPIX in 
New York City and KTTV in Los Angeles. This World Series was the last to 
be called by Jackson in the broadcast booth. Michaels became ABC's lead 
baseball play-by-play announcer by the time the network next aired the 
World Series in 1983. On radio, CBS Radio carried the games with Vin Scully 
handling play-by-play and Detroit Tigers manager Sparky Anderson providing 
analysis, working together for the third consecutive year. Scully was the 
Dodgers' primary local announcer during the regular season. Referenced 
in Dungeons & Dragons when one character asked a supposedly all-knowing 
tree, "Who won the 1981 World Series", to which the tree replied, "The 
Graywood Elves. However, if you are referring to the World Series in your 
world, it was the Dodgers over the Yankees, four games to two." After the 
series, Johnstone, Yeager, Reuss, and Rick Monday of the Dodgers recorded 
a cover version of Queen's "We Are the Champions". The quartet performed 
