The Oakland Athletics' 1981 season saw the A's finish with an overall record 
of 64 wins and 45 losses. They finished the season with the best record 
in the American League (and second best in all of baseball). Due to the 
infamous 1981 players strike, the league resorted to a split-season format; 
this new format saw the winners of both halves of the season playing in 
the first divisional playoff in MLB history. The A's qualified by posting 
the AL West's best record in the first half of the season. While they swept 
the Kansas City Royals in the AL West playoff, they were themselves swept 
by the New York Yankees in the 1981 American League Championship Series. 
The Athletics' 1981 season ranks among the organization's most interesting. 
The A's, only two years removed from a disastrous 54-108 finish, won their 
first AL West crown since 1975 under second-year manager Billy Martin. 
The "Billyball" A's began the season with a then-AL record 11 consecutive 
wins (this record was later broken by the 1987 Milwaukee Brewers, who raced 
out to a 13-0 start). The squad followed its first loss of the season, 
a tough 3-2 loss to the Seattle Mariners, with six more victories. Their 
17-1 start (through 18 games) remains unmatched. The A's starting rotation 
(consisting of Rick Langford, Matt Keough, Steve McCatty, Mike Norris, 
and Brian Kingman) received national attention during the torrid start; 
the unit was collectively featured on the cover of Sports Illustrated's 
April 27, 1981 edition. The periodic heroics of Tony Armas and Rickey Henderson 
also drew notice. The Athletics, however, slumped badly following the 17-1 
start. While they regained some of their swagger during the season's second 
half, they ultimately played .500 baseball for the rest of the season. 
Even still, the A's won the AL West's first half with a 37-23 mark; they 
also led the division in total wins despite losing the second half to the 
Royals. The A's swept these 50-53 Royals in the ALDS. The A's themselves 
were humbled in the ALCS, as the Yankees outscored Oakland 20-4 in a humiliating 
three-game rout. The 1981 ALCS is perhaps best remembered as the purported 
birthplace of "the wave"; while the phenomenon's origin is disputed, it 
is most commonly attributed to Krazy George Henderson, who introduced it 
to the Athletics' crowd during the series' final game. Despite high expectations, 
the A's collapsed in 1982. A rash of injuries, among other factors, saw 
the team plummet to an abysmal 68-94 record. The firing of Billy Martin 
at seasons' end brought a swift and unceremonious end to the "Billyball" 
era. All told, the A's would have to wait until 1988 for their next postseason 
appearance. Only one member of the 1981 team (Rich Bordi) also played on 
the 1988 team. Athletics owner Charlie O. Finley's wife sought a divorce 
and would not accept part of a baseball team in a property settlement. 
With most of his money tied up in the A's or his insurance empire, Finley 
had to sell the team. Though Finley found a buyer in businessman Marvin 
Davis, who would have moved the Athletics to Denver, the tentative deal 
hit a snag when the Raiders announced their move to Los Angeles. Oakland 
and Alameda County officials, not wanting to be held responsible for losing 
Oakland's status as a big-league city in its own right, refused to let 
Finley break the lease with the Coliseum. Finley then looked to local buyers, 
selling the A's to San Francisco clothing manufacturer Walter A. Haas, 
Jr., president of Levi Strauss & Co. prior to the 1981 season. Haas restored 
the official name of the club to "Athletics" in 1981, but retained the 
nickname "A's" for marketing purposes. At first, the word "Athletics" was 
restored only to the club's logo, underneath the much larger stylized-"A" 
that had come to represent the team since the early days. Former owner 
Charlie Finley banned the word "Athletics" from the club's name because 
he felt that name was too closely associated with former Philadelphia Athletics 
owner Connie Mack. During the Finley era, average home attendance from 
1968–1980 was 777,000 per season, with 1,075,518 in 1975 being the highest 
attendance for a Finley-owned team. In marked contrast, during the first 
year of Haas' ownership, the Athletics drew 1,304,052—in a season shortened 
by a player strike. Were it not for the strike, the A's were on a pace 
to draw over 2.2 million in 1981. The A's finished with the second-best 
overall record in baseball, and the best record in the American League. 
The Oakland Athletics held spring training at Rendezvous Park in Mesa, 
Arizona. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Following 
the team's surprising success in 1980, manager Billy Martin was given the 
additional title of general manager in 1981. The team won the division 
title for the first time since 1975, winning the first half of the split 
season, then defeating the Royals in the divisional playoffs before losing 
to the Yankees in the ALCS. While the team was successful, it came at a 
high price, both for the team and for the pitching staff. Following a season 
in which the team led the league in complete games with 94—an astonishing 
number for the time—the Athletics again led the league with 60 complete 
games out of 109 total games in the strike-shortened season. For the second 
time, the pitching staff completed more than half their total number of 
games and more than double the number of the team with the second-highest 
total (The Indians and Tigers each had 33). The workload of the pitchers 
over the two seasons was blamed by the team's ownership for the team's 
fall to fifth place in 1982, which led to Martin's firing from both positions. 
Many of the pitchers suffered injuries, and none of the four main starting 
pitchers (Rick Langford, Steve McCatty, Mike Norris, Matt Keough) ever 
duplicated their success of 1980–81. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: 
Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in [21] Note: G = Games played; 
IP = Innings Pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned Run Average; SO 
= Strikeouts; BB = Bases on Balls Oakland wins series, 3-0. Yankees win 
