The 1981 Major League Baseball strike was the fourth work stoppage in Major 
League Baseball since the 1972 Major League Baseball strike.[1] The strike 
began on June 12 and forced the cancellation of 713 games (or 38 percent 
of the Major League schedule) in the middle of the regular season. The 
two sides reached an agreement on July 31, and play resumed on August 9 
with the All-Star Game, with regular season play resuming one day later. 
An estimated US$146 million was lost in player salaries, ticket sales, 
broadcast revenues, and concession revenues. The players lost $4 million 
a week in salaries while the owners suffered a total loss of $72 million. 
The Executive Board of the Major League Baseball Players Association voted 
unanimously to strike on May 29 due to the unresolved issue of free agent 
compensation. The deadline was extended briefly, however, after the Players' 
Association's unfair labor complaint was heard by the National Labor Relations 
Board. The strike was called in response to the owners wanting to win back 
the prerogatives over the players. The owners had already lost at the bargaining 
table and in the courts on the issue of the free agency draft. At issue 
during the seven-week-long negotiations was the owners demanding compensation 
for losing a free agent player to another team. The compensation in question 
was a player who was selected from the signing team's roster (not including 
12 "protected" players). The players maintained that any form of compensation 
would undermine the value of free agency. Although the strike was called 
by the players, many sportswriters and even fans placed most of the blame 
on the owners. Sports Illustrated reflected this particular opinion with 
the cover headline "Strike! The Walkout the Owners Provoked." One of the 
reasons the owners doled out such hefty contracts from 1978–1981 (43 players 
each negotiated contracts worth over $1 million during this period) was 
because they were afraid of losing disgruntled stars in the free agency 
reentry draft. So the owners paid their players the so-called new going 
rate in order to keep them from going elsewhere. Reporters used Strat-O-Matic 
to simulate the delayed 1981 All-Star game inside Cleveland Stadium, with 
the scoreboard displaying the game's progress; the Strat-O-Matic set went 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame. Some newspapers used Strat-O-Matic to simulate 
other canceled games during the strike.[2] On July 31, 1981, a compromise 
was reached. In the settlement, teams that lost a "premium" free agent 
could be compensated by drawing from a pool of players left unprotected 
from all of the clubs rather than just the signing club. Players agree 
to restricting free agency to players with six or more years of major league 
service.[1] The settlement gave the owners a limited victory on the compensation 
issue. Reportedly, the negotiations were so bitter that when a settlement 
was finally reached, Players Association representative Marvin Miller and 
the owners' negotiator Ray Grebey refused to pose with each other for the 
traditional "peace ceremony" photograph. Major League Baseball resumed 
on August 9 with the All-Star Game in Cleveland's Municipal Stadium. The 
All-Star Game, which was originally scheduled to be held on July 14, now 
served as a prelude to play resuming on August 10. The National League 
beat the American League 5-4. When play resumed, attendance dropped in 
17 of 24 cities and television ratings slumped sharply. Despite the disgruntled 
fans, the All-Star Game, which was played on a Sunday instead of the usual 
Tuesday, had its largest attendance (72,086), due to the large seating 
capacity of Municipal Stadium. Due to the two-month strike, the owners 
tried to create an equitable solution. So on August 6, the owners decided 
to split the 1981 season into two halves, with the first-place teams from 
each half in each division (or a wild card team if the same club won both 
halves) meeting in a best-of-five divisional playoff series. The four survivors 
would then move on to the two best-of-five League Championship Series. 
It was the first time that Major League Baseball used a split-season format 
since 1892. The split-season idea as put into practice (although garnering 
the league more playoff revenue) seemed to cheapen the results of the regular 
season. As first proposed, if a team won its division in both halves of 
the season, then it would play the team with the second best record overall 
(first and second half). A sportswriter pointed out that the arrangement 
would give a team with a good overall record an incentive to lose games 
against the first-half winner to help a division rival win both halves. 
On August 20, Major League Baseball revised the rules so that if a team 
won both halves of the season, it would face the second season runner-up 
instead. Facing a playoff no matter their finish in the second half, the 
first-half winners lacked incentive (as opposed to the minor leagues, where 
if the same team did win both halves it was given a bye into the next round) 
to repeat, and finished the second half of the season with a composite 
record of only three games above .500. To make matters worse, the Cincinnati 
Reds (National League West) and St. Louis Cardinals (National League East) 
each failed to make the playoffs. This was despite the fact that they had 
the two best full-season records in the National League that season (and 
thus would have won their divisions under normal circumstances). The Cardinals 
would receive some vindication the following year when they won the World 
Series while the Reds would not make the Postseason again until 1990, when 
they won the franchise's (to date) last World Series title. In contrast 
to the Reds' and Cardinals' bad luck, the defending American League champion 
Kansas City Royals made the postseason despite owning the fourth-best full-season 
record in their division and posting a losing record overall (50–53). Notably, 
the format allowed the second-half National League East champion Montreal 
Expos to make the playoffs, the only time the Expos franchise would make 
the postseason in their 36-year stay in Montreal and their only postseason 
appearance of any kind until 2012, long after the team became the Washington 
Nationals. The Cardinals and Pittsburgh Pirates ended up playing the fewest 
games of any team at 102. Meanwhile, the San Francisco Giants played the 
most at 111. Most teams finished with anywhere between 106 and 109 games. 
