KTTV (11) (Vin Scully, Jerry Doggett, Ross Porter) KABC (Vin Scully, Jerry 
Doggett, Ross Porter) The 1981 Los Angeles Dodgers season got off to a 
strong start when rookie pitcher Fernando Valenzuela pitched a shutout 
on opening day, starting the craze that came to be known as "Fernandomania." 
Fernando went on to win both the Rookie of the Year and Cy Young Awards. 
The season was divided into two halves because of a players strike in mid-season. 
The Dodgers won the Western Division of the National League in the first 
half and advanced to the playoffs. They beat the Houston Astros in a divisional 
playoff and the Montreal Expos in the National League Championship Series 
before beating the New York Yankees to win the World Series. 1981 Los Angeles 
Dodgers Infielders Coaches In the divisional series, the Dodgers fell behind 
the Houston Astros two games to zero but came back to win the next three 
games to take the series and advance to the LCS. October 6, The Astrodome, 
Houston, Texas October 7, The Astrodome, Houston, Texas October 9, Dodger 
Stadium, Los Angeles October 10, Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles October 11, 
Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles The Dodgers faced the Montreal Expos in the 
1981 NLCS and beat them three games to two, thanks to a ninth-inning home 
run by Rick Monday in Game 5. October 13, Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles October 
14, Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles October 16, Olympic Stadium, Montreal, 
Quebec October 17, Olympic Stadium, Montreal, Quebec October 19, Olympic 
Stadium, Montreal, Quebec The Dodgers met the New York Yankees in the World 
Series once again, this time beating them in six games to claim their first 
championship since 1965. October 20, Yankee Stadium, New York October 21, 
Yankee Stadium, New York October 23, Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles October 
24, Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles October 25, Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles 
October 28, Yankee Stadium, New York Teams in BOLD won League Championships 
The Dodgers drafted 33 players in the June draft and 18 in the January 
draft. Of those, eight players would eventually play in the Major Leagues. 
They received an extra pick in the 2nd round from the Houston Astros as 
compensation for the loss of free agent pitcher Don Sutton. The Dodgers 
first round pick in the June draft was shortstop Dave Anderson from the 
University of Memphis. He played 10 seasons in the Majors (8 of them with 
the Dodgers), primarily as a utility infielder. The draft also included 
pitchers Sid Fernandez (round 3) and John Franco (round 5), both of whom 
would have lengthy Major League careers primarily with the New York Mets 
