The 1981 American League Championship Series was a best-of-five series 
between the New York Yankees and the Oakland Athletics. Due to a strike-shortened 
season, each team had to win two playoff series to reach the World Series. 
Oakland had swept the Kansas City Royals three games to none and the Yankees 
had beaten the Milwaukee Brewers three games to two in the 1981 American 
League Division Series. The Yankees swept the Athletics three games to 
none in the Series and moved on to the 1981 World Series, where they would 
lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers. New York won the series, 3–0. Tuesday, 
October 13, 1981 at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York In Billy Martin's 
return to Yankee Stadium (for the first time since the Yankees fired him 
in 1979), the Yankees drew first blood in front of their old skipper. Graig 
Nettles' three-run bases-loaded double in the first inning was all the 
run support that Tommy John needed. John gave way to Ron Davis after six 
innings. Davis had an easy seventh, but the A's mounted a threat in the 
eighth where Martin tried some of his "Billyball" tactics. After Dwayne 
Murphy walked with one out, Davis ran up a 1–2 count on the next batter, 
Cliff Johnson. During the at-bat, Johnson stepped in and out of the batter's 
box (on Martin's orders) on each pitch to break Davis' rhythm. After fouling 
off a pitch, Johnson showed his bat to plate umpire Nick Bremigan and asked 
to get a new one. Johnson walked slowly to and from the A's dugout in the 
process, and Bremigan ordered him to get back to the plate more quickly. 
Subsequently, when Davis tried to compose himself on the mound, Bremigan 
ordered him to pitch immediately, and Davis began to loudly complain that 
he should have been granted time as Johnson was. Both Graig Nettles and 
Yankee manager Bob Lemon, coming out of the dugout, tried to calm Davis 
down. Bremigan then exacerbated the situation by charging Lemon with a 
mound visit. A clearly rattled Davis threw three straight balls well out 
of the strike zone to walk Johnson. Lemon then removed Davis and brought 
in closer Goose Gossage earlier than expected to face Tony Armas. Armas 
was the tying run at that point and was also the A's leading home run and 
RBI man. Gossage retired Armas and Wayne Gross to end the inning and closed 
out the win the rest of the way. Wednesday, October 14, 1981 at Yankee 
Stadium in Bronx, New York With a 3–1 lead after 3 1⁄2 innings and American 
League ERA leader Steve McCatty cruising, the A's seemed headed for a 1–1 
tie going back home to Oakland. It could have been worse, but Dave Winfield 
made a leaping catch in the second to rob Tony Armas of a homer. But, Graig 
Nettles led off the bottom of the fourth with a single and Rick Cerone 
was hit by a McCatty pitch. After Willie Randolph singled in Nettles, Jerry 
Mumphrey walked. Dave Beard came on in relief and proceeded to give up 
an RBI single to Larry Milbourne, a two-run double to Winfield, and a three-run 
homer to Lou Piniella. Beard gave up two more hits and loaded the bases 
after that, but Cerone flied out to end the disastrous inning. The Yankees 
now led 8–3. The Yankees added five more runs, three coming on a Nettles 
homer in the seventh, to complete the rout. Thursday, October 15, 1981 
at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California Prior to the 
game, Bob Lemon inexplicably dropped Willie Randolph from the leadoff spot 
in the batting order to ninth. Randolph kept any ill feelings to himself 
and broke a scoreless pitching duel between Dave Righetti and Matt Keough 
with a solo homer in the sixth. That run would be all Righetti would need 
through six innings. Series MVP Graig Nettles plated three more runs in 
the ninth with a bases-loaded double resulting when A's center fielder 
Rick Bosetti turned the wrong way on his fly ball. Dave Righetti pitched 
six shutout innings and Ron Davis pitched two scoreless innings before 
giving way to Goose Gossage, who retired the side in the ninth to clinch 
the pennant. The most widely accepted debut of "the wave" occurred during 
Game 3, led by Krazy George Henderson. 1981 ALCS (3–0): New York Yankees 
