The 1982 Milwaukee Brewers season resulted in the team winning its first 
and only American League Championship. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] 
[9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos 
= Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Anaheim Stadium, Anaheim, California Anaheim 
Stadium, Anaheim, California Milwaukee County Stadium, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Milwaukee County Stadium, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Milwaukee County Stadium, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin Game 5 proved to be the most dramatic of the series. 
The Angels got a quick 1-0 lead in the first on a double by Brian Downing 
and a single by Fred Lynn. But Milwaukee tied the game in the bottom of 
the inning when Paul Molitor doubled and eventually came home on a sacrifice 
fly by Ted Simmons. The Angels made it 2-1 in the third on an RBI single 
from Fred Lynn, and stretched the lead to 3-1 in the fourth on a run-scoring 
single from Bob Boone. Milwaukee cut the lead to 3-2 in the bottom of the 
fourth on Ben Oglivie's homer. The score remained unchanged until the bottom 
of the seventh, when disaster struck the Angels. Milwaukee loaded the bases 
on two singles and a walk. Cecil Cooper then cracked the series-winning 
hit, a two-run single that put the Brewers ahead 4-3. The Milwaukee bullpen 
kept the Angels off the board in the final two innings, and the Brewers 
took home the franchise's first American League pennant. Though the teams 
had never met, the cities had an existing commercial rivalry in the beer 
market, as St. Louis is the home of Anheuser Busch while Milwaukee is the 
home of Miller Brewing. This led to the Series being nicknamed the "Suds 
Series". Paul Molitor set a World Series record with his fifth hit in the 
9th inning of Game 1. Robin Yount would set another record in the 7th inning 
of Game 5 by becoming the first player in Series history to have two four-hit 
games in one Series. Cardinals catcher Darrell Porter was given the Series 
MVP award. Brewers pitcher Mike Caldwell, who won two games, would have 
been a strong candidate, as well as Molitor. Paul Molitor would eventually 
win the Series MVP Award 11 years later as a member of the Toronto Blue 
Jays. As it was, the winning team won the MVP. The only player on the losing 
team to win the MVP was Bobby Richardson of the 1960 New York Yankees. 
Both participants are currently in the NL Central, due to the transfer 
of the Brewers from the American League to the National League in 1998. 
This raises the possibility of the Brewers eventually playing a World Series 
in two different leagues. October 12, 1982 at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, 
Missouri October 13, 1982 at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri October 
15, 1982 at Milwaukee County Stadium in Milwaukee, Wisconsin The Brewers 
bats were initially stymied by Cardinals starter Joaquín Andújar, while 
rookie Willie McGee shocked everyone with two home runs off Brewers ace 
Pete Vuckovich, helping give the Cardinals a 5-0 lead. In a scary moment, 
Andújar was knocked out of the game when Cecil Cooper hit a line drive 
that hit Andújar in the leg, though the injury turned out to not be very 
serious. With bullpen ace Bruce Sutter pitching in relief, the Brewers 
attempted a comeback in the 8th inning. With two out, Cecil Cooper hit 
a 2-run homer to put Milwaukee on the board. The Brewers then got two base-runners, 
with Gorman Thomas representing the tying run. Thomas hit a deep fly ball 
to right-center field, but McGee, becoming the star of the game, made a 
leaping grab to rob Thomas of a potential game-tying home run. The Cardinals 
scored an insurance run in the 9th, and Sutter closed out the Brewers for 
the 6-2 Cardinals win and giving St. Louis a 2-1 Series lead. October 16, 
1982 at Milwaukee County Stadium in Milwaukee, Wisconsin The Cardinals 
pounced early on Brewers starter Moose Haas, scoring 3 runs in the second 
and had a 5-1 lead going into the seventh inning. From there, the Brewers 
bats suddenly came alive. Jim Gantner started the scoring with an RBI double. 
After a Paul Moliter walk, Robin Yount followed with a bases-loaded 2-run 
single to put the Brewers within 1 run. Cecil Cooper then scored Moliter 
with an infield hit to tie the game. 3 batters later, with two outs, Gorman 
Thomas hit a 2-run double to give the Brewers the lead. Bob McClure then 
finished the Cardinals off for the save, giving the Brewers a crucial Game 
4 win, tying the Series 2-2. October 17, 1982 at Milwaukee County Stadium 
in Milwaukee, Wisconsin October 19, 1982 at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, 
Missouri October 20, 1982 at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri Joaquín 
Andújar and Pete Vuckovich opposed each other once again. The game was 
scoreless until the bottom of the fourth when the Cardinals scored first 
on a Lonnie Smith RBI single. Ben Oglivie tied it for the Brew Crew in 
the fifth with a solo homer, and they took a 3-1 lead in the sixth when 
Jim Gantner scored on an error and Cecil Cooper hit a sacrifice fly. But, 
in the bottom of the sixth, Vuckovich began to run into trouble. With one 
out, Ozzie Smith singled and Lonnie Smith doubled him to third. Brewers 
manager Harvey Kuenn then pulled Vuckovich in favor of Bob McClure, who 
intentionally walked pinch-hitter Gene Tenace to load the bases. Keith 
Hernandez then tied the game with a two-run single. George Hendrick then 
gave the Cardinals the lead with an RBI single. The Cardinals punctuated 
the scoring with two runs in the eighth on RBI singles by Series MVP Darrell 
Porter and Steve Braun. Andújar pitched seven strong innings and Bruce 
Sutter pitched the eighth and ninth for his second save. 1982 World Series 
(4-3): St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) over Milwaukee Brewers (A.L.) *= Tied 
