The 1982 National League Championship Series was played between the St. 
Louis Cardinals and the Atlanta Braves from October 6 to 10. Despite their 
history as the National League's most successful franchise—the second-most 
World Series titles in baseball behind the New York Yankees—the Cardinals 
had never previously played in the NLCS. Their last postseason trip had 
been to the 1968 World Series when they lost to the Detroit Tigers. The 
Atlanta Braves were making their first postseason appearance since 1969, 
the first year of divisional play. The Cardinals were led by Gold Glove 
first baseman and solid hitter Keith Hernandez, while the Braves were led 
by Dale Murphy, who was later named the season's MVP. The Cardinals had 
been the first team to clinch a playoff berth on September 27 while the 
Braves were the last to make the playoffs, clinching the West on October 
3 when the Giants beat the Dodgers. On a side note, Atlanta's manager Joe 
Torre and two of his coaches Bob Gibson and Dal Maxvill were known for 
playing for the opposing St. Louis Cardinal team while Cardinal coach Red 
Schoendienst previously played for the Braves and Cardinal coach Hub Kittle 
previously managed in the Braves organization. St. Louis won the series, 
3–0. Wednesday, October 6, 1982 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri 
Game 1 was a wash—literally. The Braves led 1–0 behind Phil Niekro and 
were three outs from an official game when the umpire stopped it. When 
the rain did not subside, the game was postponed. Game 1 began from the 
start the following night in a match-up of the volatile Braves starter 
Pascual Pérez and longtime Cardinal starter Bob Forsch. Thursday, October 
7, 1982 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri The new Game 1 was 
scoreless through two innings. In the bottom of the third, Willie McGee 
tripled and scored on Ozzie Smith's sacrifice fly to center. It stayed 
1–0 until the sixth when the floodgates opened and the Cardinals scored 
five runs to finish off Perez and the Braves for the evening. Three straight 
singles by Lonnie Smith, Keith Hernandez, and George Hendrick chased Perez 
and made it 2–0 with two on and nobody out. Brought in to put out the fire, 
Steve Bedrosian walked Darrell Porter to load the bases and gave up a single 
to McGee that scored Hernandez. Ozzie Smith's single scored Hendrick and 
Porter scored on a sacrifice fly by Forsch. A wild pitch advanced the runners, 
and a Ken Oberkfell single made it 6–0 Cardinals. Donnie Moore replaced 
Bedrosian and ended the inning, but the game was as good as over. The Cardinals 
added a cosmetic run in the eighth scored by Forsch on a sacrifice fly. 
The 7–0 win gave the Cardinals a 1–0 lead in the best-of-five series. Forsch 
went the distance and only yielded three hits while Perez got the loss. 
Saturday, October 9, 1982 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri 
After another rainout the night before, an exciting contest unfolded at 
Busch Stadium in Game 2 with the Braves sending Phil Niekro against John 
Stuper. The Cardinals took a 1–0 lead in the bottom of the second when 
Ken Oberkfell scored on a wild pitch. The Braves answered in the top of 
the third when Bruce Benedict walked, went to second on a Niekro bunt, 
and scored the Braves' first official run of the series when Rafael Ramirez 
hit a single that he followed by scoring on a three-base error to put the 
Braves in front for the first time, 2–1. Niekro helped himself in the fifth 
when Glenn Hubbard singled, Benedict doubled, and Niekro's sacrifice fly 
gave the Braves a two-run lead. In the bottom of that same inning, Keith 
Hernandez singled and scored on Darrell Porter's double to make it 3–2 
Atlanta. In the eighth, Porter walked, went to third on a George Hendrick 
single, and scored to tie it when Willie McGee hit into a fielder's choice 
that forced Hendrick at second. With the score tied, the Cardinals won 
in the bottom of the ninth when David Green singled, went to second on 
a bunt by Tommy Herr, and scored on a single by Oberkfell. The last at-bat 
win gave the Cardinals a 2–0 lead heading back to Atlanta. Bruce Sutter 
got the win and Braves ace reliever Gene Garber got the loss. Sunday, October 
10, 1982 at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia In a must-win 
game, the Braves sent Rick Camp to the hill and the Cardinals countered 
with the sometimes volatile and often entertaining Joaquín Andújar. There 
were no runs in the first, but in the second, the Cardinals clinched the 
series. Hernandez singled, Porter walked, Hendrick singled to score Hernandez, 
and Willie McGee hit his second triple of the series to score two more 
runs. When Ozzie Smith singled to make it 4–0, Camp was history and for 
all intents and purposes, so were the Braves. In the fifth, Tommy Herr 
doubled and scored on a Hernandez single to make it 5–0. Facing elimination, 
the Braves fought back valiantly. Claudell Washington and Bob Horner both 
singled. Faced with the prospect of a big inning, manager Joe Torre pulled 
Washington and replaced him with the faster Terry Harper. But the next 
hitter, Chris Chambliss hit into a double play that scored Harper and made 
it 5–1, but took the Braves out of the inning since the next hitter was 
their star, Dale Murphy. Had Chambliss hit safely, a Murphy homer would 
have made it 5–4. Instead, Murphy singled with two outs, went to second 
on a wild pitch by Andujar, and scored on Glenn Hubbard's single. The scoring 
continued in the ninth when McGee drilled a home run off reliever Gene 
Garber to end the scoring at 6–2. Bruce Sutter got the save and Camp the 
loss. Darrell Porter was voted the MVP although it could easily have gone 
to either Willie McGee or Bruce Sutter. The win thrust the Cardinals into 
the 1982 World Series against another beer town team, the Milwaukee Brewers. 
