The 1982 American League Championship Series was played between the Milwaukee 
Brewers and the California Angels from October 5 to 10, 1982. Milwaukee 
won the series three games to two to advance to the franchise’s first World 
Series, where they would lose to the St. Louis Cardinals, four games to 
three. The 1982 ALCS was marked by a dramatic comeback by the Brewers, 
who lost the first two games of the series and were trailing late in the 
final game. The series was noteworthy as being the first to feature a matchup 
between two "expansion" teams (i.e., franchises not included among the 
sixteen operating in the major leagues for most of the first half of the 
twentieth century), and for featuring two teams that had never before won 
a pennant. Milwaukee won the series, 3–2. Tuesday, October 5, 1982 at Anaheim 
Stadium in Anaheim, California The Angels jumped to a 1–0 lead in the first 
when Brian Downing scored an unearned run on a sacrifice fly by Don Baylor. 
Milwaukee came back to take a 3–1 lead with a two-run homer by Gorman Thomas 
in the second and a run scored by Paul Molitor on a groundout in the third. 
But the Angels took back the lead for good in their half of the third with 
a four-run rally highlighted by Baylor’s two-run triple. Baylor capped 
off a five-RBI game with a two-run single in the fourth, and the Angels 
got another run in the fifth when eventual series MVP Fred Lynn homered. 
California starter Tommy John, who lent his name to the famous surgical 
procedure, settled down after the third and gave the Brewers little over 
the final six innings on his way to a complete-game victory. Wednesday, 
October 6, 1982 at Anaheim Stadium in Anaheim, California California got 
off to a 4–0 lead in Game 2 and never looked back. The Angels got two in 
the second on an RBI single from Tim Foli and a squeeze bunt by Bob Boone. 
California’s Reggie Jackson homered in the third to make it 3–0, and Boone 
plated the Angels’ fourth run with a sacrifice fly in the fourth. The Brewers 
made a game of it in the fifth on Paul Molitor’s two-run inside-the-park 
homer, but could get no closer the rest of the way against the strong pitching 
of Bruce Kison. Those complete-game efforts helped produce the snappy 2:06 
time of game. California was now up 2–0 in the series and needed only one 
more win for the franchise’s first trip to the World Series. Friday, October 
8, 1982 at County Stadium in Milwaukee, Wisconsin The series moved to Milwaukee 
and produced the Brewers’ first win. Milwaukee opened the scoring in the 
fourth with three runs on an RBI double by Cecil Cooper, who would eventually 
get the series-winning hit, and sacrifice flies by Gorman Thomas and Don 
Money. Paul Molitor got two more runs for Milwaukee with a seventh-inning 
homer, this one over the fence. Brewers starter Don Sutton pitched strongly 
for the first seven innings but tired in the eighth, yielding three runs 
on a Bob Boone homer and doubles by Fred Lynn and Don Baylor. Pete Ladd 
came out of the Milwaukee bullpen to get the final four outs for the save. 
Saturday, October 9, 1982 at County Stadium in Milwaukee, Wisconsin The 
Brewers again staved off elimination and evened the series in a rather 
sloppy but high-scoring Game 4. The teams combined for five errors to allow 
three unearned runs. Milwaukee built a 6–0 lead with three-run rallies 
in the second and fourth. The Brewers got a lot of help from two California 
errors and three wild pitches by Angels starter Tommy John, who took the 
loss. The teams traded runs in the sixth: Fred Lynn doubled home Reggie 
Jackson for the Angels, and Jim Gantner singled home Mark Brouhard for 
the Brewers. Brouhard, who only appeared in 40 regular season games, was 
subbing for Ben Oglivie. Brouhard contributed 3 hits, 4 runs and 3 RBI's 
in this, the only postseason appearance of his career. California rallied 
for four runs in the eighth on a grand slam by Don Baylor to cut Milwaukee’s 
lead to 7–5. But the Brewers bounced back with a two-run homer by Brouhard 
in the bottom of the inning to put the game away and level the series 2–2. 
Sunday, October 10, 1982 at County Stadium in Milwaukee, Wisconsin Game 
5 proved to be the most dramatic of the series. The Angels got a quick 
1–0 lead in the first on a double by Brian Downing and a single by Fred 
Lynn. But Milwaukee tied the game in the bottom of the inning when Paul 
Molitor doubled and eventually came home on a sacrifice fly by Ted Simmons. 
The Angels made it 2–1 in the third on an RBI single from Fred Lynn, and 
stretched the lead to 3–1 in the fourth on a run-scoring single from Bob 
Boone. Milwaukee cut the lead to 3–2 in the bottom of the fourth on Ben 
Oglivie’s homer. In the 5th inning, the Angels nearly threatened again, 
until Reggie Jackson was thrown out trying to reach third on a Fred Lynn 
single. The score remained unchanged until the bottom of the seventh, when 
disaster struck the Angels. Milwaukee loaded the bases on two singles and 
a walk. Cecil Cooper then cracked the series-winning hit, a two-run single 
that put the Brewers ahead 4–3. The Milwaukee bullpen kept the Angels off 
the board in the final two innings, helped by a spectacular catch by reserve 
outfielder Marshall Edwards, robbing Don Baylor of extra bases. The Angels 
threatened again in the 9th with a runner on second, and Rod Carew at the 
plate. Pete Ladd got Carew to ground out to Robin Yount, and the Brewers 
took home the franchise’s first American League pennant. 1982 ALCS (3–2): 
