The 1982 World Series matched the St. Louis Cardinals against the Milwaukee 
Brewers, with the Cardinals winning in seven games. The Cardinals won the 
National League East division by three games over the Philadelphia Phillies, 
then defeated the Atlanta Braves by 3 games to none in the National League 
Championship Series. The Brewers won the American League East division 
by one game over the Baltimore Orioles, then defeated the California Angels 
by 3 games to 2 in the American League Championship Series. The 1982 World 
Series represented the last time (until the Giants won in 2010 and the 
Cardinals in 2011 respectively, both defeating the Texas Rangers) that 
the National League won back-to-back World Series; they had, in fact, won 
four straight, starting in 1979. Though the teams had never met, the cities 
had an existing commercial rivalry in the beer market, as St. Louis is 
the home of Anheuser Busch while Milwaukee is the home of Miller Brewing. 
This led to a few minor references to the Series being nicknamed the "Suds 
Series." The cities previously had a rivalry in the National League when 
the Braves called Milwaukee home from 1953-65. Notably, due to the Brewers' 
move to the National League, this matchup (Cardinals vs. Brewers) at the 
World Series will not happen again (unless one of the teams switches leagues). 
In 2011 the Cardinals and Brewers did meet for the National League Pennant, 
the latest possible postseason series now possible for the two franchises 
to play each other in. This was the first of thirteen consecutive World 
Series over fourteen years that did not include the New York Yankees (during 
that time, a player's strike wiped out the remainder of the 1994 regular 
season games, postseason and World Series and delayed the start of the 
1995 season); to date, it's their longest such drought since 1923, the 
year of their first World Series championship. The 1982 Milwaukee Brewers 
hit 216 home runs during the regular season, thus earning them the nickname 
Harvey's Wallbangers (after manager Harvey Kuenn). In a sharp contrast, 
the 1982 St. Louis Cardinals only hit 67 home runs, fewer than Gorman Thomas' 
39 and Ben Oglivie's 34 combined. The Cardinals had built their reputation 
and won their division behind solid pitching, exceptional defense, and 
aggressive base running, manufacturing runs in a style that would come 
to be called "Whiteyball", named for team manager Whitey Herzog. This style 
would be the hallmark of the Cardinals through the 1980s and see them into 
two more World Series (in 1985 and 1987, both of which were lost). The 
Brewers and Cardinals each boasted a dominant closer, with veteran Rollie 
Fingers holding the role for Milwaukee and Bruce Sutter for St. Louis. 
Fingers did not pitch in this series, which would have been his fourth, 
due to tearing a muscle in his arm. The two teams had made a trade in December 
1980 that was expected to benefit both teams. Milwaukee traded pitchers 
Dave LaPoint and Lary Sorenson and outfielders Sixto Lezcano and David 
Green to the Cardinals, with Pete Vuckovich and Ted Simmons comprising 
two thirds of St. Louis' return. The Cardinals had already traded for Fingers, 
who had played for the San Diego Padres, but after acquiring him the team 
acquired Sutter from the Chicago Cubs and thus added Fingers to the trade 
with the Brewers. The Cardinals built their team on speed, clutch hitting 
and pitching. The Cardinals made additional trades for Willie McGee, Ozzie 
Smith, George Hendrick, Joaquín Andújar and Bruce Sutter, all designed 
to craft a well balanced championship level team.[1] The Brewers combined 
a productive farm system with additional trades as well to build their 
heavy hitting ball club. Moose Haas, Robin Yount, Paul Molitor and Gorman 
Thomas came through the system, while Mike Caldwell, the aforementioned 
Vukovich, Simmons and Fingers, and Ben Oglivie, Cecil Cooper and Don Money 
all arrived via the trade route. On June 1, with the team 23–24 and floundering 
in fifth place, Brewer GM Harry Dalton replaced manager Buck Rogers with 
Harvey Kuenn. The Brewers responded by winning at a .626 clip the rest 
of the way, taking first place for good on July 31 and never looking back.[2] 
NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL Milwaukee Brewers (3) The Brewers' left-hander 
Mike Caldwell pitched a complete game shutout, allowing only three hits. 
The Brewers' offense was led by Paul Molitor, who had a World Series-record 
five hits and two RBIs. Robin Yount added four hits and two RBIs, while 
former Cardinal Ted Simmons homered and Jim Gantner had a two-run triple. 
This was their last post-season win on the road until October 13, 2011, 
also against the St. Louis Cardinals. The Brew Crew drew first blood in 
the second with an RBI double by Charlie Moore. They followed that in the 
third when Paul Molitor singled, stole second, went to third on a wild 
pitch by Cardinals starter John Stuper, and scored on a Robin Yount groundout. 
Ted Simmons stretched the lead to 3–0 with his second solo homer in two 
games. The Cardinals scratched back in their half of the third when rookie 
Willie McGee singled, stole second, and scored on a Tom Herr double. Ken 
Oberkfell singled in Herr to cut the Brewer lead to 3–2. The Brewers made 
it 4–2 in the fifth when Yount doubled and Cecil Cooper singled him in. 
Darrell Porter tied it in the sixth by doubling in two runs. Then, in the 
bottom of the eighth, the Brewers felt the effects of not having Rollie 
Fingers in the bullpen. With one out, Pete Ladd, pressed into service as 
the closer, walked Lonnie Smith with two on to load the bases and then 
walked pinch-hitter Steve Braun to force in the go-ahead run. The Cardinals 
could have made it worse, but McGee lined out to short for out #2, and 
an apparent base hit by Ozzie Smith struck Braun as he was running to second 
for the third out. Bruce Sutter pitched the ninth and got credit for the 
win. Longtime American League umpire Bill Haller called his final game 
behind home plate in this contest. He also was the last umpire to wear 
a tie on the field, and the last to work home plate in the World Series 
wearing the "balloon" style outside chest protector. Joaquín Andújar and 
Pete Vuckovich, each team's pitching aces, were locked in a scoreless pitching 
duel until the top half of the fifth, when Willie McGee belted a three-run 
homer for the Cards. The Redbirds added two more in the seventh off Vuckovich. 
Lonnie Smith doubled to right-center and tried to stretch it to a triple. 
Smith scored when Jim Gantner's relay throw to third went wild. McGee followed 
with a solo home run later in the inning, his second. McGee also had a 
couple of defensive gems, running down a deep Paul Molitor drive in the 
first and robbing Gorman Thomas of a home run in the ninth. In the seventh 
with one out, Andújar had to leave the game when a line drive from Ted 
Simmons struck his kneecap. The Brewers loaded the bases in that inning, 
but ace reliever Bruce Sutter got the final out to squelch the threat. 
Cecil Cooper accounted for the Brewers' only runs with a two-run homer 
in the eighth off Sutter, while Ozzie Smith drove in the Cardinals final 
run with a bases-loaded walk. Sutter qualified for the save in this game 
(even though the Cards had a 5–0 lead when he entered the game), since 
he entered with the bases loaded, meaning the potential tying run was on 
deck. Game 4 of the 1982 World Series pitted Dave LaPoint (9–3) against 
Moose Haas (11–8). Haas was a veteran of six major league campaigns while 
LaPoint had just completed his first full season. For six innings, the 
Cardinals seemed on the verge of taking an insurmountable 3–1 Series lead. 
Dave LaPoint held the Brewers to three hits in that time span, while his 
hitters plated him a 5–1 lead. In the top of the first inning, Ken Oberkfell 
doubled down the right-field line and George Hendrick hit a high chopper 
over the middle which handcuffed Yount and bounced into center-field, allowing 
Oberkfell to score. In the bottom of the first, Oberkfell dropped a bare-handed 
grounder from Yount. Both teams had trouble at times fielding, and the 
Brewers errors in Game 3 may have cost them three runs.[10] Two Cardinal 
runs came in the second on an unusual two-run sacrifice fly by Tom Herr, 
with Willie McGee and Ozzie Smith scoring. With Willie McGee on first and 
attempting to steal, Brewers catcher Ted Simmons took a pitch-out but bobbled 
the ball allowing McGee to steal second. After a walk to Ozzie Smith, Moose 
Haas’ wild pitch moved McGee to third and Smith to second. On Herr's deep 
sacrifice fly, Smith took advantage of center fielder Gorman Thomas slipping 
and falling on the warning track. Ken Oberkfell followed with a walk, stole 
second and came home when a Keith Hernandez grounder went through Gantner's 
legs. The Cardinals scored three times despite only one base hit. In the 
Brewers half of the fifth, with none out and runners at first and third, 
Ozzie Smith made one of his famous Wizard of Oz[10] plays. Gantner hit 
a ground ball through the middle towards center field. Smith, though off-balance, 
stabbed at the ball while simultaneously stepping on second base, recovered 
and fired to first to double up Gantner. In the seventh, things fell apart. 
With one out, Ogilvie reached first when first baseman Keith Hernandez's 
toss to LaPoint was dropped. LaPoint was relieved by Doug Bair after giving 
up a two-out RBI (unearned) double to Gantner. Before relieved by Jim Kaat, 
Bair walked Molitor and gave up a bases-loaded, two-run (both unearned) 
single to Yount. An RBI single by Cecil Cooper and a wild pitch brought 
in the fourth Cardinals pitcher, Jeff Lahti. Lahti intentionally walked 
(charged to Kaat) Simmons and gave up another bases-loaded, two-run single 
to Thomas. Lahti issued another intentional walk to Ogilvie then induced 
a fly out to left field to end this inning. In this inning, six runs (three 
earned) crossed the plate for the Brewers on five hits and one error. Mike 
Caldwell pitched his second win of the Series and almost went the distance. 
The Cardinals staged a late rally in the ninth as Keith Hernandez doubled 
in a run and George Hendrick singled him in with two outs. Bob McClure 
came in and allowed a single to Darrell Porter, putting the tying run on 
base. McClure, however, struck out Willie McGee, then retired pinch-hitter 
Gene Tenace to end the game. Robin Yount set a World Series record by recording 
his second four-hit game, his first came in Game 1. To this day, Yount 
remains the only player to have multiple 4-hit games in one World Series. 
This was the tenth and final World Series game at Milwaukee County Stadium 
(1957, 1958 and 1982) as well as the final playoff game at Milwaukee County 
Stadium. Game 6 was hampered by two rain delays that totaled over 2 1⁄2 
hours. The Cardinals staved off elimination with a blowout. Darrell Porter 
and Keith Hernandez both had two-run homers and Hernandez added a two-run 
single. Dane Iorg had two doubles and a triple as rookie John Stuper went 
the distance (helped by the rain delays), scattering four hits. Joaquín 
Andújar and Pete Vuckovich opposed each other once again. The game was 
scoreless until the bottom of the fourth when the Cardinals scored first 
on a Lonnie Smith RBI single. Ben Oglivie tied it for the Brew Crew in 
the fifth with a solo homer, and they took a 3–1 lead in the sixth when 
Jim Gantner scored on an error and Cecil Cooper hit a sacrifice fly. But, 
in the bottom of the sixth, Vuckovich began to run into trouble. With one 
out, Ozzie Smith singled and Lonnie Smith doubled him to third. Brewers 
manager Harvey Kuenn then pulled Vuckovich in favor of Bob McClure, who 
intentionally walked pinch-hitter Gene Tenace to load the bases. Keith 
Hernandez then tied the game with a two-run single. George Hendrick then 
gave the Cardinals the lead with an RBI single. The Cardinals punctuated 
the scoring with two runs in the eighth on RBI singles by Series MVP Darrell 
Porter and Steve Braun. Andújar pitched seven strong innings and Bruce 
Sutter pitched the eighth and ninth for his second save. 1982 World Series 
(4–3): St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) over Milwaukee Brewers (A.L.) Paul Molitor 
set a World Series record with his fifth hit, in the ninth inning of Game 
1. Robin Yount would set another record in the seventh inning of Game 5 
by becoming the first player in Series history to have two four-hit games. 
Cardinals catcher Darrell Porter was given the Series MVP award. Brewers 
pitcher Mike Caldwell, who won two games, would have been a strong candidate, 
as well as Molitor. Paul Molitor would eventually win the Series MVP Award 
11 years later as a member of the Toronto Blue Jays. As it was, the winning 
team won the MVP. The only player on the losing team to win the MVP was 
Bobby Richardson of the 1960 New York Yankees. Both participants are currently 
in the NL Central, due to the transfer of the Brewers from the American 
League to the National League in 1998. This raises the possibility of the 
Brewers eventually representing two different leagues in World Series competition. 
That has happened twice before, taking the 19th Century contests into account: 
The Brooklyn Dodgers of 1889 and 1890, and the Cardinals, who won the 1886 
Series when they were in the American Association. This also makes this 
one of two World Series in the modern era (1903–present) that it is not 
possible to have a rematch, the other being the 2005 World Series between 
the Chicago White Sox and the Houston Astros, due to the Astros moving 
to the American League for 2013. The Brewers and Cardinals would later 
meet in the 2011 National League Championship Series, with the Cardinals 
winning that series four games to two. As in 1982, the Cardinals won the 
2011 World Series in seven games, this time against the Texas Rangers. 
As of 2015, the Cardinals' 11 championships are the most won by any National 
League team, and second only to the New York Yankees, who have 27. This 
was the final World Series telecast for longtime NBC analyst Tony Kubek, 
and the only one for veteran announcer Dick Enberg. Enberg hosted the pregame 
shows and alternated play-by-play duties (Enberg called the middle innings) 
with Joe Garagiola, who was himself working his last Series in that role 
before moving to the color commentator position alongside Vin Scully (who 
called the 1982 World Series alongside Sparky Anderson for CBS Radio) the 
following season. Conversely, this was NBC's first Series telecast to feature 
Bob Costas (who served as a field reporter and hosted the World Series 
Trophy presentation following Game 7). Costas and Kubek would subsequently 
team up as the network's secondary MLB announcing team from 1983 to 1989. 
Tom Seaver also provided periodic color commentary for NBC throughout the 
