The 1983 American League Championship Series was played between the Chicago 
White Sox and the Baltimore Orioles from October 5 to 8. The Orioles won 
the series three games to one. Although the White Sox took Game 1 won by 
a score of 2–1, the Orioles came back to win the last three games of the 
series. The Orioles went on to defeat the Philadelphia Phillies in five 
games in the 1983 World Series. In the regular season the White Sox won 
the West Division by twenty games with a 99–63 record. The Orioles won 
the East Division by six games with a 98–64 record. Baltimore won the series, 
3–1. Wednesday, October 5, 1983 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland 
Playing in their first postseason game since the 1959 World Series, the 
White Sox jumped out to a 1–0 ALCS lead behind a complete-game victory 
by Hoyt, the American League Cy Young Award winner. Rudy Law scored the 
game's first run on a Tom Paciorek infield single. After a 42-minute rain 
delay in the fourth inning, the White Sox made it 2–0 when Paciorek walked 
to lead off the sixth, moved to third when Greg Luzinski reached on an 
Eddie Murray error and scored when Rookie of the Year Ron Kittle grounded 
into a double play. Cal Ripken Jr. denied Hoyt's shutout with two outs 
in the bottom of the ninth by driving in Tito Landrum for the Orioles' 
only run. Thursday, October 6, 1983 at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Maryland 
Mike Boddicker evened the series with a dominant performance, striking 
out fourteen batters while allowing just five singles and three walks in 
a shutout victory. Gary Roenicke scored in the second and fourth, then 
hit a two-run homer in the sixth off losing pitcher Floyd Bannister. Friday, 
October 7, 1983 at Comiskey Park (I) in Chicago, Illinois With the series 
shifting to Chicago, White Sox starter Rich Dotson was rocked for six runs, 
all earned, over five innings, as the Orioles pushed Chicago to the brink 
of elimination. Murray hit a three-run homer in the top of the first and 
went on to score four runs in the game. Saturday, October 8, 1983 at Comiskey 
Park (I) in Chicago, Illinois After nine scoreless innings, Baltimore eliminated 
Chicago with a three-run outburst in the top of the 10th, advancing to 
the World Series for the first time since 1979. White Sox manager Tony 
LaRussa decided to save Hoyt for a potential Game 5 start and went with 
Britt Burns instead. Burns pitched nine shutout innings, but the Sox couldn't 
push across a run, with shortstop Jerry Dybzinski making a critical baserunning 
mistake that cost Chicago the potential winning run. With one out in the 
10th, Tito Landrum hit a solo homer, ending Burns' night and giving the 
Orioles all the offense they needed. Chicago scored one run in the final 
30 innings of the series, hitting .211 as a team with no homers. Four of 
the team's starters, Harold Baines, Carlton Fisk, Vance Law and Greg Luzinski, 
hit below .200. The Orioles would go on to win the 1983 World Series, while 
the White Sox wouldn't make the playoffs again until 1993. This would be 
the last postseason game in the Old Comiskey Park. 1983 ALCS (3–1): Baltimore 
