The 1983 National League Championship Series was a best-of-five matchup 
between the West Division champion Los Angeles Dodgers and the East Division 
champion Philadelphia Phillies. The Phillies beat the Dodgers three games 
to one and would go on lose the World Series to the Baltimore Orioles. 
During the regular season, the Dodgers had beaten the Phillies in eleven 
of the twelve games they played. Philadelphia won the series, 3–1. Tuesday, 
October 4, 1983 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California Mike Schmidt 
clubbed a two-out homer off Jerry Reuss in the first, and the Phillies 
made it hold up as Steve Carlton and Al Holland combined to scatter seven 
Dodger hits. The Dodgers' only threats came in the sixth, when Steve Sax 
singled, Bill Russell sacrificed Sax to second, and Sax went to third on 
a Carlton wild pitch. Carlton retired the last two hitters, however. Another 
threat came in the eighth when singles by Sax and Dusty Baker and a walk 
to Pedro Guerrero loaded the bases, chasing Carlton. Holland came in and 
retired Mike Marshall for the third out and finished the game. Wednesday, 
October 5, 1983 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California The Dodgers 
drew first blood with a Ken Landreaux RBI single in the first. Gary Matthews 
tied it for the Phils in the second with a home run off Fernando Valenzuela. 
Valenzuela and Cy Young Award winner John Denny would continue dueling 
until the Dodger half of the fifth. Valenzuela led off and reached third 
when Garry Maddox misplayed a fly-ball. However, with one out, Valenzuela 
was thrown out at the plate on a Greg Brock ground ball (Brock reached 
first). Seemingly out of the inning, Denny walked Dusty Baker and then 
gave up a tie-breaking two-run triple to Pedro Guerrero. The Dodgers' final 
run came in the eighth on an RBI single by catcher Jack Fimple. Valenzuela 
and Tom Niedenfuer would combine to scatter seven hits for the win. Friday, 
October 7, 1983 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania With 
the series shifting to Philadelphia, rookie Charles Hudson turned in a 
pitching gem, going the distance and allowing only four hits. A fourth-inning 
two-run homer by Mike Marshall was Hudson's lone mistake. Gary Matthews 
provided the bulk of the offense with three hits and four RBIs, including 
his second homer of the series. Saturday, October 8, 1983 at Veterans Stadium 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Series MVP Gary Matthews belted a three-run 
homer in the first off Jerry Reuss and the Phillies never looked back as 
they moved to their second World Series in four seasons. Sixto Lezcano 
added a two-run homer in the sixth as Steve Carlton pitched his second 
win, scattering 10 hits with relief help from Ron Reed and Al Holland. 
Out of the fourteen postseason series that Pete Rose played in, this was 
the only one in which he did not record an RBI. He did hit well in the 
series, compiling six hits and one walk in seventeen plate appearances. 
Oddly enough, in the thirteen series in which Rose had an RBI, he never 
drove in more than two runs in any of them. 1983 NLCS (3–1): Philadelphia 
