The 1983 World Series matched the American League champion Baltimore Orioles 
against the National League champion Philadelphia Phillies, with the Orioles 
winning four games to one. "The I-95 Series", like the World Series two 
years later, also took its nickname from the interstate that the teams 
and fans traveled on, Interstate 95 in this case. This was the last World 
Series that Bowie Kuhn presided over as commissioner. This is Baltimore's 
most recent World Series title, and also their most recent American League 
pennant. This was the first World Series since 1956 in which the teams 
did not use air travel. Baltimore and Philadelphia are approximately 100 
miles apart on Interstate 95. The Orioles were led by first-year manager 
Joe Altobelli, who succeeded Earl Weaver; Weaver retired to the broadcast 
booth after a sixteen-year managerial run from 1968 to 1982. Altobelli 
inherited a lineup led by first baseman Eddie Murray and shortstop Cal 
Ripken, Jr. Ripken (.318 BA, 27 HR, 102 RBI) and Murray (.306, 33, 111) 
finished first and second in the 1983 MVP voting, with Ripken out-pointing 
Murray, 322–290. Veteran outfielder Ken Singleton settled into the DH role, 
while the rest of the team was a corps of platoon players. The Orioles 
finished first in the AL in team home runs (168); first in OBP (.340); 
and second in runs, doubles, and walks. After winning fifteen games in 
1982, 37-year-old pitcher Jim Palmer started only eleven games in 1983, 
winning five and losing four. He won one game in this World Series and 
would be released by the O's at the beginning of 1984 after struggling 
early. A younger staff headed by 18-game winner Scott McGregor (18–7, 3.18 
ERA) and 25-year-old Mike Boddicker (16–8, 2.77) were flanked by 21-year-old 
Storm Davis (13–7, 3.59) and veteran Mike Flanagan (12–4, 3.30). Reliever 
Tippy Martinez posted a career high with 21 saves, while Sammy Stewart 
added nine wins out of the bullpen as the O's pitching led the AL in shutouts 
(15) and was second in wins (98) and ERA (3.63). The Orioles won the American 
League East by six games over the Detroit Tigers. They then defeated the 
Chicago White Sox, three games to one, in the American League Championship 
Series. The average age of the players on the Phillies' roster was 32 years. 
They were aptly nicknamed the "Wheeze Kids," a contrast to the 1950 Phillies 
team whose average age of 26 years earned them the moniker "Whiz Kids." 
Sports writers in Philadelphia joked at the time that this older team emphasized 
the veteran in their home ballpark, Veterans Stadium. Joining 42-year-old 
first baseman Pete Rose were his Cincinnati Reds teammates from the "Big 
Red Machine" era, first baseman Tony Pérez (age 41) and second baseman 
Joe Morgan (age 39). The team was led offensively by 33-year-old Mike Schmidt, 
who would have another MVP-type year with 40 home runs and 109 RBIs. No 
other teammate would hit over sixteen home runs (Morgan) or drive in over 
64 runs (catcher Bo Díaz). Although veteran pitcher Steve Carlton won his 
300th major league game during the regular season, he actually had a mediocre 
year at 15–16 — his first losing season since 1973 when his record was 
13–20. In his first full season with Philadelphia, John Denny would win 
the Cy Young Award with a league leading 19–6 record, and a 2.37 ERA, winning 
thirteen of his last fourteen decisions. Closer Al Holland would finish 
second in the league with 25 saves and win the NL Rolaids Relief Award. 
A pair of relief pitchers, 40-year-old Ron Reed and 38-year-old Tug McGraw, 
were on the active roster but would not see any World Series action. The 
Phillies outpaced their intrastate rivals, the Pittsburgh Pirates, by six 
games to win their fifth National League East division title in eight years. 
This was followed by a three games-to-one victory over the Los Angeles 
Dodgers in the National League Championship Series. It was only the fourth 
league championship for the Phillies in franchise history.[1] AL Baltimore 
Orioles (4) vs. NL Philadelphia Phillies (1) John Denver, whose "Thank 
God I'm a Country Boy" was played at the seventh-inning stretch of each 
Orioles home game, sang the National Anthem prior to this game. Phillies 
starter John Denny gave up a first-inning homer to Jim Dwyer, but that 
would be it for the Orioles as 40-year-old Joe Morgan tied it with a solo 
shot in the sixth off Scott McGregor. Morgan became the second-oldest man 
to hit a home run in the World Series (Enos Slaughter was just a few months 
older than Morgan when he hit one for the New York Yankees in the 1956 
World Series). Garry Maddox led off the eighth with a solo homer off McGregor 
for the final margin. Denny got the win with relief help from ace Al Holland. 
The top of the seventh inning of Game 1 was delayed due to Howard Cosell's 
interview with President Reagan on ABC. Some observers (such as author 
and journalist George Will) believe that the delay ultimately made McGregor 
cold to the point of him giving up the home run to Maddox. McGregor would 
eventually redeem himself as he was the winning pitcher (in a complete 
game) in the clinching Game 5. Ronald Reagan's visit by the way marked 
the twelfth time that a Chief Executive had attended a World Series game. 
The Orioles' loss in Game 1 marked the first time in six World Series that 
they had lost the first game. The Orioles got another post-season gem from 
ALCS MVP Mike Boddicker and his "foshball" in Game 2. Boddicker went the 
distance, striking out six and walking no one. He allowed only three hits 
and one run, a fourth-inning sacrifice fly by Joe Lefebvre. The O's got 
their runs in the fifth on a John Lowenstein solo homer, a Rick Dempsey 
RBI double, and a sacrifice fly by Boddicker, helping his own cause. Cal 
Ripken added an RBI single in the seventh. When the Phillies benched Pete 
Rose in favor of Tony Pérez in Game 3, it ended a streak in which Rose 
played every inning of his 59 previous postseason games. It also marked 
the last time that a World Series game would be played at Memorial Stadium 
(1966, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1979 and 1983). Steve Carlton became the first 
300-game winner to pitch in a World Series in 55 years (Grover Cleveland 
Alexander was the last). Carlton shut out the Orioles through five innings, 
buoyed by solo homers from Gary Matthews and Joe Morgan. The Orioles cut 
the lead to one in the sixth on a solo homer by Dan Ford. In the bottom 
of the sixth, the Phillies had two on and two outs with Carlton coming 
up to bat. Phillie manager Paul Owens went to the on-deck circle to chat 
with Carlton about staying in the game. Carlton said he was fine, but struck 
out for the final out. Carlton looked to be cruising with two outs in the 
seventh, but Rick Dempsey belted a double and went to third on a wild pitch. 
Benny Ayala pinch-hit and singled home Dempsey to tie it. Al Holland relieved 
Carlton to try to close out the inning, but John Shelby singled Ayala to 
put runners at first and second. Ayala scored the go-ahead run from second 
on an error by shortstop Iván DeJesús on a ball hit by Ford. Long-time 
Oriole pitching hero Jim Palmer got the win in relief as he, Sammy Stewart, 
and Tippy Martinez pitched six shutout innings in relief of Mike Flanagan. 
This win by Palmer, along with his first World Series win in 1966, marks 
the longest span (seventeen years) over World Series wins for an individual 
pitcher in major league history. Jim Palmer's win in Game 3 made him the 
only pitcher to win a World Series game in three different decades. Palmer 
is also, the only man to have played with the Orioles in each of their 
World Series appearances (1966, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1979, and 1983). With 
Palmer and Carlton earning the decisions, this was, to date, the last World 
Series game in which both the winning and losing pitcher were in the Hall 
of Fame.[citation needed] It was the first World Series game in which three 
Cy Young Award winners, Carlton, Palmer and Orioles' starter Mike Flanagan, 
pitched. This would not happen again until Game 1 of the 2012 Series, when 
Barry Zito, Tim Lincecum and Justin Verlander appeared.[7] Eddie Murray 
and Cal Ripken, Jr. batted .161 with exactly one RBI between them through 
the first four games. Eddie Murray would go on to become the Game 5 hero 
with two titanic home runs, including the only two-run homer in the series. 
Rich Dauer broke a scoreless tie by singling in two runs in the fourth 
off John Denny. The Phillies came back in the fourth off Storm Davis with 
an RBI double by Joe Lefebvre and took the lead in the fifth on an RBI 
single by Denny and an RBI double by Pete Rose. In the top of the sixth 
with one out, John Lowenstein singled and Dauer doubled him to third. O's 
manager Joe Altobelli then sent Joe Nolan, the first of four consecutive 
pinch-hitters, to the plate. Phils reliever Willie Hernández walked Nolan 
to load the bases. The next pinch-hitter, Ken Singleton, walked as well 
to force in Lowenstein with the tying run. Finally, John Shelby, hitting 
for Al Bumbry, hit a sacrifice fly to put the O's ahead 4–3. The Orioles 
added an insurance run in the seventh on an RBI single by Dauer, who would 
collect three hits and three RBIs. The Phillies would get no closer than 
a single run in the ninth, as Tippy Martinez got his second save of the 
series. The crowd of 66,947 in Veterans Stadium was the biggest for the 
World Series since Game 3 in New York in 1964. Throughout this series, 
both teams' big gun hitters had been held in check. Mike Schmidt was 1 
for 16, while Eddie Murray was 2 for 16. In this game, however, Murray 
decided to snap out of it by belting two home runs and driving in three 
runs. Rick Dempsey, who would be named MVP, also homered and doubled and 
scored two runs. Scott McGregor pitched a complete game, five-hit shutout 
to give the Orioles the championship. It was Cal Ripken, Jr. who made the 
final putout of the series. The Phillies finished this Series with a team 
batting average of .195, the lowest for a World Series team since the 1974 
Oakland Athletics. The Philadelphia Eagles were originally scheduled to 
play the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday, October 16, at Veterans Stadium. Because 
of the scheduling conflict, the Eagles and the Cowboys, who were scheduled 
for two games against each other because they were in the same division, 
played on that day on the Cowboys' field, Texas Stadium. (Their other game 
had been scheduled for November 6 at Texas Stadium, and that game was played 
at Veterans Stadium.) 1983 World Series (4–1): Baltimore Orioles (A.L.) 
over Philadelphia Phillies (N.L.) Pitcher Larry Andersen was the only person 
to play for the Phillies in the 1983 World Series and the 1993 World Series 
