The 1984 National League Championship Series was played between the San 
Diego Padres and the Chicago Cubs from October 2 to 7. San Diego won the 
series three games to two to advance to the World Series. The 1984 NLCS 
was the first postseason series ever for the Padres since the franchise's 
beginning in 1969, and the first appearance by the Cubs in postseason play 
since the 1945 World Series. The series took a disastrous turn for Chicago 
after a promising start, which contributed to the popular mythology of 
the "Curse of the Billy Goat." The series was also the last best-of-five 
NLCS. In 1985, the League Championship Series changed to a best-of-seven 
format. Due to a strike by major league umpires, the first four games of 
the NLCS were played with replacement umpires.[1] San Diego won the series, 
3–2. Tuesday, October 2, 1984 at Wrigley Field in Chicago Bob Dernier led 
off the game for the Cubs with a homer, and things went steadily downhill 
for the Padres as Chicago romped to a crushing 13–0 win in their first 
postseason game since 1945. Gary Matthews also homered in the first and 
added a three-run shot in Chicago's six-run fifth. Even starting pitcher 
Rick Sutcliffe went deep, while holding the hapless Padres to two hits 
over seven strong innings. The Cubs' overwhelming victory had Chicago's 
long-suffering fans dreaming of the franchise's first World Series championship 
since 1908. Wednesday, October 3, 1984 at Wrigley Field in Chicago Chicago's 
offense was considerably more subdued in Game 2, though their pitching 
remained almost as strong. Dernier again opened the scoring for the Cubs 
in the first, singling to left and coming around to score on two groundouts. 
The Cubs got two more runs in the third, highlighted by Ron Cey's RBI double. 
San Diego got one back in the fourth when Tony Gwynn doubled and eventually 
scored on a sacrifice fly by Kevin McReynolds. But Chicago answered in 
the bottom of the fourth when Ryne Sandberg doubled in Dernier. San Diego 
cut the lead to 4-2 in the sixth on a run-scoring single by Steve Garvey, 
but the Padres could get no closer against the strong pitching of Steve 
Trout. Lee Smith came on with one out in the ninth to get the save, and 
the Cubs were just one victory away from the World Series. Thursday, October 
4, 1984 at Jack Murphy Stadium in San Diego The series moved to San Diego, 
and the Padres staved off elimination with a convincing 7–1 win. During 
pregame ceremonies, the normally reserved Padres shortstop Garry Templeton 
encouraged the crowd by waving his cap.[7][8] He ended a Cubs' rally in 
the first inning with an acrobatic catch of a line drive from Leon Durham.[7] 
However, San Diego actually fell behind 1–0 in the second when Chicago's 
Keith Moreland doubled and came home on Cey's single to center. The Cubs 
threatened to score more that inning, but Templeton made another excellent 
play, diving to his right on a line drive from Dernier that appeared destined 
for left field.[8] But the Cubs would get no more off Padres starter Ed 
Whitson, while San Diego's bats finally came to life with seven runs in 
the fifth and sixth. Garry Templeton knocked in two runs with a double 
in the fifth, giving San Diego their first lead of the series at 2–1.[7] 
McReynolds essentially ended the game with a three-run homer in the sixth. 
Rich Gossage pitched a dominating ninth inning to wrap up the win for San 
Diego. "It was the loudest crowd I've ever heard anywhere", said Gossage, 
a former New York Yankee.[9] Gwynn agreed as well.[10] Jack Murphy Stadium 
played "Cub-Busters", a parody of the theme song from the 1984 movie Ghostbusters.[9][10] 
Cub-Busters T-shirts inspired from the movie were popular attire for Padres 
fans.[11][12] Prior to the game, fans in the parking lot were lynching 
teddy bears, and singing the "We ain't 'fraid o' no Cubs" lyrics from "Cub-Busters".[13] 
Saturday, October 6, 1984 at Jack Murphy Stadium in San Diego Game 4 proved 
to be the most dramatic of the series, and it left many Cubs fans dreading 
another harsh disappointment for the franchise nicknamed the "lovable losers." 
The Padres jumped out to a 2–0 lead in the third on a sacrifice fly from 
Gwynn and a run-scoring double from Garvey. The Cubs actually took the 
lead in the fourth on a two-run homer by Jody Davis and a solo shot by 
Durham, who would later suffer ignominy in Game 5. The Padres tied the 
game in the fifth on another RBI from Garvey, and took the lead in the 
seventh when Garvey singled in yet another run. A passed ball allowed a 
second tally in the inning to make the score 5–3 San Diego. The Cubs bounced 
back in the eighth to tie the game on an RBI single by Moreland and an 
RBI double from Davis. With dominating closer Lee Smith on the mound for 
the Cubs in the bottom of the ninth, Gwynn singled to center with one out. 
Garvey then capped an extraordinary five-RBI game by launching a two-run 
walk-off home run to right center field at the 370 sign. During the game, 
the Padres lost McReynolds for the season after he broke his wrist trying 
to break up a double play.[14] Sunday, October 7, 1984 at Jack Murphy Stadium 
in San Diego Durham hit a two-run homer in the first and Davis added a 
solo homer in the second to give the Cubs a 3–0 lead.[13] Sutcliffe, who 
was 17–1 since joining Chicago in a mid-June trade, allowed just two infield 
hits through five innings.[13][15] However, San Diego scored on two sacrifice 
flies in the sixth to cut the Cubs lead to 3–2.[13] In the bottom of the 
seventh, Carmelo Martínez led off the inning with a walk on four pitches 
from Sutcliffe, and he was sacrificed to second by Garry Templeton. Martínez 
scored when pinch hitter Tim Flannery's sharp grounder went under Durham's 
glove and through his legs for an error. Alan Wiggins singled Flannery 
to second. Gwynn followed with a hard grounder at Sandberg's feet, which 
the second baseman expect to stay low, but instead bounced over his head 
into right center for a double;[13][15] Flannery and Wiggins scored to 
give the Padres a 5–3 lead as Gwynn reached third. Garvey followed with 
an RBI single to stretch the lead to 6–3. Steve Trout then replaced Sutcliffe 
and got out of the inning unscathed.[13] The Cubs got three baserunners 
over the final two innings against Gossage but could not score, and San 
Diego took home its first National League pennant. They became the first 
National League team to win a Championship Series after being down 2–0.[13] 
Garvey finished the series batting .400 with seven RBIs,[13][16] and was 
named the NLCS Most Valuable Player for the second time in his career.[15] 
The Padres would go on to lose the World Series to the dominant Detroit 
Tigers in five games. 1984 NLCS (3–2): San Diego Padres over Chicago Cubs 
