The 1984 Chicago Cubs season was the 113th season of the Chicago Cubs franchise, 
the 109th in the National League and the 69th at Wrigley Field. The Cubs 
finished with a record of 96-65 in first place of the National League Eastern 
Division. Chicago was managed by Jim Frey and the general manager was Dallas 
Green. The Cubs' postseason appearance in this season was their first since 
1945. The Cubs pitching staff included 1984 Cy Young Award winner Rick 
Sutcliffe, and the lineup included 1984 Baseball Most Valuable Player Award 
winner second baseman Ryne Sandberg. Frey was awarded Manager of the Year 
for the National League for leading the Cubs to 96 victories. The Cubs 
were defeated in the 1984 National League Championship Series by the San 
Diego Padres three games to two. The Cubs began their third season under 
the control of the Tribune Company and Dallas Green in Mesa, Arizona in 
February 1984. The previous year, the Cubs had fired manager Lee Elia during 
a 71-91 campaign, but the Cubs showed flashes of being competitive. As 
late as July 4, the Cubs were within a game of first place. After the 1983 
season, general manager Green hired Jim Frey, the former Kansas City Royals 
manager who was Green's adversary during the 1980 World Series. The Cubs 
opened camp with only a few new players. Richie Hebner, the former Pittsburgh 
Pirate, was signed as a free agent. The Cubs also made a three-way deal 
with San Diego and Montreal, sending Craig Lefferts and Carmelo Martínez 
to the Padres, and getting Scott Sanderson from the Expos. The Cubs struggled 
in Cactus League action, so Green began to rebuild the team before it left 
Mesa. Green began by releasing Ferguson Jenkins, who was just 16 games 
shy of winning 300 games. Jenkins' release ended the right-hander's second 
stint with the Cubs, and effectively, his career. Green's biggest move 
of the spring came on March 26, when he sent journeyman reliever Bill Campbell 
and catcher Mike Diaz to Philadelphia for pitcher Porfi Altamirano and 
outfielders Gary Matthews and Bob Dernier. The Cubs rebuilt the starting 
pitching staff through a series of trades by Dallas Green after a disappointing 
1983 season where they went 71-91. Green had been brought to the Cubs by 
the Tribune company which purchased the team in 1981. Before the season 
started, Green dealt Carmelo Martínez, Craig Lefferts, and Fritzie Connally 
to acquire right-hander Scott Sanderson.[4] On May 25, the Cubs traded 
Bill Buckner to the Boston Red Sox for righty Dennis Eckersley and Mike 
Brumley.[5] Finally on June 13, Mel Hall, Joe Carter, Don Schulze, and 
Darryl Banks were sent to the Cleveland Indians for starter Rick Sutcliffe, 
George Frazier, and Ron Hassey.[6] The acquisition of these three starters 
solidified the rotation for the year. The Cubs opened up the season going 
12-8 in April, and were tied for first place with the New York Mets and 
a half-game ahead of the Philadelphia Phillies. On May 27 against the Cincinnati 
Reds in Wrigley Field, third baseman Ron Cey hit what was originally ruled 
a home run down the left field line. Believing the ball had gone foul, 
Mario Soto and Reds manager Vern Rapp disputed the call, and during the 
argument, Soto shoved third base umpire Steve Rippley, who had made the 
call. After conferring, the umpires changed their decision and ruled it 
a foul ball, drawing a protest from the Cubs. However, for shoving Rippley, 
Soto was ejected, prompting him to charge the field and attack Cubs coach 
Don Zimmer, which triggered a ten-minute brawl. Four days later, National 
League president Chub Feeney suspended Mario Soto for five games. This 
game is also notable because Soto's opponent that day was Dennis Eckersley, 
who would go on to become a record-setting closer years later. "Eck", who 
was making his Cubs debut after being acquired in a trade with the Boston 
Red Sox (the Cubs traded Bill Buckner and got Eckersley and then-minor 
league middle infielder Mike Brumley), would take the loss that day.[7] 
The race stayed tight through the first half of the season, with the Cubs 
and Phillies tied at 42-34 on June 30, with the Mets trailing by just one 
and a half games. The second half of the season was different, with the 
Cubs posting a 54-31 record, with the Mets trailing, and the Phillies slumping 
back to a .500 record.[8] A key game during the season occurred on June 
23 at Wrigley, with the Cubs facing the rival St. Louis Cardinals on the 
nationally televised "game of the week". The Cardinals led throughout the 
game, and led 9-8 going into the bottom of the ninth with closer Bruce 
Sutter on the mound. Twenty-four-year-old second baseman Ryne Sandberg 
led off the ninth with a solo home run into the left-field bleachers, tying 
the game at nine.[9] The following inning, St. Louis regained the lead, 
and Sutter stayed in the game attempting to close out the win. After the 
first two batters were retired, Bob Dernier walked, bringing up Sandberg 
again. He promptly hit another game-tying home run into the left-field 
bleachers, sending the Wrigley fans into a frenzy.[9] The Cardinals did 
not score in the top of the 11th, but the Cubs loaded the bases on three 
walks, then rookie Dave Owen singled in the winning run.[10] Ryne Sandberg 
had 7 RBI in the game. Henceforth, this game has become known as "The Sandberg 
Game". On September 3, 1984, Rick Sutcliffe had 15 strikeouts in a game 
against the Philadelphia Phillies. The Cubs ended their playoff drought 
on September 24 at Three Rivers Stadium in front of just over 5,000 fans, 
many of whom were Cubs fans.[11] Rick Sutcliffe threw a two-hit complete 
game for his sixteenth straight victory, and the Cubs won the National 
League East.[11] Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; 
IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO 
= Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L 
= Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Before the season began, Grammy-award winning artist Steve Goodman recorded 
the tune "Go Cubs Go" which was played as the lead-in music for the radio 
broadcast on WGN radio. Goodman, who died just days before the Cubs clinched 
the division, also recorded "A Dying Cubs Fan's Last Request." During the 
2007 season, the song was played at Wrigley Field after victories.[16] 
The home games always began with the popular Van Halen song "Jump". A myth 
is that the Cubs were deprived of home-field advantage for the 1984 National 
League Championship Series (NLCS) because they could not host night games. 
However, from 1969–1984, the LCS were five-game series played in a 2-3 
format. The NL West and AL East champs hosted the first two games in odd 
years and the NL East and the AL West hosted the first two games in even 
years. Thus, no changes were made to the NLCS schedule due to Wrigley Field's 
lack of lights.[17] It is true that Major League Baseball announced in 
August 1984 that if the Cubs were to make the World Series, the first game 
would be moved to the American League park, to maximize the television 
revenues from night games. In 1984, the series was to be a seven-game series 
in a 2-3-2 format with the NL hosting the first two and last two games. 
