The 1984 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXIII Olympiad, 
was an international multi-sport event held in Los Angeles, California, 
United States in 1984. When Tehran, the only other interested city on the 
international level, declined to bid due to the concurrent Iranian political 
and social changes, the IOC awarded Los Angeles the Games by default. This 
was the second occasion Los Angeles hosted the games, the first being in 
1932. In response to the American-led boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics 
in Moscow, 14 Eastern Bloc countries, including the Soviet Union, Cuba 
and East Germany, boycotted the Games; only Romania and Yugoslavia elected 
to attend. For differing reasons, Iran and Libya also boycotted. The USSR 
announced its intention not to participate on May 8, 1984, citing security 
concerns and "chauvinistic sentiments and an anti-Soviet hysteria being 
whipped up in the United States."[2] Boycotting countries organized another 
large event in June–September 1984, called the Friendship Games; however, 
not even a single competition was held between July 28 and August 12. Representatives 
of the organizing countries, the Soviets in particular, underlined it was 
"not held to replace the Olympics". Elite athletes from the U.S. and USSR 
would only compete against each other at the 1986 Goodwill Games in Moscow, 
organized in response to the boycotts. Where ambitious construction for 
the 1976 games in Montreal and 1980 games in Moscow had saddled organizers 
with expenses greatly in excess of revenues, Los Angeles strictly controlled 
expenses by using existing facilities except a swim stadium and a velodrome 
that were paid for by corporate sponsors. The Olympic Committee led by 
Peter Ueberroth used some of the profits to endow the LA84 Foundation to 
promote youth sports in Southern California, educate coaches and maintain 
a sports library. The 1984 Summer Olympics are often considered the most 
financially successful modern Olympics.[3] The host state of California 
was the home state of U.S. President Ronald Reagan, who officially opened 
the Games. He had served as Governor of California from 1967 to 1975. The 
official mascot of the Los Angeles Games was Sam the Olympic Eagle. The 
logo of the games featured five blue, white and red stars arranged horizontally 
and struck through with alternating streaks; it was named "Stars in Motion." 
These were the first Summer Olympic Games under the IOC presidency of Juan 
Antonio Samaranch. On July 18, 2009, a 25th anniversary celebration was 
held in the main stadium. This celebration included a speech by the former 
president of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee, Ueberroth, and 
a re-creation of the lighting of the cauldron. After the murder of Israeli 
athletes by Palestinian terrorists in Munich (1972) and significant financial 
debts of Montreal (1976), few cities by the late 1970s were willing to 
bid for the Summer Games. Only two cities -Teheran and Los Angeles- made 
serious bids for the 1984 Summer Games. But before a "winning" city could 
be anointed in 1978, Tehran, too, dropped out. Hence, the selection process 
for the 1984 Summer Olympics consisted of a single finalized bid, with 
the International Olympic Committee accepting the bid of Los Angeles. The 
bid from Tehran was withdrawn before the selection as a result of Iran's 
policy changes following the Iranian Revolution and change of the country's 
ruling system. Los Angeles had unsuccessfully bid for the two previous 
Summer Olympics, for 1976 and 1980. The United States Olympic Committee 
had at least one bid for every Olympics since 1944, but had not succeeded 
since the Los Angeles Olympics in 1932, the previous time a single bid 
had been issued for the Summer Olympics. The 1984 Olympic Torch Relay began 
in New York City and ended in Los Angeles, traversing 33 states and the 
District of Columbia. Unlike later torch relays, the torch was continuously 
carried by runners on foot. The route covered more than 9,320 mi (15,000 km) 
and involved 3,636 runners, including 200 from the sponsoring company AT&T. 
Noted athlete O.J. Simpson was among the runners, carrying the torch up 
the California Incline in Santa Monica. Gina Hemphill, granddaughter of 
Jesse Owens, carried the torch into the Coliseum, completed a lap around 
the track, then handed it off to the final runner, Rafer Johnson, winner 
of the decathlon at the 1960 Summer Olympics. With the torch, he touched 
off the flame which passed through a specially designed flammable Olympic 
logo, igniting all five rings. The flame then passed up to cauldron atop 
the peristyle and remained aflame for the duration of the Games. John Williams 
composed the theme for the Olympiad, "Olympic Fanfare and Theme". This 
piece won a Grammy for Williams and became one of the most well-known musical 
themes of the Olympic Games, along with Leo Arnaud's "Bugler's Dream"; 
the latter is sometimes attached to the beginning of Olympic Fanfare and 
Theme. Composer Bill Conti also wrote a song to inspire the weightlifters 
called "Power". An album, The Official Music of the XXIII Olympiad—Los 
Angeles 1984, featured three of those tracks along with sports themes written 
for the occasion by popular musical artists including Foreigner, Toto, 
Loverboy, Herbie Hancock, Quincy Jones, Christopher Cross, Philip Glass 
and Giorgio Moroder.[4] The Brazilian composer Sérgio Mendes also produced 
a special song for the 1984 Olympic Games, "Olympia," from his 1984 album 
Confetti. A choir of approximately one thousand voices was assembled of 
singers in the region. All were volunteers from nearby churches, schools 
and universities. Etta James performed "When the Saints Go Marching In" 
at the Opening Ceremony.[5] Vicki McClure along with the International 
Children's Choir of Long Beach sang "Reach Out and Touch". Lionel Richie 
performed a 9-minute version of his hit single "All Night Long" at the 
closing ceremonies.[6] The 1984 Summer Olympics was preceded by the 10-week-long 
adjunct Los Angeles Olympic Arts Festival, which opened on June 2 and ended 
on August 12. It provided more than 400 performances by 146 theater, dance 
and music companies, representing every continent and 18 countries. It 
was organized by then-CalArts President Robert Fitzpatrick. The 1984 Summer 
Olympic program featured 221 events in the following 21 sports: These are 
the top ten nations that won medals at the 1984 Games. Athletes from 140 
nations competed at the Los Angeles Games. The following countries made 
their first Olympic appearance in 1984: Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, British 
Virgin Islands, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Gambia, Grenada, Mauritania, 
Mauritius, North Yemen, Oman, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, 
and the United Arab Emirates. Zaire had competed previously as Congo Kinshasa. 
The People's Republic of China made their first appearance in a Summer 
Olympics since 1952, while for the first time the Republic of China team 
participated under the politically made-up name as Chinese Taipei. The 
Soviet Union led the Warsaw Pact and other Communist and Socialist countries 
on a boycott of the 1984 Summer Olympics, in retaliation for the U.S.-led 
boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow over the Soviet Union's invasion 
of Afghanistan in 1979. However, a handful of Socialist countries disregarded 
the boycott and attended anyway. Among them were Yugoslavia (which hosted 
the 1984 Winter Olympics), the People's Republic of China, and Romania. 
The fact that Romania, a Warsaw Pact country, opted to compete despite 
Soviet demands led to a warm reception of the Romanian team by the United 
States. When the Romanian athletes entered during the opening ceremonies, 
they received a standing ovation from the spectators, which comprised mostly 
U.S. citizens. Romania won 53 medals, including 20 golds, more than the 
nation has in any other Olympics. The number of athletes representing that 
nation is shown in parentheses: Fourteen countries took part in the Soviet-led 
boycott of the 1984 Olympic Games:[10] Albania, Iran and Libya also boycotted 
the games, citing political reasons, but were not a part of the Soviet-led 
boycott. Albania and Iran were the only countries to boycott both the 1980 
and 1984 events. Following the news of the massive financial losses of 
the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, only Los Angeles 
and New York City expressed serious interest in hosting the 1984 games. 
Given only one city per country is allowed to bid for any Games, the USOC 
vote for an American bid city was essentially the deciding vote for the 
1984 Olympics host city. In this case, Los Angeles's bid won by a vote 
of 55 to 39. New York City's 1984 bid fell 16 votes shy of winning the 
Games and is the closest the city has ever come to becoming a host city 
for the Olympics, coming even closer than they did in their 2012 bid.[11] 
The low level of interest among cities was seen as a major threat to the 
future of the Olympic Games. However, with the financially successful Los 
Angeles Games, cities began to line up to be hosts again. The Los Angeles 
and Montreal Games are seen as examples of what to do and what not to do 
when organizing the Olympics, and serve as object lessons to prospective 
host cities. Montreal organizers had run up a substantial debt eight years 
earlier by constructing many new, overly ambitiously designed venues, but 
as the only bidding city the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee was 
able to extract concessions from the IOC: namely, that the city would not 
be responsible for any cost overruns and that it could use area venues 
that were already in existence, particularly the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, 
which was also the Olympic Stadium for the 1932 Summer Olympics.[12] The 
Olympic Velodrome and the Olympic Swim Stadium, funded largely by the 7-Eleven 
and McDonald's corporations respectively, were the only two new venues 
constructed specifically for the L.A. Games. The resulting low construction 
costs, coupled with a heavy reliance on private corporate funding, allowed 
the Games to generate a profit of more than $200 million, making them by 
far the most financially successful in history.[3] In addition to corporate 
support, the Olympic committee also made use of the burgeoning prices being 
paid for exclusive television rights. Starting with the Los Angeles Games, 
these contracts would be a significant source of revenue. Adjusted for 
inflation, the Los Angeles Games received twice the amount received by 
the 1980 Moscow Summer Olympics and four times that of the 1976 Montreal 
Summer Olympics.[13] Because these contracts were signed well in advance 
of the Games, Los Angeles found itself in an easier planning position as 
most of its revenue was already assured before the Games.[14] On September 
1, 2015, Los Angeles has been chosen as the U.S. candidate to bid for the 
2024 Summer Olympics.[15] McDonald's ran a promotion entitled "When the 
U.S. Wins, You Win" where customers scratched off a ticket with the name 
of an Olympic event on it, and if the U.S. won that event then they would 
be given a free menu item: a Big Mac for a gold medal, an order of french 
fries for a silver medal, and a Coca-Cola for a bronze medal. The promotion 
became a near financial disaster due to the Soviet boycott which led to 
the U.S. winning far more Olympic medals than expected.[16] This promotion 
was parodied in the The Simpsons episode "Lisa's First Word", where Krusty 
Burger runs a similar offer. The promotion was intended to be rigged so 
that prizes would only be offered in events dominated by the Eastern Bloc, 
but the Soviet-led boycott causes Krusty to personally lose $44 million. 
He vehemently promises "to spit in every fiftieth burger," to which Homer 
retorts "I like those odds!" Chief Wiggum also exclaims that he could kiss 
Carl Lewis, who won four gold medals at the Games. On NCIS, Tim McGee has 
an obsession with jet packs, stemming from having attended the 1984 Olympic 
ceremony as a child and having Bill Suitor fly over his head in his jet 
pack.[17] This storyline is based on the real experience of executive producer 
and writer Jesse Stern.[18] Pop punk band Bowling For Soup references the 
games in the song "I Can't Stand LA". During a section showing appreciation 
for the city, the song states, "thank you for hair metal and the '84 Olympics." 
Jilly Cooper's novel Riders has a storyline set at the show jumping event 
in the 1984 LA Olympics. The games were covered by the following broadcasters: 
