The 1984 World Series began on October 9 and ended on October 14, 1984. 
The American League champion Detroit Tigers played against the National 
League champion San Diego Padres, with the Tigers winning the series four 
games to one. This was the first World Series that Peter Ueberroth presided 
over as commissioner. Ueberroth began his tenure on October 1, succeeding 
Bowie Kuhn. Ueberroth had been elected as Kuhn's successor prior to the 
1984 season, but did not take over until the postseason as he was serving 
as the chairman of the 1984 Summer Olympics, which ran from July 28 through 
August 12. The San Diego Padres won the National League West division by 
twelve games over both the Atlanta Braves and the Houston Astros, then 
defeated the Chicago Cubs, three games to two, in the National League Championship 
Series. The Detroit Tigers won the American League East division by fifteen 
games over the Toronto Blue Jays, then swept the Kansas City Royals, three 
games to none, in the American League Championship Series. The 1984 World 
Series was a rematch between managers Sparky Anderson (Detroit) and Dick 
Williams (San Diego). The two had previously faced off in the 1972 World 
Series, with Anderson managing the Cincinnati Reds and Williams helming 
the victorious Oakland Athletics. The 1984 Series was Anderson's fifth 
overall as a manager—in addition to the 1972 Fall Classic, he had also 
managed the Reds during the 1970 World Series (which they lost to the Baltimore 
Orioles) and served as skipper during Cincinnati's back-to-back world championships 
in 1975 and 1976. Anderson's counterpart, Williams, was managing in his 
fourth World Series; he had headed the Boston Red Sox during the 1967 "Impossible 
Dream" season, when they won their first pennant in 21 years in a tight 
race over the Tigers, Minnesota Twins, and Chicago White Sox. After his 
Athletics won the 1972 World Series, Williams again led them to victory 
in the 1973 Series over the New York Mets. Prior to 1984, only three managers 
(Joe McCarthy, Al Dark and Yogi Berra) had won pennants in both leagues. 
Nobody had ever won World Series as a manager in both leagues, thus ensuring 
that the winning manager of the 1984 Series would be the first to do so. 
The 1984 World Series was also a battle of sorts between the multimillion-dollar 
American fast food chains. Domino's Pizza founder Tom Monaghan owned the 
Tigers while McDonald's founder Ray Kroc, who died several months before 
the 1984 World Series, owned the Padres. It would feature the first World 
Series game at Jack Murphy Stadium (Game 1) and the final World Series 
game at Tiger Stadium (Game 5). By May 24, 1984, the Detroit Tigers had 
just won their ninth straight game with Jack Morris on the mound winning 
his ninth game of the season. The Tigers record stood at 35–5, a major 
league record. In the next three games they would get swept by the Seattle 
Mariners and settle down to play .500 ball over the next 40 games. But 
in the end, they would wind up with a franchise record 104 wins and become 
only the third team in MLB history to lead the league wire-to-wire. These 
Tigers were strong up the middle featuring all-stars at each middle position 
with catcher Lance Parrish setting a career high in home runs with 33, 
the record-setting tandem of Lou Whitaker at second base and Alan Trammell 
at shortstop (they played together from 1977–95) and solid center-fielder 
Chet Lemon. In addition to Morris, the pitching staff was anchored by starters 
Dan Petry and Milt Wilcox, with eventual Cy Young Award and Most Valuable 
Player winner, Willie Hernández (9–3, 1.92 ERA, 32 saves), closing. The 
Detroit Tigers signed ageless wonder free-agent Darrell Evans (their first 
free-agent signing since Tito Fuentes in 1977) prior to the season, and 
acquired first baseman Dave Bergman in a trade with the Philadelphia Phillies 
that also brought them the aforementioned Hernández. Bergman would settle 
in as the Tigers' everyday first baseman providing steady glove-work. And 
of course there was "Mr. Clutch", right-fielder Kirk Gibson, who had a 
break-out year with 27 home runs, 29 stolen bases, 91 RBIs, and a .282 
batting average. After winning two World Championships with the 1975–76 
Cincinnati Reds, manager Sparky Anderson was primed to win his first in 
the American League in his fifth full season with the Detroit Tigers. Anderson 
had proved to be somewhat prophetic, as he had made a bold statement in 
mid-1979 when he joined the Tigers that his team would be a pennant winner 
within five years.[1] Williams was in his third season with the San Diego 
Padres after leading them to identical 81–81 (.500) records in 1982 and 
1983. 1984 would mark only the second time in Padre history that the team 
would finish over .500, the other being an 84–78 record in 1978. With the 
Padres' NL pennant in 1984, Williams became the second manager to take 
three teams to the World Series (he had previously taken the 1967 Red Sox 
and the 1972 and 1973 Athletics to the Fall Classic). The Padres set a 
franchise record for victories with 92 in 1984, being led by two veterans, 
first baseman Steve Garvey and third baseman Graig Nettles. Statistically, 
this team was not overwhelming, with Nettles and Kevin McReynolds leading 
the team with just twenty home runs. (The team eventually would lose McReynolds 
in Game 4 of the NLCS due to a broken wrist.) No player came close to 100 
RBIs (Garvey, 86) or had over 30 doubles in the regular season, although 
Tony Gwynn won the first of his eight National League batting titles by 
hitting for a .351 average with 213 hits. The pitching staff was average—a 
staff of twentysomethings and a 33-year-old closer, Goose Gossage (10–6, 
25 SVs), who was signed as a free agent from the New York Yankees. Eric 
Show led the staff with fifteen wins with Ed Whitson and lefty Mark Thurmond 
having identical 14–8 records. But the sterling bullpen, headed by Gossage 
and Craig "Lefty" Lefferts, held the staff together enough to take this 
team to the "Big Show" although they would falter and get ripped by the 
Tiger bats losing the Series in five games. To get to the Series, the Padres 
had to overcome a two-games-to-none deficit against the Chicago Cubs in 
the NLCS, rallying to win the final three games.[2] The 1984 Padres adopted 
Ray Parker, Jr.'s "Ghostbusters" as their theme song (à la the 1979 Pittsburgh 
Pirates using Sister Sledge's "We Are Family" as their theme song). During 
their playoff series against the Chicago Cubs, the Padre fans turned Ghostbusters 
into Cubbusters.[3] AL Detroit Tigers (4) vs. NL San Diego Padres (1) Game 
1 started shakily for Tiger starter Jack Morris (a 19-game winner during 
the season), as he surrendered two-out singles in the bottom of the first 
inning to Steve Garvey and Graig Nettles, followed by a two-run double 
to Terry Kennedy. Padre starter Mark Thurmond took a 2–1 lead into the 
fifth, but then surrendered a crucial two-out, two-run homer to Larry Herndon. 
Nettles and Kennedy both singled to open the San Diego sixth, but Morris 
snuffed out their momentum by striking out the rest of the side. Kurt Bevacqua 
started what looked to be a comeback with a leadoff double in the seventh, 
but was thrown out at third while attempting to stretch the hit into a 
triple. Despite the close call, Morris remained focused and set down the 
last nine remaining Padre batters for a complete game, 3–2 victory. The 
Tigers jumped out to a 3–0 first inning lead, but San Diego chipped away 
with single runs in the first and fourth. Kurt Bevacqua then evened the 
series at 1–1 with a three-run home run in the fifth-inning off Dan Petry. 
To date, this remains the only World Series victory in Padres history. 
Andy Hawkins, the winning pitcher, relieved starter Ed Whitson in the first 
inning. Game 2 at Jack Murphy Stadium marked the last MLB playoff game 
to date where the DH was used in a National League ballpark. Since then, 
any World Series game in an American League park uses the DH (previously, 
the DH was used in alternating World Series), while pitchers bat in the 
NL parks. The next time the DH rule was used in a National League park 
was during a regular season series between the Toronto Blue Jays and Philadelphia 
Phillies during the 2010 season.[8] Besides Bevacqua's home run, this game 
is also remembered for what happened two batters later. Aurelio López relieved 
Petry and walked the next batter, Carmelo Martínez. On the first pitch 
to the next batter, Garry Templeton, catcher Lance Parrish called for a 
pitchout, but Lopez threw a fastball over the plate that struck umpire 
Larry Barnett in the midsection. By the time the 1984 World Series rolled 
around, Tiger Stadium (built 1912) became the oldest ballpark to ever host 
a World Series. That record was soon eclipsed by Boston's Fenway Park (also 
opened in 1912), which hosted the Fall Classic in 1986, 2004, 2007, and 
2013. Tim Lollar failed to make it out of the second inning as Detroit 
erupted for four runs, including a Marty Castillo two-run homer, en route 
to a 5–2 victory for Milt Wilcox. Willie Hernández pitched 2 1⁄3 innings 
of one-hit relief for the save. The victory gave the Tigers a two games-to-one 
series lead. Alan Trammell drilled a pair of two-run homers in the first 
and third innings to account for all of Detroit's offense as the Tigers 
beat Eric Show to take a three games-to-one lead in the Series. Jack Morris 
got his second Series victory in another complete-game effort. For the 
fourth consecutive game, the Padres' starting pitcher did not make it past 
the third inning, as the Tigers jumped on Mark Thurmond for three runs 
in the first inning. The Padres rallied to tie the score in the fourth, 
but the Tigers pulled ahead again with single runs in the fifth and seventh 
innings. After the Padres closed it to a one-run game in the eighth with 
a rare run off closer Willie Hernández, Kirk Gibson came to the plate in 
the bottom of the eighth for the Tigers with runners on second and third 
and one out. Gibson had homered earlier in the game, and Padres manager 
Dick Williams strolled to the mound to talk to Goose Gossage, seemingly 
with the purpose of ordering him to walk Gibson intentionally. Just before 
the at-bat, Gibson made a US$10 bet (flashing ten fingers) with his manager 
Sparky Anderson that Gossage (who had dominated Gibson in the past) would 
pitch to him. Gossage talked Williams into letting him pitch to Gibson, 
and Gibson responded with a three-run blast into the upper deck to clinch 
the Series for the Tigers. Gibson wound up driving in five runs and scoring 
three, including the run that gave Detroit the lead for good when he raced 
home on a pop-up sacrifice fly by little-used reserve Rusty Kuntz. In the 
ninth, Willie Hernández closed out the series for the Tigers by getting 
Tony Gwynn to fly to Larry Herndon in left field for the final out. While 
Alan Trammell won the Sport Magazine variation of the World Series Most 
Valuable Player Award, Jack Morris won the Babe Ruth variation. After being 
fired by the Cincinnati Reds in 1978, Sparky Anderson was hired by the 
Tigers in June 1979. Anderson became the first manager to win a World Championship 
in both the American and National Leagues. Game 5 had a starting time of 
4:45 p.m. ET, following a 1:30 p.m. start for Game 4. These were the last 
outdoor World Series games to start earlier than prime time in the eastern 
United States (Game 6 in 1987, the last daytime World Series contest, was 
indoors at the Metrodome in Minneapolis). In addition, no World Series 
has ended as early as October 14 since 1984; in fact, with the exception 
of Game 1 of the 1989 World Series (played on October 14, 1989), no World 
Series has begun earlier than October 15 since 1984. Format changes—the 
best-of-five League Championship Series becoming best-of-seven affairs 
in 1985, followed by the addition of wild-card teams, the best-of-five 
League Division Series in 1994 and Wild Card games in 2012—have made that 
impossible, even when baseball's regular seasons have ended on the last 
Sunday in September. 1984 World Series (4–1): Detroit Tigers (A.L.) over 
San Diego Padres (N.L.) Three players set World Series hitting records 
during the 1984 World Series. Less than twenty years after winning the 
1984 World Series Most Valuable Player Award, Alan Trammell would become 
manager of the Detroit Tigers. The Detroit Tigers would not return to the 
World Series until 2006, six years after Comerica Park opened. However 
Trammell was fired before the season began and was replaced by Jim Leyland, 
who won a World Series ring managing the Florida Marlins in 1997. This 
was the first of two World Series appearances for Padres outfielder and 
Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn. He would later lead the Padres back to the World 
Series in 1998, but his team was swept by the New York Yankees. 1984 teammate 
