The 1984 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 55th midseason exhibition 
between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and the National League 
(NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. The game was played 
on July 10, 1984 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, home of the San 
Francisco Giants of the National League. The game resulted in a 3-1 victory 
for the NL. Of the three All-Star Games played in San Francisco to date, 
it is the only one to have been held in an even-numbered year. Candlestick 
Park's only other All-Star Game, played in 1961, and the next Midsummer 
Classic to be played in San Francisco, in 2007 at AT&T Park, the Giants' 
current home, took place in odd-numbered years. Players in italics have 
since been inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. The National 
Leaguers drew first blood in the first off Dave Stieb when Steve Garvey 
singled to right and went to second on an error by Reggie Jackson. Garvey 
then scored on another error by catcher Lance Parrish after Dale Murphy 
singled. In the second, George Brett tied it with a solo homer off Charlie 
Lea, and game MVP Gary Carter quickly gave the NL the lead back with a 
solo shot off Dave Stieb. The game would remain 2-1, NL, for five more 
innings with two noteworthy pitching performances by National League pitchers 
along the way. Fernando Valenzuela struck out Dave Winfield, Reggie Jackson, 
and George Brett in the fourth, and 19-year-old Dwight Gooden fanned Lance 
Parrish, Chet Lemon, and Alvin Davis in the fifth. Dale Murphy added a 
solo homer in the eighth off Willie Hernández for the final 3-1 margin. 
Goose Gossage got the save. The game set a nine-inning All-Star Game record 
for most strikeouts (21)--which would be broken in 1999. Huey Lewis and 
the News sang the United States National Anthem prior to the game, with 
the Presidio of San Francisco color guard presenting the colors and airplanes 
from Travis Air Force Base flying over Candlestick Park at the Anthem's 
conclusion. The ceremonial first pitch ceremony featured Carl Hubbell. 
