The 1984 American League Championship Series matched the East Division 
champion Detroit Tigers against the West Division champion Kansas City 
Royals. The Tigers prevailed three games to none, to advance to the 1984 
World Series against the San Diego Padres. (Note: Due to a strike by major 
league umpires, the series was played using local and collegiate umpires, 
with former AL umpire and league supervisor Deegan working home plate for 
all three games.) The 1984 American League Championship Series would prove 
to be no contest for the Tigers. It wasn't that surprising given the fact 
the Royals won 20 fewer games during the season and had won the AL West 
by a mere three games over both the California Angels and Minnesota Twins. 
Detroit won the series, 3–0. Tuesday, October 2, 1984 at Royals Stadium 
in Kansas City, Missouri Game 1 was a blowout in Kansas City, as Jack Morris 
pitched seven innings and allowed a single run, with Willie Hernández pitching 
the final two innings. The Tigers scored eight runs. Alan Trammell hit 
a triple and a home run for three RBIs, and Larry Herndon and Lance Parrish 
also hit home runs for Detroit. Wednesday, October 3, 1984 at Royals Stadium 
in Kansas City, Missouri The Tigers took Game 2 in extra innings by a 5–3 
score. Kirk Gibson doubled to drive in Lou Whitaker in the first inning 
and hit a home run in the third. Dan Petry pitched seven innings and gave 
up two runs, but lost his chance at a win when Willie Hernández surrendered 
the tying run in the eighth inning. Detroit's "Senor Smoke", Aurelio López, 
held the Royals scoreless in the ninth, tenth and eleventh innings for 
the win. Johnny Grubb hit a double off Dan Quisenberry in the eleventh 
inning to drive in Darrell Evans and Ruppert Jones. Friday, October 5, 
1984 at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Michigan Game 3 was a pitching duel between 
Milt Wilcox and Charlie Leibrandt. Leibrandt pitched a complete game, allowing 
only one run and three hits, while Milt Wilcox gave up two hits and struck 
out eight Royals with Willie Hernández pitching the ninth inning for the 
save. Marty Castillo grounded out to drive in Chet Lemon for the only run 
of the game, as the Tigers completed a three-game sweep and advanced to 
the World Series. Had the ALCS gone the full five games, Game 5 on Sunday 
October 7, would have been a 1 p.m. ET time start instead of being in prime 
time. This would have happened because one of the presidential debates 
between Ronald Reagan and Walter Mondale was scheduled for that night. 
Accordingly, ABC planned to broadcast the debates instead of Game 5 in 
