The 1985 American League Championship Series was played between the Kansas 
City Royals and the Toronto Blue Jays from October 8 to 16. Major League 
Baseball decided to extend the Championship Series in both leagues from 
its best-of-five (1969–1984) to the current best-of-seven format starting 
with this year, and it proved pivotal in the outcome of the ALCS. The Blue 
Jays seemingly put a stranglehold on the Series, earning a three games 
to one lead over the Royals after four games. However, Kansas City staged 
an improbable comeback, winning the next three games to win the American 
League Championship Series four games to three. The Royals would proceed 
to defeat their cross-state rivals, the St. Louis Cardinals, in the World 
Series four games to three. The oddsmakers favored Toronto, 8–5. During 
the opening pregame show, NBC Sports baseball analyst Tony Kubek was among 
the few who predicted a Kansas City victory, citing the Blue Jays' struggles 
against left-handed pitching, and the Royals' plethora of left-handed starters. 
This prediction was especially curious considering Kubek worked on Blue 
Jays television broadcasts during the regular season. The Royals had long 
been a contending team in the American League, with great regular season 
success but frustration in the playoffs. They won three consecutive American 
League West division titles from 1976 to 1978, only to be defeated in the 
ALCS all three years by the New York Yankees. The Royals did manage to 
defeat the Yankees and win the ALCS in 1980; however, they lost the World 
Series to the Philadelphia Phillies four games to two. In 1984, K.C. again 
won the West Division, but were swept in the ALCS by the eventual World 
champion Detroit Tigers, who won 20 more games during the regular season 
than the Royals. 1985 saw the Royals post a record of 91–71 (.562) winning 
another West Division pennant, ahead of the California Angels by a game. 
By contrast, the Blue Jays franchise was established in 1977, and the late 
1970s and early 1980s for them were marked by the challenges faced by an 
expansion team. Beginning in 1982, however, they played increasingly solid 
seasons, achieving their first winning season in 1983 and finishing second 
in the American League East in 1984 behind Detroit. 1985 proved to be a 
breakout year for Toronto, as they rode strong offense and pitching to 
the second-best record in Major League Baseball, at 99–62 (.615), winning 
the AL East by two games over the Yankees. Kansas City won the series, 
4–3. Tuesday, October 8, 1985 at Exhibition Stadium in Toronto The Toronto 
Blue Jays entered the series as the favorite to win the series. The first 
game featured Toronto pitcher Dave Stieb and Kansas City pitcher Charlie 
Leibrandt at Exhibition Stadium in Toronto. Neither team was able to score 
runs in the first inning; however, in the second inning the Blue Jays offense 
became productive. Jesse Barfield singled and advanced to second base when 
Willie Upshaw was hit by a pitch. Garth Iorg forced Barfield out at third, 
but with Iorg on first and Upshaw on second, Ernie Whitt singled to score 
Upshaw with the first run of the series. Tony Fernández singled to shortstop 
allowing Iorg to score, and a single by Damaso Garcia loaded the bases 
with one out. Leibrandt induced a pop fly out by Lloyd Moseby and a ground 
ball out by George Bell. After nearly breaking the game open in the second 
inning, the Blue Jays increased their lead in the third inning and Leibrandt 
was removed form the game. A double by Cliff Johnson was followed by a 
base on balls to Barfield. The game was forced into a rain delay. Whether 
the rain ended Leibrandt's effectiveness or the Jays simply figured him 
out, Upshaw's single loaded the bases with no outs and led to relief pitcher 
Steve Farr entering the game. Rance Mulliniks singled to score Johnson 
and keep the bases loaded. A walk to Whitt scored Barfield to increase 
the score to 4–0. A sacrifice fly from Fernandez made it 5–0. Farr finally 
settled down and proceeded to get next two batters out; however, the Royals 
were down 5–0 en route to a 6–1 loss. The final Jays' run was scored when 
George Bell singled and scored on a throwing error by Steve Balboni on 
a fielder's choice to the next batter, Cliff Johnson. Willie Wilson scored 
the Royals' only run in the ninth inning when he singled, moved to third 
on a George Brett single, and scored on a fielders choice ground out by 
Pat Sheridan. The Blue Jays scored six runs and left nine runners on base. 
Leibrandt was credited with the loss while Stieb pitched eight innings 
for the win and Tom Henke pitched the ninth inning. The victory gave the 
Jays a one-game to none lead in the ALCS. Wednesday, October 9, 1985 at 
Exhibition Stadium in Toronto, Ontario Game 2 produced excitement and controversy 
with the Blue Jays winning, 6–5, in ten innings. This game featured Royals' 
pitcher Bud Black against Toronto left-hander Jimmy Key. The Royals scored 
in the third inning when Buddy Biancalana singled and scored on an unexpected 
home run by the light-hitting Willie Wilson to make the score 2–0. They 
increased their lead in the fourth inning when Darryl Motley singled and 
scored on a double by Jim Sundberg. The Jays, trailing the game 3–0, got 
on the scoreboard in the bottom of the fourth inning when George Bell reached 
base on an error by George Brett and scored a run on Cliff Johnson's double 
to decrease the gap 3–1. As in Game 1, rain interrupted the game with the 
Blue Jays at bat. In the sixth inning, with two outs and the Royals leading 
the game 3–1, Black hit Bell with a pitch, then Cliff Johnson singled to 
left field to put runners at first and second. Black threw a wild pitch, 
allowing the runners to advance. Blue Jays manager Bobby Cox pulled Johnson 
and sent in pinch-runner Lou Thornton. This change was successful when 
Barfield singled up the middle to score both runners and tie the game at 
three runs apiece. Black retired Upshaw to end the inning. In the bottom 
of the eighth inning, Royals manager Dick Howser went to closer Dan Quisenberry. 
With one out, Lloyd Moseby singled, stole second base, and advanced to 
third on a throwing error by catcher Jim Sundberg. When Moseby then scored 
on George Bell's sacrifice fly, the Blue Jays were only three outs from 
a 2–0 series lead. Kansas City, however, would not go quietly. Leading 
off the ninth inning, reserve outfielder Pat Sheridan pinch-hit for Motley 
and drilled a game-tying home run off Tom Henke. Neither team scored over 
the rest of the ninth, and the game went into extra innings. In the top 
of the tenth, Willie Wilson hit a low line drive on which center fielder 
Lloyd Moseby seemed to make a shoe-string catch. Replays showed that he 
may have made the play, but both Kubek and Costas agreed that it was very 
difficult to decide, even after watching it numerous times in slow motion. 
The play was ruled no catch, and Wilson was credited with a single. Wilson 
stole second with two outs and scored on a single by Frank White. The Blue 
Jays then came to bat with a controversial one-run Kansas City lead. The 
Blue Jays responded in their half of the tenth inning with a single by 
Tony Fernández. Fernandez moved to second on Damaso Garcia's fielder's 
choice and scored on Moseby's single, with Fernández running through third 
base coach Jimy Williams' stop sign. Quisenberry then tried to pick off 
Moseby. The pick-off was initially successful, but Steve Balboni missed 
the throw to first base and Moseby was safe at second. Al Oliver drove 
Moseby home with the winning run and the Blue Jays headed for Kansas City 
with a two games to none series lead. Each closer was involved in the decision 
as Henke was credited the win and Quisenberry assigned the loss. Friday, 
October 11, 1985 at Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri In past years, 
a 2–0 hole would mean a must-win game, but the Royals entered Game 3 not 
having to win to keep playing but only to keep the series close. Game 3 
saw the Royals send the 1985 Cy Young Award winner Bret Saberhagen to the 
mound against Doyle Alexander for the Blue Jays. And George Brett's one-man 
show put the Royals back into the series. Entering the game, Dick Howser 
had an all-time postseason managerial record of 0–11. With two outs in 
the first, Brett unloaded a home run to give the Royals a 1–0 lead. The 
Blue Jays threatened in the third when Garcia doubled and reached third 
on Lonnie Smith's throwing error. Moseby grounded to Brett at third, who 
stunned everybody by gunning the ball home and getting Garcia to preserve 
the 1–0 Kansas City lead. In the fourth, Brett opened with a double, went 
to third on McRae's fly out to right, and scored on White's sacrifice fly 
to give the Royals a 2–0 lead. But the Blue Jays fought back. In the fifth, 
Whitt singled and Barfield homered to tie the game at two. Garcia then 
doubled and Moseby singled off of Saberhagen's leg to put two on. Rance 
Mulliniks then drilled a three-run homer and the Blue Jays were suddenly 
ahead 5–2 and were 15 defensive outs from taking a 3–0 series lead. Bud 
Black succeeded Saberhagen and promptly loaded the bases on singles by 
Johnson and Bell and a walk to Whitt. With Barfield, who had already homered, 
at the plate, Howser sent for Steve Farr, who got the Royals out of the 
jam with a ground out. The Royals fought back, getting a Jim Sundberg solo 
home run in the fifth to make it 5–3. In the sixth, Wilson singled and 
Brett hit his second homer of the night, tying the game at five. Dennis 
Lamp replaced Alexander and retired the Royals without any further damage. 
In the eighth, Brett singled, went to second on McRae's bunt, went to third 
on White's infield grounder, and scored on Balboni's bloop single—Balboni's 
first hit of the series—to give the Royals a 6–5 lead. Howser stuck with 
Farr who got through the ninth in order, with the last out coming on a 
foul pop by Lloyd Moseby, caught by Brett. With that, the Royals won, 6–5. 
Brett had arguably his best playoff performance ever, going 4 for 4 with 
a single, a double, two homers, three RBIs, four runs scored, and throwing 
out Garcia at the plate. The win narrowed the Blue Jays lead in the series 
to 2–1 entering Game 4 in Kansas City. Saturday, October 12, 1985 at Royals 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri In Game 4, Toronto prevailed 3–1, making 
it the second game of the series in which the Blue Jays won after trailing 
going into their final at bat. This gave Toronto a 3–1 lead in the best-of-seven 
series, and put them one win away from becoming the first team outside 
the United States to represent their league in the World Series. The fourth 
game was a rematch of the pitchers who had started Game 1, with Stieb taking 
on Leibrandt. Entering the bottom of the sixth, the Blue Jays had only 
two hits and the Royals only one. But a walk to Lonnie Smith and a single 
to Willie Wilson put runners at first and third with nobody out and the 
hot-hitting George Brett at the plate. Showing great respect for Brett's 
dominance in the series, Toronto manager Bobby Cox opted to intentionally 
walk him, loading the bases with nobody out. Initially, the play seemed 
to backfire, as Stieb walked Hal McRae to give the Royals a 1–0 lead. But 
Stieb got out of the inning by inducing a Sheridan pop out and a double 
play grounder from Frank White. Entering the ninth, it appeared the bases-loaded 
walk to McRae was going to be the difference in the game. Leibrandt opened 
the ninth having surrendered only four hits. But a walk to Damaso Garcia 
and a double by Moseby tied the game. Quisenberry entered the game and 
gave up a single to George Bell and a double to Al Oliver that scored Moseby 
and Bell, giving the Jays a 3–1 lead. The Royals did get two on and two 
out in the ninth, but Henke got out of the jam and emerged as the winning 
pitcher for the second time in three games. Sunday, October 13, 1985 at 
Royals Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri A well-rested Danny Jackson pitched 
for Kansas City trying to stave off elimination in the ALCS. The Blue Jays 
sent in their own well-rested starter, Jimmy Key, to pitch with the goal 
of playing in the World Series for the first time in franchise history. 
In the bottom of the first inning, Lonnie Smith doubled, stole third, and 
scored on a ground out by George Brett. In the second inning, Frank White 
reached first on a bunt, advanced to third on a Balboni single, and scored 
on a sacrifice fly by Darryl Motley. Given an early 2–0 lead, Danny Jackson 
pitched well enough to earn the victory. The Blue Jays scattered eight 
hits but couldn't score a run. In the fourth inning, the Jays led off with 
back to back singles but were unable to score. In the fifth inning, the 
Blue Jays had runners on second and third with no outs and were again unable 
to do anything. In the sixth inning, they loaded the bases with two outs 
and again failed to score. Through the final three innings, no Toronto 
hitter was able to reach base. Jackson pitched a complete game shutout 
to cut the Blue Jays lead to three games to two, sending the series back 
to Toronto. Tuesday, October 15, 1985 at Exhibition Stadium in Toronto, 
Ontario A win for the Royals in the first ever LCS Game 6 would force the 
first ever Game 7 while a win for the Blue Jays would earn the franchise 
its first appearance in the World Series. Game 6 was the first series appearance 
for pitcher Mark Gubicza, who started for the Royals against Blue Jays 
pitcher Doyle Alexander, the Game 3 starter for Toronto. In the top of 
the first inning, walks to Wilson and Brett allowed the Royals' Willie 
Wilson to score a run when Hal McRae singled. The Blue Jays tied the score 
in the bottom of the first inning when Garcia doubled, Moseby singled, 
and Garcia scored when Mulliniks grounded into a double play. In the top 
of the third inning, George Brett reached on a fielder's choice and scored 
on a double by Hal McRae. The Blue Jays responded when Fernandez doubled 
to left field and moved up to third base on a wild pitch by Gubicza. Fernandez 
then scored on Moseby's ground out to tie the score at 2–2. In the fifth 
inning, Brett hit his third home run of the series—all of them against 
Blue Jays' pitcher Doyle Alexander—and the Royals led the game 3–2. In 
the sixth inning, Sundberg reached on a base on balls and advanced to second 
base on a sacrifice bunt. Sundberg subsequently scored on a double by Buddy 
Biancalana. Biancalana advanced to third on a throwing error and scored 
on Lonnie Smith's double. The Blue Jays scored one run when Moseby singled, 
advanced to second base with a base on balls to Upshaw. Moseby scored on 
Cliff Johnson's single to make the score 5–3, but the Royals held on and 
tied the series at three wins apiece. Wednesday, October 16, 1985 at Exhibition 
Stadium in Toronto, Ontario Earlier in the day, Jack Clark put the St. 
Louis Cardinals into the World Series with a three-run home run off the 
Dodgers' reliever Tom Niedenfuer. The American League opponent would be 
the winner of this ALCS Game 7, promising an intriguing match-up for the 
World Championship: either an I-70 Series between Missouri's two major 
league teams, or the first appearance of a franchise from outside the United 
States. The Blue Jays sent Dave Stieb to the mound for the third time in 
the series, as he had won both his previous starts. The Royals countered 
with Bret Saberhagen, who was pitching for the first time since his injury 
in Game 3. Up to this point, the Royals had scored the first run in every 
game except Game 1. This trend continued when Pat Sheridan reached on a 
bunt, advanced to second base on a fielder's choice by Balboni, and scored 
on a single by Jim Sundberg. In the bottom of the third inning, the Blue 
Jays hit Saberhagen with a batted ball for the second time in the series, 
with Mulliniks winding up at second base. After Saberhagen retired the 
side, Leibrandt came on to pitch for the Royals. In the fourth inning, 
Sheridan homered, giving the Royals a 2–0 lead. In the bottom of the fifth, 
the Blue Jays reduced the lead to one when Garcia singled and scored on 
Upshaw's double. With the score 2–1, the Royals came to bat in the sixth 
inning against a tiring Stieb. Wilson hit a fly ball out, Brett walked 
and McRae was hit by a pitch. Sheridan subsequently hit into a fielder's 
choice that forced Brett out at third base, putting runners at first and 
second with two outs. Stieb then walked Balboni to face the presumably 
lesser hitting threat, Jim Sundberg. Sundberg drilled a high drive toward 
right field that hit the top of the fence and bounced high in the air, 
landing in play next to Jesse Barfield. All three runners, running on contact 
with two outs, scored easily and Sundberg stood at third base with an unlikely 
three-run triple, giving the Royals a 5–1 lead. Blue Jays relief pitcher 
Jim Acker entered for Stieb and gave up a base hit single to Frank White 
that allowed Sundberg to score increasing the lead to 6–1. Leibrandt was 
still on the mound to start the ninth inning. With one out, he gave up 
a single to Barfield and a double to Fernandez. Quisenberry made his third 
appearance of the series, and a chance to send the Royals to the World 
Series. He allowed one of the inherited runners to score on a ground out 
and closed out the game, giving the Royals a 6–2 win in Game 7. They became 
the first team to overcome a 3–1 deficit in the LCS. Kansas City Royals' 
George Brett was 8 for 23 with two doubles, three home runs, five RBIs, 
seven walks, and a .348 batting average. Brett was named the series MVP, 
having played a role in 11 of Kansas City's 26 runs, scoring six and driving 
in five. This would be the last postseason game played at Exhibition Stadium; 
the next postseason appearance for the Blue Jays would come in 1989, their 
first season in the then-new SkyDome. 1985 ALCS (4–3): Kansas City Royals 
over Toronto Blue Jays The seventh game of the series marked Blue Jays' 
manager Bobby Cox's last with the team, as he left the organization to 
become the general manager of the Atlanta Braves. Amazingly, the Royals 
went on to win the 1985 World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals by 
again coming back from a 3–1 series deficit to take the title in seven 
games. Ironically, both Danny Jackson and Charlie Leibrandt, heroes of 
Game 5 and 7 respectively, would become goats for their teams in future 
postseasons against the Blue Jays. In Game 6 of the 1992 World Series, 
Leibrandt (playing for the Atlanta Braves) gave up the game-winning double 
to Dave Winfield in the eleventh inning, becoming the losing pitcher in 
the series-clincher for the Blue Jays. Jackson would start once again against 
the Blue Jays in Game 3 of the 1993 World Series for the Philadelphia Phillies, 
getting shelled for three runs in the first inning and eventually taking 
the loss. The two teams met again in the 2015 ALCS, with the Royals holding 
home-field advantage that time. In a reverse of the 1985 series, as of 
Game 5, the Royals held a 3-2 lead, winning games 1, 2, and 4. The similarities 
