The 1985 World Series began on October 19 and ended on October 27. The 
American League champions Kansas City Royals played the National League 
champions St. Louis Cardinals and won the series four games to three. The 
Series was popularly known as the "Show-Me Series" or the "I-70 Showdown 
Series," as both cities are in the state of Missouri and are connected 
by Interstate 70. The Cardinals won the National League East division by 
three games over the New York Mets, then defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 
four games to two in the National League Championship Series. The Royals 
won the American League West division by one game over the California Angels, 
then defeated the Toronto Blue Jays four games to three in the American 
League Championship Series. The Cardinals were seeking to win their NL-leading 
10th World Series title, while the Royals were seeking to become the first 
AL expansion team to win the World Series. The Royals were completing one 
of the most successful decades by any expansion team, with six division 
titles and two pennants from 1976 to 1985. This was the first World Series 
in which all games were played at night. Also, this was the first World 
Series to feature television commentator Tim McCarver, who called the games 
for ABC with Al Michaels and Jim Palmer. (Howard Cosell was originally 
scheduled to be in the booth with Michaels and Palmer, but was removed 
from his assignment just prior to Game 1 because of the controversy surrounding 
his book I Never Played the Game.[1]) McCarver would go on to call a record 
24 World Series telecasts for various networks. As of 2016[update], this 
World Series was the last in which the designated hitter was not used in 
an American League baseball park. It was also the last postseason appearance 
the Royals would make until 2014, in which they played the World Series 
against the San Francisco Giants but lost in seven games. They returned 
in a year later to win in five games against the New York Mets. The 1985 
World Series marked only the 5th time in World Series history that a team 
came back from a three games to one deficit to win a championship. Two 
missed calls affected the outcome of Game 6. In the fourth inning of the 
0–0 game, the Royals' Frank White was called out on an attempted steal 
of second base, but replays show he had beaten the tag. The following batter, 
Pat Sheridan, hit a single to right field. Then in the ninth inning with 
St. Louis leading 1–0, Jorge Orta led off the bottom of the ninth with 
a ground ball to Cardinal first baseman Jack Clark, who flipped the ball 
to Cardinal pitcher Todd Worrell covering first. First base umpire Don 
Denkinger called Orta safe, but television replays showed that Worrell 
beat him to the base. Then, after Clark and catcher Darrell Porter let 
a foul pop drop between them, Steve Balboni made them pay for their mistake 
with a single to left two pitches later, moving Orta to second base. Jim 
Sundberg's attempted sacrifice bunt, instead of moving up the runners, 
ended up getting Orta thrown out at third. With Hal McRae batting next, 
Cardinals' catcher and 1982 World Series MVP Darrell Porter, who had played 
four seasons with the Royals, allowed a passed ball, and both Kansas City 
runners moved up a base. McRae was then intentionally walked to load the 
bases. Dane Iorg, who had played parts of eight seasons with the Cardinals 
before being sold to the Royals in the previous season, 1984, would then 
pinch hit for Dan Quisenberry, and his single to right field drove in two 
runs giving Kansas City a 2–1 win. The only out recorded by the Cardinals 
in the inning was Orta (at third instead of first). Years of debate between 
Cardinals' and Royals' fans have followed over what might have happened 
if Orta had been put out at first instead of third. The following night, 
with Denkinger behind home plate, the Cardinals suffered an epic meltdown, 
as ace pitcher John Tudor got off to a terrible start, giving up five earned 
runs and four walks in only 2 1⁄3 innings. In addition, ABC television 
cameras caught Herzog screaming and belittling Denkinger from the Cardinals' 
dugout throughout the contest. Pitcher Joaquín Andújar exploded twice over 
Denkinger's calls at the plate during the fifth inning, finally being ejected 
with Herzog after a heated argument over Denkinger's strike zone. Kansas 
City would take the series with an 11–0 shutout. Disgusted by their performances, 
Tudor punched an electrical fan with his pitching hand and Andújar vandalized 
a toilet in Royals Stadium's clubhouse. In the offseason, Joaquín Andújar 
was traded to the Oakland Athletics. It was the second Missouri-only World 
Series: the first was the 1944 World Series between two St. Louis teams, 
the St. Louis Cardinals vs. the St. Louis Browns (a team that later moved 
and is now the Baltimore Orioles). AL Kansas City Royals (4) vs. NL St. 
Louis Cardinals (3) When Lonnie Smith led off for the Royals, he became 
the first player[citation needed] in MLB history to be traded from a team 
(the St. Louis Cardinals) during a season and play against that team in 
the World Series the same season.[2] John Tudor scattered seven hits for 
the Cards and won with relief help from Todd Worrell. Jack Clark and late-season 
acquisition César Cedeño each had RBI doubles. This was the first Saturday 
night game in World Series history. The Series began on a Saturday from 
1969 through 1976, and again from 1985 through 2006. Charlie Leibrandt 
continued a history of tough luck in the postseason. The previous year, 
he had lost Game 3 of the 1984 ALCS, 1–0, to the Detroit Tigers when he 
pitched a three-hit complete game. He lost Game 4 in the 1985 ALCS in the 
ninth inning. And clinging to a two-run lead in the ninth, manager Dick 
Howser opted to not send in his relief ace Dan Quisenberry to close out 
the game. Leibrandt faltered, and only one out from tying the series at 
one apiece, Leibrandt yielded a bases-loaded double to Terry Pendleton 
that scored three runs and gave the Cardinals a 4–2 win at Royals Stadium. 
The Cardinals' four run ninth would be the only inning in the series in 
which St. Louis scored more than one run. The Royals got back into the 
series by riding ace Bret Saberhagen to a 6–1 victory against twenty-game 
winner Joaquín Andújar. Saberhagen flashed messages on the television screen 
to his pregnant wife who was due to give birth any day. She eventually 
gave birth on October 26 (in Game 6). Royals second baseman Frank White 
made history by becoming the first second baseman in the history of the 
World Series to hit in the clean-up spot in the batting order. White came 
through with a home run off of Andújar. John Tudor's complete game shutout 
put the Cardinals on the verge of winning their second World Series in 
four years. Tito Landrum, only playing due to a tarp injury to Vince Coleman, 
continued to make his case for series MVP with a home run. Entering this 
game, the Royals were 3–0 in must-win games in playoff elimination games. 
They improved their record to 4–0 with a decisive victory over the Cardinals, 
again by the score of 6–1. The Royals broke the game open in the second 
when light hitting Buddy Biancalana doubled to score Jim Sundberg. After 
Lonnie Smith walked, Willie Wilson tripled home both runs to make it 4-1. 
Danny Jackson was the winning pitcher, following the same formula and pitching 
rotation as the Royals did in the ALCS where Jackson also won Game 5. A 
pitcher's duel unfolded between Danny Cox and Charlie Leibrandt, the tough-luck 
loser in Game 2. The game was marked by controversy. In the fourth inning 
of the scoreless game, the Royals' Frank White appeared to have stolen 
second base, but was ruled out in a questionable call.[9] The batter, Pat 
Sheridan, hit a single to right field two pitches later. This would have 
likely given the Royals a 1–0 lead had White been called safe. Instead, 
Leibrandt and Cox traded scoreless innings until the eighth, when Brian 
Harper singled home Terry Pendleton to give the Cardinals a 1–0 lead. Whitey 
Herzog called on rookie reliever Todd Worrell to pitch the ninth. The first 
batter, Jorge Orta, sent a chopping bouncer to the right of Jack Clark. 
He tossed to Worrell, who tagged the bag ahead of Orta, but Clark's toss 
was behind Worrell and it allowed the running Orta to start to come between 
umpire Don Denkinger and his view of the lunging Worrell's glove. Denkinger 
called Orta safe. Replays indicated that Orta should have been called out, 
and an argument ensued on the field. The Cardinals argued briefly[10] but 
as crew chief and believing he had made the correct call, Denkinger would 
not reverse it. Orta remained at first. In his book "You're Missing A Great 
Game", Herzog wrote that he later wished he had asked Commissioner Peter 
Ueberroth, who was in attendance, to overrule the call and declare Orta 
out. If Ueberroth had refused to do so, Herzog would have pulled his team 
from the field and forfeited the game. Instead of one out and no one on, 
the Royals now had no outs and a runner on first for batter Steve Balboni. 
Balboni lifted a difficult pop-up in foul territory along the edge of the 
first base dugout. Jack Clark, who had only recently made the transition 
from right field to first base that season, lost track of the ball as he 
looked to find the dugout and the ball dropped on the top step of the dugout. 
Balboni then singled two pitches later, putting runners at first and second 
with nobody out. Onix Concepción was sent in as a pinch-runner for Balboni. 
Catcher Jim Sundberg attempted to sacrifice the runners over, but he failed. 
With two strikes he bunted anyway and it was sent back to the pitcher and 
was fielded by Worrell who threw to third for the forceout of Orta. This 
was the out the Cardinals would have had earlier in the inning, and it 
would turn out to be the only out recorded. Porter then allowed a passed 
ball allowing the runners to advance one base. With first base now open 
and two runners in scoring position, Herzog then chose to walk Royals pinch-hitter 
Hal McRae to set up a potential double-play. With the bases loaded and 
one out, pinch-hitter Dane Iorg blooped a single to right field. Pinch 
runner Onix Concepción scored the tying run and Sundberg approached the 
plate with the winning run. Andy Van Slyke's throw was on the money, but 
Porter was unable to tag Sundberg before he slid home safely with the game-winning 
run. The Royals celebrated the rally, and mobbed home plate. The Cardinals 
went to their dressing rooms, only to find champagne waiting for them and 
plastic over their lockers in anticipation for the celebration. Denkinger 
stated that he still believed he had made the right call until he later 
met with Commissioner Peter Ueberroth after the game and had the opportunity 
to see the replay himself. He would later claim that he was waiting to 
hear the ball land in Worrell's glove while watching the bag for Orta's 
foot. Due to the crowd noise in Royals Stadium, he ruled Orta safe because 
he never heard Worrell catch the ball.[11] Denkinger was also scheduled 
to be the home plate umpire in Game 7. One night after becoming a father, 
Bret Saberhagen tossed a five-hitter and the Royals became the first team 
to ever rally from a three games to one deficit twice in the same postseason 
to win the World Series. They also were the first team to lose the first 
two games at home and rally to win the Series. Saberhagen got all the offense 
he needed when Darryl Motley homered to left off John Tudor in the second 
inning. Tudor was replaced with Bill Campbell trailing 3–0 in the third. 
The Royals blew the game open in the bottom of the fifth. A succession 
of five Cardinal pitchers allowed six Royals runs. Campbell gave up a single 
to Sundberg and was immediately replaced by Jeff Lahti, who allowed four 
runs before being replaced by Ricky Horton. However, after Horton gave 
up a single to Brett, Herzog immediately replaced him with the volatile 
Joaquín Andújar, normally a starter but pressed into relief. Andújar allowed 
an RBI single to Frank White to increase the Royals lead to 10–0 before 
the Cardinals came completely unglued. With Sundberg at the plate, Andújar 
twice charged home plate umpire Denkinger to disagree with his strike zone. 
First, Denkinger called an Andújar pitch a ball. Herzog, who had been berating 
Denkinger for most of the game, rushed from the dugout to defend Andújar, 
and was ejected—reportedly after saying to Denkinger, "We wouldn't even 
be here if you hadn't missed the fucking call last night!"[12] According 
to Denkinger, he replied "Well if you guys weren't hitting .120 in this 
World Series, we wouldn't be here." The next pitch was also called a ball, 
and Denkinger ejected Andújar, who again lost his cool and charged at Denkinger. 
It took three teammates to restrain him and get him off the field. Replays 
showed both pitches were clearly inside and Al Michaels and Jim Palmer 
both acknowledged the fact. Andújar was suspended for the first ten games 
of the 1986 season for his outburst. Although it has been rumored that 
Herzog sent in Andújar specifically to bait Denkinger, Herzog himself has 
said several times Andújar was the only pitcher who still had anything 
left in his arm. The Royals became the first team ever to win the World 
Series after dropping Games 1 and 2 at home. Next year the New York Mets 
accomplished the same feat by defeating the Boston Red Sox in seven games. 
Ten years later, the New York Yankees lost their first two games at home 
against the defending 1995 World Series champion Atlanta Braves and won 
the next four to win the 1996 World Series. The Royals also were the fifth 
team to come back from a three games to one deficit to win a best-of-seven 
World Series, the others being the 1925 Pittsburgh Pirates, 1958 New York 
Yankees, 1968 Detroit Tigers, the 1979 Pittsburgh Pirates, and the 2016 
Chicago Cubs. The '85 Royals had previously come back from a three games 
to one deficit to win the American League Championship Series against the 
Toronto Blue Jays. The six elimination games won by the Royals represent 
a Major League record for a single postseason, a record which would later 
be equalled by the 2012 San Francisco Giants. The Cardinals' .185 batting 
average was the lowest for a seven-game World Series until the New York 
Yankees hit .183 in the 2001 World Series against the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
The Cardinals also scored only thirteen total runs—an all-time low for 
a seven-game series—scoring only once in the final 26 innings of the series. 
If they had held on for the win in Game 6, they still would have been outscored 
in the series 15–13. 1985 World Series (4–3): Kansas City Royals (A.L.) 
