The St. Louis Cardinals' 1985 season was the team's 104th season in St. 
Louis, Missouri and the 94th season in the National League. The Cardinals 
went 101-61 during the season and finished in first place in the National 
League East division by three games over the New York Mets. After defeating 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games in the NLCS, they lost in seven games 
in the World Series to their cross-state rivals, the Kansas City Royals 
in the I-70 Series. The World Series is known, somewhat unfortunately, 
for the infamous "safe" call on the Royals' Jorge Orta by umpire Don Denkinger. 
The Cardinals switched back to their traditional gray road uniforms for 
the first time in ten seasons. Outfielder Willie McGee won the National 
League MVP Award this year, batting .353 with 10 home runs and 82 RBIs. 
Outfielder Vince Coleman won the National League Rookie of the Year Award 
this year, batting .267 with 107 runs scored and 110 stolen bases. Shortstop 
Ozzie Smith and McGee both won Gold Gloves this year. During the 1985 playoffs, 
the Cardinals used the slogan The Heat Is On, in reference to the song 
that was released earlier that year. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = position; 
G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = 
Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in The NLCS against the Dodgers featured two 
game-winning home runs by shortstop Ozzie Smith in Game 5 and first baseman 
Jack Clark in Game 6, both off Dodgers reliever Tom Niedenfuer. In a rare 
display of power-hitting, Smith hit his in the extra innings, prompting 
the famous call of "Go crazy, folks! Go crazy!" by Jack Buck. This play 
is considered one of the key highlights in all of Cardinals' history. Wednesday, 
October 9 at Dodger Stadium (Los Angeles) Thursday, October 10 at Dodger 
Stadium (Los Angeles) Saturday, October 12 at Busch Stadium (St. Louis) 
Sunday, October 13 at Busch Stadium (St. Louis) Monday, October 14 at Busch 
Stadium (St. Louis) Wednesday, October 16 at Dodger Stadium (Los Angeles) 
The 1985 World Series was christened the "I-70 Series" and the "Show-Me 
Series" because it featured the in-state rival Kansas City Royals, the 
first time the two teams met in a non-exhibition setting. It also featured 
some of the most controversial series of events in Cardinals history. Coleman 
was unable to play in this Series due to an injury sustained in the NLCS 
after being rolled up in the mechanical tarpaulin at Busch Stadium. Scribes 
remarked about the "killer tarp", but it proved metaphorical. After St. 
Louis gained a 3–2 series advantage, Game 6 tipped off the controversy 
with "The Call". With the Cardinals leading 1-0 in the bottom of the ninth 
inning, umpire Don Denkinger called Royals batter Jorge Orta safe at first 
base — a call refuted by broadcast television's instant replay. Several 
batters later, they lost Game 6 by the score of 2–1. After "The Call", 
St. Louis proceeded to lose Game 7 by a score of 11-0, and thus, the Series, 
due to an error and passed ball. Despite both of their pitching aces participating 
in this game, they failed to come through — starter John Tudor, who had 
won his two prior starts in the Series, punched a mechanical fan when removed 
from the game. His severely cut pitching hand required stitching at a Kansas 
City hospital while the game was ongoing. Joaquín Andújar, the other ace 
pressed into relief, was ejected by home plate umpire Denkinger for arguing 
balls and strikes. AL Kansas City Royals (4) vs. NL St. Louis Cardinals 
