KTTV (11) (Vin Scully, Jerry Doggett, Ross Porter) KABC (Vin Scully, Jerry 
Doggett, Ross Porter) The 1985 Los Angeles Dodgers won the National League 
West before losing to the St. Louis Cardinals in the National League Championship 
Series. Fernando Valenzuela set a major league record for most consecutive 
innings at the start of a season without allowing an earned run (41). 1985 
Los Angeles Dodgers Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = 
Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In The 
Dodgers faced the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1985 NLCS, the first year 
the championship series was in a "Best of seven" format. Jack Clark hit 
a 450-foot home run off Dodger closer Tom Niedenfuer to win game six and 
the NLCS for the Cardinals. With an open base, Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda 
was second guessed for not walking Clark, the only big power threat in 
the Cardinal line-up. Niedenfuer also gave up a walk-off home run to Ozzie 
Smith in game five contributing to Smith winning the NLCS MVP Award. Wednesday, 
October 9 at Dodger Stadium (Los Angeles) Thursday, October 10 at Dodger 
Stadium (Los Angeles) Saturday, October 12 at Busch Stadium (St. Louis) 
Sunday, October 13 at Busch Stadium (St. Louis) Monday, October 14 at Busch 
Stadium (St. Louis) Wednesday, October 16 at Dodger Stadium (Los Angeles) 
The Dodgers drafted 37 players in the June draft and 16 in the January 
draft. Of those, six players would eventually play in the Major Leagues. 
They received an extra pick in the 2nd round of the June draft as compensation 
for losing pitcher Burt Hooton as a free agent. The first pick in the June 
draft was outfielder Chris Gwynn from San Diego State. The brother of Hall 
of Famer Tony Gwynn, he would play 10 seasons in the Majors (7 of them 
with the Dodgers), primarily as a pinch hitter/backup outfielder. He hit 
.261 in 599 Major League games. The draft also included outfielder Mike 
Devereaux (round 5), who was briefly a starter with the Baltimore Orioles 
in the early 90s but was primarily a reserve, and relief pitcher John Wetteland 
(2nd round of the January secondary draft) who saved 330 games in 12 seasons 
