The 1985 Kansas City Royals season ended with the Royals' first world championship 
win over their intrastate rivals, the St. Louis Cardinals. The Royals won 
the Western Division of the American League for the second consecutive 
season and the sixth time in ten years. The team improved its record to 
91–71 on the strength of its pitching, led by Bret Saberhagen's Cy Young 
Award-winning performance. In the playoffs, the Royals went on to win the 
American League Championship Series for just the second time and the World 
Series for the first time (they previously lost the 1980 World Series). 
Both the ALCS and the World Series were won in seven games after the Royals 
lost the first two games at home and three of the first four games overall. 
The championship series against the Cardinals was forever remembered in 
St. Louis by umpires' supposedly blown calls in Game Six: one that cost 
the Royals a run in the 4th, and a "blown call" by umpire Don Denkinger 
that allowed Jorge Orta to reach first. The World Series is remembered 
in Kansas City as the culmination of ten years of dominance by the Royals, 
during which they reached the playoffs seven times, with stars such as 
George Brett, Hal McRae and Willie Wilson. The team was managed by Dick 
Howser in his fourth and final full season with the Royals. The Royals 
did not return to the postseason until 2014. The Royals opened the season 
at home on Monday, April 8, in a three-game series versus the Toronto Blue 
Jays. In his second straight opening day start, Bud Black faced off against 
the Blue Jay's Dave Stieb and allowed only a single earned run on four 
hits as the Royals won 2–1. Stieb held the Royals scoreless for 6⅔ innings 
before giving up the game winning runs on a double by Willie Wilson. Black 
exited the game in the eighth inning with two outs after giving up a single 
and a walk. Dan Quisenberry closed out the game for his first save of the 
new season. The attendance of 41,086 was the highest of any home opener 
and wasn't exceeded until the 2005 season. It was also the second highest 
of any of the Royals' regular season home games in 1985. The Seattle Mariners 
had the strongest start in the division—winning their first six games at 
home by sweeping the Oakland Athletics and Minnesota Twins. But the Mariners 
quickly faded into sixth place as they lost twelve of their next thirteen 
games. After their losses in Seattle, the Athletics returned home to win 
seven of their next nine games, and on April 21 were in a three-way tie 
for first with the Mariners and the California Angels. However, a seven-game 
losing streak at the end of April pushed them down into sixth place on 
May 1 and five games below the Angels. At the end of April the Royals had 
a record of 11–8 (.579), but they had fallen two games behind the Angels 
who had finished the month with a six-game winning streak and had a 14–7 
record. The Royals began the month of May by losing seven of their first 
eight games, culminating in an 11–3 loss on May 11 at home to the New York 
Yankees. The team was three games below .500, in fourth place and 5½ games 
behind the Angels. Three days and three wins later, with a record of 15–15, 
the Royals would not drop below .500 at any time during the remainder of 
the season. (But they would have a .500 record as late as July 12 when 
they were 42–42.) With two 6-game winning streaks, the team won thirteen 
of their next seventeen games to enter a first place tie with the Angels 
on May 29, with a record of 25–19. This stretch of games was highlighted 
by three complete game shutouts pitched by Bret Saberhagen, Bud Black, 
and Charlie Leibrandt in which they allowed only a combined 8 hits and 
4 walks. And despite being on the road, from May 15 through May 17, the 
three starters each threw a complete game and allowed a combined two earned 
runs (a 0.67 ERA), 14 hits, and just one walk. The Royals struggled to 
make headway in the divisional race through June and into late July. Between 
May 30 and July 21 they were 21–25 and fell to 7½ games behind the Angels. 
With New York arriving in Kansas City to start a six-game home series on 
Monday, July 22, the Royals began a seven-game winning streak which was 
the longest in the season to that point. Dan Quisenberry picked up his 
19th, 20th, and 21st saves as the Royals swept the Yankees, and he put 
in relief appearances in three of the next four games—picking up two more 
saves. On July 29, the Angels' lead had shrunk to 2½ games. They would 
remain there through September 1 as the Royals were 16–14 during that period 
and the Angels were 17–15. The eight-game winning streak (all at home) 
between September 2 and 8 was the longest of the season for the Royals. 
The streak included three games in extra innings. After winning five of 
their next seven games, the Royals achieved a 2½ game lead over the Angels 
on September 15. However, the Mariners who had given them trouble earlier 
in the year—winning five of their six previous contests—shut out the Royals 
twice in a four-game sweep in Kansas City, dropping the Royals into a tie 
for first place on September 19. Winning just four of their next nine games, 
the Royals dropped a game behind the Angels on September 29. After being 
swept at home in three games by the Twins and with only seven games remaining 
in the regular season, the Royals faced a four-game series at home versus 
the Angels. On September 30 the Royals won the first game 3–1 with Saberhagen 
pitching a complete game and giving up just one run on a home run by Doug 
DeCinces. Saberhagen collected ten strikeouts in the game and allowed only 
seven batters to reach first base. The Angels claimed the following game 
on October 1 by the score of 4–2 with Mike Witt pitching. The Royals won 
the third game on October 2 with Black pitching a complete game shut out 
and allowing only five batters to reach first base. Three of the four runs 
scored by the Royals came in the bottom of the first inning with no outs 
as George Brett hit an inside-the-park home run to center field with two 
runners on base. The final game of the series on October 3 was won 4–1 
by the Royals with Quisenberry recording the final out of the game and 
his 36th save of the season. Starting pitcher Danny Jackson had given up 
just one run in 8⅔ innings despite allowing 11 hits. The Royals' runs came 
on three home runs by Frank White, Steve Balboni, and Brett. With the win, 
the Royals had a one-game lead on the Angels. The Royals hosted the Athletics 
for the final three games of the season while the Angels traveled to Arlington 
Stadium to battle the Rangers. On October 4, the Royals defeated the Athletics 
by the score of 4–2, and the Angels were shut out 6–0 by the Rangers' starting 
pitcher Dave Schmidt. This gave the Royals a two-game lead and assured 
them of at least a tie for first. The division championship was claimed 
in a dramatic fashion on the following day as the Royals come from behind 
to defeat the Athletics in ten innings by the score of 5–4. The final game 
of the season on October 6 was a loss, and the Royals finished the season 
with a record of 91–71 (.562). [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] 
[11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Other batters Coaches Tuesday, October 8, 
1985 at Exhibition Stadium in Toronto, Ontario Wednesday, October 9, 1985 
at Exhibition Stadium in Toronto, Ontario Friday, October 11, 1985 at Royals 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Saturday, October 12, 1985 at Royals Stadium 
in Kansas City, Missouri Sunday, October 13, 1985 at Royals Stadium in 
Kansas City, Missouri Tuesday, October 15, 1985 at Exhibition Stadium in 
Toronto, Ontario Wednesday, October 16, 1985 at Exhibition Stadium in Toronto, 
Ontario With the St. Louis Cardinals defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers 
in six games in the National League Championship Series, the 1985 World 
Series was destined to become one of the most memorable series for the 
cross-state rivals. It was popularly known as the Show-Me Series (Missouri 
is "the Show-Me State") and the I-70 Series. The 1985 World Series was 
played by National League rules, with no designated hitter, so the Royals 
were without the regular services of one of their best players, Hal McRae. 
As they had done in the ALCS, the Royals lost three of their first four 
games with the Cardinals. The key game in the Royals' comeback was Game 
6, a game famous for a tremendous Kansas City comeback, unfortunately belittled 
in St. Louis as due to supposed umpire errors. A call in the 4th inning 
cost the Royals their closest scoring opportunity when Frank White was 
called out after stealing second, and appearing on replay to have been 
safe, and the next batter, Pat Sheridan, got a hit. Facing elimination, 
the Royals trailed 1–0 in the bottom of the ninth inning before rallying 
to score two runs and win. In what has been called "one of the most controversial 
and famous plays in Series history",[5] Jorge Orta led off the bottom of 
the ninth with a ground ball to Cardinal first baseman Jack Clark, who 
flipped the ball to pitcher Todd Worrell covering first. First base umpire 
Don Denkinger called Orta safe, but television replays showed that Worrell 
had beaten him to the base. Orta was later put out on the basepaths (the 
only out recorded in the inning), but Kansas City would go on to win as 
the Cardinals unravelled with a dropped pop up, a passed ball and poor 
pitching as the Royals capitalized on the opportunity. The Cardinals became 
completely undone in Game 7. The Royals' Bret Saberhagen pitched a five-hit 
shutout, allowing the Royals to win 11–0 and clinch the franchise's first 
World Series title as Cardinals' pitchers fell apart. AL Kansas City Royals 
(4) vs NL St. Louis Cardinals (3) After the season these players became 
free agents: Note: Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = 
Runs; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in; SB = Stolen bases [13] Triples Home runs Strikeouts Games pitched Saves 
