The Houston Astros' 1986 season was a season in American baseball. It involved 
the Houston Astros attempting to win the National League West, which they 
did for their third time in seven seasons. Scott was the first pitcher 
in the National League and the second overall to throw a no-hitter to clinch 
a pennant. The first was New York Yankees pitcher Allie Reynolds, who accomplished 
the feat on September 18, 1951.[2] The 1986 Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game was the 57th playing of the midsummer classic between the all-stars 
of the American League (AL) and National League (NL), the two leagues comprising 
Major League Baseball. The game was held on July 15, 1986 at the Astrodome 
in Houston, Texas, the home of the Astros. The game resulted in the American 
League defeating the National League 3-2. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos 
= position; G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; 
HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In October 8 (Astrodome, Houston, Texas) 
October 9 (Astrodome, Houston, Texas) October 11 (Shea Stadium, Flushing, 
New York) October 12 (Shea Stadium, Flushing, New York) October 14 (Shea 
Stadium, Flushing, New York) October 15 (Astrodome, Houston, Texas) Game 
6 was one for the ages, in more ways than one. The game went 16 innings 
with the Mets coming out on top 7-6. It was the highest scoring game of 
the series; in fact, the 16th inning alone featured more runs than three 
of the previous five games had in their entirety. The Astrodome hosted 
what some consider to be one of the greatest games of all time that October 
and it will forever be remembered. The big story of Game 6 was that it 
was most nearly a must-win for both teams. The Astros obviously had to 
have it because they were facing elimination. Even though they were up 
3-2 in the series, the Mets regarded it as a must-win because they were 
scheduled to face Mike Scott again in Game 7. Scott had given up a grand 
total of 1 run in his first two starts of the series, and had dominated 
the Mets so completely that even the most optimistic Mets fans knew their 
chances of beating him in a potential Game 7 were small. The end result 
was one of the greatest Game 6 scenarios ever seen. The Astros broke through 
first, and for a low scoring series like this, they broke through big, 
scoring three runs off a possibly tired Bob Ojeda in the bottom of the 
first. He settled down after that, however, and the Astros wouldn't score 
again for the next 12 innings. Meanwhile, Astros starter Bob Knepper was 
brilliant from the very first pitch, and the game headed to the 9th still 
3-0. Just when it looked like the Mets would have to face the mighty Scott, 
however, their bats suddenly came to life. After pitching almost perfectly 
for the first eight innings, Knepper clearly tired in the 9th. He allowed 
three hits and recorded only one out, and left with the Astros clinging 
to a 3-2 lead. The decision by Lanier not to bring in Smith to start the 
inning was talked about for years to come. Smith was their closer, but 
had blown a save earlier in the series. When Smith finally did appear, 
he was ineffective, walking two batters to load the bases and then allowing 
the tying run to score on a sacrifice fly by Ray Knight. In a matter of 
minutes, the previously raucous crowd of 45,718 had been almost completely 
silenced and extra innings had soon begun. In the 14th, the Mets made their 
first bid to win. After Gary Carter opened with a single, a walk to Darryl 
Strawberry put two runners on with nobody out. After Knight forced Carter 
at third, Wally Backman drove a single to right. When Kevin Bass' throw 
to the plate sailed high over Alan Ashby's head to the screen, Strawberry 
scored. It looked like the end for the Astros, as Orosco came in to close 
them down. With one out in the bottom of the 14th and the Houston fans 
with their heads in their hands, Billy Hatcher shocked everyone with a 
line drive home run off the left field foul pole. It was the first earned 
run allowed by the Mets bullpen in the entire series. Hatcher went 3 for 
7 in the game, and his homer meant the Astros would be kept alive for at 
least one more inning. Both teams failed to score in the 15th, and the 
game went to the 16th inning, the most innings in playoff history at that 
time. The 16th inning would be the deciding factor, and it was not an easy 
16th for either pitching staff. The Mets appeared to take control of the 
game once again, this time coming up with 3 runs in the top half of the 
inning. The rally began with Strawberry receiving a gift double when Billy 
Hatcher and Bill Doran misplayed his towering fly ball with one out. When 
Knight followed with a single to right, a poor throw to the plate by Kevin 
Bass allowed the tiebreaking run to score, just as it had in the 14th. 
A walk, two wild pitches, and a single by Lenny Dykstra brought in two 
more runs, putting the Mets up 7-4. This sent some of the Houston faithful 
for the exits; those who stayed, however, almost witnessed the unthinkable. 
Orosco struck out Craig Reynolds to open the inning, but a walk and two 
singles later, Houston had a run in and the tying run on base. Orosco induced 
Denny Walling to hit into a force play at second for the second out, but 
Glenn Davis singled home another run, bringing the Astros within a run. 
People everywhere were quiet as they watched Orosco face right fielder 
Kevin Bass with two outs and the tying run on second, and the winning run 
on first. It was all up to Bass to drive in a run and tie the game. Orosco 
threw Bass six straight sliders; when Bass swung and missed the last of 
them, the epic series was over. Orosco was awarded the victory, marking 
the first time in postseason history a reliever won three games in a series. 
It would be a long winter for the Astros, but for the Mets, an even bigger 
trial awaited them. After taking two days off to recover from the exhausting 
series against Houston, the Mets began a legendary World Series against 
the Boston Red Sox, a series in which they would pull off one of the greatest 
comebacks of all time. The Mets had won the series with a .189 batting 
average, the lowest average ever recorded by a winning team in a postseason 
series. Their pitching had been the key. All-Star Game LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
