The 1986 National League Championship Series was a best-of-seven Major 
League Baseball postseason series between the NL East champion New York 
Mets and NL West champion Houston Astros. It is the lone MLB playoff series 
in which the opponents were two "expansion" teams that had begun play in 
the same season (1962) and was won by the Mets, four games to two, culminating 
with their 7–6, 16-inning triumph at Houston in Game 6. New York then defeated 
the Boston Red Sox in the 1986 World Series, four games to three. After 
falling short of the NL East title in 1984 and 1985, the Mets, managed 
by Davey Johnson, captured first place in 1986 by posting a 108–54 record, 
21 1⁄2 games ahead of the second-place rival Philadelphia Phillies. The 
title was the third in Mets' history and first since winning the 1973 NL 
pennant. Meanwhile, Houston recorded a mark of 96–66 to capture the NL 
West title, clinching the crown when staff ace Mike Scott threw a no-hitter 
against the San Francisco Giants, marking the first time any team had nailed 
down a division championship with a no-hitter. It was also the first time 
the Astros had won a division in six seasons. Houston was managed by Hal 
Lanier. The Mets won seven of their 12 regular-season contests against 
the Astros, taking five of six at home and losing four of six in Houston, 
including a three-game sweep in July during which New York's Bob Ojeda, 
Ron Darling, Tim Teufel, and Rick Aguilera were arrested for a scuffle 
with off-duty cops working as bouncers. Home field advantage, from 1969 
to 1993, alternated between division winners, regardless of record. The 
Mets were to have home field advantage for this series, as the Dodgers 
(the 1985 NL West Champions) had it the previous year, however, a regular 
season NFL game between the Chicago Bears and Houston Oilers made the Astrodome 
unavailable for October 12. Consequently, Games 1, 2, 6, and 7, were scheduled 
for the Astrodome to avoid conflicts. New York won the series, 4–2. Wednesday, 
October 8, 1986 at Astrodome in Houston, Texas Game 1 featured a pitching 
duel between eventual NLCS Most Valuable Player Mike Scott and Dwight Gooden. 
Scott allowed just five hits and walked one while striking out 14 in a 
complete-game effort as the host Astros prevailed 1–0. Gooden allowed one 
run in his seven innings, getting Scott to ground into a double play to 
end an Astros threat in the bottom of the fourth inning. Houston first 
baseman Glenn Davis hit a long home run leading off the second inning, 
producing the game's lone run. Scott struck out Wally Backman and Keith 
Hernandez to escape a jam in the top of the eighth. With one out in the 
top of the ninth, Darryl Strawberry singled, stole second and reached third 
on a Mookie Wilson groundout. However, Scott struck out Ray Knight to end 
it.[1] Thursday, October 9, 1986 at Astrodome in Houston, Texas Game 2 
saw the Mets knot the series at one game apiece as New York scored two 
runs in the fourth inning and then got three more in the fifth against 
Astros' starter Nolan Ryan en route to a 5–1 victory. Lefty Bob Ojeda went 
the distance on a ten-hitter for the Mets, who were aided by an RBI double 
by Gary Carter and a sacrifice fly by Darryl Strawberry in the fourth inning. 
Wally Backman and Keith Hernandez combined for three RBIs in the fifth 
inning. The only Astros run came on a Phil Garner single in the seventh 
inning.[2] Saturday, October 11, 1986 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York 
Game 3 was a back-and-forth contest won by the Mets when Lenny Dykstra 
hit a two-run, walk-off homer against Astros' reliever Dave Smith in the 
bottom of the ninth inning, giving New York a 6–5 victory and 2–1 series 
lead on a Saturday afternoon at Shea Stadium. Houston broke through with 
four runs in the first two innings against Mets' starter Ron Darling, highlighted 
by Bill Doran's two-run home run in the second. Darling then threw three 
scoreless frames and the Mets came back by scoring four runs in the bottom 
of the sixth as Darryl Strawberry's three-run homer off Houston starter 
Bob Knepper tied the game 4–4. However, the Astros struck back against 
reliever Rick Aguilera in the top of the seventh as a throwing error by 
Ray Knight led to an unearned run that came home when Denny Walling's fielder's 
choice plated Doran for a 5–4 lead. It was the only error committed by 
the Mets in the series. With the Astros still leading in the bottom of 
the ninth, closer Smith allowed a lead-off bunt single to Wally Backman, 
who appeared to have run out of the first-base line to avoid the tag of 
first baseman Glenn Davis, but was called safe by umpire Dutch Rennert 
despite an argument from Houston manager Hal Lanier. Backman advanced to 
second on a passed ball, and Danny Heep then flew out to centerfield for 
the inning's first out. The next batter was Dykstra, who won it for New 
York by lacing a Smith pitch over the right-field fence for a two-run homer. 
Jesse Orosco won the game in relief for New York by working two scoreless 
innings.[3] Sunday, October 12, 1986 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York 
Astros' ace Mike Scott, pitching on three days rest, was dominant once 
again in Game 4. The right-hander went the distance on a three-hitter to 
earn his second victory of the series in Houston's 3–1 triumph. Mets' starter 
Sid Fernandez allowed just three runs in six innings, but surrendered a 
two-run home run to Alan Ashby and a solo shot to Dickie Thon to account 
for all the offense the Astros needed. Gary Carter came to bat as the tying 
run in the bottom of the ninth, but flew out to center as the Astros tied 
the series 2-2.[4] Tuesday, October 14, 1986 at Shea Stadium in Queens, 
New York After rain postponed Game 5 to a noon start on October 14, the 
Mets took a 3–2 series lead as Gary Carter's single off Charlie Kerfeld 
in the bottom of the 12th scored Wally Backman with the winning run for 
a 2–1 victory. Game 5 was a pitching duel between Dwight Gooden and Nolan 
Ryan as Gooden allowed just one run in 10 innings with Ryan also surrendering 
a single run on two hits while striking out 12 in nine innings. With no 
score in the top of the second, Gooden surrendered consecutive singles 
to Kevin Bass and José Cruz, putting runners on the corners with nobody 
out. He then caught Alan Ashby looking on a full count, and induced Craig 
Reynolds to ground into a double play to escape the jam. However, Craig 
Reynolds appeared to clearly beat out a double-play ball, thanks to a slow 
pivot by shortstop Rafael Santana. First base umpire Fred Brocklander called 
Reynolds out, negating a run from Kevin Bass. Brocklander ruled that Reynolds' 
foot was above the bag and not on it when Santana's relay arrived to Keith 
Hernandez. Surrounded by reporters after the game the umpire Brocklander 
said "I saw the replay, I go with my call. It was a bang-bang play, as 
close to a tie as you'll get." Reynolds criticized Brocklander's response, 
saying, "If he said he saw the replay, then all I can say is that he missed 
it twice." Said Astros manager Hal Lanier: "If it goes our way, we would 
have won in nine." Hernandez would reveal in 2011 that he had stepped off 
the bag as the first baseman in that play. Hernandez would say, "[Reynolds] 
clearly beat it, but I cheated and we got the call." Had Reynolds correctly 
been called safe, Bass would have scored from third and the Astros would 
have taken an early 1–0 lead.[7] The Astros eventually did take 1–0 lead 
in the fifth when Alan Ashby doubled, took third on a single by Craig Reynolds, 
and then scored on Bill Doran's ground-out. However, the Mets came right 
back and tied it in the bottom half when Darryl Strawberry took Ryan deep 
for the Mets' first hit of the game and his second homer of the series. 
The Astros reached second base in the eighth and tenth innings. However, 
in the eighth Gooden got Denny Walling to fly out to Mookie Wilson in left 
field, where Wilson doubled off Bill Doran from second base to end the 
inning. In the 10th inning, Gooden gave up a single to pinch hitter Terry 
Puhl, who then stole second base, and walked Bill Doran. He got Billy Hatcher 
to fly out to right field to end the inning with no damage done. The game 
stayed tied until the 12th when with one out Wally Backman got an infield 
single off Kerfeld. Backman then took second on Kerfeld's errant throw 
on a pick-off attempt. Houston manager Hal Lanier opted to intentionally 
walk Keith Hernandez and pitch to Gary Carter, who had been just 1-for-21 
in the series, but the catcher came through, lashing a single to center 
to give the Mets the win and a one-game lead as the series shifted back 
to Houston. Jesse Orosco again earned the win for New York by hurling two 
perfect innings.[5] Wednesday, October 15, 1986 at Astrodome in Houston, 
Texas In one of the most famous games in baseball history, the Mets defeated 
Houston at the Astrodome 7–6 in 16 innings as Jesse Orosco struck out Kevin 
Bass on a curveball for the final out with runners at first and second 
and New York advanced to its third World Series in franchise history. Houston 
took a 3–0 lead in the first inning against Bob Ojeda with an RBI double 
by Phil Garner, plus RBI singles from Glenn Davis and Jose Cruz, giving 
Astros' starter Bob Knepper an early advantage. They were unable to add 
more runs as Kevin Bass was thrown out at third base following Alan Ashby's 
botched attempt to lay down a suicide-squeeze bunt and then Ashby lined 
out to shortstop to end the inning. That lead held up for most of the game 
as Knepper was dominant, allowing no runs through the first eight innings. 
Meanwhile, Ojeda allowed nothing more through his next four frames, after 
which Rick Aguilera tossed three scoreless innings. This set the stage 
for a Mets' comeback in the top of the ninth that started when Lenny Dykstra 
tripled against Knepper to lead off. Mookie Wilson singled in Dykstra to 
cut it to 3–1 and then with one out Keith Hernandez doubled to score Wilson 
and end Knepper's night as the southpaw was replaced by Dave Smith, who 
walked Carter and Darryl Strawberry to load the bases. Ray Knight then 
hit a sacrifice fly to right to score Hernandez and tie the game before 
Danny Heep struck out swinging with the bases loaded to end the inning. 
Roger McDowell then came in to pitch for New York and allowed just one 
hit through five scoreless innings. Meanwhile, Houston pitchers Dave Smith 
and Larry Andersen held the Mets hitless until the top of the 14th when 
Carter singled, Strawberry walked, and with one out Wally Backman singled 
off Aurelio López to plate Strawberry with the go-ahead run as Bass' throw 
home sailed high. The Mets still had the bases loaded before Wilson struck 
out to end the threat. The Mets were now three outs away from going to 
the World Series, but with one out in the bottom of the 14th, Billy Hatcher 
homered off the left-field foul pole against Orosco to tie the game 4–4. 
However, in the top of the 16th, Strawberry doubled to lead off against 
López, followed by Knight's single that scored Strawberry to put the Mets 
ahead again. Jeff Calhoun then replaced López and threw two wild pitches, 
the second scoring Knight to put New York up by two. Dykstra then singled 
in Backman, who had walked, for a 7–4 Mets' advantage. The Mets needed 
each of those three runs as Houston rallied once again when with one out, 
Davey Lopes drew a pinch-hit walk, followed by Doran's single. Hatcher 
then singled in Lopes to make it 7–5, after which Denny Walling hit into 
a fielder's choice for the second out. Davis followed with a single to 
centerfield that landed in front of a charging Dykstra, that brought home 
Doran to cut it to 7–6. Now with the tying run in scoring position and 
the winning run at first base, would-be Game 7 starter Mike Scott looming 
in the dugout, and Orosco on a full count, Orosco fanned Bass to end the 
series and send the Mets to a World Series duel with the Boston Red Sox. 
Orosco pitched three innings for his third win of the series, marking the 
first time a reliever had ever won three games in a postseason series. 
The time of the game was 4 hours and 42 minutes and the 16 innings was 
the most that had ever been played in a postseason contest at that time. 
Interestingly, the Mets and Astros had played a 15-inning contest that 
lasted 5 hours and 29 minutes during the regular season, which Houston 
won 9–8.[6] In 2011, MLB Network ranked this as the fifth greatest game 
of the preceding fifty years.[8] This was the last game in which the Astros 
wore their "rainbow guts" uniform top, which the franchise introduced in 
1975 and became one of the most iconic, if infamous, uniforms in MLB history. 
1986 NLCS (4–2): New York Mets over Houston Astros Astros' pitcher Mike 
Scott was named the series' Most Valuable Player by going 2–0 with a 0.50 
earned-run average, allowing just one earned run on eight hits and one 
walk in 18 innings. If there was a seventh game, Scott would have been 
the Astros starting pitcher. Also for Houston, Nolan Ryan went 0–1 with 
a 3.86 ERA, striking out 17 through 14 innings, and Bob Knepper posted 
an ERA of 3.52 with no decisions in his two starts. The Astros' bullpen 
allowed seven runs and took three of the losses in the series as Dave Smith 
(9.00 ERA), Charlie Kerfeld (8.10), and Aurelio López (2.25) dropped decisions. 
For the Mets' pitching staff, lefty reliever Jesse Orosco went 3–0 with 
an ERA of 3.38 in the series, allowing three earned runs on five hits and 
two walks in eight innings. Ojeda notched New York's other victory and 
was 1–0 with a 2.57 ERA in his 14 innings of work. Dwight Gooden went 0–1 
with an ERA of 1.06 in 17 innings and Ron Darling had no decisions with 
a 7.20 ERA with Sid Fernandez going 0–1 with a 4.50 ERA as they each made 
one start. Right-hander Roger McDowell allowed no earned runs and one hit 
in seven innings of relief work. The Astros' offense saw Billy Hatcher 
bat .280 with three walks, a home run, and two RBI and three stolen bases 
for the series. Glenn Davis hit .269 with a home run and three RBI, Kevin 
Bass batted .292 with two doubles and four walks, and Bill Doran had a 
homer with three RBI. Houston hit .218 with five home runs in the six games. 
For New York, Lenny Dykstra batted .304 with a double, triple, home run, 
and three RBI. Keith Hernandez hit .269 with three RBI and Strawberry homered 
twice with five RBI to go with 12 strikeouts. The Mets batted .189 with 
