The 1986 American League Championship Series was a back-and-forth battle 
between the Boston Red Sox and the California Angels for the right to advance 
to the 1986 World Series to face the winner of the 1986 National League 
Championship Series. The Red Sox came in with a 95–66 record and the AL 
East division title, while the Angels went 92–70 during the regular season 
to win the AL West. Boston won the series, 4–3. Tuesday, October 7, 1986 
at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Angels left fielder Brian Downing 
went 2-for-5 with four RBI and Mike Witt pitched a five-hit complete game, 
as California cruised to an 8–1 win. Wednesday, October 8, 1986 at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts The next day, the tables were turned. Bill 
Buckner scored the winning run in the fifth inning on a Dwight Evans double, 
and the Red Sox tacked on insurance runs in the seventh and eighth. Boston 
claimed a 9–2 victory and tied the series at one game apiece. Friday, October 
10, 1986 at Anaheim Stadium in Anaheim, California In the seventh inning, 
Dick Schofield homered for California to give the team a 2–1 lead. Gary 
Pettis followed shortly thereafter with a two-run home run of his own. 
The Halos won by a score of 5–3 and took a 2–1 series lead. Saturday, October 
11, 1986 at Anaheim Stadium in Anaheim, California Roger Clemens, the Game 
1 loser for the Red Sox, started Game 4, and was solid for most of the 
game. Boston put up a run in the sixth, and two more in the eighth on two 
hits, a wild pitch, a passed ball, and two errors, but left the bases loaded. 
In the bottom of the ninth, Doug DeCinces led off with a home run. After 
the next batter grounded out, Schofield and Bob Boone singled. After coming 
within two outs of a complete game, Clemens was removed, and Boone was 
replaced with a pinch runner. Pettis, batting next, doubled to score Schofield. 
Ruppert Jones was intentionally walked to load the bases, a fatal mistake, 
as two batters later, Downing was hit by a pitch, bringing in the tying 
run. Angels relief pitcher Doug Corbett pitched a perfect tenth and eleventh 
innings, and California broke through in the bottom of the eleventh. Jerry 
Narron scored on Bobby Grich's one-out single, giving California a 4–3 
win and a 3–1 series lead. Sunday, October 12, 1986 at Anaheim Stadium 
in Anaheim, California Heading into Game 5, California looked set to earn 
their first-ever trip to a World Series. Grich, the previous night's hero, 
homered to give the Halos a 3–2 lead in the sixth inning; Red Sox center 
fielder Dave Henderson had tried to leap at the wall to catch Grich's long 
fly ball, but ended up deflecting it over the fence. Rob Wilfong appeared 
to put the final nail in Boston's coffin with an RBI double in the seventh, 
and the Angels led 5–2 after eight innings. In the ninth, Witt allowed 
a leadoff single to Bill Buckner but struck out Jim Rice, putting him two 
outs away from his second complete game victory of the series. The next 
batter, Don Baylor, hit a two-strike, two-run home run to pull the Red 
Sox within one run. After retiring the next batter, Witt was replaced. 
Gary Lucas was brought in to face catcher Rich Gedman who had been 3 for 
3 in the game against Witt, including a double and a home run. Lucas, on 
the other hand, had a history of striking Gedman out. But with his very 
first pitch, Lucas hit batter Gedman, and was replaced by Donnie Moore. 
The Angels closer brought his team within one strike of its first-ever 
AL pennant, but Henderson caught hold of a Moore forkball and launched 
a home run into the left field stands, stunning the hometown crowd and 
greatly redeeming himself for his earlier miscue. Boston had taken a 6–5 
lead. The lead would not last, however, as in the bottom of the ninth, 
Boone singled, and Jones pinch-ran for him. Pettis sacrificed Jones to 
second, and Wilfong singled him home, tying the game. Schofield then singled, 
sending Wilfong to third, and Downing was intentionally walked to load 
the bases with only one out. All of Boston's top-half heroics would have 
been washed away with a mere sacrifice fly at this point. But instead, 
DeCinces only managed to hit a short fly ball to right field. Grich's subsequent 
line-out to pitcher Steve Crawford ended the inning. The teams settled 
down and the tenth inning was again scoreless, but the Red Sox loaded the 
bases in the top of the eleventh for Henderson. He hit a sacrifice fly, 
scoring Baylor with the go-ahead run. Calvin Schiraldi then retired the 
Halos in order in the bottom of the eleventh, completing a shocking comeback 
and breaking the hearts of Angels fans. Tuesday, October 14, 1986 at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts Still reeling from their Game 5 loss, the 
Angels took an early 2–0 lead, but the Sox tied the score without a hit 
in the bottom of the first. Any remaining heart that California had appeared 
to have been crushed by a six-hit, five-run rally in the third inning. 
Boston went on to win 10–4 to tie the series. Wednesday, October 15, 1986 
at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Red Sox clinched the American 
League championship with three unearned runs in the second inning and a 
three-run home run from Jim Rice in the fourth. The Angels never mounted 
a comeback, and Boston won 8–1 to win the series four games to three, providing 
another bitter defeat for the Angels. 1986 ALCS (4–3): Boston Red Sox over 
California Angels By virtue of winning the ALCS, the Red Sox advanced to 
the 1986 World Series, where they faced the New York Mets, with memorable 
results. Like the Angels in the ALCS, the Red Sox found themselves one 
strike away from winning the World Series, yet could not hold the lead. 
Taking a 5–3 lead into the bottom of the tenth inning of Game 6, the Red 
Sox gave up three runs, culminating in an infamous ground ball through 
the legs of Bill Buckner to hand the Mets a 6–5 victory. The Mets would 
go on to win Game 7 and the Series. As for the Angels, Donnie Moore was 
regarded the goat of the series for giving up Henderson's home run in Game 
5, and then his game-winning sacrifice fly two innings later. Moore was 
blasted by the sports media, as well as the fans. He sank into depression 
and alcoholism over the next two years, and committed suicide on July 18, 
1989. In retrospect, most people consider the 1986 postseason to be one 
of the best (if not the best) postseasons of all time, as it not only was 
exciting but also made up for a lackluster regular season, in which the 
Red Sox, Angels, Mets, and Houston Astros all won their divisions handily. 
In 2002, the Angels would finally have their moment(s) of glory. They would 
win the American League Wild Card, as well as their Division Series (dethroning 
the four-time defending A.L. champion N.Y. Yankees in four games), their 
first-ever pennant (over Minnesota in five games), and their first-ever 
World Series title (over San Francisco in seven games). In 2004, the Angels 
and Red Sox met in the American League Division Series with the Red Sox 
sweeping the series. The Red Sox would eventually go on to defeat the New 
York Yankees for their first pennant since 1986 and also win their first 
World Series title since 1918 against the St. Louis Cardinals. In 2007, 
the Angels and Red Sox again in the ALDS. The Red Sox again swept the series, 
continuing their domination of the Halos in the postseason. The Red Sox 
would go on to win another world championship that year. From Game 4 of 
the 1986 ALCS until Game 3 of the 2008 ALDS. the Angels lost 11 straight 
playoff games against the Red Sox. who won all four playoff meetings against 
them in that span. The Red Sox would win the ALDS three games to one despite 
losing eight of nine regular season games against the Angels. In 2009, 
the Angels finally broke through and defeated the Red Sox in a sweep of 
