The 1986 New York Mets season was the Mets' 25th season in the National 
League. They improved from a 98–64 record in 1985 to finish the season 
with a franchise record 108–54 record, giving them the division title. 
They went on to defeat the Houston Astros in six games in the NLCS and 
the American League champion Boston Red Sox in seven games in the World 
Series. This is their last championship to date. Darryl Strawberry and 
Ron Darling made their debuts in 1983, followed by Dwight Gooden and Sid 
Fernandez in 1984, and Lenny Dykstra and Roger McDowell in 1985. The Mets 
hired Davey Johnson to manage the ballclub in 1984, resulting in second-place 
finishes in 1984 and 1985. In the 1985-86 offseason, general manager Frank 
Cashen brought in Tim Teufel, a right-handed hitting infielder from the 
Minnesota Twins and Bob Ojeda, a left-handed pitcher from the Boston Red 
Sox. The Mets added them to an existing veteran core including along with 
former MVPs George Foster and Keith Hernandez, veteran catcher Gary Carter 
and speedsters Wally Backman and Mookie Wilson. During spring training, 
Davey Johnson said to his players that they were not only going to win, 
but that they would dominate. That meant winning the division by double-digits. 
The 1986 New York Mets held Spring training at Al Lang Stadium in St. Petersburg, 
Florida for the 25th season. The Mets had a rocky start with a 2-3 record 
(including two extra-inning losses to the St. Louis Cardinals and Philadelphia 
Phillies respectively).[14] But when the Mets hosted the Phils in Shea 
Stadium, they began an 11-game winning streak. Their toughest test in this 
stretch happened in St. Louis. On April 24, Howard Johnson hit a game-tying 
homer. A few games later, Wally Backman made a series-saving double-play. 
The Mets finished the month 13-3. The Mets continued dominating in May. 
On May 23, 1986, Mookie Wilson had 5 hits in one game versus the San Diego 
Padres. The turning point for the Mets season came on May 27 when third 
baseman Ray Knight brawled with Dodgers' pitcher Tom Niedenfuer. This gave 
the Mets a reputation for playing hard and fighting. Many other teams hated 
their curtain calls. This month, the shining light came on June 10 against 
the Phillies when Tim Teufel hit a pinch-hit, game-winning grand slam.[15][16] 
On July 3 against Houston, Darryl Strawberry hit a game-tying home run. 
But it was Ray Knight who won the game with a homer of his own. Dwight 
Gooden's first half performance was good enough for him to earn the honor 
of being named starting pitcher for the National League in the All-Star 
Game in the Astrodome. This game marked the end of a streak where the NL 
won 13 of the previous 14 games and served as foreshadowing for what would 
happen next. Later in the month, the Mets lost three of four to the Astros. 
During this series, four Mets were arrested at a popular nightclub in Houston. 
Their fortunes improved in a bizarre game in Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium 
on July 22. In the top of the ninth, Dave Parker dropped the ball that 
could have been the final out for the Reds, allowing the Mets to tie the 
game. In the bottom of the tenth, Eric Davis got to third and brawled with 
Ray Knight. Both men, along with Kevin Mitchell and Mario Soto, were ejected. 
Johnson was forced to alternate Jesse Orosco and Roger McDowell in the 
outfield. In the bottom of the twelfth, Carl Willis bunted into a double-play. 
In the top of the fourteenth, Howard Johnson hit a home run to put the 
Mets on top. Former MVP George Foster was released. Former Mets favorite 
Lee Mazzilli would return. Gary Carter would be injured. While he was gone, 
the Mets would win 8 of 11 games. The highlight came on August 27 in Jack 
Murphy Stadium against the Padres when Tim Flannery would hit one into 
the outfield.[17] However, it was thrown to home plate to get the runner 
out at home and eventually Flannery out at third.[17] In an exhibition 
game against the Red Sox, Gary Carter would hit a double to test out the 
Green Monster. When they got to Philadelphia, droves of Mets fans were 
there to see if they would clinch the NL East.[18] In fact, they seemed 
to take up half of Veterans Stadium.[19] Given what had happened to them 
when they got swept in a three-game series in Philadelphia preceding the 
series and not wanting to see visiting teams win a division title on their 
field,[18] the Phillies swept the Mets. During the series, Mets fans at 
Veterans Stadium became unruly and damaged seats in the upper deck (the 
700 level).[20] One Mets fan was arrested after striking at two Philadelphia 
police officers.[20] The Phillie Phanatic summed up the Mets being swept 
by crushing three Mets helmets in front of the Mets dugout during the final 
game of the series.[20] The Phillies ended up being the only team in the 
league to post a winning record against the Mets, going 10-8, with a 7-2 
mark at Veterans Stadium. During the post-season awards, the Mets rivalry 
with the Phillies and that series was played out again, as it was Mike 
Schmidt of the Phillies who won the National League MVP Award, ahead of 
the Carter, who finished third, and Keith Hernandez, who finished fourth. 
It was Schmidt's third career MVP.[21] The Mets then split a two-game series 
St. Louis, trimming the magic number to clinch to 1 on September 16. The 
following day, they faced Dennis Eckersley and the Chicago Cubs. With a 
flu-ridden Hernandez, Dave Magadan would be the offensive source of the 
day. Hernandez would return in the 9th to get the final out.[22] The champagne 
would be popped immediately while the fans invaded the field quickly.[23] 
The Mets would win a team-record 108 games after defeating the Pirates.[24] 
All times are EASTERN time All times are EASTERN time Infielders Coaches 
Note: Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in October 8 (Astrodome, 
Houston) October 9 (Astrodome, Houston) October 11 (Shea Stadium, Flushing, 
New York) October 12 (Shea Stadium, Flushing, New York) October 14 (Shea 
Stadium, Flushing, New York) October 15 (Astrodome, Houston) NL New York 
Mets (4) vs. AL Boston Red Sox (3) One of the most famous games in baseball 
history is Game 6 of the 1986 World Series. The Mets rallied in the bottom 
of the 9th inning of Game 6, tying the game on a Gary Carter sacrifice 
fly. Reliever Calvin Schiraldi had loaded the bases with no outs and had 
a 3-0 count on Carter, who swung away at the next pitch to hit the fly 
ball. In the ninth inning, after a walk and an error put two men on with 
nobody out, Howard Johnson was sent to the plate to sacrifice the winning 
run to third. It was then, however, that Mets manager Davey Johnson made 
his most criticized[by whom?] decision of the series. After Johnson failed 
in his first bunt attempt, Davey took the bunt off. Johnson ended up striking 
out, leaving runners at first and second with one out. Lee Mazzilli followed 
with a deep fly to left that would have won the game had the runner been 
at third. Lenny Dykstra then flied out for the third out, sending the game 
to extra innings. In the top of the 10th inning, Dave Henderson homered 
to pull the Sox within three outs of a world championship, and Barrett 
singled in Wade Boggs to make it a 5-3 lead. When Wally Backman and Keith 
Hernandez were retired to start the bottom of the 10th, the championship 
seemed at hand. After Hernandez made the second out, he went to the Mets' 
locker room, took off his uniform, opened a beer and watched the rest of 
the game on the clubhouse TV, thinking the game and the Series would be 
over soon. Hernandez, who is superstitious, never left that spot until 
the game ended.[citation needed] Then, Carter singled to left. Pinch-hitter 
Kevin Mitchell then singled to center and Shea Stadium started to get loud. 
Knight went down in the count 0-2 bringing the Mets to their last strike 
but he hit the next pitch into center field for a single that scored Carter 
and advanced Mitchell to third base, making the score 5-4 and bringing 
Shea back to life. Before his at-bat, Mitchell was on the phone in the 
locker room making plane reservations to fly home to San Diego, thinking 
the game would be over. He had already gotten out of his uniform and was 
in street clothes, and, when he was told he was batting, got off the phone 
and hurriedly got dressed.[citation needed] The Red Sox replaced Schiraldi 
with Bob Stanley to face left fielder Mookie Wilson. Wilson got the count 
to 2-1 but fouled the fourth pitch away to bring the Mets to their last 
strike again. He stayed alive fouling off two more Stanley pitches. Then, 
the seventh pitch sailed towards Wilson's knees sending him to the ground. 
the ball bounced off catcher Rich Gedman's catchers' mitt and went straight 
to the backstop. Mitchell scored on the wild pitch (which many thought 
should have been scored a passed ball) uncontested to tie the game and 
Shea Stadium erupted while Knight advanced to second base. The Red Sox 
were shocked to have blown the lead with the game all but over, much as 
the Angels had done to them in the ALCS almost two weeks earlier. Wilson 
fouled off two more pitches to bring the at bat to the tenth pitch. His 
next hit sent a slow rolling ground ball up the first base line, which 
appeared to be an easy to field situation. Bill Buckner, with his chronic 
bad ankles and knees, moved to field the ball in an effort to beat the 
speedy Wilson to first base, and finish the inning. As he bent over, the 
ball passed between his legs, under his glove and rolled behind him into 
right field. Shea Stadium exploded and the Mets' players and fans screamed 
in excitement. Knight needed to hold his helmet on while jumping towards 
home plate with the winning run. Buckner and the rest of the Red Sox appeared 
stunned as they exited the field. Vin Scully's call of the play would quickly 
become an iconic one to baseball fans, with the normally calm Scully growing 
increasingly excited: Scully then remained silent for more than three minutes, 
letting the pictures and the crowd noise tell the story. Scully resumed 
with: Had the Red Sox won the World Series, they would have won their first 
World Series since 1918, in addition to making Boston the first city to 
win both NBA and World Series championships in the same year. As it turned 
out, the Celtics championship four months before would be the last championship 
for Boston and for Massachusetts until the New England Patriots, who lost 
Super Bowl XX to the Chicago Bears in January, won Super Bowl XXXVI in 
2002. Infielders Outfielders Catcher Pitchers Coach LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Columbia[25] 
