The 1987 World Series was played by the Minnesota Twins and the St. Louis 
Cardinals. Minnesota was victorious in a World Series that was both the 
first to feature games played indoors, as well as the first in which the 
home team won every game. This happened again in 1991 (also a Twins championship) 
over the Atlanta Braves and in 2001 with the Arizona Diamondbacks defeating 
the New York Yankees. The World Series win was the first for the Twins 
franchise since 1924, when the team was located in Washington, D.C., and 
was known as the Washington Senators. This is the first World Series in 
which the series logo appeared on the jerseys; only the Cardinals wore 
it, however, while the Twins did not. The 1987 World Series was notable 
in several regards: It featured the first World Series games played in 
an indoor stadium (the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome)[1] and the final game 
of the series to start earlier than prime time in the eastern United States 
(Game 6 would start at 4:00 p.m. ET/3:00 p.m. CT), and it was the first 
World Series in which all games were won by the home team (Four previous 
series had the home team winning the first six games, including the 1965 
World Series, when the Twins dropped Game 7 to the Dodgers). The bottom 
half of the ninth inning was never played in any game of this Series, and 
this was the first and only time this has ever happened. In 1987,[2] the 
Twins set the record for the worst (full 162 game) regular season win-loss 
record of any World Series championship team (85–77, .525). This record 
stood until it was broken when the Cardinals won the 2006 Series after 
going 83–78 (.516). However, the latter was due to the incorporation of 
the Wild Card Draw, which did not exist in 1987. Besides setting a record 
for the worst ever regular season winning percentage for a World Series 
winner and hosting the first ever World Series game indoors, the Twins 
were the first team to ever enter the World Series having been outscored 
in the regular season. The Twins, as a team, were pretty much outnumbered 
in virtually every major statistical category in 1987. As ABC play-by-play 
commentator Al Michaels put it in the pre-game show for Game 1 "They were 
out everything!" The Cardinals posted a 95–67 record during the regular 
season, but were affected by injuries throughout the postseason, most notably 
with the loss of their lone home run threat, first baseman Jack Clark, 
due to a sprained right ankle suffered in a game in Montreal on September 
9. During the regular season, Clark led the National League in both on-base 
percentage and slugging percentage despite playing in Busch Memorial Stadium, 
which was reputed to be the league's most extreme "pitcher's park."[citation 
needed] He hit 35 home runs in 131 games, and was the only person on the 
team to hit more than 12. The player on the team who hit 12, starting third 
baseman Terry Pendleton (though named to the World Series roster) was hampered 
with a ribcage injury. Normally a switch-hitter, Pendleton was only able 
to swing lefthanded during the World Series and was also unable to play 
the field. The Cardinals replaced Clark on their World Series roster with 
36-year-old Dan Driessen, who was a starting major league first baseman 
from 1977 through 1985, but was released by two organizations in 1986. 
The Cardinals had signed Driessen to a minor league contract on June 9 
and called him up to the majors on September 1. The 1987 World Series should 
go down in history as one of the least suspenseful World Series of all 
time even though it ran seven games. There were no extra-inning games. 
No runs were scored in the 9th inning of any game. No runs scored in the 
8th inning of any game caused a lead change; therefore this series might 
as well have been played in seven-inning games. Only one game—number three, 
in St. Louis—featured a lead change in the 7th inning, and only two other 
games, Game 5 in St. Louis and Game 7 in Minneapolis- featured a lead change 
in the 6th inning. Game 7 was the only game in which the teams were tied 
at the end of the 5th inning. Four of the games were essentially over by 
the 4th or 5th inning, as no scoring after that affected the outcome of 
those games. Yet there was controversy during the series concerning whether 
the Metrodome's technicians had been instructed by administration to turn 
the stadium fans on or off during gameplay to aid the Twins. It was revealed 
in 2003 that this had, in fact, occurred.[3] Game 7 was won by Minnesota 
on the 35th birthday of the Twins' Roy Smalley – and was also the last 
game of his career. Smalley appeared in four games as a pinch-hitter and 
reached base all four times on a double, an error, and two walks. AL Minnesota 
Twins (4) vs. NL St. Louis Cardinals (3) A raucous, sold-out Metrodome 
met the Cardinals on October 17, stunning them at times with the sheer 
noise. The crowd noise in the Metrodome could exceed 110 decibels, which 
is about the same as what a jet plane makes when it takes off. Their play 
was marred with numerous mistakes brought by the Dome's fast AstroTurf 
and white roof. The Twins' aggressive play hardly helped the Cards at all, 
and the game was a 10–1 blowout. Starting pitcher Frankie "Sweet Music" 
Viola put the lights out on the Cards easily. Dan Gladden hit a grand slam 
home run capping off a seven-run fourth inning and Steve Lombardozzi added 
another two-run shot. Frank Viola was supposed to be the best man at his 
brother's wedding, but had to back out when the Twins reached the World 
Series, since it fell on the same night as Game 1, which he was scheduled 
to pitch. ABC showed clips of the wedding throughout the game's broadcast. 
While improving on their game one performance, the Cards were unable to 
hold the Twins offense again and fell behind 7–0 before beginning to rally. 
The Cards' total of nine hits was just one short of the Twins but their 
bats lacked power as they managed only one double against three doubles 
and two home runs hit by Minnesota. The Twins broke the game open in the 
fourth, scoring six runs and chasing starter Danny Cox from the game. The 
final score was 8–4. Randy Bush and Tim Laudner each came through with 
a pair of two-run-scoring hits in the fourth. Traveling down the Mississippi, 
to the open air of Busch Stadium, Game 3 saw a tense pitching duel between 
Twins starter Les Straker and John Tudor of the Cardinals. Les Straker 
was the first Venezuelan to pitch in the World Series. After five scoreless 
innings by both teams, the Twins broke through in the top of the sixth 
inning. Tom Brunansky's RBI single looked like all the offense the game 
would see. But, in the bottom of the seventh, Juan Berenguer, in relief 
of Straker, surrendered leadoff back-to-back singles to Jose Oquendo and 
Tony Peña. Terry Pendleton sacrificed the runners to second and third, 
and Vince Coleman slammed a two-run double to give the Cards a 2–1 lead. 
Ozzie Smith followed by singling in Coleman for the final run, and Todd 
Worrell closed out the win for Tudor. In Game 4, Tom Lawless hit a three-run 
homer off Viola (only his second Major League homer after going 2 for 25 
during the regular season) in the fourth inning, one of Viola's five earned 
runs in the game. Just prior to Game 4, Reggie Jackson, who was working 
as a field reporter for ABC's coverage of the 1987 World Series, admitted 
that he didn't know who eventual Game 4 hero Tom Lawless was. Game 5 was 
a much closer ball game, but eventually the Cardinals were victorious, 
by a score of 4–2. Curt Ford hit a two-run single in the sixth, breaking 
a scoreless pitcher's duel between Danny Cox and Bert Blyleven. By the 
end of the seventh, the Cards were up 4–0. The Twins scored two in the 
eighth on a triple by Gaetti off reliever Todd Worrell and made a game 
of it but eventually relinquished the save to him. The Cardinals stole 
five bases in Game 5, the most for one team since the 1907 Chicago Cubs. 
The Series returned to the Metrodome with the Twins facing elimination 
(a position they would find themselves in once more four years later against 
the Atlanta Braves). ABC allowed the game to be played at 3 p.m. CT (4 
p.m. ET) on Saturday afternoon – the only day game of the series, and the 
last World Series game to date to be played in the daytime (although as 
the game was played in the Metrodome, the game took place under artificial 
illumination all the same). The Cardinals drew first blood off Les Straker 
on a Tommy Herr home run in the first, and the Twins countered with two 
in their half of the first on RBI singles by Kirby Puckett and Don Baylor. 
The Cardinals quickly tied it in the second on a Jose Oquendo RBI single. 
In the fourth, the Cards chased Straker when Dan Driessen led off with 
a double to right and went to third on a Willie McGee single. McGee took 
second on the attempted throw home by center fielder Kirby Puckett. Terry 
Pendleton followed by singling home Driessen and Oquendo hit a sacrifice 
fly to make it 4–2. Another run scored for the Cards in the fifth when 
lefty Dan Schatzeder walked Ozzie Smith. Smith went to second on a groundout, 
to third on a flyout, and scored on another McGee single. But, in the bottom 
of the fifth, the Twins began to claw back against John Tudor. Puckett 
led off with a single and was doubled in by Gary Gaetti. Benefitting from 
use of the designated hitter in their home ballpark, the Twins then tied 
it on a mammoth home run by their DH, Don Baylor. After Tom Brunansky followed 
with a single, the Twins took the lead for good when Steve Lombardozzi 
singled him with two out on a close play at the plate. The Twins then blew 
the game open in the sixth. Greg Gagne led off with an infield single and 
Puckett walked. A passed ball by Tony Peña advanced the runners. With first 
base open and one out, Cards veteran Bob Forsch intentionally walked Baylor 
to load the bases. After Brunansky popped out, left-hander Ken Dayley was 
brought in to face the lefty-hitting Kent Hrbek. Hrbek finally broke out 
of his batting doldrums and hit a grand slam and essentially put the game 
out of the Cards' reach. Brunansky drove in the final run in the eighth 
and the Twins had staved off defeat. The 500th World Series game ever played, 
Game 7 forced a National Football League game between the Denver Broncos 
and the Minnesota Vikings, originally scheduled for that afternoon at the 
Metronome, to be played the following night (also on ABC). Joe Magrane 
of the St. Louis Cardinals became only the sixth rookie pitcher to start 
the seventh game of a World Series.[11] He also is the only pitcher in 
World Series history to start Games 1 and 7 of a World Series without any 
starts in between. Magrane had actually started the 1987 season pitching 
for the Cardinals Triple-A team, the Louisville Redbirds. In the second, 
the Cardinals looked poised to send Frank Viola to an early shower. Three 
straight no-out singles by Jim Lindeman, Willie McGee, and Tony Peña plated 
the first run. Viola settled down to retire the next two hitters, but then 
Steve Lake singled in McGee for a 2–0 lead. Viola would settle into a groove, 
however, and allow only two more hits and no runs in eight strong innings. 
The Twins came back in their half of the second on a Steve Lombardozzi 
RBI single, but not before a missed call at home plate by umpire Dave Phillips 
had already cost the Twins a run. Twins DH Don Baylor reached base on a 
hit-by-pitch by Magrane to lead off the inning and Tom Brunansky singled 
him to second. With one out, Tim Laudner singled to left and Baylor was 
gunned down at home by Vince Coleman in left, but replays clearly showed 
that Baylor was safe. Lombardozzi then singled in Brunansky. In the fifth, 
the Twins tied it when Greg Gagne reached on an infield hit and Kirby Puckett 
drove him in with a double. Incidentally, Cardinals fans believed replays 
showed Gagne to be out on his infield hit, thus this run served to counteract 
the run the Twins lost in the second on the missed call on Baylor at the 
plate. The Twins seemed on the verge of taking the lead when Gary Gaetti 
followed Puckett with a walk and went to second when Puckett was thrown 
out by Lake trying to advance to third on a wild pitch that was deflected 
when it hit the home plate umpire in the face-mask. Baylor followed with 
a single to left, but Coleman threw out Gaetti at the plate in a violent 
collision with Lake. Coleman became the first outfielder to throw two runners 
out at the plate in one World Series game. The sixth inning proved to be 
controversial. In the top of the sixth, Tom Herr was picked-off of first 
base, and called out. In what Cardinals fans believe was the third missed 
call of the game, replays supposedly showed Herr to be safe. Umpire Lee 
Weyer's view was blocked by Kent Hrbek who, according to the broadcast 
crew, not only made the tag late, but might also have been called for interference 
as he stood in Herr's path during the run-down before he had the ball. 
Had this been called, Herr would not only have been safe, but been awarded 
second base, and the Cardinals would have had a runner at second with one 
out. As it was, the Cardinals would score nothing. The Twins then took 
the lead in the bottom of the sixth, off Danny Cox, who had relieved Magrane 
the previous inning. Cox walked Brunansky and Hrbek to lead off, and was 
replaced by Todd Worrell. As Cox was leaving, he got into an argument with 
home plate umpire Dave Phillips and was ejected as he was leaving the field. 
After retiring the first batter he faced, Worrell walked pinch-hitter Roy 
Smalley to load the bases and then gave up a two-out RBI single to Gagne. 
The Twins' final run came in the eighth on an RBI double by Dan Gladden. 
Jeff Reardon retired the side in the ninth to give Minnesota their first 
World Series victory. Twins manager Tom Kelly became the youngest non-playing 
manager to win the World Series since John McGraw in 1905. 1987 World Series 
(4–3): Minnesota Twins (A.L.) over St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) Although 
Steve Carlton was not on the Twins' playoff roster, he still attended the 
White House to be congratulated by President Reagan. While making a photo 
op with the president, local newspapers listed the names of all of the 
Minnesota Twins. The only man who wasn't listed (and simply identified 
as a Secret Service agent) was a tall man wearing dark sunglasses in the 
back. The man in question was Carlton. After their defeat in the '87 Series, 
the Cardinals' reign of dominance in the '80s ended. They would not win 
their division until 1996 and they would not return to the World Series 
until 2004. In 1988, the Twins actually won more games than in their championship 
season, finishing with a 91-71 record. They finished 13 games behind the 
AL West champion Oakland A's, who won 104 games. The Twins eventually sank 
towards the bottom of the standings, finishing last in 1990. In 1991, the 
Twins returned to the playoffs by beating the Blue Jays in the ALCS and 
winning what many call the greatest World Series ever played over the Atlanta 
Braves. The 1987 World Series featured at least two players who would go 
on to win Manager of the Year awards. The Twins' Don Baylor won it in 1995 
for his work with the Colorado Rockies while the Cardinals' Tony Peña won 
it in 2003 for his work with the Kansas City Royals. The success of the 
1987 Twins inspired Brandon Walsh (Jason Priestley) in Beverly Hills 90210 
to explain why the Twins were the ultimate definition of a team, thus enabling 
him to win the Dreyer Scholarship. However, his interview included a factual 
inaccuracy; he said Gladden hit a grand slam in the pivotal Game 4, when 
in fact Gladden hit one in game 1, and Hrbek hit one in the pivotal game 
6. In a February 2015 interview, sportscaster and author Al Michaels (who, 
as previously mentioned, did play-by-play for ABC's television coverage 
of the 1987 World Series) alleged the Twins pumped artificial crowd noise 
