The 1987 National League Championship Series took place between October 
6 and 14 at Busch Memorial Stadium (Games 1, 2, 6, and 7) and Candlestick 
Park (Games 3, 4, and 5). It matched the East division champion St. Louis 
Cardinals (95–67) against the West division champion San Francisco Giants 
(90–72), with the Cardinals winning in seven games. The Cardinals would 
go on to lose the 1987 World Series to the Minnesota Twins, also in seven 
games. San Francisco's Jeffrey Leonard was named the Series MVP despite 
the fact that his Giants lost the series. Oddly enough, this was the second 
consecutive year that the NLCS MVP came from the losing team, as Mike Scott 
had won the award with the Houston Astros the previous year. However, to 
date, Leonard is the last MVP of any postseason series (League Championship 
Series or World Series) to have played for the losing team. There is no 
MVP awarded for the wildcard round or division series. St. Louis won the 
series, 4–3. Tuesday, October 6, 1987 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, 
Missouri The Giants struck first on an RBI groundout by Candy Maldonado, 
but the Cardinals tied it in the third on Vince Coleman's RBI single. Jeffrey 
Leonard gave the Giants a short-lived lead in the fourth on a solo homer, 
as the Cards quickly re-tied it when Ozzie Smith tripled and Willie McGee 
drove him home with a single. The Cardinals took control of the game in 
the sixth by plating three runs off Giants starter Rick Reuschel. Terry 
Pendleton, Curt Ford, and pitcher Greg Mathews all had RBI singles in the 
rally. Ken Dayley pitched the ninth and got the save. Wednesday, October 
7, 1987 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri The Giants pulled 
even in the series on the strength of a complete-game shutout by Dave Dravecky. 
Dravecky got all the runs he needed in the second on a Will Clark two-run 
homer. For good measure, Jeffrey Leonard added a solo homer in the fourth, 
his second in two NLCS games. Two more runs came across in the eighth for 
the Giants on a rare Ozzie Smith throwing error. It was in this game that 
Leonard aroused the ire of the Cardinal fans by going into his "Cadillac 
home run trot" around the bases. Leonard spread out his arms, airplane-style, 
but kept his left arm pinned to his side ("flap-down"). To further irritate 
the fans, Leonard slowed to a walk between third and home. Friday, October 
9, 1987 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco In Game 3, Joe Magrane (STL) 
and Atlee Hammaker (SF) were set to face off. The matchup was not expected 
to be quite as low scoring as the series had been to date. The predictions 
were correct, as San Francisco broke first with four runs in the first 
three innings, looking to take the series lead. In the second inning, consecutive 
hits from Chili Davis, Will Clark and Bob Brenly put the Giants on the 
board. Yet another home run from Leonard tacked on a fourth run in the 
third. On Leonard's next at-bat, however, Bob Forsch, who had relieved 
starter Magrane, plunked Leonard in the left shoulder with his first pitch, 
presumably in retaliation for his home-run trot antics. The Giants would 
load the bases in the inning with one out, but Forsch pitched out of it. 
The Cardinals heated things up in the sixth with a two-run home run from 
Jim Lindeman, who replaced the injured Jack Clark, and then a triple by 
Willie McGee. But, in the seventh is when they really made their attack, 
not only tying the game, but scoring four to take the lead, 6–4. The four 
runs came on a large rally, highlighted by a two-run single by left fielder 
Vince Coleman. With right-handed Todd Worrell pitching for the Cards, manager 
Roger Craig pinch hit left-handed batter Harry Spilman for Robby Thompson. 
Spilman homered to right field, putting new life back in the Giants, even 
with two down. However, third baseman Kevin Mitchell flew out to center 
field, and the Cards had completed a stunning comeback. Cardinals slugger 
Jack Clark made his only appearance in the Series in Game 3. Nursing a 
sprained ankle, he came up as a pinch-hitter and struck out looking. His 
injury caused him to be left off the roster for the World Series, so the 
Cardinals could add another pitcher. Saturday, October 10, 1987 at Candlestick 
Park in San Francisco The Giants knotted the series at 2–2 by the longball 
and another complete-game pitching performance, this time by Mike Krukow. 
Krukow was touched for two runs in the second on RBI singles by opposing 
pitcher Danny Cox and Vince Coleman, but then pitched shutout ball the 
rest of the way. Robby Thompson hit a solo homer in the fourth, Jeffrey 
Leonard put the Giants ahead 3–2 in the fifth with his fourth homer in 
the NLCS, and Bob Brenly closed out the scoring with a solo shot in the 
eighth. Sunday, October 11, 1987 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco Tom 
Herr put the Cardinals up 1–0 in the first off Rick Reuschel with a sacrifice 
fly, then the Giants tied it in their half of the first on a Kevin Mitchell 
RBI single. The Cardinals looked on the verge of breaking it open against 
Reuschel in the third. Tony Peña and pitcher Bob Forsch led off the inning 
with consecutive singles, and then Vince Coleman beat out a bunt, loading 
the bases with none out. Ozzie Smith could only produce a sacrifice fly, 
however, and Herr bounced into a double play to end the threat. Mitchell 
tied it at 2–2 for the Giants in the third on a solo homer. Terry Pendleton 
then gave the Cards back the lead in the fourth in this nip-and-tuck game 
by smashing a two-out triple and scoring when Reuschel mishandled a throw 
by Will Clark on a ground ball hit by John Morris. The Giants answered 
back in the bottom of the fourth when Jose Uribe drove in two runs with 
a bases-loaded single for a 4–3 Giants lead. Mike Aldrete then pinch-hit 
for Reuschel and hit a sacrifice fly and Robby Thompson drove in the last 
run with a triple. Joe Price then relieved Reuschel and pitched five innings 
of one-hit, shutout relief. Thompson's RBI would be the last Giants run 
of the series. Tuesday, October 13, 1987 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, 
Missouri Facing elimination, the Cardinals rolled out their ace, John Tudor, 
to face Dave Dravecky once again. Tudor was injured for most of the first 
half of 1987, but rebounded to go 10–2 in the second half of the season. 
And, like his great 1985 season, Tudor was golden in the postseason. He 
scattered six hits in seven innings and struck out six before giving way 
to Todd Worrell. Tudor got the only run he needed in the second inning 
when Tony Peña hit what appeared to be a routine fly ball to right, but 
Candy Maldonado misplayed it and it fell for a triple. José Oquendo then 
drove Pena home with a sacrifice fly. Ken Dayley pitched the ninth for 
his second save of the series. Wednesday, October 14, 1987 at Busch Stadium 
(II) in St. Louis, Missouri The Cardinals gave starter Danny Cox a quick 
4–0 lead by jumping on Giants starter Atlee Hammaker in the second. Singles 
by Terry Pendleton, Tony Peña and Willie McGee produced the first run and 
José Oquendo, who had hit only one home run during the regular season, 
drilled a three-run shot to left. St. Louis added two more runs in the 
sixth on a two-run single by Tommy Herr. Cox went the distance, scattering 
eight hits and striking out five. The victory gave the Cardinals their 
third pennant in six years and fifteenth overall. The only downside in 
the victory was Pendleton suffering a strained ribcage while running the 
bases, which limited his availability in the World Series. 1987 NLCS (4–3): 
St. Louis Cardinals over San Francisco Giants Cardinals Hitting Bests: 
Giants Hitting Bests: Cardinals Pitching Bests: Giants Pitching Bests: 
