The 1987 American League Championship Series pitted the Minnesota Twins, 
the American League West champions, against the Detroit Tigers, the American 
League East champions. Minnesota won the Series four games to one, en route 
to winning the 1987 World Series four games to three over the St. Louis 
Cardinals. The Detroit Tigers finished the 1987 regular season with the 
best record in all of baseball, at 98–64 (.605). They won the American 
League East by two games in thrilling fashion over the Toronto Blue Jays, 
overcoming a 3 1⁄2-game deficit with a week to go, and clinching the division 
on the last day of the season with a 1–0 win over the Jays. The Twins, 
by contrast, finished with the worst record of any of the four teams that 
made the playoffs, at 85–77 (.525). Although they held off the Kansas City 
Royals by two games to take the American League West, they were clearly 
seen as the underdogs against the power of the Tigers in the 1987 ALCS. 
After their elimination in this series, the Tigers would not see the playoffs 
again for 19 years, clinching their next playoff berth on September 24, 
2006. Minnesota won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, October 7, 1987 at Hubert 
H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota The 1987 AL playoffs opened 
at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, with the Tigers throwing Doyle Alexander 
against the Twins' Frank Viola. In the bottom of the second, the Twins 
opened the scoring when third baseman Gary Gaetti homered off Alexander 
to give Minnesota a 1–0 lead. However, Detroit answered back the very next 
half-inning, as catcher Mike Heath socked a home run to center field to 
tie the game. The game remained tied until the bottom of the fifth, when 
the Twins erupted for three runs. Gaetti led off the inning with his second 
round-tripper of the game, and Randy Bush followed by stroking a triple 
to right field and coming home on a double by Tom Brunansky. Steve Lombardozzi 
sacrificed Brunansky to third, and he scored on a subsequent base hit by 
Dan Gladden to make it 4–1. Beginning in the top half of the sixth, however, 
Detroit staged a comeback. Kirk Gibson smacked a solo home run that inning, 
and then Heath ripped an RBI single in the seventh that scored Larry Herndon 
to cut Minnesota's lead down to one. In the top of the eighth, the Tigers 
took a one-run lead with a pair of sacrifice flies off Twins reliever Jeff 
Reardon that scored Gibson and Alan Trammell. In the bottom of the eighth, 
however, Minnesota took the lead for good. A double by Kirby Puckett brought 
Gladden home to tie the game, and Don Baylor and Brunansky drove in the 
go-ahead runs off Willie Hernández with a single and double, respectively. 
A single by Johnny Grubb and a walk to Lou Whitaker was all the Tigers 
could muster against Reardon in the ninth, as Gibson struck out to give 
the Twins an 8–5 victory and a 1–0 lead in the series. Thursday, October 
8, 1987 at Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota For Game 
2, the Twins sent Bert Blyleven to the hill against Detroit's ace, Jack 
Morris. In the top of the second, the Tigers opened the scoring when Chet 
Lemon cracked a two-run home run off Blyleven. In the bottom half of the 
inning, however, the Twins stormed back, as Gaetti doubled to right and 
scored on another double by Brunansky. After a walk to Greg Gagne, catcher 
Tim Laudner lashed the third double of the inning off Morris, scoring both 
Brunansky and Gagne for a 3–2 Minnesota lead. The Twins extended their 
lead in the fourth, as Bush singled and then stole second and third. After 
consecutive walks to Brunansky and Gagne, Gladden singled to left to drive 
in Bush and Brunansky. Kent Hrbek then added a solo homer in the fifth, 
giving Minnesota a 6–2 lead. Tigers second baseman Lou Whitaker touched 
Blyleven for a solo homer in the eighth, but the Twins hurler would allow 
nothing more. Juan Berenguer struck out the side in the ninth to hand the 
Twins a 6–3 victory and a 2–0 series lead. Saturday, October 10, 1987 at 
Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Michigan The Series shifted to Detroit for Game 
3, with the Tigers' Walt Terrell facing the Twins' Les Straker. The two 
pitchers matched zeroes for the first two-and-a-half innings until the 
bottom of the third, when Detroit's Pat Sheridan doubled to left, moved 
to third on a single by Whitaker, and scored on a force out by Gibson that 
sent Whitaker to third. After Gibson stole second, a balk by Straker scored 
Whitaker, and a single by Trammell brought in Gibson. A double by Herndon 
then scored Trammell and Lemon to give the Tigers a 5–0 lead. In the top 
of the fourth, the Twins cut Detroit's lead to 5–2 with a Gagne home run 
and a Bush single that scored Hrbek, and in the sixth they reduced the 
lead down to one with a two-run homer by Brunansky. In the top of the seventh, 
a two-out single by Gaetti drove in Gladden and Gagne to give the Twins 
a 6–5 lead and put them on the cusp of taking a stranglehold on the series. 
Facing the prospect of blowing a 5–0 lead and falling behind three games 
to none, the Tigers rallied in the bottom of the eighth. Minnesota brought 
in Reardon to get a two-inning save. After a lead-off single by Larry Herndon, 
Reardon got Tom Brookens to pop out to Hrbek. Pat Sheridan, 1 for 6 lifetime 
versus Reardon, then stepped to the plate and launched the reliever's first 
pitch into the upper deck in right field for a two-run home run that restored 
Detroit's lead, 7–6. In the top of the ninth, Mike Henneman retired the 
Twins in order to put the Tigers back in the Series, which now stood at 
2–1 for Minnesota. Sunday, October 11, 1987 at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, 
Michigan The fourth game of the series matched Viola against Tiger left-hander 
Frank Tanana, who had thrown a 1–0 complete-game shutout over the Toronto 
Blue Jays on the final day of the regular season to punch Detroit's playoff 
ticket. In the bottom of the first, the Tigers gave Tanana a 1–0 lead when 
Lou Whitaker walked to lead off the inning and eventually scored on a throwing 
error by Twins shortstop Greg Gagne. However, in the top of the third, 
Kirby Puckett homered off Tanana to tie the game, then Gagne added a homer 
of his own in the top of the fourth to give Minnesota a 2–1 lead. The Twins 
made it a 3–1 lead in the fifth when Puckett came home on a Gary Gaetti 
sacrifice fly, but the Tigers came to within a run in the bottom of the 
fifth when an infield hit by Kirk Gibson scored Whitaker. In the top of 
the sixth, Gagne doubled, moved to third on a wild pitch, and scored on 
a base hit by pinch-hitter Gene Larkin to give Minnesota a 4–2 advantage. 
In the bottom half of the inning, the Tigers again clawed to within a run 
when pinch-hitter Dave Bergman followed up singles by Chet Lemon and Darrell 
Evans with a single of his own, scoring Lemon and moving Evans to second. 
After Mike Heath sacrificed Evans to third and Bergman to second, Twins 
manager Tom Kelly pulled Keith Atherton in favour of Juan Berenguer. However, 
the Tiger rally was squelched when catcher Tim Laudner picked a stunned 
Evans off third and Berenguer induced a flyout from Jim Morrison to end 
the inning. In the eighth, the Twins restored their two-run lead when Laudner 
reached on an error by Evans (who was playing third base, as Bergman had 
stayed in the game as the first baseman) and came home to score on a single 
by Steve Lombardozzi. In the ninth, Reardon managed to preserve a 5–3 Twins 
win, putting them one victory away from the pennant. Monday, October 12, 
1987 at Tiger Stadium in Detroit, Michigan In what would turn out to be 
the last postseason game ever played at Tiger Stadium, the Twins would 
send Blyleven to the mound to face the Tigers' Doyle Alexander. In the 
top of the second, Minnesota drew first blood when Tom Brunansky doubled 
home Gary Gaetti and Randy Bush, but was thrown out trying to stretch his 
hit into a triple. Dan Gladden and Kirby Puckett added RBI base hits of 
their own to give the Twins a 4–0 lead, and Tigers manager Sparky Anderson 
replaced Alexander with Eric King. As they had several times during the 
series, Detroit cut the Twins' lead down to one run in the bottom of the 
fourth, when Kirk Gibson scored on an Alan Trammell single and Matt Nokes 
followed with a two-run homer that scored Trammell. In the top of the seventh, 
however, the Twins restored their two-run lead when Kent Hrbek singled, 
moved to second when Gaetti was hit by a pitch, took third on a wild pitch 
by King, and plated on a sacrifice fly by Bush. In the eighth, Tiger reliever 
Mike Henneman, who replaced King in the seventh, allowed a double to Gladden 
and a walk to Gagne. Puckett then grounded to Henneman, who attempted to 
initiate a double play. However, first baseman Darrell Evans misplayed 
the ball for his second error of the series, allowing Gladden to score 
and make it a 6–3 Minnesota lead. Although Chet Lemon homered for Detroit 
in the bottom half of the inning to make it 6–4, the Twins decisively stormed 
ahead in the top of the ninth. Brunansky tattooed his second home run of 
the postseason, and Gladden and Gagne followed with consecutive RBI doubles 
off Henneman and Jeff Robinson. The Twins sent Reardon, who entered the 
game in the bottom of the eighth, to the hill to close out the series in 
the bottom of the ninth. Although an RBI single by Gibson scored Jim Morrison, 
the Minnesota stopper allowed nothing more, as Matt Nokes grounded out 
to Reardon to end a 9–5 Twins victory and clinch the franchise's first 
World Series berth since 1965. 1987 ALCS (4–1): Minnesota Twins over Detroit 
