The 1988 National League Championship Series was played between the National 
League West champion Los Angeles Dodgers and the National League East champion 
New York Mets. The Dodgers won the Series four games to three, en route 
to defeating the Oakland Athletics in five games in the 1988 World Series. 
The Mets were heavy favorites when the series began in Los Angeles on October 
4. They had beaten the Dodgers ten of eleven times in the regular season, 
outscoring them 49-18.[1] The Dodgers had won their fourth NL West title 
of the 1980s, posting a 94–67 record (.580) during the 1988 regular season 
and beating out the Cincinnati Reds by seven games. The Mets cruised to 
the best record in the National League in 1988, with a 100–60 record (.625), 
easily winning the NL East crown by a full fifteen games over the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. The NLCS itself was a see-saw affair, with the two teams splitting 
the first two games at Dodger Stadium. The Series then shifted to Shea 
Stadium in New York for Games 3, 4, and 5; the Mets took Game 3 before 
the Dodgers pulled out close wins in both Game 4 (5–4 in twelve innings) 
and Game 5 (7–4). Dodgers outfielder Kirk Gibson hit home runs in both 
games, including the game-winning dinger in the twelfth inning of Game 
4. The NLCS then went back to Los Angeles, where the Mets took the sixth 
game 5–1; however, they went on to be blanked by the Dodgers 6–0 in the 
deciding seventh game, sending L.A. to the World Series for the first time 
since 1981. Dodgers pitcher Orel Hershiser was named the NLCS MVP. He made 
four outstanding appearances in the Series, garnering the save in Game 
4 and hurling a complete game shutout against the Mets in Game 7. Los Angeles 
won the series, 4–3. Tuesday, October 4, 1988 at Dodger Stadium in Los 
Angeles, California The series opened with a classic pitching matchup, 
pitting the Dodgers' Orel Hershiser, who had won 23 games during the regular 
season and carried a Major League record 59 consecutive scoreless innings 
into the game, against Mets ace Dwight Gooden, who himself had won eighteen 
games during the regular season. A pitchers' duel was expected, and neither 
pitcher disappointed. The Dodgers pushed across an early run on a two-out 
RBI single from Mike Marshall in the first inning, but following that, 
both teams' offenses were held in check. The Dodgers were held hitless 
until the seventh inning, where they scored their second run off Gooden 
on an RBI single from Alfredo Griffin. With Hershiser rolling, it appeared 
the Dodgers would knock off the Mets and take the lead in the series. But 
in the ninth, Mets rookie Gregg Jefferies led off with a single. He advanced 
to second on a ground out, and the Mets broke through against Hershiser 
when Darryl Strawberry lined a double into the gap in right-center field 
to score Jefferies. Hershiser was then lifted in favor of ace closer Jay 
Howell. Kevin McReynolds drew a walk, and following a Howard Johnson strikeout, 
Gary Carter hit a two-strike pitch in front of a diving John Shelby. Strawberry 
scored as the ball bounced in front of Shelby, and McReynolds followed 
close behind. Shelby's throw to the plate was a little off target, and 
McReynolds scored the winning run by bowling over catcher Mike Scioscia 
as the ball sailed past him.[9] The Dodgers went down in order in the last 
of the ninth, and the Mets came away with a comeback win to draw first 
blood in the series. Wednesday, October 5, 1988 at Dodger Stadium in Los 
Angeles, California David Cone, the Mets' starting pitcher for Game 2, 
wrote the above in an article for the New York Daily News.[10] The article 
appeared in the paper the morning of Game 2, and the Dodgers were not pleased 
upon reading it. They took out their anger on the field that night—against 
Cone. Mike Marshall drove in a first inning run for the second night in 
a row. But in the second, the Dodgers exploded for four more runs to take 
a 5–0 lead and knock Cone from the game. Mickey Hatcher struck the key 
blow with a two-run double. Although the Mets would draw within three runs 
on a fourth inning two-run home run from Keith Hernandez, they could not 
overcome the Dodgers' pitching. Dodgers starting pitcher Tim Belcher struck 
out ten over 8 1⁄3 innings, and the Dodgers tied the series with a 6–3 
victory. Saturday, October 8, 1988 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York 
Fantastic plays and controversy would mark the afternoon, as the Mets rebounded 
from deficits twice to earn an 8–4 victory in Game 3. Following a rainout, 
Game 3 was played in horrible football weather. The rain that had delayed 
the game a day turned the field into a muddy mess. The rainout of the previous 
night allowed the Dodgers to bring back Orel Hershiser to start on three 
days' rest, while the Mets countered with Ron Darling, who got off to a 
rocky start. The Dodgers scored their first run in the second inning on 
a throwing error by Keith Hernandez on a bunt attempt by Mike Scioscia. 
The Dodgers got another run on an RBI ground out by Jeff Hamilton, and 
a third run in the third inning on an RBI ground out by Kirk Gibson. But 
the Mets would not lie down against Hershiser. Darryl Strawberry drove 
home Mookie Wilson with a double in the bottom of the third inning, and 
in the sixth inning, the Mets tied the game thanks to some clutch hitting 
and sloppy Dodgers fielding. With Hernandez on first and none out, Strawberry 
singled to left. When Gibson bobbled the ball in the outfield, Hernandez 
tried to go to third. However, Hernandez slipped twice on the muddy infield, 
and Gibson was able to recover and throw Hernandez out as he attempted 
to crawl into third base. Kevin McReynolds reached on an error by third 
baseman Jeff Hamilton. One out later, back to back singles by Gary Carter 
and Wally Backman scored the two tying runs, and the Mets had come back 
once again against Hershiser. But the game was far from over. With two 
outs and the bases empty in the top of the eighth inning, Scioscia hit 
a one-hop comebacker back to Mets pitcher Roger McDowell. McDowell lined 
up to make a throw, and slipped to the ground on the wet mound. His throw 
to first was wild, and Scioscia advanced to second base on the error. Following 
a single, a walk and a pitching change, Randy Myers walked Mike Sharperson 
to force home a run and give the Dodgers a 4–3 lead. The Dodgers turned 
to closer Jay Howell in the bottom of the eighth. Howell ran a three ball, 
two strike count to McReynolds leading off the inning. Suddenly, Mets Manager 
Davey Johnson came out of the dugout, and asked Umpire Harry Wendelstedt 
to inspect Howell's glove for an illegal substance. Sure enough, Howell 
was found to have pine tar on his glove, and he was immediately ejected 
from the game, and would later be suspended for the remainder of the series. 
The ejection seemed to undo the Dodgers. Three subsequent relievers failed 
to hold down the Mets, as they rallied for five runs in the inning after 
two men were out. Backman doubled home the tying run, Wilson singled home 
Backman with the lead run and Darryl Strawberry iced the inning with a 
two-run single. David Cone would shake off his rocky outing from Game 2, 
and pitched a scoreless ninth inning to close out the Dodgers and give 
the Mets a two to one Series lead. Sunday, October 9, 1988 at Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York It was the Dodgers who did the coming back in Game 
4, and they did so in stunning fashion against the Mets ace. Dwight Gooden 
started for the Mets, and the Dodgers scored early, just as they had in 
Game 1. A two-run single from John Shelby with two outs would give the 
Dodgers the lead. But once again, the Mets rebounded from the early deficit, 
this time against Dodgers starter John Tudor. With no outs and Keith Hernandez 
on first base in the fourth inning, Darryl Strawberry launched a long home 
run to right off Tudor to tie the score. One batter later, Kevin McReynolds 
hit a home run of his own, over the bleachers in left field to put the 
Mets ahead. The Mets expanded their lead on an RBI triple from Gary Carter 
in the sixth inning. With a 4–2 lead going into the ninth inning, and Gooden 
cruising, the Mets looked to be a lock to take a commanding three games 
to one lead in the series. Since the first inning, Gooden had allowed one 
hit, and only four baserunners. But uncharacteristically, Gooden walked 
John Shelby to lead off the ninth, after having a two-strike count. Catcher 
Mike Scioscia then drilled a shocking two-run home run into the Mets bullpen 
in right field to tie the game. The game continued tied into the twelfth 
inning, where Kirk Gibson hit a two-out solo home run off Roger McDowell. 
Although the Mets loaded the bases in their half of the twelfth inning, 
Orel Hershiser came in from the bullpen, the day after starting, and got 
McReynolds to fly out to shallow center, Shelby racing in for the game-ending 
catch. Hershiser got the save, and the Dodger win tied the series at two 
games apiece. Monday, October 10, 1988 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York 
Less than twelve hours after tying the series at two wins apiece, the Dodgers 
took a three games to two lead with a 7–4 win over Sid Fernandez and the 
Mets. The Dodgers jumped on Mets starting pitcher Sid Fernandez in the 
fourth and fifth innings, to run out to a 6–0 lead. Catcher Rick Dempsey 
hit a two-run double in the fourth, and Kirk Gibson delivered the crushing 
blow with a three-run home run in the fifth. Tim Belcher was the winning 
pitcher. Tuesday, October 11, 1988 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California 
Pitching in the face of adversity, and pitching to keep his team's season 
alive, David Cone rebounded from his poor outing in Game 2 to post a sterling 
complete game victory in Game 6. For the first time in the entire series, 
the Mets scored first as a sacrifice fly by Kevin McReynolds scored Lenny 
Dykstra in the first inning to put the Mets ahead. McReynolds later hit 
a two-run home run in the fifth inning to put the game out of reach. Cone 
scattered five hits and allowed one run in his effort, which knotted the 
series once again, forcing a decisive Game 7. Wednesday, October 12, 1988 
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California Before the game, Mets manager 
Davey Johnson remarked that the excessive use of Orel Hershiser might undo 
the Dodgers. Hershiser had pitched eight-plus innings in Game 1, six in 
Game 3, and earned a save in Game 4. Missing from his log was a victory, 
but Hershiser got it with a complete game shutout to pitch the Dodgers 
into the World Series for the first time since 1981. Hershiser's performance 
earned him Most Valuable Player honors. The Dodgers capitalized on two 
Mets errors in the second inning to put the game out of reach early. Steve 
Sax hit a two-run single to knock out Mets starter Ron Darling, and a Wally 
Backman error led to two more runs in a five-run Dodgers rally. With Darling 
out of the game, Dwight Gooden entered the game to pitch 3 innings of scoreless 
relief. With Hershiser on the mound, and a big lead, the game was all but 
over. Hershiser allowed only five hits over his complete game effort, and 
his strikeout of Howard Johnson ended the game and capped off a memorable 
