The 1988 Major League Baseball season ended with the underdog Los Angeles 
Dodgers shocking the Oakland Athletics, who had won 104 games during the 
regular season, in the World Series. The most memorable moment of the series 
came in Game 1, when injured Dodger Kirk Gibson hit a dramatic pinch-hit 
walk-off home run off Athletics closer Dennis Eckersley to win the game 
for Los Angeles. The Dodgers went on to win the Series in five games. One 
of the American League's best players in 1988 was Athletics outfielder 
José Canseco,[citation needed] who became the first player in history to 
hit 40 home runs and steal 40 bases in a single season, unanimously garnering 
league MVP honors. The A's surrounded him with a stellar supporting cast, 
led by fellow slugger Mark McGwire (with whom Canseco formed the famed 
"Bash Brothers" duo). Aided by strong pitching from Dave Stewart and Bob 
Welch and the lights-out Eckersley securing 45 saves, Oakland ran away 
with the American League West and swept the Boston Red Sox of Boggs, Rice, 
and Clemens in the playoffs before falling to the Dodgers in the World 
Series. Speaking of the Dodgers, nobody expected them to even contend for 
the National League West title in 1988, let alone win the World Championship.[citation 
needed] However, the intensity and clutch hitting of Gibson (named the 
NL MVP at season's end) and the solid pitching of Orel Hershiser (who won 
a league-leading 23 games) spearheaded L.A. to a division championship 
by seven games over the Cincinnati Reds. In addition to his 23 victories, 
Hershiser led the National League with 267 innings pitched and 8 shutouts, 
and also set a record of 59 consecutive scoreless innings (formerly held 
by Dodger great Don Drysdale). These accomplishments, combined with his 
2.26 ERA, earned him the National League Cy Young Award. However, it was 
in the post-season that Hershiser really distinguished himself – he started 
Games 1 and 3 of the NLCS against the tough New York Mets, saved Game 4 
in relief, and threw a complete game shutout in Game 7. He hurled another 
complete game shutout in Game 2 of the World Series and again went the 
distance in the clinching Game 5. Hershiser was named MVP of both the NLCS 
and the World Series, capping off arguably one of the greatest seasons 
