The 1988 World Series matched the Oakland Athletics against the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, with the Dodgers upsetting the heavily favored A's to win the 
Series in five games. It is best known for the pinch-hit walk-off home 
run hit by Dodgers MVP Kirk Gibson, who could barely walk due to injuries 
suffered during the NLCS, against Hall-of-Fame Athletics closer Dennis 
Eckersley in Game 1. Although Gibson's home run has become an icon of baseball, 
it was series MVP Orel Hershiser who capped a dominant 1988 season in which 
he set the all time scoreless inning streak at 59 innings, recorded five 
straight shutouts, led the league with 23 wins and 267 innings, and won 
the Cy Young and Gold Glove awards. Hershiser was the MVP of the NLCS, 
starting three games, getting the save for Game 4, and shutting out the 
Mets in Game 7. In the World Series, he shut out the heavily favored A's 
in Game 2, and pitched a two-run, complete game in the decisive Game 5 
victory. The Los Angeles Dodgers won the National League West division 
by seven games over the Cincinnati Reds then upset the New York Mets, four 
games to three, in the 1988 NLCS. The Oakland Athletics won the American 
League West division by thirteen games over the Minnesota Twins then swept 
the Boston Red Sox, four games to none, in the American League Championship 
Series. This was the first World Series to have the series logo on the 
players' uniforms of both teams (the previous year, only the Cardinals 
wore it). The Dodgers' team batting did not finish in the top five in any 
offensive statistical category except batting average (fifth), at .248—no 
regular or backup hit over .300 or drove in over 90 runs. Kirk Gibson's 
25 home runs led the team but was only good enough for seventh in the National 
League. Slugger Pedro Guerrero had a sub-par year and was traded in July 
to the Cardinals for pitcher John Tudor. Kirk Gibson was the only position 
player named to the All-Star Game, but declined the invitation.[1] However, 
the Dodgers were sixth in the NL in runs scored and backed that up with 
excellent pitching. Despite dealing All-Star pitcher Bob Welch to Oakland 
prior to spring training and an injury to Fernando Valenzuela (5–8, 4.24 
ERA), the Dodgers were second in the NL in team ERA and runs allowed, and 
led the league in complete games and shutouts. The staff was anchored by 
Cy Young Award-winner Orel Hershiser, who led league in wins, won-loss 
percentage (23–8, .864), complete games (15), shutouts (8), and sacrifice 
hits (19). Hershiser was backed-up by a pair of "Tims", Tim Leary (17–11, 
2.91) and rookie Tim Belcher (12–6, 2.91), and the July acquisition of 
John Tudor further strengthened the staff. The bullpen was outstanding, 
headed by Jay Howell (21 saves, 2.08), Alejandro Peña (12 saves, 1.91), 
and longtime New York Mets closer Jesse Orosco. The Dodger bullpen led 
the league in saves with 49. It was intensity and fortitude, however, that 
defined the 1988 Dodgers, a trend that began when Kirk Gibson was signed 
as a free-agent over the winter from the Detroit Tigers, the team he helped 
lead to the 1984 World Championship. Moreover, the invincible Hershiser 
threw shutouts in five of his last six regular season starts en route to 
a record 59 consecutive scoreless innings pitched, breaking the mark held 
by former Dodger great Don Drysdale. Hershiser would dominate the Mets 
in the NLCS, while Gibson hobbled through on bad knees and a bruised hamstring 
but would produce a memorable, if not the greatest, at-bat (in Game 1) 
of the World Series. The powerful Oakland Athletics had all the confidence 
and swagger of a heavily favored team. The "Bash Brothers" duo of Mark 
McGwire (32 home runs, 99 RBI, .260 batting average) and José Canseco (42 
home runs, 124 RBI, .307 batting average) were in their early twenties, 
emerging as young superstars. Canseco became the first player to hit 40 
or more home runs and steal 40 or more bases in Major League history and 
would capture the Most Valuable Player award in the American League. Veterans 
Dave Henderson (24 home runs, 94 RBI, .304 batting average) and longtime 
Pirate Dave Parker (12 home runs, 55 RBI, .257 batting average), also contributed 
with both their bats and their experience. The 1988 World Series marked 
Don Baylor's third consecutive World Series with three separate teams. 
Besides being a member of the 1988 Athletics, Baylor was also a member 
of the 1986 Boston Red Sox and 1987 Minnesota Twins. The Oakland pitching 
staff was quite possibly the best in the American League in 1988. They 
led in ERA (3.44), wins (104), saves (64), and were second in strikeouts 
(983) and second in fewest runs allowed and home runs allowed. The ace 
of the staff was Dave Stewart, an ex-Dodger (1978–83), who won 20 games 
for the second straight season. Another ex-Dodger was reliable Bob Welch 
(17–9, 3.64) followed by 16-game winner Storm Davis. After spending the 
previous twelve years as a starter, mostly for the Boston Red Sox and Chicago 
Cubs, Dennis Eckersley would be converted into a closer in 1987 and would 
lead the American League in saves in 1988 with 45. He would eventually 
have a distinguished 24-year career, gaining election into the Hall of 
Fame in 2004. Another longtime starter (and another ex-Dodger), Rick Honeycutt, 
proved to be a capable set-up man to Eckersley, finishing with three wins 
and seven saves. But anything can happen in a short series, as proven by 
these 1988 Los Angeles Dodgers, who out-hit (41–28, .246–.177), out-muscled 
(5 HRs–2 HRs), and out-pitched (2.03–3.92) the seemingly unbeatable Oakland 
Athletics, incredibly winning the Series in five games, outscoring the 
A's, 21–11, bringing the Dodgers their sixth World Series Championship, 
the second as a manager for Tommy Lasorda. NL Los Angeles Dodgers (4) vs. 
AL Oakland Athletics (1) Because of using ace Orel Hershiser in Game 7 
of the NLCS, the Dodgers had to open with rookie Tim Belcher in Game 1. 
Meanwhile, Oakland sent a well-rested Dave Stewart to the mound. Both pitchers, 
however, would have their troubles in this game starting out. Belcher loaded 
the bases in the first by giving up a single to Dave Henderson, then hitting 
José Canseco and walking Mark McGwire. Canseco was hit in the right bicep 
as he checked his swing and home plate umpire Doug Harvey awarded him first 
base. Dodger manager Tommy Lasorda disputed this, thinking the ball hit 
Canseco's bat. Audio from the game seemed to confirm this, but replays 
showed the ball hit Canseco in the bicep.[7] Stewart's problems began in 
the bottom of the first when he purposely hit Steve Sax with his first 
pitch. After retiring Franklin Stubbs, Stewart balked Sax to second. Mickey 
Hatcher, who hit only one homer all season, then shocked the crowd by hitting 
a two-run shot off Stewart. Hatcher further excited the Dodger stadium 
fans by running full speed around the bases. Commentator Joe Garagiola 
noted, "He ran in like they thought they were going to take it off the 
scoreboard! He really circled those bases in a hurry!" and "He's a Saturday 
Evening Post cover!"[8] Stewart would calm down, however, and the A's provided 
him a lead in their half of the second. After allowing a leadoff single 
to Glenn Hubbard and striking out Walt Weiss, Belcher's control problems 
continued as he walked both Stewart and Carney Lansford to load the bases. 
After Dave Henderson struck out, Canseco crushed a 1–0 pitch for a grand 
slam to almost dead center, denting an NBC game camera in the process. 
The A's had a 4–2 lead. Canseco's grand slam in Game 1 was his only hit 
of the series. His fellow Bash Brother Mark McGwire had only one hit as 
well, the game-winning shot that ended Game 3. In the sixth, the Dodgers 
broke Stewart's groove with three consecutive one-out singles, the third 
one by Mike Scioscia that scored Mike Marshall. The A's lead was cut to 
4–3. While Kirk Gibson was taking practice swings in the Dodgers' clubhouse 
during Game 1, Orel Hershiser set up the hitting tee for his teammate. 
Along the way, NBC's Bob Costas could hear Gibson's agonized-sounding grunts 
after every hit.[9] A's closer Dennis Eckersley came on to pitch the ninth 
to close it out for Stewart. After retiring the first two batters (Mike 
Scioscia and Jeff Hamilton), Eckersley's former A's teammate Mike Davis, 
batting for Alfredo Griffin, walked on five pitches. During Davis' at-bat, 
Dave Anderson initially entered the on-deck circle to hit for Alejandro 
Peña. After Davis walked, Lasorda called back Anderson and sent up a hobbled 
Kirk Gibson to the plate, amidst cheers from the Dodger Stadium crowd. 
Gibson bravely fouled off Eckersley's best offerings, demonstrating how 
badly he was hurting. On one foul, Gibson hobbled towards first and prompted 
Scully to quip, "And it had to be an effort to run THAT far." After Gibson 
fouled off several pitches, Davis stole second on ball three. On the next 
pitch, Gibson, remembering a scouting report that said Eckersley liked 
to throw a backdoor slider to left handed hitters on 3–2 counts, slammed 
that backdoor slider into the right field bleachers to win the game. The 
footage of Gibson hobbling around the bases on both hurt legs and pumping 
his fist as he rounded second became an iconic baseball film highlight. 
Gibson would never bat again in the Series, and his walk-off homer in Game 1 
marked the first time that a World Series game ended with a come-from-behind 
home run. By the time Kirk Gibson reached his locker after Game 1, bullpen 
coach Mark Cresse had written "R. HOBBS" on a piece of paper and taped 
it over Gibson's nameplate, which was in reference to Gibson's heroics 
mirroring those of the fictional slugger played by Robert Redford in The 
Natural. With a rested Orel Hershiser on the mound, the Dodgers took a 
2–0 Series lead. Hershiser got all the runs he needed in the third, with 
Mike Marshall providing the big blow with a three-run homer. Hershiser 
went the distance, allowing only three singles, all three hit by Dave Parker. 
Hershiser also contributed offensively, with three hits (matching the entire 
A's offence for the night), including an RBI double in the fourth inning. 
In the five-run third inning, he singled, went to third on an opposite-field 
single by Steve Sax and later scored. He was the first pitcher to get three 
hits in a World Series game since Art Nehf of the New York Giants in Game 
1 of the 1924 World Series.[10] He was also the first pitcher to record 
a World Series RBI since Philadelphia's John Denny in Game 4 of the 1983 
World Series.[11] The A's got back in the series on the strength of strong 
pitching by former Dodger World Series hero Bob Welch and three relievers. 
Dodger starter John Tudor left during the second inning with tightness 
in his pitching shoulder. The A's struck first in the third when Glenn 
Hubbard singled, stole second, and came home on a single by Ron Hassey. 
The Dodgers tied it in the fifth when Franklin Stubbs drove home Jeff Hamilton 
with a double. A's relievers helped squelch a Dodger threat in the sixth. 
Danny Heep led off with a double. John Shelby singled to left, but Heep 
was held up at third on the throw home as Shelby took second. Welch walked 
Mike Davis to load the bases, and left-hander Greg Cadaret was brought 
in to face lefty-hitting Mike Scioscia. Scioscia popped out to third. A's 
manager Tony La Russa then brought in right-hander Gene Nelson to face 
Hamilton, who forced Heep out at home. Alfredo Griffin grounded out to 
end the threat. The A's got their winning run in the bottom of the ninth 
when Mark McGwire deposited a one-out fastball from Jay Howell into the 
left-center field seats. Jay Howell was suspended for two games (shortened 
from three) by then National League president Bart Giamatti, for using 
pine tar during the 1988 National League Championship Series against the 
New York Mets. Howell was, incidentally, also the losing pitcher in the 
prior year's All-Star Game in Oakland while a member of the Oakland Athletics. 
Without injured sluggers Kirk Gibson (25 HR) and Mike Marshall (20), the 
Dodgers started the game with what was statistically one of the weakest 
hitting World Series teams since the Dead-ball era. During the regular 
season the Game 4 starting line up of Steve Sax (2B), Franklin Stubbs (1B), 
Mickey Hatcher (LF), Mike Davis (RF), John Shelby (CF), Danny Heep (DH), 
Jeff Hamilton (3B), Mike Scoscia (C) and Alfredo Griffin (SS) combined 
for a total of just 36 home runs. Between them, José Canseco and Mark McGwire 
had hit 74 home runs for Oakland. Canseco alone had in fact hit more home 
runs (42) than the Dodger lineup while McGwire with 32 almost matched the 
Dodgers. The Dodgers got two in the first when Steve Sax walked, went to 
third on a Mickey Hatcher single, and scored on a passed ball by A's catcher 
Terry Steinbach. Hatcher scored the second run on a groundout by John Shelby. 
The A's got one back in their half when Luis Polonia led off with a single, 
went to second on a passed ball, and later scored on a José Canseco groundout. 
The Dodgers went up 3–1 when Franklin Stubbs doubled and scored on A's 
shortstop Walt Weiss's throwing error on a ball hit by Mike Davis. The 
A's answered in the sixth on an RBI single by Carney Lansford. A key play 
came when the Dodgers got their final run in the seventh. With Alfredo 
Griffin on third and Steve Sax on first with one out, pinch-hitter Tracy 
Woodson hit what looked to be an inning ending double play grounder. But 
Lasorda called for a hit and run play so Sax was going on the pitch. Oakland 
tried for the double play, but Sax barely beat the throw to second. So 
when the throw to first beat Woodson, it was only the second out, allowing 
Griffin to score. The A's half of the seventh also dramatic. With one out, 
Weiss singled and reached second when he was called safe on a double-play 
grounder hit by Polonia; he was running with the pitch. Dave Henderson 
cut the Dodger lead to 4–3 on a two-out RBI double. José Canseco walked 
and Dave Parker reached on a Griffin error to load the bases, but Game 3 
hero Mark McGwire popped out, stranding three and ending the inning. While 
hosting Game 4 on NBC, Bob Costas angered many members of the Dodgers (especially 
Manager Tommy Lasorda) by commenting before the start of the game that 
the Dodgers quite possibly were about to put up the weakest-hitting lineup 
in World Series history.[12] That comment ironically fired up the competitive 
spirit of the Dodgers. Later (while being interviewed by NBC's Marv Albert), 
after the Dodgers had won Game 4, Lasorda sarcastically suggested that 
the MVP of the 1988 World Series should be Bob Costas. Orel Hershiser capped 
one of the greatest seasons ever by a starting pitcher and one of the most 
improbable World Series wins in history by pitching a complete game, allowing 
only four hits, two runs, and striking out nine. In addition to Hershiser's 
performance, the Dodgers won because Mickey Hatcher stepped in for the 
hobbled Kirk Gibson in left field and provided spark, enthusiasm, and unexpected 
offense. He blasted his second home run in the Series, a two-run shot, 
in the first; he had hit only one home run in the 1988 season. Mike Davis, 
a disappointing free-agent signing for most of the 1988 season, added a 
two-run blast in the fourth, and former World Series MVP Rick Dempsey, 
filling in for an injured Mike Scioscia, added an RBI double in the sixth. 
The Dodger pitching tamed Oakland monsters José Canseco (one hit, his grand 
slam in Game 1) and Mark McGwire (one hit and one RBI, which came in Game 3) 
for the entire series. The Dodgers became the first (and so far only) team 
to have a perfect game pitched against them and win a World Series in the 
same season. Tom Browning of the Cincinnati Reds pitched the Perfect Game 
on September 16, 1988. With the Lakers winning their fifth NBA championship 
in nine years four months before, the Dodgers winning the World Series 
made Los Angeles the first city to have both NBA and World Series champions 
in the same year.[13] 1988 World Series (4–1): Los Angeles Dodgers (N.L.) 
over Oakland Athletics (A.L.) The 1988 World Series marked the last time 
that NBC[15] would televise a World Series for seven years. Beginning in 
1990, NBC would be shut out of Major League Baseball coverage completely, 
after CBS signed a four-year, exclusive television contract. After splitting 
coverage of the 1995 World Series with ABC, NBC would next cover a World 
Series exclusively in 1997. Longtime Dodgers broadcaster Vin Scully called 
the Series for NBC along with Joe Garagiola; this was the last World Series 
that Scully would call on television (although he would subsequently call 
several more on CBS Radio) and the final Series broadcast on either medium 
for Garagiola. According to Scully (during an interview on ESPN Classic's 
SportsCentury profile on Dennis Eckersley), when he saw Kirk Gibson walk 
up to the plate, he seemed to be using his bat as a cane. When NBC returned 
from a commercial break at the start of the bottom of the ninth inning 
of Game 1, Scully commented (as NBC's cameras were panning the Dodgers' 
dugout) that Gibson (who wasn't in the dugout at the time) wouldn't play 
for sure. According to Gibson, Scully's comments in large part influenced 
his decision to want to bat. Bob Costas, who along with Marv Albert, hosted 
NBC's World Series pregame coverage and handled postgame interviews made 
on-air statements that enraged many in the Dodgers' clubhouse (especially 
manager Tommy Lasorda). Costas said that the 1988 Dodgers possibly had 
the weakest hitting line-up in World Series history. After the Dodgers 
won Game 4, Lasorda (during a postgame interview with Marv Albert) sarcastically 
said that the MVP of the World Series should be Bob Costas. On the radio 
side, Jack Buck and Bill White provided commentary for CBS Radio. This 
was Buck's sixth World Series call for CBS Radio and White's fifth. It 
was White's last World Series as a broadcaster, as he replaced Bart Giamatti 
as President of the National League shortly after the World Series. He 
had been part of the broadcast team for a total of six World Series, four 
of which involved his primary employers, the New York Yankees. This was 
the last World Series that Peter Ueberroth presided over as commissioner. 
Ueberroth rose to prominence for organizing the 1984 Summer Olympic Games 
in Los Angeles. Following this confrontation, both teams appeared on Family 
Feud with Ray Combs for a special sweeps week billed as a World Series 
Rematch. This is still the most recent World Series appearance for the 
Los Angeles Dodgers. The 28-year pennant drought is their longest in franchise 
history, and the title drought is the longest since the team moved to Los 
Angeles. (It took until 1955 for the Brooklyn Dodgers to win their first 
World Series, a 52-year drought.) Gibson...swings, and hits a high fly 
ball into deep right field! This is gonna be a home run! Unbelievable! 
A home run for Gibson! And the Dodgers are gonna win the game five to four; 
I don't believe...what I just saw! I don't believe what I just saw! High 
fly ball into right field! She i-i-i-i-is gone! (long pause where only 
crowd noise can be heard) In a year that has been so improbable, the impossible 
has happened! Here's the pitch, and a drive hit to right field, way back, 
this ball is gone! 'Nobody thought we would win the division. Nobody thought 
we would beat the mighty Mets. Nobody thought we would beat the team who 
