KTTV (11) (Vin Scully, Ross Porter, Don Drysdale) KABC (Vin Scully, Ross 
Porter, Don Drysdale) The 1988 season was a memorable one for the Dodgers 
as a squad that was picked to finish fourth wound up winning the World 
Series, beating the heavily favored New York Mets and Oakland Athletics 
on the way. Kirk Gibson carried the Dodger offense, winning the National 
League Most Valuable Player Award. Orel Hershiser dominated on the mound, 
throwing a record 59 consecutive scoreless innings on his way to winning 
the Cy Young Award. With the sub-par 1987 performance fresh in their minds, 
General Manager Fred Claire and Field Manager Tom Lasorda knew what needed 
to be fixed. They started the off-season by allowing poor performers such 
as Glenn Hoffman, Ken Landreaux and Phil Garner explore the free agent 
market. On December 11, 1987, Claire pulled the trigger on a trade that 
helped solidify the Dodgers’ defense and bullpen, despite giving up one 
of the top pitchers of the National League in 1987 in Bob Welch. The Dodgers 
acquired shortstop Alfredo Griffin and relief pitchers Jay Howell and Jesse 
Orosco in a three-team trade ironically with the Athletics and Mets, the 
two teams they would eventually defeat in the ’88 postseason. In an attempt 
to boost the offense for the upcoming season, the Dodgers signed Mike Davis 
on December 15, 1987. The biggest move of the off-season was still to come. 
On January 29, 1988, the Dodgers signed free agent slugger Kirk Gibson 
from the Detroit Tigers. Gibson, who was a 9 year veteran at the time of 
the signing, was known for his power at the plate and speed on the basepaths, 
but was also brought in to be a clubhouse leader. To help solidify their 
roster the Dodgers went on to sign 21-year veteran pitcher Don Sutton and 
20-year veteran catcher Rick Dempsey. Dempsey, known for his fiery personality, 
joined Gibson as the veteran clubhouse leaders. It was Gibson, however, 
who would make the biggest impact. Some spring training instances brought 
this out, as follows: -One day, newly acquired shortstop Alfredo Griffin 
was pitching batting practice and was lobbing his pitches to the plate, 
presenting no challenge to the hitters, at least on the pitches he got 
over the plate. A frustrated Gibson yelled, "Why the (expletive) do we 
take batting practice if we aren't getting anything out of it?" -Preparing 
for his first spring training game as a Dodger, Gibson began his pregame 
warm-ups in the outfield. Taking off his hat to wipe sweat from his head, 
Gibson noticed people laughing. He soon realized that someone had greased 
the inside of his cap with eyeblack and he had unknowingly wiped it all 
over himself. He immediately took off for the visitors' clubhouse, warning 
manager Tommy Lasorda on the way, "Tommy, you find out (expletive) did 
this, because I'm going to tear his head off!" Lasorda tried to smooth 
things over, and culprit Jesse Orosco eventually tried to apologize, but 
to no avail. -Finally, the Dodgers used to play a game called "flinch", 
where a person would fake throwing a punch at another and, if the other 
person flinched, the one who faked the blow would get to punch the other 
in the chest. Orel Hershiser tried this with Gibson, and Gibson responded 
by shoving Hershiser with his forearm ("forearm shiver") and telling him 
sternly, "I don't play 'Flinch'!" All of the above instances served notice 
that Gibson came to the Dodgers to win, and if Gibson was going to be serious 
about it, all the other players had better be, too. Key player from the 
1987 team were also brought back. These players included right fielder 
Mike Marshall, center fielder John Shelby, catcher Mike Scioscia, Second 
Baseman Steve Sax, Utilityman Mickey Hatcher, and pitchers Orel Hershiser, 
Fernando Valenzuela, and Tim Leary. 1988 Los Angeles Dodgers Infielders 
Manager Coaches The Dodgers started the 1988 season at home against the 
San Francisco Giants. The Dodgers opening day pitcher was Valenzuela. The 
opening day lineup featured Sax, Griffin, Gibson, Marshall, Shelby, Davis, 
Scioscia and Third Baseman Pedro Guerrero. The first pitch of the season, 
to Sax by Giants pitcher Dave Dravecky, was hit into the Left Field seats 
at Dodger Stadium. However, Valenzuela would then give up the lead and 
the Dodgers would eventually lose the game 5-1. The team would go on to 
win their next five games and finish April with a 13-7 record which included 
a four-game sweep of the Atlanta Braves. Hershiser finished the month of 
April with a 5-0 record. The Dodgers went 14-13 during the month of May. 
As it had always been, May was one of the toughest months for the Dodgers. 
On May 21, 1988, Griffin was hit by a pitch from Mets pitcher Dwight Gooden 
on the hand. Griffin would miss over two months with a broken hand. This 
heated up the Dodger-Met rivalry which would last the remainder of the 
season. In fact, the next day, May 22, 1988, Mets starting pitcher David 
Cone hit Pedro Guerrero in the head in the 6th inning. As a show of disgust 
at what the Dodgers felt was headhunting by the Mets pitchers, Guerrero 
proceeded to stand up, throw his bat in Cone's direction and charge the 
mound. A benches clearing mêlée ensued and Guerrero and Lasorda were ejected 
from the game. Because Griffin had to be placed on the disabled list with 
a broken hand the Dodgers were left with a hole at shortstop, though they 
had a solid replacement in the form of veteran Dave Anderson. At times 
during May, the lead over the Astros neared five games. By the end of the 
month the Dodgers’ lead in the NL West Division was only a half of a game 
over the Houston Astros. The Dodgers had a solid month of June compiling 
a record of 17-9 over the month. Hershiser continued his successful year 
by finishing the month of June with a record of 12-3. Much of the Dodgers’ 
success to this point in the season could be attributed to solid starting 
pitching from Hershiser, Leary and the emerging rookie Tim Belcher. However, 
the best pitchers of the Dodgers’ pitching staff were those who came out 
of the bullpen. Orosco, Howell, Brian Holton and Alejandro Peña were all 
enjoying successful seasons. After a slow start in April, Gibson was now 
hitting .288 with 15 HR's, 40 RBI, 53 runs scored and 15 SB's. The summer 
success continued for the Dodgers as they completed August with a 17-12 
record. Don Sutton was released August 10 after GM Fred Claire discovered 
Sutton had informally discussed a possible front office job with the Houston 
Astros. Sutton was 3-6 with a 3.92 ERA at the time. Sutton did not sign 
with another team. His 233 career wins with the Dodgers remains the team 
record. Many[who?] who have followed the Dodgers have pointed to a few 
moments during the months of July and August that got the season going 
in the right direction, keep the successes going and exemplified what the 
1988 Dodgers were all about. Hershiser would begin a scoreless inning streak 
in September that he would eventually take to over 59 innings and pass 
Dodger legend Don Drysdale for the record for most consecutive scoreless 
innings. Hershiser would throw complete game shutouts against the Braves 
on September 5, the Reds on September 10, the Braves again on September 
14, the Astros on September 19 and the Giants on September 23 to take him 
within 9 innings of Drysdale's record. Before Hershiser would get a chance 
to break the record the Dodgers needed to clinch the National League West 
Championship. Their chance came in San Diego on September 26. The San Diego 
Padres would take a 2-0 lead in the first inning. But the Dodgers would 
get 3 runs back and win the game 3-2, clinching the division. Hershiser 
would get his next start on September 28 and he would pitch 10 scoreless 
innings against the Padres to break Drysdale's record. Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = 
Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In The 
Dodgers faced the New York Mets in the LCS. The Mets had dominated the 
Dodgers during the regular season, winning 10 out of 11 meetings and were 
heavy favorites going into the series. But the Dodgers, led by series MVP 
Orel Hershiser (who pitched a complete game shutout in game 7) won the 
series 4 games to 3. The Dodgers were again heavy underdogs in the World 
Series against the Oakland Athletics, led by sluggers Mark McGwire and 
José Canseco. However, the Dodgers won the series in five games thanks 
to Kirk Gibson's pinch-hit game winning homer in the first game off of 
Dennis Eckersley and the continued mastery of series MVP Orel Hershiser. 
Teams in BOLD won League Championships The Dodgers drafted 62 players in 
this draft. Of those, 11 of them would eventually play Major League baseball. 
The Dodgers lost their second round pick to the Oakland Athletics as compensation 
for their signing free agent outfielder Mike Davis. The top pick in the 
draft was Pitcher Bill Bene out of California State University, Los Angeles. 
In nine seasons in the Minors he had a record of 18-34 with a 5.45 ERA 
in 252 games (49 starts). In 2012 he was arrested and sentenced to six 
months in prison for operating a counterfeit karaoke business and failing 
to pay federal taxes.[7] This draft produced two of the Dodgers top players 
of the 1990s. In the sixth round they selected first baseman Eric Karros 
from UCLA. The 1992 Rookie of the Year and a 1995 Silver Slugger Award 
winner, Karros hit .268 with 284 homers and 1,027 RBI in 14 seasons (12 
of them with the Dodgers) and is the L.A. Dodgers all-time home run leader. 
In the 62nd round with their last pick of the draft the Dodgers selected 
Mike Piazza from Miami Dade College as a favor to his god-father, manager 
Tommy Lasorda. Piazza would win the 1993 Rookie of the Year Award and was 
a 12 time All-Star and 10 time Silver Slugger Award winner in his 16 seasons 
(mostly with the Dodgers and New York Mets). He hit .308 with 427 home 
