The 1988 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XXIV Olympiad 
(Hangul: 서울 하계 올림픽; hanja: 서울 夏季 올림픽; RR: Seoul Hagye Ollimpik), were an 
international multi-sport event celebrated from 17 September to 2 October 
1988 in Seoul, South Korea. They were the second summer Olympic Games to 
be held in Asia and the first since the 1964 Summer Olympics held in Tokyo, 
Japan. In the Seoul Games, 159 nations were represented by a total of 8,391 
athletes: 6,197 men and 2,194 women. 263 events were held and 27,221 volunteers 
helped to prepare the Olympics. 11,331 media (4,978 written press and 6,353 
broadcasters) showed the Games all over the world.[1] These were the last 
Olympic Games for two of the world's "dominating" sport powers, the Soviet 
Union and East Germany, as both ceased to exist before the next Olympic 
Games. North Korea, still officially at war with South Korea, and its allies, 
Albania (who declared an Olympic-record fourth consecutive boycott), Ethiopia, 
Cuba, Madagascar, and Seychelles boycotted the games. Nicaragua boycotted 
the games because the U.S military support to the Contra rebels. However, 
the much larger boycotts seen in the previous three Summer Olympics were 
avoided, resulting in the largest ever number of participating nations 
during the Cold War era. Seoul was chosen to host the Summer Games through 
a vote held on 30 September 1981, finishing ahead of the Japanese city 
of Nagoya.[1] Below was the vote count that occurred at the 84th IOC Session 
and 11th Olympic Congress in Baden-Baden, West Germany.[2] After the Olympics 
were awarded, Seoul also received the opportunity to stage the 10th Asian 
Games in 1986, using them to test its preparation for the Olympics. Live 
doves were released during the Opening Ceremony as a symbol of world peace, 
but a number of the doves were burned alive or suffered major trauma by 
the lighting of the Olympic cauldron. As a result of protests following 
the incident, the last time live doves were released at the Opening Ceremony 
was in 1992 in Barcelona, hours before the flame was lit. Balloon doves 
were released in 1994 at the Lillehammer Winter Games and paper doves were 
used at the Atlanta Ceremony in 1996.[28] These were also the last Summer 
Olympic Games to hold the Opening Ceremony during the daytime. The Opening 
Ceremony featured a skydiving team descending over the stadium and forming 
the five-colored Olympic Rings,[29] as well as a mass demonstration of 
taekwondo. Hosting the 1988 Olympics presented an opportunity to bring 
international attention to South Korea.[30] The idea for South Korea to 
place a bid for the 1988 Games emerged during the last days of the Park 
Chung-hee administration in the late 1970s. After President Park’s assassination 
in 1979, Chun Doo-hwan, his successor, submitted Korea’s bid to the IOC 
in September 1981, in hopes that the increased international exposure brought 
by the Olympics would legitimize his authoritarian regime amidst increasing 
political pressure for democratization, provide protection from increasing 
threats from North Korea, and showcase the Korean economic miracle to the 
world community.[31] South Korea was awarded the bid on 30 September 1981, 
becoming the 20th nation (16th in the Summer Olympics), the second Asian 
nation (following Japan in the 1964 Summer Olympics). In an attempt to 
follow the model of 1964 Tokyo Olympics as a rite of passage for the Japanese 
economy and re-integration of Japan in the family of nations in the post-war 
era, the South Korean government hoped to use the Olympics as a "coming-out 
party" for the newly industrialized Korean economy. The South Korean government 
hoped the Olympics would symbolize a new legitimacy of Korea in world affairs. 
The Olympics gave a powerful impetus to the development of South Korea's 
relations with Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union and with China.[32] As 
political demonstrations emerged in June 1987, the possibility of jeopardizing 
hosting the Olympic Games contributed to the 29 June declaration which 
issued President Chun out of power and led to direct elections in December 
1987. The desire not to taint the Olympic Games with military dictatorship 
and riots served as an impetus for Korea’s transition to democracy. Roh 
Tae-woo served as the transitional president, directly elected by South 
Koreans in December 1987. In preparation for the 1988 Olympics, the International 
Olympic Committee worked to prevent another Olympic boycott by the Eastern 
Bloc as had happened at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. This was 
made more difficult by the lack of diplomatic relations between South Korea 
and communist countries. This prompted action by the IOC president Juan 
Antonio Samaranch, who was committed to the participation of these countries. 
Thus, at the Assembly of National Olympic Committees in Mexico City in 
November 1984, the "Mexico Declaration" [1] was adopted; by it, the participants 
agreed to include the host of the Olympic Games in 1988.[clarification 
needed] The agreement of the Soviet Union brought a pledge of equal participation. 
However, various communist National Olympic Committees reacted with incomprehension.[clarification 
needed] After the Los Angeles games, East Germany had already decided to 
participate again in Seoul. The IOC also decided that it would send invitations 
to the 1988 Games itself and did not leave this task to the organizing 
committee as had been done before. Despite these developments, behind the 
scenes, the IOC did consider relocating the Games and explored the suitability 
of Munich as an alternative. Another point of conflict was the involvement 
of North Korea in hosting the Games, something that had been encouraged 
by Cuban president Fidel Castro, who called for North Korea to be considered 
joint host of the Games. As a result, on 8 and 9 January 1986 in Lausanne, 
Switzerland, the IOC President chaired a meeting of the North and South 
Korean Olympic Committees. North Korea demanded that eleven of the 23 Olympic 
sports be carried out on its territory, and also demanded special opening 
and closing ceremonies. It wanted a joint organizing committee and a united 
team. The negotiations were continued into another meeting, but were not 
successful. The IOC did not meet the demands of North Korea and only about 
half of the desired sporting events were offered to the North. So the focus 
thereafter was solely on Seoul and South Korea.[33] North Korea boycotted 
the Games after the failed negotiations and was supported by Cuba, Nicaragua 
and Ethiopia. Albania and the Seychelles also did not attend, but, in order 
to avoid sanctions by the IOC, did not call their absence a boycott. The 
participation of Madagascar had been expected, and their team was expected 
at the opening ceremony of 160 nations. However, the country joined the 
North Korean boycott.[34] In 1988, the Seoul Olympic Organizing Committee 
(SLOOC) decided to produce and distribute an official song of the Seoul 
Games to publicize the Games to all the IOC member nations, encouraging 
their participation in the festival and consolidating the harmony and friendship 
of the entire world citizens through the song. The song "Hand in Hand" 
was written by Italian composer Giorgio Moroder and American songwriter 
Tom Whitlock, and performed by singing group Koreana. "Hand in Hand" topped 
popular songs in 17 countries including Sweden, Federal Rep. Of Germany, 
the Philippines, Spain, Switzerland, Austria, Japan and Hong Kong and was 
listed among the top 10s of the popular songs in more than 30 countries. 
¹ New facilities constructed in preparation for the Olympic Games. ² Existing 
facilities modified or refurbished in preparation for the Olympic Games. 
The 1988 Summer Olympic programme featured 237 events in the following 
23 sports: These were the demonstration sports in the games:[1] Athletes 
from 159 nations competed at the Seoul Games. Aruba, American Samoa, Brunei, 
Cook Islands, Maldives, Vanuatu, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and 
South Yemen made their first Olympic appearance at these Games. Guam made 
their first Summer Olympic appearance at these games having participated 
in the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary. In the following list, the number 
in parentheses indicates the number of athletes from each nation that competed 
in Seoul:[35] These are the top ten nations that won medals at the 1988 
Games.   *   Host nation (South Korea) The official mascot for the 1988 
Summer Olympic Games was Hodori. It was a stylized tiger designed by Kim 
Hyun as an amicable Amur tiger, portraying the friendly and hospitable 
traditions of the Korean people.[37] Hodori's female version was called 
Hosuni.[38] The name 호돌이 Hodori was chosen from 2,295 suggestions sent 
in by the public. It is a compound of 호 ho, the Sino-Korean bound morpheme 
for "tiger" (appearing also in the usual word 호랑이 horangi for "tiger"), 
and 돌이 dori, a diminutive for "boys".[37] The games were covered by the 
