The 1988 American League Championship Series was a best-of-seven series 
that pitted the East Division champion Boston Red Sox against the West 
Division champion Oakland Athletics. It was the second meeting between 
the two in ALCS play. The Athletics swept the Series four games to none 
and would go on to lose to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 1988 World Series. 
Oakland won the series, 4–0. Wednesday, October 5, 1988 at Fenway Park 
in Boston, Massachusetts In an interview conducted before Game 1, José 
Canseco denied reports in that day's Washington Post by baseball reporter 
Thomas Boswell that he had used steroids. Canseco was supported in this 
denial by former slugger Reggie Jackson. The opening game in Fenway Park 
pitted Bruce Hurst against Oakland's newfound ace, Dave Stewart. The game 
was scoreless until the fourth when Canseco, coming off the first 40–40 
season in major league history, drilled a solo homer to give the A's a 
1-0 lead. It stayed that way until the seventh. In the bottom of the seventh, 
Jim Rice walked and gave way to pinch-runner Kevin Romine. Jody Reed reached 
when Stewart hit him with a pitch. A single by Rich Gedman loaded the bases 
with one out and Stewart gave way to reliever Rick Honeycutt. Honeycutt 
induced a line out to left field by Wade Boggs that plated Romine and tied 
the game at one. Marty Barrett grounded out and the game was tied after 
seven innings. A Carney Lansford double and a Dave Henderson single gave 
the A's a 2–1 lead, and Dennis Eckersley held on for the save as the A's 
prevailed, 2–1. Hurst went the distance allowing only six hits and two 
runs but wound up with the loss, while Honeycutt got the win. The victory 
gave the A's a 1–0 lead in games. Thursday, October 6, 1988 at Fenway Park 
in Boston, Massachusetts Game 2 saw Storm Davis take the mound against 
Roger Clemens. After five innings, the A's had two hits, the Red Sox one, 
and the game was still scoreless. In the bottom of the sixth, a sequence 
of errors gave the Red Sox two unearned runs. With two outs, Dwight Evans 
and Mike Greenwell walked. With two on and two out, Davis appeared out 
of the inning, but an error by Dave Henderson allowed Evans to score the 
first run of the game. Ellis Burks then singled home Greenwell to make 
it 2–0 Boston. Davis then threw a wild pitch that moved Burks to second 
but retired the side on a strikeout of Todd Benzinger. Trailing for the 
first time in the series, the A's deficit only lasted two batters. Henderson 
singled and José Canseco hit his second home run in two games to tie the 
score at two. Dave Parker singled but was forced at second by Lansford. 
Lansford got to go to second when Clemens balked and to third on a wild 
pitch. Lansford then scored on Mark McGwire's single to give the A's a 
3–2 lead. Boston tied the game in the bottom of the seventh when Rich Gedman 
hit a solo home run off Oakland reliever Greg Cadaret. Three ninth-inning 
singles by Ron Hassey, Tony Phillips, and Walt Weiss scored Hassey with 
what proved to be the winning run. Eckersley retired the side again in 
the ninth for his second save and Oakland carried a two games to none lead 
with them back to California. Gene Nelson got the win while Boston reliever 
Lee Smith was the losing pitcher. Saturday, October 8, 1988 at Oakland-Alameda 
County Coliseum in Oakland, California After two calm games in Boston, 
Game 3 saw both teams mount offense and go wild, scoring eleven runs in 
the first three innings (the first two games combined saw only eleven runs 
scored in eighteen total innings). Game 3 saw two former post-season heroes 
square off against one another as Oakland threw Bob Welch, famous for striking 
out Reggie Jackson to end Game 2 of the 1978 World Series, and Boston turned 
to Mike Boddicker, the Orioles' post-season hero of 1983. Neither pitcher 
would last the first three innings. The Red Sox began quickly in the first. 
Ellis Burks singled and went to second on a balk. He reached third when 
Marty Barrett singled. A Wade Boggs single scored Burks and put Barrett 
at second. Mike Greenwell then doubled both home, and the Red Sox had a 
3–0 lead after only four batters. After a ground out by Jim Rice, Welch 
promptly loaded the bases with walks to Evans and Gedman. With the bases 
loaded and only one out, Welch induced short outfield pop flies by Reed 
and Benzinger to get out of the first trailing only 3–0. The Red Sox had 
batted through in the first, so Burks led off the second with a double. 
Barrett bunted Burks to third, and Burks scored on a sacrifice fly to left 
by Boggs. Mike Greenwell, who had doubled home two runs in the first, hit 
a solo home run to make the score 5–0 and send Welch to the showers. Gene 
Nelson came on in relief and got Rice to stop the deficit at 5–0. In the 
bottom of the second, the A's came back. Mark McGwire led off with a home 
run. Consecutive fielder's choice grounders put Mike Gallego at first with 
two outs. Walt Weiss doubled and Carney Lansford homered, and the score 
after two was Red Sox 5, A's 4. With two outs in the third, the A's took 
the lead. Mark McGwire singled, and Ron Hassey drilled a two-run homer 
to put the A's in front, 6–5. Boddicker left and Wes Gardner came in to 
relieve. In the fifth, a McGwire single and Hassey double scored McGwire 
to make the score, 7–5. In the seventh, Boggs hit a single and went to 
second on Henderson's error. Boggs then scored on a single by Dwight Evans 
to make it 7–6. A Dave Parker double Stan Javier single made it 8–6. In 
the bottom of the eighth, a Lansford single and Dave Henderson home run 
closed out the scoring as the A's prevailed, 10–6, to take a three games 
to none lead in the best-of-seven series. Gene Nelson got his second win 
in two games while Eckersley got his third save. Boddicker got the loss. 
Sunday, October 9, 1988 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, 
California The Oakland Athletics completed a four-game sweep against the 
Boston Red Sox to make their first World Series appearance since 1974. 
They would face the Los Angeles Dodgers who coincidentally were their opponent 
in that 1974 World Series. Game 4 was a rematch of Game 1 as Bruce Hurst 
squared off against Dave Stewart. José Canseco drilled his third home run 
in the bottom of the first to give the A's a 1–0 lead. In the third, two 
singles by Weiss and Lansford followed by a Dave Henderson double made 
it 2–0 A's. In the top of the sixth, the Red Sox cut the lead in half when 
Marty Barrett walked, went to second on a single, and scored on consecutive 
fielder's choice ground outs. Needing two runs to win, the Red Sox took 
the field with one series of at-bats left in the bottom of the eighth. 
Lee Smith, ineffective in Game 2, was again ineffective as the A's pushed 
across two insurance runs. Canseco singled, stole second, and came home 
on a McGwire single. Stan Javier bunted to move McGwire to second and wound 
up on first due to poor execution by the Red Sox. A walk to Luis Polonia 
loaded the bases with nobody out. Don Baylor hit a sacrifice fly that scored 
McGwire and made the score 4–1. Smith retired the next two hitters, but 
the Red Sox were finished. Eckersley finished the ninth to get his fourth 
save in only four games, an all-time record (since matched by John Wetteland 
in the 1996 World Series and Greg Holland in the 2014 ALCS). Eckersley 
won the Most Valuable Player Award for his efforts. 1988 ALCS (4–0): Oakland 
