The 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake occurred in Northern California on October 
17 at 5:04 p.m. local time. The shock was centered in The Forest of Nisene 
Marks State Park approximately 10 mi (16 km) northeast of Santa Cruz on 
a section of the San Andreas Fault System and was named for the nearby 
Loma Prieta Peak in the Santa Cruz Mountains. With a moment magnitude of 
6.9 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of IX (Violent), the shock was responsible 
for 63 deaths and 3,757 injuries. The Loma Prieta segment of the San Andreas 
Fault System had been relatively inactive since the 1906 San Francisco 
earthquake (to the degree that it was designated a seismic gap) until two 
moderate foreshocks occurred in June 1988 and again in August 1989. Damage 
was heavy in Santa Cruz County and less so to the south in Monterey County, 
but effects extended well to the north into the San Francisco Bay Area, 
both on the San Francisco Peninsula and across the bay in Oakland. No surface 
faulting occurred, though a large number of other ground failures and landslides 
occurred, especially in the Summit area of the Santa Cruz Mountains. Liquefaction 
was also a significant issue, especially in the heavily damaged Marina 
District of San Francisco, but its effects were also seen in the East Bay, 
and near the shore of Monterey Bay, where a non-destructive tsunami was 
also observed. Due to the sports coverage of the 1989 World Series, it 
became the first major earthquake in the United States that was broadcast 
live on national television (and is sometimes referred to as the "World 
Series earthquake" as a result). Rush-hour traffic on the Bay Area freeways 
was lighter than normal due to nearly 62,000 people present at the game 
at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, and this may have prevented a larger 
loss of life, as several of the Bay Area's major transportation structures 
suffered catastrophic failures. The collapse of a section of the double-deck 
Nimitz Freeway in Oakland was the site of the single largest number of 
casualties for the event, but the collapse of man-made structures and other 
related accidents contributed to casualties occurring in San Francisco, 
Los Altos, and Santa Cruz. The history of earthquake investigations in 
California has been largely focused on the San Andreas Fault System, due 
to its strong influence in the state as the boundary between the Pacific 
Plate and the North American Plate; it is the most studied fault on Earth. 
Andrew Lawson, a geologist from the University of California, Berkeley, 
had named the fault after the San Andreas Lake (prior to the occurrence 
of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake) and later led an investigation into 
that event. The San Andreas Fault ruptured for a length of 290 mi (470 km) 
during the 1906 shock, both to the north of San Francisco and to the south 
in the Santa Cruz Mountains region. Several long term forecasts for a large 
shock along the San Andreas Fault in that area had been made public prior 
to 1989 (the event and its aftershocks occurred within a recognized seismic 
gap) but the earthquake that transpired was not what had been anticipated. 
The 1989 Loma Prieta event originated on an undiscovered oblique-slip reverse 
fault that is located adjacent to the San Andreas Fault.[8] Since many 
forecasts had been presented for the region near Loma Prieta, seismologists 
were not taken by surprise by the October 1989 event. Between 1910 and 
1989 there were 20 widely varying forecasts that were announced, with some 
that were highly specific, covering multiple aspects of an event, while 
others were less complete and vague. With a M6.5 event on the San Juan 
Bautista segment, or an M7 event on the San Francisco Peninsula segment, 
United States Geological Survey (USGS) seismologist Allan Lindh's 1983 
forecasted rupture length of 25 miles (40 km) (starting near Pajaro Gap, 
and continuing to the northwest) for the San Juan Bautista segment nearly 
matched the actual rupture length of the 1989 event. An updated forecast 
was presented in 1988, at which time Lindh took the opportunity to assign 
a new name to the San Juan Bautista segment – the Loma Prieta segment.[9] 
In early 1988, the Working Group for California Earthquake Probabilities 
(WGCEP) made several statements regarding their forecasts for the 225 mi 
(360 km) northern San Andreas Fault segment, the 56 mi (90 km) San Francisco 
Peninsula segment, and a 18.8–22 mi (30–35 km) portion of that segment 
which was referred to as the southern Santa Cruz Mountains segment. The 
thirty year probability for one or more M7 earthquakes in the study area 
was given as 50%, but because of a lack of information and low confidence, 
a 30% probability was assigned to the Southern Santa Cruz Mountains segment. 
Two moderate shocks, referred to as the Lake Elsman earthquakes by the 
USGS, occurred in the Santa Cruz Mountains region in June 1988 and again 
in August 1989. Following each event, the State office of Emergency Services 
issued (for the first time in Bay Area history) short term advisories for 
a possible large earthquake, which meant there was "a slightly increased 
likelihood of an M6.5 event on the Santa Cruz Mountains segment of the 
San Andreas fault". The advisories following the two Lake Elsman events 
were issued in part because of the statements made by WGCEP and because 
they were two of the three largest shocks to occur along the 1906 earthquake's 
rupture zone since 1914.[6][9] The M5.3 June 1988 and the M5.4 August 1989 
events (local magnitude) also occurred on previously unknown oblique reverse 
faults and were within 3 mi (4.8 km) of the M6.9 Loma Prieta mainshock 
epicenter, near the intersection of the San Andreas and Sargent faults. 
Total displacement for these shocks was relatively small (approximately 
4 in (100 mm) of strike-slip and substantially less reverse-slip) and although 
they occurred on separate faults and well before the mainshock, a group 
of seismologists considered these to be foreshocks due to their location 
in space and time relative to the main event. Each event's aftershock sequence 
and effect on stress drop was closely examined, and their study indicated 
that the shocks affected the mainshock's rupture process. Following the 
August 8, 1989 shock, in anticipation of an upcoming large earthquake, 
staff at the University of California, Santa Cruz deployed four accelerometers 
in the area, which were positioned at the UCSC campus, two residences in 
Santa Cruz, and a home in Los Gatos. Unlike other nearby (high gain) seismographs 
that were overwhelmed (driven off scale) by the large magnitude mainshock, 
the four accelerometers captured a useful record of the main event and 
more than half an hour of the early aftershock activity.[6][10] The June 
27, 1988 shock occurred with a maximum intensity of VI (Strong). Its effects 
included broken windows in Los Gatos, and other light damage in Holy City, 
where increased flow was observed at a water well. Farther away from the 
Santa Cruz Mountains, pieces of concrete fell from a parking structure 
at the Sunnyvale Town Center, a two-level shopping mall in Santa Clara 
County. More moderate damage resulted from the August 8, 1989 shock (intensity 
VII, Very strong) when chimneys were toppled in Cupertino, Los Gatos, and 
Redwood Estates. Other damage included cracked walls and foundations and 
broken underground pipes. At the office of the Los Gatos City Manager, 
a window that was cracked had also been broken in the earlier shock. Also 
in Los Gatos, one man died when he exited a building through a window and 
fell five stories. The event was followed hours later by a M4.5 aftershock 
that had a maximum intensity of V (Moderate).[1][11] The Loma Prieta earthquake 
was named for Loma Prieta Peak in the Santa Cruz Mountains, which lies 
just to the east of the mainshock epicenter. The duration of the heaviest 
shaking in the Santa Cruz Mountains was about 15 seconds, but strong ground 
motion recordings revealed that the duration of shaking was not uniform 
throughout the affected area (due to different types and thicknesses of 
soil). At sites with rocky terrain, the duration was shorter and the shaking 
was much less intense, and at locations with unconsolidated soil (like 
the Marina District or the Cypress Street Viaduct) the intensity of the 
shaking was more severe and lasted longer. The strong motion records also 
allowed for the causative fault to be determined – the rupture was related 
to the San Andreas Fault System.[7] While a Mercalli Intensity of VIII 
(Severe) covered a large swath of territory relatively close to the epicenter 
(including the cities of Los Gatos, Santa Cruz, and Watsonville) further 
to the north, portions of San Francisco were assessed at intensity IX (Violent). 
At more than 44 miles (70 km) distant, the San Francisco Bay Area recorded 
peak horizontal accelerations that were as high as 0.26g, and close to 
the epicenter they peaked at more than 0.6g. In a general way, the location 
of aftershocks of the event delineated the extent of the faulting, which 
(according to seismologist Bruce Bolt) extended about 24 miles (40 km) 
in length. Because the rupture took place bilaterally, the duration of 
strong shaking was about half of what it would have been had it ruptured 
in one direction only. The duration of a typical M6.9 shock with a comparable 
rupture length would have been about twice as long.[7] Gregory Beroza, 
a seismologist with Stanford University, made several distinctions regarding 
the 1906 and 1989 events. Near Loma Prieta, the 1906 rupture was more shallow, 
had more strike-slip, and occurred on a fault that was near vertical. The 
1989 event's oblique-slip rupture was at 10 km and below on a fault plane 
that dipped 70° to the southwest. Because much of the slip in 1989 occurred 
at depth and the rupture propagated up dip, Beroza proposed that the overlying 
San Andreas Fault actually inhibited further rupture and also maintains 
that the occurrence of an event at the location that was forecast by the 
WGCEP in 1988 was coincidental.[12] The contrasting characteristics of 
the 1906 and 1989 events were examined by seismologists Hiroo Kanamori 
and Kenji Satake. The significant amount of vertical displacement in 1989 
was a key aspect to consider because a long-term sequence of 1989-type 
events (with an 80–100-year recurrence interval) normally result in regions 
with high topographic relief, which is not seen in the Santa Cruz Mountains. 
Three scenarios were presented that might explain this disparity. The first 
is that the geometry of the San Andreas Fault goes through a transition 
every several thousand years. Secondly, slip type could vary from event 
to event. And lastly, the 1989 event did not occur on the San Andreas Fault.[13] 
While the effects of a four-year drought limited the potential of landslides, 
the steep terrain near the epicenter was prone to movement, and up to 4,000 
landslides may have occurred during the event. The majority of landslides 
occurred to the southwest of the epicenter, especially along road cuts 
in the Santa Cruz Mountains and in the Summit Road area, but also along 
the bluffs of the Pacific Coast, and as far north as the Marin Peninsula. 
Highway 17 was blocked for several weeks due to a large slide and one person 
was killed by a rockfall along the coast. Other areas with certain soil 
conditions were susceptible to site amplification due to the effects of 
liquefaction, especially near the shore of San Francisco Bay (where its 
effects were severe in the Marina District) and to the west of the epicenter 
near rivers and other bodies of water. Minor lateral spreading was also 
seen along the shores of San Francisco Bay and to the south near Monterey 
Bay. Other ground effects included downslope movement, slumps, and ground 
cracks.[2] Fifty-seven of the deaths were directly caused by the earthquake; 
six further fatalities were ruled to have been caused indirectly.[14] In 
addition, there were 3,757 injuries as a result of the earthquake, 400 
of which were serious.[15][16] The highest number of fatalities, 42,[17] 
occurred in Oakland because of the Cypress Street Viaduct collapse on the 
Nimitz Freeway (Interstate 880), where the upper level of a double-deck 
portion of the freeway collapsed, crushing the cars on the lower level, 
and causing crashes on the upper level. One 50-foot (15 m) section of the 
San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge also collapsed, leading to a single fatality, 
a 23-year-old woman named Anamafi Moala.[18][19] Three people were killed 
in the collapse of buildings along the Pacific Garden Mall in Santa Cruz, 
and five people were killed in the collapse of a brick wall on Bluxome 
Street in San Francisco.[18] When the earthquake hit, the third game of 
the 1989 World Series baseball championship was just beginning. Because 
of the unusual circumstance that both of the World Series teams (the San 
Francisco Giants and Oakland Athletics) were based in the affected area, 
many people had left work early or were staying late to participate in 
after work group viewings and parties. As a consequence the normally crowded 
freeways contained unusually light traffic. If traffic had been normal 
for a Tuesday rush hour, injuries and deaths would certainly have been 
higher. The initial media reports failed to take into account the game's 
effect on traffic and initially estimated the death toll at 300, a number 
that was corrected to 63 in the days after the earthquake.[20][21] After 
the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake occurred, a group led by Antony C. Fraser-Smith 
of Stanford University reported that the event was preceded by disturbances 
in background magnetic field noise as measured by a sensor placed in Corralitos, 
California, about 4.5 miles (7 km) from the epicenter.[22] From October 
5, they reported a substantial increase in noise was measured in the frequency 
range 0.01–10 Hz.[22] The measurement instrument was a single-axis search-coil 
magnetometer that was being used for low frequency research.[22] Precursor 
increases of noise apparently started a few days before the earthquake, 
with noise in the range 0.01–0.5 Hz rising to exceptionally high levels 
about three hours before the earthquake.[22] Though this pattern gave scientists 
new ideas for research into potential precursors to earthquakes, and the 
Fraser-Smith et al. report remains one of the most frequently cited examples 
of a specific earthquake precursor, more recent studies have cast doubt 
on the connection, attributing the Corralitos signals to either unrelated 
magnetic disturbance or,[23] even more simply, to sensor-system malfunction.[24] 
The earthquake caused severe damage in some very specific locations in 
the San Francisco Bay Area, most notably on unstable soil in San Francisco 
and Oakland. Oakland City Hall was evacuated after the earthquake until 
US$80M seismic retrofit and hazard abatement work was completed in 1995.[26] 
Many other communities sustained severe damage throughout the region located 
in Alameda, San Mateo, Santa Clara, San Benito, Santa Cruz and Monterey 
counties. Major property damage in San Francisco's Marina District 60 mi 
(97 km) from the epicenter resulted from liquefaction of soil used to create 
waterfront land. Other effects included sand volcanoes, landslides and 
ground ruptures. Some 12,000 homes and 2,600 businesses were damaged.[15] 
In Santa Cruz, close to the epicenter, 40 buildings collapsed, killing 
six people.[27] At the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk, the Plunge Building 
was significantly damaged.[28] Liquefaction also caused damage in the Watsonville 
area.[29] For example, sand volcanoes formed in a field near Pajaro as 
well as in a strawberry field.[29] The Ford's department store in Watsonville 
experienced significant damage, including a crack down the front of the 
building.[29] Many homes were dislodged if they were not bolted to their 
foundations.[29] There were structural failures of twin bridges across 
Struve Slough near Watsonville.[29] In Moss Landing, the liquefaction destroyed 
the causeway that carried the Moss Beach access road across tidewater basin, 
damaged the approach and abutment of the bridge linking Moss Landing spit 
to the mainland and cracked the paved road on Paul's Island.[30] In the 
Old Town historical district of the city of Salinas, unreinforced masonry 
buildings were partially destroyed.[31] An estimated 1.4 million people 
lost power following the quake, mainly due to damaged electrical substations.[32] 
Many San Francisco radio and television stations were temporarily knocked 
off the air.[33] KRON-TV was off the air for about half an hour,[34] while 
KGO-AM was off the air for about 40 minutes.[33] About an hour and 40 minutes 
after the quake, KTVU resumed broadcasting, with their news anchors reporting 
from the station's parking lot.[35][36] KCBS-AM switched immediately to 
backup power and managed to stay on air despite a subsequent generator 
failure.[33] KCBS later won a Peabody Award for their news coverage, as 
did KGO-TV.[37] Power was restored to most of San Francisco by midnight, 
and all but 12,000 customers had their power restored within two days.[32] 
The quake caused an estimated $6 billion[15] in property damage, becoming 
one of the most expensive natural disasters in U.S. history at the time. 
Private donations poured into aid relief efforts and on October 26, President 
George H. W. Bush signed a $1.1 billion earthquake relief package for California.[38] 
Four people died in San Francisco's Marina District, four buildings were 
destroyed by fire, and seven buildings collapsed. Another 63 damaged structures 
were judged too dangerous to live in.[39] Among the four deaths, one family 
lost their infant son who choked on dust while trapped for an hour inside 
their collapsed apartment.[18] The Marina district was built on a landfill 
made of a mixture of sand, dirt, rubble, waste and other materials containing 
a high percentage of groundwater. Some of the fill was rubble dumped into 
San Francisco Bay after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, but most was 
sand and debris laid down in preparation for the 1915 Panama-Pacific International 
Exposition, a celebration of San Francisco's ability to rebound after its 
catastrophe in 1906.[40] After the Exposition, apartment buildings were 
erected on the landfill. In the 1989 earthquake, the water-saturated unconsolidated 
mud, sand and rubble suffered liquefaction, and the earthquake's vertical 
shock waves rippled the ground more severely.[41] At the intersection of 
Beach and Divisadero Streets in San Francisco, a natural gas main rupture 
caused a major structure fire.[42][43][44] The fire department selected 
bystanders to help run fire hoses from a distance because the nearby hydrant 
system failed. Since the bay was only two blocks from the burning buildings,[44] 
water from the bay was pumped by the fireboat Phoenix, to engines on the 
shore, and from there sprayed on the fire.[45][46] The apartment structures 
that collapsed were older buildings that included ground floor garages, 
which engineers refer to as a soft story building.[47] In Santa Cruz, the 
Pacific Garden Mall was severely damaged, with falling debris killing three 
people, half of the six earthquake deaths in Santa Cruz and Monterey Counties.[27] 
Some 31 buildings were damaged enough to warrant demolition, seven of which 
had been listed in the Santa Cruz Historic Building Survey.[48] The four 
oldest were built in 1894, the five oldest withstood the 1906 San Francisco 
earthquake.[48] Immediately, a number of civilians began to free victims 
from the rubble of Ford's Department Store and the Santa Cruz Coffee Roasting 
Company—both buildings had collapsed inward on customers and employees 
alike.[27] Two police officers crawled through voids in the debris, found 
one victim alive and another dead inside the coffee house.[49] Santa Cruz 
beach lifeguards assisted in moving the victims.[49] Police dogs were brought 
in to help locate other victims.[49] A woman was found dead inside Ford's.[50] 
The civilians who were helpful initially, were soon viewed by police and 
fire officials as a hindrance to operations, with frantic coworkers and 
friends of a coffee house employee thought to be trapped under the rubble 
continuing their efforts in the dark.[49] Police arrested those who refused 
to stop searching. This became a political issue in the following days.[51] 
The body of a young woman coffee worker was found under a collapsed wall 
late the next day.[52] During the first few days following the quake, electric 
power to most Santa Cruz County subscribers was out, and some areas had 
no water. Limited phone service remained online, providing a crucial link 
to rescue workers.[51] Widespread search operations were organized to find 
possible victims inside the remains of fallen structures. As many as six 
teams of dogs and their handlers were at work identifying the large number 
of damaged buildings that held no victims.[51] The quake claimed one life 
in Watsonville:[51] a driver who collided with panicked horses after they 
escaped their collapsed corral.[53] In other Santa Cruz and Monterey county 
locations such as Boulder Creek and Moss Landing, a number of structures 
were damaged, with some knocked off of their foundations.[54] Many residents 
slept outside their homes out of concern for further damage from aftershocks, 
of which there were 51 with magnitudes greater than 3.0 in the following 
24 hours, and 16 more the second day.[54] The earthquake damaged several 
historic buildings in the Old Town district of Salinas, and some were later 
demolished.[55] The San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge suffered severe damage, 
as a 76-by-50-foot (23 m × 15 m) section of the upper deck on the eastern 
cantilever side fell onto the deck below. The quake caused the Oakland 
side of the bridge to shift 7 in (18 cm) to the east, and caused the bolts 
of one section to shear off, sending the 250-short-ton (230 t) section 
of roadbed crashing down like a trapdoor.[56] Traffic on both decks came 
to a halt, blocked by the section of roadbed. Police began unsnarling the 
traffic jam, telling drivers to turn their cars around and drive back the 
way they had come. Eastbound drivers stuck on the lower deck between the 
collapse and Yerba Buena Island were routed up to the upper deck and westward 
back to San Francisco. A miscommunication made by emergency workers at 
Yerba Buena Island routed some drivers the wrong way; they were directed 
to the upper deck where they drove eastward toward the collapse site.[18] 
One of these drivers did not see the open gap in time; the car plunged 
over the edge and smashed onto the collapsed roadbed. The driver, Anamafi 
Moala, died, and the passenger was seriously injured.[42][57] Caltrans 
removed and replaced the collapsed section, and re-opened the bridge on 
November 18.[41] The worst disaster of the earthquake was the collapse 
of the two-level Cypress Street Viaduct of Interstate 880 in West Oakland. 
The failure of a 1.25-mile (2.0 km) section[58] of the viaduct, also known 
as the "Cypress Structure" and the "Cypress Freeway",[18] killed 42 and 
injured many more.[59] Built in the late 1950s, the Cypress Street Viaduct, 
a stretch of Interstate 880, was a double-deck freeway section made of 
nonductile reinforced concrete[60] that was constructed above and astride 
Cypress Street in Oakland. Roughly half of the land the Cypress Viaduct 
was built on was filled marshland, and half was somewhat more stable alluvium.[61] 
Because of new highway structure design guidelines—the requirement of ductile 
construction elements—instituted following the 1971 San Fernando earthquake, 
a limited degree of earthquake reinforcement was retrofitted to the Cypress 
Viaduct in 1977. The added elements were longitudinal restraints at transverse 
expansion joints in the box girder spans, but no studies were made of possible 
failure modes specific to the Cypress Viaduct.[60] When the earthquake 
hit, the shaking was amplified on the former marshland, and soil liquefaction 
occurred.[54] During the earthquake, the freeway buckled and twisted to 
its limits before the support columns failed and sent the upper deck crashing 
to the lower deck. In an instant, 41 people were crushed to death in their 
cars. Cars on the upper deck were tossed around violently, some of them 
flipped sideways and some of them were left dangling at the edge of the 
highway. Nearby residents and factory workers came to the rescue, climbing 
onto the wreckage with ladders and forklifts[25] and pulling trapped people 
out of their mangled cars from under a four-foot gap in some sections. 
Sixty members of Oakland's Public Works Agency left the nearby city yard 
and joined rescue efforts.[58] Employees from Pacific Pipe (a now-closed 
factory adjoining the freeway) drove heavy lift equipment to the scene 
and started using it to raise sections of fallen freeway enough to allow 
further rescue. Hard-hatted factory workers continued their volunteer operation 
nonstop until October 21, 1989, when they were forced to pause as U.S. 
President George H. W. Bush and California Governor George Deukmejian viewed 
the damage.[62] The efforts of the rescue workers finally yielded results 
on October 21, just after dawn, when survivor Buck Helm was freed from 
the wreckage, having spent 90 hours trapped in his crushed car under the 
rubble.[63] Dubbed "Lucky Buck" by the local radio, Helm lived for another 
29 days on life support, but then died of respiratory failure at the age 
of 57.[64] Rebuilding the freeway took 11 years.[65] In the meantime, traffic 
was detoured through nearby Interstate 980, causing increased congestion.[65] 
Instead of rebuilding Interstate 880 over the same ground, Caltrans rerouted 
the freeway farther west around the outskirts of West Oakland to provide 
better access to the Port of Oakland and the San Francisco–Oakland Bay 
Bridge, and to meet community desires to keep the freeway from cutting 
through residential areas. Street-level Mandela Parkway now occupies the 
previous roadbed of the Cypress structure.[66] Immediately after the earthquake, 
San Francisco Bay Area airports were closed so officials could conduct 
visual inspection and damage assessment procedures. San Jose International 
Airport,[67] Oakland International Airport and San Francisco International 
Airport all opened the next morning.[68] Large cracks in Oakland's runway 
and taxiway reduced the usable length to two-thirds normal, and damage 
to the dike required quick remediation to avoid flooding the runway with 
water from the bay. Oakland Airport repair costs were assessed at $30 million.[69] 
San Francisco Municipal Railway (Muni) lost all power to electric transit 
systems when the quake hit, but otherwise suffered little damage and no 
injuries to operators or riders.[70] Cable cars and electric trains and 
buses were stalled in place—half of Muni's transport capability was lost 
for 12 hours. Muni relied on diesel buses to continue abbreviated service 
until electric power was restored later that night, and electric units 
could be inspected and readied for service on the morning of October 18.[70] 
After 78 hours, 96 percent of Muni services were back in operation, including 
the cable cars.[70] Amtrak intercity rail service into Oakland from Amtrak's 
California Zephyr continued, but the Coast Starlight was temporarily suspended 
north of Salinas because of damage to the Southern Pacific's Coast Line.[71] 
The earthquake changed the Bay Area's automobile transportation landscape. 
Not only did the quake force seismic retrofitting of all San Francisco 
Bay Area bridges,[72] it caused enough damage that some parts of the region's 
freeway system had to be demolished.[73] Damage to the region's transportation 
system was estimated at $1.8 billion.[54] The 1989 World Series featured 
the Oakland Athletics and the San Francisco Giants in the first cross-town 
World Series since 1956. Game 3 of the series was scheduled to begin at 
San Francisco's Candlestick Park on October 17 at 17:35 PDT, and American 
TV network ABC began its pre-game show at 17:00 PDT. When the quake struck 
at approximately 17:04, sportscaster Tim McCarver was narrating taped highlights 
of Game 2, which had been played two days earlier across the Bay Bridge 
in Oakland. Television viewers saw the video signal begin to break up, 
heard McCarver repeat a sentence as the shaking distracted him, and heard 
McCarver's colleague Al Michaels exclaim, "I'll tell you what, we're having 
an earth—."[53] At that moment, the signal from Candlestick Park was lost.[82] 
The network put up a green ABC Sports graphic while it scrambled to repair 
the video feed, but audio from the stadium was restored after a few seconds 
via a telephone link. Michaels cracked, "Well, folks, that's the greatest 
open in the history of television, bar none!" accompanied by the combined 
screams of excitement and panic from fans who had no idea of the devastation 
elsewhere.[83] ABC then switched to an episode of Roseanne which was on 
standby for a rain delay situation, while attempting to restore electricity 
to its remote equipment. With anchorman Ted Koppel in position in Washington, 
D.C., ABC News began continuous coverage of the quake at about 5:40 p.m., 
at the same time as CBS News; Al Michaels, in the process, became a de 
facto on-site reporter for ABC.[34] NBC News also began continuous coverage, 
with Tom Brokaw, about an hour later.[34] The Goodyear blimp had already 
been overhead to cover the baseball game, and ABC used it to capture images 
of damage to the Bay Bridge and other locations.[33] Inside Candlestick 
Park, fewer than half of the more than 62,000 fans[18] had reached their 
seats by the time of the quake, and the load on the structure of the stadium 
was lower than maximum.[84] There had also been a seismic-strengthening 
project previously completed on the upper deck concrete windscreen that 
may have prevented large numbers of injuries in the event of serious damage 
or even a catastrophic collapse.[85] Fans reported that the stadium moved 
in an articulated manner as the earthquake wave passed through it, that 
the light standards swayed by many feet, and that the concrete upper deck 
windscreen moved in a wave-like manner over a distance of several feet. 
When electrical power to the stadium was lost, someone drove a police car 
onto the field, where an officer used the car's public address system to 
advise that the game had been postponed. After the shaking subsided, many 
of the players on both teams immediately searched for, and gathered, family 
and friends from the stands before evacuating the facility.[84] The World 
Series was delayed while the Bay Area started the recovery process. While 
the teams' stadiums had suffered only minor damage, it took several days 
for power and transmission links at Candlestick Park to be repaired. After 
ten days (the longest delay in World Series history), Game 3 was held in 
San Francisco on October 27 and Game 4 the following afternoon as the A's 
swept the Giants, four games to none.[84] It is likely that the World Series 
game saved many lives as Bay Area residents; who would have normally been 
on the freeways, were at home ready to watch the game when the earthquake 
hit. It is a rough estimate that thousands of people may have otherwise 
been on the Cypress Structure during the 5:00 p.m. rush-hour, as the structure 
