The 1989 National League Championship Series was played between the National 
League West champion San Francisco Giants and the National League East 
champion Chicago Cubs. The Giants won the series four games to one, en 
route to losing to the Oakland Athletics in four games in the 1989 World 
Series. San Francisco won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, October 4, 1989 at 
Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois The Giants entered the series as slight 
favorites due to the MVP season of Kevin Mitchell, the solid play of Will 
Clark, and the best ERA in baseball by pitcher Scott Garrelts. The Cubs 
had won their second NL East title in six seasons behind the excellent 
rookie performances of Jerome Walton and Dwight Smith, who finished one-two 
in the 1989 NL Rookie of the Year balloting. The Cubs also had three pitchers 
with sixteen or more victories, Rick Sutcliffe, Mike Bielecki, and Greg 
Maddux, coming off his third full season in the majors. The opener pitted 
Maddux against Garrelts. By the time the Cubs came to bat, the Giants led, 
3–0. Brett Butler led off with a single and moved to third on Rick Wrona's 
passed ball. Clark drove in his first run of the series with a double. 
Clark moved to third on Mitchell's single and scored along with Mitchell 
on Matt Williams' double. Maddux had given up three runs and recorded only 
one out, but he retired Terry Kennedy and Pat Sheridan to end the first. 
The Cubs came right back in the bottom of the first. Ryne Sandberg doubled 
and Mark Grace drilled a two-out, two-run homer to cut the Giants lead 
to 3–2. Clark got a run back when he homered in the third, but Sandberg's 
solo homer cut the Giants lead back to one. With the score 4–3, the Giants 
came to bat against Maddux in the fourth. Pat Sheridan and José Uribe singled, 
and Uribe's steal put runners at second and third. Garrelts struck out, 
and the Cubs walked Butler intentionally hoping for a double play. Robby 
Thompson popped to shortstop, and the infield fly rule resulted in an automatic 
out. Bases loaded and two out with Clark batting. Having already driven 
in two runs, Clark tied the NLCS record for RBIs for an entire series in 
less than four innings when he drilled a grand slam to right that finished 
Maddux and the Cubs. The 8–3 lead ended in an 11–3 Giants victory when 
Mitchell nailed a three-run homer to close the scoring in the eighth. The 
Giants had drawn first blood and taken back home-field advantage. Thursday, 
October 5, 1989 at Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Giving the Giants 
a dose of their own Game 1 medicine, the Cubs ended Game 2 early with a 
six-run first inning, five of the runs coming against Giants starter and 
loser Rick Reuschel. After Mike Bielecki picked Butler off first and retired 
the side, the Cubs went to work. Jerome Walton singled and scored on Ryne 
Sandberg's triple. After Dwight Smith lined out to first, Mark Grace doubled 
Sandberg home. Reuschel struck out Andre Dawson, but Luis Salazar singled 
to score Grace and moved to second on a single by Shawon Dunston. The Giants 
walked Joe Girardi to get to the pitcher's spot, and Bielecki responded 
with a single that scored Salazar and Dunston to make it 5–0. Walton again 
singled, scoring Girardi, and when Kelly Downs retired Sandberg on a pop-up, 
the Cubs went back into the field with a 6–0 lead. The game was essentially 
over after the first inning. The Giants cut the lead to 6–2 in the fourth 
when Will Clark singled and Kevin Mitchell homered for the second time 
in the series. But the Cubs got those runs plus another back in the sixth 
when Grace doubled with the bases loaded, scoring all three runners and 
giving the Cubs a 9–2 lead. The Giants got three cosmetic runs when Williams 
homered in the eighth and Robby Thompson homered in the ninth. But the 
Cubs' early scoring made it one game apiece as the series headed to San 
Francisco for Game 3. Saturday, October 7, 1989 at Candlestick Park in 
San Francisco, California Tied at one apiece, the series converged on Candlestick 
Park for Game 3. The pitching match-up featured sixteen-game winner Rick 
Sutcliffe against Mike LaCoss. Neither pitcher would be involved in the 
decision. Following the trend of the first two games—five runs by the two 
teams combined in the first inning of Game 1 and six in the first inning 
of Game 2—the Cubs roared out of the gate with two first-inning runs courtesy 
of back-to-back singles by Walton and Smith, a wild pitch by LaCoss that 
put them on second and third, and a single by Andre Dawson that scored 
both and put the Cubs in the lead, 2–0. The Giants answered with three 
in their half of the first. Butler and Thompson singled, and Will Clark's 
fielder's choice ground out moved the runners to second and third. Kevin 
Mitchell was given an intentional pass, and Matt Williams grounded out 
to the pitcher to score Butler. Two more walks gave the Giants a second 
run when Thompson scored, and Jose Uribe's infield single scored Mitchell. 
The Giants now led, 3–2, but Sutcliffe avoided further damage by getting 
LaCoss to pop up. The Cubs tied it in the fourth, but they settled for 
one run with a chance to open up the game. They loaded the bases against 
LaCoss with nobody out, and Roger Craig summoned reliever Jeff Brantley. 
Brantley got Sutcliffe to hit into a double play, including a force on 
Salazar at the plate. With runners at second and third and two out, the 
Giants nearly escaped, but a wild pitch from Brantley scored Dunston and 
tied the game. Walton flied out to end the inning. The Cubs regained the 
lead in the seventh when Sutcliffe doubled and went to third on Walton's 
bunt. Greg Maddux was sent in to pinch-run for Sutcliffe, and he scored 
on Ryne Sandberg's fly to center. Dwight Smith popped out, but the Cubs 
led, 4–3. The Giants, however, came back to put the game away in the bottom 
of the seventh. Les Lancaster took the mound to face the Giants. He was 
the winning pitcher in Game 2, but he gave up a home run to Robby Thompson. 
Lancaster inherited Brett Butler at first and his first hitter was Thompson. 
Moments later, Thompson had his second home run in his last two at-bats 
against Lancaster, and the Giants had a 5–4 lead they held the rest of 
the way. Don Robinson got the win in relief and Steve Bedrosian got the 
save. Lancaster got the loss, and the Giants had a 2–1 series lead. Sunday, 
October 8, 1989 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, California In keeping 
with the first three games, the scoring began early in Game 4 as the Cubs 
sought to tie the series and the Giants hoped to take a 3–1 lead in the 
series. The pitching match-up featured a rematch of first-game pitchers 
Scott Garrelts and Greg Maddux. Garrelts had triumphed in round one, but 
neither pitcher would be involved in the decision in the rematch. The Cubs 
opened the first playing small ball. A double by Sandberg followed by a 
short single by Smith and a line out to right by Mark Grace scored Sandberg 
to give the Cubs a 1–0 lead. The Giants mimicked the Cubs in the bottom 
of the first when Thompson walked, went to third on a Clark single, and 
scored on a Kevin Mitchell ground out. Luis Salazar then stunned the Giants 
faithful with a homer to give the Cubs a 2–1 lead in the second. But a 
bases-loaded single by Matt Williams in the bottom of the third scored 
two runs and put the Giants back in front. José Uribe doubled in the fourth. 
Maddux seemingly had him picked off, but a throwing error put Uribe at 
third, and he scored on Maddux's wild pitch to make it 4–2 Giants. In the 
top of the fifth, Walton singled and scored on Grace's triple. Grace then 
scored on Dawson's double and the score was tied at four. But in the bottom 
of the fifth, Clark doubled and Matt Williams (after fouling off seven 
pitches in a twelve-pitch at-bat) hit his second homer of the series to 
give the Giants a 6–4 lead that was the final score. The Giants' win gave 
them a three games to one edge and a chance to finish the series the next 
day at home. Kelly Downs was the winning pitcher, and Steve Wilson was 
the loser. Steve Bedrosian got his second save in as many days. Monday, 
October 9, 1989 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, California Before 
the game, the Tower of Power horn section played the National Anthem. The 
Giants made it to their first World Series since 1962 with a 3–2 win over 
the Cubs to win the 1989 National League pennant, four games to one. The 
final game pitted Mike Bielecki against a well-rested (due to his quick 
exit from Game 2) Rick Reuschel. Reuschel made amends for his poor start 
in Game 2 by giving up only one run over eight innings. The one run Reuschel 
gave up was an unearned run the Cubs scored when Walton reached on an error 
by Mitchell and then scored on Sandberg's double. The Cubs held the 1–0 
lead until the seventh inning when Will Clark tripled and scored on Mitchell's 
sacrifice fly. With two outs in the eighth, the Cubs appeared ready to 
perhaps send the series back to Chicago, but Candy Maldonado pinch-hit 
for Reuschel and walked. Bielecki then proceeded to load the bases by walking 
both Butler and Thompson. Don Zimmer sent for Mitch Williams to end the 
jam, but Clark drove home the pennant-winning runs with a single to center 
that gave the Giants a 3–1 lead. Les Lancaster got Matt Williams out to 
end the inning but the Cubs were finished. They did rally, however, in 
the ninth with three straight singles that made it 3–2. But Sandberg grounded 
out and the Giants were in their first World Series since 1962. Clark's 
stellar performance earned him Most Valuable Player honors for the Giants. 
Clark hit .650 with eight RBIs. Giants pitcher Dave Dravecky, who would 
ultimately have his pitching arm amputated due to cancer, broke his arm 
during the Giants' on-field celebration following Game 5. 1989 NLCS (4–1): 
San Francisco Giants over Chicago Cubs NBC play-by-play man Vin Scully 
was unable to call Game 2 (on Thursday, October 5) because he had come 
down with laryngitis. Thus, number two play-by-play man, Bob Costas filled-in 
for him. Interestingly, around the same time, Costas was assigned to call 
the American League Championship Series between Oakland and Toronto. Game 
2 of the NLCS occurred on Thursday, October 5, which was an off day for 
the ALCS. NBC then decided to fly Costas from Toronto to Chicago to substitute 
for Scully on Thursday night. Afterwards, Costas flew back to Toronto, 
where he resumed work on the ALCS the next night. Game 5 of the 1989 NLCS 
(October 9, 1989) was the last Major League Baseball game that NBC, who 
had broadcast baseball games in some shape or form since 1947, would televise 
for five years (CBS would become the exclusive broadcast television network 
home for Major League Baseball in the mean time); the ensuing World Series 
was broadcast on ABC, with those four games being that network's last in 
the same timeframe. NBC would next televise a Major League Baseball game 
on July 12, 1994 (the All-Star Game from Pittsburgh); that same year, ABC 
began to broadcast Saturday night games via The Baseball Network. During 
the 1995 season, NBC began broadcasting Friday night games, with ABC still 
continuing Saturday night games, and the two networks would rotate postseason 
series, as well as games in the World Series, in which the Atlanta Braves 
defeated the Cleveland Indians, 4 games to 2. After The Baseball Network 
was dissolved, Fox took over the exclusive broadcast rights for MLB regular 
season games, although NBC would still broadcast select postseason games 
and alternate with Fox for World Series coverage. By 2001, Fox became the 
exclusive broadcast home for the MLB postseason as well, and continues 
