The Cincinnati Reds' 1989 season consisted of the Cincinnati Reds attempting 
to win the National League West for the first time since 1979. The season 
was defined by allegations of gambling by Pete Rose. Before the end of 
the season, Rose was banned from baseball by commissioner A. Bartlett Giamatti. 
The first Ohio Cup, which was an annual pre-season baseball game was played 
in 1989. The single-game cup was played at Cooper Stadium in Columbus, 
Ohio, and was staged just days before the start of each new Major League 
Baseball season. Amid reports that he had bet on baseball, Rose was questioned 
in February 1989 by outgoing commissioner Peter Ueberroth and his replacement, 
Bart Giamatti. Rose denied the allegations and Ueberroth dropped the investigation. 
However, after Giamatti became Commissioner, three days later, lawyer John 
Dowd was retained to investigate these charges against Rose. A Sports Illustrated 
cover story published on March 21, 1989 gave the public their first detailed 
report of the allegations that Rose had placed bets on baseball games. 
Dowd interviewed many of Rose's associates, including alleged bookies and 
bet runners. He delivered a summary of his findings to the Commissioner 
in May, a document which became known as the Dowd Report. In it, Dowd documented 
Rose's alleged gambling activities in 1985 and 1986 and compiled a day-by-day 
account of Rose's alleged betting on baseball games in 1987. The Dowd Report 
documented his alleged bets on 52 Reds games in 1987, where Rose wagered 
a minimum of $10,000 a day. Others involved in the allegations claim that 
number was actually $2,000 a day. According to the Dowd Report itself, 
"no evidence was discovered that Rose bet against the Reds."[11] This is 
in contrast to the case of "Shoeless" Joe Jackson and his teammates in 
the Black Sox Scandal, who were accused of intentionally losing the 1919 
World Series. Rose continued to deny all of the accusations against him 
and refused to appear at a hearing with Giamatti on the matter. He filed 
a lawsuit alleging that the Commissioner had prejudged the case and could 
not provide a fair hearing. A Cincinnati judge issued a temporary restraining 
order to delay the hearing, but Giamatti fought to have the case moved 
to Federal Court. The Commissioner prevailed in that effort, after which 
he and Rose entered settlement negotiations. On August 24, 1989, Rose voluntarily 
accepted a permanent place on baseball's ineligible list.[12] Rose accepted 
that there was a factual reason for the ban; in return, Major League Baseball 
agreed to make no formal finding with regard to the gambling allegations. 
According to baseball's rules, Rose could reapply for reinstatement. Rose, 
with a 412-373 record, was replaced as Reds manager by Tommy Helms. Rose 
began therapy with a psychiatrist for treatment of a gambling addiction. 
Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In 
