The 1989 San Francisco Giants season was the Giants' 107th season in Major 
League Baseball, their 32nd season in San Francisco since their move from 
New York following the 1957 season, and their 30th at Candlestick Park. 
The Giants finished in first place in the National League West with a record 
of 92 wins and 70 losses. It was their second division title in three years. 
The Giants defeated the Chicago Cubs in five games in the National League 
Championship Series. However, they were swept by their cross-Bay rivals, 
the Oakland Athletics, in an earthquake-marred World Series. Infielders 
Coaches The previous season, a cancerous desmoid tumor was found in Dravecky's 
pitching arm. He underwent surgery on October 7, 1988, removing half of 
the deltoid muscle in his pitching arm and freezing the humerus bone in 
an effort to eliminate all of the cancerous cells. By July 1989, he was 
pitching in the minors, and on August 10, he made a highly publicized return 
to the major leagues, pitching 8 innings and defeating Cincinnati 4-3. 
In his following start five days later against the Expos, Dravecky pitched 
three no-hit innings, but in the fifth inning, he felt a tingling sensation 
in his arm. In the sixth inning he started off shaky, allowing a home run 
to the lead off batter and then hitting the second batter. Then, on his 
first pitch to Tim Raines, his humerus bone snapped, ending his career. 
To see a pitcher break his arm with a loud cracking sound while doing something 
as ordinary as throwing a pitch, then fall to the ground rolling in agonizing 
pain, was shocking, unusual, and upsetting, especially for those who had 
followed his touching story. The pitch was replayed on television repeatedly 
over the following days. The Giants won the National League pennant in 
1989, and in the post-game celebration, Dravecky's arm was broken a second 
time. A doctor examining Dravecky's x-rays noticed a mass in his arm. Cancer 
had returned. Eighteen days later, Dravecky retired from baseball, aged 
33, leaving a 64-57 record with 558 strikeouts and a 3.13 ERA in 1,062.2 
innings. He won the 1989 Willie Mac Award honoring his spirit and leadership. 
Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in [8] Note: G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = 
Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts [8] Note: G 
= Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts October 4 at Wrigley 
Field in Chicago October 5 at Wrigley Field in Chicago October 7 at Candlestick 
Park in San Francisco, California October 8 at Candlestick Park in San 
Francisco, California October 9 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco, California 
The Giants made it to their first World Series since 1962 with a 3-2 win 
over the Cubs to win the 1989 National League pennant, four games to one. 
The final game pitted Mike Bielecki against a well-rested (due to his quick 
exit from Game 2) Rick Reuschel. Reuschel made amends for his poor start 
in Game 2 by giving up only one run over eight innings. The one run Reuschel 
gave up was an unearned run the Cubs scored when Walton reached on an error 
by Mitchell and then scored on Sandberg's double. The Cubs held the 1-0 
lead until the seventh inning when Will Clark tripled and scored on Mitchell's 
sacrifice fly. With two outs in the eighth, the Cubs appeared ready to 
perhaps send the series back to Chicago. But Candy Maldonado pinch-hit 
for Reuschel and walked. Bielcki then proceeded the load the bases by walking 
both Butler and Thompson. Don Zimmer sent for Mitch Williams to end the 
jam, but Clark drove a single to center that gave the Giants a 3-1 lead. 
The Cubs strung together three straight singles with two outs in the ninth 
to pull within a run, but Bedrosian got Sandburg to ground out to second 
to end the game and the series. The Giants were in their first World Series 
since 1962. Clark's stellar performance earned him Most Valuable Player 
honors for the Giants. Clark hit .650 with eight RBIs. It was the first 
World Series in which the losing team never had the lead and never had 
the tying run at the plate in its final turn at-bat.[9] October 14, 1989 
at Oakland Coliseum in Oakland, California. October 15, 1989 at Oakland 
Coliseum in Oakland, California October 17, 1989 at Candlestick Park in 
San Francisco The game was delayed until October 27, or about ten days, 
due to the Loma Prieta earthquake. October 28, 1989 at Candlestick Park 
