The 1989 season for the Montreal Expos was the baseball club's 21st. With 
owner Charles Bronfman thinking of selling the team he founded, he wanted 
to take one last shot at a playoff berth. Bronfman gave young general manager 
Dave Dombrowski a clear mandate to win now, reportedly telling him he had 
all the financial ressources needed in the quest to bring a championship 
to Montreal. Dombrowski pulled off a massive trade on May 25, acquiring 
star left-handed pitcher – and pending free agent – Mark Langston from 
the Seattle Mariners. While the move was viewed as a coup at the time, 
it came at a heavy cost as a young, very tall and very raw Randy Johnson 
was the key part of the package going to the Pacific Northwest. Johnson 
would eventually harness his fantastic stuff and became one of the game's 
most dominant left-handed pitchers for well over a decade. Still, it seemed 
like a worthy gamble at the time for the Expos. That year, there was no 
dominant team in the National League. The team seemed poised to compete 
for the NL East crown with a loaded starting pitching staff that featured 
Langston, Dennis Martínez, Bryn Smith, Pascual Perez and Kevin Gross. The 
team peaked on August 2 with an NL best record of 63-44, holding a 3-game 
lead in the NL East and everything running along smoothly. What followed 
would go down as the greatest collapse in franchise history. The next night, 
a Benny Distefano pinch hit single in the 12th inning dealt the Expos a 
1-0 loss in Pittsburgh. It was the start of a 7-game losing streak. The 
club limped through the rest of August but remained in the race in early 
September, with the team being only 2 games back of 1st place on September 
6. Regardless, the downward spiral continued as the Expos inexplicably 
ended up losing 37 of their final 55 games to finish the season a disappointing 
81-81, well out of the playoff picture. The easiest analysis of the collapse 
is to point to the offence, which struggled after August 2, scoring an 
MLB worst 3.23 runs per game. For long-time Expos fans, the collapse is 
viewed as the beginning of the end of the franchise. If the team makes 
the playoffs, perhaps even wins the NLCS against a beatable Giants team 
to make it to the World Series, one can only wonder if Bronfman changes 
his stance about selling the team and remains the owner. Infielders Coaches 
Note: Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In; SB = Stolen Bases 
1989 Major League Baseball All-Star Game LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Indianapolis, 
