The 1989 Chicago Cubs season was the team's 118th season, the 114th in 
the National League and the 74th at Wrigley Field. Highlighting the season 
was the Cubs' second National League Eastern Division championship with 
a record of 93–69. The Cubs had All-Star seasons from Ryne Sandberg, Andre 
Dawson, Rick Sutcliffe and Mitch Williams; Jerome Walton was the NL Rookie 
of the Year. Ultimately, the team was defeated four games to one by the 
San Francisco Giants in the 1989 National League Championship Series. Infielders 
Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in October 4 at Wrigley Field in Chicago October 
5 at Wrigley Field in Chicago October 7 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco 
October 8 at Candlestick Park in San Francisco October 9 at Candlestick 
Park in San Francisco The Giants made it to their first World Series since 
1962 with a 3-2 win over the Cubs to win the 1989 National League pennant, 
four games to one. The final game pitted Mike Bielecki against a well-rested 
(due to his quick exit from Game 2) Rick Reuschel. Reuschel made amends 
for his poor start in Game 2 by giving up only one run over eight innings. 
The one run Reuschel gave up was an unearned run the Cubs scored when Walton 
reached on an error by Mitchell and then scored on Sandberg's double. The 
Cubs held the 1-0 lead until the seventh inning when Will Clark tripled 
and scored on Mitchell's sacrifice fly. With two outs in the eighth, the 
Cubs appeared ready to send the series back to Chicago. But Candy Maldonado 
pinch-hit for Reuschel and walked. Bielcki then proceeded the load the 
bases by walking both Butler and Thompson. Don Zimmer sent for Mitch Williams 
to end the jam, but Clark drove home the pennant winning runs with a single 
to center that gave the Giants a 3-1 lead. Les Lancaster got Matt Williams 
out to end the inning but the Cubs were finished. The Cubs did rally, however, 
in the ninth with three straight singles that made it 3-2. But Sandberg 
grounded out sending the Giants to their first World Series since 1962. 
