The 1989 American League Championship Series was played between the Oakland 
Athletics and the Toronto Blue Jays from October 3 to 8. A dominant Oakland 
team took the Series four games to one, en route to a sweep of their cross-bay 
rivals, the San Francisco Giants, in a World Series marred by the destructive 
Loma Prieta earthquake. The Athletics finished the 1989 regular season 
as the best overall team in baseball, with a 99–63 record (.611). They 
easily won the American League West division title by seven games over 
the Kansas City Royals. The Blue Jays finished the 1989 regular season 
with an 89–73 record (.549). However, their winning of the American League 
East division title was by a much narrower margin: only two games over 
the Baltimore Orioles. The ALCS began with Games 1 and 2 being played at 
the Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum, with the Athletics winning both. The 
Series then shifted to the SkyDome in Toronto, where the Blue Jays managed 
a win in Game 3 before losing Games 4 and 5 to Oakland. Athletics ace Dave 
Stewart earned two wins (in Games 1 and 5), while closer Dennis Eckersley 
saved three games (Games 2, 4, and 5) to send Oakland to the World Series. 
Athletics left fielder Rickey Henderson was named the ALCS MVP. During 
the Series, Henderson had doubled, tripled, hit two home runs (in Game 
4), and knocked in five runs batted in. Oakland won the series, 4–1. Tuesday, 
October 3, 1989 at Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California 
The A's went off as heavy favorites largely due to their status as defending 
American League champions. The Blue Jays had been in second place much 
of the year before catching and passing the Baltimore Orioles on the final 
weekend of the season. Both teams threw their aces against each other, 
as Dave Stewart, the twenty-game winner, took the mound for Oakland against 
Dave Stieb for Toronto. In the bottom of the first, Rickey Henderson set 
the tone by walking and stealing second. Although he was stranded at third, 
it was a mere prelude of what was to come. In the top of the second, George 
Bell singled and went to third on a single by Tony Fernández. Fernandez 
stole second, and Bell scored on a sacrifice fly by Ernie Whitt. Nelson 
Liriano then singled home Fernandez to give the Jays a 2–0 lead. In the 
bottom half of the inning, Dave Henderson homered to cut the lead in half, 
but in the top of the fourth, Whitt drove in his second run of the game 
with a solo homer that gave the Blue Jays a 3–1 lead. In the fifth, Carney 
Lansford singled and stole second on a José Canseco strikeout. He came 
home on Dave Parker's single to make it 3–2. The game then turned in the 
bottom of the sixth. Mark McGwire tied the game with a solo homer to lead 
off the bottom of the sixth. Then, after Tony Phillips reached with one 
out, Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston pulled Stieb and replaced him with the 
recently acquired Jim Acker. Phillips stole second and stayed on an infield 
single by Mike Gallego, and Acker then hit Rickey Henderson with a pitch 
to load the bases with one out. Needing a double play to get out of the 
inning, Acker did his job by inducing Carney Lansford to ground to Fernandez. 
He got the first out by firing to Liriano at second, but Rickey Henderson 
upended Liriano, who threw the ball into the stands, scoring both Phillips 
and Gallego to give the A's their first lead of the game, 5–3. It stayed 
that way until the bottom of the eighth, when Blue Jays reliever Duane 
Ward replaced Acker. After striking out Terry Steinbach, Ward walked Phillips. 
Gallego hit a double in the gap, but a perfect relay nailed Phillips at 
the plate for the second out while Gallego moved to third. Rickey Henderson 
then walked and stole second, and Gallego scored on a wild pitch by Ward. 
On the wild pitch, Henderson moved to third and subsequently scored on 
Lansford's single. The game was now out of reach, 7–3, as the A's prevailed 
to take Game 1. Henderson walked twice and reached as a hit batsman, stole 
two bases, and scored a run. Stewart got the win while Stieb was saddled 
with the loss. Wednesday, October 4, 1989 at Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum 
in Oakland, California Game 2 saw the A's throw their number two starter, 
Mike Moore, against the Blue Jays' Todd Stottlemyre. All was quiet until 
the top of the third when the Blue Jays' Lloyd Moseby scored after singling, 
moving to second on a single and third on an error and coming home on a 
fielder's choice ground out to make it 1–0. The A's captured the lead in 
the bottom of the fourth with the 'Rickey Rally,' a familiar run-scoring 
method of bygone years. Rickey Henderson singled, stole second and then 
third, and came home on Carney Lansford's single to tie the game. Lansford 
then scored on Mark McGwire's double to give the A's a 2–1 lead. The game 
stayed close until the sixth. In the bottom of the sixth, Dave Parker led 
off with a home run. After McGwire singled, Cito Gaston pulled Stottlemyre 
in favor of Jim Acker. Acker then gave up a double to Dave Henderson and 
a single to Tony Phillips that scored two more runs and made it a 5–1 Oakland 
lead. Gaston pulled Acker and replaced him with David Wells, who got the 
final two outs of the inning, but the game was for all intents and purposes 
over. Another 'Rickey Rally' ensued in the seventh when Henderson walked, 
stole second, stole third, and scored on an error by Fred McGriff. In doing 
this, Henderson became the first player ever to steal four bases in a postseason 
game. The steal of third elicited a reaction from Blue Jays third baseman 
Kelly Gruber when Henderson walked the last several steps to the base because 
the catcher didn't throw. Gruber accused Henderson of showing up the Blue 
Jays in the post-game interview. Henderson's run made it 6–1 Oakland. The 
Blue Jays put together a mini-rally in the eighth when they loaded the 
bases against Rick Honeycutt with nobody out and A.L. home run champion 
Fred McGriff at the plate. The A's countered by bringing in Dennis Eckersley, 
who minimized the damage by yielding a one-run single to McGriff and then 
giving up another run on a double play. Eckersley retired the Jays in order 
in the ninth, and the A's won 6–3 to go up two games to none in the series. 
Moore was the winning pitcher, Stottlemyre the loser, and Eckersley got 
his fifth save in his last five chances in the ALCS dating back to 1988. 
Friday, October 6, 1989 at SkyDome in Toronto The two teams arrived in 
Canada for the first-ever post-season game in the new Toronto Skydome. 
The A's were looking to take a commanding 3–0 series lead while the Blue 
Jays needed a win to get back into the series. The game pitted Storm Davis 
against Blue Jays starter Jimmy Key. As was the case in the first two games, 
the team that scored first lost. The A's scored in the top of the first 
without benefit of a hit. Key walked both Rickey Henderson and Carney Lansford. 
Henderson moved up on Canseco's fly out and scored on McGwire's sacrifice 
fly to give the A's a 1–0 lead. In the third, Henderson continued his series 
dominance by doubling, stealing third (his seventh steal of the series 
in just 21 innings), and scoring on a Lansford single to give the A's a 
2–0 lead. When Dave Parker homered in the fourth, the A's had a 3–0 lead 
to go with their series momentum. But the Blue Jays responded in the bottom 
of the fourth. They loaded the bases on a walk to Moseby and singles by 
Mookie Wilson and Fred McGriff. George Bell hit a sacrifice fly to center 
to score Moseby and cut the lead to 3–1. Tony Fernández then doubled to 
right, sending Wilson and McGriff home with the tying runs. Fernandez also 
moved to third when Canseco misplayed the ball in right field. When Ernie 
Whitt singled, Fernandez scored to give the Jays the lead and bring the 
crowd back into the game cheering wildly. The score stayed 4–3 until the 
bottom of the seventh. With one out and runners at first and third, Tony 
La Russa pulled Davis and inserted Rick Honeycutt. Honeycutt's relief appearance 
in Game 2 had been disastrous; this time, it was worse and cost the A's 
any chance to win. Honeycutt gave up singles to two light-hitting Blue 
Jays, Manuel Lee and Junior Felix, scoring Tony Fernández and loading the 
bases with only one out. A walk to Lloyd Moseby forced in another run giving 
the Jays a 6–3 lead. Of the last six hitters Honeycutt had faced in the 
two games he had walked three and given up three hits and three had scored. 
Gene Nelson relieved Honeycutt and gave up a single to right by Wilson 
that scored Lee, but a great throw from Canseco nailed Felix at the plate. 
Nevertheless, the Blue Jays now had a 7–3 lead with two innings to play. 
In the last two innings, Acker and closer Tom Henke only faced seven batters, 
getting six outs and giving up a walk to McGwire. The last out was, appropriately 
enough, Rickey Henderson, who grounded out to Fernandez to end the game. 
The win by the Blue Jays was their first post-season win since Game 4 of 
the 1985 ALCS. Prior to this game, they had lost their previous five contests 
in LCS play. Key was the winning pitcher while Storm Davis was the loser. 
The result cut the A's series lead to two games to one in the best-of-seven 
series. Saturday, October 7, 1989 at SkyDome in Toronto Game 4 was a critical 
game for both teams. Toronto could guarantee a return of the series to 
Oakland with a win while the A's would gain a significant lead of three 
games to one if they prevailed. The match-up featured a former Cy Young 
winner, Mike Flanagan (1979) against a future one (1990), Bob Welch. The 
game was scoreless until the third when Walt Weiss doubled and stole third. 
Rickey Henderson, who was 3 for 8 with four walks, five runs scored, and 
seven stolen bases, drilled a two-run homer to give the A's a 2–0 lead. 
After Flanagan retired Dave Henderson, José Canseco secured the most memorable 
moment of the series by socking the first home run ever hit into the fifth-tier 
upper deck of the SkyDome. The Toronto crowd sat in stunned silence as 
Canseco circled the bases, and while there were whispers of a 500-foot 
blast, the official measurement was 480 feet. Canseco's home run gave the 
A's a 3–0 lead and also likely gave Toronto fans a measure of comfort, 
since the team scoring first had lost each of the first three games. The 
Blue Jays got a run back in the fourth, but it was disappointing because 
they loaded the bases with nobody out and only scored once. In the top 
of the fifth, however, Rickey Henderson struck again with another two-run 
blast that increased the A's lead to 5–1. By this time Henderson was hitting 
.500 for the series with two homers to go along with his other accomplishments. 
The Jays got a run back in the sixth when Gruber singled and scored on 
a double by Junior Felix. Tony La Russa gambled with Honeycutt, who had 
retired no batters out of the last six he had faced over two games. After 
walking Lloyd Moseby, Honeycutt induced a ground out that left the score 
5–2 in favor of the A's. The A's got another run in the seventh when Dave 
Henderson doubled and scored on José Canseco's single. The Blue Jays got 
that run back in the bottom of the inning when Tony Fernández doubled and 
scored on pinch-hitter Pat Borders' single. Rick Honeycutt ran into trouble 
in the eighth. Manny Lee singled and went to second on a ground out by 
Junior Felix. Honeycutt walked Moseby, bringing the tying run to the plate 
in the person of Mookie Wilson. With two on and one out, LaRussa summoned 
his closer, Dennis Eckersley. Eck induced a fielder's choice ground out 
by Wilson that scored Lee then faced 1989 home run champion Fred McGriff, 
who had not hit a homer in more than a month. McGriff won the battle, lining 
a single to center field that scored Wilson, but when Eckersley got George 
Bell to pop up for the third out, the A's still led by one with just an 
inning to play. In the bottom of the ninth, Eckersley gave up a single 
to Kelly Gruber but otherwise retired the side, getting pinch-hitter Lee 
Mazzilli to pop out to end the game. Welch got the win and Eckersley the 
save while Flanagan was saddled with the loss. Despite a noble comeback 
effort, the Blue Jays now trailed three games to one and would need to 
win the final two games on the road in order to reach the Fall Classic. 
Sunday, October 8, 1989 at SkyDome in Toronto Game 5 was the mirror image 
of Game 4: an early A's lead and a Blue Jays comeback that fell just short 
of victory. The end result was a 4–3 win for the A's and a return trip 
to the Fall Classic to face their Bay Area neighbors, the San Francisco 
Giants. The game was also a rematch of Game 1 aces Dave Stewart for Oakland 
and Dave Stieb for Toronto. Once again, it was Rickey Henderson creating 
havoc for the Blue Jays. Henderson again walked—his seventh of the Series—and 
again stole second—his eighth stolen base of the Series—and came home on 
Canseco's single to give the A's a 1–0 lead less than four minutes into 
the game. In the third, Henderson tripled to right, scoring Walt Weiss 
to give the A's a 2–0 lead. It stayed that way until the seventh when Stieb 
tired. Dave Henderson walked and moved to third on a Mark McGwire single 
and scored on Terry Steinbach's single. Stieb got the hook and Jim Acker 
got out of the inning, but not before McGwire scored on a squeeze bunt 
by Mike Gallego. The A's now led 4–0 and Toronto had only nine outs left 
in their season. The game tottered into the eighth before the Blue Jays 
finally scored on a home run by Lloyd Moseby. But entering the ninth, the 
Jays needed three runs just to tie. They got the first when George Bell 
led off the ninth with a home run that ended Stewart's bid for a complete 
game. Dennis Eckersley came on with a chance to earn his seventh save in 
the last nine ALCS games. And he got it although Tony Fernández scored 
a cosmetic run by singling, stealing second, moving to third on a fielder's 
choice and scoring on Gruber's sacrifice fly. With a 4–3 lead and two outs 
in the ninth, Eckersley struck out Junior Felix to finish the last American 
League baseball game of the 1980s. 1989 ALCS (4–1): Oakland Athletics over 
Toronto Blue Jays Rickey Henderson was the unanimous choice for Most Valuable 
Player. He had six hits in fifteen trips to the plate for a .400 batting 
average, including one double, one triple, two home runs, and eight runs 
scored. He drove in five runs, walked seven times, and stole eight bases. 
The only thing Henderson did wrong the entire series was commit an error 
in Game 4, and the recipient (George Bell) failed to score. But other A's 
put together tremendous performances as well. Dennis Eckersley saved three 
games in three opportunities while Dave Stewart gave up only five runs 
in sixteen innings, going eight full innings in both appearances and gaining 
the win in both the opener and the closer. Mark McGwire hit .389 with a 
homer while Dave Parker hit a miserable .188, but two of his three hits 
were home runs that made the difference in the first two games. The most 
forgettable performance for the A's surely[citation needed] belonged to 
Rick Honeycutt, who could not retire any of the six batters he faced in 
Games 2 and 3, but who came through for the A's at a critical juncture 
in Game 4. The one Blue Jay who had a very good series was Tony Fernández, 
who hit .350, scored six runs, and stole five bases in a losing cause. 
