The 1990 World Series matched the defending champions and heavily favored 
Oakland Athletics against the Cincinnati Reds, with the Reds sweeping the 
Series in four games. It was the fifth 4-game sweep by the National League 
and second by the Reds after they did it in 1976, as well as the second 
consecutive World Series to end in a sweep, after the A's themselves did 
it to the San Francisco Giants in 1989. It is remembered for Billy Hatcher's 
seven consecutive hits. The sweep extended the Reds' World Series winning 
streak to nine games, dating back to 1975. This also was the second World 
Series meeting between the two clubs (Oakland won four games to three in 
1972). As of 2016, this remains both teams' most recent appearance in the 
World Series. Athletics manager Tony La Russa and Reds manager Lou Piniella 
were old friends and teammates from their Tampa American Legion Post 248 
team. The Cincinnati Reds won the National League West division by five 
games over the Los Angeles Dodgers. They set an NL record by staying in 
first place in the division for the entire season or "wire-to-wire", which 
had been done only one other time, by the 1984 Detroit Tigers. The Reds 
then defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates, four games to two, in the National 
League Championship Series. The strength of the Cincinnati Reds bullpen 
and timely hitting led them to a quick sweep of the AL champions. The Reds' 
bullpen had three primary members—Norm Charlton, Randy Myers, and Rob Dibble—collectively 
they were known as the "Nasty Boys", who wouldn't let the A's score against 
them in nearly nine innings of work. Media talk of a forthcoming A's dynasty 
led Reds fans to call their own team the "dyNASTY." The Nasty Boys originally 
referred to five pitchers, with the other two being Tim Layana and Tim 
Birtsas (though history relates it to the aforementioned three). On his 
XM show, Dibble still adds these two pitchers into the "Nasty Boys", stating 
it was a collective bullpen effort. The Oakland Athletics won the American 
League West division by nine games over the Chicago White Sox. They then 
defeated the Boston Red Sox, four games to none, in the American League 
Championship Series. The Oakland Athletics were the defending World Series 
champions, two-time defending American League champions, and favorites 
against the Reds. The Oakland Athletics became the first franchise to appear 
in three consecutive World Series since the 1976–1978 New York Yankees. 
Their lineup included three former AL Rookies-of-the-Year: José Canseco 
(1986), Mark McGwire (1987), and Walt Weiss (1988). A's outfielder Willie 
McGee won a batting title that year, but it wasn't the AL batting title. 
He batted .335 for the NL's St Louis Cardinals (with enough plate appearances 
to qualify for the NL batting title) before he was traded in late August 
to Oakland. Behind starter Dave Stewart and reliever Dennis Eckersley, 
the Athletics had won 306 games over the prior three seasons. NL Cincinnati 
Reds (4) vs. AL Oakland Athletics (0) The schedule called for the seven-game 
series to be held Tue–Wed, Fri–Sat–Sun, Tue–Wed. Games 5, 6, and 7, however, 
were not necessary. This was the first World Series to begin play on a 
Tuesday since 1984, and the last until 2014 (all World Series between 1985 
and 2006, with the exception of this one, were scheduled to begin on a 
Saturday, while those from 2007 through 2013 featured Wednesday starts). 
The change in this instance was necessitated by an early season lockout 
which had caused the first week of the season to be postponed. In order 
to make up the postponed games, the regular season was extended by three 
days, causing the postseason to begin on a Thursday rather than a Tuesday, 
as had been the practice for many years. When Oakland Athletics pitcher 
Dave Stewart entered to pitch Game 1, he had a six-game postseason winning 
streak going, which ended after four innings of work. The Reds got out 
of the gate quickly with a two-run home run (that nearly hit the CBS television 
studio where anchor Pat O'Brien was sitting in left-center) from Eric Davis 
in the bottom of the first inning off A's ace Dave Stewart. Billy Hatcher 
helped out offensively in a big way by starting his streak of seven straight 
hits in the series after a walk in the first inning. José Rijo settled 
in after the early lead and cruised to a surprise Cincinnati victory. The 
following day's headline in The Cincinnati Post captured the city's surprise 
with the headline, "Davis Stuns Goliath." [5] Eventual Cy Young Award winner 
Bob Welch opposed postseason veteran Danny Jackson in Game 2. Rickey Henderson 
manufactured a run for the A's in the first by getting a hit, stealing 
second, getting sacrificed to third, and scoring on a groundout. The Reds 
came right back in the bottom of the first. Barry Larkin and Billy Hatcher 
hit consecutive opposite field doubles and Hatcher would score on Davis's 
groundout. In the third the A's got the lead back. José Canseco hit a rocket 
into the right-center field stands to tie the game (his only hit of the 
series). A base hit by Mark McGwire and two walks followed, knocking Jackson 
out of the game. With the bases loaded, Ron Hassey hit a sac fly and Mike 
Gallego singled to center to give the A's a 4–2 lead. The A's, however, 
would not score any more runs thanks to the relief pitching of All-Star 
game starter Jack Armstrong and the threesome nicknamed the "Nasty Boys": 
Rob Dibble, Norm Charlton, and Randy Myers. The Reds got a run closer at 
4–3 on pinch hitter Ron Oester's RBI single that drove in Joe Oliver in 
the fourth; incidentally, this would be the last plate appearance of Oester's 
career, all 13 seasons of which were spent in Cincinnati. The Reds tied 
it in the eighth when Hatcher tripled over the crippled Canseco (who was 
suffering from back spasms throughout the playoffs) and scored on a force 
play. During Game 2, Reds pitcher Tom Browning's pregnant wife Debbie went 
into labor during the game. Debbie left her seat in the fifth inning to 
drive herself to the hospital. As the game went on, the Reds wanted Browning 
ready to pitch just in case the game went well into extra innings. Thinking 
that Browning was en route to a nearby hospital, the Reds had their radio 
broadcaster Marty Brennaman put out an All Points Bulletin on Browning, 
a bulletin that was picked up by Tim McCarver on CBS television, who passed 
it along in the ninth inning. In the tenth, the Reds broke through to win 
the game off A's closer Dennis Eckersley. Utilityman Billy Bates chopped 
an infield single off home plate to start the inning. Chris Sabo singled 
to left to put runners on first and second. Then Oliver hit a bouncer that 
hopped over third base and down the line to drive in Bates with the winning 
run. This was the last of five World Series to be played at Riverfront 
Stadium (1970, 1972, 1975, 1976, and 1990). As of 2016[update], Great American 
Ball Park has yet to host a World Series. In Game 3 the Reds took a 3–0 
series lead on the defending champs. Tom Browning started for the Reds 
while Mike Moore, who had two wins in the 1989 World Series, got the assignment 
for Oakland. In the second inning, Chris Sabo put the Reds up 1–0 with 
a solo homer. The lead was short lived as DH Harold Baines hit a soaring 
two-run homer to give the A's a 2–1 lead in the bottom of the second. In 
the third, the Reds put the game completely out of reach with a seven-run 
inning. It all began with Billy Hatcher's eighth hit in nine at-bats (he 
had rapped into a double-play in the first inning ending his streak of 
seven straight hits). Paul O'Neill then singled off the glove of first 
baseman Mark McGwire to put runners on first and second. Eric Davis drilled 
a sharp single to center scoring Hatcher to tie the game and advancing 
O'Neill to third. Following an RBI groundout by Hal Morris that put the 
Reds ahead, the Reds went up 5–2 when Sabo hit his second homer of the 
game into the left field stands. Todd Benzinger then singled and Joe Oliver 
hit an RBI double. Mariano Duncan drove Oliver home with a single, stole 
second, and scored himself when Barry Larkin hit a gapper. The A's now 
trailed the Reds 8–2. Rickey Henderson's third inning solo home run made 
it 8–3, but Tom Browning pitched effectively for six innings to earn the 
victory. Dibble and Myers provided three scoreless innings in relief to 
put the Reds one win away from the title. Game 4 was a pitchers' duel between 
Dave Stewart and José Rijo (the Game 1 starters) that eventually culminated 
in the Reds sweeping the series. Despite a 3–0 series lead, the Reds' advantage 
became tenuous when Davis and Hatcher both left the game with injuries 
in the early innings. The A's got on the board in the first, when Willie 
McGee doubled and Carney Lansford singled him in. The game remained 1–0 
until the eighth, when the Reds finally got to Stewart. Barry Larkin singled 
up the middle, Herm Winningham followed with a bunt single, and Paul O'Neill 
reached on a throwing error by Stewart to load the bases. Glenn Braggs' 
groundout and Hal Morris's sacrifice fly gave the Reds a 2–1 edge, which 
was preserved by both Rijo, who at one point retired 20 straight batters, 
and Randy Myers who got the final two outs. The A's became the first team 
ever to be swept in a World Series after sweeping the League Championship 
Series. This was later duplicated by the 2007 Colorado Rockies and the 
2012 Detroit Tigers. Additionally, this was the first time since 1938-1939 
(when the New York Yankees won both times; the Yankees also did it in 1927 
and 1928) that two consecutive World Series ended in a four-game sweep, 
which would be repeated in 1998-1999 (both won by the Yankees), and again 
in 2004-2005 (won by the Boston Red Sox and Chicago White Sox, respectively). 
The 1990 World Series would be the Reds' fifth championship but would also 
be remembered as one of the biggest upsets in baseball history. Cincinnati 
Reds' pitcher José Rijo became the second Dominican born player to earn 
World Series MVP honors. Fourteen years later (2004), Manny Ramírez of 
the Boston Red Sox became the third. The first Dominican born to earn World 
Series MVP honors was Pedro Guerrero of the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1981, 
along with his co-MVP teammates Ron Cey and Steve Yeager. Meanwhile, Reds 
outfielder Billy Hatcher set a Series record with seven consecutive hits. 
In addition, Hatcher's .750 batting average (9 for 12) broke a four-game-Series 
mark set by Babe Ruth (.625 in 1928). 1990 World Series (4–0): Cincinnati 
Reds (N.L.) over Oakland Athletics (A.L.) This was the first of four consecutive 
World Series to be televised on CBS. From 1976 to 1989, World Series telecasts 
alternated between ABC (in odd numbered years) and NBC (in even numbered 
years). Also during the 1990 World Series, Lesley Visser became the first 
female sportscaster to cover a World Series. Serving as field reporters 
for CBS were Jim Kaat (the Reds' dugout) and the aforementioned Visser 
(the Athletics' dugout). Vin Scully returned to CBS Radio's coverage of 
the World Series for the first time since 1982 (Scully then called the 
1984, 1986 and 1988 World Series for NBC television), calling the series 
alongside Johnny Bench. Scully would go on to call the next six series 
