The 1990 Major League Baseball lockout was the seventh work stoppage in 
baseball since 1972. Beginning in February, it lasted 32 days and as a 
result, virtually wiped out all of spring training. Also because of the 
lockout, Opening Day was moved back a week to April 9. In addition to this, 
the season had to be extended by three days in order to accommodate the 
normal 162-game schedule. The five-year Basic Agreement between the players 
and owners was set to expire on December 31, 1989. During the buildup to 
the lockout, the two sides spent months trying to iron out long-standing 
disagreements over free agency and arbitration. By the end of the 1989 
season, salaries for top players were already nearing the $3 million-a-year 
level. Desperate to stop the salary hike, the owners proposed an economic 
partnership in which revenue sharing would play a major role. Therefore, 
the owners set forth a plan in which 48% of gate receipts and all revenue 
from local and network broadcasting would go toward paying player salaries. 
These salaries would be based on a pay-for-performance scale, in which 
players with less than six years of experience would be compensated based 
on a ranking against their peers. Perhaps most importantly, a salary cap 
would be placed on each club. In the process, there would be a stipulation 
put in place that teams reaching the said cap could make no more free agent 
signings or salary increases. Owners claimed that under the plan, average 
player salaries would proceed to rise over 20% to $770,000 by the 1993 
season. They cited rising attendance figures as well as solid television 
contracts with CBS and ESPN. Although revenue sharing of this type had 
worked considerably well in the National Basketball Association, Major 
League Baseball Players Association (MLBPA) Executive Director Donald Fehr, 
feared that a salary cap would restrict the number of choices free agents 
could make. Also, Fehr argued that a pay-for-performance scale would eliminate 
multi-year contracts. Commissioner Fay Vincent worked feverishly with both 
sides, and ultimately on March 19, a new Basic Agreement was reached. The 
minimum major league salary was raised from $68,000 to $100,000. Meanwhile, 
