The 1990 American League Championship Series was a best-of-seven series 
that matched the East Division champion Boston Red Sox against the West 
Division champion Oakland Athletics. For the second time in three years, 
the Athletics swept the Red Sox four games to none. The sweep was capped 
by a Roger Clemens ejection in Game 4 for arguing balls and strikes. The 
Athletics lost to the Cincinnati Reds in the 1990 World Series. Oakland 
won the series, 4–0. Saturday, October 6, 1990 at Fenway Park in Boston, 
Massachusetts The opening game of the series saw a battle of aces, as Oakland 
sent Dave Stewart to the hill against Boston's Roger Clemens. The game 
was a scoreless pitchers' duel until the bottom of the fourth, when Red 
Sox third baseman Wade Boggs launched a solo home run off Stewart. Despite 
mounting scoring threats in each of the next two innings, the Athletics 
failed to deliver against the "Rocket." Oakland finally came through in 
its half of the seventh, when Larry Andersen replaced Clemens on the mound. 
Andersen walked Mark McGwire, who then was forced out at second by the 
next batter, Walt Weiss. A single by pinch-hitter Jamie Quirk moved Weiss 
to third, and he came home on a sacrifice fly by Rickey Henderson. In the 
eighth, the A's took the lead via small ball, as José Canseco singled, 
was sacrificed over to second by Harold Baines, stole third, and then plated 
on a single by Carney Lansford. In the ninth, the wheels came off for the 
Red Sox bullpen, as Oakland blew the game wide open by erupting for seven 
runs. Henderson led the way with a two-run single and a stolen base, Terry 
Steinbach and Willie Randolph added RBI base hits, and Canseco chipped 
in with a sacrifice fly. With the game now far from a save situation, A's 
closer Dennis Eckersley shut Boston down in the bottom half of the inning. 
giving Oakland a 9–1 victory and a 1–0 series lead. Sunday, October 7, 
1990 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Game 2 saw the A's Bob Welch, 
the eventual 1990 American League Cy Young Award winner, take on Boston's 
Dana Kiecker. The Red Sox struck against Welch in the third, as Luis Rivera 
doubled, took third on a Jody Reed grounder, and scored on a sacrifice 
fly by Carlos Quintana. Oakland got the run back the very next half-inning, 
however, as Willie McGee doubled and scored on a single by Baines. In the 
sixth, Boston manager Joe Morgan pulled Kiecker in favour of the bullpen, 
and as they had in Game 1, the A's went to work. Mike Gallego and Rickey 
Henderson ripped consecutive singles, and McGee forced Henderson, moving 
Gallego to third. He came home on a groundout by Baines, giving the A's 
a 2–1 advantage. In the ninth, the Athletics extended their lead to three 
runs, courtesy of an RBI double by Baines and a run-scoring single by McGwire. 
Eckersley worked a 1–2–3 ninth to secure his first save of the series, 
and Oakland carried a 2–0 ALCS lead back to the Coliseum. Tuesday, October 
9, 1990 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California For Game 
3 in Oakland, the Red Sox threw Mike Boddicker, who had been the 1983 ALCS 
MVP with the Baltimore Orioles, against the Athletics' Mike Moore. In the 
second, the Red Sox drew first blood when Mike Greenwell walked, moved 
up to third on a single by Dwight Evans, and came home on a sacrifice fly 
by Tom Brunansky. Boston continued to lead until the bottom of the fourth, 
when the A's struck for two runs. Canseco and Baines both got on base and 
then executed a double steal, enabling Canseco to subsequently score on 
a Dave Henderson sacrifice fly and Baines to eventually plate on a single 
by Randolph. In the sixth, Oakland added a pair of runs to their lead thanks 
to some shoddy fielding by the Red Sox. An error by Rivera on a ground 
ball allowed Baines to reach base, take second on a fly out by McGwire, 
then move to third when Dave Henderson was forced out by Steinbach. An 
RBI single by Randolph scored Baines and moved Steinbach to third. Steinbach 
then boldly tried to steal home and was gunned down, but an error by his 
Boston counterpart Tony Peña resulted in another run. In the ninth, Eckersley 
picked up his second save as the A's took a 3–0 stranglehold on the series. 
Wednesday, October 10, 1990 at Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, 
California The fourth game was a pitching rematch of Game 1, as Stewart 
again faced Clemens. In the bottom of the second, the "Rocket" gave up 
consecutive singles to Lansford and Steinbach, and both advanced one base 
due to a throwing error by Greenwell. McGwire then forced Steinbach, driving 
in Lansford with the first run of the game. Randolph was the next batter, 
and when home plate umpire Terry Cooney adjudged Clemens' fifth pitch to 
him to be ball four, the Red Sox ace lost his composure, letting loose 
a stream of profanities. Although Clemens later claimed he was talking 
to his glove, Cooney assumed the comments were directed at him and promptly 
ejected Clemens from the game. Upon realizing he had been ejected, Clemens 
charged at the umpires, while Peña and Boston manager Joe Morgan fiercely 
argued the call. The Red Sox bench also exploded, with Clemens' indignant 
teammates hurling water coolers and litter onto the field. In the end, 
Clemens, Morgan, and Marty Barrett were thrown out; an angry Barrett had 
merited his ejection by having to be physically restrained from leaving 
the dugout and confronting the umpiring crew.[5] The ejection proved to 
be the turning point of the game, as Gallego proceeded to belt a double 
to center field off Clemens' replacement, Tom Bolton, scoring both McGwire 
and Randolph. The Red Sox briefly mounted a last-ditch rally in the top 
of the ninth, scoring a single run courtesy of an Ellis Burks double and 
a single by Jody Reed, but Athletics reliever Rick Honeycutt got Greenwell 
to ground out, handing Oakland its third straight American League pennant. 
This was Oakland's last postseason series win until 2006. 1990 ALCS (4–0): 
