The Cincinnati Reds' 1990 season was a season in American baseball. It 
consisted of the 91-71 Reds winning the National League West by five games 
over the second-place Dodgers, as well as the National League Championship 
Series in six games over the Pittsburgh Pirates, and the World Series in 
a four-game sweep over the overwhelming favorite Oakland Athletics, who 
had won the World Series the previous year. It was their fifth World Championship 
for the Reds, and their first since winning two consecutive titles in 1975 
and '76. Led by new manager Lou Piniella, the Reds achieved the rare feat 
of being in first place everyday of the season ("wire-to-wire").[3] Starting 
pitcher Jack Armstrong was a catalyst for the team's fast start, as he 
won 8 of his first 9 games and was 11-3 through the All Star break. Because 
of his strong first half, Armstrong was selected as the starting pitcher 
for the All Star Game. Cincinnati was well represented at the 1990 All-Star 
Game in Chicago. In addition to Armstrong at pitcher, Chris Sabo, Barry 
Larkin, Rob Dibble, and Randy Myers were reserves. Another new face in 
the Reds locker room was Randy Myers. He was acquired from the New York 
Mets for closer John Franco, and became part of the Nasty Boys, along with 
Rob Dibble and Norm Charlton. Charlton, Dibble, and Myers combined for 
44 saves (Myers with 31, Dibble with 11, and Charlton with 2). Myers would 
become one of the league's elite closers while being selected as an All-Star 
in 1990. Myers would win his second World Championship as the Reds swept 
the Oakland Athletics. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = 
Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: 
G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; 
SO = Strikeouts October 4: Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati October 5: 
Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati October 8: Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania October 9: Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
October 10: Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania October 12: 
Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati The World Series between the Oakland Athletics 
and the Reds featured friends at the managerial level. Athletics manager 
Tony La Russa and Reds manager Lou Piniella were old friends and teammates 
from their Tampa American Legion Post 248 team. Before the Series, while 
Peter Gammons of ESPN had predicted an Oakland sweep, Chicago Tribune columnist 
Mike Royko issued the stunning prediction that the heavily favored A's 
were "doomed", based on the Ex-Cubs Factor. When the prediction came true, 
it fueled new interest in that arguably spurious correlation. Cincinnati 
Reds owner Marge Schott, who was drunk at the time,[13] made a major verbal 
slip-up when she dedicated the 1990 World Series to "our women and men 
in the Far East" (Schott meant to say Middle East). In the first inning 
of Game 1, Reds center fielder Eric Davis hit a home run in left center 
that nearly hit the CBS television studio where anchor Pat O'Brien was 
sitting. Also in Game 1, Billy Hatcher helped out offensively in a big 
way by starting his streak of 7 straight hits in the series (after a walk 
in the 1st). José Rijo settled in after the early lead and cruised to a 
surprise Cincinnati victory. The following day, the headline of the Cincinnati 
Post newspaper captured the city's surprise with the headline, "DAVIS STUNS 
GOLIATH." During Game 2, Reds pitcher Tom Browning's pregnant wife Debbie 
went into labor during the game. Debbie left her seat in the fifth inning 
to drive herself to the hospital. As the game went on, the Reds wanted 
Browning ready to pitch just in case the game went well into extra innings. 
Thinking that Browning was en route to a nearby hospital, the Reds had 
their radio broadcaster Marty Brennaman put out an All Points Bulletin 
on Browning, a bulletin that was picked up by Tim McCarver on CBS television, 
who passed it along in the ninth inning. Game 4 was a pitchers duel between 
Dave Stewart and José Rijo (the Game 1 starters) that eventually culminated 
in the Reds sweeping the series. The A's got on the board in the first 
when Willie McGee doubled and Carney Lansford singled him in. The game 
remained 1-0 until the 8th when the Reds finally got to Stewart. Barry 
Larkin singled up the middle, Herm Winningham followed with a bunt single, 
and Paul O'Neill reached on a throwing error by Stewart that loaded the 
bases. Glen Braggs's groundout and Hal Morris's sacrifice fly gave the 
Reds a precious 2-1 edge which was preserved by both Rijo, who at one point 
retired 20 straight batters. Randy Myers, one of the Nasty Boys, appeared 
in relief and got the final two outs. The 1990 World Series would be the 
Reds 5th championship but would also be remembered as one of the biggest 
upsets in baseball history. This was the last World Series to be scheduled 
to begin play on a Tuesday, and the only since 1984. The schedule called 
for the seven-game series to be held Tue-Wed, Fri-Sat-Sun, Tue-Wed. Games 
5, 6, and 7, however were not necessary. The three primary members of the 
bullpen; Norm Charlton, Randy Myers, and Rob Dibble (who threw a fastball 
in excess of 99 mph) were known as the "Nasty Boys" – and wouldn't let 
the A's score against them in nearly nine innings of work. Media talk of 
a forthcoming A's dynasty led Reds fans to call their own team the "dyNASTY." 
Reds outfielder Billy Hatcher set a World Series record with seven consecutive 
hits. In addition, Hatcher's .750 batting average, (9 for 12), broke a 
mark for a four-game World Series that was previously set by Babe Ruth 
(.625 in 1928). Cincinnati Reds' pitcher José Rijo became the second Dominican 
born player to earn World Series MVP honors. The first Dominican born to 
earn World Series MVP honors was Pedro Guerrero of the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
October 16, 1990 at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati October 17, 1990 at 
Riverfront Stadium, in Cincinnati October 19, 1990 at Oakland–Alameda County 
Coliseum in Oakland, California October 20, 1990 at Oakland–Alameda County 
Coliseum in Oakland, California 1990 World Series (4-0): Cincinnati Reds 
(N.L.) over Oakland Athletics (A.L.) All-Star Game LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Charleston[14] 
