The 1990 National League Championship Series was played between the Cincinnati 
Reds (91–71) and the Pittsburgh Pirates (95–67), with the Reds coming out 
on top in the series 4–2. The Reds went on to sweep the Oakland Athletics 
in the World Series in four games. This was also the only NLCS during the 
1990s that did not feature the Atlanta Braves. It was also the first of 
four straight NLCS series to feature either the Philadelphia Phillies or 
the Pittsburgh Pirates. Between Game 2 (in Cincinnati) and Game 3 (in Pittsburgh), 
the teams took two days off instead of the usual one. That Sunday, October 
7, the Steelers needed to use Three Rivers Stadium for their pre-scheduled 
game against the San Diego Chargers, so Game 3 (and by extension, the rest 
of the series) was pushed back a day. Cincinnati won the series, 4–2. Thursday, 
October 4, 1990 (8:30PM EDT) at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio 
The Pirates took the first game of the LCS with a 4-3 victory. The game-winning 
run scored in the 7th when Andy Van Slyke hit a routine inning-ending flyout 
that was misjudged by Eric Davis in left-field, scoring Gary Redus. Bob 
Walk was the starting pitcher for Pittsburgh and José Rijo was on the mound 
for the Reds. The Reds had two doubles in the bottom half of the first 
inning and scored three runs. These would prove to be the only runs they 
could bring across the plate for the entire game. For Pittsburgh, Sid Bream 
would hit a two-run home run in the fourth inning to tie the game. The 
key Pirate play to seal the game was throwing out pinch-runner Billy Bates, 
the trailing runner at the back end of a double steal in the ninth inning, 
to get the second out. Pittsburgh took the series lead, one game to none. 
Friday, October 5, 1990 (3:15PM EDT) at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, 
Ohio Doug Drabek, the National League Cy Young Award winner for 1990 took 
the mound against Tom Browning for a weekday afternoon Game 2. Cincinnati 
again scored in the first inning when Barry Larkin walked, stole second, 
went to third on a hard single by Herm Winningham and scored on a single 
by Paul O'Neill. The Pirates tied it in the fifth when José Lind, better 
known for his defense, hit a solo homer. The Pirates appeared ready to 
take the lead in the sixth when Andy Van Slyke singled and went to second 
on a single by Bobby Bonilla. With two on and nobody out, Pirates slugger 
Barry Bonds came up with a chance for a big inning. Bonds popped out to 
deep right, and Van Slyke attempted to advance. But Paul O'Neill threw 
a perfect strike to Chris Sabo who tagged Van Slyke for a 9–5 double play. 
The Reds regained the lead in the sixth when Winningham reached on a fielder's 
choice, stole second, and scored on O'Neill's drive to left center that 
hit the wall after barely avoiding Bonds' glove. Drabek went the distance 
but got the loss. Browning got the win and Randy Myers the save. Barry 
Larkin's stop and throw on a sharp grounder by Bonds up the middle squelched 
a potential rally with none out in the ninth. Monday, October 8, 1990 (3:20PM 
EDT) at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania This was a weekday 
afternoon game, and for the first time in history, there were two scheduled 
off days between games. This set-up seemed to help Pittsburgh as it would 
allow them to have Drabek for game seven if necessary. Danny Jackson squared 
off against Zane Smith. But it was Mariano Duncan who stole the show. In 
the second, Joe Oliver singled and Billy Hatcher homered to give the Reds 
a 2–0 lead. The Pirates tied it in the fourth when Jay Bell doubled, Andy 
Van Slyke singled to score Bell, and Van Slyke scored on Carmelo Martínez's 
double. In the fifth, Billy Hatcher doubled, Larkin singled, and Duncan 
hit a three-run homer to give the Reds a 5–2 lead. In the bottom of eighth, 
the Pirates got a run back when Barry Bonds singled, went to second on 
a walk, and scored on Mariano Duncan's throwing error to make it 5–3. In 
the ninth, the Reds got the run back when Oliver singled and Billy Bates 
ran for him. Bates eventually scored on a Duncan single (his fourth RBI 
of the game). The game ended with a Reds victory, 6–3, to take a two games 
to one lead in the NLCS. Tuesday, October 9, 1990 (8:30PM EDT) at Three 
Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Game 4 would be a rematch of 
Game 1 starters Jose Rijo and Bob Walk. The Pirates would grab the first 
lead of the game (for the only time in the series) in the opening frame 
when Wally Backman doubled to left and scored on a Van Slyke ground out. 
The Reds took the lead in the fourth when O'Neill belted a solo shot and 
Sabo followed up singles by Eric Davis and Hal Morris with a sac fly. Bream 
would hurt Rijo again (as he had in Game 1) in the bottom half of the inning 
when he drilled a double to left center that scored Van Slyke. Chris Sabo 
untied the game in the seventh when he golfed a hanging curveball by Walk 
into the left field stands for a two-run homer. With no outs in the eighth, 
Jay Bell hit a solo home run that knocked Rijo out of the game and cut 
the lead to 4–3. Piniella called on Myers and two batters later Bonilla 
hammered another ball that hit high off the center-field fence and out 
of the reach of the leaping Billy Hatcher. As Bonilla rounded second and 
motored on to third, left fielder Eric Davis ran out toward center, fielded 
the carom and threw a one hop strike to Sabo at third; gunning down the 
aggressive Bobby Bonilla. The play seemed to deflate Pittsburgh. The Nasty 
Boys continued their dominance through the last innings while the Reds 
offense tacked on an insurance run in the top of the ninth, making it 5–3. 
Dibble got the save and up until that point had pitched in all four games, 
tossed five innings with no hits allowed and ten strikeouts. Wednesday, 
October 10, 1990 (8:25PM EDT) at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Game 5 saw the Pirates bring back their ace Doug Drabek to keep the season 
alive. Barry Larkin got the Reds started in the first when he doubled down 
the left-field line and scored on Winningham's sac fly to right. In the 
bottom of the first, Reds starter Tom Browning hit Jay Bell and then surrendered 
a gapper to right-center by Van Slyke that hopped over Paul O'Neill's glove 
for an RBI triple. Bonilla walked and Bonds hit into a 3–6 force play scoring 
Van Slyke to make it 2–1 Bucs. In the fourth, Pittsburgh added another 
run when Bonds walked, went to third on an R. J. Reynolds hit, and scored 
on a sac fly by Don Slaught. Drabek's gutsy outing continued into the eighth 
until Duncan singled and Larkin smashed a double that one-hopped the left 
field fence. Up 3–2 going to the ninth, the Pirates were desperately clinging 
to the slim lead and the season. O'Neill opened the frame with a single 
to center. Eric Davis then hit a ground ball to deep third that ricocheted 
off the third base bag for a hit. Morris bunted the runners over to second 
and third which made Leyland decide on intentionally walking Sabo to load 
the bases. Bob Patterson relieved Drabek and got Jeff Reed to hit into 
a 5–4–3 double play started by Bobby Bonilla to end the game. Friday, October 
12, 1990 (8:20PM EDT) at Riverfront Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio This game 
was famous for Pittsburgh manager Jim Leyland starting a set-up man, Ted 
Power, in order to keep the Reds from employing their successful platoon. 
Power pitched 2 1⁄3 innings prior to giving way to lefty Zane Smith in 
the third inning. The strategy worked in that it held the Reds to only 
two runs. The game-winning RBI was hit by Luis Quinones of the Reds in 
the seventh. The close, defensive game ended with a 2–1 score, accentuated 
by an over-the-fence catch by right fielder Glenn Braggs, robbing Carmelo 
Martínez of a two-run homer, to preserve the win in the ninth. Reds win 
