The 1991 American League Championship Series was played between the Minnesota 
Twins and the Toronto Blue Jays from October 8 to 13. The Twins defeated 
the favored Blue Jays, winning the Series four games to one. Minnesota 
would go on to face (and ultimately defeat) the Atlanta Braves in seven 
games in 1991 World Series, ranked by ESPN as the greatest ever played. 
This was the first postseason series played entirely indoors, as both teams 
played in domed stadiums. Minnesota outfielder Kirby Puckett was named 
the Series MVP, based on his .429 batting average, two home runs, and five 
RBI. The Twins rose from last place in 1990 (a 74–88 record) and finished 
the 1991 regular season with a 95–67 record (.586), handily winning the 
American League West division crown by eight games over the Chicago White 
Sox. The Blue Jays were similarly successful during the 1991 season, compiling 
a 91–71 record (.562) and winning the American League East division by 
seven games over the Boston Red Sox and Detroit Tigers. The Twins and Blue 
Jays played their final regular season series against each other (after 
both teams had clinched their respective divisions and were resting their 
starters), with the Blue Jays winning two of the three games. Newspapers 
were predicting a series of tense and close contests in the following ALCS. 
Minnesota won the series, 4–1. Tuesday, October 8, 1991 at Hubert H. Humphrey 
Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota Game 1 saw a surprise starter for Toronto 
as Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston chose knuckleballer Tom Candiotti to face 
the Twins over his new young gun Juan Guzmán and his left-handed ace Jimmy 
Key. Twins manager Tom Kelly opted to counter with All-Star Game starter 
and Minnesota native Jack Morris. Gaston would draw questions later when 
the decision seemingly swung the series against Toronto. In the bottom 
of the first, Dan Gladden singled and Chuck Knoblauch did the same. After 
a strikeout by Kirby Puckett, Twins first baseman Kent Hrbek flied out 
to center field, moving Gladden to third. Knoblauch stole second and with 
two on and two out, Chili Davis singled both home to give the Twins an 
early 2–0 lead. In the second, the Twins added two more runs. Shane Mack 
singled off Candotti, stole second, and moved to third on a line out to 
right by Mike Pagliarulo. He then scored on a Greg Gagne single, and consecutive 
singles again by Gladden and Knoblauch plated Gagne to give the Twins a 
4–0 lead. In the third, Davis walked with one out, stole second, and scored 
on a double by Mack. Candiotti's line read: sixteen batters faced, five 
runs, eight hits, and four stolen bases. He was also responsible for Mack, 
perched on second. But reliever David Wells, as well as the rest of the 
Blue Jays relievers, shut down the Twins and held them scoreless for the 
rest of the game. In the top of the fourth, the Blue Jays tried to claw 
back into the game. After a Roberto Alomar single, Joe Carter doubled and 
Blue Jays third base coach Rich Hacker sent Alomar home.[6] Two perfect 
throws from the Twins nailed Alomar at the plate for the first out and 
the squelching of the Blue Jay rally. Carter went to third and scored on 
John Olerud's subsequent ground out to make the score 5–1. In the sixth, 
the Blue Jays got within a single run. Five consecutive singles by Devon 
White, Alomar, Carter, Olerud, and Kelly Gruber with only one out plated 
three runs and made the score 5–4. But Carl Willis came on to get the last 
two outs, and the Minnesota relief corps held the Blue Jays the rest of 
the way for a 5–4 victory for the Twins and starter Jack Morris. Rick Aguilera 
got the save while Candiotti was saddled with the loss. The victory gave 
the Twins a 1–0 lead in games in the ALCS. It also put them one win short 
of tying the post-season record for most consecutive wins at home held 
by the New York Yankees. Wednesday, October 9, 1991 at Hubert H. Humphrey 
Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota The number-two pitchers on each staff 
squared off in Game 2, as Juan Guzmán took the hill for the Blue Jays against 
Kevin Tapani for the Twins. A win would not only give the Twins a 2–0 lead, 
but would also enable them to set the record for the most consecutive home 
field wins in post-season history, as they had won their first seven post-season 
games (including the 1987 playoffs and World Series) in the Metrodome. 
Unfortunately for the Twins, the Blue Jays came out swinging and held on 
for a 5–2 win. Devon White began the scoring in the top of the first when 
he singled, stole second, moved to third on Roberto Alomar's bunt, and 
scored on Joe Carter's single to give the Jays a 1–0 lead. In the third, 
White and Alomar struck for two more Blue Jays runs when White doubled, 
moved to third on Alomar's single, and both scored after Alomar stole second 
and Kelly Gruber singled both home with two outs. The Blue Jays led, 3–0. 
The Twins got a run back in the bottom of the third when Chuck Knoblauch 
singled, stole second, and scored on Kirby Puckett's single. Knoblauch 
scored again in the sixth when he walked, moved to second on Puckett's 
ground out, and scored on a single by Brian Harper. The run cut Toronto's 
lead to 3–2. Game 2 was a show for Devon White and Roberto Alomar, and 
in the seventh they put the contest out of reach. After Manuel Lee walked, 
the Twins relieved Tapani with Steve Bedrosian. White walked to put runners 
on first and second with one out. Alomar's single scored Lee, and White 
moved to third on an error by Shane Mack. White then scored his third run 
of the game on a sacrifice fly by Joe Carter, giving the Blue Jays a 5–2 
lead. That was how the game ended. Guzman was the winning pitcher, and 
Tapani the loser. Duane Ward got his first post-season save. The Blue Jays 
ended Minnesota's quest for a record home winning streak and both teams 
headed to Canada with the games count standing at one win apiece. Friday, 
October 11, 1991 at SkyDome in Toronto With the series tied at one win 
apiece, the teams ventured across the border to Toronto's Skydome where 
Jimmy Key squared off against the Twins' twenty-game winner, Scott Erickson. 
The Blue Jays quickly jumped out to a 2–0 lead in the first when with two 
out, Joe Carter homered, Kelly Gruber singled, John Olerud singled, and 
Candy Maldonado doubled Gruber home. Erickson was able to get the third 
out retiring Rance Mulliniks.[7] The Twins got on the board in the fifth. 
Shane Mack led off and hit a triple against the right field wall after 
Carter twisted an ankle trying to reach the ball and make a circus catch. 
On Kent Hrbek's grounder to second, Roberto Alomar attempted to get Mack 
out at the plate, but Mack beat the throw to score.[8] In the bottom half 
of the inning, manager Tom Kelly, believing that Erickson was hesitant 
to pitch to Carter, brought on reliever David West. West then struck out 
Carter, Gruber and Maldonado.[9] The Twins tied it in the sixth when Chuck 
Knoblauch doubled and scored on Kirby Puckett's single with a head-first 
slide at the plate.[10] The tie got rid of Jimmy Key as David Wells came 
on in relief. The score stayed 2–2 until the tenth. Reliever Mike Timlin 
came on and after retiring Gene Larkin, gave up an eventual game-winning 
homer to pinch-hitter Mike Pagliarulo, who was hitting for Scott Leius. 
Kelly had made an unexpected lineup change having Greg Gagne bat seventh 
and Leius ninth, ultimately setting up Pagliarulo to face Timlin.[11] Rick 
Aguilera closed out the bottom of the tenth with a 1–2–3 inning to give 
the Twins a 3–2 win and a 2–1 lead in games. The hamstring injury to Joe 
Carter, the Blue Jays' most influential hitter, proved pivotal. Although 
Carter played in the next two games as the designated hitter, he was in 
obvious discomfort and was largely a non-factor. Saturday, October 12, 
1991 at SkyDome in Toronto For the fourth game, Morris returned to the 
mound for Minnesota against Toronto's Todd Stottlemyre. The Blue Jays took 
the lead in the bottom of the second, when Candy Maldonado singled to center, 
took second on a wild pitch by Morris, and came home on a single by Pat 
Borders. The Twins, however, came back in a big way in the fourth – Kirby 
Puckett hit a solo home run, Chili Davis, who had doubled, scored on a 
single by Mike Pagliarulo, and a two-run single by Dan Gladden plated both 
Pagliarulo and Shane Mack. This turn of events gave the Twins a 4–1 lead 
and eventually the win. Sunday, October 13, 1991 at SkyDome in Toronto 
With their backs against the wall, the Blue Jays sent Candiotti to the 
hill for Game 5 against the Twins' Tapani. In the top of the first, Puckett 
hit a solo home run to give Minnesota a 1–0 lead. The Twins added another 
run the next inning, when Davis singled, moved to second and then third 
on consecutive passed balls by Toronto catcher Pat Borders, then came home 
on a single by Mack. In the bottom of the second, Tapani struck out Maldonado 
and Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston disagreed with home plate umpire Mike 
Reilly. He continued arguing until Reilly finally tossed him. The ejection 
fired up Toronto who took a 3–2 lead in their half of the third courtesy 
of an RBI single by Alomar, an RBI double by Carter, and a groundout by 
Olerud. Alomar added a two-run single in the fourth to give the Jays a 
5–2 lead. In the sixth, the Twins stormed back to tie the game. Mack singled, 
stole second, then moved to third on a base hit by Pagliarulo. The Jays' 
third baseman Gruber tried to nab Mack at the plate when Gladden hit into 
a fielder's choice, but Borders tagged with the wrong hand and Mack scored.[12] 
Knoblauch followed by lashing a double to right field that scored both 
Pagliarulo and Gladden, and the game was knotted at 5. In the eighth, Minnesota 
took the lead for good when Gladden singled and stole second, and after 
Knoblauch walked, came home on a single by Puckett, who took second on 
a throw home. Hrbek then drove both Knoblauch and Puckett in with a single 
to left, giving the Twins an 8–5 advantage.[13] Rick Aguilera shut the 
door on the Jays in the bottom of the ninth, giving the Twins their second 
American League pennant in five years. 1991 ALCS (4–1): Minnesota Twins 
over Toronto Blue Jays Fly ball to left field, Dan Gladden is going back 
on the track...he makes the catch! And the Minnesota Twins have gone from 
