The 1991 National League Championship Series was played between the Atlanta 
Braves (94–68) and the Pittsburgh Pirates (98–64), with the Braves coming 
out on top in the Series 4–3. It was considered one of the best-pitched 
seven-game series of the modern era, featuring three 1–0 finishes and four 
shutouts. The Braves went on to lose in the World Series to the Minnesota 
Twins in seven games. The Pirates had the best record in the National League 
in 1991, and were the first NL East team to win consecutive division championships 
since the Philadelphia Phillies, their in-state rivals, during their run 
of three straight NL East championships, from 1976–1978 (in fact, the Pirates 
won the 1991 NL East title in a game against their rivals).[1] and were 
expected to win this Series and advance to the World Series. However, the 
Braves, who went from last place in the National League West in 1990 to 
first place in the division in 1991, were able to pull off the upset in 
their memorable run to the World Series versus the Minnesota Twins. Atlanta 
won the series, 4–3. Wednesday, October 9, 1991 (8:41PM EDT) at Three Rivers 
Stadium in Pittsburgh The Pirates proved they would be tough to eliminate 
early when they stifled the Braves offense behind 1990 Cy Young Award winner 
Doug Drabek and won the first game 5–1. Pittsburgh center fielder Andy 
Van Slyke had a home run and a double off Braves starter and 1991 Cy Young 
Award winner Tom Glavine. David Justice hit a solo home run in the ninth 
inning off reliever Bob Walk for the Braves' only run. An injury to Pirates 
starter Doug Drabek was to have major ramifications for the Series. Drabek 
slid into third and injured himself in the sixth inning, leaving the game 
with what appeared to be a pulled hamstring. The injury cost Drabek an 
early start in either Game 4 or 5, and it ensured he would not be available 
for a third start in Game 7 if the Series went that far, as it ultimately 
did. Thursday, October 10, 1991 (8:39PM EDT) at Three Rivers Stadium in 
Pittsburgh In Game 2, both teams were kept in check by the outstanding 
pitching performances of Zane Smith for Pittsburgh and Steve Avery for 
Atlanta. However, Avery and the Braves would come out on top 1–0, after 
Mark Lemke picked up a double and the only RBI of the game in the sixth 
inning. David Justice scored from second when Lemke's seemingly routine 
grounder got past Pirate third baseman Steve Buechele, allowing Justice 
to score. Alejandro Peña got the save and the combined shutout was complete. 
The series was now tied 1–1. The win snapped a 10-game postseason losing 
streak for the Braves franchise that began with Game 5 of the 1958 World 
Series, when the team was still in Milwaukee. Saturday, October 12, 1991 
(3:00PM EDT) at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta With the Series 
tied at one game apiece, John Smoltz faced off against the Pirates' twenty-game 
winner, John Smiley. Orlando Merced hit Smoltz's first pitch over the right 
field wall for a home run and a 1–0 lead. But the Braves rallied with four 
runs in the bottom of the first, topped off by Greg Olson's two-run homer 
to left. Smiley was gone by the third inning with the Braves leading, 6–1. 
In the seventh, with the score 7–3, Alejandro Peña struck out Jay Bell 
with the bases loaded to end the Pirates' last threat. Ultimately, the 
Braves won 10–3 with home runs from Ron Gant, Greg Olson, and Sid Bream. 
Sunday, October 13, 1991 (8:38PM EDT) at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium 
in Atlanta The lone extra-inning game of the Series came in Atlanta before 
51,109 fans. The score was tied 2–2 after nine innings. The scoring in 
the first nine innings was over after the fifth inning. The Pirates had 
gotten their runs on a Don Slaught single and a Jay Bell single along with 
a Braves error. The Braves earned their two runs in the first inning on 
three straight singles and an error. The Pirates tied the series with a 
run in the top of the tenth when Mike LaValliere singled in Andy Van Slyke, 
who had stolen second after being walked by Kent Mercker. The Braves batted 
out in the bottom of the tenth. Monday, October 14, 1991 (3:08PM EDT) at 
Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta Zane Smith had his second excellent 
game of the Series, but this time he won, beating Tom Glavine and the Braves 
1–0 in almost a mirror image of Smith's start in Game 2. However, in Game 
2, Smith had given up the one run and lost. Controversy surrounded this 
game when David Justice appeared to score on a single to left, but he seemed 
to miss third base and was called out on an appeal. Replays were inconclusive, 
but Justice did stumble over third base, and the umpires called him out, 
preserving Smith's shutout. The lone run in this game came when José Lind 
hit a simple RBI single in the fifth. Wednesday, October 16, 1991 (8:39PM 
EDT) at Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh Pittsburgh hosted one of the 
best pitcher's duels of all-time on October 16, 1991 between Steve Avery 
and Doug Drabek. In the end, identical to Avery's last start, a combination 
of Avery and Alejandro Peña shut out the Pirates for all nine innings. 
The Pirates only got four hits. However, this time the Braves didn't score 
a run all the way through eight innings. Drabek matched Avery, pitch for 
pitch. But in the ninth inning, with the score tied 0–0, Olson raked a 
double down the left field line that scored Gant and took the lead off 
a weary Drabek. He had pitched a complete game, but was the loser after 
the Pirates couldn't get Gary Varsho home from third in the bottom of the 
ninth. The Braves had not scored a run since the first inning of Game 4, 
a futility streak that reached 26 2⁄3 innings before Gant scored the winning 
run. Thursday, October 17, 1991 (8:39PM EDT) at Three Rivers Stadium in 
Pittsburgh The Braves scored three runs in the first inning, partly on 
a Brian Hunter two-run home run, and never looked back. Twenty-game winner 
John Smiley made the start, fared poorly, was yanked after two-thirds of 
an inning and lost to John Smoltz, who shut out the Pirates. Although Bob 
Walk was masterful in middle relief, it was too little, too late, even 
though he pulled his groin trying to help his cause attempting to stretch 
a single into a double in the bottom of the seventh. The Braves won 4–0 
and nabbed the pennant. After Atlanta had gone 26 2⁄3 innings without scoring, 
the Pirates themselves went the final 22 1⁄3 innings without scoring. That 
streak would reach 30 innings before José Lind snapped it with a home run 
in the eighth inning of Game 1 in the 1992 NLCS. Avery won the Series MVP 
award. Pitching 16.1 innings, the Braves starter did not allow a run, giving 
up nine hits and walking four while striking out seventeen. Avery said, 
"It's been the best time of my life." The Braves scored fourteen runs in 
the games Smiley pitched (Games 3 and 7), including nine off Smiley, but 
only five runs in the other five games combined. Smiley had been the Pirates' 
biggest winner in 1991, notching twenty victories for the only time in 
his career. The Atlanta Braves' World Series appearance was their first 
since 1958, and their first since moving to Atlanta in 1966. The Braves 
lost a memorable and dramatic seven-game series to the Minnesota Twins. 
