The 1991 World Series pitted the Minnesota Twins (95–67) of the American 
League against the Atlanta Braves (94–68) of the National League. The Minnesota 
Twins won in seven games.[1][2][3][4] ESPN selected it as the "Greatest 
of All Time" in their "World Series 100th Anniversary" countdown, with 
five of its games being decided by a single run, four games decided in 
the final at-bat and three games going into extra innings.[5] In addition 
to the suspense of the outcome of many of its games, the Series had other 
highlights. For example, the series-deciding seventh game was a scoreless 
tie (0–0) through the regular nine innings, and went into extra innings; 
Minnesota won the seventh game by a score of 1-0 in the 10th inning, with 
their starting pitcher, Jack Morris, pitching all ten innings (Morris was 
named Most Valuable Player for the Series). With 69 innings in total, the 
1991 World Series holds the record for longest seven-game World Series 
ever (some of the early years had nine-game Series, extending longer). 
The 1991 World Series was notable for several grueling contests, with five 
of its games being decided by one run and three games in extra innings 
(including the third game, a twelve-inning marathon which saw Twins manager 
Tom Kelly run out of hitters). AL Minnesota Twins (4) vs. NL Atlanta Braves 
(3) The ceremonial first pitch of the World Series prior to Game 1 was 
thrown by retired AL umpire Steve Palermo. Palermo had been forced into 
early retirement when he was seriously injured by gunshot while coming 
to the aid of a robbery victim in Dallas on July 7, 1991. After the pitch, 
the Series umpires jogged to the mound to exchange well wishes. The Twins 
started their ace, Minnesota native Jack Morris, while the Braves countered 
with Charlie Leibrandt. Both pitchers had pitched on World Series teams, 
with Morris winning a World Series ring with the 1984 Detroit Tigers and 
Leibrandt winning one with the 1985 Kansas City Royals. Leibrandt was the 
only Braves starter who had World Series experience. Minnesota scored first 
in the bottom of the third. With two out, leadoff hitter Dan Gladden walked 
and then stole second. Rookie second baseman Chuck Knoblauch then singled 
to drive him in, but was caught in a rundown in between first and second 
and tagged out to end the inning. Manager Tom Kelly explained later that 
he wanted Knoblauch to take the turn around first to draw the throw away 
from the plate and allow the run to score.[13] The Twins added three more 
runs in the fifth, as shortstop Greg Gagne hit a home run with Kent Hrbek 
and Scott Leius on base. Leibrandt was pulled from the game following the 
home run, and reliever Jim Clancy promptly allowed Gladden and Knoblauch 
to reach base on an error and a walk. Gladden reached third on a fly ball 
by Kirby Puckett for the first out, and after Knoblauch stole second Chili 
Davis was put on intentionally. Twins catcher Brian Harper then lifted 
a fly ball to left field that was caught for the second out. Gladden tagged 
again and tried to score, running over Atlanta catcher Greg Olson in the 
process, but Olson held onto the ball for the third out even though he 
was flipped so hard by Gladden that he momentarily stood on his head.[14] 
The Braves broke through against Morris in the top of the sixth, as Jeff 
Treadway and David Justice reached base with two out. Ron Gant then followed 
with a single that Gladden misplayed, which scored Treadway and left runners 
at second and third. Morris got out of the jam by striking out Sid Bream 
to end the inning, and the Twins added an insurance run in the bottom of 
the inning as Hrbek homered off Clancy. After walking the first two batters 
to lead off the eighth, Morris was pulled from the game in favor of Mark 
Guthrie, who induced a double play off the bat of Terry Pendleton. After 
Guthrie walked Justice, Twins closer Rick Aguilera came into the game and 
gave up a hit to Gant. The hit drove in Lonnie Smith from third base, and 
the run was charged to Morris. It was the last run scored for either team, 
as the Twins won the game 5–2 with Aguilera picking up the four-out save. 
Morris' win was his third World Series win in as many starts, as he won 
Games 1 and 4 of the 1984 Series. Leibrandt's poor performance resulted 
in his being removed from the World Series rotation, although he did pitch 
in Game 6, facing just one batter and giving up the game-winning home run 
to Kirby Puckett. During the game, a Kent Hrbek foul pop hit Commissioner 
Fay Vincent's daughter Anne in the head. The pitching match-up featured 
1991 National League Cy Young Award winner Tom Glavine against the Twins' 
sixteen-game winner and number two starter, Kevin Tapani. Leading off the 
bottom of the first, Dan Gladden lifted a seemingly routine pop-up toward 
second base. Atlanta fielders Mark Lemke and David Justice miscommunicated 
and collided with one another as the ball fell from Lemke's glove and Gladden 
reached second on a two-base error. After a walk to Chuck Knoblauch, Glavine 
induced Kirby Puckett to ground to third, where Terry Pendleton stepped 
on the bag to retire Gladden and threw across to Sid Bream to retire Puckett 
for the double play. But the next batter, Chili Davis, then homered off 
Glavine and gave the Twins an early 2–0 lead. The Braves got a run back 
in the top of the second when Justice singled, was doubled to third by 
Sid Bream, and then scored on a sacrifice fly by Greg Olson. Controversy 
occurred the next inning when Lonnie Smith reached first on an error by 
Scott Leius. With two outs, Ron Gant ripped a single to left. Smith, playing 
for a record fourth team in World Series play, tried to beat the throw 
to third from Gladden. Gladden's throw was wild and Smith was able to take 
third, but Gant was caught between bases trying to advance on the throw. 
Tapani caught Gladden's throw and threw back to first. Gant headed back 
to the base standing up, and in the process he became tangled with Kent 
Hrbek, who appeared to grab onto his leg and pull him off the base. Hrbek 
kept the glove tagging the leg[15] and first base umpire Drew Coble called 
Gant out. A furious Gant and first base coach Pat Corrales argued to no 
avail. Coble said (during an interview conducted for the home video recap 
of the series) that in his view, Gant was not in control of his body when 
he returned to the base, that his own momentum caused him to get tangled 
with Hrbek, and that he fell off the base. For his part, Hrbek stated that 
Gant fell on him and pushed him.[16] This call was ranked as one of the 
top ten worst baseball calls by both ESPN and Sports Illustrated.[17][18] 
Hrbek became a hated figure in Atlanta, was booed lustfully, and would 
even receive a death threat.[19] In 2011, the Twins celebrated the 20th 
anniversary of the controversial play by commissioning a bobblehead doll 
of Hrbek and Gant entangled, a promotion that proved popular with the Minnesota 
Twins fans.[20] The Braves tied the game in the fifth when Olson doubled, 
advanced to third on a groundout by Lemke, and came home on a sacrifice 
fly by Rafael Belliard. The game stayed tied into the eighth. In the top 
half, Belliard got a leadoff hit on a bunt single, and after a sacrifice, 
Pendleton beat out an infield hit. But Tapani got Gant out on a foul popup 
and Justice on a fly out to end the threat. Kelly remembered seeing a tape 
of the game that showed Glavine in disbelief that Atlanta was unable to 
score, and felt that Glavine's emotions took over. Immediately in the bottom 
half, the unheralded Leius drilled Glavine's first pitch into the left-field 
seats for what proved to be the game-winning home run.[21] Both starting 
pitchers stayed in the game through eight innings and were quite effective, 
giving up just five runs combined (three earned). Rick Aguilera earned 
the save for the Twins, and the Series headed to Atlanta with the Twins 
leading two games to none. The Braves outlasted the Twins in a thrilling 
twelve-inning battle, the first World Series game ever played in the Deep 
South. This game matched Minnesota's twenty-game winner Scott Erickson 
against Atlanta's late-season hero and NLCS MVP, Steve Avery. In the NLCS, 
Avery had not allowed a run to the Pirates in sixteen-and-a-third innings. 
Twins manager Tom Kelly said going into the three games in Atlanta that 
managing without the designated-hitter rule was "right up there with rocket 
science." Reminiscent of Game 2, Dan Gladden hit another ball toward David 
Justice. This time, Justice and Ron Gant miscommunicated, and Gladden wound 
up at third with a gift triple with nobody out in the top of the first. 
Gladden then scored on Chuck Knoblauch's sacrifice fly to Justice, ending 
Avery's shutout streak. The Braves, meanwhile, got the run back in the 
second when Olson scored on Belliard's single. Justice led off the fourth 
with his first World Series home run, and the Braves led for the first 
time in the Series, 2–1. In the fifth, the Braves scored again when Smith 
homered. Erickson was pulled from the game after allowing Terry Pendleton 
and Justice to reach base. David West entered the game and allowed an unearned 
run without recording an out, leaving the bases loaded for Terry Leach 
who struck out Mark Lemke to end the inning. With the score 4–1, the Braves 
looked to close it out. As it turned out, the game was just beginning. 
Except for the run that resulted from the first-inning misplay between 
Gant and Justice, Avery had been quite effective. But after Kirby Puckett 
homered in the seventh to make it 4–2 and two other fly outs made it to 
the warning track, Atlanta manager Bobby Cox reluctantly sent Avery out 
for the eighth inning. Brian Harper, who had not started the game at catcher 
(instead Kelly started Junior Ortiz), pinch hit to start the top half of 
the inning and reached on an error. Avery went to the showers in favor 
of the Braves' regular-season closer, Alejandro Peña. Peña had been 13 
for 13 in save opportunities since joining the Braves in a late-season 
trade with the Mets, but he had not pitched since the prior Wednesday. 
The first batter that he faced, pinch-hitter Chili Davis, tied the game 
with a monstrous home run to left, leaving Avery with nothing to show for 
a great pitching effort. At this point, the game got bizarre. Substitutions 
and double switches were used by both teams into the twelfth, when Minnesota 
manager Tom Kelly used up his entire bench and faced a conundrum in the 
top of the twelfth inning. After Mark Wohlers retired Randy Bush to lead 
off the inning, Gladden singled. Knoblauch followed with a double play 
grounder to second that Lemke misplayed, allowing Gladden to advance to 
third. With the middle of the Twins' order to follow Cox brought in Kent 
Mercker to pitch to Kent Hrbek. As he came into the game Tim McCarver theorized 
on the CBS broadcast that the Twins might be forced to use one of their 
pitchers as a pinch hitter. McCarver's reasoning came from the fact that 
the pitcher's spot was due up two batters after Hrbek, with Mark Guthrie 
still in the game for Minnesota having pitched the tenth and the eleventh 
innings. Kelly's last reliever, closer Rick Aguilera, was warming in the 
bullpen, and Kelly had used his last bench player, utility man Al Newman, 
to pinch hit for third baseman Mike Pagliarulo in the top of the eleventh. 
On the fourth pitch of the at bat, with Knoblauch running to avoid a potential 
double play, Hrbek struck out looking. With Puckett now at the plate, Cox 
brought in Jim Clancy and called for an intentional walk with the pitcher's 
spot due next. With the bases now loaded Kelly had no choice but to send 
Aguilera to the plate, although Aguilera did have some success as a hitter 
and was in fact a converted infielder. On the third pitch of the at-bat 
Aguilera flied out to deep center field, leaving the bases loaded and the 
game deadlocked. Kelly said in an interview that if the game had gone on 
longer, since he had used up all his relief pitchers (and his only other 
two pitchers were slated to start game four (Jack Morris) and five (Kevin 
Tapani), he would have put left fielder Gladden on the mound and put Aguilera 
in the outfield. In the bottom of the twelfth, Justice singled to right 
and after Brian Hunter popped out, Justice stole second. With two outs, 
Mark Lemke entered the pantheon of World Series heroes by hitting a single 
to left that enabled Justice to just beat the throw home from Gladden. 
His score gave the Braves a 5–4 win and cut the Twins lead in the Series 
to two games to one. Clancy took the win while Aguilera received the loss. 
The game lasted a then record four hours, four minutes, until broken in 
2005 in Game 3 of the 2005 World Series with a time of five hours, forty-one 
minutes. It was the first of four games in this Series to end with the 
winning team scoring the deciding run in the ninth inning or later. It 
was also the first World Series game to be played in the state of Georgia. 
Game 4 matched up Jack Morris against Atlanta starter John Smoltz, a former 
Detroit prospect and Michigan native who idolized Morris while a youngster. 
As they had done in Game 3, the Braves won by scoring a run in their final 
at-bat. Because Game 3 ended after midnight, some credited Mark Lemke with 
winning two World Series games in one day. As was the custom in the first 
three games, the Twins scored first. In the second inning, catcher Brian 
Harper scored on Mike Pagliarulo's double. The Braves tied it in the third 
when Terry Pendleton hit his first ever post-season home run. The Braves 
appeared ready to take a lead in the fifth when Lonnie Smith singled and 
stole second. Pendleton then followed with a deep fly ball to center field. 
As Kirby Puckett went back to catch it Smith went back to second to tag 
up as it looked like Puckett was going to catch the ball. However, Puckett 
had misjudged the ball slightly and it went over his outstretched glove. 
Thus, Smith got a late break from second and Puckett was able to retrieve 
the ball and throw it back into the infield. Smith headed to third and 
was waved around to try to score as the ball came into the infield. The 
throw reached Harper just as Smith was headed to the plate and he bowled 
over Harper in an attempt to dislodge the ball. The collision sent both 
sprawling, but Harper held onto the ball and got up to ensure Pendleton, 
who had gone to third, did not score. The Braves now had a runner at third 
with one out. A few moments later, Morris unleashed a wild pitch and Pendleton 
sped toward home. But Harper retrieved it and tagged the sliding Pendleton 
for the second out of the inning. Justice popped out and Morris was out 
of the jam. In the top of the seventh, Pagliarulo homered to give the Twins 
the lead, 2–1. But the Braves got the run back in the bottom of the inning 
when Smith homered off Twins reliever Carl Willis to tie the game. The 
game entered the bottom of the ninth still tied at 2. With one out and 
Mark Guthrie pitching, Lemke drilled a triple off the left-center field 
wall. Jeff Blauser was walked intentionally to set up a possible double 
play to force extra innings. After a series of moves by both managers, 
former Brave Steve Bedrosian took the mound to face veteran minor leaguer 
Jerry Willard. Willard hit a fly ball to Shane Mack in right field. Lemke 
tagged and broke for the plate as soon as Mack caught the ball. Mack fired 
to Harper, who caught the throw and had the ball as Lemke reached the plate. 
Lemke slid around Harper and was called safe with the winning run. After 
the call Harper leapt up with the ball and vociferously protested, as did 
Bedrosian, but umpire Terry Tata stood by the call and the replay showed 
he was correct. The video showed that the ball got to Harper before Lemke 
got to the plate, but Harper did not make a move to tag Lemke by either 
touching him with his glove or pulling the ball out to tag him. CBS announcer 
Tim McCarver then read from the Major League Baseball rule book explaining 
why Tata had made the correct call. McCarver later narrated the play as 
"An arm's width; an elbows length: the difference between out...and safe." 
The win tied the Series at two games apiece and ensured a return to Minnesota. 
In Game 5, it was Glavine vs. Tapani in a Game 2 rematch. And despite the 
final score, this contest was still close until after the seventh inning 
stretch. For three innings, the pitchers matched zeroes, but in the fourth, 
Gant singled to left and Justice homered off the top of the left-field 
wall for a 2–0 Braves lead. Bream followed up with a walk, and Olson then 
hit what appeared to be a double play grounder to second. But the ball 
hit Bream's leg, resulting in Bream being called out for runner interference 
but Olson being safe at first. Lemke, the hero of Games 3 and 4, drilled 
a triple that scored Olson, and Lemke himself then scored on light-hitting 
Rafael Belliard's double. At this point, the Braves led 4–0, their biggest 
lead in any game in the Series. In the fifth, Pendleton and Gant singled, 
with Pendleton moving to third. Then Justice hit into a fielder's choice 
that scored Pendleton and gave the Braves a 5–0 lead. With Glavine working 
on a two-hitter, the game seemed in hand for the Braves. But Glavine was 
not sharp in the sixth inning and wound up getting pulled from the game. 
Knoblauch reached on a one-out walk and then went to third on Puckett's 
single. A walk to Davis loaded the bases, and Glavine suddenly had difficulty 
pitching into the strike zone. He walked in two runs by giving bases-loaded 
walks to Harper and Leius. Kent Mercker came on to get out of the jam and 
he got the final two outs with only one additional run scoring. The game 
entered the seventh with the Braves leading, 5–3. Tom Kelly sent David 
West out to begin the bottom of the seventh. West had failed to retire 
a batter in Game 3, facing two batters and giving up two walks (while one 
of these walks did force a run home, this run was an unearned run charged 
to starter Scott Erickson). Smith hit his third home run in three nights, 
all solo shots, to give the Braves a 6–3 lead. And then the floodgates 
opened. Pendleton and Gant walked, Justice singled to score Pendleton, 
and West was again taken out without retiring a batter; in this game, he 
would be charged with four earned runs without retiring a batter, for an 
ERA of infinity (West would retire his first World Series hitter in the 
1993 World Series with the Philadelphia Phillies). Hunter singled to score 
Gant and put two on with nobody out and an 8–3 Braves lead. After Olson 
popped out, Lemke hit his third triple in his last four at bats, driving 
home Justice and Hunter, and scoring when Belliard singled to center. The 
Braves ended the seventh with an 11–3 lead and the announcers began talking 
about the chances of the two teams in Game 6. However, there were still 
two innings to be played. Davis, playing this game in right field in place 
of Mack, who was 0-for-15, singled. He moved to second on a ground out 
and scored on Al Newman's triple. In the bottom of the eighth, Pendleton 
doubled and Gant tripled, scoring Pendleton. Justice grounded out to the 
pitcher, scoring Gant, and Hunter then ended the Braves' offensive barrage 
with a home run. Both managers emptied their benches to give playing time 
to non-starters. Randy St. Claire gave up a run when Gladden tripled (the 
fifth triple of the game between the two teams) and scored on a fielder's 
choice, but the game ended in a 14–5 Braves rout, the only lopsided game 
in the Series. The Braves scored just under half of total runs for the 
series in these eight innings. The Braves now had their first lead in Series 
games, three to two, and only needed one win to clinch their first World 
Series since 1957. In fact, the marquee wall at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium 
read "Three at home and one at the Dome." The Washington/Minnesota franchise 
had now lost fourteen straight World Series road games dating back to 1925, 
a streak that remains active as the Twins have not advanced to a World 
Series since 1991. Both teams had each other in their palms. The Braves 
were one win away from their first world championship since 1957 while 
the Twins were returning to the Metrodome where they had a 9–1 postseason 
record (including 6–0 in the World Series) entering the do-or-die Game 6. 
After the reshuffling of the Braves' rotation following Game 1, Steve Avery 
would start for Atlanta on three days' rest. The Twins kept their three-man 
rotation with Scott Erickson, who had been batted around in Game 3, getting 
the start for Minnesota. In the top of the first, the Braves got two baserunners 
on, but they would eventually be stranded. In the bottom of the first, 
Knoblauch singled and Puckett tripled, scoring Knoblauch and setting the 
tone for the rest of the evening. After retiring Davis for the second out 
of the inning, Avery faced Shane Mack. Mack was 0-for-15 in the series 
and had sat Game 5 in favor of the bat of Chili Davis, the Twins normal 
DH. Mack finally broke the hitless streak with a broken-bat single to score 
Puckett. Leius then singled, advancing Mack to third base, but Avery got 
Hrbek out to keep the score 2–0. The Braves hit Erickson hard, but failed 
to score against him. No better example can be cited than Gant's deep fly 
to the fence in the top of the third with Pendleton on first. Kirby Puckett 
leaped and made a sensational catch against the thirteen-foot Plexiglas 
upper part of the fence, sending Pendleton back to first (where Puckett 
nearly doubled him off) instead of around the bases for Atlanta's first 
run. Erickson got out of the inning by getting a ground out from Justice. 
In the fourth, the Twins appeared ready to increase their lead, putting 
runners at second and third with one out. But Avery buckled down and retired 
the side to keep the game close. Another critical play occurred in the 
fifth when Belliard kept the Twins from completing a double play with a 
fierce slide. His hustle enabled Lonnie Smith to reach first. This became 
important when Pendleton golfed Erickson's next pitch into the seats to 
tie the game at 2. With two outs, Justice lifted what appeared to be a 
go-ahead home run for the Braves to right, but at the last instant, the 
ball hooked foul by about two feet. Erickson retired Justice and the Twins 
came to bat with the score tied. Gladden responded with a walk and a steal 
of second. He moved to third on Knoblauch's liner to right and scored on 
Puckett's center field sacrifice fly and the Twins led 3–2. The Twins kept 
their one-run lead into the seventh. Lemke singled to center and went to 
second on a wild pitch by reliever Guthrie. After a strikeout, Smith walked 
and Pendleton then reached on an infield single. The Braves now had the 
bases loaded and one out as CBS commentator Jack Buck said the World Series 
was on the line right there. Gant hit what seemed to be a sure double play 
ground ball off the Twins' Carl Willis. The ground ball retired Pendleton, 
but Gant beat the relay to first and Lemke scored with the tying run. Willis, 
however, got out of the jam by striking out Justice to end the inning with 
the score tied at three. The game remained tied at three until the eleventh. 
Bobby Cox sent Game 1 starter Charlie Leibrandt to the mound to face Kirby 
Puckett. Puckett recalled telling Chili Davis that he planned to attempt 
to bunt for a base hit, to which Davis responded "Bunt my ass. Hit it out 
and let's go home!"[22] Puckett replied that he would take a few pitches 
first. After taking three pitches from Leibrandt and with a two-ball, one-strike 
count on him, Puckett launched the next pitch into the left-center-field 
seats for a dramatic game-winning home run that tied the Series at three 
games apiece. Jack Buck famously called the home run with the line "And 
we'll see you tomorrow night!"[23] This moment is captured in a statue 
of Puckett just outside Gate 34 at the Twins' new home, Target Field. The 
statue is of Puckett rounding second base, pumping his fists after hitting 
the dramatic walk-off home run. Puckett's home run forced the first Game 7 
since the 1987 World Series, which was also played at the Metrodome. With 
his walk-off home run, Puckett completed the game a double shy of hitting 
for the cycle. Rick Aguilera took the decision for the Twins after pitching 
the 10th and 11th innings, while Leibrandt earned his second loss of the 
series. The first World Series Game 7 in four seasons saw a rematch of 
the Game 4 starters. Jack Morris returned to the mound for his third start 
of the Series for the Twins while John Smoltz made his second for the Braves. 
Going into the game, this Series had been regarded as one of the best ever. 
The Seventh Game would reinforce that point. A symbolic moment for this 
World Series occurred on the first at-bat when Braves leadoff hitter Lonnie 
Smith shook hands with Twins catcher Brian Harper just before stepping 
up to the plate.[24] Neither team was able to score a run early on. The 
Twins had their first opportunity in the bottom of the third inning, when 
Dan Gladden doubled and advanced to third on a flyout by Chuck Knoblauch. 
But Smoltz struck out Puckett to end the inning. The Braves put a runner 
into scoring position with one out in the top of the fifth, as Mark Lemke 
reached third on a sacrifice bunt by Rafael Belliard and a bunt single 
by Smith. But Morris got Terry Pendleton to pop out and then struck out 
Ron Gant to end the threat. Neither team threatened again until the eighth 
inning. The top of the inning included a critical defensive play, with 
Smith on first and nobody out. Braves manager Bobby Cox called for a hit 
and run with Pendleton at the plate. Pendleton responded by lacing a double 
into the left-center field gap, but Smith made his second baserunning mistake 
of the series. As he rounded second, Smith momentarily hesitated and as 
a result of that, he was forced to stop at third. While he was running, 
Greg Gagne and Knoblauch tried to fake Smith out by pretending to start 
a 6-4-3 double play. Smith claimed he did not fall for the decoy, but instead 
was watching to see if Gladden or Puckett would make the catch. Morris 
later claimed the play should never have taken place. On the pitch before, 
with a 1–2 count on him, Pendleton appeared to swing and miss for strike 
three (which Morris believed Pendleton did). Pendleton appealed to home 
plate umpire Don Denkinger, saying that he'd foul-tipped the pitch at the 
plate. Denkinger turned to third base umpire Terry Tata, who confirmed 
the call.[25] Nevertheless, Morris was in a jam as he faced Gant with two 
runners in scoring position. After retiring Gant on a groundout to Kent 
Hrbek at first base, Morris became visibly annoyed when Twins manager Tom 
Kelly came out to talk to him as he believed Kelly was going to pull him 
from the game. Instead, Kelly told Morris that he was thinking about giving 
an intentional walk to David Justice and pitching to Sid Bream, with only 
three hits in the six previous games, instead. Morris agreed, and Bream 
stepped up with the bases loaded. Morris induced Bream to ground to first. 
Hrbek went home to force out Smith, who was still at third, and Harper 
relayed the ball back to first to retire Bream, one of baseball's slowest 
baserunners, in time to complete the 3-2-3 double play and end the inning. 
The Braves would not reach base again for the rest of the game. In the 
bottom of the eighth, Randy Bush pinch hit for Gagne to lead off for the 
Twins, and he singled off Smoltz, then was promptly removed from the game 
in favor of the faster Al Newman to pinch run. Smoltz then retired Gladden 
but gave up a single to Knoblauch, his eighth hit of the Series. With one 
out, runners on the corners, and Puckett coming to the plate, Bobby Cox 
elected to remove his pitcher from the game. Mike Stanton entered and was 
ordered to intentionally walk Puckett to load the bases. The next batter 
was Hrbek, who had not had a hit in quite some time and whom Stanton had 
struck out three times in a row. This time, Stanton got Hrbek to hit a 
relatively soft line drive to Mark Lemke, who then stepped on second to 
double-up Knoblauch. The game continued with no score. The Braves went 
down in order in the top of the ninth, as Morris retired Brian Hunter, 
Greg Olson, and Lemke. The Twins, with a chance to win the game in their 
final at bat, led off with a Chili Davis single. After Jarvis Brown came 
in to run for Davis, Harper attempted to move him over with a bunt down 
the first base line. Stanton misstepped coming to play the bunt, allowing 
Harper to reach base without a play. To make matters worse for Atlanta, 
Stanton's misstep caused him to strain a muscle in his back, and he had 
to be removed from the game. Cox was forced to bring in Alejandro Peña 
to pitch to Shane Mack. Despite his earlier struggles, Peña induced a ground 
ball double play to record the first two outs. He then gave an intentional 
walk to Mike Pagliarulo and struck out pinch hitter Paul Sorrento to send 
the game into extra innings. Refusing to come out of the game, Morris took 
to the hill for the top of the tenth. A Twin Cities sports writer wrote 
that on that night, "[Morris] could have outlasted Methuselah." He successfully 
rebuffed several attempts by manager Tom Kelly to remove him during the 
game, and was also supported by pitching coach Dick Such,[26] as he remained 
on the mound from the first pitch to the last. This led to one of the more 
memorable quotes of the '91 Series and, arguably, of any deciding game 
in World Series history: confronted with Morris' insistence on pitching 
the 10th, Tom Kelly is purported to have said, "Oh hell. It's only a game." 
[27] And as he had been for most of the night, Morris was effective, retiring 
Blauser, Smith, and Pendleton in order. Morris threw 126 pitches in the 
game.[28] Peña faced Gladden to start the bottom half of the inning, and 
the Twins' leadoff hitter lifted a fly ball to left field after breaking 
his bat upon the impact. The ball landed in front of the charging Hunter 
for a bloop hit, and the ball then took a high bounce that Hunter was unable 
to field. Gant backed up the play and caught the hop, but Gladden dashed 
to second and beat Gant's throw to the bag. Kelly then called for a sacrifice 
bunt, and Knoblauch executed to put the winning run on third with one out. 
As he'd done in the eighth, Cox called for an intentional walk to the resurgent 
Puckett. Hrbek, who had not gotten a hit in his last sixteen at-bats dating 
back to his single in the eighth inning of Game 3, was next up, and Brown 
would be scheduled after Hrbek since Brown had pinch-run for the power-hitting 
Davis. Despite Hrbek's .115 average in the Series and lack of baserunning 
speed, and despite the fact that the Braves had left-hander Kent Mercker 
and another pitcher warming up in the bullpen, Cox decided to call a second 
consecutive intentional walk, loading the bases to set up a force play 
at home plate. This left Kelly with a tough decision, as Brown did not 
hit well and had not yet gotten a hit in the Series. Entering the 10th 
inning, Kelly had already used four of the seven players on his bench. 
Then in the top half of the inning, he had inserted Scott Leius, who was 
normally a third baseman, into the game to play shortstop in place of pinch 
hitter Sorrento. This left Kelly with backup catcher Junior Ortiz and utility 
man Gene Larkin. Larkin was nursing an injured knee, but had one hit in 
three pinch hit at bats in Games 3–5. Kelly went with Larkin, who would 
have been the designated hitter had the game continued and would not have 
had to take the field. On the first pitch he saw, Larkin drove a single 
into deep left-center over the drawn-in outfield, scoring Gladden with 
the series-winning run and giving the Twins their second world championship 
since moving to Minnesota. Morris was the first player to embrace Gladden 
at the plate, followed by others. At the same time, Larkin was mobbed at 
first base. The two jubilant groups eventually merged in the middle of 
the diamond. The victorious players were soon joined by their families 
on the field, including Morris by his two sons. Later, the Twins players 
did a victory lap around the perimeter of the Metrodome field.[29] For 
the first time since 1962, a seventh game of the World Series ended with 
a 1–0 verdict.[30] This World Series was also the first since 1924 to end 
with an extra-inning seventh-game when the home team, the Washington Senators 
(who would become the Twins franchise in 1961) won it in their last at-bat. 
The same thing would also happen in the 1997 World Series when the Florida 
Marlins would beat the Cleveland Indians in the eleventh inning of Game 7. 
(Game 7 of the 2016 World Series also went to extra innings, when the visiting 
Chicago Cubs defeated the Cleveland Indians in 10 innings.). This game 
set a World Series record for the longest scoreless tie in Game 7. Only 
one other World Series game went longer without a run being scored (Game 6 
of the 1956 World Series went to two outs in the bottom of the 10th before 
the winning run was scored). The 1991 World Series was the second in five 
seasons in which the home team won all seven games in the Series. The other 
time this happened was in 1987, which was also won by the Twins who defeated 
the St. Louis Cardinals. Game 7 of this series was the last World Series 
game played at the Metrodome before the Twins moved out at the end of the 
2009 season, and would be the last postseason baseball game played at the 
venue until 2002. The pattern of the home team winning each game did not 
occur again until the 2001 World Series between the Arizona Diamondbacks 
and the New York Yankees. Seven Twins players appeared in both the 1987 
and 1991 Series, playing for the Twins both times: Kirby Puckett, Kent 
Hrbek, Greg Gagne, Dan Gladden, Gene Larkin, Randy Bush and Al Newman. 
In addition, the Braves' Terry Pendleton also played in the 1987 Series, 
as a member of the St. Louis Cardinals. The series was also unique because 
of the standings of the two participating teams in the prior season: both 
finished the 1990 season in last place; before 1991, no league champion 
had ever finished the previous season in last place, yet this was the case 
with both the Twins and the Braves. The Twins also won the AL West Division 
in 1991 with every team in the division having a .500 or better record, 
a feat the Braves themselves would achieve when they won the National League 
East in 2005. After the Twins' triumph, the 1993 Phillies, 1998 Padres, 
2007 Rockies and the 2008 Rays followed previous season's last-place finishes 
with a World Series appearance, but fell short. However, the 2013 Red Sox 
would join the 1991 Twins as the only teams to win the World Series a year 
after finishing in last place. Following the game, CBS Sports analyst Tim 
McCarver consoled Atlanta fans by stating that this was an excellent team 
and that he expected they would "be around" for some time to come. The 
Braves would, in fact, go on to win an unprecedented fourteen consecutive 
division titles not counting the strike-aborted 1994 season. They returned 
to the World Series the following year, but lost in six games to the Toronto 
Blue Jays. The Braves made three additional trips to the World Series before 
the decade ended, winning in 1995 against the Cleveland Indians, but falling 
in 1996 and 1999 to the New York Yankees. The Twins would contend for the 
1992 American League Western Division title for much of the season but 
finished six games behind the Oakland Athletics, who won the division for 
the fourth time in five seasons. The Twins' 90-72 record would be their 
last winning campaign until 2001, which was Tom Kelly's last season as 
the team's manager. Over the next several seasons, the players that made 
up the core of the 1987 and 1991 Twins slowly began to leave. Dan Gladden, 
the Twins' left fielder, departed in the offseason for Detroit. Jack Morris, 
the pitching hero of the series, signed with Toronto and returned to the 
World Series the next year. Greg Gagne and Chili Davis departed following 
the 1992 season, with Brian Harper leaving at the end of the 1993 season. 
Kent Hrbek's production began falling due to injuries that kept him off 
the field for much of the next two seasons, and he retired in 1994. The 
Twins then traded away both Scott Erickson and Kevin Tapani (neither ever 
regained their 1991 form) in the 1995 season, as well as Kirby Puckett 
to retirement due to a loss of vision in his right eye caused by glaucoma. 
Chuck Knoblauch was the last hitter of the 1991 team to remain in Minnesota, 
eventually forcing a trade following the 1997 season to the Yankees, with 
whom he won three additional World Series titles. After being traded to 
the playoff-bound Boston Red Sox in 1995, Aguilera would return to the 
Twins through the 1999 season, the last remaining player from the 1991 
championship team. This was the last World Series that Fay Vincent presided 
over as commissioner, as he was forced to resign near the end of the 1992 
season by the owners. The Twins and the Braves have met four times in Interleague 
play since the 1991 World Series. In 2002 the Braves finally experienced 
a Metrodome win by taking two games from the Twins in a three-game series,[31] 
only for the Twins to sweep a three-game series from the Braves at the 
Metrodome in 2007.[32] The Braves ultimately finished with an all-time 
record of 2–8 in the stadium before it closed as a baseball venue in 2009. 
In 2010, the teams played a three-game series at the new Target Field, 
in which the Braves won two out of three games. After the 1991 Series, 
the Twins did not play in Atlanta again until 2011 for two pre-season exhibition 
games at Turner Field. The Braves and Twins split the series 1–1. Then, 
as part of the new season-long interleague schedule, the Twins played their 
first regular season series against the Braves at Turner Field in May 2013; 
the Braves swept the three-game set. 1991 World Series (4–3): Minnesota 
Twins (A.L.) over Atlanta Braves (N.L.) This year, CBS used three field 
reporters, which were Jim Kaat (both teams as well as covering the trophy 
presentation), Lesley Visser (Twins' dugout) and Andrea Joyce (Braves' 
dugout). This was also the last World Series to be broadcast by Jack Buck 
(who would be replaced by Sean McDonough on the CBS telecasts in the role 
of lead play-by-play man). The Series telecast drew an overall national 
Nielsen rating of 24.0 and a 39 share for CBS; Game 7 drew a 32.2 rating 
and 49 share. As of 2015, no subsequent World Series has approached either 
