The 1992 World Series was the first World Series ever with games played 
outside the United States,[1] following the 1992 regular season. It pitted 
the American League champions Toronto Blue Jays against the National League 
champions Atlanta Braves. Toronto defeated Atlanta four games to two, marking 
the first time a team based outside the United States won the World Series.[2] 
The Blue Jays remain the only Canadian team to have appeared in, and won, 
a World Series (which they would do again the following year, in 1993).[A] 
The Blue Jays made it to the Series after beating the Oakland Athletics 
in six games in the American League Championship Series. The Braves were 
in their second consecutive series after again knocking off the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in seven games in the National League Championship Series. AL Toronto 
Blue Jays (4) vs. NL Atlanta Braves (2) Braves fans had plenty to worry 
about in regard to both starting pitchers. Tom Glavine's post-season career 
had been less than stellar, including giving up eight runs in the second 
inning of Game 6 of the NLCS against Pittsburgh. Entering Game 1, Glavine's 
career post-season record was 1–5 despite two starts where he had pitched 
well and only given up one earned run each time. Glavine was 0–2 in those 
starts. In addition to Glavine's struggles in the postseason, the Braves 
would be facing their nemesis from the previous postseason. In the offseason, 
the Blue Jays signed free agent pitcher Jack Morris to be the ace of their 
staff. Morris was coming off a 1991 World Series performance that saw him 
win series MVP and two of his three starts for the Minnesota Twins against 
the Braves. One of those starts was the now-famous seventh game, where 
Morris pitched a rare ten inning complete game shutout as the Twins rallied 
to win 1-0. While his 1991 postseason had been historic, Morris' 1992 postseason 
had been far from it to this point. He lost Game 1 of the ALCS against 
Oakland despite a complete game, and gave up five runs in the third inning 
of Game 4 but ended up with a no-decision after Toronto rallied for an 
extra-inning victory. Glavine gave up a home run to Joe Carter in the fourth 
for the first run of the Series, while Morris shut the Braves out for five 
innings. In the sixth, with two runners on and two out Damon Berryhill 
golfed a Morris pitch over the right-field wall for a three-run homer. 
It was all the offense Atlanta needed, and the Braves took the game by 
a 3–1 count. Glavine went the distance for the victory, only giving up 
four total hits. In taking the loss, Morris suffered his first career World 
Series defeat in his sixth start, with one no-decision. Berryhill's home 
run marked the first runs Morris had given up in the World Series since 
a Terry Pendleton home run in the bottom of the third inning of Game 4 
of the 1991 Series. Morris pitched an additional 3 1⁄3 innings in that 
game, all ten in Game 7, and the first 5 2⁄3 innings of this game to run 
his scoreless innings streak in the World Series to 19. Before the game 
started, during the performance of the National Anthems of the United States 
and Canada, the U.S. Marine Corps Color Guard accidentally flew the flag 
of Canada upside down[10][11] The Corps apologized for the error and took 
pains to carry the flag properly prior to Game 3 in Toronto after insisting 
that they would be honored to do so.. On top of that, Canadian rock/country 
musician Tom Cochrane sang the Canadian national anthem incorrectly. Instead 
of singing the line "... from far and wide, O Canada, we stand on guard 
for thee ...", Cochrane instead sang a lyric that was in a previous version 
of the song: "... O Canada, we stand on guard, we stand on guard for thee ...". 
Not only did Cochrane substitute the archaic lyric, he also did not sing 
it correctly, as the lyric said "we stand on guard, O Canada, we stand 
on guard for thee" before it was changed. The pitching match-up featured, 
strangely, the top two pitchers in the National League in strikeouts for 
1992. On August 27, 1992, the Blue Jays traded rookie infielder Jeff Kent 
and minor league outfield prospect Ryan Thompson to the New York Mets for 
their ace starting pitcher, David Cone. At the time of the trade, Cone 
had been leading the National League in strikeouts and was looking to do 
so for a third consecutive season. Major League Baseball rules dictate 
that when a player changes leagues during a season, the statistics he earns 
in each league are kept separate from each other. As such, Cone's total 
of 214 strikeouts with the Mets was frozen. Smoltz eventually caught and 
passed Cone toward the end of the season, finishing with a total of 215 
strikeouts to lead the league. Cone, meanwhile, settled for the overall 
major league lead at a career high 261 strikeouts after recording 47 with 
the Blue Jays. As far as the postseason had gone to that point, both men's 
fortunes varied. Smoltz had started three games in the NLCS, winning two 
and being saved from a loss when the Braves made a two-out rally in the 
decisive final game; his performance was enough to make him the series 
MVP. Cone started the second and fifth games of the ALCS, winning his first 
start by allowing one run over eight innings. His second start saw him 
give up five runs (three unearned) over four innings, saddling him with 
the loss. A controversial call was made by umpire Mike Reilly in the top 
of the fourth inning with Atlanta leading 1–0 after David Justice scored 
on a wild pitch from Cone. Roberto Alomar was at third base with John Olerud 
batting. On the first pitch of the at-bat, Smoltz threw a breaking ball 
that skipped past Damon Berryhill. Alomar broke for home plate while Berryhill 
went to retrieve the ball. As Smoltz moved in to receive the throw he nearly 
collided with a sliding Alomar, who had reached the plate at exactly the 
same time that both Smoltz and the ball did. Smoltz tagged Alomar and Reilly 
called him out on the close play, despite an angry Alomar's protest, and 
the inning came to an end. Replays shown by CBS showed that Alomar might 
have touched the plate with his hands before Smoltz was able to apply a 
tag. In the top of the fifth Pat Borders and Manuel Lee both reached base 
in front of Cone, who had already singled earlier in the game. Cone responded 
with his second hit of the game (only the third hit for a pitcher in the 
World Series since 1979) to drive in Borders and cut the Atlanta lead to 
2–1. Lee then scored on a single by Devon White, tying the game. The Braves 
rallied in the bottom half of the inning as Deion Sanders provided a spark. 
With one out, Sanders singled. He then immediately stole second, and after 
Borders made an errant throw he got up and ran to third. Cone then walked 
Terry Pendleton, then gave up the go-ahead run when David Justice singled 
in Sanders. Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston then pulled Cone in favor of 
David Wells, who gave up the fourth Atlanta run when pinch hitter Brian 
Hunter's sacrifice fly scored Pendleton. Toronto made another rally in 
the eighth inning. After Alomar doubled to left with one out, Joe Carter 
and Dave Winfield hit back to back singles, the second of which scored 
Alomar and cut the lead to 4–3. Smoltz was then lifted in favor of Mike 
Stanton, who retired Olerud, and then closer Jeff Reardon struck out Kelly 
Gruber to end the threat. The Jays entered the ninth trailing by the one 
run Reilly had cost them and turned to their bench, which the team had 
nicknamed "The Trenches". After a walk to Derek Bell, Toronto reserve infielder 
Ed Sprague drilled a pitch from Reardon, then baseball's all-time saves 
leader, to left for a two-run homer to give the Blue Jays the lead. The 
play was called by legendary Blue Jays announcer the late Tom Cheek, who 
said "Watch him hit a homer.", during Sprague's at bat. Atlanta tried to 
rally in the ninth. After Mark Lemke flew out, Toronto closer Tom Henke 
hit pinch hitter Lonnie Smith with a pitch. Ron Gant came in to pinch run 
for him and, after Otis Nixon recorded the second out, he stole second. 
Sanders then walked to put the winning run on base and Pendleton, an NL 
MVP candidate, came to the plate. Pendleton had led the majors with a .391 
average with runners in scoring position and two out. However, he popped 
out to Jays third baseman Kelly Gruber to seal the victory for Toronto. 
Gruber then angered Braves fans and players by mocking the "Tomahawk Chop" 
as he left the field.[12] Before this game, the U.S. Marine Corps Color 
Guard offered to hoist the Canadian flag once more in order to make amends 
for the inverted flag incident of Game 2. Likewise, the Royal Canadian 
Mounted Police flew the flag of the United States. As Game 3 moved across 
the border (for the first Canadian Classic) the question still remained 
of the Blue Jays' ballpark benefit. Before this series, the Blue Jays had 
previously only gone 3–6 in the postseason in their home park. Two of the 
wins, however, had come in the American League Championship Series as the 
Blue Jays won Game 2 and the clinching Game 6 against Oakland at home. 
In the fourth inning, the first big defensive play of the Series nearly 
resulted in a rare World Series triple play and another bit of World Series 
history was made. Deion Sanders and Terry Pendleton reached base to start 
the inning, and with nobody out in the top of the inning David Justice 
hit a deep fly to center field. Devon White was able to chase down the 
ball and make a leap to snare it before crashing into the wall. As White 
tracked down the ball, the baserunners watched the play develop and after 
he caught it, Pendleton inadvertently ran past Sanders and by rule was 
automatically out. While Sanders was still standing between second and 
third, first baseman John Olerud received the cutoff throw from Roberto 
Alomar and relayed it to third baseman Kelly Gruber, who began chasing 
Sanders back to second. Sanders dove back toward the bag as Gruber lunged 
at him to try and tag him to complete the triple play. Second base umpire 
Bob Davidson ruled that Sanders was able to return to the base, but Gruber 
protested that he had tagged Sanders on his foot before he could slide 
back in. The television replays backed up Gruber's case, as he appeared 
to clip Sanders' heel with his glove a split second before Sanders began 
his slide. In the bottom half of the fourth Joe Carter homered off of Braves 
starter Steve Avery, with the hit scoring the first ever World Series run 
in Canada. The Braves would tie the game in the sixth when Sanders ripped 
a double into the right-field corner and scored on a Justice single through 
the right side. They then took the lead in the top of the eighth. Otis 
Nixon led off the inning and hit a ball to third base that Gruber attempted 
to field, but the ball popped out of his glove and went into left field.. 
Nixon then stole second and with two out stood on third. Juan Guzman then 
walked Justice to pitch to Lonnie Smith, who delivered with a single that 
scored Nixon but also ended the inning as Justice was tagged out going 
to third. With the Blue Jays coming to bat in the bottom half, Gruber received 
an immediate chance to make up for his gaffe in the field and in doing 
so, would erase a long hitless streak. After going hitless in the ALCS 
opener, Gruber had recorded a home run and a double in the second game. 
Those had been the only two hits he had recorded to that point in the postseason, 
as he failed to record a hit in either the remaining four LCS games or 
the first two games in the World Series and was 0-for-1 in this game with 
a walk in his previous at bat. After going twenty-three consecutive at-bats 
without recording a single hit, Gruber worked a full count on Avery and 
then drilled a home run into left field to tie the game. Gruber would only 
record one more hit in the series after this. The top of the ninth inning 
saw the first World Series ejection since 1985.[12] Sid Bream led off the 
inning with a single. As was often the case late in games at this time, 
Braves manager Bobby Cox elected to pinch run for the slow-footed Bream 
with Brian Hunter, his backup and a legitimate threat to steal a base. 
With Jeff Blauser batting and the count at 2-2, Hunter took off from first. 
Catcher Pat Borders threw down to second to beat Hunter to the bag. After 
he put the tag on Hunter, shortstop Manuel Lee jumped up and told Borders 
to have first base umpire Dan Morrison rule if Blauser, who had attempted 
to check his swing, had gone around. Borders appealed and Morrison called 
Blauser out on a swinging third strike. Cox, who said he had been frustrated 
with home plate umpire Joe West's strike calls the entire night, picked 
up a batting helmet and threw it down with enough force that it bounced 
out of the Braves' dugout and rolled out onto the field. West, seeing this, 
ejected Cox from the game immediately after the incident. Shortly thereafter 
Duane Ward struck out Damon Berryhill to end the inning. Avery started 
the bottom of the ninth for the Braves and gave up a single to Roberto 
Alomar. Acting manager Jimy Williams pulled Avery from the game and brought 
in hard-throwing Mark Wohlers to face Carter. CBS announcer Tim McCarver 
questioned the strategy, as Alomar was a threat to steal a base and Avery, 
as a left-handed pitcher, had a quicker pickoff move than the right-handed 
Wohlers. The Blue Jays took advantage of this as Alomar stole second on 
a 1-0 pitch. With first base now open and Carter ahead 2-0, Wohlers put 
him on intentionally to keep a double play possibility alive. The next 
batter was Dave Winfield, who had been told by manager Cito Gaston that 
if Alomar and Carter reached in front of him, he wanted to move them into 
scoring position. Winfield did as Gaston asked and laid down a sacrifice 
bunt, which was successful and put the winning run at third base with one 
out. With the left-handed Olerud due up, Williams took the ball from Wohlers 
and called in left-handed specialist Mike Stanton. Gaston called Olerud 
back to the dugout after the change and sent Game 2 hero Ed Sprague, a 
right-hander, to pinch hit. With Candy Maldonado due up next, Williams 
ordered Stanton to walk Sprague to load the bases and then lifted him from 
the game in favor of Game 2 loser Jeff Reardon. Reardon had recorded some 
success against Maldonado in his career, and looked to do so again with 
two curveballs for strikes. However, instead of switching pitches, Reardon 
elected to throw a third curve and Maldonado, who was expecting it, drove 
a single to deep center to bring in a Tomahawk Chopping Alomar in from 
third with the winning run. Ward, the winner of Game 2, got his second 
victory of the series. The loss went to Avery as he was responsible for 
the two lead runners that were on base when the game ended. Reardon would 
not pitch again in the series after his back to back poor performances, 
and would not pitch in a postseason game again in his career before his 
1994 retirement. The Braves continued to employ the short rotation they 
had used during the postseason and sent Tom Glavine, the Game 1 winner, 
out for his second start of the series. For the Blue Jays, veteran Jimmy 
Key was given the start. Key had been with the Blue Jays since 1984 and 
was one of several players from their first ever division champion squad 
that were still with the team. However, he had not performed particularly 
well during the season and was limited to mop-up duty in the ALCS. The 
Braves began the game with a single off the bat of Otis Nixon, who was 
a threat to steal a base. Although Key managed to pick Nixon off of first, 
he immediately gave up a single to Jeff Blauser, hitting second in place 
of the resting Deion Sanders, and allowed him to steal second. Key neutralized 
the threat by forcing Terry Pendleton to line out and Lonnie Smith to ground 
out. Over the next six innings, the Braves only recorded one hit (another 
single by Nixon) and did not advance the runner past first base. In the 
third inning, the Blue Jays scored their first run when Pat Borders hit 
a solo home run. They added a second run in the bottom of the seventh, 
which would prove decisive, when Kelly Gruber scored on a single by Devon 
White with two out. The Braves broke through against Key in the eighth. 
Ron Gant, starting in place of Sanders, led off with a double. Brian Hunter, 
starting at first base in place of Sid Bream, followed by beating out a 
bunt down the third base line to put runners on the corners with nobody 
out. Key recorded back-to-back outs, retiring Damon Berryhill on a failed 
sacrifice bunt attempt and getting Mark Lemke to ground out to third. On 
the Lemke play, Gant scored the Braves' first run of the game and with 
the tying run now in scoring position as Hunter advanced to second on the 
groundout, Key was removed from the game. On his way off the field, he 
tipped his cap to the fans as they gave him a standing ovation. Duane Ward 
was brought in for his third consecutive appearance and his first batter 
was Nixon, who had recorded two of the Braves' hits. Although Ward got 
Nixon to strike out swinging, the third strike got past Borders and Nixon 
took off for first base. Nixon then stole second to put the go-ahead runs 
in scoring position, with Hunter having advanced to third on the wild pitch. 
Blauser, however, ended the inning by grounding out to Olerud. Tom Henke 
closed the game for the Blue Jays by retiring Pendleton, Smith, and David 
Justice in order in the ninth and Toronto found itself a win away from 
becoming the first world championship team from outside the United States. 
In what proved to be his last start for the Blue Jays after nine years, 
Key recorded his first victory in the postseason since he won Game 3 of 
the 1989 ALCS. Glavine pitched a second complete game in defeat for the 
Braves. Down three games to one and facing elimination,[2] the Braves returned 
John Smoltz to the mound for Game 5, who was still seeking his first World 
Series win. Jack Morris, who had lost Game 1 of the series, was given the 
start for Toronto. Before the game Terry Pendleton, who had seen a 3–1 
lead evaporate in the World Series before (having been a member of the 
1985 St. Louis Cardinals), reminded his teammates that the possibility 
still existed that they may win the series. The middle of the Braves' lineup, 
which consisted that evening of Pendleton hitting third, David Justice 
fourth, and Lonnie Smith fifth, had been struggling with the rest of the 
team and to that point, none of the batters hitting in those three slots 
(Pendleton, Justice, Smith, or Sid Bream who had hit fifth in the first 
two games in Atlanta) had recorded an extra base hit. The Braves took care 
of that statistic quickly. Otis Nixon led the game off for the Braves with 
a ground rule double due to fan interference. After Deion Sanders struck 
out, Nixon stole third as Pendleton batted. He then scored as Pendleton 
responded with a double of his own to right field, scoring the first run 
of the game and giving Justice a chance to drive in a runner in scoring 
position. Morris settled down, however, and retired Justice on a strikeout 
and Smith on a flyball to end the inning. The Blue Jays tied the game in 
the bottom of the second. With one out, John Olerud singled and Candy Maldonado 
reached on a walk. Smoltz struck out Kelly Gruber for the second out, but 
Pat Borders responded with a double. The slow-footed Olerud was sent home 
on the play and the throw to the plate was wide, which enabled him to score 
and put Maldonado on third with the lead run. Manuel Lee ended the threat, 
however, by lining out to Pendleton. The fourth inning saw the teams exchange 
runs again. In the visiting half, Justice led off with a home run for a 
2-1 lead. Morris quickly retired Smith and Sid Bream, however, and Borders 
threw Jeff Blauser out stealing to keep the deficit at one. In the bottom 
half, Olerud and Maldonado reached base in front of Borders with one out, 
and as he had in the second inning he drove in Olerud with a single. But 
once again, the Blue Jays could not score the lead run as Lee grounded 
into a fielder's choice which forced Maldonado out at third and Smoltz 
struck Devon White out with Borders at second. Morris started the fifth 
inning by striking out Damon Berryhill, whose home run in Game 1 saddled 
him with the loss, and forcing Mark Lemke to ground out. Nixon followed 
with his second hit of the game, then stole his second base of the game 
to put himself in scoring position. Sanders followed with a single to score 
Nixon, bringing Pendleton back to the plate. The third baseman followed 
with another hit that a fan reached over the fence and touched. This forced 
Sanders, who had rounded third and was on his way to score the Braves' 
second run of the inning, to return to third base. However, the Braves 
now had two runners in scoring position instead of one and Justice, coming 
off his home run an inning earlier, was due up. Trailing 3-2 and with his 
ace in trouble, Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston decided to make a strategic 
play. In a move mirroring the one he made in the eighth inning of Game 
3, Gaston ordered an intentional walk and put Justice on base. This brought 
Smith, with only one hit in the series, to the plate. As he recalled later, 
Smith saw the move as an insult to his ability as a player and said that 
it showed the Blue Jays saw him as an "easy out".[13] Now angry and determined 
to make the most of the opportunity, Smith drove a Morris pitch into the 
Braves' bullpen in right field for a grand slam and a 7-2 lead. That proved 
to be all for Morris as Gaston pulled him from the game immediately after 
giving up the home run, and David Wells retired Bream to end the inning. 
Smoltz pitched into the seventh inning giving up one hit afterward, a single 
to Dave Winfield in the bottom of the fifth. After walking Lee to lead 
off the seventh, he was pulled in favor of Mike Stanton, who got White 
to ground into a fielder's choice and then induced a double play from Roberto 
Alomar to end the threat. The Blue Jays only received one more baserunner 
the rest of the night as Joe Carter singled, stole second, then advanced 
to third on a sacrifice fly by Ed Sprague in the eighth inning but got 
nothing additional. Meanwhile, the Toronto relief corps of Wells, Mike 
Timlin, and Mark Eichhorn managed to keep the Braves in check from the 
remainder of the game. Atlanta threatened one more time in the ninth with 
one out as Lemke, Nixon, and Sanders all reached base, but Todd Stottlemyre 
induced a fly ball out to Maldonado off the bat of Pendleton and Lemke 
was thrown out trying to score. Smoltz took the win, his first ever World 
Series victory, with Stanton getting the save and Morris taking his second 
loss. Morris would not pitch another postseason game after this, with Smith 
being the last batter he would face in the postseason. Atlanta's offensive 
outburst ensured the series would return to the United States for at least 
one more game and dashed the Blue Jays' hopes of clinching the World Series 
at home on Canadian soil. The Braves would return home looking to force 
second straight Game 7 of the World Series, and potentially supplant the 
1985 Kansas City Royals as the most recent team to come back from 3-1 down 
to win the World Series. Smoltz's win in Game 5 was the first of only two 
World Series wins he recorded in his Hall of Fame career. After recording 
three no decisions in as many starts (Games 4 and 7 in 1991 and Game 2 
in this series), Smoltz would go another four years before winning another 
World Series game before winning Game 1 of the 1996 World Series. His overall 
record in World Series play was 2-2; he lost Game 5 in 1996 and Game 4 
in 1999. Smoltz's only other World Series start was in the 1995 World Series, 
where he recorded a no decision in Game 3 after the Braves rallied to force 
extra innings. Morris, meanwhile, continued his struggles in the 1992 postseason. 
In four total appearances, Morris allowed a total of nineteen runs and 
went 0-3 with an ERA above 7.00. In the World Series alone, his ERA was 
8.44, over seven points higher than his performance the year before when 
he recorded a 1.17 ERA. Game 5 would be his last postseason appearance 
for his career; Morris was injured toward the end of the following season 
and did not pitch in the postseason. He would retire from baseball in 1995. 
Smith's grand slam was the first in a World Series since 1988, when Jose 
Canseco hit one in the Oakland Athletics' eventual 5-4 loss to the Los 
Angeles Dodgers. Smith became the first player to hit one for the winning 
team since Kent Hrbek did so in Game 6 of the 1987 World Series for the 
Minnesota Twins, and was the last for a player on the visiting team until 
Addison Russell did so in Game 6 of the 2016 World Series for the Chicago 
Cubs. The sixth game saw Steve Avery return to the mound for Atlanta in 
an attempt to make up for his Game 3 loss. Toronto countered with Game 
2 starter David Cone, who received a no-decision after Ed Sprague's heroics 
saved him from a loss. After playing the middle three games as the Blue 
Jays' designated hitter, Dave Winfield returned to playing right field 
as he had done in the first two games in Atlanta. As such, manager Cito 
Gaston needed to adjust his lineup as he had done before. This time, he 
elected to employ his Game 1 lineup which saw Joe Carter spell John Olerud 
at first base instead of playing left field as he had in Game 2. The Blue 
Jays got on the board right out of the gate when David Justice misplayed 
a line drive by Carter to right field scoring Devon White who had singled. 
In the third, Atlanta's surprise hero of the Series Deion Sanders doubled 
off Carter's glove and scored when Terry Pendleton hit a sac fly. Candy 
Maldonado responded by hitting a solo home run in the top of the fourth 
to give Toronto the lead again. The Blue Jays threatened again later in 
the inning as catcher Pat Borders reached on a double with one out. Three 
batters later, Borders attempted to score on a single and was thrown out 
at the plate by Sanders. Avery was pulled after this inning in favor of 
Pete Smith. The Braves threatened in the bottom of the fifth against Cone, 
as Mark Lemke walked to lead off the inning and advanced to third on a 
single by Sanders with two out. However, after Sanders stole second to 
put the go ahead run in scoring position, Terry Pendleton struck out to 
end the inning. Neither team saw a runner reach third base in the sixth, 
seventh, or eighth. Cone left the game after six innings and gave way to 
Todd Stottlemyre, who recorded the first two outs of the seventh, and David 
Wells, who finished the inning. Duane Ward, who had won Games 2 and 3 of 
the series, shut down the Braves in the eighth. Atlanta kept the Blue Jays 
off the scoreboard as well, with Mike Stanton and Mark Wohlers pitching 
the eighth and ninth innings. With the score still at 2-1 and the bottom 
of the order for the Braves due in the bottom of the ninth, Gaston once 
again turned to his closer Tom Henke. He and his fellow relievers had not 
given up an earned run in the previous seventy-seven postseason innings 
to this point, and the Blue Jays had also not blown any of their save opportunities 
in the ALCS or World Series. Jeff Blauser led off the inning with a single 
and with Damon Berryhill batting next, Braves manager Bobby Cox called 
for a sacrifice bunt. Berryhill, who had not been called on to sacrifice 
to advance a runner in either the regular season or the NLCS, did as he 
was asked and Blauser moved into scoring position with one out. With the 
tying run now at second, Cox called Lemke back to the dugout and sent Lonnie 
Smith to the plate to try and drive Blauser home. Henke quickly got two 
strikes on the Game 5 hero, but Smith battled back to run the count full. 
On the eighth pitch of the at bat, Henke walked Smith to put the winning 
run on base. With the pitcher's spot up next, Cox called on another one 
of the Braves' heroes from the 1992 postseason and sent pinch-hitter Francisco 
Cabrera to bat. Cabrera had recorded the game and series winning hit in 
the deciding game of the NLCS and Cox hoped he could come up big again. 
Henke once again went to eight pitches with Cabrera before he forced him 
to hit a hard line drive to left that Maldonado nearly lost before jumping 
to catch it. With the Braves now down to their final out, Otis Nixon stood 
in against Henke. After quickly falling behind 0-2, Nixon slapped a line 
drive into left field on the very next pitch. Blauser rounded third as 
Maldonado fielded and threw to home, His throw, however, sailed over Borders 
and hit the netting behind home plate, enabling Blauser to score the tying 
run. With the wild throw, Smith and Nixon both advanced a base and Ron 
Gant, who had entered the game in the seventh inning as a defensive replacement 
for Sanders, came up next. Henke got Gant to fly out to end the inning 
but in the process had brought an end to the Toronto bullpen's aforementioned 
streaks. For the second consecutive year, Game 6 of the World Series was 
headed to extra innings. Atlanta called on Charlie Leibrandt to make his 
first series appearance in the top of the tenth. His task was to face the 
fifth, sixth, and seventh hitters in the Blue Jays' lineup. Leibrandt forced 
a groundout by Maldonado leading off the inning, then gave up a single 
to Kelly Gruber. Borders then flew out, and Leibrandt forced pinch hitter 
Pat Tabler to line a pitch back to him to end the inning. Henke went back 
out for the bottom of the tenth and retired Pendleton on a groundout. Toronto 
then brought in Game 4 winner Jimmy Key, who retired Justice and Sid Bream 
on back to back groundouts to end the inning. Leibrandt started the visiting 
eleventh by retiring Key on a foul pop. He followed that by hitting leadoff 
man Devon White with a pitch on a 1-2 count, and then allowed a single 
to Roberto Alomar. On the CBS television broadcast, analyst Tim McCarver 
theorized that with Carter coming to the plate, Cox would bring in Jeff 
Reardon to pitch. Although Reardon was warming in the bullpen and had been 
ready for some time, he also had not pitched after his back-to-back bad 
outings in Games 2 and 3 where he allowed the winning runs to score. Perhaps 
having that in mind, Cox stuck with the veteran Leibrandt and he rewarded 
his manager by recording the second out as Carter flied to center. This 
brought a struggling Dave Winfield to the plate. Winfield, to this point 
in the series, was hitting below .250 and was hitless in his four previous 
at-bats in the game. He had also struggled in his only other appearance 
in the World Series, when he was a member of the 1981 New York Yankees 
team that lost that year's World Series. Leibrandt was worked to a full 
count by the 41-year-old veteran outfielder, and on the sixth pitch of 
the at-bat Winfield connected on a line drive down the left field line. 
White scored from second and after the ball took a bad hop off the left 
field corner and skipped away from Gant, Alomar scored without a play. 
Winfield's hit was his first career World Series extra-base hit, and at 
41 he was the oldest player in baseball history to record one in the World 
Series.[14] Leibrandt managed to retire Maldonado to end the inning, but 
as he had done in Game 6 of the 1991 World Series, he gave up a run-scoring 
extra base hit to give the opposing team the lead; in that game he allowed 
a solo home run by Kirby Puckett which cost the Braves the game. With a 
two-run lead, Gaston sent Key out for the last half of the inning to try 
and pick up his second win of the series. Blauser, as he had done in the 
ninth inning, led off with a single. On the very next pitch, Berryhill 
hit a ground ball to short that appeared to be an easy double play ball. 
However, the ball took a strange hop at the last moment and handcuffed 
veteran shortstop Alfredo Griffin, who had entered the game in the tenth 
as a replacement for Manuel Lee and was normally a sure handed fielder. 
Blauser advanced to third on the error, and Cox sent pitcher John Smoltz 
in to run for Berryhill. Rafael Belliard, who had taken Lemke's place in 
the field and in the lineup, stepped in to take his first at bat and Cox 
called for a sacrifice to move Smoltz into scoring position. With one out 
and the tying runs now both in scoring position, Brian Hunter was called 
on to pinch hit for Leibrandt. Key forced him to ground out to Carter at 
first, and while Blauser scored the Braves were in the same position they 
were in two innings earlier: tying run on base, two outs, and Otis Nixon 
batting. As Nixon was announced, Gaston made his way to the mound to discuss 
strategy with his infielders. As the Blue Jays knew, Nixon was one of the 
fastest players in the game; he was one of two players, Sanders being the 
other, to record five stolen bases in the series. As many players with 
speed do, Nixon would lay down bunts from time to time and try to beat 
them out for base hits. Although doing so resulted in a relatively simple 
putout if not done properly, and despite the Braves being down to their 
last out, the Blue Jays still needed to consider the possibility of Nixon 
bunting. With this in mind, Gaston signaled to the Toronto bullpen to bring 
in Mike Timlin for his second appearance in the series. This move confused 
both McCarver and his broadcast partner Sean McDonough, who believed Key 
was staying in the game. Nixon, in addition to all of the aforementioned 
attributes, was a switch hitter who had better statistics as a left handed 
batter. Since Timlin was a right handed pitcher, Nixon would be hitting 
from his stronger side. In addition, the left handed batter's box is located 
closer to the first base line than the right handed box, which would give 
Nixon a faster jump toward first if he bunted. As the conference ended, 
Carter said to Timlin to be aware that the bunt was a possibility and to 
"be careful". After fouling off the first pitch Nixon did indeed lay down 
the bunt. Having listened to Carter, Timlin was able to field the ball 
quickly and threw to first to retire Nixon and clinch the series for the 
Blue Jays.[12] In the ensuing celebration Carter was trying to hold onto 
the ball. Timlin stopped him as he was celebrating and asked for the ball, 
as even though Carter had recorded the last out Timlin had gotten the save, 
and said to him "gimme the ball, that's my save, that's my World Series 
save". Carter slammed the ball into Timlin's mitt and hugged him. The next 
year Carter managed to keep the ball from the last at-bat of the World 
Series, as he would be the final batter and won the Series with a home 
run. Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston became the first African American manager 
to win a World Series. American League president Dr. Bobby Brown presented 
the World Series Trophy in the place of the commissioner. Just a month 
earlier, Fay Vincent was forced to resign and was replaced by Bud Selig 
(then owner of the Milwaukee Brewers) on what was originally perceived 
to be an "interim basis." Dr. Brown also presented the Blue Jays the trophy 
in 1993. The last World Series not to be presided over by a Commissioner 
until this year had taken place in 1919; Selig officially became Commissioner 
of Baseball in 1998. It also marked the first world championship for the 
city of Toronto since the National Hockey League's Toronto Maple Leafs 
won the 1967 Stanley Cup Finals. 1992 World Series (4–2): Toronto Blue 
Jays (A.L.) over Atlanta Braves (N.L.) The 1992 World Series is notable 
for being one of the few in which the losing team outscored the winning 
team over the course of the series. At 30 years of age, CBS' Sean McDonough 
became the youngest man to call all nine innings and games of a World Series 
(while serving as a full network television employee). Although Vin Scully 
and Al Michaels were several years younger when they called their first 
World Series (1955 and 1972 respectively), they were products of the then 
broadcasting policy of announcers representing the participating teams 
(a process that ended following the 1976 World Series). McDonough's record 
would subsequently be broken by Fox's Joe Buck, who at 27 years of age, 
called the 1996 World Series. Coincidentally, it was Joe Buck's father, 
Jack, that McDonough had replaced as CBS's lead play-by-play man. Serving 
as field reporters for CBS's coverage were Jim Kaat (in the Braves' dugout) 
and Lesley Visser (in the Blue Jays' dugout). The Series drew an overall 
Nielsen rating of 20.2, down from the previous year's 24.0 but higher than 
that of any subsequent World Series. CBS Radio also broadcast the Series 
nationally, with Vin Scully and Johnny Bench announcing. Locally, the Series 
was called on WGST-AM in Atlanta by Skip Caray, Pete Van Wieren, Ernie 
Johnson, Joe Simpson, and Don Sutton, and on CJCL-AM in Toronto by Jerry 
