The 1992 Summer Olympic Games (Spanish: Juegos Olímpicos de Verano de 1992; 
Catalan: Jocs Olímpics d'estiu de 1992), officially known as the Games 
of the XXV Olympiad, was an international multi-sport event played in Barcelona, 
Catalonia, Spain in 1992. Beginning in 1994, the International Olympic 
Committee decided to hold the games in alternating even-numbered years; 
as a result, the 1992 Summer Olympics were the last competition to be staged 
in the same year as the Winter Olympics.[1] The games were the first to 
be unaffected by boycotts since 1972.[2] Barcelona is the second-largest 
city in Spain, and the birthplace of then-IOC president Juan Antonio Samaranch. 
The city was also a host for the 1982 FIFA World Cup. On October 17, 1986, 
Barcelona was selected to host the 1992 Summer Games over Amsterdam, Belgrade, 
Birmingham, Brisbane, and Paris, during the 91st IOC Session in Lausanne, 
Switzerland.[3] Barcelona had previously bid for the 1936 Summer Olympics, 
but they ultimately lost to Berlin. The 1992 Summer Olympic programme featured 
257 events in the following 25 sports: A total of 169 nations sent athletes 
to compete in the 1992 Summer Games. With the dissolution of the Soviet 
Union, twelve of the fifteen new states formed a Unified Team, while the 
Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania each had their own teams 
for the first time since 1936. For the first time, Croatia, Slovenia and 
Bosnia-Herzegovina competed as independent nations after their separation 
from Socialist Yugoslavia, and Namibia and the unified team of Yemen (previously 
North and South Yemen) also made their Olympic debuts. The 1992 Summer 
Olympics notably marked Germany competing as a unified team for the first 
time since 1964, while South Africa returned to the Games for the first 
time in 32 years. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was banned due to 
UN sanctions, but individual Yugoslav athletes were allowed to take part 
as Independent Olympic Participants. Four National Olympic Committees did 
not send any athletes to compete: Afghanistan, Brunei, Liberia and Somalia. 
The following table reflects the top ten nations in terms of total medals 
won at the 1992 Games (the host nation is highlighted). The 1992 Summer 
Olympics were covered in many countries by the following television and 
radio broadcasters:[18] The celebration of the 1992 Olympic Games had an 
enormous impact on the urban culture and external projection of Barcelona. 
The Games provided billions of dollars for infrastructure investments, 
which are considered to have improved the quality of life and attraction 
of the city for investment and tourism.[19] Barcelona became one of the 
most visited cities in Europe after Paris, London, and Rome.[20][21] Barcelona's 
nomination for the 1992 Summer Games sparked the application of a previously 
elaborated ambitious urban plan.[22] Barcelona opened to the sea with the 
construction of the Olympic Village and Olympic Port in Poblenou. New centres 
were created, and modern sports facilities were built in the Olympic zones 
of Montjuïc, Diagonal, and Vall d'Hebron. Hotels were also either built 
or refurbished. The construction of ring roads around the city helped reduce 
the density of the traffic, and El Prat airport was modernized and expanded 
as two new terminals were opened.[23] The 1992 Summer Olympics cost Barcelona 
a total of USD 11.4 billion (in 2009 dollars), with a cost overrun of 417 
percent in real terms. This compares with an average cost of USD 5.7 billion 
(in 2009 dollars) for other Summer Olympics over the past 50 years, with 
an average cost overrun of 252 percent. Costs here includes only sports-related 
costs and does not include other public costs including road, rail, or 
airport infrastructure; and private costs, such as hotel upgrades or other 
business investments incurred during the preparation for the Games. Though 
the non-sports-related costs are typically substantial, their necessity 
varies drastically from city to city. Therefore, they are difficult to 
compare consistently.[24] There were two main musical themes for the 1992 
Games. The first one was "Barcelona", a classical crossover song composed 
five years earlier by Freddie Mercury and Mike Moran; Mercury was an admirer 
of lyric soprano Montserrat Caballé, both recorded the official theme as 
a duet. Due to Mercury's death eight months earlier, the duo was unable 
to perform the song together during the opening ceremony. A recording of 
the song instead played over a travelogue of the city at the start of the 
opening ceremony, seconds before the official countdown.[25][26] "Amigos 
Para Siempre" (Friends for Life) was the other musical theme. It was written 
by Andrew Lloyd Webber and Don Black, and sung by Sarah Brightman and José 
Carreras during the closing ceremonies. Ryuichi Sakamoto composed and conducted 
the opening ceremony musical score.[27] The Opening Olympic fanfare was 
composed by Angelo Badalamenti and with orchestrations by Joseph Turrin. 
The official mascot was Cobi, a Catalan sheepdog in cubist style designed 
by Javier Mariscal.[28] A renewal in Barcelona's image and corporate identity 
could be seen in the publication of posters, commemorative coins, stamps 
minted by the FNMT in Madrid, and the Barcelona 1992 Olympic Official Commemorative 
Medals, designed and struck in Barcelona. Coordinates: 41°21′51″N 2°09′08″E﻿ 
