The 1992 American League Championship Series was played between the Toronto 
Blue Jays and the Oakland Athletics from October 7 to 14, 1992. The Blue 
Jays won the series four games to two to advance to the World Series. The 
series was a rematch of the 1989 ALCS, which Oakland won in five games. 
Blue Jays second baseman Roberto Alomar was named Most Valuable Player 
of the series. In six games, Alomar rapped 11 hits in 26 at bats for a 
.423 batting average, including a double and two home runs. Oakland finished 
the 1992 season with a 96–66 record (.593), clinching their fourth American 
League West title in five years by six games over the Minnesota Twins. 
The Blue Jays also finished 1992 with a 96–66 mark, claiming their second 
straight American League East championship by four games over the Milwaukee 
Brewers. The Athletics clinched the West division on September 28. Although 
they were not playing that day, the Twins' 9–4 loss to the Chicago White 
Sox at home eliminated Minnesota from contention and gave the A's the crown. 
The race for the East division went down to the final weekend of the season, 
with the Brewers leapfrogging the Baltimore Orioles for second place in 
mid-September. However, Toronto pulled out a 3–1 defeat of the Detroit 
Tigers on October 3 to secure the division title. Toronto won the series, 
4–2. Wednesday, October 7, 1992 at SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario The first 
game of the series had Oakland's Dave Stewart face off against Toronto's 
Jack Morris. The A's put up a three-spot against Morris in the second inning, 
as Mark McGwire and Terry Steinbach hit back-to-back home runs. Stewart 
held the Jays scoreless until the fifth, when catcher Pat Borders homered 
to put Toronto on the board. Dave Winfield added another solo shot for 
Toronto in the sixth, and in the eighth a base hit by John Olerud scored 
Winfield to tie the game. However, Oakland took the lead right back in 
the top of the ninth, when Harold Baines led off the inning with a solo 
home run. A's closer Dennis Eckersley then shut down the Jays in the bottom 
half of the inning to preserve a 4–3 victory and give the Athletics a 1–0 
lead in the series. Thursday, October 8, 1992 at SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario 
Game 2 saw Oakland's Mike Moore face the Jays' David Cone. The game was 
initially a pitchers' duel, as Moore and Cone put up zeroes for the first 
four innings. In the bottom of the fifth, however, Toronto's Kelly Gruber 
hit a two-run home run off Moore to give the Jays the lead. In the seventh, 
Gruber doubled, took third on a grounder, and came home on a Manuel Lee 
sacrifice fly to extend the Toronto lead to three. The A's avoided a shutout 
in the top of the ninth, when Rubén Sierra tripled and scored on a single 
by Baines, but that was all they could muster against Toronto closer Tom 
Henke. The Jays took the second game and tied the series at a game apiece. 
Saturday, October 10, 1992 at Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, 
California The series shifted to Oakland for Game 3, as Juan Guzmán took 
the hill for the Jays while Ron Darling toed the rubber for the A's. Toronto 
struck in the second, when Winfield reached on an error by Athletics' third 
baseman Carney Lansford, moved to third on a wild pitch by Darling, and 
scored on a single by Candy Maldonado. Roberto Alomar hit a solo home run 
in the fourth to give the Jays a 2–0 lead, but in the bottom half of the 
inning the A's tied the game with RBI base hits by Baines and Steinbach. 
However, the very next inning, Maldonado hit a solo homer of his own, and 
after Oakland manager Tony La Russa gave Darling the hook in the seventh, 
the Jays added two unearned runs due to an error by Lance Blankenship and 
a triple by Lee, making it a 5–2 game. Although the A's cut Toronto's lead 
down to a run, the Jays tacked on single runs in the eighth and ninth. 
Henke retired the Athletics in order in the ninth, giving Toronto a 7–5 
victory and a 2–1 edge in the series. Sunday, October 11, 1992 at Oakland–Alameda 
County Coliseum in Oakland, California For the fourth game, Toronto threw 
Morris against Oakland's Bob Welch. In the second inning, Olerud tagged 
Welch for a solo homer to give the Jays the lead. However, the Athletics 
came back in a big way with a five-run third and tacked on another run 
in the sixth when Sierra doubled Rickey Henderson home, giving Oakland 
a seemingly secure 6–1 advantage. In the top of the eighth, however, La 
Russa pulled Welch, who had been cruising along, and went to his bullpen. 
The Jays capitalized by scoring three runs off hits by Joe Carter, Olerud, 
and Maldonado, cutting the A's lead to 6–4. In the top of the ninth, La 
Russa turned to Eckersley to shut down the Jays. Eckersley had given up 
two of Toronto's three runs in the previous innings, but La Russa decided 
to stay with his best closer. Devon White led off with a triple to left. 
Roberto Alomar was up next, and he hit a high line drive to right field 
that disappeared behind the wall for a game-tying two-run home run. This 
turned out to be a crucial point of the series, as it forced the game into 
extra innings and gave the Jays a chance to win. Indeed, in the top of 
the eleventh, Toronto came through. Derek Bell walked, moved to third on 
a Maldonado single, and came home on a sacrifice fly by Borders to give 
the Jays a 7–6 lead. Henke shut the door on the A's in the bottom of the 
inning, handing Toronto a 3–1 series lead. Monday, October 12, 1992 at 
Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum in Oakland, California Game 5 pitted Toronto's 
Cone against Oakland's Stewart. In the bottom of the first, Sierra cracked 
a two-run home run off Cone, and the next inning an error by Cone proved 
costly as Henderson got on base and then scored on a single by Jerry Browne. 
Although Winfield broke the shutout with a homer off Stewart in the fourth, 
the unearned runs continued to hurt the Jays, as the A's added three runs 
in the fifth (only one of which was earned) for a 6–1 lead. Toronto managed 
only one more run in the seventh when White singled Gruber home, and Stewart 
went the distance as the Athletics took a 6–2 victory and cut the Jays' 
advantage in the series to 3–2. Wednesday, October 14, 1992 at SkyDome 
in Toronto The series came back to Toronto for Game 6, with Guzmán going 
against Moore. In the bottom of the first, the Jays took a lead they would 
never relinquish, as White reached on an error by Henderson and scored 
on a homer by Carter, making it 2–0. In the third, Olerud lashed an RBI 
double and Maldonado followed with a three-run shot, extending the advantage 
to 6–0. McGwire put Oakland on the board in the sixth with a single that 
scored Sierra, but the A's could only manage another run against the Jays. 
In the ninth, Henke took the mound and induced a flyout from Sierra to 
end a 9–2 win, making Toronto the first non-U.S.-based team to win a pennant 
in Major League history. 1992 ALCS (4–2): Toronto Blue Jays over Oakland 
Athletics CBS' coverage of the 1992 ALCS led to conflicts with the presidential 
debates that year.[7] CBS did not cover one of the debates because Game 
4 of the series went into extra innings. By the time it ended, the debate 
was almost over. Over the course of Game 2, Jim Kaat was stricken with 
a bad case of laryngitis.[8] As a result, Johnny Bench had to come over 
from the CBS Radio booth and finish the game with Dick Stockton as a "relief 
analyst."[9] There was talk that if Kaat's laryngitis did not get better, 
Don Drysdale was going to replace Kaat on TV for Game 3 while Bench would 
continue to work on CBS Radio. Locally, the series was called on CJCL-AM 
in Toronto by Tom Cheek and Jerry Howarth and KSFO-AM in Oakland by Bill 
King, Lon Simmons, and Ray Fosse. The A's would go into a slump beginning 
in 1993, from which they would not recover until the Moneyball era, nearly 
