The 1993 American League Championship Series was played between the East 
Division champion Toronto Blue Jays and the West Division champion Chicago 
White Sox from October 5 to 12. The defending champion Blue Jays defeated 
the White Sox, 4–2, to advance to the 1993 World Series which they would 
win 4–2 over the Philadelphia Phillies thanks to Joe Carter's dramatic 
three-run walk-off home run in Game 6. The 1993 ALCS was the last played 
under the AL's two-division format, as the league realigned into three 
divisions the following year. The Blue Jays finished the 1993 regular season 
with a 95–67 record (.586), good enough to win them their third consecutive 
East division title. They clinched the division championship on September 
27 in a 2–0 win against the Milwaukee Brewers in Milwaukee. The White Sox 
ended 1993 with a 94–68 record (.580) to claim the West division crown. 
They too clinched the West Division on September 27; the final score was 
4–2 against the Seattle Mariners in Chicago. Both teams won their respective 
divisions by large margins: Toronto had a seven-game lead over the New 
York Yankees, and Chicago beat out the Texas Rangers by eight games. Toronto 
won the series, 4–2. Tuesday, October 5, 1993 at Comiskey Park (II) in 
Chicago The ALCS opened at Comiskey Park with a battle of aces, as Toronto 
threw Juan Guzmán against Chicago's Jack McDowell, the eventual 1993 American 
League Cy Young Award winner. The game was scoreless until the top of the 
fourth, when Jays third baseman Ed Sprague stroked a triple to right field 
that scored John Olerud and Paul Molitor. The White Sox took a 3–2 lead 
in the bottom of the fourth with RBI base hits by Ozzie Guillén and Tim 
Raines, but Toronto stormed back in its half of the fifth with a two-run 
double by Olerud and a run-scoring single by Molitor. The Jays' designated 
hitter added a two-run homer in the seventh that finally chased McDowell, 
and the Chicago batters could muster nothing more against Toronto's bullpen 
as the Jays took the game 7–3 and a 1–0 lead in the series. Wednesday, 
October 6, 1993 at Comiskey Park (II) in Chicago In Game 2, the Jays' Dave 
Stewart faced off against the Sox' Alex Fernandez. Toronto struck in the 
first when Rickey Henderson reached on an error by Dan Pasqua and later 
scored on a fielder's choice by Roberto Alomar, but the Pale Hose tied 
the game in the bottom of the inning when Stewart walked the bases loaded 
and then unleashed a wild pitch, scoring Raines. The contest remained knotted 
at one-all until the top of the fourth, when the Jays touched Fernandez 
for two runs via singles by Tony Fernández and Pat Borders. As in the first 
game, the ChiSox could not solve Toronto's relievers, and Duane Ward (who 
had notched a league-leading 45 saves during the regular season) secured 
his first playoff save as the Jays took a 2–0 lead in the series with a 
3–1 victory. Friday, October 8, 1993 at SkyDome in Toronto The series shifted 
north of the border for Game 3, featuring Chicago's Wilson Álvarez taking 
on Toronto's Pat Hentgen. The two starters traded zeroes until the South 
Siders erupted with a five-run third, including a pair of two-run singles 
by Ellis Burks and Lance Johnson. The Blue Jays got a run in the bottom 
half of the frame when Henderson doubled, stole third, and scored on a 
Devon White single, but Hentgen was pulled in the fourth after giving up 
back-to-back base hits. His replacement on the mound, Danny Cox, gave up 
another run when a Robin Ventura sacrifice fly plated Guillén. This was 
more than enough for Alvarez, who went the distance as the Pale Hose cut 
Toronto's series lead to 2–1. Saturday, October 9, 1993 at SkyDome in Toronto 
In Game 4, the ChiSox sent rookie Jason Bere to the hill against the Jays' 
Todd Stottlemyre. The South Siders took a 2–0 lead in the top of the second 
thanks to a home run by Johnson, but Toronto came back in the third with 
an RBI double from Alomar and a two-run single by Joe Carter, after which 
Pale Hose skipper Gene Lamont yanked Bere and replaced him with Tim Belcher. 
Chicago reclaimed its two-run advantage in the sixth when Frank Thomas 
tattooed a solo homer and Johnson tripled to center, scoring Burks and 
Bo Jackson. In the bottom of the inning, another RBI double from Alomar 
cut the lead to one, but the White Sox again restored their two-run lead 
in the seventh with a groundout from Joey Cora that scored Guillén and 
then extended it to three runs in the ninth with a single by Ventura. Roberto 
Hernández shut the door on the Jays in the bottom half of the inning, and 
the series was tied at two games apiece, dropping the Blue Jays' all-time 
ALCS record at SkyDome to dismal 3–8. Sunday, October 10, 1993 at SkyDome 
in Toronto Game 5 was a rematch of Game 1, with McDowell facing Guzmán. 
In the first, Henderson doubled to left and then tried to steal third, 
but McDowell's throwing error resulted in Henderson coming home for a 1–0 
Toronto lead. The Jays tacked on single runs in the second, third, and 
fourth, but Burks broke the shutout in the Chicago fifth with a solo home 
run. In the seventh, Scott Radinsky and Hernández came in to stop the bleeding 
for the ChiSox, but they combined to give up another run. In the ninth, 
Ward entered to close out the game and Ventura greeted him with a two-run 
shot, but he maintained his composure and struck out Jackson to give Toronto 
a 3–2 ALCS lead. Tuesday, October 12, 1993 at Comiskey Park (II) in Chicago 
The series returned to the Windy City for Game 6, as Stewart again faced 
Fernandez. In the top of the second, Borders ripped a two-run single that 
gave the Jays the lead, but the Pale Hose tied it in the third with a bases-loaded 
walk by Thomas and a fielder's choice from Ventura. In the fourth, Toronto 
took the lead back when Molitor reached on an error by Ventura and came 
home on a fielder's choice by Borders. The game stayed that way until the 
ninth, when White homered and Molitor cracked a two-run triple to right, 
giving the Jays a 6–2 lead. ChiSox reserve outfielder Warren Newson tagged 
Ward for a solo homer in the ninth, but the Jays closer recovered and induced 
a flyout from Raines, sealing the game 6–3 and Toronto's second American 
League pennant in a row. 1993 ALCS (4–2): Toronto Blue Jays over Chicago 
White Sox Locally, the series was called on CJCL-AM in Toronto by Tom Cheek 
and Jerry Howarth and WMAQ-AM in Chicago by John Rooney and Ed Farmer. 
Joe Carter is under it...he's GOT IT and the Blue Jays are headed back 
to the World Series! They have beaten the Chicago White Sox in Game 6 of 
the 1993 American League Championship Series! Hit in the air to right field, 
Carter has room... And the Blue Jays are going back to the World Series! 
