The 1993 National League Championship Series was played between the Philadelphia 
Phillies and Atlanta Braves. The Phillies stunned the 104-win Braves, who 
were bidding for their third consecutive World Series appearance, and won 
the NLCS 4–2. The Phillies, led by outfielder Lenny Dykstra and pitcher 
Curt Schilling, had gone from worst-to-first and cruised to a division 
title with a 97–65 record, and continued the exclusive reign of NL East 
championships by the Phillies and the Pittsburgh Pirates, their in-state 
rivals during the early 1990s.[1][2] The Braves, who had advanced to the 
World Series each of the past two seasons, won a classic division race 
over the 103–59 San Francisco Giants, finishing with a franchise-best 104–58 
record. The heavily favored and playoff-seasoned Braves brought their legendary 
pitching rotation of Cy Young winner Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz, 
and Steve Avery into the NLCS with them. After Philadelphia edged Atlanta 
in an exciting Game 1 that went into extra innings, the Braves hammered 
the Phillies in the next two games to a take a 2–1 series lead. However, 
the Braves' bats suddenly fell silent and the Phillies rebounded by winning 
close contests in the final two games in Atlanta to send the series back 
to Veterans Stadium with Philadelphia on top three games to two. The Phillies 
took Game 6 by a score of 6–3, sending them to their first World Series 
appearance in ten years. Philadelphia won the series, 4–2. Wednesday, October 
6, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Curt Schilling 
began the series spectacularly by striking out the first five hitters he 
faced. The game would be back and forth and low-scoring. A wild-pitch by 
Atlanta starter Steve Avery allowed Philadelphia to a take 3–2 sixth inning 
lead. The Braves manufactured the tying run in the ninth inning, but the 
Phillies won the game dramatically 4–3 in the tenth when Kim Batiste, whose 
error had helped the Braves tie the game, lined a double just beyond the 
reach of Atlanta third baseman Terry Pendleton to score John Kruk. Schilling 
finished the game with eight innings pitched and ten strikeouts in the 
no-decision. Thursday, October 7, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania The Braves offense crushed Phillies starter Tommy Greene right 
away in Game 2. An upper deck shot by Fred McGriff gave Atlanta a 2–0 first 
inning lead. Behind home runs by Jeff Blauser and Damon Berryhill, the 
Braves had built an 8–0 lead by the third inning. The Braves piled it on, 
with Terry Pendleton hitting a fifth-inning homer and Ron Gant adding a 
three-run double in the eighth. Greg Maddux gave up just two runs in seven 
innings in the 14–3 rout, which tied the series as the teams headed south 
to Atlanta. Saturday, October 9, 1993 at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium 
in Atlanta, Georgia Tom Glavine surrendered only two runs in seven quality 
innings, while the Atlanta offense, which had been held scoreless for five 
innings by Terry Mulholland, erupted for nine runs in the sixth and seventh 
innings to break the game open. David Justice provided the go-ahead hit 
with a two-run double and second baseman Mark Lemke had four RBIs as the 
Braves won the game 9–4, and seemingly took control of the series. Sunday, 
October 10, 1993 at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia John 
Smoltz and Danny Jackson faced off in a close Game 4. The Braves took an 
early 1–0 lead on a Mark Lemke double, but the Phillies went on top in 
the fourth inning with two unearned runs punctuated by a go ahead RBI hit 
by the starter Jackson. Atlanta had baserunners throughout the rest of 
the game, but could not get a clutch hit as the Phillies hung on to win 
2–1. Phillies closer Mitch Williams allowed the first two runners to reach 
in the ninth, but a double play groundout by Ron Gant helped him get out 
of it and earn the save. Monday, October 11, 1993 at Atlanta-Fulton County 
Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia With the series tied 2–2, the Phillies and 
Braves needed extra innings to decide Game 5. Philadelphia got on the board 
in the first off Steve Avery when Mariano Duncan singled and Kruk doubled 
down the right field line. In the bottom of the first, the Braves missed 
a chance to score when Fred McGriff hit one off the top of the right field 
fence sending Jeff Blauser racing around third to try to score. However, 
Wes Chamberlain fielded the carom cleanly, threw to shortstop Kevin Stocker, 
who then relayed the ball home to nail Blauser. In the fourth the Phils 
went up 2–0 on Chamberlain's sac fly which scored Pete Incaviglia who had 
reached on a three base error committed by Ron Gant. Meanwhile, Curt Schilling 
was again lights out, tossing nine strikeouts. In the top of the ninth, 
a seemingly inconsequential insurance run scored when Darren Daulton homered 
off Greg McMichael. However, up 3–0 entering the bottom of the ninth, trouble 
brewed on the horizon. Schilling walked Blauser to open the frame. Then 
Gant hit a sharp grounder to third which Kim Batiste booted for his second 
key error of the series. Williams was again asked to relieve Schilling, 
who would take a seat in the dugout peeking in through a towel at the beleaguered 
closer. The first batter Williams faced, McGriff, roped an RBI single past 
Duncan sending Blauser home and Gant to third. David Justice then hit a 
sac fly to left scoring Gant which cut the lead to 3–2. Terry Pendleton 
followed with a bullet past the mound and '92 LCS hero Francisco Cabrera 
chopped a ball up the middle that skipped past Stocker's glove to tie the 
game at 3–3. With one out and Pendleton taking third on the Cabrera hit, 
the series was hanging in the balance with the Braves 90 feet away from 
victory. The next batter Mark Lemke lined a shot down the left field line 
that looked to be a game-ending base hit for Atlanta. The crowd at Fulton 
County Stadium screamed and then sighed as the ball veered foul at the 
last second. Williams regrouped to strikeout Lemke and got Bill Pecota 
on a flyout to hold the game even. In the tenth, Lenny Dykstra vaulted 
Philadelphia back into the lead when he drilled a full count Mark Wohlers 
fastball over the fence in dead center field. 40-year-old Larry Anderson 
then came on in the bottom half to retire the Braves in order, closing 
out the 4–3 nail biter. The victory put the Phillies up 3–2 going back 
to the Vet. Wednesday, October 13, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania Trying to force a Game 7, the Braves sent their ace, Greg 
Maddux to the mound in Game 6. However, a Mickey Morandini line drive in 
the first inning hit Maddux in the leg. He stayed in the game, but was 
not the same. Darren Daulton hit a two-run double in the third and Dave 
Hollins connected for a two-run homer in the fifth, putting Philadelphia 
on top 4–1. Morandini's two-run triple in the sixth finally chased Maddux. 
Atlanta shortstop Jeff Blauser had a home run to make it 6–3, but Mitch 
Williams finished the Braves with a perfect ninth. Although he did not 
get any decisions during his two appearances in the six-game series, Curt 
Schilling's 1.69 ERA and nineteen strikeouts were still enough to earn 
him the 1993 NLCS Most Valuable Player Award. Schilling became the only 
pitcher in major league history to be named a postseason series MVP (League 
Championship Series or World Series) without either a pitching decision 
or a save, as of 2015[update]. 1993 NLCS (4–2): Philadelphia Phillies over 
Atlanta Braves In the 1993 World Series, the Phillies put up a good fight 
against the defending champion Toronto Blue Jays, but they fell 4–2 due 
to Joe Carter's dramatic three-run walk-off home run off Philadelphia closer 
Mitch Williams in Game 6. Although Williams is most often associated with 
Carter's home run, he was one of the major reasons why the Phillies got 
to the World Series in the first place. In the NLCS, Williams was the winning 
pitcher in Games 1 and 5, but only because he gave up the game-tying runs. 
In addition, he saved Game 4 and the clincher, Game 6 for the Phillies. 
