The 1993 Toronto Blue Jays season was the franchise's seventeenth season 
of Major League Baseball. It resulted in the Blue Jays finishing first 
in the American League East with a record of 95 wins and 67 losses.[1] 
They were shut out only once in 162 regular-season games. The Blue Jays 
would repeat as World Champions and become the first back-to-back champions 
since the 1977–1978 New York Yankees. The American League Championship 
Series would see the Blue Jays play the Chicago White Sox. After defeating 
the White Sox in six games, the Blue Jays would beat the Philadelphia Phillies 
in the World Series, also in six games. The team would not qualify for 
the post-season again until the 2015 season. This season marked the first 
time that a manager from the Blue Jays would manage the American League 
in the Major League Baseball All-Star Game. It was the 64th Mid-Summer 
Classic and was played on July 13 at Camden Yards in Baltimore with Cito 
Gaston leading the American League squad. John Olerud, Roberto Alomar, 
Joe Carter, and Paul Molitor were all starters for the American League. 
Pat Hentgen, Duane Ward and Devon White were named as reserves to the American 
League team. The American League defeated the National League by a score 
of 9–3. The Toronto Blue Jays spent their 17th Spring training at Dunedin, 
Florida, while playing their home exhibition games at Dunedin Stadium at 
Grant Field for the 4th Spring training season. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] 
[7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Other batters Manager Coaches 
Note: Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in [19] Note: G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in [19] [19] [19] October 5, Comiskey Park The ALCS opened 
at Comiskey Park with a battle of aces, as Toronto threw Juan Guzmán against 
Chicago's Jack McDowell, the eventual 1993 American League Cy Young Award 
winner. The game was scoreless until the top of the fourth, when Jays third 
baseman Ed Sprague stroked a triple to right field that scored John Olerud 
and Paul Molitor. The White Sox took a 3-2 lead in the bottom of the fourth 
with RBI base hits by Ozzie Guillén and Tim Raines, but Toronto stormed 
back in its half of the fifth with a two-run double by Olerud and a run-scoring 
single by Molitor. The Jays' designated hitter added a two-run homer in 
the seventh that finally chased McDowell, and the Chicago batters could 
muster nothing more against Toronto's bullpen as the Jays took the game 
7-3 and a 1-0 lead in the series. October 6, Comiskey Park In Game 2, the 
Jays' Dave Stewart faced off against the Sox' Alex Fernandez. Toronto struck 
in the first when Rickey Henderson reached on an error by Dan Pasqua and 
later scored on a fielder's choice by Roberto Alomar, but the Pale Hose 
tied the game in the bottom of the inning when Stewart walked the bases 
loaded and then unleashed a wild pitch, scoring Raines. The contest remained 
knotted at one-all until the top of the fourth, when the Jays touched Fernandez 
for two runs via singles by Tony Fernández and Pat Borders. As in the first 
game, the ChiSox could not solve Toronto's relievers, and Duane Ward (who 
had notched a league-leading 45 saves during the regular season) secured 
his first playoff save as the Jays took a 2-0 lead in the series with a 
3-1 victory. October 8, SkyDome The series shifted north of the border 
for Game 3, featuring Chicago's Wilson Álvarez taking on Toronto's Pat 
Hentgen. The two starters traded zeroes until the South Siders erupted 
with a five-run third, including a pair of two-run singles by Ellis Burks 
and Lance Johnson. The Blue Jays got a run in the bottom half of the frame 
when Henderson doubled, stole third, and scored on a Devon White single, 
but Hentgen was pulled in the fourth after giving up back-to-back base 
hits. His replacement on the mound, Danny Cox, gave up another run when 
a Robin Ventura sacrifice fly plated Guillén. This was more than enough 
for Alvarez, who went the distance as the Pale Hose cut Toronto's series 
lead to 2-1. October 9, SkyDome In the fourth game, the ChiSox sent Jason 
Bere to the hill against the Jays' Todd Stottlemyre. The South Siders took 
a 2-0 lead in the top of the second thanks to a home run by Johnson, but 
Toronto came back in the third with an RBI double from Alomar and a two-run 
single by Joe Carter, after which Pale Hose skipper Gene Lamont yanked 
Bere and replaced him with Tim Belcher. Chicago reclaimed its two-run advantage 
in the sixth when Frank Thomas tattooed a solo homer and Johnson tripled 
to center, scoring Burks and Bo Jackson. In the bottom of the inning, another 
RBI double from Alomar cut the lead to one, but the White Sox again restored 
their two-run lead in the seventh with a groundout from Joey Cora that 
scored Guillén and then extended it to three runs in the ninth with a single 
by Ventura. Roberto Hernández shut the door on the Jays in the bottom half 
of the inning, and the series was tied at two games apiece. October 10, 
SkyDome Game 5 was a rematch of Game 1, with McDowell facing Guzmán. In 
the first, Henderson doubled to left and then tried to steal third, but 
McDowell's throwing error resulted in Henderson coming home for a 1-0 Toronto 
lead. The Jays tacked on single runs in the second, third, and fourth, 
but Burks broke the shutout in the Chicago fifth with a solo home run. 
In the seventh, Scott Radinsky and Hernández came in to stop the bleeding 
for the ChiSox, but they combined to give up another run. In the ninth, 
Ward entered to close out the game and Ventura greeted him with a two-run 
shot, but he maintained his composure and struck out Jackson to give Toronto 
a 3-2 ALCS lead. October 12, Comiskey Park The series returned to the Windy 
City for Game 6, as Stewart again faced Fernandez. In the top of the second, 
Borders ripped a two-run single that gave the Jays the lead, but the Pale 
Hose tied it in the third with a bases-loaded walk by Thomas and a fielder's 
choice from Ventura. In the fourth, Toronto took the lead back when Molitor 
reached on an error by Ventura and came home on a fielder's choice by Borders. 
The game stayed that way until the ninth, when White homered and Molitor 
cracked a two-run triple to right, giving the Jays a 6-2 lead. ChiSox reserve 
outfielder Warren Newson tagged Ward for a solo homer in the ninth, but 
the Jays closer recovered and induced a flyout from Raines, sealing the 
game 6-3 and Toronto's second American League pennant in a row. October 
16, 1993 at the SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario, Canada The series' first game 
sent two staff aces -- Curt Schilling for Philadelphia and Juan Guzman 
for Toronto—against one another. The result was less than a pitcher's duel, 
however, as both teams scored early and often. The deciding plays came 
in the middle innings. With Toronto behind 4-3 in the 5th inning, Devon 
White hit a solo home run to tie the game. The next inning, John Olerud 
hit a solo home run of his own to put Toronto on top. Toronto added three 
insurance runs in the bottom of the 7th and held on to win 8-5. Al Leiter 
pitched 2 2⁄3 innings—in relief of a sporadic Juan Guzman, who walked four 
in just five innings—for his first World Series win. John Kruk had three 
hits for Philadelphia. October 17, 1993 at SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada In the second game of the series, Dave Stewart was on the mound 
for Toronto and Terry Mulholland started for Philadelphia. Philadelphia 
jumped out to an early lead: in the third inning, Jim Eisenreich followed 
John Kruk and Dave Hollins RBI singles with a three-run home run to deep 
right-centre. Toronto got on the scoreboard in the fourth inning courtesy 
of a Joe Carter two-run home run to left (his second most important home 
run of the series by a wide margin), but the Jays were unable to mount 
a significant offensive push later in the game. Philadelphia held on to 
win 6-4. Terry Mulholland pitched 5 2⁄3 innings, allowing 3 earned runs, 
for the win. October 19, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia For Toronto, 
Pat Hentgen faced off against Philadelphia starter Danny Jackson in Game 
3. Hentgen pitched a strong 6 innings, allowing just 1 run, and the Toronto 
offense took care of the rest. Toronto won 10-3. Toronto manager Cito Gaston 
was faced with an unusual and difficult decision prior to game time. As 
the series switched the National League ballpark, Gaston was forced to 
sit one player from his regular line-up as the designated hitter (DH) would 
not be allowed to play. As regular DH Paul Molitor had been a hot hand 
in the line-up, Gaston elected to sit firstbaseman John Olerud and place 
Molitor at first base. The decision was potentially controversial as Olerud 
led the American League in batting during the year with a .363 average 
and Molitor was the less sure-handed fielder. Molitor, however, put these 
concerns to rest, going 3 for 4, hitting a home run in the 3rd inning, 
and driving in 3 runs. October 20, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia 
In the fourth game of the series, Todd Stottlemyre started for Toronto 
while Tommy Greene started for Philadelphia. The starters are notable because 
neither lasted three innings. In one of the more unusual plays in World 
Series history, Todd Stottlemyre, trying to go first to third on a Roberto 
Alomar single in the 2nd inning, did a bellyflop diving into third base, 
where he was called out. Todd's awkward dive resulted in an abrasion on 
his chin and appeared to shake him up in the next inning, during which 
he surrendered a Lenny Dykstra two-run home run. Stottlemyre was pulled 
after the second inning, having already given up six runs. (Tommy Greene 
fared little better, being pulled after giving up seven runs in 2 1⁄3 innings.) 
Philadelphia took a commanding 12-7 lead in the 5th inning, courtesy of 
two-run home runs from Darren Daulton and Dykstra, and a run-scoring double 
from Milt Thompson. Toronto fought back from a 14-9 deficit in the 8th 
inning, scoring six runs on run scoring hits from Paul Molitor, Tony Fernández, 
Rickey Henderson, and Devon White. Duane Ward pitched the final 1 1⁄3 innings, 
preserving the 15-14 victory. Three new World Series records included the 
longest game at four hours fourteen minutes (4:14), most runs by both clubs 
with twenty-nine (29), and runs scored by a losing team with fourteen (14). 
Also, Charlie Williams became the first African American to serve as the 
home plate umpire for a World Series game. October 21, 1993 at Veterans 
Stadium in Philadelphia The offenses were due for an off-day, and it came 
in Game 5 courtesy of a Curt Schilling (Philadelphia) and Juan Guzman (Toronto) 
pitching duel. Schilling shut down the previously unstoppable Toronto offense, 
limiting the team to just five hits and no runs. Guzman pitched well in 
a losing effort, allowing only two runs and five hits in seven innings 
of work. The two runs scored as a result of scrappy play from the Philadelphia 
offense. In the first inning, Lenny Dykstra walked, stole second, moved 
to third on a Pat Borders throwing error, and scored on a John Kruk ground 
out. In the second inning, Darren Daulton opened with a double, took third 
on a ground out, and scored on a Kevin Stocker single. October 23, 1993 
at SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario, Canada [16] The sixth game in the series 
was a rematch between Game 2 starters Terry Mulholland and Dave Stewart, 
who would have similar results. Toronto opened up the scoring in the bottom 
of the first with a run-scoring Paul Molitor triple, Joe Carter sacrifice 
fly, and Roberto Alomar RBI single. Molitor added a solo home run in the 
5th inning, bringing the score to 5-1 for Toronto. In the 7th inning, Philadelphia 
fought back with five runs to take a 6-5 lead. Lenny Dykstra hit a three-run 
home run, Dave Hollins had an RBI single and Pete Incaviglia hit a sacrifice 
fly. The inning brought an end to Dave Stewart's night, leaving the game 
with 6 innings pitched and 4 runs given up. Philadelphia closer Mitch Williams 
came on to the pitch the bottom of the 9th with Philadelphia clinging to 
a 6-5 lead. After beginning the inning by walking Rickey Henderson, Williams 
tried to counter Henderson's speed by pitching out of a slide-step style 
of pitching delivery. Prior to Game 6 of the 1993 World Series, Williams 
never used the slide-step delivery in his career. This may have cut back 
on the velocity of the hard throwing Williams. The walk to Henderson was 
followed by a Devon White fly out and a single by Paul Molitor. Joe Carter 
came up next and, on a two strike pitch, he hit an inside pitch just over 
the left field fence for a three-run walk off home run, giving the Blue 
Jays a come-from-behind 8-6 victory, and the World Series crown. This was 
only the second time a world series has ended with a home run and last 
time a run was scored in the World Series outside of the United States. 
The 1993 Toronto Blue Jays were inducted into the Ontario Sports Hall of 
Fame in 2002.[23] Infielders Outfielders Designated Hitter Pitchers Manager 
