The 1993 World Series was a best-of-seven playoff series to determine the 
champion of Major League Baseball for the 1993 season. It pitted the defending 
champions Toronto Blue Jays of the American League against the National 
League champions Philadelphia Phillies. With Toronto ahead three games 
to two in the Series, but trailing Game 6 by a score of 6-5 with one out 
in the bottom of the ninth inning, with runners on first and second base 
and a count of two balls and two strikes, Joe Carter hit a game-winning 
three-run home run to win Game 6 by a score of 8-6 and the series four-games-to-two 
for Toronto, its second consecutive championship (the first repeaters since 
the 1977–78 Yankees). This was only the second Series concluded by such 
a home run (the first was in the 1960 World Series on a Bill Mazeroski 
home run for the Pittsburgh Pirates), and the first such occasion where 
a come-from-behind walk-off home run won a World Series. Larry Andersen 
was the only member of the 1993 Phillies to also play for them in the 1983 
World Series, although Darren Daulton was a late season call-up in 1983, 
but only served as the bullpen catcher in the World Series. Fittingly, 
in Daulton's first ever MLB game, he was a catcher for Larry Andersen.[1] 
AL Toronto Blue Jays (4) vs. NL Philadelphia Phillies (2) The Series' first 
game sent two staff aces—Curt Schilling for Philadelphia and Juan Guzman 
for Toronto—against one another. The result was less than a pitcher's duel, 
however, as both teams scored early and often. The deciding plays came 
in the middle innings. With Toronto behind 4–3 in the fifth inning, Devon 
White hit a solo home run to tie the game. The next inning, John Olerud 
hit a solo home run of his own to put Toronto on top. Toronto added three 
insurance runs in the bottom of the seventh and held on to win 8–5. Al 
Leiter pitched 2 2⁄3 innings—in relief of an erratic Juan Guzman, who walked 
four in just five innings—for his first World Series win. John Kruk had 
three hits for Philadelphia. Also of note, Roberto Alomar made an amazing 
diving catch on a Lenny Dykstra looper behind first in the top of the fifth. 
In the second game of the Series, Dave Stewart was on the mound for Toronto 
and Terry Mulholland started for Philadelphia. Philadelphia jumped out 
to an early lead: in the third inning, Jim Eisenreich followed John Kruk 
and Dave Hollins RBI singles with a three-run home run to deep right-center. 
Toronto got on the scoreboard in the fourth inning courtesy of a Joe Carter 
two-run home run to left, but the Jays were unable to mount a significant 
offensive push later in the game. Philadelphia held on to win 6–4. Terry 
Mulholland pitched 5 2⁄3 innings, allowing three earned runs, for the win. 
For Toronto, Pat Hentgen faced off against Philadelphia starter Danny Jackson 
in Game 3. Hentgen pitched a strong six innings, allowing just a single 
run, and the Toronto offense took care of the rest. In Jackson's last postseason 
start against the Blue Jays, he had recorded a shutout (in the 1985 American 
League Championship Series), but he was not nearly as effective in this 
game as he was rocked for three runs in the first. In the end, Toronto 
prevailed, 10–3. Toronto manager Cito Gaston was faced with an unusual 
and difficult decision prior to game time. As the Series switched to the 
National League ballpark, Gaston was forced to sit one player from his 
regular line-up as the designated hitter (DH) would not be allowed to play. 
As regular DH Paul Molitor had been a hot hand in the line-up, Gaston elected 
to sit first baseman John Olerud and position Molitor at first base. The 
decision was potentially controversial as Olerud had led the American League 
in batting over the season with a .363 average; moreover, Molitor was the 
less sure-handed fielder. Molitor, however, put these concerns to rest, 
going 3-for-4, hitting a home run in the third inning and driving in three 
runs, while playing adequately at first base. In the fourth game of the 
Series, Toronto sent Todd Stottlemyre to the mound while Philadelphia countered 
with Tommy Greene. It had been a rainy day in Philadelphia, which water-logged 
the aging turf at Veterans Stadium, making for particularly slippery conditions. 
Early in the game, Stottlemyre, trying to go first to third on a Roberto 
Alomar single in the second inning, did a bellyflop diving into third base, 
where he was called out. Todd's awkward dive resulted in an abrasion on 
his chin and appeared to shake him up in the next inning, during which 
he surrendered a two-run home run to Lenny Dykstra. Stottlemyre was pulled 
after the second inning, having already given up six runs. Tommy Greene 
fared little better for the Phillies, being pulled after giving up seven 
runs in three innings. Philadelphia took a commanding 12–7 lead in the 
fifth inning, courtesy of two-run home runs from Dykstra and Darren Daulton, 
and a run-scoring double from Milt Thompson. Toronto fought back from a 
14–9 deficit in the eighth inning, scoring six runs on hits from Paul Molitor, 
Tony Fernández, Rickey Henderson, and Devon White. Duane Ward earned the 
save, retiring the last four Phillies batters. Three new World Series records 
were set, including the longest game (4:14), most total runs scored in 
a single game (29), and most runs scored by a losing team (14). Also, Charlie 
Williams became the first African American to serve as the home plate umpire 
for a World Series game. Two death threats directed towards Mitch Williams 
were phoned into Veterans Stadium as soon as it became evident that Williams 
was going to be the losing pitcher of Game 4. Williams wasn't aware of 
the death threats until after Game 5. The offenses were due for an off-day, 
and it came in Game 5 courtesy of a Curt Schilling (Philadelphia) and Juan 
Guzman (Toronto) pitching duel. Schilling shut down the previously unstoppable 
Toronto offense, limiting the team to just five hits and no runs. It was 
only the second time all season that Toronto had been shut out. Guzman 
pitched well in a losing effort, allowing only two runs and five hits in 
seven innings of work. The two runs scored as a result of scrappy play 
from the Philadelphia offense. In the first inning, Lenny Dykstra walked, 
stole second, moved to third on a Pat Borders throwing error, and scored 
on a John Kruk ground out. In the second inning, Darren Daulton opened 
with a double, took third on a ground out, and scored on a Kevin Stocker 
single. As it turned out, it was the final postseason baseball game in 
Veterans Stadium. It was demolished after the 2003 season. The sixth game 
in the Series was a rematch between Game 2 starters Terry Mulholland and 
Dave Stewart, who would have similar results. Toronto scored in the bottom 
of the first with a run-scoring Paul Molitor triple, Joe Carter sacrifice 
fly, and Roberto Alomar RBI single. Paul Molitor added a solo home run 
in the fifth inning while the Toronto fans were chanting "MVP" for Paul, 
bringing the score to 5–1 for Toronto. Ultimately, Molitor became the first 
player in World Series history to have at least two home runs, two doubles, 
and two triples. In the seventh inning, Philadelphia fought back with five 
runs to take a 6–5 lead. Lenny Dykstra hit a three-run home run, Dave Hollins 
had an RBI single and Pete Incaviglia hit a sacrifice fly. The inning brought 
an end to Stewart's night, leaving the game with six innings pitched and 
four runs given up. Philadelphia closer Mitch Williams came on to pitch 
the bottom of the ninth with his team clinging to a 6–5 lead. After beginning 
the inning by walking Rickey Henderson, Williams tried to counter Henderson's 
speed by using a slide-step style of pitching delivery. Prior to Game 6 
of the 1993 World Series, Williams never used the slide-step delivery in 
his career, and this may have cut back on his velocity. The walk to Henderson 
was followed by a Devon White fly out and a single by Paul Molitor that 
moved Henderson to second. Joe Carter came up next and, with the count 
2–2, he hit a three-run home run to win the game and the World Series crown. 
Just before the fifth and final pitch to Joe Carter, CBS Sports announcer 
Tim McCarver commented that Carter (relatively unproductive in the Series 
to date) looked awkward and uncomfortable at the plate. The same pitch 
allowed Blue Jays radio announcer Tom Cheek the opportunity to utter his 
famous "Touch 'em all, Joe" quote, when Joe Carter clinched the series. 
Carter joined Bill Mazeroski as one of the only two players to win a World 
Series with a home run in the bottom of the ninth inning of the deciding 
game. Carter was actively involved in the final play of the World Series 
for the second year in a row. In the previous year, Carter caught the final 
out as first baseman after relief pitcher Mike Timlin fielded Otis Nixon's 
bunt. Furthermore, taking the 1993 ALCS into account (where he caught the 
final out in the outfield), he had been involved in the final play of three 
straight postseason series. American League president Dr. Bobby Brown presented 
the World Series Trophy instead of the Commissioner of Baseball; this event 
also occurred in the year before. The Blue Jays became the second expansion 
team to win two World Series championships, following the New York Mets 
in 1986. With the Montreal Canadiens winning the 1993 Stanley Cup Finals 
five months earlier, it marked the only time Canadian teams won multiple 
league championships among the four major North American team sports in 
a calendar year. Both teams would experience long absences from the postseason; 
the Phillies did not return to the postseason until 2007, or appear in 
another World Series until their championship season of 2008, bringing 
the city of Philadelphia its first championship since the 76ers swept the 
1983 NBA Finals.[8] The general manager of the Blue Jays, Pat Gillick, 
was general manager of the Phillies team that won the 2008 World Series. 
The Blue Jays did not qualify for the playoffs again until the 2015 season. 
1993 World Series (4–2): Toronto Blue Jays (A.L.) over Philadelphia Phillies 
(N.L.) Game 6 (October 23) is to date, the last Major League Baseball game 
to be televised on CBS. Sean McDonough (play-by-play) and Tim McCarver 
(color commentary and himself a former Phillies broadcaster) called the 
action for CBS. The following season, Major League Baseball entered into 
a revenue sharing joint venture with ABC and NBC called The Baseball Network, 
but that joint venture was cancelled after two seasons, and by 1996, Fox 
took over the broadcasting rights to MLB games. CBS' Andrea Joyce became 
the first woman to co-host (alongside Pat O'Brien) a World Series. Serving 
as field reporters for CBS were Lesley Visser (in the Blue Jays' dugout) 
and Jim Gray (in the Phillies' dugout) The national radio broadcast was 
also provided by CBS, with Vin Scully and Johnny Bench on the call. Locally, 
the Series was called on WOGL-AM in Philadelphia by Harry Kalas, Richie 
Ashburn, Chris Wheeler, Andy Musser, and Garry Maddox and on CJCL-AM in 
Toronto by Jerry Howarth and Tom Cheek. Cheek's call of the Carter home 
run ("Touch 'em all Joe, you'll never hit a bigger home run in your life!") 
lives on in Blue Jays folklore. The 1993 series was Richie Ashburn's last 
as a Phillies broadcaster, as he died in 1997. Andy Musser also called 
his last World Series as a member of the Phillies' broadcast team; he retired 
in 2001 and died eleven years later. Tom Cheek never called another postseason 
game in his role as voice of the Blue Jays, from which he retired in 2005 
prior to his death from brain cancer. Game 6 also marked Johnny Bench's 
final broadcast for CBS Radio after nine years (he would be replaced on 
CBS Radio's World Series broadcasts by Jeff Torborg), while Harry Kalas 
would not call another World Series until 2008. Kalas later died in 2009 
prior to a game at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C.. Chris Wheeler continues 
to call games for the Phillies on TV and Jerry Howarth has continued to 
call Blue Jays games, moving into the primary play-by-play position following 
the death of Cheek. 95 South Remixed their local hit "Whoot There It Is" 
turning into a special tribute to the Phillies. It is often confused with 
"Whoomp There It Is" by Tag Team however the songs are distinctly different.[citation 
needed] Toronto rapper Choclair refers to Joe Carter's walk-off home run 
in his 1999 song, "Let's Ride". On July 29, 2015, Toronto rapper Drake 
released a diss track against Philadelphia rapper Meek Mill entitled "Back 
to Back". The cover of the diss track features a picture of Joe Carter, 
just after hitting the series-clinching home run. Roger Angell's review 
of the Series in the New Yorker was entitled "Oh, What A Lovely War".[10] 
