The 1993 Major League Baseball expansion resulted in the addition of the 
Florida Marlins, now known as the Miami Marlins, and Colorado Rockies to 
Major League Baseball. Talks of expansion began on August 8, 1985 when 
the players and the owners agreed to a new collective bargaining agreement 
(CBA). The basic agreement allowed the National League to expand by two 
members to match the American League. Details of expansion were hammered 
out in the 1990 CBA.[1] Ten cities were considered serious candidates for 
the two spots: Buffalo, New York; Charlotte, North Carolina; Denver, Colorado; 
Miami, Florida; Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; 
Sacramento, California; Tampa-St. Petersburg, Florida; and Washington, 
D.C.[2] The Florida Suncoast Dome was built in St. Petersburg specifically 
to lure an existing or expansion MLB franchise.[3] The National League 
expansion committee consisted of Pittsburgh Pirates Chairman Doug Danfort, 
New York Mets president Fred Wilpon and Houston Astros owner John McMullen.[2] 
On December 18, 1990, the committee eliminated Charlotte, Nashville, Phoenix 
and Sacramento from consideration to cut the list down to six finalists.[4] 
With three sites from Florida remaining in contention it became apparent 
that one would win out while the other spot would go to a non-Florida team.[citation 
needed] After previous failed attempts to bring the Major League Baseball 
to Colorado (most notably the Pittsburgh Pirates nearly relocating to Denver 
following the Pittsburgh drug trials in 1985), by the late 1980s a team 
seemed to be a possibility in Denver. The Colorado Baseball Commission, 
led by banking executive Larry Varnell, was successful in getting Denver 
voters to approve a 0.1% sales tax to help finance a new baseball stadium. 
Also, an advisory committee was formed in 1990 by then-Governor of Colorado 
Roy Romer to recruit an ownership group. The group selected was led by 
John Antonucci, an Ohio beverage distributor, and Michael I. Monus, the 
head of the Phar-Mor drugstore chain. Local and regional companies—such 
as Erie Lake, Hensel Phelps Construction, KOA Radio, and the Rocky Mountain 
News—rounded out the group. Eugene Orza, associate general counsel of the 
Major League Baseball Players Association, stated that he expected Denver 
would receive one of the expansion franchises.[5] U.S. Senator Connie Mack 
III from Florida, the grandson of baseball great Connie Mack and a member 
of the Senate Task Force on Major League Baseball, pushed Baseball Commissioner 
Fay Vincent to expand to Florida.[6] In June 1991, the expansion committee 
accepted the bids of the Miami and Denver groups to debut in 1993.[3][7] 
Expansion was approved unanimously by all teams in July 1991.[8] The Denver 
group chose to call their franchise the Colorado Rockies, the same name 
used as the National Hockey League franchise that played in Denver from 
1976 to 1982. The Miami group chose to call themselves the Florida Marlins 
to broaden their fanbase to the entire state,[8] while reviving the nickname 
of a defunct minor league team.[9] An expansion draft to stock both franchises 
was set for November 1992.[8] Though previous expansions allowed the drafting 
of players from the same league only, Vincent declared that the American 
League would receive $42 million of the National League's $190 million 
in expansion revenue so that the AL would provide players in the National 
League expansion draft.[10] In an attempt to win support in the American 
League and balance the vote, Vincent decreed that the AL owners were entitled 
to 22% of the $190 million take. This decision marked the first time in 
expansion history that leagues were required to share expansion revenue 
or provide players for another league's expansion draft. Vincent said the 
owners expanded to raise money to pay their collusion debt.[11] The Tampa 
Bay Baseball Group sued MLB for allegedly reneging on an agreement to grant 
