The 1993 Philadelphia Phillies season saw the team win the National League 
East championship. The Phillies defeated the Atlanta Braves in the 1993 
National League Championship Series in six games, before losing the World 
Series to the Toronto Blue Jays. After finishing in last place the previous 
year, the Phillies took the lead in the National League East Division on 
opening day and never relinquished it, as they clinched the division title 
on September 28 in Pittsburgh. The 1993 Phillies were led by stars Darren 
Daulton, John Kruk, Lenny Dykstra, and Curt Schilling. The team was often 
described as "shaggy", "unkempt", and "dirty." The previous year, noting 
the presence of the clean-cut Dale Murphy, Kruk described his team as "24 
morons and one Mormon." Their character endeared them to fans, and attendance 
reached a record high the following season. As a play on the legendary 
1927 New York Yankees' Murderers' Row, the team's scruffy, mullet-wearing 
look was dubbed "Macho Row." To the surprise of their city and the nation, 
the Phillies powered their way to a 97-65 record and an NL East Division 
title. Their 97 wins were the most since their back-to-back 101-win seasons 
in 1976 and 1977. They had a formidable batting lineup, leading the National 
League in at-bats (5,685), runs scored (877), hits (1,555), doubles (297), 
walks (665), on-base percentage (.351), and total bases (2,422). Center 
fielder Lenny Dykstra batted .305 and led the league in hits, with 194, 
and runs scored, with 143, both career-highs; he also set career-highs 
in home runs (19) and RBI (66). Left fielder Pete Incaviglia hit 24 home 
runs and drove in 89 runs in only 368 at-bats. Catcher Darren Daulton also 
hit 24 home runs and drove in 105 runs, topping 100 for the second consecutive 
season. Steady-hitting right fielder Jim Eisenreich led the team with a 
.318 batting average and struck out only 36 times in 362 at-bats. First 
baseman John Kruk batted .316 and hit 14 home runs with 85 RBI, while third 
baseman Dave Hollins drove in 93 runs for the second straight season.[1] 
The Phillies also had one of the best pitching staffs in the Major Leagues 
that year, leading their league in complete games (24), innings pitched 
(1,472.2) and strikeouts (1,117). Each of their five starting pitchers 
had at least one shutout during the regular season. Curt Schilling and 
Tommy Greene each won 16 games, Ben Rivera won 13, and Danny Jackson and 
Terry Mulholland won 12. Closer Mitch Williams walked 44 batters in 62.0 
innings, but had a solid 3.34 ERA with 43 saves and averaged only one home 
run allowed every 20.2 innings pitched.[2] During the season there were 
a multitude of memorable moments. In late April, the team rallied from 
an 8-0 deficit to defeat the San Francisco Giants 9-8 in 10 innings, spurred 
when Giants reliever Bryan Hickerson slammed the ball to the ground to 
celebrate an out. In San Diego, a few days later, left-fielder Milt Thompson 
saved a game by making a leaping catch on a potential grand slam by the 
Padres' catcher Bob Geren. Terry Mulholland hurled the first shutout in 
Mile High Stadium, as the Phils swept the expansion Colorado Rockies in 
late May. On July 2, the Phils and Padres played a doubleheader that lasted 
almost 12 hours with rain delays; Mitch Williams won the second game with 
an RBI single at 4:41 AM. Five days later, Lenny Dykstra ended a 7-6, 20-inning 
game against the Dodgers at Veterans Stadium with a ground-rule double. 
A three-game sweep of the St. Louis Cardinals to end July effectively pushed 
the Redbirds out of the pennant chase, and Danny Jackson's 12-0 rout of 
Cincinnati on August 29 left the Cards 10 games out and the Expos 10 1⁄2 
out with one month to go. However, a September slip caused some columnists 
in the city to compare the club to the infamous 1964 team. They lost five 
of seven games at home to the Cubs and Astros, then lost two of three at 
Olympic Stadium, which brought Montreal within four games with 13 remaining. 
All that was laid to rest on September 28, when the Phils clinched the 
NL East with a 10-7 win over in-state rival Pittsburgh at Three Rivers 
Stadium. Mariano Duncan hit a grand slam to lead a comeback, and little-used 
Donn Pall closed out the game, touching off a wild celebration for their 
first division crown since 1983. Outfielder Wes Chamberlain ended all the 
references to 1964, screaming, "It's 1993, baby! It ain't 1964. Where are 
those ghosts now?".[3][4] Here is Phillies announcer Harry Kalas's call 
of the final out of the Division-clinching game against Pittsburgh: Ground 
ball, it's a fair ball! Kruk to Pall ... the Phillies are the '93 National 
League Eastern Division Champions! This wonderful band of throwback players 
have won the National League East, mobbing one another on the field. Infielders 
Coaches October 6: Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia October 7: Veterans 
Stadium in Philadelphia October 9: Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta 
October 10: Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta October 11: Atlanta–Fulton 
County Stadium in Atlanta October 13: Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia 
  S: Mitch Williams (2) October 16, 1993 at the SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada The series' first game sent two staff aces -- Curt Schilling for 
Philadelphia and Juan Guzmán for Toronto—against one another. The result 
was less than a pitcher's duel, however, as both teams scored early and 
often. The deciding plays came in the middle innings. With Toronto behind 
4-3 in the 5th inning, Devon White hit a solo home run to tie the game. 
The next inning, John Olerud hit a solo home run of his own to put Toronto 
on top. Toronto added three insurance runs in the bottom of the 7th and 
held on to win 8-5. Al Leiter pitched 2⅔ innings—in relief of a sporadic 
Juan Guzman, who walked four in just five innings—for his first World Series 
win. John Kruk had three hits for Philadelphia. October 17, 1993 at SkyDome 
in Toronto, Ontario, Canada In the second game of the series, Dave Stewart 
was on the mound for Toronto and Terry Mulholland started for Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia jumped out to an early lead: in the third inning, Jim Eisenreich 
followed John Kruk and Dave Hollins RBI singles with a three-run home run 
to deep right-center. Toronto got on the scoreboard in the fourth inning 
courtesy of a Joe Carter two-run home run to left, but the Jays were unable 
to mount a significant offensive push later in the game. Philadelphia held 
on to win 6-4. Terry Mulholland pitched 5⅔ innings, allowing 3 earned runs, 
for the win. October 19, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia For Toronto, 
Pat Hentgen faced off against Philadelphia starter Danny Jackson in Game 
3. Hentgen pitched a strong 6 innings, allowing just 1 run, and the Toronto 
offense took care of the rest. Toronto won 10-3. Toronto manager Cito Gaston 
was faced with an unusual and difficult decision prior to game time. As 
the series switched the National League ballpark, Gaston was forced to 
sit one player from his regular line-up as the designated hitter (DH) would 
not be allowed to play. As regular DH Paul Molitor had been a hot hand 
in the line-up, Gaston elected to sit firstbaseman John Olerud and place 
Molitor at first base. The decision was potentially controversial as Olerud 
led the American League in batting during the year with a .363 average 
and Molitor was the less sure-handed fielder. Molitor, however, put these 
concerns to rest, going 3 for 4, hitting a home run in the 3rd inning, 
and driving in 3 runs. October 20, 1993 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia 
In the fourth game of the series, Todd Stottlemyre started for Toronto 
while Tommy Greene started for Philadelphia. The starters are notable because 
neither lasted three innings. In one of the more unusual plays in World 
Series history, Todd Stottlemyre, trying to go first to third on a Roberto 
Alomar single in the 2nd inning, did a bellyflop diving into third base, 
where he was called out. Todd's awkward dive resulted in an abrasion on 
his chin and appeared to shake him up in the next inning, during which 
he surrendered a Lenny Dykstra two-run home run. Stottlemyre was pulled 
after the second inning, having already given up six runs. (Tommy Greene 
fared little better, being pulled after giving up seven runs in 2⅓ innings.) 
Philadelphia took a commanding 12-7 lead in the 5th inning, courtesy of 
two-run home runs from Darren Daulton and Dykstra, and a run-scoring double 
from Milt Thompson. Toronto fought back from a 14-9 deficit in the 8th 
inning, scoring six runs on run scoring hits from Paul Molitor, Tony Fernández, 
Rickey Henderson, and Devon White. Duane Ward pitched the final 1⅓ innings, 
preserving the 15-14 victory. Three new World Series records included the 
longest game at four hours fourteen minutes (4:14), most runs by both clubs 
with twenty-nine (29), and runs scored by a losing team with fourteen (14). 
Also, Charlie Williams became the first African American to serve as the 
home plate umpire for a World Series game. October 21, 1993 at Veterans 
Stadium in Philadelphia The offenses were due for an off-day, and it came 
in Game 5 courtesy of a Curt Schilling (Philadelphia) and Juan Guzmán (Toronto) 
pitching duel. Schilling shut down the previously unstoppable Toronto offense, 
limiting the team to just five hits and no runs. Guzman pitched well in 
a losing effort, allowing only two runs and five hits in seven innings 
of work. The two runs scored as a result of scrappy play from the Philadelphia 
offense. In the first inning, Lenny Dykstra walked, stole second, moved 
to third on a Pat Borders throwing error, and scored on a John Kruk ground 
out. In the second inning, Darren Daulton opened with a double, took third 
on a ground out, and scored on a Kevin Stocker single. October 23, 1993 
at SkyDome in Toronto, Ontario, Canada [15] The sixth game in the series 
was a rematch between Game 2 starters Terry Mulholland and Dave Stewart, 
who would have similar results. Toronto opened up the scoring in the bottom 
of the first with a run-scoring Paul Molitor triple, Joe Carter sacrifice 
fly, and Roberto Alomar RBI single. Molitor added a solo home run in the 
5th inning, bringing the score to 5-1 for Toronto. In the 7th inning, Philadelphia 
fought back with five runs to take a 6-5 lead. Lenny Dykstra hit a three-run 
home run, Dave Hollins had an RBI single and Pete Incaviglia hit a sacrifice 
fly. The inning brought an end to Dave Stewart's night, leaving the game 
with 6 innings pitched and 4 runs given up. Philadelphia closer Mitch Williams 
came on to the pitch the bottom of the 9th with Philadelphia clinging to 
a 6-5 lead. After beginning the inning by walking Rickey Henderson, Williams 
tried to counter Henderson's speed by pitching out of a slide-step style 
of pitching delivery. Prior to Game 6 of the 1993 World Series, Williams 
never used the slide-step delivery in his career. This may have cut back 
on the velocity of the hard throwing Williams. The walk to Henderson was 
followed by a Devon White fly out and a single by Paul Molitor. Joe Carter 
came up next and, on a two strike pitch, he hit an inside pitch just over 
the left field fence, giving the Blue Jays a come-from-behind 8-6 victory, 
and the World Series crown. 1993 Major League Baseball All-Star Game Note: 
Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; IP 
= Innings Pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned Run Average; 
