The 1994 NFL season was the 75th regular season of the National Football 
League. To honor the NFL's 75th season, a special anniversary logo was 
designed and each player wore a patch on their jerseys with this logo throughout 
the season. Also, a selection committee of media and league personnel named 
a special NFL 75th Anniversary All-Time Team, honoring the best NFL players 
from the first 75 seasons. The Phoenix Cardinals changed their name to 
Arizona Cardinals in an attempt to widen their appeal to the entire state 
of Arizona instead of just the Phoenix area. The name was initially resisted 
by Bill Bidwill. The Seattle Seahawks played their first three regular 
season home games at Husky Stadium because the Kingdome, the Seahawks' 
regular home field, was undergoing repairs for damaged tiles on its roof. 
The Seahawks returned for the 2000 and 2001 seasons while their new stadium 
was under construction. The 1994 season marked the last one until 2016 
that the city of Los Angeles had an NFL team. Both the Rams and the Raiders 
left the city following the season. The Rams moved east to St. Louis, Missouri 
after being in Los Angeles for 49 years, while the Raiders left Los Angeles 
after 12 years to return to their previous home in Oakland, California. 
The Rams, after failing to reach an agreement with St. Louis on a new stadium, 
agreed to move back to Los Angeles for the 2016 NFL season. This was also 
the first season that the then-fledgling Fox Network televised NFL games. 
Fox took over the National Football Conference package from CBS, who would 
return to televising the NFL in 1998. The league also signed an exclusivity 
agreement with the direct broadcast satellite (DBS) service DirecTV to 
launch NFL Sunday Ticket, a satellite television subscription service that 
offers every regular season NFL game. Today the package remains exclusive 
to DirecTV. The season ended with Super Bowl XXIX when the San Francisco 
49ers defeated the San Diego Chargers 49-26 at the Joe Robbie Stadium. 
Both teams had met that regular season, the second straight season that 
had happened, and ninth time overall. Even though the 1994 World Series 
was canceled, the NFL ultimately decided not to reschedule its Thursday 
night contests in October for Sunday, even though they wouldn't have competed 
with baseball those nights. This was also the first year of the current 
practice of whenever Christmas Day falls on a Sunday that most of that 
weekend's games were played on the Saturday afternoon of Christmas Eve. 
Every NFL season afterwards with Christmas Day on a Sunday has followed 
this same scheduling format. A package of changes were adopted to increase 
offensive production and scoring: The league also honored its 75th season 
by having each team wear throwback uniforms during selected games. The 
designs varied widely in their accuracy; many of them were not completely 
accurate for a number of reasons: Some teams occasionally wore their throwbacks 
in additional games during the season, and the San Francisco 49ers wore 
them through the Super Bowl. They proved to be so popular that the New 
York Giants followed the lead of the Jets and eventually returned to wearing 
them full-time, with very slight modifications, in 2000. After the NFL 
modified its rules to allow teams to wear alternate jerseys in 2002, the 
San Diego Chargers selected their throwbacks as their third uniforms. W 
= Wins, L = Losses, PCT = Winning Percentage, PF= Points For, PA = Points 
Against Clinched playoff seeds are marked in parentheses and shaded in 
