The 1994–95 Major League Baseball strike was the eighth work stoppage in 
baseball history, as well as the fourth in-season work stoppage in 22 years.[1] 
The strike began on August 12, 1994 and resulted in the remainder of that 
season being cancelled, including the postseason and, for the first time 
since 1904, the World Series. The strike was suspended on April 2, 1995 
after 232 days, making it the longest such stoppage in MLB history, breaking 
the record set by the 1981 strike.[1] 948 games were cancelled in all, 
and MLB became the first major professional sports league to lose an entire 
postseason due to labor struggles. Due to the strike, both the 1994 and 
1995 seasons were not played to a complete 162 games; the strike was called 
after most teams had played at least 113 games in 1994 and each team played 
144 games in 1995. In response to a worsening financial situation in baseball, 
the owners of Major League Baseball teams collectively proposed a salary 
cap to their players.[2] Ownership claimed that small-market clubs would 
fall by the wayside unless teams agreed to share local broadcasting revenues 
(to increase equity amongst the teams) and enact a salary cap, a proposal 
that the players adamantly opposed. On January 18, 1994, the owners approved 
a new revenue-sharing plan keyed to a salary cap, which required the players’ 
approval.[3][4] The following day, the owners amended the Major League 
agreement by giving complete power to the commissioner on labor negotiations. 
The dispute was played out with a backdrop of years of hostility and mistrust 
between the two sides. What arguably stood in the way of a compromise settlement 
was the absence of an official commissioner ever since the owners forced 
Fay Vincent to resign in September 1992. Vincent said the owners had colluded 
in the signing of free agents, which led to "a $280 million theft" by Bud 
Selig and Jerry Reinsdorf, which "polluted labor relations in baseball" 
and left Donald Fehr, executive director of the Major League Baseball Players 
Association, with "no trust in Selig."[5] On February 11, 1994, the owners 
greatly reduced the commissioner's power to act in "the best interests 
of baseball."[6] Owner representative Richard Ravitch officially unveiled 
the ownership proposal on June 14, 1994.[7] The proposal would guarantee 
a record $1 billion in salary and benefits.[8] But the ownership proposal 
also would have forced clubs to fit their payrolls into a more evenly based 
structure. Salary arbitration would have been eliminated, free agency would 
begin after four years rather than six, and owners would have retained 
the right to keep a four or five year player by matching his best offer.[9] 
Owners claimed that their proposal would raise average salaries from $1.2 
million in 1994 to $2.6 million by 2001.[8] Fehr rejected the offer from 
the owners on July 18. He believed a salary cap was simply a way for owners 
to clean up their own disparity problems with no benefit to the players. 
On July 13, 1994, Fehr said if serious negotiations between the players 
and the owners did not begin soon, the players could go out on strike in 
September of that year, threatening the postseason. On December 31, 1994, 
Major League Baseball's collective bargaining agreement ran out with no 
new agreement yet signed.[10] As negotiations continued to heat up, the 
owners decided to withhold $7.8 million that they were required to pay 
per previous agreement into the players' pension and benefit plans. The 
final straw came on June 23 when the Senate Judiciary Committee failed 
to approve an antitrust legislation by a vote of 10–7. According to Fehr, 
the action left the players with little choice but to strike. "We felt 
in '94 we were pushed into it", he said. "I still think that's a justified 
conclusion."[11] On July 28, the Players Association executive board set 
August 12, 1994 as a strike date.[12] When that day came, the players went 
ahead with their threat to walk off the job.[13] The last games of that 
baseball season were played on August 11, 1994. On August 31, three-and-a-half 
hours of negotiations with federal mediators produced no progress in the 
strike, and no further talks were scheduled as the strike went into its 
4th week. According to then-acting commissioner Bud Selig, September 9 
was the tentative deadline for canceling the rest of the season if no agreement 
was reached between the owners and players. The MLBPA offered a counterproposal 
to ownership on September 8 calling for a two-percent tax on the 16 franchises 
with the highest payrolls to be divided among the other 12 clubs. Teams 
in both leagues would share 25% of all gate receipts under the MLBPA's 
plan. The owners responded by claiming that the measures wouldn't meet 
the cost. The rest of the season, including the World Series, was called 
off by Bud Selig on September 14.[14] Selig acknowledged that the strike 
had torn an irreparable hole in the game's fabric.[14] The move to cancel 
the rest of the season meant the loss of $580 million in ownership revenue 
and $230 million in player salaries. In 1994, the average MLB salary was 
an estimated $1.2 million. The Montreal Expos' best season in their history 
was stopped by the strike. They had the best record in baseball, 74–40, 
and were six games ahead of the Atlanta Braves in the NL East despite having 
the second-lowest payroll in MLB.[15] Most baseball writers were considering 
the Expos as major World Series contenders. Coincidentally, the only time 
that the Expos actually made it to the postseason was in 1981, the last 
time that there was a significant players' strike in Major League Baseball.[16] 
Chicago White Sox star Frank Thomas, who wound up winning the American 
League's Most Valuable Player Award for the second year in a row in 1994,[17] 
said "I've had a career year, but I'm not going to finish it."[18] Tony 
Gwynn had a chance to be the first to finish a season over .400 since Ted 
Williams, as he was batting .394 at the time of the strike. The strike 
also cost Matt Williams of the San Francisco Giants a chance to beat Roger 
Maris' single season home run record. When the strike forced the cancellation 
of the remaining 47 games of the season, Williams had already hit 43 home 
runs, on pace to match Maris' single season record of 61 home runs.[19] 
Cleveland Indians second baseman Carlos Baerga was unable to extend his 
record two-year streak of 20 home runs, 200 hits, and 100 RBI by a second 
baseman because of the strike. Seattle Mariners star Ken Griffey, Jr., 
who led the American League with 40 home runs at the time of the strike, 
summed it up best by saying, "We picked a bad season to have a good year."[20] 
Kevin Mitchell of the Cincinnati Reds, Julio Franco of the Chicago White 
Sox, and Shane Mack of the Minnesota Twins, all .325 hitters in 1994, opted 
during the strike to play in Japan in 1995. By the third day of the strike, 
Cleveland Indians owner Richard Jacobs directed that all souvenirs being 
sold at the Indians' gift shop carrying the words "inaugural season at 
Jacobs Field" be sold at half price.[21] The Colorado Rockies were completing 
their last season at Mile High Stadium with an attendance of 3,281,511 
through 57 home games for an average of 57,570 per game. At that pace, 
the team would have had a good chance of drawing over 4.6 million fans 
in their 81 home games if the season had continued. This would have eclipsed 
the major league season attendance record of 4,483,350 fans set by the 
Rockies only the season before. One of the few positive notes was that 
fans were spared from witnessing one of the worst division races in history. 
The Texas Rangers were leading the newly reformed AL West despite being 
10 games under .500. The last-place California Angels were only 5 1⁄2 games 
out despite having the second-worst record in the majors at 21 games under 
.500—on pace for 96 losses. In fact, the two last place teams in the other 
American League divisions (namely, the Detroit Tigers of the AL East and 
Milwaukee Brewers of the AL Central) had better records than the Rangers.[22] 
The National League's MVP award was given to Jeff Bagwell. Jeff Bagwell's 
hand was broken by a pitch on August 10,[23][24] just before the players' 
strike began; had the season continued, he would likely have missed the 
remainder of the year and might not have won the MVP. But because of the 
timing of his "lucky break", Bagwell became just the fourth player in National 
League history to win the award unanimously. The strike also led to an 
absurdity: Minnesota traded Dave Winfield to the Cleveland Indians for 
a player to be named later before the season was officially canceled, so 
no player was named. To settle the deal, the executives of the teams went 
to dinner, and Cleveland picked up the tab, meaning Winfield had been dealt 
for dinner (though official sources list the transaction as Winfield having 
been sold by the Twins to the Indians).[25] Arguably, the biggest storyline 
of the strike was the New York Yankees.[26][27] In having the best record 
in the American League, which was also the second-best record in baseball, 
70–43, and a 6 1⁄2 game lead over the Baltimore Orioles in the AL East, 
the largest division lead of any division leader,[26] the strike cost their 
captain, Don Mattingly, his best chance at his postseason debut in his 
13-year career.[28][29] The Yankees had not been in the postseason since 
1981.[30] Because the Yankees were last in a postseason in a season cut 
short by a strike, the news media was quick to point out and constantly 
reminded the Yankees about the parallels between the two Yankee teams (1981 
and 1994), which included both Yankee teams having division leads taken 
away by strike, both before and during the strike.[31][32] On December 
5, it was announced Richard Ravitch would step down as negotiator for the 
owners on December 31, 1994. Ravitch instead resigned on December 6, 1994. 
On December 14, labor talks headed by federal mediator Bill Usery broke 
down. The next day, the owners approved a salary cap plan by a vote of 
25–3, but agreed to delay implementing it so that another round of talks 
with the players could be held. On December 23, with negotiations at a 
standstill, the owners unilaterally implemented a salary cap.[citation 
needed] On January 4, 1995, five bills aimed at ending the baseball strike 
were introduced into Congress.[33][34] The next day, Fehr declared all 
895 unsigned Major League players to be free agents in response to unilateral 
contract changes made by the owners.[35] On January 10, arbitrator Thomas 
Roberts awarded 11 players a total of almost $10 million as a result of 
collusion charges brought against the owners. On January 26, both players 
and owners were ordered by President Bill Clinton to resume bargaining 
and reach an agreement by February 6. Unfortunately, President Clinton's 
deadline came and went with no resolution of the strike. Just five days 
earlier, the owners agreed to revoke the salary cap and return to the old 
agreement. After the deadline passed with no compromises, the use of replacement 
players for spring training and regular season games was approved by baseball's 
executive council on January 13. Replacement players (among them, former 
Boston Red Sox pitcher Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd) were reportedly guaranteed 
US$5,000 for reporting to spring training and another $5,000 if they made 
the Opening Day roster. Declared Selig, "We are committed to playing the 
1995 season and will do so with the best players willing to play." Baltimore 
Orioles owner Peter Angelos, on the other hand, announced that his team 
wouldn't use replacement players (due in no small part to the fact that 
Cal Ripken, Jr. was going for Lou Gehrig's consecutive games record, but 
mainly due to Angelos's career as a union side attorney[citation needed]). 
On March 20, Angelos's Orioles canceled the remainder of their spring training 
games because of the team's refusal to use replacement players. The next 
day, the Maryland House of Delegates approved legislation to bar teams 
playing at Camden Yards from using replacement players. On March 26, the 
MLB announced that the 1995 season would be reduced from 162 games per 
team to 144 games per team as a result of the use of replacement players. 
In addition to Peter Angelos's problems, Detroit Tigers manager Sparky 
Anderson was put on an involuntary leave of absence as he refused to manage 
replacement players. Two days after Anderson's punishment, the Toronto 
Blue Jays assigned manager Cito Gaston and his coaching staff to work with 
minor league players so that they wouldn't have to deal with replacement 
players. On March 14, the players' union announced that it would not settle 
the strike if replacement players were used in regular season games, and 
if results were not voided. On March 28, the Ontario Labour Board announced 
that replacement umpires would not be allowed to work Blue Jays home games. 
Under the Ontario labor law then in force, replacement workers were not 
permitted to be used during a strike or lockout. The Blue Jays opted to 
play their home games at their Spring training facility in Dunedin, Florida 
as long as replacement players were used. This would have made them the 
first American League team to play home games in Florida, 3 years before 
the now-Tampa Bay Rays began play. Following his first retirement just 
prior to the start of the 1993–94 NBA season, former Chicago Bulls star 
Michael Jordan surprised the sports world by signing a minor league baseball 
contract with the Chicago White Sox. He reported to spring training at 
the White Sox facility, which was then located in Sarasota, Florida (the 
White Sox would eventually move their spring training to Tucson, Arizona 
in 1998), and was assigned to the team's minor league system on March 31, 
1994.[36] Jordan has stated this decision was made to pursue the dream 
of his father James, who had always envisioned his son as a Major League 
Baseball player and whose murder had prompted Jordan's retirement from 
the NBA.[37] The White Sox were another team owned by Bulls owner Jerry 
Reinsdorf, who continued to honor Jordan's basketball contract during the 
years he played baseball.[38] In 1994, Jordan played for the Birmingham 
Barons, a Double-A minor league affiliate of the Chicago White Sox, batting 
.202 with three home runs, 51 runs batted in, 30 stolen bases, and 11 errors. 
He also appeared for the Scottsdale Scorpions in the 1994 Arizona Fall 
League, batting .252 against the top prospects in baseball. On February 
17, 1995 Jordan celebrated his 32nd birthday in Sarasota as the White Sox 
opened spring training. On March 2, 1995 Jordan, having vowed not to take 
the field as a replacement player, was left off the White Sox exhibition 
roster and left spring training. Shortly after he left speculation began 
that he would not be returning to baseball at all, even if the strike was 
to be settled, and would instead attempt to rejoin the Bulls. This speculation 
intensified a week later as Jordan was spotted at the Bulls' training facility. 
On March 18, 1995, Jordan confirmed the rumors and with a two-word press 
release reading "I'm back", he announced that his baseball career was over 
and that he would be returning to basketball. Jordan never tried baseball 
again, and retired from the Bulls for a second time in 1998.[36] Following 
the end of the 1993 season, CBS Sports lost the rights to broadcast baseball 
games on television. Production of nationally televised games was taken 
over by MLB itself, which sold the games as brokered programming to ABC 
and NBC as part of a joint venture that was referred to as The Baseball 
Network.[39] Originally, the idea was for ABC and NBC to share a slate 
of games aired in prime time during the week at various points of the season 
(more specifically, following the All-Star Break), with ABC airing games 
mostly on Monday nights and NBC airing games on Friday nights, with the 
two networks alternating coverage of the All-Star Game (with NBC having 
the rights in even numbered years and ABC in odd numbered years) and World 
Series (with ABC having the rights in even numbered years and NBC in odd 
numbered years) and splitting the Division (ABC would have the rights to 
the Division Series in years that they covered the World Series and vice 
versa) and League Championship Series (NBC would have the rights to the 
League Championship Series in years that they didn't have the World Series 
and vice versa) between them. Originally, the agreement was to run for 
six seasons and end in 1999, with ABC and NBC airing the World Series and 
All-Star Game three times each. The strike, however, resulted in ABC losing 
out on two weeks of coverage and the World Series and NBC losing out on 
all of its allotted regular season games. MLB and the local NBC and ABC 
stations lost a combined $595 million in advertising revenue, and both 
networks announced that they would be opting out of the deal after the 
shortened 1995 season with NBC in particular vowing to never again do business 
with MLB. Because of the strike, the 1995 World Series had to be split 
between the networks as per the contract, with ABC airing the first, fourth, 
and fifth games and NBC the second, third, and decisive sixth. Had there 
been a seventh game in the 1995 World Series, then ABC would've broadcast 
it. Following the 1995 season MLB entered into an agreement with Fox Sports 
that would restore the Saturday afternoon Game of the Week and give the 
network exclusive rights to over-the-air regular season broadcasts. NBC, 
after earlier expressing desires not to air any further baseball games, 
reconsidered and negotiated a contract similar to the one they had just 
broken. While NBC would not air any further regular season games, the network 
retained its rights to air the All-Star Game in even numbered years that 
it had before and kept the rights to air the World Series in odd numbered 
years. From 1996 until 2000, the League Championship Series would alternate 
between Fox and NBC, with the network airing the World Series carrying 
the National League Championship series as well. NBC and Fox were to share 
coverage of the Division Series with ESPN. This contract, as noted above, 
stayed in effect until the end of the 2000 season when Fox and its sibling 
networks gained exclusive coverage of the entire baseball season, but ESPN 
regained its Division Series rights in 2002 after Disney acquired Fox Family 
Channel, where the games were airing. On March 28, 1995, the players voted 
to return to work if a U.S. District Court judge supported the National 
Labor Relations Board's unfair labor practices complaint against the owners 
(which was filed on March 27). By a vote of 27–3, owners supported the 
use of replacement players. The strike ended when Sonia Sotomayor, Judge 
of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 
issued a preliminary injunction against the owners on March 31.[40] On 
Sunday, April 2, 1995, the day before the season was scheduled to start 
with the replacement players, the strike came to an official end at 232 
days. Judge Sotomayor's decision received support from a panel of the Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which denied the owners' request to 
stay the ruling. As part of the terms of the injunction, the players and 
owners were to be bound to the terms of the expired collective bargaining 
agreement until a new one could be reached and the start of the season 
would be postponed three weeks, with teams playing an abbreviated 144-game 
season instead of a 162-game season. During the first days of the 1995 
season, some fans remained irate at both players and owners.[41] Attendance 
at the games plummeted, as did television ratings, as was the case (to 
a lesser extent) during the last significant players strike in 1981.[42] 
While a total of 50,010,016 fans had attended the 1,600 MLB regular season 
games played in 1994, averaging 31,256 per game,[43] a total of 50,416,880 
fans attended the 2,016 games of the 1995 MLB regular season, for an average 
attendance of just 25,008 per game.[44] This represented a decline in average 
attendance of 20% from 1994 to 1995.[45] A few of the fans who showed up 
demonstrated their frustration,[46] and booed the players;[46] the strike 
was seen as the worst work stoppage in sports history, leaving the game 
in crisis and some fans shaken and angry.[42] Among the major examples 
of fan protests: The opening games were played with replacement umpires, 
the first time since 1984 that replacement umpires were used.[55] On August 
3, 1995, the Senate Judiciary Committee sent a bill calling for the partial 
repeal of baseball's antitrust exemption to the full Senate. The vote was 
just 9–8. On August 9, George Nicolau, baseball's impartial arbitrator 
since 1986, was fired by Major League owners. On September 29, 1995, a 
three-judge panel in New York voted unanimously to uphold the injunction 
that brought the end to the strike in April 1995. The owners had appealed 
the injunction issued on March 31, but the panel said the Players Relations 
Committee had illegally attempted to eliminate free agency and salary arbitration. 
In 1998–2002 and 2004, certain players who were part of the World Series-winning 
New York Yankees, Arizona Diamondbacks, Anaheim Angels and Boston Red Sox 
were not permitted to have their names or likenesses on commemorative merchandise 
because they had been declared replacement players for having participated 
in the 1995 spring training. The players who were noted are Shane Spencer 
of the 1998, 1999 and 2000 New York Yankees, Damian Miller of the 2001 
Arizona Diamondbacks, Brendan Donnelly of the 2002 Anaheim Angels and Kevin 
Millar of the 2004 Boston Red Sox. The names or likenesses of replacement 
players may also not be published in officially-licensed video and tabletop 
games. Arguably the largest impact was to the Montreal Expos.[56] Not only 
did their dream season (first in MLB, 6 games ahead of the Atlanta Braves 
in NL East) end abruptly, they were forced to lower payroll and sell off 
their four highest paid stars in the span of less than a week in spring 
training.[57] With the strike negatively affecting its fan base, the Expos 
would never recover from the incident.[58] Despite respectable performances 
in 1996, 2002 and 2003, the team never came close to contending again;[59] 
the team was purchased by Major League Baseball after the 2001 season,[60][61] 
and would become the focus of contraction rumors until the team was moved 
to Washington, D.C., to become the Washington Nationals after the 2004 
