The 1994 Cleveland Indians corked bat incident took place on July 15, 1994 
at Comiskey Park in Chicago during a major league baseball game. In the 
first inning of the game between the Cleveland Indians and the Chicago 
White Sox, White Sox manager Gene Lamont was tipped off that Indians batter 
Albert Belle was using a corked baseball bat.[1] Under the rules of Major 
League Baseball, a manager may challenge one opponent's baseball bat per 
game. Lamont challenged Belle's bat with umpire Dave Phillips, who confiscated 
the bat and locked it in the umpires' dressing room. The Indians, knowing 
the bat was indeed corked, dispatched relief pitcher Jason Grimsley to 
retrieve the bat. Grimsley took a bat belonging to Indians player Paul 
Sorrento and accessed the area above the false ceiling in the clubhouse 
and crawled across with a flashlight in his mouth until he reached the 
umpires' room. He switched Belle's bat with Sorrento's and returned to 
the clubhouse.[2] During the sixth inning, the umpires' custodian noticed 
clumps of ceiling tile on the floor of the umpire's room, plus twisted 
metal brackets in the ceiling. After the game, Phillips noticed the bats 
were different when he saw that the replacement bat was not as shiny and 
also was stamped with Sorrento's signature. The Chicago police were called 
and the White Sox threatened charges against the burglar. An investigation 
that Saturday was carried out by a former FBI agent flown in by MLB.[3] 
The equipment room was dusted for fingerprints and the path the burglar 
took was discovered. The Indians were ordered by the American League to 
produce Belle's original, unaltered bat. Initially, the AL had threatened 
to involve the FBI in regards to the burglary, but they dropped the issue 
in exchange for the bat. On July 18, the bat was sent to the MLB in New 
York where it was x-rayed and then sawed in half in the presence of Belle 
and Indians GM John Hart. The bat was found to be corked and Belle was 
suspended by the AL for 10 games. On appeal, his suspension was dropped 
to seven games. The reduction didn't make a difference in the end, as Major 
League Baseball soon suspended play due to the 1994-95 players strike. 
Initially, Grimsley's participation in the "caper" was a secret. In 1999, 
when he was a pitcher for the New York Yankees, Grimsley revealed his participation 
in an interview with The New York Times.[4] He stated that he had used 
Sorrento's bat to replace Belle's because all of Belle's bats were corked. 
This story was corroborated by Indians shortstop Omar Vizquel in his 2002 
book, where he confirmed that all of Belle's bats were indeed corked.[5] 
