The 1995 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
1995 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 3, and ended on 
Sunday, October 8, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. As a result 
of both leagues realigning into three divisions in 1994, it marked the 
first time in major league history that a team could qualify for postseason 
play without finishing in first place in its league or division. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
was not tied to playing record but was predetermined—a highly unpopular 
arrangement which was discontinued after the 1997 playoffs. Also, the team 
with home field "advantage" was required to play the first two games on 
the road, with potentially the last three at home, in order to reduce travel. 
The Red Sox played the Indians, rather than the wild card Yankees, because 
the Red Sox and Yankees are in the same division. Had the 1995 ALDS been 
played under the post-1997 arrangement, then Cleveland (1) would've played 
against New York (4) and Boston (2) would've faced Seattle (3). Because 
of realignment, this was the first time that both the Yankees and the Red 
Sox reached the playoffs in the same year.[1] The Seattle Mariners and 
Cleveland Indians went on to meet in the AL Championship Series (ALCS). 
The Indians became the American League champion, and lost to the National 
League champion Atlanta Braves in the 1995 World Series. Cleveland won 
the series, 3–0. Seattle won the series, 3–2. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio After a 39-minute rain delay, Game 1 got underway with two veterans, 
Roger Clemens and Dennis Martínez, starting the opener. Playing in its 
first playoff game since Game 4 of the 1954 World Series, Cleveland trailed 
early as the Red Sox jumped in front first in the third on John Valentin's 
two-run homer. With Clemens pitching masterfully against the majors' best 
lineup, many believed Game 1 might belong to the Sox. The Indians, however, 
rallied against Clemens in the sixth with a two-run double by Albert Belle 
that tied the game and a hit by Eddie Murray that scored Belle. But Luis 
Alicea's eighth inning homer sent the game into extra innings. Tim Naehring 
would give the Red Sox the lead in the eleventh with a solo homer, but 
Belle's leadoff homer tied the game in the bottom half. The Indians would 
put the winning run in scoring position later in the inning but failed 
to come through. In the bottom of the thirteenth, fifteen-year veteran 
Tony Peña hit the game winning homer with two outs. It was the Indians' 
first postseason win since the clinching Game 6 in the 1948 World Series. 
Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Game 2 featured an unlikely matchup between 
Erik Hanson and Orel Hershiser. Both pitchers were on even turns until 
the Indians broke through in the fifth with Omar Vizquel's two-run double. 
It remained 2–0 until the eighth when the Indians put the game away on 
Eddie Murray's two-run homer. That gave the Indian bullpen a comfortable 
4–0 lead in the ninth. Hanson went the distance in a losing effort. Hershiser 
struck out seven and allowed only three hits in 7 1⁄3 innings. Fenway Park 
in Boston, Massachusetts Charles Nagy faced postseason veteran Tim Wakefield 
in the potential clincher. In the top of the second, Jim Thome gave the 
Tribe the lead with a two-run homer. Then a bases-loaded walk in the third 
made it 3–0. In the fourth, the Red Sox got a run on a sac fly but in the 
sixth the Indians looked to put the game away. The Tribe scored five runs 
in an inning that would be highlighted by Omar Vizquel's two-run single. 
The Red Sox would get a run on a fielder's choice but Paul Assenmacher 
would pitch a scoreless ninth to end the series. 1995 ALDS (3–0): Cleveland 
Indians over Boston Red Sox Both teams finished the strike-shortened 1995 
season with 79 wins. The Seattle Mariners were making their postseason 
debut on the strength of an amazing divisional comeback. The New York Yankees 
made it to the postseason for the first time since losing in the 1981 World 
Series, and the only time with Don Mattingly on their roster, as the AL 
Wild Card. The series featured at least ten runs per game and two extra-inning 
games. Ken Griffey, Jr. was the star, hitting five home runs. The total 
number of home runs from both teams at the end of the series was 22, a 
record for a postseason series despite only having five games. Griffey 
also was one of two key participants in perhaps the most iconic moment 
ever for Mariners fans, DH Edgar Martínez's two-run double in the bottom 
of the eleventh inning of Game 5, on which Griffey scored the winning run 
from first base. The result of the series, and what became known as "The 
Double", is considered a redemptive moment for long-suffering Mariners 
fans, and often credited with ensuring that Major League Baseball remained 
in Seattle. Seattle's win marked the fourth time in history that an expansion 
team won its first postseason series, after the New York Mets in their 
first championship season, in 1969, Montreal in 1981, and San Diego in 
1984. Florida and Tampa Bay have since accomplished the same feat. The 
format of this series and the one in the NL was similar to that of the 
League Championship Series prior to 1985, a five-game set wherein the first 
two games were played at one stadium and the last three at the other. This 
was much criticized as the team with homefield advantage had its games 
back ended. At the same time a team with two games often preferred them 
in the middle as opposed to three straight in the opposing team's ballpark. 
The highly unpopular format was later abandoned for the present more logical 
2–2–1 format. Although the 2-3 format would return in 2012 due to the addition 
of the Wildcard games, MLB would revert to the 2-2-1 format in 2013. Even 
though the Yankees made it to the post-season for the first time since 
1981, they were still reeling from the strike, because they had the best 
record in the American League when it was taken away by it.[10][11] Yankees 
Manager Buck Showalter sat in "admitted misery" throughout that fall, as 
he "ached for Mattingly, the one player he believed deserved a postseason 
more than anyone else in the game."[12] Mattingly had led active players 
in both games played and at bats without ever appearing in the postseason 
then.[11][12] Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Don Mattingly finally 
made it to the postseason in what would be his final games. Chris Bosio 
faced David Cone in Game 1. The game remained scoreless into the bottom 
of the third. Wade Boggs stepped to the plate with Randy Velarde on first 
and sent a two-run homer into the night to make it 2–0 Yankees. But Ken 
Griffey, Jr. led the top of the fourth off with a homer of his own to cut 
the lead in half. Then in the sixth, the Mariners managed to load the bases 
against Cone. Facing Dan Wilson with the count 1-2, Wilson appeared to 
commit to Cone's next offering. However, on appeal, first base umpire Dale 
Scott signaled "no swing", continuing the inning and drawing the ire of 
Yankee fans, in particular Yankee owner George Steinbrenner, who went on 
to say MLB should not allow rookies to umpire in the postseason, despite 
the fact that Scott had umpired in the postseason since 1986. Still alive, 
Wilson forced Cone to walk him, tying the game at two, but two RBI singles 
made it 4–2 Yankees in the bottom half. Griffey's second home run tied 
the game when he sent one into the bleachers with one man on in the seventh. 
However, the Yankees put together a four-run seventh inning, which was 
capped off by a two-run homer by Rubén Sierra. The Yankees added another 
run but the Mariners refused to concede in the ninth. They put the tying 
run to the plate after scoring two runs but failed to tie the game with 
a homer as John Wetteland narrowly recorded the save. Yankee Stadium (I) 
in Bronx, New York In what was, at the time, the longest playoff game in 
terms of elapsed time, both teams would battle back and forth. Andy Benes 
and Andy Pettitte would start this classic playoff game. On the strength 
of a surprising Vince Coleman home run, the Mariners jumped out in front 
in the third. With the game moving quickly, the Yankees responded with 
a Bernie Williams RBI double that tied the game in the fifth. Later, the 
Mariners would take their second lead of the night when Tino Martinez singled 
home Edgar Martínez in the top of the sixth. However, that lead wouldn't 
stand as Benes allowed back-to-back homers to Rubén Sierra and Don Mattingly 
in the bottom half. That would put an end to Benes' night. However, the 
Mariners would reclaim the lead for the third time with an RBI hit by Luis 
Sojo and a sac fly by Ken Griffey, Jr. in the seventh, but Paul O'Neill 
would homer to tie the game in the bottom half of the seventh. The game 
moved to extra innings and in the twelfth the Mariners recaptured the lead 
once more with a homer by Griffey, but, in the bottom of the twelfth, the 
Yankees rallied. With two men on and two outs, Rubén Sierra hit a double 
that just missed being a game-winning home run by a couple of feet, scoring 
Jorge Posada with the tying run, but Williams was thrown out at the plate, 
ending the inning and forcing a 13th inning. Finally, in the bottom of 
the fifteenth, Jim Leyritz ended the game with a two-run walk-off home 
run. The game, which began at 8:10 P.M. Wednesday night, ended at 1:22 
A.M. Thursday morning.[13] Kingdome in Seattle, Washington It was the first 
ever Major League Baseball postseason game in Seattle and both teams pitched 
their best for Game 3. Jack McDowell faced Cy Young Award winner Randy 
Johnson. Johnson allowed a Bernie Williams homer to make it 1–0 Yankees 
in the fourth. But Tino Martinez's two-run shot made it 2–1 Mariners in 
the fifth. In the sixth, the Mariners built a commanding five-run lead 
off a weakened Yankee bullpen. Four straight RBI at-bats sent the Yankees 
packing. The Yankees would scratch out a run in the seventh on a sac fly 
but the Mariners would respond with a run of their own on Randy Velarde's 
error. After back-to-back homers to lead off the eighth, the Yankees were 
within three runs. But Norm Charlton would shut the door on Game 3, allowing 
Seattle to win their first postseason game. Kingdome in Seattle, Washington 
Scott Kamieniecki faced Chris Bosio in Game 4. The Yankees came out swinging 
in the first as they put three runs on the board on a sac fly and a two-run 
single by Don Mattingly. In the third, the Yanks got two more on Paul O'Neill's 
two-run homer. Bosio was finished, pitching only two-plus innings. The 
Yankees were poised to take the series but the Mariners would refuse to 
go quietly again. In the bottom of the third, Edgar Martínez's three-run 
homer energized the crowd and gave the Mariners new life. Later in the 
inning, Luis Sojo's sac fly would make it a one-run game. In the fifth, 
Mattingly's error allowed the Mariners to tie the game and complete a five-run 
comeback. Then in the sixth, with Sterling Hitchcock pitching, Ken Griffey, 
Jr.'s homer gave the Mariners a 6–5 edge. In the eighth, Norm Charlton's 
wild pitch allowed the Yankees to tie the game at six. John Wetteland was 
called on to keep the game tied for the Yankees, but he would load the 
bases with nobody out for Edgar Martínez. Martinez would then hit a grand 
slam, giving him seven RBIs and the Mariners a 10–6 lead. Then Jay Buhner's 
homer later in the inning put the Mariners on top 11–6. The Yankees, however, 
refused to die and scratched out two runs. They would put the tying run 
at the plate in the person of Bernie Williams, but Williams would fly out 
to center to set up Game 5. Kingdome in Seattle, Washington Andy Benes 
and David Cone were sent to the mound for the deciding game of the series. 
Joey Cora hit a solo home run to make it 1–0 Mariners in the bottom of 
the third. Paul O'Neill hit a two-run home run to make it 2–1 Yankees in 
the top of the fourth. Jay Buhner's RBI single tied the game in the bottom 
half. In the sixth, Don Mattingly hit a two-run double that put the Yankees 
in front 4–2. In the bottom of the eighth, with five outs to go and Cone 
still pitching, Ken Griffey, Jr. homered to make it a one-run game. The 
Mariners loaded the bases later in the inning and with Doug Strange at 
bat, Cone walked in a run to tie the game at four. Both teams blew chances 
in the ninth with two men on to score the potential series winning run. 
Starters Jack McDowell and Randy Johnson came in the game in rare relief 
appearances in extra innings. The game moved to extra innings and in the 
top of the eleventh, Randy Velarde singled home pinch runner Pat Kelly 
to put the Yankees up by one and three outs away from advancing to the 
next round. But Cora dragged a bunt down the first base line that stayed 
fair in the bottom half to lead things off. Griffey singled to put runners 
on first and third. Then, Edgar Martínez lined a double to left field, 
scoring both Cora and Griffey to send the Mariners to the 1995 American 
League Championship Series. Martinez's game-winning hit has become the 
Seattle Mariners' most famous moment. During Seattle's playoff run, there 
were rumors the team might relocate. The Mariners' success in 1995 led 
to renewed fan interest in the team and the building of their new Stadium—Safeco 
Field. Until 2011, this was the only LDS Game 5 to go into extra innings. 
1995 ALDS (3–2): Seattle Mariners over New York Yankees The song "My Oh 
My" by Seattle-based rapper Macklemore in conjunction with his partner 
Ryan Lewis, features a call of Game 5 by the late Dave Niehaus, simply 
