The 1995 World Series matched the Atlanta Braves against the Cleveland 
Indians. The Braves won in six games to capture their third World Series 
championship in franchise history (along with 1914 in Boston and 1957 in 
Milwaukee), making them the first team to win three crowns in three different 
cities. This was also Cleveland's first Series appearance in 41 years and 
marked the resumption of the Fall Classic after the previous year's Series 
was canceled due to a players' strike. The Series was also remarkable in 
that five of the six games were won by one run, including the clinching 
sixth game, a 1-0 combined one-hitter by Tom Glavine and Mark Wohlers. 
After losing the World Series in 1991 to the Minnesota Twins and in 1992 
to the Toronto Blue Jays, the Atlanta Braves were trying to capture a title 
for the third time in five years. This World Series, despite being in an 
odd-numbered year, opened in the NL home because of the omission of the 
1994 World Series. Until 2003, the World Series would begin in the AL home 
in even-numbered (not odd-numbered) years. The Braves overcame some early 
inconsistency to win their division by 21 games. In the playoffs, which 
featured a new first round, the Braves overwhelmed the third-year Colorado 
Rockies, then swept the Cincinnati Reds in the NLCS (spoiling an all-Ohio 
World Series in the process; notably, prior to their World Series appearance 
in 1948, the Indians had spoiled an all-Boston World Series by beating 
the Red Sox in a one-game playoff). The team relied on clutch hitting and 
its powerful pitching rotation, which was made up of perennial Cy Young 
Award winner Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz, and Steve Avery. After 
decades of futility, the city of Cleveland finally had a winner in town. 
The Indians dominated the American League in 1995, winning 100 of their 
144 games (their 100–44 record yielded a very high 0.694 winning percentage, 
which was, at the time, the highest regular season winning percentage in 
Major League Baseball since 1954, and is, as of 2015, the 12th highest 
regular season winning percentage in Major League Baseball history since 
1900). Furthermore, in just 144 games, they won the AL Central by 30 games, 
and they performed the difficult feat of leading their league in both team 
batting average (0.291) and ERA (3.81). Thanks to their hitting and bullpen, 
this Indians team became known around the league for their ability to come 
back from many deficits, often in dramatic fashion; of their 100 regular 
season victories, 48 were come-back victories, 27 came in their last at-bat, 
8 came by way of "walk off" home runs, and 13 were extra-inning victories 
(they were 13–0 in extra-inning games). After this dominance of the AL 
in the regular season, the Indians, in the playoffs, swept the Boston Red 
Sox in the opening round, then held off Ken Griffey, Jr. and the red hot 
Seattle Mariners in the ALCS, before heading into the Series against the 
Braves. The 1995 Cleveland Indians featured a very impressive batting line-up; 
one that hit for high average, good power, and had good speed. In addition 
to leading the AL in batting average (0.291), the Indians in 1995 also 
led the American League in runs scored (840; 5.83 runs per game), home 
runs (207), and stolen bases (132). Led by speedsters Kenny Lofton and 
Omar Vizquel, along with Carlos Baerga at the top of the order, the Indians 
offense was powered in the middle of the order by Albert Belle, Eddie Murray, 
Manny Ramírez, and Jim Thome; at the bottom of the line-up could be found 
Paul Sorrento (or Herbert Perry) and Sandy Alomar, Jr. (or Tony Peña). 
Thus, this Indians line-up had six everyday players who finished the season 
with a batting average of at least 0.300; and, with Herbert Perry and Tony 
Peña frequently filling in for Paul Sorrento and Sandy Alomar, Jr., respectively, 
it was not uncommon for the Tribe to field a line-up with as many as eight 
players who finished the season with a batting average of at least 0.300. 
In terms of power, though the '95 season was shortened, nevertheless, the 
Indians' line-up still featured two players with at least 30 HR, five players 
with at least 20 HR, and seven with at least 10 HR. While this line-up 
was filled with star players (four, in fact, were named to the 1995 AL 
All-Star team, namely, Lofton, Baerga, Belle, and Ramirez), Albert Belle 
stood out among all of them in 1995. Powered by a very strong second half 
of the season, Belle, the Indians' clean-up hitter in 1995, finished 1995 
with a 0.317 batting average, 126 RBI, and 50 HR. Further to be noted is 
the fact that, in hitting 50 HR and 52 doubles in 1995, Belle became the 
first Major League player to hit at least 50 home runs and at least 50 
doubles in the same season (an accomplishment which, again, is even more 
remarkable considering that he did this in a shortened, 144-game season). 
The Indians also led the 1995 AL in ERA (3.81). While their starting pitching—led 
by veterans Dennis Martínez and Orel Hershiser—was respectable, it was 
their bullpen which gave real strength to their pitching staff. Key members 
of their bullpen staff included veteran right-hander Eric Plunk (6–2, 2.67 
ERA), veteran left-hander Paul Assenmacher (6–2, 2.82), the young right-handed 
set-up man, Julián Tavárez (10–1, 2.44 ERA), and right-handed closer, José 
Mesa (3–0, 1.12 ERA, 46 SV). Mesa, in his first year as closer, posted 
a league-leading 46 saves in 1995, and set a then-Major League record of 
38 consecutive saves without a blown save. Two of the members of the 1995 
Indians' pitching staff—Dennis Martínez (the team's ace) and José Mesa—were 
named to the 1995 AL All-Star team. Thus it was that this Series presented 
an entertaining match-up of baseball's two best teams, each with reasons 
to be confident going into the Series. The Atlanta Braves were veterans 
to the post-season in the 1990s, having won both the 1991 and 1992 NL pennants 
(not to mention the 1993 NL Western Division title, having won 104 games 
in 1993), and they were the best team in the NL in the 1995 regular season 
(having posted a very solid 90–54 record). The Cleveland Indians, on the 
other hand, new-comers to the post-season (having not been in the post-season 
since 1954), in posting their 100–44 regular season mark, were the team 
which had posted not only the best regular season record in the AL, but 
had completed one of the best regular seasons in all of Major League Baseball 
history. Further, though the Braves' line-up was not very threatening in 
1995 (their 0.250 team batting average was the second lowest in the NL), 
still, the Braves could be confident with their star-studded pitching staff—especially 
their starting staff—headed by the likes of Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John 
Smoltz, and Steve Avery. On the other hand, though the Indians could not 
boast of having as nearly a strong starting rotation as the Braves, nevertheless, 
they could lay claim to a very solid bullpen and one of the greatest batting 
line-ups that baseball has ever seen. It might also be noted that, though 
this was the first time that a team from Cleveland and one from Atlanta 
faced each other in the World Series, there were years, prior to the Braves 
being in Atlanta, in which the Braves faced a Cleveland team for baseball's 
crown. In 1948, the Boston Braves faced the Cleveland Indians (with the 
Indians winning that Series in 6 games). Even before that, in 1892, the 
Boston Beaneaters, a forerunner of the Braves, were also National League 
Champions in 1892, and faced the Cleveland Spiders for the championship.[1] 
The Beaneaters beat the Spiders that year to win that baseball championship. 
NBC was originally scheduled to televise the entire Series; however, due 
to the cancellation of the 1994 Series (which had been slated for ABC, 
who last televised a World Series in 1989), coverage ended up being split 
between the two networks. Game 5 is, to date, the last Major League Baseball 
game to be telecast by ABC (had there been a Game 7, ABC would have televised 
it). This was the only World Series to be produced under the "Baseball 
Network" umbrella (a revenue sharing joint venture between Major League 
Baseball, ABC and NBC). In July 1995, both networks announced that they 
would be pulling out of what was supposed to be a six-year-long venture. 
NBC would next cover the 1997 (NBC's first entirely since 1988) and 1999 
World Series over the course of a five-year-long contract, in which Fox 
would cover the World Series in even numbered years (1996, 1998 and 2000, 
and all subsequent editions beyond that). Also during the World Series 
in 1995, NBC's Hannah Storm not only became the first woman to serve as 
solo pre-game host of a World Series (CBS' Andrea Joyce co-hosted with 
Pat O'Brien in 1993) but also became the first woman to preside over a 
World Series Trophy presentation.[citation needed] Storm was infamously 
the recipient of a profane outburst from Albert Belle in his team's dugout. 
Later, Belle was unrepentant: "The Indians wanted me to issue a statement 
of regret when the fine was announced, but I told them to take it out. 
I apologize for nothing." John Saunders served as pre-game host for ABC's 
coverage. Serving as field reporters for the series were Lesley Visser 
(ABC) and Jim Gray (NBC). The six games averaged a national Nielsen rating 
of 19.5 and a share of 33. Through 2016, this remains the highest-rated 
World Series of the post-strike era. On the radio side, CBS was the national 
broadcaster with Vin Scully and Jeff Torborg on the call. Locally, WKNR 
aired the series in Cleveland with Herb Score and Tom Hamilton announcing, 
while WSB broadcast the series in Atlanta with Skip Caray, Pete Van Wieren, 
Don Sutton, and Joe Simpson announcing. NL Atlanta Braves (4) vs. AL Cleveland 
Indians (2) Atlanta ace Greg Maddux pitched a two-hit complete game victory 
in his first World Series appearance (and just the fifteenth two-hitter 
in Series history). The Indians scored in the first inning when Kenny Lofton 
reached on an error, stole second and third, and scored on an RBI groundout 
by Carlos Baerga. In the bottom of the second, Fred McGriff launched a 
tape measure home run on his first ever World Series pitch off Cleveland 
starter Orel Hershiser to even the score at 1–1. Both starters settled 
down until the seventh, when Hershiser and the Cleveland bullpen walked 
the first three Braves to open the inning. The Braves would take a 3–1 
lead after Luis Polonia hit into a run-scoring force play and Rafael Belliard 
bunted a perfect suicide squeeze. The Indians scored a run in the ninth 
to cut the Braves lead to a single run, but Baerga lifted a pop fly that 
third baseman Chipper Jones grabbed near the visiting dugout to end the 
game. Atlanta No. 2 starter Tom Glavine got the win in Game 2, aided by 
a big sixth-inning home run by catcher Javy López, who also picked Manny 
Ramirez off first base at a crucial moment in the eighth inning to erase 
a potential game-tying baserunner. The Indians had taken an early 2–0 lead 
on an Eddie Murray home run, but the Braves evened the score in the third 
with a sac fly by Chipper Jones and an RBI single by David Justice. Lopez 
launched his home run in the sixth inning from Cleveland starter Dennis 
Martínez. The Atlanta bullpen held off the Indians in the later innings, 
with Mark Wohlers earning the save. The Braves thus took a 2–0 series lead, 
their most encouraging World Series start of the decade. With the World 
Series moving to raucous Jacobs Field in Cleveland, the Indians got their 
first win. The Indians offense got back on track off Atlanta starter John 
Smoltz. With the Tribe already down 1–0 in the bottom of the first, Kenny 
Lofton singled to center and scored on Omar Vizquel's triple into the right 
field corner. Omar then scored the go-ahead run when Carlos Baerga grounded 
out. In the third, the Tribe were back at it again when Lofton opened the 
inning by ripping a double into the right-center field gap. Omar then got 
a bunt single and Baerga singled to left to drive in Lofton. Albert Belle 
then rolled a grounder up the middle to score Vizquel to make it 4–1. The 
Braves got a boost, however, when reliever Brad Clontz induced a double 
play groundout by Manny Ramírez to escape further damage. Solo home runs 
by Fred McGriff and Ryan Klesko brought the Braves closer at 4–3. Cleveland 
added a run in the seventh on another RBI hit by Baerga scoring Lofton 
(who would reach base in all six of his plate appearances). With a 5–3 
lead going into the eighth, trouble brewed for Cleveland when Charles Nagy 
and the bullpen gave up the lead. Marquis Grissom led off with a double 
off the wall. Polonia singled through the right side to drive in Grissom, 
sending Nagy to the showers. Chipper Jones walked, McGriff hit a deep fly 
moving the runners up a base, and David Justice reached when Baerga booted 
his groundball, subsequently allowing Polonia to score the tying run. The 
inning was capped off by Mike Devereaux's RBI single giving the Braves 
a 6–5 lead. The Braves couldn't hold on to their slim lead either as Sandy 
Alomar, Jr. laced a game-tying double inside the line at first in the bottom 
of the eighth. The two closers, Mark Wohlers and José Mesa then matched 
zeros for the next two innings. In the eleventh, the Braves went to Alejandro 
Peña. Baerga immediately smashed a double and after an intentional walk 
to Belle, veteran Eddie Murray singled to center, scoring pinch runner 
Álvaro Espinoza and cutting Atlanta's World Series lead in half. A record 
eighteen pitchers were used between the Braves and Indians in Games 2 and 
3. Braves manager Bobby Cox controversially decided to start beleaguered 
left-hander Steve Avery in the critical Game 4 instead of coming back with 
Greg Maddux. Young Braves outfielder Ryan Klesko hit a sixth-inning home 
run to give Atlanta the lead. Avery was able to deliver six effective innings, 
only giving up a sixth-inning solo home run to Cleveland slugger Albert 
Belle. A controversial play happened when Eddie Murray hit a pitch over 
third base, left-field umpire Jim McKean called it foul while third-base 
umpire Harry Wendelstedt looked at Jim McKean to make the call. Murray 
eventually walked and reached second on a balk by Avery, but Hurbert struck 
out to end the inning. The Braves promptly broke the tie with a three-run 
seventh, with David Justice plating two of the runs with a single. An RBI 
double by Javy López gave the Braves an insurance run, making it 5–1. Reliever 
Pedro Borbón, Jr. saved the 5–2 win after Mark Wohlers ran into trouble, 
and the Braves were one victory away from a title. It seemed the perfect 
situation for Atlanta with Greg Maddux pitching Game 5 with a chance to 
clinch the title, but Albert Belle slugged a two-run homer in the first 
inning, and the Braves lineup was held in check by Cleveland veteran Orel 
Hershiser who went eight innings, only surrendering two runs. Atlanta actually 
tied the game at 2–2 with a run-scoring infield single by Marquis Grissom 
in the fifth, but Cleveland got two more runs from Maddux making it 4–2. 
Jim Thome hit an insurance home run in the eighth, which proved necessary 
as Ryan Klesko homered in his third consecutive game, reducing the gap 
to 5–4. Klesko became the first person ever to homer in three consecutive 
World Series road games, by belting homers in Games 3, 4, and 5. The win 
gave Cleveland the hope of perhaps another Braves World Series collapse 
and sent the Series back to Atlanta. As previously mentioned, this game 
is also the most recent baseball game that ABC televised. Controversy struck 
on the morning of Game 6 when Atlanta newspapers printed stories that right 
fielder David Justice had ripped the city's fans for not matching their 
motivation of past seasons. Justice, who had been struggling in the postseason, 
was vilified before the game, but when his sixth-inning home run broke 
a 0–0 tie, he became a hero. Tom Glavine pitched eight innings of one-hit 
ball (just the fifth one-hitter in Series history) to help earn him the 
Series MVP. The lone hit was a bloop-single by catcher Tony Peña in the 
sixth. Closer Mark Wohlers pitched the ninth inning, preserving the 1–0 
shutout and Atlanta's coveted title when Carlos Baerga's fly ball landed 
in center fielder Marquis Grissom's glove. Carlos Baerga was responsible 
for making the last out in three of the four Cleveland losses; Games 1, 
2 and 6. In 1995, the Cleveland Indians batted .291 as a team, led the 
league in runs scored, hits, and stolen bases, and had eight .300 hitters 
in their starting lineup. However, the Tribe was held to a .179 batting 
average in the World Series. After Game 6, then-Executive Committee Chairman 
Bud Selig presided over the Commissioner's Trophy presentation for the 
first time. In the previous two World Series (1992 and 1993), American 
League president Dr. Bobby Brown presided over the trophy presentation. 
Selig would become Commissioner of Baseball in 1998. The Braves' victory 
marked the only time that the city of Atlanta won a world championship 
in any of the four major professional sports. The NFL's Atlanta Falcons 
came close, but lost to the Denver Broncos in Super Bowl XXXIII during 
the 1998 season. (Coincidentally, the NBA's Hawks won the championship 
in 1958 when the franchise was based in St. Louis, months after the Milwaukee 
Braves won the 1957 World Series.) As for Cleveland, the Indians would 
return to the World Series in 1997, where they lost to the Florida Marlins 
in seven games. The NBA's Cleveland Cavaliers have been to three NBA Finals, 
losing to the San Antonio Spurs in a four-game sweep in 2007 and to the 
Golden State Warriors in a six-game 2015 Finals, and then defeating the 
same Warriors in the rematch. The NFL's Cleveland Browns, who within a 
few months after this World Series would make a controversial move to Baltimore 
(where they currently play as the Ravens, winners of Super Bowls XXXV and 
XLVII) and be revived in 1999, are one of four franchises to have never 
been to a Super Bowl. A Cleveland team would not win a major professional 
sports championship until the Cavaliers defeated the Golden State Warriors 
in the full seven games in the 2016 NBA Finals. 1995 World Series (4–2): 
