The 1995 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 1995 American League playoffs, matched the Central Division champion 
Cleveland Indians against the West Division champion Seattle Mariners. 
The Mariners had the home field advantage, which was predetermined and 
assigned to either the West Division champion or their opponents in the 
Division Series. The two teams were victorious in the AL Division Series 
(ALDS), with the Indians defeating the East Division champion Boston Red 
Sox three games to none, and the Mariners defeating the wild card qualifier 
New York Yankees three games to two. The Indians won the series four games 
to two to become the American League champions, and lost to the National 
League champion Atlanta Braves in the 1995 World Series. Cleveland won 
the series, 4–2. Tuesday, October 10, 1995 at Kingdome in Seattle, Washington 
The Indians called on the veteran Dennis Martínez for Game 1. The Mariners 
rode the arm of Bob Wolcott. Wolcott got off to a shaky start by walking 
three straight hitters to open the game, but he would get out of the bases-loaded, 
nobody-out situation with ease. In the second, Mike Blowers hit a two-run 
homer to put the Mariners in front 2–0. However, the Indians would put 
together a run in the next inning and in the seventh, Albert Belle's solo 
homer tied the game at two. With Martinez still pitching in a tie game, 
the Mariners would take the lead thanks to Luis Sojo's go-ahead double 
in the bottom half of the seventh. Norm Charlton would come on in the eighth 
for a 1 1⁄3 inning save. He would retire the side 1–2–3 in the ninth. Wednesday, 
October 11, 1995 at Kingdome in Seattle, Washington The Indians' second 
veteran Orel Hershiser was called upon to stem the tide against Tim Belcher. 
Both pitchers dueled for four innings until the Indians broke through in 
the top of the fifth with a two-run single by Carlos Baerga. In the next 
inning, the Indians grabbed two more on a Manny Ramírez homer and an RBI 
triple by Sandy Alomar, Jr.. Ken Griffey, Jr.'s sixth postseason homer 
put the Mariners on the board to make it 4–1 in the bottom of the sixth. 
The Indians would put the game away when Manny Ramírez hit his second homer 
of the game in the eighth to make it 5–1. Hershiser would give way to José 
Mesa in the ninth. Mesa would issue a one-out solo homer to Jay Buhner 
but would recover to close out the win. Friday, October 13, 1995 at Jacobs 
Field in Cleveland, Ohio In Game 3, the starting pitchers were Randy Johnson 
and Charles Nagy. Nagy and Johnson pitched a scoreless first but the Mariners 
broke through on a solo homer by Jay Buhner. Then an error in the third 
by Álvaro Espinoza gave the Mariners one more run to make it 2–0 Mariners. 
The Indians put a run on the board after a leadoff triple by Kenny Lofton 
and a sac fly by Omar Vizquel in the fourth. The Indians then tied the 
game due to an error by Buhner. Johnson and Nagy both left the game tied 
at two. The game moved to extra innings and in the eleventh, Buhner came 
through once again with a three-run home run to give the Mariners a 5–2 
lead. Charlton, who came on in the ninth in relief, got the win and shut 
down the Indians in the bottom of the eleventh. Saturday, October 14, 1995 
at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio With their backs to the wall in Game 
4, Cleveland called on Ken Hill to help tie the series. Opposing him would 
be Andy Benes. Benes wouldn't fare well against Hill and the Cleveland 
hitters. The Indians put three on the board in the first, a rally capped 
by Eddie Murray's two-run homer. A sac fly by Kenny Lofton made it 4–0 
in the second. Then the rain began to fall on Seattle's parade in the third 
as Benes surrendered a two-run homer to Jim Thome in the rain. Benes was 
done and the rain ended after the third was over. Hill would pitch beyond 
expectations and lead his team to an easy 7–0 shutout. Sunday, October 
15, 1995 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Game 5 was a matchup between 
Chris Bosio and Orel Hershiser. Hershiser was looking to continue his excellence 
and he got off to the right start when the Indians knocked home a run in 
the first thanks to an error by Tino Martinez. But Hershiser's slim lead 
would be cut in the third when Ken Griffey, Jr.'s RBI double tied the game. 
In the fifth, an error by Albert Belle gave the Mariners the lead. The 
Mariners were closing in on a 3–2 lead going home but the Indians wouldn't 
allow it as Jim Thome stepped to the plate in the sixth with a man on and 
hit a two-run homer to give the Indians the lead back. The Mariners had 
their share of chances. In the seventh, they had men on the corners with 
one out and Griffey, Jr. at the plate. Paul Assenmacher was summoned from 
the bullpen. He proceeded to strike out Griffey on a high fastball as the 
crowd cheered, and the camera showed his wife going crazy. Then Jay Buhner 
stepped to the plate. Normally manager Mike Hargrove would bring in a right-hander, 
but he stayed with Assenmacher. He struck out Buhner on a low breaking 
ball and then slowly, stoically walked off the mound, head down, somber 
expression, with 40,000 fans screaming wildly. The Mariners could never 
capitalize on any more opportunities and José Mesa closed the door in the 
ninth. Tuesday, October 17, 1995 at Kingdome in Seattle, Washington In 
the potential clincher, Dennis Martínez faced Randy Johnson. Both pitchers 
kept the game scoreless until the top of the fifth. A key error by Joey 
Cora allowed Kenny Lofton to single home a run to put the Indians up 1–0. 
With the score still 1–0 in the eighth, the Indians put three runs together 
against Johnson. A passed ball with two men in scoring position allowed 
both of them to score. Kenny Lofton made a mad dash from second base, sliding 
in just ahead of the tag, and the entire dugout ran onto the field to celebrate. 
Then Carlos Baerga followed with a solo homer to give the Indians a commanding 
4–0 lead with six outs to go. Once again, José Mesa came on to close the 
door in the ninth and did so with shocking ease. The Indians had won their 
first pennant since 1954. The Mariners were one of the very few teams to 
have lost in two shutouts in one series. 1995 ALCS (4–2): Cleveland Indians 
