The 1995 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
1995 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 3, and ended on 
Saturday, October 7, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. As a 
result of both leagues realigning into three divisions in 1994, it marked 
the first time in major league history that a team could qualify for postseason 
play without finishing in first place in its league or division. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
was not tied to playing record but was predetermined—a highly unpopular 
arrangement which was discontinued after the 1997 playoffs. Also, the team 
with home field "advantage" was required to play the first two games on 
the road, with potentially the last three at home, in order to reduce travel. 
Had the 1995 NLDS been played under the post-1997 arrangement, then Atlanta 
(1) would've still played against Colorado (4) and Cincinnati (2) would 
have likewise still faced Los Angeles (3). The Atlanta Braves and Cincinnati 
Reds went on to meet in the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Braves became 
the National League champion, and defeated the American League champion 
Cleveland Indians in the 1995 World Series. Atlanta won the series, 3–1. 
Cincinnati won the series, 3–0. Coors Field in Denver, Colorado Game 1 
was a match-up between aces: Greg Maddux for the Atlanta Braves and Kevin 
Ritz for the Colorado Rockies. Ritz and Maddux worked their way out of 
minor trouble early on, but, in the top of the third, Marquis Grissom broke 
the scoreless tie with a solo shot to make it 1–0. However, the Rockies 
soon answered in the bottom of the fourth. After Maddux got Dante Bichette 
to ground out, he walked Larry Walker. Then a single by Andrés Galarraga 
moved Walker to third. Ellis Burks's sac fly brought Walker home. The next 
batter, Vinny Castilla, would hit a two-run homer to give Colorado its 
first lead of the night. But the Braves weren't about to give in to the 
3–1 deficit. In the top of the sixth, Chipper Jones led off with a solo 
home run to make it a one-run game. David Justice then walked just before 
a single by Ryan Klesko. An error during the play by Burks moved Justice 
to third. Luis Polonia would then reach on a fielder's choice, bringing 
Justice home to tie the game. The Braves would load the bases, but Maddux 
struck out to end the inning. In the top of the eighth, Mike Munoz took 
the mound for Colorado. He got two quick outs, but surrendered a single 
to Klesko. Darren Holmes came in to try to end the inning, but then gave 
up a single to Javy López. Dwight Smith followed with a pinch-hit RBI single 
to center to give the Braves a 4–3 lead. With time running out, the Rockies 
staged a rally in the bottom half of the inning. Bichette walked, then 
moved to third on a single by Walker and an error by Justice on the play. 
Galarraga would then reach on a fielder's choice (on a diving stop by Chipper 
Jones robbing the Big Cat of extra bases), with Walker out at second. Alejandro 
Peña came on to face Burks with one out. Burks would double to tie the 
game at four apiece, but Pena got the next two outs. Curt Leskanic came 
on in the top of the ninth to preserve the tie. He got two outs, but gave 
up a solo home run to Chipper Jones. The Braves now had a 5–4 lead, but 
the Rockies were able to rally in the bottom half. With one out, Mike Kingery 
singled and was followed by another single by Bichette. Walker was then 
walked, loading the bases with only one out. That put the winning run in 
scoring position. Wohlers, however, was able to get Galarraga and pitcher 
Lance Painter (Rockies skipper Don Baylor had run out of position players 
in his first postseason game as manager) to strike out to end the game 
and give the Braves a well-earned victory. Coors Field in Denver, Colorado 
Game 2 matched Atlanta pitcher Tom Glavine against the man who made the 
final out in Game 1, Lance Painter. Marquis Grissom gave the Braves an 
early lead with a lead off home run in the top of the first. Glavine then 
held the Rockies to one hit in the first two innings. In the top of the 
third, the Braves struck again when Mark Lemke singled and Chipper Jones 
had a bunt single. After Fred McGriff struck out, David Justice walked 
to load the bases with only one out. Javy López's sac fly made it 2–0, 
but the Braves could muster no more runs as Ryan Klesko struck out to end 
the inning. In the top of the fourth, Grissom again went deep with two 
outs to make it 3–0 Braves. All was silent until the bottom of the sixth. 
With one man out, Ellis Burks reached on an error by Jeff Blauser. Dante 
Bichette then singled to center to put runners on the corners. Then, Larry 
Walker brought the Rockies back into the game with a mammoth three-run 
home run to tie the game at three. In the bottom of the eighth, the Rockies 
took the lead when Andrés Galarraga drove home Bichette with a double after 
Bichette had reached with a double of his own. The Rockies were now three 
outs away from tying the series at one game apiece, but the Braves would 
not give in. Jones doubled to left to lead off the top of the 9th, then 
came home on a single by McGriff to tie the game. With two outs now, Mike 
Devereaux singled, then Mike Mordecai followed with another single that 
drove home McGriff to give the Braves the lead. An error by Eric Young 
allowed two more runs to score to give the Braves a convincing 7–4 ninth 
inning lead. Mark Wohlers saved the game in the bottom half to give the 
Braves a two-games-to-none lead going home. Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium 
in Atlanta, Georgia The potential clincher pitted Bill Swift against John 
Smoltz. A wild pitch by Smoltz allowed Eric Young to score to make it 1–0 
Rockies. Then Young made it 3–0 when he homered with one man on in the 
third. But the Braves put together three runs in the fourth thanks to an 
RBI double by Ryan Klesko and a two-run single by Javy López. During the 
final play of the inning, Jeff Blauser struck out and sprained his ankle 
in doing so, putting him on the bench for the rest of the postseason. The 
Rockies quickly responded with a two-run homer by Vinny Castilla in the 
sixth. But the Braves would chip away at the score in the seventh when 
Mike Mordecai doubled home Klesko. Then in the ninth, with the Rockies 
leading 5–4, the Braves would tie the game thanks to a two-out, pinch hit 
RBI single by Luis Polonia. With Mark Wohlers on the mound in the tenth, 
the Rockies would put together back-to-back RBI singles to make it 7–5. 
Mark Thompson got the Rockies their first ever postseason win. Atlanta-Fulton 
County Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia Greg Maddux was matched against Bret 
Saberhagen, who was hoping to keep Colorado's momentum intact. The game 
was scoreless into the third when Dante Bichette launched a three-run homer 
with one out in the top of the third. It silenced the crowd, hoping to 
see their Braves finally win it all for the first time in four tries. But 
the Braves would respond in the bottom of the third. A two-out, two-run 
double by Chipper Jones made it a one-run game. Then Fred McGriff homered 
to give the Braves the lead for good. An error by Eric Young made it 5–3 
on a fielder's choice by Rafael Belliard in the bottom of the fourth. Then 
Ryan Klesko doubled Belliard home to make it 6–3. A barrage of singles 
and doubles made the final score 10–4 and the Braves would advance to the 
1995 National League Championship Series. 1995 NLDS (3–1): Atlanta Braves 
over Colorado Rockies Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California Pete Schourek 
faced Ramón Martínez in Game 1. Back-to-back singles with one out got the 
rally started in the top of the first for the Reds. After Reggie Sanders 
popped out, Hal Morris struck the game's first blow by doubling home the 
two runners on base. Then Benito Santiago hit a two-run homer to make it 
4–0 Reds. A four-run lead in the first was more than enough for Schourek. 
A sac fly and a double scored three more runs in the top of the fifth. 
The Dodgers were rendered helpless, getting two runs on a sac fly and a 
homer by Mike Piazza. The Reds would win Game 1, 7–2. Dodger Stadium in 
Los Angeles, California Former 20-game winner John Smiley faced Ismael 
Valdez in Game 2. Eric Karros, who would drive in all the Dodgers runs, 
got them on the board first with an RBI double in the first. Reggie Sanders 
brought the Reds back with a two-run homer in the top of the fourth, but 
Karros would immediately respond with a leadoff homer to tie the game at 
two. Raúl Mondesí would be ejected from the game in between innings in 
the eighth on his way to right field, when he badmouthed umpire Bob Davidson 
for a play at home in the seventh that went the Reds' way. In the eighth, 
the Reds took the lead on a Barry Larkin single that scored Mariano Duncan. 
A fielder's choice and an RBI single made it 5–2 Reds in the ninth. A leadoff 
single off Jeff Brantley gave the Dodgers life. With one out, Karros hit 
his second home run of the game to make it 5–4 and that gave him four RBIs 
for the day. However, Brantley got the next two men out to save Game 2 
and give the Reds a two-game lead going to Cincinnati. Riverfront Stadium 
in Cincinnati, Ohio Soon-to-be-named National League Rookie of the Year 
Hideo Nomo faced playoff-savvy David Wells. A two-run homer by Ron Gant 
got the scoring started for the Reds in the third. The Dodgers would cut 
the lead in half on an RBI single by Raúl Mondesí in the fourth. But the 
game and the series got away in a hurry. A Bret Boone homer in the bottom 
of the fourth made it 3–1. Then, in the sixth, Nomo began to lose his control, 
giving up two singles and a wild pitch. Then pinch hitter Mark Lewis came 
up with the bases loaded and socked a grand slam to make it 7–1 Reds. Ultimately, 
the Dodgers would change pitchers five times as the Reds clobbered the 
Dodgers in the third and final game 10–1. The Reds would advance to the 
1995 National League Championship Series. As of 2015, this is the Reds' 
most recent playoff game victory at home, and the 1995 NLDS remains the 
most recent playoff round won by the Reds. 1995 NLDS (3–0): Cincinnati 
