The 1995 National League Championship Series (NLCS), the second round of 
baseball's 1995 National League playoffs, matched the East Division champion 
Atlanta Braves against the Central Division champion Cincinnati Reds. The 
Reds had the home field advantage. The two teams were victorious in the 
NL Division Series (NLDS), with the Braves defeating the wild card qualifier 
Colorado Rockies three games to one, and the Reds defeating the West Division 
champion Los Angeles Dodgers three games to none. The Braves won the series 
four games to none to become the National League champions, and defeated 
the American League champion Cleveland Indians in the 1995 World Series. 
This NLCS was notable as it matched up what had been the two easternmost 
teams in the National League West Division from 1969–1993, both teams having 
been placed there at the insistence of the New York Mets and Chicago Cubs 
(the former team wanted the Cubs' rivals St. Louis Cardinals, then the 
dominating power of the NL, in the National League East Division, and the 
Cubs wanted in the same division as St. Louis). It was also the first NLCS 
since 1989 not to feature either the Philadelphia Phillies or the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. The two teams reigned exclusively as NL East champions from 1990 
to 1993.[1] Atlanta won the series, 4–0. Tuesday, October 10, 1995 at Riverfront 
Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio The opening game of the 1995 NLCS would be 
well-pitched and decided in extra innings. The only run allowed by Tom 
Glavine, who would go seven innings, came on a Ron Gant single following 
a Barry Larkin triple in the fourth. Pete Schourek was lights out the entire 
game, but allowed the Braves to plate a run in the ninth to send the game 
to extra innings. In the eleventh inning, bench player Mike Devereaux singled 
in Fred McGriff to give Atlanta a 2–1 lead. Manager Bobby Cox needed to 
use three pitchers in the bottom of the inning, but Greg McMichael induced 
a double play that ended the game. Wednesday, October 11, 1995 at Riverfront 
Stadium in Cincinnati, Ohio With John Smoltz on the mound, the Braves took 
an early 1–0 lead, then got a second run in the fourth on a Mike Devereaux 
RBI double. Jeff Branson stealing home in the fifth tied the game at two. 
That score held until the tenth inning, when the Braves scored four runs 
and took the game. Cincinnati reliever Mark Portugal's wild pitch allowed 
Mark Lemke to scamper home with the go-ahead run. Javy López followed with 
a three-run blast that blew the game open. This would be the final postseason 
game ever played in Riverfront Stadium. Friday, October 13, 1995 at Atlanta-Fulton 
County Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia Greg Maddux went eight innings and only 
gave up one run in another strong start for an Atlanta starter. Lefty David 
Wells, acquired by Cincinnati in anticipation of facing the predominantly 
left-handed Braves lineup in the playoffs, matched Maddux with a scoreless 
first five innings. Later, right-handed Atlanta catcher Charlie O'Brien 
belted a three-run homer in the sixth off Wells. Rookie Chipper Jones hit 
a two-run shot in the seventh to make it 5–0 Braves. Mark Wohlers earned 
the save in the ninth as the Braves held on for a 5–2 victory. Saturday, 
October 14, 1995 at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta, Georgia Steve 
Avery, who was inconsistent all season, got the start for Atlanta and tossed 
six scoreless innings. Mark Lemke hit an RBI single in the third to give 
Atlanta a 1–0 lead. The game remained close until the seventh, when series 
MVP Mike Devereaux hit a three-run shot in a five-run Atlanta inning. Ahead 
6–0, Bobby Cox took no chances and used closer Mark Wohlers to finish off 
the Reds in the ninth. The shutout victory completed a surprisingly easy 
sweep of Cincinnati and sent the Braves to their third World Series in 
five years. The Reds offense only managed to score five runs in four games 
off Atlanta's pitching staff, even with the fact that the first two contests 
went to extra-innings. This was the only NLCS to end in a four-game sweep 
until 2007, when the Colorado Rockies defeated the Arizona Diamondbacks 
in four games. Former Brave Ron Gant would play against his former team 
with the Reds, then again the next year as a member of the St. Louis Cardinals. 
