The 1996 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
1996 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 1, and ended on 
Saturday, October 5, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
was not tied to playing record but was predetermined—a highly unpopular 
arrangement which was discontinued after the 1997 playoffs. Also, the team 
with home field "advantage" was required to play the first two games on 
the road, with potentially the last three at home, in order to reduce travel. 
Had the 1996 ALDS been played under the post-1997 arrangement, then Cleveland 
(1) would have still faced off against Baltimore (4) and New York (2) would 
have likewise still faced off against Texas (3) but would also have had 
home field advantage. The Baltimore Orioles and New York Yankees went on 
to meet in the AL Championship Series (ALCS). The Yankees became the American 
League champion, and defeated the National League champion Atlanta Braves 
in the 1996 World Series. Baltimore won the series, 3–1. New York won the 
series, 3–1. Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland It was 
Baltimore's first playoff game since the clinching Game 5 of the 1983 World 
Series. For the Indians, it was their second consecutive division title. 
Charles Nagy and David Wells matched each other, but in the wrong way. 
Brady Anderson's leadoff homer in the bottom of the first gave the Orioles 
a 1–0 lead. In the top of the second, Manny Ramírez led off with a homer 
of his own to tie the game. Then B. J. Surhoff's one-out homer gave the 
Orioles the lead back. In the third, the Orioles added two more runs on 
an RBI double by Rafael Palmeiro and an RBI single by Cal Ripken, Jr., 
but Sandy Alomar, Jr. would single home a run and Omar Vizquel would follow 
with a sac fly that made it a one-run game in the fourth. That made it 
4–3 and the Orioles needed to put the game away. With one out in the sixth, 
the Orioles loaded the bases and chased Nagy out of the game. His reliever, 
Alan Embree, made things worse for Cleveland. He allowed a sac fly that 
made it 5–3, then hit Palmeiro. With the bases loaded, Bobby Bonilla got 
his only hit of the game: a grand slam which made it 9–3 Orioles. The Indians 
would threaten in the next two innings but it was all too late. Surhoff 
would hit another homer in the seventh to seal the deal and the Orioles 
won their first postseason game in thirteen years. Oriole Park at Camden 
Yards in Baltimore, Maryland After a 37-minute rain delay, Game 2 commenced. 
Veterans Orel Hershiser and Scott Erickson met in this crucial game. In 
the bottom of the first, Kevin Seitzer's error gave the Orioles the lead. 
In the bottom of the fifth, a Brady Anderson homer, a Cal Ripken, Jr. single, 
and an Eddie Murray double made it 4–0, but the Indians rallied for three 
runs in the sixth on a groundout by Seitzer and a two-out, two-run homer 
by Albert Belle. In the eighth, a misjudged fly ball by Brady Anderson 
led to the Indians tying the game at four, but, in the bottom of the eighth, 
the Orioles got three runs on a groundout, a sac fly, and an RBI hit by 
Roberto Alomar. In the ninth, Randy Myers had a 1–2–3 inning for the save. 
Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Game 3 was critical with Cleveland facing 
elimination. Mike Mussina was sent to the mound against Jack McDowell to 
try to end the series in Cleveland. The Indians scored first thanks to 
an error by Bobby Bonilla. In the top of the second, the Orioles managed 
to load the bases and force home a run when McDowell hit Brady Anderson 
with a pitch, but a Manny Ramírez homer and an RBI double by José Vizcaíno 
made it 3–1 in the bottom half. In the top of the fourth, B. J. Surhoff 
silenced the crowd with a towering three-run homer that gave the Orioles 
their first lead of the night. However, Kevin Seitzer would deliver the 
game-tying RBI single in the bottom of the fourth. The game would remain 
tied until the bottom of the seventh when Albert Belle unleashed a grand 
slam that broke the game wide open. The Indians added another run on another 
RBI hit by Seitzer to ensure a Game 4. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio 
Game 4 saw a rematch of Game 1: David Wells vs. Charles Nagy. In the top 
of the second, back-to-back homers by Rafael Palmeiro and Bobby Bonilla 
to lead off the inning gave the Orioles a 2–0 lead. Then, Sandy Alomar, 
Jr.'s two-run single tied the game in the fourth. In the fifth, the Indians 
broke the tie with an RBI hit by Omar Vizquel. The bats on both sides were 
then silenced until the top of the ninth inning, when José Mesa came on 
in a save situation and looked to extend the series to a deciding Game 
5. However, the Orioles managed to tie the game with one out left to go. 
The score was tied 3–3 and it looked like the Indians might win the game 
in the bottom half with two runners in scoring position and two out for 
Kenny Lofton, but he struck out to force extra innings. In the top of the 
twelfth, the Orioles recaptured the lead when Roberto Alomar (who would 
play for Cleveland later in his career) hit the go-ahead home run. Randy 
Myers would finish off the Indians and send the Orioles to the 1996 American 
League Championship Series. 1996 ALDS (3–1): Baltimore Orioles over Cleveland 
Indians Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York John Burkett took the mound 
for the Rangers in their first ever postseason game, facing David Cone. 
The Yankees would get a run in the first on a groundout by Bernie Williams. 
The Yankees' luck would run out in the fourth, when Juan González smashed 
a three-run homer to give the Rangers a 3–1 lead. Later in the inning, 
Dean Palmer's two-run shot made it 5–1. The Yankees would get a run in 
the bottom half on Mariano Duncan's RBI hit but they would get no more. 
The Rangers added an insurance run in the sixth on Mark McLemore's RBI 
single. Burkett would go the distance for the win. He would allow only 
two runs despite giving up ten hits. The Rangers' win in Game 1 was their 
first postseason win in franchise history. They proceeded to lose the rest 
of the series to the Yankees, and did not win another postseason game until 
their pennant season of 2010, when they won Game 1 of the ALDS. Yankee 
Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Game 2 proved memorable as Ken Hill faced 
21-game winner Andy Pettitte. In the top of the second, Juan González's 
second homer of the series gave the Rangers a 1–0 edge, but a pair of defensive 
double clutches allowed the Yankees to tie the game in the bottom half 
on Jim Leyritz's forceout. In the third, González hit his third homer of 
the series, this time a towering three-run shot, to give the Rangers a 
4–1 lead. With the Yankees behind once again and the Rangers looking like 
the better team, the Yankees would spend the next six innings chipping 
away at the lead. Cecil Fielder's solo shot in the fourth gave the Yankees 
hope. With the score 4–2 until the seventh, time was running out, but Charlie 
Hayes lifted a sac fly to make it a one-run game. In the eighth, the Yankees 
were five outs away from losing when Fielder tied the game with an RBI 
hit. The game moved to extra innings and the Rangers blew scoring opportunities 
in the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth innings. They would put their leadoff 
men on but get nothing. In the twelfth, the Yankees put their first two 
men on when Hayes laid down a sacrifice bunt, but Dean Palmer made an error 
on that bunt down the third base line and Jeter managed to score all the 
way from second base on it, allowing the Yankees to walk off in dramatic 
fashion. The Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas Game 3 saw Jimmy 
Key face Darren Oliver. In the first, Oliver gave up a solo shot to Bernie 
Williams. That's all the Yankees would be able to muster as Oliver began 
to settle in. In the bottom of the fourth, Juan González's fourth homer 
in three games tied the game and earned him the reputation of "Señor October." 
Then in the fifth, Iván Rodríguez's RBI double gave the Rangers a 2–1 edge. 
Oliver, along with the Rangers' bullpen, kept the Yankees scoreless until 
the ninth. The Yankees rallied to tie the game on Williams' sac fly and 
later in the inning they would take the lead on Mariano Duncan's RBI single. 
In the ninth, the Rangers put their leadoff man on with a walk. He would 
advance to third on a sacrifice and a groundout. That put the tying run 
90 feet away and the winning run at the plate, but John Wetteland got Darryl 
Hamilton to strike out to end the game. The Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, 
Texas Kenny Rogers faced Bobby Witt in the potential clincher. Rogers pitched 
a scoreless first but in the second the Rangers struck for two on RBI hits 
by Mickey Tettleton and Iván Rodríguez. In the third, Rogers was replaced 
by Brian Boehringer. Juan González led off the inning with his fifth homer 
of the series to make it 3–0. Then an error by Derek Jeter led to another 
Texas run later in the inning. The Rangers had built a commanding 4–0 lead, 
but, in the top of the fourth, the Yankees scored three runs on two RBI 
hits and a forceout. Witt's night was also through. In the fifth, the Yankees 
tied the game at four when Bernie Williams hit a leadoff homer. In the 
seventh, the Yankees completed a four-run comeback by taking the lead on 
Cecil Fielder's RBI single. In the ninth, Williams once again provided 
insurance by hitting his second homer of the game. That made it 6–4 Yankees. 
In the bottom half, the Rangers put the tying runs on against John Wetteland, 
but he got Will Clark and Dean Palmer, both potential home run threats, 
to fly out and strike out to end the game and the series. 1996 ALDS (3–1): 
