The 1996 Summer Olympics (French: Jeux olympiques d'été de 1996), known 
officially as the Games of the XXVI Olympiad and unofficially as the Centennial 
Olympic Games, was a major international multi-sport event that took place 
in Atlanta, Georgia, United States, from July 19 to August 4, 1996. A record 
197 nations, all current IOC member nations, took part in the Games, comprising 
10,318 athletes. The International Olympic Committee voted in 1986 to separate 
the Summer and Winter Games, which had been held in the same year since 
1924, and place them in alternating even-numbered years, beginning in 1994. 
The 1996 Summer Games were the first to be staged in a different year from 
the Winter Games. Atlanta became the fourth American city to host the Olympic 
Games and the third to hold a Summer Olympic Games. Atlanta was selected 
on September 18, 1990, in Tokyo, Japan, over Athens, Belgrade, Manchester, 
Melbourne, and Toronto at the 96th IOC Session. Atlanta's bid to host the 
Summer Games that began in 1987 was considered a long-shot, since the U.S. 
had hosted the Summer Olympics 12 years earlier in Los Angeles. Atlanta's 
main rivals were Toronto, whose front-running bid that began in 1986 seemed 
almost sure to succeed after Canada had held a successful 1988 Winter Olympics 
in Calgary, and Melbourne, Australia, who hosted the 1956 Summer Olympics 
and prior to Sydney, Australia's successful 2000 Summer Olympics bid, they 
felt that the Olympic Games should return to Australia. This would be Toronto's 
fourth failed attempt since 1960 (tried in 1960, 1964, and 1976).[1] The 
Athens bid was based on the fact that 1996 marked 100 years since the first 
Summer Games in Greece in 1896. The initial push for 1996 coming to Atlanta 
came from Billy Payne and then Atlanta mayor Andrew Young, whose main push 
for the Olympics to come to Atlanta mainly came from a motivation to showcase 
a changed and resurgent American South which was overcoming racial tensions 
from the African American civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s 
and to showcase a robust and growing Southern economy to help offset international 
stereotypes that the region was still plagued with poverty.[2] The 1996 
Olympics was predicated on the financial model established by the 1984 
Olympic Games in Los Angeles. The cost to stage the Games was US$1.8 billion. 
U.S. Government funds were used for security, and around $500 million of 
taxpayer money was used on the physical infrastructure including streetscaping, 
road improvements, Centennial Olympic Park, expansion of airport, improvements 
in public transportation, and redevelopment of public housing projects[4] 
but neither paid for the actual Games nor the new Venues themselves.[5] 
To pay for the games, Atlanta relied on commercial sponsorship and ticket 
sales, resulting in a profit of $10 million.[6][better source needed] Events 
of the 1996 Games were held in a variety of areas. A number were held within 
the Olympic Ring, a 3 mi (4.8 km) circle from the center of Atlanta. Others 
were held at Stone Mountain, about 20 miles (32 km) outside of the city. 
To broaden ticket sales, other events, such as soccer, occurred in various 
cities in the Southeast.[7][8] The Olympiad's official theme, "Summon the 
Heroes", was written by John Williams, making it the third Olympiad at 
that point for which he had composed (official composer 1984; NBC's coverage 
composer 1988). The opening ceremony featured Céline Dion singing "The 
Power of the Dream", the official theme song of the 1996 Olympics. The 
mascot for the Olympiad was an abstract, animated character named Izzy. 
In contrast to the standing tradition of mascots of national or regional 
significance in the city hosting the Olympiad, Izzy was an amorphous, fantasy 
figure. The 1996 Olympics were the first to have two separate opening ceremony 
events. Savannah, because of its geographical separation from Atlanta, 
had its own opening ceremonies on July 18, 1996. The event featured "Worldwide 
Connection", a song composed by Savannah native Jeffrey Reed and a concert 
by Trisha Yearwood, a Georgia native. Atlanta's Olympic slogan "Come Celebrate 
Our Dream" was written by Jack Arogeti, a Managing Director at McCann-Erickson 
in Atlanta at the time. The slogan was selected from more than 5,000[9] 
submitted by the public to the Atlanta Convention and Visitors Bureau. 
Billy Payne noted that Jack "captured the spirit and our true motivation 
for the Olympic games."[10] The ceremony began with a flashback from Barcelona 
1992 Summer Olympics closing ceremony in August 1992 which showed the then 
president of the International Olympic Committee Juan Antonio Samaranch 
asking the athletes to compete in Atlanta in 1996. Then, spirits rose in 
the northwest corner of the stadium, each representing one of the colors 
in the Olympic rings. They called the tribes of the world which after mixed 
percussion formed the Olympic rings while the youth of Atlanta formed the 
number 100. Famed film composer John Williams composed the official overture 
for the 1996 Olympics, Summon the Heroes, his second overture for an Olympic 
games (the first being Olympic Fanfare and Theme written for the 1984 Summer 
Olympics). The song "The Power of the Dream", composed by David Foster, 
was performed by Céline Dion accompanied by Foster on the piano, the Atlanta 
Symphony Orchestra and the Centennial Choir (Morehouse College Glee Club, 
Spelman College Glee Club and the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra Chorus). Gladys 
Knight sang "Georgia on My Mind", Georgia's official state song. There 
was also a showcase called "Welcome To The World", which featured cheerleaders, 
Chevrolet pick-up trucks, marching bands, and steppers, showcasing the 
American youth and college sporting culture, including the wave commonly 
seen in sporting events around the world. A showcase entitled "Summertime" 
focused on Atlanta and the Old South with a placement on its beauty, spirit, 
music, history, culture, and rebirth after the American Civil War. Muhammad 
Ali lit the Olympic torch during the opening ceremonies of the games and 
received a replacement gold medal for his boxing victory in the 1960 Summer 
Olympics. For the torch ceremony, more than 10,000 Olympic torches were 
manufactured by the American Meter Company and electroplated by Erie Plating 
Company. Each torch weighed about 3.5 pounds (1.6 kg) and was made primarily 
of aluminum, with a Georgia pecan wood handle and gold ornamentation.[11][12] 
The 1996 Summer Olympic programme featured 271 events in the 26 sports. 
Softball, beach volleyball and mountain biking debuted on the Olympic program, 
together with women's association football and lightweight rowing. In women's 
gymnastics, Lilia Podkopayeva became the all-around Olympic champion. Podkopayeva 
also won a second gold medal in the floor exercise final and a silver on 
the beam — becoming the only female gymnast since Nadia Comăneci to win 
an individual event gold after winning the all-round title in the same 
Olympics. Kerri Strug of the United States women's gymnastics team vaulted 
with an injured ankle and landed on one foot. The US women's gymnastics 
team won its first gold medal. Shannon Miller of the United States won 
the gold medal on the balance beam event, the first time an American gymnast 
had won an individual gold medal in a non-boycotted Olympic games. The 
Spanish team won the first gold medal in the new competition of women's 
rhythmic group all-around. The team was formed by Estela Giménez, Marta 
Baldó, Nuria Cabanillas, Lorena Guréndez, Estíbaliz Martínez and Tania 
Lamarca. Amy Van Dyken won four gold medals in the Olympic swimming pool, 
the first American woman to win four titles in a single Olympiad. Penny 
Heyns, swimmer of South Africa, won the gold medals in both the 100 metres 
and 200 metres breaststroke events. Michelle Smith of Ireland won three 
gold medals and a bronze in swimming. She remains her nation's most decorated 
Olympian. However, her victories were overshadowed by doping allegations 
even though she did not test positive in 1996. She received a four-year 
suspension in 1998 for tampering with a urine sample, though her medals 
and records were allowed to stand. In track and field, Donovan Bailey of 
Canada won the men's 100 m, setting a new world record of 9.84 seconds 
at that time. He also anchored his team's gold in the 4 × 100 m relay. 
Michael Johnson won gold in both the 200 m and 400 m, setting a new world 
record of 19.32 seconds in the 200 m. Johnson afterward began disputing 
Bailey's unofficial title as the "world's fastest man", which later culminated 
in a 150-metre race between the two to settle the issue. Marie-José Pérec 
equaled Johnson's performance, although without a world record, by winning 
the rare 200 m/400 m double. Carl Lewis won his 4th long jump gold medal 
at the age of 35. In tennis, Andre Agassi won the gold medal, which would 
eventually make him the first man and second singles player overall (after 
his wife, Steffi Graf) to win the career Golden Slam, which consists of 
an Olympic gold medal and victories in the singles tournaments held at 
professional tennis' four major events (Australian Open, French Open, Wimbledon, 
and US Open). There were a series of national firsts realized during the 
Games. Deon Hemmings became the first woman to win an Olympic gold medal 
for Jamaica and the English-speaking West Indies. Lee Lai Shan won a gold 
medal in sailing, the only Olympic medal that Hong Kong ever won as a British 
colony (1842–1997). This meant that for the only time, the colonial flag 
of Hong Kong was raised to the accompaniment of the British national anthem 
"God Save the Queen", as Hong Kong's sovereignty was later transferred 
to China in 1997. The US women's soccer team won the gold medal in the 
first ever women's soccer event. For the first time, Olympic medals were 
won by athletes from Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Burundi, Ecuador, Georgia, 
Hong Kong, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Mozambique, Slovakia, Tonga, Ukraine, and 
Uzbekistan. Another first in Atlanta was that this was the first Olympics 
ever that not a single nation swept all three medals in a single event. 
These are the top ten nations that won medals at the 1996 Games. A total 
of 197 nations were represented at the 1996 Games, and the combined total 
of athletes was about 10,318.[13] Twenty-four countries made their Olympic 
debut this year, including eleven of the ex-Soviet countries that competed 
as part of the Unified Team in 1992. Russia competed independently for 
the first time since 1912, when it was the Russian Empire. The Federal 
Republic of Yugoslavia competed as Yugoslavia. The 14 countries making 
their Olympic debut were: Azerbaijan, Burundi, Cape Verde, Comoros, Dominica, 
Guinea-Bissau, Macedonia, Nauru, Palestinian Authority, Saint Kitts and 
Nevis, Saint Lucia, São Tomé and Príncipe, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan. 
The ten countries making their Summer Olympic debut (after competing at 
the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer) were: Armenia, Belarus, Czech 
Republic, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Slovakia, Ukraine and 
Uzbekistan. The Czech Republic and Slovakia attended the games as independent 
nations for the first time since the breakup of Czechoslovakia, while the 
rest of the nations that made their Summer Olympic debut were formerly 
part of the Soviet Union. Atlanta's heavy reliance on corporate sponsorship 
caused European Olympic officials to consider the Games to be overly commercialized. 
Coca-Cola, whose corporate headquarters is in Atlanta, received criticism 
for being the exclusive provider of soft drinks at Olympics venues.[14] 
In addition, the city of Atlanta was found to have been competing with 
the IOC for advertising and sponsorship dollars. The city licensed street 
vendors who sold certain products over others, and therefore provided a 
presence for companies who were not official Olympic sponsors.[15][16] 
A report prepared by European Olympic officials after the Games was critical 
of Atlanta's performance in several key issues, including the level of 
crowding in the Olympic Village, the quality of available food, the accessibility 
and convenience of transportation, and the Games' general atmosphere of 
commercialism.[17] At the closing ceremony, IOC President Juan Antonio 
Samaranch said in his closing speech, "Well done, Atlanta" and simply called 
the Games "most exceptional." This broke precedent for Samaranch, who had 
traditionally labeled each Games "the best Olympics ever" at each closing 
ceremony, a practice he resumed at the subsequent Games in Sydney in 2000.[18] 
The 1996 Olympics were marred by the Centennial Olympic Park bombing on 
July 27. Security guard Richard Jewell discovered the pipe bomb and immediately 
notified law enforcement and helped evacuate as many people as possible 
from the area before it exploded. Although Jewell's quick actions are credited 
for saving many lives, the bombing killed spectator Alice Hawthorne, wounded 
111 others, and caused the death of Melih Uzunyol by heart attack. Jewell 
was later considered a suspect in the bombing but was never charged, and 
he was exonerated in October 1996. In 2003, Eric Robert Rudolph was charged 
with and confessed to this bombing as well as the bombings of several abortion 
clinics and gay bars. He stated "the purpose of the attack on July 27th 
was to confound, anger and embarrass the Washington government in the eyes 
of the world for its abominable sanctioning of abortion on demand."[19] 
He was sentenced to a life sentence at ADX Florence prison in Florence, 
Colorado. Preparations for the Olympics lasted more than six years and 
had an economic impact of at least $5.14 billion. Over two million visitors 
came to Atlanta, and approximately 3.5 billion people around the world 
watched part of the games on television. Although marred by the tragedy 
of the Centennial Olympic Park bombing, they were a financial success, 
due in part to TV rights contracts and sponsorships at record levels.[20] 
William Porter Payne and Steve Spinner led the U.S. marketing program which 
became a model for future Games. Beyond international recognition, the 
Games resulted in many modern infrastructure improvements. The mid-rise 
dormitories built for the Olympic Village, which became the first residential 
housing for Georgia State University (Georgia State Village), are now used 
by the Georgia Institute of Technology (North Avenue Apartments). Centennial 
Olympic Stadium was converted into Turner Field, which became the new home 
of the Atlanta Braves baseball team from 1997 to 2016. The Braves' former 
home, Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium, was demolished and the site became 
a parking lot for Turner Field. The Omni Coliseum was demolished that same 
year to make way for Philips Arena. Centennial Olympic Park, which was 
built for the events, is the city's lasting memorial of the games. The 
park initiated a revitalization of the surrounding area, and now serves 
as the hub for Atlanta's tourism district.[20] revenue for television rights 
