The 1996 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 1996 American League playoffs, matched the East Division champion New 
York Yankees against the Wild Card team, the Baltimore Orioles. The Yankees 
had the home field advantage in the series because they had won their division 
and the Orioles were the Wild Card team. The two teams were victorious 
in the AL Division Series (ALDS), with the Yankees defeating the West Division 
champion Texas Rangers three games to one, and the Orioles defeating the 
Central Division champion Cleveland Indians three games to one. The Orioles 
were the first wild card team to advance to the LCS. The Yankees won the 
series four games to one to become the American League champions, and won 
against the National League champion Atlanta Braves in the 1996 World Series. 
New York won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, October 9, 1996 at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York The first game of the series is most notable for 
the infamous "Jeffrey Maier Incident." With the Yankees trailing 4–3 in 
the bottom of the eighth, rookie Derek Jeter hit a fly ball to deep right 
field off Orioles reliever Armando Benítez. Right fielder Tony Tarasco 
backed up to the wall, but twelve-year-old Yankees fan Jeffrey Maier reached 
over the fence and brought the ball into the stands and out of the field 
of play before Tarasco could attempt to catch the ball for a possible out. 
Tarasco immediately pointed above and protested that it was fan interference, 
but right field umpire Rich Garcia controversially ruled it a home run 
and his call was upheld by the other members of the umpiring crew. The 
game then went into extra-innings, where Bernie Williams ended it in the 
eleventh with a walk-off home run into the left field seats off Baltimore's 
Randy Myers. Thursday, October 10, 1996 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, 
New York Deadlocked at 2–2 in the top of the seventh, Rafael Palmeiro drove 
a Jeff Nelson slider high over the right field fence for a two-run home 
run, and the Orioles evened the series behind strong pitching from David 
Wells, who out-dueled future teammate David Cone. Trailing 5–3 in the ninth, 
the Yankees put runners on first and second with one out before Armando 
Benítez came on to slam the door on the budding rally. Cone was wild, walking 
five batters in six innings of work, while Wells won for the tenth time 
in eleven career decisions at Yankee Stadium. The Yankees continued a trend 
that started in Game 1 by stranding eleven men on base, bringing their 
total to 24 for the series.[6] Friday, October 11, 1996 at Oriole Park 
at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland The Orioles got on the board in 
the first inning with a Todd Zeile two-run homer, his second of the series. 
After that, Jimmy Key cruised allowing only one more hit through eight 
innings. Meanwhile, Mike Mussina pitched well also, but it all unraveled 
with two out in the top of the eighth inning, four outs away from victory. 
Jeter started the rally with a double, and scored on Bernie Williams' RBI 
single to tie the game. Tino Martinez followed by spanking an opposite 
field double to left. As the relay came in from left field, Todd Zeile 
caught the ball and then faked a throw towards second. However, the ball 
slipped out of his hand and straight towards the ground. As the ball trickled 
away from him and shortshop Cal Ripken on the infield, Williams, who had 
been content to stay at third on the double, alertly scampered home to 
give the Yankees a 3–2 lead. Mussina, undoubtedly flustered, served up 
a hanging curveball to the next batter Cecil Fielder, who blasted it into 
the left field stands making the score 5–2. Saturday, October 12, 1996 
at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland Sunday, October 13, 
1996 at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland 1996 ALCS (4–1): 
New York Yankees over Baltimore Orioles After winning this series, the 
Yankees went on to defeat the Atlanta Braves in the World Series in six 
games. They would go on to win four out of the next five world series and 
two more pennants in 2001 and 2003. The Orioles would return to the ALCS 
the following year but were defeated by the Cleveland Indians. The Orioles 
would not reach the Postseason again until 2012 after 14 straight losing 
seasons. The Orioles defeated the Texas Rangers in the first ever American 
League Wild Card game that same year to advance to the American League 
Division Series, where they would once again face the Yankees, who defeated 
