The 1996 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
1996 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 1, and ended on 
Saturday, October 5, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
was not tied to playing record but was predetermined—a highly unpopular 
arrangement which was discontinued after the 1997 playoffs. Also, the team 
with home field "advantage" was required to play the first two games on 
the road, with potentially the last three at home, in order to reduce travel. 
The Padres played the Cardinals, rather than the wild card Dodgers, because 
the Padres and Dodgers are in the same division. Had the 1996 NLDS been 
played under the post-1997 arrangement, then Atlanta (1) would have still 
faced off against Los Angeles (St. Louis had a worse record, but would 
have faced Atlanta because of the mandate of no teams from the same division 
playing against each other in the Division Series) and San Diego likewise 
would have still faced off against St. Louis. The St. Louis Cardinals and 
Atlanta Braves both swept their Division Series, and went on to meet in 
the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Braves would rally to win that series 
four games to three and become the National League champion, but would 
lose to the American League champion New York Yankees in the 1996 World 
Series. St. Louis won the series, 3–0. Atlanta won the series, 3–0. Busch 
Stadium (II) in St. Louis The Cardinals and Padres began their rivalry 
in this series. The Cardinals' first of three postseason victories against 
the Padres took place here. Their dominance is overwhelming to the tune 
of only one loss against the Padres lifetime in the postseason. A three-run 
homer by Gary Gaetti off Joey Hamilton put the Cardinals up for good. Todd 
Stottlemyre pitched masterfully, allowing only one earned run on a solo 
home run by Rickey Henderson. Rick Honeycutt and Dennis Eckersley shut 
the Padres down for the win. Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis A well fought 
Game 2 saw the Cardinals squander two leads. Scott Sanders faced Andy Benes. 
Willie McGee put the Cardinals on top on the third with an RBI single. 
Ken Caminiti tied the game with a leadoff homer in the fifth. Ron Gant 
cleared the bases with a double in the Cardinals fifth to make it 4–1. 
A two-run single by Tony Gwynn made it a one-run game in the Padres sixth. 
An RBI ground out by Steve Finley tied the game in the Padres eighth, but 
the Cardinals would score a run in the eighth on an RBI ground out that 
scored Brian Jordan. Dennis Eckersley got his second save of the postseason. 
Jack Murphy Stadium in San Diego In Game 3, the Cardinals looked to Donovan 
Osborne to put the Padres away. Opposing the potential sweep would be Andy 
Ashby. Brian Jordan put the Cardinals ahead when he singled to center field 
to score Royce Clayton. A would-be double play ball in the bottom of the 
second helped the Padres take the lead 2–1. Then Ken Caminiti homered to 
make it 3–1 in the third. An RBI single in the bottom of the fourth made 
it 4–1 Padres and Osborne was done. But the Cardinals were not about to 
let the series go another game. A leadoff homer by Ron Gant made it 4–2 
in the sixth. Then, a one-out triple by John Mabry scored Jordan and a 
single would bring him home to tie the game at four. The Cardinals would 
take the lead in the seventh when Ray Lankford scored on a double play. 
The Padres were now six outs from being eliminated, but when Caminiti hit 
his second homer of the game to tie it at five, the Padres were still alive. 
However, the Cardinals put the game away in the top of the ninth when Jordan 
hit a two-run homer that proved to be the series winner. A one-out single 
by Rickey Henderson in the ninth put the tying run at the plate but nothing 
would be made of it as Eckersley got his third save in as many tries to 
win the series. 1996 NLDS (3–0): St. Louis Cardinals over San Diego Padres 
Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles The Braves were heavy favorites against the 
Dodgers, who sneaked into the playoffs on a Wild Card berth. This would 
be manager Bill Russell's only postseason series as Dodgers manager. The 
Braves sent 24-game winner John Smoltz to the mound for Game 1. Opposing 
Smoltz would be Ramón Martínez. The Braves struck first when Fred McGriff's 
sac fly brought Marquis Grissom home in the fourth. Todd Hollandsworth 
tied the game with an RBI-double in the fifth. Smoltz and Martinez dueled 
for eight innings, when Martinez left the game. When the game moved to 
extra innings, eventual playoff MVP Javy López hit the go-ahead homer in 
the tenth. Mark Wohlers recorded the save and the Braves led the series 
1–0. Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles Greg Maddux faced Ismael Valdez in Game 
2. Another pitcher's duel took place. Thanks to an error by Ryan Klesko, 
the Dodgers got on the board in the bottom of the first to lead 1–0, but 
Klesko would homer with one out to correct his error to tie the game at 
one. An error by Marquis Grissom allowed another run to score to make it 
2–1 Dodgers in the fourth. It remained 2–1 Dodgers until the seventh. Fred 
McGriff led the inning off with a solo homer to tie the game at two. After 
Klesko was called out on strikes, Jermaine Dye hit a solo homer to give 
the Braves the lead. Maddux would get the win and Valdez the loss as Wohlers 
got another save in the ninth. The Braves now led the series 2–0 going 
home. Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium in Atlanta Another great matchup pitted 
Hideo Nomo against Tom Glavine for Game 3. The night would sour for Nomo 
as he gave up a first-inning run, thanks to a McGriff double that scored 
Chipper Jones, and would squander the series in the fourth. Glavine doubled 
with two outs, then Grissom walked. A double by Mark Lemke scored both 
Glavine and Grissom. Then Jones homered to put the Braves up 5–0. Nomo 
was finished and so were the Dodgers. They would scratch out a run apiece 
in the seventh and eighth, but no more. Wohlers got his third save in as 
many tries to end the series. 1996 NLDS (3–0): Atlanta Braves over Los 
