The 1996 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 67th playing of the 
midsummer classic between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and 
National League (NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. 
The game was held on July 9, 1996 at Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, 
the home of the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League. This marked 
the fifteenth and final all star game appearance of Ozzie Smith, who retired 
after the 1996 season. Smith entered the game in the top of the sixth inning. 
His first at-bat was greeted by chants of "Oz-zie, Oz-zie" from the Philadelphia 
crowd. Iron Man Cal Ripken, Jr., who was in the midst of his record-breaking 
run of consecutive games played, broke his nose during the pre-game AL 
team picture.[1] However, he was ready to go at game time and started at 
SS. During the pregame ceremonies, Kelsey Grammer of Frasier sang the American 
National Anthem and Canadian singer Sarah McLachlan sang the Canadian National 
Anthem. U.S. Congressman Jim Bunning (who was elected to the baseball hall-of-fame 
in 1996) joined other Phillies' hall of fame alumni Mike Schmidt, Steve 
Carlton, Richie Ashburn and Robin Roberts in tossing the ceremonial first 
pitches. Joe Carter, the Toronto Blue Jays representative to the All-Star 
Game, received good-natured boos from the crowd for his home run that ended 
the 1993 World Series.[2][3][4] The game resulted in the National League 
defeating the American League 6–0. The National League would not win another 
All-Star Game until 2010. After the game, then-Chairman of the Executive 
Committee Bud Selig presented the All-Star Game MVP Award to Mike Piazza. 
Bobby Brown had presented the MVP Award in 1993, while National League 
President Len Coleman had presented the award in 1994 and 1995. After presenting 
the MVP Award at the 1998 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, Selig was 
officially named Commissioner of Baseball. This is the only All-Star Game 
in which not a single pitcher walked a batter; appropriately, Braves closer 
Mark Wohlers was the final pitcher of the game. Veterans Stadium also held 
the "distinction" of being the most recent host stadium to be closed down, 
a distinction it lost after Yankee Stadium closed at the conclusion of 
the 2008 season. Players in italics have since been inducted into the National 
