The 1996 World Series matched the defending champions Atlanta Braves of 
the National League against the New York Yankees of the American League. 
The Yankees won in six games (despite being outscored 26–18) to capture 
their first championship since 1978 and their 23rd overall. The Yankees 
became the third team to win a World Series after dropping Games 1 and 
2 at their home stadium, following the Kansas City Royals in 1985 and the 
New York Mets in 1986. They also became the first team since the Los Angeles 
Dodgers in 1981 (Yankees lost to that team that year) to win four straight 
games after dropping the first two. Game 5 was the final game to be played 
at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium. Atlanta became the only city to host 
the World Series and the Olympics in the same year and Atlanta-Fulton County 
Stadium became the only stadium to host baseball in an Olympics and the 
World Series in the same year. The 1996 World Series marked the beginning 
of the New York Yankees' dynasty of the late 1990s and early 2000s. However, 
the dynasty may or may not have happened if there wasn't a strike in 1994, 
as the Yankees had the best record in the American League then.[1][2][3] 
Despite the rich playoff history of the Yankees, the defending champion 
Atlanta Braves entered the Series as heavy favorites. The Yankees had reached 
the Fall Classic after their ALCS victory over the Baltimore Orioles, while 
the Braves had rallied from a 3–1 deficit to defeat the St. Louis Cardinals 
in the NLCS. The Braves used the dominant pitching of Greg Maddux and Tom 
Glavine, as well as timely hitting, to defeat the Indians the year before, 
and looked to reuse that recipe against the upstart Yankees. In 1996, John 
Smoltz returned to form, winning 24 games and a Cy Young Award, providing 
another serious pitching threat for Atlanta. New York brought a lineup 
mixed with veterans, like Paul O'Neill, and young stars, like rookie Derek 
Jeter. The Yankees bullpen was also vastly superior to the Atlanta bullpen, 
which would prove to be the deciding factor in the Series. However, some 
of the players with the Yankees would not have been there if the strike 
hadn't taken away their season in 1994.[3] After victory in 1996, New York 
would go on to win the Series three of the next four years, two of which 
came against either their cross-town rivals, New York Mets, or the Braves, 
making their dynasty of the 1990s part of the rivalry between both National 
League East teams.[4] The Braves, while winning their division every season 
from 1991 through 2005, have not won a World Series game since Game 2 of 
this series. Over the course of the 1996 World Series, the Braves hit .315 
during the first six innings and .176 afterward. Atlanta had more hits, 
runs, homers, and a lower team ERA during the course of the series, but 
still lost, much like the 1960 Yankees' performance against the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. This is the first World Series to feature the series logo on the 
side of each team's hats. This was also the last of four consecutive World 
Series (1992–1996) to be presided over jointly by the presidents of the 
American and National Leagues in lieu of the Commissioner of Baseball, 
as Paul Beeston would be named CEO of Major League Baseball for the 1997 
Major League Baseball season. Following Game 6, then-American League president 
Gene Budig presided over the Commissioner's Trophy presentation to the 
Yankees. Then-Chairman of the Executive Committee Bud Selig, who had presided 
over the trophy presentations in 1995 and would do so again in 1997, officially 
became Commissioner in 1998. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL Atlanta Braves 
(2) Game 1 and Game 2 were originally scheduled for Saturday, October 19 
and Sunday, October 20, respectively. Rain on October 19, however, washed 
out Game 1. The schedule was moved back one day, with Game 1 and Game 2 
rescheduled for October 20 and 21, and the Monday travel day eliminated. 
This was the first rain out in a World Series game since Game 7 of the 
1986 World Series. The Braves, who had won Games 5, 6, and 7 of the NLCS 
against the St. Louis Cardinals by a combined score of 32–1, continued 
their roll early in the Fall Classic against the Yankees. Facing Yankees' 
starting pitcher Andy Pettite in the second inning of Game 1, rookie left 
fielder Andruw Jones became the youngest player, 19, in World Series history 
to hit a home run. Andruw Jones went deep to left again, off Brian Boehringer 
during a six-run third inning for the Braves. Jones became the youngest 
player to hit a home run in the World Series, surpassing Yankee great Mickey 
Mantle on what would have been Mantle's 65th birthday (Mantle died in 1995). 
Also during Game 1, Andruw Jones became only the second player in World 
Series history (after Gene Tenace in 1972), and youngest ever, to hit a 
home run his first two times up in a Series. A Fred McGriff home run off 
the foul pole in the fifth left Atlanta ahead 9–0. Jones had his third 
hit and scored in Atlanta's three-run sixth. Braves starter John Smoltz 
would pitch six easy innings before turning it over to the bullpen in Atlanta's 
12–1 rout, while Yankees starter Andy Pettitte did not last a full three 
innings. After showcasing their big bats in Game 1, the Braves used the 
dominant pitching of Greg Maddux to win Game 2. Fred McGriff, who went 
two for three with a sacrifice fly, had single RBIs in the first, third, 
and fifth innings, while Marquis Grissom added a run-scoring single in 
the sixth. This was more than enough for Maddux, who pitched a gem, scattering 
six hits in eight innings. Mark Wohlers pitched the ninth to combine with 
Maddux on the 4–0 shutout. With the Braves holding a 2–0 lead in the Series 
as it headed to Atlanta, they appeared on the brink of a championship repeat. 
The Braves beating the Yankees in the first two games by a combined score 
of 16–1 was the biggest run differential in World Series history. New York 
starter Jimmy Key lost his first World Series decision in three appearances, 
his first two coming in the 1992 World Series. After Game 2, Joe Torre 
and his first base coach José Cardenal met with Yankee owner George Steinbrenner, 
furious at the team's performance in the World Series so far. At that post-game 
meeting. Torre guaranteed three victories in Atlanta and then bringing 
the series back to Yankee Stadium to clinch at home. Steinbrenner doubted 
Torre, saying, "If you guys can't beat the Braves at home, you surely can't 
beat them down in Atlanta."[11] The Yankees needed a solid performance 
from David Cone (who had been expected to miss the entire year after having 
mid-season surgery for an aneurysm in his pitching shoulder) and got one, 
with him pitching six innings and only giving up one run. Tom Glavine also 
turned in a fine start for the Braves, pitching seven innings and giving 
up two runs, only one of them earned. With New York clinging to a 2–1 lead 
in the eighth, Bernie Williams, who had two RBIs in the game, launched 
a two-run homer off Braves reliever Greg McMichael, which effectively put 
the game out of reach. The Braves were able to get a run off Yankee Mariano 
Rivera, but closer John Wetteland pitched a perfect ninth to shut down 
Atlanta. With the Game 1 rainout, both the Braves and Yankees were forced 
to alter their pitching rotation. Atlanta started midseason acquisition 
Denny Neagle while New York countered with Kenny Rogers, the only other 
starter the Yankees had on their postseason roster and who had been largely 
ineffective during the season. Rogers was hit early and often, and failed 
to make it out of the third inning. In the bottom of the second Fred McGriff 
led off with a solo home run to open the scoring. After Javy Lopez and 
Andruw Jones walked, Jermaine Dye sacrificed Lopez to third. Jeff Blauser 
followed with a bunt single to score Lopez, and, after Neagle bunted to 
advance Jones and Blauser, Marquis Grissom doubled them in to give Atlanta 
an early 4–0 lead. Rogers was pulled after allowing Chipper Jones and McGriff 
to reach base to begin the third, and was charged with a fifth run when 
Brian Boehringer gave up a sacrifice fly to Lopez which enabled Jones to 
score. The Braves extended their lead to 6–0 as Andruw Jones drove in Chipper 
Jones with a double in the fifth off David Weathers. Meanwhile, Neagle 
was pitching shutout ball and the Yankees had only gotten two hits through 
five innings. The sixth inning, however, proved to be troublesome. Derek 
Jeter led off and hit a foul pop near first base. As McGriff and Mark Lemke 
chased the ball from the infield, right fielder Dye came in and the ball 
appeared to be playable for him. However, umpire Tim Welke had his back 
to Dye and inadvertently blocked him from getting to the ball, causing 
it to simply drop foul. Jeter promptly singled to start a three run rally, 
capped by a Dye error in right on a Cecil Fielder single that allowed two 
runs to score. After Charlie Hayes drove in Fielder, Neagle was pulled 
in favor of reliever Terrell Wade, who walked Darryl Strawberry and was 
promptly pulled in favor of Mike Bielecki, who struck out the next three 
batters and then retired the Yankees in the seventh. Bielecki retired six 
of the seven batters he faced, striking out four total. Although the Braves 
were still leading, the deficit had been cut in half and a decision by 
Braves manager Bobby Cox proved a critical mistake. Cox elected to bring 
in closer Mark Wohlers for a potential two-inning save against the bottom 
third of the Yankee order in the eighth. Charlie Hayes led off the inning 
with a dribbler down the third base line that stayed fair and Darryl Strawberry 
followed that up with a line drive single to left. After Mariano Duncan 
grounded into a fielder's choice to take Strawberry off the bases, backup 
catcher Jim Leyritz came to the plate for his first at bat of the night. 
With a 2–2 count on him, Leyritz jumped on a Wohlers slider and hit it 
over the left field wall to tie the game. Both teams found trouble in the 
ninth inning. After recording the first two outs Wohlers gave up back to 
back singles to Fielder and Hayes in the top half and then gave up an infield 
hit to Strawberry which loaded the bases. However, he got out of the jam 
when Duncan hit a short fly ball to Dye. Mariano Rivera, pitching his second 
inning, got into his own trouble in the bottom half when he allowed a single 
to Lemke and a walk to Chipper Jones. With lefthander McGriff due up, and 
as he had done the previous night when Rivera struggled, Joe Torre called 
on Graeme Lloyd to get McGriff out. Lloyd did precisely that, forcing him 
to ground into an inning-ending double play. The Braves sent Steve Avery, 
who had been largely ineffective as a starter over the previous few seasons, 
to the mound for the top of the tenth. After getting the first two outs 
of the inning Avery walked Tim Raines and gave up a single to Jeter. Bernie 
Williams then drew an intentional walk to load the bases so Avery could 
pitch to Andy Fox. The Yankees countered by pinch hitting Wade Boggs, whom 
Avery walked. Now trailing 7–6, Cox pulled Avery in favor of Brad Clontz 
and brought Ryan Klesko in as a defensive replacement for McGriff at first. 
This led to the eighth and final run for the Yankees as Clontz got Hayes 
to pop up but Klesko lost sight of the ball and it fell in to score Jeter. 
After Lloyd retired Klesko to lead off the bottom of the tenth, John Wetteland 
came in and recorded the final two outs, the last of which was a fly ball 
off the bat of Terry Pendleton. The 8–6 victory for the Yankees evened 
the Series at two wins apiece. "It was our game to win and we had our chances," 
Avery said. "I ended up costing us the game."[12] This was the second biggest 
comeback in World Series history. The 1929 Philadelphia Athletics scored 
ten runs in the seventh inning to defeat the Chicago Cubs 10–8 in Game 
4. With the Series tied at two apiece, John Smoltz and Andy Pettitte faced 
off in a pitcher's duel in the final game ever at Atlanta-Fulton County 
Stadium and gave up a total of zero earned runs in the combined 16 1⁄3 
they pitched. The lone run of the game was scored in the top half of the 
fourth inning. Charlie Hayes hit a deep fly ball to center that Marquis 
Grissom appeared to have, but at the last second Jermaine Dye crossed in 
front of him and Grissom dropped the ball. Hayes advanced to second on 
the error, moved to third on a groundout by Bernie Williams, and scored 
on a double by Cecil Fielder. Entering the sixth inning Pettitte had only 
allowed one hit, but Atlanta threatened. Smoltz led off the inning with 
a single and was followed by a Grissom single. With Mark Lemke batting 
the Braves called for a sacrifice bunt, but Pettitte fielded the ball and 
threw out Smoltz at third. The next batter, Chipper Jones, hit a ground 
ball right back to Pettitte, who started a double play to end the inning. 
As the top of the ninth inning played out, Pettitte was due up fifth. Mark 
Wohlers gave up a walk to Paul O'Neill and had intentionally walked Jim 
Leyritz to bring up the pitcher's spot with two out. Pettitte then strode 
to the plate, making it clear that he was going to pitch the ninth. Wohlers 
retired Pettitte with a flyout to left field. The Braves made a final attempt 
to tie in the bottom of the ninth. Chipper Jones led off with a base hit 
and was able to stretch it into a double. Yankee manager Joe Torre pulled 
Pettitte from the game in favor of closer John Wetteland after Fred McGriff 
grounded out to second. With the tying run at third, Wetteland recorded 
the second out as Javy Lopez grounded out. He then walked pinch hitter 
Ryan Klesko intentionally to pitch to Dye. Braves manager Bobby Cox countered 
by pinch hitting Luis Polonia, who fouled off seven pitches before lifting 
a fly ball to deep right field. O'Neill, coached by first base coach Jose 
Cardenal, had moved several steps towards center field and in spite of 
having played with injured legs for most of the series, ran the ball down 
and caught it to end the game and give New York the series lead. The loss 
suffered by Smoltz was his first in seven career World Series starts (Smoltz's 
record was 2–0 entering the game with four no-decisions). The Yankees became 
the first team to sweep the middle three games of the World Series since 
the Braves themselves did it in 1991 (although the Braves won all three 
games at Fulton County Stadium in the 1991 Series; the home team won all 
seven games of that series). Through 2015, the 1996 Yankees are the last 
team to win all three middle games of the series on the road. Prior to 
this series, the last team to pull that off were the Baltimore Orioles 
in 1983 at Philadelphia. The Braves joined the 1905 Philadelphia Athletics, 
the 1921 New York Yankees and the 1986 World Series champion New York Mets 
as the only teams to lose a 1–0 World Series game on an unearned run. Prior 
to Game 6, Yankees manager Joe Torre's brother Frank underwent heart transplant 
surgery. The Yankees, seeking to clinch their first world championship 
since 1978 and the first for a New York City baseball team since the Mets 
won in 1986, faced off against Greg Maddux in a rematch of the Game 2 starters, 
as Jimmy Key took to the hill for the Yankees. The Braves, for the third 
time in their four World Series visits thus far in the 1990s, were facing 
an elimination game. The Yankees struck against Maddux in the bottom of 
the third inning. Paul O'Neill led off the frame with a double and advanced 
to third on a groundout by Mariano Duncan. Joe Girardi then hit a flyball 
to center field that Marquis Grissom misjudged, which scored O'Neill and 
gave Girardi a triple. He scored on a single by Derek Jeter, and after 
stealing second Jeter scored on a single by Bernie Williams. These were 
the only three runs Maddux gave up in the series, but they were costly. 
Maddux pitched the next 4 2⁄3 innings without giving up another run. The 
Braves got a run back in the top of the fourth as Fred McGriff reached 
on a walk. Javy Lopez and Andruw Jones followed with back to back singles 
to load the bases, and Jermaine Dye drew a walk to force in the run. Key 
got out of the bases loaded jam by getting designated hitter Terry Pendleton 
to ground into a double play to end the inning. The top of the fifth inning 
saw another umpiring controversy. With Mark Lemke at the plate and one 
out, Girardi dropped a pitch from Key. Grissom tried to advance and Girardi's 
throw was late and replays clearly showed Grissom to be safe, but umpire 
Terry Tata called Grissom out. Atlanta manager Bobby Cox emerged from the 
dugout and began arguing the call to no avail. On his way back to the dugout, 
Cox then began arguing with third base umpire Tim Welke, who caused the 
first controversy of the series due to his obstruction of Dye in Game 4 
which started the Yankees rally that eventually won them the game. Welke 
ejected Cox, marking the first time since 1992 that a manager was ejected 
in the World Series—incidentally, Cox was also ejected that time due to 
a strikeout caused by a check swing call (Fox and the video recap of the 
series erroneously reported that Whitey Herzog's ejection in the 1985 World 
Series had been the last time). New York manager Joe Torre pulled Key from 
the game in the top of the sixth with one out and Chipper Jones on third. 
He had opened the inning with a double, meaning that the botched out call 
on Grissom the previous inning very likely cost the Braves a run, as the 
Jones at bat would have happened with Grissom still on at second base had 
the play been called correctly. David Weathers came in to pitch to Lopez 
and retired him. Then after a walk to Andruw Jones and Ryan Klesko coming 
in to pinch hit for Dye the Yankees went to Graeme Lloyd to pitch to Klesko, 
who did not have a hit against Lloyd in the series. Lloyd retired Klesko 
to end the inning and Mariano Rivera got the next six outs to send the 
game to the ninth. Maddux came out of the game one out away from a complete 
game in the eighth, and Mark Wohlers retired Cecil Fielder to end it. John 
Wetteland was called on again for his fourth save of the series, but the 
Braves tried to rally. After he struck out Andruw Jones to lead off the 
inning, Klesko and Pendleton got back to back singles off of Wetteland. 
With one out and runners at the corners, Luis Polonia came off the bench 
to pinch hit for Jeff Blauser, but failed to produce a hit and struck out 
swinging. Grissom then followed with another single, scoring Klesko and 
giving the Braves at least one more chance with Lemke at the plate. However, 
Lemke simply popped out to Charlie Hayes in foul territory to end the game, 
series, baseball season, and Atlanta's reign as world champions. Wetteland 
became the second pitcher to record four saves in a single postseason series, 
following Dennis Eckersley's feat in the 1988 ALCS and since matched by 
Greg Holland in the 2014 ALCS. He also set a new record for most saves 
in one postseason, with 7, since tied by 5 other pitchers (Robb Nen, Troy 
Percival, Brad Lidge, and Koji Uehara, besides Holland). The Yankees had 
waited 18 years to see another title come to the Big Apple. The Braves 
would make just one World Series appearance after moving into Turner Field, 
and that took place in 1999, when they again met the Yankees and lost (as 
noted above, the Yankees dynasty of the 1990s was part of the Braves' heated 
rivalry with the Mets).[4] By the end of 2016 season the Braves vacated 
for their new upcoming home, SunTrust Park. For the Yankees, it took their 
manager Joe Torre 4,272 games to get to the World Series as a player or 
manager, the biggest drought for any player or manager in the history of 
Major League Baseball. Also, although the World Series win ended the longest 
drought in team history, the team, like baseball itself, was still reeling 
from the player's strike two years before and the fallout from it. The 
strike resulted in many lost opportunities, as they had the best record 
in the American League that year and many members of the 1994 team were 
not there in 1996.[1][3] Buck Showalter, who was the Yankees' manager in 
1994,[3] could not watch the World Series because of how he felt in 1994 
when the strike ended the Yankees' championship hopes. He said of 1994: 
"That sits in my craw a little bit. It's not something you can go back 
and rectify. I feel badly for the fans."[13] 1996 World Series (4–2): New 
York Yankees (A.L.) beat Atlanta Braves (N.L.). On The Millennium, a Seinfeld 
episode from 1997, George Costanza, an employee of the Yankees, destroys 
the team's 1996 World Series trophy by dragging it behind his car. This 
is one of many stunts performed by George in an effort to make Yankees 
owner George Steinbrenner fire him so he can take a job offer from the 
New York Mets. However, the plan backfires, as Steinbrenner fires Mr. Wilhelm 
instead, making Wilhelm free to go to the Mets. Also, in The Abstinence, 
George is hitting home runs over the center field wall at Yankee Stadium 
and teaching Derek Jeter and Bernie Williams how to properly hit home runs. 
Jeter replies "We won the World Series," to which George sarcastically 
replies, "Yeah, in six games!" On October 11, 2005, A&E Home Video released 
the New York Yankees Fall Classic Collectors Edition (1996–2001) DVD set, 
featuring one World Series Game apiece from 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, and 
2001. Game 4 from the 1996 World Series is included in the set. On September 
23, 2008, The Essential Games of Yankee Stadium DVD set was released, featuring 
six games that were played in Yankee Stadium, which were determined via 
