The 1997 National League Championship Series (NLCS) pitted the Florida 
Marlins against the Atlanta Braves. The Marlins won the series 4–2, and 
went on to defeat the Cleveland Indians in the 1997 World Series. Both 
teams hailed from the NL East division, the 101-win Braves being the division 
champions while the Marlins made the playoffs courtesy of the wild card. 
Both the Braves and Marlins swept their opponents during the Division Series. 
This was the second all-Southern postseason series, the first being in 
the previous round when Atlanta beat the Houston Astros. However, it was 
the first all-Southern postseason series to take place entirely in one 
time zone. This series marked the high point for the Braves-Marlins rivalry, 
as the Marlins have made the playoffs only once more since 1997 (2003, 
which also ended with a World Series title). Florida won the series, 4–2. 
Tuesday, October 7, 1997 at Turner Field in Atlanta The Marlins scored 
three unearned runs in the first inning off Greg Maddux, thanks to a Fred 
McGriff error, when Moisés Alou hit a bases-clearing groundball double 
past Chipper Jones's glove (who made a weak attempt backhanding the ball). 
Atlanta got a run back in the bottom of the inning off Florida starter 
Kevin Brown, but the Marlins were handed two more unearned runs in the 
third after an error by center fielder Kenny Lofton and went ahead 5–1. 
Home runs by Chipper Jones and Ryan Klesko drew Atlanta to 5–3 but the 
Florida bullpen held the Braves hitless over the final three innings. Brown, 
who went six innings, got the win. Wednesday, October 8, 1997 at Turner 
Field in Atlanta The Braves rallied from their sloppy Game 1 and routed 
pitcher Alex Fernandez, chasing him after 2 2⁄3 innings. A first-inning 
home run by Ryan Klesko and a third inning homer by Chipper Jones helped 
Atlanta build a 5–0 lead. Starter Tom Glavine was excellent, giving up 
just one run in 7 2⁄3 innings. The Braves poured on two more runs in the 
seventh as they won 7–1. It was learned after the game that Fernandez had 
been unknowingly pitching with a rotator cuff injury, and would be done 
for the series. Friday, October 10, 1997 at Pro Player Stadium in Miami 
Gardens, Florida With the series shifting south to Miami, Game 3 began 
as a close game. In the top of the fourth inning the Braves loaded the 
bases with nobody out, but could only score one run on Fred McGriff's sac-fly 
which scored Kenny Lofton. Gary Sheffield responded with a homerun in the 
bottom of the fourth. In the sixth, Javy Lopez hit a sac-fly which scored 
Jeff Blauser. However, the Marlins pulled away in the bottom half of the 
sixth, when they scored four runs to finish John Smoltz's night. With two 
on, two out, and with a 1-2 count, Darren Daulton hit a clutch, game-tying 
double, scoring Édgar Rentería. The big blow came when light-hitting catcher 
Charles Johnson smacked a 2-2 pitch to left-center, clearing the bases 
and giving the Marlins a 5-2 lead. Florida starter Tony Saunders did his 
best to hold the Braves, allowing just two earned runs before Liván Hernández 
took over. Hernández would get the win as the Marlins took the game 5–2. 
The Marlins only had one home run in the entire six-game series (by Gary 
Sheffield in Game 3). Saturday, October 11, 1997 at Pro Player Stadium 
in Miami Gardens, Florida Denny Neagle stepped up and pitched a complete 
game, four-hit shutout of the Marlins in Game 4. The Braves offense, meanwhile, 
chipped away at Al Leiter, plating runs in the first and third innings. 
In the fifth Jeff Blauser launched a solo home run and Fred McGriff doubled 
in another run, putting the Braves on top 4–0 as Neagle mowed down the 
Marlins. The win evened the series at 2–2, and with Greg Maddux and Tom 
Glavine scheduled to start Games 5 and 6 and the Florida pitching staff 
in apparent disarray, the advantage clearly fell with the Braves. Sunday, 
October 12, 1997 at Pro Player Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida After 
Neagle's gem in Game 4, Game 5 was clearly the pivotal game of the series. 
If the Marlins lost, the Braves would be up three games to two and going 
home with an almost certain NL pennant in sight. Liván Hernández replaced 
Kevin Brown, who had fallen ill that day. The Braves threatened immediately 
in the 1st inning, with Kenny Lofton hitting a triple and Keith Lockhart 
being walked, putting runners on the corners with 0 outs. However, Livan 
regrouped and struck out the heart of the order. Florida scored a run in 
the first off Greg Maddux, with Bobby Bonilla singling home Devon White. 
The Braves evened the game with a Michael Tucker home run in the second. 
The score remained tied at 1–1 as Maddux and Hernández traded scoreless 
innings. In the bottom of the seventh, Bobby Bonilla doubled and scored 
on a single by Jeff Conine to give the Marlins a 2-1 lead. Hernández continued 
to shut down a befuddled Braves offense. The Braves had a chance for a 
potential two-out rally in the eighth with Lofton reaching on a walk, but 
was thrown out trying to steal second base. The game ended with Hernandez 
striking out Fred McGriff on a called third strike. Hernández pitched a 
complete game, three-hit, fifteen strikeout masterpiece to reclaim a series 
lead for the Marlins. The Braves three, four, five hitters went 1-11 with 
seven strikeouts. This particular game is remembered for the controversy 
surrounding an unusually wide strike zone given to Hernández, by umpire 
Eric Gregg. It was voted as the third-worst called game from 1975–2000 
by Baseball America. Liván Hernández set a record for most strikeouts in 
a National League Championship Series game with fifteen; just a day earlier 
Mike Mussina of the Baltimore Orioles had struck out fifteen in the American 
League Championship Series against the Indians in Game 3. Tuesday, October 
14, 1997 at Turner Field in Atlanta Back at Turner Field with a World Series 
appearance looming, the Marlins went back to their ace, Kevin Brown. Facing 
Tom Glavine, the Marlins exploded out of the gate as they scored four runs 
in the first. Trouble started immediately with White singling, Rentería 
walking, and Sheffield singling to load the bases with no outs. Bonilla 
then smacked a two-run single. After a Conine sac-bunt and Alou intentional 
walk, Glavine beamed Johnson, scoring Sheffield, making it 3-0. Counsell 
then grounded out, scoring Bonilla, making it 4-0. The Braves struck back 
in the bottom half with Ryan Klesko singling home Lockhart. The Braves 
closed to within one run in the second inning. Kenny Lofton singled home 
Blauser. After Lofton stole second, Lockhart singled him home, making the 
score 4-3. However, Glavine couldn't quell the Marlins. Once again, White, 
Rentería, and Sheffield were on with no outs. Bonilla singled making it 
5-3. After a Conine strikeout, Alou grounded into a force play, scoring 
Rentería. Johnson then walked intentionally before Counsell singled, making 
it 7–3, putting the game out of reach. Brown was asked to leave the game 
towards the ninth, but he told Jim Leyland he wanted to continue. The Braves 
were able to score one in the ninth, bringing Chipper Jones, who finished 
ninth in MVP voting, to the plate representing the tying run. However, 
he hit a grounder and the Marlins forced Keith Lockhart at second to give 
Brown a complete game victory and the first pennant for the Florida Marlins. 
It was the first pennant for a wild card team in Major League Baseball 
