The 1997 Major League Baseball expansion draft was conducted by Major League 
Baseball (MLB) on November 18, 1997, in the Phoenix Civic Center[1] to 
stock the major league rosters of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays and Arizona 
Diamondbacks, new major league expansion franchises that were set to start 
play in the 1998 season. Tampa Bay was to join the American League East 
division, displacing the Detroit Tigers (who moved to the American League 
Central division, thus displacing the Milwaukee Brewers, who moved to the 
National League Central division), and Arizona joined the National League 
West division. Following the success of the 1993 expansion, which added 
the Colorado Rockies and Florida Marlins, MLB in 1994 set up an expansion 
committee to add two new expansion teams.[2] Tampa Bay and Phoenix were 
chosen for the two expansion franchises.[3] Similar to the 1992 expansion 
draft, both expansion teams selected 35 players.[4] The draft was divided 
into three rounds. Each team would select 14 players in round 1, 14 players 
in round 2, and 7 players in round 3. Tampa Bay general manager Chuck LaMar 
and Arizona general manager Joe Garagiola, Jr. oversaw their teams' selections. 
The Devil Rays and Diamondbacks could pick any player not on the protected 
lists of the 28 other teams, although no team could lose more than one 
player in a given round. The protected list for each team consisted of: 
As with the 1992 expansion draft, the order was determined by a coin toss. 
The winner of the toss could choose either: (a) The first overall pick 
in the expansion draft or (b) allow the other team to pick first and receive 
both the second and third overall expansion draft picks and the right to 
pick first in the subsequent rounds of the expansion draft. Tampa Bay won 
the toss and chose to select first. The Devil Rays reportedly considered 
trading the player they were to select first.[5] They chose Tony Saunders 
from the Florida Marlins.[6] Once the draft was completed a number of trades 
were made. Teams had to wait until after the draft or risk losing their 
newly acquired players because they were not on their protected lists.[6] 
The Diamondbacks intended to spend money. The day prior to the expansion 
draft, they signed Jay Bell to a $34 million contract across five years.[7] 
Two weeks following the draft, the Diamondbacks traded Fryman and Martin 
for Matt Williams.[8] The Devil Rays and Diamondbacks had differing results 
in their first years in MLB. Both teams altered their initial plans of 
developing youth; the Devil Rays acquired sluggers Jose Canseco, Vinny 
Castilla, and Greg Vaughn while the Diamondbacks added Randy Johnson, Todd 
Stottlemyre, Steve Finley, Armando Reynoso, Greg Swindell and Greg Colbrunn.[9] 
While the Devil Rays consistently finished last in the AL East, the Diamondbacks 
