The 1997 Atlanta Braves season marked the franchise's 32nd season in Atlanta. 
The Braves won their sixth consecutive division title, taking the National 
League East title by 9 games over the second place Florida Marlins. However, 
the Marlins would later defeat the Braves in the National League Championship 
Series. 1997 was the first year that the Braves played their home games 
in Turner Field, which originally served as a venue for the 1996 Summer 
Olympic Games. Infielders Manager Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. 
= Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in In 1997, the Braves 
moved into Turner Field. The ballpark was built across the street from 
the former home of the Braves, Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium, which was 
demolished in the summer of 1997. The most popular name choice among Atlanta 
residents for the new stadium at the time of its construction (according 
to a poll in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution) was Hank Aaron Stadium. 
After the ballpark was instead named after Ted Turner, the city of Atlanta 
renamed the section of Capitol Avenue on which the stadium sits Hank Aaron 
Drive, giving Turner Field the street number 755, after Aaron's home run 
total. After the 1996 Summer Olympics were complete the stadium was officially 
given as a gift to the Atlanta National League Baseball Club, Inc. (the 
Atlanta Braves) Ted Turner, then owner of the Braves, agreed to pay a large 
sum of the cost to build Centennial Olympic Stadium (approximately $170 
million of the $209 million bill), if in turn, the stadium was built in 
a way that it could be converted to a new baseball stadium and that the 
Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games (ACOG) paid for the conversion.[4] 
This was considered a good agreement for both the Olympic Committee and 
the Braves, because there would be no use for a permanent 85,000 seat track 
and field stadium in Downtown Atlanta (as the 71,000 seat Georgia Dome 
was completed four years earlier by the state of Georgia) and the Braves 
had already been exploring opportunities for a new stadium.[5] Atlanta 
