The 1997 American League Championship Series (ALCS) pitted the Cleveland 
Indians, who won coming back against the defending World Series champion 
New York Yankees in the AL Division Series, and the Baltimore Orioles, 
who went wire-to-wire and beat the Seattle Mariners in the Division Series. 
The Indians stunned the Orioles, winning on bizarre plays or remarkable 
comebacks, and won the Series four games to two, but went on to lose to 
the Florida Marlins in the well-fought, seesaw, seven-game battle of the 
1997 World Series. The Orioles had home field advantage, which was predetermined 
and assigned to either the East Division champions or their opponents in 
the Division Series. Cleveland won the series, 4–2. Wednesday, October 
8, 1997 at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland The Orioles 
grabbed an early 1–0 series lead on the strong performance by starting 
pitcher Scott Erickson who gave up four hits, all singles, over eight innings 
of work. The Indians never threatened, getting only one runner to second 
base. Baltimore, on the other hand, wasted no time scoring as center-fielder 
Brady Anderson took Indians starter Chad Ogea's first offering in the bottom 
of the first out of the park, giving the Orioles a 1–0 lead in the game. 
In the bottom of the third Anderson's double was followed by a Roberto 
Alomar home run, giving Erickson a 3–0 cushion. It would be more than enough 
as closer Randy Myers pitched a clean ninth inning. Thursday, October 9, 
1997 at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland In Game 2, Charles 
Nagy and Jimmy Key struggled to get a much needed win. Key allowed a two-run 
homer to Manny Ramírez in the top of the first. Nagy would also allow a 
two-run homer in the bottom of the second to Cal Ripken, Jr. Then Mike 
Bordick hit the go-ahead two-run single off Nagy in the sixth that knocked 
Nagy out of the game. With the Tribe trailing 4–2 in the top of the eighth 
inning, two walks put two men on with two out. Armando Benítez faced Marquis 
Grissom and Grissom would deliver a stunning three-run homer that gave 
the Indians a 5–4 lead. That lead would stand as the Cleveland bullpen 
kept the Orioles in check to even the series at a game apiece. Grissom's 
homer would turn the tide in the series. Saturday, October 11, 1997 at 
Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio With the Series evened at one-game apiece, 
a classic pitching clinic unfolded when Orel Hershiser took on Orioles 
pitcher Mike Mussina at Jacobs Field. In this game, Mussina would set an 
LCS record with fifteen strikeouts, which would be matched by Liván Hernández 
in the NLCS the same year. The Indians had a 1–0 lead in the ninth, but 
José Mesa blew the lead after Marquis Grissom lost a fly ball from Brady 
Anderson in the lights and the game moved on into the twelfth inning. With 
Randy Myers on the mound for Baltimore, Marquis Grissom walked, then a 
single by Tony Fernández moved him to third. With one out, Omar Vizquel 
motioned to bunt. When the pitch came, it went through the strike zone, 
Vizquel apparently missed the ball, and the ball got away from Orioles 
catcher Lenny Webster, allowing Grissom to score. Webster and Myers thought 
the ball was fouled off and no one did anything to stop Grissom, but the 
ball was not ruled as a foul ball, and the Indians won the game. Although 
Orioles manager Davey Johnson argued too that the ball was fouled off, 
the Indians had already won. Sunday, October 12, 1997 at Jacobs Field in 
Cleveland, Ohio With one bizarre play, the Indians had built some momentum. 
With Scott Erickson back on the mound against Indians starter Jaret Wright, 
the game was destined to be the swing game of the Series. With an early 
1–0 lead, Erickson allowed a two-run homer to Sandy Alomar, Jr., but the 
Orioles scored four more runs off Wright to build a 5–2 lead. The Indians 
closed to within two in the fourth, but in the fifth, an even more bizarre 
play than Vizquel's missed bunt occurred. With Erickson tiring after giving 
up two more runs, Arthur Rhodes came in the game with two men on and two 
outs. He threw a wild pitch with Grissom at bat, allowing David Justice 
to score from third. However, he collided with Rhodes at home, and home 
plate umpire Durwood Merrill obscured the view of the ball for the catcher 
Webster. Merrill motioned for someone to get the ball as Sandy Alomar raced 
for home. He would also score since no one was able to get the ball in 
time to make an out. The Indians now had a two-run lead. However, the Orioles 
would tie the game in the ninth again off José Mesa. But Sandy Alomar, 
having a great postseason thus far, singled in the winning run in the ninth, 
giving the Indians an 8–7 win, and a three games to one lead in the Series. 
Monday, October 13, 1997 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio With the Orioles 
facing elimination they took a 2–0 lead in the third inning when right-fielder 
Gerónimo Berroa singled with the bases loaded off Cleveland starter Chad 
Ogea. From there Orioles starter Scott Kamieniecki held the Indians scoreless 
through five innings. Jimmy Key then turned in three scoreless innings 
in relief of Kamieniecki, who left the game due to elbow stiffness. Indians 
reliever Paul Assenmacher allowed four hits and two runs, including a home 
run by Eric Davis, in the ninth inning to stretch the Baltimore lead to 
4–0. Orioles closer Randy Myers made things interesting in the bottom of 
the ninth by permitting RBI doubles to Matt Williams and Tony Fernández, 
but the Orioles held on for a 4–2 win, drawing the series closer, three 
games to two. Wednesday, October 15, 1997 at Oriole Park at Camden Yards 
in Baltimore, Maryland Another pitching masterpiece occurred. This time 
it was Mussina against Charles Nagy. It was scoreless baseball until the 
eleventh. That's when a wondrous Series subplot unfolded. Tony Fernández 
hit a batting practice ball that bruised Bip Roberts, so Tony took his 
place at second base. With two outs, Fernandez hit a home run that gave 
the Indians a 1–0 eleventh inning lead. With two outs in the bottom half 
of the eleventh inning, Brady Anderson singled to right off José Mesa. 
With Anderson on as the tying run, Roberto Alomar came up to bat. What 
to many seemed like a ball inside, as he flinched away from the plate, 
was actually a called strike. This gave Cleveland the out and the trip 
to the World Series. Roberto was shocked to hear it called a strike because 
he shied far away from the plate, thinking he was going to get hit. 1997 
