The St. Louis Cardinals 1997 season was the team's 116th season in St. 
Louis, Missouri and the 106th season in the National League. The Cardinals 
went 73-89 during the season and finished 4th in the National League Central 
division, eleven games behind the Houston Astros. Infielders Coaches The 
beginning came on July 31, when the Cardinals acquired Mark McGwire from 
the Oakland Athletics in exchange for relief pitcher T.J. Mathews and minor 
league pitchers Eric Ludwick and Blake Stein. McGwire could have been a 
free agent at the end of the season. McGwire had 34 home runs and 81 RBIs 
with Oakland at the time of the trade, which reunited him with former Athletics 
manager Tony La Russa. The Cardinals were considered to have little chance 
of keeping him with the club beyond the final two months of the season. 
But general manager Walt Jocketty's deal figured to inject some excitement 
into a dull close to the season, since the Cardinals were far out of the 
race. They had begun their free fall in early July when left fielder Ron 
Gant had failed to make a routine catch which would have given the Cardinals 
a victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates. Not only did the Pirates rally for 
that victory, but they also ended up sweeping the four-game series, knocking 
the Cardinals out of first place, and sending them reeling. McGwire hadn't 
expected to stay with Oakland, but he also didn't think he would end up 
with the Cardinals. The team was in the throes of a slump when their new 
first baseman arrived. On August 10, the Cardinals had lost 11 of their 
last 14 games. They had scored a total of 58 runs scored in their 21 previous 
games at that point. McGwire struggled to hit anything at first but had 
four home runs with his new team in less than two weeks, including two 
in an August 13 game that featured a 455-foot dinger, one of the longest 
in Busch Stadium history. On September 3, the same day pitcher Alan Benes 
underwent rotate cuff surgery, McGwire hit the first Busch Stadium home 
run that was measured at more than 500 feet-504 feet, to be exact-hit on 
a pitch from Jaime Navarro of the Chicago White Sox. A week later, he hit 
his 16th homer since joining the Cardinals but his 50th overall for the 
season, making him only the second man in baseball history-Babe Ruth did 
it twice-to reach the 50-homer mark in successive seasons McGwire's biggest 
blasts might have come on September 17. That afternoon, the Cardinals announced 
they had signed him to a three-year, $28.5 million contract with an option 
for a fourth season at $11 million. He announced at the news conference 
that part of the deal included the formation of a charitable foundation 
to fight sexual and physical abuse of children, a fight strengthened by 
his donation of $1 million a year. McGwire choked up and wiped away tears 
as he talked of that cause, something close to his heart because of a close 
friend who had suffered such abuse. He had decided to stay in St. Louis, 
McGwire said, because of the overwhelming affection shown him by Cardinals 
fans. never did he feel it so much as when he stepped to the plate for 
his first at bat after signing his contract that day. With Los Angeles 
Dodgers pitcher Ramón Hernández on the mound at Busch, the crowd of 27,157 
fans stood for a standing ovation at the announcement of McGwire's name. 
No one stopped cheering as Martinez threw ball one, then ball two,strike 
one and ball three. They all remained on their feet and screaming as Martinez 
fired the fifth pitch of the at bat, which McGwire hit 517 feet for the 
then-longest home run in stadium history, an upper-deck shot over the left-field 
scoreboard. it was McGwire's fifth homer of more than 500 feet in that 
one season and his 18th homer since joining the Cardinals only 48 days 
earlier. With two homers on the second-to-last day of the season and one 
more in the season finale. McGwire ended with 24 homers in the Cardinals 
uniform and 58 overall for the season. That was a single-season for a right-handed 
batter and fueled a winter of speculation that he might be the chosen one 
to break Roger Maris's hallowed record. Note: Pos = Position; G = Games 
played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; 
RBI = Runs Batted In Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. 
