The 1997 World Series, the 93rd edition of Major League Baseball's championship 
series, began on October 18 and ended on October 26 (after midnight October 
27). It featured the Cleveland Indians of the American League (playing 
in their second World Series in three years) and the Florida Marlins of 
the National League (who had set a record by reaching the World Series 
in only their fifth season). The Marlins, who were underdogs, capped a 
stunning season. They defeated the Indians by four games to three to win 
their first World Series championship, making them the first wild card 
team to ever win the World Series. The final of Game 7 was decided in extra 
innings on an Édgar Rentería single. This was also the third time where 
Game 7 of the World Series went into extra innings, and the most recent 
until the 2016 World Series, in which the Indians also lost in extra innings, 
this time to the Chicago Cubs. This was the only World Series that Paul 
Beeston would preside over as CEO of Major League Baseball. The previous 
four World Series had been presided over jointly by the league presidents 
(first Dr. Bobby Brown and then Gene Budig for the American League, Leonard 
Coleman for the National League). NL Florida Marlins (4) vs. AL Cleveland 
Indians (3) The first World Series game in the state of Florida, Game 1 
featured a youngster and a veteran facing each other on the mound. Fresh 
off his NLCS MVP performance, Liván Hernández took the hill for the Marlins 
and quickly gave up a run in the first thanks to a double by leadoff man 
Bip Roberts and an RBI single by David Justice. Indian starter Orel Hershiser 
got by the first two innings unscathed. However, after the Marlins tied 
the game in the third, they scored four runs in the fourth. The inning 
climaxed when Moisés Alou and Charles Johnson hit back-to-back homers (Alou's 
was a three-run shot off the left field foul pole). The Marlins added two 
in the fifth to knock Orel out of the game. The Indians crept back in the 
game slowly thanks to solo shots by Manny Ramírez and Jim Thome and entered 
the ninth inning down only 7–4. Florida closer Robb Nen came in and was 
able to get out of a jam by striking out Sandy Alomar, Jr. and Thome with 
two men aboard. Game 2 matched up Florida ace Kevin Brown against little 
known Chad Ogea, who had lost two games in the ALCS. Both teams scored 
in the first, thanks to RBI singles by Justice for the Indians and Jeff 
Conine for the Marlins. Ogea barely escaped further damage when Alou got 
under a hanging curveball, but merely flied out to the warning track, missing 
his second three-run homer in as many nights by inches. After that, Ogea 
settled in and did not allow any more runs. Brown pitched well until the 
fifth when the Indians took the lead by stringing together three straight 
singles by Matt Williams, Sandy Alomar, Jr., and Marquis Grissom. Later 
in the inning, with runners on second and third, Bip Roberts drove in a 
pair of runs with a single up the middle giving the Tribe a 4–1 lead. The 
three-run lead ballooned to five when Alomar hit a laser into the left 
field stands for a two-run homer in the sixth. Game 3 was a wild affair 
that ended with the Marlins grabbing a 2–1 series lead. In the top of the 
first, Gary Sheffield started the scoring with a solo shot to left. In 
the bottom half, the Indians retaliated with two runs thanks to two broken 
bat RBI singles by Matt Williams and Sandy Alomar. Florida took the lead 
3–2 on a Darren Daulton homer in the third and four walks allowed by Indians 
starter Charles Nagy in the fourth. However, the Indians got a gift in 
the bottom of the fourth, when they drew four consecutive free passes from 
Marlins starter Al Leiter, and then a throwing error by third baseman Bobby 
Bonilla allowed two more runs to score. The Tribe went up 7–3 on Jim Thome's 
two-run blast to right in the fifth inning. His home run was nullified 
in the sixth by Jim Eisenreich's two-run homer that cut the lead to 7–5. 
In the seventh, the Marlins finished their comeback with Édgar Rentería 
and Gary Sheffield each driving in a run, making the score 7–7. In the 
ninth, it all fell apart for Cleveland thanks to three errors and seemingly 
one hit after another by the Marlins, with Bonilla and Sheffield driving 
in a pair of runs each. When the carnage was over the Marlins led 14–7. 
Even though the Indians came back with four runs of their own in the ninth, 
it was not enough. This back-and-forth World Series continued that way 
in Game 4. Both teams were greeted by snow during batting practice and 
freezing temperatures throughout this contest. The official gametime temperature 
of 38 °F (3.3 °C) remains as of 2015[update] the coldest recorded in World 
Series history, while as the game progressed media outlets reported wind 
chill readings as low as 18 °F (-7.8 °C).[8] Two rookies opposed each other 
on the mound this night; Jaret Wright for the Indians and Tony Saunders 
for the Marlins. The Indians stormed out of the gate with three runs in 
the first, highlighted by Manny Ramírez's opposite field two-run homer. 
The Indians got three runs in the third inning as well and never looked 
back. Matt Williams turned out to be the offensive hero by reaching base 
six times, which included a two-run blast in the eighth to close the scoring. 
Game 5 was a rematch of Game 1's starting pitchers Liván Hernández and 
Orel Hershiser. The Marlins jumped out to a quick 2–1 lead heading into 
the third. Indians catcher Sandy Alomar then turned the game around by 
launching a towering three-run bomb. It remained 4–2 until the sixth, when 
Moisés Alou hit his second three-run homer off Hershiser in as many games 
and his third home run of the Series. Livan pitched terrifically in the 
middle innings, not allowing any runs until the ninth. Florida scored what 
seemed at the time to be two meaningless runs late in the game to extend 
their lead to 8–4 (Alou scored one and drove in the other). However, the 
ninth inning was a nailbiter with Livan and Robb Nen struggling to hold 
the lead. Omar Vizquel drove in one run with a hit, then Justice drove 
in another with a single up the middle. After a fielders choice and error 
left Matt Williams at second with two outs, Jim Thome smashed a single 
in the left-center field gap to drive in Williams and make the score 8–7. 
With Thome at first, Alomar came up, having already driven in twenty RBIs 
throughout the playoffs and four in the game. Sandy flied out to right 
field to end the game thus giving the Marlins a 3–2 Series lead. Game 6's 
attendance of 67,498 was the highest single-game attendance for the World 
Series since Game 5 of the 1959 World Series, when 92,706 people filled 
the football-oriented Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. The Series returned 
to the warmer climate of Miami for Game 6. Kevin Brown opposed Chad Ogea 
again and again Brown inexplicably struggled while Ogea flourished. Chad 
himself drove in the first two runs with a bases-loaded single in the second, 
and Manny Ramírez hit a sacrifice fly in the third and the fifth. With 
the Tribe leading 4–1 in the sixth, Ogea ran into serious trouble. The 
Marlins put runners on second and third with two out as reliever Mike Jackson 
replaced Ogea. Marlins catcher Charles Johnson stepped to the plate and 
proceeded to hit a sharp grounder that was headed for left field. Indians 
gold glove shortstop Omar Vizquel dove for the ball, grabbed it, sprung 
to his feet, and hurled a perfect strike to first base just before Johnson 
arrived. The play ended the threat and broke the Marlins spirits. In the 
ninth, closer José Mesa wrapped up the win, tying the Series at 3–3. For 
Game 7, coming off the victory in Game 6, Indians manager Mike Hargrove 
(who coincidentally was celebrating his birthday that day) elected to start 
young Jaret Wright, his Game 4 starter, on short rest in place of Game 
3 starter Charles Nagy. The Marlins countered with their Game 3 starter 
Al Leiter, who gave up seven runs (three unearned) in his previous start 
but was bailed out when the Marlins rallied for a 14–11 victory. The Marlins 
managed one hit in the 1st inning, a double off the bat of Édgar Rentería. 
That was the only hit Wright gave up through six innings, and the Indians 
staked him to a 2–0 lead in the third. With two out and Jim Thome and Marquis 
Grissom in scoring position, Tony Fernandez singled to drive both runners 
in for the only runs of the game to that point. Leading off the bottom 
of the seventh for the Marlins, Bobby Bonilla hit Wright's first pitch 
over the right-center field wall for a solo home run to cut the lead to 
2–1. After striking out Charles Johnson and walking Craig Counsell, Wright 
was removed from the game in favor of Paul Assenmacher who was scheduled 
to pitch to Cliff Floyd. Marlins manager Jim Leyland elected to send Kurt 
Abbott to the plate after the pitching change; and Assenmacher retired 
him on a fly ball, then got Devon White swinging to end the inning. In 
the top of the ninth inning, Cleveland again threatened. After Antonio 
Alfonseca walked Matt Williams to lead off the inning and Sandy Alomar, 
Jr. reached on a fielder's choice to take Williams off the bases, Félix 
Heredia gave up a single to Thome which advanced Alomar to third. He was 
then pulled in favor of closer Robb Nen, inducing a groundball from Grissom 
to Edgar Renteria at shortstop, who elected to throw Alomar out at home, 
thanks in part to a great pick and tag by Johnson. He then got Brian Giles 
to fly out to end the inning. The Indians sent closer José Mesa to the 
mound to try to win the series in the bottom of the inning. Moisés Alou 
led off with a single, and Bonilla struck out swinging on a 3-2 pitch that 
would have been ball 4. Nevertheless, 4 strikes way from losing the World 
Series, Charles Johnson lined a clutch 1-2 fastball into right field, moving 
Alou to third. With runners on 1st and 3rd and one out, Craig Counsell 
fought off a low, inside fastball from Mesa, lining it into deep right 
field. Manny Ramirez caught the ball on the warning track to make it two 
outs, but Alou scored from 3rd easily to amazingly tie the game in the 
9th. Although Mesa retired Jim Eisenreich to send the game to extra innings 
and held the Marlins without a run in the tenth, his blown save would open 
him to criticism for years to come. After Nen struck out the side in the 
top of the 10th, Mesa was lifted, after giving up back-to-back one out 
singles, for Game 3 starter Charles Nagy, who got Alou to fly out to end 
the threat. After walking the first batter of the 11th, Jay Powell retired 
Cleveland in order thanks to an alert fielder's choice on a sac bunt by 
Alomar, in which Powell fielded and threw out the lead runner at 2nd, followed 
by a Jim Thome inning-ending double play. Nagy took to the mound to face 
Florida in the bottom half of the 11th. Bonilla led off with a single to 
center. After Gregg Zaun nearly caused a double play by popping his bunt 
attempt directly to Nagy (Bonilla was able to get back), Counsell followed 
with a ground ball that should have produced an inning-ending double play. 
Instead, the ball was misplayed by Fernandez, went under his glove and 
into right field, and Bonilla advanced to third on the error. After Nagy 
loaded the bases with an intentional walk to Eisenreich, he got White to 
ground into a fielder's choice to Fernandez, who elected to not go for 
the double play but instead quickly threw Bonilla out at the plate for 
the second out. The next batter was Édgar Rentería; with the bases loaded 
and 2 outs in the bottom of the 11th inning of Game 7 of the World Series, 
he timed an 0-1 slider from Nagy and lined it up the middle out of reach 
of both Nagy (who was so close his glove even touched the ball), and the 
infielders. An exuberant Counsell scored from third, and jumped on home 
plate with his fists in the air in celebration—with the series-winning 
run. Renteria, in jubilation, removed his helmet with tears in his eyes 
before touching first base, having hit a World Series winning walkoff single. 
After Game 7, the trophy presentation, usually taking place in the winning 
team's locker room regardless of venue, took place on the field before 
the crowd of 67,204. It was presided over by then-Chairman of the Executive 
Committee Bud Selig, who first did the honors in 1995 and would officially 
become Commissioner of Baseball in 1998. This is now a standard procedure 
whenever the champions are the home team of the deciding game (the only 
exception being 1999 when the New York Yankees chose to celebrate in their 
locker room). 1997 World Series (4–3): Florida Marlins (N.L.) over Cleveland 
Indians (A.L.) Liván Hernández was named the Most Valuable Player of the 
1997 World Series. Chad Ogea became the first pitcher since Mickey Lolich 
in 1968 to have at least two hits and two RBIs in a World Series. Soon 
after Game 7 was complete, rumors on the internet started to spread that 
the 1989 (four years before the Florida Marlins made their debut) film 
Back to the Future Part II accurately predicted their 1997 World Series 
victory. In reality, the movie stated that, in 2015, a Miami team with 
an alligator mascot would lose to the Chicago Cubs in the World Series. 
Ironically, the actual Cubs' 2015 season also ended on October 21, and 
in a four-game sweep, but this time, they lost to the New York Mets in 
that year's NLCS. On October 31, 1997, most of the fan favorites of the 
1997 Marlins were traded, including Moisés Alou, who was traded to the 
Houston Astros, and Al Leiter to the New York Mets, in a fire sale so infamous 
that it has come to synonymize the term in the baseball world. World Series 
MVP hurler Liván Hernández, however, stayed with the team for two more 
years. The Marlins had a record of 54–108 in 1998, the worst performance 
ever by a defending World Series champion. As a result, these Marlins are 
mockingly referred to as the first "Rent-A-Team" to win the World Series. 
Jim Leyland, responding to reports that he would retire if the Marlins 
won the World Series, told NBC during the celebration, "My wife doesn't 
like me that much. I can't retire." However, he quit in the wake of their 
pitiful performance in 1998. He managed the Colorado Rockies in 1999, then 
scouted for several years before joining the Detroit Tigers as manager 
in 2006 and taking them to the World Series and losing in five games. Marlins 
owner H. Wayne Huizenga, who dodged questions about selling the team during 
the on-field celebration, ultimately sold the team to John W. Henry after 
the 1998 season. Henry in turn sold it to former Montreal Expos owner Jeffrey 
Loria in 2001 as part of a deal to purchase the Boston Red Sox. Loria would 
return the team to a World Series victory in 2003. That season started 
with only one of the 1997 World Series players left on the roster: pitcher 
Rick Helling. Helling was traded mid-season to the Texas Rangers. However, 
the team traded with the Baltimore Orioles for Jeff Conine. Conine would 
be the only 1997 Marlin to participate in the 2003 World Series victory. 
Huizenga continued to be the team's landlord at what is now Hard Rock Stadium 
until 2008, when he sold it with the Miami Dolphins to Stephen M. Ross. 
The Indians did not return to the World Series until 2016, where they again 
lost the deciding Game 7 in extra innings, this time on their home field 
to the Chicago Cubs. The failure of José Mesa to save Game 7 ultimately 
ignited a heated feud with teammate Omar Vizquel. In Vizquel's autobiography, 
the veteran shortstop called Mesa a "choker." The two men ended their longtime 
friendship. Mesa later vowed to "...hit him every time" he faced him, and 
also stated that he wanted to kill Vizquel. Though Mesa did not actually 
bean Vizquel every time he subsequently faced him, he did hit him with 
pitches at least twice. Game 7 also caused a scheduled Chicago Bears–Miami 
Dolphins game to be postponed to Monday night. It was seen on ABC in the 
Chicago and Miami markets, and was intended to air on Fox. The rest of 
the nation received the scheduled Green Bay Packers–New England Patriots 
game, the only time a rematch of a previous season's Super Bowl aired on 
ABC. Also, largely as a result of over 67,000 attending every World Series 
game played in Pro Player Stadium in Miami, the 1997 World Series became 
just the second to draw a total attendance of over 400,000 for the entire 
series. The only other World Series to draw more than 400,000 in attendance 
was the 1959 World Series, which had three of its six games played at the 
Los Angeles Coliseum, which drew over 92,000 for each game played at the 
Coliseum in that World Series. The total attendance of 403,627 is the second-largest 
in World Series history, only to the attendance of 420,784 in 1959. Miami 
and Cleveland have celebrated championships in the 19 years since: in addition 
to the Marlins' second World Series championship in 2003, the Miami Heat 
won NBA championships in 2006, 2012 and 2013, while the Cleveland Cavaliers 
won the 2016 NBA Finals just eight days after the NHLs Columbus Blue Jackets 
affiliate, Lake Erie Monsters (now the Cleveland Monsters) won the AHLs 
Calder Cup ending the a 52-year championship drought for their city. With 
the exception of 2006, Akron, Ohio native LeBron James played on each of 
the aforementioned NBA championship teams. This marked the first time since 
1988 that NBC televised a World Series in its entirety. In 1995, NBC televised 
Games 2, 3, and 6, while rival ABC televised Games 1, 4, and 5, having 
split that series since ABC was promised the strike-cancelled 1994 World 
Series. Both networks had announced prior to the 1995 season, that they 
were bailing out what was initially a six-year-long revenue sharing joint 
venture with Major League Baseball called "The Baseball Network". Starting 
with the 1996 World Series, Fox and NBC would alternate World Series broadcast 
rights for the next five seasons, with NBC broadcasting in odd-numbered 
years and Fox in even-numbered years. This arrangement ended in 2001, when 
Fox got exclusive broadcast rights to the World Series, and still does 
today. NBC's West Coast president Don Ohlmeyer disturbed Major League Baseball 
when he publicly wished the World Series to end in a four-game sweep so 
that it wouldn't derail NBC's fall entertainment schedule. (Game 5 fell 
on a Thursday, which had long been the highest rated night on NBC's schedule, 
if not on all of television.) Midway through Game 2, "surprise guest" Joe 
DiMaggio joined NBC's Bob Costas, Joe Morgan and Bob Uecker in the television 
booth. DiMaggio joked that Morgan was a "Hall of Famer" and Costas a "future 
Hall of Famer", but he didn't know what to think of when it came to Uecker. 
Ironically enough, the Baseball Hall of Fame would present Uecker with 
its Ford C. Frick Award several years later. Also working for NBC's coverage 
were Jim Gray, who served as field reporter; Ray Knight, CBC sportscaster 
Ron MacLean, and Ahmad Rashad, who alternated as dugout reporters. Meanwhile, 
Hannah Storm and Keith Olbermann served as pre-game hosts. Storm along 
with Jim Gray and Amhad Rashad covered the celebration on the field following 
Game 7. Also following Game 7, Ron MacLean interviewed Mike Hargrove and 
Indians players from their locker room. MacLean worked Games 3, 4, 5 and 
7 on loan to NBC due to his Hockey Night in Canada commitments. This was 
the last World Series broadcast on CBS Radio, which had covered the World 
Series consecutively since 1976. ESPN Radio would take over the national 
radio contract for Major League Baseball the following year. Vin Scully 
and Jeff Torborg were CBS Radio's announcers for the Series (the latter 
had once managed the Indians and would later manage the Marlins). This 
was Scully's eleventh and final call for CBS Radio in the World Series, 
and seventh consecutive since he rejoined the network following NBC's 1989 
loss of baseball. As of 2014, this is also the last World Series broadcast 
to date for Scully, who, in addition to his eleven CBS Radio broadcasts, 
has called fourteen others for NBC and the Los Angeles Dodgers.[10] Torborg 
would continue to call games for Fox television until the end of the 2000 
season, working alongside John Rooney and Chip Caray, when he elected to 
return to managing and was hired by the Montreal Expos. Game 7 was the 
final Major League Baseball game called by longtime Indians radio announcer 
Herb Score, as he retired at season's end. Score's broadcast partner, Tom 
Hamilton, would take over as lead announcer and he remains in that position 
as of the close of the 2015 season. It also marked the final game carried 
by Indians flagship station WKNR (1220); the broadcast rights would be 
