The 1997 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
1997 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, September 30, and ended 
on Monday, October 6, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
was not tied to playing record but was predetermined—a highly unpopular 
arrangement which was discontinued after the conclusion of the 1997 playoffs. 
Also, the team with home field advantage was required to play the first 
two games on the road, with potentially the last three at home, in order 
to reduce travel. The Orioles played the Mariners, rather than the wild 
card Yankees, because the Orioles and Yankees are in the same division. 
Had the 1997 ALDS been played under the post-1997 arrangement, then Baltimore 
(1) would have faced off against Cleveland (3) and New York (4) would have 
faced off against Seattle (2). The Baltimore Orioles and Cleveland Indians 
went on to meet in the AL Championship Series (ALCS). The Indians became 
the American League champion, and lost to the National League champion 
Florida Marlins in the 1997 World Series. Baltimore won the series, 3–1. 
Cleveland won the series, 3–2. Kingdome in Seattle, Washington The Orioles 
had gone wire-to-wire and the Mariners had won the AL West for the second 
time in the decade. In Game 1, both teams had their best on the mound: 
Mike Mussina for the Orioles and Randy Johnson for the Mariners. The game 
was scoreless until Mike Bordick hit the go-ahead RBI double for the Orioles 
in the third, but Edgar Martínez's homer tied the game in the fourth. In 
the fifth the Orioles looked to put the game away. They would score four 
runs on two RBI singles by Brady Anderson and Eric Davis and a homer by 
Gerónimo Berroa. In the sixth, the Orioles would score four more runs on 
a rally capped by B. J. Surhoff's two-run double. The Orioles appeared 
to be the better team as they rolled to a 9–3 win. The Mariners would get 
their final two runs on solo homers by Jay Buhner and Alex Rodriguez in 
the seventh and ninth, respectively. Kingdome in Seattle, Washington Scott 
Erickson faced Jamie Moyer in Game 2 and the situation cried for a Mariner 
victory. In the bottom of the first, the Mariners got two cheap runs on 
two groundouts, but Harold Baines homered to make it a one-run game in 
the second and in the fifth the Mariners began to fall apart. After Moyer 
got two quick outs, he surrendered a walk and a single. Moyer then left 
the game with a strained flexor in his left elbow. Roberto Alomar would 
double in the tying and go-ahead runs with two outs to give the Orioles 
a 3–2 lead. In the seventh, Brady Anderson's two-run homer silenced the 
crowd and gave the Orioles a commanding 5–2 lead. The Mariners would get 
a run in the seventh to close the gap but the Orioles would widen the gap 
in the eighth. A bases-loaded walk signaled a four-run rally that put the 
game away. Mike Bordick had a two-run single and Anderson had another RBI 
hit. It was now 9–3 and the Orioles would cruise to another victory. The 
Mariners had lost the first two games at home and appeared destined for 
defeat. Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland In a must-win 
game for the Mariners, Jeff Fassero took the mound against Jimmy Key, who 
was looking to end the series. In the third, Roberto Kelly hit the go-ahead 
RBI double for the Mariners. In the fifth, Ken Griffey, Jr. drove in a 
run with a base hit to make it 2–0 Mariners. The score remained 2–0 and 
Fassero had shut the Orioles out through eight innings. In the ninth, Jay 
Buhner and Paul Sorrento hit one-out back-to-back homers to give the Mariners 
a 4–0 ninth inning lead. These would turn out to be the deciding runs as 
the Orioles rallied in the bottom half. Jeffrey Hammonds's two-out, two-run 
double put the tying run at the plate in the person of Harold Baines, but 
Baines would pop out to ensure a Game 4. Oriole Park at Camden Yards in 
Baltimore, Maryland Randy Johnson and Mike Mussina redueled in the potential 
clincher. In the bottom of the first, Johnson gave up a solo homer to Jeff 
Reboulet and an RBI single to Cal Ripken, Jr., but Edgar Martínez would 
homer in the second to make it a one-run game. However, Gerónimo Berroa's 
solo homer in the fifth gave the Orioles a two-run edge. Mussina and Johnson 
dueled on even terms until Mussina was pulled in the eighth in favor of 
Armando Benítez. The Orioles' bullpen managed to hang on to a 3–1 clinching 
victory that put the Orioles back in the ALCS for the second straight year. 
1997 ALDS (3–1): Baltimore Orioles over Seattle Mariners Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Game 1 saw a matchup of Orel Hershiser and David 
Cone. The Indians made their presence felt in the top of the first when 
they struck for five runs. The inning was capped by Sandy Alomar, Jr.'s 
three-run homer, the first of his nineteen RBIs in the 1997 postseason. 
The Yankees would scratch out a run in the second but the Indians made 
it 6–1 when Marquis Grissom scored on a Bip Roberts base hit in the fourth. 
The Yankees began their comeback by getting a run in both the fourth and 
fifth innings to cut the lead to three. Finally, in the sixth, the Yankees 
completed a five-run comeback by getting five runs. Tim Raines, Derek Jeter, 
and Paul O'Neill hit three straight homers to give the Yankees an 8–6 edge. 
It was a lead the Yankee bullpen would not squander. Mariano Rivera got 
the save in the ninth. Having seen a five-run lead disappear, the Indians 
appeared demoralized. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York The seemingly 
overmatched Jaret Wright faced Andy Pettitte in Game 2. The Yankees jumped 
out to a 3–0 first inning lead on a two-run double by Tino Martinez and 
a sac fly by Charlie Hayes. All hope appeared lost for the Indians against 
the defending World Champions, but the Indians mustered a five-run rally 
with two out in the fourth with four straight RBI hits. When Matt Williams 
hit a two-run homer in the fifth it sent the Yankees' spirits plummeting. 
The Yankees would get runs in the eighth and ninth against José Mesa but 
the lead would stand and the series was tied at a game apiece. Jacobs Field 
in Cleveland, Ohio David Wells faced Charles Nagy in Game 3. An error by 
Nagy gave Wells a 1–0 lead in the first, but the Indians would tie the 
game in the second on a forceout. Derek Jeter would help give the Yankees 
the lead in the third when he walked, stole second, and scored on Tino 
Martinez's RBI hit. In the fourth, Paul O'Neill hit a grand slam that gave 
the Yankees a commanding 6–1 lead and silenced the Jacobs Field crowd. 
Rain was a constant throughout the game and the rain fell on the Indians' 
parade as the Yankees took a 2–1 series lead. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio Game 4 proved memorable as two veteran starters, Dwight Gooden and 
Orel Hershiser, battled back and forth. The Yankees jumped out to a 2–0 
lead in the first on an RBI double by Paul O'Neill and an RBI single by 
Cecil Fielder. This would be all the Yankees could muster off Hershiser, 
whose postseason legend continued to improve. A solo homer in the second 
by David Justice cut that 2–0 in half and gave the Indians cause for hope. 
However, Gooden and the Yankees bullpen kept the Indians scoreless until 
the bottom of the eighth. With two outs and Mariano Rivera on the mound, 
the Indians looked finished. Having posted 43 saves during the regular 
season, Rivera appeared to be the executioner. However, Sandy Alomar, Jr. 
homered to tie the game and that homer gave birth to his postseason legacy 
in 1997. This would be Rivera's only blown save in the playoffs until 2001. 
In the ninth, Marquis Grissom singled to lead off the inning. A bunt moved 
him to second and Omar Vizquel hit a single off reliever Ramiro Mendoza 
that rolled past Derek Jeter to the outfield grass. That allowed Grissom 
to score the game-winning run. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio With the 
momentum on their side, the Indians looked to finish off the defending 
champs. Andy Pettitte and Jaret Wright once again faced off. The Indians 
would take a 3–0 lead in the third thanks to back-to-back two-out hits 
by Manny Ramírez and Matt Williams. Then a sac fly by Tony Fernández in 
the fourth made it 4–0. However, the Yankees gave the Indians cause to 
pause in the fifth when an error by Ramírez cut the lead in half. Then 
Wade Boggs's pinch hit RBI single made it a one-run game in the sixth. 
The score remained 4–3 and the Yankees blew multiple chances to take the 
lead. The Indians also had their share of chances to put the series away. 
The frustration mounted in the ninth when Paul O'Neill's two-out double 
gave Bernie Williams a chance to hit the go-ahead homer off José Mesa, 
but Mesa got Williams to fly out (a fairly deep fly ball) to Brian Giles 
to end the series and ensure a new World Champion in 1997. 1997 ALDS (3–2): 
