The 1998 Major League Baseball home run chase in Major League Baseball 
was the race between first baseman Mark McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals 
and right fielder Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs that resulted in both 
players breaking Roger Maris's long-standing and highly coveted record 
of 61 home runs. McGwire broke Maris's record on September 8 against the 
Cubs and finished with 70 home runs. Sosa finished with 66. Several players 
had come close to breaking Maris's record in the years before 1998. Before 
the 1994 season was cut short by a labor dispute, Matt Williams of the 
San Francisco Giants and Ken Griffey, Jr. of the Seattle Mariners were 
both on a pace which threatened Maris's record: they hit 43 and 40 home 
runs respectively in a season which was shortened by approximately 50 of 
the scheduled 162 games. In 1995, Albert Belle became the first player 
since Cecil Fielder in 1990 to hit 50 home runs in a season.[1] Belle was 
only the 4th player in the previous three decades to reach the 50 home 
run- milestone (George Foster hit 52 in 1977, following Willie Mays in 
1965). In 1996, Brady Anderson of the Baltimore Orioles hit 50 home runs, 
twice the number he hit during any other season.[2] Of more note was Mark 
McGwire of the Oakland Athletics, who first drew attention by hitting a 
league-leading 52 home runs that season while only playing in 130 games.[3] 
The 1997 home run chase featured McGwire against Ken Griffey, Jr. of the 
Seattle Mariners. It was during that season that full-fledged interest 
over the record kicked in as both players were on record pace well into 
the summer.[4][5] McGwire finished with 58 home runs despite a slump following 
his mid-season trade to the St. Louis Cardinals, besting Griffey's total 
of 56. Speculation on the potential of McGwire or Griffey breaking the 
Roger Maris' home run record was a popular story heading into spring training, 
and was even promoted by MLB itself, in an effort to draw fans back to 
the game who felt disenfranchised by the 1994 strike and cancellation of 
the World Series. With the spotlight still on Griffey and McGwire (entering 
his first full season as a Cardinal), the latter opened the 1998 season 
by hitting home runs in each of his first four games. McGwire would ultimately 
find himself ahead of record pace for all but two games of the season; 
his pace hit a low of 58.9 on May 7 following a five-game drought. After 
hitting 16 home runs in May (only two short of Rudy York's ill-fated record 
of 18 home runs in August 1937[6]), McGwire led the league with 27 home 
runs, ahead of Griffey's 19 and on pace for more than 80.[7][8] June, however, 
would be Sosa's month to catch up. His 13 home runs entering the month 
represented less than half of rival McGwire's total. Sosa had his first 
of four multi-home run games that month on June 1, and went on to break 
Rudy York's record with 20 home runs in the month of June,[9] a record 
that still stands. By the end of his historic month, the outfielder's 33 
home runs tied him with Griffey and left him only four behind McGwire's 
37.[10] The three remained competitive entering August, a period which 
saw McGwire go on a season-high eight-game home run drought. After hitting 
a home run on August 8, McGwire's lead had dwindled to two, his 46 home 
runs just above Sosa's 44 and Griffey's 41. His relative lull in production 
continued, hitting only three home runs over the next ten days. His pace 
at the end of August 18, 61.9 would be his lowest for the rest of the season. 
On August 19, he returned to form, hitting two home runs and beginning 
the stretch that would see him hit 23 home runs in his final 39 games. 
Sosa, meanwhile, had followed up his 20 home runs in June with a combined 
total of only 22 for July and August. At the end of the month, however, 
the two sluggers were locked at 55 home runs, putting them on pace for 
about 65 in total and, for the first time in 37 years, leaving the single-season 
home run record in imminent jeopardy. They were also each one short of 
Hack Wilson's National league record. By this point, Griffey's total of 
47 home runs left him well behind the pace of his two rivals, indicating 
that even in the event he could pass Maris's total, it would be unlikely 
that he would also be able to beat McGwire and Sosa. McGwire began September 
with four home runs in his first two games against the Florida Marlins 
and took back the lead, 59–56. His September 5 home run set the stage for 
one of baseball's classic moments, as he sat on 60 home runs entering a 
two-game set against Sosa's Chicago Cubs. On September 7, McGwire hit a 
Mike Morgan pitch 430 feet to become the first player since 1961 to hit 
61 home runs in a season. The next day, September 8, 1998, in a game against 
Sosa's Cubs and with members of the Maris family in attendance, he hit 
Steve Trachsel's pitch 341 feet - his shortest home run of the season - 
just over the left field wall, breaking the record for the most home runs 
ever hit in a single season. The ball did not even make it to the stands, 
and the crew member who found it later gave the ball to McGwire. In what 
was a show of both admiration as well as respect, Mark Grace, the Cubs 
first baseman shared a half-hug high five as McGwire rounded first, and 
after he touched home, Sosa charged in from right field and engaged McGwire 
in a celebratory embrace. Afterwards, however, McGwire went six consecutive 
games without a home run, allowing Sosa to tie him again at 62 after hitting 
four home runs in three games against the Milwaukee Brewers. The two battled 
back and forth for the lead, and entering the final series of the season 
on September 25, were tied at 65 home runs. Sosa hit a 462-foot home run 
off Houston Astros pitcher José Lima for his 66th home run of the season. 
McGwire, however, while the Cardinals hosted the Montreal Expos, hit five 
home runs against five different pitchers, setting the record at 70 with 
a 370-foot home run off Carl Pavano. Throughout the season, Sosa gave a 
"V" sign after every home run, dedicating it to the memory of Cubs broadcaster 
Harry Caray, who died that February.[11] The Cardinals, despite McGwire's 
efforts, finished the season 83–79, 3rd place in the Central and behind 
division rival Chicago. Chicago finished 90–73, earning them 2nd in the 
Central and a wild card berth. Sosa finished with a .308 batting average, 
66 home runs, and 158 RBI, besting McGwire, who finished with a .299 batting 
average, 70 home runs, and 147 RBI for the NL MVP award. The Cubs, however, 
were swept in the first round of the 1998 playoffs by the Atlanta Braves. 
In 2001, only three years after McGwire and Sosa finally toppled Maris's 
record, the mark fell again, this time to San Francisco Giants left fielder 
Barry Bonds. Bonds broke the record on October 5 against Chan Ho Park of 
the Los Angeles Dodgers and, two days later, hit his 73rd home run of the 
season off the Dodgers pitcher Dennis Springer.[12] The '97 and '98 home 
run record chases are widely credited by sports analysts as having restored 
Major League Baseball among its fan base in the preceding years, as many 
had lost interest and felt betrayed by the strike in 1994, although others 
contest this.[13] The embrace, along with the constant praising of one 
another between McGwire and Sosa was spoofed in the fall of 1998 on Saturday 
Night Live by Will Ferrell (as McGwire) and Tracy Morgan (as Sosa) whom 
try to one-up praising each other endlessly and then begin to slow-dance.[14] 
Bonds' record still stands, though the controversy over possible use of 
performance-enhancing drugs by McGwire and Sosa gained momentum when Bonds 
hit his 73 home runs despite having never hit as many as 50 in any other 
season. In the Congressional Hearing on Steroids, McGwire repeatedly stressed 
that any answer he gave regarding his alleged steroid use would not be 
believed by the public at-large anyway. Sosa seemed to not understand the 
questions. Bonds has also been linked to steroids. He admitted to taking 
them, but he claims that he did not know what he was taking was steroids. 
Bonds and Sosa have been linked to illegal use of steroids in the Mitchell 
Report and other sources. McGwire has never been named by any official 
investigation; however, on January 11, 2010, McGwire admitted to Bob Costas 
of the MLB Network that he did take steroids throughout his career, including 
during the 1998 season where he broke the record. The following table outlines 
home runs that Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa hit during 1998 season.[15][16][17] 
