The 1998 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
1998 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, September 29, and ended 
on Saturday, October 3, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
for the first time was determined by playing record. Also for the first 
time, the team with home field advantage played the first two games at 
home, with potentially Game 5 at home as well; previously, the team with 
the home field advantage had played the first two games on the road, with 
the possibility of the final three games at home. The Red Sox were ineligible 
for home field advantage due to not winning their division. The New York 
Yankees and Cleveland Indians went on to meet in the AL Championship Series 
(ALCS). The Yankees became the American League champion, and defeated the 
National League champion San Diego Padres in the 1998 World Series. New 
York won the series, 3–0. Cleveland won the series, 3–1. Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Scott Brosius was the hero of Game 1, as Todd Stottlemyre 
faced David Wells. In the bottom of the second, Stottlemyre yielded two 
runs when Brosius singled in Jorge Posada after Chad Curtis doubled and 
Curtis scored when Chuck Knoblauch struck out and Brosius was caught stealing. 
Stottlemyre pitched a complete game in a losing effort. David Wells and 
Mariano Rivera limited the loaded Texas lineup, which had scored 940 runs 
in 1998, to only five hits. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Rick 
Helling went against Andy Pettitte in Game 2. The remarkable Shane Spencer 
started the scoring when he homered in the bottom of the second. Brosius 
then hit a two-run homer in the Yankees fourth. Texas scored their only 
run of the series when Juan González doubled and later scored on an Iván 
Rodríguez single in the fifth. Once again, the Rangers were limited to 
five hits by Pettitte, Jeff Nelson, and Rivera. The Ballpark in Arlington 
in Arlington, Texas The Rangers were once again stymied by the Yankees 
pitching staff. Twenty-game winner David Cone faced Aaron Sele, and both 
were matching each other pitch-for-pitch into the sixth. Paul O'Neill put 
the Yankees on top by hitting a solo home run with one out in the Yankees 
sixth. Then, with two runners on and two out, Shane Spencer slammed his 
second home run of the series to make it 4–0. Cone left after a rain delay, 
but the Yankees' bullpen held Texas in check the rest of the way. Will 
Clark grounded out to end the series. 1998 ALDS (3–0): New York Yankees 
over Texas Rangers Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio The first of many rough 
starts for Cleveland pitcher Jaret Wright in the 1998 postseason was in 
Game 1. Wright faced Pedro Martínez, and Pedro would get all the run support 
in the world. After two leadoff hits in the first by Darren Lewis and John 
Valentin, Mo Vaughn slugged a three-run home run to put Boston up for good. 
In the top of the fifth, with Lewis and Valentin on and one out, Nomar 
Garciaparra also slugged a three-run home run. Jaret's night was done. 
A one-out single in the top of the sixth by Valentin led to Vaughn's second 
home run of the game to put Boston up 8–0. Cleveland responded with a two-run 
home run by Kenny Lofton in the bottom half of the sixth and a Thome home 
run in the seventh. Vaughn doubled in two more runs in the eighth as the 
Red Sox scored three more runs to make the final score 11–3. The win ended 
a thirteen-game postseason losing streak for the Red Sox dating back to 
Game 6 of the 1986 World Series. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Dwight 
Gooden faced Tim Wakefield in Game 2. The Red Sox scored two runs in a 
controversial first inning surrounding home plate umpire Joe Brinkman. 
After calling the first three pitches that appeared to be strikes as balls, 
Indians' manager Mike Hargrove was promptly ejected from the game by Brinkman. 
Later that same inning, with two runners aboard, Nomar Garciaparra doubled 
off the left-field wall. Darren Lewis scored as John Valentin tried to 
score on a slide. Omar Vizquel's relay throw appeared to be time to get 
Valentin, but Brinkman called him safe. Gooden had a meltdown at home plate 
and had to be restrained by his teammates as he also was ejected. Replays 
confirmed Valentin was out at the plate. Gooden was replaced by Dave Burba, 
who promptly retired the next two batters. David Justice cut the lead in 
half by hitting a sacrifice fly that scored Lofton in the Indians first. 
Then the Indians tied it when Sandy Alomar Jr. doubled in Brian Giles in 
the second. After Joey Cora walked, Lofton doubled in Alomar to give the 
Indians the lead. Wakefield left the game and, with two out, David Justice 
hit a three-run home run to put the Indians up for good. Garciaparra drove 
in a run for Boston in the third, but an Alomar double scored Travis Fryman 
to make it 7–3 Indians. The Red Sox came within two in the sixth, but the 
Indians scored one in the bottom half and one in the eighth on a wild pitch. 
That made the final score 9–5 Indians. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts 
Charles Nagy faced Bret Saberhagen in the critical Game 3. The Red Sox 
struck first on an RBI-forceout in the fourth. It didn't take long to respond, 
as Jim Thome led the Indians fifth off with a home run. In the sixth, Kenny 
Lofton homered to put the Indians on top. Then Manny Ramírez homered in 
the seventh to give the Indians a 3–1 edge. Manny Ramírez would homer once 
again in the ninth, this time off Dennis Eckersley. The Red Sox wouldn't 
go quietly in the bottom of the ninth as Nomar Garciaparra hit a two-run 
home run to bring the game within one run. However, Mike Jackson retired 
the next two batters in succession to give the Indians a two games to one 
lead in the series. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Bartolo Colón 
went against Pete Schourek, looking to save the Red Sox. In the fourth, 
Nomar Garciaparra homered to lead off to put the Red Sox up 1–0, but they 
would squander the lead for the third consecutive game. In the eighth, 
with Tom Gordon pitching for Boston, Kenny Lofton and Omar Vizquel both 
singled with one out. Justice then doubled to center which scored both 
Lofton and Vizquel to put the Indians out in front 2–1. Not much happened 
afterwards, as Darren Bragg struck out swinging to end the series. 1998 
ALDS (3–1): Cleveland Indians over Boston Red Sox Swing and a LONG drive 
into deep right field, Nixon back on the track at the wall...leaps up and 
