The 1998 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 1998 American League playoffs, was played between the East Division 
champion New York Yankees and the Central Division champion Cleveland Indians. 
The Yankees defeated the Indians four games to two and went on to sweep 
the National League champion San Diego Padres in the 1998 World Series. 
New York, who won 114 games during the regular season, recorded their only 
two losses of the 1998 postseason in this series. Cleveland advanced to 
the ALCS by ousting the Wild Card Boston Red Sox three games to one in 
the AL Division Series, while New York swept the West Division champion 
Texas Rangers three games to none. New York won the series, 4–2. Tuesday, 
October 6, 1998 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Cleveland came 
in as heavy underdogs, but also were the defending American League Champions. 
In Game 1, the Yankees got off to a good start, by hitting four straight 
singles in the bottom of the first to score two runs. This paved the way 
for three more runs as a wild pitch and two more hits knocked starter Jaret 
Wright out of the game in the first. Chad Ogea came on in relief. Eventual 
ALCS MVP David Wells cruised through 8 1⁄3 innings. A two-run homer by 
Manny Ramírez would knock home the only runs of the game for Cleveland 
in the ninth. Wednesday, October 7, 1998 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, 
New York In Game 2, twenty-game winner David Cone went for the Yankees, 
who looked like they would go to Cleveland up two games in the series. 
However, David Justice hit a solo home run in the fourth, putting the Yankees 
behind for the first time in the postseason. A Scott Brosius double tied 
the game in the seventh, but the Yankees would squander the chance to score 
him. They would also squander many chances in the game to score, as the 
game moved to extra innings. Jim Thome led off the top of the twelfth with 
a single. Enrique Wilson was then called on the pinch run. Travis Fryman 
then laid a sacrifice bunt down, and, as Jeff Nelson went to throw it to 
first, he hit Fryman and the ball rolled past Chuck Knoblauch covering. 
Knoblauch tried to argue the call as the ball continued to roll. Wilson 
and Fryman continued to run and Wilson would score as the ball was still 
not dead. An error by Tino Martinez put Fryman at third. The Indians now 
had the lead back and would score two more and tie the series at a game 
apiece. Friday, October 9, 1998 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio At Jacobs 
Field for Game 3, the Yankees were rendered helpless by a barrage of Indian 
home runs and the dazzling pitching of young flamethrower Bartolo Colón. 
After the Yankees took the lead in the first on a Bernie Williams RBI-single, 
the Indians took control of the game. Jim Thome led off the bottom of the 
second with a home run, then Enrique Wilson drove in a run to make it 2–1 
Cleveland. Three more home runs in the fifth with two outs, including the 
second of the game by Thome, made it 6–1 Indians. The strong pitching of 
Colon silenced the Yankees' bats the rest of the way as the New York batters 
were held hitless from the fifth inning onwards. Colon would finish with 
a four-hit complete game victory, and the Indians took a 2–1 edge in the 
best-of-seven series. Saturday, October 10, 1998 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio The Yankees looked to Orlando "El Duque" Hernández for a clutch pitching 
performance. Hernandez had come to the Yankees shrouded in mystery, having 
defected from Cuba just ten months earlier. He was making his postseason 
debut with this start against former Yankee Dwight Gooden. Paul O'Neill 
gave Hernandez a run to work with by hitting a solo home run off Gooden 
in the top of the first. Hernandez responded by giving his team seven shutout 
innings. The Yankees added two more in the fourth and one more in the ninth 
to win Game 4 4–0. Sunday, October 11, 1998 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio Instead of pitching Jaret Wright in Game 5, Mike Hargrove looked to 
Chad Ogea, who had pitched well in the 1997 World Series, to give his team 
a three games to two lead in the series. The Yankees once again took the 
early lead with a three-run first inning, but the Indians would respond. 
A leadoff homer by Kenny Lofton and a sacrifice fly by Manny Ramírez made 
it a one-run game. Paul O'Neill singled home a run in the second to make 
it 4–2 Yankees. Chili Davis homered in the fourth to put the Yankees ahead 
by three, but Jim Thome hit his third homer of the series in the bottom 
of the sixth to make it a two-run game. Wells and the Yankees' bullpen 
held off any further Indians scoring, and the Yankees were one win away 
from the World Series. Tuesday, October 13, 1998 at Yankee Stadium (I) 
in Bronx, New York The Yankees built a 6–0 lead behind David Cone in Game 
6, but the Indians refused to go quietly. A bases-loaded walk and a grand 
slam by Jim Thome made it 6–5 in the fifth. However, the Yankees would 
score three more on a Derek Jeter triple and a Bernie Williams single to 
make it 9–5. Mariano Rivera sealed a World Series berth in the ninth with 
Omar Vizquel grounding out to end the ALCS, sending the Yankees to their 
second World Series in three seasons. 1998 ALCS (4–2): New York Yankees 
