The 1998 World Series, the 94th edition of Major League Baseball's championship 
series, matched the New York Yankees of the American League and the San 
Diego Padres of the National League. The Yankees swept the Series in four 
games to capture their second World Series championship in three years 
and their 24th overall. It was San Diego's second World Series appearance 
and their first since 1984, when they lost to the Detroit Tigers. This 
was officially the first World Series that Bud Selig presided as Commissioner 
of Baseball, although he had presided over the Commissioner's Trophy presentation 
at the end of the 1995 and 1997 World Series. For the first time, the same 
city—San Diego—hosted both the final World Series game and the Super Bowl 
the same year; not only were they held in the same city, they were both 
also held in the same stadium—Qualcomm Stadium. This was the first year 
this particular World Series logo was used. It was only used again in the 
1999 World Series. The 1998, 1999, and 2000 World Series were all won by 
the Yankees. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL San Diego Padres (0) In Game 
1, Kevin Brown took the hill for the Padres while the Yankees sent ALCS 
MVP David Wells to start. The Yankees began the scoring in the second inning, 
when rookie Ricky Ledee laced a two-run double into the right field corner 
with the bases loaded. However, the Padres battered Wells hard, beginning 
in the third inning when Greg Vaughn homered to right-center with a man 
aboard tying the game up at two runs apiece. In the fifth, Tony Gwynn smashed 
a two-run shot off the facing of the upper deck, followed up immediately 
by Vaughn's second dinger of the night. Trailing 5–2, the Yanks made a 
comeback in the seventh. Jorge Posada singled and Ledee walked, ending 
the night for Brown; it turned out to be a bad move by Padres manager Bruce 
Bochy. New York took advantage of the Padres bullpen with a three-run homer 
by Chuck Knoblauch that tied the game at five. Later in the inning, with 
the bases loaded, a 2–2 count call by home plate umpire Rich Garcia would 
prove to be decisive. Mark Langston's pitch was shown to be borderline 
and Garcia called it a ball. On the next pitch, Tino Martinez sent a grand 
slam into the upper deck, giving the Yankees a 9–5 lead. The Padres would 
score one more run, but the Yankees won Game 1 9–6. In Game 2, the Bombers 
would go up 2–0 in the Series thanks to a dreadful outing by San Diego 
starter Andy Ashby. Catcher Greg Meyers, starting for the first time in 
a month, was also ineffective. Bernie Williams and Jorge Posada would go 
yard to assist the Yankees on offense. New York started Cuban import Orlando 
Hernández, who was outstanding. The Yankees sent David Cone to the mound 
to face former Yankee pitcher Sterling Hitchcock, the MVP of the NLCS. 
Both teams were kept off the scoreboard until the bottom of the sixth when 
Hitchcock himself led off the inning with a single off Cone. He and Qulivio 
Veras both scored two batters later when Tony Gwynn shot a single down 
the line past Tino Martinez at first base and Paul O'Neill committed a 
throwing error on the same play. Gwynn would also score in the inning to 
give San Diego a 3–0 lead. However, a half inning later the Yanks jumped 
on Hitchcock for two runs, beginning with a home run to left-center by 
Scott Brosius. The second run came in after Shane Spencer doubled and scored 
on an error by Ken Caminiti. In the eighth, the call was made to Trevor 
Hoffman after Randy Myers walked O'Neill to open the inning. Hoffman then 
walked Tino Martinez before Scott Brosius tagged a three-run blast over 
the fence in dead center. A Greg Vaughn sacrifice fly, scoring Quilvio 
Veras, cut the lead to 5–4 coming into the ninth, but the Yankees wrapped 
up the victory when Mariano Rivera picked up the save to end it. There 
was some criticism of Padres manager Bruce Bochy for using John Vander 
Wal as a pinch runner, leaving the responsibility of facing Rivera for 
the final at bat to Andy Sheets. Sheets struck out to end the game. Andy 
Pettitte, who struggled throughout the regular season and had turned in 
a poor start in the ALCS, outdueled Kevin Brown in Game 4, throwing 7 1⁄3 
shutout innings. With the Yankees clinging to a 3–0 lead in the eighth, 
the Padres were able to get two batters on base against Yankees reliever 
Jeff Nelson; then with the count 2-0 to Ken Caminiti, the Yankees called 
upon Mariano Rivera. After Caminiti reached with a single to load the bases, 
Rivera was able to get Jim Leyritz, known for his clutch postseason home 
runs, to fly out to end the threat. Rivera pitched a scoreless ninth inning 
to end the Series. 1998 World Series (4–0): New York Yankees (A.L.) over 
San Diego Padres (N.L.) The television rights for the 1998 World Series 
went to Fox, as they had the rights to the World Series in even-numbered 
years under the television contract that was signed in 1996. Joe Buck once 
again provided the play-by-play, with Tim McCarver and Bob Brenly alongside 
him in the booth. For the first time, ESPN Radio was the home of the World 
Series, having taken the national radio rights for Major League Baseball 
from CBS Radio. Jon Miller and Joe Morgan provided the coverage for the 
network. The series win brought the Yankees' franchise championship total 
to 24, tying the Montreal Canadiens for most championships won by a North 
American professional sports franchise. The 1998 Yankees are considered 
to be one of the top teams in baseball history. With the win, the Yankees 
posted an MLB record with the most overall wins in a single season in MLB 
history with 125 wins (including the postseason). The previous record for 
most overall wins in one season was 118, set by the 1906 Chicago Cubs followed 
by 116, set by their cross-town rivals, the 1986 New York Mets.[6] The 
sweep marked the first time the Yankees swept a World Series since 1950 
when they swept the Philadelphia Phillies.[7] They were also the first 
team to sweep a World Series since the Cincinnati Reds in 1990. This was 
also the first time since 1989 that a team had won a World Series after 
having the best record in the regular season.[7] It was also the first 
time since 1986 that a team won a World Series after posting at least 100 
wins in the regular season.[7] It was also the only World Series championship 
during the Yankees' 1990s dynasty not to be won against either the Mets 
or the Atlanta Braves. The loss made the Padres the first expansion team 
to lose two World Series, having lost in 1984 to the Detroit Tigers. In 
addition, the Padres became the first expansion team to lose a World Series 
at home. As of 2012 the Padres are one of only two teams in Major League 
Baseball to win at least two league championships and never win the World 
Series (the other team being the Texas Rangers). Bruce Bochy is the only 
Padres player or manager to be on every Padres playoff team. Bruce Bochy 
however would go on to win three World Series titles as manager of the 
San Francisco Giants in 2010, 2012 and 2014.[8] As of 2015, this remains 
as the most recent championship game or series a professional San Diego 
sports team has participated in. The Padres’ loss was also significant 
as it also assured that the city of San Diego's sporting championship drought 
since 1963 would continue, which has become the longest streak of such 
futility for a city with at least two professional sports teams.[9][10] 
The Padres left Qualcomm Stadium for Petco Park for the 2004 baseball season. 
On October 11, 2005, A&E Home Video released The New York Yankees Fall 
Classic Collectors Edition (1996–2001) DVD set. Game 3 of the 1998 World 
