The 1998 National League Championship Series (NLCS), to determine the champion 
of Major League Baseball's National League, was played from October 7 to 
14 between the East Division champion Atlanta Braves and the West Division 
champion San Diego Padres. The Braves entered the playoffs for the seventh 
straight season with a franchise-record 106 regular season wins, an offense 
that hit 215 home runs, and a pitching staff made up of Greg Maddux, Tom 
Glavine, John Smoltz, Denny Neagle, and Kevin Millwood to the playoffs. 
However, they also carried the baggage of their embarrassing NLCS loss 
to the Florida Marlins the previous season. In the NLDS, the Braves swept 
Sammy Sosa and the Chicago Cubs. After a 76–86 season in 1997, San Diego 
stormed out and took control of their division, finishing with a 98–64 
record, their best in team history. The offense was led by the 50 home 
run club's newest member, Greg Vaughn, and by Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn. 
The San Diego rotation was anchored by eighteen-game winner Kevin Brown, 
who helped Florida defeat Atlanta in the 1997 NLCS, along with All-Star 
Andy Ashby and the series MVP Sterling Hitchcock. Closer Trevor Hoffman 
saved an astounding 53 games in the regular season. The Padres defeated 
the favored Houston Astros in four games in the NLDS. It was the seventh-consecutive 
NLCS appearance for the Braves and they would be heavily favored against 
the Padres. San Diego won the series, 4–2. Wednesday, October 7, 1998 at 
Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia With John Smoltz on the mound, the Braves 
were staked out to a 1–0 lead when Andruw Jones hit a solo home run to 
lead off the third inning off Andy Ashby. The Padres tied the game in the 
fifth when Tony Gwynn, appearing in his first NLCS since 1984, hit an RBI 
single. An error by first baseman Andrés Galarraga helped San Diego take 
a 2–1 lead in the eighth. In the bottom half of the inning, closer Trevor 
Hoffman came into the game early to end a Braves' scoring threat. However, 
in the ninth, the Braves got the tying run off him when Ryan Klesko scored 
on a sacrifice fly. In the tenth, Ken Caminiti belted a home run off reliever 
Kerry Ligtenberg to give San Diego their winning margin. The Braves put 
two men on the bottom of the inning, but Galarraga flew out to end the 
game. Thursday, October 8, 1998 at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia After 
the tightly-contested Game 1, Kevin Brown, who was developing a reputation 
as a "Brave killer", absolutely shut down the Atlanta offense, pitching 
a three-hit shutout with eleven strikeouts. Tom Glavine matched Brown until 
the sixth, when Quilvio Veras brought in a run with a single. San Diego 
added two insurance runs in the ninth before Brown remained in the game 
to pitch a perfect ninth and put the Braves down two games to none. Saturday, 
October 10, 1998 at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego, California The Braves 
offense was held quiet again as San Diego won Game 3 and took a commanding 
3–0 series lead. This was the only game that was won by the home team in 
this series, with the road teams going 5–1. Atlanta sent Greg Maddux to 
the hill and he led 1–0 after four innings, but the Padres tagged him for 
two runs in the fifth with Steve Finley and Ken Caminiti driving in runs. 
The Braves loaded the bases in the sixth with only one out, but Donne Wall 
struck out Michael Tucker and Greg Colbrunn to end the threat. An error 
by Ryan Klesko and a passed ball on Javy López helped the Padres add two 
runs in the eighth. Trevor Hoffman struck out the side in the ninth and 
San Diego took Game 3 by a score of 4–1. Starter Sterling Hitchcock got 
the win with five innings pitched and one run allowed. Atlanta now appeared 
to be in an insurmountable hole—no team had ever come back from a three 
games to none deficit in baseball history. Sunday, October 11, 1998 at 
Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego, California San Diego was looking for a sweep 
and they took the first step by taking a 2–0 lead in the third. The Braves 
tied it in sixth on a Ryan Klesko RBI single, but San Diego retook the 
lead in the bottom of the inning when Jim Leyritz, two years removed from 
his crucial home run against the Braves in the 1996 World Series, hit a 
solo shot off Denny Neagle. The Braves would refuse to go quietly, exploding 
for six runs in the seventh inning. Javy López led off with a home run, 
followed by an Andruw Jones single that ended the night for Padres starter 
Joey Hamilton. Ozzie Guillén brought the go-ahead run home with a single 
before Andrés Galarraga launched a prodigious grand slam that left Atlanta 
ahead 8–3. The Braves, who used six pitchers in the win, avoided the sweep. 
They also became the first team since the 1937 New York Giants to win a 
post-season game after being down 3 games to none in the series. Monday, 
October 12, 1998 at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego, California After Atlanta's 
offensive outburst in Game 4 to stay alive, the Padres hoped to close out 
the Braves in front of their home fans in Game 5. They sent Andy Ashby 
to the hill against Atlanta starter John Smoltz. Ken Caminiti got things 
started with a two-run shot off Smoltz to give San Diego the early lead. 
Andruw Jones, who was caught stealing home in the fourth, stole second 
base in the fifth with two outs, allowing himself to score on a Michael 
Tucker single to tie the game 2–2. However, John Vander Wal, who had five 
home runs all year, hit a two-run homer off Smoltz that put San Diego back 
on top 4–2. After a single by Ozzie Guillén to start the seventh, manager 
Bruce Bochy brought starter Kevin Brown into the game. Brown retired the 
first three Braves he faced. The Padres threatened in the bottom of the 
seventh, but John Rocker came in for Smoltz and retired Tony Gwynn. Still 
holding a 4–2 lead, Brown was set to pitch the eighth for San Diego. He 
allowed the first two batters to reach but got Andruw Jones to pop out, 
bringing the Padres five outs away from a championship. Then Michael Tucker 
got a hold of a Brown fastball and launched a flyball to deep right center 
field that left the park and put Atlanta ahead 5–4. Bochy got Brown out 
of the game, replacing him with Donne Wall, but Tony Graffanino doubled, 
scoring another run, then crossed home himself when Chris Gomez committed 
a throwing error on the relay. Behind 7–4 and stunned, the Padres attempted 
to rally in the ninth. Greg Myers belted a pinch-hit two-run homer with 
no one out to make it 7–6, prompting Bobby Cox to bring in Greg Maddux 
in relief. Maddux retired the side, with nemesis Tony Gwynn grounding out 
to finish the game, and earned his first ever career save. The save would 
be the only save in Maddux's career. This wild game cut San Diego's series 
lead to one game, and with the series returning to Atlanta with Tom Glavine 
set to pitch, many believed that the Braves had a serious chance of coming 
back. This Braves win marked the first time in baseball history that a 
team had come back from a three games to none (in a best of seven series) 
deficit to reach a Game 6. Wednesday, October 14, 1998 at Turner Field 
in Atlanta, Georgia After Kevin Brown's disastrous outing in Game 5, he 
was unable to come back for Game 6, forcing the Padres to instead start 
Sterling Hitchcock. The Braves had become the first team to force a Game 
6 after dropping the first three games, but any dreams of a historic comeback 
were to be crushed. Hitchcock pitched five scoreless innings with eight 
strikeouts. Glavine looked good but ran into trouble in the sixth. Jim 
Leyritz had an RBI groundout that scored the first run before Wally Joyner 
added a single that made it 2–0. Sterling Hitchcock reached on a costly 
error by left fielder Danny Bautista that opened the floodgates. Glavine 
left the game and John Rocker promptly gave up RBI singles to Quilvio Veras 
and Tony Gwynn. The unearned runs made it 5–0 and the San Diego bullpen 
would pitch a hitless final four innings. The Braves only managed two hits 
the entire game. Hitchcock, who won two games, was named the series MVP. 
