The 1998 Major League Baseball season ended with the New York Yankees defeating 
the San Diego Padres in Game 4 of the World Series. The 1998 season was 
also marked by an expansion to 30 teams (16 in the NL, 14 in the AL), with 
two new teams–the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League, and the 
Tampa Bay Devil Rays in the American League–added to the MLB. To keep the 
leagues with even numbers of teams[1] while allowing both leagues to have 
a new team, the Milwaukee Brewers were moved from the American League Central 
Division to the National League Central Division. The Detroit Tigers were 
shifted from the American League East to the American League Central, while 
the Devil Rays were added to the American League East. The Diamondbacks 
were added to the National League West, making the NL have more teams than 
the AL for the first time. The biggest story of the season was the historic 
chase of the single-season home run record held at the time by Roger Maris. 
Initially, the St. Louis Cardinals' Mark McGwire and Ken Griffey, Jr. of 
the Seattle Mariners started the season on a pace to both break Maris' 
record. In June, the chase was joined by the Chicago Cubs' Sammy Sosa, 
who broke the decades-old record of Rudy York for most home runs in a calendar 
month with 20 that month. Eventually, Griffey fell off the record pace, 
but still ended with 56 homers. Both McGwire and Sosa broke the record 
in September, with McGwire ultimately finishing with 70 homers to Sosa's 
66. McGwire's record would last only three years, with Barry Bonds hitting 
73 in 2001. The 1998 season was also the first in MLB history with four 
players hitting 50 or more homers, with Greg Vaughn of the San Diego Padres 
hitting 50. In a postscript to the record chase, both McGwire and Sosa 
have since been widely accused of having used performance-enhancing drugs 
during that period, and McGwire would admit in 2010 that he had used steroids 
during the record-setting season.[2] The defending World Series champions 
Florida Marlins finished last in the NL East Division at 54-108, making 
it the first, and only, time that a team went from winning the World Series 
one year to finishing with 100 or more losses and last in their division 
