The 1998 Major League Baseball expansion resulted in the establishment 
of MLB's 29th and 30th teams beginning play for the 1998 season. After 
initiating an expansion committee in March 1994, 27 groups representing 
nine cities submitted bids for the proposed expansion teams. After a yearlong 
process, on March 9, 1995, the league awarded the National League franchise 
to Phoenix and the American League franchise to Tampa. The Arizona Diamondbacks 
and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays (currently the Tampa Bay Rays), would subsequently 
begin play for the 1998 season. With the successes of the Colorado Rockies 
and Florida Marlins following the 1993 expansion, Major League Baseball 
by 1994 was looking to expand again from 28 to 30 teams. On March 2, 1994, 
MLB created an expansion committee to evaluate the feasibility of expansion.[1] 
Although both Phoenix and Tampa were believed to be overwhelming favorites 
for the franchises, other cities were invited to bid for the proposed franchises.[1] 
The committee was headed by Boston Red Sox General Partner John Harrington, 
with others serving on the committee including Bill Giles of the Philadelphia 
Phillies, Jerry Reinsdorf of the Chicago White Sox, George Steinbrenner 
of the New York Yankees, Stanton Cook of the Chicago Cubs, Richard Jacobs 
of the Cleveland Indians, Stan Kasten of the Atlanta Braves, the president 
of the National League, Leonard S. Coleman, Jr., and the president of the 
American League, Bobby Brown.[1] By June, the league announced that all 
cities with interest in the proposed franchises should submit their intentions 
by June 24.[2] By June 30, the committee released the nine communities 
that submitted information to MLB for the proposed franchises.[3] Buffalo, 
Nashville, Northern Virginia, Orlando, Phoenix, Tampa and Vancouver placed 
expansion requests,[3] Other cities mentioned as potential expansion locations 
which did not officially submit an application to the league included Charlotte 
and Washington.[2] After whittling down the field to four finalists (Northern 
Virginia, Orlando, Phoenix and Tampa), MLB announced Phoenix and Tampa 
as the two expansion franchises on March 9, 1995.[4] Announced to begin 
play for the 1998 season, each ownership group paid a $130 million expansion 
fee to enter the league.[4][5] The ownership groups paid $32 million in 
July 1995, $25 million in July 1996, $40 million in July 1997 and $33 million 
in November 1997. In addition, the two expansion teams gave away their 
rights to $5 million from baseball's central fund for each of the five 
years following expansion (1998-2002). The adding of the 29th and 30th 
team caused the American League and the National League to have fifteen 
teams each. Because of the odd number of teams, only seven games could 
possibly be scheduled in each league on any given day. Thus, one team in 
each league would have to be idle on any given day. This would have made 
it difficult for scheduling, in terms of travel days and the need to end 
the season before October. In order for MLB officials to continue primarily 
intraleague play, both leagues would need to carry an even number of teams, 
so the decision was made to move one club from the AL Central to the NL 
Central - it was ultimately then-acting Commissioner Bud Selig (who at 
the time also owned the Milwaukee Brewers) who agreed to have his own franchise 
change leagues. The 1998 expansion remains, as of 2016, the most recent 
to be conducted in Major League Baseball. MLB would later reverse the imbalance 
created by the 1998 expansion when, following the sale of the Houston Astros, 
the new owners agreed to move their franchise to the American League. Following 
that transaction, MLB consequently altered its season structure so as to 
