The 1998 National League wild-card tie-breaker game was a one-game extension 
to Major League Baseball's (MLB) 1998 regular season, played between the 
Chicago Cubs and San Francisco Giants to determine the winner of the National 
League (NL) wild card. The game took place at Wrigley Field in Chicago, 
on September 28, 1998. The Cubs won the game 5–3, holding the Giants scoreless 
for the majority of the game until the Giants threatened heavily in the 
ninth inning and scored all three of their runs. As a result of the game, 
the Cubs qualified for the postseason and the Giants did not. The game 
was necessary after both teams finished the season with identical win–loss 
records of 89–73. The Cubs won a coin flip late in the season which, by 
rule at the time, awarded them home field for the game. This victory advanced 
the Cubs to the 1998 NL Division Series (NLDS) where they were swept by 
the Atlanta Braves, ending the Cubs' season. Michael Jordan, a popular 
Chicago sportsman then ending his career with the Chicago Bulls, threw 
the game's ceremonial first pitch. In baseball statistics, the tie-breaker 
counted as the 163rd regular season game for both teams, with all events 
in the game added to regular season statistics. The Chicago Cubs finished 
the previous season at the bottom of the Central division with a 68–94 
record while the Giants won the West at 90–72, though were defeated by 
the eventual 1997 World Series champion Florida Marlins in the NLDS. The 
Giants' Barry Bonds drew criticism for his postseason performance, which 
had been a recurring criticism dating back to his time with the Pittsburgh 
Pirates.[1] The Cubs made several offseason acquisitions following the 
1997 season including trading Doug Glanville for second baseman Mickey 
Morandini along with signing Jeff Blauser and Henry Rodríguez as free agents.[2][3][4] 
One notable event of the 1998 season was the race for the home run title 
and Roger Maris' single-season record of 61 home runs between the Cubs' 
Sammy Sosa and the Cardinals' Mark McGwire. McGwire ultimately won, setting 
a new record of 70 while Sosa closed the season with 66.[5] Bonds would 
top their totals with 73 home runs in 2001, setting the current record, 
while McGwire and Sosa's totals remain the second and third highest figures 
in MLB history.[5] Additionally, three teams finished the 1998 season within 
one game of one another in the race for the National League wild card: 
the Cubs, Giants, and New York Mets. This late-season race included a dramatic 
Cubs loss to the Brewers on September 23. The Cubs led 7–5 with two outs 
and the bases loaded for the Brewers in the bottom of the ninth inning 
when Brant Brown dropped a fly ball, allowing three unearned runs to score 
on his error and losing the Cubs the game.[6] This loss gained notoriety 
for announcer and former-Cub Ron Santo's call of the final play, yelling 
"Oh, no!" as the final runs scored.[7] The Mets were tied with the Cubs 
and Giants in the wild-card race as late in the season as September 25 
at 88–72.[8] However, the Mets lost their remaining two games and finished 
their season one game back of the Cubs and Giants who ended tied at 89–73.[9] 
This record was also the best non-division-winning record and as such a 
tie-breaker was necessary to determine the wild-card winner. A coin flip 
on September 14 gave the Cubs' home field advantage, setting Wrigley Field 
as the location for the game.[10] In the event of a three-way tie the Cubs 
were presented with the choice to either host two home games or receive 
a bye and play the winner of a Mets-Giants game on the road because they 
had the best combined record against the Mets and Giants.[10] Cubs' general 
manager Ed Lynch decided on the second option, though the choice was moot 
as the Mets fell out of the race.[10] The Cubs' Steve Trachsel and Mark 
Gardner of the Giants were slated to start the tie-breaker on the September 
28.[11] Box score for Monday September 28, 1998—7:10 p.m. (CT) at Wrigley 
Field in Chicago The game remained scoreless in the early innings, with 
only two baserunners apiece for each team through the first three innings. 
The Giants loaded the bases with two outs in the top of the 4th inning, 
but Brian Johnson struck out to end the inning. The first runs of the game 
came in the bottom of the 5th as Henry Rodriguez singled to lead off the 
inning and scored on a home run by Gary Gaetti to give the Cubs a 2–0 lead. 
The Cubs threatened again in the next inning with singles by Lance Johnson 
and Sammy Sosa. Rich Rodriguez relieved Gardner, but loaded the bases with 
a walk to Mark Grace and allowed a single to Matt Mieske which scored two 
more runs and extended the Cubs' lead to 4–0. John Johnstone relieved Rodriguez 
and closed the inning without further scoring. After getting one out in 
the top of the 7th, Steve Trachsel allowed a single and a walk to pinch 
hitters Brent Mayne and Armando Ríos respectively. The Cubs double switched, 
bringing in Matt Karchner to relieve Trachsel and Orlando Merced to play 
left field. Karchner induced another out before loading the bases on a 
single by Shawon Dunston. Félix Heredia entered in relief of Karchner and 
got Barry Bonds to ground out to first base to end the inning. The Cubs 
further extended their lead in the bottom of the 8th inning. After Alvin 
Morman got Morandini to strike out to open the inning the Giants double 
switched to bring in José Mesa to pitch and Bill Mueller at third base. 
Mesa allowed a single to Sammy Sosa and a double to Mark Grace which advanced 
Sosa to third. Following a ground out Mesa threw a wild pitch while facing 
Gaetti and Sosa scored to make the game 5–0. The Giants responded in the 
top of the 9th, scoring their only runs of the game. Kevin Tapani allowed 
successive singles to Brent Mayne and Mueller to open the inning before 
Terry Mulholland relieved him. Stan Javier singled to score Mayne and Ellis 
Burks then walked to load the bases. Bonds came to bat with the bases loaded 
for the second time in the game and lined out to deep right field, scoring 
Mueller on a sacrifice fly and Javier advanced to third base. Rod Beck 
entered and got successive outs by Jeff Kent, which scored Javier, and 
Joe Carter to end the game 5–3 for the Cubs. Chicago's win clinched the 
team's 15th postseason berth in franchise history, their first in 9 years 
since losing in the 1989 National League Championship Series.[12] The Cubs' 
presence in the postseason, playing for a spot in the World Series, led 
several sportswriters to reference the Curse of the Billy Goat and the 
difficulties the Cubs' had faced since 1945.[13][14][15] The Billy Goat 
story suggests that Billy Sianis cursed the Cubs after he and his goat 
were asked to leave game four of the 1945 World Series.[16][17] The playoff 
berth matched the Cubs with the Atlanta Braves in the NLDS, where the Cubs 
were swept three games to none. The Cubs have not made the World Series 
since 1945 and have not won a title since 1908. However, the Cubs would 
go onto win the National League pennant and World Series in 2016, their 
first NL pennant since 1945, and their first title since 1908.[12] In baseball 
statistics tie-breakers count as regular season games, with all events 
in them added to regular season statistics.[10] For example, the Chicago 
Sun-Times noted that Sammy Sosa could have added to his notable home run 
total in the game.[10] Sosa did add to his league-leading strikeout total 
with one in the 4th inning.[18] Beck also added to his league-leading total 
in games played and earned his 51st save of the season which finished 2nd 
to Trevor Hoffman's 53 but is tied for the 9th highest single-season save 
total in MLB history.[19][20] Several Cubs and Giants won awards for their 
regular season performances including Rookie of the Year honors for Kerry 
Wood, a Silver Slugger Award for Sosa, and a Rawlings Gold Glove Award 
for J. T. Snow.[21] Sosa also won the Most Valuable Player award, earning 
30 out of 32 first place votes (with McGwire taking the remaining 2).[22] 
Barry Bonds drew criticism after the game for his poor performance, including 
twice making an out with the bases loaded,[23] with some suggesting that 
Bonds often played poorly in "big games".[1][24] Bonds' 0–4 performance 
with an RBI and a strikeout earned him a −.186 win probability added (WPA), 
the lowest figure for any player in the game. WPA is a statistic which 
takes the game situation into account to quantify how a player altered 
his team's chances of winning. Bonds' figure translates into decreasing 
the Giants' chances of success by 18.6%. The book Game of Shadows, which 
details Bonds' suggested use of performance-enhancing drugs (PED), argues 
that Bonds grew jealous and resentful of the attention Mark McGwire and 
Sammy Sosa were given during their record chase. As a result, according 
to Game of Shadows, Bonds turned to weight training under Greg Anderson 
who began providing him with steroids and other PEDs following the 1998 
