The 1998 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
1998 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, September 29, and ended 
on Sunday, October 4, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
for the first time was determined by playing record. Also for the first 
time, the team with home field advantage played the first two games at 
home, with potentially Game 5 at home as well; previously, the team with 
the home field "advantage" had played the first two games on the road, 
with the possibility of the final three games at home. The Cubs had won 
the wild card spot through a one-game playoff with the San Francisco Giants, 
winning 5–3 on September 28. The Atlanta Braves and San Diego Padres went 
on to meet in the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Padres defeated the 
Braves four games to two to become the National League champion, and lost 
to the American League champion New York Yankees in the 1998 World Series. 
Atlanta won the series, 3–0. San Diego won the series, 3–1. Turner Field 
in Atlanta, Georgia The Braves faced the Chicago Cubs, who made it into 
the playoffs by beating the San Francisco Giants in a tiebreaker for the 
Wild Card spot. The Braves had sixteen more regular season wins and it 
showed in Game 1. John Smoltz pitched masterfully and Michael Tucker started 
the scoring with a two-run homer off Chicago starter Mark Clark. Then an 
Andruw Jones sacrifice fly made it 3–0. In the bottom of the seventh, Ryan 
Klesko put the game away with a grand slam into right field. The Cubs would 
score in the eighth off Smoltz, but John Rocker and Kerry Ligtenberg slammed 
the door on Game 1. Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia Game 2 was a pitchers' 
duel. Kevin Tapani faced Tom Glavine; the two had previously faced each 
other in the 1991 World Series. Lance Johnson drove in the lone Chicago 
run in the top of the sixth on a groundout. However, leaving Tapani in 
to pitch the ninth ultimately cost the Cubs the game. Javy López hit the 
game-tying home run and Chipper Jones drove in the winning run in the tenth 
off Terry Mulholland. Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Game 3 was another 
pitchers' duel. Greg Maddux faced Rookie of the Year Kerry Wood, hoping 
to keep the ship afloat for the Cubs. The Braves scored first in the top 
of the third when Maddux doubled and later scored on a passed ball with 
two outs. Wood pitched five innings and that was the only run he would 
allow. Maddux was masterful, carrying a shutout into the bottom of the 
eighth. In the top of the eighth, Gerald Williams drove in another run 
with an RBI single off Rod Beck after Mulholland was lifted. When Andruw 
Jones was intentionally walked to load the bases, Eddie Pérez belted a 
grand slam into left field to put the game and the series away. Maddux 
was lifted after giving up three straight singles in favor in Ligtenberg. 
Two runs would score, but no more. José Hernández flied to center for the 
final out of the series. 1998 NLDS (3–0): Atlanta Braves over Chicago Cubs 
Astrodome in Houston, Texas The Astros entered the playoffs with the league's 
best offense and red-hot pitcher Randy Johnson, who had gone 10–1 since 
being traded to the Astros in a mid-season deadline deal, well rested for 
Game 1. However, Padres ace Kevin Brown was more than up for the challenge 
as he set an LDS record striking out sixteen Astros in eight innings before 
turning the game over to all-star closer Trevor Hoffman for the save. The 
Padres only managed two runs, including a home run by slugger Greg Vaughn. 
Despite Brown's dominant performance, the game was not without its tense 
moments thanks to a less than perfect ninth inning. Hoffman, who had tied 
the NL record for saves with 53, did allow an unearned run on two hits 
thanks to a throwing error by third baseman Ken Caminiti. The error by 
the former Astro brought Houston to within one run before Hoffman slammed 
the door ending the game at 2–1. Astrodome in Houston, Texas Shane Reynolds 
pitched a strong seven innings for Houston yielding only two runs and the 
Astros' offense showed some of its regular season league-leading form by 
tagging Padres' starter Andy Ashby for three runs and chasing him out of 
the game after only four innings. Leading 3–2 and looking to give closer 
Billy Wagner a little more room to work with, the Astros scored again off 
former Astro Donnie Wall in the bottom of the eighth inning sending Wagner 
to the hill with 4–2 lead. Armed with a 100 mph fastball, Wagner was 30 
for 35 in save opportunities and now had a complement to his fastball in 
the form of a newly learned slider courtesy of teammate Randy Johnson. 
Nonetheless, Wagner surrendered a single to 1996 MVP Ken Caminiti and then 
a pinch-hit game-tying home run to Jim Leyritz who had done the same thing 
as a member of the New York Yankees to Mark Wohlers of the Braves in the 
1996 World Series. Unfazed, the Astros led off the bottom of the inning 
with an infield single by Ricky Gutierrez off Dan Miceli. The Padres countered 
by bringing in closer Trevor Hoffman. After a sacrifice by catcher Brad 
Ausmus moved him to second base, Gutierrez stole third uncontested setting 
up pinch-hitter Bill Spiers to be the game's hero. Spiers delivered with 
a single off Hoffman and the Astros had their first postseason victory 
since 1986. Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego, California With their Game 1 
victory, the Padres had taken home-field advantage away from the favored 
Astros and San Diego manager Bruce Bochy was determined not to let the 
momentum turn in Houston's favor after Game 2, so he decided to gamble 
and started Game 1 starter Kevin Brown on short rest instead of lefty Sterling 
Hitchcock. The explosive Astros offense, being predominantly right-handed, 
was especially brutal on left-handed pitchers and a Game 3 win by Houston 
would have left the Padres facing elimination in Game 4 against Randy Johnson. 
Brown was opposed by fellow sinkerballer Mike Hampton of the Astros who 
proved to be Brown's equal. Not nearly the same unhittable master of Game 
1, Brown's control was shaky from the beginning as he walked five Astros 
in seven innings. Still, the Astros were never able to deliver the knock-out 
blow and managed only one run against Brown, but were still tied going 
into the bottom of the seventh thanks to a solid six innings of one-run 
two-hit ball by Mike Hampton. In the bottom of the seventh, Jim Leyritz 
added yet another chapter to his resume of clutch October heroics with 
a go-ahead home run off Astros reliever Scott Elarton that gave the Padres 
a 2–1 lead. Neither team scored again and Trevor Hoffman struck out the 
side in the top of the ninth for the save. Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego, 
California The only game of the series that wasn't decided by one run began 
with veteran former Cy Young Award winner Randy Johnson squaring off against 
27-year-old Sterling Hitchcock who was making his first postseason start. 
It was Hitchcock, however, that proved dominant by striking out eleven 
Astros in only six innings of work while Leyritz hit his third home run 
in as many games to help the Padres to a 2–1 lead. With the Astros' highly 
touted offense rendered almost completely silent, the bullpen finally collapsed 
in the eighth inning as Houston pitchers surrendered four runs to the Padres 
leading to a 6–1 series-clinching victory for San Diego. 1998 NLDS (3–1): 
San Diego Padres over Houston Astros Hammered down the left field line...fair 
ball! Braves win! They lead two games to none! The Padres will march to 
