The 1999 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a matchup between 
the East Division Champion New York Yankees (98–64) and the Wild Card Boston 
Red Sox (94–68). The Yankees had advanced to the Series after sweeping 
the West Division Champion Texas Rangers in the AL Division Series for 
the second consecutive year, and the Red Sox advanced by beating the Central 
Division Champion Cleveland Indians three games to two. The Yankees won 
the series four games to one and went on to win the World Series. Both 
teams came into the series on a roll; New York had swept the Texas Rangers 
for the second straight year in the 1999 American League Division Series 
and Boston had come from two games down to defeat the Cleveland Indians 
in their division series. However, the Yankees won in five games. They 
would register their only postseason loss of the 1999 season in this series. 
New York won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, October 13, 1999 at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Game 1 was a matchup between Kent Mercker and Orlando 
Hernández. The soon-to-be-named 1999 ALCS MVP got into trouble in the first 
two innings. After a leadoff single by José Offerman, John Valentin would 
reach on an error by Derek Jeter, scoring Offerman for the first run of 
the game in the first. Valentin would score on Brian Daubach's single to 
right. It looked like the Red Sox were ready to clobber the Yankees, but 
no more runs would score in the inning. Darren Lewis would score on an 
infield hit in the second to make it 3–0 Red Sox, but the Yankees' resilience 
showed itself in the bottom half. With Shane Spencer on first with two 
out, Scott Brosius slugged a home run to make it a one-run game. The duel 
continued into the seventh. With Derek Lowe now pitching, Brosius singled 
to lead off the inning. A sacrifice bunt by Chuck Knoblauch moved him into 
scoring position. Jeter would single to center and drive in Brosius to 
tie the game. Small ball helped the Yankees tie the game, but the long 
ball would win it in the bottom of the tenth. Rod Beck came on in relief 
and promptly gave up a leadoff homer to Bernie Williams to lose the game 
for the Red Sox. The Yankees had a one-game lead in the series. Thursday, 
October 14, 1999 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Game 2 pitted 
Ramón Martínez against David Cone. After grabbing a 1–0 lead behind a solo 
home run in the fourth by Tino Martinez, the Red Sox responded in the fifth 
when Jose Offerman hit a leadoff single and two outs later, Nomar Garciaparra 
homered to put them up 2−1. In the seventh, Ricky Ledee drew a leadoff 
walk, moved to second on a sacrifice bunt, and scored on Chuck Knoblauch's 
double to tie the game. Tom Gordon relieved Martinez and walked Derek Jeter, 
then Rheal Cormier relieved Gordon and allowed a single to Paul O'Neill 
put the Yankees ahead 3−2. The lead would stand and Mariano Rivera, who 
won Game 1, got the save in the ninth to put the Yankees up two games going 
to Fenway Park. Saturday, October 16, 1999 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts 
Game 3 was the long anticipated matchup between Pedro Martínez and Roger 
Clemens, but the Red Sox would come out swinging, scoring in all, but two 
innings. After a leadoff triple by Jose Offerman in the first, John Valentin 
homered to put the Red Sox ahead 2–0. Next inning, Clemens allowed a one-out 
double to Trot Nixon and subsequent single to Offerman before Valentin's 
groundout scored Nixon. After Jason Varitek walked, Nomar Garciaparra's 
double scored Offerman to make it 4−0 Red Sox. Clemens was done in the 
third inning after allowing a leadoff single to Mike Stanley as Red Sox 
fans chanted "Where is Roger?" and then a response chant of "In the Shower". 
Hideki Irabu fared worse in relief as Brian Daubach's home run made it 
6−0 Boston. Daubach and Darren Lewis hit back-to-back leadoff doubles in 
the fifth and the latter scored on Offerman's single two outs later to 
make it 8−0 Boston. Next inning, Yankees left fielder Ricky Ledee's error 
on Daubach's fly ball allowed Troy O'Leary to score all the way from first. 
In the seventh, Nixon hit a leadoff single, moved to second on a groundout, 
and scored on Valetin's single. One out later, Garciaparra's home run made 
it 12−0 Boston. O'Leary then doubled to left and scored Boston's last run 
on Stanley's single. Martinez, for his part, pitched brilliantly, striking 
out twelve Yankees in seven scoreless innings and allowing just two hits. 
He would finish 1999 with a streak of seventeen scoreless innings in the 
playoffs. The Yankees scored their only run on Scott Brosius's home run 
off of Tom Gordon in the eighth. The Red Sox would go on to win 13–1 and 
make the series two games to one. Sunday, October 17, 1999 at Fenway Park 
in Boston, Massachusetts Game 4 pitted Andy Pettitte against Bret Saberhagen. 
The Yankees would score first after Darryl Strawberry hit a solo home run 
to silence the crowd chants of "Darryl, Darryl" and "Just say no" in his 
first at-bat. The Red Sox would tie it in the bottom half when Butch Huskey 
doubled with one out and scored on Troy O'Leary's single. Next inning Damon 
Buford hit a one out single, stole second and scored on Jose Offerman's 
single to put the Red Sox ahead 2–1. In the fourth, Bernie Williams singled 
with one out, reaching second on an error, before scoring on Tino Martinez's 
double to tie the game. After Darryl Strawberry was intentionally walked 
and Scott Brosius struck out, another error on Chad Curtis's ground ball 
allowed Martinez to score to put the Yankees up 3−2. The score remained 
the same until the Yankees blew the game open with six runs in the ninth. 
Chuck Knoblauch and Derek Jeter hit back-to-back one out singles off of 
Rich Garces, then an errant throw on Paul O'Neill's ground ball allowed 
Knoblauch to score. Williams's single scored Jeter before Martinez was 
intentionally walked. Rod Beck relieved Garces and allowed a grand slam 
to Ricky Ledée to cap the scoring at 9−2 Yankees. They were one win away 
from the World Series. This game also featured the infamous trash throwing 
incident by fans when Jimy Williams was ejected from the game after arguing 
when Nomar Garciaparra was called out at first in the ninth inning, which 
followed a blown call by umpire Tim Tschida on Chuck Knoblauch's tag attempt 
on José Offerman in the eighth inning.[6] The blown call is now famously 
referred to as "The Phantom Tag".[7] Monday, October 18, 1999 at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts Game 5 was a rematch between Mercker and 
Hernandez. Chuck Knoblauch singled to lead off the first and Jeter followed 
with a home run to put the Yankees up for good. They added to their lead 
in the seventh when Jeter reached second on an error and moved to third 
on Paul O'Neill's single off of Derek Lowe. Rheal Cormier walked Bernie 
Williams to load the bases and another error on Chili Davis's ground ball 
allowed Jeter to score before Tino Martinez's RBI single made it 4−0 Yankees. 
El Duque kept the Red Sox in check, allowing only one run on a homer by 
Jason Varitek in the eighth. The Yankees added insurance in the ninth on 
Williams's two-run home run off of Tom Gordon. Both teams left eleven men 
on base and the Yankees would go on to win the pennant. 1999 ALCS (4–1): 
