The 1999 World Series, the 95th edition of Major League Baseball's championship 
series, featured a match between the defending champions New York Yankees 
of the American League against the Atlanta Braves of the National League. 
This was a rematch of the 1996 World Series where the Yankees defeated 
the Braves as well. Held during the month of October, the Yankees swept 
the Series in four games for their second consecutive title, third in four 
years, and 25th overall. This was also their second World Series appearance 
in a four-year span (1998–2001). It is remembered for Chad Curtis' home 
run in Game 3, which gave the Yankees a 6–5 victory and Game 2, featuring 
Jim Gray of NBC's infamous interview with Pete Rose. The New York Yankees 
won their second straight World Series, and beat the Braves franchise for 
the third consecutive time (having defeated the Milwaukee Braves in their 
1958 Series). The 1999 World Series also featured the All-Century Team, 
featuring the greatest players of the Twentieth Century voted by both the 
fans and sportswriters. One of the players on the All-Century Team, Yankee 
legend Joe DiMaggio, had died in March of that year, causing the Yankees 
to honor him by wearing a black #5 on their sleeves. This featured a rematch 
of the 1996 World Series. It would also be the last World Series until 
2013 in which the two teams with the best regular-season records in their 
respective leagues would face off. Perhaps most significantly, it was the 
first World Series ever in which the competing teams had played each other 
in the regular season. Although interleague play had begun in 1997, neither 
the 1997 nor 1998 series saw a rematch from the regular season. AL New 
York Yankees (4) vs. NL Atlanta Braves (0) The 1999 series opened with 
Greg Maddux facing Orlando Hernández in Game 1. The Braves got on the board 
first in the series when Chipper Jones launched a home run down the right 
field line in the fourth. That would be the only hit that El Duque would 
allow through seven innings while striking out ten Atlanta batters. Maddux 
pitched scoreless into the eighth before running into major trouble, which 
began when Scott Brosius singled for the third time in the game. Pinch 
hitter Darryl Strawberry walked and Chuck Knoblauch reached when Braves 
first baseman Brian Hunter mishandled his sacrifice bunt attempt. Derek 
Jeter stroked a single into left with the bases loaded driving in a run. 
With still none out and the bases juiced, Atlanta reliever John Rocker 
gave up a two-run single to Paul O'Neill through the right side making 
it 3–1 Yankees. Later in the inning, Rocker walked Jim Leyritz with the 
bases loaded to force home another run. Mariano Rivera picked up the save 
to wrap up the 4–1 victory. Game 2 featured the presentation of the All-Century 
team and an explosion of Yankees runs off Atlanta starter Kevin Millwood. 
In the first inning, Knoblauch, Jeter, and O'Neill opened the game with 
singles. After a double-play groundout, both Tino Martinez and Scott Brosius 
drove in a run each to give the Yankees a 3–0 lead in the first. From there 
the Yankees and David Cone coasted to a 7–2 win. This was the last victory 
of a World Series Game 2 on the road until the Texas Rangers won Game 2 
of the 2011 World Series in St. Louis. Golfer Payne Stewart, a good friend 
of Braves third baseman Chipper Jones, died between Games 2 and 3. Yankees 
right fielder Paul O'Neill's father died a few hours before Game 4. Game 
3 in New York matched up lefties Andy Pettitte and Tom Glavine, and Pettitte 
was rocked early. Bret Boone drove in Gerald Williams with a RBI double 
in the first. In the third, Brian Jordan had an RBI single scoring Boone, 
and Jose Hernandez doubled in Jordan and Andruw Jones. In the fourth, Bret 
Boone doubled in Gerald Williams for a second time in the game to make 
the score 5–1. Glavine was sharp but gave up solo homers to Tino Martinez 
and Chad Curtis in the middle innings, trimming the Braves lead to 5–3. 
The Yankees bullpen was solid, holding the Braves scoreless after Pettitte 
left the game. In the eighth, Glavine surrendered a two-run homer to Knoblauch 
to tie up the game at 5–5. The score remained knotted until the bottom 
of the tenth when Chad Curtis blasted a walk-off home run—his second home 
run of the game—off Mike Remlinger, giving the Yankees a commanding 3–0 
lead in the Series. Game 4 featured the presentation of the Roberto Clemente 
Award to Tony Gwynn, followed by a battle of hard-throwing Cy Young Award 
winners, Roger Clemens and John Smoltz. In the third inning, the Yanks 
broke through when Tino Martinez singled off Ryan Klesko's foot with the 
bases loaded, driving in two runs. Jorge Posada followed with another RBI 
single, making the score 3–0. Clemens, seeking his first World Series victory, 
was outstanding, the only Braves scoring coming in the eighth when Boone 
singled in Walt Weiss. Jim Leyritz added another Yankees run with a solo 
shot in the eighth, adding to his legacy as a great postseason performer 
and as one of the thorns in the side of Braves fans. Rivera, who was named 
Series MVP, got Keith Lockhart to fly out to LF for the final out. The 
1999 New York Yankees became the first team to win the World Series in 
consecutive sweeps since the 1938–1939 Yankees. It was the first sweep 
by a team without home-field advantage since 1966 when Baltimore swept 
the Dodgers. The Yankees' 11–1 postseason record was the best ever, tied 
by the Chicago White Sox in 2005. The Yankees players were each paid $326,000 
for this World Championship. With the Yankees' sweep of the Braves, this 
was the second time in 1999 that a New York City team had swept a team 
from Atlanta out of a playoffs; the Knicks had swept the Hawks in the second 
round of the NBA Playoffs during their Cinderella run to the NBA Finals, 
where they lost to the San Antonio Spurs. It would also mark the final 
time the Yankees clinched the championship at the old Yankee Stadium. The 
powerhouse Braves batted just .200 in the 4-game Series. 1999 World Series 
(4–0): New York Yankees (A.L.) over Atlanta Braves (N.L.) This was the 
5th World Series appearance in the 1990s for Atlanta, but the new decade 
would not be as favorable to them. As of 2016, the 1999 World Series is 
the last World Series appearance for the Braves. The Yankees would continue 
their dynasty by defeating the New York Mets the next year and winning 
a fourth straight pennant in 2001, where they lost to the Diamondbacks. 
They would reach the World Series again in 2003 (losing to the Marlins) 
and 2009 (defeating the defending champions, the Philadelphia Phillies). 
This was NBC's 39th and, to date, final World Series telecast. Fox would 
air the next World Series as part of the contract in place, and acquired 
the exclusive broadcast rights of Major League Baseball beginning in 2001. 
Bob Costas provided play-by-play while Joe Morgan served as analyst for 
the series. Hannah Storm served as pre-game host with Barry Larkin serving 
as the analyst. The field reporters were Jim Gray (Yankees dugout) and 
Craig Sager (Braves dugout) on loan from Turner Sports. With the Knicks 
having played in the NBA Finals in June, this was the second championship 
series in 1999 that NBC broadcast involving teams from New York. Bob Costas, 
Jim Gray, and Hannah Storm were involved both times: Costas with play-by-play, 
Gray as a reporter, and Storm as pre-game host. This was the most recent 
year that a city hosted both the NBA Finals and the World Series in the 
same year, until Cleveland did so in 2016. Once again, ESPN Radio provided 
coverage of the World Series. Play-by-play man Jon Miller was joined in 
the booth by Rick Sutcliffe, who substituted for the unavailable Joe Morgan. 
On October 11, 2005, A&E Home Video released the New York Yankees Fall 
Classic Collectors Edition (1996–2001) DVD set. Game 3 of the 1999 World 
