The 1999 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
1999 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 5, and ended on 
Saturday, October 9, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) possessed home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. Although the 
team with the best record was normally scheduled to host the wild card 
team, teams in the same division cannot play against each other until the 
championship series round. The Braves played the Astros, rather than the 
wild card Mets. The Mets clinched the wild card spot through a one-game 
playoff with the Cincinnati Reds, winning 5–0 on October 4. The Diamondbacks 
were participating in the postseason in only their second year of existence, 
the fastest any expansion team had ever qualified. The Atlanta Braves and 
New York Mets went on to meet in the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The 
Braves became the National League champion, and were defeated by the American 
League champion New York Yankees in the 1999 World Series. Atlanta won 
the series, 3–1. New York won the series, 3–1. Turner Field in Atlanta 
A pitcher's duel between Shane Reynolds and Greg Maddux highlighted Game 
1. The Astros struck first in the top of the second when Tony Eusebio singled 
in Carl Everett. Gerald Williams would tie the game in the bottom of the 
fifth, singling home Jose Hernández. Daryle Ward would give the Astros 
the lead on a solo home run in the top of the sixth. The score would remain 
the same until the ninth. With Mike Remlinger pitching for Atlanta, Houston 
garnered four runs in the ninth, an inning capped with a three-run homer 
by Ken Caminiti. The Braves would post their first loss of the postseason 
and would not lose again until Game 4 of the NLCS. Turner Field in Atlanta 
A brilliant performance by Kevin Millwood stole the show. Had it not been 
for Ken Caminiti's solo home run in the second and an error, Millwood would 
have pitched a perfect game. The Braves would take Game 2 behind his masterful 
performance. Astrodome in Houston, Texas The turning point of the series 
occurred in Game 3. Tom Glavine faced Mike Hampton, who were both coming 
off career years. The Astros scored two in the first to take an early lead. 
The Braves would respond with a towering three-run homer by Brian Jordan. 
The Astros would tie the game and would send the game to extra innings. 
In the bottom of the tenth, with the bases loaded and nobody out, John 
Rocker was called in to save the game. There was no margin for error. An 
unbelievable play by Walt Weiss prevented Ken Caminiti from scoring off 
Carl Everett's hit up the middle. Weiss dived and stopped the ball and 
threw home. Another forceout at the plate made it two outs. Ricky Gutiérrez 
struck out to end the threat. Brian Jordan, who helped bring the Braves 
back, would get them the win in the top of the twelfth. He would double 
in two runs and put the Braves one game away from the NLCS. Astrodome in 
Houston, Texas Shane Reynolds was once again called on to save the Astros, 
but facing him this time would be John Smoltz. Chipper Jones put the Braves 
on the board in the top of the first with a sac fly. A Bret Boone single 
drove in the second Atlanta run in the third. A seven-hit inning gave the 
Braves five more in the top of the sixth. They had built a 7–0 lead and 
appeared to be cruising into the NLCS, but Tony Eusebio homered to cut 
the lead to six in the seventh. Yet another three-run homer by Ken Caminiti 
brought the Astros to within three runs. A double cut the lead to two with 
five outs to go. Ultimately, Atlanta's bullpen would halt the Houston rally 
and bring the Braves back to the NLCS for the eighth straight year and 
the history of the Astrodome to a close. 1999 NLDS (3–1): Atlanta Braves 
over Houston Astros Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona The Arizona Diamondbacks 
won the National League Western Division in the franchise's second year. 
They were managed by Buck Showalter and finished the season with 100 wins. 
The New York Mets clinched the Wild Card in a one-game winner-take-all 
playoff against the Cincinnati Reds and qualified for the playoffs for 
the first time since losing the 1988 National League Championship Series 
against the Los Angeles Dodgers. Masato Yoshii faced Randy Johnson in Game 
1. Edgardo Alfonzo got the scoring started for the Mets in the top of the 
first with a one-out solo home run. Then a two-run homer by John Olerud 
made it 3–0 Mets in the third. Jay Bell's sac fly made it 3–1 in the bottom 
of the third, but Rey Ordóñez's sacrifice bunt made it 4–1 Mets in the 
fourth. Erubiel Durazo's solo home run made it 4–2 in the bottom of the 
fourth. Then a two-run homer by Luis Gonzalez tied the game at four. The 
game remained tied into the ninth inning. A controversial move by manager 
Showalter allowed Johnson to stay in the game. Two singles and a walk loaded 
the bases and knocked Johnson out of the game. After the second out, Alfonzo 
hit a grand slam to put the Mets out in front 8–4. Armando Benítez shut 
the D'Backs down 1–2–3 in the bottom half to finish the game. Bank One 
Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona Kenny Rogers took on Todd Stottlemyre, hoping 
to even the series before moving to New York. Both pitchers were on even 
terms into the third inning. The Mets got on the board thanks to an RBI 
groundout by Olerud in the third. The Diamondbacks would load the bases 
against Rogers in the bottom of the third after two men were out. Then 
Greg Colbrunn walked to tie the game at one. Steve Finley gave the Diamondbacks 
their first-ever postseason lead with a two-run single to right field. 
Then Finley had two more RBIs with a double to center in the fifth. Two 
more runs with the bases loaded made it 7–1 Diamondbacks and the score 
would stand as the D'Backs evened the series at a game apiece. Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York In Game 3, Omar Daal faced Rick Reed. The Diamondbacks 
blew opportunities in the first two innings and that would cost them as 
the Mets would take a 1–0 lead on Ordonez's RBI single that scored Benny 
Agbayani. An RBI single by Olerud and an error by Andy Fox gave the Mets 
a 3–0 edge. The Diamondbacks made it a one-run game when pinch hitter Turner 
Ward hit a two-run homer in the fifth. The game would be put away, however, 
in one half-inning. In the bottom of the sixth, the Mets put together four 
RBI hits that scored six runs. That made it 9–2 and that would be the final 
score. Shea Stadium in Queens, New York In the potential clinching Game 
4, Brian Anderson faced Al Leiter. The game would remain scoreless until 
the bottom of the fourth, when Edgardo Alfonzo's leadoff homer made it 
1–0 Mets. The D'Backs would respond when Greg Colbrunn homered to tie the 
game in the fifth. Then Agbayani's RBI double made it 2–1 Mets. Jay Bell's 
two-run double gave the Diamondbacks the lead in the eighth, but the Mets 
tied the game in the bottom half thanks to a pinch-hit sacrifice fly by 
Roger Cedeño. As the game moved to extra innings, John Franco came on in 
relief in the tenth and shut the Diamondbacks down 1–2–3. Against Matt 
Mantei, the Mets would win the series when Todd Pratt hit a solo home run 
to center field. Steve Finley failed to catch the ball after making a leap 
