The 1999 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
1999 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 5, and ended on 
Monday, October 11, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams, 
which were identical to those qualifying in 1998, were: The higher seed 
(in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 1, 2 and 5 at home), 
which was determined by playing record. The Yankees played the Rangers, 
rather than the wild card Red Sox, because the Yankees and Red Sox are 
in the same division. The Yankees rolled over the Rangers, who scored 945 
runs in 1999, for the second straight year three games to none. The Red 
Sox battled back down two games to none against a Cleveland Indians team 
that was the first to score 1,000 runs in a season in nearly 50 years and 
won the Series three games to two, thanks to Pedro Martínez. The Yankees 
would go on to defeat the Red Sox four games to one in their first-ever 
meeting in the postseason in the AL Championship Series, and would then 
go on to sweep the National League champion Atlanta Braves in the 1999 
World Series. New York won the series, 3–0. Boston won the series, 3–2. 
Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York The Yankees once again swept the 
Rangers and held them to one run through three games. In Game 1, Aaron 
Sele went against Orlando Hernández. Bernie Williams was the center of 
attention in Game 1, doubling in two runs in the fifth and hitting a three-run 
home run in the sixth. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York In Game 2, 
Rick Helling went against Andy Pettitte. Juan González gave the Rangers 
the lead with a solo home run in the fourth. This would be the lone run 
in the series for the Rangers, who scored 945 runs in 1999. Scott Brosius's 
double tied the game in the bottom of the fifth. Ricky Ledée gave the Yankees 
the lead in the seventh. In the bottom of the eighth, the Yanks got an 
insurance run when Mike Venafro walked Jim Leyritz with the bases loaded, 
scoring Chad Curtis. Mariano Rivera retired the side in order for the save 
in Game 2. The Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas In Game 3, the 
Yankees took an early lead when Darryl Strawberry hit a three-run home 
run off Esteban Loaiza in the first inning. Roger Clemens pitched seven 
innings and allowed only three hits. Mariano Rivera got the series-winning 
save in the ninth. 1999 ALDS (3–0): New York Yankees over Texas Rangers 
Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Boston jumped out to an early 1–0 lead 
with a lead-off home run by Nomar Garciaparra in the second inning off 
Indians' starter Bartolo Colón. Garciaparra helped score the second run 
for the Red Sox when he led off the fourth inning with a double and then 
scored on an RBI single by Mike Stanley. Facing Cy Young Award winner Pedro 
Martínez, the Indians looked to be in serious trouble, but the ace of the 
Red Sox pitching staff left the game due to injury in the bottom of the 
fifth inning and was replaced by Derek Lowe. The Indians would tie the 
game in the bottom of the sixth with a two-run home run by Jim Thome, and 
Colón settled down and dominated the Red Sox hitters the rest of the way, 
striking out eleven in eight innings pitched. In the bottom of the ninth, 
the Indians walked the game off when Travis Fryman hit the game-winning 
single off Rich Garces with the bases loaded. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio In Game 2, the Red Sox blew another lead. Behind Bret Saberhagen, 
the Red Sox built a 1–0 lead by singling home Trot Nixon in the third off 
Indians starter Charles Nagy, but the Indians struck back and put the game 
away in the bottom half. Omar Vizquel gave the Indians the lead when he 
tripled home Sandy Alomar, Jr. and Kenny Lofton. Roberto Alomar doubled 
Vizquel home, and, after an out and a Jim Thome walk, Harold Baines hit 
a three-run home run to make it 6–1 Indians. That marked the end for Saberhagen. 
The Indians added five more in the fourth with a Roberto Alomar sac fly 
and a Jim Thome grand slam to give the Indians an 11–1 victory in Game 
2. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts When the series shifted to Fenway 
Park, so did the momentum. The Indians, too, would lose a starting pitcher 
to injury and blow a lead in Game 3. They struck first on a David Justice 
sac fly off Ramón Martínez in the fourth, but, after shutting out the Red 
Sox for four innings, starting pitcher Dave Burba left with a strained 
forearm. Mike Hargrove chose to insert presumed Game 4 starter Jaret Wright 
instead of rookie middle reliever Sean DePaula. The Red Sox quickly took 
the lead off Wright in the fifth on a single and sac fly. A force out with 
runners on the corners tied the game in the sixth for the Indians. A lead-off 
home run by John Valentin untied the score for the Red Sox in the bottom 
of the sixth, but his later error tied it back 3–3 in the top of the seventh. 
After Wright walked Merloni and hit Jason Varitek, Ricardo Rincón came 
on to stem the tide. When Offerman walked to load the bases, John Valentin 
became the hero again with a double that scored Varitek and Lewis. Brian 
Daubach then hit a three-run home run to make it 8–3 Red Sox. The Red Sox 
would add one more run to give themselves a 9–3 victory. Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts Because presumed starter Jaret Wright had been used 
in relief the previous day, and no emergency starter had been included 
on the playoff roster, the Indians had forced themselves to start Bartolo 
Colón on three days rest for the first time in his career, even though 
he had gone eight innings in cold weather in the first game. This time, 
he was not up to the challenge. Neither he nor the thin bullpen behind 
him could stop the barrage of Red Sox runs. Colón himself was hammered 
for seven runs in one-plus innings pitched, and reliever Steve Reed was 
tagged for eight. The Sox drove in 23 runs total in the game, and it was 
never close after the second inning. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio In 
Game 5, Charles Nagy started for Cleveland and Bret Saberhagen started 
for Boston, both on only three days rest. Boston jumped out to a quick 
two-run lead in the top of the first inning, but Cleveland responded with 
three runs of their own in the bottom half of the innings. The hitting 
would continue impressively, knocking Saberhagen out of the game after 
only one inning pitched and five runs allowed, and Nagy out of the game 
after only three innings pitched and eight runs allowed. Going into the 
fourth inning, manager Jimy Williams opted to replace Derek Lowe with the 
ailing Pedro Martínez, who had left Game 1 with a back injury. This decision 
would prove to be wise, as Pedro pitched spectacularly, throwing six hitless 
innings, striking out eight and walking three. Rookie reliever Sean DePaula, 
whom Hargrove had refused to use in Game 3 when it mattered and compromised 
his rotation as a result, matched Pedro for three innings. Despite his 
mastery of the Sox, which since the middle of Game 3 had been rare for 
Cleveland pitchers, Hargrove removed him and opted to use inconsistent 
set-up man Paul Shuey for the seventh inning. The Red Sox would then take 
the lead on the back of a Troy O'Leary three-run home run after an intentional 
walk of Nomar Garciaparra, and the Red Sox went on to win the game 12–8, 
and the series three games to two. Mike Hargrove was dismissed as Cleveland 
manager following the conclusion of the series. 1999 ALDS (3–2): Boston 
Red Sox over Cleveland Indians Down two games to none the Boston Red Sox 
have come STORMING BACK! AND THEY ARE IN THE AMERICAN LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP 
SERIES! NO HITS ALLOWED BY PEDRO MARTINEZ! "CENTERFIELD....ANOTHER ONE, 
Jim Thome his second of the night! and the Indians lead by one!" Joe Buck, 
calling Jim Thome's second homerun of the game in the bottom of the 3rd 
