The 1999 Detroit Tigers had a record of 69–92 and finished in third place 
27½ games behind the Indians. After a century of baseball at the corner 
of Michigan and Trumbull, the 1999 season was the last for the team at 
Tiger Stadium. On September 27, 1999, Robert Fick had the final hit of 
the final game at Detroit's Tiger Stadium, a rooftop grand slam, which 
was the stadium's 11,111th home run.[1] In the 2000 season, the Tigers 
moved to Comerica Park. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] 
[13] [14] Infielders Coaches The final game at Tiger Stadium was played 
on September 27, 1999 between the Detroit Tigers and the Kansas City Royals. 
The Tigers were victorious 8–2. The winning pitcher was Detroit starter 
Brian Moehler. The losing pitcher was Jeff Suppan. Prior to the final game 
at Tiger Stadium, a ceremony was held. It was emceed by then current Tiger 
broadcaster and Hall of Famer Ernie Harwell. At the ceremony, owner Mike 
Ilitch spoke along with then Michigan governor John Engler, then Detroit 
mayor Dennis Archer and Commissioner of Baseball Bud Selig. Also featured 
at the ceremony was longtime Tiger right fielder and Hall of Famer Al Kaline. 
Instead of both managers exchanging lineups before the game, both clubs 
appointed honorary captains. Representing the Tigers was Kaline and representing 
the Royals was former MVP and Hall of Fame third baseman George Brett. 
The game ended at 7:07 pm. The grounds crew then surrounded home plate. 
Groundskeeper Charlie McGee, using a pick axe, dug up home plate at 7:13. 
It would then be transported by Tiger pitchers Matt Anderson, Jeff Weaver, 
and Francisco Cordero, with police escort, to Comerica Park. Ernie Harwell 
then read a history of Tiger Stadium accompanied by music from the movie 
Field of Dreams. He introduced a film containing images of such Tiger legends 
as Ty Cobb, Sam Crawford, Hughie Jennings and Harry Heilmann. In addition, 
the Tigers Hall of Famers were honored: Heinie Manush, Mickey Cochrane, 
Charlie Gehringer, Hank Greenberg, Hal Newhouser, George Kell, and Harwell. 
Following remarks from Willie Horton and former manager Sparky Anderson, 
there emerged from the center field gate players from times past, including 
Mark Fidrych, Bill Freehan, Dick McAuliffe, Dave Bergman, Mickey Stanley, 
Willie Horton, Kirk Gibson, Cecil Fielder, Al Kaline, the combination of 
Alan Trammell and Lou Whitaker, and Elden Auker. A line was formed from 
the center field flagpole to home plate, along which was passed the flag 
that had flown from the pole in dead center over the finale. After Auker 
passed the flag to catcher Brad Ausmus, players threw souvenirs into the 
stands as some reached over and put dirt from the warning track into plastic 
bags. It was at this time that Harwell gave his final goodbye: "Tonight, 
we say good-bye. ... Farewell, old friend Tiger Stadium. We will remember." 
At 8:19, the scoreboard was shut off. At quarter to nine, a final team 
picture was taken, and by 9 the stands were empty. As the last of the fans 
left, a sign was hung on the famous right-center field overhang which read: 
"Today, there is crying in baseball. So long, old friend." "Ladies and 
gentlemen, less than six months ago, we began a warm season of farewells, 
and with each passing day we came a little bit closer to this historic 
occasion. "The Lions, Joe Louis and Nelson Mandela. 6,873 regular-season 
games, 35 postseason contests and a trio of spectacular All-Star Games, 
Tiger Stadium has been home to this great game of baseball. But more than 
anything, it has been a cherished home to our memories. "Will you remember 
that last base hit? The last out? How about that last pitch? Or maybe it's 
the first time as a child when you saw that green, green grass that will 
forever be etched into your mind and soul. "Tonight, we say good-bye. But 
we will not forget. Open your eyes, look around and take a mental picture. 
Moments like this shall live on forever. "It's been 88 moving years at 
Michigan and Trumbull. The tradition built here shall endure along with 
the permanence of the Olde English D. But tonight we must say good-bye. 
"Farewell, old friend Tiger Stadium. We will remember." Note: G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in Note: pitchers' batting statistics not included Note: 
G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
