The 1999 National League Championship Series (NLCS), to determine the champion 
of Major League Baseball's National League, was played between two East 
Division rivals, the division champion Atlanta Braves and the wild card 
New York Mets. After the Mets lost eight of nine games in September—including 
five of six to the NL East rival Braves—the Mets seemed unlikely to make 
the playoffs, two games out of the wild card lead with three games to play. 
Following the Mets' most recent defeat in this stretch, an eleven-inning 
loss to Atlanta at Shea Stadium, Braves third baseman Chipper Jones was 
quoted as saying, "Now all the Mets fans can go home and put on their Yankees 
stuff." Braves closer John Rocker was also quoted as saying he hated the 
Mets, and "How many times do we have to beat them before their fans will 
shut up?" Thinking they had buried the Mets, the Braves had closed out 
their season with another division title and were poised to enter the playoffs 
and leave the Mets behind. However, the Mets swept their season-ending 
three-game series with the Pittsburgh Pirates at Shea Stadium, while the 
wild-card-leading Cincinnati Reds lost two out of three to the Milwaukee 
Brewers. The Mets and Reds had the same record at 95–66 heading into an 
eventful final day of the season. That Sunday saw the Mets win their game, 
2–1, on a wild pitch in the bottom of the ninth; the Reds avoided the sweep 
in Milwaukee following a seven-hour rain delay. Both teams finished even 
with records of 96–66 after 162 games. Per MLB rules, the one game wild 
card playoff was held the next day, October 4, at Cincinnati's Cinergy 
Field. Al Leiter shut down the Reds with a two-hit shutout in a 5–0 Mets 
victory, sending New York to its first playoff berth since 1988 (as the 
wild card team, the Mets would be scheduled to play the division winner 
with the best record. However, since that team came from their own division—the 
103–59 Braves—New York faced the team with the second best record, the 
100–62 Arizona Diamondbacks). In the National League Division Series, both 
the Mets and Braves would advance in four games. The Mets would defeat 
the Arizona Diamondbacks, with the series ending on a walk-off home run 
by seldom-used backup catcher Todd Pratt, only playing due to a thumb injury 
to star catcher Mike Piazza. The Braves would vanquish the Houston Astros 
in four games, with Brian Jordan and eventual National League MVP Chipper 
Jones leading the way. And that would set up a National League Championship 
Series that was anticipated by many, pitting two bitter rivals against 
each other on the national stage. This marked the Braves' record eighth-straight 
appearance in the NLCS, while the Mets advanced to the league championship 
for the first time since 1988. This would be the second time that the Braves 
and Mets met in the NLCS. The two teams met in the very first National 
League Championship Series in 1969, with the Mets sweeping the best-of-five 
set. Prior to Game 1, Mets Manager Bobby Valentine chided the Braves, saying 
that "They better be ready to play some ghosts, because we were dead and 
buried two weeks ago," in reference to earlier statements by Chipper Jones. 
When the series shifted to Shea Stadium in New York, raucous Mets fans 
would continually jeer Jones, chanting "LARRY!" (his given name) in derision 
every time he stepped to the plate. John Rocker also riled up fans, as 
he would often pretend to toss baseballs into the stands, and got into 
several arguments. Atlanta won the series, 4–2. Tuesday, October 12, 1999 
at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia The Braves began their eighth consecutive 
NLCS with a 4–2 victory over the Mets, defeating a team they left for dead 
two weeks earlier. Greg Maddux tossed seven solid innings, future NLCS 
MVP Eddie Pérez homered and light-hitting shortstop Walt Weiss went 3-for-4 
with a run scored and RBI for the Braves. John Rocker recorded the final 
four outs for the save, his second of the postseason, to seal Atlanta's 
fourth straight win. Wednesday, October 13, 1999 at Turner Field in Atlanta, 
Georgia Brian Jordan and eventual series MVP Eddie Pérez each hit two-run 
homers off Mets starter Kenny Rogers in the sixth inning as the Braves 
edged the Mets, 4–3, and took a 2–0 lead in the best-of-seven series. Kevin 
Millwood held the Mets in check to win his second straight postseason start, 
allowing three runs—two earned—over 7 1⁄3 innings. John Rocker worked out 
of a jam in the eighth by striking out two, but after pitching 1 1⁄3 innings 
in Game 1, manager Bobby Cox turned to Game 4 starter John Smoltz for the 
ninth. Friday, October 15, 1999 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York Tom 
Glavine pitched seven shutout innings and the Braves edged the Mets, 1–0, 
to take a commanding three-games-to-none lead in the NLCS. The only run 
of the game scored in the first inning without the need for a base hit. 
The lead-off runner was walked, and two throwing errors by Al Leiter and 
Mike Piazza allowed the lead-off runner to score. In 1996, the Braves won 
the first two games of the World Series against the Yankees. In Game 3, 
the Yankees rallied to beat Glavine and took the series in six games. With 
a superb effort from its two-time Cy Young Award winner, Atlanta avoided 
that fate here, setting up the possibility of its fifth World Series in 
the 1990s with a win in Game 4. After Mike Remlinger worked a perfect eighth, 
Shea Stadium villain John Rocker perfectly played the part with a scoreless 
ninth. After Benny Agbayani reached on an error, the animated left-hander 
struck out pinch-hitter Todd Pratt, got Melvin Mora on a deep fly to right-center 
field and Rey Ordóñez on a weak force play. The Mets faced an obstacle 
that no team in baseball history had overcome: rally from a 3–0 deficit 
to win a playoff series (the Boston Red Sox would become the first team 
ever to do it in the 2004 ALCS). Saturday, October 16, 1999 at Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York Carrying the hopes and hatred of an entire city, John 
Olerud finally got back at John Rocker. Olerud's two-run single off Rocker 
in the bottom of the eighth inning allowed the Mets to stay alive in the 
NLCS with a 3–2 victory over the Braves. The Braves were four outs away 
from a series sweep and their fifth trip to the World Series in the 1990s 
when they called on Rocker, who had treated the Mets and their fans with 
similar disdain this season. The left-handed closer saved five games against 
New York during the regular season and two in this series. During the season, 
he said he hated the Mets and prior to this showdown wondered how many 
times the Braves would have to beat them before their fans would "shut 
up." Sunday, October 17, 1999 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York Robin 
Ventura's bases-loaded blast off Kevin McGlinchy with one out in the bottom 
of the fifteenth inning kept the Mets' season alive with a 4–3 victory 
over the Braves in Game 5 of the NLCS. Ventura never made it home because 
he was mobbed by his teammates between first and second. Official scorer 
Red Foley ruled the hit (which was recently ranked the third Greatest Moment 
in Mets history, behind only the team's two World Series Championships) 
was a single.[7] The game began shortly after 4 p.m. with Greg Maddux pitching 
for Atlanta and Masato Yoshii starting for the Mets. The Mets took an early 
2–0 lead in the bottom of the first inning as John Olerud hit his second 
home run in as many days with Rickey Henderson on first. The lead lasted 
into the fourth inning, when Atlanta struck back with consecutive doubles 
by Bret Boone and Chipper Jones, eventually knotting the score at 2–2 when 
Brian Jordan singled home Jones. Mets Manager Bobby Valentine was immediately 
prompted to remove Yoshii from the game in favor of Orel Hershiser, which 
began a run on pitching changes that resulted in the Mets emptying their 
bullpen by game's end, relying on starter Kenny Rogers and rookie Octavio 
Dotel for key innings, and might have gone to Game 4's starter Rick Reed 
had the game progressed past the fifteenth inning. In all, the Mets used 
a postseason record nine pitchers in this game. The game continued on well 
into the night, accompanied by a steady rainfall which did not delay the 
game. Although both teams mounted some threats as the game continued, neither 
team was able to break through for the tie-breaking run. Atlanta eventually 
set a mark for futility, stranding a record nineteen men on base over the 
course of the game. A most notable failure occurred in the thirteenth inning, 
with two out and Keith Lockhart on first base and Chipper Jones at the 
plate. With Lockhart running, Jones laced an offering from Octavio Dotel 
into the right field corner. But the ball was cut off by Melvin Mora before 
it reached the wall, and Mora's strong relay throw, via Edgardo Alfonzo, 
cut down Lockhart at the plate and ended the inning. Pitching on his 25th 
birthday, local villain John Rocker entered the game in the bottom of the 
thirteenth inning to a loud chorus of boos and several projectiles hurled 
in his direction. He retired four batters over 1 1⁄3 innings, including 
a strikeout of the ailing Mike Piazza. Upon being removed from the game, 
Rocker mocked the Shea Stadium fans by pretending to boo, and yelled at 
fans sitting around the Atlanta dugout as he left the field. The Mets' 
season appeared over after Keith Lockhart tripled home a run in the top 
of the fifteenth off Octavio Dotel to put the Braves ahead 3–2. However, 
McGlinchy could not hold the lead. Shawon Dunston, who misplayed Lockhart's 
triple, atoned with a leadoff single after fouling off several pitches 
with a full count. With pinch-hitter Matt Franco batting, Dunston stole 
second base. Franco eventually worked out a walk, which was followed by 
Edgardo Alfonzo laying down a sacrifice bunt to move Dunston to third. 
John Olerud—whose homer in the first was now a distant memory—was intentionally 
walked to load the bases. Todd Pratt, again thrust into the spotlight with 
Mike Piazza nursing several injuries, hit next. McGlinchy walked Todd Pratt 
on five pitches and fell behind the slumping Ventura. At 9:47 p.m., McGlinchy 
grooved a fastball on a 2–1 count, and Ventura launched it through the 
steady rain and over the right-field fence. Although Ventura had seen the 
ball clear the wall, and was waving Todd Pratt around the bases, Pratt 
tackled Ventura between first and second base, and most of the Mets team 
ran out on the field and mobbed Ventura in a wild scene. Mets manager Bobby 
Valentine said following the game Valentine was speaking in reference to 
a calf injury that had been bothering Ventura during the postseason, and 
had led to his entering this game without a hit in the series. NBC's Bob 
Costas gushed on the air following Ventura's blast, At the time, the game 
was the longest in terms of elapsed time in postseason history, clocking 
in at 5 hours, 46 minutes. It was surpassed in 2004 by Game 5 of the American 
League Championship Series between the Boston Red Sox and the New York 
Yankees, and again in 2005 in Game 4 of the National League Division Series 
between the Houston Astros and the Atlanta Braves, and once more in 2014 
in Game 2 the NLDS between the San Francisco Giants and the Washington 
Nationals at Nationals Park. This Mets victory marked just the second time 
in baseball history that a team had come back from a three games to none 
deficit in a best-of-seven series to make it to a Game 6. Coincidentally, 
the Braves from the previous year's NLCS were the first. Tuesday, October 
19, 1999 at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia Although few thought this 
game likely after Atlanta took a 3–0 lead in the series, the Mets' grit 
and determination made it possible. Kevin Millwood started for Atlanta, 
while Al Leiter took the start on only three days' rest for the Mets. Leiter, 
unaccustomed to throwing on short rest, was tattooed in the first inning. 
He hit two batters (including the leadoff man), issued one walk and gave 
up two hits without retiring a batter. By the time he was removed from 
the game in favor of Pat Mahomes, Atlanta held a 4–0 lead, which they increased 
to 5–0 before the inning ended. With Millwood looking sharp and the Mets 
bats quiet, it appeared through the early innings to be an Atlanta cakewalk. 
Once again, the Mets had other thoughts in mind. Millwood began to tire 
in the sixth, and the Mets touched him up for three runs to put themselves 
back in the game. Edgardo Alfonzo and Robin Ventura knocked key doubles, 
and Darryl Hamilton added a two-run single. Atlanta scraped back for two 
runs in their half of the sixth, courtesy of a José Hernández two-run single 
off Dennis Cook. The score stood at 7–3 Atlanta entering the seventh. John 
Smoltz entered the game in relief for Atlanta, and the Mets attacked him 
immediately. Matt Franco and Rickey Henderson hit back-to-back doubles, 
and John Olerud singled home another run to make the score 7–5. This brought 
up Mike Piazza, who had played out the entire series with several injuries 
which had forced him to miss two games in the Division Series, the last 
innings of Game 5 and would eventually force him out of this game following 
the ninth inning. However, this would not be before he blasted a long home 
run to right off Smoltz to tie the score at 7–7. Bob Costas said as Piazza 
capped the Mets incredible comeback, "Tied at seven, hoping for Game 7!" 
With the game now tied and in the hands of two completely exhausted bullpens, 
the game became a test of wills. The Mets took an 8–7 lead in the eighth, 
as rookie Melvin Mora, a virtual unknown but a standout in this series, 
singled home Benny Agbayani. But then, with all the momentum going the 
Mets' way, the Braves rallied back against John Franco in the bottom of 
the eighth. With one out, Eddie Perez singled. Otis Nixon pinch-ran for 
Perez, and took the momentum back by stealing second base and going to 
third when Piazza's throw went into center field. Brian Hunter singled 
home the tying run. In the tenth inning, the Mets once again regained the 
lead, and again Mora was in the center of things. His one-out single off 
John Rocker put Agbayani in position to score on Todd Pratt's sacrifice 
fly, but, again, Atlanta rallied to tie in the last of the tenth, with 
Ozzie Guillén singling home Andruw Jones off Armando Benítez to re-knot 
the game at 9–9. Finally, in the eleventh, the Mets' magic ran out. Kenny 
Rogers entered the game (although most had speculated that it would be 
rookie Octavio Dotel) and gave up a leadoff double to Gerald Williams. 
A Bret Boone sacrifice bunt moved Williams to third with one out. Following 
intentional walks to Chipper Jones and Brian Jordan, Rogers walked Andruw 
Jones on a 3–2 pitch to score Williams and win the pennant for Atlanta. 
1999 NLCS (4–2): Atlanta Braves over New York Mets Although Atlanta would 
move on to the World Series, their joy would be short lived. Physically 
and emotionally spent following this series, the Braves didn't put up much 
of a fight as they lost in four games to the other New York City team, 
the Yankees, making it the second time in 1999 that a New York City team 
had swept an Atlanta team out of a playoffs; the Knicks had swept the Hawks 
in the second round of the NBA Playoffs during their Cinderella run to 
the NBA Finals, where they lost to the San Antonio Spurs. (By a twist of 
fate, the Mets won a game in Atlanta on the same night the Spurs won the 
NBA championship against the Knicks.[8]) The Mets had created as much of 
a stir from losing as one possibly could imagine. Much of the post-series 
spotlight ended up focusing on the Mets. Manager Bobby Valentine, who was 
seen smashing the dugout railing, screaming "NO! NO! NO!" as Rogers walked 
Jones, said in a postgame press conference, Mets General Manager Steve 
Phillips summed up the harrowing four weeks the Mets had been through saying 
that "we had destiny in our own hands, we lost destiny, we got it back 
in our own hands...We didn't choke. We didn't fold. We won."[9] Bob Costas 
would close out his NBC telecast by saying, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution 
reported that The New York Times printed a Delta Air Lines advertisement 
lauding the Mets for their postseason run.[10] The ad said, "Thanks for 
giving the fans something to cheer about this season. It was great to hear 
the crowd at Shea roar louder than our planes." It ran beneath a softball-sized 
reproduction of the Mets logo.[10] A spokesperson at Delta Air Lines said 
that "at Delta, we are good sports, and we admire good competition. We 
have a major presence in New York, and we are the official airline of the 
New York Mets as well as the Atlanta Braves."[10] This series would prove 
to be a harbinger of many events that would shape the 2000 baseball season. 
Rocker would go on to make several controversial remarks in a Sports Illustrated 
article. Jones, and many other members of this Braves team, most notably 
Andruw Jones and Brian Jordan, would continue to be heckled mercilessly 
at Shea Stadium, which still continues at the current time. The Mets would 
post a remarkable ten-run rally to defeat Atlanta 11–8 in a game they once 
trailed 8–1, on June 30, 2000. Regardless, the Braves would again win the 
NL East and relegate the Mets to the Wild Card. The Mets, however, were 
the ones who ended up in the World Series, in which they fell to the Yankees. 
With the Braves being swept by the St. Louis Cardinals in the NLDS, it 
made the Mets' path to the World Series much easier.[11] The Braves also 
avenged their loss from the first ever NLCS 30 years before, losing to 
the Miracle Mets, who were underdogs despite the fact that the Braves had 
a weaker record (93–69 compared to the Mets' 100–62). In addition, Atlanta 
teams had avenged their losses to New York City teams in a playoffs in 
