The 2000 Summer Olympic Games (French: Les Jeux olympiques d'été de 2000), 
officially known as the Games of the XXVII Olympiad and commonly known 
as Sydney 2000 or the Millennium Olympic Games/Games of the New Millennium, 
were an international multi-sport event which was held between 15 September 
and 1 October 2000 in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. It was the second 
time that the Summer Olympics were held in Australia, and also the Southern 
Hemisphere, the first being in Melbourne, Victoria, in 1956. Sydney was 
selected as the host city for the 2000 games in 1993. Teams from 199 countries 
participated. The United States won the most medals with 93, while Australia 
came in 4th with 58. The games cost was estimated to be A$6.6 billion. 
The Games received universal acclaim, with the organisation, volunteers, 
sportsmanship and Australian public being lauded in the international media. 
Bill Bryson from The Times called the Sydney Games "one of the most successful 
events on the world stage", saying that they "couldn't be better".[2] James 
Mossop of the Electronic Telegraph called the Games in an article "such 
a success that any city considering bidding for future Olympics must be 
wondering how it can reach the standards set by Sydney",[3] while Jack 
Todd in the Montreal Gazette suggested that the "IOC should quit while 
it's ahead. Admit there can never be a better Olympic Games, and be done 
with it", as "Sydney was both exceptional and the best".[2] In preparing 
for the 2012 Olympic Games in London, Lord Coe declared the Sydney Games 
the "benchmark for the spirit of the Games, unquestionably" and admitting 
that the London organising committee "attempted in a number of ways to 
emulate what the Sydney Organising Committee did."[4] These were the final 
Olympic Games under the IOC presidency of Juan Antonio Samaranch. These 
were also the second Olympic Games to be held in spring. The final medal 
tally was led by the United States, followed by Russia and China with host 
Australia at fourth place overall. Several World and Olympic records were 
broken during the games. With little or no controversies, the games were 
deemed generally successful with the rising standard of competition amongst 
nations across the world. Sydney won the right to host the Games on 24 
September 1993, after being selected over Beijing, Berlin, Istanbul and 
Manchester in four rounds of voting, at the 101st IOC Session in Monte 
Carlo, Monaco. The Australian city of Melbourne had lost out to Atlanta 
for the 1996 Summer Olympics four years earlier.[5] Beijing lost its bid 
to host the games to Sydney in 1993, but was later awarded the 2008 Summer 
Olympics in July 2001, and the latter city would eventually awarded the 
2022 Winter Olympics twenty-two years later in 2015. In 2000, the Auditor-General 
of New South Wales reported that the Sydney Games cost A$6.6 billion, with 
a net cost to the public between A$1.7 and A$2.4 billion.[7][8] Many venues 
were constructed in the Sydney Olympic Park, which failed in the years 
immediately following the Olympics to meet the expected bookings to meet 
upkeep expenses.[9] In the years leading up to the games, funds were shifted 
from education and health programs to cover Olympic expenses.[10] It has 
been estimated that the economic impact of the 2000 Olympics was that A$2.1 billion 
has been shaved from public consumption. Economic growth was not stimulated 
to a net benefit and in the years after 2000, foreign tourism to NSW grew 
by less than tourism to Australia as a whole. A "multiplier" effect on 
broader economic development is not realised, as a simple "multiplier" 
analysis fails to capture is that resources have to be redirected from 
elsewhere: the building of a stadium is at the expense of other public 
works such as extensions to hospitals. Building sporting venues does not 
add to the aggregate stock of productive capital in the years following 
the Games: "Equestrian centres, softball compounds and man-made rapids 
are not particularly useful beyond their immediate function."[11] In the 
years after the games, infrastructure issues have been of growing concern 
to citizens, especially those in the western suburbs of Sydney. Proposed 
rail links to Sydney's west have been estimated to cost in the same order 
of magnitude as the public expenditure on the games.[citation needed] Although 
the Olympic Games Opening Ceremony was not scheduled until 15 September, 
the football competitions began with preliminary matches on 13 September. 
Among the pre-ceremony fixtures, host nation Australia lost 1–0 to Italy 
at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, which was the main stadium for the 1956 
Melbourne Olympics. The opening ceremony began with a tribute to the Australian 
pastoral heritage of the Australian stockmen and the importance of the 
stock horse in Australia's heritage. It was produced and filmed by Sydney 
Olympic Broadcasting Organisation and the home nation broadcaster, Channel 
7.[12] This was introduced by a lone rider, Steve Jefferys, and his rearing 
Australian Stock Horse Ammo. At the cracking of Jefferys' stockwhip, a 
further 120 riders entered the Stadium, their stock horses performing intricate 
steps, including forming the five Olympic Rings, to a special Olympics 
version of the theme which Bruce Rowland had previously composed for the 
1982 film The Man from Snowy River. The Australian National Anthem was 
sung, the first verse by Human Nature and the second by Julie Anthony. 
The ceremony continued, showing many aspects of the land and its people:- 
the affinity of the mainly coastal-dwelling Australians with the sea that 
surrounds the "Island Continent". The indigenous occupation of the land, 
the coming of the First Fleet, the continued immigration from many nations 
and the rural industry on which the economy of the nation was built, including 
a display representing the harshness of rural life based on the paintings 
of Sir Sidney Nolan. Two memorable scenes were the representation of the 
"Heart" of the country by 200 Aboriginal women from Central Australia who 
danced up "the mighty spirit of God to protect the Games" and the overwhelmingly 
noisy representation of the construction industry by hundreds of tap-dancing 
teenagers. Because the wife of Juan Antonio Samaranch, the IOC President, 
was seriously ill and not able to accompany her husband to the Olympics, 
former Australian Olympic Champion swimmer and member of the Parliament 
of New South Wales, Dawn Fraser, accompanied Samaranch during the Australian 
cultural display, explaining to him some of the cultural references that 
are unfamiliar to non-Australians. A record 199 nations entered the stadium, 
with a record 80 of them winning at least one medal. The only missing IOC 
member was Afghanistan (banned due to the extremist rule of the Taliban's 
oppression of women and its prohibition of sports[13]). The ceremony featured 
a unified entrance by the athletes of North and South Korea, using a specially 
designed unification flag: a white background flag with a blue map of the 
Korean Peninsula. However, the two teams competed separately. Four athletes 
from East Timor also marched in the parade of nations as Individual Olympic 
Athletes and marched directly before the Host country. Although the country-to-be 
had no National Olympic Committee then, they were allowed to compete under 
the Olympic Flag with country code IOA. The Governor-General, Sir William 
Deane, opened the games. The Olympic Flag was carried around the arena 
by eight former Australian Olympic champions: Bill Roycroft, Murray Rose, 
Liane Tooth, Gillian Rolton, Marjorie Jackson, Lorraine Crapp, Michael 
Wenden and Nick Green. During the raising of the Olympics Flag, the Olympic 
Hymn was sung by the Millennium Choir of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese 
of Australia in Greek. Following this, Tina Arena sang a purpose-written 
pop song, The Flame.[14] The opening ceremony concluded with the lighting 
of the Olympic Flame. Former Australian Olympic champion Herb Elliott brought 
the Olympic Flame into the stadium. Then, celebrating 100 years of women's 
participation in the Olympic Games, former Australian women Olympic medalists: 
Betty Cuthbert and Raelene Boyle, Dawn Fraser, Shirley Strickland (later 
Shirley Strickland de la Hunty), Shane Gould and Debbie Flintoff-King brought 
the torch through the stadium, handing it over to Cathy Freeman, who lit 
the flame in the cauldron within a circle of fire. The planned spectacular 
climax to the ceremony was delayed by the technical glitch of a computer 
switch which malfunctioned, causing the sequence to shut down by giving 
a false reading. This meant that the Olympic flame was suspended in mid-air 
for about four minutes, rather than immediately rising up a water-covered 
ramp to the top of the stadium. When the cause of the problem was discovered, 
the program was overridden and the cauldron continued its course, and the 
ceremony concluded with a spectacular fireworks display.[15] Despite his 
record achievements as an Australian sprinter, Peter Norman was not invited 
chiefly because he had participated in an anti-racial protest during the 
awards ceremony for the 200m race in the 1968 Mexico City Olympic Games.[16] 
The AOC disputes that he was snubbed, stating that no other former athletes 
were invited and that Norman was offered the same chance to buy tickets 
as other former athletes were.[17] During the Sydney Olympics, a reporter 
from The Washington Post found only one reference to Norman – an image 
on the side of a house in Redfern [a predominantly aboriginal area].[18] 
The house may actually have been in Newtown, where a mural of the awards 
event known as 'Three Proud People' was painted in Leamington Lane facing 
the railway adjacent to Macdonaldtown Station (see Newtown area graffiti 
and street art).[19] The first medals of the Games were awarded in the 
women's 10 metre air rifle competition, which was won by Nancy Johnson 
of the United States. The Triathlon made its Olympic debut with the women's 
race. Set in the surroundings of the Sydney Opera House, Brigitte McMahon 
representing Switzerland swam, cycled and ran to the first gold medal in 
the sport, beating the favoured home athletes such as Michelie Jones who 
won silver. McMahon only passed Jones in sight of the finish line. The 
first star of the Games was Ian Thorpe. The 17-year-old Australian first 
set a new world record in the 400 m freestyle final before competing in 
an exciting 4 × 100 m freestyle final. Swimming the last leg, Thorpe passed 
the leading Americans and arrived in a new world record time, two tenths 
of a second ahead of the Americans. In the same event for women, the Americans 
also broke the world record, finishing ahead of the Netherlands and Sweden. 
Samaranch had to leave for home, as his wife was severely ill. Upon arrival, 
his wife had already died. Samaranch returned to Sydney four days later. 
The Olympic flag was flown at half-staff during the period as a sign of 
respect to Samaranch's wife. Canadian Simon Whitfield sprinted away in 
the last 100 metres of the men's triathlon, becoming the inaugural winner 
in the event. On the cycling track, Robert Bartko beat fellow German Jens 
Lehmann in the individual pursuit, setting a new Olympic Record. Leontien 
Zijlaard-van Moorsel set a world record in the semi-finals the same event 
for women. In the swimming pool, American Tom Dolan beat the world record 
in the 400 m medley, successfully defending the title he won in Atlanta 
four years prior. Dutchwoman Inge de Bruijn also clocked a new world record, 
beating her own time in the 100 m butterfly final to win by more than a 
second. The main event for the Australians on the fourth day of the Games 
was the 200 m freestyle. Dutchman Pieter van den Hoogenband had broken 
the world record in the semi-finals, taking it from the new Australian 
hero Ian Thorpe, who came close to the world record in his semi-final heat. 
As the final race finished, Van den Hoogenband's time was exactly the same 
as in the semi-finals, finishing ahead of Thorpe by half a second. China 
won the gold medal in the men's team all-around gymnastics competition, 
after being the runner-up in the previous two Olympics. The other medals 
were taken by Ukraine and Russia, respectively. Zijlaard-van Moorsel lived 
up to the expectations set by her world record in cycling in the semis 
by winning the gold medal. Controversy erupted at the Women's Gymnastics 
All-Around final, when gymnast after gymnast fell on the vault. Some gymnasts 
were physically injured, and all were shaken, but nothing was done to try 
to discover the reason most gymnasts were having severe problems. Finally, 
in the middle of the second round, it was determined that the vault horse 
had been set 5 cm too low – enough of a difference to throw off the impeccable 
timing of many of these world-class athletes. While athletes were allowed 
to vault again, the remedy did not fully repair injuries and shaken confidence. 
This situation led directly to the elimination of Svetlana Khorkina from 
consideration as the top all-around gymnast. By rowing in the winning coxless 
four, Steve Redgrave of Great Britain became a member of a select group 
who had won gold medals at five consecutive Olympics. The swimming 4 x 
100-metre medley relay of B.J. Bedford, Megan Quann (Jendrick), Jenny Thompson 
and Dara Torres became the first women's relay under 4-minutes, swimming 
3:58 and setting a world record, claiming the gold medal for the United 
States. Rulon Gardner, never a NCAA champion or a world medalist, beat 
Alexander Karelin of Russia to win gold in the super heavyweight class, 
Greco-Roman wrestling. Karelin had won gold in Seoul, Barcelona and Atlanta. 
Before this fight he had never lost in international competition, had been 
unbeaten in all competitions in 13 years, and had not surrendered a point 
in a decade. Australian Cathy Freeman won the 400 metre final in front 
of a jubilant Sydney crowd at the Olympic Stadium, ahead of Lorraine Graham 
of Jamaica and Katharine Merry of Great Britain. Freeman's win made her 
the first competitor in Olympic Games history to light the Olympic Flame 
and then go on to win a Gold Medal. The attendance at the stadium was 112,524 
- the largest attendance for any sport in Olympic Games history. In a men's 
basketball pool match between the USA and France, the USA's Vince Carter 
made one of the most famous dunks in basketball history. After getting 
the ball off a steal, the 6'6"/1.98 m Carter drove to the basket, with 
7'2"/2.18 m centre Frédéric Weis in his way. Carter jumped, spread his 
legs in midair, scraped Weis' head on the way up, and dunked. The French 
media dubbed the feat le dunk de la mort ("the dunk of death"). The Canadian 
flag at athletes' village is lowered to half-staff as Canadian athletes 
pay tribute to former prime minister Pierre Trudeau after hearing of his 
death in Montreal (Because of the time difference, it was 29 September 
in Sydney when Trudeau died). The Canadian flag flew at half-staff for 
the remainder of the Olympics, on orders from both IOC President Juan Antonio 
Samaranch and Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Lloyd Axworthy, as the 
state funeral did not take place until 3 October. Cameroon won a historic 
gold medal over Spain in the Men's Olympic Football Final at the Olympic 
Stadium. The game went to a penalty shootout, which was won by Cameroon 
5–3.[20] The last event of the games was the Men's Marathon, contested 
on a course that started in North Sydney. The event was won by Ethiopian 
Genzhnge Abera, with Eric Wananina second and Tesefe Tola, also of Ethiopia 
third. It was the first time since the 1968 Olympics that an Ethiopian 
had won the gold medal in this event. The Closing Ceremony commenced with 
Christine Anu singing her version of the Warumpi Band's song, My Island 
Home. She performed with several Aboriginal dancers atop the Geodome Stage 
in the middle of the stadium, around which several hundred umbrella and 
lampbox kids created an image of Aboriginal dreamtime. The Geodome Stage 
was used throughout the ceremony, which is a flat stage which is mechanically 
raised into the shape of a Geode. IOC President Juan Antonio Samaranch 
declared at the Closing Ceremony,[21] "I am proud and happy to proclaim 
that you have presented to the world the best Olympic Games ever." Subsequent 
Summer Olympics held in Athens, Beijing and London have been described 
by Samaranch's successor, Jacques Rogge, as "unforgettable, dream Games", 
"truly exceptional" and "happy and glorious games" respectively – the practice 
of declaring games the "best ever" having been retired after the 2000 games. 
The Olympic Hymn was sung by soprano Yvonne Kenny. The ceremony also featured 
performing artists such as Jimmy Barnes, INXS, Midnight Oil, Kylie Minogue, 
Slim Dusty, Christine Anu, Nikki Webster, John Paul Young, Men at Work, 
Melbourne-based singer Vanessa Amorosi, Tommy Emmanuel, and pop duo Savage 
Garden. The Games were then handed over to their modern birthplace, Athens, 
which succeeded Sydney as Olympic host city. Two Greek flags were raised; 
one to honour the birthplace of the Olympics, and the other to honour Athens. 
The ceremony concluded with a huge fireworks display on Sydney Harbour. 
The fireworks display itself concluded with a very low flyover of Stadium 
Australia by an RAAF F-111C which performed a dump-and-burn manoeuvre synchronised 
with the extinction of the Olympic Flame. This created the appearance of 
the flame being carried away into the sky, flying in a northeasterly direction 
out across Sydney Harbour and ultimately towards Athens in a symbolic handover. 
In honour of her gold medal win during the games, Cathy Freeman represented 
Oceania in carrying the Olympic flag, joining Archbishop Desmond Tutu (Africa), 
John Glenn (The Americas), Kazuyoshi Funaki (Asia), Lech Wałęsa (Europe), 
Jean-Michel Cousteau (Environment), Jean-Claude Killy (Sport), and Steven 
Spielberg (Culture) when it was raised again, at the XIX Olympic Winter 
Games in Salt Lake City; the opening ceremony there took place on 8 February 
2002. The 2000 Summer Olympic programme featured 300 events in the following 
28 sports: Although demonstration sports were abolished in 1992 the Sydney 
Olympics featured wheelchair racing as exhibition events on the athletics 
schedule.[22] Special quarantine conditions were introduced to allow entry 
of horses into Australia to participate in equestrian events,[23] avoiding 
the need for such events to take place elsewhere as had happened at the 
1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. These are the top ten nations that won 
medals in the 2000 Games. The ranking in this table is based on information 
provided by the International Olympic Committee.[24] Some other sources[25] 
may be inconsistent due to not taking into account all later doping cases. 
  *   Host nation (Australia) Marion Jones, winner of three gold and two 
bronze medals for the United States, relinquished them in October 2007 
after confessing that she had taken tetrahydrogestrinone (THG) from September 
2000 through July 2001.[26] The IOC formally stripped Jones and her relay 
teammates of their 5 medals, although her teammates were to be offered 
opportunity to present a case for retaining their medals.[27] Eventually, 
Jones's teammates had their medals reinstated.[28] Jones was also banned 
from competing for two years by the IAAF.[27] On 2 August 2008, the International 
Olympic Committee stripped the gold medal from the U.S. men's 4x400-meter 
relay team, after Antonio Pettigrew admitted using a banned substance.[29] 
Three of the four runners in the event final, including Pettigrew and twins 
Alvin and Calvin Harrison, and preliminary round runner Jerome Young, all 
have admitted or tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs.[29] Only 
Angelo Taylor, who also ran in preliminary rounds, and world record holder 
Michael Johnson were not implicated.[29] The medal was the fifth gold medal 
for world record holder Johnson, who stated he had already planned to return 
the medal because he felt "cheated, betrayed and let down" by Pettigrew's 
testimony.[29] The gold medal position for this event is now vacant. On 
28 April 2010, the IOC stripped China of its bronze medal from the women's 
team competition for using an underage gymnast. The medal was awarded to 
the United States.[30] On 16 January 2013, the IOC stripped Lance Armstrong 
of his bronze medal from the men's Road Time Trial.[31][32] 199 National 
Olympic Committees (NOCs) participated in the Sydney Games, two more than 
in the 1996 Summer Olympics. In addition, there were four Timorese Individual 
Olympic Athletes at the 2000 Summer Olympics. Eritrea, Federated States 
of Micronesia and Palau made their Olympic debut this year. Afghanistan 
was the only 1996 participant that did not participate in 2000, having 
been banned due to the extremist rule of the Taliban's oppression of women 
and its prohibition of sports. A number of quasi-government bodies were 
responsible for the construction, organisation and execution of the Sydney 
Games. These included: These organisations worked closely together and 
with other bodies such as: These bodies are often collectively referred 
to as the "Olympic Family". Organisation of the 2000 Summer Paralympics 
was the responsibility of SPOC the Sydney Paralympic Organising Committee. 
However much of the planning and operation of the Paralympic Games was 
outsourced to SOCOG such that most operational programmes planned both 
the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Organisation of the Games included not 
only the actual sporting events but also the management (and sometimes 
construction) of the sporting venues and surrounding precincts, the organisation 
of the Sydney Olympic Arts Festival and Olympic torch relay. The relay 
began in Greece and travelled to Australia via numerous Oceania island 
nations. The staging of the Olympics were treated as a project on a vast 
scale, with the project broken into several broad phases: The internal 
organisation of SOCOG evolved over the phases of the project and changed, 
sometimes radically, several times. In late 1998 the design was principally 
functional. The top two tiers below the CEO Sandy Hollway consisted of 
five groups (managed by Group General Managers and the Deputy CEO) and 
twenty divisions (managed by divisional General Managers), which in turn 
were further broken up into programmes and sub-programmes or projects. 
In 1999 functional areas (FAs) broke up into geographic precinct and venue 
teams (managed by Precinct Managers and Venue Managers) with functional 
area staff reporting to both the FA manager and the venue manager. Ie, 
SOCOG moved to a matrix structure. The Interstate Football division extant 
in 1998 was the first of these geographically based venue teams. The origins 
of the volunteer programme for Sydney 2000 dates back to the bid, as early 
as 1992. On 17 December 1992, a group of Sydney citizens, interested in 
the prospect of hosting the 2000 Olympic and Paralympic Games, gathered 
for a meeting at Sports House, at Wentworth Park in Sydney. In the period 
leading up to 1999, after Sydney had won the bid, the small group of volunteers 
grew from approximately 42 to around 500. These volunteers became known 
as Pioneer Volunteers. The Pioneer Volunteer programme was managed internally 
by SOCOG's Volunteer Services Department in consultation with prominent 
peak groups like The Centre for Volunteering (Volunteering and TAFE. Some 
of the Pioneer Volunteers still meet every four months, an unseen legacy 
of the games which brought together a community spirit not seen before. 
During the Olympic games tens of thousands of volunteers, the official 
figure was placed at 46,967,[33] helped everywhere at the Olympic venues 
and elsewhere in the city. They were honoured with a parade like the athletes 
had a few days before. The bid logo, designed by architect and designer 
Michael Bryce,[34] featured a colourful, stylised image of the Sydney Opera 
House. The official logo – also referred to as the "Millennium Man"[35] – 
took the image of the bid logo and combined it with a stylised image of 
a runner to form a torchbearer in motion; formed by two small yellow boomerangs 
for arms and a larger red boomerang for legs. The Olympic torch is represented 
through a blue smoke trail, which draws the iconic peaks of the Sydney 
Opera House. The design process of the official logo, as well as all other 
aspects of the Olympic Games' visual design identity, was awarded to Melbourne 
design studio FHA Image Design.[36] The Sydney Olympics brand identity 
project officially commenced in 1993. The official mascots chosen for the 
2000 Summer Olympics were Syd the platypus, Millie the echidna, and Olly 
the kookaburra[37] and were designed by Matthew Hattan and Jozef Szekeres. 
There was also an unofficial mascot, Fatso the Fat-Arsed Wombat, which 
was popularised by comedy team Roy Slaven and HG Nelson on the TV series 
The Dream with Roy and HG. Roy and HG also frequently disparaged the official 
mascots on their television program.[38][39][40] The bronze medals for 
the 2000 Olympics were created from melted down Australian 1 cent and 2 
cent coins[41][42] – which had been removed from circulation from 1992 
onward. The bouquets handed to medal recipients incorporated foliage from 
the Grevillea baileyana, also known as the white oak.[43] The International 
Olympic Committee awarded Sydney and its inhabitants with the "Pierre de 
Coubertin Trophy" in recognition of the collaboration and happiness shown 
by the people of Sydney during the event to all the athletes and visitors 
around the world.[44] The New South Wales Police Force was granted use 
of the Olympic Rings in the New South Wales Police Force Olympic Commendation 
and the New South Wales Police Force Olympic Citation for having staged 
the "safest" games ever. In Tom Clancy's thriller Rainbow Six, the 2000 
Olympic Games are the setting of a plot by eco-terrorists, who plan to 
use the games in order to spread a terrible new plague throughout the world. 
In Morris Gleitzman's children's book Toad Rage, a cane toad travels to 
