The 2000 National League Championship Series (NLCS), to determine the champion 
of Major League Baseball's National League, was played between the Central 
Division champion St. Louis Cardinals and the wild card New York Mets. 
The Mets and Cards used as a rally cry the 2000 hit song "Who Let The Dogs 
Out?" by the Baha Men. This series pitted a pair of teams that were former 
division rivals.[1] In the mid-1980s, the Mets and Cardinals fought it 
out for supremacy in the National League East over four seasons, with each 
team alternating division championships between 1985 and 1988 (the Cardinals 
in their pennant seasons of 1985 and 1987, the Mets in their championship 
season of 1986 and 1988; however, the Cardinals weren't serious contenders 
in both of those years).[1] The Cardinals, led by manager Tony La Russa, 
had played through the 2000 season in relatively businesslike fashion. 
They had won the National League Central division, and swept the Mets' 
fiercest rival, Atlanta Braves, in three games in the NL Division Series, 
making the Mets' run to the World Series much easier.[2][3] However, they 
were struck with several injuries to key players as the playoffs began, 
including slugger Mark McGwire, catcher Mike Matheny, and the sudden, unexplained 
wildness of rookie pitcher Rick Ankiel. The Mets, on the other hand, engaged 
in battle with the Braves for much of the season, eventually falling one 
game short of a division title. They matched up with the San Francisco 
Giants in the Division Series. After dropping the first game, they would 
rebound to win the following three games in heart-stopping fashion, including 
a thirteenth inning walk off home run from Benny Agbayani to win Game 3 
and an improbable one-hit shutout by Bobby Jones to win the clinching Game 
4. As noted above, the Mets thanked the Cardinals for making their run 
to the World Series much easier.[3] It was the first NLCS since 1990 not 
to feature the Braves. New York won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, October 
11, 2000 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri The Mets jumped on 
Cardinals starter Darryl Kile right from the outset. Rookie Timo Pérez 
led off the game with a double into the right field corner, and following 
a walk to Edgardo Alfonzo, scored on a double by Mike Piazza. A Robin Ventura 
sacrifice fly would plate Alfonzo, and the Mets were off and running. Piazza's 
double resulted in one of the more memorable moments of the series. Mets 
coach John Stearns was wearing a microphone for Fox Sports during the games, 
and his screams of "THE MONSTER IS OUT OF THE CAGE!!" were broadcast to 
a national audience. "The Monster is out of the cage" would become a rallying 
cry for the Mets and Piazza throughout the series. Mets starter Mike Hampton 
was sharp. Over seven innings, he limited the Cardinals to six hits and 
no runs. At the plate, Hampton helped his own cause by singling and scoring 
the Mets' third run in the fifth inning. The Mets would effectively put 
the game away in the ninth inning on home runs by Todd Zeile and Jay Payton. 
The Cardinals would plate two runs in their half of the ninth, but it would 
not be enough, and the Mets came away with the victory in the series opener. 
Thursday, October 12, 2000 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri 
The Mets would once again jump out to an early lead, this time thanks to 
the wildness of Cardinals starter Rick Ankiel. Ankiel failed to get out 
of the first inning, walking two batters, throwing two official wild pitches 
(although several other pitches sailed to the backstop), and allowing two 
runs before being removed from the game in favor of plucky reliever Britt 
Reames. The Cardinals would trim the Mets lead to 2–1 in the second inning 
against Mets starter Al Leiter. A run-scoring ground out by Eli Marrero 
would plate Shawon Dunston. The Mets would get that run back in their half 
of the third when Mike Piazza hit his first home run of the series off 
Reames. The Cardinals would knot the game at 3–3 in the fifth inning on 
run-scoring doubles by Edgar Rentería and Fernando Tatís. With the score 
still tied and two out in the top of the eighth, the Mets would put together 
a rally to take a 5–3 lead. A long single by Alfonzo would score Timo Pérez, 
and following an intentional walk to Piazza, Zeile would single home Alfonzo. 
However, John Franco and Turk Wendell failed to hold the lead in the bottom 
of the eighth, and the Cardinals would again tie the game at 5–5. However, 
as was typical of many Mets victories in the 2000 season, the Mets proved 
their ability to bounce back after coughing up a lead and would regain 
the lead in the ninth inning. After Robin Ventura reached on a Will Clark 
error, and was pinch run for by Joe McEwing, Rookie Jay Payton came through 
with his second game-winning hit of the postseason, nailing a single up 
the middle to score McEwing, as Cardinals center fielder Jim Edmonds allowed 
the ball to hop off the heel of his glove and roll behind him. Armando 
Benítez allowed a two-out walk to Jim Edmonds in the last of the ninth, 
but that was all the Cardinals were able to muster as the Mets took Game 
2, 6–5, to take a 2–0 series lead. Saturday, October 14, 2000 at Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York The Cardinals would mark their first, and only, victory 
of the NLCS with an easy 8–2 victory. Jim Edmonds hit a two-run double 
in the top of the first inning off Mets starter Rick Reed, and the Cardinals 
never looked back. The Cardinals would tack on two more runs in the third 
and another in the fourth before putting the game away with three runs 
in the fifth. Cardinals starter Andy Benes pitched eight solid innings, 
holding the Mets to two runs and six hits, while notching five strikeouts. 
More importantly, he was able to give the Cardinals' weary bullpen a bit 
of rest and put them back in the series. Sunday, October 15, 2000 at Shea 
Stadium in Queens, New York Both teams would come out with their hitting 
shoes on in this game. The Cardinals would jump out to a 2–0 lead in the 
top of the first inning, as Jim Edmonds hit a two-run home run off Mets 
Starter Bobby Jones. The lead, however, would be short-lived as the Mets 
would flex their offensive muscle against Darryl Kile in a record-setting 
display. Timo Pérez, as he had done all postseason, sparked the rally with 
a leadoff ground rule double in the bottom of the first. Edgardo Alfonzo 
followed with a double of his own, down the right field line, scoring Perez. 
Mike Piazza followed with a third double for the Mets, a long one-hop drive 
off the wall in right center. Holding on the fly, Alfonzo only made it 
to third, but Robin Ventura followed by ripping the Mets' fourth consecutive 
double, which would score both Alfonzo and Piazza, and put the Mets ahead 
3–2. One out later, Benny Agbayani launched a long double off the wall 
in left center to score Ventura. This was the Mets' fifth double of the 
inning, which set a new League Championship Series record. The Mets would 
continue to bombard Kile and the Cardinals in the second inning. With two 
outs and the bases loaded, Todd Zeile would hit yet another double for 
the Mets, scoring two more runs. Agbayani would single home a seventh Mets 
run before the inning was over. Although LaRussa had counted on Kile to 
eat up innings and rest his taxed bullpen, he was sorely mistaken. Kile 
was gone by the fourth inning, and Cardinals pitching coach Dave Duncan 
was ejected from the game while removing him. Kile's replacement, Mike 
James, would not fare much better, as Mike Piazza would launch a long home 
run, well over the Cardinals' bullpen out in deep left field to give the 
Mets an 8–3 lead after the fourth. Bobby Jones, who had thrown a magnificent 
one-hit shutout against the Giants in the division series, struggled while 
pitching with a big lead. In the fifth inning, Jones would be knocked from 
the game after surrendering an RBI double to Eric Davis, and two more runs 
for which he was responsible would score after he had exited the game. 
Fortunately for the Mets, Glendon Rusch came out of the bullpen to stop 
the Cardinals rally, and his three innings of shutout ball were key in 
the Mets' ability to eventually win the game. The Mets would put the game 
away in the sixth, thanks to two errors by Cardinals third baseman Fernando 
Tatís. Tatis' first error allowed Perez to reach base: despite the fact 
that Tatis had time, his hasty throw was low and Will Clark was unable 
to handle it. Tatis' second error, a bobble on a Ventura grounder, would 
allow Mike Bordick to score. The Mets received strong bullpen work not 
only from Rusch, but also from John Franco and Armando Benítez, who threw 
scoreless innings in the eighth and ninth respectively, to close out the 
Cardinals and give the Mets a commanding 3–1 lead in the series. This game 
would turn controversial for LaRussa, who had been bringing injured slugger 
Mark McGwire off the bench to pinch hit in key situations. Afforded several 
opportunities with the tying runs in place, LaRussa never sent McGwire 
up to hit in this game, and eventually he would run out of opportunities 
to do so. Monday, October 16, 2000 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York 
Needing a victory to close out the series at home and avoid a trip back 
to St. Louis, the Mets, behind Mike Hampton, cruised to a 7–0 victory and 
their first National League pennant since their championship season of 
1986. The Mets would once again stake themselves to an early lead, jumping 
on Cardinals starter Pat Hentgen in the first inning. Again it was Timo 
Pérez sparking the Mets, singling under the glove of Edgar Rentería, stealing 
second base and moving to third when catcher Carlos Hernández's throw went 
into center field. Edgardo Alfonzo would single home Perez. Following a 
walk to Mike Piazza, Robin Ventura would single home Alfonzo for the Mets' 
second run. The Mets would add a third run on a fielder's choice by Todd 
Zeile. The Mets would effectively put the game away in the fourth inning, 
when with two outs and the bases loaded (a situation in which Zeile found 
himself the previous night), Todd Zeile hit a long double off the wall 
in right center field, scoring three runs, giving the Mets a 6–0 lead, 
and resulting in raucous Mets fans making Shea Stadium literally shake. 
The Mets would add a final run off a Rick Ankiel wild pitch in the seventh 
inning. In yet another controversial move from Tony La Russa, Ankiel was 
inserted into the game in the bottom of the seventh. After walking Mike 
Bordick to start the inning, retired Hampton and Perez, before uncorking 
a pair of wild pitches with Edgardo Alfonzo at the plate, allowing Bordick 
to score the seventh and final run of the game. Ankiel would depart after 
walking Alfonzo. An ugly incident was averted in the bottom of the eighth 
inning, where with two outs and Benny Agbayani on first base, Jay Payton 
was hit near his left eye by a fastball from Cardinals pitcher Dave Veres. 
Payton immediately leapt up and charged Veres, and both benches and bullpens 
cleared, although Payton would be restrained by Agbayani and Bobby Valentine 
before the incident could escalate. Mets pitcher John Franco mugged for 
the fans to settle down following the incident; the crowd responded by 
chanting "NA NA, HEY HEY, GOODBYE!" at the Cardinals, and booed them off 
the field at the conclusion of the inning. Saying before the game that 
"I was looking to pitch the game of my life", Mike Hampton was nothing 
short of superb. In pitching a complete game shutout, Hampton allowed only 
three hits and one walk, and struck out eight. His efforts in this game, 
and in Game 1 would result in his being named MVP of the NLCS. Hampton 
closed out the game by getting pinch-hitter Rick Wilkins to fly out to 
center field. Mets center fielder Timo Pérez jumped up and down three times 
before making the catch, Robin Ventura hoisted Hampton in the air and a 
wild celebration was touched off, culminating in Mike Piazza leading the 
entire Mets team in a victory lap around Shea Stadium. 2000 NLCS (4–1): 
New York Mets over St. Louis Cardinals The Mets would advance to the 2000 
World Series, their first appearance in the World Series since their championship 
season of 1986. They would meet their crosstown rivals, the New York Yankees 
in the first Subway Series to take place since 1956. In five games that 
were as nip-and-tuck as baseball can be, the Yankees would come out on 
top, winning their third consecutive World Championship. The Mets would 
then muddle through several unsuccessful seasons, and would not return 
to the Postseason until 2006. Series MVP Mike Hampton would leave via free 
agency following the season, signing with the Colorado Rockies. Hampton's 
departure from New York was not well-received, as he made comments about 
the city's school system, and was routinely booed upon his reappearances 
at Shea Stadium. The Cardinals would return to the National League Championship 
Series in 2002, losing to the San Francisco Giants. They would return to 
the World Series for the first time since 1987 when they defeated the Houston 
Astros in the NLCS in 2004. The Cardinals would face the Mets again in 
the 2006 National League Championship Series, the Redbirds defeating the 
Mets this time in an epic and dramatic series that ended in seven games. 
The only player remaining on either roster from the series in 2000 was 
Cardinals center fielder Jim Edmonds. There were no 2006 Mets left on the 
