The 2000 Minnesota Twins was the last Twins team in a consecutive-string 
record of eight losing seasons. The team finished with a 69-93 record, 
with weak hitting but slightly better pitching. One would not have suspected 
that this team, led by Manager Tom Kelly, would contain the nucleus of 
Ron Gardenhire's team that will reach the postseason only two years later. 
The most solid offensive year came from the team's lone all-star representative, 
right fielder Matt Lawton. Lawton hit .305 with 13 home runs, 88 RBI, and 
23 stolen bases. Also notable this year were shortstop Cristian Guzmán's 
major league leading 20 triples (a Twins record). Like most of his career 
with the Twins, David Ortiz spent much of the 2000 season rehabbing injuries. 
He did, however, play in 88 games as the team's designated hitter. The 
Twins also experimented with Butch Huskey in the DH spot. Not surprisingly, 
this was not a successful experiment, with Huskey playing in only 39 games 
at the position. The starting rotation showed flashes of brilliance with 
Brad Radke, Eric Milton, Mark Redman, and Joe Mays in for most the year. 
Radke, Milton, and Redman all had ERAs of under 5. The fifth starter was 
uncertain, with Sean Bergman making 14 starts, and J. C. Romero making 
11. Romero's ERA of 7.02 did not suggest the dominant reliever he would 
subsequently become. Despite uncertainty as to the identity of the closer, 
the bullpen was stellar. LaTroy Hawkins, Bob Wells, Eddie Guardado, Travis 
Miller, and Héctor Carrasco all had strong years out of the bullpen. Hawkins 
led the club with 14 saves. One notable presence among the pitching staff 
was rookie Johan Santana, acquired from the Houston Astros via the Florida 
Marlins in the Rule 5 draft. In order for the Twins to keep Santana under 
Rule 5, Santana was required to stay on the major league roster for the 
entire season. He did, and his numbers did nothing to suggest he would 
one day win a Cy Young Award. His ERA was 6.49 and he struck out 64 batters 
in 86 innings. He was used almost exclusively in mop-up roles, although 
he did start five games. He spent most of the 2001 season in the minor 
leagues. The Twins' foresight in keeping him on the roster during the 2000 
season must be regarded as one of the greatest uses ever of the Rule 5 
draft. The infield was mostly steady with Ron Coomer at first, Jay Canizaro 
at second, Guzman at short, Corey Koskie at third, and Denny Hocking backing 
them all up. The 2000 season saw the inception of the "Soul Patrol" outfield 
of Jacque Jones, Torii Hunter, and Lawton. Nobody was able to establish 
himself as the everyday catcher, with Matt LeCroy playing in 48 games at 
the position, Chad Moeller in 40, Marcus Jensen in 37, A. J. Pierzynski 
in 27, and Danny Ardoin in 10. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = 
Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: 
G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
Run Average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned Run Average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned Run Average; 
