The 2000 World Series, the 96th edition of Major League Baseball (MLB)'s 
championship series,[1] featured a crosstown matchup between the two-time 
defending champions New York Yankees of the American League (AL) and the 
New York Mets of the National League (NL). The Yankees defeated the Mets 
four games to one to win their third consecutive championship and 26th 
overall. It marks, to date, the last World Series with a repeat champion. 
It was the first postseason Subway Series since 1956. The Yankees were 
in the World Series for the third consecutive season and fourth in the 
past five years, and 37th overall. This made it the most of any team in 
MLB. The Mets qualified to play in the World Series for the fourth time 
in franchise history, making this the most of any expansion franchise in 
MLB and its first since winning the 1986 World Series. Under the new Collective 
Bargaining Agreement between MLB and the new World Umpires Association 
signed in 2000, the traditional separate National League and American League 
umpiring staffs were discontinued. All umpires were now consolidated into 
the Major League Baseball umbrella, with an interim uniform used during 
the regular season. During the 2000 postseason, the new umpire uniforms 
(black and cream shirts), with the Major League Baseball logo on the caps 
and shirts, were used for the first time. The Yankees were the first team 
in baseball to three-peat as champions since the 1972–1974 Oakland Athletics 
and the first professional sports team to accomplish the feat since the 
1996–1998 Chicago Bulls. Although the Yankees were in the midst of a dynasty 
and not far removed from their dominant 114-win 1998 season, the 2000 season 
was their weakest performance since 1995. They won just 87 games in the 
regular season and lost 15 of their last 18 games, closing 2000 with a 
seven-game losing streak. Many players who were great in 1998 (Tino Martinez, 
Paul O'Neill, Scott Brosius, Chuck Knoblauch, and David Cone, had below-average 
seasons in 2000. Nonetheless, strong seasons by Jorge Posada, Derek Jeter, 
Bernie Williams, and Mariano Rivera were enough to secure the AL East by 
2.5 games. In the post-season, they defeated the Oakland Athletics in the 
AL Division Series 3-2 and the Seattle Mariners in the AL Championship 
Series 4-2 to reach the World Series. At the time, they were just the fourth 
team since 1960 to make the World Series after winning fewer than 90 games 
in the regular season.[note 1] Highlighted by MVP-caliber seasons from 
Edgardo Alfonzo and Mike Piazza as well as strong pitching performances 
from Al Leiter and Mike Hampton, the New York Mets won 94 games in the 
regular season to capture the Wild Card by 8 games (though they lost the 
NL East to the Atlanta Braves by 1 game). By winning the 1999 and 2000 
Wild Card, the Mets achieved their first back-to-back post-season appearances 
in franchise history, a feat they would match in 2015 and 2016. The Mets 
would beat the 97-game winning San Francisco Giants in the NL Division 
Series, 3–1, and the 95-game winning St. Louis Cardinals, 4–1, in the NL 
Championship Series. The 2000 World Series was the first World Series appearance 
for the Mets since their championship in 1986 and their second post-season 
appearance since 1988. AL New York Yankees (4) vs. NL New York Mets (1) 
The opener fell on two anniversaries. Twenty-five years prior, Boston Red 
Sox catcher Carlton Fisk ended Game 6 of the 1975 World Series with his 
famous home run off the left field foul pole in Fenway Park in Boston to 
beat the Cincinnati Reds and force a Game 7. Twenty years prior the Philadelphia 
Phillies won their first World Series title, defeating the Kansas City 
Royals in six games. Game 1 was a match-up between postseason veterans 
Al Leiter and Andy Pettitte. Both starters pitched scoreless until the 
sixth inning when David Justice's two-run double put the Yankees on top. 
In the top half of the seventh, Pettitte would quickly lose the lead on 
a barrage of hits, the last by Edgardo Alfonzo to put the Mets on top. 
However, the Yankees would rally to tie the game on Chuck Knoblauch's sacrifice 
fly against Mets closer Armando Benítez. José Vizcaíno would drive in Tino 
Martinez in the twelfth inning with his fourth hit of the game to win it 
for the Yankees. In Game 2 Roger Clemens started for the Yankees. Earlier 
in the year during regular season Interleague play, Clemens had hit Mets 
catcher Mike Piazza in the head with a fastball that resulted in Piazza 
getting a concussion and going on the disabled list. Game 2 still saw its 
share of controversy with Clemens and Piazza. Early in the game during 
Piazza's first at bat, Clemens pitch had shattered Piazza's bat. The ball 
went foul, but a sharp edge of the bat came towards Clemens. Clemens came 
off the mound and threw the bat towards the baseline, almost hitting the 
running Piazza. Piazza was baffled by Clemens' actions and many lambasted 
Clemens for them. Clemens, after the game, explained himself saying he 
did not see Piazza running and threw the bat because he was pumped up with 
nervous energy and initially charged the incoming broken bat, believing 
it to be the ball at first. Piazza hit a home run off reliever Jeff Nelson 
later in the game, but in the end the Yankees came away with a 6–5 win. 
The Yankees' Game 2 win tied the longest AL winning streak in the World 
Series at ten games (the AL had previously won ten straight 1927–29 and 
again 1937–40). The Mets broke open a 2–2 tie in the eighth inning to go 
ahead and eventually win the game. This ended the Yankees' fourteen-game 
winning streak in World Series play dating back to the 1996 World Series. 
Yankee hurler Orlando "El Duque" Hernandez earned the loss, snapping his 
previous undefeated postseason record of 6–0. After snapping the Yankees' 
14-game winning streak in the World Series against postseason veteran Orlando 
Hernandez in Game 3, some analysts predicted that the tide had changed, 
that the Mets (down 2–1 in the Series) were now geared with enough momentum 
to make a comeback. Those fancies ceased literally after the first pitch, 
which Jeter hit far into the left field bleachers to put the Yankees on 
top. It was the sixteenth lead-off homer in World Series history, and incidentally 
marked a thirteen-game hitting streak in the World Series for Jeter. The 
Yankees never relinquished their lead following this home run. They secured 
a dominant 3–1 lead in the Series, with elite pitchers Andy Pettite and 
Roger Clemens poised for Games 5 and 6 (if necessary). With this win, the 
Yankees had effectively killed all hope for the Mets.[5] A now-iconic moment 
in Yankees lore, footage of Jeter's lead off home run, currently serves 
as the background for the title screen of YES Network's Yankeeography series.[7] 
Looking to clinch, the Yankees scored first on a Bernie Williams solo home 
run in the second inning. However, the Mets responded with two unearned 
runs off Andy Pettitte in the bottom of the inning. In the top of the sixth, 
Derek Jeter homered to tie the game at 2–2. The Series effectively ended 
in the top of the ninth. Mets ace Al Leiter had a pitch count that was 
approaching 140, but manager Bobby Valentine insisted that he would live 
or die with Leiter. Yankee infielder Luis Sojo hit a two-out single off 
Leiter, and the throw from center field hit baserunner Jorge Posada as 
he was sliding into home plate. The ball went into the Yankees' dugout, 
allowing Scott Brosius to score, as well, and Luis Sojo to take third base, 
putting the Yankees on top 4–2. In the bottom of the ninth, the Mets' best 
hitter Mike Piazza dramatically faced the Yankees' closer Mariano Rivera 
as the tying run with two outs. Piazza hit a deep fly ball, but it was 
caught in the deepest part of the ballpark by Bernie Williams to end the 
game at exactly midnight to give the Yankees their third straight world 
title and fourth in five years. Of Piazza's fly ball, many thought it was 
a home run. Yankees manager Joe Torre said: "It was probably the most scared 
I've been when Mike hit that ball ... I screamed, 'No!' Because any time 
he hits a ball in the air, it's a home run in my mind. I saw Bernie trotting 
over for that. I said, 'Wow! I guess I misread that one.' "[8] Yankees 
catcher Jorge Posada similarly said, years later: “I remember it was a 
loud sound ... It was a pitch that got too much of the plate. It was supposed 
to be inside. I remember the swing, I remember Mo’s reaction. And then 
I looked at the ball and I see Bernie running after it, and then he stopped. 
And I’m like, O.K., we’re good.”[9] However, Bernie Williams, after the 
game, with champagne pouring over him, said, "I knew right away ... I knew 
he didn't hit it.[10]" Likewise, Mariano Rivera in his last season (2013) 
was asked if he thought Piazza had hit a home run and answered, "No ... 
He didn't hit it with the sweet spot." [11] Game 5 was the final World 
Series game at Shea Stadium (1969, 1973, 1986 and 2000). This would also 
be the only time that visiting teams won a World Series at Shea Stadium 
(the Mets lost in 1973 in Oakland). This World Series provided some measure 
of revenge for Roger Clemens. He won the World Series in the same stadium 
he lost it at in 1986 while with the Yankees' fierce rival, the Boston 
Red Sox. Incidentally, members of the 1986 Mets World Series team threw 
out the ceremonial first pitch before the game.[12][13][14] 2000 World 
Series (4–1): New York Yankees (A.L.) over New York Mets (N.L.) 2000 would 
be the last World Series title the Yankees would win for nine years, though 
they would remain competitive each year.[note 2] They lost the 2001 World 
Series to the Arizona Diamondbacks in seven games and the 2003 World Series 
to the Florida Marlins in six games. The 2000 World Series was the last 
hurrah for this Mets core that consisted of Piazza, Leiter, Franco, Alfonzo, 
Ventura, and manager Bobby Valentine. After four consecutive seasons of 
competitive baseball,[note 3] the Mets would average just 74 wins in the 
next four seasons, including a 95-loss season in 2003 and two last-place 
finishes in the NL East (2002 and 2003). After 2002, Bobby Valentine and 
nearly all of the coaching staff were fired, and by 2005, Mike Piazza was 
the only remnant from the 2000 team; he would leave the Mets after that 
season. The Mets have made three postseason appearances since then. The 
first occurred in 2006, when they lost the NLCS to the eventual champions, 
the St. Louis Cardinals; the second came in 2015, as NL East champions, 
when they made a return trip to the World Series and lost to the Kansas 
City Royals (also in five games); the third took place in 2016 when they 
lost to the San Francisco Giants in the National League Wild Card game. 
This was the final World Series the New York Yankees won while playing 
at the old Yankee Stadium (as previously mentioned, they lost in 2001 and 
again in 2003) and the final World Series played at Shea Stadium. Both 
stadiums closed at the end of the 2008 Major League Baseball season. The 
first season at the new Yankee Stadium (2009) ended with the Yankees winning 
their 27th; meanwhile, the 2015 New York Mets hosted their first-ever World 
Series at Citi Field, where they lost to the Kansas City Royals in five 
games. Derek Jeter was the last active player involved in the 2000 World 
Series. He retired following the 2014 season. Some players, like Robin 
Ventura and Joe McEwing, currently work as coaches. The World Series telecast 
on Fox was the first year of their exclusive coverage of the Fall Classic 
(although the new contract would technically begin the next year). As in 
previous World Series televised by the network, Joe Buck provided the play-by-play 
with Bob Brenly and Tim McCarver (himself a Yankees broadcaster and a former 
Mets broadcaster) as color commentators. Game 5 of the series was Brenly's 
last broadcast for Fox, as he left to become manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks 
and, incidentally, go on to defeat the Yankees in the World Series the 
following year. Brenly returned to broadcasting in 2005 as part of the 
Chicago Cubs broadcasts on CSN Chicago and WGN, and also has called postseason 
games for TBS. ESPN Radio's coverage was without Joe Morgan for a second 
consecutive year for reasons that remain unclear. Instead, Jon Miller shared 
the booth with Dave Campbell, ESPN Radio's Sunday Night Baseball color 
man. In 1999, Morgan was absent from ESPN Radio's World Series coverage 
because he was working the television broadcasts with Bob Costas on NBC. 
During Game 3, Miller was forced to leave the booth after the top of the 
first inning due to an upper respiratory infection. Charley Steiner, serving 
as a field reporter for the network, filled in on play-by-play for the 
rest of the game; Miller resumed his duties in Game 4 of the Series.[16] 
The World Series drew an average of 12.4 national rating and a 21% share 
of the audience, down 22.5% from the previous year. The Series drew well 
in the New York metropolitan area, but nationally, it was, at the time, 
the lowest-rated World Series in history by a solid margin. Many contemporary 
analysts argued that the ratings slide was due to lack of interest outside 
of New York City.[17] Others thought the ratings slide was related to the 
television viewing audience becoming more fragmented in the wake of cable 
television. Online streaming media services were in their infancy and were 
a non-factor in 2000. Three of the next four World Series (2001, 2003 and 
2004) were all rated higher than the 2000 World Series. Following the Boston 
Red Sox' 86-year championship drought ending with a victory in the 2004 
World Series, the event has seen a decline in ratings; every World Series 
from 2005 to 2013 has drawn lower ratings (sometimes substantially lower) 
than the 2000 Series. On October 11, 2005, A&E Home Video released The 
New York Yankees Fall Classic Collectors Edition (1996–2001) DVD set. Game 
5 of the 2000 World Series is included in the set. The entire series was 
