The 2000 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2000 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 3, and ended on 
Sunday, October 8, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. The team with 
the best record was assigned to play the wild card team, unless they were 
in the same division. The Athletics were not required to make up their 
one remaining game against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in order to win the 
Western Division title over Seattle; as both teams had qualified for the 
postseason, Oakland was awarded the division title in the event of a tie 
on the basis of a 9–4 advantage in head-to-head play. The Mariners and 
the defending World Series champion Yankees went on to meet in the AL Championship 
Series for the right to advance to the 2000 World Series against the National 
League champion New York Mets. Seattle won the series, 3–0. New York won 
the series, 3–2. The Seattle Mariners returned to the postseason to avenge 
two postseason failures in the 1990s. The Chicago White Sox returned to 
the postseason for the first time since 1993. This series ended with a 
game-winning bunt by Carlos Guillén in Game 3. Comiskey Park (II) in Chicago 
In Game 1, Freddy García faced Jim Parque. Parque struggled early and often, 
allowing a single to Rickey Henderson and hitting Mike Cameron with a pitch 
to open the game. An RBI single by Alex Rodriguez that moved Cameron to 
third and a forceout by John Olerud put the Mariners up 2–0. Then Joe Oliver's 
leadoff homer made it 3–0 in the second. However, in the bottom half, Paul 
Konerko drew a leadoff walk, moved to second on a groundout and scored 
on a triple by Chris Singleton, who then scored on a wild pitch by Garcia 
to make it a one-run game. In the bottom of the third, the Mariners' lead 
evaporated when Ray Durham homered to tie it, then Jose Valentin walked 
before Magglio Ordóñez tripled in the go-ahead run. The game remained 4–3 
until the seventh when Mike Cameron hit the bases-loaded game-tying single 
off of Bob Howry. That hit almost gave the Mariners the lead, but David 
Bell was out at home trying to score the go-ahead run. The game moved to 
extra innings. In the top of the tenth, Cameron hit a leadoff single off 
of Keith Foulke, then two outs later, back-to-back homers by Edgar Martínez 
and John Olerud gave the Mariners a 7–4 lead. That lead would stand as 
Kazuhiro Sasaki got the save. Comiskey Park (II) in Chicago The White Sox 
struck first with back-to-back leadoff doubles by Ray Durham and Jose Valentin 
off of Paul Abbott, but the Mariners loaded the bases in the second off 
of Mike Sirotka on a double, walk, and hit-by-pitch when David Bell's single 
and Dan Wilson's sacrifice fly scored a run each, putting them up 2−1. 
The White Sox tied the game in the third on Carlos Lee's sacrifice fly, 
but the Mariners regained the lead on Jay Buhner's home run in the fourth. 
Next inning, Rickey Henderson drew a leadoff walk, moved to second on a 
sacrifice bunt, stole third, and scored on Alex Rodriguez's groundout to 
make it 4−2 Mariners. In the ninth, they extended the lead to 5−2 on Mike 
Cameron's RBI single off of Mark Buehrle that scored Mark McLemore from 
third, the run charged to Bill Simas. Kazuhiro Sasaki struck out all three 
batters he faced in the bottom of the inning as the Mariners went up 2−0 
in the series heading to Seattle. Safeco Field in Seattle, Washington In 
Game 3, James Baldwin faced Aaron Sele in the clincher. The White Sox took 
an early 1–0 lead in the second on a sacrifice fly by Herbert Perry. In 
the bottom of the fourth, the Mariners tied the game on an RBI single by 
Stan Javier. A pitcher's duel took place and both teams struggled to score. 
The game moved to the bottom of the ninth tied at one. John Olerud singled 
to the pitcher, but it hit the pitcher in the stomach, allowing Olerud 
to move to second. Rickey Henderson pinch ran for Olerud. Then Javier's 
sacrifice bunt moved Henderson onto third. The White Sox walked David Bell 
and then pinch hitter Carlos Guillén drove in the series-winning run with 
a bunt past a diving Frank Thomas. 2000 ALDS (3–0): Seattle Mariners over 
Chicago White Sox Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California In 
Game 2 Jorge Posada singled with two outs in the second inning off of Gil 
Heredia, then back-to-back RBI doubles by Luis Sojo and Scott Brosius put 
the Yankees up 2−0. Roger Clemens walked Eric Chavez to lead off the fifth 
and allowed a subsequent single to Jeremy Giambi. Ramon Hernandez's RBI 
single cut the Yankees' lead to 2−1, then one out later, Randy Velarde's 
RBI single tied the game before a wild pitch to Jason Giambi put the A's 
up 3−2. Bernie Williams doubled to lead off the top of the sixth, moved 
to second on a groundout and scored on Tino Martinez's sacrifice fly to 
tie the game, but, in the bottom of the inning, Chavez and Giambi hit back-to-back 
two-out singles before Hernandez's double scored Chavez with Giambi thrown 
out at home to end the inning with the A's up 4−3. They got an insurance 
run in the eighth off of Mike Stanton when Miguel Tejada hit a leadoff 
single, moved to second on a wild pitch and scored on Chavez's single. 
Jason Isringhausen retired the Yankees in order in the ninth as the A's 
5−3 win put them up 1−0 in the series. Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, 
California In Game 2, Andy Pettitte pitched 7 2/3 shutout innings, allowing 
five hits and one walk. Mariano Rivera pitched 1 1/3 shutout innings for 
the save. Oakland's Kevin Appier pitched five shutout innings before allowing 
runners on first and third with two outs in the sixth before Glenallen 
Hill's single scored a run, then Luis Sojo's double scored two more to 
put the Yankees up 3−0. They made it 4−0 in the ninth on Clay Bellinger's 
RBI double with runners on first and third off of Jeff Tam. The series 
was tied 1−1 heading to New York. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York 
In Game 3, the A's got runners on first and second on two walks off of 
Orlando Hernandez in the second inning when Jeremy Giambi's RBI single 
put them up 1−0, but, in the bottom of the inning, the Yankees got runners 
on first and third with no outs off of Tim Hudson when Glenallen Hill's 
fielder's choice tied the game. One out later, Scott Brosius walked to 
load the bases before Derek Jeter's RBI single put the Yankees up 2−1. 
In the fourth, Luis Sojo drew a leadoff walk, moved to third on an error, 
and scored on Jeter's forceout. Terrence Long's home run in the fifth cut 
the Yankees' lead to one. The Yankees extended their lead to 4−2 in the 
eighth on Sojo's single that scored Tino Martinez from second with Sojo 
tagged out at second to end the inning. Hudson pitched a complete game 
in a losing effort as Mariano Rivera pitched a scoreless ninth for the 
save, and the Yankees were one win away from the ALCS. Yankee Stadium (I) 
in Bronx, New York In Game 4, Oakland, in a must-win situation, struck 
first when after two walks, Olmedo Saenz's three-run home run off of Roger 
Clemens gave them a 3−0 first-inning lead. In the sixth, Clemens allowed 
a leadoff single to Eric Chavez and subsequent double to Miguel Tejada 
before both men scored on Ben Grieve's single. Mike Stanton relieved Clemens 
and allowed a single to Jeremy Giambi before Grieve scored on Ramon Hernandez's 
forceout to put the A's up 6−0. The Yankees scored their only run of the 
game in the bottom of the inning on Jorge Posada's double with two on off 
of Barry Zito. Tejada drew a leadoff walk off of Randy Choate in the eighth 
and stole second. After Ben Grieve struck out, Ryan Christenson's RBI single 
off of Dwight Gooden made it 7−1 Oakland. They loaded the bases in the 
ninth with no outs on a double, walk, and hit-by-pitch. Adam Piatt relieved 
Gooden and allowed a two-run double to Chavez, RBI groundout to Tejada, 
and RBI single to Bo Porter. Doug Jones pitched a scoreless bottom of the 
ninth as the Athletics' 11−1 blowout win forced a Game 5 in Oakland. Network 
Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California In Game 5, the Yankees loaded 
the bases in the first inning on a walk and two singles when Bernie Williams's 
sacrifice fly put them up 1−0. David Justice walked to reload the bases 
before Tino Martinez cleared them with a double. After Jorge Posada singled, 
Oakland starter Gil Heredia was relieved by Jeff Tam, who allowed a sacrifice 
fly to Luis Sojo, then Scott Brosius singled before Chuck Knoblauch's RBI 
single made it 6−0 Yankees. The A's loaded the bases in the second on two 
singles and a walk off of Andy Pettitte when Randy Velarde's two-run single 
made it 6−2 Yankees. Next inning, Miguel Tejada singled with one out and 
scored on Eric Chavez's double, but the Yankees got that run back on Justice's 
home run in the fourth off of Kevin Appier. In the bottom of the inning, 
the A's loaded the bases on two singles and a walk when back-to-back sacrifice 
flies by Jason Giambi and Olmedo Saenz made it 7−5 Yankees. After allowing 
a single to Tejada, Pettitte was relieved by Mike Stanton, who pitched 
two shutout innings in relief to get the win. Neither team scored for the 
rest of the game as the Yankees' win advanced them to the ALCS. 2000 ALDS 
