The 2000 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a matchup between 
the East Division champion New York Yankees and the Wild Card Seattle Mariners. 
The Yankees had advanced to the Series after beating the West Division 
champion Oakland Athletics in the ALDS three games to two and the Mariners 
advanced by beating the Central Division champion Chicago White Sox three 
games to none. The Yankees won the Series four games to two and went on 
to defeat the New York Mets in the World Series. New York won the series, 
4–2. Tuesday, October 10, 2000 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York 
Game 1 at Yankee Stadium started as a pitchers' duel between Mariners' 
Freddy García and Yankees' Denny Neagle. Neither team would score until 
the top of the fifth when Mark McLemore hit a two-out ground rule double 
off Neagle before scoring on a Rickey Henderson single. Alex Rodriguez 
homered in the sixth to make it 2–0 Mariners. The Yankees could not score 
any runs off García or three Mariner relievers and Seattle took a 1–0 series 
lead. Wednesday, October 11, 2000 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York 
In Game 2, the Yankees' offense was again dead silent, this time against 
Mariner starter John Halama and reliever José Paniagua. Yankees starter 
Orlando Hernández pitched eight innings giving up just one run, a John 
Olerud single in the third that scored Mike Cameron, on six hits, but was 
set to get the loss until the Yankees' offense exploded in the eighth against 
Arthur Rhodes and José Mesa. David Justice led off with a double before 
scoring on a Bernie Williams single to tie the game. Back-to-back singles 
by Tino Martinez and Jorge Posada then gave the Yankees 2–1 lead. Paul 
O'Neil then hit a sacrifice fly to make a 3–1 game. Mesa replaced Rhodes 
pitching and gave up a single to Luis Sojo. After Posada was caught stealing 
for the second out, José Vizcaíno doubled to score Sojo and make it 4–1 
Yankees. Vizcaíno would score on a Chuck Knoblauch single before Derek 
Jeter homered to make it a 7–1 Yankees lead. Mariano Rivera pitched a scoreless 
ninth and the series was tied 1–1 head to Seattle. Friday, October 13, 
2000 at Safeco Field in Seattle, Washington The Mariners struck first in 
Game 3 when Edgar Martínez hit an RBI single off Andy Pettitte that scored 
Mike Cameron from third. However, the Yankees responded with back-to-back 
home runs from Bernie Williams and Tino Martinez to lead off the second 
off Aaron Sele. The Yankees extended their lead to 3–1 when Derek Jeter 
scored on a double from Chuck Knoblauch. The Mariners made it a one-run 
game when Rickey Henderson scored on a single from Cameron in the fifth, 
but the Yankees got that run back the next inning on a Paul O'Neil single 
to score Bernie Williams. The Yankees scored four runs in the ninth off 
Brett Tomko to make it an 8–2 game while Mariano Rivera pitched a scoreless 
ninth. Saturday, October 14, 2000 at Safeco Field in Seattle, Washington 
In one of the most dominant pitching performances in postseason history 
up to that point, Yankees starter Roger Clemens struck out an ALCS-record 
fifteen batters in a complete game one-hit shutout of the Mariners. He 
carried a no-hitter into the seventh inning when Al Martin lined a leadoff 
double off first baseman Tino Martinez's glove for the Mariners' only hit 
of the game. Clemens got offensive support when Derek Jeter hit a three-run 
home run off Paul Abbott in the fifth and David Justice hit a two-run home 
run off José Mesa in the eighth. The Yankees won 5–0 and were just one 
win away from the World Series. Sunday, October 15, 2000 at Safeco Field 
in Seattle, Washington The Mariners struck first in Game 5 when Mike Cameron 
scored on a sacrifice fly from John Olerud off Denny Neagle in the first. 
The Yankees responded in the fourth when Luis Sojo hit a two-run double 
off Freddy García that scored Tino Martinez and Jorge Posada. Their 2–1 
lead stayed until the fifth when the Mariners put runners on second and 
third with one out. Neagle was replaced with Jeff Nelson, who gave up a 
single to Alex Rodriguez that scored both runners on base, Mark McLemore 
and Rickey Henderson, giving the Mariners a 3–2 lead. Nelson then gave 
up back-to-back home runs to Edgar Martínez and John Olerud to make a 6–2 
Mariners' lead. Neither team would score afterwards, forcing a Game 6 at 
Yankee Stadium. Neagle accounted for the loss in the two games of the series 
that Seattle won and García beat him each time. Tuesday, October 17, 2000 
at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York The Mariners again struck first 
in Game 6, taking a 2–0 lead in the first when Yankees starter Orlando 
Hernández gave up back-to-back doubles to Alex Rodriguez and Edgar Martínez. 
Seattle made it 4–0 when Carlos Guillen hit a two-run home run in the fourth. 
The Yankees responded in the bottom of the inning when Jorge Posada hit 
a double off John Halama that scored David Justice and Bernie Williams. 
Posada then scored on a Paul O'Neil single to make it a 4–3 game. The score 
stayed that way until the bottom of the seventh when the Yankees put runners 
on first and third with one out off José Paniagua, who was replaced with 
Arthur Rhodes. Rhodes gave up a three-run home run to David Justice to 
give the Yankees a 6–4 lead. They would score three more runs in that inning 
to make a 9–4 game. In the top of the eighth, Alex Rodriguez led off with 
a home run off Hernández. After walking Edgar Martínez, Hernández was replaced 
with Mariano Rivera, who gave up a two-run double to Mark McLemore before 
striking out Jay Buhner to end the inning. Rivera then pitched a scoreless 
ninth as the Yankees won 9–7 and advance to the World Series. 2000 ALCS 
(4–2): New York Yankees over Seattle Mariners On September 26, 2000, NBC 
declined to renew its broadcast agreement with Major League Baseball. After 
fifty seasons — 1947–1989 and 1994–2000 — Game 6 is the last baseball game 
that NBC has televised to date. In Houston, due to the coverage of the 
2000 Presidential Debate, KPRC-TV elected to carry NBC News' coverage of 
the debate while KNWS-TV carried NBC's final baseball game. Alex Rodriguez 
would leave the Mariners for the Texas Rangers after this series for a 
ten-year, $250 million deal. Three seasons later, Rodriguez was traded 
to the Yankees, where he remained until 2016. The Yankees would go on to 
beat the New York Mets in the first Subway Series since 1956, four games 
to one. The Mariners returned to the ALCS the following season, after they 
broke the Yankees' record for regular season wins with 116. However, they 
fared worse in a rematch with the Yankees and were dispatched in five games. 
