The 2000 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2000 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 3, and ended on 
Sunday, October 8, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They were: 
The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 1, 
2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. The Cardinals 
were awarded home field advantage rather than the Braves due to their 4–3 
advantage in head-to-head play. The Cardinals and Mets went on to meet 
in the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Mets beat the Cardinals four 
games to one to advance to the 2000 World Series, where they would face 
the American League champion New York Yankees. With their division rival 
Atlanta Braves losing to the Cardinals, the Mets' run to the World Series 
became much easier.[1][2] New York won the series, 3–1. St. Louis won the 
series, 3–0. Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California In the first 
ever playoff game at Pacific Bell Park, Giants Pitcher Liván Hernández 
allowed one run and five hits over a 7 2⁄3 inning effort, backed by a three-run 
home run by Ellis Burks as the Giants cruised to an easy 5–1 victory. Pacific 
Bell Park in San Francisco, California Behind strong pitching from Al Leiter 
and a two-run home run from Edgardo Alfonzo in the top of the ninth inning, 
the Mets carried a 4–1 lead into the last of the ninth. However, following 
a double by Barry Bonds and a single from Jeff Kent, pinch hitter J. T. 
Snow hit a towering three-run home run off of Mets reliever Armando Benítez 
to tie the game at four. The Mets would bounce back in the tenth inning, 
with Rookie Jay Payton singling home Darryl Hamilton with two out in the 
inning. The Giants would threaten again, and had the tying run on with 
two out and Bonds at the plate, but John Franco struck out Bonds looking 
on a wicked 3–2 changeup, giving the Mets a heart-stopping 5–4 victory 
and a 1–1 series moving to New York. Shea Stadium in Queens, New York Giants 
starting pitcher Russ Ortiz stifled the Mets early, and had a no-hitter 
entering the sixth inning. He was staked to a 2–0 lead thanks to RBI singles 
from Bobby Estalella and Marvin Benard. In the sixth, the Mets broke through. 
Rookie Timo Pérez, forced into action due to a Game 1 injury to starting 
right fielder Derek Bell, blooped a single over third base to score Mike 
Bordick and put the Mets on the scoreboard. Two innings later, with the 
Mets still down by one run, pinch hitter Lenny Harris barely beat out the 
return throw on what would have been an inning-ending double play. The 
Giants brought in closer Robb Nen, who had not blown a save since July 
to face Edgardo Alfonzo. However, Alfonzo ended that streak by ripping 
a double into the left field corner to score Harris and tie the game. The 
game continued on into extra innings, where both teams mounted scoring 
threats, only to be turned away each time. The game finally ended when 
Benny Agbayani blasted a home run into the left field bleachers with one 
out in the thirteenth inning, capping another memorable postseason game 
at Shea Stadium and putting the Mets ahead in the series two games to one. 
Shea Stadium in Queens, New York In perhaps the most unlikely great pitching 
performance in recent memory, Bobby Jones, the Mets' fourth starter, completely 
shut down the Giants offense, hurling a masterful one-hit shutout to clinch 
the series for the Mets. Mixing 85 MPH fastballs and 65 MPH curveballs, 
Jones thoroughly baffled Giant hitters all afternoon, setting down the 
side in order in eight of nine innings. Jeff Kent's leadoff double in the 
fifth inning would be the Giants' only hit. Jones would get all the offense 
he would need on Robin Ventura's two-run home run in the first inning. 
Jones got Barry Bonds to fly out to center to end the game, and set off 
a raucous celebration at Shea Stadium. Mets announcer Bob Murphy would 
say following the final out, The one-hitter set a Mets' record for fewest 
hits allowed in a post-season complete game, besting Jon Matlack's two-hitter 
in the 1973 NLCS. It was also the fewest hits allowed in a League Division 
Series complete game until Roy Halladay's no-hitter in 2010. 2000 NLDS 
(3–1): New York Mets over San Francisco Giants Busch Stadium (II) in St. 
Louis, Missouri It was a poorly pitched game for both starters, both of 
whom would last four innings or less. Greg Maddux faced Rick Ankiel. In 
the bottom of the first, Maddux allowed four straight hits to lead off 
the inning. Then key errors allowed the floodgates to open as the Cardinals 
struck for five hits and six runs in the inning. But the Braves would make 
a game of it in the top of the third when Ankiel's control slipped away. 
He walked Maddux, then threw four wild pitches. The Braves would strike 
for four runs, a rally capped by Walt Weiss's two-run single. Jim Edmonds 
would homer to make it 7–4 Cardinals. After the fourth, Maddux was done. 
The Braves would rally in the ninth and put the tying runs on but would 
ultimately fall short. Mike James would get the win in relief of Ankiel. 
The most notable statistic of the game was the men left on base, as both 
teams stranded eleven men. Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri Tom 
Glavine faced Darryl Kile; Kile hoped to give the Cards a big 2–0 lead 
in the series. Things certainly didn't look good in the top of the first 
when the Braves scratched out two runs on a single and a groundout, but 
the Cardinals struck back against Glavine. Will Clark would hit a three-run 
homer in the bottom half to put the Cards up for good. Carlos Hernández 
homered in the second, then Ray Lankford's two-run double gave the Cardinals 
a commanding 7–2 lead in the third. Glavine was finished and the Braves 
would ultimately change pitchers five times. It was another bad outing 
by a Cy Young Award-winning pitcher. The Cardinals would go on to win 10–4 
and take a 2–0 lead in the series. Turner Field in Atlanta The Cardinals 
sent Garrett Stephenson to the mound to finish off the Braves. The Braves' 
last hope was Kevin Millwood. Fernando Viña's leadoff homer silenced the 
Atlanta crowd, aside from the thousands of Cardinals fans in attendance, 
in the first. Andrés Galarraga would single in a run to tie the game in 
the bottom half, but Millwood would also struggle, despite having pitched 
a one-hitter in the playoffs the year before. Jim Edmonds's two-run homer 
into the Atlanta bullpen in the third put the Cards in front for good. 
Edmonds' homer epitomized what they had done to the Braves throughout the 
series: barrage their bullpen with homers. Stephenson would leave the game 
due to tendinitis. Britt Reames won the game in relief as errors and a 
sloppy bullpen allowed four more runs. Both teams would change pitchers 
four times. Paul Bako would strike out to end the series. The Cardinals' 
win in Game 3 put the Braves out of the NLCS for the first time since 1991. 
