The 2001 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2001 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 9, and ended on 
Monday, October 15, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. Although the 
team with the best record was normally intended to play the wild card team, 
the Mariners played the Indians, rather than the wild card Athletics, because 
the Mariners and Athletics are in the same division. The Seattle Mariners 
and New York Yankees went on to meet in the AL Championship Series (ALCS). 
The Yankees became the American League champion, and lost to the National 
League champion Arizona Diamondbacks in the 2001 World Series. Seattle 
won the series, 3–2. New York won the series, 3–2. Safeco Field in Seattle, 
Washington In Game 1, the Indians held the Mariners scoreless. Bartolo 
Colón pitched brilliantly, giving up six hits and no runs in eight innings 
while fanning 10. The highlight for Seattle was the hitting performance 
of Ichiro Suzuki, who went 3 for 4 in his playoff debut. Safeco Field in 
Seattle, Washington In the first inning, Seattle made up for Game 1 by 
scoring four runs in the first inning, headlined by two two-run blasts 
by Mike Cameron and Edgar Martínez. David Bell helped the cause with an 
insurance homer in the fifth. Jamie Moyer kept the Indians at bay with 
one run in six innings, and the trio of Jeff Nelson, Arthur Rhodes, and 
Kazuhiro Sasaki sealed the deal out of the bullpen. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio The Mariners drew first blood early on after a walk by John Olerud 
drove in a run. Seattle left the bases loaded in that inning, but it didn't 
matter as Cleveland overwhelmed the Mariners by winning 17–2. Starter Aaron 
Sele was knocked out after giving up four runs in two innings, but his 
replacement, Paul Abbott, was far worse. In three-plus innings, Abbott 
surrendered eight runs on nine hits, including three home runs by Juan 
González, Kenny Lofton, and Jim Thome. On the pitching side for the Indians, 
CC Sabathia gave up just two runs in six innings, and four more pitchers 
pitched scoreless ball the rest of the way. Up two games to one in this 
series, the Indians were ready to pull one of the greatest upsets in sports 
history. Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio The Mariners, in a do-or-die spot, 
called on Freddy García to go up against Bartolo Colón in a Game 1 rematch. 
The Mariners trailed 1–0 going into the seventh inning, but staved off 
elimination thanks to some clutch hits by David Bell, Ichiro Suzuki, and 
Mark McLemore, resulting in a three-run seventh inning. Seattle tacked 
on some insurance runs in the eighth and ninth to tie the series at two 
games apiece and forced it back to Safeco for Game 5. Safeco Field in Seattle, 
Washington In a must-win game for both sides, Seattle came out on top and 
advanced to the ALCS for the third time in their history, and avenged their 
loss to the Indians in the 1995 ALCS. The difference came in the second 
inning, when Mark McLemore knocked in two runs on a single. Jamie Moyer 
got his second win of the series by pitching six innings while giving up 
only one run. For the Indians, it marked the third time in six seasons 
they had lost the ALDS, following defeats in 1996 and 1999. Cleveland, 
a perennial playoff team throughout the late 1990s, would not return to 
the postseason until 2007. 2001 ALDS (3–2): Seattle Mariners over Cleveland 
Indians Yankees win series 3–2, becoming the first team in MLB history 
to win the ALDS after dropping the first two games at home. Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Roger Clemens, coming off a 20–3 regular season 
record, struggled in Game 1, lasting four innings while giving up two runs. 
Johnny Damon singled to lead off the first, stole second, moved to third 
on a groundout, and scored on Jason Giambi's sacrifice fly. Terrence Long 
then homered in the fourth. The Yankees got on the board in the fifth when 
Alfonso Soriano singled with two outs off of Mark Mulder, stole second, 
and scored on Chuck Knoblauch's single. Sterling Hitchcock, Clemens' replacement, 
gave up two more runs. Solo home runs to Jason Giambi in the seventh, and 
Terrence Long's second of the game in the eighth inning, which contributed 
to Oakland's Game 1 win. Jay Witasick relieved Hitchcock and walked Ramón 
Hernández. Frank Menechino hit into a forceout, moved to third on Damon's 
single and scored on Miguel Tejada's sacrifice fly. The Yankees trailed 
5–1 in the bottom of the eighth when Bernie Williams singled with one out 
off of Jim Mecir, then Tino Martinez blasted a two-run home run that brought 
them within two. Jason Isringhausen, however, sat the Yankees down in order 
in the bottom of the ninth for Oakland. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New 
York Andy Pettitte pitched well in Game 2, giving up one run in six innings, 
but Tim Hudson pitched better, pitching eight shutout innings. Oakland 
scored first on a Ron Gant homer in the fourth and tacked on an insurance 
run off Mariano Rivera in the top of the ninth when Johnny Damon tripled 
with one out and scored on Scott Brosius's error. Jason Isringhausen got 
the save for the second straight night as the Yankees got the first two 
runners on base before wasting three opportunities to tie or win it. The 
Yankees were now in a two games to none hole and the Athletics were just 
one win away from advancing to the ALCS for the first time since 1992. 
Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California This series is notable 
for a defensive play in the seventh inning of Game 3. With Oakland leading 
the five-game series two games to none, on the verge of completing a sweep, 
the Yankees took a 1–0 lead into the bottom of the seventh inning behind 
a strong performance from Mike Mussina and Jorge Posada's home run in the 
fifth. With two outs and Jeremy Giambi on first base, Terrence Long hit 
a line drive into the right field corner. With Giambi rounding third base, 
right fielder Shane Spencer's throw missed both cut-off men. It appeared 
that Giambi would score easily, tying the game, when the shortstop Derek 
Jeter, while running across the diamond, reached out, cradled the ball, 
and shovel passed it to catcher Jorge Posada. Posada tagged Giambi, who 
attempted to jump over the tag as opposed to sliding around it. ESPN ranks 
this play as the 45th most memorable moment of the last 25 years.[11] It 
would be replayed countless times over the following years, most recently 
as part of filmmaker Ken Burns's documentary The Tenth Inning in late September 
2010. After the game, Jeter told the press that the team had been practicing 
this type of play all year as a result of a similarly botched throw in 
spring training. According to Jeter, the idea of stationing the shortstop 
down the first base line on balls hit to deep right field came from Yankee 
bench coach Don Zimmer, who was a shortstop and second baseman during his 
playing career; however, he stated that his initial intent was to throw 
the ball to third to try to get Long, and that his throw home was a reaction 
play. Zimmer confirmed the origin of the play's design in a conversation 
with Oakland's third base coach Ron Washington the next day.[12] This single 
play is often credited with changing the momentum of the series. The Yankees 
held on to win this game, and then finished off the A's by winning Games 
4 and 5 as well. Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California With 
the momentum of the dramatic Game 3 on their side, the Yankees attacked 
early, scoring seven runs in the first four innings. Bernie Williams was 
the offsenive star, knocking in five runs on three hits. Scott Brosius, 
Jorge Posada, and Alfonso Soriano also drove in runs for New York. Lidle 
lasted just 3 1⁄3 innings for Oakland, giving up six runs. Orlando Hernández, 
with little pressure on him considering the big lead his team had given 
him, pitched 5 2⁄3 innings while giving up only two runs, and Mike Stanton 
and Ramiro Mendoza sealed the deal out of the bullpen. Yankee Stadium (I) 
in Bronx, New York The Yankees completed their comeback in Game 5, winning 
5–3. Alfonso Soriano hit a two-run single in the second inning, and David 
Justice homered in the sixth. Roger Clemens did not pitch well once again, 
pitching just 4 1⁄3 innings, but the bullpen pitched well, as Mariano Rivera 
closed it out to send the Yankees to the ALCS for the fourth straight season. 
For Oakland, it marked the second straight season they lost the ALDS to 
the Yankees in five games. Jeter also made another spectacular play (again 
with Terrence Long batting) that is often overlooked. In the top of the 
eighth inning of Game 5, Long hit a towering foul pop up in a two-run game. 
Jeter, running and following the ball at the same time made a backhanded 
grab and then turning his body, flipped into the stands. For a moment, 
no one knew if the ball had been caught. Here is Thom Brennaman's call 
of the play on Fox television: "1-1 to Terrence Long. Popped up, third 
base side, Brosius and Jeter both over. JETER...DID HE GET IT?! DID HE 
GET IT?! DID HE GET IT?! HE GOT IT! HE GOT IT! They throw to second; the 
runner tags and he's safe. Or are they saying he didn't get it? Now they're 
appealing; the first base umpire didn't know if Jeter caught it, had to 
ask the second base umpire and they said he caught it." Jeter would continue 
to play in the postseason despite a slight leg injury from the tumble. 
