The 2001 National League Championship Series (NLCS) saw the Arizona Diamondbacks 
defeat the Atlanta Braves in five games to win the National League pennant 
in the franchise's fourth year of existence. The Diamondbacks went on to 
defeat the New York Yankees in seven games to win the World Series. The 
Diamondbacks won their division with a 92–70 record. The strength of their 
team was clearly the pitching duo of Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling. 
The primary weapon for Arizona on offense was Luis Gonzalez, who belted 
57 home runs during the season. The Diamondbacks had outlasted the St. 
Louis Cardinals in the NLDS to reach their first NLCS. The Atlanta Braves 
won their tenth straight division title, but it had not been by a wide 
margin in 2001. They struggled to an 88–74 record, their worst since 1990. 
Greg Maddux had another big season for the Braves, winning seventeen games. 
Chipper Jones was the leader of the Atlanta offense, batting .330 during 
the season to go along with his 38 home runs. After their embarrassing 
defeat to the St. Louis Cardinals in the 2000 NLDS, the underdog Braves 
blitzed the Houston Astros in the 2001 NLDS, sweeping them in three games. 
Arizona won the series, 4–1. Tuesday, October 16, 2001 at Bank One Ballpark 
in Phoenix, Arizona The 2001 NLCS began with an excellent pitching matchup 
of multiple-Cy Young Award winners Randy Johnson and Greg Maddux. Reggie 
Sanders plated a run in the first with a single to give Arizona a 1–0 lead. 
Meanwhile, Johnson dominated the Braves lineup. The Diamondbacks went ahead 
2–0 after Luis Gonzalez drove in Counsell with a single in the fifth. Maddux 
would go seven innings, only surrendering two runs, but he would be clearly 
outdueled by Johnson, who pitched a complete-game three-hit shutout with 
eleven strikeouts. Wednesday, October 17, 2001 at Bank One Ballpark in 
Phoenix, Arizona The Braves responded to Johnson's dominating performance 
with one of their own from Tom Glavine. Marcus Giles led the game off with 
a solo home run for the Braves off Miguel Batista. Glavine went seven innings, 
scattering five hits and giving up one run. The game was tied 1–1 going 
into the seventh, but Javy López hit a two-run homer to make it 3–1 Braves. 
Atlanta scored five runs in the eighth to break the game open. Brian Jordan 
drove in two of the runs with a double and B.J. Surhoff had another Braves 
home run. The 8–1 win evened the series at a game apiece. Friday, October 
19, 2001 at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia Curt Schilling, who earned 
an MVP award in the 1993 NLCS against the Braves, got the start in Game 
3 in Atlanta. Braves starter John Burkett gave up two runs in the third 
when Steve Finley doubled. That would be all Schilling would need, as he, 
much like Johnson, controlled the Braves lineup. Atlanta got a run in the 
fourth, but a Chipper Jones error at third base helped Arizona score three 
more runs in the fifth and knock out Burkett. Ahead 5–1, Schilling cruised 
the rest of the way, tossing a complete game and striking out twelve men. 
Saturday, October 20, 2001 at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia Looking 
to tie the series, Bobby Cox started Greg Maddux on short rest. For two 
innings, the move appeared to work. The Braves took a 2–0 lead on Diamondback 
starter Albie Lopez with an RBI double by Chipper Jones and a solo homer 
by Andruw Jones. However, the wheels came off for Atlanta in the third 
when they committed three errors and Maddux gave up four hits. When the 
smoke cleared, it was 4–2 Arizona. Manager Bob Brenly went for the jugular 
in the fourth, pinch hitting for Lopez to lead off the inning. The Diamondbacks 
connected for three straight hits, the big blow coming when Craig Counsell 
hit a two-run double to left to make it 6–2. Brian Anderson, who picked 
up the win, pitched 3 1⁄3. In the ninth, Arizona piled it on, scoring four 
more unearned runs, three of them coming on a Luis Gonzalez homer. The 
win put Arizona firmly in control of the series, ahead three games to one 
with a rested Randy Johnson set to pitch. Sunday, October 21, 2001 at Turner 
Field in Atlanta, Georgia Game 1 winner Randy Johnson and Game 2 winner 
Tom Glavine faced off as Arizona looked to advance to their first ever 
World Series appearance. Former Brave Danny Bautista broke a scoreless 
tie in the fourth by singling home Mark Grace. The Braves promptly tied 
the game when veteran Julio Franco led off the fourth with a home run, 
the first run Johnson had allowed the whole series. However, Arizona answered 
right back in the top of the fifth when Erubiel Durazo hit a two-out two-run 
blast off Glavine to make it 3–1 Diamondbacks. In the seventh, Franco added 
another RBI with a single that made it 3–2. But, Byung-Hyun Kim came into 
the game and kept the Braves from getting any closer. He pitched two scoreless 
innings and Arizona won its first National League pennant. 2001 NLCS (4–1): 
Arizona Diamondbacks over Atlanta Braves Fox carried the National League 
Division Series over its network with its top broadcast team, Joe Buck 
and Tim McCarver, calling the action of Game 1 and Game 2, and Thom Brennaman 
(himself a Diamondbacks broadcaster) and Steve Lyons calling the action 
of Game 3, Game 4 and Game 5. Game 5 of the 2001 NLCS was played at the 
same time as Game 4 of the 2001 ALCS and was a split national broadcast 
on Fox and Fox Sports Net. ESPN Radio provided national radio coverage 
for the fourth consecutive year, with Charley Steiner and Dave Campbell 
calling the action. Locally, the NLCS was called on KTAR-AM in Phoenix 
by Greg Schulte, Jeff Munn, Rod Allen and Jim Traber, and on WSB-AM in 
Atlanta by Pete Van Wieren, Skip Caray, Don Sutton, and Joe Simpson. In 
the air, left centerfield...and the Arizona Diamondbacks become the fastest 
expansion franchise to reach the World Series! In just their fourth year, 
