The 2001 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a rematch of the 
2000 ALCS between the New York Yankees, who had come off a dramatic comeback 
against the Oakland Athletics in the Division Series after being down two 
games to zero, and the Seattle Mariners, who had won their Division Series 
against the Cleveland Indians in five games. The series had additional 
poignancy, coming immediately after downtown New York City was devastated 
by the events of September 11, 2001. (The series was played in late October 
due to Major League Baseball temporarily shutting down in the wake of the 
attacks). Though the Mariners had won an American League record 116 regular 
season games (tying the major league record established by the 1906 Chicago 
Cubs), and had home field advantage, the Yankees proved overpowering as 
they won the first two games in Seattle. The Mariners' manager, former 
Yankee player and manager Lou Piniella, guaranteed after Game 2 that the 
Mariners would win at least two of the next three games in New York to 
return the series to Seattle. However, the Yankees closed out the series 
in New York, beating the Mariners four games to one. The series ended with 
a 12–3 Yankees victory in Game 5. New York won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, 
October 17, 2001 at Safeco Field in Seattle, Washington Game 1’s starting 
date was the latest ever for a League Championship series. The Yankees 
took a 1–0 lead on a Chuck Knoblauch single that scored Jorge Posada in 
the second, then increased it to 3–0 on a Paul O'Neill home run in the 
fourth. The Mariners got on the board on a John Olerud groundout that scored 
Edgar Martínez in the fifth. The score remained 3–1 until the ninth when 
the Yankees increased their lead to 4–1 on a David Justice single that 
scored Alfonso Soriano. The Mariners got that run back in the bottom of 
the inning when Mariano Rivera threw a wild pitch to Bret Boone that scored 
Ichiro Suzuki, but Rivera retired Boone and the next batter, Edgar Martínez, 
to end the game. Thursday, October 18, 2001 at Safeco Field in Seattle, 
Washington In Game 2, the Yankees took a 2–0 lead in the second against 
Freddy García on a Scott Brosius double that scored Tino Martinez and Jorge 
Posada. Brosius would then score on a Chuck Knoblauch single two batters 
later to make it 3–0 Yankees. The Mariners responded in the fourth on a 
two-run home run from Stan Javier off of Mike Mussina to make it a one-run 
game. However, neither team would score afterwards and the Yankees took 
a 2–0 series lead heading to New York City. Saturday, October 20, 2001 
at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York The Yankees were poised to go 
up 3–0 in the series after Game 3, jumping to a 2–0 lead in the first on 
a Bernie Williams home run off of Jamie Moyer. However, they would not 
be able to score again until the eighth on a David Justice single. Orlando 
Hernández pitched four shutout innings before giving up a game-tying two-run 
single to Bret Boone in the fifth. The Mariners then scored seven runs 
in the sixth capped by home runs by Boone and John Olerud to take a 9–2 
lead. They would not look back, scoring five more runs in the next three 
innings, including a Jay Buhner home run in the ninth, off of three Yankee 
relievers to cruise to a 14–3 win and guarantee a Game 5. Sunday, October 
21, 2001 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Game 4 remained scoreless 
until Bret Boone hit a home run off Yankees reliever Ramiro Mendoza in 
the top of the eighth to give the Mariners a 1–0 lead, but the Yankees 
responded in the bottom of the inning with a Bernie Williams home run off 
Arthur Rhodes to tie the game. Mariano Rivera pitched a scoreless ninth 
and the Yankees won the game 3–1 in the bottom of the inning on an Alfonso 
Soriano two-run home run off Kazuhiro Sasaki to take a 3–1 series lead. 
Monday, October 22, 2001 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York In the 
bottom of the third inning of Game 5, an error by Mariner third basemen 
David Bell resulted in the Yankees scoring four unearned runs, including 
a two-run home run by Bernie Williams, off Aaron Sele. Paul O'Neill homered 
in the fourth to put the Yankees on top 5–0. They would break the game 
open with four runs in the sixth, making the score 9–0. The Mariners got 
their only three runs of the game in the seventh on back-to-back singles 
by Bell and Ichiro Suzuki off Andy Pettitte. In the bottom of the eighth, 
Tino Martinez hit a three-run home run as the Yankees cruised to a 12–3 
win and advance to the World Series for the fourth straight year. 2001 
ALCS (4–1): New York Yankees over Seattle Mariners Soriano into deep right, 
Ichiro back, at the wall...Yankees win! Before you guys start asking questions 
let me start by saying We’re gonna be back here (Seattle) for Game 6, I 
told the people out there the same thing, I guarantee you we will be back 
here for Game 6. The Yankees’ streak of consecutive World Series wins ended 
at three, as they fell to the Arizona Diamondbacks in the World Series 
in seven games. They would make the World Series again in 2003, but they 
lost to the underdog Florida Marlins. The Yankees would not win another 
World Series until 2009. To date, the Mariners have not made the MLB postseason 
since 2001. Still, their 116 wins in the regular season remain tied (with 
the 1906 Cubs) for the Major League record. No team has approached 116 
since, with the closest being the St. Louis Cardinals in 2004 when they 
