The 2001 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2001 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 9, and ended on 
Sunday, October 14, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. Houston and 
St. Louis tied for the Central Division title, but Houston was awarded 
the division winner's playoff-seeding over St. Louis due to their 9–7 advantage 
in head-to-head play. Officially the two clubs were co-champions. Although 
the team with the best record was normally intended to play the wild card 
team, the Astros played the Braves, rather than the wild card Cardinals, 
because the Astros and Cardinals are in the same division. The Diamondbacks 
and Braves went on to meet in the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Diamondbacks 
became the National League champion, and defeated the American League champion 
New York Yankees in the 2001 World Series. Atlanta won the series, 3–0. 
Arizona won the series, 3–2. The Atlanta Braves won their tenth straight 
division title, despite having the worst record (88–74) among playoff teams. 
With that record, 2001 was also the Braves' worst season since 1990, when 
they had the worst record in baseball. The Houston Astros were in the playoffs 
for the seventh time, hoping to avenge two postseason losses in the 1990s 
to the Braves. At 93–69, and having home field advantage throughout the 
playoffs, the Astros were heavily favored to win this series. Enron Field 
in Houston, Texas In Game 1, Greg Maddux faced Wade Miller. Brian Jordan 
drove in the first two runs of the game, hitting a sac fly in the first 
and a solo homer in the fourth. But the Astros would strike back against 
Maddux. Brad Ausmus's two-run homer tied the game in the fifth for the 
Astros. Then Moisés Alou's groundout in the sixth gave the Astros the lead. 
But the Braves refused to concede. They struck for four runs in the eighth, 
an inning capped by Chipper Jones's dramatic three-run homer. Both teams 
would homer in the ninth but John Smoltz got the save as the Braves won 
7–4. Enron Field in Houston, Texas In Game 2, Tom Glavine and Dave Mlicki 
started a classic pitching duel. In the top of the second, B.J. Surhoff 
doubled to lead off the inning. Then Andruw Jones singled to the shortstop 
and an error by Julio Lugo put Surhoff on third. Rey Sánchez would then 
ground into a double play by Surhoff would score to make it 1–0 Braves. 
In all but two innings the Astros had a hit and they would strand five 
in the game. Glavine pitched eight innings and Smoltz recorded his second 
consecutive postseason save. Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia In Game 3, 
Shane Reynolds faced John Burkett. In the bottom of the second, Paul Bako's 
two-run homer put the Braves up 2–0. In the third, Julio Franco homered 
to make it 3–0. Then a squeeze play by Bako in the fourth made it 4–0. 
Reynolds only lasted four innings and Burkett cruised until giving up a 
two-run homer to Daryle Ward in the sixth. Chipper Jones's two-run homer 
provided insurance in the bottom of the eighth and Smoltz once again dominated 
the ninth. Ausmus flied to center to end the series. Once again, the Astros 
had been denied by the Braves for their first ever postseason series win. 
This, to date, is the last postseason series win by the Braves. 2001 NLDS 
(3–0): Atlanta Braves over Houston Astros The St. Louis Cardinals were 
making their second straight postseason appearance and they hoped to avenge 
their NLCS loss against the New York Mets in 2000. The Arizona Diamondbacks 
were making their second playoff appearance and they too were stunned by 
the Mets in 1999, having won 100 games that year. Bank One Ballpark in 
Phoenix, Arizona Game 1 was a game of excellent starting pitching. Matt 
Morris faced Curt Schilling, who made the most of his first playoff start 
in eight years. Both pitchers were on even terms until the bottom of the 
fifth when Arizona struck first when Steve Finley singled home Damian Miller. 
The game remained 1–0 as Schilling managed to pitch a complete-game three-hit 
shutout. Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona In Game 2, Woody Williams 
faced Randy Johnson. Johnson seemingly had the Cardinals in the first when 
he got Plácido Polanco to ground into a double play. But Edgar Rentería 
walked and up came the soon-to-be-named NL Rookie of the Year Albert Pujols. 
He then hit his first playoff home run to make it 2–0 Cardinals in the 
top of the first. Then Polanco's sac fly made it 3–0 in the third. The 
D'Backs would scratch out a run in the eighth, but an error by Miguel Batista 
gave the Cardinals a commanding 4–1 lead in the ninth. Steve Kline got 
the save in the bottom of the ninth to even the series. Busch Stadium (II) 
in St. Louis, Missouri In Game 3, Batista returned to the mound to start. 
Opposing him would be Darryl Kile. Both pitchers worked their way through 
each inning and kept it scoreless into the fourth. But Jim Edmonds's two-run 
homer in the bottom of the fourth gave the Cardinals the lead. Luis Gonzalez 
responded with a homer off the right field pole to make it a one-run game 
in the sixth. Then the Diamondbacks came back in dramatic fashion. After 
Kile allowed a leadoff walk in the top of the seventh, Mike Matthews came 
on in relief. Greg Colbrunn tied the game with an RBI single with one out. 
A fielder's choice put two men on for eventual NLCS MVP Craig Counsell. 
He then hit a three-run home run to right that put the D'Backs ahead by 
three. However, Rentería would homer to make it a two-run game. But Byung-Hyun 
Kim closed the door in the ninth. Tragically, this wound up being Kile's 
final playoff game. Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri Albie Lopez 
looked to close the door on the Cards. Opposing him would be Bud Smith. 
Smith got into trouble in the top of the first when Steve Finley singled 
home a run to make it 1–0 Diamondbacks. But J. D. Drew's RBI single tied 
the game in the bottom half of the inning. Then Jim Edmonds hit the go-ahead 
home run in the bottom of the second to put the Cardinals up for good. 
Then Fernando Viña's two-run homer in the third gave the Cardinals insurance. 
Both bullpens held the other team to nothing for the rest of the game as 
the series was once again tied. Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona In 
the clinching Game 5, Matt Morris once again faced Curt Schilling. Both 
pitchers were on their game, allowing only one run throughout the entire 
game. Morris was the first to falter in the bottom of the fourth when he 
gave up a solo home run to Reggie Sanders. Schilling was masterful and 
was four outs away from winning the series. He was working on a 1–0 four-hit 
shutout when J. D. Drew tied the game with a solo homer of his own in the 
eighth. Schilling pitched a complete game and the D'Backs now had to get 
him the win. A leadoff double by Matt Williams gave the D'Backs a good 
chance. A sac bunt by Damian Miller put pinch runner Midre Cummings on 
third. After Colbrunn was walked intentionally, Cummings tried to steal 
home on the squeeze play attempt and got caught. Colbrunn went to second 
and Danny Bautista came on to pinch run. Then Tony Womack delivered the 
series winning single to left field. The Diamondbacks won their first postseason 
series ever and were now going to their first ever NLCS. 2001 NLDS (3–2): 
Arizona Diamondbacks over St. Louis Cardinals For the first and only time, 
Fox Family and Fox carried the National League Division Series with Kenny 
Albert and Rod Allen calling the action of Game 1 and Game 2 of the Atlanta-Houston 
series for Fox Family, while Mel Proctor and Rod Allen calling the action 
of Game 3 of the Atlanta-Houston series for Fox, Fox Family and Fox carried 
the National League Division Series with Thom Brennaman (himself a Diamondbacks 
broadcaster) and Steve Lyons calling the action of Game 1 and Game 2 of 
the Arizona-St. Louis series for Fox Family, while Joe Buck and Tim McCarver 
calling the action of Game 3, Game 4 and Game 5 of the Arizona-St. Louis 
series for Fox Family (Games 3–4), and Fox (Game 5). ESPN Radio provided 
national radio coverage for the fourth consecutive year, with Wayne Hagin 
and Buck Showalter calling the action of the Atlanta-Houston series, while 
Charley Steiner and Dave Campbell calling the action of the Arizona-St. 
Louis series. Locally, the Arizona-St. Louis portion of the 2001 NLDS was 
called on KTAR-AM in Phoenix by Greg Schulte, Jeff Munn, Rod Allen (Games 
4–5) and Jim Traber, and on KMOX-AM in St. Louis by Jack Buck (Games 3–4), 
Mike Shannon and Dan McLaughlin (Games 1–2, 5), while the Atlanta-Houston 
portion of the 2001 NLDS was called on WSB-AM in Atlanta by Pete Van Wieren, 
Skip Caray, Don Sutton and Joe Simpson, and on KTRH-AM in Houston by Milo 
Hamilton and Alan Ashby. It's a little blooper...and that ball drops! Here 
comes Bautista! And the Diamondbacks...WIN! WOMACK DELIVERS! The Diamondbacks 
are going to the National League Championship Series against Atlanta! How 
