The 2002 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2002 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 1, and ended on 
Monday, October 7, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. The Cardinals 
and Giants went on to meet in the NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Giants 
became the National League champion, and lost to the American League champion 
Anaheim Angels in the 2002 World Series. San Francisco won the series, 
3–2. St. Louis won the series, 3–0. The Atlanta Braves had won their eleventh 
straight division title. The San Francisco Giants were making their third 
appearance in the postseason since 1997. Barry Bonds was also looking for 
a little revenge because he was the left fielder for the Pittsburgh Pirates 
when they lost to the Braves in two straight NLCS appearances. Turner Field 
in Atlanta, Georgia In Game 1, Russ Ortiz faced Tom Glavine. In the top 
of the second, J.T. Snow hit a two-run double, then David Bell singled 
Snow home to make it 3–0 Giants. But Glavine would help his own cause by 
hitting a two-run single to left field that almost tied the game thanks 
to an error by Bonds in the bottom half of the second. But a three-run 
inning, capped by Rich Aurilia's two-run double, seemed to silence the 
Braves as the Giants took a commanding 6–2 lead in the fourth. Glavine 
would leave after five innings and Benito Santiago would add insult to 
injury by doubling in two more runs in the sixth. But with one out in the 
eighth, the Braves put together a mini rally that started with Gary Sheffield's 
solo homer. With one on and one out, Santigo dropped a foul fly ball hit 
by Javy López. He would then homer to put the Braves back in the game. 
In the ninth the Braves put the tying run at the plate for Sheffield. Sheffield 
hit into a game-ending double play. Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia In 
Game 2, Kirk Rueter faced Kevin Millwood, who was looking to keep the Braves' 
hopes alive in the series. The Braves would strike first on Chipper Jones's 
RBI single in the first. But Snow homered to tie the game in the top of 
the second. Back-to-back homers by Lopez and Vinny Castilla made it 3–1 
Braves in the bottom half. Then Rafael Furcal's RBI single later in the 
inning made it 4–1. Mark DeRosa put the game away when he tripled in two 
runs and then scored on a passed ball. All the Giants would get in the 
game would be solo homers as the Braves evened the series with a 7–3 win. 
Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California In Game 3, Greg Maddux faced 
Jason Schmidt. In the bottom of the first, Jeff Kent doubled in the first 
run of the game to give the Giants the lead. Then an RBI groundout by Julio 
Franco tied the game in the third. The game remained close until the sixth. 
With one out, three consecutive walks ended Schmidt's night. Then Vinny 
Castilla would single in two runs. Keith Lockhart would follow with a towering 
three-run homer to make it 6–1 Braves. Bonds' homer in the bottom half 
made it 6–2. But the ninth saw the Braves add insurance. They would score 
four more runs to take a 10–2 lead. That score would stand as the Braves 
took a 2–1 lead in the series. Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California 
In Game 4, Glavine would be sent to the mound once again, this time facing 
Liván Hernández. Glavine's struggles would continue, as he allowed two 
runs in the first on a sac fly and a groundout. Then two more runs, one 
of them a bases-loaded walk, made it 4–0. Then Rich Aurilia's three-run 
homer made it 7–0 in the third. Glavine allowed seven earned runs in 2 2⁄3 
innings. The Braves would hardly come close to winning. They would score 
three runs in the game as the Giants sent the series back to Atlanta. Turner 
Field in Atlanta, Georgia In the clinching Game 5, Russ Ortiz returned 
to the mound to face Kevin Millwood. Reggie Sanders's RBI single in the 
second made it 1–0 Giants. Then Bonds would homer to make it 2–0 in the 
fourth. Mark DeRosa's RBI single made it 2–1 in the sixth. But the Braves 
would squander the chances to bring DeRosa in. The Braves left twelve men 
on base in Game 5. In the ninth, with the Braves trailing 3–1, Gary Sheffield 
came to the plate with two men on, representing the Division Series-winning 
run. Had he homered the series would have been over, but he struck out 
and Chipper Jones grounded out into a double play to end the series. This 
would begin the Braves' streak of four consecutive NLDS losses. 2002 NLDS 
(3–2): San Francisco Giants over Atlanta Braves The Arizona Diamondbacks 
won the West for the second straight year, having a better team than the 
previous year when they won the 2001 World Series. The St. Louis Cardinals 
were making their third straight postseason appearance. Having swept the 
defending NL Champions in the 2000 National League Division Series, they 
had a chance to sweep the defending World Champions in 2002. Bank One Ballpark 
in Phoenix, Arizona In Game 1, Matt Morris faced eventual 2002 Cy Young 
Award winner Randy Johnson, who dominated the 2001 postseason with ease. 
But in the top of the first an error by Tony Womack put a runner on for 
Jim Edmonds, who then hit a home run to make it 2–0 Cardinals. But the 
Diamondbacks scratched out a run in the bottom half thanks to Steve Finley's 
sacrifice fly. In the bottom of the third, Quinton McCracken tied the game 
with an RBI single. In the fourth, the floodgates began to open as Albert 
Pujols led off the inning with a triple and Scott Rolen followed with a 
two-run homer. Then Edgar Rentería's RBI single later in the inning made 
it 5–2 Cards. In the top of the seventh with the score now 6–2, walks and 
errors by the D'Backs allowed six runs to score. The game was now out of 
reach as the Cardinals routed the defending champs 12–2. Bank One Ballpark 
in Phoenix, Arizona In Game 2, Chuck Finley faced Curt Schilling. J. D. 
Drew got the scoring started with a solo homer in the third to put the 
Cardinals up 1–0. Finley and Schilling dueled until Finley left with a 
cramp in his pitching hand. When Albert Pujols moved from left field in 
the eighth, he immediately created trouble by misplaying a ball hit by 
Greg Colbrunn. Then McCracken would make him pay by tying the game with 
a double. The Cardinals would regain the lead in the top of the ninth, 
however, thanks to a Miguel Cairo RBI single. Jason Isringhausen would 
shut the D'Backs down 1–2–3 in the bottom of the inning for the save, giving 
the Cardinals a 2–0 lead in the series. Jeff Fassero would get the win 
in relief and Mike Koplove took the loss for Arizona. Busch Stadium (II) 
in St. Louis, Missouri Only one team had come back after being down 2–0 
going on the road, and that team was the same team Arizona had beaten to 
win the World Series the year before: the 2001 New York Yankees. So the 
task was now daunting. Things certainly looked good for the Diamondbacks 
in the top of the second against Game 3 starter Andy Benes when David Dellucci 
homered to put the D'Backs up 2–0. But against Miguel Batista, the Cardinals 
struck back when Cairo drove in a run in the bottom half of the inning. 
Then Pujols would tie the game with an RBI single in the third. A squeeze 
play gave the Cardinals the lead in the fourth. Then they added a run later 
in the inning to make it 4–2. But Rod Barajas homered to make it a one-run 
game in the fifth. The game remained close until the bottom of the eighth 
when the Cardinals added two insurance runs to make it 6–3. Isringhausen 
got the series winning save by once again shutting down the Diamondbacks 
1–2–3 in the ninth. Dellucci would ground out to end the series. 2002 NLDS 
