The 2002 National League Championship Series (NLCS) was a Major League 
Baseball playoff series played from October 9 to 14 to determine the champion 
of the National League, between the Central Division champion St. Louis 
Cardinals and the wild-card qualifying San Francisco Giants. It was a rematch 
of the 1987 NLCS, in which the Cardinals defeated the Giants in seven games. 
The Cardinals, by virtue of being a division winner, had the home field 
advantage. The two teams were victorious in the NL Division Series (NLDS), 
with the Cardinals defeating the West Division champion Arizona Diamondbacks 
three games to none, and the Giants defeating the East Division champion 
and heavily favored Atlanta Braves three games to two. The Giants won the 
series in five games but were defeated by the Anaheim Angels in seven games 
in the World Series. San Francisco won the series, 4–1. Wednesday, October 
9, 2002 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri Thursday, October 
10, 2002 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri Saturday, October 
12, 2002 at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California Sunday, October 
13, 2002 at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California The Cardinals 
took an early lead off Liván Hernández, scoring two runs in the first inning 
on a Jim Edmonds groundout and a single by Tino Martinez. After being held 
scoreless for five innings the Giants bats would answer in the sixth, when 
J. T. Snow hit a two-run double to score Jeff Kent and Barry Bonds. In 
the eighth, Benito Santiago would deliver the key blow for San Francisco 
with a two-run home run following an intentional walk to Bonds (with nobody 
on base). In the ninth, the Cardinals would threaten against Robb Nen, 
cutting the deficit to 4–3 with a Jim Edmonds single, which put runners 
at first and third base with one out for slugger Albert Pujols. However, 
Nen struck out Pujols and J. D. Drew to give the Giants a 3–1 series advantage. 
Monday, October 14, 2002 at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California 
Game 5 was a pitchers duel between Matt Morris and Kirk Rueter as the Giants 
looked for their first pennant since 1989. Fernando Viña started the scoring 
with a seventh inning sac fly, but the Giants responded with a sac fly 
by Barry Bonds. In the ninth, Matt Morris retired the first two batters 
before allowing consecutive singles to David Bell and Shawon Dunston. Steve 
Kline was then brought in to pitch to Kenny Lofton, who had yelled at the 
Cardinals dugout earlier after an inside pitch. On the first pitch, Lofton 
delivered a single to right field, scoring Bell as J.D Drew's throw was 
off-line, clinching the pennant for the Giants. 2002 NLCS (4–1): San Francisco 
