The 2002 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 73rd playing of the 
midsummer classic between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and 
National League (NL), the two leagues that make up Major League Baseball. 
The game was held on July 9, 2002 at Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
the home of the Milwaukee Brewers of the NL. The game controversially ended 
with a 7–7 tie due to both teams running out of available pitchers. Beginning 
the next year, home field advantage in the World Series would be awarded 
to the winning league to prevent ties. No player was awarded the Most Valuable 
Player (MVP) Award due to the game ending in a tie. The roster selection 
for the 2002 game marked the inaugural All-Star Final Vote competition 
(then known as "The All-Star 30th Man" competition). Johnny Damon and Andruw 
Jones represented the American and National Leagues as a result of this 
contest. Players in italics have since been inducted into the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame. Notes National League starting pitcher Curt Schilling 
was sharp early on, striking out three through two innings pitched. In 
the bottom of the first, Barry Bonds hit a deep fly ball off AL starter 
Derek Lowe, which looked to be deep enough to be a home run. Instead, center 
fielder Torii Hunter reached over the wall and caught Bonds' drive, denying 
the NL an early lead. Bonds playfully picked up Hunter as the NL took the 
field the next inning. The NL would get on the board in the bottom of the 
second, when a Mike Piazza groundout scored Vladimir Guerrero from third. 
They'd score three more runs the next inning, when Todd Helton singled 
home Jimmy Rollins. Barry Bonds would get revenge for having his first-inning 
home run taken away by belting a two-run shot to give the NL a 4–0 lead. 
The AL would finally score in the fourth, on the strength of a Manny Ramírez 
RBI single. The AL would cut the NL lead in half in the fifth, when Alfonso 
Soriano hit a solo homer off Éric Gagné to cut the lead to 4–2. The NL 
got a run back with Damian Miller's RBI double to put the NL up 5–2. The 
AL put together a big inning in the seventh to take the lead. An RBI groundout 
from Garret Anderson, an RBI single from Tony Batista, and a two-run double 
from Paul Konerko scored four runs for the AL, giving them a 6–5 lead after 
their half of the seventh. The NL regained the lead in bottom of the seventh, 
on a two-run single from Lance Berkman, which scored Mike Lowell and Damian 
Miller. The AL quickly tied the game back up in the eighth with Omar Vizquel's 
RBI triple. Neither team scored after that in regulation, and the game 
went into extra innings. Vicente Padilla and Freddy García each pitched 
scoreless tenth innings, keeping the game tied. A problem arose at this 
point, as Padilla and Garcia were the last available pitcher on each team. 
After a scoreless top of the eleventh inning, AL and NL managers Joe Torre 
and Bob Brenly met by the first base dugout with Commissioner Bud Selig 
to discuss the situation, and it was controversially ruled that if the 
NL did not score in the bottom of the eleventh, the game would be declared 
a tie1. After the decision was announced over the stadium's PA system, 
fans loudly booed and jeered, with beer bottles being thrown onto the field, 
and chants of "Let them play!", "Refund!", "Bud must go!" and "Ripoff!" 
were heard. Garcia retired the side in the eleventh, and the game ended 
in a 7–7 tie, to further booing and bottle throwing. No MVP award was given. 
1 Rule 4.17 of the normal MLB playing rules provides that a team that is 
unable or refuses to place nine players on the field shall forfeit the 
game. The Home Run Derby took place on July 8 with eight players, four 
from each league, competing to try to hit as many home runs as possible. 
