The 2002 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament was played at the end of the 
2002 NCAA Division I baseball season to determine the national champion 
of college baseball. The tournament concluded with eight teams competing 
in the College World Series, a double-elimination tournament in its fifty 
sixth year. Sixteen regional competitions were held to determine the participants 
in the final event, with each winner advancing to a best of three series 
against another regional champion for the right to play in the College 
World Series. Each region was composed of four teams, resulting in 64 teams 
participating in the tournament at the conclusion of their regular season, 
and in some cases, after a conference tournament.[1] The fifty-sixth tournament's 
champion was Texas, coached by Augie Garrido. This was Texas' first title 
since 1983, but Augie Garrido previously won three titles with Cal State 
Fullerton. The Most Outstanding Player was Huston Street of Texas. Due 
to fears over terrorism and travel security in the wake of the September 
11 attacks, the Division I Baseball Committee, which selects the 64-team 
field and places the teams on the bracket, was ordered by the NCAA to keep 
regional pairings as localized as possible, in order to minimize the number 
of plane trips utilized. Due to these travel constraints, teams from the 
same conference were allowed to play in the same regional for the first 
time. An example of the travel restrictions came from the regional in Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana, featuring four schools from the Bayou State which are 
located a total of 130 miles (210 km) apart along Interstate 10, the first 
time (and to date, last) a regional has been entirely an in-state affair 
outside of California, Florida, and Texas. The travel restrictions were 
eased in 2003, and the ban on conference teams facing each other in regional 
play was reinstated. Conference champions from 30 Division I conferences 
earned automatic bids to regionals. The remaining 34 spots were awarded 
to schools as at-large invitees. Bold indicates CWS participant. Bold indicates 
