The 2002 San Francisco Giants season was the 120th in franchise history, 
the franchise's 45th season in San Francisco, and their third in Pacific 
Bell Park. The season ended with the Giants winning the National League 
pennant but losing to the Anaheim Angels in the 2002 World Series. The 
Giants finished the regular season with a record of 95–66, 2 1⁄2 games 
behind the Arizona Diamondbacks in the National League West standings. 
By virtue of having the best record among second-place teams in the National 
League, they won the NL wild card to earn a postseason berth. In the postseason, 
the Giants faced the Atlanta Braves in the National League Division Series. 
After being brought to the brink of elimination, the Giants won Games 4 
and 5 to clinch the series, three games to two. They went on to defeat 
the St. Louis Cardinals in the National League Championship Series by a 
series score of four games to one to win the franchise's 20th NL championship 
and its third in San Francisco. Then, in the World Series, they brought 
the Angels to the brink of elimination before the Angels came from behind 
to win Games 6 and 7. 2002 was manager Dusty Baker's tenth and final season 
managing the Giants. Following the season he departed to manage the Chicago 
Cubs. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At 
bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings 
pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts San Francisco 
wins the series, 3-2 October 9: Busch Stadium, St. Louis, Missouri October 
10: Busch Stadium, St. Louis, Missouri October 12: Pac Bell Park, San Francisco, 
California October 13: Pac Bell Park, San Francisco, California October 
14: Pac Bell Park, San Francisco, California October 19, 2002 at Edison 
International Field of Anaheim in Anaheim, California San Francisco won 
4-3 at Edison International Field of Anaheim (now Angel Stadium of Anaheim) 
to take a 1-0 lead. Barry Bonds hit a home run in his first career World 
Series at-bat. He was one of three Giants to homer in the game (the other 
two were Reggie Sanders and JT Snow). Troy Glaus hit 2 home runs for the 
Angels. October 20, 2002 at Edison International Field of Anaheim in Anaheim, 
California Anaheim won 11-10 at home in a game where the lead kept fluctuating 
between the two teams, tying up the series. Bonds again hit a mammoth homer 
with 2 outs in the 9th inning, off of Troy Percival. The biggest home run 
of the night, however, was hit by Tim Salmon, a longtime Angel, with 2 
outs and one on in the bottom of the 8th. The dramatic blast won the game 
for the Angels. October 22, 2002 at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, 
California Anaheim won 10-4 in the first game at Pacific Bell Park (now 
AT&T Park). The Angels batted around twice without a home run in either 
of their 4-run innings. Barry Bonds hit another home run, becoming the 
first man to homer in his first 3 World Series games. October 23, 2002 
at Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California San Francisco scored 
a 4-3 victory to tie the series. NLCS MVP Benito Santiago tied the game 
with a single in the 5th inning after the Angels walked Barry Bonds with 
a runner on second and two outs. David Bell put the Giants ahead with an 
RBI single in the bottom of the 8th. The run was unearned due to Anaheim 
catcher Bengie Molina's passed ball during the previous at-bat, allowing 
J. T. Snow to move to second. October 24, 2002 at Pacific Bell Park in 
San Francisco, California San Francisco took a 16-4 blowout win in a game 
in which the Angels never led. The most well-known moment in this game 
occurred when Giants first baseman J. T. Snow scored off a Kenny Lofton 
triple. 3-year-old batboy Darren Baker, son of Giants manager Dusty Baker, 
ran to home plate to collect Lofton's bat before the play was completed 
and was quickly lifted by the jacket by Snow as he crossed the plate, with 
David Bell close on his heels. Had Snow not acted quickly, Darren could 
have been seriously injured. October 26, 2002 at Edison International Field 
of Anaheim in Anaheim, California The turning point in the series came 
in Game 6. Leading 5-0 with one out in the bottom of the 7th inning, 8 
outs away from the Giants' first World Series title in San Francisco, Giants 
manager Dusty Baker pulled starting pitcher Russ Ortiz for setup man Félix 
Rodríguez after Ortiz gave up consecutive singles to third baseman Troy 
Glaus and designated hitter Brad Fullmer. In a widely publicized move, 
Baker gave Ortiz the game ball as he sent him back to the dugout. During 
the pitching change the Rally Monkey came on the JumboTron, sending 45,037 
Angels fans into a frenzy. Angel first baseman Scott Spiezio came to the 
plate and fouled off pitch after pitch before finally hitting a 3-run home 
run that barely cleared the wall in right field. The rally continued in 
the 8th inning, as Angel center fielder Darin Erstad hit a leadoff line-drive 
home run, followed by consecutive singles by Tim Salmon and Garret Anderson. 
(Chone Figgins pinch ran for Salmon.) When Bonds misplayed Anderson's shallow 
left field bloop single, Figgins and Anderson took third and second respectively. 
With no outs, two runners in scoring position and now only a 5-4 lead, 
Baker brought in closer Robb Nen to pitch to Glaus, hoping that Nen could 
induce a strikeout that might yet preserve the Giants' slim lead. However, 
Glaus slugged a double to the left-center field gap over Bonds' head to 
drive in the tying and winning runs. In the 9th inning, Angels closer Troy 
Percival struck out Rich Aurilia to preserve the 6-5 victory in front of 
the jubilant home crowd. October 27, 2002 at Edison International Field 
of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Game 7 proved to be somewhat anticlimactic 
after the drama of Game 6. The Giants scored the first run on a sacrifice, 
but the Angels responded with a run-scoring double from catcher Bengie 
Molina and a 3-run double to right field from left fielder Garret Anderson 
to open a 4-1 lead. Rookie starting pitcher John Lackey maintained that 
lead. In the 9th inning, closer Troy Percival provided some tense moments 
as he opened the inning by putting two Giants on base, with only one out. 
But Tsuyoshi Shinjo – the first Japanese player in a World Series game 
– struck out swinging, and Kenny Lofton, also representing the tying run, 
flied out to Darin Erstad in right-center field to end the Series. The 
Angels won Game 7, 4-1, to claim their franchise's first and so far only 
World Series Championship. John Lackey became the first rookie pitcher 
