After facing contraction talks at the previous winter meeting, and coming 
out of a second-place finish in the AL Central with a pitching staff with 
only two players with an ERA under 4.0, the 2002 Minnesota Twins won their 
division and made it to the 2002 American League Championship Series (ALCS) 
with the youngest team in the league, and with a new manager, Ron Gardenhire. 
The Twins had a solid first half of the season (45–36), but had a better 
second half (49–31), which led them to being the division champions. For 
the 2002 season, the Twins adopted a secondary logo based on those used 
from 1970 to 1986, with twins (one representing Minneapolis and the other 
St. Paul) shaking hands while standing by the river which separates the 
two cities. The logo also features the team's primary logo, replacing the 
"Win Twins!" baseball used in the 1976–1986 version. The season also marked 
the revival of the "TC" cap logo, which had last been used as such in 1986. 
No player hit 30 home runs or drove in 100 RBIs, but many players enjoyed 
solid seasons. Torii Hunter and Jacque Jones hit 29 and 27 home runs, respectively, 
while designated hitter David Ortiz battled injuries and hit 20. Catcher 
A. J. Pierzynski had a good year for a catcher, hitting .300. First baseman 
Doug Mientkiewicz saw his average drop significantly from the prior year, 
from .306 to .261. Third baseman Corey Koskie had a subpar year offensively, 
shortstop Cristian Guzmán was average, and second baseman Luis Rivas was 
not strong. The Twins enjoyed solid production out of the right field spot, 
whether the position was manned by opening day starter Brian Buchanan, 
Dustan Mohr, Bobby Kielty, or Michael Cuddyer. The starting rotation resembled 
a tubercular ward. Brad Radke, Eric Milton, and Joe Mays suffered serious 
injuries, requiring Rick Reed to carry the starting rotation. He was able 
to fulfill this role, going 9-2 in the second half. For inexplicable reasons, 
manager Ron Gardenhire resisted putting Johan Santana into the starter 
role until he was forced to by injuries. Santana started only 14 games, 
but quickly established himself as a dominant starting pitcher, posting 
an 8-6 record, 2.99 ERA, and a team-leading 137 strikeouts. Kyle Lohse 
enjoyed his only solid year as a starter, going 13-8 with a 4.23 ERA. Matt 
Kinney also made 12 starts. Eddie Guardado excelled in his first full year 
as the team's closer, earning 45 saves, while J. C. Romero, LaTroy Hawkins, 
and Mike Jackson had strong years as set-up men. Tony Fiore had a bafflingly 
strong year out of the bullpen, going 10-3 with an ERA of 3.16. A. J. Pierzynski 
was the team's all-star starting catcher, backed up by Tom Prince. Doug 
Mientkiewicz followed up his Gold Glove year with another superb year defensively. 
Unfortunately, his relatively weak hitting in 2002 may have prevented him 
from winning a second consecutive Gold Glove award, as it went to John 
Olerud. The rest of the infield was defensively solid, with Luis Rivas 
at second, Cristian Guzmán at short, and Corey Koskie at third. In the 
outfield, two-thirds of the "Soul Patrol" remained, with Jacque Jones in 
left and Torii Hunter in center. (This would be Hunter's second consecutive 
Gold Glove year.) Right field was a question mark, with Brian Buchanan 
not lasting long after being the opening day right fielder. The void was 
filled for most of the season by the platoon of Dustan Mohr and Bobby Kielty, 
known collectively by fans as "Dusty Kielmohr". However, Dusty Kielmohr 
gave way to Michael Cuddyer for the post-season run. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] 
[6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = 
Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in 
The Twins made it to the ALCS, beating the Oakland Athletics in the Divisional 
series. They then lost to the eventual World Series Champions, the Anaheim 
Angels. The Twins won game one at Oakland before losing two straight including 
one at home. The Twins rebounded, and won the final two games to win the 
series and move on to face Anaheim in the ALCS. October 1, at Oakland October 
2, at Oakland October 4, at Minnesota October 5, at Minnesota October 6, 
at Oakland The Twins won the first game at home vs. the Angels, before 
losing the next four in a row, allowing the Angels to move on to the World 
Series, who won the Series in seven games against the San Francisco Giants. 
October 8, at Minnesota October 9, at Minnesota October 11, at Anaheim 
October 12, at Anaheim October 13, at Anaheim LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Edmonton[12][13] 
