The 2002 World Series was a best-of-seven playoff series to determine the 
champion of Major League Baseball for the 2002 season. It was the 98th[1] 
series between the champions of the American League (AL) and National League 
(NL), here respectively the Anaheim Angels and the San Francisco Giants. 
The series was played from October 19–27, 2002 at Pacific Bell Park (now 
AT&T Park) in San Francisco and Edison International Field of Anaheim (now 
Angel Stadium of Anaheim) in Anaheim. The Angels defeated the Giants by 
four games to three to win their first World Series championship. This 
was the first World Series since the 1995 inception of the wild card in 
Major League Baseball (and the last until 2014) in which both wild card 
teams would vie for the title. The Angels finished the regular season in 
second place in the American League West, four games behind the AL West 
champions Oakland Athletics. They defeated the four time defending A.L. 
champions New York Yankees three games to one in the best-of-five American 
League Division Series (ALDS), and in doing so won their first postseason 
series in franchise history. Then they defeated the Minnesota Twins four 
games to one in the best-of-seven American League Championship Series (ALCS) 
to advance to the World Series, another first in franchise history. The 
Giants, meanwhile, finished the regular season in second place in the National 
League West, 2 1⁄2 games behind the NL West champions (and defending World 
Series champions) Arizona Diamondbacks. They defeated the Atlanta Braves 
in the National League Division Series (NLDS) and the St. Louis Cardinals 
in the National League Championship Series (NLCS) to advance to the World 
Series, giving the team their 20th NL pennant and 17th appearance in the 
Fall Classic but only their third since moving from New York to San Francisco 
in 1958. The series was the fourth World Series played between two teams 
from California, after 1974, 1988, and 1989. Barry Bonds, Reggie Sanders, 
and J. T. Snow each hit home runs to help propel the Giants to win Game 
one. Game two was a high-scoring affair that the Angels ultimately won 
on Tim Salmon's eight-inning home run. The Angels routed the Giants in 
Game three, but lost Game four on a tie-breaking eight-inning single by 
the Giants' David Bell. The Giants brought the Angels to the brink of elimination 
by winning Game five in a blowout. The Giants were eight outs away from 
winning the Series in Game six, but late game home runs by Scott Spiezio 
and Darin Erstad, as well as a two-RBI double by Troy Glaus helped the 
Angels overcome a five-run, seventh-inning deficit to win. A three-run 
double by Garret Anderson was the difference in the Angels' Game seven 
win to clinch the series. Glaus was named the series MVP. As of 2016[update], 
2002 was the most recent Fall Classic appearance for the Angels. This was 
the fourth World Series played between two teams from California and the 
last World Series as of today involving two teams from the same state. 
The 1974 World Series saw the Oakland Athletics defeat the Los Angeles 
Dodgers; the 1988 series saw the Dodgers getting revenge by defeating the 
Athletics. In 1989 the San Francisco Giants were defeated by the Oakland 
Athletics. The managers of the two clubs, Mike Scioscia of the Angels and 
Dusty Baker of the Giants, were teammates on the Dodgers from 1980–1983, 
and won a World Series in 1981. This was the first World Series to feature 
opposing managers who had been teammates on a World Championship team as 
players. Since their 1958 move from New York to San Francisco, the Giants 
franchise and its fans had a long history of futility, frustration, and 
disappointment. The Giants had won their last World Series crown before 
the move, in 1954. Since the move, the Giants made it to the Series twice 
but lost both times. These included a dramatic, down-to-the-wire loss to 
the New York Yankees in the seven-game classic 1962 World Series, and a 
four-game sweep by their crosstown rival Oakland Athletics in the 1989 
World Series that was marred by the Loma Prieta earthquake. Their most 
recent postseason appearance was in 2000, when they were defeated by the 
New York Mets in the NLDS. In addition, the Giants narrowly missed winning 
the N.L. pennant in 1959, 1964, 1965 and 1966. They finished in second 
place five years in a row from 1965–1969 and lost the 1971 NLCS to the 
Pittsburgh Pirates. 2002 was Dusty Baker's tenth season as manager of the 
Giants. It was also their third season playing at Pacific Bell Park (now 
AT&T Park). The Giants finished the previous season with a record of 90–72, 
finishing in second place in the NL West, two games behind the Arizona 
Diamondbacks. They also finished in second place in the NL wild card standings, 
three games behind the St. Louis Cardinals. Notable player departures included 
2001 midseason acquisition Andrés Galarraga, who departed as a free agent, 
and Shawn Estes, who was traded to the New York Mets in exchange for Tsuyoshi 
Shinjo and Desi Relaford. Notable player acquisitions included Reggie Sanders, 
a free agent, and David Bell, who the Giants received from the Seattle 
Mariners in exchange for Desi Relaford and cash. During the season the 
Giants also acquired Kenny Lofton from the Chicago White Sox in exchange 
for two minor leaguers. Sanders, Bell, Shinjo, and Lofton helped bolster 
a Giants offense led by longtime Giants Barry Bonds, J. T. Snow, Rich Aurilia, 
and Jeff Kent, as well as relative newcomer Benito Santiago. The starting 
pitching rotation was led by Kirk Rueter and Jason Schmidt, with a bullpen 
led by Tim Worrell and closer Robb Nen. During the 2002 regular season, 
the Giants led the NL West standings for most of April and a few days in 
May; however, by the end of May they had fallen to third place behind the 
Los Angeles Dodgers and Arizona Diamondbacks. They spent most of the next 
three months in third place, but on September 9 they took second place 
for good, while the Dodgers either tied them or fell to third place for 
the rest of the season. The Giants finished the regular season with a record 
of 95–66, 2 1⁄2 games behind the NL West champion Diamondbacks. They won 
the NL wild card, 3 1⁄2 games ahead of the runner-up Dodgers. Dusty Baker 
became the first black manager to participate in a World Series since Cito 
Gaston for Toronto in 1992 and 1993. This was Giants' outfielder Reggie 
Sanders' second consecutive World Series appearance with different teams—in 
2001 he got there with the Arizona Diamondbacks. This was the first time 
this happened since Don Baylor did it in three consecutive years with the 
Boston Red Sox in 1986, the Minnesota Twins in 1987, and with the Oakland 
Athletics in 1988. Like the Giants, the Angels and their fans carried a 
long history of futility and disappointment. Enfranchised in 1961, the 
Angels had never before played in the World Series. They came close several 
times, including ALCS losses in 1979 to the Baltimore Orioles, 1982 to 
the Milwaukee Brewers, and in 1986 to the Boston Red Sox. After dropping 
the 1979 ALCS in four games, the Angels brought their opponents to the 
brink of elimination in the last two series, but lost the next three consecutive 
games to lose the series. The 1986 ALCS was the Angels' last postseason 
appearance, though they came close in 1995 when they lost a one-game tie-breaker 
for the AL West championship to the Seattle Mariners after blowing a 14-game 
lead in the standings. 2002 was the Angels' third season under manager 
Mike Scioscia. The Angels finished the previous injury marred season with 
a record of 75–87, finishing in third place in the AL West. The most notable 
personnel change during the offseason was the trade of first baseman Mo 
Vaughn to the New York Mets in exchange for pitcher Kevin Appier. Offensively, 
the team was led by longtime Angels Garret Anderson, Darin Erstad, Troy 
Glaus and Tim Salmon, as well as relative newcomers Adam Kennedy and David 
Eckstein. The starting pitching rotation was led by Ramón Ortiz and Jarrod 
Washburn, as well as mid-season call-up John Lackey, while the bullpen 
was led by setup man Brendan Donnelly and closer Troy Percival. The bullpen 
was bolstered in late September by the addition of 20-year-old reliever 
prospect Francisco Rodriguez. The Angels spent much of the season trailing 
the first-place Seattle Mariners and on occasion the Oakland Athletics 
in the AL West standings. However, the A's and Angels both mounted late-season 
comebacks that, coupled with a poor August record for the Mariners, knocked 
the Mariners down to third place. The A's won 20 straight games at one 
point, and The Angels finished the season in second place with a 99–63 
record, four games behind the A's, but won the AL wild card, six games 
ahead of the Boston Red Sox and Seattle Mariners. Their 99 wins was third 
best in the A.L. and fourth best in baseball. AL Anaheim Angels (4) vs. 
NL San Francisco Giants (3) San Francisco won 4–3 at Edison International 
Field of Anaheim (now Angel Stadium of Anaheim) to take a 1–0 series lead. 
As he strode into the batter's box to open the second inning, Barry Bonds 
was finally making his first (and only) World Series appearance. And in 
his first at bat on a 2–1 pitch from Angels starter Jarrod Washburn, Bonds 
smoked a line drive for a home run to right field, which gave the Giants 
a quick 1–0 lead. Reggie Sanders then followed that up with an opposite 
field homer later in the inning. With the Giants leading 2–1 in the fifth, 
Giants batter J.T. Snow (who formerly played for the Angels) hit a two-run 
shot over the center field wall to give San Francisco a three-run advantage. 
Eventual Series MVP Troy Glaus would hit two home runs for the Angels in 
this game; one in the second and another in the sixth off Giants starter 
Jason Schmidt. Adam Kennedy drove in a run with a base hit in the sixth 
as well, to trim the deficit to 4–3. However, Schmidt was very effective 
otherwise, along with reliever Felix Rodriguez and closer Robb Nen as they 
held off the Halos the rest of the way. Game 2 was a slugfest that saw 
the lead fluctuate wildly between the two teams. The Angels plated five 
runs in the first inning by batting around against Giants starting pitcher 
Russ Ortiz. In the second inning, however, Kevin Appier surrendered most 
of the lead by allowing a three-run homer to Sanders and a solo shot to 
David Bell. The Angels answered with a two-run home run from veteran Tim 
Salmon to make it 7-4 in the Angels' favor. Ortiz would not finish the 
inning and was relieved by Chad Zerbe, who provided four innings of relief. 
Appier wouldn't last much longer than Ortiz, as he was pulled in the third 
and replaced by John Lackey, the Angels scheduled starter for Game 4, after 
surrendering a lead-off home run to Kent. Lackey temporarily quieted the 
Giants' offense but ran into trouble in the fifth inning, loading the bases 
with one out. Ben Weber relieved him but proceeded to allow a two-run single 
to Snow that tied the game. San Francisco plated two more to take a 9-7 
lead. The Angels turned to 20-year-old rookie reliever Francisco Rodriguez, 
who answered by shutting down the Giants offense for the next three innings. 
He retired nine batters in a row on 25 pitches (22 were strikes). Meanwhile, 
the Angels chipped away at their deficit and eventually tied the game on 
an RBI single by Garrett Anderson. The Angels completed their comeback 
when Salmon drilled a two-run home run with two outs in the eighth inning, 
giving Anaheim an 11-9 lead. Closer Troy Percival retired the first two 
batters in the ninth, but allowed a mammoth shot from Bonds that landed 
halfway up the right field bleachers. It was only a solo shot with a two-run 
lead, and Percival retired Benito Santiago to even the series. Giants pitchers 
failed to strike out a batter for the entire game, the first time this 
had happened in the World Series since Game 7 of the 1960 World Series; 
as of 2014 it remains the last time a team has not recorded a strikeout 
in a World Series game. Anaheim won 10–4 in the first World Series game 
at Pacific Bell Park (now AT&T Park). The Angels batted around twice without 
a home run in either of their four-run innings. They became the first team 
in World Series history to bat around in consecutive innings. Barry Bonds 
hit another home run, becoming the first player to homer in his first three 
World Series games. Giants public address announcer Renel Brooks-Moon is 
recognized by the Baseball Hall of Fame as the first female announcer of 
a championship game in any professional sport for her role in the 2002 
World Series. Her scorecard from Game 3 is on display in the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame and Museum in Cooperstown, New York. Until 2014, this game 
was the Giants' only World Series loss at home since Pacific Bell Park 
opened in 2000. They proceeded to win the final two games in this series, 
then won four straight home games in their next two World Series appearances 
in 2010 and 2012 until finally losing at home in Game 3 in 2014. San Francisco 
scored a 4–3 victory to tie the series. NLCS MVP Benito Santiago tied the 
game with a single in the fifth inning after the Angels walked Barry Bonds 
with a runner on second and two outs. David Bell put the Giants ahead with 
an RBI single in the bottom of the eighth. The run was unearned, due to 
Anaheim catcher Bengie Molina's passed ball during the previous at-bat, 
allowing J.T. Snow to move to second. San Francisco took a 16–4 blowout 
win in a game in which the Angels never led. The most well-known moment 
in this game occurred in the bottom of the seventh when Giants first baseman 
J.T. Snow scored off a Kenny Lofton triple. Three-year-old batboy Darren 
Baker, son of Giants manager Dusty Baker, ran to home plate to collect 
Lofton's bat before the play was completed and was quickly lifted by the 
jacket by Snow with one hand as he crossed the plate, with David Bell close 
on his heels. Had Snow not acted quickly, Darren could have been seriously 
injured in a play at home plate. Giants' second-baseman Jeff Kent broke 
out of a slump by hitting two home runs, including a demoralizing blast 
in the sixth inning to give the Giants an 8-4 lead when it appeared the 
Angels were making a comeback. The turning point in the Series came in 
Game 6. Leading 5–0 with one out in the bottom of the seventh inning, eight 
outs away from the Giants' first World Series title since moving to San 
Francisco in 1958, Giants manager Dusty Baker pulled starting pitcher Russ 
Ortiz for setup man Félix Rodríguez after Ortiz gave up consecutive singles 
to third baseman Troy Glaus and designated hitter Brad Fullmer. In a widely 
publicized move, Baker gave Ortiz the game ball as he sent him back to 
the dugout. During the pitching change the Rally Monkey came on the JumboTron, 
sending 45,037 Angels fans into a frenzy. However, before the Angels' big 
rally, after being held scoreless for four innings, San Francisco took 
the lead in the fifth inning and added to their lead in the sixth behind 
a monster shot by Barry Bonds off Angels reliever Francisco Rodríguez, 
then added yet another run in the top of the seventh to increase their 
lead to 5-0. Then in the bottom of the seventh inning, Anaheim started 
their comeback. Angels first baseman Scott Spiezio came to the plate and 
fouled off pitch after pitch before finally hitting a three-run home run 
that barely cleared the wall in right field. The rally continued in the 
eighth inning, as Angels center fielder Darin Erstad hit a leadoff line-drive 
home run, followed by consecutive singles by Tim Salmon and Garret Anderson. 
(Chone Figgins pinch-ran for Salmon.) When Bonds misplayed Anderson's shallow 
left field bloop single, Figgins and Anderson took third and second base, 
respectively. With no outs, two runners in scoring position and now only 
a 5–4 lead, Baker brought in closer Robb Nen to pitch to Glaus, hoping 
that Nen could induce a strikeout that might yet preserve the Giants' slim 
lead. However, Glaus slugged a double to the left-center field gap over 
Bonds' head to drive in the tying and go-ahead runs. In the ninth inning, 
Angels closer Troy Percival struck out Rich Aurilia to preserve the 6–5 
victory in front of the jubilant home crowd. The comeback from a five-run 
deficit was the largest in World Series history for an elimination game. 
Game 7 proved to be somewhat anticlimactic after the drama of Game 6. The 
Giants scored the first run on a sacrifice fly, but the Angels responded 
with a run-scoring double from catcher Bengie Molina and a three-run double 
to right field from left fielder Garret Anderson to open a 4–1 lead. Rookie 
starting pitcher John Lackey maintained that lead through five innings, 
and turned the game over to the strong Angels bullpen. In the ninth inning, 
closer Troy Percival provided some tense moments as he opened the inning 
by putting two Giants players on base, with only one out. But Tsuyoshi 
Shinjo—the first Japanese-born player in a World Series game—struck out 
swinging, and Kenny Lofton, also representing the tying run, flied out 
to Darin Erstad in right-center field to end the Series. The Angels won 
Game 7, 4–1, to claim their franchise's first and only World Series championship 
to date. John Lackey became the first rookie pitcher to win a World Series 
Game 7 since 1909. In Game 7, three rookie pitchers (John Lackey, Brendan 
Donnelly, and Francisco Rodríguez) combined to throw eight innings while 
only giving up one run combined. The Angels won the World Series despite 
scoring fewer runs (41) than the Giants (44). The Angels lost the first 
game in all three rounds of the playoffs (Division Series, League Championship 
Series, and World Series), yet rebounded to win each time. They were the 
first, and to date only, team to do this since the new postseason format 
was created in 1994. The Angels became the first American League (AL) champion 
team not representing the AL East Division to win the World Series since 
the Minnesota Twins in 1991. The Angels were also the first American League 
Wild Card winner to win the World Series. 2002 World Series (4–3): Anaheim 
Angels (A.L.) over San Francisco Giants (N.L.) The 2002 World Series win 
began the most successful era in Angels franchise history, making six postseason 
appearances from 2002–2009. Before 2002 they had been to the postseason 
three times in franchise history. They advanced to the ALCS in 2005 and 
2009, but lost those series respectively to the Chicago White Sox and New 
York Yankees, each while en route to their own World Series championship. 
The Angels are the most recent team to win the championship in its first 
World Series appearance; all teams that have reached their first World 
Series since have lost—the Houston Astros in 2005, Colorado Rockies in 
2007, Tampa Bay Rays in 2008, and Texas Rangers in 2010). The Giants would 
return to the postseason the following season, but lost the NLDS to the 
Florida Marlins while they were en route to a World Series championship. 
After a second-place finish in 2004, the Giants had losing seasons for 
the next four years. After losing 90 games in 2008, the Giants won 88 games 
for a surprising third-place finish in 2009. Building on their 2009 season, 
the Giants made the playoffs again in 2010, defeating the Braves in the 
NLDS, and the Phillies in the NLCS en route to the World Series, where 
they defeated the Rangers in five games, earning the long-awaited championship 
they could not reach in 2002. In 2012, after fighting back from down two 
games to none in the NLDS against the Cincinnati Reds and down three games 
to one against the defending World Series Champions, the St. Louis Cardinals 
in the NLCS, they swept the Detroit Tigers for their second World Series 
Championship in three years. In 2014, the Giants added their third title 
in five seasons by defeating the Kansas City Royals. This was the last 
World Series where home-field advantage alternated between the National 
and American Leagues each year. As a result of the tie in the 2002 All-Star 
Game, beginning in 2003 home-field advantage in the World Series was controversially 
