The 2002 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a matchup between 
the Wild Card Anaheim Angels and the Central Division Champion Minnesota 
Twins. The Angels advanced to the Series after dethroning the reigning 
four-time AL Champion New York Yankees in the 2002 American League Division 
Series three games to one. The Twins made their way into the Series after 
beating the Athletics three games to two. The Angels won the Series four 
games to one and went on to defeat the San Francisco Giants in the 2002 
World Series. Anaheim won the series, 4–1. Tuesday, October 8, 2002 at 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota Joe Mays outdueled 
Kevin Appier as the Twins won Game 1. A. J. Pierzynski hit a sac fly to 
put the Twins out in front first, but the Angels tied it the next inning 
on an error by Cristian Guzmán. The Twins would take a one-run lead when 
Corey Koskie doubled in a run in the fifth. The game would remain scoreless 
and Eddie Guardado would get the save. Wednesday, October 9, 2002 at Hubert 
H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota The Angels would take their 
first lead in the series when Darin Erstad hit a solo home run in the first 
with one out. The Angels would score three more in the second. Scott Spiezio 
would double in the first run of the inning. In a bizarre play, Spiezio 
stole home while Adam Kennedy tried to steal second. He was caught up in 
the rundown and knocked the ball away from Pierzynski, although no one 
called interference. Adam Kennedy went to third and would score on David 
Eckstein's RBI single to make it 4–0 Angels. A two-run homer by Brad Fullmer 
gave the Angels a six-run lead. A three-run sixth inning, capped off by 
a two-run Doug Mientkiewicz single, cut the lead in half. Troy Percival 
would save the game as the score remained unchanged. Friday, October 11, 
2002 at Edison International Field of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Garret 
Anderson started the scoring by hitting a lead-off home run in the second. 
Eric Milton and Jarrod Washburn dueled for seven innings. The game was 
tied thanks to an RBI double by Jacque Jones in the seventh. In the bottom 
of the eighth, Troy Glaus hit the go-ahead home run to put the Angels on 
top 2–1. Troy Percival got the save in the ninth and red-hot reliever Francisco 
Rodríguez got the win in relief of Washburn. Saturday, October 12, 2002 
at Edison International Field of Anaheim in Anaheim, California The game 
remained scoreless into the seventh inning as Brad Radke and John Lackey 
waged a classic pitcher's duel. But, the Angels would strike in the bottom 
of the seventh. Troy Glaus and Scott Spiezio drove in two runs in that 
inning to make it 2–0 Angels. But, the Angels would seek insurance and 
got plenty of it. A five-run eighth inning, capped off by a two-run double 
by Brad Fullmer and a two-run triple by Bengie Molina, would seal the win. 
Sunday, October 13, 2002 at Edison International Field of Anaheim in Anaheim, 
California Game 1 winner Joe Mays took the mound to try to send the series 
back to the Metrodome. He was opposed by Kevin Appier and things certainly 
looked good for the Twins early. David Ortiz drove in the first run of 
the game in the first to make it 1–0 Twins. The next inning, A. J. Pierzynski 
singled in a run to make it 2–0. But the lead would be cut in half on an 
Adam Kennedy home run. Then, the Angels would take the lead in the bottom 
of the fifth. A leadoff homer by Scott Spiezio and the second home run 
of the day by Kennedy made it 3–2 Angels. A bases-loaded walk, however, 
tied the game at three in the seventh. Then, a wild pitch and a sac fly 
gave the Twins a 5–3 lead. But the Angels would put the game and the series 
away with one of the most offensive half-innings in postseason history. 
Two straight singles by the Angels put two on and nobody out for Kennedy. 
He would then join a small group of players ever to hit three home runs 
in a single postseason game. Having only hit seven homers during the regular 
season, hitting three in one game was an extraordinary feat for Kennedy. 
His three-run homer gave the Angels a 6–5 lead. But the Angels were far 
from done. They would score seven more runs in the inning, mostly on singles. 
The Angels would never let up and they would go on to win the series and 
their first ever pennant. The Anaheim Angels would go on to win the 2002 
World Series against the San Francisco Giants. The Minnesota Twins, despite 
having lost the American League Championship Series, would go on to win 
the American League Central for two more consecutive years, although they 
would lose in the American League Division Series both years. Within six 
months, another Anaheim-Minnesota postseason match-up would take place. 
The Minnesota Wild would face off against the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim in 
the 2003 Western Conference Final during the Stanley Cup Playoffs. The 
Mighty Ducks would sweep the Wild to advance to the Stanley Cup Finals 
for the first time in franchise history, before losing to the New Jersey 
