The 2002 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2002 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 1, and ended on 
Sunday, October 6, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. The Yankees 
were not required to make up one remaining game against the Tampa Bay Devil 
Rays, potentially allowing the Athletics to tie them for the best record, 
because they had a 5–4 advantage over Oakland in head-to-head play and 
thus would win the tiebreaker for home field advantage through the playoffs. 
The Division Series saw the wild card-qualifying Angels beat the defending 
league champion Yankees, and the Twins defeat the Athletics in a startling 
upset. The Angels and Twins went on to meet in the AL Championship Series 
(ALCS). The Angels became the American League champion, and defeated the 
National League champion San Francisco Giants in the 2002 World Series. 
Anaheim won the series, 3–1. Minnesota won the series, 3–2. Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York The game went back and forth with the Angels taking 
a 5–4 lead into the bottom of the eighth inning. Anaheim manager Mike Scioscia 
brought in Scott Schoeneweis to pitch to Jason Giambi, who tied the game 
with an RBI single. Scioscia then brought in Brendan Donnelly to face Bernie 
Williams who hit a three-run homer to take an 8–5 lead which would hold, 
and give the Yankees a Game 1 victory. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New 
York It was a game of home runs at Yankee Stadium in Game 2. Derek Jeter 
and Alfonso Soriano each hit solo home runs for the Yankees. Tim Salmon 
and Scott Spiezio hit home runs for the Angels, but the two most important 
ones came back to back leading off the top of the eighth. Garret Anderson 
and Troy Glaus did so for Anaheim giving them the lead for good. Edison 
International Field of Anaheim in Anaheim, California The Yankees started 
teeing off Ramón Ortiz right away, putting up three runs in the top of 
the first, and one in the third before Ortiz was lifted. John Lackey came 
in for the Angels and gave up two more runs, giving New York a 6–1 lead. 
Anaheim responded by pecking away at the Yankee lead off Mike Mussina to 
tie the game after seven innings. They took the lead in the eighth with 
an RBI double by Darin Erstad off Mike Stanton. Steve Karsay relieved Stanton 
and served up a two-run shot to Tim Salmon, giving Anaheim a 9–6 lead for 
good, giving them a 2–1 series lead. Edison International Field of Anaheim 
in Anaheim, California With New York facing elimination, they sent David 
Wells to the mound. The Yankees had a 2–1 lead going into the bottom of 
the fifth inning when the floodgates opened. Shawn Wooten opened the inning 
with a home run to tie the game, and Anaheim rattled off six consecutive 
singles with one out to chase Wells. Ramiro Mendoza relieved Wells and 
gave up three more runs and was relieved by Orlando Hernández, but the 
damage was done. The eight-run inning gave the Angels a commanding 9–2 
lead. The Yankees had a few one-run innings, but it was too little too 
late. The Angels were going to the ALCS. Anaheim's victory secured their 
place in the American League Championship Series. 2002 ALDS (3–1): Anaheim 
Angels over New York Yankees Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California 
The inexperienced Twins played up-tight and had some bad blunders in the 
field to start the game off. They trailed 5–1 after the first two innings. 
Oakland starter Tim Hudson could not hold the lead, giving up a home run 
to Twin third baseman Corey Koskie and first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz. 
Minnesota took a 6–5 advantage in the sixth inning on a Koskie RBI groundout. 
The Minnesota bullpen pitched four innings of shutout ball to escape with 
a stunning victory over the Athletics. Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, 
California Oakland dominated Twin starter Joe Mays from the get-go and 
never looked back. Third baseman Eric Chavez hit a three-run home run in 
the first inning, and the A's added five more runs in the fourth, chasing 
Mays after 3 1⁄3 innings. Minnesota's lone run came on a Cristian Guzmán 
solo blast in the sixth inning. Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota Ray Durham stunned the Twin fans inside the Metrodome by leading 
off the game with an inside-the-park home run, the first in Division Series 
history. Scott Hatteberg hit a home run to right field moments later to 
stake 23-game winner Barry Zito to 2–0 lead. Minnesota tied the game at 
three in the fifth, but the A's powered their way to a win with help from 
a Jermaine Dye home run and a two-run seventh. It was just the second postseason 
loss at the HHH Metrodome for the Twins (11–1 home record coming into the 
game), the last coming in 1991 to Toronto in the ALCS. Hubert H. Humphrey 
Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota Minnesota staved off elimination by 
pounding Oakland 11–2, despite trailing 2–0 early. The Twins tied the game 
in the third and had a seven-run fourth inning, making it 9–2, and that 
was all starter Eric Milton needed, forcing a decisive Game 5 in Oakland. 
Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California Minnesota got off to 
a 2–1 lead, and it was a pitchers' duel until the ninth. Twins starter 
Brad Radke had a gutty performance, going 6 2⁄3 innings and giving up only 
one run on six hits. Minnesota added three runs in the top of the ninth 
making it 5–1, thanks to a two-run homer from A. J. Pierzynski and an RBI 
double from David Ortiz. But Oakland rallied against Twin closer Eddie 
Guardado in the bottom of the ninth when A's second baseman Mark Ellis 
hit a three-run home run to left to make it a 5–4 game. Oakland had one 
on and two outs when Ray Durham fouled out to second to end the series. 
Minnesota's victory secured its place in the American League Championship 
