The 2003 National League Championship Series (NLCS) was a Major League 
Baseball playoff series played from October 7 to 15 to determine the champion 
of the National League, between the Central Division champion Chicago Cubs 
and the wild-card qualifying Florida Marlins. The Cubs, by virtue of being 
a division winner, had the home field advantage.[1] The Marlins came back 
from a three games to one deficit and won the series in seven games, advancing 
to the World Series against the New York Yankees.[2][3] The two teams were 
victorious in the NL Division Series (NLDS), with the Cubs defeating the 
East Division champion Atlanta Braves three games to two,[4] and the Marlins 
defeating the West Division champion San Francisco Giants three games to 
one.[5] The series is most remembered for events that unfolded in the top 
of the eighth inning of Game 6.[6][7] Not having won a championship since 
1908, the Cubs had just taken two out of the three games in Miami, with 
the final two games at Wrigley Field in Chicago.[8] The Cubs also had their 
best two pitchers, Mark Prior and Kerry Wood, slated to start the final 
two games.[9][10] With the Cubs leading 3–0 and just five outs away from 
their first World Series since 1945, Steve Bartman, a fan, reached for 
the foul ball hit by Luis Castillo off Prior, preventing Cubs outfielder 
Moisés Alou from catching it. Castillo proceeded to walk and Prior and 
the Cubs never recovered from the incident. Aided by Castillo's walk and 
later an error by Cubs shortstop Alex Gonzalez on a potential double-play 
grounder, the Marlins went on to score eight runs in the inning and won 
the game 8–3. There were some odd events leading up to the disastrous 8th 
inning that many Cubs fans call bad omens of The Curse of the Billy Goat, 
which most notably include Bernie Mac altering "Take Me Out to the Ball 
Game" from "root for the Cubbies" to "root for the champs." The Marlins 
went on to win Game 7 and then to defeat the New York Yankees in the World 
Series. Chicago manager Dusty Baker, who won the NL pennant in 2002 with 
the San Francisco Giants, fell short in his bid to become the first manager 
ever to take two different teams to the World Series in consecutive years. 
Florida won the series, 4–3. Tuesday, October 7, 2003 at Wrigley Field 
in Chicago The Marlins took Game 1 of the series in 11 innings, coming 
back from an early 4–0 deficit.[18] They scored five runs in the third 
on three home runs from Juan Encarnación, rookie Miguel Cabrera, and Ivan 
"Pudge" Rodríguez.[19] In the sixth inning, down 6–4, the Cubs tied the 
game on an Alex S. Gonzalez home run off Josh Beckett.[20] The game remained 
tied until the ninth where the Marlins took a two-run lead.[20] With two 
outs and one on in the bottom of the ninth, Sammy Sosa hit a booming home 
run off Ugueth Urbina to send the game into extra innings.[20] In the top 
of the 11th, pinch-hitter Mike Lowell hit a solo home run off Mark Guthrie 
that ultimately proved to be the game-winner.[21] Wednesday, October 8, 
2003 at Wrigley Field in Chicago The Cubs cruised behind fireballer Mark 
Prior. Sosa added his second home run of the series with a prodigious blast 
that landed behind the center-field camera. Meanwhile, Alex S. Gonzalez, 
not to be mistaken with the Marlins' Alex L. Gonzalez, sent two homers 
into the bleachers. Friday, October 10, 2003 at Pro Player Stadium in Miami 
Gardens, Florida Another back-and-forth affair, similar to Game 1, pitted 
Florida's Mark Redman against Chicago's ace Kerry Wood at Pro Player Stadium. 
The Cubs jumped on top in the first inning, as they had done in the previous 
two games. Sosa drove in Kenny Lofton with an RBI single. The Cubs plated 
another run in the second, when a single and a pair of walks were followed 
by a sacrifice fly by Wood. The Marlins got a run back in their half of 
the second when Alex Gonzalez doubled in Miguel Cabrera with two outs. 
Other than the Marlins leaving the bases loaded in the fifth, Wood rolled 
through the middle innings. Redman, too, held strong until he was pinch-hit 
for in the seventh. In the bottom of the 7th, the Marlins finally broke 
through. Gonzalez led off with a single, followed by a Mike Lowell walk. 
They were both sacrificed to second and third, and then Gonzalez scored 
the tying run on an RBI groundout by Luis Castillo. With two outs and Lowell 
at third, Iván Rodríguez singled through the right side to give Florida 
the lead and knocked Wood from the game. At home, the Marlins felt a huge 
swing of energy, since up until that point both Prior and Wood had seemed 
unbeatable in the playoffs. The momentum came to a screeching halt the 
next inning when Randall Simon followed up a Tom Goodwin triple with a 
home run into the right-field stands off reliever Chad Fox. The Cubs had 
suddenly retaken the lead 4-3. The Marlins tied the game at 4-4 in the 
bottom of the eighth against Kyle Farnsworth when Todd Hollandsworth grounded 
a hit through the left side of the infield to score Cabrera. Florida, however, 
stranded the bases loaded in the ninth and the game went into extra innings. 
In the top of the 11th, Lofton singled with one out. Then the sparingly 
used Doug Glanville turned out to be the hero when he smoked a triple into 
the left-center field gap to drive in Lofton with the go-ahead run. Mike 
Remlinger retired the Marlins in the bottom half of the 11th to secure 
the 5-4 victory. Down 2 games to 1, the defeat was a blow to the Marlins, 
who squandered several chances with runners in scoring position. Saturday, 
October 11, 2003 at Pro Player Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida Aramis 
Ramírez blasted a first inning grand-slam, the first in Cubs postseason 
history, and the Cubs cruised to an 8–3 victory, putting them just one 
victory away from their first World Series in nearly 60 years.[10][22] 
This 2003 victory turned out to be the last playoff game won by the Cubs 
for twelve years, a span of 9 consecutive losses until finally winning 
the National League Wild Card Game in 2015, as well as their last win in 
the NLCS until 2016. Sunday, October 12, 2003 at Pro Player Stadium in 
Miami Gardens, Florida With the Marlins facing elimination, Josh Beckett 
kept them alive by dominating the Cubs, holding them to just two hits and 
one walk as part of his standout 2003 postseason.[23] The game was scoreless 
until the fifth inning when Mike Lowell hit a two-run homer. Iván Rodríguez 
and Jeff Conine homered in the seventh and eighth innings, respectively. 
Even with the loss, the Cubs looked strong going back home with their two 
aces, Mark Prior for Game 6 and Kerry Wood, if necessary, to start Game 
7.[10] Tuesday, October 14, 2003 at Wrigley Field in Chicago With thousands 
of fans on the street outside sold-out Wrigley Field, poised to celebrate, 
the Cubs held a 3–0 lead going into the top of the eighth inning of Game 
6. After Mike Mordecai hit a high pop fly to left field, the team was a 
mere five outs away from their first World Series since 1945.[24][25][26] 
Prior had retired the last eight hitters and had allowed only three hits 
up to that point. Center fielder Juan Pierre (who was later traded to the 
Cubs) then hit a double off Prior. On the eighth pitch of his at bat, Luis 
Castillo hit a high foul ball toward the left field wall. Cubs left fielder 
Moisés Alou (a former Marlin) headed toward the stands to catch the ball 
for the potential second out. As Alou reached for the ball, Cubs fan Steve 
Bartman, along with others near the area, did the same. The ball bounced 
off Bartman's hands and into the stands. Though the Cubs pleaded for a 
call of fan interference, left field umpire Mike Everitt ruled that the 
ball had left the field of play and was therefore up for grabs. Alou, who 
was visibly angry at Bartman's catch, initially acknowledged that he would 
not have made the catch, but he later denied making such a statement and 
said if he had, it was only to make Bartman feel better.[27] As a result, 
Castillo remained an active batter at home plate. On the next pitch, Prior 
walked Castillo with a wild pitch that got away from catcher Paul Bako, 
also allowing Pierre to advance to third base. Next, Iván Rodríguez hit 
an 0–2 pitch hard into left field, singling and scoring Pierre. Miguel 
Cabrera then hit a ground ball toward Cubs shortstop Alex S. Gonzalez that 
could have ended the inning on a double play. Gonzalez, who led all NL 
shortstops in fielding percentage, closed his glove too early and the ball 
landed in the dirt, allowing Cabrera to reach safely, loading the bases. 
On the next pitch, Derrek Lee (a future Cubs All-Star) drilled a double 
into left field, scoring Castillo and Rodríguez to tie the score at 3–3. 
Prior was taken out of the game and replaced by Kyle Farnsworth, who intentionally 
walked Mike Lowell to load the bases. Jeff Conine then hit a sacrifice 
fly to right field for the second out of the inning, allowing Cabrera to 
score from third and the other runners to each advance one base. This gave 
the Marlins their first lead of the night. Farnsworth intentionally walked 
Todd Hollandsworth (another future Cub) to once again load the bases. The 
Marlins now having batted around the order, Mordecai, making up for his 
earlier out, hit a base-clearing double to left-center field, scoring Lee, 
Lowell and Hollandsworth and making it a 7–3 Marlins lead. Farnsworth was 
taken out of the game and replaced by Mike Remlinger, who gave up a single 
to Pierre to score Mordecai from second base. Castillo popped to shallow 
right field for the final out of an 8-run inning. The comeback victory 
by the Marlins forced a final Game 7. Wednesday, October 15, 2003 at Wrigley 
Field in Chicago The Marlins got off to a quick 3–0 lead in the first inning 
against Cubs ace Kerry Wood, who hadn't lost at Wrigley Field in nearly 
six weeks.[28] The Cubs responded by tying the score 3–3 in the second 
inning, which featured a two-run home run by Wood. Moisés Alou's two-run 
homer the following inning put Chicago up 5–3, but the lead wouldn't last.[29] 
In the fifth, Florida capitalized on a pair of walks and scored three times 
to go on top 6–5, a lead they would not relinquish. They added a run in 
the sixth and two more in the seventh to expand their lead to 9–5. Cubs 
pinch-hitter Troy O'Leary hit a home run in the seventh, making the score 
9–6. After the Cubs were retired in order in the eighth, Florida closer 
Ugueth Urbina hit Aramis Ramírez with a pitch to lead off the ninth inning, 
but proceeded to retire the following three batters, giving the Marlins 
their second National League pennant in their 11-year existence, while 
leaving the Cubs once again empty-handed.[30] 2003 NLCS (4–3): Florida 
