The 2003 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2003 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, September 30, and ended 
on Monday, October 6, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. Although the 
team with the best record was normally intended to play the wild card team, 
the Yankees played the Twins, rather than the wild card Red Sox, because 
the Yankees and Red Sox are in the same division. The Yankees and Red Sox 
went on to meet in the AL Championship Series, for the right to advance 
to the 2003 World Series against the National League champion Florida Marlins. 
New York won the series, 3–1. Boston won the series, 3–2. Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Hubert H. 
Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
in Minneapolis, Minnesota New York's victory secured their place in the 
American League Championship Series. 2003 ALDS (3–1): New York Yankees 
over Minnesota Twins Network Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California 
After the Athletics tied the game 4–4 in the ninth inning on an RBI single 
by Erubiel Durazo, they won it in the twelfth when catcher Ramón Hernández 
laid down a two-out bunt single, scoring Eric Chavez from third base. Rich 
Harden was credited with the win, and Derek Lowe was credited with the 
loss. This was Oakland's ninth consecutive playoff win over Boston in the 
wake of ALCS sweeps in 1988 and 1990, breaking the record for consecutive 
playoff wins against one team set by the New York Yankees against the Chicago 
Cubs with World Series sweeps in 1932 and 1938. Incidentally, the Yankees 
nearly got a chance to extend that streak the same year. Network Associates 
Coliseum in Oakland, California A five-run outburst in the second inning, 
capped off by a two-run throwing error by Todd Walker, was all the offense 
Oakland pitcher Barry Zito needed to claim the victory for the A's. Tim 
Wakefield was credited with the loss. The Athletics at this point were 
one win away from a trip to the ALCS. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts 
Down 1–0 in the sixth inning, the Athletics had a potential rally stifled 
by controversial outs. Eric Byrnes was tagged out after failing to touch 
home plate after a collision with catcher Jason Varitek. Miguel Tejada 
was similarly retired after being obstructed by Bill Mueller while rounding 
third base. Obstruction was called by umpire Tim Welke. However time was 
not called by the umpire and Tejada stopped running thus giving the Red 
Sox time to tag him.[10] The one run scored in the inning sent the game 
into extra innings, where Boston won on a two-run walk-off home run by 
Trot Nixon. Scott Williamson was credited with the win, and Rich Harden 
was credited with the loss. This loss ended Oakland's playoff-record winning 
streak against the Red Sox at ten games, a record the Red Sox themselves 
would break in 2008 when they won their eleventh consecutive playoff game 
against the Angels. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts After Oakland 
starter Tim Hudson left with a strained left oblique after only one inning, 
the A's bullpen held the Sox to only three runs over the next seven innings. 
With a 4–3 lead in the eighth inning, however, closer Keith Foulke gave 
up a game-winning two-RBI double to David Ortiz, scoring Nomar Garciaparra 
and Manny Ramírez. Scott Williamson was credited with the win. Network 
Associates Coliseum in Oakland, California The Red Sox rode a four-run 
sixth inning, highlighted by a three-run Manny Ramírez home run to complete 
their comeback from an 0–2 series deficit. Down by one run, the A's loaded 
the bases in the ninth inning, but failed to score as temporary closer 
Derek Lowe struck out Terrence Long looking. The win was marred by a violent 
collision between outfielder Johnny Damon and second baseman Damian Jackson. 
Damon was sent to the hospital where he was diagnosed with a concussion. 
Both starters factored into the decision, as Pedro Martínez was credited 
with the win, and Barry Zito was credited with the loss. Boston's victory 
secured their place in the American League Championship Series while Oakland 
lost the ALDS after being up two games to none for the second time in three 
