The 2003 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was played between 
the Boston Red Sox and the New York Yankees from October 8 to 16, 2003. 
The Yankees won the series four games to three to advance to the World 
Series. This series delivered yet another blow to Red Sox fans' hopes of 
winning a World Series for the first time since 1918. The series seemed 
evenly matched, with the lead being held first by the Red Sox, then by 
the Yankees.[1] The Sox forced the series to a full seven games, with the 
seventh game setting another major league record for the rivalry between 
the two teams: it marked the first time two major league teams have played 
more than 25 games against each other over the course of a single season.[2] 
The Red Sox also set an ALCS record with twelve home runs in the series. 
New York won the series, 4–3. Wednesday, October 8, 2003 at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York 8:07ET MLB on FOX Tim Wakefield shut the Bronx Bombers 
down for six innings in Game 1, allowing only back-to-back one-out singles 
to Jorge Posada and Hideki Matsui in the second. Mike Mussina pitched three 
shutout innings before allowing a leadoff single to Manny Ramirez in the 
fourth, then David Ortiz homered to put the Red Sox up 2–0. Next inning, 
Todd Walker and Manny Ramirez each hit solo home runs off of Mussina to 
put the Red Sox ahead 4–0. In the top of the seventh, Jeff Nelson allowed 
a two-out single to Ramirez and hit Ortiz with a pitch before Kevin Millar's 
RBI single made it 5-0 Boston. In the bottom of the inning, Wakefield walked 
Jason Giambi and Bernie Williams before being relieved by Alan Embree, 
who allowed an RBI double to Posada and sacrifice fly to Matsui to make 
it 5-2 Boston. However, the Yankees would not score again as the Red Sox 
took a 1-0 series lead. Thursday, October 9, 2003 at Yankee Stadium (I) 
in Bronx, New York After leaving the bases loaded in the first, the Red 
Sox took a 1-0 lead in the second off of Andy Pettitte when Jason Varitek 
hit a lead off double, moved to third on Trot Nixon's single, and scored 
on Damian Jackson's single. In the bottom of the inning, Derek Lowe issued 
a leadoff walk to Jorge Posada and one out later, Nick Johnson's home run 
put the Yankees up 2-1. Next inning, Lowe allowed three consecutive one-out 
singles, the last of which by Bernie Williams scored Derek Jeter to make 
it 3-1 Yankees. In the fifth, Williams doubled with one out and scored 
on a single by Hideki Matsui, who was tagged out at second to end the inning. 
Varitek's home run in the sixth off of Pettitte made it 4-2 Yankees. In 
the seventh, Lowe allowed a two-out single to Jason Giambi and walked Williams 
before being relieved by Scott Sauerbeck, who allowed a two-run double 
to Posada to make it 6-2 Yankees. Their lead held, tying the series at 
1-1 heading to Boston. Saturday, October 11, 2003 at Fenway Park in Boston, 
Massachusetts Game 3 was highly anticipated, a classic matchup between 
Sox ace Pedro Martínez and former Sox pitcher Roger Clemens, who, on the 
cusp of retirement, was thought to be pitching his last game at Fenway 
Park. Early on, Karim Garcia was hit in the back by a Martinez fastball. 
Words were exchanged and Martinez threateningly gestured towards Yankee 
catcher Jorge Posada. When Garcia was forced out at second, he slid hard 
into Todd Walker. The following inning, Manny Ramírez took exception to 
a high Clemens pitch and charged the mound. Both benches cleared, but the 
resulting brawl turned surreal when 72-year-old Yankee bench coach Don 
Zimmer charged Pedro Martínez. Martinez sidestepped and brushed the charging 
Zimmer down. Zimmer then stumbled and fell onto the ground as Yankee trainer 
Gene Monahan and various Yankee players attended to him. After the thirteen-minute 
delay, during which Fenway Park stopped all beer sales for the remainder 
of the game, Clemens struck out Ramirez and proceeded to pitch effectively 
as the Yankees held a lead. The game would not end quietly: a Fenway groundskeeper 
got into a scuffle with Yankee reliever Jeff Nelson in the middle of the 
9th inning in the bullpen area. In the bottom of the first, Clemens allowed 
a leadoff single to Johnny Damon and subsequent double to Todd Walker. 
After Nomar Garciaparra struck out, Manny Ramirez's double put the Red 
Sox up 2-0. The Yankees cut it to 2-1 in the second off of Martinez when 
Jorge Posada hit a leadoff double and scores on Karim Garcia's single two 
outs later. Derek Jeter's home run next inning tied the game. In the fourth, 
Posada drew a leadoff walk, moved to third on Nick Johnson's single, and 
scored on Hideki Matsui's ground-rule double. After Garcia was hit by a 
pitch to load the bases, Alfonso Soriano hit into a double play that scored 
Johnson and put the Yankees up 4-2. In the bottom of the seventh, reliever 
Felix Heredia issued a leadoff walk to David Ortiz. Jose Contreras relieved 
Heredia and allowed a single to Kevin Millar that moved Ortiz to third. 
Ortiz scored when Trot Nixon hit into a double play to make it 4-3 Yankees. 
Their lead held, though, putting them up 2-1 in the series. Monday, October 
13, 2003 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Game 4 was postponed from 
Sunday to Monday due to rain; The Red Sox went up 1-0 on Todd Walker's 
second home run of the series in the fourth off of Mike Mussina. In the 
top of the fifth, Tim Wakefield allowed back-to-back one hit singles before 
Derek Jeter's double tied the game and put runners on second and third. 
Bernie Williams walked with two outs to load the bases, but Jorge Posada 
lined out to left to end the inning. In the bottom half, Trot Nixon's home 
run put the Red Sox up 2-1. They loaded the bases in the seventh off of 
Mussina on a double and two walks with one out when Jason Varitek hit into 
a force out at second, narrowly beating Alfonso Soriano's throw to first 
to avoid a double play and allow Kevin Millar to score to make it 3-1 Boston. 
Ruben Sierra's one-out home run in the ninth off of Scott Williamson made 
it 3-2 Boston, but Williamson struck out David Dellucci and Soriano to 
end the game and tie the series at 2-2. Tuesday, October 14, 2003 at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Yankees loaded the bases in the third 
off of Derek Lowe on two walks and a hit when Karim Garcia's single scored 
two, then Alfonso Soriano's single scored another. Manny Ramirez's leadoff 
home run in the fourth off of David Wells made it 3-1 Yankees. They made 
it 4-1 in the eighth when Bernie Williams reached on a force out at second, 
moved to third on Jorge Posada's single and scored on Hideki Matsui's groundout 
off of Alan Embree. In the bottom of the inning, Todd Walker hit a leadoff 
triple off of Mariano Rivera and scored on Nomar Garciaparra's groundout 
to make it 4-2 Yankees. Rivera, though, shutout the Red Sox for the rest 
of the game, leaving the Yankees one win away from the World Series. Wednesday, 
October 15, 2003 at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Jason Giambi's 
one-out home run in the first off of John Burkett put the Yankees up 1-0, 
but Jason Varitek's leadoff home run in the fourth off of Andy Pettitte 
tied the score. The Red Sox loaded the bases with one out on two walks 
and a single before David Ortiz's single scored two and Kevin Millar's 
single scored another to put them up 4-1. In the bottom of the fourth, 
Jorge Posada and Hideki Matsui hit back-to-back one out singles before 
Nick Johnson's double and Aaron Boone's groundout scored a run each. Nomar 
Garciaparra's error allowed Karim Garcia to reach base before Alfonso Soriano's 
two-run double put the Yankees atop 5-4 and ended Burkett's night. Posada's 
home run next inning off of Bronson Arroyo made it 6-4 Yankees. In the 
top of the seventh, Garciaparra hit a leadoff triple off of Jose Contreras 
and scored on Matsui's errant throw to third. Manny Ramirez then doubled, 
moved to third on a wild pitch, and scored on David Ortiz's single to tie 
the game. After allowing a one-out single to Bill Mueller, Contreras was 
relieved by Felix Heredia, who struck out Trot Nixon, but threw a wild 
pitch that put runners on second and third. After intentionally walking 
Jason Varitek to load the bases, Heredia walked Johnny Damon to force in 
a run and put the Red Sox up 7-6. They added insurance in the ninth when 
Mueller doubled with one out off of Jeff Nelson. Gabe White relieved Nelson 
and allowed a home run to Nixon to make it 9-6 Red Sox. Scott Williamson 
retired the Yankees in order in the bottom half for his third save of the 
series, forcing a Game 7. Thursday, October 16, 2003 at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York In the Martinez–Clemens rematch of Game 3, Clemens 
allowed a one-out single to Kevin Millar before Trot Nixon's home run put 
Boston up 2-0. After Bill Mueller struck out, Jason Varitek doubled and 
scored on third baseman Enrique Wilson's throwing error to first on Johnny 
Damon's ground ball. Millar's leadoff home run in the fourth made it 4-0 
Boston. Nixon then walked and moved to third on Mueller's single to knock 
Clemens out of the game. In the first relief appearance of his career, 
Mike Mussina proceeded to clean up Clemens' mess by striking out Jason 
Varitek and inducing a Johnny Damon double play. His three innings of scoreless 
relief, and two solo home runs in the fifth and seventh innings by Jason 
Giambi, kept the Yankees in the ballgame. But in the eighth inning, with 
the Red Sox leading 5–2 (after David Ortiz homered in the top half off 
of David Wells, things unraveled for Boston. Sox manager Grady Little left 
a tiring Martinez in for the eighth, a controversial move which is still 
discussed years later.[1] Little had two relievers who had shown some effectiveness 
in the games leading up to the seventh game—Scott Williamson and Mike Timlin 
(who had not allowed a single hit in the playoffs)—in the bullpen.[1] However, 
both Williamson and Timlin had experienced stretches of ineffectiveness 
during the season, while Martinez had Hall of Fame credentials.[10] Critics 
of the move note that Martinez had experienced diminished effectiveness 
in the late innings of games in which he had thrown more than 100 pitches.[10] 
After the Cy Young Award winner Martinez assured his manager he still had 
something left, he gave up a double to Derek Jeter and a single to Bernie 
Williams, prompting Little to go out to the mound.[1] To the surprise of 
many, Little left Martinez in the game, leaving lefty Alan Embree in the 
bullpen with the left-handed Hideki Matsui coming to the plate.[1] Martinez 
gave up a double to Matsui and a bloop double to Jorge Posada to tie the 
game, sending it to extra innings. Mariano Rivera came in for the ninth 
and pitched three shutout innings.[10] Tim Wakefield pitched a scoreless 
tenth for Boston and in the bottom of the eleventh faced Aaron Boone, who 
had entered earlier as a pinch-runner. On Wakefield's first pitch of the 
inning, Boone launched a walk-off home run into the left field seats. Fox 
Sports displayed a collection of images thereafter: tears welling up in 
the eyes of Aaron's brother, Seattle Mariners infielder Bret Boone (the 
guest announcer), ALCS MVP Mariano Rivera running to the mound and collapsing 
on it in joy, Boone jumping on home plate, and Rivera being carried off 
on his teammates' shoulders.[11] 2003 ALCS (4–3): New York Yankees over 
Boston Red Sox The series is widely considered to be one of the worst losses 
in Boston sports history.[10][12] The loss was crushing for Red Sox fans, 
many of whom blamed Little for leaving Martinez in the game and not going 
to his recently dependable bullpen, since Martinez had experienced difficulty 
pitching effectively beyond 100 pitches.[1] In his book Now I Can Die in 
Peace, Bill Simmons writes that the Boston owners and Theo Epstein had 
ordered Little to remove Pedro from the game when he finished the seventh 
inning and/or topped the three-digit pitch count. Martinez was sure he 
would not be called on for the eighth inning, but agreed to do so when 
his manager asked him. After the game, Little reportedly and prophetically 
told his pitcher "Petey, I might not be here anymore." Little defended 
his move by saying that he felt a tired Martinez was a better option than 
anyone else on the team. Defenders of Little also noted that the Red Sox 
offense collapsed in the game, as the club scored only two runs in the 
last nine innings of the contest and also noted the poor defensive play 
of Johnny Damon in center field during the crucial inning.[1] Others have 
noted that by staying with a physically fragile pitcher in an ultimate 
game with two runners on base, a two-run lead, a rested pitcher who had 
performed well in the postseason ready in the bullpen and the other team's 
MVP on deck, Little did exactly what Hall of Fame manager Walter Alston 
did with Sandy Koufax in Game 7 of the 1965 World Series, which Alston's 
Dodgers won. Little's contract was not renewed after the season and he 
was replaced by Terry Francona.[13] Little went on to manage the Los Angeles 
Dodgers before ironically being replaced by Joe Torre.[14] Aaron Boone's 
home run that clinched the pennant for the Yankees often draws comparisons 
to another famous Yankee home run against the Red Sox in the postseason: 
specifically, the one Bucky Dent hit in a one-game playoff between the 
two teams that decided the American League East division title in 1978. 
However, the Yankees won the World Series that year, doing so against the 
Dodgers. As with Dent, Boone has had the expletive "Fucking" assigned as 
a middle name by Red Sox fans in the following years. Until the final game 
of the pennant race, some baseball fans had been hoping for a rematch of 
the 1918 World Series:[10] a showdown between the Red Sox and the Chicago 
Cubs, one of only two major league teams to have played for a longer period 
of time since winning the World Series (the other was the Chicago White 
Sox, who went on to win the Series in 2005).[10] The Cubs reached the 2003 
National League Championship Series against the Florida Marlins. As with 
the Red Sox, they had a three-run lead and were only five outs away from 
reaching the World Series, although this was in Game 6, when the Marlins 
scored eight runs in that inning and won the game 8–3.[15][16][17] The 
Marlins would win Game 7, 9–6, to advance to the World Series,[18] where 
they defeated the Yankees four games to two.[19] The following year, Boston 
and New York met again in the ALCS, with Boston becoming the first team 
in major league history — as well as just the third team in American professional 
sports history — to come back to win a playoff series after being down 
three games to none;[20] they then swept the St. Louis Cardinals in the 
World Series to win their first championship since 1918 and thus end the 
Curse of the Bambino.[21] In the 2005–06 offseason, the rivalry between 
Boston and New York revived the Yankees loss to the Marlins in the 2003 
World Series when they traded Josh Beckett, the pitcher who pitched a complete 
game shutout against the Yankees in the deciding game of the World Series 
