The 2003 Florida Marlins season was a season in American baseball. The 
Marlins were the National League Wild Card Winners, the National League 
Champions, and the World Series Champions. The Marlins pulled off some 
blockbuster deals during the 2003 off season, the most impressive being 
that of 10-time Gold Glove winning catcher Iván Rodríguez. They also traded 
catcher Charles Johnson and outfielder Preston Wilson to the Colorado Rockies 
for lead-off man Juan Pierre. Jeff Torborg, the manager at the start of 
the season, lead the team to a 16-22 start, one of the worst in the league. 
Adding to that, their three top pitchers A. J. Burnett, Josh Beckett and 
Mark Redman, had each endured injuries that season, but Beckett and Redman 
were able to return to finish the rest of 2003. On May 11, Torborg was 
fired and replaced with Jack McKeon, a fiery 72-year-old who began his 
managerial career in 1973 with the Kansas City Royals. Infielders Other 
batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in [11] 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in [11] Note: G = Games pitched; IP = 
Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts 
Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; W = Wins; 
L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts With 
a 4–3 win over the New York Mets on September 26, the Marlins clinched 
their second wildcard in team history, and finishing with an overall record 
of 91–71. The Marlins won the Division Series over the heavily favored 
defending National League champion San Francisco Giants. The series ended 
with a play at the plate with catcher Iván Rodríguez prevailing over Giants 
first baseman J. T. Snow. Coupled with a perfect throw from Conine and 
an amazing catch from Rodríguez, Snow was attempting to score by using 
a football type bulldozing move, but Rodríguez held on and the Marlins 
won, marking the first time that a post-season series ended with the potential 
tying run being thrown out at home plate. The 2003 National League Championship 
Series is arguably one of the most famous (or infamous) post-season series 
in MLB history. On one side, the Florida Marlins, the miracle who, just 
a few months before, were at the cellar of the NL. On the other side, the 
Chicago Cubs, the "lovable losers", who, for the first time in a long time, 
were so close to victory. The Cubs jumped to a quick 3 games to 1 lead 
including 2 out of the 3 games in Miami, and were the sure favorites to 
take the series when it shifted back to Chicago. In Game five, an absolutely 
stellar performance by Josh Beckett brought the series back to Chicago, 
back to Wrigley Field, where the home team has always had the advantage. 
With the Cubs needing to win only one game, and having studs Mark Prior 
and Kerry Wood on the hill those two games, most people thought the Marlins 
hope was over. In Game Six, the Cubs enjoyed a comfortable 3-0 lead with 
one out in the 8th Inning, when it all fell apart, and the Marlins went 
on to win the game, tying the series. This was the game of the Steve Bartman 
incident. In Game Seven, Brad Penny drove it home for the Fish, clinching 
their second pennant in 6 years. In the World Series, the underdog Marlins 
prevailed over the Yankees, 4 games to 2. This World Series marked the 
100th anniversary of the annual event, although because there had not been 
a World Series played in what would have been its second year (1904), and 
the cancellation of all post-season play as a result of the strike in 1994, 
it was only the 99th World Series played. Josh Beckett was named the World 
Series MVP. Trying to win it all again. Posada, slow roller, right side. 
Beckett picks it up, tags Posada, and the Florida Marlins are World Champions. 
The Marlins have stunned the Yankees. Shocked New York. And this improbable 
team, improbable ride. They end up on top. LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Carolina[12] 
