The 2003 National League Division Series (NLDS), the first round of the 
2003 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, September 30, and ended 
on Sunday, October 5, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. The teams 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage (Games 
1, 2 and 5 at home), which was determined by playing record. Although the 
team with the best record was normally intended to play the wild card team, 
the Braves played the Cubs, rather than the wild card Marlins, because 
the Braves and Marlins are in the same division. The Cubs and Marlins went 
on to meet in the NL Championship Series, for the right to advance to the 
2003 World Series against the American League champion New York Yankees. 
Chicago won the series, 3–2. Florida won the series, 3–1. Turner Field 
in Atlanta In Game 1, Kerry Wood faced Russ Ortiz. Both pitchers were on 
their game and in the bottom of the third the Braves struck first when 
Marcus Giles homered to make it 1–0 Braves. The score remained 1–0 until 
the top of the sixth. The Cubs would load the bases with three consecutive 
hits to lead off the inning. But Ortiz got the next two outs, with the 
last of the two being an RBI groundout by Paul Bako. But Wood would add 
insult to injury by doubling in two runs and then scoring on Kenny Lofton's 
single—That made it 4–1 Cubs. A forceout gave the Braves a run in the eighth 
but Joe Borowski closed the door in the ninth. Combined the Cubs bullpen 
allowed only one hit, a ninth-inning single by Vinny Castilla. This was 
the Cubs' first road postseason victory since Game 3 of the 1945 World 
Series Turner Field in Atlanta In Game 2, Carlos Zambrano faced Mike Hampton. 
Hampton immediately ran into trouble in the first when two leadoff walks 
put two men on for Sammy Sosa. Sosa would double in the first run of the 
game, then Moisés Alou would bring in a run on a fielder's choice. After 
Aramis Ramírez singled to load the bases, Hampton recovered to strikeout 
six consecutive batters. Hampton struck out Eric Karros, Ramón Martínez 
and Damian Miller to end the first. He then struck out Carlos Zambrano, 
Kenny Lofton and Mark Grudzielanek in the second. Sosa led-off the third 
with a single to end the streak. Hampton's six consecutive strikeouts set 
a Division Series record and tied an overall postseason record held by 
three other pitchers: Todd Worrell in 1985, Moe Drabowski in 1966 and Hod 
Eller in 1919. The Braves would cut the lead in half when Chipper Jones 
forced Mark DeRosa out at second, allowing Rafael Furcal to score in the 
bottom half of the first. Then Andruw Jones's RBI single tied the game 
in the fourth. In the bottom of the sixth, Marcus Giles would give the 
Braves the lead with an RBI single to left field. A sacrifice fly by Tom 
Goodwin tied the game in the eighth. But Mark DeRosa's clutch two-out, 
two-run double put the Braves ahead 5–3 and John Smoltz would finish it 
with a perfect ninth. Wrigley Field in Chicago In Game 3, Greg Maddux faced 
Mark Prior. In the bottom of the first, the Cubs put two runs on the board 
thanks to Randall Simon's two-run single. But no one would be able to score 
off Maddux or Prior again until the eighth inning. A sacrifice fly by Marcus 
Giles cut the lead in half after Mark DeRosa doubled and moved to third 
on a ground out. But Aramis Ramírez would give Prior insurance with an 
RBI double in the bottom of the eighth. Prior would go on to pitch a complete 
game two-hit masterpiece. Game 3 would prove to be Maddux's final game 
with the Braves after 11 seasons, as he returned to the Cubs as a free 
agent in 2004. Wrigley Field in Chicago In Game 4, Russ Ortiz faced Matt 
Clement, hoping to end the series. Both pitchers held off the opposition 
until the Cubs broke through in the bottom of the third. Moisés Alou would 
double in Sammy Sosa to give the Cubs a 1–0 lead. But Darren Bragg's forceout 
allowed Julio Franco to score to tie the game in the top of the fourth. 
Then Chipper Jones's two-run homer gave the Braves a 3–1 lead in the fifth. 
Then Vinny Castilla would add another run later in the inning with an RBI 
single to make it 4–1. The Cubs would scratch out a run in the sixth, but 
Chipper Jones's second two-run home run made it 6–2 Braves in the eighth. 
Eric Karros would give the Cubs a run in the bottom half with a solo homer 
and then in the ninth the Cubs would score again but John Smoltz would 
get the save and send the series back to Atlanta. Turner Field in Atlanta 
In Game 5, Kerry Wood this time faced Mike Hampton. Hampton would once 
again give up early runs when the Cubs took a 1–0 lead in the first with 
a Moisés Alou RBI single. Then Alex S. Gonzalez's leadoff homer gave the 
Cubs a 2–0 lead. Then Aramis Ramírez's two-run homer silenced the crowd 
in the sixth. That made it 4–0 Chicago. An RBI forceout by Gary Sheffield 
gave the Braves their only run of the night in the sixth. But the Cubs 
would add a run in the ninth thanks to an error by Vinny Castilla to take 
a commanding 5–1 lead. The Braves would be sent down 1–2–3 in the ninth 
and the Cubs' win in Game 5 gave the Cubs their first postseason series 
win since the 1908 World Series. 2003 NLDS (3–2): Chicago Cubs over Atlanta 
Braves The Florida Marlins completed their second winning season in franchise 
history. The San Francisco Giants were the defending NL Champions and making 
their second straight postseason appearance. Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, 
California In Game 1, Josh Beckett faced Jason Schmidt and a classic pitcher's 
duel began. The game remained scoreless until the bottom of the fourth. 
Two walks to start the inning spelled doom for Beckett, as an error by 
Miguel Cabrera allowed a run to score to make it 1–0 Giants. Both pitchers 
kept the game close and Beckett would allow only two hits. Schmidt allowed 
only three hits. Then Edgardo Alfonzo's RBI double in the eighth insured 
Schmidt's complete game victory. Pacific Bell Park in San Francisco, California 
In Game 2, Brad Penny faced Sidney Ponson. The game would feature six pitching 
changes for each team as both starters would last less than half the game. 
An RBI groundout in the top of the first gave the Marlins their first lead 
in the series. But Barry Bonds would tie the game with a double in the 
bottom half. The game remained quiet until the bottom of the fourth when 
Edgardo Alfonzo doubled in two runs and then would score on Marquis Grissom's 
groundout. The Giants now had a 4–1 lead. But the Marlins would tie the 
game in the next inning, a rally capped by Pudge's RBI single that scored 
Juan Pierre. The Giants would recapture the lead with an RBI hit by J. 
T. Snow in the bottom of the fifth. But Juan Encarnación would homer with 
one out to tie the game in the sixth. Then Pierre's go-ahead two-run double 
later in the inning made it 7–5 Marlins. Two more errors allowed two more 
runs to score and the Marlins would go on to win Game 2, 9–5. Pro Player 
Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida In Game 3, Kirk Rueter faced Mark Redman. 
Eventual NLCS MVP Iván Rodríguez got the scoring started with a two-run 
homer in the bottom of the first. The game remained quiet with Redman and 
Rueter dueling until the sixth. The Giants would tie the game thanks to 
a forceout and a pinch-hit RBI single by Pedro Feliz. The game would move 
to extra innings and the Giants would take the lead in the eleventh thanks 
to an error by Álex González. But the Marlins would strike back in the 
bottom half. An error by Gold Glove right fielder José Cruz, Jr. and a 
walk put two men on with nobody out. Then a sacrifice bunt moved the runners 
over. Luis Castillo would forceout a runner at the plate but Pudge would 
respond with a game-winning hit to right field that scored two runs. Pro 
Player Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida In Game 4, Jerome Williams faced 
Dontrelle Willis. In the top of the second, a sacrifice fly put the Giants 
out in front 1–0. But Rich Aurilia's error allowed Miguel Cabrera to score 
to tie the game in the bottom half. A double by Iván Rodríguez gave the 
Marlins the lead in the third. Then Derrek Lee would single home Rodriguez 
to make it 3–1. That marked the end of the day for Williams. In the fourth, 
the Marlins took a commanding 5–1 lead on Cabrera's two-run single. But 
Willis would run into trouble in the top of the sixth. Three straight hits 
to begin the inning made it 5–2. Then Barry Bonds's sac fly made it 5–3. 
Then Edgardo Alfonzo would double in a run to make it a one-run game. Willis 
was finished as well and Brad Penny came on in relief. He would get the 
second out but would relinquish the lead when J. T. Snow singled home Alfonzo 
to tie the game. Both bullpens would keep the game quiet until the bottom 
of the eighth. Félix Rodríguez came on in relief for the Giants and immediately 
ran into trouble after he got two quick outs. He allowed a base hit and 
hit a batter to put two men on for Cabrera. Cabrera would then single in 
two runs, thanks to an error by the Giants. They now had a 7–5 lead going 
into the ninth. With Ugueth Urbina coming on to close, the Giants put together 
a quick rally. A leadoff double and a base hit by Snow made it 7–6. Then 
Urbina got the next two outs. But Urbina hit a batter to put Snow in scoring 
position. Then, Snow tried to score on a single to left. Jeff Conine's 
throw was on target, and Rodriguez tagged Snow at the plate as Snow barrelled 
into him. Rodriguez fell backwards and, as he rose, showed that he held 
on to the ball preserving the Marlins win. The Marlins won the series three 
games to one. For the first time in postseason history, a series ended 
with the potential tying run thrown out at the plate, according to the 
Elias Sports Bureau. 2003 NLDS (3–1): Florida Marlins over San Francisco 
