The 2003 World Series was the 99th edition of Major League Baseball's championship 
series.[1] The Florida Marlins of the National League defeated the heavily 
favored New York Yankees of the American League in six games with a score 
of 4–2. This is the most recent Series in which the losing team outscored 
the winning team. The Yankees lost, despite outscoring the Marlins 21–17 
in the Series. This was the Marlins' second World Series championship win 
and their first since 1997. The 2003 World Series featured the New York 
Yankees in their sixth Series appearance in eight years. Opposing them 
were the wild card Florida Marlins, appearing in their second World Series 
in their eleven-year franchise history. The Marlins became the second straight 
wild card team to win the World Series; the Anaheim Angels won in 2002.[2] 
The series was, however, somewhat overshadowed by the League Championship 
Series that year, when the Chicago Cubs and the Boston Red Sox, both widely 
believed to be cursed, went down in dramatic defeats only five outs away 
from the pennant, and each in seven games. However, Marlins manager Jack 
McKeon disagreed, and having lived in South Amboy, New Jersey and attending 
Yankee games when a child,[3] said that he wanted to play the Yankees in 
his first World Series.[3] By losing the series, the Yankees became the 
first team to lose two World Series to post 1960 expansion teams; losing 
to the Arizona Diamondbacks, who entered the National League in 1998, in 
the 2001 World Series and now the Marlins who entered the National League 
in 1993. It was the 100th anniversary of the World Series, and advertised 
as such. However, it was only the 99th event due to a strike cancelling 
the 1994 World Series and the boycott of the 1904 World Series by the National 
League. The Marlins started the season 16–22 when they fired manager Jeff 
Torborg and hired McKeon, who had been retired from baseball for over two 
years. They went 75–49 under McKeon to win the wild card. At 72, McKeon 
would become the oldest manager to ever win a World Series. They lost the 
first game of the NLDS to the San Francisco Giants, but came back to win 
the final three. After going down three games to one to the Cubs in the 
NLCS, they rallied to win the final three games. In the World Series, the 
Marlins put up their young roster with a $54 million payroll up against 
the storied Yankees and their $164 million payroll. By facing the Marlins, 
the Yankees faced every team in the National League that had won a National 
League pennant. Since then, the 2005 Houston Astros and the 2007 Colorado 
Rockies have reached the World Series without facing the Yankees. As of 
2015, the Washington Nationals, who were originally the Montreal Expos, 
are the only National League team to have never made the World Series, 
joining the Seattle Mariners, who are the only American League team without 
any pennants. Fox Sports again provided coverage of the World Series on 
American television. Joe Buck and Tim McCarver broadcast the series for 
Fox. National radio coverage was provided by ESPN Radio, with Jon Miller 
and Joe Morgan calling the action. The Marlins' local broadcast aired on 
WQAM in Miami and on the Marlins Radio Network. Jon Sciambi and Dave Van 
Horne were in the booth. The Yankees' local broadcast was carried by WCBS-AM 
and the New York Yankees Radio Network, with John Sterling and Charley 
Steiner broadcasting. The Yankees had been awarded home-field advantage 
for this World Series, because the AL won the 2003 All-Star game. MLB had 
alternated home-field advantage for the World Series between the two leagues 
prior to this, and the NL would have been due for home-field in 2003 before 
the change. NL Florida Marlins (4) vs. AL New York Yankees (2) A trio of 
Marlins pitchers managed to keep the Yankees in check. Brad Penny, Dontrelle 
Willis, and Ugueth Urbina held New York to two runs. Juan Pierre scored 
Florida's first run and drove in the other two. The Yankees scored their 
runs on a single by Derek Jeter and a solo home run by Bernie Williams, 
the eighteenth postseason home run of his career, tying a mark shared by 
Reggie Jackson and Mickey Mantle. Urbina ran into immediate trouble in 
the ninth, walking Jason Giambi to lead off the inning and, one out later, 
walking pinch-hitter Rubén Sierra to put pinch-runner David Dellucci in 
scoring position. However, Alfonso Soriano was called out looking on a 
3–2 pitch and Nick Johnson flied out to center to end the game. David Wells 
pitched seven solid innings for New York in a losing effort. The defeat 
marked the first Yankees loss of a home World Series contest since Game 
2 of the 1996 World Series. The Yankees bounced back behind the arm of 
Andy Pettitte who allowed only six hits and one walk in 8 2⁄3 innings. 
He allowed only one unearned run on a single by Derrek Lee. The Yankees' 
Hideki Matsui hit a three-run home run in the first inning on a 3–0 pitch, 
becoming the first Japanese player to hit a home run in a World Series, 
and also became the second Japanese player to play a World Series game. 
Alfonso Soriano hit a two-run shot off reliever Rick Helling in the fourth. 
Florida's starter Mark Redman lasted only 2 1⁄3 innings while allowing 
four runs. It would be the last World Series game won by the Yankees at 
the old Yankee Stadium. Game 3 was a close pitcher's duel for the first 
seven innings. Florida starter Josh Beckett held the Yankees to one run 
through seven innings, the lone run coming on a bases-loaded walk after 
two consecutive borderline pitches that were called balls. The Marlins 
struck early off New York starter Mike Mussina with Miguel Cabrera singling 
in Juan Pierre in the bottom of the first. Mussina settled down and did 
not allow another run to the Marlins in seven strong innings. Beckett pitched 
strong into the eighth until he started to tire. He left with one out in 
the eighth having recorded ten strikeouts for the night. Reliever Dontrelle 
Willis entered the 1–1 game and got one out, but gave up an opposite-field 
single to Hideki Matsui to give the Yankees their first lead of the night. 
Chad Fox relieved Willis and struck out Rubén Sierra to end the inning. 
The Yankees offense would return in the ninth. Aaron Boone led off the 
inning with a home run to left, and after walking Alfonso Soriano and hitting 
Derek Jeter, Bernie Williams hit a three-run shot to center to give the 
Yankees a 6–1 lead. Williams' home run was the his nineteenth in the postseason, 
a new Major League record. His 65 RBIs were also the most in postseason 
history. Yankees closer Mariano Rivera pitched the final two innings for 
his record 30th career postseason save. Mussina received his fifth postseason 
win. The game was interrupted in the seventh by a rain delay lasting 39 
minutes. It was the first weather-related delay of a World Series game 
since Game 1 of the 1996 World Series, which also involved the Yankees. 
The Marlins jumped out to an early lead against Yankees starter Roger Clemens. 
Miguel Cabrera hit a two-run homer in the first and Derrek Lee hit an RBI 
single. Clemens settled down and held the Marlins scoreless in the next 
six innings. When Clemens struck out Luis Castillo to end the seventh, 
it was then thought to have marked the end of his Major League career. 
With flashbulbs lighting up the stadium, the crowd gave him a standing 
ovation; the Marlins even paused to applaud in recognition of Clemens' 
what then appeared to be a hall-of-fame career. (As it turned out, Clemens 
would put off his retirement to sign with the Houston Astros for 2004.) 
Meanwhile, the Yankees scored their first run on a sacrifice fly by Aaron 
Boone in the second inning. Marlins starter Carl Pavano held the Yankees 
to that lone run through eight strong innings. Clemens was set to get the 
loss until the Yankees rallied in the ninth against Ugueth Urbina. Bernie 
Williams singled with one out, Hideki Matsui walked and Jorge Posada grounded 
into a force play. Pinch-hitter Rubén Sierra fouled off two full-count 
pitches before tripling into the right-field corner to tie the ball game. 
The game headed to extra innings. The Yankees threatened to score in the 
top of the eleventh when they loaded the bases with one out off Chad Fox. 
Braden Looper relieved Fox and struck out Boone, and replacement catcher 
John Flaherty popped out to third. The Marlins won the game in dramatic 
fashion in the bottom of the twelfth when Álex González led off the inning 
with a home run off Jeff Weaver that just cleared the fence in left to 
help the Marlins win 4–3. Game 5 featured a rematch of Game 1's starters, 
Florida's Brad Penny versus New York's David Wells. Before a sellout crowd 
of 65,975, the Yankees did not appear very sharp, botching a rundown play 
in the fifth inning that led to two Marlin runs. Slumping Alfonso Soriano 
was benched and first baseman Jason Giambi nursed a leg injury. Wells left 
the game after pitching just one inning due to back spasms. His replacement, 
José Contreras pitched three shaky innings, allowing three walks and four 
runs. The Yankees drew first blood with a sacrifice fly from Bernie Williams 
in the first. In the second, the Marlins scored on an RBI double by Álex 
González and Brad Penny helped his own cause by singling in two more runs. 
They scored again on a Juan Pierre double in the fourth and a two-run single 
by Mike Lowell in the fifth, to give the Marlins a 6–1 lead. The Yankees 
began clawing away at that lead with a Derek Jeter RBI-single in the seventh. 
Dontrelle Willis relieved Penny by pitching a scoreless eighth. In the 
ninth, Jason Giambi hit a pinch-hit home run to right field off reliever 
Braden Looper. That made it 6–3 Marlins. After a Jeter single, Enrique 
Wilson doubled him home to cut the Marlins' lead to 6–4. Ugueth Urbina 
relieved Looper and retired Bernie Williams on a fly ball near the outfield 
wall which was caught by Juan Encarnación just inches away from a home 
run and Hideki Matsui on a ground ball to first base to preserve the Marlins 
win. This would be the seventh and final World Series game at what was 
then Pro Player Stadium; the Marlins would continue to play at the stadium 
until the end of the 2011 Major League Baseball season. This was the first 
of two consecutive games in this World Series to mark the final World Series 
game in its respective park. This game also marked the first time in MLB 
history that 1st inning runs had been scored in the first 5 games played 
in a World Series. The series headed back to New York for Game 6, marking 
the 100th World Series game ever played at Yankee Stadium. Marlins manager 
Jack McKeon decided to start 23-year-old Josh Beckett on three days' rest. 
Beckett made the move seem brilliant—his complete game shutout in the final 
game of the World Series made him the first to accomplish the feat since 
Jack Morris of the Minnesota Twins in 1991. With the victory, the Marlins 
became the first National League team since the 1981 Los Angeles Dodgers, 
the last opposing team to win a Series championship at Yankee Stadium, 
to win the World Series without having home field advantage. They are just 
the fourth team overall to do it since the 1984 Detroit Tigers, following 
the 1992 Toronto Blue Jays and the 1999 New York Yankees. The 2006 St. 
Louis Cardinals later accomplished the same feat, as did the 2008 Philadelphia 
Phillies, the 2014 San Francisco Giants, and, most recently, the 2016 Chicago 
Cubs. They also became the second expansion team in the National League 
to win two World Series titles, following the New York Mets who achieved 
this feat in 1986; the Toronto Blue Jays of the American League, who pulled 
this off in 1992 and 1993, are the third major-league expansion franchise 
to do so. The Kansas City Royals, also of the American League, became the 
4th expansion franchise to win two World Series titles, adding the 2015 
title to their 1985 win. The Marlins also became the fastest expansion 
team to win two World Series titles, as the Mets won their second title 
in their 25th season, and the Blue Jays did it in their 17th. (The Royals, 
joining the group 12 years later, got their second title in their 47th 
season.) The championship was the Marlins' second despite never having 
won a division title. The Atlanta Braves had won the NL East every year 
since 1995 going into this World Series, a strike ended the 1994 season 
without division winners, and the Philadelphia Phillies won the Marlins' 
division in 1993. (That streak would end in 2006, when the New York Mets 
claimed the NL East title.) The Marlins also became the first team since 
the creation of the Division Series to win the World Series without ever 
having home-field advantage during their entire post-season. As of 2015[update], 
the Marlins have a 6-0 record in postseason series play; until the Tampa 
Bay Rays lost the 2008 World Series, they had extended their home state's 
perfect streak to 8-0. This was the last World Series game held in the 
original Yankee Stadium before its closure after the 2008 season. The last 
World Series in which two stadiums hosted their final World Series games 
until this year was the 1959 World Series. The Marlins have not played 
in a World Series since 2003, but the Yankees have, as the new Yankee Stadium 
opened in 2009, the year of their 27th World Championship. 2003 World Series 
