The 2003 Chicago Cubs season was the 132nd season of the Chicago Cubs franchise, 
the 128th in the National League and the 88th at Wrigley Field. The Cubs 
were managed by Dusty Baker in his first year in Chicago. The Cubs went 
88–74 during the 2003 season and won the National League Central Division 
for the first time since the division's formation in 1994, and the team's 
first division title since its 1989 NL East title. In the National League 
Division Series, the Cubs defeated the Atlanta Braves three games to two 
for their first postseason series win since 1908. The Cubs lost to the 
Florida Marlins four games to three in the National League Championship 
Series. The Cubs were coming off of a poor year in 2002, finishing 67–95 
in fifth place in the NL Central and costing manager Don Baylor his job. 
The Cubs hired Dusty Baker, fresh off his World Series appearance with 
the San Francisco Giants, to replace Baylor. The team's success can be 
attributed first and foremost to its starting rotation, which featured 
Mark Prior, Kerry Wood, Carlos Zambrano, and Matt Clement, each of whom 
won at least 13 games. The pitching staff as a whole led the National League 
in strikeouts with 1,404, over 100 more than any other team. While not 
nearly as dominant in hitting, the Cubs' lineup was bolstered by acquisitions 
at what was a very active trade deadline, including Aramis Ramírez, Randall 
Simon, and Kenny Lofton. The team started slow but finished September with 
a 19–8 record to win the NL Central. As the division winner with the third 
best record, the Cubs faced the Atlanta Braves who had finished the season 
in a tie for the best record in the majors in a best of five games format. 
The Cubs won the first game of the series and the teams alternated wins 
leading to a game 5 at Turner Field to determine the series winner. The 
Cubs won the game 5–1. The series win, their first since 1908, resulted 
in a matchup against the Florida Marlins for the right to go to the World 
Series. The Marlins won the first game in Chicago, but the Cubs won the 
next three to take a three games to one lead. Florida won game five as 
the series shifted back to Chicago for games six and seven. With Mark Prior 
on the mound, the Cubs took a 3–1 lead into the 8th inning before a series 
of errors led to an 8 run inning for the Marlins. The win forced a game 
seven with Kerry Wood on the mound for the Cubs. In a high-scoring affair 
that included a Kerry Wood home run, the Marlins shocked the Cubs 9–6 to 
deny the Cubs a trip to their first World Series since 1945. The 2003 season 
brought a great deal of national attention to the Cubs, both positive and 
negative. On one hand, their surprising regular season run to first place 
in the NL Central, and the excellent performances of their top three pitchers, 
all of whom were age 26 or younger, seemed to suggest that the Cubs would 
be contenders for the foreseeable future. At the same time, however, the 
Cubs' squandering of the 3-1 series lead in the NLCS, and the manner in 
which it occurred, seemed to reaffirm the perceptions of the Cubs as "lovable 
losers" and a cursed franchise. Infielders Coaches Source[10] Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Walks; SO = Strikeouts; Avg. 
= Batting average; OBP = On Base Percentage; SLG = Slugging Percentage; 
SB = Stolen bases Source[10] Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run 
average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings 
pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; 
K = Strikeouts Atlanta Braves vs. Chicago Cubs In Game 1, Kerry Wood faced 
Russ Ortiz. Both pitchers were on their game and in the bottom of the 3rd 
the Braves struck first when Marcus Giles homered to make it 1-0 Braves. 
The score remained 1-0 until the top of the 6th. The Cubs would load the 
bases with three consecutive hits to lead off the inning. But Ortiz got 
the next two outs, with the last of the two being an RBI groundout by Paul 
Bako. But Wood would add insult to injury by doubling in two runs and then 
scoring on Kenny Lofton's single. That made it 4-1 Cubs. A forceout gave 
the Braves a run in the 8th, but Joe Borowski closed the door in the 9th. 
Combined, the Cubs bullpen allowed only three hits. In Game 2, Carlos Zambrano 
faced Mike Hampton. Hampton immediately ran into trouble in the 1st when 
two leadoff walks put two men on for Sammy Sosa. Sosa would double in the 
first run of the game, then Moisés Alou would bring in a run on a fielder's 
choice. After Aramis Ramírez singled to load the bases, Hampton managed 
to save the inning and the game by striking out three consecutive batters 
to end the inning. The Braves would cut the lead in half when Chipper Jones 
forced Mark DeRosa, allowing Rafael Furcal to score in the bottom half 
of the 1st. Then Andruw Jones's RBI single tied the game in the 4th. In 
the bottom of the 6th, Marcus Giles would give the Braves the lead with 
an RBI hit to left field. A sacrifice fly by Tom Goodwin tied the game 
in the 8th. But Mark DeRosa's two-run double put the Braves ahead 5-3 and 
John Smoltz would close the door in the 9th. In Game 3, Greg Maddux faced 
Mark Prior. In the bottom of the 1st, the Cubs put two runs on the board 
thanks to Randall Simon's two-run single. But no one would be able to score 
off Maddux or Prior again until the 8th inning. A sacrifice fly by Marcus 
Giles cut the lead in half after Mark DeRosa doubled and moved to third 
on a ground out. But Aramis Ramírez would give Prior insurance with an 
RBI double in the bottom of the 8th. Prior would go on to pitch a complete 
game two hit masterpiece. Game 3 would Maddux's last postseason start with 
the Braves. In Game 4, Russ Ortiz faced Matt Clement, hoping to end the 
series. Both pitchers held off the opposition until the Cubs broke through 
in the bottom of the 3rd. Moisés Alou would double in Sammy Sosa to give 
the Cubs a 1-0 lead. But Darren Bragg's forceout allowed Julio Franco to 
score to tie the game in the top of the 4th. Then Chipper Jones's two-run 
homer gave the Braves a 3-1 lead in the 5th. Then Vinny Castilla would 
add another run later in the inning with an RBI single to make it 4-1. 
The Cubs would scratch out a run in the 6th, but Chipper Jones's second 
two run home run made it 6-2 Braves in the 8th. Eric Karros would give 
the Cubs a run in the bottom half with a solo homer and then in the 9th 
the Cubs would score again but John Smoltz would get the save and send 
the series back to Atlanta. In Game 5, Kerry Wood this time faced Mike 
Hampton. Hampton would once again give up early runs when the Cubs took 
a 1-0 lead in the 1st with a Moisés Alou RBI single. Then Alex Gonzalez's 
leadoff homer gave the Cubs a 2-0 lead. Then Aramis Ramírez's two-run homer 
silenced the crowd in the 6th. That made it 4-0 Chicago. An RBI forceout 
by Gary Sheffield gave the Braves their only run of the night in the 6th. 
But the Cubs would add a run in the 9th thanks to an error by Vinny Castilla 
to take a commanding 5-1 lead. The Braves would be sent down 1-2-3 in the 
9th and the Cubs' win in Game 5 gave the Cubs their first postseason series 
win since the 1908 World Series. October 7: Wrigley Field, Chicago October 
8: Wrigley Field, Chicago October 10: Pro Player Stadium, Miami, Florida 
October 11: Pro Player Stadium, Miami October 12: Pro Player Stadium, Miami 
With the Marlins facing elimination, Josh Beckett kept them alive by dominating 
the Cubs, holding them to just two hits and one walk as part of his standout 
2003 postseason. The game was scoreless until the sixth inning when Mike 
Lowell hit a two-run homer. Iván Rodríguez and Jeff Conine homered in the 
seventh and eighth innings respectively. Even with the loss, the Cubs looked 
good going back home with their two aces, Mark Prior and Kerry Wood ready 
to start Games 6 and 7. October 14: Wrigley Field, Chicago, Illinois The 
Cubs held a 3-0 lead going into the top of the eighth inning in Game 6 
and, after Mike Mordecai hit a high pop fly to left field for the first 
out of the inning, had only two outs left in the inning—leaving the team 
a mere 5 outs away from their first World Series berth since 1945. Prior 
had retired the last eight hitters and had allowed only three hits up to 
that point. Center fielder Juan Pierre (who was later traded to the Cubs) 
then hit a double off Prior. On the eighth pitch of his at bat, Luis Castillo 
hit a high foul ball toward the left field wall. Cubs left fielder Moisés 
Alou headed toward the stands to catch the ball for the potential second 
out. As Alou reached for the ball, Cubs fan Steve Bartman, along with others 
near the area, did the same. The ball bounced off Bartman's hand and into 
the stands. Though the Cubs pleaded for a call of fan interference, the 
umpire ruled that the ball had left the field of play and was therefore 
up for grabs. Alou initially acknowledged that he would not have made the 
catch though he later denied making such a statement and said if he had, 
it was only to make him feel better.[11] As a result, Castillo remained 
an active batter at home plate. On the next pitch, Prior walked Castillo 
on a wild pitch that got away from catcher Paul Bako, also allowing Pierre 
to advance to third base. Next, Iván Rodríguez hit an 0-2 pitch hard into 
left field, singling and scoring Pierre. Miguel Cabrera then hit a ground 
ball toward Cubs shortstop Alex Gonzalez that could have ended the inning 
on a double play. Gonzalez, who led all NL shortstops in fielding percentage, 
closed his glove a little too early and the ball landed in the dirt, allowing 
Cabrera to get on base, loading the bases. On the next pitch, Derrek Lee 
(a future Cubs' All-Star) drilled a double into left field, scoring Castillo 
and Rodríguez to tie the game at 3-3. Prior was then taken out of the game 
and replaced by Kyle Farnsworth, who intentionally walked Mike Lowell to 
load the bases. Jeff Conine then hit a sacrifice fly to right field for 
the second out of the inning, allowing Cabrera to score from third and 
the other runners to each advance one base. This gave the Marlins their 
first lead of the night. Farnsworth intentionally walked Todd Hollandsworth 
(another future Cub) to once again load the bases. The Marlins now having 
batted around the order, Farnsworth faced Mike Mordecai, who was looking 
to make up for his earlier out. This time, Mordecai prevailed, hitting 
a bases-clearing double to left-center field, allowing Lee, Lowell and 
Hollandsworth to score and making it a 7-3 Marlins lead. Farnsworth was 
then taken out of the game and replaced by Mike Remlinger, who gave up 
a single to Pierre to score Mordecai from second base. Finally, Luis Castillo 
hit a high pop fly ball to shallow right field for the third out. The Marlins' 
lead held, forcing a final Game 7. October 15: Wrigley Field, Chicago, 
Illinois The Marlins got off to a quick 3–0 lead in the first inning against 
Cubs pitching ace Kerry Wood, who hadn't lost at Wrigley Field in nearly 
six weeks. The Cubs responded by tying the ball game 3–3 in the second 
inning, which featured a two-run home run by Wood. Moisés Alou's two-run 
home run the following inning put Chicago up 5–3, but the lead wouldn't 
last. In the fifth inning, Florida capitalized on a pair of walks and scored 
three runs to go on top 6–5, a lead they would not relinquish. The Marlins 
added a run in the sixth and two more in the seventh to expand their lead 
to 9–5. Cubs pinch-hitter Troy O'Leary hit a home run the bottom of the 
seventh, making the score 9–6. After the Cubs were retired in order in 
the eighth inning, Florida closer Ugueth Urbina hit Aramis Ramírez with 
a pitch to lead off the ninth inning and proceeded to retire the following 
three batters, giving the Marlins their second National League Pennant 
