The 2003 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 74th midsummer classic 
between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and National League (NL), 
the two leagues constituting Major League Baseball, and celebrated the 
70th anniversary of the inaugural All-Star Game played in Chicago, Illinois 
in 1933. The game was held on July 15, 2003 at U.S. Cellular Field, the 
home of the Chicago White Sox of the American League. The game resulted 
in the American League defeating the National League 7–6, thus awarding 
an AL team (which was eventually the New York Yankees) home-field advantage 
in the 2003 World Series. This game was the first All-Star Game to award 
home-field advantage in the World Series to the winning league, a rule 
that stemmed from a controversial 7–7 tie in the previous year's edition. 
In the days leading up to the game, Fox advertised it with the tagline: 
"This time it counts." Subsequent editions altered the slogan to "This 
one counts" to reflect the new method of determining the World Series' 
home-field advantage. This All-Star Game marked the seventh All-Star appearance 
for the Naval Station Great Lakes color guard from Waukegan, Illinois, 
who this year was joined by police officers from the Kane County Sheriff's 
Department who presented the Canadian and American flags in the outfield. 
Both the five-man color guard and the sheriff's department officers accompanied 
Michael Bublé, who sang O Canada, and Vanessa Carlton, who sang The Star-Spangled 
Banner. Bublé's performance of "O Canada" was not televised until after 
the game in the Chicago area, while Carlton's performance was followed 
by fireworks that shot off the U.S. Cellular Field scoreboard. Players 
in italics have since been inducted into the National Baseball Hall of 
Fame. Notes Starters Esteban Loaiza and Jason Schmidt were sharp early 
on, each throwing a scoreless couple of innings to start the game. In the 
third, Roger Clemens relieved Loaiza and threw a scoreless inning himself. 
Randy Wolf could not do the same, allowing Carlos Delgado to single home 
Ichiro Suzuki with the game's first run, and a 1–0 lead for the AL. The 
lead would stand until the fifth inning, when Todd Helton gave the NL the 
lead with a two-run homer off Shigetoshi Hasegawa. The National League 
would go on to score three more runs that inning, on the strength of a 
two-run double from Andruw Jones and an RBI single from Albert Pujols, 
giving the NL a 5–1 lead. In the sixth, Garret Anderson hit a two-run homer 
off Woody Williams to bring the AL back within two. Andruw Jones would 
get one of those runs back the next inning by hitting a solo shot off Mark 
Mulder. Jason Giambi got the run right back with a solo shot off Billy 
Wagner in the seventh. In the eighth came Éric Gagné, who did not blow 
any saves in the 2003 regular season. The All-Star Game would prove to 
be the one blemish on his record for the year. Staked to a 6–4 lead, Gagne 
gave up a one-out double to Garret Anderson, who was replaced by pinch-runner 
Melvin Mora. Vernon Wells singled Mora home to make it a one-run game. 
Then Hank Blalock hit a dramatic, two-out go-ahead home run to put the 
AL up 7–6. Keith Foulke came in the ninth to try to earn the save. Foulke 
closed the door and set the side down 1-2-3. Garret Anderson, who batted 
3-4 with a double, home run and two RBI, was awarded the game's MVP honors, 
