The 2004 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2004 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 5, and ended on 
Saturday, October 9, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage. The 
Angels received home field advantage rather than the Twins due to their 
winning the season series 6–4 against Minnesota. Although the team with 
the best record was normally intended to play the wild card team, the Yankees 
played the Twins, rather than the wild card Red Sox, because the Yankees 
and Red Sox are in the same division. The New York Yankees and Boston Red 
Sox went on to meet in the AL Championship Series (ALCS). The Red Sox became 
the American League champion, and defeated the National League champion 
St. Louis Cardinals in the 2004 World Series for their first World Championship 
since 1918. New York won the series, 3–1. Boston won the series, 3–0. Yankee 
Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Pitching dominated in Game 1 as Mike Mussina 
faced Johan Santana. The Twins got on the board first when Shannon Stewart 
singled home Michael Cuddyer. Then in the sixth, Jacque Jones hit a solo 
home run to make it 2–0. The Yankees got nine hits and numerous walks but 
never capitalized on Santana, Juan Rincón, or closer Joe Nathan as the 
Yankees hit into five double plays. As of 2016[update], this is the last 
postseason game won by the Twins. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York 
Brad Radke faced Jon Lieber in a must-win game for the Yankees. It was 
arguably the best game of the series. In the top of the first, Justin Morneau 
doubled in Torii Hunter to give the Twins a 1–0 lead. In the bottom of 
the first, Derek Jeter led off the game with a game-tying home run to make 
it a 1–1 game. A single by Cuddyer and a sac fly by Henry Blanco made it 
3–1 Twins. But Gary Sheffield would tie the game with a two-run homer in 
the bottom of the third. Alex Rodriguez gave the Yankees the lead in the 
bottom of the fifth with a solo home run. He would also add in another 
run by singling home Miguel Cairo to make it 5–3 Yankees. A passed third 
strike allowed the Twins to tie the game. Torii Hunter would single to 
put runners on first and second. Mariano Rivera came in but the Twins were 
still able to tie the game. A single by Morneau and a ground-rule double 
by Corey Koskie would be the tying-run scorers. However, the ground-rule 
double cost the Twins a run and would never be able to score that run as 
Jason Kubel and Cristian Guzmán went down. The game went into extra innings 
and in the top of the 12th, Torii Hunter hit the go-ahead solo home run. 
The Twins were on the verge of putting the Yankees down two games to none, 
heading home. But Twins manager Ron Gardenhire made the already questionable 
move of leaving closer Joe Nathan in for a third inning of work. Nathan 
got the first out, but then walked Cairo and Jeter on four pitches each. 
Nathan clearly had nothing left, but was still left in the game to pitch 
to Alex Rodriguez, who hit a ground-rule double that tied the game. Then, 
after Sheffield was intentionally walked, Hideki Matsui hit the game-winning 
sacrifice fly that scored Jeter. Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota Yankees starter Kevin Brown faced Twins hurler Carlos Silva in 
the crucial Game 3. The Twins grabbed the lead in the bottom of the first 
when Jacque Jones hit his second home run of the series. But it would be 
the last time the Twins would lead in this game. With two outs in the second, 
five straight singles gave the Yankees a three-run rally to put themselves 
ahead 3–1. Then, as the night wore on, the Yanks would blow the game wide 
open in the sixth. Bernie Williams hit a two-run homer after Matsui singled 
to lead off the inning. Then Derek Jeter added a two-run single to make 
it 7–1 Yankees. Brown hurled six innings, giving up only one run to the 
Twins. Matsui would homer in the seventh inning to make it 8–1 going into 
the ninth. The Twins, however, would not go quietly. Two consecutive hit-by-pitches 
to lead off the bottom of the ninth inning by Felix Heredia gave the Twins 
some life. Then, Tanyon Sturtze came on in relief and gave up two consecutive 
hits to make it 8–2. An RBI groundout and a sac fly made it 8–4, but the 
game was too far out of reach as the Yanks won. Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
in Minneapolis, Minnesota Javier Vázquez went against Johan Santana, who 
pitched so well in Game 1. The Twins were on the board first with a sacrifice 
fly by Torii Hunter. But the Yankees would tie it on an RBI single by Hideki 
Matsui in the third. Another sac fly untied the score and gave the Twins 
the lead back in the fourth. Henry Blanco led the bottom of the fifth off 
with a home run to make it 3–1 Twins. A two-run double by Lew Ford extended 
the Twins' lead to 5–1 later in the inning. However, the Twins would squander 
the lead in the top of the eighth with Juan Rincón pitching in relief. 
Bernie Williams would single home Gary Sheffield after a single and wild 
pitch. With Matsui and Williams on base and one out, Rubén Sierra hit the 
game-tying three-run home run to make it tied at five. Joe Nathan would 
come on in relief and get the next two outs. But, once again, the Twins 
blew the lead and a sense of déjà vu hung in the air. When the game moved 
to extra innings, Mariano Rivera came on and shut the Twins down. But the 
series would end when Alex Rodriguez doubled, stole third, and scored on 
Kyle Lohse's wild pitch in the top of the eleventh. Rivera would get the 
win as he retired the Twins 1–2–3 to end the series in the bottom of the 
eleventh. 2004 ALDS (3–1): New York Yankees over Minnesota Twins Angel 
Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Game 1 pitched Curt Schilling 
against Jarrod Washburn. The Red Sox struck first when David Ortiz singled 
home Manny Ramírez. In the fourth, the Red Sox put the game away. After 
Ortiz walked to open the inning, Kevin Millar homered to make it 3–0. Then 
the Red Sox loaded the bases with one out. Johnny Damon would reach on 
an error by Chone Figgins that scored two unearned runs to make it 5–0. 
After Mark Bellhorn struck out, Manny Ramírez hit a three-run home run 
to make it 8–0. The Angels would score three and never come close as the 
Red Sox won. This was the game where Schilling injured his ankle. Angel 
Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Pedro Martínez faced Bartolo 
Colón. A bases-loaded walk for the Red Sox in the second put them ahead 
1–0. But the Angels would tie it in the bottom half with an RBI single 
by Dallas McPherson. The Angels would take their only lead in the series 
when Vladimir Guerrero, the eventual MVP, singled home Jose Molina and 
David Eckstein. The Red Sox immediately responded when Jason Varitek hit 
a two-out, two-run homer to tie the game in the sixth. The Sox would take 
the lead on a sacrifice fly by Manny Ramírez in the seventh. The Red Sox 
finished off the Angels in the ninth, an inning capped off with a bases-loaded 
double by Orlando Cabrera. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Kelvim 
Escobar and Bronson Arroyo faced off in the clincher. The Red Sox once 
again struck first with a single and a groundout that made it 2–0 in the 
third. The Angels cut the lead in half when Troy Glaus hit a solo home 
run in the fourth. Numerous errors by the Angels' defense opened the door 
for a three-run rally in the bottom of the inning to make it 5–1. Manny 
Ramírez would single home another run in the fifth to make it 6–1 Red Sox. 
It appeared as if the Angels were down and out. The Angels would load the 
bases thanks to two walks and a single. After Chone Figgins struck out, 
Darin Erstad walked to force in a run that made it 6–2. With two outs and 
the bases loaded, Mike Timlin then threw to Vladimir Guerrero and paid. 
Guerrero hit a grand slam to right that evened the score at 6–6 and stunned 
the Fenway crowd. The game went to extra innings and, in the bottom of 
the tenth, Johnny Damon led off with a single. After Pokey Reese forced 
him and Ramirez struck out, David Ortiz hit a series-winning walk-off home 
run off Jarrod Washburn, in relief of Francisco Rodríguez, over the Green 
