The 2004 National League Championship Series (NLCS) was a Major League 
Baseball playoff series played from October 13 to 21 to determine the champion 
of the National League, between the Central Division champion St. Louis 
Cardinals and the wild-card qualifying Houston Astros. This marked the 
first time in either Major League that two teams from the Central Division 
met in a Championship Series. In a series in which all seven games were 
won by the home team, the Cardinals won 4–3 to advance to the World Series 
against the American League champion Boston Red Sox. The Red Sox reached 
their first World Series since 1986, with the Cardinals playing in their 
first since 1987. While the NLCS was an exciting back-and-forth series, 
it was overshadowed in media attention by Boston's comeback in the ALCS. 
St. Louis won the series, 4–3. Wednesday, October 13, 2004 at Busch Stadium 
(II) in St. Louis, Missouri The series opener at St. Louis' Busch Stadium 
was a slugfest involving four home runs, 17 runs, and 22 hits, eventually 
won by St. Louis, 10–7. Houston struck the first blow of the series when 
Carlos Beltrán hit a two-run home run in the top of the first inning after 
a leadoff single off Woody Williams. The Cardinals answered with a home 
run by Albert Pujols in the bottom half after a one-out triple off Brandon 
Backe, tying the game at two. Houston took a 4–2 lead in the fourth inning 
on a two-run home run by Jeff Kent, but the Cards tied it again in the 
fifth on Larry Walker's RBI double off Backe and Scott Rolen's RBI single 
off Chad Qualls. In the sixth, Edgar Renteria and Reggie Sanders hit back-to-back 
leadoff singles before a sacrifice bunt moved them up one base. Pinch hitter 
Roger Cedeno's groundout scored Renteria to put the Cardinals up 3–2 for 
the first time in this game. Tony Womack followed with an RBI single, then 
stole second before scoring on Walker's single aided by shortstop Jose 
Vizcaino's error. After Qualls walked Pujols, Chad Harville in relief walked 
Rolen to load the bases before Jim Edmonds cleared them with a double to 
put the Cardinals up 10-4. The Astros cut it to 10−6 a two-run home run 
from Lance Berkman in the eighth off Ray King. Next inning, a two-out solo 
home run from Mike Lamb off Julian Tavarez made it 10−7. Craig Biggio then 
hit a ground-rule double before Jason Isringhausen relieved Julian Tavarez 
and got Beltran to ground out to first on the first pitch to end the game.[1] 
All seven of the Astros' runs in Game 1 were scored on home runs. Thursday, 
October 14, 2004 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri The Astros 
scored three runs off Cardinals' Matt Morris on home runs by Carlos Beltran 
in the first and Morgan Ensberg in the fourth. Lance Berkman added an RBI 
single in the fifth with two on, but in the bottom of the inning, two-run 
home runs from Larry Walker off starter Peter Munro and Scott Rolen off 
reliever Chad Harville put the Cardinals up 4−3. The Astros tied it in 
the seventh off Kiko Calero when Berkman hit a leadoff double, stole third 
and scored on Ensberg's single, but the Cardinals retook the lead in the 
bottom of the eighth inning with back-to-back home runs from Albert Pujols 
and Scott Rolen off Dan Miceli. Jason Isringhausen pitched a scoreless 
ninth despite allowing two walks as the Cardinals' 6−4 win put them up 
2−0 in the series heading to Houston. Saturday, October 16, 2004 at Minute 
Maid Park in Houston, Texas In the first game of the series played in Houston's 
Minute Maid Park, the Cardinals went up 1−0 in the first on Larry Walker's 
one-out home run, but the Astros tied it in the bottom of the inning off 
Jeff Suppan on Lance Berkman's RBI single before Jeff Kent's two-run home 
run put them up 3−1. Jim Edmonds' leadoff home run in the second cut it 
to 3−2, but the Astros added two insurance runs in the eighth on home runs 
from Carlos Beltran off Dan Haren and Berkman off Ray King. Roger Clemens 
pitched seven innings for the 5−2 win, which left the Astros trailing 2–1 
in the series. Sunday, October 17, 2004 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, 
Texas The Cardinals struck first in Game 3 when Roy Oswalt walked Larry 
Walker with one out before Albert Pujols hit a two-run home run. Scott 
Rolen then doubled, moved to third on a groundout, and after a walk, scored 
on John Mabry's single to put the Cardinals up 3−0. The Astros cut it to 
3−1 in the bottom of the inning when Carlos Beltran walked with one out 
off Jeff Bagwell's double off Jason Marquis. In the top of the third, Pujols 
drew a leadoff walk, moved to third on Rolen's single and scored on Jim 
Edmond's sacrifice fly, but the Astros cut the lead to 4−3 when Beltran 
and Bagel singled with one out and scored on Lance Berkman's double. Pujols's 
single with two on in the fourth put the Cardinals up 5−3, but the Astros 
cut the lead back to one on Berkman's leadoff home run in the sixth off 
Kiko Calero. Jose Vizcaino doubled two outs later and scored on Raul Chavez's 
single to tie the game. Next inning, Beltran's home run off Julian Tavarez 
put the Astros up 6−5. Brad Lidge pitches two shutout innings for the save 
as the Astros evened the series with the Cardinals at two games apiece. 
Beltrán tied records for the most home runs in a single postseason (8) 
and most consecutive postseason games with a home run (5). The latter record 
would be broken by Daniel Murphy in Game Four of the 2015 NLCS. Monday, 
October 18, 2004 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas The Astros defeated 
the Cardinals 3–0 in Game 5 with Jeff Kent droving in the winning runs 
with a walk-off home run in the bottom of the ninth off Jason Isringhausen. 
Astros starter Brandon Backe took a perfect game into the fifth inning, 
when he walked Cardinals center fielder Jim Edmonds, and allowed only one 
hit (a single to second baseman Tony Womack in the sixth) in eight innings. 
Cardinals' Woody Williams was nearly as effective, allowing only one hit 
(a two-out single to Jeff Bagwell in the first) and two walks over seven 
innings. Houston led the best-of-seven series 3–2 and was one win away 
from their first World Series appearance. Wednesday, October 20, 2004 at 
Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri Returning to St. Louis, Matt 
Morris started Game 6 for the Cardinals, as did Pete Munro for the Astros. 
The scoring began with Carlos Beltrán walking with one out, stealing second, 
moving to third on a single, and scoring on Lance Berkman's sacrifice fly 
in the first. The Cardinals responded in the bottom of the inning with 
a two-run home run by the Albert Pujols. In the third, Beltrán singled 
with two outs and scored on Jeff Bagwell's double to tie the game. Again, 
the Cardinals responded when Edgar Rentería hit a two-run single scoring 
Albert Pujols and Scott Rolen in the bottom of the inning. Matt Lamb's 
home run in the fourth cut the Cardinals' lead to 4−3. In the top of the 
ninth inning Bagwell hit a two-out single off Jason Isringhausen, scoring 
the tying run in Morgan Ensberg. The game went into extra innings and ended 
when Jim Edmonds, who hit 42 home runs in the regular season, hit a walk-off 
two-run home run in the bottom of the twelfth off Dan Miceli, sending the 
series to a Game 7 showdown. Thursday, October 21, 2004 at Busch Stadium 
(II) in St. Louis, Missouri The final, deciding Game 7 started off with 
Astros' leadoff man Craig Biggio smacking a home run in the game's first 
at-bat off Cardinals' starter Jeff Suppan to make it 1–0. The Astros' threat 
continued in the second by putting two men on, but thanks to a tremendous 
catch by center fielder Jim Edmonds the Cardinals were able to get out 
of the inning unscathed. In the third, however, the Astros made it 2–0 
with Carlos Beltrán, who walked and stole second, scoring on a Jeff Bagwell's 
sacrifice fly aided by Edmonds's error. The Cardinals cut it to 2−1 in 
the bottom of the inning when Tony Womack hit a leadoff double, moved to 
third on a groundout, and scored on Jeff Suppan's bunt groundout. Then 
in the sixth Albert Pujols doubled to score Ray Cedeno from third to tie 
the game and Scott Rolen put the Redbirds ahead with a two-run home run 
off Roger Clemens. St. Louis added another run in the eighth off Roy Oswalt 
when pinch hitter Marlon Anderson hit a leadoff double, moved to third 
on a sacrifice bunt, and scored on Larry Walker's single. Jason Isringhausen 
shut down Houston in the ninth to win the Cardinals their first National 
League pennant in seventeen years. 2004 NLCS (4–3): St. Louis Cardinals 
