The 2004 American League Championship Series was the Major League Baseball 
playoff series to decide the American League champion for the 2004 season. 
It was played between the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees, at Fenway 
Park and the original Yankee Stadium, from October 12 to 20, 2004. The 
Red Sox became the first (and so far only) team in MLB history to come 
back from a 0–3 deficit to win a seven-game series. The Red Sox, who had 
won the AL wild card, defeated the Anaheim Angels in the American League 
Division Series to reach the ALCS, while the Yankees, who had won the AL 
East with the best record in the AL, defeated the Minnesota Twins. In Game 
1, Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina pitched a perfect game through six innings, 
while the Red Sox recovered from an eight-run deficit to close within one 
run before the Yankees eventually won.[1] A home run by John Olerud helped 
the Yankees win Game 2. The Yankees gathered 22 hits in Game 3 on their 
way to an easy win.[2] The Yankees led Game 4 by one run in the ninth inning, 
but a steal of second base by Red Sox base runner Dave Roberts and a single 
by Bill Mueller off Yankees closer Mariano Rivera tied the game.[3] A home 
run by David Ortiz then won it for the Red Sox in extra innings. Ortiz 
also won Game 5 with a single in the fourteenth inning. Curt Schilling 
pitched seven innings in Game 6 for the Red Sox, during which time his 
sock became soaked in blood.[4] Game 7 featured the Red Sox paying back 
New York for their Game 3 blowout with a dominating performance on the 
road, anchored by Derek Lowe and bolstered by two Johnny Damon home runs, 
one a grand slam. David Ortiz was named the Most Valuable Player of the 
series.[5] The Red Sox ended their 2003 season in the previous American 
League Championship Series with a game seven loss to the Yankees, on a 
walk-off home run by Yankees third baseman Aaron Boone in the bottom of 
the 11th inning.[6] During the offseason, they traded Casey Fossum, Brandon 
Lyon, Jorge de la Rosa, and a minor leaguer to the Arizona Diamondbacks 
for ace starting pitcher Curt Schilling.[7] Manager Grady Little was also 
fired and replaced with Terry Francona due to poor decisions that Little 
made during the previous season's playoffs.[8] The Red Sox also signed 
a closing pitcher, Keith Foulke, to a three-year contract.[9] Going into 
the all-star break, the Red Sox were seven games behind the Yankees for 
the division lead with a record of 48–38, but led the wild card.[10] In 
an attempt to improve the team and solidify a playoff decision and in anticipation 
for a showdown against the New York Yankees,[11] general manager Theo Epstein 
traded well-liked shortstop Nomar Garciaparra to the Chicago Cubs in exchange 
for first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz and shortstop Orlando Cabrera in a 
four-team deal on the trading deadline (July 31).[11][12] The team fell 
behind up to 10½ games in the division during the month of August, but 
managed to come back in September to within two games.[10] However, the 
Yankees held strong and won the division, finishing three games ahead of 
the Red Sox.[13] The Red Sox won the AL Wild Card (the best record among 
three second-place teams) to obtain a spot in the playoffs.[13] Entering 
the postseason, first baseman Kevin Millar was asked to compare the team 
with the previous season's team, to which he responded, "I'm pretty sure 
we're five outs better than last year." It was a reference to the 2003 
American League Championship Series, in which the Red Sox held a 5–2 lead 
over the Yankees with one out in the eighth inning of Game 7, only to blow 
the lead and lose the series. The Red Sox would sweep the Anaheim Angels 
in three games, but at a cost. In the first game of the series, Schilling 
would be hurt by a line drive hit off his foot, leaving the rest of his 
postseason play in doubt. The 2004 Yankees began the season in Tokyo with 
a split against the Rays. Playing a much anticipated game against the Red 
Sox, the team lost the game 6–2 and 6 out of the first 7 games to their 
rivals. After falling as many as 4½ games behind the Red Sox on April 25, 
the team would make up the deficit in less than 2 weeks, including an 8-game 
win streak. By the end of June, they had a commanding 8½ game lead in the 
AL East lead over the Sox after sweeping them with a dramatic 5–4 walk-off 
13-inning victory. After the All-star break, the Yankees traded José Contreras 
to the White Sox for Esteban Loaiza. Contreras was signed away from the 
Red Sox before the 2003 season, but he failed to live up to expectations. 
With a 10½ game lead in the second week of August, the team struggled and 
watched their lead dwindle to only 2½ games on September 3. The team held 
off the Red Sox to claim the division and set up a playoff rematch with 
the Twins. The results were pretty much the same as the Yankees took the 
Division Series in 4 games, setting up the rematch. The Red Sox and Yankees 
had met 45 times in the previous two years, with Boston holding a 23–22 
lead. The Red Sox held an 11–8 advantage over New York in 2004, but eight 
of the games were decided in one of the teams' final at-bats. Boston outscored 
New York, 106–105.[14] and this was the fifth time that the two teams were 
on the doorstep of a World Series, with the Yankees winning the previous 
four, in 1949, 1978, 1999, and 2003.[14] The Series was widely anticipated, 
especially given the outcome of the previous October, when the Yankees 
beat the Red Sox in seven games when Aaron Boone hit the home run off of 
Tim Wakefield in the bottom of the 11th inning to send the Yankees to the 
World Series.[15][16] Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said that "the 
two teams in the American League facing each other in this series are the 
two best teams, period."[17] Fox commentator Joe Buck said as the series 
began: "What's hard to believe, it was almost exactly one year ago tonight 
that Aaron Boone hit that 11th inning home run to beat the Red Sox, yet 
for some reason it seemed predetermined that we would be right back here 
a year later for a rematch of sort."[18] Dan Shaughnessy of The Boston 
Globe wrote that "one year after they (Yankees) jousted to the (Sox's) 
finish in the Bronx last October in an epic seventh game that appeared 
to take the clash to its zenith they go at it again..."[19] In this series, 
Alex Rodriguez, was seemed to answer the Sox' acquisition of Curt Schilling, 
as the two veteran stars faced each other, wearing the uniforms of the 
ancient rivals in an October game..."[19] Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina 
summed up the build-up: "This is what everyone was hoping for...It's a 
rematch of last year, with the best two teams in the American League."[19] 
The New York Times said that this was the showdown the Yankees anticipated 
the entire season, while the Red Sox craved it an entire year. This was 
the reason why the Red Sox fired Grady Little, traded Nomar Garciaparra, 
and added Curt Schilling.[11] Outfielder Johnny Damon said of Boone's home 
run: "If we do advance to the World Series and win, it's a better story 
that we went through New York. We needed to get back here. This is where 
a lot of hearts were broken, and we're in a perfect seat to stop the hurting."[11] 
Red Sox Theo Epstein agreed, saying "Now that it's here, we can admit that 
if we're able to win a World Series and go through New York along the way, 
it will mean that much more."[20] Initially, Game 4[21] was scheduled for 
the afternoon.[22] However, MLB Commissioner Bud Selig had moved the starting 
time of Game 4[21] to primetime, due to the rematch,[23] and Fox had a 
triple-header, first the Seattle Seahawks–New England Patriots game at 
Gillette Stadium at 1:00 pm ET, then Game 4 of the NLCS between the St. 
Louis Cardinals and Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park at 4:30 pm ET.[22] 
Boston won the series, 4–3. Tuesday, October 12, 2004 at Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Game 1 pitted the Red Sox's star pitcher Curt Schilling 
against Yankees ace Mike Mussina. Schilling entered the game with a 6–1 
postseason career record, but the expected pitchers' duel quickly became 
a one-sided exhibition. Schilling had sustained a torn tendon sheath in 
his right ankle during Game 1 of the American League Division Series against 
the Angels, and proved to be ineffective. Mussina, meanwhile, retired the 
first nineteen Red Sox batters. After scoring six runs off Schilling, the 
Yankees added two more off Boston knuckleballer Tim Wakefield in the sixth. 
A Hideki Matsui single made the score 8–0 and gave him an ALCS record-tying 
five RBIs in the game. The Red Sox ended Mussina's bid for a perfect game 
with a rally of five runs in the seventh and added two more in the eighth, 
closing the gap to 8–7. With two outs and the tying run on third base, 
however, the Yankees called upon closer Mariano Rivera, who induced a pop 
out by Kevin Millar. The Yankees scored two more runs in the bottom of 
the eighth on a double by Bernie Williams. The Sox hit two singles in the 
top of the ninth inning, but the game ended when Bill Mueller grounded 
into a double play. Wednesday, October 13, 2004 at Yankee Stadium (I) in 
Bronx, New York Game 2 featured Pedro Martínez of the Red Sox facing Yankees 
pitcher Jon Lieber. Again, the Yankees struck first, as Gary Sheffield 
drove in Derek Jeter in the first inning. The 1–0 score held up for several 
innings, as Lieber and Martinez put together a classic pitchers' duel. 
Martinez got himself in and out of trouble through several innings, but, 
shortly after making his 100th pitch of the night, walked Jorge Posada 
and allowed a John Olerud home run, giving New York a 3–0 lead. Again, 
the Red Sox rallied, chasing Lieber with two hits in the eighth to close 
the gap, 3–1. With two outs and a runner on third, however, the Yankees 
again turned to Rivera, who struck out Johnny Damon to end the inning. 
Rivera shut down the Red Sox in the ninth by inducing a ground out by Mark 
Bellhorn, and, after giving up a double to Manny Ramírez, striking out 
David Ortiz and Millar, ending the game. Saturday, October 16, 2004 at 
Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts With the series moving to Fenway Park, 
Game 3 was originally scheduled for October 15, but was postponed a day 
due to rain.[31][32] The starting pitchers were Kevin Brown for the Yankees 
and Bronson Arroyo for the Red Sox. As in the first two games, the Yankees 
began by scoring in the first. Derek Jeter walked and scored from first 
on a double by Alex Rodríguez. Two batters later, Hideki Matsui hit a home 
run to right field, giving the Yankees a 3–0 lead. The Red Sox answered 
in the second inning with a leadoff walk by Jason Varitek and a Trot Nixon 
home run to right field. A double by Bill Mueller, an infield hit by Johnny 
Damon (his first hit of the series), and a Derek Jeter error led to two 
more runs. The Red Sox led for the first time in the series, 4–3. This 
lead was short-lived, as Alex Rodríguez led off the third inning with a 
home run over the Green Monster. Gary Sheffield then walked and Hideki 
Matsui doubled, prompting Bronson Arroyo to be replaced on the mound by 
Ramiro Mendoza, who immediately allowed a Bernie Williams RBI single and 
then balked, allowing Matsui to score from third, letting the Yankees lead 
6–4. The Red Sox, however, responded by tying the game in the bottom of 
the inning, scoring two runs on an Orlando Cabrera double off Yankees reliever 
Javier Vázquez. After three innings, the game was tied at six. In the fourth 
inning, the Yankees took the lead on a three-run home run to left by Gary 
Sheffield. After another double by Hideki Matsui, the Red Sox put in pitcher 
Tim Wakefield, who volunteered to forgo his scheduled Game 4 start in order 
to preserve Boston's battered bullpen. Wakefield got Bernie Williams to 
pop out and then intentionally walked Jorge Posada. Rubén Sierra then tripled 
to score Matsui and Posada, giving the Yankees an 11–6 lead.[2] From that 
point on the Yankees were in total control, with the New York offense continuing 
to hit and score runs long into the night. When it was finally over, the 
Yankees had set a team record for postseason runs scored. Rodríguez, Sheffield 
and Matsui all had prolific hitting nights. Matsui had five hits and five 
RBIs, tying LCS records. He and Rodríguez both tied the postseason record 
for runs scored with five.[2] The two teams combined for 37 hits and 20 
extra-base hits, both postseason records.[2] At four hours and twenty minutes, 
the game was the longest nine-inning postseason game ever played.[2] Although 
the final score was 19–8, Dan Shaughnessy of The Boston Globe said "nineteen 
to eight. Why not '19–18'?"[2][33] He was referring to the Red Sox having 
not a World Series since 1918 and demeaning chants of that year echoed 
at Yankee Stadium.[11] Bob Ryan wrote about the Red Sox in The Boston Globe: 
"They are down, 3–0, after last night's 19–8 rout, and, in this sport, 
that is an official death sentence. Soon it will be over, and we will spend 
another dreary winter lamenting this and lamenting that."[34] Sunday, October 
17, 2004 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Game 4 featured Yankees 
pitcher Orlando Hernández, the 1999 ALCS MVP against Boston's Derek Lowe. 
For the first time in the series, the Yankees did not score in the first 
inning. However, they eventually did score first. With two outs and nobody 
on in the third inning, Derek Jeter singled. Alex Rodríguez then hit a 
two-run home run over the Green Monster. This hit resembled a home run 
he hit in Game 3, as it also came in the third inning and went out of the 
park onto Lansdowne Street. This would be followed by the ball being thrown 
back into the outfield by fans on the Street, Johnny Damon tossing the 
ball back over the fence, and the ball once again being tossed back before 
being pocketed by Umpire Joe West. Hernández, who had not pitched in two 
weeks, cruised through the first four innings giving up just one hit and 
two walks. In the fifth inning, he pitched himself into a jam, walking 
two of the first three batters. With two men on and two out, Orlando Cabrera 
singled to right field, scoring Kevin Millar. Manny Ramírez walked to load 
the bases, and then David Ortiz hit a single to center field, scoring Cabrera 
and Johnny Damon and giving the Red Sox a 3–2 lead, only their second lead 
in the series. The lead lasted less than an inning. Hideki Matsui hit a 
triple with one out in sixth, after which Mike Timlin relieved Lowe. Bernie 
Williams hit an infield single to score Matsui and tie the game 3-3. After 
Jorge Posada walked, Williams attempted to advance to third on a passed 
ball, but was thrown out by Jason Varitek. However, Ruben Sierra hit another 
infield single, moving Posada to third. Tony Clark then hit a third infield 
single to score Posada and give the Yankees a 4-3 lead. Miguel Cairo then 
walked to load the bases for Jeter, but Timlin induced a groundout to escape 
the inning. Massachusetts native Tanyon Sturtze pitched two scoreless innings 
in relief of Hernández. Mariano Rivera, the Yankees star closer, entered 
the game in the eighth for a two-inning save attempt. In the ninth inning, 
Rivera allowed a lead-off walk to Kevin Millar, which ultimately turned 
out to be the turning point of the series. Dave Roberts was then chosen 
to pinch-run for Millar. With the Red Sox down to their final three outs, 
Rivera checked Roberts at first base several times before throwing a pitch 
to Bill Mueller. On Rivera's first pitch to Mueller, the speedy Roberts 
stole second, putting himself in scoring position. Mueller's single allowed 
Roberts to score, resulting in Rivera blowing the save and the game going 
into extra innings, tied at four runs apiece. Both teams threatened for 
more runs in the eleventh inning, but the game remained tied until the 
bottom of the twelfth. Ramírez led off with a single against new pitcher 
Paul Quantrill, and Ortiz hit a two-run walk-off home run to right field. 
Ortiz became the first player with two walk-off homers in the same postseason; 
his first capped a Red Sox sweep of the Anaheim Angels in the American 
League Division Series. Monday, October 18, 2004 at Fenway Park in Boston, 
Massachusetts Game 5 began at 5:11 pm EDT on Monday, October 18, just sixteen 
hours after Game 4 had ended the previous night. Mike Mussina led the Yankees 
against Boston's Pedro Martínez. The Red Sox drew first blood this time, 
as David Ortiz drove in a run and Jason Varitek walked with the bases loaded 
in the first inning to give Boston a 2–0 lead. Bernie Williams homered 
in the second inning to close the gap to 2–1, a score which would hold 
up for several innings. Despite seven strikeouts by Martínez, in the top 
of the sixth inning, Jorge Posada and Rubén Sierra singled with one out. 
After Miguel Cairo was hit by a pitch to load the bases, Derek Jeter cleared 
the bases with a double, giving the Yankees a 4–2 lead. The Red Sox threatened 
again in the seventh inning, but came up empty. For the second straight 
night, however, the Yankee bullpen couldn't keep the lead. Ortiz led off 
the eighth inning with a home run off former Red Sox reliever Tom Gordon, 
making it a one-run game. Kevin Millar followed with a walk and was again 
replaced by pinch runner Dave Roberts, who went to third on Trot Nixon's 
single. Gordon was replaced by Mariano Rivera with the lead still intact, 
but Jason Varitek's sacrifice fly tied the game. The Yankees threatened 
in the top of the ninth when former Red Sox player Tony Clark hit a ball 
to deep right with two outs, but the ball took a hop over the short right-field 
wall for a ground-rule double, forcing Rubén Sierra to stop at third base, 
where he was stranded to set up another extra-inning marathon. Each team 
got its share of base runners in extra innings. Boston's Doug Mientkiewicz 
doubled in the tenth and moved to third, but did not score. Two Red Sox 
led off the eleventh with singles, but Esteban Loaiza, who had struggled 
since being acquired by the Yankees mid-season, came in to pitch with one 
out and got Orlando Cabrera to ground into a double play. Knuckleballer 
Tim Wakefield came on in relief once again for the Red Sox in the twelfth. 
He allowed a single to Miguel Cairo, who went to second on a Manny Ramírez 
error, but Cairo was eventually stranded. In the top of the thirteenth, 
Red Sox catcher Jason Varitek, who didn't normally catch for Wakefield 
(backup catcher Doug Mirabelli usually did) and who admitted to be poor 
at catching knuckleballs, allowed three passed balls, but the Yankees stranded 
runners on second and third when Sierra struck out. Loaiza pitched well 
over his first two innings, but, in the bottom of the fourteenth, Damon 
and Ramírez walked, bringing up Ortiz with two outs. The previous night's 
hero did his job again, singling to center on the 10th pitch of the at-bat 
to bring home Damon and setting off another celebration at Fenway. Ortiz's 
heroics prompted Fox TV announcer Tim McCarver to gush shortly afterwards, 
saying, "He didn't do it again, did he? Yes he did." The late inning heroics 
of Ortiz also gave the Red Sox fans a chance to create their own chant, 
"Who's your Papi?" (Ortiz being known affectionately as "Big Papi"), in 
rebuttal to the "Who's your daddy?" chant used by Yankees fans in reference 
to a quote by Pedro Martínez. The game set the record for longest duration 
of a postseason game at 5 hours, 49 minutes, a record which was broken 
the next year by Game 4 of the 2005 National League Division Series between 
the Houston Astros and Atlanta Braves, which was only one minute longer 
even though it was 18 innings instead of 14. Both games were eventually 
passed by Game 2 of the 2014 National League Division Series between the 
Washington Nationals and the San Francisco Giants which was also 18 innings 
but significantly longer time-wise, lasting nearly six and a half hours. 
Game 5 of the National League Championship Series began at 8:54 pm EST 
on the same night and was intended to be the second part of FOX's two-game 
telecast. However, that game proceeded quickly and, despite starting 3 
hours and 43 minutes after ALCS Game 5, ended only 24 minutes after the 
final pitch of this game. This victory by the Red Sox forced a Game 6. 
Before this, the 1998 Atlanta Braves and 1999 New York Mets were the only 
baseball teams ever to be down 0–3 in a seven-game series and force a Game 
6, but neither of those teams won that game. Tuesday, October 19, 2004 
at Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York Game 6 was held on Tuesday, October 
19 at Yankee Stadium. The starting pitchers were Curt Schilling of the 
Red Sox and Jon Lieber of the Yankees. Schilling pitched with a torn tendon 
sheath in his right ankle, which was sutured in place in an unprecedented 
procedure by Red Sox team doctors. The teams played the first few innings 
scoreless as cold, windy conditions, combined with a light drizzle, kept 
many hard hit balls in the field of play. Lieber, who had been brilliant 
in Game 2, was the first of the starters to falter, to the surprise of 
many given Lieber's Game 2 outing and Schilling's injured state. Lieber 
surrendered a two-out single to Jason Varitek, driving in Kevin Millar. 
Then Orlando Cabrera singled to left field and Mark Bellhorn, who had struggled 
the entire series, drove a line drive into the left field stands. The ball 
struck a fan in the hands in an attempted catch and dropped back onto the 
field, after which left field umpire Jim Joyce signaled the ball to be 
still in play, prompting Boston manager Terry Francona to run onto the 
field and argue the ruling. The officiating crew huddled and ultimately 
overruled the call. Bellhorn had a three-run home run and the Red Sox had 
a 4–0 lead. Schilling, still injured from the ALDS and Game 1, pitched 
seven strong innings, allowing only one run on a Bernie Williams home run. 
To help stabilize the tendon in his ankle, Red Sox doctors had placed three 
sutures connecting the skin with ligament and deep connective tissue next 
to the bone, effectively creating a wall of tissue to keep the peroneal 
tendon from disrupting Schilling's pitching mechanics. Schilling was only 
forced to field his position once, and visibly limped to first base to 
field the toss from Millar. Nonetheless, the Yankees did not bunt for the 
duration of Schilling's outing, something Joe Torre later explained as 
not playing out of the normal character of his team. Torre also admitted 
that had he known beforehand how bad the injury really was, it might have 
changed his mind. By the end of his performance, Schilling's white sanitary 
sock was partially soaked in blood, and he stated later that he was completely 
exhausted. Bronson Arroyo took the mound for Boston in the eighth and, 
with one out, allowed a Miguel Cairo double. Derek Jeter singled him in 
to close the gap to 4–2, leading up to the series' most controversial play. 
Alex Rodriguez grounded a ball to Arroyo, who picked up the ball and ran 
to the baseline to tag Rodriguez out, but Rodriguez slapped Arroyo's arm, 
knocking the ball loose. While the ball rolled down the baseline, Rodríguez 
went to second and Jeter scored. After another long conversation among 
the umpires, Rodríguez was called out for interference and Jeter was ordered 
back to first, thus wiping out the score. The call further incensed the 
Yankee fans, already irate over the home run call in the fourth. As Torre 
and Rodríguez continued to frenetically argue with the umpires, many fans 
began to throw balls and other debris onto the field. Boston manager Terry 
Francona pulled his players from the field to protect them. After a delay, 
order was restored, and Arroyo got out of the inning unscathed. In the 
top of the ninth, after a leadoff single, the Yankees attempted to turn 
a double play. However, in a very close play, Orlando Cabrera was called 
safe at first base. This was the third time in the game that the frustrated 
New York fan base had a close call go against their team, and they again 
showered the field with debris. As the Yankees made a pitching change to 
insert Tanyon Sturtze into the game, home plate umpire Joe West conversed 
with New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg, MLB security director Kevin 
Hallinan, and various NYPD officials. Shortly after this, Sturtze was told 
to stop his warmup, and NYPD officers began streaming out of the dugouts, 
and took the field in full riot gear. The police remained on the field, 
near the first and third base walls, for the remainder of the top of the 
ninth. The presence of riot police on the field for a half-inning was unprecedented 
in American professional sports and reflected the chaotic environment of 
the evening. When the game resumed, Sturtze did get out of the inning, 
stranding Cabrera. The police vacated the field during the break between 
innings. Red Sox closer Keith Foulke came in for the bottom of the ninth 
and allowed Matsui and Sierra to walk, bringing Tony Clark to the plate 
as the potential pennant-winning run, but Clark struck out swinging on 
a full count to end the game. The Red Sox, the 26th team in Major League 
Baseball playoff history to face a 3–0 series deficit, became the first 
to force a Game Seven. After the game, Schilling proudly wore his shirt 
with the Red Sox's motto, "Why Not Us?" in the locker room and during the 
press conferences.[35] Wednesday, October 20, 2004 at Yankee Stadium (I) 
in Bronx, New York For inspiration for their ALCS comeback, the Red Sox 
gathered in Yankee Stadium's visitors' clubhouse prior to Game 7 to watch 
Miracle, the movie chronicling the 1980 U.S. men's gold-medal hockey team. 
The Yankees meanwhile, had Bucky Dent, hero of the Yankees' one-game playoff 
against Boston in 1978, throw out the ceremonial first pitch. Game 7 began 
at 8:30 p.m. The starting pitchers were Derek Lowe for the Red Sox and 
Kevin Brown for the Yankees. Johnny Damon led off the game with a single 
to left and stolen base, but was thrown out at home trying to score on 
a Manny Ramirez base hit. The very next pitch, however, was lined into 
the right-field bleachers by David Ortiz to give Boston a 2–0 advantage. 
After the Yankees went down in order in the first inning, Brown retired 
Trot Nixon on a groundout to begin the top of the second, but Kevin Millar 
singled to center field before Brown walked Bill Mueller and Orlando Cabrera 
to load the bases. Torre then replaced Brown with Javier Vázquez to face 
Johnny Damon, who hammered his first pitch into the right-field seats for 
a grand slam to make the score 6-0 Boston. Lowe, meanwhile, on two days 
rest, pitched six innings, allowing only one run on one hit when Miguel 
Cairo was hit by a pitch in the third, stole second, and scored on Derek 
Jeter's single. Vazquez walked Cabrera to lead off the fourth before Damon 
again homered on his first pitch to make it 8-1 Boston and give him three 
hits and six RBIs in this game. After walking two batters, Vazquez was 
relieved by Esteban Loaiza, who allowed a single to Jason Varitek to load 
the bases before retiring Trot Nixon and Kevin Millar to end the inning. 
Loaiza then threw three shutout innings, allowing three hits. Pedro Martínez 
relieved Lowe in the seventh inning, receiving loud chants of "Who's Your 
Daddy?," which intensified as he gave up a leadoff double to Hideki Matsui, 
who scored on Bernie Williams's double. After Jorge Posada grounded out, 
Williams scored on Kenny Lofton's single, but John Olerud struck out and 
Cairo flew out to end the inning. In the eighth, Mark Bellhorn homered 
for the second night in a row off of Tom Gordon to make it 9-3 Boston. 
Next inning, Nixon hit a leadoff single, advanced to second on a Doug Mientkiewicz 
single, then went to third on a Mueller sacrifice fly before scoring on 
a sacrifice fly by Cabrera. Mariano Rivera relieved Gordon and retired 
Damon to end the inning. Mike Timlin pitched a scoreless eighth and started 
the 9th for the Red Sox, but allowed a leadoff single to Matsui and walked 
Lofton with two outs. Alan Embree was brought in to finish the game for 
Boston. At 12:01 am, on October 21, Rubén Sierra hit a groundball to second 
baseman Pokey Reese, who threw to first baseman Doug Mientkiewicz to finish 
the unprecedented comeback. The Red Sox won 10–3 and became the third team 
in sports history and the first since the 1975 NHL's New York Islanders 
to win a seven-game series after losing the first three games. David Ortiz 
was named the series MVP. A riot broke out near Fenway Park in Boston following 
the series win, in which Victoria Snelgrove, an Emerson College journalism 
student, was accidentally shot and killed by police with an FN 303 pepper 
spray crowd-controlling projectile round.[36][37] Red Sox outfielder Trot 
Nixon said in response that "I'd give Game 7 back to have her back."[38] 
