The 2004 Summer Paralympics (Greek: Θερινοί Παραολυμπιακοί Αγώνες 2004), 
the twelfth Summer Paralympic Games, were a major international multi-sport 
event for athletes with disabilities governed by the International Paralympic 
Committee, held in Athens, Greece from 17 September to 28 September 2004. 
3,806 athletes from 136 National Paralympic Committees competed. 519 medal 
events were held in 19 sports. Three new events were introduced to the 
Paralympics in Athens; 5-a-side football for the blind, quads wheelchair 
tennis, and a women's competition in sitting volleyball. Following a scandal 
at the 2000 Summer Paralympics, in which the Spanish intellectually-disabled 
basketball team was stripped of their gold medal after it was found that 
multiple players had not met the eligibility requirements, ID-class events 
were suspended.[1][2] A total of 1567 medals were awarded during the Athens 
games: 519 gold, 516 silver, and 532 bronze. China topped the medal count 
with more gold medals, more silver medals, and more medals overall than 
any other nation. In the table below, the ranking sorts by the number of 
gold medals earned by a nation (in this context a nation is an entity represented 
by a National Paralympic Committee). Among the top individual medal winners 
was Mayumi Narita of Japan, who took seven golds and one bronze medal in 
swimming, setting six world records in the process and bringing her overall 
Paralympic gold medal total to fifteen. Chantal Petitclerc of Canada won 
five golds and set three world records in wheelchair racing, while Swedish 
shooter Jonas Jacobsson took four gold medals.[3] France's Béatrice Hess 
won her nineteenth and twentieth Paralympic gold medals in swimming. Swimmer 
Trischa Zorn of the United States won just one medal, a bronze, but it 
was her 55th ever Paralympic medal. She retained her position as the most 
successful Paralympian of all times.[4] The opening ceremony for the 2004 
Summer Paralympics took place on September 17, 2004. The show started with 
children passing on knowledge and raising their lights to the sky. This 
was a reference to Hippocrates, who transferred knowledge to the children. 
A 26 meters tall olive tree (with more than 195,000 leaves) symbolising 
life stood in the middle of the arena. The opening ceremony also featured 
a performance with human drama, with light and with music, in an allegory 
about obstacles and limits. The Parade of Delegations was accompanied by 
the music of French composers Yves Stepping and Jean Christophe. The music 
told the legend of Hephaestos, god of fire and son of Zeus and Hera. An 
athlete from Turkmenistan propelled himself around the stadium by doing 
somersaults. Greece, the home team, received a strong cheer. After that, 
fireworks erupted at the stadium. There were 150 local support staff involved 
and 400 volunteers. The children were from ages 8 to 17, coming from Australia, 
France, Spain, Greece and Germany. The Games were officially declared opened 
by Greek president Costis Stephanopoulos and Phil Craven, the president 
of the International Paralympic Committee. They were accompanied by the 
head of the organizing committee Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki, who told 
the athletes and the audience: "The Olympic flame illuminates athletes. 
Many of you will leave Athens with medals, but all of you will leave as 
champions." Phil Craven quoted Democritus in his speech: "Two thousand 
years ago, Democritus said 'To win oneself is the first and best of all 
victories.' This holds true for all athletes, but especially for Paralympians. 
Recognising and cultivating your unique abilities and mastering challenges 
– you set standards and give expression for many people, young and old, 
around the world." The Paralympic flame was lit by Greek athlete Georgios 
Toptsis. The closing ceremony for the 2004 Summer Paralympics took place 
on September 28, 2004. The traditional cultural display was removed from 
the ceremony as a mark of respect for the deaths of seven teenagers from 
Farkadona, travelling to Athens, whose bus collided with a truck near the 
town of Kamena Vourla.[5][6] Flags were flown at half mast and a minute's 
silence was observed. In contrast with the formal nature of the opening 
ceremony, the athletes entered the stadium for the final time as a collective. 
The flag of the IPC was then officially handed over to the 2008 hosts, 
Beijing. An artistic presentation to acknowledge Beijing as the next host 
was still shown, which also unveiled the IPC's new logo. A procession of 
young people then made their way to join the athletes in the centre of 
the stadium carrying paper lanterns, before the Paralympic flame was extinguished, 
the final moment of the Paralympic Games.[7] Although the Paralympic Games 
were broadcast to around 1.6 billion viewers throughout 49 countries,[8] 
some controversy was caused when no American television network stayed 
to broadcast the event.[9] This resulted in some US viewers having to wait 
almost 2 months until the coverage was broadcast, compared with live feeds 
in the UK and other countries.[10] The 2004 Summer Paralympics included 
19 sports. New events featured in the Games were five-a-side blind football, 
women's sitting volleyball, and quads wheelchair tennis. Results for individual 
events can be found on the relevant page. In total 15 venues were used 
at the 2004 Summer Olympics.[11] Athletes from 135 nations competed in 
