The Boston Red Sox 2004 season was the 103rd Major League Baseball season 
for the Boston Red Sox franchise. Managed under Terry Francona, the team 
finished with a 98–64 record (three games behind the New York Yankees in 
the American League East Division). The Red Sox played in Fenway Park to 
a total attendance of 2,837,294 fans. They clinched the AL wild card to 
assure a berth in the 2004 post-season. They swept the Anaheim Angels in 
the first round to enter the ALCS against the Yankees for the second straight 
year. As Boston entered the fourth game of the ALCS, they had fallen three 
games behind the Yankees, including a Game Three loss by the score of 19-8. 
Trailing 4-3 in the 9th inning of Game 4, they embarked upon an unprecedented 
(in Major League Baseball) comeback from a three-game deficit to defeat 
the New York Yankees in the series. After the ALCS, the Red Sox swept the 
St. Louis Cardinals to win their first World Series since 1918 (86 years).[1] 
During the 2003–04 off season, the Red Sox acquired a starting ace pitcher; 
Curt Schilling, as well as a closer, Keith Foulke.[5] Many visitors at 
their Spring training at Fort Myers, Florida were very enthusiastic about 
the 2004 Red Sox team. Expectations once again ran high that 2004 would 
finally be the year that the Red Sox ended their championship drought.[citation 
needed] [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders 
Designated hitter Pinch hitter Coaches The regular season started well 
in April, but through midseason the team struggled due to injuries, inconsistency 
and defensive woes, and fell more than eight games behind New York. A bright 
point came on July 24, when the Red Sox overcame a five-run deficit as 
Bill Mueller hit a game-winning home run to right-center off Yankees closer 
Mariano Rivera. The game also featured the infamous brawl between Yankee 
superstar Alex Rodriguez and Red Sox catcher and captain Jason Varitek. 
Red Sox General Manager Theo Epstein shook up the team at the MLB trading 
deadline July 31, trading the team's wildly popular yet often hurt and 
disgruntled shortstop, Nomar Garciaparra, to the Chicago Cubs,[7] receiving 
Orlando Cabrera from the Montreal Expos and Doug Mientkiewicz from the 
Minnesota Twins in return. In a separate transaction, the Red Sox also 
traded AAA outfielder Henri Stanley to the Los Angeles Dodgers for center 
fielder Dave Roberts. With valuable players like Cabrera, Mientkiewicz, 
and Roberts in the line up, the club turned things around, winning twenty-two 
out of twenty-five games and going on to finish within three games of the 
Yankees in the AL East and qualifying for the playoffs as the AL Wild Card. 
Note: Pos = position; G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; 
IP = Innings Pitched; W = Win; L = Loss; ERA = Earned Run Average; SO = 
Strikeout [9] Boston began the playoffs by sweeping the AL West champion 
Anaheim Angels. The Red Sox blew out the Angels 9–3 in Game 1, scoring 
7 of those runs in the fourth inning. However, the Sox' 2003 off season 
prize pickup Curt Schilling suffered a torn tendon when he was hit by a 
line drive. The injury was exacerbated when Schilling fielded a ball rolling 
down the first base line. The second game, pitched by Pedro Martínez, stayed 
close until Boston scored four in the ninth to win 8–3. In game three, 
what looked to be a blowout turned out to be a nail-biter, as Vladimir 
Guerrero hit a grand slam off Mike Timlin in the top of the seventh inning 
to tie it at six. However, David Ortiz, who was noted for his clutch hitting, 
delivered in the 10th inning with a game winning two-run homer, off Jarrod 
Washburn, sailing over the Green Monster. The Red Sox advanced to a rematch 
in the 2004 American League Championship Series against their bitter rivals, 
the New York Yankees. Despite high hopes that the Red Sox would finally 
vanquish their nemesis from the Bronx, the series started disastrously 
for them. Curt Schilling pitched with the torn tendon sheath in his right 
ankle he had suffered in Game 1 of the Division Series against Anaheim, 
and was routed for six runs in three innings. Yankee starter Mike Mussina 
had six perfect innings, and held an 8–0 lead. Despite the Sox' best effort 
to come back (they scored seven runs to make it 8–7), they ended up losing 
10–7. In Game 2, already with his Yankees leading 1–0 for most of the game, 
John Olerud hit a two-run home run to put the New York team up for good. 
The Sox were soon down three games to none after a 19–8 loss in Game 3 
at home. In that game, the two clubs set the record for most runs scored 
in a League Championship Series game. At that point in the history of baseball, 
no team had come back to win from a 3–0 series deficit (only the 1998 Atlanta 
Braves and 1999 New York Mets had ever gotten as far as a Game 6). In Game 
4, the Red Sox found themselves facing elimination, trailing 4–3 in the 
ninth with Yankees closer Mariano Rivera on the mound. After Rivera issued 
a walk to Kevin Millar, Dave Roberts came on to pinch run and promptly 
stole second base, this being what many[who?] consider the turning point 
in the series. He then scored on an RBI single by Bill Mueller which sent 
the game to extra innings. The Red Sox went on to win the game on a two-run 
home run by David Ortiz in the 12th inning. In Game 5, the Red Sox were 
again down late, this time by the score of 4–2, as a result of Derek Jeter's 
bases-clearing triple. But the Sox struck back in the eighth, as Ortiz 
hit a homer over the Green Monster to bring the Sox within a run. Then 
Jason Varitek hit a sacrifice fly to bring home Dave Roberts, scoring the 
tying run. The game would go for 14 innings, capped off by many squandered 
Yankee opportunities (they were 1 for 13 with runners in scoring position). 
In the top of the 12th inning, the knuckleballing Tim Wakefield came in 
from the bullpen, without his customary "personal catcher", Doug Mirabelli. 
Varitek, the starting catcher, had trouble with Wakefield's tricky knuckleballs 
in the 12th: he allowed 3 passed balls in the 13th. The third and last 
of those gave the Yankees runners on second and third with two out. The 
Red Sox were spared, however, as Rubén Sierra struck out to end the inning. 
In the bottom of the 14th, Ortiz would again seal the win with a game-winning 
RBI single that brought home Damon. The game set the record for longest 
postseason game in terms of time (5 hours and 49 minutes) and for the longest 
American League Championship Series game (14 innings), though the former 
has since been broken. With the series returning to Yankee Stadium for 
Game 6, the improbable comeback continued, with Curt Schilling pitching 
on an ankle that had three sutures wrapped in a bloody white sock (red 
with a blood stain). Schilling struck out four, walked none, and only allowed 
one run over seven innings to lead the team to victory. Mark Bellhorn also 
helped in the effort as he hit a three-run home run in the fourth inning. 
Originally called a double, the umpires conferred and agreed that the ball 
had actually gone into the stands before falling back into the field of 
play, which was apparent to the television audience but angered Yankees 
fans.[citation needed] A key play came in the bottom of the eighth inning 
with Derek Jeter on first and Alex Rodríguez facing Bronson Arroyo. Rodríguez 
hit a ground ball down the first base line. Arroyo fielded it and reached 
out to tag him as he raced down the line. Rodríguez slapped at the ball 
and it came loose, rolling down the line. Jeter scored and Rodríguez ended 
up on second. After conferring, however, the umpires called Rodríguez out 
on interference and returned Jeter to first base, the second time in the 
game they reversed a call. Yankees fans, upset with the calls, littered 
the field with debris. The umpires called police clad in riot gear to line 
the field in the top of the 9th inning. In the bottom of the ninth, the 
Yankees staged a rally and brought former Red Sox player Tony Clark, who 
had played well against the Red Sox since leaving the team, to the plate 
as the potential winning run. Closer Keith Foulke however, struck out Clark 
to end the game and force a Game 7. In this game, the Red Sox completed 
their historic comeback on the strength of Derek Lowe's one-hit, one-run 
pitching and Johnny Damon's two home runs, including a grand slam in the 
second inning off the first pitch of reliever Javier Vázquez, and defeated 
the New York Yankees, 10–3. Ortiz, who had the game-winning RBIs in Games 
4 and 5, was named ALCS Most Valuable Player. Major League Baseball, the 
National Basketball Association, and the National Hockey League are three 
professional sports that feature best-of-seven games series in their playoffs. 
Coming back to win a seven-game series when down by three games has only 
been accomplished by five teams in the history of the MLB, NBA, and NHL. 
The 1942 Toronto Maple Leafs (NHL) came back from being down by three games 
to the Detroit Red Wings to win the 1942 Stanley Cup. The 1975 New York 
Islanders (NHL) did the same when they came back to beat the Pittsburgh 
Penguins in the 1975 Stanley Cup Quarterfinals. During their Cinderella 
run to the 2010 Stanley Cup Finals, the Philadelphia Flyers (NHL) came 
back from three games down to defeat the Boston Bruins to advance to the 
Eastern Conference Finals. In the 2013–14 NHL Playoffs the Los Angeles 
Kings defeated the San Jose Sharks in the first round, on their way to 
the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals. The Boston Red Sox are currently the only 
team in Major League Baseball history to do this.[citation needed] The 
Red Sox faced the St. Louis Cardinals in the 2004 World Series. The Cardinals 
had posted the best record in the major leagues that season, and had previously 
defeated the Red Sox in the 1946 and 1967 Series, with both series going 
seven games. The third time would be the charm, however, as the momentum 
and confidence Boston had built up in the ALCS would overwhelm St. Louis. 
The Red Sox began the Series with an 11–9 win, marked by Mark Bellhorn's 
game-winning home run off Pesky's Pole. He later on said that he "just 
did what he needed to do." It was the highest scoring World Series opening 
game ever (breaking the previous record set in 1932). The Red Sox would 
go on to win Game 2 in Boston (thanks to another sensational performance 
by the bloody-socked Schilling). The Red Sox won both these games despite 
making 4 errors in each game. In Game 3, Pedro Martínez shut out the Cardinals 
for seven innings. The Cardinals only made one real threat — in the third 
inning when they put runners on second and third with no outs. However, 
the Cardinals' rally was killed by pitcher Jeff Suppan's baserunning gaffe. 
With no outs, Suppan should have scored easily from third on a Larry Walker 
ground ball to second baseman Bellhorn, who was playing back, conceding 
the run. But as Bellhorn threw out Walker at first base, Suppan inexplicably 
froze after taking several steps toward home and was thrown out by Sox 
first baseman David Ortiz as he scrambled back to third. The double play 
was devastating for St. Louis. The Red Sox needed one more game to win 
their first championship since the 1918 World Series. In Game Four the 
Red Sox did not allow a run, and the game ended as Édgar Rentería (who 
would become the 2005 Red Sox starting SS) hit the ball back to Keith Foulke. 
(This was the second time that Rentería had ended a Series, as he had won 
it for the Marlins seven years prior in the 1997 World Series.) After Foulke 
lobbed the ball to Doug Mientkiewicz, the Sox had won their first World 
Championship in 86 years. The Sox held the Cardinals' offense (the best 
in the NL in 2004) to only three runs in the last three games, never trailing 
in the Series. Manny Ramírez was named World Series MVP. The Red Sox won 
Game Four of the series on October 27, eighteen years to the day from when 
they lost to the New York Mets in the 1986 World Series. In fact, it came 
18 years to the day they lost their last World Series game, as they would 
sweep the 2004 series. The Red Sox performed well in the 2004 postseason. 
From the eighth inning of Game 5 of the American League Championship Series 
against the Yankees (a tie) until the end of the World Series, the Sox 
played 60 innings, and never trailed at any point. This was only the fourth 
World Series ever played in which the losing team had never held a lead. 
To add a final, surreal touch to the Red Sox championship title, on the 
night the Red Sox won, a total lunar eclipse colored the moon over Busch 
Stadium to a deep red hue. The Red Sox won the title about eleven minutes 
before totality ended. Many Red Sox fans who were turned away due to no 
tickets for the game were allowed to watch the final inning from the confines 
of Busch Stadium after being let in free of charge. Fox commentator Joe 
Buck famously called the final out, saying: Back to Foulke. Red Sox fans 
have longed to hear it: the Boston Red Sox are World Champions!" The Red 
Sox held a parade (or as Boston mayor Thomas Menino put it, a "rolling 
rally") on Saturday, October 30, 2004. A crowd of more than three million 
people filled the streets of Boston to cheer as the team rode on the city's 
famous Duck Boats. The parade followed the same route the New England Patriots 
took following their victories in Super Bowls Super Bowl XXXVI in 2002 
and Super Bowl XXXVIII in February. Following their 2004 World Series win, 
the Red Sox replaced the dirt from the field as a "fresh start". They earned 
many accolades from sports media and throughout the nation for their incredible 
season. Pitcher Derek Lowe said that with the win, the chants of "1918!" 
would no longer echo at Yankee Stadium again.[10] The Patriots win in the 
Super Bowl meant the Red Sox World Series win made Boston the first city 
to have Super Bowl and World Series champions in the same year in 25 years, 
when the Pittsburgh Steelers won Super Bowl XIII, followed by the Pirates 
winning the 1979 World Series.[11] The Patriots winning Super Bowl XXXIX 
in the ensuing offseason made Boston the first city to have two Super Bowls 
and one World Series championship over a span of 12 months since Pittsburgh 
in 1979–1980.[11] After the Bruins won the 2011 Stanley Cup Finals, which 
made Boston the first city to win championships in all four sports leagues 
in the new millennium, Dan Shaughnessy of The Boston Globe ranked all seven 
championships by the Boston teams (the Patriots in the Super Bowls played 
in 2002, 2004 and 2005, the Red Sox in 2004 and 2007, the Celtics in 2008, 
and the Bruins in 2011) and picked the Red Sox win in 2004 as the greatest 
