The 2004 Summer Olympic Games (Modern Greek: Θερινοί Ολυμπιακοί Αγώνες 
2004, Therinoí Olympiakoí Agó̱nes 2004[3]), officially known as the Games 
of the XXVIII Olympiad and commonly known as Athens 2004, was a premier 
international multi-sport event held in Athens, Greece, from 13 to 29 August 
2004 with the motto Welcome Home. 10,625 athletes competed,[1] some 600 
more than expected, accompanied by 5,501 team officials from 201 countries.[1] 
There were 301 medal events in 28 different sports.[1] Athens 2004 marked 
the first time since the 1996 Summer Olympics that all countries with a 
National Olympic Committee were in attendance. 2004 marked the return of 
the games to the city where they began. A new medal obverse was introduced 
at these Games, replacing the design by Giuseppe Cassioli that had been 
used since the 1928 Games. This rectified the long lasting mistake of using 
a depiction of the Roman Colosseum rather than a Greek venue.[4] The new 
design features the Panathenaic Stadium.[5] The 2004 summer games were 
hailed as "unforgettable, dream games" by IOC President Jacques Rogge, 
and left Athens with a significantly improved infrastructure, including 
a new airport, ring road, and subway system.[6] The cost of the 2004 Athens 
Summer Games has been cited as a contributor to the Greek government-debt 
crisis. Many of the venues lie vacant and rotting; the Independent newspaper 
reports as many as 21 out of 22 are unused.[7] The final medal tally was 
led by the United States, followed by China and Russia with host Greece 
at 15th place. Several World and Olympics records were broken during the 
games. Several concerns were raised over the preparations of the Games 
and these included excessive budget overruns, infrastructural compromise 
and delays in construction of the main Games' venues. The games were deemed 
generally successful with the rising standard of competition amongst nations 
across the world. Athens was chosen as the host city during the 106th IOC 
Session held in Lausanne on 5 September 1997. Athens had lost its bid to 
organize the 1996 Summer Olympics to Atlanta nearly seven years before 
on 18 September 1990, during the 96th IOC Session in Tokyo. 1996 coincided 
with the 100th Anniversary of the first modern Olympics, which were also 
held in Athens. Under the direction of Gianna Angelopoulos-Daskalaki, Athens 
pursued another bid, this time for the right to host the Summer Olympics 
in 2004. The success of Athens in securing the 2004 Games was based largely 
on Athens' appeal to Olympic history and the emphasis that it placed on 
the pivotal role that Greece and Athens could play in promoting Olympism 
and the Olympic Movement. Furthermore, unlike their bid for the 1996 Games, 
which was largely criticized for its overall disorganization and arrogance—wherein 
the bid lacked specifics and relied largely upon sentiment and the notion 
that it was Athens' right to organize the Centennial Games[8]—the bid for 
the 2004 Games was lauded for its humility and earnestness, its focused 
message, and its detailed bid concept.[9] The 2004 bid addressed concerns 
and criticisms raised in its unsuccessful 1996 bid – primarily Athens' 
infrastructural readiness, its air pollution, its budget, and politicization 
of Games preparations.[10] Athens' successful organization of the 1997 
World Championships in Athletics the month before the host city election 
was also crucial in allaying lingering fears and concerns among the sporting 
community and some IOC members about its ability to host international 
sporting events.[11] Another factor which also contributed to Athens' selection 
was a growing sentiment among some IOC members to restore the values of 
the Olympics to the Games, a component which they felt was lost during 
the heavily criticized over-commercialization of Atlanta 1996 Games.[12] 
Subsequently, the selection of Athens was also motivated by a lingering 
sense of disappointment among IOC members regarding the numerous organizational 
and logistical setbacks experienced during the 1996 Games.[12] After leading 
all voting rounds, Athens easily defeated Rome in the 5th and final vote. 
Cape Town, Stockholm, and Buenos Aires, the three other cities that made 
the IOC shortlist, were eliminated in prior rounds of voting. Six other 
cities submitted applications, but their bids were dropped by the IOC in 
1996. These cities were Istanbul, Lille, Rio de Janeiro, San Juan, Seville, 
Saint Petersburg and Cali.[13] The 2004 Summer Olympic Games cost the Government 
of Greece €8.954 billion to stage.[14] According to the cost-benefit evaluation 
of the impact of the Athens 2004 Olympic Games presented to the Greek Parliament 
in January 2013 by the Minister of Finance Mr. Giannis Stournaras, the 
overall net economic benefit of the games for Greece was positive.[15] 
The Athens 2004 Organizing Committee (ATHOC), responsible for the preparation 
and organisation of the games, concluded its operations as a company in 
2005 with a surplus of €130.6 million. ATHOC contributed €123.6 million 
of the surplus to the Greek State to cover other related expenditures of 
the Greek State in organizing of the games. As a result, ATHOC reported 
in its official published accounts a net profit of €7 million.[16][17] 
The State’s contribution to the total ATHOC budget was 8% of its expenditure 
against an originally anticipated 14%. The overall revenue of ATHOC, including 
income from tickets, sponsors, broadcasting rights, merchandise sales etc., 
totalled €2,098.4 million. The largest percentage of that income (38%) 
came from broadcasting rights. The overall expenditure of ATHOC was €1,967.8 
million. Often analysts refer to the "Cost of the Olympic Games" by taking 
into account not only the Organizing Committee’s budget (i.e. the organizational 
cost) directly related to the Olympic Games, but also the cost incurred 
by the hosting country during preparation, i.e. the large projects required 
for the upgrade of the country’s infrastructure, including sports infrastructure, 
roads, airports, hospitals, power grid etc. This cost, however, is not 
directly attributable to the actual organisation of the Games. Such infrastructure 
projects are considered by all fiscal standards as fixed asset investments 
that stay with the hosting country for decades after the Games. Also, in 
many cases these infrastructure upgrades would have taken place regardless 
of hosting the Olympic Games, although the latter may have acted as a "catalyst". 
It was in this sense that the Greek Ministry of Finance reported in 2013 
that the expenses of the Greek state for the Athens 2004 Olympic Games, 
including both infrastructure and organizational costs, reached the amount 
of €8.5 billion. The same report further explains that €2 billion of this 
amount was covered by the revenue of the ATHOC (from tickets, sponsors, 
broadcasting rights, merchandise sales etc.) and that another €2 billion 
was directly invested in upgrading hospitals and archaeological sites. 
Therefore, the net infrastructure costs related to the preparation of the 
Athens 2004 Olympic Games was €4.5 billion, substantially lower than the 
reported estimates,[18] and mainly included long-standing fixed asset investments 
in numerous municipal and transport infrastructures. On the revenue side, 
the same report estimates that incremental tax revenues of approximately 
€3.5 billion arose from the increased activities caused by the Athens 2004 
Olympic Games during the period 2000 to 2004. These tax revenues were paid 
directly to the Greek state specifically in the form of incremental social 
security contributions, income taxes and VAT tax paid by all the companies, 
professionals, and service providers that were directly involved with the 
Olympic Games. Moreover, it is reported that the Athens 2004 Olympic Games 
have had a great economic growth impact on the tourism sector, one of the 
pillars of the Greek economy, as well as in many other sectors. The final 
verdict on the cost of the Athens 2004 Olympic Games, in the words of the 
Greek Minister of Finance, is that "as a result from the cost-benefit analysis, 
we reach the conclusion that there has been a net economic benefit from 
the Olympic Games" By late March 2004, some Olympic projects were still 
behind schedule, and Greek authorities announced that a roof it had initially 
proposed as an optional, non-vital addition to the Aquatics Center would 
no longer be built. The main Olympic Stadium, the designated facility for 
the opening and closing ceremonies, was completed only two months before 
the games opened. This stadium was completed with a retractable glass roof 
designed by Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava. The same architect also 
designed the Velodrome and other facilities. Infrastructure, such as the 
tram line linking venues in southern Athens with the city proper, and numerous 
venues were considerably behind schedule just two months before the games. 
The subsequent pace of preparation, however, made the rush to finish the 
Athens venues one of the tightest in Olympics history. The Greeks, unperturbed, 
maintained that they would make it all along. By July/August 2004, all 
venues were delivered: in August, the Olympic Stadium was officially completed 
and opened, joined or preceded by the official completion and openings 
of other venues within the Athens Olympic Sports Complex (OAKA), and the 
sports complexes in Faliro and Helliniko. Late July and early August witnessed 
the Athens Tram become operational, and this system provided additional 
connections to those already existing between Athens and its waterfront 
communities along the Saronic Gulf. These communities included the port 
city of Piraeus, Agios Kosmas (site of the sailing venue), Helliniko (the 
site of the old international airport which now contained the fencing venue, 
the canoe/kayak slalom course, the 15,000-seat Helliniko Olympic Basketball 
Arena, and the softball and baseball stadia), and the Faliro Coastal Zone 
Olympic Complex (site of the taekwondo, handball, indoor volleyball, and 
beach volleyball venues, as well as the newly reconstructed Karaiskaki 
Stadium for football). The upgrades to the Athens Ring Road were also delivered 
just in time, as were the expressway upgrades connecting Athens proper 
with peripheral areas such as Markopoulo (site of the shooting and equestrian 
venues), the newly constructed Eleftherios Venizelos International Airport, 
Schinias (site of the rowing venue), Maroussi (site of the OAKA), Parnitha 
(site of the Olympic Village), Galatsi (site of the rhythmic gymnastics 
and table tennis venue), and Vouliagmeni (site of the triathlon venue). 
The upgrades to the Athens Metro were also completed, and the new lines 
became operational by mid-summer. EMI released Unity, the official pop 
album of the Athens Olympics, in the leadup to the Olympics.[19] It features 
contributions from Sting, Lenny Kravitz, Moby, Destiny's Child, and Avril 
Lavigne.[19] EMI has pledged to donate US$180,000 from the album to UNICEF's 
HIV/AIDS program in Sub-Saharan Africa.[19] At least 14 people died during 
the work on the facilities. Most of these people were not from Greece.[20] 
Before the games, Greek hotel staff staged a series of one-day strikes 
over wage disputes. They had been asking for a significant raise for the 
period covering the event being staged. Paramedics and ambulance drivers 
also protested. They claimed to have the right to the same Olympic bonuses 
promised to their security force counterparts. The lighting ceremony of 
the Olympic flame took place on 25 March in Ancient Olympia. For the first 
time ever, the flame travelled around the world in a relay to former, next, 
and later Olympic cities and other large cities, before returning to Greece. 
Mascots have been a tradition at the Olympic Games since the 1968 Winter 
Olympics in Grenoble, France. The Athens games had two official mascots: 
Athiná and Phévos (pronounced in Greek, Athina and Fivos). The sister and 
brother were named after Athena, the goddess of wisdom, strategy and war, 
and Phoebus, the god of light and music, respectively. They were inspired 
by the ancient daidala, which were dolls that had religious connotations 
as well as being toys. For the first time, major broadcasters were allowed 
to serve video coverage of the Olympics over the Internet, provided that 
they restricted this service geographically, to protect broadcasting contracts 
in other areas. For instance, the BBC made their complete live coverage 
available to UK high-speed Internet customers for free; customers in the 
U.S. were only able to receive delayed excerpts.[21] The International 
Olympic Committee forbade Olympic athletes, as well as coaches, support 
personnel and other officials, from setting up specialized weblogs and/or 
other websites for covering their personal perspective of the games. They 
were not allowed to post audio, video, or photos that they had taken. An 
exception was made if an athlete already has a personal website that was 
not set up specifically for the Games.[22] NBC launched its own Olympic 
website, NBCOlympics.com. Focusing on the television coverage of the games, 
it did provide video clips, medal standings, live results. Its main purpose, 
however, was to provide a schedule of what sports were on the many stations 
of NBC Universal. The games were on TV 24 hours a day on one network or 
another. As with any enterprise, the Organizing Committee and everyone 
involved with it relied heavily on technology in order to deliver a successful 
event. ATHOC maintained two separate data networks, one for the preparation 
of the Games (known as the Administrative network) and one for the Games 
themselves (Games Network). The technical infrastructure involved more 
than 11,000 computers, over 600 servers, 2,000 printers, 23,000 fixed-line 
telephone devices, 9,000 mobile phones, 12,000 TETRA devices, 16,000 TV 
and video devices and 17 Video Walls interconnected by more than 6,000 kilometers 
of cabling (both optical fiber and twisted pair). This infrastructure was 
created and maintained to serve directly more than 150,000 ATHOC Staff, 
Volunteers, Olympic family members (IOC, NOCs, Federations), Partners & 
Sponsors and Media. It also kept the information flowing for all spectators, 
TV viewers, Website visitors and news readers around the world, prior and 
during the Games. The Media Center was located inside the Zappeion which 
is a Greek national exhibition center. Between June and August 2004, the 
technology staff worked in the Technology Operations Center (TOC) from 
where it could centrally monitor and manage all the devices and flow of 
information, as well as handle any problems that occurred during the Games. 
The TOC was organized in teams (e.g. Systems, Telecommunications, Information 
Security, Data Network, Staffing, etc.) under a TOC Director and corresponding 
team leaders (Shift Managers). The TOC operated on a 24x7 basis with personnel 
organized into 12-hour shifts. The widely praised Opening Ceremony Directed 
by avant garde choreographer Dimitris Papaioannou and Produced by Jack 
Morton Worldwide led by Project Director David Zolkwer was held on 13 August 
2004. It began with a twenty eight (the number of the Olympiads up to then) 
second countdown paced by the sounds of an amplified heartbeat.[23] As 
the countdown was completed, fireworks rumbled and illuminated the skies 
overhead. After a drum corps and bouzouki players joined in an opening 
march, the video screen showed images of flight, crossing southwest from 
Athens over the Greek countryside to ancient Olympia. Then, a single drummer 
in the ancient stadium joined in a drum duet with a single drummer in the 
main stadium in Athens, joining the original ancient Olympic games with 
the modern ones in symbolism. At the end of the drum duet, a single flaming 
arrow was launched from the video screen (symbolically from ancient Olympia) 
and into the reflecting pool, which resulted in fire erupting in the middle 
of the stadium creating a burning image of the Olympic rings rising from 
the pool. The Opening Ceremony was a pageant of traditional Greek culture 
and history hearkening back to its mythological beginnings. The program 
began as a young Greek boy sailed into the stadium on a 'paper-ship' waving 
the host nation's flag to aethereal music by Hadjidakis and then a centaur 
appeared, followed by a gigantic head of a cycladic figurine which eventually 
broke into many pieces symbolising the Greek islands. Underneath the cycladic 
head was a Hellenistic representation of the human body, reflecting the 
concept and belief in perfection reflected in Greek art. A man was seen 
balancing on a hovering cube symbolising man's eternal 'split' between 
passion and reason followed by a couple of young lovers playfully chasing 
each other while the god Eros was hovering above them. There followed a 
very colourful float parade chronicling Greek history from the ancient 
Minoan civilization to modern times. Although NBC in the United States 
presented the entire opening ceremony from start to finish, a topless Minoan 
priestess was shown only briefly, the breasts having been pixelated digitally 
in order to avoid controversy (as the "Nipplegate" incident was still fresh 
in viewer's minds at the time) and potential fines by the Federal Communications 
Commission. Also, lower frontal nudity of men dressed as ancient Greek 
statues was shown in such a way that the area below the waist was cut off 
by the bottom of the screen. In most other countries presenting the broadcast, 
there was no censorship of the ceremony. Following the artistic performances, 
a parade of nations entered the stadium with over 10,500 athletes walking 
under the banners of 201 nations. The nations were arranged according to 
Greek alphabet making Finland, Fiji, Chile, and Hong Kong the last four 
to enter the stadium before the Greek delegation. On this occasion, in 
observance of the tradition that the delegation of Greece opens the parade 
and the host nation closes it, the Greek flag bearer opened the parade 
and all the Greek delegation closed it. Based on audience reaction, the 
emotional high point of the parade was the entrance of the delegation from 
Afghanistan which had been absent from the Olympics and had female competitors 
for the first time. The Iraqi delegation also stirred emotions. Also recognized 
was the symbolic unified march of athletes from North Korea and South Korea 
under the Korean Unification Flag. The country of Kiribati made a debut 
at these games and East Timor made a debut under its own flag. After the 
Parade of Nations, during which the Dutch DJ Tiësto provided the music, 
the Icelandic singer Björk performed the song Oceania, written specially 
for the event by her and the poet Sjón. The Opening Ceremony culminated 
in the lighting of the Olympic Cauldron by 1996 Gold Medalist Windsurfer 
Nikolaos Kaklamanakis. Many key moments in the ceremony, including the 
lighting of the Olympic Cauldron, featured music composed and arranged 
by John Psathas[24] from New Zealand. The gigantic cauldron, which was 
styled after the Athens 2004 Olympic Torch, pivoted down to be lit by the 
35-year-old, before slowly swinging up and lifting the flame high above 
the stadium. Following this, the stadium found itself at the centre of 
a rousing fireworks spectacular. All National Olympic Committees (NOCs) 
participated in the Athens Games, as was the case in 1996. Two new NOCs 
had been created since 1996 and made their debut at these Games (Kiribati 
and Timor-Leste). Therefore, with the return of Afghanistan (who had been 
banned from the 2000 Summer Olympics), the number of participating nations 
increased from 199 to 202. Also since 2000, Yugoslavia had changed its 
name to Serbia and Montenegro and its code from YUG to SCG. The number 
in parentheses indicates the number of participants each NOC contributed. 
The sports featured at the 2004 Summer Olympics are listed below. Officially 
there were 301 events in 28 sports as swimming, diving, synchronised swimming 
and water polo are classified by the IOC as disciplines within the sport 
of aquatics, and wheelchair racing was a demonstration sport. For the first 
time, the wrestling category featured women's wrestling and in the fencing 
competition women competed in the sabre. American Kristin Heaston, who 
led off the qualifying round of women's shotput became the first woman 
to compete at the ancient site of Olympia but Cuban Yumileidi Cumba became 
the first woman to win a gold medal there. The demonstration sport of wheelchair 
racing was a joint Olympic/Paralympic event, allowing a Paralympic event 
to occur within the Olympics, and for the future, opening up the wheelchair 
race to the able-bodied. The 2004 Summer Paralympics were also held in 
Athens, from 17 to 28 September. 31 sports The Games were concluded on 
29 August 2004. The closing ceremony was held at the Athens Olympic Stadium, 
where the Games had been opened 16 days earlier. Around 70,000 people gathered 
in the stadium to watch the ceremony. The initial part of the ceremony 
interspersed the performances of various Greek singers, and featured traditional 
Greek dance performances from various regions of Greece (Crete, Pontos, 
Thessaly, etc.). The event was meant to highlight the pride of the Greeks 
in their culture and country for the world to see. A significant part of 
the closing ceremony was the exchange of the Olympic flag of the Antwerp 
games between the mayor of Athens and the mayor of Beijing, host city of 
the next Olympic games. After the flag exchange a presentation from the 
Beijing delegation presented a glimpse into Chinese culture for the world 
to see. Beijing University students (who were at first incorrectly cited 
as the Twelve Girls Band) sang Mo Li Hua (Jasmine Flower) accompanied by 
a ribbon dancer, then some male dancers did a routine with tai-chi and 
acrobatics, followed by dancers from the Peking Opera and finally, a little 
Chinese girl singing a reprise of Mo Li Hua and concluded the presentation 
by saying "Welcome to Beijing!" The medal ceremony for the last event of 
the Olympics, the men's marathon, was conducted, with Stefano Baldini from 
Italy as the winner. The bronze medal winner, Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima 
of Brazil, was simultaneously announced as a recipient of the Pierre de 
Coubertin medal for his bravery in finishing the race despite being attacked 
by a rogue spectator while leading with 7 km to go. A flag-bearer from 
each nation's delegation then entered along the stage, followed by the 
competitors en masse on the floor. Short speeches were presented by Gianna 
Angelopoulos-Daskalaki, President of the Organising Committee, and by President 
Dr. Jacques Rogge of the IOC, in which he described the Athens Olympics 
as "unforgettable, dream Games".[6] Dr. Rogge had previously declared he 
would be breaking with tradition in his closing speech as President of 
the IOC and that he would never use the words of his predecessor Juan Antonio 
Samaranch, who used to always say 'these were the best ever games'.[6] 
Dr. Rogge had described Salt Lake City 2002 as "superb games" and in turn 
would continue after Athens 2004 and describe Turin 2006 as "truly magnificent 
games." The national anthems of Greece and China were played in a handover 
ceremony as both nations' flags were raised. The Mayor of Athens, Dora 
Bakoyianni, passed the Olympic Flag to the Mayor of Beijing, Wang Qishan. 
After a short cultural performance by Chinese actors, dancers, and musicians 
directed by eminent Chinese director Zhang Yimou, Rogge declared the 2004 
Olympic Games closed. The Olympic flag was next raised again on 10 February 
2006 during the opening ceremony of next Winter Olympic games in Torino. 
A young Greek girl, Fotini Papaleonidopoulou, lit a symbolic lantern with 
the Olympic Flame and passed it on to other children before "extinguishing" 
the flame in the cauldron by blowing a puff of air. The ceremony ended 
with a variety of musical performances by Greek singers, including Dionysis 
Savvopoulos, George Dalaras, Haris Alexiou, Anna Vissi, Sakis Rouvas, Eleftheria 
Arvanitaki, Alkistis Protopsalti, Antonis Remos, Michalis Hatzigiannis, 
Marinella and Dimitra Galani, as thousands of athletes carried out symbolic 
displays on the stadium floor. These are the top ten nations that won medals 
in the 2004 Games.   *   Host nation (Greece) To commemorate the games, 
a series of Greek high value euro collectors' coins were minted by the 
Mint of Greece, in both silver and gold. The pieces depict landmarks in 
Greece as well as ancient and modern sports on the obverse of the coin. 
On the reverse, a common motif with the logo of the games, circled by an 
olive branch representing the spirit of the games. Preparations to stage 
the Olympics led to a number of positive developments for the city's infrastructure. 
These improvements included the establishment of Eleftherios Venizelos 
International Airport, a modern new international airport serving as Greece's 
main aviation gateway;[28] expansions to the Athens Metro[29] system; the 
"Tram", a new metropolitan tram (light rail) system[30] system; the "Proastiakos", 
a new suburban railway system linking the airport and suburban towns to 
the city of Athens; the "Attiki Odos", a new toll motorway encircling the 
city,[31] and the conversion of streets into pedestrianized walkways in 
the historic center of Athens which link several of the city's main tourist 
sites, including the Parthenon and the Panathenaic Stadium (the site of 
the first modern Olympic Games in 1896).[32][33] All of the above infrastructure 
is still in use to this day, and there have been continued expansions and 
proposals to expand Athens' metro, tram, suburban rail and motorway network, 
the airport, as well as further plans to pedestrianize more thoroughfares 
in the historic center of Athens. The Greek Government has created a corporation, 
Olympic Properties SA, which is overseeing the post-Olympics management, 
development and conversion of these facilities, some of which will be sold 
off (or have already been sold off) to the private sector,[34][35] while 
some other facilities are still in use, or have been converted for commercial 
use or modified for other sports.[36] As of 2012 many conversion schemes 
have stalled owing to the Greek government-debt crisis. The annual cost 
to maintain the sites has been estimated at £500 million, a sum which has 
been politically controversial in Greece,[37] though many of these facilities 
are now under the control of domestic sporting clubs and organizations 
or the private sector.[citation needed] The cost of the 2004 Athens Summer 
Games has been cited as a contributor to the Greek government-debt crisis. 
Many of the venues lie vacant and rotting; the Independent newspaper reports 
as many as 21 out of 22 are unused.[7] The table below delineates the current 
status of the Athens Olympic facilities: [53][67][99] On 6 December 2012, 
the IOC stripped medals from four athletes caught doping at the 2004 Athens 
Olympics including one gold medalist and postponed a decision to revoke 
Lance Armstrong's bronze from the 2000 Sydney Games. The IOC also disqualified 
four athletes whose Athens doping samples were retested earlier in the 
year and came back positive, including shot put gold medalist Yuriy Bilonog 
of Ukraine. The others are hammer throw silver medalist Ivan Tskikhan of 
Belarus and two bronze medalists, women's shot putter Svetlana Krivelyova 
of Russia and discus thrower Irina Yatchenko of Belarus. The case of a 
fifth bronze medalist, weightlifter Oleg Perepechenov of Russia, remains 
