The 2004 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2004 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 5, and ended on 
Monday, October 11, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage. Although 
the team with the best record was normally intended to play the wild card 
team, the Cardinals played the Dodgers, rather than the wild card Astros, 
because the Cardinals and Astros are in the same division. The St. Louis 
Cardinals and Houston Astros went on to meet in the NL Championship Series 
(NLCS). The Cardinals became the National League champion, and lost to 
the American League champion Boston Red Sox in the 2004 World Series. St. 
Louis won the series, 3–1. Houston won the series, 3–2. Busch Stadium (II) 
in St. Louis, Missouri Odalis Pérez faced Woody Williams in Game 1. Albert 
Pujols got the Cardinals started with a solo homer to make it 1–0 in the 
first. Then in the third, Perez reached his limit after surrendering five 
two-out runs. Larry Walker's solo homer made it 2–0. Then Edgar Rentería 
doubled in two runs before scoring on Jim Edmonds's two-run homer—that 
made it 6–0 Cardinals. Later in the fourth, Mike Matheny homered to make 
it 7–0 . Kiko Calero and Ray King followed Williams' six solid innings 
with a perfect seventh and eighth. Jason Isringhausen closed out the game 
after allowing a home run in the ninth. Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, 
Missouri Jeff Weaver faced Jason Marquis in Game 2. The Dodgers gave Weaver 
a lead when Jayson Werth homered in the first to make it 1–0. But Weaver's 
luck would start to run out in the second. His error allowed the Cardinals 
to tie the game and set up Tony Womack for a big triple that gave the Cardinals 
the lead. Then he would score on Larry Walker's double. The Cardinals now 
had a 3–1 lead. But back-to-back homers by the Dodgers to lead off the 
fourth tied the game. Marquis was removed in favor of Cal Eldred. With 
Weaver still pitching in the fifth, the Cards put up three runs, the final 
two driven in by Mike Matheny's RBI hit. Matheny would also come through 
in the seventh with another two-run hit. The Cardinals' solid bullpen held 
the Dodgers as they cruised to another 8–3 win. Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, 
California With time running out, the Dodgers called on José Lima for Game 
3. Opposing him would be Matt Morris. Both pitchers kept the game quiet 
until the third. The Dodgers would take the lead for only the second time 
in the series with a two-run double by Steve Finley. Then Shawn Green followed 
with a leadoff homer in the fourth. Lima would keep the Cardinals silent 
all night and Green would homer once again the sixth to make it 4–0. Lima 
would pitch a complete-game five-hit shutout to give the Dodgers their 
first postseason win since the clinching Game 5 of the 1988 World Series. 
Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California All the momentum the Dodgers 
might have had disappeared in Game 4. Jeff Suppan faced Odalis Pérez and 
Jayson Werth would strike against Suppan with a one-out homer in the first 
to make it 1–0 Dodgers. But Reggie Sanders would homer as well to tie the 
game in the second. Then a base hit by Edgar Rentería gave the Cardinals 
the lead in the third. But the Dodgers would tie the game on a sac fly 
by Adrián Beltré. However, Wilson Álvarez would face Albert Pujols with 
two men on in the fourth and surrender a three-run homer to give the Cardinals 
a commanding 5–2 lead. Then Pujols would single home Larry Walker to give 
the Cardinals a 6–2 lead in the seventh. That marked the end for the Dodgers 
as Alex Cora struck out to end the series in the ninth. 2004 NLDS (3–1): 
St. Louis Cardinals over Los Angeles Dodgers Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia 
Roger Clemens faced Jaret Wright in Game 1. Clemens would allow a run to 
score in the bottom of the first on Johnny Estrada's sac fly. Wright cruised 
through the first two inning but ran into trouble in the third. Brad Ausmus's 
leadoff homer tied the game and after two quick outs, Carlos Beltrán singled. 
Jeff Bagwell followed with the go-ahead double. Then Lance Berkman homered 
to put the Astros up 4–1. In the fifth, the Astros got two more on Beltrán's 
two-run homer to make it 6–1. The bullpen gave way and allowed yet another 
run to make it 7–1. But the Braves would scratch out runs in the fifth 
and sixth on a homer by Andruw Jones and an RBI groundout by Marcus Giles. 
But no more could be done against the Astros as they tacked on two more 
to win Game 1, 9–3. Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia The Astros jumped 
off to an early 2–0 lead off Braves starter Mike Hampton thanks to two 
solo homers by Jeff Bagwell in the first and Raul Chavez in the third. 
Hampton would leave in the seventh with an injured arm having allowed only 
two runs. In the seventh, Astros starter Roy Oswalt, who was working on 
a shutout, began to falter as he allowed a pinch-hit double to DeWayne 
Wise. Then Rafael Furcal would single him home to make it 2–1. In a bizarre 
incident, the Astros' bullpen phone stopped working and someone had to 
check the status of their relievers. It caused a delay that Braves manager 
Bobby Cox protested. This occurred after Oswalt gave up his only run of 
the game. The bullpen would save the inning and the game remained 2–1 until 
the bottom of the eighth. Then Adam LaRoche would tie the game with an 
RBI double with the Astros five outs away from taking a commanding 2–0 
lead in the series. As the game moved to extra innings, Charles Thomas 
would single with one out in the bottom of the eleventh. After Eli Marrero 
struck out, Thomas stole second. Then Rafael Furcal would hit a game-winning 
two-run homer to tie the series at one game apiece. Minute Maid Park in 
Houston, Texas John Thomson faced Brandon Backe in Game 3. Thomson would 
leave the game in the first with a strained muscle on his left side after 
surrendering a double and a walk with one out. Paul Byrd came on in relief 
and got out of the inning. But in the third, Carlos Beltrán put the Astros 
on top with a two-run homer. In the fourth, the Braves issued their response 
with a homer from Johnny Estrada and an RBI hit by Byrd. The game was now 
tied at two. The Astros, however, would waste little time in taking back 
the lead. Jeff Kent would hit an RBI double off the scoreboard and would 
later score on Morgan Ensberg's RBI hit. It was now 4–2 Astros and Byrd 
was gone. Against Antonio Alfonseca in the bottom of the sixth, the Astros 
put two men on and Alfonseca would leave in favor of Tom Martin. He could 
do little to stop the rally as three runs would score and he could record 
no outs. It was now 7–2 Astros. Then a sac fly in the seventh by Mike Lamb 
made it 8–2. But the Braves would not go quietly. The Braves would put 
their first two men on in the eighth and, after two strikeouts, Andruw 
Jones hit a three-run homer to cut the lead in half. But Brad Lidge would 
hold down the opposition in the ninth for the win. Minute Maid Park in 
Houston, Texas With their backs to the wall in Game 4, the Braves sent 
Russ Ortiz to the mound to face Roger Clemens. The Braves would get off 
to a good start with a two-run second inning thanks to three straight hits 
to open the inning. But the Astros would strike back against Ortiz. They 
would put two men on for the face of the Astros franchise, Craig Biggio. 
He would then hit a three-run homer to give the Astros a 4–2 lead. Then 
Carlos Beltrán would double and score to make it 5–2 Astros. Behind Clemens, 
the Astros were closing in on their first ever postseason series win. But 
Clemens left the game in favor of Chad Qualls. However, Qualls would surrender 
the lead when he gave up a three-run homer to Adam LaRoche to tie the game 
in the sixth. The game was now tied and the life was sucked out of the 
crowd. The game remained 5–5 until the ninth when the Braves would take 
the lead thanks to J.D. Drew's RBI single. But the Astros would put the 
winning run on for Jeff Kent. But John Smoltz would get Kent to ground 
into a double play to send the series back to Atlanta. Turner Field in 
Atlanta, Georgia Roy Oswalt took on Jaret Wright in the clinching Game 
5. In the top of the second, the Astros took a 2–0 lead on a groundout 
and a sac fly. Then Carlos Beltrán homered in the third to make it 3–0. 
But the Braves brought the game back to life with a pair of homers by Rafael 
Furcal and Johnny Estrada in the fifth. But Beltrán's second homer in the 
sixth made it 4–2. When Chris Reitsma took the mound in the seventh, the 
Astros were able to put the series away with a five-run explosion. The 
most notable hit was Jeff Bagwell's two-run homer. And in the eighth the 
Astros added insult to injury with three more runs, an inning capped by 
Beltrán's two-run single. Dan Wheeler would come on the shut the door on 
the Braves in the ninth. Chipper Jones's flyout to left gave the Astros 
the win in Game 5 and gave them their first ever postseason series win. 
After 43 years and multiple losses to the Braves in the playoffs, the Astros 
exorcised the demons and moved on to the NLCS. 2004 NLDS (3–2): Houston 
