The 2005 National League Championship Series (NLCS), the second round of 
the 2005 National League playoffs, matched the Central Division champion 
and defending league champion St. Louis Cardinals against the wild card 
qualifier Houston Astros, a rematch of the 2004 NLCS. The Cardinals, by 
virtue of having the best record in the NL during the 2005 season, had 
the home-field advantage. The Astros won the series four games to two, 
and became the National League champions; they faced the American League 
champion Chicago White Sox in the 2005 World Series. The Cardinals and 
Astros were victorious in the NL Division Series (NLDS), with the Cardinals 
defeating the West Division champion San Diego Padres three games to none, 
and the Astros defeating the East Division champion Atlanta Braves three 
games to one. St. Louis manager Tony La Russa, who won AL pennants with 
the Oakland Athletics in 1988–89–90 and the NL flag in 2004, fell short 
in his bid to become the first manager in history to win multiple pennants 
in both major leagues, although he did so in 2006 and again in 2011. The 
NLCS also closed with the last game ever played at St. Louis' Busch Stadium 
(II), which the Cardinals departed after 40 seasons. Houston won the series, 
4–2. Wednesday, October 12, 2005 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri 
The Cardinals struck first in Game 1 when David Eckstein hit a leadoff 
single in the first off of starter Andy Pettitte, who was struck by a batted 
ball during batting practice but made the start as scheduled, then Reggie 
Sanders's home run two outs later put them up 2−0. Mark Grudzielanek singled 
to lead off the second, moved to third on Abraham Nunez's single one out 
later, and scored on Chris Carpenter's sacrifice bunt. In the fifth, Nunez 
again hit a leadoff single, moved to second on a sacrifice bunt, and scored 
on Eckstein's single with Eckstein reaching second on right fielder Jason 
Lane's throw to home. One out later, Albert Pujols's RBI single made it 
5−0 Cardinals. Carpenter pitched six shutout innings before pinch hitter 
Chris Burke's two-run home run put the Astros on the board in the seventh. 
Brad Ausmus's sacrifice fly in the ninth off of Jason Isringhausen made 
it 5−3 Cardinals before pinch hitter Jose Vizcaino grounded out to end 
the game as the Cardinals went up 1−0 in the series. Thursday, October 
13, 2005 at Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri The Astros struck 
first in Game 1 when Chris Burke tripled with one out in the second and 
scored on a passed ball by starter Mark Mulder. In the fifth, Brad Ausmus 
hit a leadoff double, moved to third on Roy Oswalt's sacrifice bunt and 
scored on Craig Biggio's ground out. Albert Pujols's leadoff home run off 
of Oswalt in the sixth put the Cardinals on the board, but they would get 
nothing more. The Astros scored two insurance runs in the eighth off of 
Julian Tavarez on Chris Burke's RBI single that scored Lance Berkman from 
third. followed by Adam Everett's RBI triple. Brad Lidge pitched two shutout 
innings for the save as the Astros' 4−1 tied the series at 1−1 heading 
to Houston. Saturday, October 15, 2005 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, 
Texas In Game 3, Cardinals' starter Matt Morris pitched three shutout innings 
before walking Morgan Ensberg to lead off the fourth, then Mike Lamb's 
home run put the Astros up 2−0. In the fifth, Astros' Roger Clemens allowed 
back-to-back leadoff singles to Yadier Molina and Abraham Nunez. Morris's 
sacrifice bunt moved them up one base each before David Eckstein's sacrifice 
fly put the Cardinals on the board. Clemens again allowed back-to-back 
leadoff singles next inning to Albert Pujols and Jim Edmonds before Larry 
Walker's sacrifice fly tied the game. In the bottom of the inning, Lamb 
hit a one-out double and scored on Jason Lane's single. After Brad Ausmus 
singled, Brad Thompson relieved Morris and Adam Everett hit into a fielder's 
choice that allowed Lane to score to put the Astros up 4−2. Chad Qualls 
pitched two hitless innings before Brad Lidge retired the first two batters 
in the ninth before walking John Rodriguez, who moved to second on defensive 
indifference before scoring on John Mabry's double This is the first run 
Lidge allowed against the Cardinals since May 29, 2003, but held on for 
the save to give the Astros a 2–1 series lead. It was Clemens' twelfth 
career postseason win, fifth in League Championship Series games. Sunday, 
October 16, 2005 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas Brandon Backe provided 
a strong outing, and the Astro bullpen continued its strong performance. 
The Cardinals struck first in the fourth when David Eckstein drew a leadoff 
walk, moved to third on Jim Edmonds's double, and scored on Albert Pujols's 
sacrifice fly, but the Astros tied in the bottom of the inning on Jason 
Lane's home run off of Jeff Suppan. The Astros loaded the bases in the 
seventh off of Jason Marquis on two walks and an error when Morgan Ensberg's 
sacrifice fly put them up 2−1. Tony La Russa and Jim Edmonds were both 
ejected for arguing balls and strikes on separate instances—LaRussa in 
the bottom of the seventh, Edmonds in the top of the eighth, at a key moment. 
Edmonds's ejection came with a 3–2 count, two outs, and a runner on base. 
Edmonds was replaced by pinch hitter John Rodríguez, who flied out to deep 
center field to end the scoring threat. The Cardinals once again had an 
opportunity to tie the game or take the lead in the ninth inning against 
closer Brad Lidge. Albert Pujols and Larry Walker led off the inning with 
back-to-back singles, putting runners at first and third base with no outs. 
Reggie Sanders grounded to third; Pujols went home on contact and was thrown 
out at the plate. Larry Walker advanced to third when the Astros failed 
to call timeout after the play at the plate. John Mabry ended the threat 
by grounding into a double play. La Russa's ejection marked the first time 
a manager was ejected from a postseason game since 1998, when Mike Hargrove 
was thrown out of a game between his Cleveland Indians and the New York 
Yankees. Houston was one game away from the franchise's first visit to 
the World Series after a 2–1 Game 4 win. Monday, October 17, 2005 at Minute 
Maid Park in Houston, Texas The Astros struck first in Game 5 on Craig 
Biggio's RBI single in the second off of starter Chris Carpenter, but the 
Cardinals loaded the bases on two hits and a walk off of Andy Pettitte 
when Mark Grudzielanek's two-run single put them up 2–1. Lance Berkman 
gave excited Astros fans a 4–2 lead with one swing on a pitch from Carpenter 
in the bottom of the seventh inning. The Astros were one strike away from 
claiming their first NL Pennant and trip to the Fall Classic before David 
Eckstein singled with no one on base, Jim Edmonds walked, and Albert Pujols 
hit a dramatic, towering three-run home run off Astros closer Brad Lidge 
that bounced off the side of the closed Minute Maid Park roof before landing 
on the railroad tracks in left field. The home run gave the Cardinals a 
5–4 lead in the top of the ninth inning. Jason Isringhausen retired the 
Astros in order in the bottom of the inning. The Cardinals guaranteed that 
another game would be played at historic Busch Stadium (II). The win also 
broke the Cardinals' seven-game losing streak in road NLCS games. The game 
was eerily reminiscent of Game 5 of the 1986 ALCS between the California 
Angels and the Boston Red Sox. The Angels were one strike away from going 
to the franchise's first trip to the World Series in front of their home 
crowd when Dave Henderson hit a two-run home run off Angels closer Donnie 
Moore in a game the Red Sox went on to win in extra innings. The Red Sox 
won the final two games of the series in Boston to complete the comeback 
from a three games to one deficit. The Astros' lead was trimmed from two 
games to one in the series. Wednesday, October 19, 2005 at Busch Stadium 
(II) in St. Louis, Missouri The Astros shook off the effects of their Game 
5 loss, and rolled to win their first National League pennant in 44 seasons 
of existence with a decisive 5–1 win over the Cardinals. The Astros scored 
a run in the third when Cardinals' Mark Mulder threw a wild pitch to Craig 
Biggio with runners on second and third, then Biggio's RBI single scored 
another. Jason Lane's home run in the fourth put them up 3−0. Roy Oswalt 
pitched seven strong innings, allowing only a sacrifice fly to John Rodriguez 
in the fifth. The Astros scored one run in the sixth on Adam Everett's 
sacrifice bunt off of Jason Marquis and another in the seventh on Morgan 
Ensberg's RBI single off of Julian Tavarez. This was the final game at 
Busch Stadium (II). Roy Oswalt was named the series MVP. In two starts, 
he went 2–0 with a 1.29 ERA in fourteen innings. 2005 NLCS (4–2): Houston 
