The 2005 First-Year Player Draft, Major League Baseball's annual amateur 
draft, was held on June 7 and 8. It was conducted via conference call with 
representatives from each of the league's 30 teams. It is widely considered 
to be one of the best drafts in recent memory.[1] Source: Major League 
Baseball 2005 Official Draft Site The Diamondbacks used the top overall 
pick on high school shortstop Justin Upton and thus made him and older 
brother, B.J., the highest selected pair of brothers in the history of 
the draft. The Devil Rays selected B.J. with the second overall pick of 
the 2002 draft. With the fourth overall pick, the Nationals chose one of 
Upton's AAU teammates, third baseman Ryan Zimmerman of the University of 
Virginia. Zimmerman and B.J. Upton played in the same AAU infield as New 
York Mets third baseman David Wright in their youth. College third basemen 
accounted for three of the top five selections. A total of 13 pitchers 
went in the first round, 10 of whom came from the college ranks. Rice pitcher 
Wade Townsend was the eighth overall pick in the first round for the second 
straight year. After failing to reach terms with the Orioles last year, 
Townsend re-entered the draft pool and was selected by Tampa Bay. Stanford 
outfielder John Mayberry, the son of the longtime Major League first baseman 
of the same name, was drafted by the Rangers with the 19th overall pick.[2] 
Three 2005 first-round draft choices saw action before the conclusion of 
the Major League season. Atlanta's Joey Devine became the first Brave since 
Bob Horner in 1978 to appear in the Majors the same year he was drafted. 
Devine joined Ariel Prieto (OAK-1995), Chad Cordero (MON-2003) and Ryan 
Wagner (CIN-2003) as the only draftees of the last 15 years to reach the 
Majors before September 1 the same year. Zimmerman and Boston's Craig Hansen 
joined their Major League clubs in September 2005. Ryan Braun was the first 
2005 draftee to be selected to an All-Star Game. He was voted in as a starter 
in 2008. Jacoby Ellsbury and Clay Buchholz were the first 2005 draftees 
to win a World Series championship, although Buchholz, drafted in the supplemental 
first round, was never on the 2007 Red Sox postseason roster. Matt Garza 
