The 2005 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 76th playing of the 
midseason exhibition baseball game between the all-stars of the American 
League (AL) and National League (NL), the two leagues comprising Major 
League Baseball. The game was held on July 12, 2005 at Comerica Park in 
Detroit, Michigan, the home of the Detroit Tigers of the American League. 
The game resulted in the American League defeating the National League 
7–5, thus awarding an AL team (which eventually came to be the Chicago 
White Sox) home-field advantage in the 2005 World Series. The game was 
when Rawlings first previewed the Coolflo batting helmets. Players in italics 
have since been inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. Notes 
National League: Tony LaRussa American League: Terry Francona Before the 
game, a superchoir consisting of three choirs from Windsor, Ontario, sang 
"O Canada", the Canadian National Anthem. Then, a moment of silence for 
the victims of the July 7 London bombings, which took place a few days 
before the game, followed by the Detroit Symphony Orchestra Brass Players' 
performance of "God Save the Queen", the national anthem of the United 
Kingdom. Brian McKnight sang The Star-Spangled Banner, the U.S. National 
Anthem. The colors presentation was by the Camp Grayling color guard, accompanied 
by University of Toledo ROTC officers who presented the flags in the outfield. 
In the first inning, starters Mark Buehrle and Chris Carpenter each induced 
a double play, from Carlos Beltran and Manny Ramírez respectively, to end 
early threats. The American League would score in the bottom of the second, 
when the game's MVP, Miguel Tejada, crushed a solo shot off John Smoltz 
to give the AL a 1–0 lead. The AL would score two more in the third, on 
the strength of a David Ortiz RBI single, and an RBI groundout by Tejada, 
his second RBI in as many innings. The NL wasted a scoring opportunity 
in the top of the fourth, when with two runners on, Aramis Ramirez grounded 
into a double play to end that threat. In the bottom of that inning, Ichiro 
Suzuki hit a broken-bat, bloop single to score two, but was then picked 
off first base by Liván Hernández. Then, in the bottom of the sixth, Mark 
Teixeira, a switch-hitter, hit an opposite field, two-run homer off Dontrelle 
Willis, his first home run off a left-hander that season, opening the AL's 
lead to 7–0. During the seventh-inning stretch, Brian McKnight sang God 
Bless America. The NL finally got on the board in the next inning, when 
Andruw Jones launched a two-run shot just inside the foul pole off Kenny 
Rogers to close the NL to within five. They scored another run in the eighth, 
when Moisés Alou scored on an RBI forceout by Miguel Cabrera. In the top 
of the ninth, Luis Gonzalez scored Andruw Jones with a double off of Baltimore 
closer B.J. Ryan, and then scored himself on an RBI groundout by Carlos 
Lee. Mariano Rivera then came on to stop the NL's potential rally. Rivera 
struck out Morgan Ensberg to end the threat, and the game, securing a 7–5 
win for the AL. Hall-of-Fame Al Kaline joined the ceremonial first pitch 
ceremonies. In this event, the eight competitors each came from a different 
nation. This format dovetailed with the announcement of the launch of the 
