The 2005 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2005 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 4, and ended on 
Sunday, October 9, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They were: 
The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which was 
determined by playing record. Although the team with the best record was 
normally intended to play the wild card team, the Cardinals played the 
Padres, rather than the wild card Astros, because the Cardinals and Astros 
are in the same division. The Cardinals and Astros went on to meet in the 
NL Championship Series (NLCS). The Astros became the National League champion, 
and lost to the American League champion Chicago White Sox in the 2005 
World Series. St. Louis won the series, 3–0. Houston won the series, 3–1. 
Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri It was a matchup between Jake 
Peavy and eventual 2005 Cy Young Award winner Chris Carpenter. In the bottom 
of the first, Jim Edmonds's one-out solo homer put the Cardinals up 1–0. 
Then in the bottom of the third, Peavy's control slipped away as a wild 
pitch and a two-run single by Reggie Sanders gave the Cards a 4–0 lead. 
But Sanders would provide more offense with a grand slam in the fifth. 
That would make the score 8–0 and give Sanders six RBIs in the game. The 
Padres would not go quietly though. They would scratch out a run in the 
seventh on a sac fly, then one more on a solo homer by Eric Young in the 
eighth. After the Padres put runners on the corners in the ninth, Jason 
Isringhausen came on to close the deal. But four consecutive hits with 
two outs would make the score 8–5 and would load the bases with the go-ahead 
run at the plate. Ramón Hernández would not deliver as he would strike 
out to end the game. Busch Stadium (II) in St. Louis, Missouri Pedro Astacio 
faced Mark Mulder in Game 2. The game remained scoreless until the bottom 
of the third when an error by Khalil Greene allowed the Cardinals to plate 
two unearned runs, the last one a bases-loaded walk. A fielder's choice 
and a squeeze play by David Eckstein made it 4–0 Cardinals in the fourth. 
But the Padres were not done. In the top of the seventh, a double and two 
singles made it 4–1 and put the tying run at the plate. But a double play 
killed the rally and the Padres would only get one. Reggie Sanders would 
get two more RBIs with a two-run double in the bottom half of the inning. 
A bases-loaded hit-by-pitch to Xavier Nady made it 6–2, but the Padres 
would squander the chance to tie the game. The Cards would go on to win 
6–2. PETCO Park in San Diego, California This was the first postseason 
game in PETCO Park history, which had opened the previous year. Matt Morris 
faced former Cardinals pitcher Woody Williams. Albert Pujols drove in David 
Eckstein with an RBI double in the top of the first. Then Eckstein would 
provide significant pop with his bat when he hit a two-run homer in the 
second to make it 3–0. But the Cards wouldn't stop there as Reggie Sanders 
would collect two more RBIs on a two-run double to make it 5–0 later in 
the inning. That would bring Sanders' RBI total to ten for the series. 
Then Yadier Molina's two-run single silenced the crowd in the top of the 
fifth. That made it 7–0 Cardinals. All hope seemed lost for the Padres 
but a one-out double in the bottom half of the fifth started a two-run 
rally that made it 7–2. Then Dave Roberts's solo homer in the seventh put 
the Padres within striking distance. Another solo home run in the eighth 
by Ramón Hernández made it 7–4. Jason Isringhausen would come on to slam 
the door on the Padres. Ryan Klesko's groundout ended the series. 2005 
NLDS (3–0): St. Louis Cardinals over San Diego Padres Turner Field in Atlanta, 
Georgia Andy Pettitte faced Tim Hudson in Game 1. Hudson would struggle 
in his half of the first, giving up one run, but would get out of the inning 
with a crucial double play. Pettitte would allow a solo homer to Chipper 
Jones to tie the game but he would otherwise cruise. The game remained 
1–1 until the third when a two-run single by Morgan Ensberg made it 3–1 
Astros. Hudson would load the bases but survive once again. In the Braves' 
fourth, Andruw Jones would hit a two-run homer to make it a one-run game. 
A walk and a bunt single put the tying run in scoring position later in 
the inning but Brian Jordan would ground into a double play to end the 
rally. Pettitte would help his own cause in the seventh with the game still 
at 4–3. He would double and later score on an RBI hit by Ensberg. It was 
now 5–3 and Hudson was finished. In the eighth, with Chris Reitsma pitching, 
the Astros would open the floodgates with a five-run rally. The lack of 
a steady bullpen cost the Braves dearly as the score was now 10–3 and all 
hope of a Game 1 victory was gone. The Braves would get a run in the eighth 
and ninth but would lose decisively 10–5. Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia 
Roger Clemens faced John Smoltz in Game 2. Smoltz ran into trouble when 
he allowed two consecutive singles with one out. After a forceout, Jason 
Lane singled in Lance Berkman to make it 1–0 Astros. He would intentionally 
load the bases but get out of the inning with no more damage done. Then 
the Braves struck back against Clemens. With two outs and two men on, Brian 
McCann came up in his first ever postseason at-bat. He then slammed a three-run 
homer to right field. He became the first Brave ever to homer in his first 
postseason at-bat. That sparked the Braves as they would go on to score 
two more in the third on a two-run double by Adam LaRoche. Smoltz pitched 
masterfully and the Braves would add two more for insurance in the seventh. 
The Braves' victory in Game 2 was their last postseason win until 2010. 
Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas Jorge Sosa faced Roy Oswalt in Game 
3. Sosa would fall behind early when a double and a sac fly gave the Astros 
two runs in the first. But the Braves would tie the game in the next inning 
with back-to-back two out RBI singles by Brian McCann and Sosa. But Mike 
Lamb would hit the go-ahead solo homer in the bottom of the third. The 
two pitchers would duel until the bottom of the seventh when Chris Reitsma 
once again came into a close game. But Reitsma would allow two straight 
hits and the Braves' bullpen could do little to stop the Astros' rally. 
They would strike for four runs and Reitsma once again put a close game 
out of reach. The Braves would scratch out a run in the eighth thanks to 
an RBI double by Andruw Jones but they would get no more. The Astros would 
go on to win Game 3, 7–3. Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas The final 
game of the series lasted eighteen innings and set records as the longest 
game in the history of Major League Baseball's postseason, both in terms 
of time and number of innings. This record was broken by Game 2 of the 
2014 NLDS between the San Francisco Giants and Washington Nationals. Coincidentally 
enough Tim Hudson started both games, in this game as a Brave and the 2014 
game as a Giants. Additionally, Adam LaRoche was on the losing team in 
both games. Although the Braves started out with an early lead and were 
even ahead 6–1 in the eighth, a grand slam by Lance Berkman in the eighth 
off Kyle Farnsworth and a solo home run by Brad Ausmus in the ninth (with 
the Astros down to their last out) sent the game to extra innings. The 
second half of the game included three innings of relief by Roger Clemens, 
appearing as a pinch-hitter in the fifteenth inning and pitching in relief 
for only the second time in his career (and appearing this time only because 
the Astros were out of pitchers). Chris Burke hit the game-ending home 
run in the bottom of the eighteenth off Atlanta rookie Joey Devine, giving 
Houston the series victory and sending them to the NLCS to face the St. 
Louis Cardinals. In addition to being at the time the longest postseason 
game in MLB history, it was also the only postseason game to include two 
grand slams, Lance Berkman's and Adam LaRoche's. Some commentators have 
pointed to this game as the greatest game in Houston Astros history, and 
one of the best games in the history of MLB playoffs.[8][9][10] Even more 
remarkable than the game's length, perhaps, is the fact that the fan who 
caught Chris Burke's walk-off homer in the eighteenth was the same fan 
who had caught Lance Berkman's grand slam in the eighth (Section 102, Row 
2, Seat 15); the fan later donated both balls to the Baseball Hall of Fame.[11] 
2005 NLDS (3–1): Houston Astros over Atlanta Braves Swing and a drive to 
left field... way back... this one is GOOOONE!... The Astros win it... 
It's Chris Burke with a late-inning walk-off home run to give Roger Clemens 
the win and send the Astros to their second straight NLCS in eighteen innings.. 
Houston pulls it out to go back to the League Championship for the second 
straight year! And the pitch. Swinging...lining it to left and IT'S GOOONNNEE, 
IT'S GOOONNNEE, IT'S GOOONNNEE!!! CHRIS BURKE!!! HOLY TOLEDO, WHAT A WAY 
