Coming into the year, the 2005 Minnesota Twins were favored to go on and 
win their division. However, a weak offense and injuries (most notably 
to Torii Hunter) prevented this from coming to fruition. This led manager 
Ron Gardenhire to reshuffle his coaching staff following the season. The 
team finished sixteen games behind the World Champion Chicago White Sox. 
The Twins have never won four straight division titles in their 104-year 
franchise history. The Twins got off to an average start. However, the 
Chicago White Sox had a fantastic start to the season. The Twins tried 
to stay close in the standings, but their offense was insufficient. The 
Twins (83-79) finished in 3rd place behind the Chicago White Sox and the 
Cleveland Indians, and missed the playoffs for the first time since 2001. 
The White Sox went on to earn the division title, their first trip to the 
playoffs since 2000, and their first World Series title since 1917. [1] 
[2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Coaches 
Australian Glenn Williams came up for his cup of coffee and played in thirteen 
games from June 7 to June 28. He hit safely in every game, earning the 
Twins record for the longest hitting streak to start a career. When he 
was sent back down, he took with him 17 hits and a .425 batting average. 
He'd never return to the major leagues, but is working on an active 13-game 
hitting streak... Joe Mauer led the team with a .294 batting average, Justin 
Morneau led the team in runs batted in with 79, but Mauer hit only 9 home 
runs and 55 RBI, while Morneau hit only .239. These problems were endemic 
to the team. No starter batted over .300 or hit over 25 home runs; however, 
Matthew LeCroy managed to hit 17 home runs in part-time duty. The team's 
offensive struggles led to an uncertain lineup, with many defensive positions 
lacking regular starters. The team experimented by bringing in Seattle 
Mariners infielder Bret Boone to fill the void at second base, but he lasted 
for only 53 at-bats, hitting .170. The weak hitting led to hitting coach 
Scott Ullger being reassigned to third base coach after the season was 
over. Twins pitchers performed well in 2005. The staff was led by All-Star 
Johan Santana (16-7, 2.87 ERA, 238 strikeouts) and All-Star closer Joe 
Nathan (43 saves, 2.70 ERA). However, the weak hitting prevented any other 
starter from winning ten games. (Jesse Crain, in a stellar year out of 
the bullpen, did go 12-5.) The anemic offense also may have cost Santana 
a second Cy Young Award[citation needed], as he finished with only sixteen 
victories. The top end of the rotation—Santana, Brad Radke, Kyle Lohse, 
and Carlos Silva—pitched well. Many bullpen pitchers had outstanding years, 
in particular Crain, Juan Rincón (2.45 ERA), J. C. Romero (3.47), and Matt 
Guerrier (3.39). Silva in particular had what seemed to be a breakout year, 
walking only nine batters during the entire season to set a modern-era 
record (over 188.1 innings, a 0.43 rate). Silva induced 34 double plays 
to lead the majors, and won the May 20 game throwing just 74 pitches over 
nine innings. No pitcher has thrown as few pitches in a nine-inning win 
since 1957. In early May, the pitching staff was shaken when Major League 
Baseball announced that Juan Rincón would be suspended for ten days for 
violating the sport's policy on performance-enhancing drugs. Rincón pitched 
well both before and after this occurred. Like his predecessor Tom Kelly, 
Gardenhire emphasized baseball fundamentals like defense. Despite Hunter's 
injury, he still won a Gold Glove in center field. Joe Mauer established 
a reputation as an outstanding defensive catcher, with a .993 fielding 
percentage. Morneau, not known for his defense, surprised many with a .994 
average at first. Luis Rivas was a solid defensive second baseman, but 
his offensive shortcomings became too much to bear, leading the team to 
experiment with Boone and Nick Punto at the position. In contrast to Rivas, 
Michael Cuddyer saw a majority of the time at third base. Jason Bartlett 
and Juan Castro split time at shortstop, with Castro being the superior 
defensive player. Shannon Stewart and Jacque Jones both had .985 fielding 
percentages in the corner outfield positions. Lew Ford saw time at all 
