The St. Louis Cardinals 2005 season was the team's 124th season in St. 
Louis, Missouri and the 114th season in the National League. The Cardinals 
went 100-62 during the season and won the National League Central division 
by 11 games over the NL Wild-Card Champion and eventual NL Champion Houston 
Astros. In the playoffs the Cardinals swept the San Diego Padres 3 games 
to 0 in the NLDS. However, the Cardinals lost to the Astros 4 games to 
2 in the NLCS. The season was the last one played in Busch Memorial Stadium 
by the Cardinals and they moved to the new Busch Stadium the next year. 
The Cardinals also moved their radio broadcasts from KMOX after a 55-year 
affiliation to KTRS after the season. After the 2010 season, the Cardinals 
would move their radio broadcasts from KTRS back to KMOX, starting in 2011. 
First baseman Albert Pujols won the MVP Award this year, batting .330, 
with 41 home runs and 117 RBIs. Chris Carpenter won the Cy Young Award 
this year, with a 2.83 ERA, 21 wins, and 213 strikeouts. Outfielder Jim 
Edmonds won a Gold Glove this year. On August 4, the Cardinals announced 
that they had bought a 50% share of KTRS 550 AM and was leaving the longtime 
flagship station KMOX 1120 AM after 52 years and transferring the games 
to KTRS in 2006. The Cardinals clinched their fifth National League Central 
division title in six years on September 17 when they beat the Cubs 5-1. 
The final regular season game at Busch Memorial Stadium took place on October 
2, a 7-5 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. Rookie Chris Duncan hit the 
final regular season home run at that version of Busch Stadium. Infielders 
Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In St. Louis wins series, 3-0. 
Down to their last out and strike and facing elimination in game 5 of the 
2005 National League Championship Series, David Eckstein hit a single in 
the hole on the left side off of the Astros' Brad Lidge to bring the tying 
run to the plate. The next batter, Jim Edmonds, worked a base on balls. 
Albert Pujols followed with a 412-foot home run onto the train tracks behind 
left field (had the game been played with the roof open, the drive would 
have exited Minute Maid Park, as it first hit off the glass wall which 
forms part of the roof),[citation needed] to put the Cardinals ahead 5–4. 
The roar of the crowd, anticipating the end of the game that would signal 
the Astros' entrance into the World Series, was hushed as they watched 
Pujols' home run (one of the announcers described it as a "vacuum" from 
the sudden intake of air by the crowd). Houston was then shut down in the 
bottom of the 9th by the Cardinals' closer Jason Isringhausen to preserve 
the win, guaranteeing at least one more game at old Busch Stadium. However, 
the Astros dominated Game 6, shutting the Cardinals down 5–1 for their 
first berth in the World Series in franchise history. (HOU-STL) Houston 
wins the National League Championship and advance to the 2005 World Series 
