The 2005 World Series was the 101st edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series, a best-of-seven playoff between the American League 
(AL) champions Chicago White Sox and the National League (NL) champions 
Houston Astros.[1] The White Sox swept the Astros four games to none in 
the series, winning their third World Series championship and their first 
in 88 seasons. Despite the series being a sweep, all four games were quite 
close, with two games decided by one run each and the other two games by 
two runs each. Home-field advantage was awarded to Chicago by virtue of 
the American League's 7–5 victory over the National League in the Major 
League Baseball All-Star Game. The Astros were attempting to become the 
fourth consecutive wild card team to win the Series, following the Anaheim 
Angels (2002), Florida Marlins (2003) and Boston Red Sox (2004). Both teams 
were attempting to overcome decades of disappointment, with a combined 
132 years between the two teams without a title. The Astros were making 
their first Series appearance in 44 years of play, while the White Sox 
had waited exactly twice as long for a title, having last won the Series 
in 1917, and had not been in the Series since 1959, three years before 
the Astros' inaugural season. Like the 1982 World Series between the St. 
Louis Cardinals and the Milwaukee Brewers, the 2005 World Series is one 
of only two World Series in the modern era (1903–present) with no possibility 
for a rematch between the two opponents, due to the Astros moving to the 
American League in 2013. However, the Brewers did meet the Cardinals in 
the 2011 National League Championship Series. The Chicago White Sox finished 
the regular season with the best record in the American League at 99–63. 
After starting the season on a tear, the White Sox began to fade in August, 
when a 15 1⁄2 game lead fell all the way to 1 1⁄2. However, the Sox were 
able to hold off the Cleveland Indians to win the American League Central 
Division by six games, sweeping Cleveland in three games on the season's 
final weekend. In the Division Series, the White Sox swept the defending 
champion Boston Red Sox. The League Championship Series began with the 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim winning Game 1, but a controversial uncaught 
third strike in Game 2 helped the Sox start a run and win Games 2–5, all 
on complete games pitched by starters Mark Buehrle, Jon Garland, Freddy 
García, and José Contreras, clinching their first American League pennant 
in 46 years. Manager Ozzie Guillén then led the White Sox to a World Series 
victory, their first in 88 years. Slugger Frank Thomas was not on the post-season 
roster due to injury, but the team honored his perennial contributions 
to the franchise during Game 1 of the Division Series against the Boston 
Red Sox when he was chosen to throw out the ceremonial first pitch. "What 
a feeling", Thomas said. "Standing O all around the place. People really 
cheering me. I had tears in my eyes. To really know the fans cared that 
much about me – it was a great feeling. One of my proudest moments in the 
game."[2] The Houston Astros won the Wild Card for the second straight 
year, once again clinching it on the final day of the season. The Astros 
embarked on a memorable Division Series rematch against the Atlanta Braves. 
With the Astros in the lead two games to one, the teams played an eighteen-inning 
marathon in Game 4, which was the longest (in both time and innings played) 
postseason game in history. In this game, Roger Clemens made only the second 
relief appearance of his career, and the first in postseason play. Chris 
Burke's walk-off home run ended the game in the bottom of the eighteenth. 
For the second straight year, the Astros played the St. Louis Cardinals 
in the League Championship Series. Like the White Sox, the Astros dropped 
Game 1, but were able to regroup and win Games 2–4. With the Astros on 
the verge of clinching their first ever National League pennant in Game 
5, Albert Pujols hit a mammoth three-run home run off Brad Lidge in the 
top of the ninth inning to take the lead, and subsequently stave off elimination. 
However, behind NLCS MVP Roy Oswalt, the Astros were able to defeat the 
Cards 5-1 in Game 6 and earned a trip to the World Series. This was the 
Astros' first World Series appearance in franchise history. Playing in 
their first World Series home game since 1959, the White Sox took an early 
lead with a home run from Jermaine Dye in the first inning. The Sox scored 
two more in the second when Juan Uribe doubled in A. J. Pierzynski after 
Carl Everett had already scored on a ground-out earlier in the inning. 
The Astros responded in the next inning when Lance Berkman hit a double, 
driving in Adam Everett and Craig Biggio. In the White Sox half of the 
fourth, Joe Crede hit what turned out to be the game-winning home run. 
In the bottom of the eighth, Scott Podsednik hit a triple with Pierzynski 
on second. Roger Clemens recorded his shortest World Series start, leaving 
after the second inning with 53 pitches including 35 for strikes, due to 
a sore hamstring that he had previously injured (and caused him to miss 
his last regular season start) as the loss went to Wandy Rodríguez. José 
Contreras pitched seven innings, allowing three runs on six hits for the 
win. Before exiting, Contreras allowed a leadoff double by Willie Taveras 
with no outs. Neal Cotts entered the game in the top of the eighth inning. 
It marked the first time in five games that the White Sox had gone to their 
bullpen. Cotts pitched  2⁄3 innings before Bobby Jenks was called upon 
by manager Ozzie Guillén to relieve him. Ozzie signaled for the large pitcher 
by holding his arms out wide and then up high. In the post game conference 
Ozzie joked about the signal by saying he wanted to be clear he was asking 
for "The Big Boy". Bobby Jenks returned in the ninth to earn the save to 
give the White Sox a 1–0 lead in the series. On a miserably cold (51 °F 
(11 °C)) and rainy evening, Morgan Ensberg's first-pitch home run off starter 
Mark Buehrle put the Astros on top in the second inning. The White Sox 
answered in the bottom of the second with two runs off Andy Pettitte. Lance 
Berkman drove in three runs, two on a go-ahead double in the fifth. In 
the seventh, Dan Wheeler loaded the bases with a double by Juan Uribe, 
a walk to Tadahito Iguchi, and plate umpire Jeff Nelson's ruling that Jermaine 
Dye was hit by a pitched ball. The Astros brought in Chad Qualls, who promptly 
served up a grand slam to Paul Konerko on his first pitch, the 18th grand 
slam in the annals of the Fall Classic. In the top of the ninth, Sox closer 
Bobby Jenks blew the save on a game-tying pinch-hit single by José Vizcaíno. 
In the bottom of the ninth, Astros closer Brad Lidge gave up a one-out, 
walk-off home run—the 14th in Series history—to Scott Podsednik, giving 
Lidge his second loss in as many post-season appearances (his previous 
appearance was in Game 5 of 2005 National League Championship Series). 
Podsednik had not hit a single homer in the regular season, but this was 
his second of the post-season. This was the second time in World Series 
history where a grand slam and a walk-off home run were hit in the same 
game. The Oakland A's Jose Canseco (grand slam) and the Los Angeles Dodgers' 
Kirk Gibson (walk-off) in Game 1 of the 1988 World Series were the first 
to do it. Never before had a World Series grand slam and a World Series 
walk-off home run been hit by the same team in the same game. Game 3 was 
the first World Series game played in the state of Texas. Before the game, 
it was ruled by Commissioner Bud Selig that the retractable roof would 
be open at Minute Maid Park, weather permitting. The Astros objected, citing 
that their record in games with the roof closed was better than with the 
retractable roof open. Selig's office claimed that the ruling was based 
on the rules established by Houston and were consistent with how the Astros 
organization treated the situation all year long, as well as the weather 
forecasts for that period of time. The game would become the longest World 
Series game in length of time (5 hours and 41 minutes) and tied for the 
longest in number of innings (14, tied with Game 2 of the 1916 World Series 
and Game 1 of the 2015 World Series). Houston struck early on a Lance Berkman 
single after a Craig Biggio lead-off double in the bottom of the first. 
The White Sox had a rally snuffed in the second inning; after Paul Konerko 
hit a lead-off double and A. J. Pierzynski walked, Aaron Rowand hit into 
a line-drive double play. Adam Everett caught the ball and then doubled 
Konerko off second by flipping the ball to Biggio, who stepped on the bag. 
Houston scored in the bottom of the third when Everett led off with a walk. 
Everett got caught in a rundown and got hit by the ball on a Juan Uribe 
throwing error that hit Everett. A Roy Oswalt sacrifice bunt and a Biggio 
single sent Everett home. Berkman singled again with two out, sending Biggio 
to third. Then Morgan Ensberg singled Biggio home for the third run of 
the game. Jason Lane led off the Astros' fourth with a home run to left-center 
field. It was later shown in replays that the ball should not have been 
ruled a home run, hitting the left side of the yellow line on the unusual 
wall in left-center field. The White Sox rallied in the top of the fifth, 
true to their "Win Or Die Trying" mantra of 2005, starting with a Joe Crede 
lead-off homer. Uribe, on first after hitting a single, scored on a Tadahito 
Iguchi base hit with one out, followed by Scott Podsednik coming home on 
a single by Jermaine Dye. Pierzynski hit a two-out double to Tal's Hill, 
driving in two runs, scoring Iguchi and Dye giving the White Sox the lead. 
The Astros rallied in the last of the eighth with two outs when Lane's 
double scored Ensberg with the tying run after back-to-back walks by Ensberg 
and Mike Lamb, giving Dustin Hermanson a blown save. Houston tried to rally 
to win in the ninth, but stranded Chris Burke at third, after he had walked, 
reached second on an error and stolen third. The Astros tried again in 
the 10th as well as in the 11th, but failed each time. In the top of the 
14th, after the Sox hit into a spectacular double play started by Ensberg, 
Geoff Blum (a former Astro) homered to right with two outs off Ezequiel 
Astacio. After two infield singles by Rowand and Crede that went a total 
of 150 feet according to Tim McCarver, Uribe and Chris Widger walked thanks 
to Astacio's sudden wildness. The Astros then tried to rally with the tying 
runs on first and third and two outs after a Uribe error, but Game 2 starter 
Mark Buehrle earned the save for winning pitcher Dámaso Marte when Everett 
popped out, bringing the White Sox one game closer to their first championship 
in 88 years. Buehrle became the first pitcher to start a game in the Series 
and save the next one since Bob Turley of the Yankees in the 1958 World 
Series. Many records were set or tied besides time and innings: The teams 
combined to use 17 pitchers (nine for the White Sox, eight for the Astros), 
throwing a total of 482 pitches, and walking 21 batters (a dozen by Chicago, 
nine by Houston); 43 players were used (the White Sox used 22 and the Astros 
used 21), and 30 men were left on base (15 for each team), all new high-water 
marks in Fall Classic history. Scott Podsednik set a new all-time record 
with eight official at-bats in this game. One tied record was total double 
plays, with six (four by the Astros, two by the White Sox). Before the 
game, Major League Baseball unveiled its Latino Legends Team. The fourth 
game was the pitchers' duel that had been promised throughout the series. 
Both Houston starter Brandon Backe and Chicago starter Freddy García put 
zeros on the scoreboard through seven innings, the longest since Game 7 
of the 1991 World Series. Scott Podsednik had a two-out triple in the top 
of the third, but Tadahito Iguchi grounded out to second, thus snuffing 
that threat. The Astros had the best chance of scoring in the sixth, but 
Jason Lane struck out with the bases loaded to end that rally. The White 
Sox had a chance in the top of the seventh with runners at second and third 
and two out, but shortstop Juan Uribe struck out to snuff the rally. The 
White Sox were able to break through in the next inning against embattled 
Houston closer Brad Lidge. Willie Harris hit a pinch-hit single. Podsednik 
moved Harris to second with a sacrifice bunt. Carl Everett pinch-hit for 
Iguchi and grounded out to the right side to allow Harris to move over 
to third. Jermaine Dye, the Most Valuable Player of the series, had the 
game-winning single, driving in Harris. Things got a little sticky for 
the Sox in the Astros half of the eighth when reliever Cliff Politte hit 
Willy Taveras, threw a wild pitch, sending Taveras to second, and walked 
Lance Berkman. After Morgan Ensberg flew out to center, the White Sox manager 
Ozzie Guillén brought in Neal Cotts to finish the inning. Cotts induced 
pinch-hitter José Vizcaíno into a ground out to Uribe. Bobby Jenks, the 
24-year-old fireballer, started the ninth inning. He allowed a single to 
Jason Lane and a sacrifice bunt to Brad Ausmus. Chris Burke came in to 
pinch-hit; he fouled one off to the left side, but Uribe made an amazing 
catch in the stands to retire Burke.[3] The game ended when Orlando Palmeiro 
grounded to Uribe. It was a bang-bang play as Paul Konerko caught the ball 
from Uribe at 11:01 pm CDT to begin the biggest celebration in Chicago 
since the sixth NBA championship by the Bulls, co-owned with the White 
Sox, in 1998. As a result, Jerry Reinsdorf, owner of both teams, had won 
seven championships overall. The last two Series games technically ended 
on the same day, Game 3 having concluded after midnight, Houston time. 
The 1–0 shutout was the first game with a total of one run scored to end 
a World Series since the 1995 World Series, in which Game 6 was won by 
the Atlanta Braves over the Cleveland Indians, and the first 1–0 game in 
any Series game since Game 5 of the 1996 World Series when the New York 
Yankees shut out the Braves in the last game ever played at Atlanta Fulton 
County Stadium. This was the second consecutive World Series to be won 
by a team that has the word "Sox" in its nickname, after the Boston Red 
Sox won the 2004 World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals. This also 
happened in 1917 and 1918. Furthermore, it was the second year in a row 
in which the Series champions broke a long-lived "curse." In one of those 
ways that patterns appear to emerge in sporting events, the White Sox World 
Series win in 2005, along with the Boston Red Sox win in 2004, symmetrically 
bookended the two teams' previous World Series winners and the long gaps 
between, with the Red Sox and White Sox last Series wins having come in 
1918 and 1917, respectively.[4] AL Chicago White Sox (4) vs. NL Houston 
Astros (0) 2005 World Series (4–0): Chicago White Sox (A.L.) over Houston 
Astros (N.L.) As per their contract, Fox Sports carried the World Series 
on United States television. Joe Buck provided play-by-play for his eighth 
World Series while analyst Tim McCarver worked his sixteenth. ESPN Radio 
was the nationwide radio broadcaster, as it had been since 1998. Jon Miller 
and Joe Morgan provided the play-by-play and analysis. Locally, KTRH-AM 
and WMVP were the primary carriers for the World Series in the Houston 
and Chicago markets. For KTRH long time Astros voice Milo Hamilton provided 
play-by-play while John Rooney called the games for the White Sox. Game 
4 was Rooney's last call after seventeen years as the radio voice of the 
White Sox, as he left to take the same position with the St. Louis Cardinals. 
The Cardinals proceeded to win the 2006 World Series, making Rooney the 
first home announcer to call back-to-back World Series wins for two different 
teams. That the teams were in two different leagues makes the feat even 
more unusual. The ratings for the 2005 World Series were, at the time, 
considered weak, but today, they are considered decent. With an overall 
average of 11.1, 2005 set a record for the lowest rated World Series of 
all-time. The prior lowest was 11.9, set by the 2002 World Series between 
the San Francisco Giants and the Anaheim Angels. (Importantly, this series 
went 7 games, and the 2005 Series went 4.) Following the 2005 World Series, 
however, every subsequent Series through 2013 except for 2009 produced 
lower ratings. The record-low 2012 World Series, another four-game sweep, 
averaged 7.6 (3.5 points lower than 2005's rating) and 12.7 viewers (4.4 
million fewer viewers than 2005).[10] Neither team advanced to the post-season 
in 2006, but the 2006 World Series again featured teams from the American 
League Central and National League Central divisions, this time represented 
by the Detroit Tigers and the St. Louis Cardinals, respectively. The Cardinals 
won the World Series in five games, in which manager Tony La Russa became 
the second manager to win the World Series in both American and National 
leagues, previously managing the Oakland Athletics to the 1989 World Series 
championship. Both the White Sox and the Astros were in the Wild Card race 
until the final weeks of the season, with the White Sox finishing with 
90 wins, the Astros with 82 wins. The White Sox made their first post-2005 
playoff appearance in 2008, while the Astros would not return to the postseason 
until 2015, their third season as an American League team. This was the 
city of Chicago's first professional sports championship since the Chicago 
Fire won MLS Cup '98 (which came four months after the Chicago Bulls' sixth 
NBA championship that year). The next major Chicago sports championship 
came in 2010, when the NHL's Chicago Blackhawks ended a 49-year Stanley 
Cup title drought. The White Sox' crosstown rival Cubs then ended a 108-year 
championship drought with a victory in the 2016 World Series, their first 
since 1908. With the Chicago Bears' win in Super Bowl XX, all Chicago sports 
