The 2005 Chicago White Sox season was the White Sox's 105th season. They 
finished with a 99–63 record in the regular season and first place in the 
American League Central division by six games over the Cleveland Indians. 
In the playoffs, they won the American League Division Series 3–0 over 
the Boston Red Sox, the American League Championship Series 4–1 over the 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and the World Series 4–0 over the Houston 
Astros, ending an 88-year championship drought. The Chicago White Sox had 
a total attendance of 2,342,833 in 2005, 7th in the American League. Everything 
that happened in 2005 was under the direction of manager Ozzie Guillén. 
After his inaugural season in 2004, in which his club went 83-79 and finished 
second in the American League Central Division, Guillén approached General 
Manager Kenny Williams. He asked Williams for a makeover for his club.[8] 
Guillén envisioned his team playing small ball. Williams agreed with Guillén. 
The Sox already had a feisty manager, solid pitching, and power hitters. 
The Sox decided to clean up a bit and bring in players with the team first 
attitude. Guillén wanted more speed, so Scott Podsednik was brought in 
to be the leadoff hitter and to create havoc for opposing pitchers. Guillén 
wanted pitching, so Williams got Freddy García, Orlando "El Duque" Hernández, 
Luis Vizcaíno, Dustin Hermanson, and in July, hard throwing closer Bobby 
Jenks was brought up. Another important factor to Guillén's new plan was 
to have guys who put the team ahead of personal accomplishments. Jermaine 
Dye was added for veteran leadership and provided an important bat and 
glove in the lineup. Tadahito Iguchi came in from Japan to play second 
base and bat second behind Podsednik. Iguchi would prove his value all 
year long. Finally, the Sox decided to add a little fire into a mostly 
laid back and quiet clubhouse. This need brought controversial catcher 
A. J. Pierzynski[9] to Chicago after playing six years for division rival 
Minnesota, and one year for San Francisco.[9] The White Sox began their 
season by winning the first 2 games, and were 7-3 after the first 10 games. 
They would go on to win 19 out of their next 24, including two 8-game winning 
streaks, and at the end of April were 17-7. In mid-May, after beating the 
Texas Rangers 2 of 3 games, they would also take two of three from the 
Chicago Cubs, but would get swept by the Texas Rangers in a 2-game series 
after splitting a 4-gamer with eventual American League Championship Series 
opponent Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Finishing May with a 35-17 record, 
the Sox, in interleague play, swept both the Colorado Rockies and Los Angeles 
Dodgers, but did lose the other series to the Cubs two games to one. At 
the end of June they were 53-24, and just before the All-star break, the 
Sox were swept by the Oakland Athletics in a 3-game series at home, going 
into the break at 57-29. Then, after the break, they would sweep the Cleveland 
Indians in a 4-game series, shutting out the Tribe twice and scoring seven 
runs in the other two games. At the end of July they were 68-35, a 14 and 
a half game lead in the American League Central over both Cleveland and 
the Minnesota Twins. However, from August 12 through August 23, they would 
lose 8 out of 9 games they played, including a 7-game losing streak and 
sweeps at the hands of the Boston Red Sox and Twins, reducing their lead 
to 7 games, and would finish August at 80-51. Finishing strong, though, 
the White Sox began September by winning their first 7 games and ended 
the season by winning 8 of 10. They would finish the regular season with 
a 99-63 record and a 6-game lead over Cleveland, winning their second American 
League Central title. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] 
[13] [14] Infielders Other batters Manager Coaches Note: G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR 
= Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; 
AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs 
allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts Chicago 
would begin its eighth trip to the postseason in 2005.[11] The last time 
they reached the playoffs, during the 2000 season, they were swept by the 
wild card Seattle Mariners in three games after having the best record 
in the American League that season. The White Sox’ power, or lack thereof 
in the series, ultimately doomed them. The pitching, which had been average 
at best all year, broke apart against Seattle.[12] The time before that, 
after their 1993 AL West Division title, the White Sox won two games against 
the eventual World Series Champion Toronto Blue Jays. Expectations were 
pretty high for the 2005 playoffs, especially if they could erase that 
88-year drought. With manager Ozzie Guillén reminding his team not to feel 
happy just to be in the playoffs, the White Sox took that to heart. The 
Southsiders pounded the Red Sox 14-2 behind two homers from A. J. Pierzynski. 
Paul Konerko, Juan Uribe, and Scott Podsednik added solo shots. Podsednik's 
homer was his first of the season.[13] The White Sox also got another solid 
performance from starter José Contreras, who went 7 2⁄3 innings, allowing 
only two runs, and striking out six. The White Sox beat up on former Cub 
Matt Clement, as his day was done after just 3 1⁄3 innings, giving up eight 
runs.[13] The White Sox played a pretty flawless game all together, most 
notable by Tadahito Iguchi's surprise throw to third to nail Trot Nixon, 
taking some momentum out of the Red Sox. Everything was looking up for 
the White Sox, but they weren’t counting off Boston that easily. Final 
score: White Sox 14, Boston 2 White Sox ace Mark Buehrle would get his 
chance in this game to turn in a solid postseason performance. Buehrle 
was with the White Sox in 2000 for their last playoff run, and pitched 
1/3 scoreless inning of relief.[14] But given his first chance to start, 
he looked to help his team put the Red Sox in a tough 2-0-hole. Buehrle 
was a bit shaky, giving up four runs and eight hits over seven innings. 
However, he still got the win thanks to Boston second baseman Tony Graffanino, 
a former White Sox. With one out and Joe Crede on first in the fifth inning, 
Juan Uribe hit a ground ball up the middle. Graffanino took his eyes off 
the ball and started to flip the ball to shortstop Édgar Rentería before 
he had fielded it.[13] The ball went through his legs and into the outfield. 
This allowed Crede to move to third, allowing a prime scoring opportunity 
for the White Sox. Scott Podsednik spoiled the first chance, fouling out 
to third. That opened the door for Tadahito Iguchi with the White Sox down 
4-2. Iguchi sent a curveball from pitcher David Wells into the left field 
seats for a 5-4 lead. The White Sox would never vanquish this lead, as 
Bobby Jenks came on in the eighth inning to nail down the two inning save.[13] 
The Sox had just won their second postseason game in a row, and headed 
to Boston, up two games to none. However, the Red Sox had come back from 
three down in the American League Championship the year before on their 
way to the World Series championship, so no one was taking Boston lightly. 
Final Score: White Sox 5, Boston 4 Game 3 proved to be perhaps the most 
exciting of the whole series. The White Sox headed into Boston, taking 
on Johnny Damon, Manny Ramirez, and David Ortiz, and were confident. Freddy 
García was on the hill, ready to nail down his second clinching win of 
the season. The White Sox took a 2-0 lead in the top of the third inning 
with some key hits. However, García's shakiness kept the Red Sox in the 
game. He gave up two in the bottom of the fourth to tie the game. But, 
Paul Konerko, the White Sox’ number one run producer the whole season, 
stepped to the plate in the top of the sixth inning with Jermaine Dye on 
base. He sent a pitch over the Green Monster in left field to put the White 
Sox ahead 4-2, and keep a lead that they would never lose.[13] The scariest 
point came in the sixth inning. García gave up a mammoth home run to Manny 
Ramirez to bring Boston to within one, and then Dámaso Marte loaded the 
bases with a single and two walks. That prompted manager Ozzie Guillén 
to bring on Orlando "El Duque" Hernández, who was brought to Chicago for 
his incredible postseason track record while with the New York Yankees.[13] 
With no outs, Hernández toed the rubber against Red Sox pinch hitter and 
captain Jason Varitek. Varitek fouled out to first baseman Konerko. The 
next batter was Tony Graffanino, who was looking for redemption from his 
Game 2 mistake. After a 10 pitch at-bat, Graffanino finally popped up to 
shortstop Juan Uribe for the second out of the inning. Then after Johnny 
Damon drew a full count from Hernández, El Duque struck him out on a checked 
swing.[15] That ended the inning, and put the Red Sox down to rest. Hernández 
would go on to pitch two more scoreless innings, allowing only one more 
hit. The White Sox would add an insurance run in the top of the ninth, 
leading to Bobby Jenks to close out his second game of the series and send 
the Chicago into the American League Championship Series. Final Score: 
White Sox 5, Boston 3 This was the White Sox first post-season series win 
since winning the 1917 World Series. By virtue of their sweep in the Division 
Series, the White Sox got to enjoy a three-day break in between the two 
series, while the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and New York Yankees battled 
it out. Due to a rain-out, the Angels had to fly from New York to Anaheim 
for Game 5 of the series, and then fly to Chicago in back to back nights. 
It was assumed that the White Sox would have the easy advantage in this 
series, because they were very well rested and Los Angeles was very tired. 
However, that was not the case. The Angels were led by a home run from 
Garret Anderson in the second, and Chicago was unable to execute in the 
field, leading to two more Angel runs. The White Sox would get on the board 
with a Joe Crede home run in the third. They added on another run to cut 
the lead to 3-2 with A. J. Pierzynski's RBI single in the fourth.[13] However, 
that would be all the production the Sox could muster, as they wasted opportunities 
in the later innings, as well as a solid start by José Contreras. He went 
8 1⁄3 innings, giving up three runs. It was Contreras's first loss since 
August 15, when he suffered defeat to the Minnesota Twins.[13] The White 
Sox were now in a hole, and faced a must-win Game 2, or risk going to Anaheim 
down 2-0. Final Score: Los Angeles 3, White Sox 2 Mark Buehrle would be 
on the mound in Game 2, and turned in an incredible outing. Through nine 
innings, he only gave up a Robb Quinlan home run in the fifth, and the 
White Sox scored a run in the bottom of the first via errors. With the 
score tied 1-1 with two outs in the bottom of the ninth and Buehrle getting 
ready to start the tenth inning, A. J. Pierzynski stepped to the plate. 
Pierzynski swung on a split-finger fastball in the dirt from Kelvim Escobar 
for strike three.[13] Home Plate Umpire Doug Eddings[13] called Pierzynski 
out on three strikes. Pierzynski began taking steps towards the dugout, 
but quickly realized the ball wasn't caught, and he wasn’t tagged, so he 
ran to first base. After much discussion between the umpires, he was eventually 
awarded first base, and the inning went on. Pablo Ozuna went in to pinch 
run for him, and on the first pitch, stole second base without a throw 
from Paul. With Joe Crede at the plate down in the count 0-2, Crede lined 
the next pitch from Escobar off the left field wall for a walk-off double. 
The White Sox were able to pull out a victory and even the series. Final 
Score: White Sox, 2. Los Angeles 1 The series now switched to Anaheim, 
where the White Sox had a history of playing poorly. However, this was 
a new year and a team with a new attitude. Plus, they had the momentum 
from coming back in the previous game. Jon Garland, who hadn’t pitched 
in the Division Series, made his first career playoff start. Garland picked 
up right where Mark Buehrle had left off. Throwing a complete game of his 
own, Garland gave up only two runs on an Orlando Cabrera home run in the 
sixth inning while fanning seven.[13] He was helped by his offense, specifically 
Paul Konerko, who hit a two run home run in the top of the first inning, 
proving to be the game winning runs as the White Sox built a 3-0 lead after 
one.[13] The lead was extended to 5-0 by the sixth before the Cabrera home 
run. This game had no controversy, although Doug Eddings, the home plate 
umpire in Game 2 who ruled the third strike to A. J. Pierzynski hit the 
ground, did get booed while being introduced. The White Sox had put together 
a 2-1 series lead as well as back to back complete games in a postseason 
series for the first time since 1982, when it was accomplished by Tommy 
John and Bruce Kison for the California Angels.[13] The Sox would head 
into Game 4 looking to take a commanding three games to one lead. Final 
Score: White Sox 5, Los Angeles 2 Inspired by his teammate's performances 
the last two games of the series, Freddy García followed suit, tossing 
a complete game of his own. García was masterful over the game, giving 
up only six hits and two runs. He was helped by yet another three-run lead 
in the first inning. This time, Paul Konerko hit a three-run homer. The 
complete game was the first time a team had thrown three straight complete 
games in a postseason series since the 1973 National League Championship 
Series when Tom Seaver, Jon Matlack, and Jerry Koosman accomplished the 
feat for the New York Mets,[13] despite Seaver's being a loss. Another 
incident involving catcher A. J. Pierzynski took place in the second inning. 
There were runners on first and third at the time, and Steve Finley was 
at the plate. Finley swung and clipped Pierzynski's glove during his follow 
through. As Finley ran to first he looked back at the umpires and yelled 
for catcher's interference. However, the call was not made, and Finley 
eventually ended up grounding into an inning ending double play.[13] The 
victory put the White Sox one victory away from heading to the World Series, 
and one step closer to erasing their long-awaited World Championship drought. 
Final Score: White Sox 8, Los Angeles 2 José Contreras, who had pitched 
well in Game 1 but lost, was on the hill for Game 5, trying to send the 
White Sox to their first World Series since 1959. Contreras definitely 
did his part. Keeping with the theme of the series, Contreras fired another 
complete game. He wasn’t quite as effective as the other three pitchers, 
surrendering three runs on five hits over the game, but the White Sox offense 
scored enough runs to give him a 6-3 victory. The four consecutive complete 
games in a postseason was a League Championship Series record, and the 
first time since the New York Yankees got five complete games in a row 
from Whitey Ford, Tom Sturdivant, Don Larsen (which was a perfect game), 
Bob Turley, and Johnny Kucks during the 1956 World Series against the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. The White Sox started the scoring in the second on Joe Crede's 
sacrifice fly. The Angels tied it in the third with an Adam Kennedy single. 
In the fifth, Jermaine Dye hit a two-out double that put the White Sox 
ahead 2-1. However, the Angels struck right back with a ground rule double 
from Chone Figgins and a sacrifice fly from Garret Anderson. However, it 
was all White Sox after that. Joe Crede hit a game-tying home run off Kelvim 
Escobar in the seventh. In the eighth, A. J. Pierzynski was at it again. 
He hit a slow rolling ground ball down the first base line and Escobar 
tagged him. However, Escobar tagged with his glove, and the ball was in 
his hand. Randy Marsh, the first base umpire called Pierzynski out, but 
then the umpires talked it over after manager Ozzie Guillén ran out to 
argue. The call was reversed, and Pierzynski was rewarded first base with 
Aaron Rowand on second with two out.[13] Joe Crede faced Angels closer 
Francisco Rodríguez, who would set the Major League record for saves in 
a season in 2008 with 62, and Crede laced a single up the middle to score 
Rowand and put the White Sox ahead for good.[16] Paul Konerko added an 
RBI double in the ninth for insurance. Konerko would win the ALCS MVP award[13] 
as the White Sox looked to win their first World Series since 1917. Final 
Score: White Sox 6, Los Angeles 3 This was the White Sox first pennant 
since 1959. Chicago's opponent in the 2005 World Series would be the National 
League Champion Houston Astros, who defeated the St. Louis Cardinals in 
the National League Championship Series to clinch a trip to their first 
World Series in franchise history. The night was special for Craig Biggio 
and Jeff Bagwell, two longtime Astros making their first trip to the World 
Series. Game 1 was José Contreras vs. Roger Clemens. However, Clemens reinjured 
his hamstring in the second inning, and so his night was done early. In 
the fourth, with the score tied 3-3, Joe Crede took control of the game. 
He homered in the inning, and then, in the sixth, he made two diving stops 
to save runs and keep the White Sox ahead by one.[13] The story of the 
night, though, was the bullpen. After Contreras lasted seven plus innings, 
Neal Cotts came on to try to stop the bleeding. Willy Taveras had hit a 
leadoff double and then Cotts gave up a hard single to Lance Berkman, which 
was hit so hard that Taveras had to hold at third. However, Cotts then 
went on to strike out Morgan Ensberg and Mike Lamb, bringing up Bagwell. 
That prompted manager Ozzie Guillén to bring on closer Bobby Jenks. Jenks 
would end up striking out Bagwell while using his 100 mph heat and completely 
blowing it right past Bagwell. Jenks then got the next three outs in the 
top of the ninth to give the White Sox a Game 1 victory.[13] Final Score: 
White Sox 5, Houston 3 Fresh off a victory the night before, the White 
Sox tried to make it two in a row in the Series, but this time against 
Andy Pettitte, who was making his 34th career postseason start. This game 
was sloppy, as temperatures were cold and it was raining. Mark Buehrle 
did not have his best stuff, as he gave up four runs in seven innings. 
However, with the White Sox down 4-2 in the seventh, Paul Konerko took 
over. With the bases loaded, he sent the first pitch he saw from reliever 
Chad Qualls into the left field bullpen for a 6-4 White Sox lead on a grand 
slam. The slam was the first one in White Sox postseason history. However, 
the lead only lasted for an inning. Bobby Jenks, so solid the whole postseason, 
gave up two runs in the top of the ninth to tie the game. Fortunate enough 
for Jenks, Scott Podsednik came to the rescue. Hitting second in the ninth, 
Podsednik sent a pitch from suddenly shaky closer Brad Lidge into the right 
field seats for a walk-off home run. It was the 14th walk-off home run 
in World Series history, and sent the White Sox to Houston up two games 
to none. Final Score: White Sox 7, Astros 6 This game was the longest game 
in World Series history time wise, and tied for the longest game in World 
Series history according to innings. In the first World Series game played 
in the state of Texas, the hometown Astros got off to a good start. They 
jumped out to a 4-0 lead through four innings. However, in the fifth, the 
White Sox put up a five spot to take the lead 5-4 in a 46-pitch inning 
for Houston's Roy Oswalt. But, the Astros would tie up the score in the 
bottom of the eighth, and as neither team scored in the ninth inning, the 
White Sox and the Astros went into extra innings. The game kept going on 
and on until the top of the fourteenth inning when Geoff Blum stepped to 
the plate. Blum did not have a postseason at-bat for the White Sox since 
Game 1 of the Division Series. He connected on a home run off Ezequiel 
Astacio to give the White Sox a one-run lead.[17] They would add another 
insurance run later in the inning. After Dámaso Marte began the bottom 
half, Mark Buehrle came out and got the save for Chicago. After using nine 
pitchers to the Astros’ eight, and playing for 5 hours and 41 minutes. 
The White Sox were just one win away from clinching their first World Series 
championship in 88 years. Final Score: White Sox 7, Houston 5 Behind the 
words of Ozzie Guillén to win the World Series as soon as possible, the 
White Sox took it to heart in a trademark 1-0 win. Freddy García was on 
the hill against the young but talented Brandon Backe. Locked in a pitchers’ 
duel through seven innings, Guillén decided to take García out and replace 
him with a pinch hitter in the top of the eighth inning. Willie Harris 
would pinch-hit for García and started the inning off with a single. After 
moving to third with two outs, Jermaine Dye would drive him in with a single 
up the middle against Brad Lidge, who again gave up another big hit. Dye 
would win World Series MVP honors for his clutch hitting throughout the 
series. After Cliff Polite and Neal Cotts pitched a scoreless eighth, closer 
Bobby Jenks came in to close the game out. He did give up a leadoff single, 
and got an out via a sacrifice bunt, but then it was all Juan Uribe. Uribe 
chased down a foul ball and dove into the stands to make the grab, providing 
one of the best catches in World Series history. He then made the play 
on a slow chopper over the head of Jenks to throw out Orlando Palmeiro 
to win the game and the World Series for the White Sox. Final Score: White 
Sox 1, Houston 0 With their 11-1 record, the White Sox tied the 1999 New 
York Yankees for the best record in a single post-season. In calling the 
final out, White Sox broadcaster John Rooney's call of "A White Sox winner 
and a World Championship!" echoed Jack Buck's call of the St. Louis Cardinals 
winning the 1982 World Series: "That's a winner! That's a winner! A World 
Series winner for the Cardinals!" Following the series, Rooney would join 
the Cardinals broadcasting team and he would announce their victory in 
