The Houston Astros' 2005 season was a season in which the Houston Astros 
qualified for the postseason for the second consecutive season. The Astros 
overcame a sluggish 15–30 start to claim the wild card playoff spot, and 
would go on to win the National League pennant to advance to the World 
Series for the first time in franchise history. It was longtime Astros 
first baseman Jeff Bagwell's final season and first World Series appearance. 
In February, 2005, longtime Astros players Jeff Bagwell and Craig Biggio 
were jointly inducted into the Texas Sports Hall of Fame.[1] After starting 
the season with a 15–30 won–loss record, the Astros improved to 74–43 over 
their final 117 games to capture the NL wild card.[6] Bagwell hit his last 
major league home run against Greg Maddux of the Chicago Cubs on April 
29, tying him for the most against any pitcher with seven.[7] Infielders 
Coaches The annual interleague games between the Houston Astros and the 
Texas Rangers were played in June and July. They are known as the Lone 
Star Series. Houston wins series, 3-1. (HOU-STL) Houston wins the National 
League Championship and advance to the 2005 World Series After having played 
4,714 games and their entire major league careers together in Houston, 
Bagwell and Biggio appeared in their first World Series in 2005.[9] October 
22, 2005 at U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago Playing in their first World 
Series home game since 1959, the White Sox took an early lead with a home 
run from Jermaine Dye in the first inning. The Sox scored two more in the 
second when Juan Uribe doubled in A. J. Pierzynski after Carl Everett had 
already scored on a groudout earlier in the inning. The Astros responded 
again in the next inning when Lance Berkman hit a double, driving in Adam 
Everett and Craig Biggio. In the White Sox half of the fourth, Joe Crede 
hit what turned out to be the game-winning home run. In the bottom of the 
eighth, Scott Podsednik hit a triple with Pierzynski on second. Roger Clemens 
recorded his shortest World Series start, leaving after the second inning 
with 53 pitches including 35 for strikes, due to a sore hamstring that 
he had previously injured (and caused him to miss his last regular season 
start) as the loss went to Wandy Rodríguez. José Contreras pitched seven 
innings, allowing three runs on six hits for the win, and Bobby Jenks earned 
the save to give the White Sox a 1-0 lead in the series. When Neal Cotts 
entered the game in the top of the 8th it marked the first time in 5 games 
that the White Sox had gone to their bullpen. October 23, 2005 at U.S. 
Cellular Field in Chicago On a miserably cold (51 degrees) and rainy evening, 
Morgan Ensberg's first-pitch home run off starter Mark Buehrle put the 
Astros on top in the second inning. The White Sox answered in the bottom 
of the second with two runs of their own off Andy Pettitte. Lance Berkman 
drove in three runs in the game, two of them on a go-ahead double in the 
top of the fifth. In the seventh inning, Dan Wheeler loaded the bases with 
a double to Juan Uribe, a walk to Tadahito Iguchi, and home plate umpire 
Jeff Nelson's ruling that Jermaine Dye was hit by a pitched ball. The ruling 
was considered questionable, as television replays showed that the ball 
hit Dye's bat (which would have made the pitch a foul ball rather than 
a HBP). The Astros brought in Chad Qualls, who promptly served up a grand 
slam to Paul Konerko on the very first pitch he threw, the eighteenth grand 
slam in the annals of the Fall Classic. In the top of the ninth, White 
Sox closer Bobby Jenks blew the save when he gave up a two-run game-tying 
pinch hit single to José Vizcaíno. In the bottom half of the ninth, Astros 
closer Brad Lidge gave up a one-out, walk-off home run — the fourteenth 
in Series history — to Scott Podsednik, giving Lidge his second loss in 
as many post-season appearances (his previous appearance was in Game 5 
of 2005 National League Championship Series). Podsednik had not hit a single 
homer in the regular season, and this was his second of the postseason. 
The Series moved to Houston with the White Sox leading 2-0. October 25, 
2005 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas Game 3 was the first ever World 
Series game played in the state of Texas. Before the game, it was ruled 
by Commissioner Bud Selig that the retractable roof would be open at Minute 
Maid Park, weather permitting. The Astros objected, citing that their record 
in games with the roof closed was better than with the retractable roof 
open. Selig's office claimed that the ruling was based on the rules established 
by Houston and were consistent with how the Astros organization treated 
the situation all year long, as well as the weather forecasts for that 
period of time. In the game – the longest World Series game in length of 
time (five hours and forty-one minutes) and tied for the longest in number 
of innings (fourteen, tied with Game 2 of the 1916 World Series) – Lance 
Berkman singled with one out after a Craig Biggio lead-off double in the 
bottom of the first as the Astros struck early. The White Sox had a rally 
snuffed in the top of the second inning; after Paul Konerko hit a lead-off 
double and A. J. Pierzynski walked, Aaron Rowand hit into a line-drive 
double play. Adam Everett caught the ball and then doubled Konerko off 
second by flipping the ball to Biggio, who stepped on the bag. Houston 
scored in the bottom of the third when Everett led off with a walk. Everett 
got caught in a rundown and got hit by the ball on a Juan Uribe throwing 
error that hit Everett. A Roy Oswalt sacrifice bunt and a Biggio single 
sent Everett home. Berkman singled again with two out, sending Biggio to 
third. Then Morgan Ensberg singled Biggio home for the third run of the 
game. Jason Lane led off the Astros' fourth with a home run to left-center 
field. It was later shown in replays that the ball should not have been 
ruled a home run, hitting the left side of the yellow line on the unusual 
wall in left-center field. The White Sox rallied in the top of the fifth, 
true to their "Win Or Die Trying" mantra of 2005, starting with a Joe Crede 
lead-off homer. Uribe, on first after hitting a single, scored on a Tadahito 
Iguchi base hit with one out, followed by Scott Podsednik coming home on 
a duck-snort single by Jermaine Dye. Pierzynski hit a two-out double to 
Tal's Hill, driving in two runs, scoring Iguchi and Dye giving the White 
Sox the lead. The Astros rallied in the last of the eighth with two outs 
when Lane's double scored Ensberg with the tying run after back-to-back 
walks by Ensberg and Mike Lamb, giving Dustin Hermanson a blown save. Houston 
tried to rally to win in the ninth, but stranded Chris Burke at third, 
after he had walked, reached second on an error and stolen third. The Astros 
tried again in the tenth as well as in the eleventh, but failed each time. 
In the top of the fourteenth, after the Sox hit into a spectacular double 
play started by Ensberg, Geoff Blum (a former Astro) homered to right with 
two outs off Ezequiel Astacio. After two infield singles by Rowand and 
Crede that went a total of 150 feet according to McCarver, Uribe walked, 
and then Chris Widger walked thanks to Astacio's sudden wildness. The Astros 
tried to rally with the tying runs on first and third and two outs after 
a Uribe error, but Game 2 starter Mark Buehrle earned the save for winning 
pitcher Dámaso Marte when Everett popped out, bringing the White Sox one 
game closer to their first World Championship in eighty-eight years. Buehrle 
became the first pitcher ever to start a game in the Series, and save the 
next one. Many records were set or tied in the game besides time and innings: 
The teams combined to use seventeen pitchers (nine for the White Sox, eight 
for the Astros), throwing a total of 482 pitches, and walking twenty-one 
batters combined (a dozen by Chicago, nine by Houston); forty-three players 
were used (the White Sox used twenty-two and the Astros used twenty-one), 
and thirty men were left on base (fifteen for each team), all new high-water 
marks in their categories in Fall Classic history. Scott Podsednik set 
a new all-time record with eight official-at-bats in this game. One record 
that was tied was most double plays turned, with six (four by the Astros, 
two by the White Sox). October 26, 2005 at Minute Maid Park in Houston, 
Texas Before the game, Major League Baseball unveiled its Latino Legends 
Team. The fourth game was the pitchers' duel that had been promised throughout 
the series. Both Houston starter Brandon Backe and Chicago starter Freddy 
García put zeros on the scoreboard through seven innings, the longest since 
Game 7 of the 1991 World Series. Scott Podsednik had a two-out triple in 
the top of the third, but Tadahito Iguchi grounded out to second, thus 
snuffing that threat. The Astros had the best chance of scoring in the 
sixth, but Jason Lane struck out with the bases loaded to end that rally. 
The White Sox had a chance in the top of the seventh with runners at second 
and third and two out, but shortstop Juan Uribe struck out to snuff the 
rally. The White Sox were able to break through in the next inning against 
embattled Houston closer Brad Lidge. Willie Harris hit a pinch-hit single. 
Podsednik moved Harris to second with a sacrifice bunt. Carl Everett pinch-hit 
for Iguchi and grounded out to the right side to allow Harris to move over 
to third. Jermaine Dye, the Most Valuable Player of the series, had the 
game-winning single, driving in Harris. Things got a little sticky for 
the Sox in the Astros half of the eighth when reliever Cliff Politte hit 
Willy Taveras, threw a wild pitch, sending Taveras to second, and walked 
Lance Berkman. After Morgan Ensberg flew out to center, ChiSox manager 
Ozzie Guillén brought in Neal Cotts to finish the inning. Cotts induced 
pinch-hitter José Vizcaíno into a ground out to Uribe. Bobby Jenks, the 
24-year-old fireballer, started the ninth inning. He allowed a single to 
Jason Lane and a sacrifice bunt to Brad Ausmus. Chris Burke came in to 
pinch-hit; he fouled one off to the left side, but Uribe made an amazing 
catch in the stands to retire Burke. The game ended when Orlando Palmeiro 
grounded to Uribe. It was a bang-bang play as Paul Konerko caught the ball 
from Uribe at 11:01 p.m. CDT to begin the biggest celebration in Chicago 
since the sixth NBA championship by the Bulls in 1998, and end the second-longest 
period without a World Series title (the cross-town Chicago Cubs still 
own the longest such streak, as they have not won it since 1908). The 1-0 
shutout was the first 1-run game to end a World Series since the 1995 World 
Series, in which Game 6 was won by the Atlanta Braves over the Cleveland 
Indians, and the first 1-0 game in any Series game since Game 5 of the 
1996 World Series when the New York Yankees shut out the Braves in the 
last game ever played at Atlanta Fulton County Stadium. 2005 World Series 
