The 2005 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2005 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 4, and ended on 
Monday, October 10, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They 
were: The higher seed (#1 is the highest) had the home field advantage. 
NOTE: The Yankees were designated the Eastern Division champions due to 
winning the season series 10–9 against the Red Sox. The Angels received 
home field advantage rather than the Yankees due to their winning the season 
series 6–4 against New York. 2005 was the first year since 2001 that the 
Minnesota Twins had not participated in the ALDS. Other than the White 
Sox' victory in the AL Central, the participants were identical to those 
of the previous year. The two victorious teams went on to meet in the AL 
Championship Series (ALCS). The victorious White Sox advanced to defeat 
the National League champion Houston Astros and win the 2005 World Series. 
Chicago won the series, 3–0. Los Angeles won the series, 3–2. †: Game was 
postponed due to rain on October 8 U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago, Illinois 
Little did the Red Sox know when starter Matt Clement hit Scott Podsednik, 
the first batter he faced, that the rout was on. But the young pitcher 
never regained his control and finished by allowing seven runs on eight 
hits, three of which were homers, in only 3 1⁄3 innings. The White Sox 
also scored in the third, fourth, sixth, and eighth innings. The Red Sox 
were held to two runs by José Contreras, who went 7 2⁄3 innings, giving 
up just two earned runs on eight hits. Four White Sox players hit home 
runs, including Podsednik, who had gone homerless in the regular season. 
It was his first home run since September 30, 2004. Boston's postseason 
winning streak was snapped at eight games with this loss. This was the 
White Sox' first postseason home win since Game 1 of the 1959 World Series. 
U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago, Illinois Mark Buehrle gave up two runs 
in the first and two runs in the third inning and David Wells ( 6 2⁄3 innings, 
two earned runs, seven hits) looked tough, giving up only two hits in the 
first four innings. But in the White Sox half of the fifth, the White Sox 
struck pay-dirt. They scored five runs in the inning, three of which were 
unearned, due to an error by Boston's Tony Graffanino. Buehrle (seven innings, 
four earned runs, eight hits) earned the win, with the save going to Bobby 
Jenks. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts For the first time since 1993, 
the White Sox secure their place in the ALCS by beating the Red Sox in 
the third consecutive game. The tough battle featured Freddy García (five 
innings, five hits, three earned runs) and Tim Wakefield ( 5 1⁄3 innings, 
six hits, four runs). Neither pitcher was very impressive, but both kept 
their team in the game. The White Sox struck first, scoring two in the 
third with the Red Sox replying in the fourth. In the sixth, Paul Konerko, 
with Jermaine Dye on base, hit a home run to put the White Sox in the lead 
for good. The Red Sox got one back in the bottom of the inning on a Manny 
Ramírez monster homer, but that was all they would get. El Duque, Orlando 
Hernández, came in to pitch with the bases loaded in the same inning with 
no outs. He induced Jason Varitek to foul out, Tony Graffanino to pop out 
to short, and Johnny Damon to strike out to end the inning without giving 
up another run. He proceeded to pitch three total innings, giving up one 
hit. Bobby Jenks came in to finish it, earning his second save of the series. 
This was the White Sox's first postseason series win since the 1917 World 
Series, the last time they won the World Series. 2005 ALDS (3–0): Chicago 
White Sox over Boston Red Sox Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California 
The Yankees were able to get to AL Cy Young Award winner, Bartolo Colón 
early. With the bases loaded in the top of the first, rookie Robinson Canó 
lifted a line drive over the reaching hand of left fielder Garret Anderson. 
The double would clear the bases, giving the Yankees a 3–0 lead. Again 
in the second inning, the Yankees would score, this time on a single by 
Jason Giambi that scored Derek Jeter. Yankee pitching had lacked for most 
of the 2005 season, and starter Mike Mussina was injured for some of the 
year. But in Game 1, Mussina looked at his best. Mussina started out by 
keeping the Angels out of the run column for 5 2⁄3 innings. Although the 
Angels scored another run in the ninth, Mariano Rivera shut the door and 
gave the Yankees a 1–0 series lead. Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, 
California In Game 2, the starters were John Lackey for the Angels and 
Chien-Ming Wang for the Yankees. The Yankees scored the first run of the 
game in the second when Robinson Canó doubled to left, allowing Hideki 
Matsui to come home. They made it 2–0 in the fifth after Alex Rodríguez 
walked and then moved to third on Jason Giambi's double. Rodríguez would 
score on Gary Sheffield's ground out. The Angels got on the board in the 
bottom of that inning on Juan Rivera's home run. In the sixth, Alex Rodríguez's 
error allowed Orlando Cabrera to make it to first base. He would move to 
second on Vladimir Guerrero's ground out and score on Bengie Molina's single, 
tying the game at two. In the next inning, Wang's throwing error would 
allow Jeff DaVanon and Steve Finley to score on Cabrera's single, giving 
the Angels a 4–2 lead. In the eighth, Molina's home run extended the Angels 
lead to three. In the ninth, Jorge Posada's homer cut the lead back the 
two, but the Angels still won the game to even the series. Yankee Stadium 
(I) in the Bronx, New York In Game 3, it was Randy Johnson pitching for 
the Yankees while Paul Byrd pitched for the Angels. Johnson ran into trouble 
early, giving up a three-run homer to Garret Anderson in the first and 
a two-run homer to Bengie Molina in the third to give the Angels a 5–0 
lead. After allowing men on first and third with no outs in the fourth, 
Johnson was taken out of the game right in front of an entire stadium of 
booing fans. The Yankees rallied in the bottom of the inning. First, Hideki 
Matsui homered to put the Yanks on the board 5–1. Then Robinson Canó and 
Bernie Williams would single in. Canó scored on Jorge Posada's ground out 
and Williams on Derek Jeter's single. After Brendan Donnelly relieved Byrd, 
Jason Giambi's single scored Jeter and cut the Angels' lead to one. In 
the next inning, after Matsui walked, Canó doubled to left and a throwing 
error by Cabrera allowed Matsui to score and Canó to remain to first base. 
Scot Shields relieved Donnelly. Shield gave up a sacrifice fly to Bernie 
Williams that scored Canó, giving the Yankees a 6–5 lead, but that lead 
was short-lived. Reliever Aaron Small gave up two runs in the sixth to 
give the Angels the lead again. Tom Gordon allowed two unearned runs in 
the seventh and two earned runs in the eighth to give the Angels an 11–6 
lead. Jeter's home run in the bottom of the eighth made it 11–7 Angels, 
but that was all the Yankees could muster up as the Angels won the game 
with that score and were only one win away from the ALCS. Yankee Stadium 
(I) in the Bronx, New York The Angels struck first in Game 4, scoring two 
runs in the top of the sixth on two doubles by Chone Figgins and Orlando 
Cabrera off Yankees starting pitcher Shawn Chacón. The Yankees cut the 
lead to one in the bottom of the inning when Alex Rodriguez scored on Gary 
Sheffield's single off Angels starting pitcher John Lackey. In the bottom 
of the next inning, Robinson Canó singled and Jorge Posada walked. They 
would score on singles from Rubén Sierra and Derek Jeter. Mariano Rivera 
pitched a perfect eighth and ninth as the Yankees won 3–2 to force a Game 5 
back in Anaheim. Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Game 5 
had the same starting pitchers as in Game 1, Bartolo Colón for the Angels 
and Mike Mussina for the Yankees. Colon left the game in the second inning 
due to a hand injury after giving up two hits in the first and was relieved 
by Ervin Santana, who walked Robinson Canó (who was caught out stealing), 
Bernie Williams, and Jorge Posada. Williams scored on Bubba Crosby's single 
and Posada on Derek Jeter's sacrifice fly as the Yankees took an early 
2–0 lead. Mussina, however, faltered in the second after pitching a perfect 
first. First, he gave up a solo home run to Garret Anderson to cut the 
lead to one. Then, Bengie Molina singled to center. After getting two outs, 
Mussina walked Steve Finley before Adam Kennedy hit the ball to right center. 
Bubba Crosby and Gary Sheffield collided on the outfield wall trying to 
catch it, allowing Molina and Finley to score to give the Angels a 3–2 
lead. Mussina allowed two more runs in the third to extend to Angels lead 
to three in his shortest postseason start ever. Randy Johnson, making his 
first postseason relief appearance since Game 7 of the 2001 World Series 
with the Arizona Diamondbacks against the Yankees, kept the Angels scoreless 
for the rest of the game, allowing just three hits. Jeter's solo home run 
in the seventh off Santana cut the lead to two. Jeter opened up the ninth 
with a single off closer Francisco Rodríguez, but Alex Rodriguez grounded 
into a double play. Jason Giambi and Gary Sheffield both hit singles afterward, 
but Hideki Matsui grounded out to first to end the game. The Angels would 
face the Chicago White Sox in the ALCS. 2005 ALDS (3–2): Los Angeles Angels 
