The 2005 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 2005 American League playoffs, matched the Central Division champion 
Chicago White Sox against the West Division champion Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim. The White Sox, by virtue of having the best record in the AL 
during the 2005 season, had the home-field advantage. The White Sox won 
the series four games to one to become the American League champions, and 
faced the Houston Astros in the 2005 World Series; as a result of the 2005 
All-Star Game played in Detroit, Michigan at Comerica Park on July 12, 
the White Sox had home-field advantage in the World Series. The series 
was notable both for a controversial call in Game 2 of the series, and 
the outstanding pitching and durability of Chicago's starting rotation, 
pitching four consecutive complete games; the  2⁄3 of an inning Neal Cotts 
pitched in the first game was the only work the White Sox bullpen saw the 
entire series. The White Sox and Angels were victorious in the AL Division 
Series (ALDS), with the White Sox defeating the defending World Champion 
and wild card qualifier Boston Red Sox three games to none, and the Angels 
defeating the Eastern Division champion New York Yankees three games to 
two. Chicago won the series, 4–1. Tuesday, October 11, 2005 at U.S. Cellular 
Field in Chicago, Illinois In the series opener, the Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim won 3–2 in their third game in as many nights and as many cities. 
The Angels took the lead in the second inning on a Garret Anderson leadoff 
home run. Next inning, Steve Finley and Adam Kennedy hit back-to-back leadoff 
singles and advanced one base each on Chone Figgins's sacrifice bunt. Orlando 
Cabrera's single and Vladimir Guerrero's groundout scored a run each. José 
Contreras allowed no more runs, going 8 1⁄3 innings. In the bottom of the 
inning, Joe Crede's home run off of Paul Byrd put the White Sox on the 
board. Next inning, Carl Everett singled with one out, moved to second 
on a groundout, and scored on A.J. Pierzynski's single to make it a one-run 
game. However, neither team would score for the rest of the game. It was 
the first time in six tries that the Angels won a Game 1 under Mike Scioscia, 
despite the fact that they won the World Series in 2002. This was the only 
game the White Sox would lose in the entire postseason. Wednesday, October 
12, 2005 at U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago, Illinois Before the game then-senator 
and future President of the United States Barack Obama threw out the Ceremonial 
First Pitch. Behind a complete game from Mark Buehrle and a now infamous 
strikeout in the bottom of the ninth, the White Sox evened the series at 
a game apiece. In the bottom of the first, Scott Podsednik reached second 
on an error, moved to third on a sacrifice bunt, and scored on Jermaine 
Dye's ground out. Jarrod Washburn and two relievers held the Sox scoreless 
over the next seven innings while Robb Quinlan's fifth inning home run 
tied the game. Then with the score still tied and two out in the bottom 
of the ninth, with two strikes, A.J. Pierzynski swung at a low pitch from 
Angels pitcher Kelvim Escobar and missed, for strike three. Josh Paul, 
the Angels catcher, rolled the ball to the mound and left the infield. 
Pierzynski realized strike three had been called but he had not been called 
out, and he ran to first base in case the umpire had ruled that the Angels 
catcher had not legally caught the strike three pitch (see Uncaught third 
strike rule).[6] In a controversial call, home-plate umpire Doug Eddings 
ruled that the ball hit the ground and then went into the catcher's glove,[7] 
so the pitch was considered uncaught and Pierzynski was safe at first. 
A pinch-runner, Pablo Ozuna, replaced Pierzynski and stole second base. 
Third baseman Joe Crede delivered a base hit three pitches later, scoring 
Ozuna for the winning run. Friday, October 14, 2005 at Angel Stadium of 
Anaheim in Anaheim, California Chicago jumped to a 3−0 lead in the first 
inning off of John Lackey when Scott Podsednik hit a leadoff single, moved 
to second on a sacrifice bunt, and scored on Jermaine Dye's single before 
Paul Konerko's two-run home run capped the scoring. Tadahito Iguchi singled 
to lead off the third, moved to second on a walk, and scored on Carl Everett's 
single. Two innings later, Iguchi doubled with one out and scored on Paul 
Konerko's two-out single to put Chicago up 5−0. A two-run home run by Orlando 
Cabrera in the sixth cut the lead to 5−2, but it would not be enough for 
the Angels as the White Sox took the series lead, two games to one, with 
Jon Garland pitching a complete game. Saturday, October 15, 2005 at Angel 
Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Chicago again jumped to a 3−0 
lead in the first when Ervin Santana walked Scott Podsednik and hit Tadahito 
Iguchi before Paul Konerko, after a disputed check swing on a 2–2 pitch, 
homered for the second straight game. The Angels cut it to 3−1 in the second 
when Darin Erstad walked with one out, moved to third on Casey Kotchman's 
single and pitcher Freddy Garcia's throwing error to first, and scored 
on Bengie Molina's single. With men on first and third, Steve Finley hit 
a ground ball to second for an inning-ending double play, but argued that 
White Sox catcher A. J. Pierzynski had interfered with his swing. The White 
Sox got that run back when Jermaine Dye reached on shortstop Orlando Cabrera's 
throwing error to first, steals second, and scores on Carl Everett's single 
with Everett being tagged out at second to end the inning. A.J. Pierzynski's 
home run next inning made it 5−1 Chicago. In the bottom of the inning, 
Garrett Anderson singled with one out and scored on Coachman's two-out 
double, but in the fifth, Scott Podsednik drew a leadoff walk and after 
Scot Shields relieved Santana, stole second and scored on Everett's single. 
Esteban Yan walked Everett to lead off the eighth and allowed a subsequent 
double to Aaron Rowand. After Pierzynski struck out, Joe Crede's two-run 
single put the Sox up 8−2. Freddy García pitched their third straight complete 
game, helping put them one win from their first World Series visit since 
1959. Sunday, October 16, 2005 at Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, 
California Chicago struck first in Game 5 when Aaron Rowand hit a leadoff 
ground-rule double in the third off of Paul Byrd, moved to third on a sacrifice 
bunt, and scored on Joe Crede's sacrifice fly, but the Angels tied it in 
the third when Juan Rivera hit a leadoff double, moved to third on pitcher 
Jose Contreras's pickoff attempt error, and scored on Adam Kennedy's single. 
In the top of the fifth, Juan Uribe doubled with one out and after a walk 
and fly out, scored on Jermaine Dye's single, but in the bottom of the 
inning, Adam Kennedy hit a leadoff single and scored on Chone Figgins's 
double. After moving to third on a groundout, Figgins scored on Garrett 
Anderson's sacrifice fly to put the Angels up 3−2. Crede's leadoff home 
run in the seventh off of Kelvim Escobar tied the game. Next inning, Escobar 
walked Rowand with two outs and an error moved him to second with Pierzynski 
at first. Francisco Rodriguez relieved Escobar and Crede greeted him with 
an RBI single to put the White Sox up 4−3. They get two insurance runs 
in the ninth when Paul Konerko's double after back-to-back walks and Rowand's 
sacrifice fly scored a run each. José Contreras pitched the fourth consecutive 
complete game by a White Sox pitcher, retiring the Angels in order in the 
ninth. Chicago won their first American League pennant since 1959. This 
also marked the first time in 77 years that a team threw four straight 
complete-game victories in the playoffs, and the first time that it was 
done by four different pitchers since the Chicago Cubs did it in the 1907 
World Series. Paul Konerko was named the ALCS MVP. He finished the series 
batting .286, with two home runs and seven RBIs. His two home runs came 
in the first innings of Games 3 and 4; he is only the third player in major 
league history to hit home runs in the first inning of consecutive playoff 
games, the other two having been Dan Ford during the 1979 ALCS and Carlos 
Beltrán during the 2004 NLCS.[8] 2005 ALCS (4–1): Chicago White Sox over 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim All quotes are by Joe Buck of Fox Sports 
unless otherwise noted. Escobar, another strikeout..Pierzynski is going 
down to first. The Angels are already off the field. The home plate umpire 
never made a call and safe is Pierzynski. And that's into the left field 
corner. This ball is off the wall, the White Sox have won, and this only 
begins what will be an argument. Ground ball to first, the White Sox have 
won the pennant! Swing and a ground ball to first, Konerko has it. He steps 
on the bag! The White Sox have won the pennant! They won the pennant! A 
