The most recent umpire strike in Minor League Baseball history was the 
strike of 2006. It involved primarily a monetary dispute between the Association 
of Minor League Umpires (AMLU), a trade union, and the Professional Baseball 
Umpire Corporation (PBUC), a management company. The dispute resulted in 
the hiring of replacement umpires for a number of games, followed by minor 
concessions by both parties, resulting in a slight wage increase for umpires 
employed in Minor League Baseball. In 1999, the Minor League umpires, under 
the umbrella of the Professional Baseball Umpire Corp (PBUC), unionized 
themselves and formed the Association of Minor League Umpires (AMLU). The 
following year the AMLU signed a salary contract with the PBUC.[1] The 
union was formed to provide support and protection for the umpires in contract 
negotiations with PBUC, which is in turn governed by the National Association 
of Professional Baseball Leagues (NAPBL).[2] As of the 2006 strike, the 
president of the union was Andy Roberts, a triple-A umpire. On the side 
of management, Pat O’Conner, the acting chief operating officer and VP 
and George Yund, the PBUC attorney were two of the key players in the contract 
negotiations for the PBUC.[3] The AMLU represents about 220 umpires in 
the 16 different leagues within Minor League Baseball.[1] The primary impetus 
for the strike came from AMLU's distaste for its umpires' salaries. Though 
they have always been rather low in accordance with PBUC's idea that umpiring 
is not a proper career, AMLU insisted that they had become too low. Umpires 
in Minor League make “15,000 at Triple-A, $12,000 at Double-A, and $10,000 
in full season and $5,500 in rookie leagues over a 142-game schedule,” 
said Associated Press and Jeffery Lane of In These Times.[4] This is just 
a fraction of the salary for Major League umpires, who make anywhere from 
$84,000 to $300,000 annually for their schedule of 162 games. This disparity 
could be because of the difference in salary between Minor and Major League 
Baseball players. The money flowing into the major league is much greater 
than that which is flowing into the Minor League. Many Minor League umpires 
require an extra job or even two during the off-season to make ends meet.[5] 
This situation may not always be tenable, however, as the difficulty of 
the on-season schedule prevents the umps from maintaining their second 
job during the baseball season. This leads to a challenge in finding a 
steady job with an opportunity for advancement. The strike began when irked 
umpires filed a lawsuit with the National Labor Relations Board Florida 
against PBUC in mid-March on the grounds that PBUC threatened to fire those 
umpires who decided to strike. There was some speculation that the AMLU 
union umpires intended to strike in early 2006, just after their contracts 
expired in late 2005. However, the rumors turned out to be insubstantial. 
When it was time to renew the expired contract, the AMLU umpires demanded 
salary increases which the PBUC was unwilling to pay. It was decided then 
that the umpires would go on strike. The umpires refused to report for 
Spring Training, marking the beginning of their official strike of 2006. 
The first game of Minor League Baseball on Thursday, April 4, 2006 began 
with a replacement umpire.[5] The umpires demanded a $100 per day salary 
increase and a $10 per diem increase. In the 2000 contract which AMLU initially 
signed with PBUC, the rookies were getting paid $1800 per month and the 
senior umpires were getting paid up to $3400 per month. This salary was 
not enough, considering that their schedule only lasts for 5 to 6 months, 
leaving their annual salary at a meager $15,000-$20,000. Per diem rates 
ranged from about $20 for rookies, up to $25 for senior umpires. According 
to AMLU, the per diem rate in the 2000 contract was completely inadequate 
to meet the needs of umpires. Because the umpires spend the 5-month season 
on the road, living in hotels and eating in restaurants, their daily food 
and gas expenses could not be met with the 2006 per diem rate first proposed 
by PBUC. The dispute began in February 2006. As PBUC's contract with AMLU 
had expired in 2005, both groups were engaged in negotiating the terms 
of the next 5-year contract for the umpires. Contention emerged over a 
salary hike proposed by PBUC, the first in almost a decade. PBUC offered 
a $100-a-month raise as well as an across-the-board increase of $1 per 
day to the per diem payments. The deal also included a proposal to raise 
the deductible for the umpires' health insurance from $100 to $500, reducing 
the effective amount of the salary hike. AMLU rejected the deal outright, 
claiming that it was insufficient to meet their needs. AMLU made an announcement 
on March 24, 2006 that they had filed unfair labor practice charges with 
the National Labor Relations Board against PBUC. The umpires began to strike 
shortly thereafter.[6] The first Minor Leagues to announce that their umpires 
had failed to report on April 4 for opening day were the International 
and Texas leagues. Umpires for the Southern League failed to report on 
April 5. April 6 was the national opening day for Minor League Baseball. 
Two hundred and twenty umpires represented by the AMLU went on strike, 
refusing to report across 16 different leagues. Management (PBUC) then 
issued a statement that they had made their best and final offer. They 
then announced that they would continue the season, implying that they 
would employ the use of replacement umpires in the place of the professional 
AMLU workers.[5] On May 11 some major league umpires joined with the AMLU 
umpires in a show of solidarity. Tim Timmons, Randy Marsh, Angel Hernandez, 
Hunter Wendelstedt and Sam Holbrook arrived in the picket line outside 
of Cooper Stadium to strike alongside AMLU umpires.[7] For the duration 
of the strike, PBUC management called in replacements for the 220 AMLU 
umpires on strike. These replacements consisted largely of college and 
high school umpires. For fear of reprisals, PBUC refused to release the 
names of the replacements. A number of incidents involving the replacement 
umpires followed. Some players, coaches, managers and AMLU representatives 
placed the blame on the replacements. One of the most publicized mishaps 
involving the replacements occurred on April 26 during a game in Pawtucket. 
After striking out at the plate, a frustrated Delmon Young of Durham threw 
his bat at the umpire in response to what he thought was a bad call. The 
bat hit the umpire, bringing criticism from MiLB and earning a 50-game 
suspension. In another incident, Birmingham Barons manager Chris Cron walked 
out in anger with his team in the 8th inning of a game against Jacksonville 
after the benches were vacated three separate times. After being ejected 
from a game on May 1, Ottawa manager Dave Trembley declared the replacement 
umpire’s performance as “the worst officiating [he had] ever seen in 20 
years of professional baseball. [It was] an embarrassment to the International 
League and an embarrassment to [me]."[8] One International League player 
remarked, "It's definitely not professional baseball the way they're calling 
balls and strikes. I've been called out twice on balls that bounced in 
the dirt. Definitely hitters are taking a beating and so are the pitchers. 
I know guys on our team are throwing pitches sometimes down the middle 
and (they're) getting called balls. And sometimes they're 10 inches outside 
and they're called strikes.[8] Both AMLU lawyer Robert Weaver and a National 
League scout criticized the skills of the replacements. Weaver said of 
the replacement umpires' performances, “It's definitely inconsistent and 
it's affecting careers. Players' numbers are down. I think the league ERA 
is an earned run lower than it was last year."[8] Management within PBUC 
as well as MiLB, however, was supportive of the replacement umpires. Both 
PBUC and MiLB denied the charges made by players, managers, AMLU and coaches 
that the replacement umpires were unprofessional, lacking the experience 
and skills to manage the players and make the proper calls. Pat O'Connor, 
vice president of Minor League Baseball, praised the replacement umpires 
for their effort. He also mentioned that the replacement umpires had done 
quite well during the strike and would be needed again in the event that 
an AMLU umpire became injured or sick.[9] After a few grueling weeks of 
the Minor League umpire strike, which began on April 6, 2006, negotiations 
were finally settled between the Association of Minor League Umpires (AMLU) 
and the Professional Baseball Umpire Corporation (PBUC).[9] The umpires 
who had been on strike resumed work on June 12, 2006. An earlier contract 
had been proposed but rejected by the AMLU on a 2-1 vote, most likely due 
to disagreement over the salary terms.[9] However, days later, along with 
the help of a federal mediator, the two sides were able to devise a new 
contract. Through the use of collective bargaining and a labor strike, 
umpires were able to negotiate an increase to their per diem payments by 
$3, up to a maximum of $40 depending on the league.[10] As for monthly 
salaries, there was an increase of $100, also a part of the six-year agreement. 
MiLB and PBUC were at peace with the arrangement. Pat O’ Conner, VP of 
MiLB, stated that he was “happy to have reached a deal that will assure 
labor peace with [the] umpires through the 2011 season.” [9] 1999 Major 
