KFWB Vin Scully, Rick Monday, Charley Steiner, Jerry Reuss In 2006, the 
Los Angeles Dodgers looked to improve their record from 2005. The team 
switched General Managers from Paul DePodesta to Ned Colletti, and hired 
Grady Little as the new manager. The Dodgers were able to win 88 games. 
In the National League Western Division, the Dodgers won the wild card, 
but in the first round of the playoffs lost in three straight games against 
the Mets. This is also their first season to be broadcast on KCAL-TV (9). 
After a season battling injuries to team leaders Jeff Kent and all-star 
Nomar Garciaparra, the Dodgers were able to produce with several young 
rookies such as Russell Martin, Andre Ethier, James Loney, Chad Billingsley, 
and Jonathan Broxton. Key reliever Yhency Brazobán was sidelined with Tommy 
John surgery, and closer Éric Gagné was sidelined with a back injury. However, 
rookie pitcher Takashi Saito took over the closing role and instantly became 
one of the game's best closers, ending the season with 24 saves in just 
half of the season. Los Angeles had a very streaky season in 2006. After 
they started just 12–17, the Dodgers went on to win 15 of their next 18 
games to improve to 27-20. They were 46-42 at the all-star break, two games 
back of the San Diego Padres in a tough division (all five teams in the 
N.L. West were .500 or better at the all-star break). Two Dodger players, 
Nomar Garciaparra, and Brad Penny, were selected to play in the All-Star 
Game. After the all-star break, the Dodgers lost 13 of their first 14 games. 
As a result, their record dropped to 47–55, and they were in last place 
in the N.L. West, 7½ games out of first place. Los Angeles would bounce 
back from this losing streak to win 17 out of their next 18 games, the 
first time the Dodgers did so since 1899. At the end of this winning stretch, 
Los Angeles was in first place with a record of 64–56. During this stretch, 
the Dodgers acquired Wilson Betemit from the Atlanta Braves, Julio Lugo 
from the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, and pitcher Greg Maddux from the Chicago 
Cubs. Maddux proved to be the biggest transition for the Dodgers, as he 
provided the Dodgers' starting rotation with a veteran arm and pitching 
depth. The highlight of the 2006 season for Los Angeles was on September 
18, against the San Diego Padres. Coming into the four-game series, Los 
Angeles held a half game lead in the N.L. West over San Diego with two 
and a half weeks left in the season. Los Angeles won the first game of 
the series 3–1 after a strong pitching performance by Maddux, extending 
the Dodgers' lead to a 1½ games over San Diego. The second game of the 
series was an 11–2 rout in favor of San Diego, trimming the Dodgers lead 
back to a half game. The third game of the series was a pitchers' duel 
between San Diego's Chris Young and the Dodgers Derek Lowe. San Diego scored 
first after Russell Branyan hit a solo home run to make it 1-0. Russell 
Martin tied the game at 1-1 with a solo home run of his own in the 7th. 
But San Diego won the game 2-1 when Khalil Greene scored on Terrmel Sledge's 
single. San Diego's victory gave them a half game lead over the Dodgers 
in the N.L. West. The last game of the series on September 18 was a rocky 
start for the Dodgers. Brad Penny gave up four runs in the first inning, 
giving San Diego a 4-0 lead. Los Angeles slowly climbed back into the game, 
and tied the score 4-4 in the third inning. Neither team scored again until 
San Diego scored two in the top of the 8th to take a 6-4 lead. The Dodgers 
would cut San Diego's lead to one run after Wilson Betemit drove in Marlon 
Anderson with an RBI single. San Diego scored three runs in the top of 
the 9th and appeared to have broken the game wide open with a 9-5 lead. 
With a four-run lead, San Diego elected to bring in Jon Adkins to pitch 
the 9th instead of closer Trevor Hoffman, who at the time was just three 
saves shy of tying the all-time record. Jeff Kent and J. D. Drew hit back-to-back 
home runs off of Adkins to close the lead to 9–7 with nobody out. San Diego 
then elected to bring Hoffman in to finish the game. Hoffman however, gave 
up back-to-back home runs to Martin and Anderson on the first two pitches 
Hoffman threw, tying the score at 9–9. It was only the fourth time a team 
hit four consecutive home runs in an inning, and the first time since the 
Minnesota Twins did so in 1964. San Diego scored a run in the top of the 
10th on Josh Bard's RBI single to take a 10-9 lead. But after Kenny Lofton 
walked, Nomar Garciaparra hit the game-winning two-run walk off home run. 
The Dodgers' 11–10 victory gave them a half game lead over San Diego with 
just two weeks left in the season. San Diego and Los Angeles finished the 
season tied for first place in the N.L. West at 88–74. San Diego however, 
was awarded the division title because they had won 13 of 18 games from 
Los Angeles during the regular season, giving the Dodgers the wild card 
spot. Infielders Coaches Upon entering the playoffs, they were swept at 
Shea Stadium. Reliever Joe Beimel cut his hand on glass at a bar while 
drinking. Beimel told his teammates, he did it in his hotel room but then 
later revealed the truth. Beimel was sidelined during all of the Division 
Series. Shea Stadium, Flushing Meadows, Queens, New York Shea Stadium, 
Flushing Meadows, Queens, New York Dodger Stadium, Los Angeles The Dodgers 
selected 50 players in this draft. Of those, seven of them would eventually 
play Major League baseball. The Dodgers gained an extra first round pick 
and a supplemental first round pick as a result of losing pitcher Jeff 
Weaver to the Angels. They also lost their second and third round picks 
as a result of their signing free agents Rafael Furcal and Bill Mueller. 
The top draft pick was left-handed pitcher Clayton Kershaw from Highland 
Park High School in University Park, Texas. Kershaw would win the 2014 
NL MVP Award as well as multiple Cy Young Awards. He also pitched a no-hitter 
and led the league in ERA for four straight seasons. The other first round 
picks were right-handed pitcher Bryan Morris from Motlow State Community 
College and shortstop Preston Mattingly from Central High School. Morris 
was part of the Dodgers 2008 trade for Manny Ramirez and eventually made 
it to the Majors. Mattingly, the son of All-Star first baseman and later 
Dodgers manager Don Mattingly never panned out. He hit just .232 in 463 
minor league games over six seasons before he was eventually released. 
