The 2006 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2006 National League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 3, and ended on 
Sunday, October 8, with the champions of the three NL divisions—along with 
a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They were: 
The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which was 
determined by playing record. The Padres were awarded the Western Division 
title over the Dodgers due to their winning the season series against Los 
Angeles 13–5. The Mets and the Cardinals met in the NL Championship Series, 
with the Cardinals becoming the National League champion and going on to 
face the American League champion Detroit Tigers in the 2006 World Series. 
The NL playoff race was highly dramatic when as many as six teams entered 
the final weekend of the regular season fighting for the final three playoff 
spots. Two of three division champions were decided on the final day of 
the regular season. The New York Mets began the season with high hopes 
of finally ending the Atlanta Braves' string of division titles. The Mets 
lived up to their high expectations and roared out of the gate, taking 
over first place in the division on the fourth day of the season and never 
looking back. They won seven of their first eight games, and had built 
up a double-digit lead in the standings by the end of June. The Mets clinched 
the division on September 18, and finished twelve games ahead of the Philadelphia 
Phillies. The Braves finished third, eighteen games back. However, the 
Mets entered the postseason without injured ace Pedro Martínez, and learned 
the day before Game 1 of the Division Series that projected Game 1 starter 
Orlando Hernández would be lost for the whole round. The St. Louis Cardinals' 
run to their third consecutive Central Division championship pales in comparison 
to their runs in the previous two seasons. Like the previous two seasons, 
the Cardinals took over the lead in the division early on, overtaking the 
Cincinnati Reds on June 9. It appeared as if this season would be like 
the previous two as the Cardinals steadily built up their lead up to as 
much as five and a half games and a 42–26 record on June 19. The Cardinals 
began interleague play by being swept by both the Chicago White Sox and 
Detroit Tigers as part of an eight-game losing streak. Despite the streak, 
they did not relinquish the division lead. The Reds were able to tie the 
Cardinals in the standings on June 30 and July 1, but the Cardinals regained 
sole possession of first place the following day and held onto the lead 
for the rest of the season despite additional losing streaks of eight and 
seven games. The main contributor to the Cardinals' struggles was the numerous 
injuries to key players throughout the season to include Albert Pujols, 
Jim Edmonds, David Eckstein, Chris Carpenter, Mark Mulder, and Jason Isringhausen. 
The title appeared to be well in hand on September 19 with leads of seven 
games over the Reds and eight and half games over the Houston Astros with 
just thirteen games left to play. The Cardinals then went on a seven-game 
losing streak just as the Astros won seven consecutive, shrinking their 
lead to just a game and a half. The Cardinals were able to regain their 
composure by winning three of their next four and clinching on the final 
day of the season with an Astros loss to the Atlanta Braves. The San Diego 
Padres playoff run was led by their strong pitching and saw closer Trevor 
Hoffman overtake Lee Smith as the all-time saves leader. This season also 
marked the first time in Padres history that the team went to the playoffs 
in consecutive years. The Padres did not clinch a playoff spot until the 
final weekend of the regular season and finished with an identical record 
as the Los Angeles Dodgers, but were awarded the Western Division title 
due to the Padres winning the season series with Dodgers 13–5. The Los 
Angeles Dodgers' run to the playoffs was most notable for their streaky 
play in the second half of the season. The Dodgers started the second half 
by losing thirteen out of fourteen games and trailing the Padres by seven 
and a half games, in last place in the division, and behind eight teams 
in the wild card race. They immediately followed that streak by winning 
seventeen of their next eighteen to put them on top of the division by 
three and half games and to have a better record than all eight teams they 
had trailed in the wild card race prior to the streak. Their inconsistent 
play continued as they were swept by the Padres in late August as part 
of a four-game losing streak, only to follow that up by winning seven consecutive, 
then losing their next three. The Dodgers finished the season strong by 
winning their final seven games, clinching a playoff berth in the final 
weekend over the Philadelphia Phillies and finishing tied with the Padres. 
The Dodgers were awarded the wild-card spot based on their 5-13 head-to-head 
record against San Diego, who earned the divisional championship. New York 
won the series, 3–0. St. Louis won the series, 3–1. The Mets found themselves 
down two pitchers before the start of the series, first losing ace Pedro 
Martínez for the postseason and then losing probable Game 1 starter Orlando 
Hernández just hours before first pitch. Despite having a potent offense, 
pundits lessened the Mets' chances to pull off a series victory with their 
starting rotation so diminished. What actually ensued was Mets pitching 
helping to keep the two bats at the top of the Dodgers order from doing 
any consistent damage. Rafael Furcal and Kenny Lofton went 3 for 24 (.125) 
in the series combined. In the regular season, they hit .300 and stole 
59 bases combined. Dodgers second baseman Jeff Kent had eight hits in the 
three-game series. Only Fernando Viña had more hits in a series that lasted 
three games. Shea Stadium in Queens, New York The game started off with 
Mets rookie starter John Maine on the mound as an emergency replacement 
for Orlando Hernández. Hernández was sidelined with a torn muscle, and 
ended up missing the rest of the postseason. Maine kept the Mets in the 
game with only one earned run in 4 1⁄3 innings pitched. This game was notable 
for having two runners getting tagged out at home plate in the second inning. 
With runners on first and second and nobody out, catcher Russell Martin 
hit a line drive to the wall in right field. Jeff Kent tried to tag up 
from second base in the event that right fielder Shawn Green caught the 
ball. Instead, the ball sailed over Green's head. Both Kent and J. D. Drew 
raced around the bases towards the plate. Green threw to cut-off man José 
Valentín, who relayed to Paul Lo Duca at the plate. Lo Duca was first able 
to tag out Kent. Drew, trying to score in desperation right behind Kent, 
was also tagged out at the plate. Lo Duca almost didn't see Drew in time 
to slap the tag on. The Dodgers would score a run later in the inning, 
but Carlos Delgado and Cliff Floyd hit home runs in the fourth. Nomar Garciaparra 
was able to tie the game at four with a two-RBI double in the top of the 
seventh, but Delgado and David Wright gave the Mets the lead for good in 
the bottom of the seventh with RBI hits off Brad Penny (who was relieving 
Derek Lowe), with closer Billy Wagner nailing down the save. Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York Game 2 pitted Dodgers rookie Hong-Chih Kuo against 
Tom Glavine, who earned the win, with the Mets offense manufacturing runs. 
In the bottom of the third, outfielder Endy Chávez hit a bunt single to 
lead off the inning. That led to a José Reyes RBI ground out. In the sixth, 
Paul Lo Duca hit a sacrifice fly to give the Mets a 2–0 lead. In the seventh, 
after pinch-hitter Julio Franco hit into a fielder's choice, driving in 
a run, Reyes drove in another run with an RBI single. Wilson Betemit hit 
a home run for the Dodgers but lost 4–1. The Dodgers were hit with more 
bad news. Nomar Garciaparra was lost after a leg injury that would keep 
him off the field except for pinch-hitting duties. Dodger Stadium in Los 
Angeles, California In Los Angeles the Mets jumped out on Dodgers veteran 
starter Greg Maddux for three runs in the first inning, and added another 
in the third. The Dodgers came back in the fourth inning with a bases-loaded 
double by rookie first baseman James Loney off Mets starter Steve Trachsel 
for two runs to make the score 4–2. Loney was starting in place of the 
injured Nomar Garciaparra. In the fifth, Jeff Kent hit a two-run home run 
off reliever Darren Oliver to tie the game at four. The Dodgers would add 
another run in the inning as Loney drew a bases-loaded walk. But the Mets 
proved too relentless. Trailing 5–4 in the sixth, Shawn Green started off 
with a leadoff double. After José Valentín popped out on the infield, pinch 
hitter Michael Tucker drew a walk. Three consecutive bloop hits from José 
Reyes, Paul Lo Duca, and Carlos Beltrán, plated three Met runs, making 
the score 7–5. Having taken the lead, the Mets never looked back, adding 
two more runs in the eighth, to take a 9–5 lead. Former Dodgers Green and 
Lo Duca finished with two RBI each and Pedro Feliciano earned the win. 
This was the first time that the Mets swept a postseason series since the 
1969 NLCS. 2006 NLDS (3–0): New York Mets over Los Angeles Dodgers Petco 
Park in San Diego, California In a pitching rematch of Game 1 of the 2005 
NLDS, Chris Carpenter and Jake Peavy both started strong through three 
innings and it appeared that the pitcher’s duel that was expected the previous 
year would occur this time around. That changed in the fourth inning when 
Chris Duncan hit a leadoff single, then Albert Pujols hit a two-run home 
run 422 feet (129 m) into one of the deepest parts of Petco Park. Jim Edmonds 
then singled, moved to third on Scott Rolen's double, and scored on Juan 
Encarnacion's sacrifice fly. The Cardinals added to their lead on Edmonds's 
RBI single next inning that scored David Eckstein from third and in the 
sixth when Ronnie Belliard singled with one out, stole second, and scored 
on Yadier Molina's single to knock Peavy out of the game. Carpenter on 
the other hand continued his strong pitching performance as he pitched 
into the seventh inning, allowing just one run to cross the plate when 
Dave Roberts tripled with one out in the sixth and scored on Brian Giles's 
sacrifice fly. The Cardinal bullpen, which had been shaky down the stretch, 
pitched the final 2 2⁄3 innings of the game allowing just one hit. The 
Cardinals led the best-of-five series one game to none.[8] Petco Park in 
San Diego, California Cardinal starter Jeff Weaver and four relievers combined 
on a four-hitter to shut out the Padres 2–0. The only runs scored in the 
game came in the fourth when Preston Wilson hit a leadoff double and scored 
on a single by Albert Pujols, who reached single on Dave Roberts's throw 
to home. Pujols moved to third on a groundout before scoring on Jim Edmonds's 
RBI single. Padres starter David Wells pitched five solid innings in a 
losing effort. Busch Stadium (III) in St. Louis, Missouri Game 3 ended 
the Padres' eight-game winless streak against the Cardinals in the postseason 
and gave them their first postseason win since Game 6 of the 1998 NLCS. 
However, they left fourteen runners on base. The Padres scored their runs 
in the third off of Jeff Suppan when he allowed a one out double to Adrian 
Gonzalez and walked Mike Cameron before both men scored on Russell Branyan's 
double to left with Branyan reaching third on Chris Duncan's throw to home. 
Branyan then scored on Geoff Blum's sacrifice fly. The Cardinals scored 
their only run in the eight on So Taguchi's home run off of reliever Scott 
Linebrink. As of 2015[update], this was the last postseason win for the 
Padres. This was also the last playoff game to be televised by the ESPN 
family of networks, at least until 2013. Busch Stadium (III) in St. Louis, 
Missouri After losing Game 3, Cardinals manager Tony La Russa decided to 
use Carpenter to start Game 4 in hopes of closing out the Series at home. 
Carpenter started off shakily, allowing back-to-back one hit singles to 
Brian Giles and Adrian Gonzalez and walking Josh Bard to load the bases. 
Russell Branyan walked to force in a run before Mike Cameron's groundout 
scored another. Carpenter settled down and pitched six scoreless innings 
before being pulled in the eighth. St. Louis answered by loaded the bases 
in the bottom of the inning off of Woody Williams on a single, walk and 
hit by pitch with two outs before Ronnie Belliard tied the game with a 
two-run single, but was tagged out at second to end the inning. The game 
remained tied until the seventh when Albert Pujols drew a leadoff walk 
and scored on Juan Encarnacion's triple. Williams was replaced with Cla 
Meredith, who hit Belliard with a pitch before allowing an RBI single to 
Scott Spiezio. Yadier Molina's single loaded the bases before Padre third 
baseman Branyan's throwing error to second on Carpenter's ground ball scored 
Belliard and kept the bases loaded. David Eckstein's sacrifice bunt scored 
Spiezio to give the Cardinals a 6–2 lead. Rookie pitcher Adam Wainwright 
pitched a scoreless ninth despite allowing two hits to close out the Series 
and allow the Cardinals to advance to the NLCS for the third consecutive 
year. The offensive woes that plagued the Padres in the first three games 
continued for the Padres in Game 4. The team failed to score after the 
first, and went a combined 2-for-32 with runners in scoring position in 
the Series. It was the final Division Series game televised by Fox, at 
least for the foreseeable future. This is also, as of 2006, the last playoff 
game for the Padres. 2006 NLDS (3–1): St. Louis Cardinals over San Diego 
Padres Payoff pitch again...there he goes...and there it goes! To deep 
left center field! Back, back, back, gone! Albert Pujols has done it again, 
a two-run shot here in the fourth inning and the Cardinals have struck 
first 2–0. 3–2 to Martinez...in the air down the right field line. Green, 
in the corner, he's got room...and the New York Mets, for the first time 
since 2000, will advance to the National League Championship Series, they 
have swept the Dodgers, three games to none. Now it's three and two, Loney 
running, Wagner deals: Swing and a fly ball, right field, towards the line...Green 
over...in foul ground, makes the catch! Put it in the books! The Mets are 
gonna play for the pennant! They have swept the Dodgers in the National 
League Division Series, winning three straight. They blew a four-run lead 
early, the Dodgers came back to take a 5–4 lead, but the Mets stormed back, 
they win it 9–5 and now they are all jumping up and down right in front 
of second base! 2–2 pitch...breaking ball, on the ground to Pujols, and 
for the third straight year the St. Louis Cardinals advance to the National 
League Championship Series. Swing and a slow roller to the Cardinal first 
baseman, he takes care of it unassisted, and the Redbirds are headin' for 
