The Minnesota Twins 2006 season ended with Minnesota finishing the regular 
season as champions of the American League Central Division, but were swept 
in three games by the Oakland Athletics in the 2006 American League Division 
Series. The Twins stumbled out of the gate after the death of Hall of Famer 
Kirby Puckett in late March, accumulating a dismal 25-33 record by June 
7. Around that time, the team dropped underperforming veterans like Tony 
Batista, Juan Castro, and Kyle Lohse, replacing them with talented rookies 
from the Rochester Red Wings. The Twins went 9-1 in their next ten games, 
evening their record at 34-34. Interleague play was particularly generous 
to the team; the Twins had Major League Baseball's best Interleague record 
at 16 wins and 2 losses. By July 26 the team had won 34 of 42 games, leaving 
them tied with the White Sox at 59-41, but still 8.5 games behind the division-leading 
Tigers. As the season neared its conclusion, the Twins continued to put 
distance between them and the White Sox, while gaining on the Tigers. A 
key series starting on September 7 saw the Twins take three out of four 
from the Tigers. And after a commanding win in Boston on September 19, 
the Twins found themselves within a half game of the Central-leading Tigers. 
On September 25, the Twins beat Kansas City 8-1 to secure an American League 
playoff berth. A win in a 10-inning game against the Royals on September 
28 moved the Twins into a tie with the Tigers atop the AL Central. With 
that win, the Twins broke a major league record by moving into first place 
after the team's 159th game. This was the latest in a season that a team 
moved into first place for the first time all season. (It was a tie for 
first at this point.) The Tigers led the season series, so a tie at the 
end of the season between the Tigers and Twins would have meant the Twins 
get the wild card. Instead, the Tigers were swept by 100-game-losers Kansas 
City to end the season, and the Twins took one of three from the White 
Sox, giving the Twins their fourth AL Central title in five years. It was 
the first time in major league history that a team clinched on the last 
day of the season after never having held sole possession of first place. 
For the first time since 1987, the Twins had legitimate power hitters in 
Justin Morneau, Torii Hunter, and Michael Cuddyer. On August 9, Morneau 
became the first Twin to hit 30 or more home runs since 1987, when Tom 
Brunansky, Gary Gaetti, and Kent Hrbek did it. During the same span: Morneau 
finished the season with 34 home runs, 130 runs batted in, and a .321 average 
and was named American League MVP. Both Morneau and Joe Mauer won their 
first Silver Slugger Awards. Hunter enjoyed a late season surge to also 
reach the 30 home run mark. On September 25, he homered off Kansas City 
Royals pitcher Zack Greinke in the bottom of the 7th inning and became 
the second Twin to hit 30 home runs in 2006. He finished the season with 
31 home runs and 98 runs batted in. Michael Cuddyer also had a breakout 
season as the Twins' cleanup hitter. He did not start the season as a regular 
player, but eventually replaced the ineffective opening day right fielder, 
Jason Kubel. By June, he was hitting fourth in the lineup, and he finished 
the season with 24 home runs, 109 runs batted in, scored 102 runs, and 
hit for a .284 average. Morneau and catcher Joe Mauer may have finally 
earned the nickname "The M&M Boys", that had been prematurely applied to 
them early in the 2005 season. (This was the nickname applied to Mickey 
Mantle and Roger Maris in the early 1960s.) Not only did Mauer win the 
American League batting title, but he led the major leagues with a .347 
average, finishing ahead of National League champion Freddy Sanchez. Mauer 
was the first catcher to lead either the American League or the majors 
in hitting. Two catchers did win the National League batting title. Bubbles 
Hargrave of the Cincinnati Reds did it in 1926. Ernie Lombardi led the 
National League twice: once for the Reds in 1938 and once for the Boston 
Braves in 1942. However, neither catcher won the major league title. These 
strong hitters were complemented by the top and bottom of the Twins' order, 
where the players gave the hitters plenty of opportunities to drive in 
runs. Midway through the season, the Twins opted for a lineup that included 
Jason Tyner batting eighth, Jason Bartlett ninth, Luis Castillo first, 
and Nick Punto second. Manager Ron Gardenhire said that these players are 
like four leadoff hitters: all are fast and hit for average but not power. 
All four hit between .290 (Punto) and .312 (Tyner), but hit a combined 
six home runs.[6] Players like this caused Chicago White Sox manager Ozzie 
Guillén to dub the team "the Little Piranhas."[7] Quoth Guillen: "All those 
piranhas -- blooper here, blooper here, beat out a ground ball, hit a home 
run, they're up by four. They get up by four with that bullpen? See you 
at the national anthem tomorrow. When I sit down and look at the lineup, 
give me the New York Yankees. Give me those guys because they've got holes. 
You can pitch around them, you can pitch to them. These little guys? Castillo 
and all of them? People worry about the catcher, what's his name, Mauer? 
Fine, yeah, a good hitter, but worry about the little [guys], they're on 
base all the time." The Twins led the Major Leagues in batting average 
with a team average of .287. For much of the season, the Twins' starting 
rotation was its most apparent weakness. This is surprising, because the 
2005 Minnesota Twins had one of the strongest rotations in baseball. The 
team started the season with a rotation of Johan Santana, Brad Radke, Carlos 
Silva, Kyle Lohse, and Scott Baker. By September, only Santana could be 
counted on for a full, effective start. Baker was not effective and was 
quickly demoted to the minors, though he came back a couple times and had 
a couple competent starts. Lohse was ineffective, surly, and traded to 
the Cincinnati Reds midway through the season. Radke started slowly but 
seemed to find his form, providing some consistency to the number two spot 
before being sidelined with a torn labrum and a stress fracture in his 
right shoulder. Silva was unable to find his 2005 form, finishing the season 
with an ERA of 5.94. He did make a few strong starts in September before 
regressing. On May 19, talented rookie Francisco Liriano entered the starting 
rotation. He pitched well enough to earn an All-Star berth, finishing with 
a 12-3 record and a minuscule ERA of 2.16. Unfortunately, he was sidelined 
after the All-Star break with elbow problems. He did not pitch at all in 
2007, as he was recovering from Tommy John surgery. Boof Bonser had an 
up-and-down season, but finished strong with a 7-6 record and 4.22 ERA. 
This earned him a spot in the postseason rotation. Matt Garza was the team's 
top pitching prospect, but was inconsistent during his first partial year 
in the majors. The Twins had one of baseball's best bullpens. Dennys Reyes, 
signed to a minor-league deal during the offseason, provided a pleasant 
surprise with an excellent season as the Twins' sole left-handed reliever. 
Right-handers Jesse Crain and Juan Rincón set the stage throughout the 
season for closer Joe Nathan, with homegrown rookie Pat Neshek contributing 
some solid innings after being recalled from the minor leagues in July. 
Pitchers like Willie Eyre and Matt Guerrier ate up innings when the starters 
faltered. In the May 27 game against Seattle, Jesse Crain – with a lead 
– loaded the bases with no outs in the eighth. Juan Rincón replaced Crain, 
and promptly ended the threat – with just one pitch – by inducing Mariner 
Kenji Johjima to hit into a triple play. Rincon threw 26 more pitches in 
the ninth for the save. The Twins finished tied for second place in the 
American League with a .986 fielding percentage.[8] The team's defense 
was noticeably stronger when the left side of the infield was revamped 
in June, when the team traded shortstop Juan Castro to Cincinnati and released 
third baseman Tony Batista. Jason Bartlett and Nick Punto stepped into 
those roles, providing an immediate upgrade. In center field, Torii Hunter 
won his sixth Gold Glove Award. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] 
[11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = 
Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in After 
the Twins won the division, the American League playoff matchups were decided 
as follows: number two seed Minnesota hosting number three seed Oakland, 
and number one seed New York hosting the wild card Detroit. The Twins were 
defeated by Oakland in a three-game sweep, ending their playoff run for 
2006. The Twins got great starts from both Johan Santana and Boof Bonser 
(who made his first post season appearance) at the Metrodome. After losing 
game 1 by the score of 3-2, the Twins came back to even the score at 2 
in game 2. With two outs and a runner on first in the top of the 7th inning, 
Mark Kotsay hit a line drive to center field that Torii Hunter made a valiant 
dive for. Unfortunately, the ball sailed past him all the way to the wall, 
resulting in an inside-the-park home run for Kotsay. This play seemed to 
take all the momentum away from the Twins. The Twins never led in any game 
