The 2006 Detroit Tigers won the American League Pennant. They represented 
the AL in the World Series before falling to the St. Louis Cardinals 4 
games to 1. The season was their 106th since they entered the AL in 1901. 
It was their 7th season since opening Comerica Park in 2000. The Detroit 
Tigers were baseball's surprise success story of 2006.[1] After years of 
futility, including an AL-record 119 losses in 2003, the 2006 season had 
the Tigers surging to the top of the major league standings in May, a position 
they did not relinquish until the final day of the season.[2] The play 
of veterans like Kenny Rogers and Todd Jones, the emergence of previously 
unestablished players Curtis Granderson, Brandon Inge, Craig Monroe and 
Marcus Thames, and significant production from erstwhile All-Stars Iván 
Rodríguez, Magglio Ordóñez and Carlos Guillén all contributed to the team's 
success. A great deal of credit was also given to manager Jim Leyland. 
On April 17, after an uninspiring 10-2 loss at home to the Cleveland Indians 
dropped the team's record to 7-6, the manager launched into a tirade against 
the team about its lack of effort, telling the media, "We stunk. They [the 
players] were already on the plane to Oakland." It appeared to light a 
fire under the players, spurring them on to a stretch in which they won 
28 of 35 games.[3] Leyland repeatedly preached the concept of playing hard 
for nine full innings, and the players took up that mantra, as evidenced 
not just by their words but also by the team's propensity for late-inning 
clutch hits, rallies and comebacks.[4] Statistically, the biggest factor 
in the team's success was its pitching, which led the major leagues in 
ERA and shutouts.[5] Rookie Justin Verlander won the AL Rookie of the Year 
Award, and fellow starters Kenny Rogers, Jeremy Bonderman and Nate Robertson, 
as well as rookie reliever Joel Zumaya, all had noteworthy seasons. There 
was concern when starter Mike Maroth had to undergo surgery early in the 
season, but his replacement Zach Miner proved to be adequate. The Tigers' 
newfound success attracted a new generation of fans, many of whom who had 
never seen winning baseball in Detroit before.[6] Detroit hit 16 home runs 
in their first four games, the most ever by any team in their first four 
games of the season. Tigers fans traveled to road games in large numbers, 
most notably at the interleague series with the Chicago Cubs at Wrigley 
Field from June 16–18. The crowd could be heard chanting "Let's Go Tigers!" 
throughout all three games, all of which were Detroit victories.[7] The 
major doubt many fans and pundits had was whether the Tigers could compete 
against other top-tier American League teams. Early in the season, the 
team lost series to the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox, and lost five 
of six games to the reigning World Series champion (and AL Central rival) 
Chicago White Sox.[8] However, on July 20, at a game which featured a particularly 
stirring rendition of the national anthem by local opera singer Eugene 
Zweig,[9] and a standing-room-only crowd that included actor Tom Hanks 
and director Ron Howard,[10] the Tigers beat White Sox pitching ace José 
Contreras to take the series two games to one from the White Sox, the team's 
first series victory against an upper-echelon AL team in 2006. In their 
next two series, against the AL West division-leading Oakland Athletics, 
and the red-hot Minnesota Twins, who were 34-8 over their previous 42 games, 
the Tigers also won two out of three. On July 31, Tigers management traded 
minor-league pitcher Brian Rogers to the Pittsburgh Pirates in exchange 
for left-handed hitting and three-time All Star first baseman Sean Casey.[11] 
The move added a left-handed bat to the lineup, especially necessary after 
Dmitri Young was released in September. On August 7, the Tigers were 40 
games above .500 (76-36) and cruising. They would lose their next five 
games, and the last six weeks of the season were punctuated by a nosedive, 
as Plácido Polanco's separated shoulder and suddenly silent bats led to 
a 19-31 record in the last 50 games of the season. Only the big cushion 
built in the summer saved the Tigers from what would have been baseball's 
most statistically infamous collapse, as they clinched a playoff berth 
on September 24 with an 11-4 win over the Kansas City Royals. But even 
that cushion couldn't save a division title. On October 1, despite a rare 
relief appearance from Kenny Rogers, the Tigers fell out of the top spot 
in the American League Central with a 10-8 extra-inning loss to the Royals 
in their last regular season game. Detroit lost their last five games, 
all at home, against the Toronto Blue Jays and the Royals. The final loss 
gave the Twins the AL Central title, and made the Tigers the wild card 
entrant in the American League Playoffs. Their opening-round opponent would 
be the New York Yankees. The Tigers ended the regular season with a 95-67 
record. There were many memorable moments during the regular season. Some 
of the highlights: [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] 
[14] Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = Position, G = Games played, 
AB = At bats, H = Hits, Avg. = Batting average, HR = Home runs, RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: pitchers' batting statistics not included Note: G = Games 
pitched, IP = Innings pitched, W = Wins, L = Losses, ERA = Earned run average, 
SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched, W = Wins, L = Losses, SV = Saves, 
HLD = Holds, ERA = Earned run average, SO = Strikeouts The New York Yankees 
were heavy favorites over the Tigers to win the series because of their 
"modern-day Murderers' Row" lineup. All nine batters were current or former 
All-Stars. The Yankees won the first game, 8-4. In Game 2, the Tigers took 
an early 1-0 lead before Johnny Damon hit a three-run homer for New York 
in the 4th inning. The Tigers came back with single runs in the 5th, 6th, 
and 7th, including a game-tying home run by Carlos Guillén and a go-ahead 
RBI triple by Curtis Granderson, to come from behind to win, 4-3. In Game 
3, which was the first postseason game played in Detroit since 1987, the 
Tigers shut out the Yankees, 6-0. Kenny Rogers pitched 7⅔ scoreless innings 
and struck out eight in winning for the first time in his postseason career[31] 
and defeated the Yankees for the first time since 1993. In Game 4, the 
Tigers defeated the Yankees 8-3 to win the American League Division Series, 
3 games to 1. Jeremy Bonderman threw a perfect game through five innings, 
and allowed just one run on five singles over his 8⅓ innings in giving 
the Tigers a second straight dominating starting pitching performance. 
The final out kicked off a joyous celebration of players and fans throughout 
Comerica Park and Downtown Detroit. The celebration even included Kenny 
Rogers pouring champagne over a police officer's head (he can be seen on 
video clearly asking permission before doing so). In the process of winning 
the final three games, the Tigers held the fearsome Yankees lineup scoreless 
for 20⅔ consecutive innings (from the 4th inning of Game 2 until the 7th 
inning of Game 4) while scoring 17 runs in that span. The Tigers faced 
the Oakland Athletics, winners of the American League Western Division. 
The A's had defeated the Minnesota Twins in a three-game sweep in the ALDS. 
The Tigers won Game 1, 5-1, as Nate Robertson scattered six hits and three 
walks over his five shutout innings. In the fourth inning, with men on 
second and third and nobody out, Robertson memorably struck out the side 
to preserve his own victory.[32] Detroit also won Game 2, 8-5. Oakland 
had an early two-run lead before the Tigers' four-run fourth inning gave 
them the lead for good. Seldom-used outfielder Alexis Gómez got the surprise 
start as the designated hitter. Gómez hit a homer and drove in four runs, 
providing another example of Jim Leyland pushing all the right buttons 
this season.[33] Returning to Comerica Park for Game 3, the Tigers shut 
out the A's, 3-0. Kenny Rogers was masterful again, allowing only two singles 
and running his scoreless streak to 15 innings, and the A's did not get 
a hit off relievers Fernando Rodney and Todd Jones. The two hits were the 
fewest allowed in a post-season game in franchise history.[34] In Game 
4, Oakland jumped out to an early 3-0 lead. Detroit, looking to sweep the 
A's, fought back with two runs in the fifth inning, on RBI doubles by Curtis 
Granderson and Craig Monroe, before Magglio Ordóñez tied it at 3-3 with 
a solo home run in the sixth. In the bottom of the ninth with two outs 
and runners on first and second base, Ordóñez hit his second home run of 
the night, a three-run walk-off home run off of A's closer Huston Street 
that sent the Tigers to their first World Series since 1984. The American 
League Pennant was the tenth in Tigers history, and the pennant was won 
with a walk-off home run for only the third time ever.[35] (The last team 
to do so was the 2003 New York Yankees, when Aaron Boone hit a walk off 
home run to defeat Boston.) Regardless of the outcome for the 2006 World 
Series, one manager would join Sparky Anderson as the only skippers in 
history to manage teams from both the AL and NL to a title. Cardinals manager 
Tony La Russa, who considers Anderson his mentor, won the 1989 World Series 
with the Athletics, while Tigers manager Jim Leyland had won the 1997 World 
Series with the Marlins. The Cardinals won the first game of the World 
Series in Detroit 7-2, behind excellent pitching from unheralded Cardinals 
starter Anthony Reyes. In Game Two, Kenny Rogers continued his astounding 
postseason, allowing two hits and no runs through eight innings, as the 
Tigers triumphed 3-1. But the Tigers lost the next three games. They were 
shut out 5-0 in game three by Cardinals starter Chris Carpenter; they lost 
a 5-4 heartbreaker in game four; and in game 5, the Tigers committed two 
costly errors, lost a 2-1 lead, and fell 4-2. In the first inning rookie 
pitcher Justin Verlander threw two wild pitches, tying the Series record 
(AP); this was in sharp contrast to the five total that he had thrown in 
all of his previous games. Verlander would go on to commit a throwing error 
in the fourth inning, allowing the tying run to score.[36] In the series, 
the Tigers committed eight errors, five by the pitching staff alone, the 
most in World Series history. While the Tigers' 4-1 World Series loss to 
the Cardinals was a complete disaster, it did not diminish the team's remarkable 
turnaround after 12 straight losing seasons. Note: G = Games played, AB 
= At bats, H = Hits, Avg. = Batting average, HR = Home runs, RBI = Runs 
batted in Note: G = Games pitched, IP = Innings pitched, W = Wins, L = 
Losses, ERA = Earned run average, SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched, 
W = Wins, L = Losses, SV = Saves, HLD = Holds, ERA = Earned run average, 
