The 2006 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 77th playing of the 
midseason exhibition baseball game between the all-stars of the American 
League (AL) and National League (NL), the two leagues comprising Major 
League Baseball. The game was held on July 11, 2006 at PNC Park in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, the home of the Pittsburgh Pirates of the National League. 
The contest was the fifth hosted by the city of Pittsburgh – tying the 
Cleveland Indians for the record of most times hosted by a single franchise. 
The game resulted in the American League defeating the National League 
3–2, thus awarding the AL champion (which was eventually the Detroit Tigers) 
home-field advantage in the 2006 World Series. As with each All-Star Game 
since 1970, the 8 starting position players (with no designated hitter 
due to playing in an NL stadium) of each league were elected by fan balloting. 
The remaining players were selected by a players' vote, each league's team 
manager, and the All-Star Final Vote to add one more player to each roster. 
In all, 32 players were selected to each league's team, not including players 
who decline to play due to injuries or personal reasons. The game was the 
fourth straight All-Star Game to decide home-field advantage in the World 
Series. The AL entered the game on a nine-game unbeaten streak (eight wins, 
with one tie in 2002). Many analysts saw the disparity between the leagues 
as more pronounced than ever this season,[1] particularly due to the AL's 
dominance during interleague play, compiling a 154–98 record, the best 
record for either league in the ten-year history of interleague play.[2] 
Players in italics have since been inducted into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame. National League starting pitcher Brad Penny set the tone 
for the evening, striking out Ichiro Suzuki, Derek Jeter, and David Ortiz 
to start the game. His fastball had uncharacteristic speed, never going 
below 96 miles per hour, and – aside from a lone curveball – was the only 
pitch he threw in the first inning. American League pitcher Kenny Rogers 
wasn't as overpowering as Penny, but still escaped the first relatively 
unscathed. The AL would get to Penny in the second as Vladimir Guerrero 
hit an opposite-field solo home run that just cleared the right field fence, 
giving the AL a 1–0 lead. The NL would respond in the bottom of the inning 
with David Wright hitting his own solo home run to left field, tying the 
game at 1–1. Roy Halladay relieved Rogers in the bottom of the third. It 
was in this inning when the National League exemplified what it does best: 
playing small. Alfonso Soriano hit a single with one out and stole second 
base on Gold Glove catcher Iván Rodríguez. He tried to score on a single 
by Carlos Beltran, but was thrown out at home plate by Vernon Wells. Beltran 
would advance to second on the throw, then steal third and score on a wild 
pitch by Halladay, giving the NL a 2–1 lead. That lead would seem like 
enough for the NL for most of the evening. After Roy Oswalt relieved Penny 
in the third, Brandon Webb, Bronson Arroyo, Brian Fuentes, Derrick Turnbow, 
and Tom Gordon would each throw an inning of scoreless relief, limiting 
the AL to just three hits in that span. After Halladay pitched the fourth, 
Barry Zito, Scott Kazmir, Johan Santana, and B.J. Ryan would also each 
pitch an inning without giving up a run, with the only baserunner allowed 
on a walk by Santana, the only walk of the game. Trevor Hoffman came on 
to try to earn the save in the ninth. After inducing two groundouts back 
to himself, it seemed like Hoffman, who, at the time, was second all-time 
in career saves, would finally send the American League to a loss in an 
All-Star Game for the first time in a decade. However, Paul Konerko hit 
a single to left past third baseman Miguel Cabrera, and was pinch-run for 
by José Lopez. Troy Glaus hit a ground rule double down the left field 
line, forcing Lopez to hold at third. While it looked like the National 
League received a break (as Lopez could have possibly scored the tying 
run if the ball stayed in play), Hoffman allowed a two-strike triple to 
Michael Young, who went on to win the MVP, scoring Lopez and Glaus and 
putting the AL up 3–2. Mariano Rivera would now try to save the game for 
the American League. Because Lopez pinch-ran for Konerko in the top of 
the ninth, the American League was left without any first basemen on the 
roster. Glaus, in the game as a third baseman, moved to first for the bottom 
of the inning, a position he never played before in his career, while Lopez 
played third. Despite an error made by Lopez, Rivera pitched a quiet ninth 
to earn the save and extend the American League's unbeaten streak to ten 
games. The Century 21 Real Estate Home Run Derby was held on the Monday 
before the game, July 10. Four players from each league competed to hit 
as many home runs in each round to advance and eventually win the contest. 
This year's Derby featured an important rule change: home runs in the first 
round would carry over into the second round. In previous years, some players 
would hit a tremendous amount of home runs in the first round, but become 
tired by the second round and hit relatively fewer home runs for that round, 
often not enough to qualify for the finals. By allowing the home runs to 
carry over, a player can't necessarily be "punished" for hitting an impressive 
total in the first round. However, like in previous Derbies, the two finalists 
start over at zero for the finals. In the finals, Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia 
Phillies defeated David Wright of the New York Mets 5–4, and hit a total 
of 23 home runs on the night, leading all competitors. Howard memorably 
hit his winning home run into a sign guaranteeing one person in the crowd 
500 free round-trip flights from Southwest Airlines.[6] PNC Park is distinct 
for having the Allegheny River running behind the right field bleachers. 
As a result, several balls were hit into the river on the fly (a feat that 
had only been accomplished once before in the stadium's regular-season 
history), as well as many more bouncing off the walkway alongside the river. 
Many fans waited in the river in canoes hoping to retrieve a ball, a sight 
more reminiscent of the following year's All-Star Game and Home Run Derby 
site, AT&T Park. For the second straight year, gold balls were utilized 
whenever a player had one out remaining in the round. Any home runs hit 
with the gold ball meant Major League Baseball and Century 21 would pledge 
to donate $21,000 (US) to the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and Easter 
Seals, respectively.[7] In all, 14 gold-ball home runs were hit, constituting 
$294,000 raised for both charities. The eighth annual XM Satellite Radio 
Futures Game was held on Sunday, July 9, showcasing the top minor league 
prospects from all thirty major league clubs. Game MVP Billy Butler of 
the Kansas City Royals farm system hit a two-run home run to help lead 
the United States team to an 8–5 victory over the World team.[8] Commissioner 
Bud Selig presented the Commissioner's Historic Achievement Award to deceased 
Pittsburgh Pirates legend Roberto Clemente between the fourth and fifth 
innings of the All-Star Game.[9] Clemente's widow, Vera, accepted the award. 
FOX play-by-play announcer Joe Buck emceed the ceremony. As a result, he 
called the bottom of the fourth inning from the entrance behind home plate. 
Buck created a little controversy when after Vera Clemente spoke what many 
said was a beautiful, moving speech Buck asked the fans "You guys having 
