The 2006 American League Division Series (ALDS), the opening round of the 
2006 American League playoffs, began on Tuesday, October 3, and ended on 
Saturday, October 7, with the champions of the three AL divisions—along 
with a "wild card" team—participating in two best-of-five series. They 
were: The higher seed (in parentheses) had the home field advantage, which 
was determined by playing record. The Athletics and Tigers met in the AL 
Championship Series, where a Detroit sweep made the Tigers the American 
League champions. The Tigers then faced the St. Louis Cardinals in the 
2006 World Series, and lost, four games to one. The AL playoff race of 
2006 was unusually dramatic, with the last divisional championship and 
the wild card berth undecided until the final day of the season, and the 
most unlikely of all of the AL's playoff contenders taking the top spot 
in the AL Central and the second seed. In the AL East, the New York Yankees 
(97–65) clinched the division when the Boston Red Sox were eliminated from 
the playoffs by the Minnesota Twins (96–66) on September 20. The Oakland 
Athletics (92–69) clinched the AL West on September 26, and in the AL Central, 
the Twins won the division by a single game over the Wild Card Detroit 
Tigers (95–67) after Detroit—who had led the division for the entire season—lost 
their last five games. Minnesota had set a torrid pace since June 7, after 
a horrible start. The Twins sewed up their playoff berth with an 8–1 win 
over the Kansas City Royals. They clinched the Central Division title, 
their fourth in five years, with a 5–1 victory and a 10–8 Detroit loss 
to the Royals on the last day of the season. The Twins' 96–66 mark is their 
best since the 98–64 AL West Champion Twins of 1970. Detroit won the series, 
3–1. †: Game was postponed due to rain on October 4 Oakland won the series, 
3–0. Yankee Stadium (I) in Bronx, New York The Yankees struck first with 
a five-run third inning off of Nate Robertson, who allowed a leadoff single 
to Johnny Damon and subsequent double to Derek Jeter. Bobby Abreu doubled 
to score both men, Gary Sheffield singled in Abreu, and Jason Giambi capped 
the scoring with a two-run home run. In the fifth, the Tigers got on the 
board with a solo home run from Craig Monroe, then Brandon Inge singled 
with one out before back-to-back two-out RBI doubles by Placido Polanco 
and Sean Casey made it 5–3 Yankees, but Chien-Ming Wang struck out Magglio 
Ordóñez to end the inning. The Yankees added to their lead in the sixth 
off of Robertson when Damon singled with two outs, then Jeter doubled before 
both men scored on Abreu's single. Curtis Granderson's home run in the 
seventh off of Mike Myers made it 7−4 Yankees, but they got that run back 
on Jeter's home run in the eighth off of Jamie Walker. Mariano Rivera pitched 
a scoreless ninth while Jeter batted 5-for-5 in the game, becoming the 
sixth player to record five hits in one postseason game.[8] Yankee Stadium 
(I) in Bronx, New York Game 2 was postponed for one day due to rain. In 
the second inning, Craig Monroe doubled with two outs before scoring on 
Marcus Thames's single to give the Tigers a 1–0 lead. In the fourth, Johnny 
Damon launched a three-run home run off Justin Verlander to give the Yankees 
a 3–1 lead. That would be last time the Yankees would lead a game in the 
series, and the last time they would score until Game 4. Jamie Walker (who 
earned the victory in relief) and Joel Zumaya shut the Yanks down for the 
rest of the game. The Tiger hitters clawed their way back off Mike Mussina. 
In the fifth, Thames hit a leadoff double, moved to third on a wild pitch, 
and scored on a sacrifice fly from Curtis Granderson to the cut the lead 
to one. Next inning, Carlos Guillén homered to tie the game and in the 
seventh, Thames hit a leadoff single, moved to second on a passed ball, 
then to third on a sacrifice bunt before scoring on Granderson's triple 
to give the Tigers a 4–3 lead. In the ninth, Todd Jones earned the save 
by getting Johnny Damon to fly out to center with one man on to end the 
game and even the series. Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan Feeding off 
a crowd witnessing its first playoff game in nineteen years, Detroit pitcher 
Kenny Rogers pitched 7 2⁄3 innings of scoreless ball, earning a victory 
and standing ovation from the Comerica Park crowd in a 6–0 Tigers win. 
Rogers was throwing as hard as 92 mph in the eighth inning, topping his 
usual top speed by 3–4 mph. Joel Zumaya used his 103-mph arm to close out 
the inning, and Todd Jones closed the game for the second time, but did 
not earn a save, as the Tigers were not in a save situation. Offensively, 
the Tigers got on the board off of Randy Johnson in the second on three 
straight leadoff singles, the last of which by Sean Casey scoring Carlos 
Guillen. After Brandon Inge struck out, Curtis Granderson hit into a forceout 
at second to score Ivan Rodriguez. Granderson stole second and scored on 
Placido Polanco's single. In the sixth, Guillen singled with two outs before 
back-to-back RBI doubles by Rodriguez and Casey made it 5−0 Tigers. Granderson 
capped the scoring with a leadoff home run off of Brian Bruney in the seventh. 
Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan Detroit finished off New York behind 
another dominating pitching performance, this time by Jeremy Bonderman 
in an 8–3 clinching win. In the second inning, Magglio Ordóñez hit a leadoff 
home run and after Ivan Rodriguez walked with one out, Craig Monroe homered 
off Jaret Wright to give the Tigers a 3–0 lead. Next inning, Ordonez reached 
on an error, moved to third on a single and scored on Rodrigeuz's single. 
Wright was replaced by Cory Lidle, who ended the inning without further 
damage and pitched a perfect fourth, but in the fifth, allowed three consecutive 
leadoff singles, the last of which to Ordonez scoring a run. After allowing 
an RBI double to Carlos Guillen, Lidle was relieved by Brian Bruney, who 
allowed a sacrifice fly to Rodriguez. Next inning, Scott Proctor allowed 
a two-out single to Placido Polanco, who scored on Sean Casey's double 
to make it 8−0 Tigers. Bonderman, meanwhile, pitched a no-hitter through 
five innings. Robinson Canó singled in the sixth for the Yankees' first 
hit, but Bonderman prevented any further damage. The Yankee hitters ended 
their twenty-inning scoreless streak in the seventh when Derek Jeter hit 
a leadoff single, moved to third on Bobby Abreu's single and scored on 
Hideki Matsui's groundout. Bonderman left the game in the ninth inning 
with one on and one out. Jamie Walker gave up a two-out, two-run homer 
to Jorge Posada in the ninth before getting Robinson Canó to ground out 
to end the game and send the Tigers to the 2006 ALCS against the Oakland 
Athletics. The game is notable as Cory Lidle made his final appearance 
before dying in an airplane crash four days later, and was the final ALDS 
game televised by FOX due to the new TV contracts as of 2011. 2006 ALDS 
(3–1): Detroit Tigers over New York Yankees Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
in Minneapolis, Minnesota The A's came into the series as a major underdog, 
and they had to face arguably the best pitcher in the majors in Johan Santana. 
Also working against Oakland, Minnesota's Metrodome is regarded as one 
of the toughest places to play in all of baseball. Frank Thomas hit two 
home runs, and Barry Zito outdueled Santana (though Zito got a major assist 
in the eighth inning when, following a lead-off double, Luis Castillo did 
not bunt in a clear bunting situation) to give the A's a shocking Game 
1 victory. Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota The A's 
followed their Game 1 victory with an even more shocking victory in Game 
2. An RBI double in the fifth inning by A's short stop Marco Scutaro scored 
Nick Swisher to give the A's the lead, which was followed by a single from 
Jason Kendall to score Scutaro. The Twins would tie the game up in the 
sixth inning off back-to-back home runs from Michael Cuddyer and Justin 
Morneau to chase Oakland starter Esteban Loaiza. In the seventh, with two 
out and Kendall on first base, Oakland's Mark Kotsay hit a hard line drive 
to center field. Torii Hunter, an accomplished defensive player, made an 
ill-considered dive for what should only have been a single, but Hunter's 
dive allowed the ball to roll all the way to the wall, allowing Kotsay 
to score for a two-run inside-the-park home run, and give the Athletics 
a commanding lead in the series. McAfee Coliseum in Oakland, California 
The A's have had a difficult time in winning games when they have the opportunity 
to eliminate an opponent in the postseason, leaving many to question if 
the team would choke another time. All questions were answered when Oakland 
scored twice in the second when Eric Chavez hit a home run and Marco Scutaro 
added another RBI double in the series. The A's added two more runs in 
the third when Mark Kotsay scored on a home run by Milton Bradley to deep 
center field. Scutaro would add insurance runs for the A's in the seventh 
inning from a three-RBI double, giving the A's an 8–2 lead and Scutaro 
his sixth RBI in three games as Oakland swept the Twins with the 8–3 victory. 
This was Oakland's first postseason series win since they swept the Boston 
Red Sox in the 1990 ALCS. This game was also notable in that Twins pitcher 
Brad Radke made his final career appearance. 2006 ALDS (3–0): Oakland Athletics 
