The 2006 World Series, the 102nd edition of Major League Baseball's championship 
series,[1] began on October 21 and ended on October 27. It matched the 
American League champions Detroit Tigers against the National League champions 
St. Louis Cardinals. The Cardinals won the Series in five games, taking 
Games one, three, four, and five. This was the third Series meeting between 
the Tigers and the Cardinals, the first in 38 years. The Cardinals won 
the first in 1934, and the Tigers won the 2nd in 1968; each went the full 
seven games. The 1968 World Series was the last before divisional play 
and an extra round of playoffs began. It was only the fifth time in 40 
years that the Series featured two teams that had both remained in the 
same city since the formation of the American League in 1901, the last 
time being the 2004 World Series between St. Louis and the Boston Red Sox. 
The last three prior to 2004 were in 1975 (Boston–Cincinnati), 1968 (Detroit–St. 
Louis) and 1967 (Boston–St. Louis). The Cardinals, who moved into Busch 
Stadium in April, became the fourth team to win the Series in their home 
stadium's debut season, joining the 1909 Pittsburg Pirates (Forbes Field), 
1912 Boston Red Sox (Fenway Park) and 1923 New York Yankees (Yankee Stadium 
(I)).[2] In 2009, they would be joined by the 2009 New York Yankees (Yankee 
Stadium). St. Louis also won their 10th Fall Classic, the most of any National 
League franchise, and second to only the Yankees' 27 (then 26) titles, 
and their first since 1982. Cardinals manager Tony La Russa, who won the 
1989 World Series title with the Athletics, became the second manager in 
history to lead teams in both leagues to championships, joining Sparky 
Anderson. Tigers manager Jim Leyland, who won the 1997 World Series title 
with the Marlins, also could have become the second manager in history 
to lead teams in both leagues to championships, had the Tigers won the 
series. The Cardinals finished the regular season 83–78. This is the second-worst 
record ever for a league champion (the 1973 New York Mets finished 82–79) 
and the worst record ever for a World Series champion. Previously the 1987 
Minnesota Twins finished 85–77 and defeated the Cardinals in the 1987 World 
Series. Ceremonial First Pitches: Game 1: Al Kaline and Willie Horton; 
Game 2: Sparky Anderson and Alan Trammell; Game 3: Ozzie Smith; Game 4: 
Lou Brock; Game 5: Stan Musial Neither team was given much chance to advance 
far into October by many baseball pundits.[3] Both teams stumbled through 
the second halves of their seasons. The Tigers, enjoying their first successful 
season after 12 years of futility, surprised the baseball world by building 
a ten-game lead in the American League Central, but eventually the lead 
evaporated in the final months and they lost the division to the Minnesota 
Twins on the last day of the season after being swept by the last-place 
Kansas City Royals at home, settling for a playoff berth as the AL Wild 
Card. The Cardinals held a seven-game advantage in the National League 
Central over the Cincinnati Reds and an 8 1⁄2-game lead over the Houston 
Astros with just two weeks to play. However, the combination of a seven-game 
losing streak by St. Louis and an eight-game winning streak by the Astros 
(highlighted by a four-game sweep of the Cardinals in Houston) caused the 
Cardinals' lead to shrink to  1⁄2-game with only a few games left. However, 
the Cardinals held on to clinch the division after an Astros' loss to the 
Atlanta Braves on the last day of the season. Thus, both the Tigers and 
Cardinals were clear underdogs in their matches, against New York Yankees 
and San Diego Padres, respectively. The Tigers' pitching took care of the 
vaunted Yankees lineup, and won their series 3–1. The Cardinals also won 
their series 3–1, including the first two games in San Diego. The Tigers 
then swept the Oakland Athletics in the ALCS, winning game four on a three-run 
walk-off home run by Magglio Ordóñez in the bottom of the ninth. The Cardinals 
won their series against the New York Mets with the help of a ninth-inning 
home run by Yadier Molina in a tense Game 7. The Tigers had home-field 
advantage in the Series, due to the AL's 3–2 win over the NL in the 77th 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game on July 11 at PNC Park in Pittsburgh. 
These two teams had already played against each other in June 2006. The 
Tigers swept the Cardinals 3–0 in Detroit, part of an eight-game Cardinals 
losing streak. This was the first time since 2000 that teams meeting during 
the regular season met again in the World Series. The Series marked the 
third time in a row that both teams sought to win a championship after 
at least a 20-year drought. In 2004, the Boston Red Sox ended their 86-year 
hiatus by defeating the Cardinals; in 2005 the Chicago White Sox ended 
an 88-year drought by defeating the Houston Astros, who were competing 
in their first World Series after 43 seasons. The Tigers had not appeared 
in the World Series since winning it in 1984. The Cardinals last won in 
1982, losing three times since then, in 1985, 1987 and 2004. The Tigers 
were the eighth wild card team to compete in the World Series since MLB 
introduced the wild card in 1994. A wild-card team participated in the 
Series from 2002 to 2007. Riding the momentum they built up during their 
surprisingly easy ALDS and ALCS victories, Detroit entered the Series as 
a prohibitive favorite.[4] Bob Nightengale of USAToday expressed popular 
sentiment when he said "Tigers in three".[5] St. Louis' manager Tony La 
Russa joined his mentor, Sparky Anderson, as only the second manager to 
win the World Series with teams in both leagues. La Russa won in 1989 with 
the Athletics. Coincidentally, Anderson first accomplished the feat by 
managing Detroit to their previous championship in 1984. He was chosen 
to throw out the ceremonial first pitch before Game 2. Interestingly, if 
the Tigers had defeated the Cardinals, Jim Leyland would have joined Anderson 
for this feat instead of LaRussa as he had already won the 1997 World Series 
with the Florida Marlins. When he came to St. Louis, La Russa wore number 
10 to symbolize the team's drive to their 10th championship and pay tribute 
to Anderson, who wore number 10 while manager of the Cincinnati Reds.[6] 
After winning the championship, he chose to continue wearing number 10 
to pay tribute to Anderson.[7] Jim Leyland is the seventh manager to win 
pennants in both leagues. The previous six are Joe McCarthy (1929 Cubs 
and the Yankees of 1932, 1936–39 and 1941–43), Yogi Berra (1964 Yankees, 
1973 Mets), Alvin Dark (1962 Giants, 1974 A's), Sparky Anderson (1970, 
1972, 1975–76 Reds, 1984 Tigers), Dick Williams (1967 Red Sox, 1972–73 
A's, 1984 Padres), and Tony La Russa (1988–90 A's, 2004, 2006 Cardinals). 
Additionally, the opposing managers are close friends. Leyland was La Russa's 
third base coach for the Chicago White Sox in the early 1980s. Leyland 
also served as a Pittsburgh-based advance scout for the Cardinals before 
he was hired by the Tigers. This was the first World Series in 22 years 
to have two previous World Series-winning managers facing each other, but 
at the helms of new teams. As previously mentioned, Leyland previously 
won the 1997 World Series with the Florida Marlins, and La Russa won the 
1989 World Series with the Oakland Athletics. Overall, it was the first 
World Series since 1999 to have two previous Series-winning managers facing 
each other. NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) vs. AL Detroit Tigers (1) †: Game 4 
was postponed due to rain on October 25, forcing Game 5 to be subsequently 
pushed back a day as well. Two rookies faced off in Game 1 for the first 
time in history: Anthony Reyes for St. Louis and Justin Verlander for Detroit. 
It looked like the Tigers were going to get to Reyes early in the bottom 
of the first, when Craig Monroe doubled and Magglio Ordóñez walked. Carlos 
Guillén singled Monroe in, giving the Tigers a 1–0 lead. However, in the 
top of the second, Scott Rolen hit a long home run to left field, tying 
the score at 1–1. Rolen was 0-for-15 in his career in the World Series 
before hitting the home run. The previous mark had been 0-for-13, set by 
Benny Kauff of the New York Giants in the 1917 World Series. In the third 
inning the Cards broke through, first when Chris Duncan's RBI double scored 
Yadier Molina to give the Cardinals the lead. On Verlander's next pitch, 
2005 National League MVP Albert Pujols banged a two-run home run, punishing 
the rookie who elected to pitch to the dangerous Pujols, rather than walk 
him with first base open and two outs and pitch to Jim Edmonds. Meanwhile, 
Anthony Reyes was the story. The pitcher who had the fewest regular season 
wins of a Game 1 World Series starter (5)[13] at one point retired seventeen 
in a row from the first inning to the sixth inning, a World Series record 
for a rookie. The previous record was thirteen (John Stuper, STL, 1982, 
and Dickey Kerr, CHW, 1919). Reyes' final line was eight-plus innings, 
four hits, two runs, and four strikeouts. The Cards took advantage of Detroit's 
mistakes again in the sixth, when Brandon Inge made two errors in one play. 
With runners on second and third, Inge threw to home wild to score a run 
and then obstructed Scott Rolen, who was running home, to score another 
run. Craig Monroe hit a solo home run off Reyes in the bottom of the ninth, 
which led to Reyes being pulled from the game, as Braden Looper came in 
to finish the game. The final score was 7–2 Cardinals, marking the first 
time since 2003 that the National League had won a World Series game, and 
the first World Series game won by St. Louis since Game 5 of the 1987 World 
Series. With a starting temperature of 44 °F (7 °C),[14] controversy surrounded 
the start of Game 2 when Tigers starting pitcher Kenny Rogers was found 
to have a substance on a patch of the palm of his pitching hand during 
the first inning. Although Cardinals hitters claimed that the ball was 
doing "weird things" in the first inning, Cardinals manager Tony La Russa 
did not request an inspection of Rogers' hand to determine what the substance 
was. Rogers claimed it was a combination of dirt and rosin (both legal), 
but complied with a request from the umpires to wash his hands before the 
second inning.[15] Unfazed, Rogers would go on to pitch eight shutout innings 
while surrendering only two hits, running his postseason streak to 23 straight 
shutout innings. Craig Monroe hit his second home run in the series, and 
Carlos Guillén, who was a home run away from the cycle, and Sean Casey 
each drove in runs to give the Tigers a 3–0 lead going into the ninth. 
Todd Jones then came into the game to close it out but got into a heavy 
jam, with Scott Rolen being driven in by Jim Edmonds before a force-out 
at second with the bases loaded won the game for the Tigers. Craig Monroe 
became the fifth player to hit a home run in each of his first two World 
Series games. The others were Barry Bonds for the Giants in 2002, Ted Simmons 
for the Brewers in 1982, Dusty Rhodes for the New York Giants in 1954, 
and Jimmie Foxx for the Philadelphia Athletics in 1929. After the Cardinals 
were shut out by Detroit pitcher Kenny Rogers for eight innings in Game 2, 
St. Louis starter Chris Carpenter answered with eight shutout innings of 
his own in a 5–0 Cardinals victory in Game 3. Carpenter, making his World 
Series debut (he missed the entire 2004 World Series due to injury) gave 
up only three hits, struck out six and did not issue a walk, while throwing 
only 82 pitches. Only one Tiger reached second base.[13] St. Louis began 
the scoring in the fourth inning on a bases-loaded two-run double by center 
fielder Jim Edmonds off of Nate Robertson. Two more runs would score in 
the bottom of the seventh on an error by Detroit pitcher Joel Zumaya, who 
overthrew third baseman Brandon Inge on what should have been a routine 
force out. St. Louis would add another run in the eighth on a wild pitch. 
Reliever Braden Looper would pitch a perfect ninth to close out the game 
and give St. Louis a two-games-to-one advantage in the Series. The Cardinals 
became the first team since the Cincinnati Reds in 1970 to host a World 
Series game in their first season in a new ballpark. Game 4 was pushed 
back a day because of rain, the first time a rainout had occurred in the 
World Series since Game 1 in 1996. The fans from the game were to attend 
Game 5. (Thus, fans who had tickets for Game 5 went to Game 4 instead.) 
The Cardinals won, taking a 3–1 series lead. The Tigers took a 3–0 lead 
into the top of the third, after Sean Casey had two RBIs, including a home 
run. The other RBI came from Detroit's Iván Rodríguez, who singled in Carlos 
Guillén. Rodriguez, who had been hitless in the previous three games, also 
went 3-for-4. In the bottom of the third, the Cardinals struck back with 
a run-scoring double by David Eckstein, scoring Aaron Miles who had the 
first stolen base of the series by either team. Yadier Molina doubled in 
Scott Rolen in the fourth to cut the Tiger lead to 3–2. The score remained 
that way, until the bottom of the seventh, when Eckstein led off with a 
double over the head of Curtis Granderson, who had slipped on the wet Busch 
Stadium outfield. Eckstein then scored on a sacrifice bunt by So Taguchi 
that was thrown over the head of Plácido Polanco covering first by Fernando 
Rodney, and that tied the score at three. Later that same inning, Preston 
Wilson hit a single to left with two outs that scored Taguchi from third. 
The Tigers tied the game in the top of the eighth on a Brandon Inge double 
that scored Iván Rodríguez. In the bottom of the eighth inning, the Cardinals 
would regain and keep the lead when Miles scored on a double by Eckstein 
just off the glove of outfielder Craig Monroe, who had been playing shallow 
and dove for a ball just out of his reach.[13] On a day in which it rained 
much of the day but stopped early enough to not delay the game, the Cardinals 
won to clinch the championship four games to one, making this the first 
five-game series since the Yankees–Mets Series in 2000. Justin Verlander 
pitched a sloppy first inning for Detroit, walking three and tying a World 
Series record for a single inning by throwing two wild pitches. He avoided 
allowing any runs, however, thanks to a good play by shortstop Carlos Guillén 
to get the third out on what was almost an infield hit. The Cardinals took 
the lead in the second inning on a lead-off single by Yadier Molina followed 
by two advancing groundouts, and then an infield single by David Eckstein. 
Detroit third baseman Brandon Inge made a good play to stop the ball off 
Eckstein's bat, but then made a poor throw to first which got by the first 
baseman and allowed Eckstein to advance to second. The throwing error was 
the seventh error of the series by the Tigers, also giving them at least 
one error in every game to that point. Cardinals pitcher Jeff Weaver (an 
ex-Tiger) was cruising into the fourth inning, and he appeared to be nowhere 
near trouble with a lead-off groundout, followed by a routine popup by 
Magglio Ordóñez. This popup turned out to be much more troublesome than 
it first appeared: right fielder Chris Duncan dropped the ball, apparently 
distracted by center fielder Jim Edmonds who was also going after the ball. 
With Ordóñez on via the error, the very next pitch of the game was hit 
by Sean Casey into the right-field seats just inside the foul pole for 
a two-run homer that gave Detroit the lead, 2–1. The Cardinals would threaten 
immediately in the bottom of the inning, however, with Yadier Molina and 
So Taguchi each singling to put runners at first and second with one out. 
Pitcher Jeff Weaver then came up and attempted to bunt the runners over 
to second and third. The bunt was fielded cleanly by the pitcher Justin 
Verlander, but he attempted to force out the lead runner at third and threw 
the ball into the left-field foul area. This allowed Molina to score to 
tie it up, with Taguchi and Weaver arriving safely at third and second. 
Later, Verlander said "I picked it up and said, Don't throw it away, instead 
of just throwing it. I got tentative." The throwing error by Verlander 
was the fifth error by Detroit pitchers in the World Series, having committed 
one per game, setting a new World Series record. (A placard held by a Cardinals 
fan in the stands read "HIT IT TO THE PITCHER").[13] The next batter, David 
Eckstein, grounded out to score the runner from third, and St. Louis secured 
their lead, 3–2. Chris Duncan misplayed another ball in the top of the 
sixth for a Sean Casey two-out double, but this time the runner would be 
stranded as Iván Rodríguez then struck out to end the inning. A David Eckstein 
single followed by a Preston Wilson walk in the bottom of the seventh put 
runners at first and second with none out for the heart of the Cardinals 
order: Pujols, Edmonds, and Rolen. Pujols popped out and Edmonds flied 
out, so it appeared Detroit might hold the Cardinals to a one-run lead. 
Instead, Scott Rolen singled and scored Eckstein, doubling the Cardinals 
lead to 4–2. Jeff Weaver retired the side in order, and the Cardinals went 
to the ninth, three outs away from their first World Series title in 24 
years. The man called on to get those three outs would be Adam Wainwright, 
who had won the job of closer after the star free agent brought to St. 
Louis in 2002, Jason Isringhausen, had season-ending surgery. Detroit's 
clean-up hitter, Magglio Ordóñez, led off the inning. He proceeded to work 
a full count but then grounded out. The second batter, Sean Casey, worked 
a full count and then doubled to bring the tying run to the plate. The 
third batter, Iván Rodríguez, got ahead in the count 2–0 but grounded back 
to Wainwright on the next pitch, putting the Cardinals one out away. The 
fourth batter, Plácido Polanco, fell behind 1–2, but then worked a walk 
to put the tying run on. The fifth batter, Brandon Inge, fell behind 0–2, 
again putting the Cardinals one strike from a World Series championship. 
He did not extend the drama any longer, as he swung and missed at the next 
pitch (making it the first World Series to end on a strikeout since the 
1988 World Series), giving the World Series title to the Cardinals. The 
final play of the 2006 season was made at 10:26pm Central Standard time.[13] 
After the game, Wainwright, who threw a curveball for strike three to win 
the pennant and a slider to Inge to win the Series, said "I'll probably 
never throw another curve or slider again without thinking of those two 
pitches."[6] 2006 World Series (4–1): St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) over Detroit 
Tigers (A.L.) The World Series was televised in the United States by Fox, 
with Joe Buck and Tim McCarver as the booth announcers. The starting time 
for each television broadcast was 8:00 pm EDT/6:00 pm MDT. On radio, the 
Series was broadcast nationally by ESPN Radio, with Jon Miller and Joe 
Morgan announcing. Locally, Dan Dickerson and Jim Price called the Series 
for the Tigers on WXYT-AM in Detroit (with retired longtime Tiger announcer 
Ernie Harwell calling an inning of Game 1), while Mike Shannon and John 
Rooney called it for the Cardinals on KTRS-AM in St. Louis. Per contractual 
obligation, the non-flagship stations on the teams' radio networks carried 
the ESPN Radio broadcasts. John Rooney had broadcast the 2005 World Series 
for the Chicago White Sox, and thus became the first announcer to call 
back-to-back World Series championships as an employee of different teams. 
The ratings for the 2006 World Series were considered alarmingly poor at 
the time. The ratings for games 1, 3 and 4 were the lowest rated games 
1, 3, and 4 in World Series history. Game 1, at 8.0, particularly set the 
record for lowest rated World-Series game of all-time (the 9.4 rating in 
Game 1 of the 2002 World Series was the prior lowest). The series overall 
averaged 10.1, sinking below the 11.1 of the 2005 World Series to become 
the lowest-rated World Series of all-time. However, those numbers look 
differently today, considering the performances of each World Series following 
2006. The 10.1 overall rating is now the 6th lowest rated World Series 
(behind 2012, 2010, 2008, 2011, and 2013), and game 1's 8.0 is now the 
8th lowest rated game all-time. Since 2007, only one series (2009 World 
Series) has outdone the 2006 World Series' ratings.[17] Neither team made 
the playoffs the next season. The Tigers finished with 88 wins, eight behind 
the division champion Cleveland Indians in the AL Central, while the Cardinals 
finished with 78 wins, seven behind the division champion Chicago Cubs 
in the NL Central. The 2007 Cardinals were the last defending World Series 
champion to finish with a losing record and miss the playoffs the next 
season until the San Francisco Giants followed up their 2012 championship 
season with a 76-86 record in 2013. The Tigers would not make the playoffs 
again until 2011, when they won the AL Central title for the first time 
with their last division title being the 1987 AL East crown. The Tigers 
would win the AL Central in 2012 again and would return to the World Series 
in 2012 after winning the 2012 American League pennant where they would 
be swept by the San Francisco Giants in four games. The Cardinals' would 
later make the playoffs in 2009, when the NL Central champions were swept 
by the NL West champions Los Angeles Dodgers in the 2009 NLDS. The Cardinals 
also made it to the playoffs as the Wildcard entry in 2011, winning the 
2011 National League pennant and going on to beat Texas Rangers in the 
2011 World Series, but failing to defend that title in the 2012 NLCS losing 
