The 2006 National League Championship Series (NLCS), the second round of 
the 2006 National League playoffs, began on October 12 and ended on October 
19; it was scheduled to begin on October 11, but was postponed a day because 
of inclement weather. The St. Louis Cardinals defeated the heavily favored 
New York Mets in 7 games to advance to the 2006 World Series against the 
Detroit Tigers. The Cardinals and the Mets took the series to the limit, 
reaching the 9th inning of Game 7 tied at 1–1. The Cardinals took the lead 
with Yadier Molina's 2-run home run off Mets reliever Aaron Heilman in 
the 9th to put his team ahead 3–1. Adam Wainwright would then hold the 
Mets scoreless in the bottom of the 9th to give St. Louis their 2nd pennant 
in 3 years and 17th in club history, placing them one behind the New York/San 
Francisco Giants and the Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers for most in NL modern 
history (since 1903). The Cardinals were making their 3rd consecutive appearance 
in the NLCS; manager Tony La Russa, who led St. Louis to the 2004 pennant 
and previously won AL titles with the Oakland Athletics from 1988–90, became 
the first manager in history to win multiple pennants in both leagues. 
The Mets, handicapped after season-ending injuries to Pedro Martínez and 
Orlando 'El Duque' Hernandez, had defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 3 games 
to none in the NL Division Series, while the Cardinals had defeated the 
San Diego Padres 3 games to 1. The Mets had home-field advantage due to 
their better record in the regular season (the Mets were 97–65, the Cardinals 
83–78). The Mets and Cardinals previously met in the 2000 NLCS, which the 
Mets won in 5 games. Until 2015, 2006 was only the second time the Mets 
have qualified for postseason play since 2000. St. Louis won the series, 
4–3. †: Game 1 was postponed due to rain on October 11. Game 2 was subsequently 
pushed back a day as well. ‡: Game 5 was postponed due to rain on October 
16. Thursday, October 12, 2006 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York On a 
game pushed back a day by rain, both pitchers pitched magnificently. Tom 
Glavine earned the win with seven innings of shutout baseball. The only 
two runs came from a two-run homer by Carlos Beltrán off losing pitcher 
Jeff Weaver. Weaver pitched 5 2⁄3 shutout innings before giving up a single 
to Paul Lo Duca and then a home run to Beltrán. Glavine was aided by stellar 
defense, as the Mets turned two double plays. In the third inning, with 
runners on first and second, third baseman David Wright caught a line drive 
off the bat of David Eckstein and threw to second to double up Yadier Molina. 
In the following inning, Juan Encarnación flied out to shallow center to 
Beltrán, who threw to first on the run to double up Albert Pujols, who 
went 0-for-3 with a walk. Left fielder Endy Chávez also made an excellent 
diving play on a flare hit by Ronnie Belliard. He replaced Cliff Floyd, 
who left in the second inning when he reaggravated his injured Achilles 
tendon. Friday, October 13, 2006 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New York In 
an exciting back-and-forth game, the Cardinals erased three deficits en 
route to a 9–6 victory. In the first inning, Carlos Delgado hit a three-run 
home run and added another home run in the fifth, both off the Cardinals' 
ace, Chris Carpenter. Yadier Molina then drove in two runs with a double 
in the second inning. José Reyes and Paul Lo Duca added an RBI each, but 
Scott Spiezio, who started the game at third base in place of an injured 
Scott Rolen, had two hits and three RBIs, including a two-run triple on 
an 0–2 pitch in the seventh inning to tie the game at six. In the bottom 
of the eighth inning, Julio Franco pinch-hit for Mets pitcher Aaron Heilman, 
which made obvious that lefty closer Billy Wagner was coming into the game 
in the top of the ninth inning. Left fielder Chris Duncan, a lefty hitter, 
was due to lead off the top of the ninth. So, Duncan was pulled in favor 
of So Taguchi, a right-handed-hitting outfielder who was a better defensive 
option than Duncan. Taguchi led off the top of the ninth with a solo homer 
off Mets closer Billy Wagner to put the Cardinals ahead, 7–6. St. Louis 
would go on to win the game, 9–6. Saturday, October 14, 2006 at Busch Stadium 
(III) in St. Louis, Missouri Back in St. Louis for the next three games, 
St. Louis starter Jeff Suppan pitched eight scoreless innings and hit a 
home run himself, as the Cardinals defeated the Mets, 5–0. Scott Spiezio 
hit a two-run triple (his second two-run triple in as many games) in the 
bottom of the first inning to put the Cardinals ahead, 2–0. St. Louis would 
add three more runs in the second to finish the scoring for the game. Mets 
reliever Darren Oliver pitched six shutout innings, after Mets starter 
Steve Trachsel only lasted one inning before being pulled after getting 
hit by a line drive off the bat of Preston Wilson, leaving with a bruised 
thigh. After the game, the Mets had not scored in twelve consecutive innings, 
making it fourteen before scoring in the third inning of Game 4. Sunday, 
October 15, 2006 at Busch Stadium (III) in St. Louis, Missouri Game 4 was 
a pivotal game for the Mets, who were faced with a two-games-to-one deficit. 
They sent Óliver Pérez, a young lefty picked up at the trade deadline from 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, to face the Cardinals' own young starter, Anthony 
Reyes. In a game that would see an NLCS-tying record seven home runs, the 
Cardinals grabbed an early lead in the bottom of the second on a Yadier 
Molina single. It seemed to be a repeat of the night before, but in the 
top of the third the Mets hit two home runs, one on Carlos Beltrán's second 
of the series and sixth against the Cardinals in NLCS play, and another 
on David Wright's first hit of the series and first homer of the playoffs. 
The lead was short lived, as Juan Encarnación hit a two-out RBI triple 
to tie the game. The game would stay tied until the top of the fifth inning 
until Paul Lo Duca reached on an error by Cardinals second baseman Ronnie 
Belliard, Beltrán managed a walk, and Carlos Delgado scored an opposite-field 
three-run homer, his third of the series, to make it 5–2. David Eckstein 
pulled the Cards back in the bottom of the fifth with a leadoff homer. 
But, in the top of the sixth, the Mets extended the lead. José Reyes and 
Paul Lo Duca hit back-to-back singles, and Beltrán walked to load the bases. 
Delgado then hit a ground-rule double to drive in two runs, and then Wright 
walked. Shawn Green singled to drive in one run and José Valentín, who, 
at that point, was only 3-for-20 in the playoffs, hit a bases-clearing 
double down the left field line to make it 11–3. The Cardinals got solo 
home runs from Edmonds and Molina to make it an 11–5 game, but Mets manager 
Willie Randolph then pulled starter Pérez and bought in submarine pitcher 
Chad Bradford to try and limit the damage. Beltrán would tie the NLCS record 
of seven home runs with another in the seventh en route to a final score 
of 12–5. Beltrán also tied Babe Ruth for the all-time postseason record 
of home runs against the Cardinals hitting a total of seven home runs. 
He hit four home runs against the St. Louis Cardinals in the 2004 National 
League Championship Series while playing for the Houston Astros. Tuesday, 
October 17, 2006 at Busch Stadium (III) in St. Louis, Missouri After Game 
5 was pushed back a day by rain, giving their starter now four days' normal 
rest instead of three days' short rest, the New York Mets sought a 3–2 
lead in the NLCS. However, pitcher Tom Glavine could not stifle the Cardinals' 
offense. After the Mets jumped out to a 2–0 lead, the next half-inning 
Albert Pujols struck for his first home run and RBI of the series to cut 
the Mets' lead in half. After tying the score in the bottom of fourth inning 
and later taking the lead in the fifth by virtue of a Preston Wilson double, 
the Cardinals increased their lead thanks to a pinch-hit solo blast by 
rookie Chris Duncan that made the final score 4–2, Cardinals. The win moved 
the Cardinals within one win of their second National League pennant in 
three years. Wednesday, October 18, 2006 at Shea Stadium in Queens, New 
York Facing elimination, the Mets' sent John Maine to start Game 6. He 
allowed no runs in 5 1⁄3 innings, earning the win for the Mets. José Reyes 
hit a leadoff home run in the bottom of the first, giving the Mets a lead 
that would never be relinquished. Reyes became the first Met to lead off 
with a home run in the first inning of a postseason game since Mets' former 
outfielder Lenny Dykstra in Game 3 of the 1986 World Series against the 
Boston Red Sox. The Cardinals stranded several runners against Maine. In 
the top of the first inning, with runners on second and third and one out, 
Maine struck out Jim Edmonds. After hitting Juan Encarnación with a pitch 
to load the bases, Scott Rolen flew out. In the top of the third, with 
a runner on second and nobody out, Maine struck out Scott Spiezio and intentionally 
walked Albert Pujols. Edmonds then flew out and Maine struck out Encarnación 
to finish the job. Shawn Green hit an RBI single in the fourth and Paul 
Lo Duca added two more with an RBI hit in the seventh. Billy Wagner came 
on in the ninth and gave up a two-RBI double to So Taguchi before retiring 
David Eckstein to end the game. Thursday, October 19, 2006 at Shea Stadium 
in Queens, New York In the decisive Game 7, the Mets sent Game 4 winner 
Óliver Pérez to the mound against Jeff Suppan. The Mets jumped out to an 
early 1–0 lead when David Wright drove in Carlos Beltrán in the first with 
a bloop single into right field. The Cardinals tied the game in the second 
when Ronnie Belliard hit into a squeeze play that scored Jim Edmonds from 
third. In the fifth, with runners on first and second and two gone, Albert 
Pujols came up to the plate. Even with Chad Bradford warming up in the 
bullpen, Willie Randolph decided to stay with Pérez. He got Pujols to pop 
out. Pérez ran into some more trouble in the sixth with a runner on and 
one out, when Scott Rolen hit a long fly ball to left field to create one 
of greatest defensive plays in postseason history. The ball cleared the 
fence, but Endy Chávez amazingly brought it back by snow-coning the ball, 
jumping from the edge of the warning track to retrieve what looked to be 
an easy home run. He then threw the ball into first base quickly to double 
off Jim Edmonds, who had rounded second on his way to third, to end the 
inning. He received two curtain calls from the Shea crowd. With the bases 
loaded and one out in the bottom of the sixth, José Valentín and Chávez 
failed to get the go-ahead run in. With the score 1–1 in the top of the 
ninth, Yadier Molina, with a man on-base, hit a deep fly off Aaron Heilman 
in the same general direction as the one Rolen hit in the sixth. This ball 
was hit too high for Chávez to catch, and it gave the Cardinals a 3–1 lead, 
with only three outs in the bottom of the ninth separating them from a 
pennant. However, the Mets would not go quietly. Rookie closer Adam Wainwright 
yielded singles to Valentín and Chávez to lead off the ninth. After getting 
a strikeout and a flyout, Wainwright walked Paul Lo Duca to bring up Carlos 
Beltrán with the bases loaded. Down 0–2 to the rookie Wainwright, Beltrán 
looked at a called strike three, a curveball on the outside corner at the 
knees, to end the game. This was the last playoff game ever played in Shea 
Stadium and the last postseason appearance for the Mets until 2015, six 
years after Citi Field opened. It is also the second time that a visiting 
team won a postseason series at Shea (the other being the Yankees' victory 
over the Mets in the 2000 World Series). 2006 NLCS (4–3): St. Louis Cardinals 
over New York Mets The Cardinals would win the World Series by defeating 
the heavily favored Detroit Tigers. With 83 wins, the Cardinals set a record 
for the worst regular season win-loss total for any championship team. 
They would win another World Series in 2011 and make another World Series 
appearance in 2013 (where they lost to the Boston Red Sox). As for the 
Mets, many commentators and fans had predicted that 2006 would be the beginning 
of a dynasty. They had dominated the National League that season, winning 
97 games when no one else won more than 88, and they had a deep and young 
core, with Beltran, Wright, and Reyes being under 30 (the latter two being 
under 25). Supporting those three were Hall of Fame caliber players such 
as Carlos Delgado, Tom Glavine, Pedro Martínez, and Billy Wagner. Nonetheless, 
2006 stands as the only achievement for this group. They collapsed in 2007 
to miss the post-season by one game and also missed the postseason by one 
game again in 2008, and they finished below .500 in the next six consecutive 
seasons (2009–2014). Manager Willie Randolph was fired in the middle of 
the 2008 season, Delgado played his last game in 2009, General Manager 
Omar Minaya was fired after 2010, and Beltran and Reyes left in 2011. Reyes 
would eventually return to the Mets in 2016. Today, Jose Reyes and David 
Wright are the only two players left from the 2006 team. In 2015, the Mets 
returned to the NLCS, where they defeated the Cardinals' arch-rival, the 
Chicago Cubs, in a four-game sweep that saw the Mets not trail once in 
the entire series. They would go on to lose to the Kansas City Royals in 
