The 2006 Arizona Diamondbacks looked to improve on their 77-85 record from 
2005. They looked to contend in what was once again a weak National League 
West Division. They finished the season with a record of 76-86, a fourth 
place tie with the Colorado Rockies in the division. During the 2005 off-season, 
the Diamondbacks made several key moves to bolster a disappointing pitching 
staff and improve the team defensively. Highly regarded pitching coach 
Bryan Price (who was already a resident of nearby Scottsdale) was hired 
not long after he resigned from the Seattle Mariners after 19 years with 
that organization, the last six as pitching coach; he served with Diamondbacks 
manager Bob Melvin when he was manager at Seattle in 2003 and 2004. Key 
player acquisitions included catcher Johnny Estrada; right-handed pitchers 
Orlando "El Duque" Hernández and Luis Vizcaíno; outfielder Chris Young; 
second baseman Orlando Hudson [1](a Gold Glove Award recipient in 2005 
with the Toronto Blue Jays), for whom Troy Glaus was traded; right-handed 
pitcher Miguel Batista (previously a member of the Diamondbacks from 2001–2003, 
including the 2001 World Series team); free-agent outfielder Eric Byrnes 
and veteran free agent pitcher Terry Mulholland (who would go on to spend 
two separate stints on the disabled list and get released in late June). 
On December 8, 2005, future all-star Dan Uggla was drafted by the Florida 
Marlins from the Arizona Diamondbacks in the 2005 minor league draft.[2] 
In January, the Diamondbacks signed highly touted 18-year-old shortstop 
Justin Upton, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2005 First-Year Player Draft, 
to a $6.1 million contract that included a trip to Spring training as a 
non-roster invitee. Upton began the regular season at Class A South Bend. 
The D-Backs posted a respectable 18-14 record for the 2006 Cactus League 
spring training campaign. On April 18, LF Luis Gonzalez hit his 500th career 
double to become just the 21st player in Major League Baseball history 
to hit 300 home runs and 500 doubles; on May 13 he passed Babe Ruth for 
38th place all-time for the most doubles hit in league history. "Gonzo", 
as he is called by his fans, became the number one fan favorite in Phoenix 
in the years since hitting the winning RBI in the 2001 World Series (which 
capped his 57 regular season HR's, still a team record). Frustrated by 
not having a set spot in the rotation, Hernandez was traded to the New 
York Mets in exchange for reliever Jorge Julio on May 24. While on the 
Diamondbacks he posted a 2-4 record with a 6.11 ERA. The team was in first 
place through the month of May, and they started the month of June with 
a 4-game sweep of the Atlanta Braves at Turner Field – then posted an astonishingly 
terrible 4 wins and 20 losses the rest of the month. The GrimsleyGate scandal 
(see below) may have been one factor in the "June swoon". Based on several 
media reports that appeared on June 7, reliever Jason Grimsley admitted 
to taking illegal performance-enhancing drugs, specifically human growth 
hormone, as part of the IRS probe of BALCO, best known for similar allegations 
concerning San Francisco Giants star Barry Bonds. IRS agents apparently 
made an extensive search of Grimsley's Scottsdale, Arizona residence seeking 
evidence. [2] Grimsley and team officials declined comment before the June 
6 home game vs. the Philadelphia Phillies. Grimsley was released from the 
Diamondbacks on June 7 on his request, and his locker cleaned out. [3] 
[4] It was later announced by Grimsley's agent, Joe Bick, that Grimsley 
decided to retire from the game of baseball, and that it was his understanding 
that the remainder of his $825,000 salary would be paid. During the Diamondbacks 
home game on June 10, managing general partner Ken Kendrick told reporters 
that the Diamondbacks had no intention of paying Grimsley his salary and 
that the club would file termination papers on Grimsley with MLB on June 
12 to that effect; this prompted Bick to announce that he would be filing 
a grievance on Grimsley's behalf with the Major League Baseball Players 
Association. On June 12, the Commissioner's office announced that it would 
suspend Grimsley for 50 games for violating baseball's Joint Drug Prevention 
and Treatment Program, effective if Grimsley chooses to come out of retirement. 
Michael Weiner, general counsel to the MLBPA, stated that the union would 
file a grievance on his behalf. [5] Grimsley and the Diamondbacks reached 
a final settlement on the salary payout in August. Grimsley requested that 
the remainder of the salary funds be donated to charities designated by 
Grimsley. [6] It appeared that the controversy surrounding Grimsley, popular 
and well liked with the other team members, possibly affected the team 
play of the Diamondbacks, leading to a "June Swoon." The Diamondbacks returned 
from a 10-game East Coast road trip in which they won 7 and lost 3 (including 
the above-mentioned 4-game sweep of the Braves) and found themselves 2½ 
games in front of the Los Angeles Dodgers by June 5. However, the team 
entered a freefall immediately following the Grimsley scandal, starting 
with a lengthy homestand in which they did not won a single contest until 
their June 13 home win against the Giants. The final Diamondbacks record 
in June was 4 wins and 20 losses. Reliever José Valverde, the closer coming 
out of spring training (he was also in that role at the end of the 2005 
season), was effective in April and most of May getting 12 saves and keeping 
the opposition to four runs in his first 16 appearances; in late May and 
June Valverde faltered to the point where his closer's job was given to 
newly acquired Jorge Julio; Valverde struggled for much of June, allowing 
15 runs in nine appearances, and his ERA was 7.12 as of June 29. He was 
optioned to the Diamondbacks' AAA affiliate, the Tucson Sidewinders, on 
July 3. The bullpen in general, while showing brilliance early on, struggled 
somewhat as a whole in June, although Julio ended the month with his seventh 
save in eight chances. Luis Gonzalez struggled somewhat offensively before 
the All Star break; it wasn't until June 27 against the Seattle Mariners 
that "Gonzo" hit his first home run since April 20. According to reports 
on Diamondbacks flagship radio station KTAR and in the Arizona Republic, 
RHP Russ Ortiz, who had a highly disappointing tenure with the D-Backs 
after signing a $33 million contract during the 2004 offseason, was designated 
for assignment (DFA) on June 13. He was signed by the Baltimore Orioles 
on June 25. (Ortiz struggled with the Orioles during the remainder of the 
2006 season, losing his role as a starter with that organization, but after 
regaining his form somewhat in winter ball in Puerto Rico, Ortiz was signed 
by the San Francisco Giants in January 2007 and after a good spring training 
campaign, was eventually named the Giants' fifth starter for the 2007 season. 
Ortiz has slightly more than $22 million left on his contract which the 
Diamondback organization is paying as of the 2007 season.) Ortiz, previously 
with the Giants and Braves, was 0-5 with a 7.54 ERA in six starts for the 
Diamondbacks in 2006, and was 5-11 with a 6.89 ERA in 2005. As the second 
half of the season approached, fans writing on various Diamondback fan 
blogs expressed opinions ranging from frustration with the players and 
coaching staff (especially Melvin, who is seen by many fans as having too 
casual and relaxed of an attitude to properly motivate the players) for 
what they see as the squandering of a potential NL West Championship season, 
to frustration with fellow fans for not being patient and allowing a highly 
talented current core of younger players, including Stephen Drew, Carlos 
Quentin, Micah Owings and Scott Hairston, to develop in the minor league 
farm system and contribute to the D-Backs success in later years (and possibly 
as soon as this season). On July 9, the Diamondbacks announced an agreement 
with manager Melvin on a two-year contract extension with an option for 
the 2009 season. On July 15, shortstop Stephen Drew was called up from 
the Sidewinders to replace Craig Counsell, who broke a rib during an at-bat 
on July 14. Drew got his first major league hit on July 17 against the 
Los Angeles Dodgers, for which his brother J. D. Drew plays. Both Drew's 
parents were in attendance. On July 20, the Diamondbacks promoted highly 
touted outfielder Carlos Quentin from Tucson. Quentin was Arizona's second 
pick in the first round of the 2003 draft. He played college baseball for 
Stanford University, where he was an outstanding hitter and helped lead 
Stanford to two College World Series appearances. Quentin was hitting .289 
with 30 doubles, three triples, nine homers and 52 RBIs in 85 games for 
the Sidewinders. To make room for Quentin, the Diamondbacks optioned right-handed 
pitcher Edgar Gonzalez to Tucson. After grounding out in his first two 
at-bats, Quentin hit a two-run home run off Hendrickson in the sixth inning. 
He went 1-for-4 in the D-Backs' 5-2 win over the Dodgers. That day, manager 
Bob Melvin told veteran OF Luis Gonzalez he was going to start Quentin 
in left field to give Gonzalez a night off against a tough left-handed 
pitcher (Mark Hendrickson of the Los Angeles Dodgers). Gonzalez reportedly 
interpreted his benching in a negative manner; he took it as a sign the 
organization may be ready to part company with him at year's end. There 
has been speculation the club will not pick up its $10 million option on 
Gonzalez for 2007. "Gonzo", long a fan favorite for the D-Backs, was vocal 
to the media about his displeasure with the decision, angering many fans. 
Gonzalez would later distance himself from those comments and slightly 
improve his batting average, and continued to move up the all time doubles 
list. On July 29 he obtained his 1,300th career RBI with a third-inning 
single against pitcher Brandon Backe of the Houston Astros. On August 7, 
the D-Backs acquired RHP Liván Hernández from the Washington Nationals 
in exchange for minor league pitching prospects Garrett Mock and Matt Chico. 
Hernandez was 9-8 this season as of August 7, with a 5.34 ERA in 24 starts. 
The Diamondbacks flirted with trading for a pitcher before the July 31 
trade deadline but made no moves at that time; after All-Star Brandon Webb 
(the ace of the Diamondback pitching staff and widely considered a candidate 
for the NL Cy Young Award) missed his scheduled August 5 start against 
Houston with a sore elbow, it became more urgent to add a starter to the 
rotation. Hernandez finished the 2006 campaign with a final record of 13-13, 
with an ERA of 4.83, 128 strikeouts and 78 walks surrendered. Veteran outfielder 
Shawn Green was traded from the Diamondbacks to the New York Mets for Evan 
MacLane on August 22.[3] The D-Backs sent the 33-year-old Green and slightly 
more than $6.3 million to the Mets for AAA LHP pitching prospect Evan MacLane. 
Green is owed about $13.25 million for the remainder of his contract. Carlos 
Quentin became the everyday starting right fielder as a result of Green's 
departure. [7] On September 14, it was announced that the Diamondbacks 
would not pick up the 2007 option on Luis Gonzalez's contract, meaning 
that he would not be back with the club in 2007. This was disclosed to 
Gonzalez in a meeting with general manager Josh Byrnes and general partner 
Jeff Moorad, who served as Gonzalez's agent before becoming part of the 
Diamondbacks ownership group (Moorad actually negotiated Gonzalez's current 
contract with then-managing general partner and franchise founder Jerry 
Colangelo). The executives left open the possibility of Gonzalez returning 
to the franchise after his retirement, as a coach, broadcaster, or front 
office executive. Gonzalez played his final game as a Diamondback on the 
final day of the season (October 1). He was greeted with standing ovations 
from the fans, many of whom disapproved of Gonzo's not being part of the 
future plans of the ballclub (paid attendance was 48,946, the largest regular-season 
crowd in franchise history). Colangelo and founding GM Joe Garagiola, Jr., 
who made the trade to bring Gonzalez to the Diamondbacks in 1998, were 
in attendance. Gonzalez ended his Arizona Diamondbacks career with 547 
total career doubles, good for 20th place on the all-time MLB career list. 
He leaves the Diamondbacks as the franchise leader in home runs (224) and 
RBIs (774). Infielder Craig Counsell was also honored, as he was seen as 
not returning to the team for 2007 due to the emergence of Stephen Drew 
and the Baby Backs. Despite strong late-season performances from José Valverde, 
who returned to the closer role in early September as a much improved relief 
pitcher, finishing the season with 18 saves, as well as other called-up 
Baby Backs including CF Chris Young and infielder Alberto Callaspo, the 
Diamondbacks lost 18 games in the month of August, including being swept 
in three games at San Francisco. They were at that point, for all intents 
and purposes, knocked out of the NL West pennant race and the NL Wild Card 
race. On September 24, the Diamondbacks were mathematically eliminated 
from postseason contention with a 5-1 loss at Los Angeles. The final game 
of the 2006 season was a 7-6 loss to the San Diego Padres at Chase Field 
(which gave the Padres the 2006 NL West Division championship) and featured 
a rare poor performance by ace starting pitcher Brandon Webb. The Diamondbacks 
finished the year with 76 wins and 86 losses for a .469 winning percentage. 
They tied for 4th place in the NL West with the Colorado Rockies, 12 games 
behind the Padres. Infielders Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; 
H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In 
2B Orlando Hudson became the recipient of his second career Gold Glove 
Award, as announced on November 3. Hudson became only the sixth infielder 
in major league history to win a Gold Glove award in both the American 
and National Leagues. He first received the award after the 2005 season 
as a member of the Toronto Blue Jays, and was traded to the Diamondbacks 
later that offseason. RHP Brandon Webb, a product of the Diamondback farm 
system, became the ace starting pitcher of the club for 2006 after signing 
a four-year contract extension. Webb pitched effectively most of the season, 
beginning by winning his first eight starts, becoming the D-Backs sole 
representative to the 2006 All-Star Game (in which he pitched a perfect 
fourth inning), and ending up with a record of 16-8 and an ERA of 3.10. 
On November 14, it was announced that Webb was the recipient of the Cy 
Young Award for the National League. Webb received 15 of 32 first-place 
votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Trevor 
Hoffman of the Padres and Chris Carpenter of the St. Louis Cardinals (the 
eventual 2006 World Series winners) were runners-up in the voting. LEAGUE 
