The 2006 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 2006 American League playoffs, began on October 10 and ended on October 
14. The Detroit Tigers defeated the Oakland Athletics 4 games to none to 
advance to the 2006 World Series, and became the fourth AL team to win 
10 pennants, joining the New York Yankees (39), the Athletics (15), and 
the Boston Red Sox (11). Magglio Ordóñez's game-winning walk-off home run 
in the bottom of the 9th inning of Game 4 sealed the pennant for the Tigers. 
This ALCS marked the 5th different AL pennant winner in as many years (following 
2005 with the White Sox, 2004 with the Red Sox, 2003 with the Yankees, 
and 2002 with the Angels). The Athletics had defeated the Minnesota Twins 
3 games to none in the AL Division Series, and the Tigers had defeated 
the Yankees 3 games to 1. The Tigers faced the National League champions 
St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series but fell to them by 4 games to 
1. The Athletics had home-field advantage (despite the Tigers having a 
better record) because the Athletics were a division champion, but they 
effectively lost the advantage by losing Games 1 and 2 at home. The Tigers 
hosted Games 3 and 4. The Athletics were seeking their first AL pennant 
since 1990, while the Tigers captured the league title for the first time 
since their win in the 1984 World Series. The series was a rematch of the 
1972 American League Championship Series, in which Oakland defeated Detroit 
in 5 games (then a best-of-five series). Detroit manager Jim Leyland, who 
led the Florida Marlins to the 1997 World Series title, became the seventh 
manager in history to win pennants in both leagues. † Lyons commentated 
through Game 3, but was fired by FOX for comments, which the network deemed 
insensitive to Piniella's Latino background.[1] Detroit won the series, 
4–0. Tuesday, October 10, 2006 at McAfee Coliseum in Oakland, California 
Oakland was 0-for-13 with runners in scoring position, while Detroit turned 
four double plays (both are LCS records). Tigers first baseman Sean Casey 
left the game in the bottom of the sixth inning due to an apparent leg 
injury. Brandon Inge homered with two outs in the third off Barry Zito, 
who allowed a double and two walks to load the bases before Magglio Ordóñez's 
single scored another run. Next inning, Iván Rodríguez hit a leadoff home 
run off Zito, who then walked Craig Monroe. Marcus Thames then hit into 
a forceout, advancing to second on D'Angelo Jiménez's error and scoring 
on Inge's double. Inge moved to third on Curtis Granderson's groundout, 
then scored on Plácido Polanco's single. Oakland avoided a shutout when 
Milton Bradley doubled to lead off the eighth off Joel Zumaya, moved to 
third on Frank Thomas's groundout, and scored on Jay Payton's groundout. 
Wednesday, October 11, 2006 at McAfee Coliseum in Oakland, California Oakland 
struck first in Game 2 when Mark Kotsay doubled in the first with one out 
off Justin Verlander, moved to third on a wild pitch, and scored on Milton 
Bradley's single, but Detroit tied it when Carlos Guillén doubled to lead 
off the second off Esteban Loaiza, moved to third on a groundout, and scored 
on Craig Monroe's sacrifice fly. In the third, Kotsay doubled with two 
outs off Verlander before Bradley homered to put Oakland up 3-1. In the 
fourth, Detroit loaded the bases on two singles and a walk with one out 
off Loaiza before Monroe's single scored a run, Alexis Gomez's single scored 
two more, and Brandon Inge's sacrifice fly put Detroit up 5-3. In the sixth, 
Monroe doubled off Loaiza with two outs before Gomez homered to put Detroit 
up 7-3. Eric Chavez's leadoff home run off Verlander in the bottom of the 
inning cut the lead to 7-4. Next inning, Bradley homered with two outs 
off Wilfredo Ledezma made it 7-5 Detroit, but the Tigers got that run back 
in the ninth on Granderson's leadoff home run off Huston Street. In the 
bottom of the inning, Oakland got three straight two-out singles off Todd 
Jones to load the bases, but Frank Thomas flew out to center to end the 
game. Since the ALCS has been increased to a seven-game series, no team 
has come back to win the series after losing the first two games at home. 
Friday, October 13, 2006 at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan Oakland 
infielder Mark Kiger, who was called up from the minors for the ALCS following 
an injury to Mark Ellis, entered the game in the eighth inning as a defensive 
replacement for second baseman D'Angelo Jiménez, thereby becoming the first 
player in modern baseball history to make his major-league debut in a postseason 
game.[6] Kenny Rogers also continued to dominate, not allowing the A's 
to score once for his second victory in the postseason. Curtis Granderson 
walked to lead off the first off Rich Harden, moved to third on Craig Monroe's 
single, and scored on Plácido Polanco's single. Magglio Ordóñez's sacrifice 
fly made it 2-0 Tigers. Monroe's leadoff home run in the fifth off Harden 
made it 3-0 Tigers. Todd Jones picked up his second save with a 1-2-3 ninth. 
Saturday, October 14, 2006 at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan In Game 
4, Mark Kotsay walked with one out in the first off Jeremy Bonderman, then 
scored on Milton Bradley's double. One out later, Bradley scored on Eric 
Chavez's double to put Oakland up 2-0. Jay Payton homered in the fourth 
to make it 3–0. In the fifth, however, Brandon Inge singled off Dan Haren, 
moving to second on an error. After moving to third on a groundout, Inge 
scored on a double by Curtis Granderson, who then scored on Craig Monroe's 
double. Magglio Ordóñez homered in the sixth to tie the game at three. 
In the bottom of the ninth, Huston Street got two outs, then allowed back-to-back 
singles before Ordóñez launched a three-run walk-off home run to win the 
game and advance the Tigers to the 2006 World Series. Ordóñez's blast was 
the first pennant-winning home run since Aaron Boone's in Game 7 of the 
