The 2007 Major League Baseball season began on April 1 with a rematch of 
the 2006 National League Championship Series; the St. Louis Cardinals and 
New York Mets played the first game of the season at Busch Stadium in St. 
Louis, Missouri, which was won by the Mets, 6–1. The regular season concluded 
with seven teams entering the postseason who had failed to reach the 2006 
playoffs including all National League teams, with only the New York Yankees 
returning; a dramatic one-game playoff between the Colorado Rockies and 
San Diego Padres; and the largest September collapse for a leading team 
in baseball history, with the Mets squandering a 7-game lead with 17 to 
play, losing on the final day of the regular season, and the Philadelphia 
Phillies capturing the National League East for the first time since 1993. 
The season ended on October 28, with the Boston Red Sox sweeping the 2007 
World Series over the Rockies, four games to none. A special exhibition 
game known as the "Civil Rights Game" was played on March 31 in AutoZone 
Park in Memphis, Tennessee between the Cardinals and the Cleveland Indians 
to celebrate the history of civil rights in the United States. The 2007 
season commemorates the 60th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's entry into 
the game, breaking the color barrier. The 90 wins by the Diamondbacks and 
Rockies were the fewest to lead the NL since 1959, with the exception of 
the strike-shortened seasons of 1981, 1994 and 1995. No NL team won or 
lost 95 games for the first time since 1983. Also, this was the second 
consecutive season in which no team won at least 60% of its games, the 
first time that this has happened in Major League Baseball history. Barry 
Bonds, left fielder for the San Francisco Giants, surpassed Hank Aaron 
as the all-time home run leader in Major League Baseball history with his 
756th career home run off Mike Bacsik of the Washington Nationals in the 
fifth inning of their game August 7 at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California. 
The 3–2 pitch with one out and nobody on base was hit at 8:51 PM US PDT 
and according to hittrackeronline.com was estimated to have gone 422 feet. 
However, the Nationals came back and won the game, 8–6. Through his final 
home game (and last game of the season) on September 26 and before the 
postseason Bonds has hit 762 home runs. Five days earlier, the Giants announced 
that Bonds would end his MLB career, due to ending a relationship of all 
fourteen seasons. As for the baseball that was hit for the record, Queens, 
New York resident and Mets fan Matt Murphy, 22, who survived a near riot 
while en route to Australia and stopped over to watch the game on a lark, 
put the ball up for auction online. The winning bidder was fashion designer 
Marc Ecko, who purchased the baseball for $752,467 (US), and then let fans 
decide what to do with it in an internet poll by either outright donating 
the ball to the Baseball Hall of Fame unbranded, donating it with an asterisk 
attached as many people believe Bonds used performance-enhancing drugs 
(including steroids) to further break the record, or have the baseball 
sent into outer space. The vote decided that an asterisk would be added, 
and the ball donated to Cooperstown. In an interview that aired on MSNBC's 
Countdown with Keith Olbermann on November 1 and 2, Bonds stated to interviewer 
Jim Gray that if the ball were to be put on display with the asterisk, 
he would boycott his own Hall of Fame induction if he were elected. Three 
no-hitters were pitched during the 2007 regular season. This is the most 
in a single season since the three pitched in 2001. All three no-hitters 
in 2007 were in the American League, which is the most in a single league 
since the record-tying 1991 season when the two leagues combined for seven 
no-hitters (4 AL, 3 NL). On July 10, 2007, at AT&T Park in San Francisco, 
the American League defeated the National League by a score of 5–4. The 
victory was the tenth consecutive (excluding the 2002 tie) for the AL, 
and their eleven-game unbeaten streak matches only the NL's streak from 
1972 to 1982 in All-Star history. On April 15, Major League Baseball celebrated 
the sixtieth anniversary of the debut of Jackie Robinson at Ebbets Field 
in Brooklyn, breaking the color barrier. Cincinnati Reds outfielder Ken 
Griffey, Jr. asked Robinson's widow, Rachel, and commissioner Bud Selig 
for permission to wear Robinson's number 42 in honor of him. He was granted 
permission, and Selig later said that any player who wanted to wear number 
42 on his jersey could. The jersey was worn without the players' name on 
the back, as was the case when Robinson played with the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
All jerseys that were worn were auctioned off with all the proceeds donated 
to the Jackie Robinson Foundation, an organization which awards scholarships 
to African-American high school graduates to further themselves in colleges 
academically. The Dodgers, Cardinals, and Brewers elected to have the entire 
team wear number 42 in his honor. The Pittsburgh Pirates, Phillies, and 
Astros were also scheduled to share that honor, but their games were postponed 
due to rain. The Phillies and Astros honored Robinson on April 23 when 
they made up their postponed game as originally planned, while the Pirates 
waited until April 27 to honor Robinson by wearing #42 as a team against 
the Reds. On August 10, the Cleveland Indians paid tribute to Larry Doby, 
the first African-American to play in the American League at Jacobs Field 
in Cleveland, Ohio. Every player on the Indians wore number 14, the number 
Doby wore during his career with the Indians. The Nationals played their 
final game at Robert F. Kennedy Stadium on September 23, beating the Phillies 
5–3. The team's new home, Nationals Park, formally opened on March 30, 
2008. Josh Hancock, a relief pitcher with the St. Louis Cardinals, died 
on April 29 in a car accident outside St. Louis, Missouri. The 29-year-old 
pitcher was killed within a couple of minutes after impact when the SUV 
he was driving crashed into a towing vehicle on Interstate 64. This marks 
the second time in five years that a Cardinals pitcher lost his life before 
a game, the other being Darryl Kile, who died suddenly on June 22, 2002. 
The team postponed their game scheduled for later that day against the 
Chicago Cubs to pay respect to Hancock. A police report revealed that Hancock 
was intoxicated at the time of his fatal accident with a blood-alcohol 
level of 0.157, nearly double the legal limit in Missouri. Police also 
found 8.55 grams of marijuana along with a glass smoking pipe in his vehicle, 
although toxicology tests later proved no drugs were in his system except 
alcohol. In addition, Hancock was talking on a portable cellular telephone 
when the accident occurred and not wearing a seatbelt. An accident reconstruction 
