The 2007 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2007 National League playoffs, began on Wednesday, October 3 and ended 
on Saturday, October 6, with the champions of the three NL divisions and 
one wild card team participating in two best-of-five series. They were: 
Colorado earned the wild card after winning a one-game playoff with San 
Diego. Although the division winner with the best record normally plays 
the wild card team, the Diamondbacks played the Cubs, rather than the wild 
card Rockies, because the league did not pair teams from the same division 
against each other in the division series. Both series represented the 
first time the opponents had met in the postseason, and the Rockies' victory 
was their first in any postseason series. The Diamondbacks and the Rockies 
met in the NL Championship Series, with the Rockies becoming the National 
League champion and going on to face the American League champion in the 
2007 World Series. This was the first time under the expanded playoffs 
format first used in 1995 that two teams from the National League's Western 
Division had played against one another in the NLCS. Arizona won the series, 
3–0. Colorado won the series, 3–0. Chase Field in Phoenix, Arizona Eighteen-game 
winners Carlos Zambrano and Brandon Webb matched each other pitch for pitch 
in the opening game of the series. The Diamondbacks struck first on Stephen 
Drew's fourth-inning home run. The Cubs loaded the bases in the sixth on 
two walks and a hit with two outs, but only scored once on Ryan Theriot's 
RBI single that tied the game. Unfortunately for Chicago, that would be 
all their offense as Carlos Mármol would take the loss in relief of Zambrano, 
allowing a lead off home run to Mark Reynolds in the seventh, then one 
out later walking Chris Snyder, who moved to third on Augie Ojeda's double 
and scored on and a sacrifice fly to Conor Jackson. José Valverde threw 
a hitless ninth inning to save the game for Arizona. Chase Field in Phoenix, 
Arizona The Cubs struck first in Game 2 when Matt Murton singled to lead 
off the second off of Doug Davis before Geovany Soto's home run put them 
up 2–0, but starter Ted Lilly in the bottom of the inning allowed a leadoff 
single to Chris Snyder, then walked Justin Upton before Chris Young's three-run 
home run two outs later put them up 3—2. Stephen Drew then singled and 
scored on Eric Byrnes's triple to make it 4–2 Arizona. In the fourth, Lilly 
allowed a leadoff single to Augie Ojeda, then walked Chris Young one out 
later before Drew's triple made it 6–2 Arizona and knocked him out of the 
game. Kevin Hart walked two with one out next inning before being relieved 
by Scott Eyre, who allowed an RBI single to Ojeda that put Upton at third. 
Michael Wuertz relieved Eyre and Davis's fielder choice scored another 
run for Arizona. In the seventh, Davis walked two with two outs before 
being relieved by Juan Cruz, who allowed a two-run double to pinch hitter 
Daryle Ward that made it 8–4 Arizona. However, neither team would score 
for the rest of the game, so the Diamondbacks went up 2–0 in the series 
heading to Chicago. Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Chris Young's home 
run on the first pitch of the game off of Rich Hill gave Arizona a quick 
1–0 lead. Stephen Drew then doubled to right field and after two strikeouts 
and a walk, scored on Justin Upton's single. Hill would leave the game 
in the fourth after allowing a lead-off walk and single. Michael Wuertz 
in relief walked Young to load the bases, then struck out Drew before Eric 
Byrnes hits into a forceout at second that scored Miguel Montero. The Cubs 
cut Arizona's lead to 3–1 in the bottom of the inning off of Liván Hernández 
when Mark DeRosa hit a leadoff single, moved to third on Jacque Jones's 
double, and scored on Jason Kendall's groundout. However, Hernandez would 
only allow three other hits in six innings. Solo home runs by Brynes in 
the sixth off of Carlos Marmol and Drew in the eighth off of Kerry Wood 
capped the scoring as the Diamondbacks' 5–1 win completed a sweep of the 
Cubs, who hit into four double plays. 2007 NLDS (3–0): Arizona Diamondbacks 
over Chicago Cubs Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Seventeen 
and fifteen-game winners Jeff Francis and Cole Hamels began the 2007 postseason 
by retiring the side in order. The face of the game quickly changed in 
the second inning when Todd Helton tripled to center field in his first 
career postseason plate appearance. He would score on Garrett Atkins's 
double. After Brad Hawpe struck out and Ryan Spilborghs walked, Yorvit 
Torrealba's singled scored Atkins. A two-out walk to Kaz Matsui loaded 
the bases before another walk to rookie Troy Tulowitzki gave the Rockies 
a 3–0 lead they never relinquished. Matt Holliday homered off of Tom Gordon 
in the eighth inning to provide insurance after consecutive home runs by 
Aaron Rowand and Pat Burrell led off the Phillies' half of the fifth. The 
Phillies wasted an ultimately solid effort from Hamels, who walked four 
in 6 2⁄3 frames but did not allow a hit after the decisive second inning. 
Manny Corpas picked up the save for Colorado. Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania Troy Tulowitzki and Matt Holliday hit consecutive one-out 
home runs in the first inning off Phillies rookie starter Kyle Kendrick, 
but his team responded with Jimmy Rollins' lead-off home run in the bottom 
of the inning off of Rockies starter Franklin Morales, coming off his own 
rookie season. Rollins' two-run triple next inning gave the Phillies a 
3–2 lead. That lead then vanished two innings later when Kaz Matsui hit 
a two-out grand slam off Phillies reliever Kyle Lohse. Jose Mesa walked 
two to lead off the sixth, then Yorvit Torrealba's two-run double put the 
Rockies up 8–3. After Josh Fogg bunted out, Clay Condrey relieved Mesa 
and allowed an RBI triple to Matsui. Tulowitzki struck out before Holliday's 
RBI single made it 10–3 Rockies. Ryan Howard hit a leadoff home run in 
the bottom of the inning off of Jeremy Affeldt. In the sevehth, Shane Victorino 
singled with one out off of Ryan Speier, advanced to third on a stole base 
attempt and Torrealba's throwing error, and scored on Rollins's groundout. 
Philadelphia loaded the bases in the eighth inning, but Manny Corpas earned 
a four-out save in stranding all three runners, sealing the Rockies' 10–5 
victory. Matsui was a single short of hitting for the cycle. Coors Field 
in Denver, Colorado The Rockies struck first in the fifth off of starter 
Jamie Moyer when Yorvit Torrealba singled with one out, moved to second 
on Ubaldo Jimenez's sacrifice bunt, and scored on Kazuo Matsui's triple. 
Shane Victorino's solo home run to right in the top of the seventh tied 
the game. After being released mid-season by the Red Sox, J. C. Romero 
became one of the most reliable bullpen arms for the Phillies down the 
stretch by not giving up a single run in 15 2⁄3 innings pitched in September. 
Unfortunately for Philadelphia in Game 3, Romero faltered and surrendered 
three straight two-out singles, the last of which to Jeff Baker scored 
the go-ahead run in the bottom of the eighth. Manny Corpas came on to nail 
down his third consecutive save in the ninth, sealing the series sweep. 
Brian Fuentes earned the win with a 1-2-3 eighth. The last time Philadelphia 
was swept in a postseason series is 1976 NLCS, in which Cincinnati beat 
them, 3–0. 2007 NLDS (3–0): Colorado Rockies over Philadelphia Phillies 
