†: Froemming was officiating his final games after a record 37 full seasons 
as a major league umpire. The 2007 American League Division Series (ALDS), 
the opening round of the 2007 American League playoffs, began on Wednesday, 
October 3 and ended on Monday, October 8. The 2007 AL Division Series consisted 
of three AL division champions and one wild card team, participating in 
two best-of-five series. They were: Although the Red Sox and Indians ended 
the regular season with the same record, the Red Sox received home-field 
advantage by virtue of winning the season series against Cleveland, five 
games to two. The Red Sox also got to choose whether their series started 
on October 3 or October 4, the first time a team was given this choice. 
Although the team seeded first normally faces the wild card team, the Red 
Sox are in the same division as the wild card Yankees, so played the Angels 
instead. The Red Sox and Angels met for the third time in the postseason, 
following the 1986 AL Championship Series and the 2004 ALDS, with Boston 
winning all three and extending their postseason victory streak over the 
Angels to nine consecutive games (the Angels hadn't beaten the Red Sox 
in the playoffs since Game 4 of the 1986 ALCS). The Indians and Yankees 
met in the postseason for the third time with the Indians winning, following 
their triumph in the 1997 ALDS and the Yankees' win in the 1998 ALCS. The 
Red Sox and Indians met in the AL Championship Series, with the Red Sox 
becoming the American League champion and going on to beat the Colorado 
Rockies in the 2007 World Series. Boston won the series, 3–0. Cleveland 
won the series, 3–1. Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts In Game 1, Boston 
starter Josh Beckett threw a complete game shutout, allowing the Red Sox 
to win the opener. After giving up a leadoff single to Chone Figgins, Beckett 
proceeded to retire nineteen straight Angels batters with just the second 
Angels hit coming off the bat of Vladimir Guerrero in the top of the seventh 
inning (Guerrero was stranded at first base after Beckett got the next 
two batters out). Beckett was backed by a solo home run from Kevin Youkilis 
in the bottom of the first inning, then a two-run home run from David Ortiz 
in the third inning, scoring Youkilis who had doubled to left field in 
the previous at bat. Manny Ramirez walked following Ortiz's home run, moved 
to second on a wild pitch, and scored on Mike Lowell's single for the Red 
Sox's final run. Beckett shut out the Angels, surrendering just four hits, 
walking none, and striking out eight batters. Los Angeles starter John 
Lackey gave up nine hits and four runs over six innings, settling down 
after the third inning, giving up a hit and a walk before exiting after 
the sixth inning. Ervin Santana relieved Lackey in the seventh inning and 
threw two perfect innings, but the Angels offense could not put any runs 
on the board and they dropped the opener by a 4–0 score. Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts Neither starting pitcher in Game 2 made it into the 
sixth inning of the contest. Game 2 became a battle of the bullpens beginning 
with the Red Sox in the fifth inning with starter Daisuke Matsuzaka lasting 
just 4 2⁄3 innings giving up three runs on seven hits. Meanwhile, Angels 
starter Kelvim Escobar gave up three runs on just four hits and five walks. 
The Red Sox struck first when they loaded the bases on two walks and a 
single before J.D. Drew's two-run single put them up 2−0. The Angels responded 
in the second when Casey Kotchman drew a leadoff walk and moved to third 
on Kendrys Morales's single. After Howie Kendrick struck out, Jeff Mathis's 
groundout scored Kotchman before back-to-back RBI doubles by Chone Figgins 
and Orlando Cabrera gave the Angles their first and only lead of the series. 
The Red Sox tied the game in the fifth on Mike Lowell's sacrifice fly that 
scored J.D. Drew. Scot Shields came on in relief of Escobar and pitched 
two hitless, scoreless innings, walking three batters, one intentionally. 
Boston's four relievers—López, Delcarmen, Okajima, and Papelbon—threw 4 1⁄3 
hitless, scoreless innings striking out four and only walking two batters 
(both by Papelbon). In the bottom of the ninth, Julio Lugo hit a leadoff 
single off of Justin Speier, who got Dustin Pedroia to ground out before 
being relieved by Francisco Rodríguez. After Kevin Youkilis struck out, 
the Angels intentionally walked Ortiz giving him four walks on the night—tying 
a post-season record before the Red Sox won on a three-run walk-off home 
run from Manny Ramirez, taking a 2–0 series lead. Angel Stadium of Anaheim 
in Anaheim, California In Game 3, Curt Schilling pitched seven shutout 
innings, allowing six hits and one walk while striking out four. David 
Ortiz and Manny Ramírez both homered off Jered Weaver in the fourth inning 
to put the Sox up 2–0. Boston broke the game open with seven runs in the 
eighth. Scot Shields walked Julio Lugo to lead it off before being relieved 
by Justin Speier, who allowed an RBI double to Dustin Pedroia (who advanced 
to third on the throw to home) and sacrifice fly to Kevin Youkilis. Speier 
then allowed a single to Ortiz and walked Ramirez before Mike Lowell's 
RBI double made it 5−0 Boston. Darren Oliver relieved Speier and allowed 
a run-scoring fielder's choice to J.D. Drew and RBI double to Jason Varitek 
before Coco Crisp capped the scoring with a two-run single. The Angels 
scored their only run in the ninth off of Eric Gagne when Maicer Izturis 
hit a leadoff double, moved to third on a wild pitch, and scored on Chone 
Figgins's sacrifice fly. This was the Red Sox' ninth consecutive postseason 
game victory over the Angels. 2007 ALDS (3–0): Boston Red Sox over Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Johnny Damon 
led off the game with a home run off Cleveland starter CC Sabathia, but 
in the bottom of the inning Chien-Ming Wang allowed a two-out walk to Travis 
Hafner and single to Victor Martinez before Ryan Garko's RBI single tied 
the game. After Jhonny Peralta walked to load the bases, Kenny Lofton's 
two-RBI single put the Indians up 3−1 with Peralta out at third to end 
the inning. Asdrubal Cabrera's leadoff home run in the third put the Indians 
up 4−1, but the Yankees got that run back in the fourth on Robinson Cano's 
home run. Next inning, Shelly Duncan hit a leadoff single, moved to second 
on a walk, and scored on Bobby Abreu's RBI double to cut the Indians' lead 
to 4−3, but the Yankees would not score again while Cleveland blew the 
game open in the bottom half. Cabrera drew a leadoff walk before Martinez's 
home run one out later made it 6−3 Indians. After Garko grounded out, Peralta 
doubled to right and scored on Lofton's single to knock Wang out of the 
game. Ross Ohlendorf walked Franklin Gutierrez before Casey Blake's two-run 
double made it 9−3 Indians. Wang was tagged for eight earned runs in 4 2⁄3 
innings. The Indians added to their lead with Hafner's home run and Lofton's 
RBI double with two on off of Ohlendorf in the sixth and Garko's home run 
in the eighth off of Phil Hughes. Sabathia earned the win despite walking 
six in five innings, and departed after throwing 114 pitches. Lofton tallied 
three hits and four RBI for Cleveland. The win marked Cleveland's first 
over the Yankees since 2006, snapping an eight-game losing streak. Jacobs 
Field in Cleveland, Ohio Game 2 featured an old-fashioned pitchers duel 
between Fausto Carmona and postseason veteran Andy Pettitte. Carmona looked 
to be the hard-luck loser after surrendering Melky Cabrera's third inning 
home run until the eighth, when heralded phenom Joba Chamberlain walked 
Grady Sizemore, who went to second on a wild pitch, then to third on a 
sacrifice bunt before scoring the tying run on another wild pitch. The 
game went into extras, where Travis Hafner drove home the winning run on 
an eleventh-inning bases-loaded single off of Luiz Vizcaino. Late in the 
game, a swarm of tiny insects circled the mound in the late innings. Play 
was stopped for a short time to accommodate the players, including Chamberlain, 
who threw only 12 of his 25 pitches for strikes in suffering a blown save 
without surrendering a hit. Yankee Stadium (I) in The Bronx, New York The 
Yankees would take Game 3 for their only win of the series despite an early 
exit from starter Roger Clemens, who left after 2 1⁄3 innings with a strained 
hamstring. Rookie Phil Hughes relieved him and threw 3 2⁄3 scoreless innings 
for the win, striking out four. The Indians struck first when Asdrubal 
Cabrera singled with one out in the first, moved to second on a walk and 
scored on Ryan Garko's single. Trot Nixon's home run next inning made it 
2−0 Indians, who got another run the third when Travis Hafner walked, moved 
to second on a wild pitch and scored on Jhonny Peralta's double. The Yankees 
got on the board in the bottom of the third when Hideki Matsui hit a leadoff 
single, moved to second on a groundout, then to third on a fielder's choice 
and scored on Johnny Damon's single. In the fifth, Cleveland starter Jake 
Westbrook allowed a one-out single to Matsui and subsequent double to Robinson 
Cano. Melky Cabrera's RBI single cut the Indians lead to one before Damon's 
three-run home run put the Yankees up 5−3. Next inning, the Yankees loaded 
the bases on two singles and a walk off of reliever Aaron Fultz when Cano's 
single scored one run, but right fielder Nixon's misplay allowed two unearned 
runs to score to make it 8−3 Yankees. The Indians scored one more run the 
eighth off of Joba Chamberlain when Peralta walked with two outs, moved 
to second on Kenny Lofton's single, and scored on Nixon's double, but Mariano 
Rivera retired them in order in the ninth to give the Yankees an 8−4 win. 
Yankee Stadium (I) in The Bronx, New York Chien-Ming Wang was called upon 
to start Game 4 on three days' rest for the Yankees. Grady Sizemore hit 
a leadoff home run off Wang, who then allowed a one-out single to Travis 
Hafner, who moved to second on a groundout and scored on Jhonny Peralta's 
single. Next inning, the Indians loaded the bases off of Wang with no outs 
on two singles and a hit-by-pitch. Mike Mussina came on in relief and allowed 
one run to score on Sizemore's double play and another on Asdrubal Cabrera's 
single. Wang was charged with four runs in one inning while Mussina threw 
4 2⁄3 solid innings, but in the fourth, allowed Cleveland to load the bases 
on a double and two walks before Víctor Martínez's two-run single proved 
to be the difference in the Indians 6–4 win. Though four Yankee relievers 
held Cleveland scoreless for the rest of the game, Cleveland starter Paul 
Byrd labored but earned the win with five innings of two-run ball. The 
only runs came on Yankees Captain Derek Jeter's bases loaded single in 
the second and Robinson Cano's home run in the sixth. Alex Rodriguez's 
home run in the seventh off of Rafael Perez cut the Indians lead to 6−3, 
but Joe Borowski earned the save in the ninth despite allowing a home run 
to Bobby Abreu. The loss marked the third time in five years (2003, 2004, 
and 2007) the Yankees were eliminated from a postseason series at home. 
This was the final postseason game ever played at the old Yankee Stadium 
and the last game that Joe Torre would manage for the Yankees. 2007 ALDS 
(3–1): Cleveland Indians over New York Yankees Manny Ramírez with an absolute 
rocket into the Boston night and the Red Sox lead the series two games 
to none. And this crowd will tell you the story. Three and two, bases loaded, 
tie game...INDIANS WIN! Rob Quinlan pinch hitting pops up and that does 
it! The Red Sox sweep the Angels and they are in the American League Championship 
Series! AND THE GAME IS OVER! The Cleveland Indians have won the series 
in four games! Six to four your final score! The Indians are headed to 
Fenway Park and an era ends, perhaps, in New York. AND HERE COME THE YANKEES! 
