The 2007 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the 126th season of the franchise; 
the 121st in the National League. The Pirates finished sixth and last in 
the National League Central with a record of 68–94. The Pirates began 2007 
with a new majority owner, Robert Nutting, and the dreary fact that they 
could surpass the Philadelphia Phillies as owners of the longest consecutive 
losing seasons record in baseball, having last had a winning season in 
1992. However, in spite of finishing 5th in the NL Central, the Pirates 
were hoping that their 2nd half momentum from 2006 would carry over into 
2007. In addition to NL batting champion Freddy Sanchez and slugger Jason 
Bay, the Bucs acquired Adam LaRoche from Atlanta in January, hoping to 
boost offensive power. In addition, they re-signed pitcher Shawn Chacón, 
acquired from the Yankees last summer, and signed Tony Armas, Jr. to help 
bolster their starting rotation, led by Ian Snell and Tom Gorzelanny. Just 
before the All Star game, team CEO Kevin McClatchy announced at the end 
of the season he would be stepping down from the position. He maintained 
that he would "remain as the active leader of the organization" to give 
the team ample time to find a successor and "ensure a smooth transition 
into the next chapter of Pirates history." The Pirates' season started 
well, as they swept the Houston Astros in Houston for the first time since 
1991, when the Astros played in the Astrodome. However, that initial success 
didn't carry for very long, as the Bucs proceeded to lose 11 of their next 
13 games. The Pirates pulled out of their early slump to post a 12-12 record 
at the end of April. May, however, would to be quite tumultuous, as Tony 
Armas was sent to the bullpen for poor performance, Zach Duke struggled 
mightily, the bullpen blew several late leads, and closer Salomón Torres 
was stripped of his closer's duties, in favor of youngster Matt Capps after 
Torres blew a 2-run ninth-inning lead against the San Diego Padres on May 
31. After the All-Star Break, the Pirates started off by losing 7 games 
in a row, and 8 out of 9 overall. Paul "Big Poison" Waner's number 11 was 
retired in a pregame ceremony at PNC Park July 21, 2007, conducted in part 
by members of his family and Pirate greats Bill Mazeroski and Ralph Kiner. 
Frustrated by the consistent losing, poor drafting, and the ownership's 
inability to retain players due to payroll constraints, fans led by Pittsburgh 
Business Executive Andrew Chomos organized a much-publicized walkout for 
June 30.[2] There were also a pre-game protest rally outside the stadium, 
including the appearance and speaking of former Pirate Doc Ellis, who stated 
he has been "embarrassed to be called a Pirate over the last 15 years". 
Despite the best efforts by the Pirates to downplay the protest, it became 
so publicized that management was forced to acknowledge its existence. 
Then Pirate CEO Kevin McClatchy resigned 2 days after the protest. The 
protest periodically appeared in news articles as it did in the August 
2010 issue of Sports Illustrated and was also a topical conversation on 
ESPN and CNN programs. Infielders Coaches 2007 Major League Baseball All-Star 
