The 2007 World Series, the 103rd[2] edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series, began on Wednesday, October 24 and ended on Sunday, 
October 28. It featured the National League champions Colorado Rockies 
(making their first World Series appearance) and American League champions 
Boston Red Sox. The Red Sox swept the Rockies to collect their second World 
Series championship in four seasons and their seventh overall; it also 
marked the third sweep in four years by the AL champions. Terry Francona 
became the second Red Sox manager to win two World Series titles, following 
Bill Carrigan, who won the 1915 and 1916 World Series. Including the last 
three games of the ALCS, the Red Sox outscored their opposition 59–15 over 
their final seven games. Francona also became the first manager to win 
his first 8 World Series games. The Rockies, meanwhile, became the first 
National League team to get swept in a World Series after sweeping the 
League Championship Series, and just the second team ever to suffer such 
a fate, following the Oakland Athletics in 1990. The Rockies entered the 
Series having won 21 of their last 22 games, going back to the end of the 
regular season, including sweeps of the Philadelphia Phillies in the NLDS 
and the Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLCS. They also beat the San Diego 
Padres in the NL Wild Card tie-breaker. The Red Sox swept the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim in the ALDS and defeated the Cleveland Indians in the 
ALCS after trailing three games to one, taking the final three contests 
by a combined score of 30–5. Neither participating team was in the previous 
year's postseason. The Rockies' eight-day layoff was the longest in MLB 
postseason history, caused by their sweep in the NLCS, the ALCS going seven 
games, and scheduling by MLB. Per the 2006 Collective Bargaining Agreement,[3] 
the Red Sox had home-field advantage in the World Series following the 
American League's 5–4 win in the 2007 All-Star Game. The first two games 
took place in Boston, with games 3 and 4 in Denver. AL Boston Red Sox (4) 
vs. NL Colorado Rockies (0) The Red Sox cruised to a blowout win in Game 1 
behind ALCS MVP Josh Beckett, who struck out nine batters, including the 
first four he faced, over seven innings en route to his fourth win of the 
2007 postseason (and the sixth of his career). Mike Timlin and Eric Gagne 
pitched a perfect eighth and ninth, respectively. Rookie Dustin Pedroia 
led off the Sox' first inning with a home run over the Green Monster in 
Fenway Park off of Jeff Francis. Pedroia's homer was only the second lead-off 
home run to start a World Series; (the only other one was hit by Baltimore's 
Don Buford in 1969). Kevin Youkilis then doubled to right, moved to third 
on David Ortiz's groundout, and scored on Manny Ramirez's single. After 
Mike Lowell flew out, Jason Varitek singled before J. D. Drew doubled to 
score Ramirez and make it 3-0 Red Sox. The Rockies got on the board in 
the second when Garrett Atkins double with one out off Beckett and scored 
on Troy Tulowitzki's double one out later, but the Red Sox got that run 
back off of Francis when Youkilis walked with two outs and scored on Ortiz's 
double. In the fourth, the Red Sox loaded the bases with two outs on a 
single, double, and intentional walk when Varitek's two-run double put 
them up 6-1. They put the game out of reach with seven runs in the fifth. 
Julio Lugo hit a leadoff single off of reliever Franklin Morales before 
Jacoby Ellsbury bunted into a forceout at second. After Pedroia popped 
out, a balk moved Ellsbury to second before he scored on Youkilis's double. 
Ortiz's double and Ramirez's single scored a run each. The Red Sox loaded 
the bases on a double and walk before Drew's single scored another run. 
Ryan Speier relieved Morales and walked all three batters he faced to force 
in three more Boston runs. Matt Herges relieved Speier and got Youkilis 
to fly out to right to end the inning. Though Herges and two relievers 
held Boston scoreless for the rest of the game, the Red Sox finished with 
thirteen runs, the most ever in a World Series Game 1, and tied another 
record with nine extra base hits. The last 11 of the Red Sox runs came 
with 2 outs. After the debacle of Game 1, Colorado appeared to return to 
form, scoring quickly on a groundout by Todd Helton with runners on second 
and third in the first. However, this would be the only time the Rockies 
ever led in the series as postseason veteran Curt Schilling ( 5 1⁄3 IP, 
one run, four hits) and Boston's bullpen (Okajima, 2 1⁄3 IP; Papelbon, 
1 1⁄3 IP) allowed no other runs in the contest. The Red Sox tied the game 
in the fourth off of Ubaldo Jimenez on Jason Varitek's sacrifice fly with 
runners on second and third, then took the lead next inning on Mike Lowell's 
RBI double with runners on first and second. Matt Holliday had four of 
Colorado's five hits in Game 2, including a base hit off Papelbon with 
two outs in the eighth. Before throwing another pitch, Papelbon caught 
Holliday leaning too far off first base and picked him off—Papelbon's first 
career pickoff. This was the first World Series game ever played in Colorado. 
At 4 hours 19 minutes, it became the longest nine-inning game in World 
Series history. Game 3 was also the 600th World Series game ever played. 
Starting pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka pitched five innings of scoreless ball 
and left in the sixth with no runs allowed.The Red Sox struck first with 
a six-run third inning. Rookie Jacoby Ellsbury hit a leadoff double, moved 
to second on Dustin Pedroia's single, and scored on David Ortiz's double. 
After Manny Ramirez was intentionally walked, Mike Lowell's single scored 
two more runs. J.D. Drew popped out before Ramirez was thrown at home on 
Jason Varitek's single with Lowell advancing to third. After Julio Lugo 
walked to load the bases, Matsuzaka hit a two-run single for his first 
base hit and RBI in the Major Leagues. Ellsbury capped the scoring with 
his second double of the inning and knock Colorado starter Josh Fogg was 
taken out of the game. The Rockies' bats came to life in the sixth and 
seventh innings against a normally solid but shaky Boston bullpen. After 
Matsuzaka walked two straight in the sixth with one out, reliever Javier 
López allowed back-to-back RBI singles to Brad Hawpe and Yorvit Torrealba. 
Mike Timlin allowed two straight leadoff singles in the seventh before 
NLCS MVP Matt Holliday brought the Rockies to within one run with a three-run 
home run off Hideki Okajima. Brian Fuentes gave back those runs in the 
eighth by walking Lugo with one out and allowing a subsequent single to 
Coco Crisp. before Ellsbury and Dustin Pedroia, who had four and three 
hits, respectively, on the night (the first time in World Series history 
two rookies had at least three hits in a game) hit back-to-back RBI doubles, 
raising Boston's lead to 9–5. Jonathan Papelbon came on for a four-out 
save, getting Holliday to fly out on one pitch, leaving runners on first 
and second. Jason Varitek would tack on Boston's tenth run in the top of 
the ninth off of LaTroy Hawkins with a sacrifice fly, scoring Mike Lowell 
who, not generally considered a stolen base threat, had just stolen third 
base, the first time a Red Sox baserunner stole third base in the World 
Series since 1975, after hitting a leadoff single and moving to second 
on a sacrifice bunt. Papelbon came back out in the bottom of the ninth 
to complete the save, getting the first two outs before surrendering a 
two-out triple to Brad Hawpe, then finishing the game with a groundout 
from Yorvit Torrealba. The Red Sox took Game 3 by a final score of 10–5. 
The Red Sox continued to set World Series records during Game 3: The Red 
Sox struck offensively early in the game. Boston Rookie Jacoby Ellsbury 
began the first inning with a double and was advanced by Dustin Pedroia 
with a groundout, followed by an RBI single from David Ortiz. In the seventh 
inning, series MVP Mike Lowell hit a home run to give Boston a 3–0 lead. 
The Colorado offense answered when left fielder Brad Hawpe hit a home run 
off of a Manny Delcarmen fastball, bringing the Rockies within two. Relief 
pitcher Brian Fuentes gave back that run abruptly, allowing Boston pinch-hitter 
Bobby Kielty to hit a ball into the left field stands on the first pitch 
of the inning, extending the Red Sox lead to 4–1. In the next inning Boston 
pitcher Hideki Okajima allowed a one-out single to Todd Helton followed 
by a Garrett Atkins two-run home run, bringing the Rockies within one. 
Jonathan Papelbon relieved Okajima and earned his third save of the series. 
At 12:06 am EDT on Monday, October 29, Papelbon struck out Colorado pinch 
hitter Seth Smith for the final out of the 2007 World Series. Boston had 
won its second World Series title in four years and seventh all-time. 2007 
World Series (4–0): Boston Red Sox (A.L.) over Colorado Rockies (N.L.) 
On October 17, 2007, a week before the first game of the World Series, 
the Colorado Rockies announced that tickets would be made available to 
the general public via online sales only, despite prior arrangements to 
sell the tickets at local retail outlets.[9] Five days later, California-based 
ticket vendor Paciolan, Inc., the sole contractor authorized by the Colorado 
Rockies to distribute tickets, was forced to suspend sales after less than 
an hour due to an exorbitant number of purchase attempts.[10] The Rockies 
organization said that they were the victims of a denial-of-service attack;[11] 
The FBI has started its own investigation into these claims.[12] Ticket 
sales resumed the next day, with all three home games selling out within 
2 1⁄2 hours. The Red Sox also relied primarily on online sales to sell 
the game tickets, although some Fenway Park tickets were sold on the phone 
and at the box office. The Sox held a random drawing for the right to buy 
post season tickets on October 15, and winners bought tickets at a private 
online sale. Street prices were lower in Boston this time than in 2004: 
the average price, according to StubHub, was about $1500 in 2007, down 
about $300 from three years previously.[13] Some Sox fans found that it 
was cheaper to travel to Denver to see World Series games than to pay the 
street price for Boston game tickets.[14] While the celebratory crowd at 
Kenmore Square was not as unruly as in 2004, cars were overturned and 37 
arrests were made.[15] The Red Sox victory parade, yet again in duck boats 
and called a "Rolling Rally" as in 2004, was on October 30, 2007 with closer 
Jonathan Papelbon doing his infamous "Riverdance" while local punk band 
the Dropkick Murphys played their hit "I'm Shipping Up to Boston". The 
Red Sox World Series win in 2007 continued the success of Boston-area teams 
in recent years.[16] The Celtics won their 17th championship, their first 
championship since 1986, the last time the Red Sox lost in the World Series, 
7 1⁄2 months later. Furthermore, the New England Patriots had victories 
in 2001, 2003, 2004, and 2014, the Boston Bruins in 2011, and the Red Sox 
three years earlier in 2004 and six years later in 2013. The World Series 
was televised by Fox in the United States, with Joe Buck and Tim McCarver 
as booth announcers. The starting time for each television broadcast was 
8:00 pm EDT (6:00 pm MDT). The series broke with the recent tradition of 
starting the World Series on a Saturday, as Major League Baseball had become 
convinced that weekend games drew lower television ratings. Prior to this 
season, every World Series since 1985 had opened on a Saturday, with the 
exception of the 1990 World Series. Rogers Sportsnet (RSN) in Canada used 
the MLB International feed with Dave O'Brien and Rick Sutcliffe as booth 
announcers. NASN showed the games live to most of Europe, while in the 
UK, all games were shown terrestrially on Five. NHK aired the Series in 
Japan. On radio, the Series was broadcast nationally by ESPN Radio, with 
Jon Miller and Joe Morgan announcing. Locally, Joe Castiglione and Glenn 
Geffner called the Series for the Red Sox on WRKO in Boston, while Jack 
Corrigan and Jeff Kingery called it for the Rockies on KOA in Denver. Per 
contractual obligation, the non-flagship stations on the teams' radio networks 
