The New York Yankees' 2007 season was the Yankees' 105th in New York and 
their 107th overall dating back to their origins in Baltimore. The season 
started with the Yankees trying to win the AL East championship, a title 
they had won every season since after the 1997 season, but ultimately they 
came in second place to the Boston Red Sox. The Yankees instead won the 
American League wild card, beating out the Seattle Mariners and the Detroit 
Tigers. The offseason started with news of the unexpected death of Cory 
Lidle, who was an occupant in his own plane that crashed into a Manhattan 
high rise shortly after the Yankees were eliminated in the 2006 ALDS.[1] 
The Yankees made news by trading right fielder Gary Sheffield to the Detroit 
Tigers in exchange for pitching prospects.[2] The Yankees also traded away 
pitcher Jaret Wright[3] to the Baltimore Orioles in exchange for reliever 
Chris Britton.[4] On December 21, 2006, Andy Pettitte signed as a Free 
Agent with the Yankees.[5] However, no offseason move was bigger for the 
team than trading Randy Johnson back to the Arizona Diamondbacks, the team 
who he was with when he won the 2001 World Series against the Yankees, 
for pitcher Luis Vizcaíno and three minor league prospects.[6] Joe Torre 
is managing the team for the 12th consecutive season. On May 6, Roger Clemens 
announced his return to the Yankees after a three-year absence from the 
team.[7] Injuries sidelined starting pitchers Mike Mussina, Carl Pavano, 
and Chien-Ming Wang, leaving only original starters Andy Pettitte and Kei 
Igawa active. The team set a major league record with 10 different starters 
in the first 30 games, including a record 6 rookies. Even the rookie hurlers 
were not immune in the early going. Jeff Karstens was hit by a line drive 
off his first pitch on April 28, fracturing his right fibula. Phil Hughes 
pitched a hitless 6⅓ innings against the Rangers on May 1 before leaving 
the game with a pulled hamstring. Closer Mariano Rivera blew 2 of his first 
3 save opportunities and struggled in other appearances. Kei Igawa, acquired 
during the off-season for $46 million from Japan's Hanshin Tigers, allowed 
26 earned runs in 6 appearances for an ERA of 7.63. He was then sent to 
the Tampa Yankees, the Single A affiliate of the Yankees. Meanwhile, the 
offense led the American League in hits, home runs, and runs scored. Alex 
Rodríguez tied a record (set by Albert Pujols), by hitting 14 home runs 
in April. Nonetheless, the Yankees suffered a seven-game losing streak 
after sweeping the Cleveland Indians at Yankee Stadium and ended April 
with a record of 9–14, last place in the AL East and 6½ games behind the 
Red Sox. By early May, Mike Mussina and Chien-Ming Wang joined Andy Pettitte 
with newcomers Darrell Rasner and Matt DeSalvo filling in the remaining 
two positions in the rotation. Alex Rodriguez's remarkable April had come 
to an end, but the bats kept up their pace and, with the bullpen getting 
some needed rest, the Yankees began May 7–2. However, at the end of the 
month, the Yankees were tied for last place with the Devil Rays and were 
22–29, 13½ games behind the Red Sox in the AL East. On May 6, Roger Clemens 
announced his return to the Yankees after a three-year absence from the 
team.[7] The Yankees began June with a strong 8–2 start. They opened with 
a series victory over the Red Sox in Boston, including a game-winning home 
run by Alex Rodriguez off closer Jonathan Papelbon in the final game of 
the set with Boston. They were struck by injuries again that weekend, as 
Doug Mientkiewicz was injured in a collision at first with Mike Lowell 
and Roger Clemens's first start was delayed by a groin injury. Nonetheless, 
the Yankees took 3 of 4 from the White Sox heading into an interleague 
series with the Pirates. Roger Clemens made his season debut on June 9 
and earned the victory. The Yankees swept the Pirates and took a 9-game 
winning streak, their longest since May 2005, into a subway series with 
the Mets. Roger Clemens pitched strongly in the series opener, but the 
Yankees were shut out 2-0. The Yankees would rebound and take the next 
game 11–8. Later that day, the Yankees received news that Kei Igawa would 
be ready to return to the Major Leagues. On July 1, they were 11 games 
behind the division-leading Red Sox and 8 games behind the Wild Card-leading 
Tigers. The Yankees began the first week of July strongly. They lost the 
final game of a series with Oakland before taking 3 out of 4 from the Minnesota 
Twins and 2 of 3 from the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Alex Rodriguez 
was injured during the series with Minnesota, suffering a strained left 
hamstring. He missed one game before returning to action that weekend against 
the Angels. After winning the weekend series with the Angels, the Yankees 
went into the break with a 42–43 record and a 10-game deficit in the division 
behind the Boston Red Sox. This is the first time since 1995 that the New 
York Yankees were under .500 before the All Star Break.[8] After the break, 
the Yankees took three out of four games from the Toronto Blue Jays and 
the last place Tampa Bay Devil Rays, twice. In the month of July, the Yankees 
traded Scott Proctor for Wilson Betemit of the Los Angeles Dodgers.[9] 
The Yankees also traded Jeff Kennard for Jose Molina.[10] The beginning 
of August saw the Yankees, along with all of Major League Baseball, eagerly 
awaiting home run number 500 from Alex Rodriguez. During the home run milestone 
chase George Steinbrenner's health once again came into question when the 
New York Post and the New York Daily News each reported that Steinbrenner, 
during a recent interview, appeared to be suffering from dementia. After 
gruffly responding to the Condé Nast reporter's question about the Yankees, 
he continues to repeat "Great to see ya", to each of McEwen's questions. 
On August 4, 2007, during the first inning Alex Rodriguez hit his 500th 
career home run. Rodriguez became the youngest player ever to do so at 
32 years, 8 days. On August 6, 2007, the Yankees cut relief pitcher Mike 
Myers and brought up Jim Brower. They had just completed a season sweep 
of the Cleveland Indians, winning all 6 games they played against them 
in 2007. This was a good start to the Yankees' upcoming tough schedule, 
where they played 17 games out of a 20-game span against playoff contenders. 
This included 8 games against the Detroit Tigers (4 at home, 4 at Detroit), 
3 games against the Cleveland Indians, 3 games against the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim, and 3 games against the Boston Red Sox. August also 
saw rookie Phil Hughes rejoin the starting rotation, as well as the much 
anticipated debut of Joba Chamberlain, a future starter who gave the Yankees' 
bullpen some much needed help during the pennant race (an 0.38 ERA in 23.2 
innings). Hall of Fame Yankee shortstop Phil Rizzuto, who was also the 
long-time voice of the Yankees on television and radio, died on August 
13. The Yankees wore his number 10 on their left sleeves for the remainder 
of the season. The Yankees swept Boston at Yankee Stadium after dropping 
to eight games back in AL East standings. Coupled with losses by the Seattle 
Mariners, the Yankees' wins put them on top of the AL Wild Card race. The 
Yankees' first game of September showcased rookie pitcher Ian Kennedy in 
his first career Major League start. Kennedy had replaced veteran Mike 
Mussina after Mussina had struggled in his previous three starts. Over 
seven innings pitched, Kennedy was charged with three runs, only one of 
which was earned, and the Yankees' offense was led by Alex Rodriguez's 
45th home run of the season on the way to a 9–6 victory over the Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays. The game against the Boston Red Sox on September 14 was 
4 hours and 43 minutes, 2 minutes short of a nine inning game record, which 
is held by the Yankees and Red Sox.[11] While the Yankees lost the American 
League East title to the Boston Red Sox on September 27, the Yankees clinched 
the wild card berth and appeared in the postseason for a 13th straight 
year. They faced the AL Central champions, the Cleveland Indians, in the 
ALDS, losing the series three games to one. [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] 
[9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] Infielders Coaches 2007 American League 
Division Series: On October 14, 2007, George Steinbrenner relinquished 
control of the Yankees to his two sons, Hank and Hal Steinbrenner. The 
brothers will take on control not only of the Yankees but also the YES 
Network and the construction of the new Yankee Stadium. "I'll pay more 
attention to the baseball part", Hank Steinbrenner said. "The stadium, 
that's more Hal. But basically everything will be decided jointly." Technically, 
Steinbrenner is not completely gone. He has given himself chairman-like 
position on the team. "George has taken on a role like the chairman of 
a major corporation", team president Randy Levine told the New York Post. 
"He's been saying for years he's wanted to get his sons involved in the 
family business. Both of them have stepped up and are taking on the day-to-day 
duties of what's required to run the Yankees." After the Yankees were eliminated 
the postseason, the fate of Joe Torre, the Yankees' manager since 1996, 
was in question. The team mulled what to do while speculation grew that 
Torre would not be brought back as manager. The team eventually offered 
him a contract that had a reduced salary with incentives, but Torre, who 
felt he was being treated unfairly even after his long tenure with the 
team, rejected the offer. He subsequently was hired by the Los Angeles 
Dodgers. The Yankees would hire Joe Girardi as Torre's replacement. For 
complete stats click here (external link) Note: G = Games played; AB = 
At Bats; H = Hits; AVG = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted 
In Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = 
Innings pitched; SV = Saves; W = Wins; L = Losses; H = Holds; ERA = Earned 
run average; SO = Strikeouts *Ended season not on active roster + Ended 
