The 2007 Milwaukee Brewers season marked the 25th anniversary of the Milwaukee 
Brewers winning the American League Championship and the 50th anniversary 
of the Milwaukee Braves winning the World Series.[1] During the offseason, 
the Brewers re-signed free agents Bill Hall and Chris Capuano. The Brewers 
were also able to sign starting pitcher Jeff Suppan, second-baseman Craig 
Counsell, and third baseman Tony Graffanino from free agency.[2] The Brewers 
finished in second place in the National League Central with a record of 
83-79.[3] The Brewers headed into the season celebrating their 25th anniversary 
of their American League Championship. They prepared for the season by 
hosting reunions and premiering a video of the 1982 team at the Pabst Theater. 
The Brewers announced they would celebrate the 1982 team on "Retro Fridays" 
by having fan give-aways relating to the pennant-winning team.[4] Milwaukee 
also celebrated the 50th anniversary of the 1957 Milwaukee Braves victory 
in the World Series.[1][5] During the offseason, the Milwaukee Brewers 
increased their payroll from $54.5 million to $68 million, a significant 
amount for a small-market team. The Brewers re-signed arbitration-eligible 
pitcher Chris Capuano, whose salary increased from $450,000 to $3.25 million, 
and arbitration-eligible Bill Hall, who signed a four-year, $24 million 
contract, largest on the team. Both were members of the Brewers team in 
2006. The Brewers were able to acquire free agent starting pitcher Jeff 
Suppan from the St. Louis Cardinals by signing him to a four-year, $42 
million deal. They also signed second-baseman Craig Counsell[6] of the 
Arizona Diamondbacks and third-baseman Tony Graffanino of the Kansas City 
Royals off of free agency.[2] The Brewers 2007 season began with a 7-1 
victory on opening day over the Los Angeles Dodgers behind a complete game 
two-hitter by starting-pitcher Ben Sheets, becoming the first Brewer pitcher 
since 1979 to throw a complete game on opening day.[8] The Brewers would 
win their next game before dropping three in a row, including one to the 
Dodgers and the first two games of a three-game series with the Chicago 
Cubs. With a record of .500 after the first homestand of the season, the 
Brewers went on the road to win two games of a three-game set with the 
Florida Marlins. Continuing their road trip, the Brewers split games against 
the Cardinals after the first game of the series was postponed due to rain. 
After splitting games with the Cincinnati Reds, the Brewers moved into 
first place in the NL Central. The Brewers returned to Miller Park to win 
four of their next five games, sweeping the Pittsburgh Pirates and winning 
twice against the Houston Astros. The Brewers played on the road for their 
next six games, winning two of three games against both the Cubs and Astros. 
The Brewers finished the month of April with a win against the Cardinals, 
in which Brewers starting pitcher Jeff Suppan pitched a complete game. 
During this game all players wore a special black "32" patch on their left 
arms to commemorate recently deceased Cardinals pitcher Josh Hancock. Suppan's 
win gave him four on the season, tying him with Chris Capuano for the team 
lead after April. Brewers closer Francisco Cordero recorded a franchise 
record and league-leading ten saves in the month of April. Cordero finished 
April without allowing an earned run in twelve appearances. The Brewers 
ended the month with a 3½ game lead in the NL Central. The Brewers started 
May by completing a three-game sweep of the Cardinals and improved to an 
MLB-leading 18-9 record. The Brewers went on to win six of their next seven 
games; they won three of four against the Pirates and swept a three-game 
series with the Washington Nationals. The Brewers hit a slump when they 
went on an east coast trip to face the New York Mets and the Philadelphia 
Phillies, posting a 2-5 record. The Brewers returned home to face their 
interleague rivals, the Minnesota Twins. The Brewers won the last of a 
three-game series, a game which saw Geoff Jenkins hit his 200th home run.[9] 
The Brewers then traveled to California for a six-game road-trip. They 
lost two of three from the Dodgers and were swept by the San Diego Padres. 
On May 24 during the San Diego Padres series, the Brewers called up Ryan 
Braun from the minor league Nashville Sounds. Braun became the Brewers 
starting third-baseman was placed in the third batting spot, ahead of Prince 
Fielder.[10] The Brewers returned home to start a ten-game home-stand, 
winning two of four games against the Atlanta Braves. At the end of May, 
first baseman Prince Fielder was voted the National League's Player of 
the Month. Fielder lead the league in home runs with 19 and recorded a 
.755 on-base percentage and a .321 batting average.[11] The Brewers played 
the Florida Marlins to continue their home-stand. They won two of a three 
games to give the Brewers their first series victory since May 9. The win 
gave the Brewers a 6½ lead in the NL Central.[12] The Brewers finished 
their home-stand losing two of three games to the Chicago Cubs. The Brewers 
started a nine-game interleague road trip with a series against the Texas 
Rangers. The Brewers lost the first two games against the struggling Rangers. 
In the second game of the series, former Ranger Francisco Cordero recorded 
his first blown save of the year. Before the game, Cordero held a 0.36 
earned run average and an MLB-leading 22 saves.[13] The following day, 
Cordero gave up his second blown save after the Rangers tied the game in 
the ninth inning. The Brewers would eventually win the game, snapping their 
seven-game losing streak after a Geoff Jenkins home run in the twelfth 
inning.[14] On June 12, Justin Verlander of the Detroit Tigers pitched 
a no hitter against the Brewers. The no hitter was the first for the Tigers 
since 1984.[15] The loss was the Brewers 20th in their past 30 games.[16] 
Following the no hitter, the Brewers recorded eleven hits and defeated 
the Tigers in a come-back win. The following day, the Brewers defeated 
the Tigers to win the series. The Brewers traveled to Minnesota to face 
the rival Twins. In the first game, the Brewers recorded fifteen hits with 
an 11-3 win.[17] In the three games following the no hitter, the Brewers 
recorded 39 hits and 20 runs.[16] The Brewers were victorious in two of 
three games against the Twins. After their road-stint, the Brewers came 
home for their next nine games. After starting-pitcher Chris Capuano was 
placed on the disabled-list, the Brewers called up Yovani Gallardo from 
the minor leagues. Gallardo pitched 6⅓ innings, allowing three runs, and 
hit an RBI double in front of a sell-out crowd to give the Brewers their 
fifth win in six games against the San Francisco Giants.[18] The following 
day the Brewers clinched their third straight series victory, with Ben 
Sheets pitching his second complete game of the year.[19] The Brewers would 
go on to sweep the Giants and win two of three games from the Kansas City 
Royals. The Brewers would follow with another series sweep against the 
Houston Astros, winning the third game of the series in part because of 
an 11th inning walk-off home run by back-up catcher Damian Miller. The 
Brewers were 8-1 on the home-stand. After their successful home stand, 
the Brewers went on the road for three series before the All-Star break. 
The Brewers defeated the second place Cubs in one of three games. During 
the series it was announced that Prince Fielder, Ben Sheets, J. J. Hardy 
and Francisco Cordero would be attending the 2007 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game. This would be the first time four Brewer representatives 
have attended since 1983, when the Brewers were in the American League 
and the all-star team was managed by Milwaukee skipper Harvey Kuenn.[20] 
At the end of June Ben Sheets was named pitcher of the month and Ryan Braun 
the rookie of the month. Sheets was 5-0 with a 2.16 ERA in six starts, 
and Braun recorded a .382 average with six home runs, 21 RBI, a .716 slugging 
percentage.[21] Following their series in Chicago, the Brewers traveled 
to Pittsburgh to face the fourth-place Pirates. The Brewers won the first 
game of a four-game series. In the game Damian Miller hit a franchise tying 
seven RBIs and a grand slam in his first start after his walk-off home 
run at Miller Park.[22] The Brewers then won one of three games against 
the Nationals and ended up 3-7 on the road trip. The Brewers went into 
the All-Star break 10 games above .500, and a 4½ game lead on the Cubs. 
The Brewers then had 18 games scheduled in a 17-day period. The Brewers 
started the stretch with a 6-4 homestand, but then went on to lose 6 of 
8 on the road. With their first off day in 2½ weeks, the Brewers record 
stood at 57-48, but the Cubs had moved to within a game and a half of the 
division lead. Then, on the final day of July, the Brewers were able to 
defeat the Mets in a 13 inning game, due to a Geoff Jenkins walk-off home 
run. After the game, Rickie Weeks was sent down to AAA Nashville. For the 
first time in over a hundred days, the division lead did not belong to 
the Brewers. The Brewers frustrations continued in August, resulting in 
a dugout altercation during a loss to the Mets between Johnny Estrada and 
manager Ned Yost on August 2, 2007. Later, on August 8, infielder Tony 
Graffanino tore his ACL in a 19-4 loss to the Colorado Rockies, resulting 
in his loss for the season. The Brewers then called up Weeks to take his 
place on the roster. In August Brewers first baseman Prince Fielder was 
suspended 3 games for arguing with the home plate umpire Wally Bell. On 
August 29, the Brewers slipped into 3rd place behind the Chicago Cubs and 
St. Louis Cardinals and are one game below .500 for the first time since 
April 6. Despite tumbling in August the Brewers started September on a 
high note to be tied with the Chicago Cubs for first place in the division. 
For the first time in over 15 years in Brewers history a coin toss was 
held to decide homefield advantage should the Cardinals, Cubs and Brewers 
tie for the division. One coin toss decided that the Brewers would host 
St. Louis, while the other decided that the Brewers would travel to Chicago 
for any one game playoff that may be needed. On September 9, the Brewers 
became the first road team in history to open a game by hitting 3 consecutive 
home runs. The win, solidified by a Cubs loss gives the Brewers a 1-game 
lead in the division. But the Brewers did not win the division or make 
the playoffs Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; 
AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs 
Batted In Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting 
