The 2007 Pacific Games were held in Apia, Samoa, from 25 August to 8 September 
2007. The Games were also known as the XIII South Pacific Games. The Games 
were the thirteenth Pacific Games to be held since the event's inception 
in 1963 and included traditional multi-sport event disciplines, such as 
athletics and swimming, alongside region-specific and smaller events such 
as outrigger canoeing, surfing and lawn bowls. The principal venue for 
the Games was Apia Park, with other events taking place at the Faleata 
Sporting Complex and at other locations around Samoa. In comparison to 
the Olympic Games, which are expected to generate income for the host nation,[1] 
the 2007 Pacific Games are expected to leave Samoa US$92 million in debt, 
predominantly as a result of expenditure on large-scale infrastructure 
projects such as bridges and roads.[2] The opening ceremony took place 
on 25 August 2007 at Apia Park Stadium and was performed in a traditional 
Samoan and Pacific style,[3] welcoming some 5,000 athletes from 22 nations 
and territories to Samoa. The ceremony was attended by Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele 
Malielegaoi, Prime Minister of Samoa (who also competed in the Games - 
see below), and Tuiatua Tupua Tamasese Efi, Head of State. Choreographed 
by Samoan contemporary dancer Alan Aiolupotea[4] the ceremony featured 
dancing portraying the "mystical legends" from Samoa's island heritage 
(such as the stories of Sina and the Eel and Nafanua[5]) with a five-year-old 
female fire dancer from Siumu Village performing a siva afi (or fire stick 
dance) accompanied by a Samoan song depicting the flow of lava following 
the 1905 eruptions near Savai'i being one of the showcase displays.[6] 
Former New Zealand Idol winner Rosita Vai sang an accompaniment to the 
torch lighting of the ceremonial flame by Ofisa Ofisa, a Samoan weightlifter.[5] 
Following a rest day on Sunday, the sporting events of the Games began 
on Monday, 27 August. Samoan Prime Minister Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi 
competed for his country at the Games in the sport of target archery.[7] 
In participating in the Games, the Prime Minister became the first elected 
leader to represent his country at a multi-sport event. Having taken up 
the sport only 5 months prior to the Games, Tuilaepa was ranked second 
in Samoa in the combined bow discipline. The Prime Minister's son was also 
a reserve team member.[7] On day 10 of the Games, Tuilaepa won a silver 
medal in the mixed recurve team play event.[8] Problems with equipment 
and the lack of multi-sport event infrastructures within the region created 
difficulties throughout the Games. The decathlon was reduced to eight disciplines 
due to a shortage of equipment. The poles for the pole vault were still 
in Melbourne after the ship due to deliver them was delayed by poor weather 
and the high jump was the discipline cancelled to allow the event to comply 
with IAAF regulations (there is no IAAF-sanctioned nine discipline event). 
In addition, the 1500 metre race was reduced to 1 km.[9] The women's 400 
metre hurdles and men's discus were also affected.[10] The lack of funding 
and facilities for drug testing also restricted the ability of Games authorities 
to run a full drug testing and anti-doping programme at the Games. Only 
one hundred athletes (primarily in high-risk events such as bodybuilding 
and weightlifting) were due to be tested as samples needed to be flown 
overseas from Samoa to be processed at a cost of A$500 per sample.[11] 
Fireworks due to feature in the Closing Ceremony also remained in Melbourne 
after difficulties transporting them by ship to Samoa.[10] The religious 
sensitivities of the host nation (which is primarily Congregationalist 
Christian) and other participants resulted in several controversial decisions 
during the organisation and running of the Games. Athletes in the women's 
beach volleyball event were required to wear shorts and T-shirts as opposed 
to the regulation bikini-style outfits to avoid offending family members 
and other spectators.[12] A leaked internal memo by Team Samoa authorities 
was circulated prior to the event warning Samoan athletes not to engage 
in homosexual intercourse declaring it as "ungodly", stating: "do not embarrass 
yourself, your family and your country by trying this in the village...Best 
not to even think about this. It's against the law of God!" Such activity 
is prohibited under Samoan law and punishable by up to five years' imprisonment. 
However, the ban on homosexual intercourse was later lifted by organising 
committee chairman Tapasu Lueng Wai.[13][14] A campaign to issue athletes 
condoms and advice on sexually transmitted infections also met with resistance 
from religious leaders. The Archbishop of the Catholic Church in Samoa, 
Alapati Mataeliga suggested that, in doing so, the authorities were encouraging 
extra-marital sexual activity which was frowned upon by the church.[15] 
Games authorities also back-tracked on plans to issue athletes with female 
condoms after fears it might "expose young athletes to sex." Male condoms 
were nevertheless distributed.[4] The closing ceremony for the Games again 
took place at Apia Park. Attended by some 20,000 spectators, a twelve-minute 
fireworks display brought proceedings to an end before hundreds of balloons 
were released in the colours of the Games flag which was itself duly lowered 
and the ceremonial flame extinguished. The flag was then passed to New 
Caledonia delegates, supported by a Kanak cultural group, ahead of the 
2011 Pacific Games in Noumea.[16] A significant amount of the pre-Games 
expenditure was spent on building new facilities and upgrading those already 
in existence in Samoa. The majority of the new facilities were sited at 
the Faleata Sports Complex at Tuana'imato. However, many Samoans feared 
the size of the complex and other construction would lead to the venues 
becoming significant white elephants after the Games were over.[17] New 
