The 2007 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 78th midseason exhibition 
between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and the National League 
(NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. The game was held 
on July 10, 2007, at AT&T Park, the home of the NL's San Francisco Giants. 
It marked the third time that the Giants hosted the All Star Game since 
moving to San Francisco for the 1958 season. The 1961 and 1984 All Star 
Games were played at the Giants former home Candlestick Park, and the fourth 
overall in the Bay Area, with the Giants bay area rivals the Oakland Athletics 
hosting once back in 1987, and the second straight held in an NL ballpark. 
The American League defeated the National League by a score of 5–4. Ichiro 
Suzuki won the MVP award for the game for hitting the first inside-the-park 
home run in All-Star history. As per the 2006 Collective Bargaining Agreement, 
the American League champion (which eventually came to be the Boston Red 
Sox) received home field advantage in the 2007 World Series.[1] The victory 
was the 10th consecutive (excluding the 2002 tie) for the AL, and their 
11-game unbeaten streak is only beaten by the NL's 11-game winning streak 
from 1972 to 1982 in All-Star history. As with each All-Star Game since 
1970, the eight starting position players (with no designated hitter due 
to playing in an NL stadium) of each league were elected by fan balloting. 
The remaining players were selected by a players' vote, each league's team 
manager, and a second fan balloting to add one more player to each roster. 
In all, 32 players were selected to each league's team, not including players 
who decline to play due to injuries or personal reasons. The Giants were 
awarded the game on February 9, 2005.[2] The game marked the first time 
since 1962 that one league hosted consecutive All-Star Games, after Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, hosted the game in 2006. The game was the fifth straight 
All-Star Game to decide home-field advantage in the World Series.[1] The 
AL entered the game on a ten-game unbeaten streak (nine wins, with one 
tie in 2002). The NL was looking for their first win since the 1996 game 
in Philadelphia. Balloting for the 2007 All-Star Game starters (excluding 
pitchers) began on April 27 and continued through June 28. The top vote-getters 
at each position and the top three among outfielders, are named the starters 
for their respective leagues. The results were announced on July 1.[3] 
About 18.5 million votes were cast by close to twelve million fans.[3] 
Alex Rodriguez was the leading vote-getter with 3,890,515 votes, easily 
outpacing his Yankees teammate Derek Jeter by over 700,000 votes. Ken Griffey, 
Jr. was the top vote-getter in the National League, with 2,986,818 votes.[3] 
After the rosters were announced, a second round of fan voting, the Monster 
All-Star Final Vote, was commenced to determine the occupant of the final 
roster spot for each team.[4] This round lasted until July 5. Chris Young 
and Hideki Okajima were elected to represent the National League and American 
League, respectively, in the All-Star Game as first time All-Stars.[5] 
All ten players included in the balloting were pitchers, a first for the 
event. Players in italics have since been inducted into the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame. ^a These players did not see action in the game. ^b Voted 
onto the roster through the All-Star Final Vote. ^c Unable to play due 
to injury. Brandon Webb took his roster spot.[6] ^d Unable to play due 
to injury. Roy Oswalt took his roster spot.[7] National League: Tony La 
Russa American League: Jim Leyland O Canada was played by members of the 
San Francisco Symphony. The Star-Spangled Banner was sung by Chris Isaak.[8] 
Before the game, there was a tribute to former San Francisco Giants slugger 
Willie Mays. Mays threw the ceremonial first pitch to New York Mets shortstop 
José Reyes. Paula Cole sang God Bless America during the seventh-inning 
stretch. The first pitch was thrown by the National League's starter, Jake 
Peavy at 8:54 EDT[8] The game was completed in 3 hours, 6 minutes under 
an overcast sky and a gametime temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit.[9] 
Umpires for the game were announced on June 14.[10] Bruce Froemming, the 
most tenured current umpire in Major League Baseball, was named crew chief 
for the game. It was also revealed that day that Froemming would retire 
following the 2007 season.[11] The National League got things started in 
the bottom of the first when José Reyes led off with a base hit off American 
League starter Dan Haren and proceeded to steal second.[12] He scored on 
an RBI single by Ken Griffey, Jr. to give the NL a 1–0 lead.[12] Barry 
Bonds nearly gave his hometown fans something to cheer for in the bottom 
of the third when, with Reyes on second, he lofted a high fly ball to left 
field, but it was snared at the warning track by Magglio Ordóñez.[12] The 
AL nearly tied the game in the fourth when Alex Rodriguez attempted to 
score on a two-out single by Iván Rodríguez. However, the throw to home 
plate by Griffey allowed Russell Martin to tag Rodriguez out at the plate 
to end the inning.[12] The AL would score one inning later when, after 
Chris Young issued a leadoff walk to Brian Roberts, Ichiro Suzuki hit a 
long fly ball off the right field wall. Instead of caroming straight to 
Griffey, the ball took an unusual bounce off a sign and ricocheted to Griffey's 
right. This allowed Ichiro to score on what became the first and only inside-the-park 
home run in All-Star Game history.[13] The homer gave the AL a 2–1 lead 
and resulted in Ichiro's MVP win. The lead would be augmented in the sixth 
when Carl Crawford hit a line drive that just cleared the right field wall 
for a home run.[12] Though it appeared a fan may have reached over the 
wall to catch it, NL manager Tony La Russa did not challenge the umpires' 
call.[14] The NL got a run back in the bottom of the inning when Carlos 
Beltrán led off with a triple and scored on a sacrifice fly by Griffey.[12] 
The AL added some insurance runs in the eighth when Víctor Martínez hit 
a two-run home run just inside the left field foul pole to give the AL 
a 5–2 lead.[12] The American League's closers then entered the game, with 
Jonathan Papelbon pitching a scoreless bottom of the eighth.[12] In the 
ninth, J. J. Putz tried to earn the save and began by inducing a weak pop-up 
and striking out Brian McCann.[12] Pinch-hitter Dmitri Young rolled a ground 
ball deep in the hole to Brian Roberts, but he could not come up with it. 
Alfonso Soriano followed with a two-run home run to right field to cut 
the NL's deficit to one.[12] After Putz walked J. J. Hardy, AL manager 
Jim Leyland replaced him with Francisco Rodríguez.[12] However, Rodriguez 
had trouble consistently locating his pitches and walked Derrek Lee on 
a check-swing 3–2 pitch and then Orlando Hudson to load the bases.[12] 
In a move that drew criticism,[15] La Russa elected not to pinch-hit his 
last player on the bench, Albert Pujols, and instead let Aaron Rowand hit. 
Rowand lofted a fly ball to right field that was caught by Alex Ríos to 
close the game,[12] earning the American League their tenth consecutive 
victory. The State Farm Home Run Derby was held the night before the All-Star 
Game, July 9, and broadcast on ESPN. Four players from each league competed 
to hit as many home runs as they could in each round to advance and eventually 
win the contest. This year, a five-swing swing-off would be used to break 
ties occurring in any round. This became necessary when Albert Pujols and 
Justin Morneau tied for fourth in the first round. The champion of last 
year's Derby, Ryan Howard of the Philadelphia Phillies, competed even though 
he was not named to the NL All-Star roster.[16] In the finals, Vladimir 
Guerrero of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim defeated Alex Ríos of the 
Toronto Blue Jays by a score of 3–2.[17] Guerrero hit 17 home runs in all, 
second only to Ríos' 19. Guerrero also hit the longest blast of the competition, 
a 503-foot (153 m) drive to left field that just missed hitting a giant 
replica glove and baseball set up on the concourse beyond the left field 
bleachers. AT&T Park is distinguished by having the San Francisco Bay beyond 
its right field bleachers. The body of water located adjacent to the ballpark 
is known as McCovey Cove, named for legendary Giants slugger Willie McCovey. 
McCovey Cove is known for having many fans sitting in the water in kayaks 
and boats hoping to retrieve a long home run ball hit there. Though dozens 
of fans waited in the cove during the Derby, no home runs were actually 
hit into the water, either on the fly or off the promenade next to the 
right field seats, though, one foul ball hit by Prince Fielder did reach 
the water.[18] This was largely due to the three left-handed competitors 
all exiting in the first round, as well as wind currents blowing toward 
left field. Prior to the All-Star break, a total of 58 home runs were hit 
into the cove on the fly during the park's history.[19] Gold balls were 
utilized whenever any player had one out remaining during his round. Any 
home runs hit with the balls meant Major League Baseball and State Farm 
would pledge to donate money to the Boys & Girls Clubs of America. Due 
to the change in sponsors from Century 21 to State Farm, each ball's value 
was reduced to US$17,000 to reflect the 17,000 State Farm agents in the 
United States and Canada.[17] In all, twelve gold ball home runs were hit, 
which, along with a $50,000 "bonus" constituted $254,000 raised for charity.[20] 
^a Recorded only seven of ten outs before hitting winning home run. ^b 
Advanced after defeating Morneau 2–1 in a swing-off. The 2007 XM All-Star 
Futures Game took place on July 8, showcasing the top minor league prospects 
from all thirty teams' farm systems. The contest is seven innings regardless 
of the score with pitchers limited to no more than one inning of work. 
The World team defeated the United States by a score of 7–2.[21] Chin-Lung 
Hu of the Los Angeles Dodgers organization won the Larry Doby MVP award 
after driving in two runs on a single and double, plus a stolen base and 
