The 2007 National League Championship Series (NLCS), the final round of 
the 2007 National League playoffs, began on October 11 and ended on October 
15. It was a best-of-seven series, with the West Division champion Arizona 
Diamondbacks facing the wild card Colorado Rockies, also from the West 
Division. The Rockies swept the series in four games to win their first 
ever pennant, extending a 17–1 run to 21–1 in the process. The Rockies 
won the opportunity to play the American League champion Boston Red Sox 
in the 2007 World Series. Colorado's NLCS sweep was only the second NLCS 
sweep since the seven-game format was adopted in 1985, with the first being 
the Atlanta Braves' sweep in 1995. The Rockies had swept the Philadelphia 
Phillies in three games in the NL Division Series, while the Diamondbacks 
had swept the Chicago Cubs. The Diamondbacks had home-field advantage due 
to winning the division. The series marked the first time the Rockies ever 
advanced to the NLCS and the second time for the Diamondbacks, in the first 
postseason matchup between the two teams; the Rockies' only prior postseason 
appearance was in 1995. It was the first time that two West Division teams 
had ever met in the NLCS, and only the second to feature expansion franchises 
(the first being 1986). The series was telecast on TBS, the first time 
a League Championship Series was ever shown exclusively on a cable network. 
Colorado won the series, 4–0. Thursday, October 11, 2007 at Chase Field 
in Phoenix, Arizona The Rockies took a 1–0 series lead behind a strong 
6 2⁄3 innings from starter Jeff Francis. Arizona scored first when Stephen 
Drew singled with one out in the first and scored on Eric Byrnes's RBI 
double, but the Rockies tied the game in the second when they loaded the 
bases off of Brandon Webb on two hits and a walk with no outs and Troy 
Tulowitzki hit into a double play that scored Todd Helton. Next inning, 
Willy Taveras singled with one out, stole second, and scored on Kazuo Matsui's 
RBI single. Matt Holliday then singled before Helton lined out to center. 
A wild pitch and walk loaded the bases Brad Hawpe's two-run single made 
it 4-1 Rockies. In the seventh, reliever Juan Cruz issued a leadoff walk 
to Yorvit Torrealba, who moved to second on a wild pitch and then to third 
on Francis's sacrifice bunt. After Taveras struck out, Diamondbacks' first 
baseman Conor Jackson's fielding error on Matsui's ground ball allowed 
Torrealba to score to make it 5-1 Rockies. In the bottom of the inning, 
Francis allowed a leadoff double to Chris Snyder and hit Justin Upton with 
a pitch, but the Diamondbacks were taken out of a potential rally when 
a disputed interference call resulted in a double-play groundout for Augie 
Ojeda. Chase Field patrons responded by throwing objects onto the playing 
field, briefly stopping play. Though they loaded the bases on Jeff Cirillo's 
bunt single and Chris Young's walk off of reliever Matt Herges, Jeremy 
Affeldt got Drew to fly out to right to end the inning. Pinch hitter Miguel 
Montero singled with two outs in the bottom of the ninth off of Manny Corpas, 
but was tagged out at second to end the game. Friday, October 12, 2007 
at Chase Field in Phoenix, Arizona The Rockies struck first in Game 2 off 
of Diamondbacks' starter Doug Davis when Todd Helton reached on third baseman 
Mark Reynolds's ground ball fielding error, moved to third on Brad Hawpe's 
single two outs later, and scored on Yorvit Torrealba's single. The Diamondbacks 
tied it in the third when Davis hit a leadoff double off of Ubaldo Jimenez 
and scored on Chris Young's single. Willy Taveras walked to lead off the 
fifth off of Davis and moved to second on Kazuo Matsui's single. Matt Holliday's 
fly out moved the runners up one base before Helton's sacrifice fly put 
the Rockies up 2-1. In the bottom of the ninth, Manny Corpas hit Young 
with a pitch with one out and subsequent allowed a single to Stephen Drew. 
Eric Byrnes grounded to third baseman Matsui, who made an errant throw 
to second, allowing Young to score and tie the game, but unaware of this, 
Drew wandered off second base, allowing shortstop Troy Tulowitzski to tag 
him out at third. Tony Clark grounded out to send the game into extra innings. 
Jose Valverde retired the Rockies in order in the 10th, but in the 11th, 
allowed a single and two walks to load the bases with two outs before walking 
Taveras to put the Rockies up 3-2. Doug Slaten in relief got Matsui to 
line out to right to end the inning, but Ryan Speier, in relief of Corpas, 
retired the Diamondbacks in order in the bottom of the inning to end the 
game and put the Rockies up 2-0 in the series shifting to Coors Field. 
Sunday, October 14, 2007 at Coors Field in Denver, Colorado The Rockies 
moved to within one win of the World Series for the first time in franchise 
history by winning Game 3 by a score of 4–1. Matt Holliday gave them a 
1–0 lead in the first with a two-out solo home run off Arizona starter 
Liván Hernández, but Mark Reynolds tied the game in the fourth with a tape 
measure home run to left off of Josh Fogg. The decisive blow was delivered 
in the bottom of the sixth when Yorvit Torrealba battled in an eight-pitch 
at-bat to drive a three-run home run to left field off of Hernandez that 
sent Coors Field into a frenzy. Memorably, Torrealba pumped his fist in 
the air while rounding second base. The Rockies now held a 3–0 lead in 
the series. Despite them eventually sweeping Arizona, this was the only 
game where they outhit them. Monday, October 15, 2007 at Coors Field in 
Denver, Colorado The Rockies won their first pennant in franchise history 
with a 6–4 win in Game 4, completing a sweep of the number one seed Arizona 
Diamondbacks. The Diamondbacks struck first when Micah Owings singled to 
lead off the third off of starter Franklin Morales, moved to second two 
outs later on a walk, and scored on Conor Jackson's single. The Rockies 
struck back with a six-run fourth inning. Owings walked Brad Hawpe and 
Troy Tulowitzski with one out. Yorvit Torrealba's ground out moved them 
one base each before pinch hitter Seth Smith's two-run bloop double down 
the left-field line one out later put the Rockies up 2-1. Arizona first 
baseman Jackson's fielding error allowed Willy Taveras to reach base and 
move Smith to third. Kazou Matui's single scored Smith before NLCS MVP 
Matt Holliday's three-run home run to deep center put the Rockies up 6-1. 
Juan Cruz and Brandon Lyon held them hitless for the rest of the game. 
Brian Fuentes allowed a leadoff single to Stephen Drew in the eighth, then 
one out later, another single to Jackson one out later before Chris Snyder 
cut the Rockies lead to 6-4 with a two-out, three-run home run to left 
that stayed just fair. After Justin Upton tripled, Manny Corpas then came 
on and struck out Tony Clark to end the inning. Corpas allowed a one-out 
double to Young in the ninth, but got Drew to pop out to second and Eric 
Byrnes, the center of controversy before Game 3, to hit a check-swing roller 
to Troy Tulowitzki, who fired to Todd Helton at first to retire the diving 
Byrnes and send Colorado to the 2007 World Series against the Boston Red 
Sox. No team had ever swept their way to the World Series since the Division 
Series began in 1995. Colorado was also the first team to have a 7–0 start 
to a postseason since the 1976 Cincinnati Reds finished the playoffs 7–0 
sweeping both the LCS and World Series. 2007 NLCS (4–0): Colorado Rockies 
