The Detroit Tigers 2007 season ended with the 88-74 Tigers finishing runner-up 
in the AL Central Division, eight games in back of the AL Central Champion 
Cleveland Indians. They failed in winning the Wild Card, a task which they 
achieved in 2006, and going on to win the AL Pennant. After a trip to the 
2006 World Series that ended with a defeat to the St. Louis Cardinals, 
the Tigers started the offseason by trading pitchers Humberto Sánchez, 
Kevin Whelan, and Anthony Claggett to the New York Yankees for outfielder 
and designated hitter Gary Sheffield. Plus, they re-signed players from 
the previous season's team; first baseman Sean Casey, second baseman Omar 
Infante, outfielder Craig Monroe, left-handed starting pitcher Nate Robertson, 
and right-handed relief pitcher Fernando Rodney all returned with the Tigers 
for the 2007 season. As of July 18, the Tigers had sold 2,712,393 tickets 
at Comerica Park for the 2007 season, setting a new single-season home 
attendance record for the team. The previous record had been 2,704,794 
customers at Tiger Stadium in 1984. At the end of the season, the Tigers 
had sold over 3,000,000 tickets for 2007. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] 
[9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders Coaches [2] Magglio Ordóñez had 
one of the best season by a Detroit Tiger batter in the past 60 years.[citation 
needed] Magglio's records and accomplishments in 2007 include: The one 
Tiger hitting season in the past 60 years that exceeds Ordonez's 2007 season 
is that of Norm Cash in 1961. In 1961, the AL MVP award was given to New 
York Yankee slugger Roger Maris who hit 61 home runs. On October 9, 2007, 
the Tigers announced that they were picking up the 13-million-dollar, fifth-year 
option on Iván Rodríguez's contract, keeping him on the roster through 
at least the 2008 season. The Tigers could have bought out the option for 
3-million dollars and allowed him to become a free agent. On October 10, 
the Tigers returned Rule 5 draftee Edward Campusano to the Chicago Cubs. 
Campusano spent the entire 2007 season on the 60-day disabled list. Relief 
pitcher Joel Zumaya was injured while at his off-season home in California. 
While moving boxes during the October 2007 California wildfires, a large 
box fell on Zumaya, separating his shoulder. Zumaya had surgery to correct 
the problem and is currently rehabilitating the shoulder. On October 29, 
first baseman Sean Casey filed for free agency, on the first day players 
could do so. The team's management had already informed Casey that he would 
not return to the lineup the following season. The same day, the Tigers 
acquired shortstop Edgar Rentería from the Atlanta Braves, in exchange 
for pitching prospect Jair Jurrjens and outfielding prospect Gorkys Hernández. 
The move paves the way for current shortstop Carlos Guillén to move to 
the vacant spot at first base. On October 30, utility infielder Neifi Pérez 
filed for free agency. He had not played since July 5 after being suspended 
for violating the league's performance-enhancing drug policy. On November 
12, veteran closer Todd Jones was re-signed to a one-year, seven-million 
dollar contract. The same day, the Tigers received outfielder Jacque Jones 
in a trade with the Chicago Cubs for utility man Omar Infante. On November 
30, Kenny Rogers agreed to a one-year, 8-million contract to return to 
the Tigers. Rogers represented himself in contract negotiations after firing 
agent Scott Boras on November 17. The contract contains performance bonuses 
based on how many innings Rogers pitches in 2008. The team also signed 
free-agent pitcher Francisco Cruceta to a one-year deal. On December 5, 
the Tigers pulled off a blockbuster trade with the Florida Marlins, with 
starting pitcher Dontrelle Willis and third-baseman Miguel Cabrera arriving 
from Florida. The Tigers send in exchange backup catcher Mike Rabelo, top 
outfielding prospect Cameron Maybin, top pitching prospect Andrew Miller, 
and three other minor leaguers. The same day, the Tigers swapped pitchers 
with the Colorado Rockies, acquiring Denny Bautista for prospect José Capellán. 
Also, the Tigers sent minor-league slugger Chris Shelton to Texas for outfielder 
Freddy Guzman. The Cabrera trade would make current third-baseman Brandon 
Inge expendable. Inge asked management for a trade, but the team was unable 
to make a deal. Inge's four-year, 24-million dollar contract, signed before 
the 2007 season, was partly to blame. Inge would eventually drop the matter 
and accept the role as a utilityman. On December 6, the Tigers selected 
minor-league pitchers Juan Cedeño from the Washington organization and 
Ben Fritz from the Oakland organization in the Rule 5 draft. The Tigers 
lost minor-league pitchers Randor Bierd, Corey Hamman and Jose Fragoso. 
On December 29, the Tigers and Dontrelle Willis signed a three-year, 29-million 
dollar contract extension. On January 16, 2008, the Tigers avoided arbitration 
with Nate Robertson and signed him to a three-year, 21.25 million dollar 
contract. He would have been a free agent after the 2009 season. The following 
day, the Tigers avoided arbitration with outfielder Marcus Thames, signing 
him to a one-year, $1,275,000 contract. On the 18th, the team was able 
to avoid arbitration with all of their eligible players by signing Miguel 
Cabrera to a one-year, 11.3 million dollar contract. Reliever Bobby Seay 
was given a one-year, $780,000 contract. On February 4, center fielder 
Curtis Granderson signed a 5-year, 30.25-million-dollar contract extension, 
keeping the speedy lead-off man on the roster through at least 2012. There 
is a team option for 2013. On February 5, the Tigers completed another 
trade with the Texas Rangers, sending Class-A Lakeland and Class AA-Erie 
outfielder Michael Hernandez in exchange for minor league right-hander 
Armando Galarraga. On March 25, the Tigers finalized a long-term contract 
for Miguel Cabrera. Cabrera signed an eight-year, 152.3 million-dollar 
deal, which is the biggest in Detroit Tigers history.[3] Note: G = Games 
played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; 
RBI = Runs Batted In * Player released or traded. Stats only reflect games 
with Tigers. Players in Bold qualify for Batting Title. Note: G = Games 
pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; 
SO = Strikeouts * Player released or traded. Stats only reflect games with 
Tigers. Note: G = Games pitched; W= Wins; L= Losses; SV = Saves; HLD = 
Holds; ERA = Earned run average; SO = Strikeouts * Player released or traded. 
Stats only reflect games with Tigers. LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: West Michigan[4] 
