The Boston Red Sox' 2007 season began with the Boston, Massachusetts-based 
Major League Baseball team trying to rebound after a disappointing 2006 
season, in which they finished third in the American League East behind 
the New York Yankees and the Toronto Blue Jays, and missed the postseason 
for the first time since 2002. They rebounded from the disappointment of 
2006 by posting the best record in the league, winning the American League 
East division with a lead they never relinquished since April 18, and winning 
the American League Pennant. Advancing to the World Series, the Red Sox 
beat the Rockies in four straight games, winning their second Championship 
in four years. On November 14, 2006, Major League Baseball announced that 
the Red Sox had competed for the rights to negotiate a contract with Japanese 
pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka. Boston won with a bid of US$51.1 million and 
had 30 days to complete a deal. On December 13, 2006, the day before the 
deadline, Matsuzaka signed a six-year contract worth $52 million. It was 
initially announced that closer Jonathan Papelbon would become a starter 
in 2007, partially to protect his arm from the injury that sidelined him 
for the final month of his rookie season.[1] With Papelbon planned to be 
a starter and Keith Foulke declining arbitration and leaving the team, 
the Red Sox began building up their bullpen in search of a new closer. 
Left-handed pitchers Hideki Okajima and J. C. Romero and right-handed pitcher 
Joel Piñeiro were signed as free agents. Brendan Donnelly was acquired 
from the Los Angeles Angels in a trade for pitcher Phil Seibel. However, 
there was no clear candidate for the closer role. Papelbon wanted to re-fill 
that spot, and team officials believed he had rehabilitated himself so 
well in the offseason that his health of this shoulder was no longer a 
concern, and allowed him to return to the bullpen.[2] The Red Sox lost 
free agent Álex González to the Cincinnati Reds (leading the Red Sox to 
sign Julio Lugo) and Mark Loretta to the Houston Astros (allowing Dustin 
Pedroia to become the team's starting second baseman). Trot Nixon, also 
a free agent, signed with the Cleveland Indians, creating the need for 
a right fielder. The Red Sox pursued J. D. Drew, who had recently opted 
out of the remainder of his contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers to become 
a free agent. However, the Red Sox medical staff had concerns about Drew's 
previously injured shoulder. On January 25, 2007, the Red Sox and Drew 
agreed to a 5-year deal worth $70 million. Outfielder Gabe Kapler, age 
31, announced his retirement to fulfill his lifelong dream of becoming 
a coach. The Red Sox named him manager of their single-A affiliate, the 
Greenville Drive. At the end of spring training of 2007, the Red Sox traded 
minor league veteran catcher Alberto Castillo for Baltimore Orioles outfielder 
Cory Keylor. A bright green jersey, with "Red Sox" in white letters outlined 
in red across the front was worn on April 20, 2007 to honor former Boston 
Celtics coach, general manager and president Red Auerbach, who died during 
the previous off-season. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] 
[12] [13] [14] Catchers Outfielders Coaches Note: Pos = position; G = Games 
played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; 
RBI = Runs Batted In *Statistics listed are only for games started. The 
Red Sox not only won the AL East Division for the first time in 12 years, 
but clinched the best record in the American League—and all of baseball. 
While their 96–66 record was the same as that of the Cleveland Indians, 
the Red Sox held the season series tiebreaker for American League home-field 
advantage, having bested the Tribe 5 games to 2. Thus, the wild card New 
York Yankees were sent to Cleveland while the Sox would host the Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim. Josh Beckett started the series with a complete-game 
shutout in Game 1, resuming his dominance of the postseason after a three-season 
absence. Although Kevin Youkilis would hit a solo home run in the first 
inning that would prove to be all the offense Beckett needed, David Ortiz 
would provide additional support with a two-run homer in the third to cap 
off a 4–0 Game 1 victory. Game 2 was much closer, with Daisuke Matsuzaka 
and Kelvim Escobar each surrendering three runs by the time the fifth inning 
was done. In the bottom of the ninth, after a Julio Lugo single and David 
Ortiz's playoff record-tying fourth walk of the night (this time, intentional), 
Manny Ramírez ended the game with a towering home run that left Fenway 
Park over the Green Monster. With a 6–3 Game 2 win, the Red Sox would go 
to Angel Stadium of Anaheim with a 2–0 series lead. In Game 3, Curt Schilling 
brought back the dominant pitching, scattering six hits and striking out 
four in seven innings of shutout work. He had plenty of run support as 
well, with Ortiz and Ramírez hitting back-to-back solo home runs in the 
fourth, and a progression of hits that scored seven more in the eighth 
inning. Éric Gagné gave up the only run, giving up a ground-rule double 
to Maicer Izturis in the bottom of the ninth, then advancing Izturis to 
third on a wild pitch before giving up a sacrifice fly to Howie Kendrick 
that scored Izturis. After that, a strikeout and a flyout ended the game 
with a 9–1 Red Sox victory to clinch a series sweep. The Red Sox sweep 
was one of three Division Series sweeps in the 2007 post-season. Only one 
series would go more than three—the Indians beat the Yankees in four games. 
In Game 1, Travis Hafner got the first run on Josh Beckett with a solo 
home run in the first inning. Manny Ramírez answered back, driving in Kevin 
Youkilis with a single in the bottom of the first. After that, Beckett 
would settle in, while Indians starter C.C. Sabathia would fall apart. 
In the bottom of the third, he would give up a ground-rule double to Julio 
Lugo, then after a bunt groundout for Dustin Pedroia, he walked Kevin Youkilis, 
hit David Ortiz, and walked Manny Ramírez to give up the lead. Then he 
gave up a double to Mike Lowell that scored Youkilis and Ortiz. After Bobby 
Kielty was walked, Jason Varitek hit a groundout that could not be turned 
into a double-play, scoring Ramírez. The Sox would tack five more on, and 
win Game 1, 10–3. Game 2 was a slugfest, with Curt Schilling and Fausto 
Carmona both failing to make it out of the fifth inning, and a 6–6 tie 
after six innings. The game drew into extra frames, but the Red Sox bullpen 
got hammered in the top of the eleventh, with Éric Gagné, Javier López 
and Jon Lester giving up seven runs. The Red Sox failed to answer back, 
and lost Game 2, 13–6. The series was even headed to Cleveland. In Game 
3, Daisuke Matsuzaka gave up 4 runs, and Jason Varitek provided the only 
Red Sox offense with a two-run homer in the seventh, as the Indians took 
the Jacobs Field opener, 4–2, for a 2–1 series lead. Game 4 did not start 
much better for the Red Sox, with a seven-run fifth inning that saw Manny 
Delcarmen allow four runs (two charged to starter Tim Wakefield). In the 
top of the sixth, the Sox showed some life with back-to-back-to-back solo 
home runs by Kevin Youkilis, David Ortiz and Manny Ramírez. That would 
be all the Sox offense, as they fell, 7–3, to end up in a 3–1 ALCS hole 
once again. Once more, the Red Sox faced ALCS elimination. But one person 
who was not panicking was Manny Ramírez. In his typical "Manny Being Manny" 
attitude, Ramirez told reporters that if the Red Sox were eliminated, it 
wouldn't be "the end of the world." His comments seemed laissez faire at 
the time, as many members of the Boston media chose to interpret them as 
meaning that Manny would not put forth his best effort in the games to 
come and would thus disrupt his team's ability to compete. Fate would prove 
them wrong though. With Josh Beckett on the mound again for Game 5, the 
Red Sox dominated, with Kevin Youkilis driving in three and David Ortiz 
driving in two to power a 7–1 Red Sox victory to force the ALCS back to 
Fenway Park. The Red Sox were hardly finished. In Game 6, Curt Schilling 
redeemed himself, giving up two runs in seven innings, while J. D. Drew 
hammered a grand slam in the first inning, and the Sox tacked on six more 
in the third, leading to a 12–2 victory. Éric Gagné finished the game by 
pitching a perfect 9th inning. Game 7 gave Daisuke Matsuzaka his chance 
at redemption, and he did not disappoint, giving up 2 runs in five innings, 
while Hideki Okajima and Jonathan Papelbon each pitched two scoreless innings. 
The Sox hammered out a run in each of the first three innings, then exploded 
with a Dustin Pedroia two-run homer in the seventh, and six more runs—including 
another two-run homer by Kevin Youkilis—in the eighth. With an 11–2 Game 
7 victory, the Red Sox came back once again from elimination, bringing 
them to their second World Series in four years. At first, the World Series 
would seem like a tough task. After going the distance with the Indians, 
the Red Sox had to face the red-hot Colorado Rockies, who had just finished 
a 21-of-22 run that included forcing and winning a Wild Card one-game playoff 
with the San Diego Padres, then sweeping the Philadelphia Phillies in the 
NLDS and the Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLCS. The Red Sox were counting 
on their historically-dominant postseason pitching and the possibility 
that 8 days off would leave the Rox rusty. Game 1 proved, once more, to 
be a domination. Josh Beckett gave up just one run in seven innings of 
work while striking out nine, while Rockies starter Jeff Francis gave up 
a home run on his second pitch to Dustin Pedroia in the bottom of the first, 
and a total of six runs in four innings. It got worse from there, as the 
Red Sox hammered reliever Franklin Morales for seven runs in the fifth 
inning. The Red Sox took Game 1, 13–1. In Game 2, Curt Schilling gave up 
one run in 5 1⁄3 innings, and Hideki Okajima and Jonathan Papelbon finished 
the game flawlessly. This time, the dominance was necessary, as the Red 
Sox scored two times, with Jason Varitek driving in Mike Lowell in the 
fourth, then Lowell driving in David Ortiz in the fifth for their only 
offense of the game. With a 2–1 Game 2 win, the Red Sox went to Coors Field 
in Denver with the advantage, hoping the rarefied air would not affect 
them too much. Game 3 would begin with another dominating offensive performance. 
Boston struck first, with six runs in the third inning that would knock 
out Rox starter Josh Fogg. Mike Lowell and pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka each 
had two RBIs, and Manny Ramírez was called out at home on a controversial, 
but ultimately correct, tagout call. The Rockies would try to come back, 
bringing in five runs, including a Matt Holliday home run. But the Sox 
would put it away, with rookies Dustin Pedroia and Jacoby Ellsbury combining 
to drive in three in the eighth inning, and Mike Lowell scoring the final 
Sox run in the ninth to seal a 10–5 win that put the Red Sox one game away 
from their second World Series Championship in four years. Game 4 gave 
Jon Lester his shot at redemption, as a back injury to Tim Wakefield gave 
Lester the start. He was scoreless in 5 2⁄3 innings, with Mike Lowell scoring 
two runs and Jacoby Ellsbury scoring one in support. In the eighth inning, 
Bobby Kielty hit a pinch-hit home run to put an end to the Sox's scoring. 
Hideki Okajima almost gave the game up, allowing two runs in the eighth 
before Jonathan Papelbon came in to save the game in 1 2⁄3 innings. The 
Red Sox celebrated a 4–3 win and a four-game World Series sweep at Coors 
Field. Mike Lowell, with his .400 average and six runs scored, was named 
the MVP of the World Series. Two days later, on October 30, the Red Sox 
were the guests of honor in a Rolling Rally through Boston, after which 
the team began to lay their plans for the 2008 season. During the course 
of the 2007 season, the Red Sox were helped out and sometimes carried by 
rookies. Five rookies stick out in particular. Dustin Pedroia, Jacoby Ellsbury, 
Clay Buchholz, Daisuke Matsuzaka, and Hideki Okajima all had their moments 
and left their mark of this season in Red Sox history. Dustin Pedroia began 
the season as the Red Sox starting second baseman. Pedroia, 24, struggled 
in April only batting .182, with 10 hits in 55 at-bats. Although he struggled 
in the first month, Pedroia heated up batting an outstanding .415 in the 
month of May. Pedroia was honored as American League Rookie of the Month 
for the month of May. Pedroia continued this hot hitting for the remainder 
of the season. Pedroia also excelled his play in the postseason by 2 HR 
and driving in 10 runs in 14 games to help the Red Sox win the World Series. 
Pedroia ended batting .317 which ranked 10th among all American League 
players. Pedroia also finished with 8 home runs and 50 runs batted in. 
Pedroia won the American League Rookie of the Year award. Pedroia was not 
the only rookie position player to make an impact this season. Jacoby Ellsbury, 
24, made his MLB debut on June 30. Instantly Ellsbury succeeded. In only 
33 games and 116 at-bats, Ellsbury hit .353, had 3 home runs, and had 41 
hits. Jacoby also showed off his versatility by stealing 9 bases without 
getting caught. Ellsbury also had a terrific postseason. Ellsbury replaced 
center fielder Coco Crisp in Game 6 of the ALCS against the Indians. He 
did not heat up until Game 3 of the World Series where had 4 hits and 2 
doubles. Ellsbury batting an amazing .438 in the 4-game sweep of the Colorado 
Rockies. The Boston Red Sox also had one incredible rookie pitcher named 
Clay Buchholz. Buchholz, 23, made his MLB debut on August 17. In his first 
start against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim at Fenway Park, Buchholz 
pitched 6 innings, allowing 3 earned runs, while striking out 5 batters. 
However, it was not until his second Major League start before Clay Buchholz 
became a household name throughout Red Sox Nation. On September 1 against 
the Baltimore Orioles at Fenway Park, Buchholz pitched a no-hitter. He 
struck out 9 Orioles including Oriole right fielder Nick Markakis on a 
curveball to complete this outstanding feat. Buchholz became the second 
rookie in Major League history to pitch a no-hitter. Buchholz pitched in 
4 games with the Red Sox. He was 3–1 with a 1.59 ERA and 22 strikeouts. 
Despite his success in the regular season, Buchholz was left off the Red 
Sox postseason roster due to what Red Sox management determined was a fatigued 
arm. The season got off to a wonderful start in April. On April 22, 2007, 
in a game against the New York Yankees, the Red Sox hit four consecutive 
home runs for the first time in franchise history (and the fifth time in 
major league history),[4] when Manny Ramírez, J. D. Drew, Mike Lowell, 
and Jason Varitek all hit home runs off Yankees pitcher Chase Wright. Drew 
also hit the second of four consecutive home runs the last time this happened, 
when the Los Angeles Dodgers did it against the San Diego Padres on September 
18, 2006. That series was also the first series since the 1990 season that 
the Red Sox swept the Yankees in a three-game series at Fenway.[5] Six 
members of the Red Sox were chosen to play in the season's all-star game. 
David Ortiz was elected to start at first base by the fans, third basemen 
Mike Lowell and outfielder Manny Ramírez were chosen by their fellow players 
as reserves. Pitchers Josh Beckett and Jonathan Papelbon made the initial 
team, and reliever Hideki Okajima was voted in by the fans as the winner 
of the 32nd-man internet vote. It was the first time the Red Sox had more 
than two pitchers make the all-star team.[6] Josh Beckett was credited 
with the win for the American League. On September 1, 2007, against the 
Baltimore Orioles, rookie pitcher Clay Buchholz threw a no hitter on his 
second major league start. He was the first rookie in Red Sox history to 
throw a no hitter, as well as the 17th pitcher in Red Sox history to throw 
one. He got nine strikeouts and gave up three walks and hit one batter. 
Julio Lugo and Coco Crisp became the first pair of Red Sox players to have 
at least 25 stolen bases since Tris Speaker and Hal Janvrin in 1914.[7] 
