The Cleveland Indians' 2007 season saw the Indians win the AL Central title 
for the first time since 2001 on September 23, 2007 with a win over the 
Oakland Athletics. Also play for American League title before losing to 
the Boston Red Sox in seven games. To prepare for 2007, Indians General 
Manager Mark Shapiro signed relievers Aaron Fultz, Joe Borowski, and Roberto 
Hernández to fix a bullpen that had the fewest saves (and most blown saves) 
in 2006. He also traded third baseman Kevin Kouzmanoff for second baseman 
Josh Barfield.[1] On January 2, Luis Rivas was signed as a Free Agent with 
the Cleveland Indians.[2] The Indians began the 2007 season on the road 
in Chicago for a three-game series with the White Sox. The lineup supplied 
plenty of offense as the Indians won the first two games of the series. 
Grady Sizemore hit three home runs in the series, but the White Sox won 
the third game, leaving the Indians with a record of 2-1 as they head home. 
However, their home opener, as well as the remainder of a four-game series 
with the Seattle Mariners, was postponed due to heavy snow. After a discussion 
about a possible relocation of the following series between the Indians 
and the Angels to Anaheim,[3] the Indians decided to relocate the three-game 
series to Miller Park in Milwaukee.[4] The three-game series averaged a 
surprising 17,498 fans in attendance, and featured several homages to the 
fact that the film Major League was shot in Milwaukee, including closer 
Joe Borowski entering the game to "Wild Thing". In that series, the Indians 
got a solid outing by CC Sabathia, and although the Angels roughed up the 
bullpen, closer Joe Borowski held on in the 9th inning to give the Indians 
a 7-6 victory. Angels' pitcher Joe Saunders dominated the second game, 
and the Angels won 4-1. In the final game of the series, Travis Hafner 
hit a 3-run home run in the bottom of the 8th inning to put the Indians 
ahead 4-2 for a come-back win. On April 13, the Indians announced they 
had signed starter Jake Westbrook to a three-year contract extension.[5] 
Westbrook would have been eligible for free agency at the end of the season. 
The Indians came back to Cleveland and played their first official game 
at Jacobs Field, but lost to the White Sox 6-4. However, the Indians won 
the next two games with impressive pitching and defense and improved to 
6-3 on the season. The three-game series averaged 16,586 fans per game 
in attendance, a modern-era record for lowest average attendance in a team's 
first home series of the season.[citation needed] On April 28, the Indians 
had a six-game winning streak snapped in part because of a rare scoring 
decision. The umpires retroactively added a run to the Baltimore Orioles' 
score three innings after the play had occurred. Manager Eric Wedge immediately 
appealed the decision to the MLB commissioner's office. The game will remain 
as originally played, as the commissioner's office has upheld the umpire's 
decision. The Indians won the following game to end the month of April 
with a 14-8 record, having won seven of their last eight games. The Indians 
continued their fast start into May, with a three-game sweep of the Blue 
Jays at home. They struggled on the ensuing road trip, however, going 4-6 
against the Orioles, Angels, and Athletics, including a game in which the 
Indians led the Athletics 7-5 going into the bottom of the 9th. The bullpen 
gave up home runs to Milton Bradley and Jack Cust and went on to lose 10-7. 
However, when they returned to Jacobs Field, the Indians got hot again, 
going 6-1 against the Twins, Reds, and Mariners. After a series loss to 
the Royals on the road, the Indians swept the contending Tigers at Comerica 
Park, and went on to finish 19-11 in the month of May. June began memorably 
for the Indians, when in the bottom of the 9th inning, they rallied from 
a 4-run deficit to defeat the Tigers 12-11 in front of a near-capacity 
crowd at Jacobs Field. Entering interleague play, however, the Indians 
began to struggle, losing a series on the road to the last place Reds, 
at home to the Braves and to the last place Nationals. They had a mediocre 
9-9 record in interleague play, but finished the month strong by taking 
three of four from the Athletics, and sweeping a 4-game set from the Devil 
Rays, and went 15-11 in June, still in first place over the Detroit Tigers. 
Named to the All Star team this month were Víctor Martínez, C. C. Sabathia, 
and Grady Sizemore. July started with a critical away series against the 
Tigers with first place on the line. Starting the series with a two-game 
lead, they won the first game. However, they lost the next two games as 
well as dropped 2 out of 3 to Toronto to reach the All Star break 1 game 
behind Detroit. The Indians sent 3 players to the 2007 All Star game in 
San Francisco. CC Sabathia pitched one inning, in which he gave up 1 hit 
and 0 runs. Grady Sizemore went 0-1 with a strikeout and played the both 
left and center field during the late innings. Victor Martinez came into 
the game right after Sizemore's at bat to pinch hit for the pitcher, and 
hit a 2 run homer that gave the A.L. a 5-2 lead in the 8th inning. This 
home run proved to be the game winner as the American League defeated the 
National League 5-4. After the All-Star Break, the Indians went 3-3 on 
their homestand with the Royals and White Sox. After taking 3 of 4 from 
the Rangers on the road, Cleveland went into a slump, losing the next three 
series' at home to the Red Sox, Twins, and Rangers, going 3-7 overall. 
On July 27 the Indians traded catcher Max Ramirez to the Texas Rangers 
for OF Kenny Lofton. Lofton played later that night and went 3-5 with 1 
RBI. On the ensuing road trip, Cleveland's play improved, going 5-4 against 
the Twins and White Sox. When they returned home, however, the Indians 
went into another slide. They were swept for the second time in the season 
by the New York Yankees, and fell out of first place. But on the next road 
trip, Cleveland began to play much better, winning series' against the 
Devil Rays, Tigers, and Royals. They finished the trip 6-3 and took a 2.5 
game lead for the AL Central. A key factor for the Tribe was replacing 
Josh Barfield at second base with rookie Asdrúbal Cabrera. The Indians 
pressed their Central Division advantage by sweeping Minnesota at home, 
beating Seattle at home in a makeup game, and winning the first of a three-game 
series at home against the White Sox. Cleveland started September in the 
middle of a stretch of 23 games in 23 days due to adjustments for the snowed 
out games in April. They won the series with the White Sox that started 
in August two games to one, then, on the road, proceeded to beat Johan 
Santana of the Twins for the fifth time in the same season. The Indians 
went on to sweep the Twins, then split a four-game series in Anaheim against 
the Angels and take two out of three from the White Sox in Chicago, making 
the Tribe 7-3 on the road trip and 17-6 over the long stretch. The Indians 
took two of three from Kansas City to start the last home stand of the 
regular season, winning the first game on a ninth inning walk off home 
run by Casey Blake. The last series of the year against the Tigers started 
off dramatically with a come from behind win in extra innings, again with 
a walk off home run by Casey Blake. The Indians would go on to sweep the 
series and bring their lead in the Central Division up to 7½ games once 
again, essentially ending Detroit's hopes of a playoff berth. The Indians 
clinched the Central Division title on September 23, 2007. It was their 
first playoff berth since 2001. The Indians finished tied with the Boston 
Red Sox for the best record in Major League Baseball; however, Boston was 
awarded the #1 seed in American League due to a better head-to-head record 
(5-2). [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Infielders 
Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 
2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = 
Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings 
pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; 
K = Strikeouts C.C. Sabathia matched up against Chien-Ming Wang of the 
New York Yankees, the Wild Card winner. The Indians won 12-3. Sabathia 
did not pitch particularly well, but turned in a gritty performance that 
kept the Tribe in the lead until the offense exploded in the fifth against 
Wang. They had 4 home runs to set the club record for home runs in a post 
season game. The home runs were hit by Asdrúbal Cabrera, Travis Hafner, 
Victor Martinez, and Ryan Garko. Fausto Carmona and Andy Pettitte had one 
of the most memorable pitching duels of ALDS history, with Pettitte allowing 
no runs over 6 1⁄3 innings and Carmona one run over 9. Cleveland squandered 
many opportunities to tie or take the lead, eventually tying it in the 
eighth inning after a walk to Grady Sizemore, followed by a wild pitch, 
a sacrifice bunt by Asdrúbal Cabrera, and another wild pitch off rookie 
pitching sensation Joba Chamberlain. The run was controversial as Chamberlain 
appeared bothered by a swarm of midges. Although TBS sideline reporter 
Craig Sager reported being told by Cleveland Indians security that they 
are referred to locally as Canadian Soldiers, the nickname actually refers 
to the mayfly, which also hatches in swarms, but in June. The Indians won 
2-1 in 11 innings on a bases-loaded walk off single by Hafner. Roger Clemens 
and Jake Westbrook squared off in the Bronx, with Clemens getting into 
trouble early. He was relieved ably by Phil Hughes. Westbrook struggled 
in the middle innings, giving up the lead on a home run by Johnny Damon. 
The Yankees never looked back and cruised to an 8-4 win. Wang returned 
on three days rest to pitch against Paul Byrd, Eric Wedge electing to trust 
his third best starter (by wins) and save Sabathia for a game five. Byrd 
returned the trust by allowing just two runs over five innings. Wang was 
drummed out after only one full inning, pitching to three batters in the 
second. The Yankees then paraded a number of relievers to the hill, starting 
with demoted starter Mike Mussina, and chipped away all the way to the 
ninth inning. But the Yankees couldn't get all the way back and the Indians 
won 6-4, advancing to the American League Championship Series against the 
Boston Red Sox. Josh Beckett of the Red Sox pitched well and Sabathia didn't, 
leading Boston to a 10-3 victory and an early 1-0 advantage in the series. 
Sabathia uncharacteristically walked 5. Curt Schilling squared up against 
Carmona in a pivotal game in the series. Carmona and reliever Rafael Pérez 
pitched as poorly as Sabathia the day before, nibbling around the edges 
and then getting hurt when throwing in hitter's counts. The rest of the 
Indians realizing this would be important later. Schilling was less than 
stellar as well, resulting in a see-saw game that was tied after nine. 
In the tenth inning Tom Mastny shut down the heart of Boston's line up 
by throwing strikes, then in the eleventh, the Indians scored 7 runs to 
win 13-6, tying the series at 1-1. Westbrook matched up against Daisuke 
Matsuzaka and carried forward the first strike first philosophy of the 
end of game 2 to keep the Boston bats in check. Matsuzaka gave up a two-run 
homer to Kenny Lofton and didn't get through the fifth inning. The Indians 
went on to win 4-2 and to take a 2-1 advantage in the series. Byrd and 
Tim Wakefield started game 4 in a match-up Byrd said might have been "the 
slowest-throwing right-handed match up of all time in the post season".[6] 
It was also for four innings one of the best pitched match ups, with both 
throwing shutouts. However, Casey Blake homered to start the fifth, on 
the way to the Indians scoring seven runs in one inning for the second 
time in the series. Boston hitting three straight solo home runs in the 
sixth closed the gap slightly but not nearly enough and the Indians won 
7-3 to take a commanding 3-1 series lead. Sabathia matched up again with 
Beckett and while he pitched better than the first game, the Red Sox once 
again had their way with him and sent the Indians down to defeat 7-1, keeping 
Boston alive in the series. Back in Boston, Schilling pitched much more 
effectively than his last start while Carmona pitched worse. The Indians 
defense also played poorly and the team was beaten soundly by the Red Sox 
12-2. This knotted the series at 3 and was a portent of the deciding game. 
Matsuzaka pitched well against Westbrook, fortified by an early lead. The 
game remained close until the middle innings, where Boston broke it open 
on the previously reliable Rafael Betancourt, cruising to an 11-2 victory 
and the American League's berth in the World Series. July 27 game statistics[7] 
