The Houston Astros' 2007 season began with the team trying to take the 
NL Central title back from the World Series winners, the St. Louis Cardinals, 
after the Cardinals won it in 2006. They will have to do so without Jeff 
Bagwell, who retired after the Astros declined option on his contract for 
2007, as well as pitchers Andy Pettitte and Roger Clemens, who both filed 
for free agency on November 6. To make up for losing those key players, 
they signed pitcher Woody Williams, and traded with the Colorado Rockies 
for Jason Jennings, and Miguel Asencio. The largest offseason move the 
Astros made was signing outfielder Carlos Lee to a 6-year contract worth 
$100 million, the most in franchise history.[1] On June 28, second baseman 
Craig Biggio achieved his 3,000th career hit. The club club officially 
retired Bagwell's jersey number 5 on August 26. On January 3, the Astros 
reported that infielder Mark Loretta would sign a contract worth $2.5 million. 
On January 12, the Astros signed veteran outfielder Richard Hidalgo to 
a Minor League Contract. Hidalgo spent his first 8 seasons with the Astros 
before working with the Mets then the Rangers. He was released on March 
24 after a subpar Spring training. On April 28, the Astros purchased the 
contract of Hunter Pence, the organization's top prospect from Triple-A 
affiliate, and made his debut that night where he got his first career 
hit and run scored. By May 2007, the Astros had suffered one of their worst 
losing streaks since the 1995 season with 10 losses in a row, losing 4-3 
to the Cincinnati Reds on May 30. The Astros were just one loss shy of 
tying their worst skid in franchise history, before snapping that streak 
the next day, also against the Reds. On June 12, the Astros beat the Oakland 
Athletics for the first time in team history. Longtime Astros second baseman 
Craig Biggio recorded his 3,000th career hit in the seventh inning against 
the Colorado Rockies on June 28, becoming the 27th player in MLB history 
to do so. Jeff Bagwell, who played first base for the Astros alongside 
Biggio for 15 seasons, was in the dugout and emerged to congratulate him. 
The Astros fans, who had momentarily quieted after cheering Biggio for 
his achievement, erupted into cheers again the moment Biggio dragged Bagwell 
onto the playing field and to the first base line. "The thing with Baggy 
is that he and I worked so hard here for this city and for this organization," 
Biggio remarked. "We made so many sacrifices as far as playing the game 
and giving your body to a city, a team." Together, they bowed to the crowd 
as Bagwell raised Biggio's arm and returned to the dugout.[2] In the bottom 
of the 11th inning of the same game, Carlos Lee hit a towering walk-off 
grand slam to win the game for the Astros. On July 24, Biggio announced 
that he would be retiring at the end of the 2007 season, his 20th season 
with the club (and a franchise record). He hit a grand slam in that night's 
game which broke a 3–3 tie and led to an Astros win. On July 28, the Astros 
traded RHP Dan Wheeler to Tampa Bay for right-handed slugger 3B Ty Wigginton 
and cash considerations. He is now signed through 2009. On July 29, long 
time and former All-Star third baseman Morgan Ensberg was designated for 
assignment to make room for newly acquired Wigginton. On August 26, the 
club officially retired Bagwell's jersey number 5 prior to the start of 
the game against the Pittsburgh Pirates. He was the eighth player in Astros 
history to have his number retired.[3] Three first bases were used in the 
game, each embossed with a commemorative insignia that said, "No. 5, Jeff 
Bagwell jersey retirement, Aug. 26, 2007." One was given to Bagwell and 
the other two were auctioned to raise funds on behalf of the Astros in 
Action Foundation.[4] On August 27, manager Phil Garner and General Manager 
Tim Purpura were relieved of their duties. Cecil Cooper and Tal Smith were 
named as interim replacements, respectively. On September 17, in a 6-0 
loss to the Brewers the Astros were officially eliminated from the 2007 
playoffs. On September 20, Ed Wade was named as the new General Manager 
of the Astros. He made his first move as GM by trading Jason Lane to the 
Padres on September 24. On September 30, Craig Biggio retired, ending a 
20-year career with the Astros. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = Position; 
G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = 
Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Note: 
G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
Run Average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G = Games pitched; IP = Innings pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned Run Average; SO = Strikeouts Note: G 
= Games pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned Run Average; 
