The 2007 San Francisco Giants season was the Giants' 125th year in Major 
League Baseball, their 50th year in San Francisco since their move from 
New York following the 1957 season, and their eighth at AT&T Park. The 
team finished in fifth place in the National League West with a 71-91 record, 
19 games behind the Arizona Diamondbacks. Their season began with the team 
attempting to return to the post-season for the first time since 2003. 
New manager Bruce Bochy was hired to help the club improve on a 76 win 
season in 2006. Giants left fielder Barry Bonds entered 2007 with 21 home 
runs shy of tying Hank Aaron for most career home runs. On August 7, 2007, 
Bonds broke the all-time home run record with his 756th career home run 
and 22nd of the season. The rotation was bolstered by the arrival of Barry 
Zito, who was signed to the largest contract ever for a pitcher during 
the off-season. On September 21 it was revealed that Bonds would not return 
to the team following the 2007 season.[1] 2007 was a year that had various 
milestones, whether personal, or historical in terms of team history, or 
MLB history. On May 7, 2007, Bengie Molina became the first Giant since 
Willie McCovey in 1977 to hit two home runs in one inning. Ray Durham led 
off the fifth inning with a walk, and Molina followed the walk with a two-run 
home run to left field. Rich Aurilia later hit a three-run homer, to make 
it a six run inning. Barry Bonds, and Durham then walked, and Molina came 
up and hit a three-run home run to left-center field, to finish a nine 
run inning.[2] Later in May, on Mother's day, the 13th, rookie Fred Lewis 
hit for the cycle, in his 16th Major League game, becoming only the 22nd 
Giant to do so. Lewis hit a double in the first inning, leading off the 
game, and hit his first major league home run, a three-run shot, in the 
third inning. His triple came in the fifth inning, and he got the last 
leg of the cycle in the seventh inning. Lewis was the first Giant to hit 
for the cycle since Randy Winn did it in Cincinnati on Aug 15, 2005. He 
is only the fourth player in Major League history to hit his first home 
run as part of a cycle, joining, Cliff Heathcote, Gary Ward, and Luke Scott. 
Heathcote accomplished this feat on June 13, 1918, Ward on September 18, 
1980, and Scott on July 28, 2006. He also became the first left-handed 
San Francisco Giants batter to hit for the cycle.[3] Rookie Fred Lewis 
hit his first career grand slam against the Philadelphia Phillies on June 
1, 2007.[4] On July 4, 2007 Fred Lewis hit his second grand slam of the 
season, becoming the first rookie in San Francisco Giants history to hit 
two slams in one season. Two of Lewis' first three career home runs were 
grand slams, and the other was part of a cycle.[5] On August 4, 2007, Barry 
Bonds tied Hank Aaron for the most home runs in Major League history, when 
he hit his 755th career home run off of the San Diego Padres' Clay Hensley[6] 
Barry Bonds became the all-time home run leader at 8:51 pm pacific time, 
on August 7, 2007 when he hit his 756th career home run off Mike Bascik 
and the Washington Nationals. His milestone home run was hit just to the 
right of center field.[7] A plaque commemorating his home run has since 
been placed on the wall near where his home run landed.[8] On August 8, 
Bonds added to his home run total, when he hit his 757th career homer into 
McCovey cove. He hit it off of the Washington Nationals' Tim Redding.[9] 
Barry Bonds hit his final home run of 2007 on September 5, bringing his 
career total to 762.[10] This would be the final home run of his career. 
The Giants made no notable roster moves during April. May was a month full 
of injuries and roster-switches for the Giants. On May 3, starting pitcher 
Russ Ortiz suffered elbow neuritis and was placed on the 15-day disabled 
list. Second baseman Kevin Frandsen was recalled from the Giants' triple-A 
affiliate Fresno Grizzlies. The very next day, May 4, reliever Scott Munter 
was recalled from Fresno and first baseman Lance Niekro was designated 
for assignment. He cleared waivers and was sent down to Fresno on May 9. 
On May 6, starter Tim Lincecum was recalled from Fresno and Scott Munter 
was sent down. On May 10, Dave Roberts was placed on the 15-day disabled 
list due to elbow surgery and Todd Linden was designated for assignment. 
Outfielders Dan Ortmeier and Fred Lewis were recalled from Fresno. On May 
21, Russ Ortiz came off the disabled list, forcing pitcher Jonathan Sánchez 
to be sent down to Fresno. To end the month, the team's closer Armando 
Benítez was traded to the Marlins for pitcher Randy Messenger. Russ Ortiz 
was once again placed on the 15-day disabled list on June 7 because of 
a strained right forearm. Jonathan Sánchez was recalled, once again. On 
June 9, catcher Eliézer Alfonzo was placed on the 15-day disabled list 
and Guillermo Rodríguez was recalled from Fresno. Later that same day, 
outfielder Fred Lewis was placed on the 15-day disabled list because of 
a right oblique strain. Outfielder Dave Roberts was recalled in his place. 
On July 31, 2007, pitcher Matt Morris was traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
for center field prospect Rajai Davis and pitcher Stephen MacFarland. Infielders 
Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home 
