The 2007 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 2007 American League playoffs, began on October 12 and ended on October 
21. It was a best-of-seven series, with the East Division champion Boston 
Red Sox facing the Central Division champion Cleveland Indians. The Red 
Sox came back from a 3–1 deficit to defeat the Indians 4–3, outscoring 
them 30–5 over the final three games of the Series. The Red Sox had swept 
the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in three games in the AL Division Series, 
while the Indians had defeated the New York Yankees three games to one. 
The series marks the fourth postseason meeting of the two teams, following 
the 1995 and 1998 AL Division Series, both of which were won by the Indians, 
and the 1999 ALDS, won by the Red Sox (in a similar fashion to this series). 
It was the eighth ALCS appearance for Boston, and the fourth for Cleveland. 
The series was broadcast on Fox television. Boston won the series, 4–3. 
Friday, October 12, 2007 at Fenway Park in Boston In Game 1, the Cleveland 
Indians took the lead when Travis Hafner hit a home run to deep right field 
in the first inning against Josh Beckett, who retired the next ten batters 
in a row, finishing by striking out seven while allowing only two runs 
in six innings pitched. The Red Sox tied the game in the bottom of the 
inning off of CC Sabathia on three straight one-out singles by Kevin Youkilis, 
David Ortiz, and Manny Ramirez. In the third, the Red Sox loaded the bases 
with one out on a double, walk, and hit by pitch before Ramirez walked 
to force in a run, then Mike Lowell's ground-rule double scored two more. 
After Bobby Kielty was intentionally walked, Jason Varitek's groundout 
put Boston up 5-1. In the fifth, the Red Sox again loaded the bases on 
a single and two walks when Kielty's single scored two with Lowell being 
tagged out at third. Jensen Lewis relieved Sabathia and allowed an RBI 
double to Varitek. Sabathia was charged with eight runs on seven hits in 
4 1/3 innings. Casey Blake doubled to lead off the top of the sixth and 
scored on Asdrúbal Cabrera's single one out later. Dustin Pedroia and Youkilis 
hit back-to-back singles to lead off the bottom of the sixth. Aaron Fultz 
relieved Lewis and walked two to load the bases and force in a run. Tom 
Mastny relieved Fultz and allowed a sacrifice fly to Lowell to put the 
Red Sox up 10-2. The Indians scored their last run in the top of the eighth 
off of Javier López when Blake hit a leadoff double, moved to third on 
a fly out, and scored on Cabrera's sacrifice fly. They load the bases with 
two outs off of Eric Gange in the ninth, but Grady Sizemore struck out 
on a full count to end the game as the Red Sox went up 1-0 in the series. 
Saturday, October 13, 2007 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Game 
2 was billed as a matchup of aces in nineteen-game winner Fausto Carmona 
and veteran postseason ace Curt Schilling. However, both starters were 
out by the fifth as both offenses took charge in what evolved into an eleven-inning, 
run-scoring saga that clocked in at 5 hours and 14 minutes. Both sides 
exchanged leads in the bottom of the third and the top of the fourth. Manny 
Ramírez hit an opposite-field two-run home run, followed by a Mike Lowell 
solo home run over the Green Monster, both off Indians reliever Rafael 
Pérez. In the top of the fourth, Jhonny Peralta hit a three-run blast into 
the camera well in center field off Schilling, giving the Indians a 4–3 
lead. Each team's bullpen put up scoreless frames after the sixth inning, 
leading to extra frames with the score tied at six. The eleventh inning 
proved to be a historic one as Cleveland took advantage by scoring seven 
runs off a shaky Sox bullpen, a postseason record for runs in an extra 
inning by one team. One of the highlights was the go-ahead RBI single by 
former Red Sox right fielder Trot Nixon off Boston's lefty specialist Javier 
López. What made the base hit significant is that Nixon has historically 
struggled against left-handed pitching, but manager Eric Wedge left Nixon 
in to hit against López, and the move paid off. A wild pitch allowed another 
run to score. After retiring Víctor Martínez, López gave up a single to 
Ryan Garko and was lifted for Jon Lester, the only pitcher left in the 
Boston bullpen. Lester did not fare much better; Peralta greeted him with 
a run-scoring double, which was immediately followed by Franklin Gutiérrez's 
three-run homer, capping the scoring as the Indians took Game 2 by a score 
of 13–6. Monday, October 15, 2007 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio Coming 
off a lopsided 13–6 loss in eleven innings, Boston sent Daisuke Matsuzaka 
to the mound to face off with Jake Westbrook for Game 3 at Jacobs Field. 
Kenny Lofton's two-run home run gave the Indians a 2–0 lead in the second 
inning. Dice-K would be knocked out after allowing RBI singles to Asdrúbal 
Cabrera and Travis Hafner to make it 4–0 in the fifth inning. Jason Varitek's 
two-run home run in the seventh inning off Westbrook cut the lead to 4–2, 
but the Sox could get no closer as Cleveland's closer Joe Borowski, who 
led the AL in saves during the regular season, shut the door on the Sox, 
giving the Indians a 2–1 lead in the series. Tuesday, October 16, 2007 
at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Ohio After being confounded for four innings 
by Tim Wakefield's knuckleball, the Indians scored seven runs in the bottom 
of the fifth in Game 4. Casey Blake led off the inning with a homer off 
Wakefield, Franklin Gutiérrez singled, Kelly Shoppach was hit by a pitch, 
and Grady Sizemore reached on a fielder's choice. After Kevin Youkilis 
bobbled and dropped a foul ball, Asdrúbal Cabrera reached on an infield 
single as Gutiérrez scored. Travis Hafner struck out, and then Víctor Martínez 
hit an RBI single to left. At that point, Boston skipper Terry Francona 
yanked Wakefield for reliever Manny Delcarmen, who gave up an opposite-field 
home run to Jhonny Peralta on a 2–1 pitch. Kenny Lofton followed with a 
single, then stole second—his 34th career postseason stolen base, passing 
Rickey Henderson for first place on the all-time list—and scored on Blake's 
second base hit of the inning. Gutiérrez struck out to end the inning, 
but the Indians had already scored seven runs—the second time in this series 
in which the Indians plated seven in one inning. This also marks the third 
consecutive game in this ALCS wherein Boston's starter lasted only 4 2⁄3 
innings. The Red Sox answered immediately when Youkilis and David Ortiz 
hit back-to-back homers, chasing Indians starter Paul Byrd in favor of 
rookie reliever Jensen Lewis. Manny Ramírez followed with another homer—the 
Red Sox’ third consecutive home run, something that had never before been 
accomplished in LCS history—in the top of the sixth inning. However, that 
would be all the offense the Red Sox could muster as the Indians took a 
three games to one lead in the series behind Lewis and fellow reliever 
Rafael Betancourt. Thursday, October 18, 2007 at Jacobs Field in Cleveland, 
Ohio Danielle Peck was invited by the Cleveland Indians to sing the National 
Anthem prior to Game 5 of the American League Championship Series between 
the Red Sox and Indians.[9] Beckett was the starting pitcher in that game, 
and some Red Sox fans theorized that her invitation was an attempt by the 
Indians organization to distract Beckett, since the pair had dated the 
previous summer. The Indians denied this claim.[citation needed] Cleveland 
also played the All American Rejects hit song "It Ends Tonight" before 
the game, predicting that the Indians would win and eliminate the Red Sox 
that evening. Facing elimination in Game 5, the Sox struck first with a 
solo home run from Kevin Youkilis in the top of the first inning off of 
CC Sabathia. The Indians answered right away, putting runners on first 
and third with nobody out but could only muster one run on Travis Hafner 
grounding into a double play. The Red Sox regained the lead in the third 
on a Manny Ramírez RBI single, scoring David Ortiz from first. On the play, 
Ramírez stopped at first base believing the ball hit beyond the yellow 
line on the outfield wall, but after discussion among the six umpires, 
the home run was disallowed and Ramírez was left at first with a single. 
Meanwhile, Josh Beckett pitched eight dominant innings for the Red Sox, 
and collected eleven strikeouts, tying a career post-season high. Dustin 
Pedroia doubled to lead off the seventh and scored on Kevin Youkilis's 
triple. Rafael Betancourt relieved Sabathia and allowed a sacrifice fly 
to Ortiz to put Boston up 4-1. Next inning, Boston loaded the bases off 
of Rafael Perez on a walk, error, and single. Tom Mastny relieved Perez 
and threw a passed ball to Pedroia that let one run score. Mastny then 
walked Pedroia and Youkilis to reload the bases and force in another run. 
Ortiz's sacrifice fly then scored Boston's final run. Jonathan Papelbon 
pitched a scoreless ninth despite allowing a double and walk as the Red 
Sox's 7-1 win ensured a return trip to Boston for Game 6. Saturday, October 
20, 2007 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts After Curt Schilling retired 
the Indians in the top of the first, the Red Sox loaded the bases on infield 
hits by Dustin Pedroia and Kevin Youkilis plus a full-count walk to David 
Ortiz. Fausto Carmona struck out Manny Ramírez and got Mike Lowell to pop 
out, but J. D. Drew then hit a grand slam to center field to give Boston 
a 4–0 lead. Víctor Martínez got the Tribe on the board with a lead-off 
solo home run to cut the Sox lead to three. The Sox had a chance to pile 
on more runs in the bottom of the inning but a key double play ended the 
threat. The Indians threatened in the top of the third after two hits lead 
off the inning but Schilling got the next three batters to work out of 
it. The Sox put the game away with a six-run explosion in the bottom of 
the inning. JD Drew drove in his fifth RBI of the game with a single in 
the third inning that ended Carmona's pitching that night. Jacoby Ellsbury 
followed with another single driving in Boston's sixth run. Julio Lugo 
then drove a double down the third-base line to make it 8–1. Youkilis added 
two more with a single compounded with a throwing error to make it 10–1. 
Ryan Garko started the top of the seventh with a triple and scored on a 
Jhonny Peralta sacrifice fly, but that would be all the offense Cleveland 
could muster against Schilling on the night. The Red Sox scored two more 
runs in the eighth off of Joe Borowski when Youkilis walked with one out, 
moved to third on Ortiz's double and scored on Ramirez's sacrifice fly 
before Lowell's RBI single scored their final run, tying the series at 
three games a piece. Sunday, October 21, 2007 at Fenway Park in Boston, 
Massachusetts The pitching match-up for Game 7 was a rematch of Game 3, 
featuring Jake Westbrook for Cleveland and Japanese rookie Daisuke Matsuzaka 
for Boston. The Red Sox returned Cleveland's favor from Game 5 by playing 
"It Ends Tonight" before the game, poking fun at the Indians' untimely 
prediction. In the first three innings, Matsuzaka looked like the more 
dominant starting pitcher of the night retiring the first eight batters 
he faced before giving up a base hit to number-nine hitter Casey Blake; 
he then struck out Grady Sizemore to end the inning. Meanwhile, during 
those same first three innings, Indians starter Jake Westbrook gave up 
seven hits, one walk (intentionally), and three runs. Fortunately for Cleveland, 
Westbrook settled down and pitched three shutout innings, striking out 
four, and their offense began to take advantage of Matsuzaka putting up 
single runs in the top of the fourth and fifth. Boston's top two relief 
pitchers took over after Matsuzaka's exit following the fifth inning; Hideki 
Okajima and Jonathan Papelbon were able to hold Indians hitters scoreless 
over the final four frames, giving up just four hits combined, all singles. 
In the seventh inning with one out and Kenny Lofton at second base, Franklin 
Gutiérrez singled over the third base bag, into foul territory, with the 
ball ricocheting back into left field off the infamous angular foul territory 
fence of Fenway Park. Shortstop Julio Lugo and outfielder Manny Ramirez 
went after the ball. As he was about to turn toward home plate, third base 
coach Joel Skinner held Lofton at third. The Indians' at-bat ended when 
Casey Blake hit into a 5–4–3 double play. Rookies Jacoby Ellsbury and Dustin 
Pedroia were the center of the offense in the seventh with Ellsbury reaching 
second on a Blake error then Dustin Pedroia hit a two-run home run into 
the Green Monster seats, giving the Red Sox some insurance runs—a 5–2 lead. 
The Sox put up a six-spot in the bottom of the eighth—highlighted by a 
three-RBI double by Pedroia and a two-run Kevin Youkilis monster shot—which 
cemented their victory and led to their second American League championship 
and World Series appearance in four years. This marked the third time Boston 
came back from a three games to one deficit in a League Championship Series. 
They had previously done so in 1986 and in 2004 against the New York Yankees. 
It was a painful defeat for Cleveland, as they had blown such a big lead 
in games to cost them a shot at going to their first World Series in 10 
years. The Indians would not return to the playoffs for the next six years. 
