The 2008 National League Championship Series (NLCS), the second round of 
the 2008 National League playoffs, was a best-of-seven baseball game series. 
The series matched the NL West Champion Los Angeles Dodgers against the 
NL East Champion Philadelphia Phillies, who had home field advantage for 
this series due to their better regular-season record. The teams split 
their season series, with the home team sweeping their two four-game series 
in August. The Phillies won the series, four games to one. The series opened 
on Thursday, October 9, 2008 at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, with 
the series being telecast on Fox. This series marked the first postseason 
meeting for the Phillies and Dodgers since the 1983 NLCS, which Philadelphia 
won 3–1 en route to a loss to Baltimore in the World Series. It also marked 
the first NLCS for both teams since the Division Series was instituted 
in 1995. Overall, this was the fourth time these two teams had met in the 
postseason. Prior to the 1983 NLCS, the Dodgers had defeated the Phillies 
3–1 in the NLCS during both the 1977 and 1978 post-seasons. Philadelphia 
won the series, 4–1. Thursday, October 9, 2008 at Citizens Bank Park in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Derek Lowe and Cole Hamels faced each other 
at Citizens Bank Park for Game 1. In the first inning, Manny Ramírez missed 
a home run by mere feet to center field and settled for an RBI double to 
give LA a 1–0 lead, and later in the fourth, Matt Kemp scored on a sacrifice 
fly by Blake DeWitt. However, in the sixth inning, as Lowe was rolling, 
a throwing error by Dodgers shortstop Rafael Furcal put Shane Victorino 
on second base, apparently breaking the momentum for Lowe, who on the next 
pitch surrendered a home run to Chase Utley that tied the score. After 
a Ryan Howard groundout, Pat Burrell homered to left and put the Phillies 
out front 3–2, and that would prove to be the final score. Brad Lidge tossed 
a perfect ninth for the save. Friday, October 10, 2008 at Citizens Bank 
Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Philadelphia starting pitcher Brett 
Myers surprisingly batted 3-for-3 with three RBIs as the Phillies opened 
up an 8–2 lead on the Dodgers, chasing Dodgers starter Chad Billingsley 
in the third inning. Billingsley was also criticized for not retaliating 
for inside pitching by Myers, a response that would have to wait until 
Game 3 by Dodgers starter Hiroki Kuroda. The Phillies batted through their 
whole lineup in both the second and third innings, scoring four runs in 
each. Manny Ramírez made things closer with a three-run home run off Myers 
in the fourth, but in the seventh Casey Blake was robbed of a potential 
bases clearing hit in deep left center by a leaping Shane Victorino. Four 
Phillies relievers pitched scoreless baseball in four innings of work with 
Brad Lidge remaining perfect in save opportunities in the regular season 
and postseason. Before the game Charlie Manuel learned that his mother 
died, and Shane Victorino learned that his grandmother died the same day 
after the game.[6] Sunday, October 12, 2008 at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, 
California The first game at Dodger Stadium in the series, Game 3 saw a 
dramatic benches-clearing incident in the third inning, after Dodgers starter 
Hiroki Kuroda threw a fastball over the head of the Phillies' Shane Victorino. 
This came in apparent retaliation for Phillies starter Jamie Moyer hitting 
Dodgers catcher Russell Martin in the knee in the first inning and reliever 
Clay Condrey nearly hitting Martin again in the second, which came after 
Brett Myers nearly hit Martin and threw behind Manny Ramírez in Game 2. 
In a wild first inning, five Dodgers scored, mostly in part due to a three-run 
triple by Blake DeWitt, and Rafael Furcal homered in the second, his first 
home run since May 5, forcing Moyer to leave the game after just 1 1⁄3 
innings. In the third inning confrontation, only words were exchanged and 
nobody was ejected, and Kuroda pitched a solid six innings to lead LA to 
a 7–2 victory over the Phillies, cutting their lead to 2–1. The attendance 
was 56,800, an all-time Dodger Stadium record. Monday, October 13, 2008 
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California Game 4 was an exciting see-saw 
battle between the two teams. The Phillies struck first; in the top of 
the first they collected three hits and two runs off Derek Lowe, who started 
on three days' rest. In the bottom of the inning, James Loney hit a ball 
off the center field wall to score Rafael Furcal and cut the lead to 2–1. 
Starter Joe Blanton began strong, but in the fifth inning gave up two runs 
and forced Charlie Manuel to go to his bullpen. In the sixth, the Dodgers' 
bullpen faltered first, when Clayton Kershaw gave up a walk and a hit, 
and Chan Ho Park threw a wild pitch to tie the game. In the bottom of the 
sixth, Casey Blake homered to left, and with two on, a throwing error by 
Ryan Howard allowed Juan Pierre to score. The inning ended when Chase Utley 
made a diving catch and stumbled to second base for the double play. Things 
looked great for the Dodgers until Cory Wade relieved in the eighth and 
Shane Victorino hit a two-run home run that landed in the LA bullpen to 
tie the score. Jonathan Broxton came in after Carlos Ruiz singled off of 
Wade and promptly gave up another two-run homer to pinch-hitter Matt Stairs, 
the veteran's first career postseason homer. Brad Lidge then came in and 
pitched his first save of 2008 that consisted of more than three outs, 
his 49th consecutive save. Wednesday, October 15, 2008 at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California Dodgers fans were psyched for a possible comeback 
in Game 5, but Jimmy Rollins spoiled the party early with a leadoff homer 
off Chad Billingsley, who in his second bad outing of the series was knocked 
out of the game in the third inning after giving up three runs. The Phillies 
added two more runs when Rafael Furcal committed three errors (two on the 
same play) in the fifth inning. Manny Ramírez, in another strong performance, 
did manage to bring the Dodger Stadium crowd to life with a solo home run 
in the sixth inning. However, the Dodgers never threatened after that, 
and the Phillies won the series in five games. Winning pitcher Cole Hamels 
was named the series MVP after winning both of his starts with a 1.93 ERA. 
