The 2008 Toronto Blue Jays season, the team's 32nd year of existence, saw 
the Blue Jays finish in fourth place in the American League East with a 
record of 86 wins and 76 losses for a .531 winning percentage, thus making 
this season the third consecutive winning season for the Jays, as well 
as being the highest win-loss record since their 2006 season. General Manager 
J. P. Ricciardi maintained through the off-season that he was content with 
the Blue Jays' roster as it was. Nevertheless, he made a number of moves, 
two of which would likely have a significant effect on the team in the 
2008 season. The team's acquisition of all-star shortstop David Eckstein 
was met with a mixed reception from fans and critics. Eckstein's role on 
the team would displace two of Toronto's most popular players from their 
regular roles; Reed Johnson as leadoff hitter and John McDonald as starting 
shortstop. Eckstein was signed to fill the leadoff spot in the order which 
was void of a true leadoff man for much of 2007 due to the injury to Johnson. 
Johnson was released by the Blue Jays on March 23 and the LF position was 
given to Shannon Stewart who split time with Matt Stairs.[1] The other 
major move by the club in the off-season was the trade of third baseman 
Troy Glaus to the Cardinals for David Eckstein's teammate, Scott Rolen. 
The move was generally seen to be a major risk to both parties, as both 
players were dealing with injuries over the past several seasons. The move 
was also noted as being somewhat redundant, given the various similarities 
between the two players. Both hit for power, though Glaus slightly more 
so, both were approximately the same age, and both were prone to injury. 
Rolen was, however, a significantly better defender than Glaus. The Blue 
Jays played their 5000th franchise regular season game on Friday July 25 
against the Seattle Mariners. The Blue Jays also signed catcher Rod Barajas 
(who split time with Gregg Zaun) and Marco Scutaro, who played third base 
for most of the games for the beginning of the season, until Scott Rolen 
returned from his injury in May. Players signed to minor league deals: 
On April 20, 2008, the Jays released veteran DH Frank Thomas. Although 
the Jays said it was due to a weak performance, Thomas stated it was probably 
because he only needed a little more than 300 at-bats to put his 2010 option 
year in effect. General Manager J. P. Ricciardi stated that this move was 
because the Blue Jays were falling behind early and Thomas was not producing. 
Ricciardi needed someone who could hit home runs and drive in RBIs from 
Thomas' spot in the batting order. The Blue Jays were picked by many experts 
to contend for a playoff spot in the agonizing AL East. The Blue Jays were 
also expected to challenge the Yankees and Red Sox in 2005, 2006 and 2007. 
Though they finished 2006 in second place, 2007 was an injury riddled season 
for the Jays, resulting in another mediocre third-place finish. The key 
to the Blue Jays' success in 2008 would be to stay healthy and hit well. 
Another repeat of 2007 would mean likely another mediocre season. Key players 
such as Alex Ríos, Vernon Wells, Scott Rolen, David Eckstein, Roy Halladay, 
A. J. Burnett and B. J. Ryan needed to stay virtually healthy and produce 
as they are capable of, if the Jays wished to seriously challenge or dethrone 
the New York Yankees, Boston Red Sox, Detroit Tigers and Cleveland Indians 
for a playoff spot. Ultimately, the Blue Jays did not meet the expectations 
of contending and finished with a less than impressive season record. updated 
to games played September 28, 2008 The Blue Jays finished the first week 
of the season by taking 4 out of 6 games against AL East powerhouses New 
York and Boston, including a sweep of the Red Sox. Following the first 
two series, however, they faced a 4–4 Oakland Athletics team and promptly 
got swept at home, including two close one-run losses. Closer Jeremy Accardo 
blew a save in the second game and took the loss for the second straight 
night after the A's scored in the ninth inning in the first game against 
him. Following the sweep by Oakland, the Jays headed out on the road and 
swept the Texas Rangers at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, which had been 
considered a house of horrors of sorts as Toronto had lost 16 of its last 
19 games there. Before the third game of the series, pitcher B. J. Ryan 
was activated from the disabled list and reinstated as the team's closer.[2] 
He went on to save the final game. The Jays completed their road trip by 
splitting a short two-game series with the Baltimore Orioles. The Blue 
Jays returned home to face Texas for a pair of games and lost both contests, 
despite an incredible pitching performance by the Toronto relief corps 
in the first game and a complete game from ace Roy Halladay in the second. 
In the first game, despite the energy provided by escaping dangerous situations 
(the Rangers left the bases loaded three times in extra innings and failed 
to score), the Blue Jays' offense struggled and failed to respond. Manager 
John Gibbons used up all the relievers and had to send starter A. J. Burnett 
to face the Rangers in the 14th inning, where he went on to give up two 
runs and took the loss. After splitting a four-game set with the surprisingly 
underachieving Detroit Tigers, Toronto left for a nine-game road trip, 
facing the Tampa Bay Rays, Kansas City Royals, and Boston Red Sox. The 
sojourn was completely forgettable, with the Jays being swept three straight 
by the Rays at Disney's Wide World of Sports Complex in Orlando and dropping 
two out of three to the Royals at Kauffman Stadium. Prior to the Royals 
series, the Blue Jays activated third baseman Scott Rolen from the disabled 
list, and he hit his first home run in a Jays uniform in the third game, 
which the Jays took behind Jesse Litsch to snap a six-game losing streak 
(dating back to the last game of the Detroit series). However, the Blue 
Jays then travelled to Boston and closed out April by losing the first 
two games against the Red Sox in heartbreaking fashion, with Halladay and 
Scott Downs respectively giving up walk-off hits to give the BoSox narrow 
one-run victories. For Halladay, it was his fourth complete game in a row, 
but a lack of hitting by the Toronto lineup doomed him to a loss. The Blue 
Jays lost 11 of their last 14 games in April, and manager Gibbons received 
a lot of criticism for his team's performance from fans due to the lack 
of manufacturing runs and a seeming lack of motivation; some suggested 
that it may be time for a managerial change.[3] Toronto salvaged the rubber 
match of the Boston series on May 1, but not without some controversy. 
After Burnett and Jesse Carlson shut out the Red Sox for eight innings, 
B. J. Ryan was called in to close out the game. Coco Crisp popped out to 
right to seemingly end the tilt, but second base umpire Bruce Dreckman 
called Ryan for a balk and ordered the game to continue. Crisp followed 
with a single to right, moving Brandon Moss to third. However, Ryan vindicated 
himself with a strikeout of Jed Lowrie to end the game for good. Building 
off the momentum, the Jays came back home and completed a four-game sweep 
of the Chicago White Sox (the first time they had swept a four-game set 
since 2003). The Toronto pitching kept Chicago at bay, shutting them out 
twice, while Vernon Wells and Matt Stairs in particular came through with 
clutch hits against ChiSox pitching. Despite hopes that the woeful offense 
would come around,[4] the Blue Jays then dropped two of three to the visiting 
Rays. In the first contest, starting shortstop David Eckstein left the 
game due to a hip injury, and his backup John McDonald followed him a short 
time later with a sprained ankle; both were eventually put on the 15-day 
disabled list. The last game with Tampa seemingly symbolized Toronto's 
struggles – after trailing for eight innings, they came back to tie in 
the bottom of the ninth, only to come up empty the next inning and waste 
a leadoff triple by Alex Ríos. In the 13th, Carl Crawford came through 
with a sacrifice fly off Shawn Camp, and a few batters later Dioner Navarro 
hit a grand slam, putting the game out of reach for the Jays. Prior to 
a road series in Cleveland, general manager Ricciardi attempted to pick 
up the team's sagging offense and deepen the bench by signing free-agent 
outfielder Brad Wilkerson and acquiring outfielder Kevin Mench in exchange 
for cash considerations.[5] However, the Jays still lost three of four 
to the Indians, with Vernon Wells breaking his wrist trying to make a diving 
catch in the first game and missing the next 6–8 weeks.[6] Despite the 
blow dealt by the absence of Wells, the victory in the last game of the 
Cleveland series seemed to spur the Jays' bats back to life somewhat, as 
they proceeded to sweep the Twins in Minnesota and then take two of three 
from the Phillies in their first interleague series of the year. Returning 
home, Toronto lost the first two games of a close three-game set to the 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim but won the last game, using it as a springboard 
for a four-game sweep of the Royals that brought them three games above 
.500 for the first time in the season. The Jays then took off for the West 
Coast, splitting the first two tense games in Oakland before blowing out 
the A's 12–0 in the final game. The momentum continued in Anaheim when 
the Jays pounded the Angels 10–4 in the first game, but lost a 3–2 nail-biter 
in 10 innings in the second game. Despite the tight loss to the Angels, 
Toronto enjoyed a remarkable recovery from their disastrous April, winning 
20 games, just one shy of the club record for the most wins in a single 
month. On Friday June 20, 2008, after losing 5 in a row and falling 10.5 
games behind the Boston Red Sox, the Blue Jays replaced John Gibbons with 
Cito Gaston. Cito is the only manager to lead the Blue Jays to World Series 
victories in 1992 over the Braves and won again 1993 over the Phillies. 
On Tuesday July 8, 2008, the Blue Jays won their first game in walk-off 
fashion of the season, and marking the first time since September 17, 2007 
that the Jays won a walk-off-style game. The win was a 7–6 victory over 
the visiting Baltimore Orioles, and the walk-off win was achieved by an 
RBI single from Scott Rolen, bringing Alex Ríos to score, after stealing 
two bases via a strikeout by Vernon Wells before Rolen's at-bat in the 
bottom of the 9th inning. Rios earlier in the bottom of the 7th inning, 
scored a three-run triple (his 3rd triple of the season), bringing the 
score to 6–5 Baltimore. Immediately afterwards, Vernon Wells hit an RBI 
single (his 2nd single of the night), bringing Rios home and tying the 
game 6–6 before the walk-off finisher two innings later. Just 2 days later, 
on July 10, the Blue Jays won their second walk-off victory of the season, 
against the Baltimore Orioles. The win resulted in the Orioles being swept 
by the Jays, the first time since late May that the Jays won a sweep; against 
the Kansas City Royals. The Jays won 6–5. Marco Scutaro came as the first 
batter of the bottom of the 9th, as a pinch hitter for Matt Stairs; he 
struck out. Scutaro was followed by Rod Barajas who fired a single into 
right field and was subsequently replaced with pinch runner John McDonald, 
who ran to 2nd base. Then came Scott Rolen who fired the ball deep into 
right field, landing near the foul line and resulting in a double, sending 
Rolen to 2nd and McDonald to 3rd. Gregg Zaun was intentionally walked by 
Orioles' closer George Sherrill thus loading the bases. This was followed 
by a sacrifice fly from Lyle Overbay, scoring McDonald and tying the game 
at 5–5. Lastly, Adam Lind came up and launched a ground ball single off 
to right field, past the glove of Aubrey Huff and placed near right fielder 
Nick Markakis. Rolen runs from 2nd base and makes it to home plate, giving 
the Blue Jays the sweep. On August 28, the Blue Jays designated DH Matt 
Stairs for assignment shortly after their 3–2 loss against the Tampa Bay 
Rays. He was then traded to the Philadelphia Phillies, who went on to win 
the World Series. After the Jays won their final game against the Yankees 
at Yankee Stadium 6–2 on August 31, shortstop David Eckstein was traded 
to the Arizona Diamondbacks for a right-handed pitcher. The Jays swept 
the Minnesota Twins from September 2–4, marking the second straight sweep 
of the Twins for the Jays this season and also the first time since several 
years ago that they swept one team three times in a row, since the Jays 
swept the Twins in July 2007 in addition to the two sweeps this year. The 
Jays beat the Rays on September 5, 6–4 and then on September 6, they won 
their first series victory over the Rays this season, winning the game 
7–4 due to a walk-off grand slam by catcher Gregg Zaun at the bottom of 
13th inning. As a result, three records occurred: 1. That walk-off grand 
slam was the second in franchise history (the first was by George Bell 
on September 4, 1988) as well as being the franchise's first walk-off grand 
slam to occur in extra innings. 2. The win was the Jays seventh straight 
win, the first time this happened since September 2002. 3. With the win, 
the Jays were 5–0 so far for the month of September, marking the first 
time since September 1998 that the Jays had that record at the beginning 
of that month. On September 7, the Jays won the final game against the 
Rays 1–0, thus sweeping them. David Purcey got the win, going 8 solid innings, 
and Jesse Carlson got the save, his 2nd of the season. With this win, the 
Jays now have their longest winning streak since April 1999. The sweep 
of the Rays was also the first time in franchise history that they swept 
the Rays.[citation needed] The Jays opened a 4-game series with the Chicago 
White Sox by winning a rain-postponed double-header on September 9. A.J.Burnett 
got his 17th victory of the season by taking a no-hitter into the 6th inning 
before giving up a run. Jays win 3–1. Jesse Litsch pitched a solid 7 innings 
and records his 5th win since being recalled from AAA. Marco Scutaro leads 
off the game with his 2nd career lead-off home run. Litsch again receives 
lots of run support and the Jays win 8–2. On September 12, the Jays went 
into Fenway Park to face the AL Wild Card Leaders, The Boston Red Sox. 
The Jays promptly lost 3 out of 4 in that weekend series, ultimately dropping 
them out of the AL Wild Card contention. On September 18, the Jays scored 
a 3–2 victory over the Baltimore Orioles, moving their record to 82–71. 
The victory secured a third consecutive winning season for the team, something 
which they have not accomplished since 1998–2000. On September 25, versus 
the New York Yankees, Roy Halladay pitched a complete game six-hitter for 
his 20th win of the season, the first time he did so since his Cy Young 
Award-winning 2003 season. Halladay became only the 2nd Blue Jays pitcher 
to have pitched two 20+ win seasons, after Roger Clemens did so in 1997 
and 1998. With that win, Halladay also became the first pitcher to have 
a 5–0 record against the Yankees in a season, since Luis Tiant accomplished 
the feat in 1974. Source [7] The 2008 MLB draft was held on June 5–6. Infielders 
Other batters Manager Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; R = 
Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI 
= Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; 
L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; 
SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; 
