The 2008 National League Division Series (NLDS), the opening round of the 
2008 National League playoffs, began on Wednesday, October 1 and ended 
on Sunday, October 5, with the champions of the three NL divisions and 
one wild card team participating in two best-of-five series. They were: 
The underdog Dodgers swept the Cubs to advance to the NLCS, while the Phillies 
defeated the Brewers by three games to one. The series marked the first 
postseason series victory for the Dodgers since winning the 1988 World 
Series, and the first such victory for the Phillies since the 1993 NLCS. 
Los Angeles won the series, 3–0. Philadelphia won the series, 3–1. Wrigley 
Field in Chicago, Illinois The Dodgers swiped Game 1 from the Cubs at Wrigley 
Field. Mark DeRosa gave the Cubs an early lead in the second inning with 
an opposite-field home run. James Loney's fifth inning grand slam proved 
to be too much for the Cubs as they didn't score after that. Derek Lowe 
settled in after giving up the home run to DeRosa by going six innings, 
giving up two earned runs. Manny Ramírez and Russell Martin provided insurance 
with late-inning home runs. Ryan Dempster struggled for much of the night 
giving up seven walks and four earned runs. Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois 
The Dodgers took advantage of sloppy Cubs fielding as the entire infield 
committed four errors—one by each starting infielder—totalling up to five 
unearned runs, including four in a five-run second inning—combined with 
Chad Billingsley's 6 2⁄3 innings of one-run pitching and Manny Ramírez' 
second home run in the series, his record-stretching 26th postseason dinger 
gives the Dodgers a 2–0 series lead. Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California 
Before a sellout crowd in Dodger Stadium, Russell Martin took third on 
a base hit by Manny Ramírez in the bottom of the first despite a risky 
baserunning move that almost killed the rally. Replays showed Martin was 
out, but the third base umpire ruled it safe. James Loney then stroked 
a double to right field off Rich Harden to score them both. It proved to 
be all the offense the Dodgers needed, as Hiroki Kuroda was locked in, 
hurling shutout ball into the sixth; the first 11 outs he recorded were 
all ground ball outs before he struck out Rich Harden to end the fourth. 
Cory Wade gave up a run on a pinch-hit Daryle Ward single in the top of 
the eighth, but Jonathan Broxton took over & earned his first career postseason 
save by striking out Alfonso Soriano to complete the sweep. The Cubs suffered 
their ninth consecutive post-season loss and second consecutive sweep. 
2008 NLDS (3–0): Los Angeles Dodgers over Chicago Cubs Citizens Bank Park 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Phillies ace Cole Hamels pitched eight shutout 
innings of two-hit ball while striking out nine to give the Phillies their 
first playoff victory since Game 5 of the 1993 World Series. Yovani Gallardo 
gave up three runs, none earned, while walking five. Brad Lidge got his 
first save of the post-season, allowing one run and runners to advance 
to second and third with one out, before striking out Prince Fielder and 
Corey Hart to end the game. Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
A crowd of 46,208, the largest in the five-year history of Citizens Bank 
Park, came out to watch Brett Myers pitch seven innings giving up two hits 
and two runs while striking out four and walking three to lead the Phillies 
to victory, giving them their first 2–0 playoff series lead since the 1980 
World Series against the Kansas City Royals. CC Sabathia pitched 3 2⁄3 
innings on three days' rest giving up all five runs in the second inning 
for the Brewers, capped off by Shane Victorino's grand slam. Pitcher Brett 
Myers had the key AB for the Phillies as he stretched the AB from a 1–2 
count into a bases on balls. It unnerved Sabathia and, later in the inning, 
Victorino hit the first postseason grand slam in Phillies history. Brad 
Lidge retired the side in order in the ninth inning for his second save 
in as many games in the playoffs. Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin With 
their backs against the proverbial wall, the Brewers sent out Dave Bush 
to quiet the Phillies in the first ever postseason game at Miller Park. 
His offense picked him up early, however, taking some pressure off with 
two runs in the bottom of the first including a sacrifice fly by Prince 
Fielder, scoring Mike Cameron, and a struggling Brewers bullpen held the 
door closed after Bush's departure, giving up no runs in 3 2⁄3 innings. 
Salomón Torres was in a jam in the ninth, with the bases loaded and nobody 
out, but a double play that should've scored a run didn't because Shane 
Victorino did not slide into second base, and interference was called. 
Torres pitched out of the jam, and the Brew Crew won their first post-season 
game since Game 5 of the 1982 World Series. Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Brewers fans got thundersticks as they entered Miller Park for Game 4, 
but the real thunder was supplied by the Phillies' bats, winning their 
first post-season series since the 1993 NLCS with Jimmy Rollins leading 
off the game on the sixth pitch off Jeff Suppan with a solo homer, then 
in the third inning with Pat Burrell (three-run) and Jayson Werth (solo) 
hitting back-to-back jacks. Joe Blanton struck out seven in six innings 
of one-run, five hit ball. Burrell would later hit his second dinger in 
the eighth. Brad Lidge again pitched the final inning, although it was 
not a save situation. Burrell became only the second Phillies hitter in 
their history to hit two home runs in a playoff game, the other being Lenny 
Dykstra. He is also only the fifth National League player to hit two home 
runs in a series clinching game, joining Steve Garvey (1974 NLCS), Johnny 
Bench (1976 World Series), Fred McGriff (1995 NLDS), and Carlos Beltran 
(2004 NLDS). 2008 NLDS (3–1): Philadelphia Phillies over Milwaukee Brewers 
