The Detroit Tigers 2008 season was the team's 108th season in Major League 
Baseball's American League. After being picked by many to win the AL Central 
Division and the World Series,[1][2] the Tigers started the season a disappointing 
0-7 after being swept by the Kansas City Royals and Chicago White Sox. 
Their first victory of the season came against the Boston Red Sox. The 
Tigers did not reach a .500 winning record until their 80th game of the 
season. Although they were eliminated from the pennant race by the season's 
final day (September 29), they nonetheless had to play a makeup game against 
the White Sox (who were trailing the Minnesota Twins by half a game), which 
Detroit had lost 8-2. The Tigers finished the season in last place in the 
AL Central, trailing the White Sox (who won the division by beating Minnesota 
in a one-game playoff the following day) by 14.5 games. Despite the disappointing 
performance, the Tigers drew a franchise-record home attendance of 3,202,645 
for the season. The team ranked third in the American League and eighth 
in Major League Baseball for home attendance in 2008. The Tigers started 
the offseason by trading prospects Jair Jurrjens and Gorkys Hernández to 
the Atlanta Braves for shortstop Edgar Rentería. Rentería took over the 
everyday shortstop job with Carlos Guillén moving to first base. Reliever 
Joel Zumaya underwent surgery on October 31, 2007 for an AC joint reconstruction 
and was expected to miss half the 2008 season.[3] The Tigers continued 
their offseason trading by acquiring Miguel Cabrera and Dontrelle Willis 
from the Florida Marlins in exchange for highly touted prospects Cameron 
Maybin and Andrew Miller, along with Mike Rabelo, Eulogio De La Cruz, Burke 
Badenhop and Dallas Trahern. Willis would sign a three-year, 29-million 
dollar contract extension, while Cabrera would receive an eight-year, 152.3-million 
dollar deal, the biggest contract in Tigers history. During the offseason, 
the Tigers traded Omar Infante to the Chicago Cubs for Jacque Jones. They 
re-signed Todd Jones, and Kenny Rogers to one-year contracts. The Tigers 
also signed free agent Francisco Cruceta from the Texas Rangers organization 
to a one-year contract. Cruceta and Jacque Jones were eventually released 
during the season, and Todd Jones retired at the end of the season. The 
Tigers declined the option to sign Edgar Rentería at the end of the season. 
Note: Pos. = Position; G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; Avg. = 
Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In Note: Pitchers' batting 
statistics not included * Statistics only include games with Tigers Infielders 
