The 2008 Major League Baseball season began on March 25, 2008 in Tokyo, 
Japan with the 2007 World Series champion Boston Red Sox defeating the 
Oakland Athletics at the Tokyo Dome 6–5 (in 10 innings) in the first game 
of a two-game series,[1][2] and ended on September 30 with the host Chicago 
White Sox defeating the Minnesota Twins in a one-game playoff to win the 
AL Central division. The Civil Rights Game, an exhibition, in Memphis, 
Tennessee took place March 29 when the New York Mets beat the Chicago White 
Sox, 3–2. The All-Star Game was played on July 15 at Yankee Stadium in 
The Bronx, New York City, with the AL winning 4 to 3 in 15 innings. For 
the eighth straight season, a defending World Champion – the Boston Red 
Sox – failed to defend their championship. The Philadelphia Phillies won 
the World Series 4 games to 1 over the Tampa Bay Rays. This was Philadelphia's 
second championship, and also the first World Series appearance for the 
Rays. Note: Major League Baseball's playoff format automatically seeds 
the Wild Card team 4th. Normally, the No. 1 seed plays the No. 4 seed in 
the Division Series. However, MLB does not allow the No. 1 seed to play 
the 4th seed/Wild Card winner in the Division Series if they are from the 
same division, instead having the No. 1 seed play the next lowest seed, 
the No. 3 seed. Hence, Milwaukee and the Chicago Cubs did not face each 
other in the NLDS. * – Game suspended 10/27; completed 10/29 MVP: Cole 
Hamels, LHP, Philadelphia The 2008 Spring training session was marked by 
the final at-bats for three stadiums that had been mainstays in the Grapefruit 
League, as the spring training sites in Florida are called. The first to 
end its run was Holman Stadium, longtime home to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
On March 17, the Dodgers played their last game in Vero Beach; they lost 
to the Houston Astros, 12–10.[31] It has been rumored that the Baltimore 
Orioles might move into the facility. The next stadium to close its doors 
was Chain of Lakes Park in Winter Haven, home of the Cleveland Indians. 
On March 27, they lost their final game in the stadium to the Tampa Bay 
Rays, 9–7 in 10 innings.[32] Both the Dodgers and the Indians left their 
longtime Florida homes for new stadiums in the Cactus League in Arizona. 
The oldest of them all, Progress Energy Park, home of Al Lang Field in 
St. Petersburg, was retired on March 28 with the Tampa Bay Rays losing 
to the Cincinnati Reds 6–3.[33] The Rays, unlike the other teams to close 
stadiums before them, are staying in Florida; they are relocating their 
spring training home to the Charlotte Sports Park in Port Charlotte, where 
they spent $20 million to rebuild its main stadium. The site of Progress 
Energy Park was connected to plans to build a new retractable roof stadium 
for the Rays to replace the fixed-dome Tropicana Field, but was eventually 
withdrawn from consideration by team ownership in favor of a more thorough 
study. On March 15 and 16, the Los Angeles Dodgers and San Diego Padres 
played a 2-game exhibition series at Wukesong Stadium in Beijing, China, 
which would later be the baseball venue for the 2008 Summer Olympics. The 
series marked MLB's first games played in China. The first game ended in 
a 3–3 tie, and the second ended in a 6–3 win for the Dodgers. On March 
29, as part of the 50th anniversary of the Dodgers' relocation from Brooklyn 
to Los Angeles, the Dodgers hosted an exhibition game against the Boston 
Red Sox at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the Dodgers' home stadium 
from 1958 to 1961. Proceeds from the game were donated to the Dodgers' 
official charity, ThinkCure. The game saw a sellout crowd of 115,300, which 
broke the Guinness World Record for the largest crowd to ever attend a 
baseball game. The previous record was an estimated 114,000 for a baseball 
demonstration during the 1956 Summer Olympics at the Melbourne Cricket 
Ground.[34] The Washington Nationals began the domestic portion of the 
2008 season in their new US $611 million home, Nationals Park in Washington, 
D.C. with a nationally-telecast ESPN Sunday Night Baseball game (in a rare 
one-game series) against the Atlanta Braves on March 30 in the first official 
baseball game stateside. President Bush threw out the ceremonial first 
pitch while being booed by some of the crowd that night, and joined Jon 
Miller and Joe Morgan in the broadcast booth for the third and part of 
the fourth inning of the game telecast. Fittingly, Ryan Zimmerman hit a 
walk-off home run to give the Nats a 3–2 win. Nationals Park replaced their 
temporary home, RFK Stadium. Unlike RFK, Nationals Park has been considered 
to be fair to both hitters and pitchers. Additionally, there was an exhibition 
game March 29 against their beltway rivals, the Baltimore Orioles, in which 
season ticket holders were admitted free. The first game, however, was 
on March 22, when local university George Washington played a home Atlantic 
10 college contest against Saint Joseph's at Nationals Park. The Colonials 
sent their fans home happy by defeating the Hawks 9–5. This season also 
marked the last season in New York City for two historic stadiums where 
the Mets and Yankees reside. Shea Stadium closed in Flushing Meadows, Queens 
on a down note September 28 with the Mets being eliminated from postseason 
play for the second consecutive season by the Marlins, 4–2, while Yankee 
Stadium closed after 83 seasons (the Yankees played at Shea Stadium in 
1974 and 1975 while Yankee Stadium was refurbished), with the final home 
game played on September 21 as the Bronx Bombers defeated the Orioles, 
7–3. The teams will move into new ballparks near their current homes – 
Citi Field for the Mets and New Yankee Stadium for the Yankees – in time 
for their 2009 home openers on April 13 against the San Diego Padres (Citi 
Field) and 16th against Cleveland Indians (New Yankee Stadium) respectively. 
With the closing of these ballparks, Dodger Stadium becomes the largest 
seating capacity park (56,000) and third oldest baseball stadium (after 
Fenway Park and Wrigley Field) starting in 2009, and Angel Stadium of Anaheim 
(built in 1966) and Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum (first baseball game 
in 1968; stadium was built in 1966) become the fourth and fifth oldest 
baseball stadiums, respectively. Starting with the 2008 season, the Cleveland 
Indians' home field was renamed Progressive Field – after the insurance 
company based in suburban Mayfield Heights – in a deal valued at US$57.6 
million over the next sixteen seasons. The new name replaces Jacobs Field, 
named for former team owner Richard Jacobs. Another naming rights agreement 
concerned a stadium still under construction. The Minnesota Twins and Minneapolis-based 
retail giant Target Corporation announced on September 15 that the Twins' 
new stadium set to open in 2010 will be named Target Field. Financial terms 
of the agreement were not disclosed. Target Field is located not far from 
another facility of which the discount retailer owns naming rights: Target 
Center the home of the NBA's Timberwolves. On September 19, the naming 
rights contract owned by McAfee for Oakland–Alameda County Coliseum lapsed; 
McAfee declined a new contract offer. The Coliseum, home to the Oakland 
Athletics since their 1968 relocation from Kansas City, reverted to its 
old name after 10 years, during which it was originally known as Network 
Associates Coliseum, then McAfee Coliseum when the company changed its 
name in 2004. The A's played their last home series after the stadium reverted 
its name. As a consequence of Hurricane Ike damaging the Houston area, 
two games between the Houston Astros and Chicago Cubs were relocated to 
Miller Park in Milwaukee. Although Milwaukee was picked as a "neutral" 
site whose retractable roof would ensure the game would be played in the 
event of inclement weather, Miller Park's location 90 miles (140 km) from 
Chicago – and well over 1,000 miles (1,600 km) from Houston – resulted 
in a decidedly pro-Cubs crowd in a series where Houston was officially 
designated as the home team. Adding to the controversy from the Houston 
perspective was the fact that Turner Field in Atlanta had been suggested 
by the players' union as a potential neutral site.[35] This would mark 
the second time in as many years that a series was moved to neutral Miller 
Park due to weather, as a series between the Seattle Mariners and Cleveland 
Indians was relocated there one year earlier as a consequence of snow storms 
in northern Ohio. During last season, especially the ALCS, several plays 
were deemed to be considered controversial on whether or not balls were 
ruled home runs. During a game in the annual interleague Subway Series 
between the Mets and the Yankees at Yankee Stadium, a home run was taken 
away and ruled a ground rule double. This led to discussions about introducing 
instant replay to Baseball games, especially on balls that are ruled fair 
or foul and home runs. In August, all 30 parks have been wired to send 
feeds similar to a video goal judge in the NHL, where all video feeds are 
sent to a central control room at Major League Baseball Advanced Media's 
home office in New York City to be reviewed, and correct any errors. On 
August 20, MLB and the World Umpires Association, the umpires union, agreed 
to start reviews based only on whether or not a ball that is ruled a home 
run was fair or foul, or whether or not balls that clear walls are home 
runs according to each team's ground rules. This practice started August 
28. The first official use of the Instant Replay system occurred on Wednesday, 
September 3 in a game between the New York Yankees and Tampa Bay Rays at 
Tropicana Field, when Alex Rodriguez hit a home run in the top of the ninth 
inning with two outs remaining. Tampa Bay catcher Dioner Navarro and manager 
Joe Maddon initially protested in order to reverse the call as it appeared 
to be foul. Television replays showed the ball hit Tropicana Field's D-Ring 
catwalk on the foul side of the attached yellow post; however, the ball 
was still in fair territory when it left the playing field (passing over 
the foul pole) and was therefore a home run. Umpire crew chief Charlie 
Reliford agreed to the review and after a delay of 2 minutes and 15 seconds, 
the ruling on the field was upheld and remained a home run.[36] Replay 
made its National League debut on September 9 at Minute Maid Park in a 
game between the Houston Astros and Pittsburgh Pirates. Houston right fielder 
Hunter Pence hit a fly ball to right field that bounced off the top of 
the fence and back onto the field of play. The umpires on the field ruled 
a live ball, and Pence was credited with a double. Houston manager Cecil 
Cooper argued the ball bounced beyond the fence before bouncing back onto 
the field and was therefore a home run. After a discussion among the umpires, 
crew chief Tim Welke allowed the review and reviewed the play with his 
brother Bill Welke, the home plate umpire. After the review the call was 
upheld as a double.[37] The first call to be reversed by instant replay 
occurred on September 19, and again involved the Tampa Bay Rays in a game 
against the Minnesota Twins at Tropicana Field. A fly ball hit by Rays' 
first baseman Carlos Peña, the umpires ruled, was interfered with by a 
fan sitting in the front row of the stands, when the ball hit the hands 
of the fan and fell back onto the field of play. The umpires originally 
ruled that the fan reached over the wall to touch the ball. After Rays 
manager Joe Maddon requested the umpires hold a conference to discuss the 
play, the umpires, headed by Gerry Davis, decided to look at instant replay. 
Replays showed that the fan did not reach over the wall; the ball was over 
the wall when he tried to catch the ball, and the ball bounced back onto 
the field. Just over four minutes later, Davis returned to the field and 
signaled that the ball was a home run.[38] The use of replay created a 
statistical anomaly September 26, in which San Francisco Giants catcher 
Bengie Molina hit what was ruled a single off the high wall in right field 
at AT&T Park in San Francisco, in a game against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Once he reached base, Molina was replaced by pinch runner Emmanuel Burriss, 
while Umpires conferred on whether the ball had actually hit the roof and 
bounced back, which would make it a home run. After a replay review, the 
umpires reversed their call, awarding Molina the home run. Giants manager 
Bruce Bochy then attempted to retract Burriss from the game, and put back 
Molina, under the logic that he wouldn't have pulled Molina had the correct 
call of home run been made in the first place. After a 15-minute delay, 
the umpires denied Bochy, citing the replacement rule. Burriss was told 
to complete the home run circuit, making it a two-run home run in which 
Molina, who had hit it, didn't score. For the 2008 season, TBS switched 
from doing Atlanta Braves games (who telecast 45 contests on WPCH-TV a/k/a 
"Peachtree TV" locally in Atlanta) to a national Sunday afternoon Game 
of the Week format (though some games have involved the Braves). In addition, 
the Time Warner-owned cable channel also carried the one-game AL Central 
playoff between the Minnesota Twins and the Chicago White Sox on September 
30 as well as the entire League Division Series and the American League 
Championship Series this season, with TNT possibly carrying some games 
when there are time conflicts. Disney-owned ESPN continued to televise 
games on Sunday nights, Wednesday nights, and (through the first week in 
August) Monday nights, switching to Friday nights for the remainder of 
the season, plus multiple afternoon and prime-time games on the traditional 
Opening Day (March 31) and the annual State Farm Home Run Derby on July 
14. Certain games aired on ESPN2 due to scheduling conflicts with the parent 
network. FOX Sports continued with a weekly regional Saturday Game of the 
Week, the All-Star Game, the National League Championship Series, and the 
World Series. The Game of the Week was expanded in 2007, as for the first 
time FOX was allowed to air Saturday games for all 26 weeks of the season, 
marking the first time since 1989, when NBC ended their iconic run of televising 
America's Pastime on a weekly basis, that a network covered games on a 
week to week basis for the entire season. Also, all games on FOX were televised 
in high definition; in previous years, only the primary (or "A") game was 
in HD. The limits for telecasts per season (starting in 2008) that any 
team can make are as follows: ESPN Radio continued as the national radio 
carrier for Major League Baseball, airing Sunday night games throughout 
the regular season as well as Saturday afternoon games after the All-Star 
break, the All-Star Game and Home Run Derby, along with selected Opening 
Day and holiday games, and the entire postseason. The biggest change in 
local rights came as the San Francisco Giants switched their terrestrial 
telecast rights from longtime home KTVU (Cox Communications-owned Fox affiliate) 
to NBC Universal-owned KNTV after fifty years, one of the longest in televised 
sports history. KTVU will continue to air some Giants games as part of 
the Fox Sports' Saturday afternoon Game of the Week package if the team 
is competitive. Baseball games – mostly involving the Toronto Blue Jays 
– were televised on Rogers Sportsnet, TSN, and CBC. RSN airs Fox and ESPN/ESPN 
2 feeds if they do not conflict with the Toronto Blue Jays games, as well 
as the All-Star Game and the entire post-season. Several teams wore special 
uniforms to honor military serving overseas: Through the 2008 All-Star 
break, there had not been an official game called that was not suspendable. 
As of the break, every win and loss in the standings for every team represented 
a game played to its legitimate nine-inning (or more) completion. The streak 
ended on August 4 in Chicago, however, when the Chicago Cubs and Houston 
Astros were unable to complete their game due to a rainstorm. The Astros 
were leading the game 2–0 in the 8th inning, and since that was the score 
when the inning started, the game was not resumeable to the next day and 
the Astros were awarded the "win". This was the only game to be rain shortened 
until September 26, when the Toronto Blue Jays defeated the Baltimore Orioles 
in a game curtailed to seven innings, 2–0. The next day, the Jays lost 
another rain-shortened game against the O's, 2–1 after 6 innings. Both 
the Astros and the Cubs were also involved in a rare "rain-in" due to Hurricane 
Ike postponing the first two games of their three-game series on September 
12 and 13; the city of Houston had been evacuated so they were not able 
to play at the retractable-roof Minute Maid Park. The last rain-in was 
on June 15, 1976 when the Astros' game at the Astrodome against the Pittsburgh 
Pirates was called due to heavy flooding in the Houston area. Two of the 
games were played at Miller Park in Milwaukee on September 14 and 15, the 
remaining game was canceled outright, one of three games that would be 
outright canceled, the first being the Oakland Athletics scheduled to play 
the Orioles on September 7; however, the game was switched due to a conflict 
with the Baltimore Ravens' NFL season opener against the Cincinnati Bengals. 
This game was moved to September 6 as part of a day/night doubleheader. 
However, the remnants of Hurricane Hanna called off the afternoon game, 
and because both teams were not in the pennant races, the game was not 
made up, in spite of the fact that both teams still had two common off 
days. In another weather-related note involving a team playing in an indoor 
venue, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays/Tampa Bay Rays had either postponed or 
canceled a home game on a Sunday in September of a presidential election 
year three consecutive times due to hurricanes. The streak started on September 
17, 2000 and continued on September 5 and 26, 2004. The streak ended when 
the Rays played their game against the Minnesota Twins as scheduled on 
September 21, 2008. They played at home on the final day of the 2000 season, 
but that game was on October 1, not September. The 2008 season also marked 
the first time Citizens Bank Park, home of the Philadelphia Phillies and 
Busch Stadium, home to the St. Louis Cardinals made it through an entire 
season without a game either being canceled or shortened. The Washington 
Nationals came close, but their home finale at Nationals Park was canceled 
on September 25. On September 29, one day after the scheduled final day 
of the season, the Detroit Tigers and Chicago White Sox made up a game 
postponed from two weeks earlier, the first such game since 1981, as in 
1908 and 1973. The game needed to be played because the White Sox trailed 
the Minnesota Twins by a half-game in the AL Central standings following 
play on September 28, and even then, rain was a problem as the contest 
was delayed for three hours and four minutes. On October 27, Game 5 of 
the World Series between the Tampa Bay Rays and the Philadelphia Phillies 
was suspended in the bottom of the 6th with the score tied 2–2 and the 
Phillies leading 3–1 in games. This marked the first time in World Series 
history that a game was suspended. The game finished with the Phillies 
winning 4–3, at home on October 29. However, the official records will 
indicate that the game was played on October 27, the game's original date. 
