The Philadelphia Phillies' 2008 season was the 126th in the history of 
the franchise. The team finished with a regular season record of 92–70, 
first in the National League East. In the post-season, the Phillies won 
the World Series; this was the first major sports championship for Philadelphia 
since the 76ers swept the 1983 NBA Finals.[1] During the season, they were 
managed by Charlie Manuel. The Phillies opened the season by posting their 
first winning April since 2003. They also scored 60 runs over 5 games in 
late May in a sweep over the Colorado Rockies and accrued a 14–4 record 
over 18 games entering the month of June. The Phillies' performance declined 
in late June, but they improved after the All-Star break, going 9–6 immediately 
following the midseason hiatus. Closer Brad Lidge earned eight saves in 
those games, and did not blow a save throughout the season and the postseason. 
Philadelphia traded sweeps with the Los Angeles Dodgers in August and went 
13–3 in their last 16 games, taking advantage of a late swoon by the New 
York Mets for the second year in a row to capture the division crown. The 
team won its position in the playoffs after its second consecutive East 
Division title. The Phillies also posted the best road record in the National 
League, at 44–37.[2] Philadelphia defeated the Milwaukee Brewers in the 
National League Division Series (NLDS), 3–1, and the Dodgers in the National 
League Championship Series (NLCS), 4–1, to win the National League Pennant 
and advance to the World Series. In the World Series, the Phillies defeated 
the Tampa Bay Rays, 4–1, to win their first championship in 28 years, ending 
the Curse of Billy Penn. Phillies starting pitcher Cole Hamels was named 
the most valuable player of the NLCS and the World Series.[3] Statistical 
leaders in batting for the 2008 team included center fielder Shane Victorino 
(batting average, .293), first baseman Ryan Howard (home runs, 48; runs 
batted in, 146), and second baseman Chase Utley (runs scored, 113).[4] 
For their accomplishments, Howard won the Josh Gibson Award for the National 
League, and Utley won his third consecutive Silver Slugger Award. Pitching 
leaders included left-handed starting pitcher Hamels (innings pitched, 
227 1⁄3), left-hander starter Jamie Moyer (wins, 16), and right-handed 
relief pitcher Lidge (saves, 41).[5] Lidge won the DHL Delivery Man of 
the Year and the Major League Baseball Comeback Player of the Year awards 
for his performance during the season. Victorino and shortstop Jimmy Rollins 
also won Gold Glove awards for their play in the field. On October 29, 
2007, Charlie Manuel signed an extension to manage the Phillies for two 
more years.[6] All of the coaches from the 2007 division championship season 
were also retained.[7] However, Davey Lopes underwent treatment for cancer 
and had to be replaced on an interim basis in the early part of the season.[8] 
The Phillies re-signed left-handed relief pitcher J. C. Romero to a new 
two-year contract[9] after a dominating 2007, in which he struck out 42 
batters in 56 1⁄3 innings pitched while posting a 1.92 earned run average.[10] 
Outfielder Michael Bourn and right-handed pitcher Geoff Geary were traded 
to Houston for closer Brad Lidge and infielder Eric Bruntlett on November 
7, 2007.[9] Outfielder Chris Roberson was traded to Baltimore for cash 
in January 2008,[11] while third baseman Pedro Feliz,[11] outfielder Geoff 
Jenkins,[12] and outfielder So Taguchi[12] arrived as free agents; Feliz 
was signed on January 31, while Jenkins and Taguchi signed the month before. 
In the broadcast booth, Tom McCarthy also returned to the team after two 
years as a radio announcer for the New York Mets.[13] On November 29, 2007, 
the team announced that in honor of the franchise's 125th anniversary of 
playing in Philadelphia, the Phillies would wear an alternate home uniform 
based on their 1948 uniforms for all day home games during the season. 
The cap formerly used for interleague play, a red-crowned cap with a blue 
bill and a star within the "P" logo, was retired.[14] On February 16, 2008, 
Mets center fielder Carlos Beltrán made a statement regarding the upcoming 
season. He stated that "[without] Santana, we felt, as a team, that we 
had a chance to win in our division. With him now, I have no doubt that 
we're going to win in our division. I have no doubt in that. We've got 
what it takes. To Jimmy Rollins: We are the team to beat."[15] Beltran's 
statement echoed Rollins' 2007 assertion that the Phillies were "the team 
to beat in the NL East—finally".[16] Inasmuch as Beltran had imitated Rollins' 
2007 preseason prediction, Rollins arrived in camp for Spring training 
and responded: "There isn't a team in the National League that's better 
than us. The pressure's back on them if you ask me. They were on paper 
the best team in the division last year and they were supposed to win, 
and they didn't. One, there are four other teams in our division who are 
going to make sure that doesn't happen, and two, has anyone ever heard 
of plagiarism? That was pretty good, especially coming from him. He's a 
quiet guy, so it was probably shocking when he said it. Not shocking in 
a bad way, like 'Wow, I can't believe he said that.' More like, 'Wow, he 
finally said something because he's a leader on that team and you definitely 
need to be a vocal leader."[17] The Phillies opened the season against 
the Washington Nationals at home on March 31. They failed to win any of 
their first three series, losing two of three against the Nationals and 
New York Mets, with a four-game split against the Cincinnati Reds between 
those series. The Phillies won their next two series against the Chicago 
Cubs and the Houston Astros.[18] After dropping a second series to the 
Mets, the Phillies finished the month with 15 wins and 12 losses. They 
did not achieve a three-game sweep against any team in the opening month, 
nor were they swept. By winning at least one game in each series, the Phillies 
were able to achieve their first winning April in several seasons,[18] 
and only their fourth since their last World Series appearance in 1993.[citation 
needed] With a batting average of .360 and his Major League Baseball-leading 
11 home runs, Chase Utley paced the team's offense,[19] followed closely 
by a resurgent Pat Burrell and his 25 runs batted in.[20] Though team speed 
was hampered by the loss of Shane Victorino and Jimmy Rollins to the disabled 
list,[21][22] the latter for the first time in his career,[22] the Phillies 
still pushed forward to a 15–13 record, including their Opening Day loss 
to Washington. The pitching rotation was led by ace Cole Hamels, who led 
the team in wins (3), earned run average (ERA) (2.70), and innings pitched 
( 43 1⁄3).[23] Reliever J. C. Romero and new closer Brad Lidge both went 
the entire month without sacrificing a single run, over 12 1⁄3 and 11 innings 
respectively.[24][25] The Phillies did not achieve their first three-game 
series sweep until almost the end of May, taking two from the San Francisco 
Giants, the Arizona Diamondbacks (splitting the series 2–2), the Atlanta 
Braves, and the Nationals, and dropping two to the Giants, the Toronto 
Blue Jays, and the Astros. However, the Phillies' first sweep was achieved 
in dramatic fashion, as the offense broke out for 60 runs in five games, 
including a 20–5 win over the Colorado Rockies.[18] Though several fill-in 
players, including Brad Harman and T. J. Bohn, substituted during Victorino's 
and Rollins' absence, none was more valuable to the team during May than 
Jayson Werth. Expected to be primarily a platoon player coming into the 
season, Werth showed positive form. While Utley slowed down, Werth had 
a game with three home runs[26] and stole four bases in the month.[27] 
However, as Rollins and Victorino returned, Werth was lost to the disabled 
list.[28] Ryan Howard broke out of his early-season slump, batting .245 
in May, nearly an 80-point increase from his average in April, and hitting 
ten home runs.[29] Hometown pitcher Jamie Moyer also became the sixth pitcher 
in Major League Baseball history to defeat all 30 teams in the league on 
May 26 in a 20–5 Phillies win over Colorado.[30] June was a tale of two 
halves for the Phillies, as they started June with a strong combination 
of offense and pitching. From May 26 to June 13, the team posted a 14–4 
record, starting their run with a 15–6 win over the Astros and ended with 
a 20–2 win over the Cardinals, as their record reached a first-half high 
of 13 games over .500 at 41–28. However, the offense took a downturn as 
the Phillies pitchers began to sacrifice more runs in the latter part of 
the month. The Phillies went 3–11 over the remainder of June, as the pitchers 
allowed an average of 4.79 runs per game, compared to the offense's 3.36 
runs scored per game. This was punctuated by a season-high six-game losing 
streak. The poor records coincided with the Phillies' stretch of interleague 
play for 2008, as they were swept by the Angels, and lost their series 
with the Red Sox, A's, and Rangers, in addition to dropping two NL series 
against the Cardinals and Marlins.[18] While Hamels and Kyle Kendrick each 
managed to post a 3–1 record in the rotation,[23][31] the other starters 
(Moyer, Adam Eaton, and Brett Myers) were not so lucky.[32][33][34] Myers' 
poor performance received arguably the most scrutiny, based on management's 
decision to move him back to the rotation from the bullpen after the 2007 season.[35] 
Myers would eventually accept an option to Triple-A to work on his mechanical 
issues and confidence.[36] July began with the announcement that Chase 
Utley and Brad Lidge would represent the team at the 2008 Major League 
Baseball All-Star Game;[37] Utley garnered the most votes of all National 
League players.[38] Pat Burrell was also selected as a "Final Vote" candidate,[39] 
but lost out on the opportunity for his first All-Star appearance to Milwaukee 
outfielder Corey Hart.[40] The Phillies went 8–5 in July before the All-Star 
break, compiling a four-game win streak, a four-game losing streak, and 
winning four of their last five. The team posted a sweep of the Braves, 
a series loss to the Mets, and series wins over the Cardinals and the Diamondbacks.[41] 
In a move to bolster their starting rotation in preparation for the pennant 
race, the Phillies traded three minor league players, including second 
baseman Adrian Cardenas, pitcher Josh Outman, and outfielder Matthew Spencer 
to the Oakland Athletics for starting pitcher Joe Blanton on July 17.[42] 
The move would prove necessary, as Blanton's start was the only game of 
their next series against the Mets that the Phillies would win;[41] bullpen 
pitchers earned the victory (Chad Durbin) or suffered the loss (Ryan Madson 
and Romero) in each game of the series.[43][44][45] The Phillies managed 
to go 7–5 after the All-Star break within their own division, dropping 
series to the Marlins and Mets, but besting the Braves and sweeping the 
Nationals. Brad Lidge posted a save in six straight Phillies wins, and 
the team ended the month on a five-game winning streak, with a final record 
of 15–10.[46] The Phillies opened August by taking two of three from the 
Cardinals, though they followed that by dropping a series to the Marlins.[46] 
On August 7, the Phillies acquired left-handed reliever Scott Eyre from 
the Cubs.[47] After taking two of three from the Pittsburgh Pirates, the 
Phillies went west for their first trip to Dodger Stadium, dropping three 
consecutive games to the Los Angeles Dodgers. The first game saw the team 
sacrifice a 7-run lead that they could not overcome, and the second two 
of the series were both blown by the bullpen. The Dodgers' sweep in Los 
Angeles was completed as the Phillies dropped the last game of the series, 
leaving them out of first place in the division. However, the Phillies 
struck back, taking two of three from both the Padres and the Nationals, 
and completing a revenge sweep of the Dodgers at Citizens Bank Park. The 
following evening, the Phillies saw starter Jamie Moyer give up seven runs 
over the first three innings of their game against the Mets. However, the 
offense made up that deficit by scoring the tying run in the ninth; catcher 
Chris Coste capped the comeback by going four-for-four coming off of the 
bench and driving in the winning run with a bases-loaded single to deep 
center in the bottom of the 13th inning.[48] They ended up splitting the 
short series with the Mets and the next four-game series against the Cubs 
to close out the "dog days" of summer. With a nearly-full slate of division 
rivals in the final month, the Phillies opened by dropping series to the 
Nationals and Marlins, with a 2–1 series win over division leaders New 
York between the two losses.[49] However, they pushed back into contention 
on the back of strong pitching, sweeping the Brewers over a four-game set 
while allowing only eight runs.[49] Brett Myers' return to the rotation 
in late July bolstered the strength of the Phillies' starters toward the 
end of the season; he boasted a 7–2 record and a 1.80 ERA from his return 
until September 15.[50] Taking their winning ways south to Atlanta, the 
Phillies completed a series sweep of the Braves; the Phillies also swept 
the Braves at Turner Field for the season and handed the Braves franchise 
its first nine-game home losing streak against a single team since 1909.[51] 
With an 8–4 win over the Washington Nationals on September 26, the Phillies 
secured their first 90-win season since 1993.[52] The next day, the Phillies 
clinched the NL East Division title for the second consecutive season, 
beating the Nationals by a score of 4–3.[53] Jamie Moyer contributed a 
one-run, six-hit performance over six innings and Jayson Werth led off 
the fifth inning with a home run. They won the division title as Brad Lidge 
earned his 41st consecutive save on a game-ending double play.[54] Having 
gone an entire season without losing a save opportunity, Lidge was recognized 
as 2008's National League Comeback Player of the Year.[55] All players 
who made an appearance for the Phillies during 2008 are included.[57] Infielders 
General manager Coaches Following their four-game sweep of Milwaukee in 
the beginning of September, the Phillies recorded their first playoff win 
since their 1993 World Series appearance on October 1, defeating the Brewers 
in Game 1. Cole Hamels was the victor, earning his first career playoff 
win. Hamels allowed no runs and two hits over his eight innings of work. 
Chase Utley batted in two runs, while Ryan Howard walked three times in 
the game.[59] In Game 2, Shane Victorino's grand slam was all the run support 
starter Brett Myers needed, as he pitched seven innings and allowed only 
two runs. The Phillies' second consecutive victory was also supported by 
a pair of doubles from Victorino and from Jayson Werth.[60] In a reversal 
of fortune, the Brewers scored two runs in the first inning of Game 3, 
and it proved to be enough to win the game. Brewers starter Dave Bush and 
closer Salomón Torres were able to hold off the Phillies despite a rally 
in the top of the ninth inning, keeping the Brewers alive for Game 4.[61] 
However, the Phillies defeated the Brewers in Game 4 at Miller Park to 
win the series, 3–1. Jimmy Rollins, Jayson Werth and Pat Burrell all hit 
solo home runs, and Burrell contributed a three-run homer as well. Joe 
Blanton struck out seven Brewers, holding the team to one run on five hits 
through six innings.[62] Facing off against the Los Angeles Dodgers in 
the NLCS for the fourth time in history, Derek Lowe stifled the Phillies' 
offense for the first five innings of Game 1; however, the Phillies came 
from behind to score three runs in the sixth on home runs by Utley and 
Burrell. Hamels followed his stellar NLDS performance with a seven-inning, 
two-run outing, and Brad Lidge earned his 44th consecutive save in 2008.[63] 
Manny Ramírez' home run could not overcome the Phillies' potent offense 
in Game 2, who scored four runs in both the second and third innings to 
win the game, 8–5. Starting pitcher Brett Myers was 3 for 3 at the plate, 
driving in three runs to help his own cause. He was supported by two-hit 
performances from Victorino and Greg Dobbs, who started at third base.[64] 
Tensions escalated the following night in the third inning. After a beanball 
and a throw-behind by the Phillies in the previous game and no retaliation 
from the Dodgers, Los Angeles starter Hiroki Kuroda threw a fastball up 
and in to Shane Victorino, narrowly missing his head. Victorino gestured 
angrily, warning Kuroda to throw at other parts of his body, but not his 
head. This soon escalated to clearing the benches, and the Dodgers rode 
their momentum to the end of the game, defeating the Phillies 7–2 after 
posting five runs in the first inning.[65] The Phillies staged another 
comeback in the following game. Down 5–3 in the eighth inning, two home 
runs by Shane Victorino and pinch-hitter Matt Stairs plated four runs and 
put the Dodgers in a hole out of which they could not climb; the Phillies 
won the game 7–5. In the first decisions of the series for either bullpen, 
right-handed reliever Ryan Madson got the win for Philadelphia, while Cory 
Wade suffered the loss for Los Angeles.[66] Dodgers fans were hoping for 
a comeback in game five; however, Jimmy Rollins started the contest with 
a leadoff homer off of Chad Billingsley, who was forced out of the game 
in the third inning because of a pair of Phillies runs. Philadelphia added 
two runs on a trio of Rafael Furcal errors in the fifth. Ramírez did bring 
the Dodger Stadium crowd to life with a solo homer in the bottom of the 
sixth, but the Dodgers never threatened after that. The Phillies won the 
series in five games; winning pitcher Cole Hamels was named the series 
Most Valuable Player (MVP).[67] Thus, the Phillies advanced to the World 
Series for the first time since 1993. The Phillies played in their first 
Fall Classic in fifteen years, which began on October 22 against the Tampa 
Bay Rays. The first two games were played at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, 
followed by three games at Citizens Bank Park. The Rays had home field 
advantage for the series, due to an American League victory in the 2008 
All-Star Game. The Phillies defeated Tampa Bay, four games to one. Starting 
pitcher Cole Hamels (4–0, 1.80 ERA, 30 K in the postseason) was named the 
series MVP.[68] Philadelphia scored the first runs of the series when Chase 
Utley hit a home run with Jayson Werth on base in the top of the first 
inning. Tampa Bay loaded the bases in the bottom of the third inning; however, 
Upton grounded into an inning-ending double play and the score remained 
2–0. The Phillies extended their lead when Carlos Ruiz batted in Victorino 
in the fourth inning. A solo home run from Carl Crawford pulled the Rays 
back within two runs. Tampa Bay added their second run the following inning 
on an RBI double by Akinori Iwamura. Philadelphia starter Cole Hamels pitched 
seven innings and allowed only two runs, while Brad Lidge recorded his 
47th consecutive save in 2008.[69] Tampa starter James Shields shut down 
the Phillies lineup, scattering seven hits and allowing no runs in 5⅔ innings 
of work. Outfielder B. J. Upton (2 for 4, one run scored, one RBI) and 
catcher Dioner Navarro (2 for 3, one run scored) led the offensive charge 
for the Rays as Brett Myers gave up four runs (three earned) while notching 
two strikeouts and three walks. Rather than power-hitting Matt Stairs, 
Charlie Manuel opted to go with Greg Dobbs as the DH; Dobbs was 1 for 3 
for the Phillies, while Victorino and Howard supplied two hits each. Cliff 
Floyd extended the Rays' lead to four runs after leading off the bottom 
of the fourth inning with a single, advancing to third base, and scoring 
on a Jason Bartlett sacrifice bunt. The Phillies' loss tied the series 
at 1–1.[70] After a 91-minute rain delay, the offenses fought back and 
forth, scoring run after run in an up-and-down affair in Philadelphia. 
Ryan Howard ended his home run drought, hitting his first round-tripper 
since the end of September. Chase Utley and Carlos Ruiz also hit home runs 
for the Phillies, while Carl Crawford and Dioner Navarro contributed a 
double each for the Rays. Philadelphia starter Jamie Moyer turned in his 
first strong performance of the post-season, allowing three runs over 6⅓ 
innings. His counterpart Matt Garza allowed four runs over six innings, 
but neither would factor in the decision. After the Rays tied the game 
in the top of the eighth, the Phillies loaded the bases on two intentional 
walks with Eric Bruntlett on third base. Even with a five-man infield, 
Ruiz was still able to engineer some late-game heroics, sneaking a dribbling 
ground ball down the third base line to score Bruntlett. Philadelphia took 
a 2–1 series lead.[71] The Phillies' offensive woes seemed in the distant 
past as the lineup broke out in a big way during Game 4. Led by Ryan Howard's 
3-for-4, 2 home run performance, and home runs by Jayson Werth and starting 
pitcher Joe Blanton, the Phillies pushed 10 runs across the plate. Blanton 
became the first World Series pitcher to hit a home run in 34 years, in 
addition to a strong performance on the mound, pitching six innings and 
allowing two earned runs on four hits. Roster addition Eric Hinske hit 
a home run for the Rays, as did left fielder Carl Crawford, his second 
of the series.[72] Philadelphia scored in the first inning for the third 
consecutive game, taking a 2–0 lead when Shane Victorino and Pedro Feliz 
batted in Jayson Werth and Pat Burrell respectively. Tampa Bay cut the 
lead in half in the fourth inning; Carlos Peña doubled and was batted in 
on Evan Longoria's single, both players' first hits of the Series. The 
Rays then tied the game in the sixth inning when B. J. Upton scored from 
second base on a Peña single.[73] The game was suspended after the top 
of the sixth inning due to rain, making it the first game in World Series 
history to not be played through to completion or declared a tie.[74] After 
the game was suspended, home plate umpire Tim Tschida told reporters that 
he and his crew ordered the players off the field because the wind and 
rain threatened to make the game "comical".[75] Chase Utley agreed, saying 
that by the middle of the sixth inning, "the infield was basically underwater."[75] 
Rain continued to fall in Philadelphia on Tuesday, further postponing the 
game to Wednesday. Under normal conditions, games are considered to be 
official games after five innings, or four and a half if the home team 
is leading at that point.[76] However, both Rays and Phillies management 
knew before the first pitch that Commissioner Bud Selig, who is responsible 
for the scheduling of post-season games, would not allow a team to clinch 
the Series by winning a rain-shortened game.[74][77] Thus, the game resumed 
on October 29 in the middle of the sixth inning at Citizens Bank Park,[78] 
with the Phillies batting in the bottom of the sixth inning. Pinch hitter 
Geoff Jenkins led off with a double and was bunted to third by Rollins. 
Batting third, Jayson Werth batted in Jenkins to give the Phillies the 
lead, 3–2. Rocco Baldelli re-tied the game at three runs with a solo home 
run in the top of the seventh inning, but Jason Bartlett was thrown out 
at home to end the inning on a fake throw-over by Utley, who could not 
get the ball to first in time to catch the speedy Akinori Iwamura. In the 
bottom of the seventh, Pat Burrell led off with a double; Eric Bruntlett 
entered as a pinch runner and scored on a hit by Pedro Feliz to put the 
Phillies up by a run again. Brad Lidge gave up a single and a stolen base 
but struck out Eric Hinske for the final out, sealing the Phillies' first 
World Series championship since the 1980 World Series, and the city's first 
major sports championship in 25 years.[73] The alleged curse of Billy Penn 
was sometimes used to explain the failure of professional sports teams 
based in Philadelphia to win championships. In March 1987, One Liberty 
Place, a 945-foot (288 m) tall skyscraper, opened three blocks from the 
548 ft (167 m) high statue of William Penn atop Philadelphia City Hall.[79] 
For many decades, a gentlemen's agreement stated that the Philadelphia 
Art Commission would approve no building in the city that would rise above 
this statue. The supposed curse had gained such prominence in Philadelphia 
that a documentary film entitled The Curse of William Penn was produced 
about it.[80] The curse ended on October 29, 2008 when the Phillies won 
the World Series, a year and four months after a statuette of the William 
Penn figure atop City Hall was affixed to the final beam put in place during 
the June 2007 topping-off of the Comcast Center, then the tallest building 
in the city.[81] The 2008 team won the Commissioner's Trophy for its World 
Series title[82][83][84] and the Warren C. Giles Trophy as National League 
champions. It was also named "Team of the Year" by the Philadelphia Sports 
Writers Association and received the Pride of Philadelphia Award from the 
Philadelphia Sports Hall of Fame. In 2009, the Philadelphia Sports Congress 
presented the team with the John Wanamaker Athletic Award.[85][86][87][88] 
In May 2009, the team was recognized at the White House.[89] Starter Cole 
Hamels received the NLCS and World Series MVP awards. He also received 
the Babe Ruth Award from the New York chapter of the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America (BBWAA). Closer Brad Lidge was named the Major League 
Baseball Comeback Player of the Year[90] and the DHL Delivery Man of the 
Year[91] for his perfect 48-for-48 performance throughout the 2008 regular 
season and postseason. He also received the Rolaids NL Relief Man Award, 
the Sporting News NL Reliever of the Year Award, the Philadelphia Sports 
Writers Association (PSWA) Outstanding Pro Athlete award, and the Daily 
News Sportsperson of the Year award. Shortstop Jimmy Rollins and center 
fielder Shane Victorino were honored by Rawlings with Gold Gloves, honoring 
their defense in 2008.[92] Rollins also received the Fielding Bible Award 
for shortstop. Rollins posted a fielding percentage of .988, compiling 
193 putouts and 393 assists while making only seven errors;[93] Victorino's 
fielding percentage was even higher, at .994, notching 7 assists from the 
outfield along with 328 putouts.[94] Clean-up hitter and first baseman 
Ryan Howard was named the recipient of the Babe Ruth Home Run Award (in 
MLB) and the Negro Baseball League Museum's Josh Gibson Legacy Award, as 
the NL leader in home runs. Howard hit 48 home runs in 2008, more than 
any other player in the National League. Howard also batted in 146 runs, 
and finished the regular season with 11 homers and 32 RBIs during September.[95][96] 
Second baseman Chase Utley also won his third consecutive Silver Slugger 
Award, given annually to the best hitter in each league at his position.[97] 
Four of the This Year in Baseball Awards also went to the Phillies. Lidge 
was recognized as the Closer of the Year,[98] while Utley won the Postseason 
Moment of the Year award for his fake throw to first base which allowed 
him to throw out Rays' shortstop Jason Bartlett at home plate during the 
World Series.[99] Manager Charlie Manuel and general manager Pat Gillick 
were also named Manager of the Year (distinct from Major League Baseball's 
Manager of the Year award) and Executive of the Year, respectively, for 
their leadership of the 2008 team and for winning the World Series.[100] 
The Philadelphia chapter of the Baseball Writers' Association of America 
(BBWAA) presented its annual franchise awards to Brad Lidge ("Mike Schmidt 
Most Valuable Player Award"), Cole Hamels ("Steve Carlton Most Valuable 
Pitcher Award"), Jamie Moyer ("Dallas Green Special Achievement Award"), 
and Greg Dobbs ("Tug McGraw Good Guy Award").[101] Shane Victorino also 
received the Lou Gehrig Memorial Award for displaying character and integrity 
both on and off the field.[102][103] Pat Gillick also received the ceremonial 
title of King of Baseball from Minor League Baseball, in recognition of 
longtime dedication and service to professional baseball. All statistics 
are current through the 2008 regular season.[57] Note: G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR 
= Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases 
Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; 
ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
