The 2008 American League Championship Series (ALCS), the second round of 
the 2008 American League playoffs, was a best-of-seven series matching 
the two winners of the American League Division Series. The AL East Division 
champion Tampa Bay Rays, who had defeated the Chicago White Sox in the 
ALDS, were paired with the wild-card Boston Red Sox, who had defeated the 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, in the ALDS. Tampa Bay held the home field 
advantage. The Rays won the series four games to three, becoming the first 
team since the 1992 Atlanta Braves to win a seventh game after blowing 
a 3–1 lead. The series began at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida 
on Friday, October 10, 2008, and was telecasted on TBS. Game 7 was played 
on Sunday, October 19.[1] This was the Rays' first appearance in the ALCS 
while the Red Sox were making their fourth appearance in the last six seasons 
and ninth overall. The two teams hit a combined 26 home runs—a record for 
league championship series.[2] Tampa Bay won the series, 4–3. Friday, October 
10, 2008 at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida Boston won a pitcher's 
duel on a sac fly by Jed Lowrie in the fifth and an RBI double by Kevin 
Youkilis in the eighth. Starter Daisuke Matsuzaka was nearly unhittable 
in Game 1 of the 2008 ALCS. He held the Rays hitless until Carl Crawford 
singled in the seventh inning. All in all, he ended up allowing a total 
of four hits, while walking five in the game. Jonathan Papelbon pitched 
the ninth for his fourth career ALCS save. Saturday, October 11, 2008 at 
Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida The Rays won a hard-hitting, 
marathon game that lasted 5 hours and 27 minutes,[10] on the strength of 
a B. J. Upton sacrifice fly in the eleventh inning. Seven total home runs 
were hit in the game, which broke the ALCS record and tied the all-time 
LCS record.[11] Starters Scott Kazmir and Josh Beckett were both ineffective, 
giving up six of the seven total home runs in the game. Dustin Pedroia 
broke out of his post-season slump with a pair of solo shots off Kazmir. 
Despite the many home runs, it was a sac fly off Mike Timlin by Upton and 
a hard run from third base by Fernando Perez that won the game in the eleventh. 
The Rays' 2007 #1 draft pick, David Price, was credited with the win. Monday, 
October 13, 2008 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Rays hit Boston 
ace Jon Lester hard in Game 3, moving ahead two games to one. The big blow 
came in the top of the third when B. J. Upton hit a towering three-run 
homer over the Green Monster to make it 4–0. Evan Longoria followed with 
a home run later in the inning to make it 5–0. Tampa Bay starter Matt Garza 
pitched brilliantly against the Red Sox lineup. The 3–4–5 hitters went 
0–9 against him. In the eighth, New England native Rocco Baldelli hit a 
three-run homer of his own, also over the Green Monster, to seal the win. 
Carlos Peña homered in the ninth to extend his postseason success. Tuesday, 
October 14, 2008 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Rays routed 
the defending World Champions for the second straight night with a 13–4 
win in Boston. Carlos Peña got it going in the first with a two-run homer 
off starter Tim Wakefield. Evan Longoria followed it up with his third 
homer of the series and fifth in the playoffs. After that Tampa Bay starter 
Andy Sonnanstine cruised with seven-plus innings of effective baseball. 
Willy Aybar hit his first home run of the postseason in the third when 
he sent one over the Green Monster for a two-run homer. Carl Crawford went 
5-for-5 with two stolen bases in the game. The big inning came in the top 
of the sixth when the Rays scratched out five runs against the Boston bullpen. 
Thursday, October 16, 2008 at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Tampa 
Bay jumped out to an early lead when B. J. Upton hit a two-run home run 
with no one out in the first inning. Carlos Peña and Evan Longoria increased 
the lead to 5–0 with back-to-back home runs in the third. With his home 
run, Longoria tied Carlos Beltrán's record for consecutive postseason games 
with a home run. Daisuke Matsuzaka allowed no more runs after that through 
six innings, but Boston was unable to score against Scott Kazmir. In the 
top of the seventh, Jonathan Papelbon came on after Manny Delcarmen walked 
the only two batters he faced. The inherited runners scored on an Upton 
double, making it 7–0. In the bottom of the seventh, with two outs and 
runners on first and third, Dustin Pedroia hit an RBI single off Grant 
Balfour to finally get the Red Sox on the board. The next batter, David 
Ortiz, hit a three-run home run to right field, ending a postseason home 
run drought of 61 at-bats. In the eighth inning, J. D. Drew hit a two-run 
homer to right field off Dan Wheeler. Later, Coco Crisp hit an RBI single 
to right field to score Mark Kotsay from second to tie the game. In the 
ninth inning, after J. P. Howell retired the first two Boston batters, 
Kevin Youkilis hit a ground ball to third base. Longoria scooped the ball, 
but his throw was off, and bounced into the stands, allowing Youkilis to 
reach second. After an intentional walk to Jason Bay, Drew hit a single 
over the head of right fielder Gabe Gross to win the game. The comeback 
of the Red Sox from a seven-run deficit is the second-biggest in postseason 
history, the largest since Game 4 of the 1929 World Series,[12] and the 
largest ever for a team on the brink of elimination. Saturday, October 
18, 2008 at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida Josh Beckett pitched 
five innings and allowed two solo home runs, to B. J. Upton in the first 
and Jason Bartlett in the fifth, to record the win. Boston scored on solo 
home runs from Kevin Youkilis in the second and Jason Varitek (his first 
series hit) in the sixth, a Youkilis ground ball in the third, and a single 
by David Ortiz after Bartlett's throwing error extended the sixth inning. 
Umpire Derryl Cousins was struck by a foul ball from Varitek in the second 
inning, leaving the game with a bruised collarbone after the third. The 
game was delayed for fifteen minutes while Cousins was X-rayed by Rays 
trainer Ron Porterfield; the game resumed with a five-man umpiring crew. 
TBS television missed most of the game's first inning, with viewers getting 
a rerun of The Steve Harvey Show instead. The network picked up the game 
just prior to the last out in the bottom of the first, with announcer Chip 
Caray apologizing to viewers for "technical difficulties". TBS acknowledged 
there was a problem with one of their routers used in the broadcast transmission 
of the relay of the telecast from Atlanta.[13][14] When facing elimination, 
Terry Francona's Red Sox won nine of ten postseason games.[15] Sunday, 
October 19, 2008 at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida The Rays 
shook off the ghosts of Red Sox past to win their first American League 
pennant, winning a tight game 3–1. Dustin Pedroia got the Red Sox off to 
a good start with a one-out solo homer in the first off Matt Garza, but 
Garza settled in and delivered an MVP performance. Tampa Bay tied the game 
in the fourth with an Evan Longoria RBI double, then went ahead in the 
fifth on an RBI single by Rocco Baldelli. In the seventh, Willy Aybar added 
insurance with a solo home run to leadoff. In the eighth, David Price, 
who made his major league debut a little over a month before came on to 
pitch to J. D. Drew with the bases loaded and struck him out on a checked 
swing. In the ninth, Price recorded his first Major League save by getting 
Jed Lowrie to ground into a force play to Akinori Iwamura. With the win, 
the Rays become the second team to go to the World Series after posting 
the worst record the year before, joining the 1991 Atlanta Braves, who 
went on to lose to the Minnesota Twins.[16] 2008 ALCS (4–3): Tampa Bay 
