The Arizona Diamondbacks' 2008 season was the 11th season of the franchise 
in Major League Baseball. Arizona tried to defend their NL West title after 
winning the division the previous year. But despite a franchise-best 20-8 
start in the months of March & April, they couldn't maintain the division 
lead late in the season and collapsed with many losing streaks and stumbled 
to an 82-80 record, good enough for a second-place finish, only two games 
behind the Los Angeles Dodgers. The 2008 season saw the best start in Diamondbacks 
history, going 20-8 in March/April and end up being way ahead in first 
place in the NL West. During the great start, Brandon Webb had his best 
career start by winning his first 9 decisions. The only low point was that 
starting pitcher Doug Davis was being diagnosed with Thyroid Cancer, before 
he could get his first start. Characteristically, Davis made his first 
two scheduled starts before undergoing surgery on April 8. Fortunately, 
his surgery was a success and was able to get back on the mound just 6 
weeks later. One of the more shining moments of April was when rookie pitcher 
Max Scherzer made his major league debut by pitching 4.1 perfect innings 
of relief, where he struck out 7 Astros. While doing this, Max passed Pete 
Richert of the 1962 Dodgers for the record for the number of consecutive 
batters retired (13) for a pitcher making his MLB debut as a reliever. 
Consequently, Scherzer was immediately promoted to the starting rotation, 
in the absence of Davis; he was relatively effective; in his four major-league 
outings (the aforementioned relief role against the Astros as well as three 
starts in Doug Davis' spot in the rotation), Scherzer had a 2.33 ERA with 
23 strikeouts in 19 1⁄3 innings. (Upon Davis' return, Scherzer was returned 
to the bullpen and optioned back to AAA Tucson in early June, and he eventually 
spent about a month on the Sidewinders' DL with shoulder inflammation. 
Davis, for his part, has had a less-than-stellar 2008 season, he is 4-7 
with a 4.75 ERA as of late August.) May was a much different month for 
the D-backs. The team saw a sharp decline in hitting and run production 
compared to April, and was their first losing month (11-17) since September 
2006. The biggest disappointment had to have been the month-long slump 
right fielder Eric Byrnes fell into, where he hit .195 and had only 8 RBIs. 
Much speculation about his strained hamstring causing him to not perform 
well eventually led to him being put on the 15-day DL on May 27. He came 
back to action only to tear the left hamstring in late June, and was placed 
on the 60-day DL at that time. The Diamondbacks continued to lead the NL 
west despite only being 47-48 at the All-Star break. On July 17, 2008, 
Tony Clark was traded back to the D-backs from the San Diego Padres for 
a minor league pitcher, Evan Scribner. On August 5, Dan Haren signed a 
four-year, $44.75 million deal with the Diamondbacks worth a guaranteed 
$41.25 million through 2012 and includes a $15.5 million club option for 
2013 with a $3.5 million buyout.[1] Orlando Hudson, one of the more consistent 
offensive D-backs players in 2008, underwent season-ending surgery on his 
left wrist August 9 in the wake of a collision with catcher Brian McCann 
of the Atlanta Braves. Hudson became a free agent in the offseason and 
signed with the division rival Los Angeles Dodgers. LF Eric Byrnes has 
been on the 60-day disabled list since late June, with a torn left hamstring, 
and was not expected to return to the lineup this season. On August 11, 
2008, Dallas Buck, RHP Micah Owings (pending clearing of waivers), and 
one other prospect were traded to the Reds (in last place in the NL Central 
at the time) in exchange for OF Adam Dunn. Dunn, who was tied for the major 
league lead with 32 home runs, was expected to provide a significant boost 
to an offense that has struggled to score runs for most of the season. 
Dunn seemed quite positive about being traded to a ballclub in first place 
in its division in August.[2] The move was seen by some fans as a belated 
attempt by the D-backs to counter the trade by their division rival, the 
Los Angeles Dodgers, for Boston Red Sox power-hitting OF Manny Ramirez 
on July 31; and also to compensate for the injuries to Hudson and Byrnes, 
generally considered two of the more "power-hitting" Diamondbacks on a 
team which has relied heavily on pitching and defense in recent years. 
Owings, once considered an excellent pitching prospect for the Diamondbacks, 
has struggled in the 2008 campaign with a 7.09 ERA since April 21.[3] Owings 
must clear waivers before being able to join the Reds, otherwise he will 
remain a member of the Diamondbacks through the remainder of the season. 
On August 31, the Diamondbacks acquired former World Series MVP David Eckstein 
to fill the hole at secondbase which was opened after Orlando Hudson was 
placed on the disabled list. Eckstein was traded from the Toronto Blue 
Jays for Minor League pitcher Chad Beck.[4] As of September 25, the D-Backs 
fell out of playoff contention with a 12-3 loss to the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Infielders Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; R = Runs scored; 
H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = 
