The 2008 New York Yankees season was the 106th season for the New York 
Yankees franchise. The Yankees hosted the 2008 All-Star Game at Yankee 
Stadium on Tuesday July 15, 2008. It was the 83rd and last season at Yankee 
Stadium prior to the team's move to a new ballpark (also called "Yankee 
Stadium") just north of the current stadium. It also marked the first season 
since 1993 that the Yankees failed to make it to the playoffs (the 1994 
strike canceled the postseason, though the Yankees had the best record 
in the American League that year.). The Yankees' 2007/2008 offseason began 
in a tumultuous manner, with uncertainty as to the status of manager Joe 
Torre and team stalwarts Andy Pettitte, Jorge Posada, Mariano Rivera, and 
Alex Rodriguez, all of whom were free agents. While Torre departed after 
12 years as the team's manager for the Los Angeles Dodgers, all four free 
agents returned to play for the Yankees in 2008, providing stability and 
continuity for new manager Joe Girardi. Manager Joe Torre left for the 
Los Angeles Dodgers after the 2007 season. After conducting interviews 
with Don Mattingly, Tony Peña and Joe Girardi, Girardi was signed to be 
the new Yankees Manager. This prompted Mattingly to leave the team as well 
and follow Torre to the Dodgers. On November 29, the Yankees re-signed 
catcher Jorge Posada to a four-year contract for $52,400,000. Posada will 
be earning $13,100,000 per season which is the highest average salary ever 
for a catcher. On December 3, the Yankees re-signed backup catcher José 
Molina to a 2-year, $4 million contract. On December 4, the Yankees shipped 
minor league pitcher and part-time MLB starter Tyler Clippard to the Washington 
Nationals for reliever Jonathan Albaladejo. On December 9, the Yankees 
agreed to a contract with relief pitcher LaTroy Hawkins for 1 year, $3.75 
million. On December 12, the Yankees re-signed pitcher Andy Pettitte to 
a 1-year, $16 million contract. Alex Rodriguez opted out of his contract 
in the middle of Game 4 of the 2007 World Series. The Yankees initially 
stated that they would not negotiate with Rodriguez once he opted out but 
changed course once Rodriguez announced his desire to return to pinstripes 
after issuing an apology for the public and the Yankees misunderstanding 
his desire to stay with the team. On December 13, 2007, Rodgriuez and the 
Yankees officially agreed to a 10-year, $275 million contract that may 
rise to above $300 million if certain performance milestones are reached. 
On December 17, the Yankees re-signed closer Mariano Rivera. Despite his 
original plan to hold out for a fourth year, Rivera has agreed to a three-year 
contract offer worth $45 million. This contract makes Rivera the highest-paid 
closer in baseball history. Relief pitcher Luis Vizcaíno turned down an 
offer of salary arbitration and signed a multi-year deal with the Colorado 
Rockies on December 21. 1B Andy Phillips departed for the Cincinnati Reds, 
and Doug Mientkiewicz departed for the Pittsburgh Pirates. Roger Clemens 
still remains a free agent and will not return to the Yankees in 2008 according 
to Hank Steinbrenner. On March 10, 2008 the team signed actor/comedian 
Billy Crystal to a one-day contract just before his 60th birthday. The 
Yankees started opening day one day late at Yankee Stadium against the 
Toronto Blue Jays after a rain delay. The Yankees took 2 of 3 games of 
the series. After that, they faced a new look Rays team. They lost the 
first two by the scores of 13-4 and 6-3, but would rebound and even up 
the series 2 games apiece. Following the series, the Yankees had a grueling 
road trip in which they played 18 of their next 20 games on the road. During 
this stretch, rookies Phil Hughes and Ian Kennedy struggled mightily and 
went winless the entire first month. After a rib injury to Hughes, Kennedy 
was reassigned to the minor league AAA affiliate Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
as the Yankees called up Darrell Rasner. Fortunately, Rasner went 3-1 with 
a 1.80 ERA in his first four starts. Both shortstop Derek Jeter and third 
baseman Alex Rodriguez had suffered minor quadriceps injuries at different 
times. Catcher Jorge Posada was also placed on the disabled list for the 
first time in his career after a slight tear in his rotator cuff and backup 
infielder Wilson Betemit missed several games due to conjunctivitis. Their 
struggles continued in May, they only had one series win through the 20th 
and that was a 3-game sweep against the Mariners on May 2–4 at the Stadium. 
They would lose 3 of 4 against the Rays in St. Petersburg and were swept 
in 2 games against the Mets in the Subway Series. There was a controversial 
call where Carlos Delgado appeared to hit it foul against the left field 
foul pole, when a replay would later show that the ball was actually a 
home run. The Mets would go on to win 11-2. The game on Friday May 16 was 
postponed because of rain. Since then, the Yankees ended the month by winning 
8 of their last 10 games, escaping the AL East cellar, and got back over 
.500. The Yankees lost three in a row through the first three days of June, 
dropping the final 2 games of the four-game set against the Twins at the 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, then blitzed 9-3 by the Jays on Joba Chamberlain's 
first career start in the majors. The Yankees, however, won the next 2 
against them including a wild comeback on June 5 that ended in a two-run, 
pinch hit homer into the upper deck by Jason Giambi after trailing 7-2 
in the 6th inning. Following the series, Yankees split a 4-game weekend 
series with the Royals and took 2 out of 3 from the A's highlighted by 
Hideki Matsui celebrating his 34th birthday with a Grand Slam off of Joe 
Blanton. The Yankees would then sweep the Astros and were 4 games over 
.500 for the first time this season, but Chien-Ming Wang hurt his leg rounding 
the bases a 13-0 win. He was out for the rest of the season. The Yankees 
would then sweep the Padres at home to win 7 straight for the first time 
this season. The streak came to a halt on June 20, when they lost to Edinson 
Vólquez and the Reds 4-2 on the Reds' first visit to Yankee Stadium since 
1976, the first season of the renovated Yankee Stadium. They would follow 
with a lopsided 6-0 loss in which they left 12 runners on base despite 
Dan Giese's great outing, but salvage the final game with a 4-1 win. The 
Yankees travel to PNC Park for the first time ever when they face the Pirates 
from June 24–25 before returning to New York to play a double header with 
their cross-town rival Mets. In game one, the Yankees were outmatched 15-6, 
but rebounded in the nightcap game two,with a 9-0 shutout. After dropping 
the first 2 games of a 3-game series to the Texas Rangers, the Yankees 
salvaged the final game 18-7 before losing the first two of a four-game 
series to the Red Sox 7-0 and 6-4. With Mike Mussina on the hill for game 
3, they would rebound behind his 6 shutout innings to barely win 2-1 and 
then earn a split when rookie Brett Gardner hit a game-winning single in 
the bottom of the 10th inning for a 5-4 victory. In an important 2-game 
series against the Rays, they would win the first game 5-0 behind Andy 
Pettitte's stellar pitching performance and then complete the sweep on 
Bobby Abreu's game-winning double. The Yankees would go to Pittsburgh to 
play a make-up interleague game against the Pirates and lose 2-4. Next, 
they traveled to Toronto to play three against the Blue Jays. They would 
be shut out by Roy Halladay in the opener, getting only two hits but then 
they rebounded and won their next game 9-4 behind home runs by Derek Jeter 
and Alex Rodriguez. It was their 50th win of the season. After the game, 
the Yankees learned that former broadcaster Bobby Murcer died of cancer. 
After losing 4-1 to the Blue Jays on Sunday, the Yankees head into the 
All-Star break 6 games behind the Red Sox in the AL East and 5½ games behind 
the Rays in the Wild Card race. After the break, Yankees won 8 in a row 
including back to back sweeps of the Twins and A's, extending their winning 
streak to 10 games at home. After defeating the Boston Red Sox 1-0 in Joba 
Chamberlain's first career start at Fenway Park, the Yankees acquired Pittsburgh 
Pirates corner outfielder Xavier Nady and left-handed reliever Dámaso Marte 
for four minor league prospects. The Yankees then traded Kyle Farnsworth 
to the Detroit Tigers for catcher Iván Rodríguez. The Yankees started August 
by losing 1-0 to the Angels when Mariano Rivera gave up a run in the 9th 
inning. The Yankees rebounded to take the next two, including an 8-2 win 
on Old Timers Day and a 14-9 come-from-behind victory on Sunday. The Yankees 
embarked on a key 10-game road trip with four against the Texas Rangers. 
In the opener, Joba Chamberlain was injured before the bullpen surrendered 
a walk-off grand slam to Marlon Byrd. The second game saw the Yankees fall 
short despite a grand slam of their own before rebounding to win the next 
two for the split. They were then swept in Anaheim, highlighted by an 8th 
inning 8-run meltdown on Saturday and Mariano Rivera allowing a walk off 
hit the next day. After losing two out of three to the Minnesota Twins, 
the Yankees were written off as contenders.[1] Returning home, they dropped 
the opener to the Kansas City Royals but rebounded to win the next day 
in the 12th inning when Brett Gardner drove in the winning run. They took 
the series with a 15-6 romp the next day. The Yankees went back on the 
road for six games and lost two of three in Toronto. They did rebound to 
sweep the Baltimore Orioles, but the struggles continued at home vs Boston 
as they dropped the first 2 games, 7-3, and 11-3, respectively. A-Rod was 
heavily booed in game 1,[citation needed] as he was 0 for 5 and grounded 
into 2 double plays with one being in a bases-loaded situation. He also 
struck out to end the game. The Yankees would salvage the series finale 
with a score of 3-2 thanks to pinch-hitter Jason Giambi hitting a two-run 
homer in the 7th, and then a walk-off single in the bottom of the 9th. 
The Yanks started off the last month of the regular season on a good note 
by beating the Tigers 13-9 in a makeup game that was postponed earlier 
in the season. They continued to keep fans' hopes high by thrashing the 
AL East leading Rays 7-2 and 8-4 in the first two games of a 3-game series 
in Tampa. They dropped the third game of the series 7-5. The following 
day in Seattle, Wilson Betemit's eighth-inning RBI double ended Brandon 
Morrow's no-hit bid, but New York still lost the game 3-1. The final regular 
season game at Yankee Stadium was played on September 21, 2008 against 
the Baltimore Orioles, who are based in the city from which both the Yankees 
and their great star Babe Ruth originated.[2] Fielding Derek Jeter as their 
captain, Andy Pettitte as the starting pitcher, and led by home runs from 
Johnny Damon and José Molina, the Yankees won 7–3. Molina's home run, a 
two-run shot hit to left-center field with one out in the bottom of the 
4th inning, turned out to be the final home run in Stadium history. The 
final run was scored by Yankee pinch-runner Brett Gardner in the bottom 
of the 7th inning. Mariano Rivera pitched the top of the 9th inning, and 
the final batter was Baltimore's Brian Roberts, who hit a ground-ball out 
to Yankee first baseman Cody Ransom, closing out 83 years of baseball history. 
After the game, Derek Jeter addressed the crowd, thanking them for their 
support over the years, and urging them to "take the memories of this field, 
add them to the new memories that will come at the new Yankee Stadium and 
continue to pass them on from generation to generation."[3] The Yankees 
players then circled the field and saluted the fans, to the sound of "New 
York, New York". Guest commentators for the game on ESPN included Yankee 
legends Reggie Jackson, Whitey Ford and Yogi Berra, as well as local YES 
Network announcer Michael Kay.[4] The Yankees were officially eliminated 
from the playoffs on September 23, making them the last team to miss out 
in the Division Series era and it was the first time since 1993 they missed 
the postseason (in 1994, the Yankees had the best record in the American 
League, but it ended victim of the worst work stoppage in sports history). 
On September 28, Mike Mussina won 20 games for the first time in his career, 
the oldest pitcher in major league history to win 20 games for the first 
time in his career. The record was previously held by Jamie Moyer, as he 
won 20 as a 38-year-old. This capped a remarkable comeback season for Mussina, 
who came back to win 20 games after a 5.15 ERA in 2007. He was one of the 
few bright spots of the Yankees 2008 season.[5] Infielders Coaches Note: 
G = Games played; AB = At Bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 
3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; 
SB = Stolen bases Bold indicates team leader Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = 
Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts Bold indicates team leader for W, L, ERA, 
G, GS, SV, and IP; indicates highest on team in R, ER, BB, and K LEAGUE 
