The 2008 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 79th midseason exhibition 
between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and the National League 
(NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. The game was played 
at Yankee Stadium in The Bronx, New York City, home of the New York Yankees, 
on July 15, 2008 and began at 8:47 p.m. ET. The game ended at 1:38 a.m. 
ET the following morning. The home American League won 4–3 in 15 innings, 
giving home field advantage in the 2008 World Series to the AL champion, 
which eventually came to be the Tampa Bay Rays. By length of time, this 
was the longest MLB All-Star Game in history (4 hours and 50 minutes), 
and it also tied the mark for the longest game by innings played at 15 
with the 1967 All-Star Game. Second baseman Dan Uggla of the Florida Marlins 
committed three errors, an All-Star Game record, none of which resulted 
in a run. J. D. Drew of the Boston Red Sox was named Most Valuable Player 
due to his two-run game-tying home run in the seventh inning. Drew won 
a Chevrolet Tahoe hybrid and the Ted Williams Trophy. It was the second 
All-Star Game in which the winning run was batted in by the Texas Rangers' 
Michael Young. As with each All-Star Game since 1970, the eight starting 
position players of each league, as well as the American League's designated 
hitter, were elected by fan balloting. The remaining players were selected 
by a players' vote, each league's team manager, and a second fan balloting 
to add one more player to each roster. In all, 32 players were selected 
to each league's team, not including players who decline to play due to 
injuries or personal reasons. The game was the sixth straight All-Star 
Game to decide home-field advantage in the World Series, the AL having 
clinched each of the first five opportunities. The AL entered the game 
on an 11-game unbeaten streak (10–0–1) as the NL continued to look for 
their first win since the 1996 game in Philadelphia, still holding a 40–37–2 
lead in the series. The announcement of Yankee Stadium as the site of the 
game was made by MLB Commissioner Bud Selig and New York City Mayor Michael 
Bloomberg on January 31, 2007, at New York's City Hall.[1] Though it was 
the fourth game hosted at the Stadium and the eighth held in New York City, 
it was the first time since 1977 that the game had been played in the city 
(the last time also at Yankee Stadium). It had been speculated for months 
that the game would be held in Yankee Stadium, accelerated by the announcement 
that the 2008 season would be the 84th and final one for the stadium before 
the team moved into the new Yankee Stadium in 2009. Thus, it was seen as 
a fitting tribute to the old stadium that it host an All-Star Game in its 
final season.[2] It was the first All-Star Game to be played in a venue 
scheduled to close after that season.[3] Balloting for the 2008 All-Star 
Game starters (excluding pitchers) began on April 29. Because the game 
was in an American League ballpark, fans were asked to select their favorite 
AL designated hitter in addition to all the position players. The top vote-getters 
at each position, and top three among outfielders, were named to start 
the game. Votes were cast online and at the 30 MLB ballparks. Monster was 
the sponsor of the online portion of balloting. There was a limit of 25 
votes per e-mail address, but no limit to the number of ballots cast at 
the stadium. The deadline to cast votes was July 2.[6] Rosters were announced 
on July 6.[7][8] Alex Rodriguez led all players in votes for the second 
consecutive year with 3,934,518 votes, while Chase Utley led all National 
League players with 3,889,602 votes.[9] After the rosters were revealed, 
a second ballot of five players per league was created for the Monster 
All-Star Final Vote to determine the 32nd and final player of each roster. 
Ballots were cast online between July 6 and 10 with the player in each 
league receiving the most votes added to the team rosters. The winners 
were Corey Hart of the Milwaukee Brewers and Evan Longoria of the Tampa 
Bay Rays. A record 47.8 million votes were cast in the balloting, shattering 
the record set the previous year of 23.2 million. Longoria's nine million 
votes more than doubled the individual record of 4.4 million set by San 
Diego Padres pitcher Chris Young in 2007.[10] ^a Selected to start but 
unable to play due to injury. Milton Bradley took his place in the starting 
lineup.[9] ^b Selected to start but unable to play due to injury. Matt 
Holliday took his place in the starting lineup. David Wright took his place 
on the roster.[11] ^c Won the Monster All-Star Final Vote. ^d Unable to 
play due to injury. Carlos Mármol took his place on the roster.[12] ^e 
Lincecum was not available to the National League due to flu-like symptoms 
he suffered earlier in the day.[13] To commemorate the last all-star game 
at Yankee Stadium, every living member of the Baseball Hall of Fame was 
invited to the game. Forty-nine players, coaches, and administrators accepted 
the invitation. Many of them participated in a pre-game parade that went 
down Sixth Avenue from Bryant Park to Central Park. During the pre-game 
ceremonies, the Hall of Famers were introduced and assumed their playing 
position on the field. Instead of announcing the league lineups separately 
and in batting order, as is usually done, both teams' starters were introduced 
simultaneously by position, and the players stood in position next to the 
Hall of Fame members on the field. The colors were presented by the West 
Point Cadet Color Guard.[14] A recording of O Canada was played,[14][15] 
and "The Star-Spangled Banner" was sung by Sheryl Crow, during which a 
B-2 stealth bomber flew over.[14] Four Yankees, all members of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame – Yogi Berra, Whitey Ford, Reggie Jackson and Rich Gossage 
– threw the ceremonial first pitch, with balls delivered to them by Yankees 
owner George Steinbrenner. During the seventh-inning stretch, Josh Groban 
sang "God Bless America". The six umpires working the 79th All-Star game 
were announced on June 25. The crew was led by Derryl Cousins, a thirty-year 
MLB veteran working his third All-Star game and his first behind the plate.[16] 
Tigers manager Jim Leyland and Yankees manager Joe Girardi were selected 
as coaches by manager Terry Francona.[17] The staff also included Brad 
Mills (bench coach), John Farrell (pitching coach), Dave Magadan (hitting 
coach), Luis Alicea (first base coach), DeMarlo Hale, (third base coach), 
and Gary Tuck (bullpen coach). Girardi also caught in the bullpen in the 
eighth and ninth innings for some of the American League relievers. New 
York Mets manager Willie Randolph and San Diego Padres manager Bud Black 
were selected as coaches by manager Clint Hurdle.[18] Randolph was later 
replaced by Chicago Cubs manager Lou Piniella after Randolph was fired 
by the Mets on June 16. The game-time temperature was 82 degrees Fahrenheit 
(28 degrees Celsius), with the wind blowing out to center field at eight 
miles per hour. Cliff Lee threw the first pitch at 8:47 EDT. Starting pitchers 
Lee and Ben Sheets set the tone for the game by each throwing two scoreless 
innings.[19] The game stayed scoreless until the fifth inning when Matt 
Holliday led off the inning with a solo home run off Ervin Santana to give 
the National League a 1–0 lead. The NL added a run in the sixth on a sacrifice 
fly by Lance Berkman to score Hanley Ramírez. The American League finally 
got on the board in the bottom of the seventh inning on a two-out, two-run 
home run by J. D. Drew off Edinson Vólquez, tying the game at two.[19] 
In the eighth inning, Miguel Tejada singled, and with one out attempted 
to steal second base. Catcher Dioner Navarro made a poor throw to get Tejada, 
and the ball ended up in center field, allowing Tejada to advance to third 
base on the error. Tejada scored on a sacrifice fly by Adrian Gonzalez, 
and the NL retook the lead.[19] In the bottom half of the inning, after 
Brian Wilson retired the first two batters, Billy Wagner gave up a single 
to Grady Sizemore. Sizemore proceeded to steal second base (one of a record 
six stolen bases by both sides), and pinch-hitter Evan Longoria hit a ground 
rule double to left field to tie the game once again. With Mariano Rivera 
in to pitch with one out in the ninth inning for the American League, Rivera 
struck out Ryan Ludwick and Navarro threw out Cristian Guzmán as he attempted 
to steal second, thus ending the inning. Ryan Dempster struck out the side 
in the bottom of the ninth to force the game into extra innings.[19] In 
the tenth inning for the American League, Michael Young and Carlos Quentin 
reached base on consecutive errors by Dan Uggla.[19] Carlos Guillén was 
intentionally walked to load the bases with none out. With the infield 
and outfield drawn in, NL pitcher Aaron Cook induced ground balls from 
Sizemore and Longoria and the potential winning runs in both at bats were 
forced out at home. Cook successfully escaped the jam by getting Justin 
Morneau to ground out to Tejada to end the inning. The AL had another chance 
to win in the eleventh when Young singled with one out in the eleventh 
and Drew and Navarro on first and second. Navarro tried scoring from second 
on the hit, but was thrown out at home by Nate McLouth. Cook got Quentin 
to ground out to third and keep the game going.[19] The NL then had their 
chance to score in the twelfth off Joakim Soria, with the bases loaded 
and one out. Soria struck out Dan Uggla, and was relieved by George Sherrill, 
who struck out Adrian Gonzalez to end the threat.[19] In the bottom of 
the inning, Carlos Guillén hit a long fly ball that bounced off the left 
field wall for a double. After advancing to third base after a Grady Sizemore 
groundout, Cook, pitching his third inning of relief, struck out Longoria. 
Morneau was intentionally walked, and advanced to second base on defensive 
indifference.[19] Cook got Ian Kinsler to ground out to end the inning. 
Sherrill pitched scoreless innings in the 13th and 14th, while Carlos Mármol 
and Brandon Webb did the same for the NL,[19] and the game moved into the 
15th inning, tying the record set in 1967 for the longest All-Star Game 
in terms of innings played. At this point, each team was down to their 
final pitchers, raising concerns of the game finishing in a tie due to 
lack of pitchers. In the bottom of the 15th, Morneau led off with a single 
off Brad Lidge. A diving play by Ludwick robbed Kinsler of a base hit for 
the first out. Navarro then singled to move Morneau to second base, and 
Drew walked to once again load the bases. This time, the AL would capitalize; 
Michael Young flew out to right field, and Morneau was able to tag and 
just beat the throw from Corey Hart to score the winning run for a final 
score of 4–3. The American League's unbeaten streak in the All-Star Game 
was extended to 12 in a row.[19] The State Farm Home Run Derby took place 
on July 14. Josh Hamilton set a Home Run Derby record for most home runs 
in one round with 28. Justin Morneau won the derby. Notes: ^a New single 
round record. ^b Voluntarily ended round with four outs 10 Home Runs were 
hit while the Gold Ball (special balls used when the batters have nine 
outs) was in play, earning $170,000 for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America. 
The All-Star Game was shown live in the United States on Fox Sports, with 
Joe Buck and Tim McCarver in the booth and sportswriter Ken Rosenthal as 
a field reporter. Yogi Berra visited the booth in the third inning. For 
telecasts in other countries, the game was produced by Major League Baseball 
Properties under the name MLB International, with Gary Thorne and Rick 
Sutcliffe as the English-language announcers. In the U.S., the feed was 
simulcast by Fox Sports en Español with Spanish-language commentary. The 
British rights-holder for this game, five (now known as Channel 5) ended 
its coverage at 6 a.m. BST with the game still in the 12th inning. The 
network explained that it had a commitment to carry the children's cartoon 
show The Wiggles that it could not break. The situation is similar to the 
infamous Heidi Game on the U.S. network NBC in 1968.[20] The radio rights 
in the U.S. was held by ESPN Radio; the announcers were Dan Shulman and 
