The 2008 World Series was the 104th World Series between the American and 
National Leagues for the championship of Major League Baseball.[2] The 
National League champions Philadelphia Phillies and the American League 
champions Tampa Bay Rays competed to win four games out of a possible seven. 
The 2008 World Series is notable because it is the only Fall Classic to 
involve a mid-game suspension and resumption (two days later). The Series 
began on Wednesday, October 22, and (after weather delays had postponed 
the end of Game 5) concluded the following Wednesday, October 29. The American 
League's 4–3 win in the 2008 All-Star Game gave the Rays home field advantage 
for the series, meaning no more than three games would be played at the 
Phillies' stadium Citizens Bank Park.[3] The Phillies won their second 
championship in their 126-year history, taking the series four games to 
one and brought the city of Philadelphia a championship after 25 years.[4][5] 
This was the first postseason series lost by a Major League Baseball team 
based in the state of Florida; previously, the Rays and Florida Marlins 
were 8–0 in post-season series.[6][7] The Phillies advanced to the World 
Series after defeating the Milwaukee Brewers and the Los Angeles Dodgers 
in the National League's Divisional and Championship Series, respectively. 
The team won its position in the playoffs after its second consecutive 
National League East title. This was the Phillies' first World Series appearance 
in fifteen years. The Tampa Bay Rays advanced to the World Series after 
defeating the Chicago White Sox and the Boston Red Sox in the American 
League's Division and Championship Series, respectively. The team earned 
its first trip to the postseason in franchise history after winning the 
American League East title, only one season after finishing in last place. 
This was the first Series since 2001 without a wild-card team.[6][7] Philadelphia 
opened the season by posting a winning record in the opening month of April. 
The team scored 60 runs over a five-game span in late May and went 14–4 
into the beginning of June. The team lost 9 of 11 games to end June, but 
came out of the All-Star break with a 9–6 record following the midseason 
hiatus.[8] The Phillies posted the best road record in the National League, 
at 44–37.[9] Philadelphia traded sweeps with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 
August and went 13–3 in their last 16 games,[8] to win National League 
East title for the second consecutive season.[10] They defeated the Milwaukee 
Brewers in the Division Series 3–1,[11] and the Dodgers in the Championship 
Series, 4–1 to book their place in the 2008 Fall Classic.[12][13] This 
was the Phillies' first World Series appearance in fifteen years.[12][13] 
The Tampa Bay Rays also began the season with a winning record in the opening 
month of April.[14] The Rays became the first team since 1903 to have the 
league's best record on Memorial Day (the last Monday in May) after finishing 
in last place the previous season.[15] The team went 16–10 in June, but 
lost seven consecutive games leading up to the All-Star break. In August, 
the Rays lost seven games to finish out the month with an overall record 
of 84–51.[14] The team concluded the season, albeit with a 13–14 record 
in September, by winning the American League East title for the first time 
in franchise history.[16] The Rays beat the Chicago White Sox 3–1 in the 
American League Division Series.[17] In the American League Championship 
Series, Tampa Bay defeated the Boston Red Sox in seven games (4–3), to 
advance to their first World Series in franchise history.[18] The Rays 
became the third MLB team in the post-1969 "Divisional Era" to make the 
World Series in their first trip to the playoffs, joining the 1969 New 
York Mets and the 1997 Florida Marlins. The Philadelphia Phillies scored 
the first runs of the Series when Chase Utley hit a home run with Jayson 
Werth on base in the top of the first inning. The Phillies loaded the bases 
in the second inning, but were unable to score when Shane Victorino was 
thrown out at home plate by B. J. Upton. The Tampa Bay Rays loaded the 
bases in the bottom of the third inning; however, Upton grounded into an 
inning-ending double play and the score remained 2–0. The Phillies extended 
their lead when Carlos Ruiz batted in Victorino in the fourth inning. In 
the bottom of the inning, a solo home run from Carl Crawford pulled the 
Rays within two runs. The Rays added their second run the following inning 
when a double by Akinori Iwamura scored Jason Bartlett. Tampa Bay starting 
pitcher Scott Kazmir was removed after six innings; J. P. Howell and Grant 
Balfour combined to shut out the Phillies for 1⅓ innings. Ryan Madson relieved 
Phillies' starter Cole Hamels in the eighth inning, pitching a single perfect 
inning. In the top of the ninth inning, two Phillies' runners reached base. 
Tampa Bay's Trever Miller was brought on and threw four pitches—striking 
out Ryan Howard—before he was relieved. Philadelphia stranded two runners, 
on second and third base, and entered the bottom of the ninth inning ahead 
by one run. Philadelphia's Brad Lidge struck out the first two batters 
he faced and retired the third batter to get the save.[19] Tampa Bay scored 
the first runs of the game in the first inning when Akinori Iwamura and 
B. J. Upton scored on consecutive ground outs by Carlos Peña and Evan Longoria 
respectively. The following inning Upton singled, scoring Dioner Navarro. 
Rocco Baldelli attempted to score from second base, but was thrown out 
by right fielder Jayson Werth, keeping the Rays lead at 3–0. Cliff Floyd 
extended the Rays lead to four runs after leading off the bottom of the 
fourth inning with a single, advancing to third base, and scoring on a 
Jason Bartlett sacrifice bunt. Rays starter James Shields shut out the 
Phillies through 5⅔ innings, before being relieved by Dan Wheeler who pitched 
an additional scoreless inning. Eric Bruntlett hit a home run in the top 
of the eighth inning to bring the score to 4–1. The Phillies added a second 
run in the top of the ninth inning, but were unable to score any more runs; 
Tampa Bay's win tied the Series at one game apiece.[20] The third game 
of the Series was delayed for an hour and 31 minutes because of rain.[21] 
Country music star Tim McGraw, son of Phillies reliever Tug McGraw, spread 
his father's ashes on the pitching mound of Citizens Bank Park, prior to 
the game's start. The Phillies scored in the bottom of the first inning 
after Jimmy Rollins led off with a single and eventually scored when Chase 
Utley grounded out. In the next half inning, Tampa Bay's Carl Crawford 
doubled, stole third base and scored on a Gabe Gross sacrifice fly to center 
field. Carlos Ruiz gave the Phillies their second lead of the night when 
he hit a solo home run in the bottom of the second inning. Starting pitchers 
Matt Garza and Jamie Moyer pitched six and 6⅓ innings respectively. The 
2–1 score remained unchanged until the sixth inning when Chase Utley and 
Ryan Howard hit the 14th back-to-back home runs in World Series history.[22] 
Crawford scored his second run of the game in the top of the seventh inning 
when he was batted in by Gross again. Dioner Navarro continued the rally 
by scoring on a Jason Bartlett ground out—bringing the score to 4–3. In 
the top of the eighth inning, B.J. Upton led off with a single, stole second 
and third, and scored on a throwing error to tie the game. Eric Bruntlett 
was hit by a pitch leading off the bottom of the ninth, moved to second 
on a wild pitch and to third on a throwing error. Tampa Bay intentionally 
walked the next two batters to load the bases, creating a force play at 
the plate. They then brought the infield in (including right fielder Ben 
Zobrist who was brought in to be a fifth infielder) hoping to convert any 
groundball into a force out at home and preventing the game winning run.[23] 
However, Bruntlett scored the winning run on Ruiz's 45-foot infield single, 
the first walk-off infield single in World Series history, giving the Phillies 
a 2–1 lead in the series.[24] Philadelphia took a 1–0 lead in the bottom 
of the first inning, as Jimmy Rollins led off with a double and scored 
when Pat Burrell later walked with the bases loaded. The Phillies doubled 
their lead in the third inning when Chase Utley reached base on a fielding 
error and scored on Pedro Feliz's single. The Rays scored their first run 
when Carl Crawford hit a solo home run in the top of the fourth inning. 
Ryan Howard's three-run home run in the bottom of the inning brought the 
score to 5–1. Tampa Bay's Eric Hinske hit a pinch-hit home run to bring 
the Rays within three runs, but Phillies pitcher Joe Blanton responded 
with a home run of his own to re-extend the lead to four; it was the first 
time a pitcher hit a home run in the World Series since Ken Holtzman in 
game 4 of the 1974 World Series.[25] Blanton pitched six innings, giving 
up two runs on four hits to acquire his first win of the Series. Jayson 
Werth hit a two-run home run in the eighth inning—the Phillies third of 
the game—to bring the score to 8–2. Later in the inning Ryan Howard's second 
home run, and fifth RBI, increased the Phillies lead to eight runs. Philadelphia's 
four relief pitchers combined for three shutout innings, giving up one 
hit.[26] Due to the late completion of the previous game, Games 3 and 4 
each ended on the same calendar day. Philadelphia scored in the first inning 
for the third consecutive game, taking a 2–0 lead when Shane Victorino 
batted in Jayson Werth and Chase Utley. Tampa Bay cut the lead in half 
in the fourth inning; Carlos Peña doubled and was batted in on Evan Longoria's 
single, both players' first hits of the Series. The Rays then tied the 
game in the sixth inning when B. J. Upton scored from second base on a 
Peña single.[27] The game was suspended after the top of the sixth inning 
due to rain, making it the first game in World Series history not to be 
played through to completion or declared a tie. Phillies starter Cole Hamels, 
making his fifth start, had pitched six innings when the umpires suspended 
play and received a no-decision as the game was tied 2-2 in the top of 
the 6th.[28] After the game was suspended, umpiring crew chief Tim Tschida 
told reporters that he and his crew ordered the players off the field because 
the wind and rain threatened to make the game "comical."[29] Chase Utley 
agreed, saying that by the middle of the sixth inning, "the infield was 
basically underwater."[29] Rain continued to fall in Philadelphia on Tuesday, 
further postponing the game to Wednesday, October 29. The game resumed 
with the Phillies batting in the bottom of the sixth inning. Pinch hitter 
Geoff Jenkins led off with a double and was bunted to third by Rollins. 
Jayson Werth then batted in Jenkins to take the lead for the Phillies, 
3–2. In the top of the seventh inning, Rocco Baldelli re-tied the game 
at three runs with a solo home run. Later in the inning, Utley faked a 
throw to first, then threw Bartlett out at home for the third out in a 
play later described as having saved the Series for the Phillies.[30] In 
the bottom of the seventh, Pat Burrell led off with a double. Eric Bruntlett, 
pinch-running for Burrell, scored on a single by Pedro Feliz to put the 
Phillies up by a run again, 4–3. In the top of the ninth, Brad Lidge gave 
up a single and a stolen base, but was able to strike out Eric Hinske to 
win the World Series for the Phillies.[4] The Phillies won the Series despite 
committing at least one error in each game. This game also marked only 
the second time in MLB history that 1st inning runs were scored in the 
first 5 games played in a World Series (the first being in 2003). Under 
normal conditions, games are considered to be official games after five 
innings, or four and a half if the home team is leading at that point. 
However, post-season games are operated by the Commissioner's Office, thus 
are subject to the Commissioner's discretion of how to handle the scheduling 
of the games.[28] So, with rain in the forecast for Philadelphia, Commissioner 
Bud Selig informed both the Rays and the Phillies management before the 
game began that a team would not be allowed to clinch the Series in a rain-shortened 
game.[28][31] Because of the rainfall, Game 5 was suspended after the top 
of the sixth inning. Rain continued to fall in Philadelphia on Tuesday, 
October 28, and the game ultimately resumed on Wednesday, October 29, at 
Citizens Bank Park.[32] Official MLB records will show that even though 
the game was finished on October 29, the game was officially played two 
days earlier, and was completed on that date. This was the first game in 
World Series history to be suspended.[33] There had been three tied games 
in the history of the World Series: 1907, 1912, and 1922, all of them called 
due to darkness. In general, no ties would be needed under modern rules, 
which provide for suspension of a tied game and resumption of it at the 
next possible date. Weather has caused numerous delays and postponements 
in Series history (notable postponements beforehand coming in 1911, 1962, 
1975, 1986, 1996 and 2006), but never any suspended games before 2008. 
Although not officially a suspended game, the most notorious postponement 
of a World Series was the 1989 World Series in which the start of Game 
3 was delayed ten days, the longest in World Series history, due to the 
Loma Prieta earthquake striking the San Francisco Bay Area. Several Nevada 
sports betting agencies treated the suspended game as a completed game 
and a win for the Phillies on Monday, October 27. Under Nevada house rules, 
the final score of a baseball game is determined by reverting to the last 
completed full inning, and the Phillies led 2–1 at the end of the fifth 
inning. Game 5 side bets on Philadelphia were paid off while bets on totals 
and run-line bets were refunded.[34] During the following offseason, Selig's 
interpretation of the rules became codified, as the 30 Major League Baseball 
club owners approved a rule change stipulating that all "postseason games 
and games added to the regular season to determine qualifiers for the postseason" 
become suspended games if they are called before nine innings are played, 
regardless of whether the game would otherwise qualify as an official game, 
or the score at the time the game is called. The game is resumed when conditions 
permit at the same location from the point of suspension.[35] The Philadelphia 
Phillies (2008 champions of the National League) defeated the Tampa Bay 
Rays (American League champions) by four games to one, played in St. Petersburg 
and Philadelphia from Wednesday, October 22 to Wednesday, October 29, 2008. 
Games 3 and 5 of the World Series were delayed by rain storms in Philadelphia, 
with the start of Game 3 on Saturday, October 25 being delayed an hour 
and 31 minutes (with that game ending at 1:47 am EDT Sunday, October 26). 
Game 5, begun on Monday, October 27, was suspended after 6½ innings and 
resumed Wednesday, October 29.[42] Wet weather which affected Game 5 continued 
into Tuesday in the Philadelphia area, as Major League Baseball officials 
studied radar data to determine when Game 5 of the World Series would continue 
under conditions deemed "appropriate."[42] Up to this point, there had 
never been a rain-shortened game in Series history, and this was the first 
suspension.[42] As a result, had it been necessary to play them, Games 
6 and 7 in St. Petersburg, originally scheduled for October 29 and 30, 
were postponed until a later date.[42] With temperatures plummeting towards 
40 °F (4 °C) and with a cold rain falling at Citizens Bank Park, some of 
the Phillies and Rays players opted for an "Elmer Fudd" look, wearing specially 
made caps with built-in ear flaps.[43] The caps, manufactured by New Era, 
were introduced during this year's spring training but were not used on 
the field until Game 5.[43] New Era also supplied regular ball caps to 
both teams, which some players continued to wear despite the cold weather.[43] 
The games were televised on Fox in the United States with Joe Buck and 
Tim McCarver (himself a former Phillies broadcaster) as booth announcers[44] 
and Chris Myers and Ken Rosenthal as field reporters.[45] Jeanne Zelasko 
hosted the pre-game and post-game show with Kevin Kennedy and Mark Grace 
(Games 1, 2) or Eric Karros (Games 3, 4, 5). Fox Sports en Español did 
the simulcast of the Series in Spanish-language with Ángel Torres, Miguel 
Morales and Cos Villa behind the microphones. Fox's broadcasts were also 
streamed online at MLB.com. On radio, the Series was broadcast nationally 
by ESPN Radio with Jon Miller and Joe Morgan announcing, and a Spanish 
broadcast on ESPN Deportes Radio. Locally, Dave Wills, Andy Freed, Dewayne 
Staats and Joe Magrane called the Series in English for the Rays on WHNZ-AM 
in Tampa, with Ricardo Tavaras and Enrique Oliu working the Spanish broadcast 
on St. Petersburg's WGES-AM. Harry Kalas, Scott Franzke, Larry Andersen, 
and Chris Wheeler called the Phillies' English broadcasts on WPHT-AM in 
Philadelphia, with Spanish announcers Danny Martinez, Bill Kulik and Juan 
Ramos on WUBA. Following their contractual obligations, the non-flagship 
stations on the teams' radio networks carried the ESPN Radio broadcasts. 
MLB.com also carried the local radio broadcasts for online streaming, while 
XM Satellite Radio aired the local and national feeds to its subscribers. 
For Harry Kalas, this series brought together a father and son calling 
the series for different teams, with his son, Todd, calling the Series 
in English for the Rays.[46] For international viewers, MLB International 
televised the game with commentators Rick Sutcliffe and Dave O'Brien. This 
feed was also carried to U.S. service personnel stationed around the globe 
via the American Forces Network. This World Series win had significance 
for McCarver and Harry Kalas. Both had been Phillies broadcasters in 1980, 
but neither had gotten to call that year's World Series.[47] McCarver was 
a backup commentator for Game of the Week on NBC, but he was not part of 
the network's Series announcing team.[47] For Kalas, MLB radio-broadcasting 
regulations forbade local stations from producing live coverage of World 
Series games, instead forcing them to air the national CBS Radio feed of 
the games.[46] Philadelphia fans were so outraged about this afterward 
that they started a letter-writing campaign to the Commissioner's Office, 
demanding a change to the rule. The following year, MLB amended its broadcasting 
contracts to allow World Series teams' flagship radio stations to air the 
games with local announcers, due at least in part to this outcry from Philadelphia 
fans.[47] In 2008, both called the Phillies' World Series win. The ratings 
for the 2008 World Series are among the worst in Major League Baseball's 
history. The 8.4 rating set a record low, sinking below the 10.1 set two 
years earlier in 2006. 2008 bears the distinction of being the first World 
Series to draw fewer than 10.0. Game three's 6.1 rating also set a record 
for the lowest rated individual game. In fairness, the Series suffered 
from factors beyond MLB's control. Game 3 was delayed 1:31 for weather 
and, consequently, ended at 1:47 am. Game 5 was also suspended after 5.5 
innings and resumed two days later. These factors likely brought the ratings 
down. Today, the ratings for 2008 are tied for second worst. The 2010 World 
Series also generated an 8.4, and the 2012 World Series set a fresh record 
low with 7.6 (though this was a sweep, which usually draws lower ratings). 
The 6.1 in game 3 of the 2008 World Series is currently tied with Game 
3 of the 2012 World Series for the lowest rated individual game in World 
Series history. In Game 2, home plate umpire Kerwin Danley appealed a call 
to the first base umpire after calling strike three; the first base umpire 
called ball four to award the Rays' Rocco Baldelli a walk. Baldelli indicated 
that the calls did not come up in the locker room, and he did not believe 
they had an effect on the results.[48] In Game 3, Phillies' pitcher Jamie 
Moyer threw the ball to Ryan Howard to force out the Rays' Carl Crawford 
at first base, despite umpire Tom Hallion calling Crawford safe in the 
game.[49] In Game 4, Evan Longoria tagged Rollins at third base, though 
umpire Tim Welke had ruled Rollins safe. The league admitted these errors 
between Games 4 and 5.[49] The Phillies' second World Series championship 
brought about a series of firsts, not just for them, but for Philadelphia.[4] 
In winning their first championship since 1980, the Phillies brought the 
city of Philadelphia its first major professional sports championship since 
the 76ers swept the 1983 NBA Finals.[4] In summing up the firsts and given 
how long the city's sports fans have waited, Phillies President David Montgomery 
said that "our first name is Philadelphia", and he and manager Charlie 
Manuel dedicated the championship to the city of Philadelphia and the fans.[4][50] 
Manuel also dedicated the championship to his mother, who died on the day 
of Game 2 of the NLCS.[51] Phil Sheridan of The Philadelphia Inquirer said 
that the 25 years without a championship "helped define this city as a 
sports town for way too long. It was long enough to turn passion too often 
to anger. Maybe this championship will turn the vinegar back into wine,"[5] 
and said that the fans "waited forever and a day."[5] On Halloween, October 
31, approximately two million fans lined Broad Street for a ticker-tape 
parade,[52] making it the largest gathering for a championship parade in 
Philadelphia since the Flyers won the 1974 Stanley Cup Finals.[53] This 
parade had significance for Phillies Pitcher Jamie Moyer and Phillies Broadcaster 
Harry Kalas, as they both were at the 1980 parade.[47][54][55] Moyer grew 
up in the Philadelphia area as a Phillies fan and whose childhood hero 
was Steve Carlton, a member of the 1980 team, and whom he won against in 
his first Major League start.[54][56] He was at both of the Phillies World 
Series parades, skipping school to attend in 1980, and as a pitcher in 
2008.[5][54] Kalas was at both parades, as a broadcaster for the Phillies.[47][55] 
When comparing to the parade to the one in 1980, he told WCAU-TV that "this 
is bigger...the biggest I've ever seen."[55] In 2010, Philadelphia sports 
fans picked both of the Phillies' World Series wins as the two greatest 
moments in Philadelphia sports, picking the 2008 championship as the greatest 
moment.[57] The Phillies returned to the World Series in 2009, the first 
defending champion to return to the Series since the 2001 New York Yankees. 
During that season they finished first in the National League East with 
a 93–69 mark, and eliminated the Rockies and the Dodgers in the NL playoffs. 
They would lose to the Yankees in six games. Subsequent regular season 
meetings between the Rays and the Phillies would be relatively uncommon. 
The Rays only visited Philadelphia twice within the next five years (in 
2012 and as scheduled in 2015). For the Rays, at the same time the ticker-tape 
parade went down Broad Street in Philadelphia, thousands of Rays' fans 
attended a rally at Straub Park in St. Petersburg, celebrating their 2008 
season.[58] Mayor Rick Baker said that the rally "really needed to be done. 
There was so much demand in the community. They didn't win the World Series 
but they won the AL. And we want to celebrate that and thank them."[58] 
He and Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio addressed the fans during the rally.[58] Though 
the Rays missed the playoffs in 2009, they earned a winning record of 84–78, 
