The 2009 Chicago White Sox season is the organization's 110th season in 
Chicago and 109th in the American League. The Sox entered the 2009 season 
as the defending American League Central champions, attempting to repeat 
against the Cleveland Indians, Detroit Tigers, Kansas City Royals and Minnesota 
Twins. They finished the season 79–83, 3rd place in the American League 
Central, 7½ games behind the AL Central champion Minnesota Twins. On July 
23 Mark Buehrle threw the 18th perfect game in Major League history, defeating 
the Tampa Bay Rays 5–0. The Sox entered the off-season expecting to part 
ways with 3B Joe Crede,[1] SS Orlando Cabrera,[2] and CF Ken Griffey, Jr.[3] 
They were expected to move Rookie of the Year runner-up Alexei Ramírez 
to shortstop, leaving openings at second base, center field, and third 
base. There may also be opening in the starting rotation as José Contreras 
is not expected to be back until after the all-star break, as he recovers 
from a ruptured Achilles tendon.[needs update] 16–20–1 2–2 12–16–1 2–2 
The White Sox started out the season against the Kansas City Royals on 
April 7 and they ended the season against Detroit Tigers on October 4. 
Through October 5, 2009 The White Sox started the season against the Royals 
on April 7 (originally scheduled for April 6 but postponed due to cold 
and snow), winning 4–2. On April 13 in Detroit, 3rd inning, Jermaine Dye 
hit his 300th career home run. The next batter, Paul Konerko, hit his 300th 
career home run. It is the first time in MLB history to have such a back-to-back 
milestone home runs, and the Sox wins it 10–6. On April 25 against the 
Toronto Blue Jays, Alexei Ramírez hit a grand slam as the Sox won 10–2. 
The White Sox finished April 11–10. On May 7 against the Detroit Tigers, 
Mark Buehrle pitched a no-hitter through seventh inning before Plácido 
Polanco hit a line-drive double to left field; however the Sox shut out 
the Tigers 6–0. On May 11 against the Cleveland Indians in Progressive 
Field, Carlos Quentin hit a slump after suffering from plantar fasciitis 
which hampered his swing. He was forced to miss two games as a result of 
the injury. On May 15–18, Sox played with Toronto Blue Jays and Sox lost 
all four games in Toronto for two straight years and lost 10 straight games 
in Toronto since June 1, 2007. On May 21 against the Minnesota Twins, the 
Sox had a biggest loss 20–1 since May 10, 2002, when Sox lost to Anaheim 
Angels 19–0 in Los Angeles. On May 24 against the Pittsburgh Pirates, in 
the top of the ninth inning, Jack Wilson hit his first home run of season 
and tied the game at 3. The next batter Nyjer Morgan hit a double and then 
Delwyn Young singled and Morgan scored from second and Sox trailed it 4–3. 
In the bottom of the ninth inning, all batters that Matt Capps faced struck 
out swinging. The next day in Los Angeles against the Angels, the Sox scored 
17 runs in one game, the most runs since the 2006 season. Also on that 
day, Carlos Quentin suffered his heel injury after he hit a double and 
he was placed on the 15-day disabled list. The last three games of that 
month, Sox swept the Royals in Kansas City. The White Sox finished May 
13–15. On June 1–4 against the Oakland Athletics, the Sox won the first 
game and lost last three, even though Oakland A's had one of the worst 
records in the American League, although that team is in a 7-game winning 
streak. On June 9 against the Detroit Tigers in the bottom of the ninth 
inning, bases loaded, trailing 6–4, Paul Konerko doubled down the left 
field line in which Scott Podsednik and Alexei Ramírez scored, but DeWayne 
Wise was called out at home plate even though replays showed that he looked 
safe since Wise's hand touched the home plate before he got tagged. The 
next batter, rookie Gordon Beckham struck out swinging with man on second 
to end the inning. In the top of the tenth inning, Miguel Cabrera hit a 
solo home run for a shameful loss 7–6. The Sox finished 12-game 11-day 
home stand with a bad record 4–8. On June 14 in Milwaukee against the Brewers, 
Mark Buehrle hit a solo home run in third inning. The Sox defeated the 
Brewers 5–4. On June 16, it was scheduled that Sox should have played with 
Cubs in Wrigley Field, but it was postponed due to rain, and the make-up 
date is announced to be September 3. On June 19 against the Reds in Cincinnati, 
the Sox had a first loss to Reds since 1999 and the Sox finished the record 
with Reds in this decade 11–1. The next day with Reds, after the third 
inning, Sox trailed it 5–0 and Sox came back and win it 10–8, which is 
the biggest come back so far this season. On June 24 against the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, Sox hit 6 home runs in one game, first time since June 8, 2004 
against the Philadelphia Phillies. The homers are ones by Jermaine Dye, 
Paul Konerko, Jayson Nix, Alexei Ramírez, and two by Josh Fields. The Sox 
beat the Dodgers 10–7. In next day, the Sox defeated the Dodgers 6–5 for 
thirteen innings after Scott Podsednik hit a bases-loaded single and Beckham 
scored. The Sox took 2-out-of-3 in this series against the Dodgers, even 
though Dodgers had the best record of baseball. On June 27 against the 
Cubs, this game went back and forth. Finally, Gordon Beckham hit a walk-off 
RBI in the bottom of the ninth inning and Josh Fields scored to give Sox 
an 8–7 victory. The White Sox finished June 15–13. On July 7 against the 
Cleveland Indians, Paul Konerko hit his first career three home runs in 
one game (one grand slam and two solo home runs), first time for White 
Sox player since José Valentín did on July 30, 2003, at Kansas City Royals. 
Typically the Sox took the victory 10–6. The starting pitcher Mark Buehrle 
(9–3 as of July 14) went to the All-Star Game on July 14 at Busch Stadium 
in St. Louis. On July 17 against the Baltimore Orioles, Jim Thome hit a 
grand slam and a three-run homer in a same game for his career high seven 
RBIs. On that day, the Sox beat the Orioles 12–8. On July 21 against the 
Tampa Bay Rays, Carlos Quentin was activated from a 15-day disabled list, 
which he went 1–4. On July 23, Mark Buehrle threw a perfect game against 
the Tampa Bay Rays and second career no-hitter. It is only the second perfect 
game in White Sox history, first since 1922. It is the 18th perfect game 
in MLB history, first time since Randy Johnson in 2004 for the Arizona 
Diamondbacks. On July 31, the day of the trade deadline the White Sox traded 
away Clayton Richard, Aaron Poreda, Adam Russell and Dexter Carter for 
former Cy Young Award winner Jake Peavy from the San Diego Padres. The 
White Sox finished July 14–13. On August 10 the White Sox claimed Alex 
Ríos of the Toronto Blue Jays off waivers. Ríos is signed through 2014 
for $69.35 million with a no trade clause this year and a partial no trade 
clause through the rest of his contract. On August 12 against the Seattle 
Mariners in Safeco Field, the score was 0–0 until Ken Griffey, Jr. (former 
White Sox teammate) hit a walk-off single down the right field line in 
the fourteenth inning with men on first and second in which Adrián Beltré 
scored. On August 18, Freddy García picked up his first start for the White 
Sox since September 29, 2006. García get his loss to Kansas City Royals 
5–4. On August 24 against the Boston Red Sox in third inning, José Contreras 
committed an error while trying to pick up a ball down the first baseline 
by David Ortiz to assist for a final out, which led to a season high six 
unearned runs and the Sox loses 12–8. On August 31 after the game, the 
Sox traded away Jim Thome to Los Angeles Dodgers for minor league infielder 
Justin Fuller and José Contreras to Colorado Rockies for minor league pitcher 
Brandon Hynick. The White Sox finished August 11–17. On September 2 against 
the Minnesota Twins at the Metrodome, the Sox trailed 2–0 before Gordon 
Beckham and Paul Konerko hit back-to-back home runs with 2 outs in the 
ninth inning when both had 3–2 accounts off of Joe Nathan. Alexei Ramírez 
hit an RBI single and DeWayne Wise scores, and then Carlos Quentin scored 
on a wild pitch to Alex Ríos, which makes it 4–2 White Sox and a huge comeback 
victory to avoid sweep by Twins. On September 3, the interleague game against 
the Cubs at Wrigley Field was made-up from June 16. The Sox shutout the 
Cubs 5–0, finishing this year's interleague play 12–6 for Sox and 6–9 for 
Cubs, both are identical to last season's interleague play. The White Sox 
starting pitcher Carlos Torres picked up his first major league victory 
after he was debuted on July 22. On September 4, the White Sox got 20 hits 
against the Red Sox, the most hits in a game against that team since 1960. 
On September 5 against the Boston Red Sox, Gavin Floyd retired the first 
17 hitters (broken up by Nick Green's single with 2 outs in the 6th inning) 
and a career high 11 strikeouts for 8 innings pitched, which the Sox took 
the victory 5–1. On September 7, Mark Buehrle picked up his first win since 
the perfect game on July 23. On the next day against the Oakland Athletics, 
Carlos Torres pitched for just ⅔ inning as he allowed 5 runs on 4 hits 
with 2 homers. It is the shortest outing by a Sox starter in more than 
six years. Typically, Sox lost to Oakland 11–3. On September 12 at Los 
Angeles Angels, Scott Podsednik hit an inside-the-park home run, first 
time for the Sox since Joe Borchard hit that on September 9, 2002 at Kansas 
City Royals. Typically, Sox defeated the Angels 4–3 in ten innings. On 
September 17 against the Mariners in Safeco, with the score 3–1 Sox lead 
in the bottom of the ninth inning, Bobby Jenks allowed two home runs, one 
by José Lopez with nobody out and one by Bill Hall with two outs, which 
made it 3–3. In the bottom of the fourteenth inning, Ichiro Suzuki hit 
a walk-off single to center field with men on first and second in which 
Ryan Langerhans scored. On September 19, Jake Peavy got his first start 
for the White Sox since he started for San Diego Padres on June 8. Peavy 
picked up his first victory over the Royals 13–3. On September 21–23 against 
the Minnesota Twins, the Sox got swept at home for a first time since August 
2007 when they were swept by Red Sox. On September 26 against the Detroit 
Tigers after 4th inning, Sox led 5–0, Tigers came back and defeated the 
White Sox 12–5. With that first loss at home on Saturday this season, the 
Sox finished the season's home games on Saturdays 11–1. The White Sox finished 
September 13–14. The White Sox finished October 2–1 after winning two-out-of-three 
games in a series against the Detroit Tigers in Comerica Park. Infielders 
Outfielders Designated Hitters Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At 
bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = 
Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = 
Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts; 
