The Texas Rangers' 2009 season was the 49th in franchise history and the 
team's 38th year in Arlington, Texas. 2009 signified the continuation of 
a strategy implemented by General Manager Jon Daniels in the summer of 
2007. The plan to improve the club emphasized the acquisition and development 
of prospective talent within the Rangers' organization. Several young players 
such as SS Elvis Andrus, OF Julio Borbon, and pitchers Derek Holland and 
Tommy Hunter made their big league debuts in 2009 after spending time in 
the Rangers' minor league system. Ranked as the #1 farm system by Baseball 
America prior to the start of the season, the organization began the season 
with several of its heralded prospects still in the minor leagues. Emergence 
of these prospects on the Major League level gave the franchise and its 
fan base a brighter hope for the future, in line with the objective of 
competing for the A.L. West title in 2010 and beyond. Notable performances 
from several core players as well as a well-coached pitching staff contributed 
to a greatly improved record and allowed the Rangers to compete for the 
division and wild card playoff berths well into the final weeks of the 
season. *Rookie Record: 10-11 Starting Rotation: RHP Kevin Millwood, RHP 
Vicente Padilla, RHP Brandon McCarthy, RHP Kris Benson, LHP Matt Harrison, 
RHP Scott Feldman* * spot starter Opening day of the 2009 season saw the 
Rangers open the year at home for the first time in four years. In a 10-1 
victory over the Cleveland Indians, the club roughed up reigning A.L. Cy 
Young winner Cliff Lee. A sweep of the Indians was quickly forgotten as 
the Rangers were swept by the Tigers in Detroit over the first weekend 
of the year. The Rangers dropped 5 games in a row before bouncing back 
in their last game against the Orioles on April 15. That day, MLB's "Jackie 
Robinson Day", 2B Ian Kinsler went 6-for-6 at the plate, hitting for the 
cycle. Kinsler became the fourth player to perform the feat in a Rangers 
uniform and the first player since 1890 to record a 6-hit cycle.[1] The 
Rangers dropped the next two games at home to the Royals, and before Sunday's 
game many observers openly questioned manager Ron Washington's job security. 
In that game, the Rangers' oft-criticized bullpen recorded four scoreless 
innings in relief, allowing the lineup to rally in the 8th inning. In a 
5-5 tie game, 3B Michael Young led off the bottom of the 9th inning with 
a 427-foot walk-off home run, the first of his career. Washington's position 
as manager appeared to be saved as the Rangers headed to Toronto, where 
they bested Blue Jays ace Roy Halladay in the first game. Game 2 of the 
series saw the Rangers debuts of LHP prospect Derek Holland and newly acquired 
RHP Darren O'Day. O'Day, who arrived in Toronto after first pitch, quickly 
joined the team at the stadium and was informed upon arrival that he would 
pitch that night. Wearing Kason Gabbard's #60 jersey, O'Day met his new 
manager, catcher, and teammates on the pitching mound in the 11th inning. 
O'Day would be credited with the loss after giving up the winning run. 
While in Toronto, CF Josh Hamilton made a diving catch against the wall 
in left-center, suffering the first of several injuries in 2009. The Rangers 
took 3 of 4 games from another series with the Orioles before ending the 
month against their first division opponent, the Oakland Athletics, splitting 
the 2-game set. Transactions: Record: 20-9 Starting Rotation: Millwood, 
Padilla, McCarthy, Feldman, Harrison, LHP Derek Holland*, RHP Tommy Hunter* 
*spot starter The Rangers performed exceedingly well in the month of May, 
enjoying one of the best months in team history to date. The club quickly 
went 13-3, a stretch which saw the return (and subsequent re-injury) of 
Josh Hamilton, several superb outings by Matt Harrison, and mounting concern 
over the quality of 1B Chris Davis. Aside from two walk-off hits, the 23-year-old 
was batting .203 by the end of the month, a stark and inexplicable contrast 
to the breakout season he posted in 2008. Notable was a 3-game sweep of 
the division rival Los Angeles Angels in Arlington. Domination of each 
series over division opponents helped the Rangers reach first place in 
the American League West, and a record 10 games above .500 by the end of 
May.[2] Young pitchers Tommy Hunter and Derek Holland each earned spot 
starts during May, each showing flashes of what could be achieved in the 
future. Transactions: None. Record: 11-15 Starting Rotation: Millwood, 
Padilla, McCarthy, Holland, Harrison, Hunter* *spot starter As the summer 
months began, the Rangers faltered. Vicente Padilla, an enigmatic presence 
in the clubhouse and a pitcher that previously led the majors in hit batsmen, 
was placed on outright waivers June 3. With very little explanation from 
the club, the Rangers essentially gave up their number two starter to anyone 
that would have him. Rumors about Padilla's negative attitude in the clubhouse 
abound, though the official party line was that management was disappointed 
with the way the right-handed handled adversity after a start the previous 
afternoon. Though Padilla cleared waivers, this issue would remain unresolved. 
In conjunction with the roster issues, a major power outage up and down 
the Rangers' lineup haunted the club throughout the month of June. On June 
9, Josh Hamilton reportedly underwent surgery to repair an abdominal muscle, 
and RHP Brandon McCarthy was sent to the 15-day DL for shoulder issues. 
LHP Matt Harrison and closer Frank Francisco found themselves on the disabled 
list as well later into the month. These consistent injuries prevented 
any major gains in the standings. The last day of June saw the call-up 
of rookie OF Julio Borbon and the Rangers' lead on the A.L. West slowly 
dwindling as the second-place Angels encroached.[3] Transactions: Record: 
17-8 Starting Rotation: Millwood, Padilla, Feldman, Hunter, Holland, RHP 
Dustin Nippert*, RHP Doug Mathis* *spot starter DH Hank Blalock drilled 
a walk-off home run on the evening of July 1 against the Angels, the beginning 
of a month in which the Rangers would bounce back from a dreadful June. 
Rumors in the media continued to circulate about the club's finances, including 
one that suspected Major League Baseball was loaning money to Hicks Sports 
Group in order to pay its debts and continue team operations. A great deal 
of speculation surrounded the Rangers' ability to acquire talent through 
trades due to a financial impasse.[4] In part due to the return of OF Josh 
Hamilton on July 6, 1B Chris Davis was optioned to AAA to allow him to 
work out his issues at the plate. Davis, known for his defensive prowess 
at first base, failed to continue improving at the Major League level. 
Hank Blalock was given the first base job for the time being. On the 9th 
in Anaheim, California, OF/DH Andruw Jones hit 3 home runs in a game, essentially 
the highlight of an otherwise unspectacular season for the veteran. At 
the All-Star break, the Rangers remained in control of the A.L. West. Representing 
the team at the 2009 All-Star Game in St. Louis were 3B Michael Young, 
OF Josh Hamilton, and RF Nelson Cruz, who like Hamilton in 2008, earned 
second place in the Home Run Derby. By July 20, the club was 49-41 overall 
as closer Frank Francisco returned to the DL with pneumonia and several 
other players miss time late in the month due to bouts with the flu. With 
the trade deadline looming at the end of the month, the Toronto Blue Jays 
were assumed to be interested in trading their ace, RHP Roy Halladay, and 
Rangers observers began speculating on whether or not the club should make 
a bid. Many felt that a fair trade could be headlined by LHP Derek Holland. 
As talks reportedly heated up between the teams and an agreement was close, 
on the eve of deadline day Holland took the mound against Seattle and threw 
8 2⁄3 scoreless innings (4 2⁄3 perfect innings), allowing only one hit. 
Halladay and Holland would remain with their respective teams for the time 
being. Transactions: Record: 14-15 Starting Rotation: Millwood, Padilla, 
Feldman, Holland, Hunter, Nippert* *spot starter The Rangers traveled to 
Oakland, precipitating the call-up of RHP Neftalí Feliz from AAA Oklahoma 
City for the first time. Feliz came out of the bullpen to debut in relief 
on the night of August 3 and immediately struck out 5 of his first 6 batters 
faced in two innings of work, his fastball averaging 98.8 mph and maxing 
out at 100.5 mph. Despite the A's walk-off win that night, Feliz easily 
secured his place on the big league club. On offense, similar struggles 
experienced in June seemingly returned to the Rangers in the dog days of 
the season and many critics pointed to tenured hitting coach Rudy Jaramillo, 
known for his aggressive philosophy. A surprising development on August 
8 occurred when number two starter Vicente Padilla was designated for assignment. 
After his placement on waivers in June, Padilla's issues with teammates 
and the front office had not been smoothed over and following a particularly 
poor start against Oakland, the team decided to end its relationship with 
the Nicaraguan right-hander. This was a culmination of events over time...We’re 
putting together an organization that pulls together, that stands for something. 
We intend to have a team in every sense of the word. When one guy doesn’t 
take that to heart, it is apparent. It's not about throwing at batters 
in specifics. It was about not being a good teammate. Around the same date, 
photographs of OF Josh Hamilton surfaced on Deadspin.com, showing him visibly 
intoxicated at an Arizona bar with various women. Hamilton, whose long 
struggle and recovery from substance abuse was well documented in the public 
eye, admitted to relapsing in January 2009 and acknowledged that he notified 
his family and Rangers officials immediately thereafter. Hamilton remembered 
little of the night, but a drug test several days later came up negative.[7] 
The weekend of August 15 saw the Boston Red Sox arrive in Arlington tied 
with the Rangers for the A.L. Wild Card berth. After rallying on Friday 
night in the top of the 9th inning against closer Frank Francisco, the 
Rangers stormed back on Saturday. In that game, Neftalí Feliz earned his 
first Major League save, and on Sunday afternoon the Rangers won the series 
as Francisco successfully converted the save. C Jarrod Saltalamacchia went 
on the 15-day D.L. with symptoms of Thoracic Outlet Syndrome, leaving Taylor 
Teagarden as the only catcher on the roster. Career minor-leaguer C Kevin 
Richardson was called up for the first time to spell Teagarden, while the 
front office worked a deal to re-acquire former Ranger Iván Rodríguez. 
The financial issues often quietly mentioned in the media finally erupted 
on August 17 when the Rangers were unable to sign 2009 first-round draft 
pick LHP Matt Purke, who opted to attend college and pitch for Texas Christian 
University. Purke's representatives reportedly asked for a contract close 
to $4 million, but the club was unable to accept such terms.[8] The Purke 
affair confirmed the fears of many Rangers fans that the front office's 
ability to improve the team was restricted by Hicks Sports Group's large 
debts. With injuries taking their toll once again, the Rangers found themselves 
in second place in the West at the end of August, losing 6 of 10 heading 
into September. Transactions: Record: 13-15 Starting Rotation: Millwood, 
Feldman, Holland, Hunter, McCarthy, Nippert* *spot starter In the second 
game of a double-header on September 1, Michael Young strained his left 
hamstring running out an infield single. The injury sidelined the veteran 
leader for 2–3 weeks, an omen that the Rangers chances to make the playoffs 
were shrinking. With the ballclub 4 1⁄2 games back of the Angels on September 
6 and the performance of staff ace Kevin Millwood unravelling, the Rangers 
got another bit of bad news when it was reported that Josh Hamilton would 
be out indefinitely with a pinched nerve in his back. The team pressed 
hard and generally did little to improve its place in the standings throughout 
September, and questions concerning the future ownership of the Rangers 
heated up as playoff potential cooled. Groups under Pittsburgh attorney 
Chuck Greenberg, Houston businessman Jim Crane, and sports agent Dennis 
Gilbert quickly became known amongst fans as the three main factions jockeying 
for rights to negotiate with Hicks Sports Group. The emergence of these 
prospective owners set the stage for a long, complex battle of attrition 
for ownership of the franchise over the next eleven months. Despite the 
team's fading hopes, Ian Kinsler joined the "30-30 club" by hitting his 
30th home run on September 25 after stealing 30 bases in 2009. On September 
27, the Angels clinched the A.L. West championship after defeating Texas 
11-0 in Anaheim.[9] Though a slim chance to win the A.L. Wild Card still 
lingered, this would not be achieved and the Texas Rangers would miss the 
postseason for the tenth year in a row. Transactions: Record: 2-2 Starting 
Rotation: Millwood, Holland, Hunter, Feldman The season would end in October 
due to certain schedule oddities. The majority of concerns by the end of 
the regular season surrounded the multitude of arbitration-eligible players 
on the roster and securing key pieces of the team for the 2010 season. 
The Rangers ended their season after a 4-3 loss in Seattle at the hands 
of Cy Young candidate Félix Hernández. Transactions: None. Infielders Outfielders 
Coaches Through October 5, 2009 Pitching Batting RANGERS HITTING STATISTICS 
Note: Pos = Position; G = Games Played; AB = At Bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; 
HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In; AVG = Batting Average; SB = Stolen 
Bases RANGERS PITCHING STATISTICS Note: G = Games; IP = Innings Pitched; 
W = Wins; L = Losses; SV = Saves; ERA = Earned Run Average; H = Hits Allowed; 
BB = Walks Allowed; SO = Strikeouts Stats updated through June 16. Stats 
updated through June 17. Stats updated through June 17. Comeback Wins: 
15, Largest Comeback: 4 runs Blown Leads: 10, Largest Blown Lead: 4 runs 
