The 2009 National League Championship Series (NLCS) was a best-of-seven 
baseball game series pitting the Los Angeles Dodgers against the Philadelphia 
Phillies for the National League Championship and the right to represent 
the National League in the 2009 World Series. The Phillies defeated the 
Dodgers four games to one. Los Angeles, whose NL-best 95–67 record topped 
Philadelphia's 93–69 record, retained home-field advantage. The series, 
the 39th in league history, began on October 15 and finished on October 
21. TBS carried the championship on television. The Phillies won the series, 
four games to one, advancing to the World Series for the second consecutive 
year. They were, however, defeated by the New York Yankees, 4–2. This was 
the second consecutive NLCS between the Dodgers and Phillies and the fifth 
overall. The first two meetings were won by the Dodgers in 1977 and 1978, 
and the third by the Phillies in 1983; none of the three resulted in a 
World Series Championship by either team. The Phillies defeated the Dodgers 
in five games in 2008 en route to their 2008 World Series title. This match-up 
is the most frequent in the history of the NLCS (as of 2009) tied with 
the Pirates vs Reds. In 2009, the Dodgers won the regular season series, 
four games to three, outscoring the Phillies 26–25. Philadelphia won the 
series, 4–1. Thursday, October 15, 2009 — 8:07PM (ET) at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California James Loney gave the Dodgers an early lead with 
a solo home run in the second inning. Dodger starter Clayton Kershaw was 
solid through the first four innings, but the Phillies finally got to him 
in the fifth inning. The Phillies scored five runs that inning on a Carlos 
Ruiz three-run home run, and later a Ryan Howard two-RBI double. The Dodgers 
made up most of the deficit in the bottom half of the fifth, when Andre 
Ethier reached base on a Chase Utley throwing error that scored Russell 
Martin, immediately followed by a Manny Ramirez two-run home run. With 
the Phillies ahead by one run in the top of the eighth, Philadelphia outfielder 
Raúl Ibáñez padded his team's lead with a three-run home run off George 
Sherrill, his former teammate in Seattle. The Dodgers scored two runs in 
the bottom half of the eighth on Martin's RBI single and a Rafael Furcal 
sacrifice fly, but Ryan Madson shut down the eighth-inning rally and Brad 
Lidge, despite allowing a hit and a walk, pitched a scoreless ninth to 
earn the save. Friday, October 16, 2009 — 4:07PM (ET) at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California Game 2 featured a pitching duel between Vicente 
Padilla and Pedro Martinez; two pitchers who were not even on their respective 
teams' Opening Day roster. Martinez pitched seven innings of scoreless 
ball and Padilla nearly matched him with 7 1⁄3 of one run ball. The only 
run came on a Ryan Howard solo shot in the fourth. That RBI gave Howard 
six for the post-season which was tied for a record in the span of six 
post-season games. However, in the eighth the Phillies bullpen ran into 
trouble when Casey Blake singled to start off the inning and Ronnie Belliard 
bunted for a hit. On a 3–2 pitch Russell Martin grounded into a tailor-made 
double play to Pedro Feliz, but Chase Utley threw the ball away which allowed 
the Dodgers' first run of the game. It was Utley's second error in two 
games; he had just three in 156 games during the 2009 regular season. Later 
in the inning, with the bases loaded, Andre Ethier drew a walk which scored 
the go-ahead run to win the game for the Dodgers. Five relievers were used 
in the bottom of the eighth. Jonathan Broxton closed out the game and the 
Dodgers evened the series 1–1. Sunday, October 18, 2009 — 8:07PM (ET) at 
Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Philadelphia jumped out 
early against Hiroki Kuroda in the first from the two-run triple by Ryan 
Howard. The next batter, Jayson Werth, hit a two-run shot into the hedges 
behind the center-field fence. The Phillies added two more runs in the 
second from a two-run Jimmy Rollins double. They added two more runs in 
the fifth from a Pedro Feliz triple and a Carlos Ruiz single. Three more 
were added in the eighth thanks to a three-run homer by Shane Victorino. 
Pitcher Cliff Lee held the Dodgers to three hits and had ten strikeouts 
in eight innings of work. With the large lead in hand, Lee batted in the 
bottom of the eighth stroking a single and scoring on the Victorino home 
run, but he did not start the ninth inning. Monday, October 19, 2009 — 
8:07PM (ET) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania The Phillies 
once again jumped out to an early lead in the first inning when Ryan Howard 
hit a two-run home run off Dodgers starter Randy Wolf. As a result, Howard 
tied Lou Gehrig's record of most consecutive posteason games with an RBI, 
at eight. The Dodgers tied the game in the top of the fourth inning when 
Phillies starter Joe Blanton allowed RBI singles to James Loney and Russell 
Martin. The Dodgers took the lead in the fifth inning on a Matt Kemp solo 
home run, and tacked on another run in the sixth on an RBI hit by Casey 
Blake to make it 4–2. Chase Utley answered in the bottom of the sixth with 
an RBI single of his own, cutting the Dodger lead to 4–3, which is where 
it would stand until the ninth inning. Jonathan Broxton, trying to work 
a four-out save for the Dodgers, retired Raúl Ibáñez to start the ninth 
inning. He then walked Matt Stairs and hit Carlos Ruiz. After a Greg Dobbs 
line out to third base, Jimmy Rollins stepped to the plate with runners 
on the first and second base with two outs. On a 1–1 count, Rollins hit 
a line drive into the right-center field gap, easily scoring pinch runner 
Eric Bruntlett and Ruiz, giving the Phillies a 5–4 walk-off win. It was 
later reported that Manny Ramirez hit the showers before the game was over.[6] 
Wednesday, October 21, 2009 — 8:07PM (ET) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania The Dodgers took an early lead in the first inning after Cole 
Hamels gave up a solo home run to Andre Ethier. The Phillies would come 
right back in the bottom of the first after Jayson Werth deposited a three-run 
home run into the right field seats. The Phillies did not look back after 
taking the lead on their way to clinching the NL pennant with a 10–4 victory 
over the Dodgers in Game 5.[7] 2009 NLCS (4–1): Philadelphia Phillies over 
