The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim's 2009 season was the franchise's 49th 
season. The Angels began the season as the two-time defending American 
League West division champions. Perhaps the most notable player to depart 
in the offseason due to free agency was longtime closing pitcher Francisco 
Rodríguez, who signed with the New York Mets. Other notable free agent 
departures were 2008 acquisitions Jon Garland (Arizona Diamondbacks) and 
Mark Teixeira (New York Yankees). Notable free agent acquisitions included 
new closer Brian Fuentes, previously of the Colorado Rockies, and Bobby 
Abreu, previously of the Yankees. Tragedy struck the Angels twice this 
season. Preston Gómez, the team's special assistant to the general manager, 
died January 13 of injuries sustained when he was struck by a car in Blythe, 
California, on March 26, 2008. As a tribute, the Angels began the season 
wearing black "PRESTON" patches on their left sleeve. Then, on April 9, 
rookie pitcher Nick Adenhart was killed in a car accident in Fullerton, 
California, hours after pitching 6 shutout innings against the Oakland 
Athletics in his first start of the season. As a tribute, the Angels continued 
to assign a locker to Adenhart at home and on the road, hang a jersey with 
his name and number in their dugout, and wear black patches with his name 
and number on their left breast for the rest of the season. On September 
28, the Angels clinched the American League West division title, their 
eighth in franchise history.[1] Through October 5, 2009 Infielders Outfielders 
Coaches With their win on Monday, September 28, 2009, the Angels clinched 
their third straight American League West championship. Also, at that time, 
the Angels clinched the second-best record in the American League giving 
them home field advantage for the American League Division Series. Also, 
with their win on Tuesday, September 29, 2009, the Angels knocked the Rangers 
out of contention for the American League Wild Card, therefore, the Angels 
faced the Boston Red Sox in the Division Series for the third year in a 
row. The 2009 American League Division Series featured the AL West champion 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and the Wildcard winner Boston Red Sox. The 
series began on October 8, 2009, with the Angels winning the first two 
games at Angel Stadium. On October 11, the series continued to Fenway Park 
where the Angels had a stunning come-from-behind victory to win 7–6 and 
sweep the Red Sox. This series marks the first time the Angels have beaten 
the Red Sox in a postseason series as well as the first postseason sweep 
for the Angels in franchise history. The 2009 American League Championship 
Series featured the AL West champion Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and 
the AL East champion New York Yankees. The Yankees won the series 4 games 
to 2. Note: Major League Baseball's playoff format automatically seeds 
the Wild Card team 4th. Normally, the no. 1 seed plays the no. 4 seed in 
the Division Series. However, MLB does not allow the no. 1 seed to play 
the 4th seed/Wild Card winner in the Division Series if they are from the 
same division, instead having the no. 1 seed play the next lowest seed, 
the no. 3 seed. Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; 
H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in; BB = Walks; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; 
L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; 
CG = Complete games; SV = Saves; SVO = Save Opportunities; IP = Innings 
pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed 
