The 2009 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 80th midseason exhibition 
between the all-stars of the American League (AL) and the National League 
(NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball.[1] The game was 
held on July 14, 2009, at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri, the home 
of the National League St. Louis Cardinals.[2][3] The game was the first 
all-star game held in St. Louis since 1966.[4] This was the seventh year 
in which the All-Star Game determined home field advantage in the World 
Series, with the American League winning all seven games up to and including 
2009 under this format. After the game, the National League lead, 40–38–2, 
but had not won since 1996. Fox televised the contest, with Joe Buck and 
Tim McCarver in the booth for the game broadcast, joined at the bottom 
of the 2nd inning by President Barack Obama. Pre-game coverage began at 
5 PM US EDT on MLB Network, with ESPN joining in at 7 PM US EDT. Outside 
the USA, Rogers Sportsnet (Canada) and ESPN America (Europe) carried MLB's 
international feed with their own video feed and announcers. The Cardinals 
had hoped to use the event to show off its planned Ballpark Village residential 
and entertainment complex to be built on the site of the former Busch Memorial 
Stadium across the street from the new ballpark. However the plans had 
not materialized by the time of the game and the Cardinals opted to use 
the site for a softball field and parking lot instead.[5] On April 22, 
2009, All-Star balloting began on MLB.com with eight position players (excluding 
pitchers and designated hitters) from each of the 30 teams being nominated 
for fans to vote. As with last year, only 25 email ballots could be cast 
and voting officially ended at 11:59 ET on July 2.[6] Final rosters, with 
the exception of the final vote, were announced on July 5. Fans voted for 
up to three players per league to participate in the State Farm Home Run 
Derby. For the first time, the batting practice sessions were telecast 
on the self-owned MLB Network. By length of time, this was the shortest 
MLB All-Star game (2:31) since 1988. At one point during the game, the 
American League retired 18 straight batters, the second most in All-Star 
game history. After the rosters were revealed, a second ballot of five 
players per league was created for the All-Star Final Vote to determine 
the 33rd and final player of each roster. The NL Winner was Shane Victorino 
of the Philadelphia Phillies and the AL winner was Brandon Inge of the 
Detroit Tigers. Pablo Sandoval and Ian Kinsler finished a close second 
in their respective leagues. American League team manager Joe Maddon of 
the Tampa Bay Rays selected Kansas City Royals manager Trey Hillman and 
Seattle Mariners manager Don Wakamatsu as coaches for the team along with 
the rest of his Tampa Bay staff. Both Hillman and Wakamatsu participated 
in their first All-Star game this year, while Maddon managed the All-Star 
squad for the first time after participating as a coach in 2003. National 
League manager Charlie Manuel of the Philadelphia Phillies selected Tony 
La Russa of the host St. Louis Cardinals and Joe Torre of the Los Angeles 
Dodgers as his coaches. Torre previously managed the Cardinals from 1990-1995. 
La Russa has managed an All-Star team five times, and led the 2005 and 
2007 NL teams. This was Torre's first NL All-Star coaching position; he 
has managed an AL All-Star team six times. Manuel previously coached the 
AL All-Star team in 2002's tie game under Torre.[7] Votes were cast online 
and at the 30 MLB ballparks. Verizon replaced Monster as the sponsor of 
the online portion of balloting. There was a limit of 25 votes per e-mail 
address, but no limit to the number of ballots cast at the stadium. The 
deadline to cast votes was July 2, and the results were broadcast on the 
TBS All-Star Selection show on July 5.[8] Albert Pujols was the leading 
vote-getter in the majors with 5,397,374 votes, while Derek Jeter was the 
vote leader in the American League.[9][10] * This player did not start. 
# This player did not play. "The Star-Spangled Banner" was sung by Sheryl 
Crow. Stan Musial, a former player for the host St. Louis Cardinals and 
a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame, gave the baseball for the ceremonial 
first pitch to the President of the United States Barack Obama, who threw 
it to the hometown Cardinals' first baseman and leading All-Star vote-getter, 
Albert Pujols, while wearing a White Sox jacket.[11] During the seventh-inning 
stretch, Sara Evans sang "God Bless America". By contrast, little attention 
was paid to the Canadian national anthem, "O Canada". An instrumental version 
was played through stadium speakers during the opening ceremonies, a move 
criticized by Canadian player Justin Morneau.[12] The American League got 
off to a quick start in the top of the first inning by scoring two runs. 
Ichiro Suzuki lead off the game with a single to right field, then Derek 
Jeter reached base on a hit by pitch. With one out, Mark Teixeira hit a 
groundball that was misplayed by first basemen Albert Pujols allowing Jeter 
to score the game's first run. Josh Hamilton later added a RBI groundout. 
The National League answered in the bottom of the second inning by scoring 
three runs. Singles by David Wright, Shane Victorino and Yadier Molina, 
plus a ground rule double by Prince Fielder all with two outs gave NL the 
lead. The American League tied the score at three in the fifth on a two-out 
double by Joe Mauer off Chad Billingsley, and retook the lead when Adam 
Jones drove in Curtis Granderson, who tripled off Heath Bell, on a sacrifice 
fly in the eighth. American League pitchers at one point retired 18 straight 
batters (and 22 of the final 24) on just 48 pitches before Joe Nathan walked 
Adrian Gonzalez with two outs in the eighth. Nathan, however, struck out 
Ryan Howard with runners on second and third to end the threat. Mariano 
Rivera pitched a perfect ninth inning to earn a record fourth All-Star 
Game save. Carl Crawford went 1-for-3 but made a great defensive catch 
in the seventh inning to rob Brad Hawpe of a home run.[13] Crawford was 
given the MLB All-Star Game's Most Valuable Player award.[14] This was 
the seventh straight win for the American League since the All-Star game 
has been used to determine home-field advantage for the World Series. The 
AL improved to 12-0-1 since its 1996 defeat in Philadelphia — the longest 
unbeaten streak in All-Star history. It was also the first All-Star game 
without a home run by either league since the 1999 Midsummer Classic in 
Fenway Park. The game was televised live in the United States, and in Canada 
through the Fox Network by Fox Sports, with announcers Joe Buck (play-by-play); 
Tim McCarver (color commentator); and Ken Rosenthal, Chris Rose, and Eric 
Karros (field reporters). MLB International televised the game in English 
outside of the U.S., with announcers Gary Thorne (play-by-play) and Rick 
Sutcliffe (color commentator). The American Forces Network also carried 
the game to U.S. service personnel stationed around the globe. ESPN Radio 
broadcast the game, with Dan Shulman (play-by-play) and Dave Campbell (color 
commentator). Peter Pascarelli and John Rooney served as field reporters. 
