The 2009 Toronto Blue Jays season was the franchise's 33rd in Major League 
Baseball, and the 20th full season of play at the Rogers Centre. The team 
was managed by Cito Gaston, who was hired by the team midway through the 
2008 season. General Manager J. P. Ricciardi was fired on the penultimate 
day of the season, as the team again failed to make the playoffs. He was 
replaced by Assistant General Manager Alex Anthopoulos. The team started 
the season well, and was in first place in the American League East with 
a 27–14 record. The team was swept by the Red Sox at Fenway Park from May 
19 to 21, the first of nine straight losses that ultimately led to a disappointing 
season with a record of 75–87, 28 games behind the division lead, and 20 
games behind the wild card spot. It was the first time that Toronto had 
finished with a losing record since 2005, when they finished 80–82. Ted 
Rogers, the founder of Rogers Communications and the Blue Jays' owner, 
died at the age of 75 on December 2, 2008, at his home in Toronto.[1] Rogers 
purchased the Blue Jays in 2000, hoping to lead the franchise to its first 
playoff berth since the club last won the World Series in 1993. The team 
continues to be owned and operated by Rogers Blue Jays Baseball Partnership, 
a division of Rogers Communications. Prior to Rogers' death, the team named 
Paul Beeston as interim president of baseball operations and chief operating 
officer replacing retiring president Paul Godfrey.[2] The first employee 
in Toronto Blue Jays history, Beeston served in the same capacity with 
the organization from 1989 to 1997. Soon after being introduced on October 
14, 2008, Beeston began a significant reorganization of the baseball operations 
of the club. In the wake of the global financial crisis and the loss of 
advertising revenue, the team let go of several employees from its media 
division on December 2.[3] On January 21, 2009, assistant general manager 
Bart Given was also dismissed to keep "costs down" for the upcoming season 
according to the team.[4] Additions were made to the scouting department, 
including the hiring of pro scouts Roy Smith,[5] Steve Springer and four 
others.[6] The most significant change from the 2008 team was the departure 
of pitcher A. J. Burnett, who filed for free agency and signed a contract 
with the New York Yankees. Shaun Marcum (elbow), Casey Janssen (shoulder) 
and Dustin McGowan (labrum) started the season on the disabled list. Janssen 
has since returned, Getting a loss in his season debut vs the Braves, which 
the Jays lost 4-3. For the twelfth consecutive season the organization 
avoided going to an arbitration hearing, re-signing the five arbitration 
eligible players on the team. The team and relievers Brandon League (one 
year/$640K), Jeremy Accardo (one year/$900K), Jason Frasor (one year/$1.45M), 
Brian Tallet (one year/$1.025M) and Shawn Camp (one year/$750K) along with 
infielder José Bautista (one year/$2.4M) all came to terms.[7] The team 
also picked up the club option held on catcher Rod Barajas.[8] On November 
5, 2008, pitcher A. J. Burnett opted out of the remaining two years of 
his five-year contract, ending months of speculation that the starter was 
planning to leave Toronto.[9] Burnett, who in 2008 led the team in strikeouts 
and won 18 games, went on to sign with the division rival New York Yankees 
on December 18.[10] None of the five major league free agents from the 
Blue Jays' 2008 roster were tendered contracts. Catcher Gregg Zaun ended 
his five-year tenure in Toronto and signed a one-year deal with the rival 
Baltimore Orioles.[11] Outfielder Brad Wilkerson (Boston),[12] relief pitcher 
John Parrish (Orioles),[13] and infielder Héctor Luna (Los Angeles (NL)) 
all signed minor league contracts elsewhere, while outfielder Kevin Mench 
signed a one-year deal with the Hanshin Tigers of Japan's Nippon League.[14] 
Minor league pitching prospect Jean Machi, who had been on the forty-man 
roster, was also released by the club in November.[15] Another major departure, 
third baseman Scott Rolen, was traded to the Cincinnati Reds for personal 
reasons. The Blue Jays, faced with financial hardships, the fall of the 
Canadian dollar against the American dollar and a smaller budget, did not 
opt to make any major impact moves. Towards the end of spring training, 
they did however sign Kevin Millar to a one-year deal. Millar is known 
as a solid player to have in the clubhouse and would find time playing 
the DH and utility infield. However, with the trade of Scott Rolen to the 
Cincinnati Reds, the Blue Jays welcomed infielder Edwin Encarnación, relief 
pitcher Josh Roenicke and a minor league pitching prospect. Two starters 
recovering from major shoulder surgery would have an opportunity to claim 
rotation slots with the club coming out of spring training. Former All-Star 
starter Matt Clement, who spent an injury riddled 2008 season with St. 
Louis was signed on December 12.[16] Left-handed starter Mike Maroth, who 
last pitched in the majors in 2007 with St. Louis, was inked to a minor 
league deal on December 30. Two former first overall draft picks were also 
acquired by the club. 2002 top selection Bryan Bullington was claimed off 
waivers from Cleveland in October.[17] The Jays also traded for 2004 number 
one choice Matt Bush in February.[18] Bush had previously been in the Padres 
organisation. The team imported fourteen-year Nippon League veteran Ken 
Takahashi from Japan.[19] Toronto claimed southpaw Brian Burres (Baltimore),[20] 
and reliever T. J. Beam (Pittsburgh)[21] off waivers. The club also re-signed 
Dirk Hayhurst in February, days after releasing the former waiver claim.[22] 
Former silver slugging catcher Michael Barrett[23] and infielder Kevin 
Millar[24] were among the prominent additions to the team offensively. 
Barrett, who missed much of his 2008 season with the Padres due to a facial 
fracture, is a top candidate to be the Blue Jays backup catcher. Millar, 
who spent the previous three seasons with Baltimore and hit twenty home 
runs in 2008, will have an opportunity for a bench or platoon role with 
the Jays. In January, the team signed outfielder Jason Lane (Boston) and 
infielder Brandon Fahey (Baltimore) to minor league deals.[25] In December, 
the team inked catcher Raúl Chávez (Pittsburgh) and designated hitter Randy 
Ruiz (Minnesota).[26] In October the club announced it signed former Orioles 
pitcher Adam Loewen and will attempt to convert him to a first baseman.[27] 
Starter Shaun Marcum was lost for the 2009 season when he underwent Tommy 
John surgery in the fall of 2008.[28] The right-hander went under the knife 
to repair ligaments in his pitching elbow, and is tentatively expected 
to be back for the Jays' 2010 spring training. Pitcher Casey Janssen who 
missed all of 2008 due to shoulder problems was expected to compete for 
a rotation spot,[29] but was put on the 15-day disabled list just before 
the season began. Starter Dustin McGowan who is recovering from right labrum 
surgery is expected to rejoin the club sometime in May.[30] On April 23, 
the Blue Jays placed starting pitcher Ricky Romero and closer B. J. Ryan 
on the 15-day disabled list. Romero was suffering from a right oblique 
strain, while Ryan was sent to see a specialist for a tight left trapezius 
muscle. Ryan has since returned, but not as the closer.[31] On June 9, 
it was announced that Jesse Litsch will undergo season-ending ligament 
replacement ("Tommy John") surgery.[32] The Jays' flagship station for 
radio is The FAN 590, which has all 162 regular season games. Jerry Howarth 
and Alan Ashby will call all 162, with Mike Wilner being the third personality. 
Mike will also host the pregame and postgame show for each game, as long 
as there is time for it before/after. The Blue Jays' flagship TV station 
is Rogers Sportsnet, which is airing over 100 games in 2009 for the Jays. 
The two other stations are both in the TSN network, TSN and TSN2. TSN has 
coverage starting after they are done with NHL on TSN (during the Stanley 
Cup Finals, coverage usually starts). From May 19–21, the two Jays stations 
were occupied with hockey and TSN2 airs the Jays in TSN's place. With Sportsnet 
taking care of the annual Memorial Cup, and TSN covering the NHL conference 
finals, TSN2 was open, and took in at the time, the biggest series of the 
Jays' young season. Rod Black and Pat Tabler did not cover this series 
though, TSN2 broadcast NESN coverage. TSN2 had the September 13 game versus 
the Tigers and will air the Jays home closer versus the Mariners on September 
27. Untelevised games can be seen on JaysVision on Rogers Cable (digital 
only). Otherwise, the viewer must subscribe to MLB Extra Innings, which 
gets the feed from the opposing team's station. MLB Extra Innings is available 
on satellite and digital cable. The Jays began the year with a schedule 
that had them playing teams from the Central and the West divisions for 
24 games in April. Adam Lind slugged out an opening day record 6 RBI, and 
the Jays pummeled the Tigers, giving Roy Halladay the win. They went on 
to win the first 6 series of the season, and finished April with a 15-9 
record, tied with the Red Sox for first in the AL East. The first game 
against the New York Yankees occurred on May 12, in a marquee matchup of 
Roy Halladay versus former teammate A. J. Burnett. Not only did the Jays 
win 5-1, but Halladay recorded his first complete game of the season, while 
giving Burnett his first loss on the year. The Jays drew a crowd of 43,737 
fans. This was the first non-home opener Rogers Centre sell out since July 
22 of the previous year against the Yankees, drawing a crowd of 50,014. 
However, the remaining two games of the 2009series were won by the Yankees, 
making this the first series lost by the Jays at home that season. They 
followed this with a series sweep of the Chicago White Sox, at which time 
the Jays had the best record (27-14) in the American League, but this was 
followed by a disastrous road trip to Boston, Atlanta and Baltimore during 
which the Jays lost 9 straight games, tying their longest away-game losing 
streak since a nine-game run in May 2007. This left the Jays at 27-23, 
behind Boston and the Yankees by 1.5 games. The Blue Jays then bounced 
back, taking two out of three from Boston, and had some more considerable 
successes, most notably a three-game road sweep of the Philadelphia Phillies. 
However, they never again held a playoff position, and gradually faded 
out of the picture: they were out of contention by the All-Star break, 
and were never able to mount any sort of charge reminiscent of 2008's 10-game 
winning streak to get back in the race. Roy Halladay and Aaron Hill were 
named to the American League All-Star team. Halladay was the starting pitcher, 
and Hill started the game at second base. On October 3, the J. P. Ricciardi 
era ended in Toronto. When he took over in 2002, he guaranteed a playoff 
berth; the Jays never even came close to a playoff berth, never finishing 
better than 10 games behind the top of the division during Ricciardi's 
reign. After a promising start to 2009, the Jays faltered, and Ricciardi 
publicized the topic of a Roy Halladay trade, which many Jays fans disapproved. 
Allegedly, Ricciardi told Ken Rosenthal of Fox Sports a day before the 
firing, in which some Blue Jays players spoke critically about Cito Gaston. 
A day later, Paul Beeston reportedly found out about Ricciardi leaking 
the information to the media, and promptly fired him. Assistant GM Alex 
Anthopoulos took over immediately. Through October 5, 2009 Source[33] The 
2009 MLB Draft was held on June 9–11. The Blue Jays had a first round pick, 
along with one compensation pick. The Blue Jays also had two picks in the 
third round. Infielders Manager Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At 
Bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases .[34] 
Excludes batting by pitchers (interleague games). Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs 
allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts Updated through July 21, 2009.[35] 
