The 2009 American League Central tie-breaker game was a one-game extension 
to Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2009 regular season, played between the 
Detroit Tigers and Minnesota Twins to determine the champion of the American 
League's (AL) Central Division. It was played at the Hubert H. Humphrey 
Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on October 6, 2009. The Twins won 
the game 6–5 in extra innings and advanced to the 2009 AL Division Series 
where they were swept by the New York Yankees; the Tigers failed to qualify 
for the postseason. A tie-breaker was necessary after both teams finished 
the season with identical win–loss records of 86–76. The Twins, who had 
won the regular season series against the Tigers, 11 games to 7, were thus 
awarded home field due to a rules change prior to the 2009 season. It was 
the third tie-breaker played in MLB from 2007–2009. It was also the second 
consecutive tiebreaker for the AL Central title after 2008, when the Chicago 
White Sox defeated the Twins to win the division. The tie-breaker is counted 
as the 163rd regular season game played by both teams and all events in 
the game are added to regular season statistics. This was the Twins' final 
regular season game at the Metrodome as the team moved to Target Field 
for the 2010 season. The tie-breaker was later named the Best Regular-Season 
Game of the Decade by Sports Illustrated. The Tigers led the AL Central 
for periods at the start of the season in April, ultimately tying for the 
lead on May 10 and taking the lead outright on May 16.[1] The Tigers held 
at least a share of the divisional lead from then onwards, holding their 
largest lead of 7 games on September 6.[1] Although the Tigers went 16–12 
in September, their second-best month by winning percentage in 2009, they 
won just 1 of 4 games in October. The Twins went 16–11 and 4–0, respectively, 
over this same stretch to tie the Tigers for the divisional lead after 
the 162-game regular season.[1][2] More broadly, the Tigers were 48–39 
over the first half of the season while the Twins were 45–44 but the Twins 
came back in the second half going 41–32 leading up to the tie-breaker 
while the Tigers went 38–37 over the same span.[1][2] The Twins won 11 
of the two team's 18 match-ups that season prior to the tie-breaker.[2] 
This late season competition for the AL Central title included a 4-game 
series between the two teams from September 29 to October 2. The series, 
played at the Tigers' home field Comerica Park, started with a day-night 
doubleheader caused by a rainout the night before when the series was scheduled 
to start.[3] The final game of the series featured moments of contention 
between the two teams. In the third inning, Nate Robertson hit Denard Span. 
Minnesota starter Scott Baker hit Marcus Thames with a pitch the next inning.[4] 
Thames responded by sliding hard into second base to break up a potential 
double play that inning.[4] Twins' reliever Jose Mijares then threw behind 
the Tigers' Adam Everett in the eighth inning.[4] Umpire Angel Hernandez 
warned Mijares and the Tigers bench, Tigers' manager Jim Leyland argued 
with Hernandez, and he was ejected.[4] Despite the warning Minnesota's 
Delmon Young was hit in the knee with the first pitch in the ninth inning 
by Jeremy Bonderman. Bonderman was immediately ejected as was Tigers' catcher 
Gerald Laird who argued with Hernandez and the benches cleared, though 
there was no brawl.[4] Bonderman was suspended for three games, and Tigers' 
hitting coach Lloyd McClendon—who had been acting as manager following 
Leyland's ejection—was suspended for a game. McClendon, Leyland, and Laird 
were all fined.[5] Ultimately, the four-game series was split with two 
wins for each team, and the Tigers maintained a two-game lead with only 
three games remaining for each club. The Tigers lost two of their next 
three games to the Chicago White Sox, whereas the Twins swept the Kansas 
City Royals in a three-game set leaving both teams tied with an 86–76 record.[1][2] 
A one-game playoff would decide the winner of the Central division while 
the loser would be eliminated from playoff contention. Prior to the 2009 
season, home field advantage in a tiebreaker game was decided by a series 
of coin tosses held towards the end of the regular season that would decide 
the home teams of all possible one-game playoffs. A rule change following 
the 2008 season altered this process, leaving the site determined on a 
series of performance-based criteria beginning with the head-to-head record 
between the two teams that were tied.[6] Therefore, the Twins took home-field 
advantage in this game, by virtue of winning the season series against 
the Tigers 11–7. The game was the third MLB tie-breaker in as many seasons, 
a record number for the league.[7] While October 5 had been the original 
scheduled date for a potential tiebreaker game, a conflict with a Monday 
Night Football game between the Green Bay Packers and Minnesota Vikings 
being played at the Metrodome that night led to the baseball game being 
moved to the following day.[8] Box score for Tuesday, October 6, 2009—4:08 
p.m. (CT) at Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota The 
game was scoreless through the first two innings. Detroit took a three-run 
lead in the third inning which started when Curtis Granderson walked, advanced 
on a ground out, and scored on a single by Magglio Ordóñez to center field. 
Ordóñez was then brought home via a two-run home run by Tigers' first baseman 
Miguel Cabrera. The Twins responded in the bottom of the inning, with Matt 
Tolbert singling to lead off the inning, advancing to second base on a 
single by Denard Span, and then moving to third on a flyball out. Tigers' 
starter Rick Porcello attempted a pickoff throw to first which hit the 
baserunner Span and went past the first baseman Cabrera.[9] Span was out 
but Tolbert was able to score on Porcello's throwing error. The score remained 
3–1 until the bottom of the 6th inning. Porcello got the first two batters 
of the inning out but then allowed a solo home run to Jason Kubel to bring 
the game within one run. Porcello then walked the next batter, Michael 
Cuddyer, and was relieved by Zach Miner. The Twins loaded the bases against 
Miner, but did not score again in the inning. Scott Baker, the Twins' starter, 
walked the first batter of the 7th and was relieved by Jon Rauch though 
no runs scored. The Twins took a 4–3 lead in the bottom of the 7th with 
a leadoff single by Nick Punto and a two-run home run by Orlando Cabrera. 
The Tigers responded, tying the game at 4 with a home run by Ordóñez in 
the top of the 8th off of Matt Guerrier. Guerrier allowed another two walks 
in the inning and was relieved by closer Joe Nathan who escaped the inning 
with no further scoring. Nathan remained in the game, holding the Tigers 
scoreless in the 9th, while Tigers' closer Fernando Rodney did the same 
to Minnesota to force extra innings. Jesse Crain replaced Nathan in the 
top of the 10th and hit Aubrey Huff who was pinch hitting for Wilkin Ramirez. 
Don Kelly then pinch ran for Huff, and scored on a double by Brandon Inge 
to give the Tigers a 5–4 lead. The Tigers inserted Clete Thomas for Ordóñez 
in right field as a defensive replacement in the bottom of the 10th. However 
the Twins retied the game at 5–5 as Cuddyer led off the inning with a triple 
and, following a Delmon Young groundout and a walk to Brendan Harris, scored 
on a single by Tolbert. Alexi Casilla pinch-ran for Harris and advanced 
to third on Tolbert's single. Nick Punto then hit a fly ball to left-fielder 
Ryan Raburn. Casilla attempted to score on the play, but inadvertently 
inched off the base before the ball was caught, and had to return to the 
base before breaking for home. Catcher Gerald Laird successfully tagged 
out Casilla to complete the inning-ending double play. Both teams were 
held scoreless in the 11th. The Tigers threatened to score in the top of 
the 12th, with a walk by Cabrera and a single by Kelly with one out. Twins 
pitcher Bobby Keppel then intentionally walked Raburn to load the bases, 
hoping he could induce a double play.[10] Then, Keppel threw a fastball 
close to batter Brandon Inge with his first pitch.[10] Inge believed he 
was hit by the ball and should advance to first, which would force a go-ahead 
run to score with the bases loaded, but home plate umpire Randy Marsh ruled 
the pitch did not hit Inge and allowed the at-bat to continue.[10] Tigers' 
manager Jim Leyland would say later that "the replay kind of confirms that 
it did hit him," but Marsh maintained that replays were "inconclusive."[10] 
Inge ultimately grounded into a force out at home and Laird would strikeout 
to close the top of the inning with no scoring. Carlos Gómez led off the 
bottom of the 12th with a single for the Twins and advanced to second on 
a ground-out. With first base open, the Tigers intentionally walked Delmon 
Young to bring up Casilla. Casilla atoned for his earlier base-running 
blunder by hitting a ground ball through the right side of the infield. 
The base hit allowed the speedy Gomez to score from second without a play, 
thus giving the Twins a 6–5 walk-off victory.[11][12] The tie-breaker win 
clinched the American League Central for the Twins and earned them a spot 
in the 2009 AL Division Series (ALDS) against the New York Yankees. They 
were swept, losing the ALDS in three games. The Tigers became the first 
team in MLB history to have a three-game division lead with four games 
remaining and lose the division.[9] MLB tie-breaker games count as regular 
season games[13] and this game affected certain statistical races for the 
2009 season. For example, Jason Beck of MLB.com noted that if the umpire 
agreed with Brandon Inge on the contentious 12th inning call Inge would 
have tied for the most hit by a pitch in the American League.[10] Twins' 
catcher Joe Mauer won the 2009 American League batting title,[14] and his 
final batting average for the season moved from .364 to .365 in the game.[15] 
The game was later chosen by Sports Illustrated as the Best Regular-Season 
