The 2009 Baseball World Cup was an international baseball tournament that 
started on 9 September 2009. The final was held in Nettuno, Italy on 27 
September 2009. It was the 38th time the World Cup took place, and the 
first time that it was hosted by a continent rather than a single country. 
Eight European countries hosted the tournament and 22 nations competed, 
including defending champions the United States. The United States successfully 
defended their title, achieving their fourth World Cup championship by 
defeating Cuba in the final 10–5. Canada defeated Puerto Rico in the bronze 
medal game 6–2 for their first medal at a World Cup. Previous editions 
of the World Cup were held with no more than 18 teams. These teams were 
initially broken up into two pools, with the top teams from each pool qualifying 
for the final knockout stage. With 22 teams competing in the 2009 tournament, 
the format has been expanded into three phases. Teams that play from the 
first round and finish among the top eight teams of the tournament will 
now have played as many as 15 games, making it one of the longest campaigns 
for any international baseball tournament. All of the teams, with the exception 
of Italy and Netherlands, will compete in the first round (as hosts for 
the second round games, Italy and Netherlands receive a bye through the 
first round). The teams will be broken into five pools of four teams each. 
Each pool will be held in a different country, with the hosts Czech Republic, 
Spain, Sweden, Croatia and Germany assigned to the corresponding pools. 
(Previously, Russia had been set as the host nation for Pool D, however 
they were replaced by Croatia in an announcement from the IBAF.)[1] Unlike 
the 2009 World Baseball Classic, the pools will be conducted in single 
round-robin format.[2] The top two teams from each pool will automatically 
qualify for the second round, while four of the five third-place finishers 
will also qualify as wild cards.[3] In some respects, the first round is 
like a final qualifying tournament, similar to the format used for the 
2008 Beijing Olympics. The second round operates similarly to the first, 
but on an expanded scale. The field of teams is split into two pools, one 
hosted in Italy, the other in the Netherlands. The fourteen qualifiers 
from the first round are assigned to the pools, and commence a single round-robin 
competition.[3] The top four teams from each pool then qualify for the 
third and final round.[4] The third round is broken into two parts: a partial 
round-robin and then four classification games, including the final. Each 
team will play four games during the round-robin phase, against the teams 
they have not yet faced (in Round 2) who also qualified – i.e. the teams 
from the Italian pool will face the teams from the Netherlands pool, but 
not each other. The teams are then ranked on their results in this phase 
and in games of the 2nd round between qualified teams, but in two groups 
based on the pool they qualified from. Each team then plays a classification 
game against their counterpart from the opposite group to determine their 
final placings in the tournament – i.e. the fourth place Italian qualifier 
faces the fourth place Netherlands qualifier to determine seventh and eighth 
positions, the third place qualifiers compete for fifth and sixth positions, 
and so on. The winner of the final classification game will be declared 
the winner of the World Cup for 2009.[4] The IBAF employs a standard tiebreaking 
system across all tournaments it sanctions, though it will use a modified 
version for this World Cup. Ordinarily there are five criteria available 
to be used when two or more teams finish the tournament (or a section thereof) 
with the same winning percentage; if the first method does not split the 
teams involved, the next one is used, continuing down the list of methods 
until a distinction is achieved. The criteria used to determine the higher 
placed finishing team, in order, are: For this World Cup though, a simplified 
method of tiebreaking will be used: In the case of determining the four 
wild card teams that will progress from the first to the second round, 
the first measure will automatically be skipped, as it will be impossible 
for the teams to have played against each other.[5] Twenty-two teams qualified 
for the tournament, either through finishing high enough in the 2007 World 
Cup, placing high enough in regional tournaments that doubled as qualifying 
tournaments for the event, or by automatic qualification by hosting some 
part of the tournament. Group 1 Group 2 The IBAF announced the following 
