The 2009 Major League Baseball season began on Sunday, April 5, 2009 with 
the New York Yankees defeating the 2008 World Series champion Philadelphia 
Phillies 4–2. The regular season ended on October 6, extended two days 
for a one-game playoff between the Detroit Tigers and the Minnesota Twins 
to decide the American League Central Division champion. The postseason 
began the next day with the Division Series. The 2009 World Series began 
on October 28, and ended on November 4, with the New York Yankees defeating 
the Philadelphia Phillies in six games; and for the ninth year in a row, 
the defending World Series champion (the Phillies) failed to repeat the 
previous year's run. This was the second time the season was completed 
in November. The only other occasion was the 2001 World Series, that because 
of the delaying of the end of that season because of the September 11 attacks 
as November baseball would be guaranteed when Game 4 was played on Sunday, 
November 1. The American League champion had home field advantage for the 
World Series by virtue of winning the All-Star Game on July 14 at Busch 
Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri, 4–3. In addition, the annual Civil Rights 
Game became a regular season game, and was played June 20 at Great American 
Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio when the host Cincinnati Reds lost to the 
Chicago White Sox in an interleague game, 10–8. Both teams wore replicas 
of their 1965 uniforms in the contest. The New York Yankees, with 103 wins, 
clinched Major League Baseball's best record in the 2009 season, and the 
#1 seed in the American League by winning the AL East. The Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim won the second seed with a 97–65 record, while a 95–67 
mark was enough to win the wild card spot for the Boston Red Sox. In the 
AL Central, the Minnesota Twins defeated the Detroit Tigers in a one-game 
playoff for the division championship and the #3 seed. The Los Angeles 
Dodgers had the National League's best record (95–67), clinching the top 
seed in the Senior Circuit. The NL East champion Philadelphia Phillies, 
who were defending their 2008 title, was the #2 seed with a 93–69 record. 
The St. Louis Cardinals, from the NL Central, notched a 91–71 record, and 
the wild card went to the Colorado Rockies from the NL West. Note: Major 
League Baseball's playoff format automatically seeds the Wild Card team 
4th. Normally, the No. 1 seed plays the No. 4 seed in the Division Series. 
However, MLB does not allow the No. 1 seed to play the 4th seed/Wild Card 
winner in the Division Series if they are from the same division, instead 
having the No. 1 seed play the next lowest seed, the No. 3 seed. The Seattle 
Mariners named Milwaukee Brewers scouting director Jack Zduriencik its 
new general manager on October 22, replacing interim GM Lee Pelekoudas. 
Washington Nationals GM Jim Bowden resigned on March 1 amid allegations 
that he was skimming bonus money from Latin American players. Team president 
Stan Kasten first took over the bulk of his duties before transferring 
them to assistant GM Mike Rizzo, who had served as acting GM, and was named 
as the full-time general manager on August 20. During the last days of 
the regular season, two teams fired their general managers, effective at 
the end of the season. On October 3, the Toronto Blue Jays fired J. P. 
Ricciardi after eight seasons. The following day, the San Diego Padres 
axed Kevin Towers, who had been the longest-tenured GM in Major League 
Baseball at 14 seasons. Two teams announced new managers in the offseason: 
Cito Gaston and Jerry Manuel both entered their first full season as managers 
of the Toronto Blue Jays and New York Mets, respectively, after taking 
over for managers dismissed in the middle of the 2008 season. Gaston had 
previously been the Blue Jays' manager from 1989 until 1997. On January 
15, the owners of the 30 Major League Baseball clubs approved two rule 
changes governing the playing of postseason and one-game playoff games. 
The 2009 season marked the opening of two new stadiums, both in New York 
City; Citi Field for the Mets and the new Yankee Stadium for the Yankees. 
They respectively replaced Shea Stadium (which was dismantled during the 
2008–09 offseason) and the original Yankee Stadium (which will become a 
public park after it is demolished). Because of the smaller seating capacities 
in these new parks, Dodger Stadium is now the largest capacity park in 
use with 56,000 seats, and is also the third oldest ballpark in Major League 
Baseball behind Fenway Park and Wrigley Field. Citi Field opened with a 
night game on April 13 as the Mets hosted the San Diego Padres losing 6–5. 
In that game, Jody Gerut of the Padres became the first player in major 
league history to open a new ballpark with a leadoff homer.[3] Three days 
later, the Cleveland Indians inaugurated New Yankee Stadium against the 
Bronx Bombers. The Indians won 10–2. On Jackie Robinson Day (April 15), 
a rotunda at Citi Field was named in honor of Jackie Robinson and was dedicated 
prior to the Mets–Padres game that day. The 2009 season also marked the 
final season of the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome as the home for the Minnesota 
Twins, where they had played since 1982. In 2010, the team moved to Target 
Field, their new baseball-only stadium located a short distance across 
town. Previously, since moving from Washington, D.C. in 1961, the franchise 
has shared, first Metropolitan Stadium, and then the Metrodome with the 
NFL's Minnesota Vikings; they also shared tenant rights at the Metrodome 
with the University of Minnesota's football team. The Golden Gophers started 
to play on-campus at TCF Bank Stadium in 2009. The Metrodome's last scheduled 
regular season game was to be played on Sunday, October 4, 2009, but the 
Twins tied the Detroit Tigers necessitating a one-game playoff between 
the two teams on October 6. While not a new stadium, Kansas City's Kauffman 
Stadium completed a two-year renovation. The first year saw a new video 
board dubbed "Crown Vision" and refitting of several sections. Improvements 
for 2009 include a new glass and brick facade to the exterior of the ballpark, 
newly expanded team Hall of Fame, a new sports bar/restaurant, improved 
sightlines, new luxury suites and refurbished press and radio/TV facilities 
to name a few. In late March, the Florida Marlins had their funding for 
a new stadium at the former site of the Miami Orange Bowl approved by Miami-Dade 
County commissioners. Groundbreaking ceremonies were held on July 18, with 
an opening by 2012, at which time the team will be renamed the Miami Marlins. 
This would have marked the first full season in the USA for baseball games 
to be telecast as the transition from analog to digital television that 
was to have been made on February 17. However, the transition took place 
June 12. A new entrant in the baseball television rights marketplace debuted 
on January 1 when the MLB Network, owned by Major League Baseball, joined 
Fox, ESPN and TBS not only televising games, but also other baseball-related 
programming from their studio in Secaucus, New Jersey, formerly the studios 
of MSNBC. MLB was the last of the four major team sports to start its own 
television channel. The national telecast breakdown, along with the maximum 
number of appearances per team, is: In Canada, Toronto Blue Jays games 
will be televised on Rogers Sportsnet and TSN. RSN also holds the Canadian 
rights to air the Fox and ESPN/ESPN2 games if they do not conflict with 
Blue Jays games, as well as the All-Star Game and the entire postseason. 
In Australia free to air channel One HD shows up to 5 games live per week, 
and European channel ESPN America broadcasts games as well. ESPN Radio 
will once again serve as MLB's national radio network, broadcasting Sunday 
Night Baseball as well as selected Saturday and holiday games during the 
regular season, the Home Run Derby and All-Star Game, and all postseason 
series. As stated earlier, the Mets and Yankees wore patches commemorating 
the inaugural seasons of their new parks, the Twins wore patches commemorating 
their final season at the Metrodome, and the Cardinals, hosting the All-Star 
Game, wore a patch to celebrate that event. Other teams' memorials and 
accomplishments on their sleeves: The Pittsburgh Pirates, Detroit Tigers, 
Oakland Athletics and Chicago White Sox led the Majors in wearing throwback 
uniforms. On May 2 at Safeco Field, the Athletics and Seattle Mariners 
honored 1939 by wearing special uniforms. The Mariners honored the Seattle 
Rainiers and the Oakland Athletics honored the Oakland Oaks from that season. 
Both teams played in the Pacific Coast League that season. The A's then 
wore a 1980s styled uniform in St. Petersburg on July 11 against the Tampa 
Bay Rays, who wore uniforms from their inaugural season of 1998 when they 
were known as the "Devil Rays". Finally, On August 16, the Athletics and 
White Sox used vintage throwbacks. The A's wore uniforms from their Philadelphia 
period, with blue caps and a large A on the front of their jerseys. The 
White Sox wore their jerseys with a large S with a lowercase O in the top 
loop and a lowercase X in the bottom loop.[7] On June 14, the Tigers and 
Pirates wore throwback uniforms to commemorate the 100th anniversary of 
both Forbes Field and the 1909 World Series between the two teams. That 
game also featured a throwback atmosphere: no music or flashy graphics, 
no mascots (meaning no Jolly Roger or Pirate Parrot), and a hand-operated 
scoreboard. One modern item occurred in the pre-game: The Stanley Cup champion 
Pittsburgh Penguins made a surprise visit and brought the trophy with them. 
The Pirates and the Kansas City Royals also honored the Negro Leagues on 
June 26 and 27 with the Pirates wearing the Homestead Grays uniforms and 
the Royals donning Kansas City Monarchs replicas. The Pirates and the Cincinnati 
Reds recreated their 1979 National League Championship Series uniforms 
on August 21 as part of the Buccos' 30th anniversary celebration of their 
World Series championship. The Bucs wore their gold pillbox hat with a 
gold jersey and black pants, a faux pas from the uniforms that season as 
a black cap was worn that year with the gold jersey. In addition to the 
afforementioned Civil Rights Game and game in Oakland, the White Sox, originators 
of the genre of replica throwback uniforms, commemorated the fiftieth anniversary 
of their 1959 American League Championship on June 25 against the team 
that they played in that World Series, the Los Angeles Dodgers, who opted 
to wear their regular uniforms instead, as manager Joe Torre did not want 
to create hype of a World Series that was 50 years ago. The Tigers and 
the Cleveland Indians played in Negro League replicas twice, with the Tigers 
in Detroit Stars uniforms, and the Indians outfitted in Cleveland Buckeyes 
replicas. In a "home-and-home" style series, the Tigers hosting the Tribe 
July 11 at Comerica Park, with the Tigers in 1920 Stars uniforms and the 
Indians in the 1948 Buckeyes road grays, while the Indians played host 
August 1 at Progressive Field seeing Cleveland wearing Buckeyes home whites 
