The 2009 World Baseball Classic was an international baseball competition. 
It is the only international baseball tournament to feature a large number 
of players from the major leagues of North America and Asia. It began on 
March 5 and finished March 23. Unlike in 2006, when the round-robin format 
of the first two rounds led to some eliminations being decided by run difference 
tiebreakers, the first two rounds of the 2009 edition were modified double-elimination 
format. The modification was that the final game of each bracket was winner-take-all, 
even if won by the team emerging from the loser's bracket, although that 
game only affected seeding as two teams always advanced from each bracket. 
The biggest surprise in the first round was the Netherlands, which twice 
defeated the Dominican Republic in Pool D to advance. The second round 
saw the two Pool A teams (South Korea and Japan) defeat the two Pool B 
teams (Cuba and Mexico) while the two Pool C teams (Venezuela and the United 
States) defeated the two Pool D teams (Puerto Rico and the Netherlands). 
South Korea and Japan then advanced to the final game, playing each other 
for the fifth time in the tournament (split 2–2 up to that time), and Japan 
emerged victorious for the second straight Classic, winning the final game 
5–3 in 10 innings. Also for the second straight Classic, Daisuke Matsuzaka 
was named the Most Valuable Player of the tournament. As was the case for 
the 2006 tournament, the sixteen teams were split into four pools of four 
teams each.[1] Whereas previously the teams played in round-robin competition 
in the first two rounds, this time they took part in a double-elimination 
format, similar to the USA's College World Series sponsored by the NCAA. 
Under the new format, teams were only guaranteed to play two games. This 
change was made to eliminate the complicated tiebreaking procedures,[2] 
which were required for one of the pools in each of the first two rounds 
in 2006. After the first round, the tournament was held on American soil. 
The top two teams from each of the four pools—seeded from the final game 
in their respective pools—went to the second round, with the teams from 
Pools A and B meeting at Petco Park in San Diego for Pool 1, and the teams 
in Pools C and D playing at Dolphin Stadium in Miami Gardens for Pool 2.[3] 
Again, both pools made use of double-elimination to determine the teams 
qualifying for the semifinals. In another change from 2006, the four qualifying 
teams crossed over for the semifinals, with the winner of each pool playing 
against the runner-up from the other pool.[2] The championship round process 
was otherwise unchanged, with each semifinal being a single elimination 
match, the victors meeting in the final to determine the tournament champion. 
All three championship round games were held at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles.[3] 
In the final, the team with the higher winning percentage of games in the 
tournament were to be the home team. If the teams competing in the final 
had identical winning percentages in the tournament, then World Baseball 
Classic, Inc. (WBCI) would conduct a coin flip or draw to determine the 
home team. In the final standings, ties were to be broken in the following 
order of priority: These standings and tiebreaking procedures are based 
on International Baseball Federation (IBAF) rules. Each participating national 
federation had a deadline of January 19, 2009 to submit a 45-man provisional 
roster. Final rosters of 28 players, which also must include a minimum 
of 13 pitchers and two catchers, were submitted on February 24. If a player 
on the submitted roster was unable to play, usually due to injury, he could 
be substituted at any time before the start of the tournament. While rosters 
cannot be changed during a round of competition, a team that advances to 
a later round can change its roster for the later round. Seven stadiums 
were used during the tournament: The 16 teams that participated in the 
2006 World Baseball Classic were all invited back for the 2009 tournament. 
The World Baseball Classic, Inc. (WBCI) changed the members of each pool 
as compared with the 2006 Classic, however, except for Pool A. There was 
no official qualifying competition. 801,408 (avg. 20,549; pct. 54.5%) 453,374 
(avg. 18,891; pct. 55.6%) 206,180 (avg. 17,182; pct. 42.3%) 141,854 (avg. 
47,285; pct. 84.4%) * Minimum 2.7 plate appearances per game * Minimum 
0.8 innings pitched per game ** González is tied with 17 others with a 
0.00 ERA but he pitched the most innings with 9.2 As was the case for the 
2006 Classic, several rules were announced for the 2009 tournament that 
modified the existing rules for international baseball set out by the IBAF.[4][5] 
Once again there were limits on the number of pitches thrown in a game, 
though the limits themselves were changed from the previous tournament: 
If a pitcher reached his limit during an at bat, he was allowed to finish 
pitching to the batter, but was removed from the game at the end of the 
at bat. A 30–pitch outing needed to be followed by one day off, and a 50–pitch 
outing by four days off. No one would be allowed to pitch on three consecutive 
days. As the championship round was played over three consecutive days, 
a so-called "pitcher rest equalization" rule was added: a pitcher making 
30 or more pitches in a semifinal was ineligible to pitch in the final. 
This negated an advantage the winners of the first semifinal would have 
had in the final. A mercy rule came into effect when one team led by either 
fifteen runs after five innings, or ten runs after seven innings in the 
first two rounds. Instant replay was also available to umpires during the 
tournament. As was introduced in Major League Baseball during the 2008 
season, replays were only used to adjudicate on home run decisions, to 
determine whether the ball was fair or foul, over the fence or not, and 
the impact of fan interference. An alternative version of the IBAF's extra 
inning rule was also introduced. If after 12 innings the score was still 
tied, each half inning thereafter would have started with runners on second 
and first base. The runners would have been the eighth and ninth hitters 
due in that inning respectively. For example, if the number five hitter 
was due to lead off the inning, the number three hitter would have been 
on second base, and the number four hitter on first base. However, this 
rule was never actually employed in this year's Classic, as the two extra-inning 
games in the tournament ended prior to a 13th inning. All base coaches 
were required to wear protective helmets, in the aftermath of the death 
of Mike Coolbaugh and participating teams were required to announce the 
next day's starting pitcher. Additionally, a modified early termination 
rule was in effect for the first two rounds; had a team been ahead by 15 
or more runs after five innings or ten or more runs after seven or eight 
innings, the game ended at that point. USD 14,000,000 In the United States, 
ESPN and the MLB Network shared the rights, with ESPN broadcasting 23 of 
the games, including the Finals, while MLB Network showed the remaining 
16.[6] Spanish language telecasts in the USA were handled by ESPN Deportes 
telecasting all games. Internationally, it was broadcast to 167 countries 
by ESPN International. In Canada, Rogers Sportsnet aired all 39 games.[7] 
In the Dominican Republic, CDN (Cadena de Noticias) and CDN2 broadcast 
all games live (except for games played in Tokyo, shown on tape delay)[citation 
needed] In Japan, J Sports broadcast all 39 games. TV Asahi (Round 1) and 
TBS (Round 2 and Finals) broadcast all games featuring Japan. For all games 
featuring Japan, they gained viewing ratings of at least 20%. The final 
game gained ratings in the range 30-45%.[8] World Baseball Classic 2009 
has licensed three video games, all made in Japan: Pro Yakyuu Spirits 6,[9] 
