The Philadelphia Phillies' 2009 season was the 127th season in the history 
of the franchise. The team, managed by Charlie Manuel, began their sixth 
season at Citizens Bank Park and defense of their 2008 World Series championship 
on April 5. After collecting a third straight Eastern Division championship, 
the Phillies won their second consecutive National League pennant for the 
first time in franchise history; they were defeated by the New York Yankees 
in the 2009 World Series. The Phillies posted a second consecutive winning 
April to open the season with an 11–9 record, but the month was marred 
by the death of legendary broadcaster Harry Kalas.[1] After opening the 
month of May against the rival New York Mets, the Phillies met President 
Barack Obama to celebrate their World Series victory the previous season, 
and had two rookie pitchers win consecutive starts for the first time since 
2007. Starting pitcher Jamie Moyer earned his 250th career win during the 
month, while first baseman Ryan Howard and outfielder Raúl Ibáñez became 
the first Phillies teammates to hit 10 home runs in the same month. Echoing 
their strong run in the middle of the 2008 season, the Phillies compiled 
a 16–4 record in late May and early June, which was countered by weakness 
during interleague play in late June. After the team's largest victory 
of the season (22–1 over the Cincinnati Reds) in early July, five Phillies—Howard, 
Ibáñez, second baseman Chase Utley, and outfielders Shane Victorino and 
Jayson Werth—were selected to the All-Star team. July was the team's best 
showing of the season, as they compiled their first 20-win month since 
the 2001 season. The Phillies traded for starting pitcher Cliff Lee at 
the end of the month to bolster their starting rotation, who won his first 
five starts with the team, and signed free-agent pitcher Pedro Martínez. 
In August, Eric Bruntlett turned the first game-ending unassisted triple 
play in National League history, and the second in team history. The following 
month, the team clinched its third consecutive division championship on 
September 30, becoming the first Phillies team to make a third straight 
playoff appearance since the 1976–1978 Phillies. Philadelphia defeated 
the Colorado Rockies in the National League Division Series (NLDS), 3–1, 
and the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League Championship Series 
(NLCS) for the second consecutive year, 4–1. Howard was named the most 
valuable player of the NLCS. The Phillies were defeated by the Yankees 
in the World Series, four games to two. Statistical leaders[A] in batting 
for the 2009 team included Victorino (batting average, .292), Howard (home 
runs, 45; runs batted in, 141), and Utley (runs scored, 112). For his season 
accomplishments, Utley won his fourth consecutive Silver Slugger Award. 
Pitching leaders included right-handed starting pitcher Joe Blanton (innings 
pitched,  195 1⁄3), left-handed starter J. A. Happ (win–loss record, 12–4), 
and relief pitcher Brad Lidge (saves, 31). Victorino and shortstop Jimmy 
Rollins also won Rawlings Gold Glove Awards for their play in the field. 
On November 4, following the World Series, the Phillies released third 
base coach Steve Smith.[2] Smith had been with the team for two years. 
The Phillies were expected to have the remaining coaches to return for 
the 2009 season.[2] However, bench coach Jimy Williams opted not to return 
to the Phillies for the 2009 season, notifying the team on November 10.[3] 
Charlie Manuel had expected Williams to return for the 2009 season, and 
was surprised that he declined. However, Williams left the team on good 
terms, and Manuel stated that he was welcome to come back to the Phillies 
if he changed his mind.[4] Left fielder Pat Burrell became a free agent 
at the end of the 2008 season, signing with the Tampa Bay Rays, whom the 
Phillies had defeated in the World Series, on January 5. The team did not 
tender an offer to Burrell following eight seasons. The Phillies also released 
outfielder So Taguchi on November 5.[5] Taguchi had served as a pinch-hitter 
for the Phillies in 2008, and also replaced Burrell in left field some 
games. Eric Bruntlett replaced Taguchi for the latter half of the 2008 
season. Relief pitcher Tom Gordon also filed for free agency, ultimately 
signing with the Arizona Diamondbacks.[6] On November 3, the Phillies named 
Rubén Amaro, Jr. to be the general manager after Pat Gillick retired at 
the end of a three-year contract.[7] Amaro previously had a long history 
with the Phillies, serving as a bat boy in the 1980s, a player in the 1990s, 
and as assistant general manager for the Phillies from 1998 until his appointment 
as general manager. Gillick remained with the Phillies as an advisor.[8] 
On November 13, Sam Perlozzo joined the Phillies as third base coach and 
fielding/infield coach after spending the 2008 season in the same position 
for the Seattle Mariners.[9] Perlozzo previously served as the third base 
coach for the New York Mets, the Cincinnati Reds, and as third base coach, 
bench coach, and manager for the Baltimore Orioles.[9] Another former manager, 
Pete Mackanin, was named the team's new bench coach on November 21; he 
had been interim manager for the Reds when Jerry Narron was fired in Cincinnati 
in 2007.[10] On November 28, the Phillies signed Mike Koplove[11] Koplove, 
a right-handed relief pitcher, was optioned to the AAA Lehigh Valley IronPigs 
at the end of spring training. On December 16, Raúl Ibáñez agreed to play 
left field for the Phillies in a 3-year, $31.5 million deal.[12] South 
Korean pitcher Chan Ho Park officially signed a one-year contract to join 
the Phillies on January 6,[13] after agreeing to a deal in principle in 
December.[14][15] Park was originally signed as an insurance policy for 
the bullpen, as reliever J. C. Romero was assigned a fifty-game suspension 
after violating the Major League Baseball drug policy, but won the fifth 
starter's job in Spring training.[16] Left-handed reliever Scott Eyre re-signed 
with the Phillies after becoming a vital part of the bullpen during the 
stretch run.[17] The Phillies re-signed left-handed starter Jamie Moyer 
on December 15 after lengthy negotiations. The 46-year-old Moyer was inked 
to a two-year contract to return to the world champions and kept a key 
part of the Phillies' postseason rotation intact.[18] The team also avoided 
salary arbitration with first baseman Ryan Howard's three-year contract.[19] 
On November 20, second baseman Chase Utley had hip surgery and was scheduled 
to be out for four to six months.[20] However, on December 15, Utley said 
in a press conference that he could be ready for Opening Night.[21] Just 
under four months later, Utley made his first pre-season game appearance 
in an intersquad game March 14,[22] and his first appearance in actual 
game competition the next day against the St. Louis Cardinals.[23] Third 
baseman Pedro Feliz also had surgery on his back to repair a herniated 
disc on the same day as Utley.[24] Feliz officially returned to spring 
training action on March 13.[25] During spring training, starting pitcher 
Cole Hamels left training camp on March 16 and flew to Philadelphia to 
have his left elbow examined by Dr. Michael Ciccotti. Hamels felt tightness 
in between innings and after he was done pitching for the day. "This will 
obviously set me back a couple of days, and I don’t think that should be 
a big deal", said Hamels.[26] However, the injury threw his Opening Day 
start against the Braves into doubt, even though Ciccotti found no structural 
damage in his arm;[27][28] Brett Myers was announced as Hamels' replacement 
to start Opening Night.[29] On November 13, the Phillies announced their 
spring training schedule.[30] In addition to their Grapefruit League games, 
the Phillies played two games against two of the World Baseball Classic 
teams. The Phillies defeated Team Canada (with Phillie Matt Stairs) on 
March 4, 9–2,[31] and lost to Team USA (with Jimmy Rollins and Shane Victorino) 
on March 5, 9–6.[32] The team broke camp April 2 and headed north to play 
two "On Deck Series" games on April 3 and 4 against the Tampa Bay Rays 
at Citizens Bank Park; they split the series, winning 3–2 and losing 9–7.[33] 
The Phillies finished the 2009 preseason with a record of 13–19, 10 games 
behind the Grapefruit League-leading New York Yankees.[34] Ryan Howard 
led all players in Spring Training with 10 home runs.[35] The team set 
spring training attendance-records for Bright House Field in 2009. They 
set a single-game record with 10,335 people in attendance on March 15 for 
a game against the St. Louis Cardinals.[36] The Phillies set the franchise's 
total spring training attendance record for Bright House Field, with 133,620 
attending in 2009.[37] The Phillies began their 2009 season in front of 
a sold-out crowd of 44,532 at Citizens Bank Park on April 5, playing against 
the Atlanta Braves.[33] The Phillies, originally scheduled to play in the 
afternoon of April 6, earned the distinction of playing the opening game 
of the entire 2009 Major League Baseball season after winning the 2008 
World Series.[38] They lost the opener 4–1 to the division-rival Braves, 
whose new ace, Derek Lowe, pitched eight shutout innings.[39] The Phillies 
lost the next game,[40] and were in danger of losing the following night 
and dropping to 0–3 before scoring eight runs in the bottom of the seventh 
inning for a 12–11 come-from-behind win.[41] The Phillies lost their first 
game in Denver, but came from behind again in their next two games to take 
the second series from the Colorado Rockies.[42] The Phillies defeated 
the Washington Nationals in the opener of their third series,[43] just 
hours after the death of Hall of Fame broadcaster Harry Kalas,[44] but 
lost the third scheduled game of the series after the second was cancelled 
due to weather. In their series against the San Diego Padres, the Phillies 
dropped the first two games as well; during the second game, closer Brad 
Lidge blew his first save in a Phillies uniform, breaking his streak of 
47 consecutive saves extending back to the 2007 regular season.[45] The 
Phillies won the Sunday afternoon matinee against the Padres, 5–4, on a 
walk-off home run by Ibáñez after trailing the entire game.[46] The Phillies' 
offense benefited from rest due to the postponement of the final game of 
the Padres' series, as they defeated the Milwaukee Brewers in the opener 
of their mid-week series, 11–4.[47] The next two games did not go as smoothly, 
as the Phillies were shut out through eight innings in the second game 
and nearly no-hit by Brewers starter Dave Bush in the third game.[48][49] 
Phillies starter Cole Hamels was hit by a line drive in the fourth inning 
and exited the game; before departing, he had retired nine out of the ten 
batters he faced.[50] Hitting the road for a series against the division-leading 
Florida Marlins, the Phillies were shut out through eight innings in the 
first game of the series, only to score seven runs in the top of the ninth 
against power-throwing closer Matt Lindstrom, winning the game, 7–3, thanks 
to Shane Victorino's first career regular season grand slam.[51] The following 
night's game offered another come-from-behind win for the Phillies, as 
they trailed in the ninth again to win in extra innings, 6–4,[52] and the 
13–2 victory on April 26 capped the team's first series sweep.[53] Hosting 
Washington for their second series against the Nationals, the Phillies 
fell behind in the seventh inning before a grand slam by Ibáñez capped 
their 13–11 victory; combined with Ryan Howard's game-tying grand slam 
in the fifth inning, this was only the fourth time in Phillies history 
that teammates hit grand slams in the same game.[54] The Phillies split 
the remaining two games of the series with Washington, finishing with an 
April record of 11–9, their second consecutive winning April. The Phillies 
opened May against the division-rival New York Mets, losing the opening 
game of the month, 7–4.[55] Back-to-back walks in the tenth inning of the 
Saturday afternoon game gave the Phillies their first win of the season 
over the Mets.[56] After a rainout, the Phillies opened their first series 
in St. Louis with the Cardinals. They won the first game of the series 
on Howard's second grand slam in as many weeks after a pitchers' duel between 
starters Kyle Lohse and Joe Blanton[57] and completed the two-game series 
sweep with a 10–7 victory on May 5, capped by a Jayson Werth three-run 
home run and a 4-for-5 performance from Victorino.[58] The Phillies' brief 
stop in New York was marred by a two-game series sweep; Phillies hitters 
were shut down by Mets starters Johan Santana[59] and Mike Pelfrey,[60] 
and closer Francisco Rodríguez recorded saves in both games of the series.[59][60] 
The following series was barely better, as the Phillies dropped two games 
to the Braves.[61] On May 12, Werth stole four bases, including home plate, 
tying a Phillies record and leading to a 5–3 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers;[62] 
however, the series result was the same as the previous one, as the Phillies 
dropped two games in the set to Los Angeles.[61] Carrying a .500 winning 
percentage south from Philadelphia to Washington, the team visited the 
White House and was congratulated by President Barack Obama for their championship 
the previous season. The visit had been postponed from April 14 due to 
Kalas' death.[63] After meeting the President, the Phillies opened the 
series with a second consecutive extra-inning game, defeating the Nationals 
in 12 innings.[64] Because pitcher J. A. Happ had to enter Friday night's 
game in relief, the Phillies called up right-handed starting pitcher Andrew 
Carpenter from Reading to start the second game of Saturday's doubleheader 
(a make-up of the postponement from April 15).[65] Carpenter earned his 
first major league win in the rain-shortened second game[66] after Myers 
earned the win in the afternoon game.[67] Though Sunday's starter Park 
only pitched 1 1⁄3 innings, the Phillies swept the series with the Nationals 
with an 8–6 come-from-behind win, with new call-up Sergio Escalona earning 
his first major league win.[68] This marked the first time since the 2007 
season that rookies had won back-to-back starts for the Phillies (Hamels 
and Kyle Kendrick).[69] The Phillies took two of three games in each of 
their next two series with the Cincinnati Reds and the New York Yankees 
to finish their road trip with an 8–2 record. Though they lost two games 
against Florida, the final series of the month against Washington resulted 
in a second straight series sweep, as the Phillies defeated the Nationals 
in three consecutive games to finish the month with a 17–11 record;[61] 
the last game of the series was Moyer's 250th career victory.[70] With 
strong offensive performances in May, Howard and Ibáñez became the first 
pair of Phillies to hit 10 home runs in the same month.[71] The month of 
June saw the continuation of the Phillies' hot streak; from May 15 to June 
4, the team compiled a 16–4 record, culminating with a three-game sweep 
of the Padres on the Phillies' first trip to the West Coast.[72] In that 
series, rookie Antonio Bastardo made his major league debut, striking out 
five batters and allowing one earned run in six innings of work to earn 
his first career victory.[73] Traveling north to Los Angeles for a rematch 
of the previous year's playoff series, the Phillies managed a split despite 
the bullpen's struggles. Lidge blew two saves in consecutive nights, taking 
the loss in the first game[74] and allowing the game-tying home run in 
the other.[75] The series was bookended by the team's first shutout of 
the season, a complete game by Hamels,[76] and a second consecutive strong 
performance from Bastardo, who pitched five innings and allowed only two 
runs in a game that ended with a final score of 7–2.[77] The final stop 
on the road trip was Citi Field, where the Phillies faced off against the 
Mets. All three games were close, with two one-run wins in the series and 
two extra-inning victories for the Phillies, won by home runs from Utley 
and Ibáñez on June 10 and 11.[78][79] The team's strong stretch did not 
continue, however, as the Phillies entered the second period of interleague 
play with five consecutive series against the American League East. While 
they managed a single win against the Boston Red Sox,[80] it was followed 
by a six-game losing streak wherein the Phillies were swept by the Toronto 
Blue Jays and the Baltimore Orioles;[81] Philadelphia was outscored 38–19 
over the two series. The team showed promise in the first game of their 
World Series rematch series with the Tampa Bay Rays, winning 10–1,[82] 
but were defeated in the last two games of the series[83][84] and lost 
a fourth straight game to Toronto on June 26.[85] However, the Phillies 
were able to exact a modicum of revenge for both their 1993 World Series 
defeat and the first series sweep by the Jays by winning the last two games. 
Happ played the role of stopper by pitching his first career complete game 
shutout,[86] and Moyer followed by earning his 252nd victory in the following 
game.[87] To close the month, the Phillies lost the opener of their next 
series with the Braves to finish the month with a 10–16 record.[81] Struggles 
continued for the Phillies to open July, as the Braves completed a three-game 
series sweep in the first two days of the month; however, a face-off with 
the Mets over the Independence Day weekend revitalized the team's fortunes. 
The Phillies swept their northern rivals as the Mets managed only three 
runs in three games. During the series, the team's 2009 All-Stars were 
announced: Utley and Ibáñez were elected as starters, and Howard was named 
as a reserve, one of four first basemen selected to the National League 
squad. It was also announced that Victorino was one of the five "Final 
Vote" candidates. Though the Phillies had played much better on the road 
to this point in the season, home-field advantage paid off the next night, 
as the offense chased Reds starter Johnny Cueto after 2⁄3 of an inning 
by scoring nine runs; the team went on to score 10 in the first inning 
and 22 in the entire game.[88] Every Phillies starter had at least one 
hit, Werth hit an eighth-inning grand slam off of Reds infielder Paul Janish, 
and Rollins and Victorino, at the top of the order, combined to go 7-for-9 
with three doubles, a home run, nine runs scored, and five RBIs between 
them.[89] Though closer Lidge suffered a tough loss on July 7, sacrificing 
a run in the ninth inning to earn his fourth of the season, the Phillies 
bounced back with a dramatic ninth-inning win the following night. Victorino 
hit a walk-off single to drive in Pedro Feliz and solidify his victory 
in the All-Star Final Vote, which was announced the next day.[90] Werth 
was named to replace the New York Mets' Carlos Beltrán on the All-Star 
roster due to injury; Victorino replaced Beltrán as the starter in center 
field. After the All-Star break—during which the American League defeated 
the National League, 4–3[91]—Moyer, Ryan Madson, and J. C. Romero combined 
for a one-hit, complete-game shutout of the Marlins in the first game back,[92] 
extending the Phillies' winning streak to six games,[81] and their record 
to 10–3 in the month of July. The streak was extended to eight straight 
games as the Phillies swept Florida in three games of the series (one game 
was postponed due to weather).[93] Happ raised his record to 7–0 on the 
season with another seven-inning shutout performance.[94] The streak continued 
as the Phillies opened a series at home against the Chicago Cubs; Chad 
Durbin earned his first save in 11 months by pitching three scoreless innings 
of relief.[95] Werth's three-run home run in the 13th inning the next night 
gave the Phillies a walk-off win for their tenth consecutive,[96] but Chicago 
ended the season-high streak with a 10–5 defeat on July 22.[93] The Phillies 
won three of their next four, and bolstered their rotation by trading for 
Cliff Lee. The 2008 American League Cy Young Award winner came from the 
Cleveland Indians along with outfielder Ben Francisco on July 29; the Phillies 
gave up four minor leaguers—catcher Lou Marson, infielders Jason Donald 
and pitchers Carlos Carrasco and Jason Knapp.[97] Lee and Francisco joined 
the Phillies in San Francisco after the Phillies' series victory over the 
Arizona Diamondbacks, and both started the final game in July. Lee pitched 
a complete-game four-hitter on July 31, allowing one run over nine innings 
of work.[98] The Phillies finished July with a 20–7 record,[81] their first 
20-win month since May 2001.[99] The Phillies opened the month of August 
with three straight losses, but the stopper's role again fell to the rookie 
Happ, who pitched his second shutout of the season—and the second of his 
career—against the Rockies on August 5. He earned the team's 60th win of 
the season while allowing four hits and striking out ten batters for the 
first time in his career.[100] In accordance with his 8–2 record and strong 
performances, Amaro announced that Happ would remain in the Phillies' starting 
rotation despite the team's acquisitions of Lee and Pedro Martínez;[101] 
rumors regarding Happ's status had been rampant since Martínez' signing 
and during the trade season when Happ was rumored to be the centerpiece 
of a potential trade for the Blue Jays' Roy Halladay.[102][103][104] New 
pitcher Lee stifled the Rockies the following day to win the series for 
the Phillies with a second consecutive strong performance, allowing one 
run over seven innings and allowing only six hits.[105] In the following 
series with Florida, however, the Phillies struggled. The Marlins swept 
all three games of the series,[81] which included Victorino's first career 
ejection on several close calls by umpire Ed Rapuano, and a crucial error 
by Victorino's center field replacement, Werth, in the final game of the 
series.[106] Moyer pitched against the Marlins in that game, a team against 
which he had prior success in his career[107] (13–3, 2.87 ERA in 100 1⁄3 
innings pitched[108]), and allowed two earned runs on eleven singles through 
five innings;[107] however, with a rotation-high 5.47 ERA, the Phillies 
demoted Moyer to the bullpen to allow Martínez to start.[109] Francisco 
hit his second Phillies home run against the Cubs on August 11; it came 
in the 12th inning and scored the game-winning run for the Phillies.[110] 
It became the first win of a three-game series sweep,[111] which Lee closed 
out with a third straight dominant performance (eight innings pitched, 
one run allowed, eight strikeouts).[112] The Phillies took two of three 
games from the Braves in their next series,[111] and completed a three-game 
homestand against the Diamondbacks with a complete game from Lee, who carried 
a no-hitter into the sixth inning,[113] and eight innings of three-run 
baseball from Blanton.[114] Martínez faced off against his former club 
on August 23, with the series tied 1–1. Mets starter Óliver Pérez allowed 
six runs in the first inning and was pulled in the middle of Martínez' 
first at-bat, down in the count 3–0. Ángel Pagán led off the Mets' first 
with an inside-the-park home run after the ball became lodged underneath 
the outfield wall. Martínez pitched six innings, allowing four runs, but 
the score was 9–6 by the end of the eighth inning. Lidge allowed another 
run to score and had runners on first and second, thanks in part to a booted 
base hit and an error by Eric Bruntlett. The Mets had no outs and Jeff 
Francoeur was at the plate representing the go-ahead run. Francoeur hit 
a line drive over the second base bag, where Bruntlett caught it, stepped 
on second base, and tagged Daniel Murphy coming from first,[115] completing 
the 15th unassisted triple play in baseball's modern era and the second 
in Phillies history (Mickey Morandini)[116] in a game called "the league's 
quirkiest of the season".[117] The Phillies closed the series with a 6–2 
win behind Lee's eighth straight victory (seven innings pitched, no earned 
runs).[118] With a win on August 26, the Phillies claimed victory in the 
year's series over the Pirates;[81] however, the Bucs won two games in 
a three-night set wherein the game-winning run was scored in the eighth 
inning or later each night. Andrew McCutchen hit a game-winning two-run 
home run off of Lidge in the ninth inning of the opener;[119] Howard hit 
a game-winning three-run shot for the Phillies in the top of the tenth 
on August 26 after the Pirates tied it in the ninth on a Brandon Moss home 
run.[120] Garrett Jones set a Pirates rookie record with his 15th home 
run off of Happ in the eighth inning of the series finale.[121] The Phillies 
closed the month by taking two of three games from the Braves.[111] For 
his 11 home run performance in August, Howard won the National League Player 
of the Month award.[122] The Phillies opened the month by taking two of 
a three-game series against the Giants, besting Jonathan Sánchez, who threw 
a no-hitter earlier in the 2009 season,[123] and Tim Lincecum, who won 
the 2008 NL Cy Young Award.[81][124] This was followed by a trip to Texas 
for a four-game series against the Houston Astros; the Phillies were unable 
to muster much offense during the series and were swept.[81] On September 
8, in the first game of the series against the Washington Nationals, Ibañez 
and Utley each hit their 30th home runs of the season, making them members 
of the 12th quartet of teammates in major league history to each reach 
30 in a single season, joining Howard and Werth.[125] The Phillies offense 
backed Lee to his sixth win the following night, with Madson earning his 
second consecutive save after assuming the de facto closer's role from 
Lidge.[126] However, the Phillies could not overcome a pair of three-run 
home runs by Adam Dunn and Ian Desmond to secure the sweep in the last 
game of the series, despite Stairs' grand slam; it was their third loss 
of the season to Washington in fifteen games.[127] The Mets came to Philadelphia 
for their last series of the season, which began on September 11. The Phillies 
won game one, 4–2, but the Mets came from behind in the second game of 
the series, scoring five runs in the final two innings to win 10–9. Making 
up a postponed game from earlier in the season, the Phillies won the first 
game of a day-night doubleheader behind Kyle Kendrick's first major league 
victory in 13 months. Eight shutout innings from Martínez in the nightcap 
gave the Phillies a 1–0 win, a 3–1 win in the 4-game set,[128] and a 12–6 
win in the season series.[81] Martínez' eight innings also began a streak 
of 26 consecutive scoreless innings by Phillies pitchers: Madson followed 
with a scoreless ninth for his eighth save of the season;[129] Cliff Lee 
pitched a complete game shutout against the Nationals the following night;[130] 
and Blanton, Park, and Madson combined for eight scoreless innings against 
Washington on September 16 until Tyler Walker allowed a run in the top 
of the ninth inning, an RBI single by Willie Harris which scored Justin 
Maxwell.[131] Hamels closed out the series with a strong performance, perfect 
through his first five innings and finishing with one run allowed in eight; 
with their 15th win over the Nationals, the Phillies matched their best 
season record against the franchise, set against the 1976 Montréal Expos.[132] 
The Phillies continued to Atlanta, where they took two of three from the 
Braves, with Kendrick's second win and Lidge's 30th save in the first game 
of the series. Martínez was outdueled by Javier Vázquez in the second game 
of the series, but the Phillies avoided a loss by defeating the Braves, 
4–2, on September 20. A doubleheader followed against the Marlins; the 
Phillies won game one, while the Marlins won game two. In the rubber game, 
Lidge blew his 11th save after a rain delay to give the Marlins a series 
victory, keeping the team's number to clinch the division at five.[133] 
The Phillies and the Brewers split the next series at two games each, with 
Philadelphia winning the first and last game of the series. The Phillies 
returned to Citizens Bank Park for their final homestand to close out the 
season, opening with a fifth consecutive loss to the Astros.[134] However, 
the Phillies broke the streak with a 7–4 win on September 29, thanks to 
a Feliz grand slam.[135] The following night, the Phillies clinched their 
third consecutive division title with a 10–3 win over Houston, guaranteeing 
a split in the series and a playoff berth, and tying the franchise record 
for consecutive division titles set by Danny Ozark's teams from 1976 to 
1978.[136] After the clinching game, the Phillies rested most of their 
regular starters, six of whom had started over 150 games during the season; 
they lost four straight games while the regulars regained their strength, 
but won the final game of the season in extra innings as Paul Hoover hit 
a walk-off single in the bottom of the 10th inning.[137] The Phillies finished 
with a record of 93 wins and 69 losses, one game better than their record 
in the previous season. All players who made an appearance for the Phillies 
during 2009 are included.[138] Infielders Coaches The Phillies, as the 
No. 2 seed in the National League, faced off against the wild card Colorado 
Rockies in the first round of the playoffs. Cliff Lee pitched a complete 
game in the opener of the series, shutting out the Rockies through 8 2⁄3 
innings before allowing a single run in the ninth. He threw 113 pitches 
in the game, in addition to getting a hit and a stolen base in his first 
postseason start.[140] The Rockies evened the series in the second game, 
as Cole Hamels left the stadium early to be with his wife, who went into 
labor with their first child.[141] The Phillies staged comebacks twice 
to bring them within a run of tying the game, but could not close the door 
as Huston Street saved the game for Aaron Cook.[142] After Charlie Manuel 
named Pedro Martínez his Game 3 starter, the game was postponed a day due 
to the weather forecast of snow and record-low temperatures.[143] The postponement 
prompted Manuel to change his plans, naming rookie left-hander J. A. Happ 
the new starter for the game.[144] Happ pitched three innings, allowing 
three runs, but Manuel brought Joe Blanton out of the bullpen, who pitched 
2 2⁄3 innings and allowed only one run. Brad Lidge, after 11 blown saves 
during the regular season, preserved the win for the Phillies, a 6–5 victory.[145][146] 
In a back-and-forth affair, the Phillies and Rockies traded leads through 
Game 4 at Coors Field, but the Phillies scored three runs in the top of 
the ninth to win by one run.[147] Combined with the sweeps in the other 
three Division Series, 2009 became the first year since the implementation 
of the wild card in 1995 that all four Championship Series berths were 
clinched on the road.[148] The Los Angeles Dodgers were the National League's 
No. 1 seed by virtue of the best record entering the playoffs; thus, the 
Phillies traveled to Chavez Ravine for the opener of the playoffs' second 
round, the fifth postseason meeting between the two clubs. James Loney 
opened the scoring for the Dodgers with a solo home run in the bottom of 
the second inning, but the Phillies answered back with a five-run fifth 
inning, chasing starter Clayton Kershaw. Manny Ramírez' two-run home run 
in the bottom of the inning made the score 5–4, but Raúl Ibañez followed 
with a three-run home run in the top of the eighth. Lidge, appearing in 
his third consecutive postseason game, notched his third consecutive save.[149][150] 
Martínez started the second game for the Phillies, throwing 7 scoreless 
innings on 87 pitches. After his departure, the Phillies used five bullpen 
pitchers to get three outs in the eighth inning; those pitchers allowed 
three hits and two walks, allowing two runs to score. Jonathan Broxton 
saved the second game for the Dodgers, as Los Angeles won, 2–1.[151] The 
series moved to Philadelphia for the third game, and the Phillies capitalized 
on their home crowd immediately, scoring four runs in the first inning 
of the game. Lee continued his "superb" postseason performance[152] with 
an eight-inning shutout performance, allowing three singles and a stolen 
base. Lee and his batterymate Ruiz had higher offensive production in Game 
3 (three hits in six at-bats, three runs scored, one run batted in) than 
the entire Dodger lineup (three hits in twenty-seven at bats, no runs scored). 
The Phillies won the game, 11–0.[152][153] In Game 4, Howard continued 
to slug, hitting a two-run home run off of former-Phillie Randy Wolf in 
the first inning; with the run batted in, he tied Lou Gehrig's Major League 
record of eight consecutive postseason games with an RBI.[154] The Dodgers 
came back to score two runs on a defensive miscue in the fourth inning, 
adding one run in the fifth on a Matt Kemp home run and one in the sixth 
on a Casey Blake single. The Phillies got one back in the bottom of the 
sixth on a Victorino triple and a single by Utley, but were held scoreless 
until the bottom of the ninth. Los Angeles closer Broxton entered the game 
in the bottom of the eighth—after George Sherrill allowed two runners to 
reach base—and coaxed Werth to fly out. Broxton returned to the mound in 
the bottom of the ninth, inducing a ground ball from Ibáñez before walking 
Matt Stairs and hitting Ruiz. Greg Dobbs pinch-hit for the pitcher's spot, 
lining out to third base. With two outs and two runners aboard, Jimmy Rollins[155] 
hit a 99-mile-per-hour (159 km/h) fastball to the right-center field gap, 
scoring Eric Bruntlett (who had pinch-run) and Ruiz.[156][157] In the fifth 
game, the Phillies hit four home runs, including two by Jayson Werth, as 
Hamels allowed three runs in his second start of the series. The Phillies 
bullpen pitched 4 2⁄3 innings in the game, allowing only one run as Philadelphia 
defeated Los Angeles, 10–4. The win clinched the Phillies' first consecutive 
National League pennants in franchise history, and the first back-to-back 
World Series appearances by a National League franchise since the Atlanta 
Braves in 1995 and 1996. Howard was named the MVP of the National League 
Championship Series.[158] The Phillies played the New York Yankees in a 
three-game series over the Memorial Day weekend during the regular season 
in May. Rollins said: How great would that be? A World Series here, us 
against the Yankees?… We've proved we can put on a pretty good show.[159] 
The Yankees defeated the Phillies, four games to two, to win the franchise's 
record 27th World Series championship. The Yankees had home field advantage 
for the series, due to an American League victory in the 2009 All-Star 
Game. In addition to the 27th championship for New York, several records 
were tied, extended, or broken during the Series, including postseason 
wins (Andy Pettitte with 18), home runs in a World Series (Utley with 5), 
strikeouts by a batter in a World Series (Howard with 13), World Series 
saves (Mariano Rivera with 11), and RBI in a single World Series game (Hideki 
Matsui with 6). The two previous years' American League Cy Young Award 
winners started the game: CC Sabathia, for the Yankees; and Lee, for the 
Phillies. Sabathia, who had been 3–0 in the postseason to date, pitched 
seven innings and allowed two earned runs on four hits; Lee, however, pitched 
a complete game and allowed no earned runs to go the distance for the second 
time during the 2009 postseason. The Phillies offense was paced by Utley, 
who walked in the first inning to set a record of 26 consecutive postseason 
games reaching base, and hit solo home runs in the third and sixth innings. 
Philadelphia led 2–0 until the eighth inning, when an Ibáñez single scored 
Rollins and Victorino, and added two more runs in the top of the ninth 
inning on a Victorino single and a Howard double. The Phillies allowed 
an unearned run in the bottom of the ninth when Rollins committed a throwing 
error, tossing the ball past Howard at first base and into the Yankee dugout.[160] 
The Phillies scored first for the second game in a row in the second inning; 
Raúl Ibáñez hit a ground rule double, and a Matt Stairs single off of A. 
J. Burnett drove him in. It was the only run allowed by the New York pitching 
staff.[161] Mark Teixeira tied the game with a solo home run in the fourth 
inning, and Hideki Matsui broke the tie in the sixth with another, giving 
the Yankees their first lead. Chan Ho Park allowed an RBI single to Jorge 
Posada after Martínez put two baserunners on in the top of the seventh.[162] 
Burnett departed after seven innings, replaced by Mariano Rivera in the 
eighth. The Phillies put two runners on with a walk to Jimmy Rollins and 
a single by Shane Victorino with one out in the eighth. However, Chase 
Utley grounded into an inning-ending double play ending on a close play 
at first base that drew controversy.[163] Rivera completed the ninth inning 
for his 38th postseason save.[164] After an 80-minute rain delay, the Phillies 
scored first in the second inning with Jayson Werth's lead-off home run 
followed by a bases-loaded walk and a sacrifice fly.[165] In the fourth 
inning, Alex Rodriguez hit a ball down the right field line, which struck 
a camera at the fence and was ruled a home run after review.[166] Nick 
Swisher opened the top of the fifth inning with a double and scored on 
a single to center field by Andy Pettitte. Jeter followed with a single, 
and both he and Pettite were driven in by a Johnny Damon double. J. A. 
Happ replaced Hamels and allowed a solo home run to Swisher in the sixth 
inning. Werth answered with a second home run of the game leading off the 
bottom of the sixth.[165] Mariano Rivera recorded his 38th career postseason 
save to close out the Yankees' second consecutive win. The Yankees opened 
the scoring in the first inning with two runs, but the Phillies answered 
with back-to-back doubles by Shane Victorino and Chase Utley in the bottom 
of the inning. The Phillies tied the game in the bottom of the fourth as 
Ryan Howard singled, stole second, and scored on a single by Pedro Feliz. 
Replays showed that Howard did not touch home plate as he slid across; 
however, the Yankees did not appeal. Swisher led off the fifth inning with 
a walk, scoring on a single by Derek Jeter, and Melky Cabrera scored on 
a single by Damon. Park relieved Blanton in the seventh and held the Yankees 
scoreless. Chase Utley hit his third home run of the series in the bottom 
of the seventh with two outs. Dámaso Marte struck out Howard to end the 
inning. After a game-tying home run by Feliz, Lidge entered the game in 
the ninth and gave up a two-out single to Damon.[167] With Teixeira batting, 
Damon stole second and advanced to third as the base was uncovered due 
to the pull shift against Teixeira.[168] Rodriguez put the Yankees ahead 
with a double to left field, scoring Damon. Posada added to that lead with 
a single which scored Teixeira, who had singled, and Rodriguez. Mariano 
Rivera entered in the bottom of the ninth and notched his second save of 
the series.[167] The Yankees scored first for the second straight game, 
but Utley gave the lead back to Philadelphia on a three-run home run. Werth 
and Ibáñez drove in Utley and Howard in the third inning, which chased 
the starter, Burnett. David Robertson allowed another run to score on a 
Carlos Ruiz groundout. Eric Hinske, who entered as a pinch-hitter, scored 
on a ground out by Johnny Damon. Utley tied Reggie Jackson's record for 
most home runs in a World Series with a solo home run in the seventh inning, 
his fifth of the series. Howard struck out for the 12th time in the series, 
tying Willie Wilson's 1980 record for most strikeouts in a World Series. 
Ibáñez hit a solo home run to chase pitcher Phil Coke. After being hit 
in the hand in the first inning, Victorino was replaced defensively in 
the eighth inning by Ben Francisco. Lee left the game after allowing two 
runs to score, and Park gave up a sacrifice fly to Robinson Canó to add 
another earned run to Lee's line. Ryan Madson entered in the ninth to close 
the game, allowing one run on a double play but earning his first career 
World Series save.[169] The Yankees scored first when Matsui hit a two-run 
home run with Rodriguez on base after a walk. The Phillies responded with 
a triple by Ruiz, who scored on a sacrifice fly by Rollins in the top of 
the third inning. Matsui added to the Yankee lead with a bases-loaded single 
in the bottom of the inning, scoring Jeter and Damon. Martínez was relieved 
after four innings by Durbin, who allowed a ground rule double to Jeter, 
who later scored on a Teixeira single. Durbin hit Rodriguez and was relieved 
by Happ after recording one out. Happ allowed a two-run double to Matsui, 
his fifth and sixth RBI of the game which tied a World Series record for 
most RBI in a single game set by Bobby Richardson in the 1960 World Series.[170] 
In the sixth inning, Howard's home run following a walk issued to Utley 
brought the game to 7–3. After Ibáñez hit a double into right field, Joba 
Chamberlain relieved Pettitte, allowing no further runs in the inning. 
In the top of the eighth inning, Dámaso Marte struck out Howard, which 
set a new World Series record for most strikeouts by a batter in a single 
series (13).[171] After the strikeout, Marte was relieved by Rivera in 
a non-save situation, who allowed one hit and one walk before closing out 
the game and the Yankees' 27th championship.[172] The 2009 Phillies captured 
the Warren C. Giles Trophy, as winners of the National League pennant.[173] 
Baseball America named the Phillies as its Organization of the Year.[174] 
The Philadelphia Sports Writers Association named the Phillies its "Team 
of the Year". Individual awards were won by Rollins, who won a third straight 
Rawlings Gold Glove Award at shortstop, Victorino, who won a second Gold 
Glove in the outfield;[175] Utley, who won his fourth consecutive Silver 
Slugger Award at second base;[176] Werth, who was named the "This Year 
in Baseball Awards" Unsung Player of the Year,[177] and Howard, who was 
named the Most Valuable Player of the National League Championship Series.[158] 
Happ was named the Players Choice Awards NL Outstanding Rookie by his fellow 
players and the "This Year in Baseball Awards" Rookie of the Year.[178] 
He also received the Sporting News NL Rookie of the Year Award and was 
named to the Baseball America All-Rookie Team (as one of five pitchers)[179] 
and the Topps All-Star Rookie team (as the left-handed pitcher). The Philadelphia 
chapter of the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) presented 
its annual franchise awards to Ryan Howard ("Mike Schmidt Most Valuable 
Player Award"), J.A. Happ ("Steve Carlton Most Valuable Pitcher Award"), 
Jamie Moyer ("Dallas Green Special Achievement Award"), and Brad Lidge 
("Tug McGraw Good Guy Award").[180] Rubén Amaro, Jr., was named the "This 
Year in Baseball Awards" Executive of the Year[181] and the Philadelphia 
Sports Writers Association Executive of the Year. He was also inducted 
into the Philadelphia Jewish Sports Hall of Fame.[182] The Phillie Phanatic 
was awarded the "Great Friend to Kids" Award by the Please Touch Museum 
(the Children's Museum of Philadelphia).[183] On December 9, 2009, Sports 
Illustrated named Chase Utley as the second baseman on its MLB All-Decade 
Team.[184] On December 22, Sports Illustrated named Pat Gillick as number 
7 on its list of the Top 10 GMs/Executives of the Decade (in all sports).[185] 
All statistics are current through the 2009 regular season.[81] Note: G 
= Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 
3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; 
SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; 
G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; 
R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts 
Over-the-air television returned to WPHL-TV (My PHL 17) for a three-year 
period after a ten-year stint at WPSG-TV (CW 57), when the Phillies and 
the Tribune Broadcasting station signed a three-year contract on November 
19, 2008. This marks the third time the station has become the territorial 
flagship station, the first being from 1971 to 1982—as the successor to 
WFIL-TV Channel 6 (now WPVI-TV)—and again from 1993 to 1998. Between those 
dates, games were telecast by WTXF-TV Channel 29 (known as WTAF-TV from 
1983 through 1987 and prior to becoming a Fox–owned-and-operated station). 
Tom McCarthy, Chris Wheeler, and Gary Matthews are the current members 
of the television broadcast team. McCarthy took over full-time play-by-play 
duties from Harry Kalas after his death in mid-April 2009. Wheeler is the 
color commentator for the first and last three innings of each game, while 
Matthews does color commentary in the middle three innings. On the radio, 
Scott Franzke and Larry Andersen are the play-by-play and color commentators, 
respectively, for the English language broadcasts on WPHT-AM (1210), while 
Danny Martinez and Bill Kulik provide the Spanish language commentary on 
WUBA (1480 AM). The Phillies' postseason radio duties were split between 
the TV crew and the regular radio crew, while the television broadcasts 
on TBS were covered by Brian Anderson, Joe Simpson, and David Aldridge 
for the Division Series, and Chip Caray, Ron Darling, and Buck Martinez 
for the League Championship Series. The World Series broadcasters were 
Joe Buck and Tim McCarver on the Fox telecasts, and Joe Morgan and Jon 
Miller on ESPN Radio for the national broadcast. LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Lakewood 
