The 2009 Pittsburgh Pirates season is the 128th season of the franchise; 
the 123rd in the National League.[2] The season is the franchise's second 
season under the management of John Russell.[3] With this season, the Pirates 
became the first franchise in professional sports to have a losing record 
in 17 consecutive seasons, passing the Philadelphia Phillies of 1933–1948 
with 16.[4] The Pirates finished sixth and last in the National League 
Central with a record of 62–99. The organization fired pitching coach Jeff 
Andrews and first-base coach Lou Frazier the day after the 2008 season 
concluded,[5][6] but are expected to retain the rest of the staff through 
2009.[7] In October 2008, Joe Kerrigan—previously of the Boston Red Sox 
and Philadelphia Phillies—was hired as the new pitching coach,[8] while 
Perry Hill became the first base coach.[9] On November 24, the Pirates 
signed Dinesh Patel and Rinku Singh of India.[10] The pair participated 
in the Million Dollar Arm, a contest held in their home country to discover 
who out of the 30,000 contestants had the strongest, most accurate arm.[11] 
Having never heard of baseball prior to 2007, both Patel and Singh can 
throw over 90 mph. The pair will participate at spring training.[12] Management 
plans to keep closer observations of players' off-season workouts.[13] 
Pirates' radio announcer of 33 years, Lanny Frattare, retired prior to 
the season.[14][15] Tim Neverett, formerly of Fox Sports Rocky Mountain, 
was selected to replace him after a search of approximately 200 candidates.[16][17] 
In January 2009, the team held its sixth PirateFest at the David L. Lawrence 
Convention Center. The three-day event was attended by 15,127 people, and 
increased the number of season ticket packages purchased from the 2008 
season.[18] President Frank Coonelly stated that the team had fallen behind 
the Pittsburgh Steelers and Pittsburgh Penguins from a "marketing and business 
perspective", but are "...working hard to get ourselves back up to where 
we belong both in Major League Baseball and Pittsburgh."[19] The Pirates 
added sleeves to their uniform, and added an alternate uniform with a gold-colored 
P on the chest which will be worn during select games.[20] "It's time for 
us as an organization and our players to realize that losing is not acceptable. 
It's not an acceptable way of life for a Pirate." The Pirates pre-season 
schedule consisted of 35 games in Bradenton, Florida, including two evening 
games and a game against the Netherlands national baseball team.[22] When 
pitchers and catchers reported on February 13, three of twelve pitching 
positions were set: starter Paul Maholm, set-up man John Grabow, and closer 
Matt Capps.[23] The Pirates entered spring training with 21 of 40 different 
players from 2008 spring training;[24] among those were Eric Hinske, Ramón 
Vázquez, and Jason Jaramillo who were acquired during the off-season.[21] 
Beginning March 5, Ian Snell, Ramón Vázquez, and John Grabow represented 
their countries in the 2009 World Baseball Classic.[25] The Pirates finished 
spring training with a 17–15 record. "It gives us some confidence", said 
John Russell, "We worked hard all spring."[26] The Pirates opening day 
salary was US$50,984,000.[27] The Pirates finalized their opening day roster 
two days prior to the season opener (asterisk noting new players for the 
2009 season):[28] The Pirates opened the season with a 6–4 win over the 
St. Louis Cardinals, scoring four runs in the final inning to win their 
third consecutive come-from-behind opening day game.[29] The Pirates had 
17 hits two games later to beat the Cardinals 7–4,[30] but were held to 
one hit the next day and split their opening series two games to two.[31] 
Rain shortened the Pirates' series in Cincinnati to two games; Pittsburgh 
won the first game 10–2 after Ryan Doumit hit his first career grand slam 
in the final inning.[32] On April 13, the Pirates completed the league's 
first triple play of the season and the Pirates' first in 16 years; however, 
they lost the game 2–0.[33] In the team's home opener on April 13, Zach 
Duke pitched a complete game shutout, as the Pirates defeated the Houston 
Astros, 7–0.[34] In the game, both the Pirates and the Astros wore Pittsburgh 
Police hats in honor of three officers who were shot and killed on April 
4.[35] The pre-game ceremonies honored the officers, as well as former 
Pirates pitcher and current broadcaster Steve Blass for this 50th season 
with the team, and included a flyover by four Apache helicopters from the 
1/104th Attack Reconnaissance Battalion of the Pennsylvania Army National 
Guard.[36] In the first Saturday afternoon game in Pittsburgh since 2005, 
Craig Monroe hit two three-run home runs in consecutive innings to give 
the Pirates their first back-to-back victories of the season.[37] On April 
21, catcher Ryan Doumit announced that surgery was needed to fix a broken 
bone in his wrist, and that he would miss eight to ten weeks.[38] Later 
in the day, the Pirates beat the Florida Marlins 3–2, taking them two games 
above .500 since the first series of the 2007 season.[39] The following 
day the Pirates swept the Marlins for the first time since 2005, giving 
Pittsburgh their best start through 15 games since 2002.[40] The Pirates 
took two games out of three against the San Diego Padres,[41] before closing 
April by getting swept by the Milwaukee Brewers.[42] Andy LaRoche hit safely 
in a career high 11 games during the later part of the month.[43] Pittsburgh 
finished the month with an 11–10 record—the first time since 2002 that 
the team was over .500 at April's end.[43] The team was tied for third 
place in the NL Central division, four games behind the St. Louis Cardinals, 
who finished the month with the league's best record.[44] The pitching 
staff posted a league-low 3.41 earned run average (ERA), due in part to 
first-year pitching coach Joe Kerrigan teaching pitchers to base pitches 
on hitters' tendencies.[45] The Cincinnati Reds defeated the Pirates in 
two games out of three at PNC Park to open May.[46] The concluding two 
games of the homestand saw the Pirates lose their 16 and 17th consecutive 
games to the Milwaukee Brewers—the second longest streak of any team over 
another in MLB history.[47] The Pirates were swept during a two-game series 
in St. Louis—the losses extended Pittsburgh's losing streak to five consecutive 
road games and nine out of their past ten overall.[48] The Pirates were 
swept by the New York Mets in their first series at New York's Citi Field, 
extending their losing streak to eight consecutive games.[49] The Pirates 
returned home to defeat the St. Louis Cardinals in two out of three games.[50] 
On May 13, Adam LaRoche became the first player in MLB history to have 
a home run taken away due to instant replay, during a procedure put into 
effect in August 2008.[51] The Pirates concluded their homestand by taking 
two games out of three against the Colorado Rockies—finishing their homestand 
with a 4–2 record. In the final game of the Rockies's series Pittsburgh 
scored ten runs in one inning for the first time since August 2003.[52] 
The Pirates won three out of four games against the Washington Nationals, 
extending their winning streak to five games.[53] The Pirates continued 
their road trip with six games in Chicago—becoming the first team in MLB 
history to play the Cubs and White Sox in back-to-back series.[54] After 
losing their first two games of the first interleague series of the season 
against the White Sox, Jack Wilson hit his first home run of the year to 
tie the final game of the series with two outs in the final inning; Nyjer 
Morgan scored the winning run later in the inning.[55] On May 25, Freddy 
Sanchez became the first Pirate to acquire six hits in one game since Wally 
Backman in 1990, as the Pirates defeated the Cubs.[56] The Pirates lost 
two out of three games against the Cubs, scoring a total of three runs 
in their losses.[57] The Pirates concluded the month by losing two games 
out of three to the Houston Astros. Nate McLouth hit a home run to lead 
off the final game of the month, but the Pirates score any other runs, 
losing 2–1.[58] Throughout May the Pirates accumulated an 11–17 record, 
finishing 20–28 overall for the season. The team was in fifth place in 
the National League Central division.[59] The Pirates began the month with 
a four-game series against the New York Mets, although it was shortened 
to three games when the June 3 game was postponed. The Pirates won all 
three games that were played. On June 4, the Pirates traded All Star Nate 
McLouth to the Atlanta Braves for three minor league players, including 
future starting pitcher Charlie Morton. Later in the day, the team promoted 
outfielder Andrew McCutchen from AAA Indianapolis,[60] who became the team's 
regular starting center fielder. The Pirates then dropped two of three 
to the Astros in Houston, and two of four to the Atlanta Braves before 
returning home for the start of Interleague play. They took two games from 
the Tigers before going on another road series, first to Minnesota (where 
they only won one game), and then to Colorado (where they were swept). 
They then came back home to win two of three against both the Cleveland 
Indians and the Kansas City Royals. In the game against the Royals on June 
26, starting pitcher Virgil Vasquez earned his first win in his major league 
debut. The Pirates then played a three-game series against Chicago which 
stretched into July, which they lost two games to three. On June 30, starting 
center fielder Nyjer Morgan and relief pitcher Sean Burnett were traded 
to the Washington Nationals in exchange for Lastings Milledge and Joel 
Hanrahan. Hanrahan was put on the starting roster immediately, but Milledge 
was forced to go through a series of rehab-starts in AAA Indianapolis before 
being called up, due to an existing injury. The Pirates lost the first 
game of the month against the Cubs, then played the Mets in the make-up 
of the postponed June 3 game. They lost 9–8 in 10 innings, despite having 
tied up the game off of All-Star closer Francisco Rodríguez. The Pirates 
then went to Florida to face the Marlins, and lost two games to three. 
They fared no better on their trip to Houston, where they also won only 
one game, and then they were swept by the Phillies in their next series. 
On July 17, in the first of a three-game series against the San Francisco 
Giants, reliever Evan Meek picked up his first win of the season in a 14-inning 
game. They also won the next game, though they would lose the series finale. 
On July 20, in the first of a three-game series against the Brewers, the 
benches were cleared in eighth inning when Milwaukee pitcher Chris Smith 
hit Pittsburgh reliever Jeff Karstens with a pitch. The Pirates won that 
game 8–5, and the series 2–1. Their next road trip took them to Atlanta, 
where they dropped three of five, and then to San Francisco, where they 
were swept. Before the final game of the series on July 29, the Pirates 
traded veteran shortstop Jack Wilson to the Seattle Mariners in exchange 
for future starting shortstop Ronny Cedeño and four Minor League players. 
After the game, the Pirates traded three-time All-Star second baseman Freddy 
Sanchez to the Giants for minor league pitcher Tim Alderson. On July 31, 
the Pirates returned home for a four-game series against the Nationals 
which stretched into August. Though they won the games on both July 31 
and August 1, the Pirates lost the next two games to split the series 2–2. 
This started an eight-game losing streak, against the Nationals, the Diamondbacks, 
and the Cardinals, which ended August 11 when the Pirates defeated the 
Rockies in Colorado. They lost the next two against the Rockies, and the 
next two against the Cubs. The August 16 game in Chicago was postponed 
because of rain. Returning home, the Pirates swept the Brewers and took 
two of three from the Reds and Phillies. The Pirates didn't win a game 
the rest of the month, being swept by the Brewers and the Reds in a series 
stretching into September. The Pirates opened the month of September losing 
both games in a doubleheader against the Reds. They then returned home 
to play the Cardinals, against whom they won one game out of three. They 
then lost the first game of a three-game series against the Cubs, giving 
them their 82nd loss, and setting the record for most consecutive losing 
seasons in any sport since the 1933–1948 Philadelphia Phillies.[4] Infielders 
Outfielders Coaches 2009 Major League Baseball All-Star Game (October 29, 
2008 – April 4, 2009) (April 5, 2009 – November 4, 2009) LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
