The Tampa Bay Rays' 2009 season was their 12th season of baseball on the 
Gulf Coast of Florida. The team attempted to defend their American League 
Championship they won in the previous season. Although they missed the 
playoffs, they still finished with a winning record (84–78) – only the 
second in franchise history. For the most part, the Rays' main roster remained 
intact. Eric Hinske's contract expired at the end of the 2008 season, and 
the team did not exercise options on Rocco Baldelli, Cliff Floyd or Trever 
Miller, making all four free agents. None were offered salary arbitration.[1] 
In addition, Jonny Gomes was non-tendered on December 12, 2008, making 
him a free agent as well.[2] During the offseason, starting pitcher Edwin 
Jackson was traded to the Detroit Tigers for corner outfielder and Tampa 
native Matt Joyce. Prior to that, the Rays also considered a trade with 
the Florida Marlins for corner outfielder Jeremy Hermida, but declined 
to make a deal. They also considered trading with the Minnesota Twins to 
re-acquire center fielder Delmon Young, whom they traded (along with Brendan 
Harris) to the Twins in the 2007–08 offseason for Matt Garza and Jason 
Bartlett.[3] The Rays signed relief pitcher Joe Nelson to a one-year, $1.3-million 
deal on December 30.[4] The Rays had discussions with free agents for a 
designated hitter, including Jason Giambi,[5] Bobby Abreu[6] and Milton 
Bradley.[7] They also considered re-signing Baldelli as a full-time DH. 
However, on January 5, 2009, they signed ex-Phillie left fielder Pat Burrell 
to a two-year deal worth $16 million.[8] On January 12, outfielder Gabe 
Kapler was signed to a one-year, $1-million deal.[9] On February 17, free 
agent infielder Adam Kennedy was signed to a minor-league contract and 
invited to spring training.[10] The only player who was eligible for salary 
arbitration that went to a hearing was catcher Dioner Navarro. He lost 
his hearing on February 10, and was given $2.1 million for 2009; he sought 
$2.5 million.[11] Two players avoided arbitration: shortstop Jason Bartlett, 
who signed a one-year contract just short of $2 million on January 20;[12] 
and Willy Aybar, who signed a two-year deal with an option for 2011 worth 
up to $4.5 million on February 18.[13] Matt Garza, Andy Sonnanstine and 
B. J. Upton all had their contracts renewed, and the Rays signed 15 other 
players on February 25.[14] At the end of spring training, starting pitcher 
Jason Hammel was traded to the Colorado Rockies for pitching prospect Aneury 
Rodríguez. Jeff Niemann joined James Shields, Scott Kazmir, Matt Garza 
and Andy Sonnanstine in the starting rotation to begin the season, as David 
Price was optioned to Triple-A Durham.[15] Quality control coach Tim Bogar 
was hired by the Boston Red Sox to be their first base coach.[16] Todd 
Greene signed on to replace Bogar in Tampa Bay.[17] The Rays unveiled a 
new third jersey to be used in 2009, which is a dark blue shirt with the 
Rays logo. The color is similar to the main color of their batting practice 
jersey, but without the different-colored panels on the sides. The manta 
ray logo will not appear on the alternate jersey.[18] The team's spring 
training operations will move from St. Petersburg to the rebuilt Charlotte 
County Stadium in Port Charlotte. Previously, they used Al Lang Field in 
St. Petersburg for spring training, and the Vince Naimoli Sports Complex 
for extended spring training. Charlotte County Stadium will also be home 
of their Advanced-A Florida State League minor league franchise, the former 
"Vero Beach Devil Rays", who will be renamed to the Charlotte Stone Crabs. 
In addition, their regular Class A franchise in the South Atlantic League 
will move from Columbus, Georgia, to Bowling Green, Kentucky, and become 
the Bowling Green Hot Rods. Their Appalachian League Rookie-class team, 
previously known as the "Princeton Devil Rays", will become known as the 
Princeton Rays, excising the "Devil" from the name and adopting the team 
colors and typeface after previously using the green-based color scheme 
from 2001, and the original typeface from 1998. The only minor league teams 
that will not change are the Double-A Montgomery Biscuits and the Short-A 
Hudson Valley Renegades. The Rays will also open a second Rookie-class 
team in the Gulf Coast League, the Gulf Coast Rays, which will also play 
at Charlotte County Stadium. Fox Sports Florida will take over the entire 
television contract, the beginning of an eight-year exclusive contract, 
and will broadcast 75 games, with another 75 games broadcast on sister 
network Sun Sports.[19][20] It is unknown how much of the schedule will 
be broadcast in HD. Some cable networks have not begun to air games that 
are on Sun Sports, because of a disagreement on what fees the networks 
will pay the station for the games. The companies still in dispute will 
not broadcast games airing on Sun Sports.[21] Dewayne Staats returned as 
the play-by-play announcer, but Joe Magrane moved to MLB Network. On February 
16, it was made official that Kevin Kennedy would split time in the booth 
with Brian Anderson, as well as Todd Kalas, who is currently the Rays' 
pre-, post- and in-game host.[22] At least five games will appear as Saturday 
afternoon games nationally on MLB on Fox: May 9 at Boston, May 16 hosting 
Cleveland, May 30 hosting Minnesota, June 20 at the New York Mets, and 
August 29 at Detroit. The May 10 game at Boston aired on ESPN's Sunday 
Night Baseball, just the second time the Rays appeared on the premier primetime 
package. More games may be moved to national coverage during the season.[23] 
The season opener at Boston on April 6 was scheduled to air on ESPN, but 
was postponed to the next day, April 7, and the rescheduled game was not 
picked up by ESPN. The July 5 game at Texas aired on ESPN's Sunday Night 
Baseball. 620 WDAE was announced as the new radio flagship. Sister station 
1250 WHNZ had been the previous flagship station since 2005, but WDAE aired 
some Monday night games in 2008. Andy Freed and Dave Wills will return 
to do play-by-play with Rich Herrera serving as pre- and post-game host. 
All three will be in their fifth season with the team, after replacing 
the team's original radio announcers, Paul Olden and Charlie Slowes, after 
the 2004 season.[24] The Rays began their American League title defense 
on the road against division rival Boston. Before a pitch was even thrown, 
the Rays already had a franchise first. Their scheduled Opening Day was 
postponed due to inclement weather, making it the first time that the first 
game of the season for the Rays had been postponed.[25] After dropping 
the rescheduled season opener the following day, the Rays ended up winning 
the next two games of the series. This was the first opening series win 
for the Rays since 2002, when they swept the Detroit Tigers in a 3-game 
set.[26] The Rays came home after splitting their first two series, opening 
Tropicana Field against the New York Yankees, and raising their American 
League East and AL Championship banners on April 13. B. J. Upton returned 
to the team having started the season on the disabled list. There was also 
a moment of silence held for Harry Kalas, Phillies radio announcer and 
father of Rays television analyst Todd Kalas, who died earlier in the day. 
The Rays won their home opener, 15–5.[27] Matt Garza lost a bid for a perfect 
game in the 7th inning against the Boston Red Sox when Jacoby Ellsbury 
hit an infield single. Retiring the first 18 batters, this was the furthest 
any Ray pitcher had taken a perfect game, as well as the first time any 
Ray pitcher had retired 18 batters consecutively.[28] Evan Longoria, with 
a .369 batting average, 6 home runs, a tie for the American League lead 
in RBI with 24, and a slugging percentage of .714, was awarded with the 
Player of the Month award for the American League. This was the first time 
a member of the Rays had won the award.[29] The Rays finished the month 
9–14, and were 5½ games behind first place. They had not won a series since 
the opening series in Boston. Their longest win streak was two, which occurred 
twice. On May 3, Carl Crawford set a team record and tied a modern-day 
league record with six stolen bases. The last player to steal six bases 
was Eric Young while he was a member of the Colorado Rockies on June 30, 
1996. It was only the fifth time since 1912 that a player had stolen that 
many bases, which was also the last year it had happened in the American 
League. After the game Crawford stated that he didn't know he had tied 
a record, or else he would have made an attempt for seven.[30] On May 15, 
the Rays trailed the Cleveland Indians 7–0 after the top of the 4th inning, 
but would rally to score eight unanswered runs over the remainder of the 
game to win, capped off by a walk-off home run by B. J. Upton to lead off 
the bottom of the 9th inning. At the time, this was the largest come from 
behind win in franchise history, but remains the largest deficit overcome 
at home. Previously, the Rays had never won a game in which they had trailed 
by at least seven runs. They had come back from a six run deficit on five 
occasions.[31] Prior to a game against the Cleveland Indians on May 17, 
Rays manager Joe Maddon incorrectly filled out a lineup card that listed 
Evan Longoria and Ben Zobrist both as the third baseman. As the plan was 
to have Zobrist play the position at third base and have Longoria as the 
designated hitter, having them both as the third baseman left the Rays 
without a player listed as the designated hitter in their official lineup 
card. As stated in part of Rule 6.10(b) in the official rulebook of the 
league, "It is not mandatory that a club designate a hitter for the pitcher, 
but failure to do so prior to the game precludes the use of a Designated 
Hitter for that game."[32] Indians manager Eric Wedge brought the error 
to the attention of the umpires at the beginning of the bottom of the first 
inning. Because there was no designated hitter, and since Zobrist had already 
taken the field as the third baseman, the Rays would have to use starting 
pitcher Andy Sonnanstine as the third batter in the lineup where Longoria 
would normally bat. Longoria would enter the game later, in the seventh 
inning as a triple-switch when Sonnanstine was relieved from the game, 
moving Zobrist to right field in place of Gabe Kapler and shifting the 
pitcher's spot to seventh.[33] Almost a week after the game, MLB umpiring 
vice president Mike Port stated that the umpires were wrong in allowing 
Longoria to come into the game at any point after it began.[34] The Rays 
ultimately won the game, 7–5. Sonnanstine went 1-for-3 with an RBI double.[35] 
On May 22, the Rays placed Troy Percival and Scott Kazmir on the 15-day 
disabled list, and called up infielder Reid Brignac and relief pitcher 
Dale Thayer. The move left the Rays with four starting pitchers, suggesting 
another move may be made later on to fill the vacant starting role later 
on.[36] The Rays lost starting second baseman Akinori Iwamura for the season 
to a leg injury that occurred on May 24 against the Florida Marlins. While 
Iwamura was making an effort to turn a double play, Marlins infielder Chris 
Coghlan awkwardly slid into Iwamura's leg in an attempt to disrupt the 
throw to first base. Iwamura fell to the ground and had to be taken off 
the field on a cart. The next day after an MRI, it was announced that he 
suffered a torn ACL, "involvement" on the MCL, in addition to torn ligaments 
in his ankle.[37] Even before the announcement was made, hopes of a speedy 
recovery were not promising, as Iwamura was seen around the clubhouse on 
crutches "saying goodbye", and as Rays shortstop Jason Bartlett put it, 
"From what I heard, he's not going to be back soon."[38] Bartlett himself 
would be put on the disabled list one day later, with a sprained ankle.[39] 
David Price, the team's first overall pick in the 2007 MLB draft, made 
his season debut on the road against the Cleveland Indians on May 25. After 
100 pitches in 3⅓ innings, Price was taken out of the game. On the same 
night as Price's first start of the 2009 season, the Rays jumped out to 
a 10–0 lead over the Indians, but were unable to win the game, as their 
opponents rallied for 11 unanswered runs. The Rays allowed 7 runs to cross 
the plate in the bottom of the 9th inning, ended by a walk-off 2-run single 
by Víctor Martínez. The Indians scored their last five runs with two outs, 
as the game's last six batters reached base. This having been the first 
of a 4-game set for the Rays on the road, the Indians eventually won every 
game in the series, extending the Rays' losing streak for road games against 
Cleveland to 17 games. The last time the Rays won in Cleveland was September 
28, 2005. At the end of May, the Rays were 25–28, 4th place in the division, 
and 5½ games out of first place. They were 5 games behind first place for 
the Wild Card. On June 22, Akinori Iwamura underwent surgery to repair 
the injuries suffered the month before. It was discovered that his ACL 
was only partially torn, meaning he would not require reconstructive surgery. 
Instead, an arthroscopic surgery was performed, and a report on the successful 
operation stated that he could return in 6–8 weeks.[40] On June 28, the 
Rays became the fastest team to hit 100 home runs and steal 100 bases in 
a single season, needing only 77 games. They were the fifth to do it before 
the all-star break, and the first since the Florida Marlins in 2003 to 
do so.[41] The Rays would go 19–7 in the month, improving their overall 
record to 44–35, and riding a seven-game winning streak into July. They 
set a new franchise record for home runs in one month with 41.[42] While 
not having gained much ground on the division lead, finishing the month 
4 games behind, in the wild card race, they went into July only 1½ games 
behind. Carlos Peña led the American League in home runs at the end of 
June with 23, which was third best in the entire league. For the second 
time in the season, a Rays player was named the American League's Player 
of the Month. B. J. Upton, with a .324 batting average, 5 home runs, 22 
RBI, 10 doubles, a .562 slugging percentage, a .395 on-base percentage, 
and league best 14 stolen bases, won the award this time.[43] Unfortunately 
the Rays' winning streak did not carry over into the next month. They lost 
their first four games in July, including being swept on the road by the 
Texas Rangers, and did not win until their first home game of the month. 
By the All-Star break, the Rays were 48–41. They were 6½ games behind first 
place in the division, and 3½ behind for the Wild Card. Four Rays were 
selected to make the All-Star Game. Evan Longoria, after having to rely 
on the All-Star Final Vote to take the final spot on the roster in his 
rookie year in 2008, was elected as the starting 3rd baseman by the fans. 
Longoria had the third highest votes out of players in the American League, 
but did not participate in the game due to an infection in his finger.[44] 
Making the All-Star roster by means of player voting, was Carl Crawford, 
his third selection, and Jason Bartlett, his first selection. As manager 
of the American League champions in the previous season's World Series, 
Joe Maddon automatically became a manager of the American League All-Stars. 
Part of his job as manager was to select players for the team after the 
fans and players voted. One of Maddon's selections was the Rays' own Ben 
Zobrist, which was his first selection to the midsummer classic.[45] The 
Rays would send a fifth player, making it the most they had ever sent to 
one All-Star Game, which was a record that had been set the previous season. 
Carlos Peña, who had never been to the All-Star Game, was a nominee for 
the All-Star Final Vote, a process in which fans choose one of five players 
in each league to take the final roster spots on the All-Star squads. Voting 
began after the initial All-Star rosters were announced. To help garner 
votes for Peña, the Rays started the "Vote for 'Los" campaign, having T-shirts 
made with Peña's face on them which players wore during batting practice.[46] 
The Rays asked fans to bring their laptop computers to Tropicana Field 
and vote online during the game, as well as using advertisements, online 
commercials, fliers, merchandise, and even a video message from comedian 
Rob Schneider. Despite all efforts, Peña would ultimately finish fourth 
in the voting. Brandon Inge of the Detroit Tigers received the most votes 
to get the last remaining spot. Even though he didn't win, Peña said he 
was flattered and humbled to see how many were in support of him to make 
the All-Star Game.[47] Peña would eventually make the team anyway as a 
replacement to Dustin Pedroia, who would have been the starting 2nd baseman, 
as he pulled out due to a "serious family health matter" involving his 
wife.[48] Peña would also take part in the Home Run Derby.[48] In the first 
round, he hit 5 home runs, good enough for fourth place. Two other participants 
would do the same, and so a "swing-off" was needed to determine who would 
advance to the next round. In the tiebreaker, Peña would only hit one home 
run, and was eliminated after Albert Pujols hit two.[49] Crawford was named 
MVP of the All-Star Game, for taking a home run away from Brad Hawpe in 
the bottom of the 7th inning. Had Crawford not made the catch, Hawpe would 
have broken a 3–3 tie in favor of the National League. Crawford's grab 
turned out to be a major factor in the game, as the American League would 
go on to win 4–3.[50] On July 23, Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White Sox 
threw a perfect game against the Rays. It was only the eighteenth example 
of a perfect game in Major League Baseball history.[51] On the road against 
the Toronto Blue Jays on July 25, the Rays were down 8–0 after four innings, 
and losing 9–1 entering the 7th inning. However the Rays would score eight 
runs over the next 3 innings to tie the game, including two solo home runs 
in the 9th inning. The game would enter extra innings, where the Rays would 
take a one-run lead into the bottom of the 12th inning. Joe Nelson would 
come in to pitch as the Rays' last remaining relief pitcher available. 
The Blue Jays would load the bases with one out, but could not capitalize. 
This became the largest come from behind win in franchise history for the 
Rays, a record previously set earlier in the season.[52] Finishing the 
month with an even 12–12 record, the Rays had an overall record of 56–47. 
Even with the fifth-most wins in the American League, they were 6 games 
behind for the lead in the division, and 4½ games behind for the wild card. 
They made no big moves on the July 31 trade deadline, though they were 
rumored to be interested in several players, including Victor Martinez 
and Cliff Lee of the Indians. Ultimately, Martinez would be traded to Boston, 
while Lee was sent to Philadelphia.[53][54] On August 7, the Rays acquired 
catcher Gregg Zaun from the Baltimore Orioles for a player to be named 
later.[55] To make room for Zaun, the Rays designated another catcher, 
Michel Hernández.[56] On August 29, the Rays sent starting pitcher Scott 
Kazmir to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in exchange for two minor league 
prospects and a player to be named later. Initially, there was confusion 
about whether or not a deal had been made, or if it had been in the works 
before falling through. Kazmir himself said he knew nothing about a trade, 
asking reporters who were questioning him if they were joking. The Rays 
would not confirm that a trade was being made, but a leak to the news by 
the Angels reportedly almost led the Rays to call it off because of their 
policy to notify the player first. The websites for ESPN and MLB reported 
in the afternoon that the trade had been completed, however MLB took down 
their report and replaced it with a story stating that the trade would 
not occur. Kazmir was in uniform for the Rays that night as they played 
the Detroit Tigers, but was not the starting pitcher in the game. After 
the conclusion of the game, it was confirmed by the Rays that Kazmir had 
been dealt. Drafted by the New York Mets, the Rays acquired Kazmir in a 
trade considered to be one of the best in franchise history. In his six 
seasons with the Rays, Kazmir became the club's all-time leader in wins, 
strikeouts, and games started. He was also the team's record holder for 
ERA and strikeouts in a single season. In 2007, Kazmir led the majors in 
strikeouts with 239. He was also a two-time all-star, and the winning pitcher 
in the 2008 All-Star Game. Andrew Friedman, the Rays' Executive Vice President 
of Baseball Operations, said that Kazmir's contract was not the primary 
reason that he was traded, but was an element in the decision.[57][58][59] 
A day after the Kazmir trade, the Rays activated Akinori Iwamura from the 
disabled list.[60] Going 15–12 for the month, the Rays had a 71–59 record 
overall, assuring themselves of having at least the second best season 
in franchise history. The Rays had fallen behind the New York Yankees for 
the division lead by 11½ games, but were still within reach of the wild 
card, trailing the Boston Red Sox by only 5 games. When rosters expanded 
on the first day of September, the Rays called up four players. Relief 
pitcher Jeff Bennett, outfielder Fernando Perez, catcher Shawn Riggans, 
and starting pitcher Andy Sonnanstine, with Sonnanstine scheduled to start 
for the Rays that night.[61] The Rays were struggling to keep up in the 
wild card race, but took a blow to their lineup on September 7 when Carlos 
Peña, who was leading the American League in home runs, was hit on his 
fingers by a pitch during the first game of a doubleheader. It wasn't until 
after that first game that the Rays announced Peña had two fractured fingers 
and would be out for the remainder of the season. Peña said that it was 
a wonder that he didn't pass out from the pain of taking a fastball to 
the fingers, and that the X-ray of his middle finger looked like "a pencil 
snapped in half", but upon the realization of having to miss the rest of 
the year, "hurt more than the hit by pitch itself."[62] If losing Peña 
wasn't bad enough for the Rays, their losing streak at the time reached 
11 games before it was snapped, although they never fell below a .500 record. 
On September 22, the Rays were officially eliminated from postseason contention, 
but would still finish with the second winning season in team history, 
winning their 82nd game of the season on September 30. They went 11–17 
in the month of September. B. J. Upton became the first player in franchise 
history to hit for the cycle, doing so on October 2, against the New York 
Yankees. Upton hit a triple, a double, a home run, and a single, in that 
order, all before five innings were completed. He would later add another 
single to finish the night 5 for 5 with a career high 6 RBIs.[63] Though 
they were not successful in defending the division and league championships 
won in 2008, the Rays did finish the season 3rd place in the AL East with 
an 84–78 record. Average attendance, as well as overall attendance at Tropicana 
Field increased again to become the highest since their inaugural season 
in 1998.[64] Evan Longoria was given a Gold Glove award for third base 
in the American League on November 10. Longoria, who was the AL's 2008 
Rookie of the Year, became the second player in Rays history to win a gold 
glove after first baseman Carlos Peña, who won in 2008.[65] Through October 
5, 2009 Statistics as of April 24, 2009 Note: G = Games played; AB = At 
bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home 
runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: 
W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = 
Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = 
Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts 
