The 2009 American League Division Series (ALDS) consisted of two concurrent 
best-of-five game series that determined the participating teams in the 
2009 American League Championship Series. Three divisional winners and 
a "wild card" team played in the two series. The ALDS began on Wednesday, 
October 7 and ended on Sunday, October 11. The matchups were: The Twins 
and Detroit Tigers finished the 162-game schedule in a first-place tie 
atop the American League Central and played a one-game playoff at the Metrodome 
on Tuesday, October 6 that was won by the Twins, 6–5, in twelve innings, 
giving them the division championship and a postseason berth. The Yankees, 
by virtue of finishing with the best record in the American League, were 
given the choice of playing an eight-day series (with three off-days) or 
a seven-day series (with two off-days) and opted for the former. This is 
the third consecutive season—and the fourth since 2004—that the Angels 
and Red Sox have met in the ALDS. The Red Sox swept the Angels in 2004 
and 2007, and defeated the Angels 3–1 in 2008. The Twins and Yankees last 
met in the postseason in the 2004 ALDS, which the Yankees won 3–1. The 
Angels and Yankees each swept their respective series in three games. Since 
the advent of division series play in 1995, this was the first time that 
the winners of both divisional series swept their opponents (Royals and 
Orioles swept both of their ALDS series in 2014, defeating the Angels and 
Tigers respectively). The Yankees went on to defeat the Angels 4–2 in the 
ALCS, and defeated the Philadelphia Phillies 4–2 to win the 2009 World 
Series. Game 3 of the Twins–Yankees series was the final Major League Baseball 
game at the Metrodome, as the Twins moved into their new home stadium, 
Target Field, starting with the 2010 season. TBS carried the tie breaker 
game and also televised all Division Series games in the United States. 
New York won the series, 3–0. Los Angeles won the series, 3–0. 6:07 p.m. 
(ET) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York In the first postseason game 
at the new Yankee Stadium, the Yankees rebounded from an early 2–0 deficit 
to take the first game of the series, 7–2, behind a strong outing from 
CC Sabathia and timely hitting by Derek Jeter, Nick Swisher, Alex Rodriguez, 
and Hideki Matsui. The Twins opened the scoring in the third by stringing 
together three consecutive two-out hits, including an RBI single by Michael 
Cuddyer. One batter later, a passed ball by Jorge Posada enabled Joe Mauer 
to score from third, giving the Twins a 2–0 lead. The Yankees answered 
in the bottom of the inning when Jeter smashed a two-run home run into 
the left field seats, and in the fourth, a two-out RBI double off the bat 
of Swisher put the Yankees in front for the first time of the night. One 
inning later, Rodriguez broke an 0-for-29 postseason skid with runners 
on base (dating back to the 2004 ALCS) by lining a two-out single to left 
center, scoring Jeter from second and knocking Twins starter Brian Duensing 
out of the game. Matsui then belted a two-run home run into Monument Park 
off reliever Francisco Liriano, making it 6–2 Yankees. Rodriguez added 
another RBI single in the seventh to complete the scoring. Sabathia settled 
down after the third inning, striking out eight and limiting the Twins 
to two runs (one earned) and eight hits in 6 2⁄3 innings of work. The Yankees 
bullpen then combined for 2 1⁄3 innings of scoreless relief. 6:07 p.m. 
(ET) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York Late-game heroics from Alex 
Rodriguez and Mark Teixeira powered the Yankees past the Twins in Game 
2 for a commanding two-games-to-none series lead. With the Yankees trailing 
3–1 in the bottom of the ninth, Teixeira led off with a single off Twins 
closer Joe Nathan, and Rodriguez followed with a dramatic game-tying two-run 
home run into the Yankee bullpen in right center.[7] The Yankees threatened 
to win the game in the tenth, putting runners on first and third with one 
out, but Johnny Damon lined out to shortstop Orlando Cabrera and Brett 
Gardner was doubled off third to end the inning. But the game, and possibly 
the series, turned in the top of the eleventh when the Twins mounted a 
threat of their own, beginning with a Joe Mauer base hit later in an at-bat 
in which he had already been denied a ground-rule double on a blown call 
by left field umpire Phil Cuzzi, who erroneously called Mauer's drive down 
the left field line foul. Replays showed the ball tipped off Yankees left 
fielder Melky Cabrera's glove and land in fair territory by almost a foot. 
Two subsequent Twins hits moved baserunners up a single base and loaded 
the bases with nobody out, meaning that Cuzzi's officiating error very 
likely cost the Twins a run and possibly the game, since the latter two 
hits would have properly begun with Mauer at second rather than first.[8][9][10] 
Yankees reliever David Robertson was able to work out of the jam, bringing 
the total number of runners left on base by the Twins to seventeen.[11] 
That set the stage for Teixeira, who opened the bottom of the frame by 
lining José Mijares' 2–1 pitch down the line and just over the left field 
wall for a walk-off home run.[7] Teixeira's home run was the first of his 
postseason career and the first postseason walk-off home run by a Yankee 
since Aaron Boone's series-winner in Game 7 of the 2003 ALCS.[11] 7:07 p.m. 
(ET) at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minnesota Starters 
Carl Pavano and Andy Pettitte matched zeroes until the bottom of the sixth, 
when Joe Mauer singled off Pettitte to put the Twins ahead 1–0.[12] The 
Yankees seized the lead half an inning later on a pair of opposite field 
solo home runs by Alex Rodriguez and Jorge Posada. In the eighth, Nick 
Punto led off with a double off New York's Phil Hughes and Denard Span 
followed with an infield single, but Punto made a wide turn around third 
and was thrown out trying to get back to the bag, effectively ending the 
threat.[12] The Yankees scored twice more in the ninth and Mariano Rivera 
recorded the final four outs, earning the save and sending the Yankees 
on to the American League Championship Series in the Twins' final game 
at the Metrodome.[12] 2009 ALDS (3–0): New York Yankees over Minnesota 
Twins 9:37 p.m. (ET at Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California 
Game 1 started off as a pitchers' duel between Los Angeles' John Lackey 
and Boston's Jon Lester. Each starter gave up four hits; however, one of 
the hits given up by Lester was a three-run home run by Torii Hunter in 
the fifth inning that proved to be all the run support Lackey needed. Los 
Angeles scored two more runs in the seventh inning on a Kendry Morales 
RBI single that scored Vladimir Guerrero and Juan Rivera. This was the 
first time the Red Sox had been shut out in postseason play since Game 
2 of the 1995 ALDS, and the first ever shutout by Angels pitching in the 
postseason. 9:37 p.m. (ET) at Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California 
The Angels broke a 1–1 tie with three runs in the seventh to hand Josh 
Beckett his first loss in nine postseason starts since Game 3 of the 2003 
World Series.[13] Maicer Izturis broke the deadlock with an RBI single 
and Erick Aybar's two-run triple over center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury's 
head chased Beckett from the game two batters later. Angels starter Jered 
Weaver continued in the footsteps of Game 1 starter John Lackey with a 
masterful performance, striking out seven while limiting the Red Sox offense 
to one run on two hits and two walks in 7 1⁄3 innings.[13] 12:07 p.m. (ET) 
at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Angels stunned the Red Sox 
and the Fenway crowd with two runs in the eighth and three in the ninth, 
overcoming late-inning deficits of 5–2 and 6–4[14] to sweep the series 
and advance to the American League Championship Series. Scott Kazmir started 
for Los Angeles and was largely ineffective, surrendering five runs on 
five hits and three walks in six innings. J.D. Drew supplied the big blow 
in the fifth, a two-run home run that gave Boston what seemed like a comfortable 
5–1 lead. The Angels chipped away against Boston starter Clay Buchholz 
in the sixth, putting runners on first and third with none out before Kendrys 
Morales grounded into a run-scoring 5–4–3 double play.[14] Red Sox reliever 
Billy Wagner worked into a second-and-third, two-out jam in the eighth, 
prompting manager Terry Francona to summon Jonathan Papelbon from the bullpen 
for a four-out save.[14] Juan Rivera greeted Papelbon by lining his first 
pitch to right center for a two-run single, momentarily making it a 5–4 
game, but Boston added an insurance run in the bottom of the inning. Papelbon 
retired the first two batters in the top of the ninth, but Erick Aybar 
kept the inning alive with a two-strike single.[14] After Chone Figgins 
worked a walk, Bobby Abreu, also down to his final strike, doubled off 
the Green Monster to score Aybar from second.[14] Torii Hunter then received 
an intentional walk, loading the bases for Vladimir Guerrero. Guerrero 
ripped Papelbon's first pitch for a two-run single to center, putting the 
Angels ahead 7–6.[14] Closer Brian Fuentes retired the Red Sox in order 
in the bottom of the inning for the save. 2009 ALDS (3–0): Los Angeles 
