The 2009 National League Division Series (NLDS) consisted of two concurrent 
best-of-five game series that determined the participating teams in the 
2009 National League Championship Series. Three divisional winners and 
a "wild card" team played in the two series. The NLDS began on Wednesday, 
October 7 and ended on Monday, October 12. TBS televised all games in the 
United States.[1] The matchups were: This marked the second postseason 
meeting between the Phillies and Rockies in three seasons; the Rockies 
swept the Phillies in the 2007 NLDS. The Dodgers and Cardinals last met 
in the postseason during the 2004 NLDS, which the Cardinals won 3–1. The 
Dodgers and Phillies won their respective series—the Dodgers three games 
to none and the Phillies three games to one. The Phillies defeated the 
Dodgers in the NLCS by a series score of 4–1, and lost the 2009 World Series 
to the New York Yankees, 4–2. Los Angeles won the series, 3–0. Philadelphia 
won the series, 3–1. 9:37 p.m. (ET) at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California 
Neither team's starting pitcher was particularly effective in the series 
opener; however, neither team's offense was able to capitalize, as this 
game set a MLB postseason record for runners left on base combined between 
the two teams, with 30.[9] Los Angeles starter Randy Wolf loaded the bases 
with no outs in the first inning, allowing one run to score on a fielding 
miscue. In the bottom half of the inning, St. Louis starter Chris Carpenter 
gave up a two-run home run to Matt Kemp, giving the Dodgers a lead they 
would never relinquish. The St. Louis bullpen gave up only one run over 
three innings, while the Los Angeles bullpen gave up one run over 5 1⁄3 
innings. Los Angeles slugger Manny Ramirez was held to 1-for-4 with one 
walk, while St. Louis slugger Albert Pujols was 0-for-3 with two intentional 
walks. The game ran 3:54 which made it the longest nine-inning postseason 
game in history: however, the record was broken four days later by the 
Rockies and Phillies. 6:07 p.m. (ET) at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, 
California In an amazing pitching duel, Game 2 was dominated by Cardinals 
pitcher Adam Wainwright and Dodgers phenom Clayton Kershaw, who was pitching 
in his first career postseason start. In the second inning, Matt Holliday 
hit a home run to put the Cardinals ahead 1–0, but Dodger slugger Andre 
Ethier hit his first career post-season homer to tie it up 1–1 in the bottom 
of the fourth, the first hit Wainwright allowed. Wainwright dominated throughout 
his start, retiring the first eleven hitters he faced, while Kershaw kept 
pitching in and out of trouble. In the seventh inning, a double by Colby 
Rasmus with no outs scored Mark DeRosa to put St. Louis ahead 2–1, but 
Rasmus was thrown out at third base, which ended up being a huge play. 
At the time, it seemed to be enough to allow Wainwright to pitch to victory; 
in the eighth inning, however, he pitched into a bases-loaded jam. With 
two outs, Game 1 hero Matt Kemp grounded out to Albert Pujols to end the 
threat, and going into the ninth inning, Cardinal closer Ryan Franklin 
was brought in with one out. After retiring Manny Ramirez, Dodger first 
baseman James Loney hit a fly ball to Holliday, who lost the ball in the 
lights and it hit off his belly,[10] allowing Loney to reach second on 
the error. After a walk to Casey Blake, mid-season acquisition Ronnie Belliard 
hit a clutch two-out single to score pinch runner Juan Pierre to tie the 
game, and after Russell Martin walked to load the bases, veteran pinch 
hitter Mark Loretta, who was 0-for-15 career against Franklin, hit a walk-off 
single to center field to score Blake and the Dodgers won the game in dramatic 
fashion, spoiling the gem by Wainwright and sending the series back to 
St. Louis with a 2–0 LA advantage. 6:07 p.m. (ET) at Busch Stadium in St. 
Louis, Missouri The Dodgers swept the Cardinals 3–0, and went on to go 
face the Phillies in a NLCS rematch. Vicente Padilla silenced the Cardinals 
bats again by pitching dominantly, allowing no runs on four hits through 
seven innings. The 47,296 attendance was the largest crowd to see a game 
at Busch Stadium since it opened in 2006. 2009 NLDS (3–0): Los Angeles 
Dodgers over St. Louis Cardinals 2:37 p.m. (ET) at Citizens Bank Park in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Amidst strong, swirling winds at Citizens Bank 
Park, the Phillies cruised to a 5–1 victory behind a dominating performance 
from Cliff Lee. Philadelphia broke a scoreless tie in the bottom of the 
fifth with an RBI double by Raúl Ibáñez, who scored two batters later on 
a single from Carlos Ruiz. Rockies starter Ubaldo Jiménez ran into more 
trouble in the sixth, giving up an RBI double to Jayson Werth, an RBI triple 
to Ryan Howard, and an RBI single to Ibanez before being chased from the 
game with none out. Lee, meanwhile, retired sixteen straight Colorado batters 
from the second inning into the seventh, picking up the complete game win 
in his first career postseason start. Lee was one strike away from completing 
a shutout, but Troy Tulowitzki lined a two-out, two-strike double in the 
top of the ninth to plate the Rockies' only run. Actor Kevin Bacon and 
his brother Michael sang the national anthem before the game. 2:37 p.m. 
(ET) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 2008 NLCS and 
World Series MVP Cole Hamels faced Rockies' starter Aaron Cook in Game 2. 
In the top of the first inning, the Rockies scored the first run of the 
game when Todd Helton hit a ball up the first base line that was misplayed 
by Hamels allowing Carlos Gonzalez to score from third. It was visible 
that Hamels' focus was not entirely on the game, as his wife had been pregnant 
for nine months and could have gone into labor during the game. Rockies' 
catcher Yorvit Torrealba then hit a two-run home run off of Hamels in the 
fourth inning, after he had not hit a home run since May 6. The Rockies 
would then add one more run to make it 4–0 Rockies. Cole Hamels would then 
be told his wife was going into labor, as he was lifted for a pinch-hitter 
in the bottom of the fifth inning. The Phillies would fight back in the 
sixth. After consecutive hits by Shane Victorino and Chase Utley put runners 
on first and second with nobody out, Ryan Howard hit a line-drive double 
into the right field corner making the score 4–1 Rockies. Raúl Ibáñez then 
hit a single to center field scoring two runs to cut the score to 4–3. 
However, the next three batters would be retired. Charlie Manuel would 
use potential Game 3 starters Joe Blanton and J.A. Happ in the later innings, 
with Happ only throwing four pitches and leaving with an injury after being 
hit on the leg with a line drive. The Rockies would score one more run 
to make the score 5–3. Jayson Werth hit a home run in the eighth inning 
to once again close the Rockies lead to one, but the Phillies would be 
unable to score again. Huston Street retired Shane Victorino with two runners 
on base with two outs in the ninth inning to send the series to Colorado 
tied 1–1. 10:07 p.m. (ET) at Coors Field in Denver, Colorado Game 3 was 
originally scheduled for October 10 at 9:37 p.m. Eastern, but was postponed 
due to snowy weather in the Denver area. The city received two inches of 
snow by Saturday morning, and forecasts called for a game-time temperature 
of 26 °F (−3 °C). The October 10 low was 17 °F (−8 °C), breaking a record 
set in 1905. This normally would not have been a problem due to Coors Field's 
underground heating system, and the Rockies have played in freezing conditions 
before. However, MLB began giving serious thought to postponing the game 
after hearing that the temperature would barely make it above freezing, 
and reports of icy roads and numerous accidents clinched the decision. 
This pushed Game 4 back to October 12, with Game 5, if necessary, to be 
played the next day in Philadelphia with no travel day. The temperature 
at game time (10:07 pm Eastern; 8:07 pm local) was 35 °F (2 °C) and it 
dropped over the course of the game, which ended after midnight local time. 
At 4:06, this was the longest nine-inning postseason game ever (breaking 
a record set four days earlier by the Dodgers and Cardinals.) Rockies starter 
Jason Hammel looked strong at first, but eventually lost control and gave 
up four earned runs before exiting during the fourth inning. It was a seesaw 
affair, with the teams tying each other four times during the course of 
the game, before Ryan Howard's sacrifice fly in the top of the ninth inning 
off of Rockies closer Huston Street scored Jimmy Rollins, which proved 
to be the winning run. 6:07 p.m. (ET) at Coors Field in Denver, Colorado 
Game 4 was originally scheduled to start on Game 3's date and start time, 
but due to the Saturday postponement was pushed back to Monday with first 
pitch at 4:07 Mountain Time. With an extra day of rest, both teams pitched 
their aces in a rematch of Game 1. The Phillies quickly struck in the first, 
as the second batter of the game, Shane Victorino, hit a home run into 
the Rockies bullpen. Jimenez would settle down, virtually matching the 
Phillies Cliff Lee the rest of the way, his only other run coming on a 
Jayson Werth solo homer in the sixth. Lee wasn't as dominant as he was 
in Game 1, but held the Rockies at bay until the sixth when Troy Tulowitzki 
doubled home Todd Helton to cut the Phillies lead to 2–1. Jimenez pitched 
seven innings before giving way to Franklin Morales. The Phillies would 
load the bases in the eighth with one out, but Rafael Betancourt would 
get a pop out and strikeout to keep Philadelphia from adding to their lead. 
With one out in the bottom of the inning, Lee walked Dexter Fowler. Helton 
then bounced what looked like a tailor made double play ground ball to 
Chase Utley. Fowler, to avoid running into him, jumped and hurdled over 
Utley, whose throw to second was wide and an error. Lee was pulled and 
a double switch was made, Ryan Madson into pitch, Ben Francisco in left 
field. Tulowitzki promptly stepped up and hit a shallow fly to left that 
Francisco made a diving catch on to rob the Rockies of the potential tying 
run. Jason Giambi pinch hit, and on the first pitch punched a game-tying 
single to left. Yorvit Torrealba followed by hitting a two-run double over 
the head of Victorino, giving the Rockies their first lead. In the ninth 
Colorado again turned to Street, the losing pitcher in Game 3. This time 
he opened the inning by striking out pinch hitter Greg Dobbs, prompting 
Ryan Howard to tell his teammates to "get me to the plate, boys." Jimmy 
Rollins, though, as he did the previous night, singled. After Victorino 
bounced into a fielders choice that saw Rollins forced out at second, Utley 
stepped up and went down 2–2 in the count. He would, however, work a walk 
to bring go-ahead run Ryan Howard to the plate. On a 2–1 pitch, Howard 
belted a double to the wall in right field, tying the game. Werth followed 
with a bloop single to shallow right on a 2–2 pitch as the Phillies matched 
the Rockies three-run rally with one of their own to retake the lead. Colorado 
would threaten again in the ninth against Scott Eyre. With one out Carlos 
Gonzalez singled, tying him with Dante Bichette for the club record for 
hits in the Division Series at ten. Following a Fowler lineout, Helton 
singled up middle. Brad Lidge was again summoned from the bullpen and faced 
Tulowitzki in a rematch of the previous night's final at-bat. Having looked 
at two sliders, and barely checked his swing on another, Lidge threw Tulowitzki 
a 2–2 slider. This time Tulowitzki could not check his swing, striking 
out to end the game, and sending the Phillies to the NLCS with a three 
games to one series victory. It also marked the first time in Division 
Series history that all four series winners clinched on the road, as the 
Dodgers, Angels and Yankees all had completed sweeps on the road previously. 
