The 2009 Chicago Cubs season was the 138th season of the Chicago Cubs franchise, 
the 134th in the National League and the 94th at Wrigley Field. The Cubs, 
attempting to win the NL Central division for the third consecutive season, 
fell short by finishing in second place with a record of 83–78. In 2009 
The Chicago Cubs had three minor league affiliates. The team's Single-A 
affiliate is the Peoria Chiefs, located in Peoria. The Chicago Cubs' Double-A 
affiliate is the Tennessee Smokies based in the Knoxville, Tennessee metropolitan 
area. Finally the Chicago Cubs Triple-A Affiliate is the Iowa Cubs, located 
in Iowa. The Iowa Cubs are coached by former Cub and Hall of Fame player 
Ryne Sandberg In 2010. Sandberg previously coached the Chiefs and Smokies 
as well. Infielders Outfielders Coaching Staff The Cubs were plagued by 
injuries in 2009, and were only able to field their Opening Day starting 
lineup three times the entire season. Third baseman Aramis Ramírez injured 
his throwing shoulder in an early May game against the Milwaukee Brewers, 
sidelining him until early July and forcing journeyman players like Mike 
Fontenot and Aaron Miles into more prominent roles. Additionally, key players 
like Derrek Lee (back), Alfonso Soriano (legs and knee) and Geovany Soto 
(shoulder) nursed minor, nagging injuries. Note: Pos = Position; G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. = Batting average; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; Avg. 
= Batting average; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in After many years 
of speculation that the Chicago Tribune wanted to sell the Chicago Cubs 
organization, they finally inked a deal on January 22, 2009 with the Ricketts 
family for a total of $900 million. The sale included the Cubs, Wrigley 
Field, and the Tribune's 25% stake in the Comcast Sports Network Chicago, 
a regional TV channel. The Chicago Cubs radio broadcasting team was anchored 
by veteran announcers Pat Hughes and Ron Santo this past season making 
it the duo's 15th year together. Hughes provides the play-by play-announcer 
while Santo serves as the color commentator. The Chicago Cubs 2009 television 
broadcasting team was anchored by Len Kasper and Bob Brenly. Games could 
be seen on multiple channels including: WGN-TV, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, 
