The 2010 Detroit Tigers season was the team's 110th season. This year saw 
the passing of legendary Tigers broadcaster Ernie Harwell, and nearly saw 
the first perfect game thrown by a Tigers pitcher. The Tigers spent most 
of the season in 2nd or 3rd place. The third-place Tigers finished 13 games 
behind the AL Central Champion Minnesota Twins, with an 81–81 record and 
failed to make the playoffs. Austin Jackson made the Tigers' opening day 
roster, and was American League Rookie of the Month for April.[1] 2010 
also saw the debuts of several rookies from the Tiger farm system, including 
Brennan Boesch, Scott Sizemore, Danny Worth, Casper Wells and Will Rhymes. 
Boesch was called up on April 23, 2010, and was named the AL Rookie of 
the Month for May and June.[2][3] The Tigers sent three players to the 
2010 All-Star game. Miguel Cabrera and José Valverde were selected as reserves, 
and starter Justin Verlander was added to the team when another AL starter 
who was selected was unable to pitch due to scheduling. At the All-Star 
break, the Tigers were a half-game out of first place in the AL Central, 
behind the Chicago White Sox. But a slow start and injuries to key players 
Magglio Ordóñez, Carlos Guillén and Brandon Inge shortly after the break 
sent the Tigers into a tailspin. Closer Valverde would also suffer a series 
of nagging injuries down the stretch. The Tigers finished the season with 
an 81-81 record, good for third place, 13 games back of the division-winning 
Minnesota Twins. While playing outstanding baseball at home, the Tigers 
were just 29-52 on the road. Only the Seattle Mariners had fewer road wins 
than the Tigers among American League teams. Among the season highlights 
were Miguel Cabrera hitting .328 with 38 home runs and an AL-best 126 RBI, 
earning the American League Silver Slugger Award at first base[4] and finishing 
second in the AL MVP race (earning 5 of 28 first-place votes).[5] Austin 
Jackson (.293 average, 103 runs, 181 hits, 27 stolen bases) finished second 
in the AL Rookie-of-the-Year voting. Justin Verlander enjoyed another strong 
season (18-9 record, 3.37 ERA, 219 strikeouts). After a slow start and 
a brief trip to the minors, Max Scherzer showed promise with a 12-11 record, 
3.50 ERA and 181 strikeouts. On July 26, the Tigers were on the losing 
end of Matt Garza's no-hitter in Tampa.[6] Infielders Outfielders Coaches 
On May 4, Tigers broadcaster Ernie Harwell died at age 92.[28] Two days 
later, Harwell's body lie in repose at Comerica Park, with over 10,000 
fans filing past the casket.[29] In his honor, the Tigers wore patches 
(shown at right) and flew a flag in the center field of Comerica Park both 
bearing his initials for the remainder of the season.[30] In the June 2 
game against Cleveland, Armando Galarraga had a perfect game going with 
two outs in the top of the ninth when first base umpire Jim Joyce made 
a controversial call, ruling a batter safe at first when video replay showed 
he was out. Joyce later said ""I took a perfect game away from that kid, 
I thought he beat the throw. I was convinced he beat the throw, until I 
saw the replay."[31] After the game, Galarraga told reporters Joyce apologized 
to him directly and gave him a hug. Despite large fan support for overturning 
the call, MLB Commissioner Bud Selig let the call stand, but said he would 
look into expanding replay beyond home run calls for the future. It would 
have been the first perfect game thrown by a Tigers pitcher. Two previous 
Tigers, Tommy Bridges (1932) and Milt Wilcox (1983), had also come within 
one out of throwing perfect games before having them broken up by the 27th 
