The 2010 Minnesota Twins season was the 50th season for the franchise in 
Minnesota, and the 110th overall in the American League. It was their first 
season in their new stadium, Target Field, which made its regular-season 
debut on April 12 as the Twins defeated the Boston Red Sox 5–2. This marked 
the return of outdoor professional baseball to the state of Minnesota for 
the first time since the end of the 1981 season, the last played at Metropolitan 
Stadium. 3,223,640 fans attended Twins games, setting a new franchise record. 
The Twins clinched their sixth AL Central division championship in nine 
seasons on September 21 after a win against the Cleveland Indians and a 
Chicago White Sox loss. They were again swept by the New York Yankees in 
the American League Division Series to end the season. The Twins altered 
their uniforms for the 2010 season. Their new home outfits as well as their 
alternate uniforms feature a redesigned primary wordmark that was shown 
for the first time as a sign was hoisted into place atop the scoreboard 
at Target Field in May 2009. The team's colors remained unchanged (Red, 
navy and white) but the nameplate that had been in use since the 1980s 
on the uniforms was eliminated. The new road uniforms discards the navy 
pinstripes for a gray uniform with a script "Minnesota" on the front in 
navy with red and white trim. The franchise also wore a 1961 throwback 
uniform as part of the team's 50th season on Opening Day and all Saturday 
dates. The team donned a special Inaugural Season patch for Target Field 
on all home uniforms, and a Golden Anniversary season patch on their road 
outfits. Before spring training, the Twins parted ways with 2009 trade 
deadline acquisition Orlando Cabrera, who would go on to sign a free agent 
deal with the Cincinnati Reds.[1] Also leaving the team was backup catcher 
Mike Redmond.[2] With Cabrera leaving, there were questions about the Twins 
infield.[3] General Manager Bill Smith addressed these questions by trading 
center fielder Carlos Gómez to the Milwaukee Brewers for shortstop J. J. 
Hardy,[4] and signing free agent second baseman Orlando Hudson.[5] Smith 
also added some power to the bench by acquiring free agent and former White 
Sox and Indians designated hitter Jim Thome.[6] With regular closer Joe 
Nathan out for the season after elbow surgery, Gardenhire named Jon Rauch 
the closer to begin the season. Later, the Twins traded catcher Wilson 
Ramos and Joe Testa to the Washington Nationals to acquire Matt Capps to 
bolster the bullpen. Other pitching changes included the late additions 
of Brian Fuentes and Randy Flores. On March 22, catcher Joe Mauer signed 
a contract extension for eight years. The $184 million contract, paying 
him $23 million each year, is the richest ever for the Twins, and the fourth 
largest in major league history.[7] Finally, the Twins win a stadium opener 
at home. They'd lost the Home Openers at Metropolitan Stadium (April 21, 
1961) and the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome (April 6, 1982). At Target Field 
on April 12 this year, DH Jason Kubel drove in two runs and hit the stadium's 
first home run in a 5-2 win over Boston. On April 28, third baseman Luke 
Hughes hit a home run in his first-ever major league at bat, joining four 
other Twins who've accomplished the feat: Rick Renick (1968), Dave McKay 
(1975), Gary Gaetti (1981) and Andre David (1984). They'll be joined by 
Eddie Rosario in 2015. On July 3, new Twin Jim Thome homered in the first 
inning for his 574th career home run. With that four-bagger, he passed 
Twins legend Harmon Killebrew's 573 on the all-time career home run list. 
July 13: At Angel Stadium of Anaheim, Joe Mauer and Justin Morneau represented 
the Twins at the All-Star Game. Mauer was the starting AL catcher and Morneau 
was not used as a reserve. Kevin Slowey's win on September 12 was the club's 
4,000th win, dating back to win no. 1 on April 11, 1961. Ron Gardenhire 
was named American League Manager of the Year; he'd been the runner-up 
five times. Pitcher Francisco Liriano, who'd missed all of 2007 following 
Tommy John surgery, saw limited action in 2008 and 2009 due to injuries. 
In 2010, he threw the second-most innings of any pitcher for the Twins, 
led the team in ERA, and allowed the fewest home runs per nine innings 
of any pitcher in the AL (0.4). He was voted the American League's Comeback 
Player of the Year. (He'll win it a second time, as a 2013 Pittsburgh Pirate 
He's the first player to win it twice and the only one to win it in both 
leagues.) Joe Mauer won his fourth Silver Slugger Award and his third Gold 
Glove Award. Infielders Outfielders Designated Hitter Coaches Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B 
= Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; 
SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; 
G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; 
HR = Home runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K 
= Strikeouts The Twins were swept in three games by the New York Yankees 
in the Division Series. 8:30 p.m. (EDT) at Target Field in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota 6:00 p.m. (EDT) at Target Field in Minneapolis, Minnesota 8:30 p.m. 
