The 2010 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 81st midseason exhibition 
between the All-Stars of the American League (AL) and the National League 
(NL), the two leagues comprising Major League Baseball. The game was held 
on July 13, 2010, at Angel Stadium of Anaheim, the home of the American 
League Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and was telecast by Fox Sports in 
the USA, with Joe Buck and Tim McCarver in the broadcast booth.[1] Fox 
also teamed with DirecTV to produce a separate 3D broadcast, the first 
ever for a network Major League Baseball game. Kenny Albert and Mark Grace 
called the 3D telecast.[2] ESPN Radio also broadcast the game, with Jon 
Sciambi and Dave Campbell announcing.[3] The National League won the game 
3–1, ending a 13-game winless streak.[4] This was the third All-Star Game 
hosted by the city of Anaheim, California, which previously hosted the 
game in 1967 and 1989.[5] Since 2003, the winning team has earned home 
field advantage for the World Series. This is the first All Star Game the 
National League won since 1996, giving the NL said advantage in the World 
Series for the first time since 2001 – ironically, the winning pitcher, 
Washington Nationals closer Matt Capps, would go on to participate in the 
American League playoffs after his trade to the Minnesota Twins just a 
couple of weeks following the Midsummer Classic. A short memorial honoring 
George Steinbrenner, the owner of the New York Yankees who died early that 
morning, was held prior to the game. The 2010 All-Star Game marked the 
first time major changes took place since the 2003 decision to begin handing 
home field in the World Series to the winning league. The designated hitter 
became a permanent fixture of the game regardless of site (a change which 
became more noticeable when the game was next played in a National League 
park – in 2011 at Chase Field in Phoenix). But, continuing with past precedent, 
whereas fans voted the American League starter in, as they did in previous 
years when an A.L. city hosted the game, the National League's manager 
continued to name his team's DH before the game from the list of reserves 
(player-elected and manager-chosen). Other changes included having the 
rosters of each league team increased to 34 players. Pitchers who started 
the regular-season game on the Sunday immediately before the game became 
ineligible to pitch in the game, and were replaced on the roster (this 
rule would be invoked for three players selected for the American League 
squad – Trevor Cahill, CC Sabathia and Jered Weaver). As with any player 
ineligible or unable to play, each was still recognized as an All-Star. 
Finally, a modified re-entry rule also made its debut (though saw no usage 
in this contest). In addition to the existing injured catcher rule, the 
manager was now allowed to select one position player to re-enter a game 
in the event that the last available position player at any position is 
injured.[6] After the rosters were revealed, a second ballot of five players 
per league was created for the All-Star Final Vote to determine the 34th 
and final player of each roster, with online balloting conducted from Sunday 
afternoon, July 4, through Thursday afternoon, July 8. The winners of the 
final vote were Nick Swisher of the New York Yankees and Joey Votto of 
the Cincinnati Reds.[8] § – When Bell replaced Yovani Gallardo due to injury 
on Wednesday, July 7, his name was withdrawn from the Final Vote ballot. 
UMPIRES: Home Plate – Mike Reilly; First base – Mike Winters; Second base 
– Brian O'Nora; Third base – Laz Díaz; Left Field – Bruce Dreckman; Right 
Field – Jim Wolf Weather – 85 °F (29 °C), clear; Wind 5 mph (8 km/h) from 
the southwest – out to center field. Time of Game – 2 hours, 59 minutes. 
Attendance – 45,408 Pitching dominated the first half of the ballgame, 
as both starting pitchers and their immediate successors put up zeroes. 
Both teams finally threatened to score in the fifth inning. With Justin 
Verlander on the mound for the American League, David Wright singled and 
stole second. Andre Ethier singled but Josh Hamilton was able to hold Wright 
at third with a strong throw from right field. With runners on the corners, 
Verlander was able get the final two outs of the inning. In the bottom 
of the inning, Hong-Chih Kuo walked Evan Longoria before allowing Joe Mauer 
to reach first and advance to second by throwing a ball over the first 
baseman's head and into the dugout. With runners on second and third and 
no outs, Kuo and Heath Bell were able to escape the inning by limiting 
the damage to one unearned run on a Robinson Canó sacrifice fly. The game 
remained quiet until the top of the seventh inning. Phil Hughes allowed 
two singles before being lifted in favor of Matt Thornton. After getting 
Chris Young to pop up, Thornton loaded the bases on a walk to Marlon Byrd 
before allowing a bases-clearing double down the right field line to Brian 
McCann. Those would be the last runs scored in the game. The American League 
would threaten again in the bottom of the seventh. With runners on the 
corners and two outs, Torii Hunter struck out swinging against Adam Wainwright 
to end the burgeoning rally. The bottom of the ninth would provide some 
drama, both on the field and in the dugout. With Jonathan Broxton in to 
close the game, David Ortiz hit a leadoff single to right. However, Ortiz 
was not lifted for a pinch runner although American League manager Joe 
Girardi still had Alex Rodriguez available on the bench. After Broxton 
struck out Adrián Beltré, Ortiz was thrown out advancing to second on a 
strong throw from Marlon Byrd on a John Buck single. In a controversial 
decision, Girardi allowed Ian Kinsler to bat despite having Rodriguez available 
to pinch-hit, and Kinsler subsequently flew out to center. His out not 
only ended the ballgame, it also ended the American League's run of dominance 
in the Midsummer Classic. This was also the second straight All-Star Game 
