The 2010 National League Championship Series (NLCS) was a best-of-seven 
game Major League Baseball playoff series that pitted the winners of the 
2010 National League Division Series—Philadelphia Phillies and San Francisco 
Giants—against each other for the National League Championship. The Giants 
won the series 4–2 and went on to win the 2010 World Series. The series, 
the 40th in league history, began on October 16 and ended on October 23. 
The Phillies had home field advantage as a result of their better regular-season 
record. The Phillies hosted Games 1, 2 and 6, while the Giants were at 
home for Games 3, 4 and 5. San Francisco won the series, 4–2. Saturday, 
October 16, 2010 — 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania In one of the most touted postseason pitching matchups in 
recent history, two former Cy Young Award winners faced off: Roy Halladay 
for the Phillies and Tim Lincecum for the Giants. The Giants jumped out 
to a 1–0 lead in the top of the third inning on a Cody Ross solo home run, 
Halladay's first hit allowed in the postseason. The Phillies quickly tied 
the game up in the bottom half of the same inning on a home run from catcher 
Carlos Ruiz. The game remained tied until the top of the fifth inning, 
when Ross belted his second homer of the game, another solo shot, giving 
San Francisco a 2–1 lead. The Giants extended that lead to 4–1 the following 
inning on a string of three two-out hits, namely, a single by Buster Posey, 
a double by former Phillie Pat Burrell, and a single from Juan Uribe. In 
the bottom of the same inning, the sixth, the Phillies closed the deficit 
to 4–3 on a two-run blast from Jayson Werth. Lincecum and Halladay then 
each pitched a scoreless half of the seventh before turning the game over 
to their respective bullpens. Southpaw Javier López retired the first two 
Philadelphia batters of the eighth inning, then handed the ball to the 
Giants closer Brian Wilson, who recorded a four-out save, striking out 
Shane Victorino to end the game. Sunday, October 17, 2010 — 8:00 p.m. (EDT) 
at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania In the first inning 
Chase Utley walked, then stole second. Mike Fontenot misfielded Plácido 
Polanco's grounder and everybody advanced. Ryan Howard and Jimmy Rollins 
both walked, bringing in Utley for the first run. Oswalt no-hit the Giants 
through the fifth inning until Cody Ross hit a home run, his third in two 
games. This was the third straight game in which Ross's solo home run broke 
up a no-hitter. In the bottom inning, Shane Victorino doubled, then advanced 
to third on a Utley fly out. Polanco's sacrifice fly brought in the second 
Phillie run. In the bottom of the seventh inning Oswalt hit a single up 
the middle. That knocked Sánchez out of the game, bringing in Ramón Ramírez. 
Oswalt then advanced on a Victorino sacrifice bunt. Polanco then ripped 
a single up the middle bringing in Oswalt. Ramírez was brought down and 
in came Jeremy Affeldt. Affeldt struck out Howard then intentionally walked 
Jayson Werth. Giants manager Bruce Bochy then sent in Santiago Casilla 
to face Jimmy Rollins. Rollins ripped a three-run double off Casilla, extending 
the Phillies' lead to five. With a five-run lead, Oswalt pitched a scoreless 
eighth. He struck out nine while allowing three hits and walking three. 
Tuesday, October 19, 2010 — 4:00 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, 
California With the series shifting to San Francisco for a day Game 3, 
and the series tied 1–1, both teams again threw very good starting pitchers, 
2008 World Series MVP Cole Hamels for Philadelphia and All-Star Matt Cain 
for San Francisco. Both starters started out strong, dominating the first 
three innings. In the fourth inning, however, the Giants broke though against 
Hamels. Edgar Rentería led off with a base hit to right, and was bunted 
to second by Freddy Sanchez. Following Buster Posey's strikeout and Pat 
Burrell's walk, Cody Ross ripped a fastball down the left field line for 
an RBI single, his fourth RBI of the NLCS. Aubrey Huff then singled off 
the glove of a diving Chase Utley, bringing in Burrell and making the score 
2–0, Giants. The Giants added a third run in the next inning, when Aaron 
Rowand led off the inning with a double to left and scored on a Sanchez 
single that fooled Chase Utley. With a 3–0 lead, Matt Cain cruised through 
the Phillies lineup. In the seventh inning, he ran into trouble, but was 
able to get Shane Victorino to groundout to Sanchez with the bases loaded 
for the third out. Javier López relieved Cain and tossed a perfect eighth, 
striking out Ryan Howard to end the inning. Brian Wilson closed out the 
game by getting Raúl Ibáñez to ground into a double play with one out and 
Jimmy Rollins at first. The Giants now had a 2–1 NLCS advantage. Wednesday, 
October 20, 2010 — 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California 
Game 4 was a match up of both teams' fourth starters, 21-year-old Madison 
Bumgarner for the Giants and Joe Blanton for the Phillies. The Giants scored 
first, when Buster Posey lined an RBI single into center field that scored 
Freddy Sanchez. Posey struck again in the third inning, scoring Huff on 
a two-out double over the head of left fielder Ben Francisco, increasing 
the Giants' lead to 2–0. The Phillies' offense broke through in the fifth 
inning against Bumgarner. Back-to-back singles by Francisco and Carlos 
Ruiz opened the inning, and Blanton hit a sacrifice bunt to advance both 
runners into scoring position. Shane Victorino then hit a single up the 
middle, scoring Francisco; however, Ruiz was thrown out at home plate by 
Giants center fielder Aaron Rowand. Chase Utley singled to right and Santiago 
Casilla was brought in to face Plácido Polanco. Polanco doubled in both 
runners, giving the Phillies a 3–2 lead. Ryan Howard was then intentionally 
walked and Jayson Werth was hit by a pitch. Facing Jimmy Rollins, Casilla 
threw a wild pitch, bringing home a fourth Phillies run. Casilla finally 
ended the inning by striking out Rollins. The Giants got a run back on 
an Aubrey Huff single up the middle in the bottom of the fifth, which scored 
Andrés Torres. In the sixth inning, Pat Burrell drew a leadoff walk and 
advanced to third on a Cody Ross double. Pablo Sandoval came to the plate 
and appeared to double down the right field line, but the ball was called 
foul. Four pitches later, Sandoval lined a two-run double into the left-center 
field gap, scoring Burrell and Ross, and giving the Giants a 5–4 lead. 
The Phillies tied it in the top of the eighth with back-to-back doubles 
by Howard and Werth. Giants reliever Sergio Romo recovered and retired 
the next three Phillies batters to strand Werth at second. Going to the 
ninth inning, the game was tied 5–5. In the top of the ninth, Giants closer 
Brian Wilson threw a 1-2-3 inning. In the bottom of the ninth, Game 2 winner, 
Roy Oswalt, was brought in as a reliever. Sanchez lined out to right field 
to start the inning, but Huff singled past a diving Howard immediately 
afterwards. Posey followed with a base hit to right—his fourth hit of the 
game—moving Huff to third with only one out. Juan Uribe, pinch hitting 
in the pitcher's spot, followed with a sacrifice fly to left field, allowing 
Huff to tag up and score the winning run. The victory gave the Giants a 
commanding 3–1 series lead. Thursday, October 21, 2010 — 7:30 p.m. (EDT) 
at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California Game 5 saw a rematch of Game 1's 
starting pitchers: Roy Halladay of the Phillies and Tim Lincecum of the 
Giants. In the bottom of the first inning Halladay walked leadoff hitter 
Andrés Torres. Freddy Sanchez followed up with a single, advancing Torres 
to third. Aubrey Huff lined out to first baseman Ryan Howard, followed 
by a Buster Posey RBI groundout to second. The Phillies struck in the top 
of the third inning. Raúl Ibáñez singled, and Carlos Ruiz was hit by a 
pitch. Halladay then bunted the ball, which dropped in the home plate area, 
and the ball was ruled a fair ball by home plate umpire Jeff Nelson. Giants 
catcher Posey quickly picked up the ball and threw to third baseman Pablo 
Sandoval in an attempt to throw out Ibáñez; however, Sandoval, who was 
playing shallowly in anticipation of the bunt, misjudged the position of 
third base while retreating to the bag, allowing Ibáñez to reach safely. 
Meanwhile, Halladay, thinking the ball was foul, did not begin his run 
to first base until after Ibáñez was ruled safe, and Sandoval had enough 
time to throw the ball to first base to retire Halladay. Television replays 
showed the ball was in foul territory when Posey picked it up, which means 
it should have been ruled a foul ball.[8] Then, Giants first baseman Aubrey 
Huff committed an error on a grounder by Shane Victorino, scoring two runners. 
Plácido Polanco added to the lead with an RBI single. In the bottom of 
the fourth with one out Pat Burrell hit a double to left and scored on 
a Cody Ross RBI double. Phillies relievers José Contreras and J. C. Romero 
combined to shut the Giants down in the seventh inning. Then Phillies middle 
reliever Ryan Madson pitched a perfect eighth inning, striking out Posey, 
Burrell, and Ross. In the top of the ninth Jayson Werth hit a solo homer 
off Ramón Ramírez to extend the lead to two. Phillies closer Brad Lidge 
pitched a perfect ninth inning to collect his 12th postseason save out 
of 12 opportunities with Philadelphia (and the 18th of his career). Saturday, 
October 23, 2010 — 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania San Francisco starter Jonathan Sánchez had a poor outing. 
In the first inning, he walked Plácido Polanco and threw a wild pitch to 
Chase Utley that advanced Polanco to second base. Polanco then scored on 
an Utley RBI double, and Utley himself scored later in the inning on a 
sacrifice fly by Jayson Werth. San Francisco rallied against Phillies starter 
Roy Oswalt in the third inning. Sánchez singled off his opposite number 
and advanced to second base on a long fly ball from Andrés Torres that 
was dropped up against the center field wall by Shane Victorino. Freddy 
Sanchez bunted the runners over to second and third and Aubrey Huff hit 
a single up the middle, which only scored Sánchez as Torres was thrown 
out at home by Victorino. Huff took second base on the throw home and eventually 
scored on a throwing error by Polanco to tie the game at 2–2. Sánchez was 
still very wild with his command as he walked Polanco and hit Utley to 
start off the bottom of the third. Utley flipped the ball back towards 
the mound which led to Sánchez and Utley exchanging hostile words. The 
confrontation led to both benches clearing. No one was ejected as a result 
of the incident, but Sánchez was removed from the game and replaced with 
Jeremy Affeldt. Affeldt was effective for the Giants, retiring the next 
three Phillies to end the scoring threat in the third, then throwing a 
1-2-3 fourth inning. In the fifth, Affeldt was relieved by Madison Bumgarner. 
Jimmy Rollins singled and advanced to third on a two-out double from Ryan 
Howard. After walking Werth intentionally, Bumgarner got out of the jam 
by getting Victorino to ground out with the bases loaded. Oswalt got into 
a jam himself in the top of the sixth, when Cody Ross doubled and Juan 
Uribe was hit by a pitch. Oswalt got out of the jam by getting Edgar Rentería 
to ground into a double play. Bumgarner faced yet another jam in the bottom 
of the sixth, as Raúl Ibáñez doubled to lead off the inning and was bunted 
over to third by Carlos Ruiz. Bumgarner then struck out pinch hitter Ben 
Francisco and induced a fly ball out from Rollins to end the threat once 
again. The Giants finally broke through in the top of the eighth, when 
Uribe hit an opposite field home run off Philadelphia reliever Ryan Madson. 
Tim Lincecum, who was the Giants' starting pitcher in Games 1 and 5, then 
entered the game in a relief role to pitch the eighth inning. Lincecum 
struck out Werth, but gave up back-to-back singles to Victorino and Ibáñez. 
Giants manager Bruce Bochy promptly brought in closer Brian Wilson for 
a five-out save. Phillies catcher Ruiz hit a line drive right at Giants 
first baseman Huff, who caught the ball and easily doubled off Victorino 
at second to get out of the inning. Wilson got pinch hitter Ross Gload 
to ground out to start the bottom of the ninth, but then walked Rollins 
to put the tying run on base. Polanco grounded into a fielder's choice 
to Uribe, who threw to second to force out Rollins. Utley then drew a walk, 
which put the winning run on first base. With a full count and the runners 
moving on the pitch, Wilson struck out Howard looking to end the game and 
send the Giants to their first World Series in eight years. 2010 NLCS (4–2): 
San Francisco Giants over Philadelphia Phillies Fox televised the NLCS 
in the United States, with Joe Buck providing play-by-play and Tim McCarver 
as commentator. Every pitch of 2010 NLCS was also broadcast on ESPN Radio 
with Dan Shulman (play-by-play) and Dave Campbell (color commentator). 
The series did not air in Cablevision homes after News Corporation, Fox's 
parent company, pulled station WTXF on October 16 as the result of a carriage 
