The 2010 NFL season was the 91st regular season of the National Football 
League. The regular season began with the NFL Kickoff game on NBC on Thursday, 
September 9, at the Louisiana Superdome as the New Orleans Saints, Super 
Bowl XLIV champions, defeated the Minnesota Vikings 14–9. Tom Brady, quarterback 
of the New England Patriots, was named MVP for the 2010 season. In Super 
Bowl XLV, the League's championship game played at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, 
Texas, the Green Bay Packers defeated the Pittsburgh Steelers 31–25 to 
win their fourth Super Bowl. spoiling the Steelers chance for a 7th title.[2] 
This season also marked the first full-length season in which a team with 
a losing record made the playoffs, when the Seattle Seahawks won the NFC 
West with a 7–9 record, after defeating the St. Louis Rams in week 17 to 
clinch the division title. One week later, the Seahawks dethroned the defending 
champion New Orleans Saints in the Wild Card round, to become the first 
ever sub .500 playoff team to win a postseason game. The 2010 regular season 
is the first year that the league will use a modified version of the scheduling 
formula that was first introduced in 2002, in which all teams will play 
each other at least once every four years, and will play in every other 
team's stadium at least once every eight years (notwithstanding the regular 
season games played overseas as part of the NFL International Series). 
Under the original 2002 formula, since the pairings were strictly based 
on alphabetical order, those teams scheduled to play all the AFC West clubs 
had to travel to both Oakland and San Diego in the same season, while those 
clubs playing the entire NFC West had to make their way to both San Francisco 
and Seattle.[4] In 2008, the New England Patriots and New York Jets each 
had to make cross-country trips to all four of the aforementioned West 
Coast teams. In an effort to relieve east coast teams from having to travel 
to the West Coast multiple times during the same season, clubs would only 
have to visit one West Coast team (AFC West or NFC West), plus one western 
team from the same division closer to the Midwest, under the 2010 modified 
formula. Specifically, those clubs traveling to Oakland will now also play 
at Denver, while those playing at San Diego will also play at Kansas City. 
For teams scheduled to play the NFC West, those traveling to San Francisco 
will also go to Arizona, while those scheduled to play in Seattle will 
also go to St. Louis.[4][5][6] For the 2010 season, the intraconference 
and interconference matchups are: Intraconference Interconference The entire 
2010 regular-season schedule was unveiled at 7:00 pm EDT on Tuesday, April 
20. Additionally, schedule release shows aired on both the NFL Network 
and as a SportsCenter special on ESPN2.[7] The league's 75th annual selection 
meeting, more commonly known as the NFL Draft, took place at Radio City 
Music Hall in New York City from April 22–24, the first time that the draft 
was held over three days instead of the normal two.[8] The Pro Football 
Hall of Fame Game was held on Sunday, August 8, 2010 at 8:00 pm EDT on 
NBC, with the Dallas Cowboys defeating the Cincinnati Bengals, 16–7[9] 
at Fawcett Stadium in Canton, Ohio.[10] The remainder of the preseason 
game matchups were announced March 31, 2010. Highlights, among others, 
include the New York Giants and New York Jets facing off in the first-ever 
game at New Meadowlands Stadium on ESPN.[11] The preseason game in the 
Bills Toronto Series featured the host Bills defeating the Indianapolis 
Colts in Toronto on Thursday, August 19 by a score of 34–21.[12] Exact 
dates and times for most games were announced in April, shortly after the 
regular season games were announced. The NFL Kickoff Game, the first game 
of the season, took place on Thursday, September 9, 2010, starting at 8:35 pm 
EDT, with the Super Bowl XLIV champion New Orleans Saints hosting the Minnesota 
Vikings, in a rematch of the 2009 NFC Championship Game. The Saints won 
14–9. Like in previous years, the opening week's prime-time games were 
expected to be announced at the NFL's annual owners meetings in late March, 
but that wasn't the case this year, with the schedule announced on April 
20.[13] On March 15, 2010, the NFL announced that both the New York Giants 
and New York Jets will play at home during the opening weekend to open 
New Meadowlands Stadium.[14] The Giants played on Sunday with a 1 pm EDT 
kickoff against the Carolina Panthers and the Jets opened ESPN's Monday 
Night Football schedule against the Baltimore Ravens the next night. For 
the nightcap, the San Diego Chargers traveled to play their division rival, 
the Kansas City Chiefs, marking the first time that a team from outside 
the Mountain or Pacific Time Zones has played in, or hosted, the "late" 
(10:15 pm ET) game. The game started at 9:15 pm Kansas City time (Central). 
While the Indianapolis Colts and New Orleans Saints had both started the 
year before 13–0 (with the Colts even going 14–0), on October 10, the Kansas 
City Chiefs became the last team to lose, losing to the Colts 19–9. It 
would mark the first time that no NFL team reached 4–0 since 1970, when 
the Detroit Lions, Denver Broncos, and St. Louis Rams started the season 
3–0 but all lost in Week 4.[15] The 2010 season featured one International 
Series game, played at Wembley Stadium in London.[16] The teams for this 
game were confirmed on January 15, 2010, with the San Francisco 49ers playing 
host to the Denver Broncos on October 31, 2010, at 1:00 pm EDT (5:00 pm 
GMT).[17] The 49ers won 24–16, scoring 21 points in the 4th quarter. CBS 
televised this game on a regional basis, as the Broncos were the "visiting" 
team. The Kansas City Chiefs and Seattle Seahawks, who had expressed interest 
in previous games,[18] were a possible matchup for a second NFL game (with 
the Seahawks as the home team), but league officials dropped a plan for 
two games in the UK, citing the economy and ongoing labor negotiations.[19] 
The following week, the third regular-season game of the Bills Toronto 
Series featured the Buffalo Bills hosting the Chicago Bears at Toronto's 
Rogers Centre on November 7 at 1 pm EST, marking the first time that the 
regular-season portion of the series has taken place during the Canadian 
Football League season and the first time an NFC opponent played in the 
series.[20] On the same day that the Broncos and 49ers played in London, 
the Saints hosted the Pittsburgh Steelers on NBC's Sunday Night Football. 
This game was televised opposite Game Four of the World Series on Fox, 
a practice the league had traditionally avoided.[21] The Saints won this 
game 20–10. The Thanksgiving games took place on Thursday, November 25, 
2010, with the Detroit Lions falling to the visiting New England Patriots, 
45–24. The second game featured the Dallas Cowboys giving up a late lead 
to the New Orleans Saints. New Orleans won 30–27 when Saints quarterback 
Drew Brees threw a go-ahead touchdown to Lance Moore with less than two 
minutes remaining. In the prime-time NFL Network game, the New York Jets 
defeated the visiting Cincinnati Bengals, 26–10. Both the Saints and Bengals 
made their first appearance in a Thanksgiving game; in the case of the 
Bengals, it also marked the first appearance of an AFC North team on Thanksgiving 
since 1998, when the Pittsburgh Steelers of what was known as the AFC Central 
played the Detroit Lions. Additionally, since Christmas Day fell on a Saturday 
in 2010, the NFL scheduled a Christmas game between the Cowboys and the 
Arizona Cardinals in Glendale, Arizona on December 25 on NFL Network. The 
Cowboys came back from a 21–3 deficit behind third-string quarterback Stephen 
McGee to take a 26–24 lead late in the fourth quarter, but kicker David 
Buehler missed an extra point, allowing the Cardinals to win the game 27–26 
on a last-second Jay Feely field goal. The entire Week 17 schedule, played 
on January 2, 2011, consisted solely of divisional contests, in an attempt 
to increase competition after several cases over the last few seasons of 
playoff-bound teams resting their regular starters and playing their reserves. 
This trend would continue ever since. Playoff seeds are marked in parentheses 
and shaded in green The 2010–11 NFL playoff tournament began January 8–9, 
2011 with wild card weekend. Following that, the divisional playoffs set 
the matchups for the NFC Championship Game, to be played at 3:00 pm EST 
on January 23, and the AFC Championship Game, to be played at 6:30 pm EST. 
After a backlash from players and critics about the previous season's Pro 
Bowl being played at Sun Life Stadium in Miami Gardens, Florida in the 
contiguous United States, the 2011 Pro Bowl was played at Aloha Stadium 
in Halawa, Honolulu, Hawaiʻi.[29] The date was January 30, 2011, the week 
before the Super Bowl. An NFL spokesman stated that "Plans for future Pro 
Bowls are not final."[30] Indianapolis Colts President Bill Polian has 
stated his objections to the format, and is in favor of returning the game 
to after the Super Bowl as in previous years.[31] The annual Pro Bowl had 
previously been played in Hawaii for 30 consecutive seasons from 1980 to 
2009.[32] However, the NFL and State of Hawaiʻi officials only agreed to 
a two-year deal to hold the Pro Bowl at Aloha Stadium in 2011 and 2012.[32] 
This gives the option of playing the Pro Bowl in Hawaiʻi on a rotational 
basis with the mainland, so it both maintains the traditional ties of holding 
it on the islands and providing accessibility to fans when played in the 
contiguous 48 states.[32] Super Bowl XLV, was held at Cowboys Stadium in 
Arlington, Texas, on February 6, 2011, and was the NFL's final event of 
the 2010 season. Within each conference, the four division winners and 
the two wild card teams (the top two non-division winners with the best 
overall regular season records) qualified for the playoffs. The four division 
winners are seeded 1 through 4 based on their overall won-lost-tied record, 
and the wild card teams are seeded 5 and 6. The NFL does not use a fixed 
bracket playoff system, and there are no restrictions regarding teams from 
the same division matching up in any round. In the first round, dubbed 
the wild-card playoffs or wild-card weekend, the third-seeded division 
winner hosts the sixth seed wild card, and the fourth seed hosts the fifth. 
The 1 and 2 seeds from each conference then receive a bye in the first 
round. In the second round, the divisional playoffs, the number 1 seed 
hosts the worst surviving seed from the first round (seed 4, 5 or 6), while 
the number 2 seed will play the other team (seed 3, 4 or 5). The two surviving 
teams from each conference's divisional playoff games then meet in the 
respective AFC and NFC Conference Championship games, hosted by the higher 
seed. Although the Super Bowl, the fourth and final round of the playoffs, 
is played at a neutral site, the designated home team is based on an annual 
rotation by conference. NFL owners voted in 2008 to opt out of their collective 
bargaining agreement (CBA) with the National Football League Players Association 
(NFLPA) as of the end of the 2010 season. (The vote was 23 in favor, 9 
against; the extension measure needed 24 to pass, which would have set 
the CBA to expire after the 2012 season). Since a new CBA was not reached 
with the NFLPA, 2010 was an uncapped season,[33] meaning that there was 
no salary cap or salary floor between which teams had to operate.[34] Also, 
the uncapped season limited unrestricted free agency only to players with 
at least six years of experience, as opposed to four under a capped season.[34] 
The final eight teams alive in the 2009–10 NFL playoffs (Arizona, Dallas, 
Minnesota and New Orleans in the NFC; and Baltimore, Indianapolis, the 
New York Jets and San Diego in the AFC) were restricted in the free agents 
they would be able to sign.[34] The issue of a CBA continued into the 2011 
NFL season, affecting most of the off-season. The following rule changes 
were passed at the league's annual owners meeting in March: The NFL relaxed 
all rules regarding crowd noise, citing the need to increase the in-stadium 
experience to lure more fans to attend games. In addition, the league cited 
the advances in the coach-to-quarterback radio communications, and more 
visiting teams using silent snap counts as an alternative to overcome crowd 
noise.[40] The NFL's rules to "legislate the fans", and help visiting offensive 
players hear the snap count, have been controversial from the start. In 
one notorious example, then-Cincinnati Bengals head coach Sam Wyche and 
then-quarterback Boomer Esiason "protested" the crowd noise rules during 
a 1989 nationally televised preseason game against the New Orleans Saints 
by constantly complaining to the referee about the loud crowd noise inside 
the Superdome.[41] The league will still allow stadiums to post visual 
noise meters and other scoreboard messages to incite fans to make noise, 
but they must cease when the play clock is down to 15 seconds. However, 
home teams are still prohibited from pumping in artificial noise.[40] After 
several violent hits throughout the NFL made the news in Week 3, the league 
announced that it would consider suspending players for illegal hits, such 
as helmet-to-helmet hits or other blows to the head.[42] (Previously, players 
could only be fined for such hits.) The league also instructed all officials 
and referees to have an even higher level of attention toward flagrant 
hits.[43] Game officials were also instructed to err on the side of safety, 
and throw flags even when in doubt.[44] The crackdown has been controversial. 
Many defensive players have complained that the league is being too strict 
in their interpretation of what constitutes an "illegal hit", and that 
it forces them to behave significantly different than how they were taught 
to play the game.[42][43] Another concern is the league's instructions 
to game officials to err on the side of caution, since questionable calls 
late in close games significantly affect their outcome. However, the medical 
community has supported the move, believing that it would help reduce concussions 
and other head injuries.[43] The league did not end up suspending any players 
for violent or illegal hits, however several players were fined for these 
types of hits within the first few weeks of the crackdown. Starting with 
Super Bowl XLV, the template of all Super Bowl logos will virtually remain 
the same. The only differences from year to year will be the stadium backdrop 
and the Roman numerals for the game as well as colors of the area. For 
Super Bowl XLV, Cowboys Stadium is featured and "XLV" signifying the forty-fifth 
Super Bowl game.[45] The NFL also introduced new Lamar Hunt and George 
Halas trophies for the AFC and NFC Championship games. The trophies were 
changed from a brown base with an 'A' or 'N' on top of it surrounded by 
players layered on a frieze upon a wall, to silver trophies in the make 
of a football.[45] Additionally, both the NFC and AFC logos were revamped 
and recolored to reflect the current shield adopted two years earlier and 
with four stars running down the inside on both logos top to bottom from 
left to right instead of the six surrounding the AFC and three down the 
side of the NFC logo as each conference has four divisions. In addition, 
all event and playoff logos have undergone a complete makeover in a new 
logo system.[46] In the 2010 season, the Washington Redskins were the only 
team who made a major change to their main uniforms, wearing gold pants 
with their burgundy jerseys, and except for a game against the Packers, 
wore them for home games instead of their white jerseys and red pants. 
The white pants were not abandoned entirely, and would be worn together 
with the burgundy jerseys for the two away games (and one home game) in 
which their opponent wore white at home. This was made possible with a 
sleeve modification, in which the broad yellow and white stripes were severely 
shrunken on an elastic band (same for white jerseys) so that when wearing 
the gold pants, the team also wore the retro style socks that had a different 
stripe pattern matching the sleeves of the day, so there is no longer a 
stripe design conflict. The Green Bay Packers became the first team to 
officially unveil a third uniform for 2010, a throwback uniform based on 
their 1929 uniforms when they won their first NFL championship. The throwbacks 
are as accurate as possible while complying with current NFL guidelines, 
with a brown modern-shell helmet in place of the leather helmets of 1929, 
along with blue jerseys and gold circles with the jersey numbers nested 
within the circles, and brown pants. Like throwbacks worn in recent seasons 
by the San Diego Chargers, Dallas Cowboys, Buffalo Bills, New York Jets, 
and the archrival Minnesota Vikings, these throwbacks will be a permanent 
addition to the Packers uniforms, unlike throwbacks worn by the Detroit 
Lions and Pittsburgh Steelers that were intended as one-time deals but 
made permanent, as well as several one-shot throwbacks in recent years. 
The new Packers throwbacks replace the previous throwbacks (which comprised 
the current helmets with the "G" logo and stripes removed, white jerseys 
with plain green lettering, and tan pants) worn sporadically since the 
early 2000s (decade). Also going the throwback route were the Chicago Bears, 
who harkened back to the Sid Luckman era with a 1940s set, replacing the 
pumpkin orange third jerseys, and the Indianapolis Colts, who will wear 
1955 throwbacks as well. Since the Colts only have two colors, they only 
have previously worn a throwback jersey once in their history, in 2004. 
The difference between the 2004 throwback and the 2010 throwback is the 
helmet color, which reverses the 2004 scheme. The Arizona Cardinals, who 
were the only team to not wear a third jersey in any form since the NFL 
allowed third jerseys in 2002, unveiled a black third jersey to be worn 
in 2010. The Philadelphia Eagles have adopted their 1960 championship uniforms 
that were worn September 12 against the Packers, the team they beat to 
win their last championship in celebration of the 50th anniversary of that 
game. The Tennessee Titans returned to using navy blue jerseys as their 
third jersey, after a one-year hiatus in which they wore light blue Houston 
Oilers throwback jerseys in celebration of the 50th anniversary of the 
American Football League, but did not wear them for any game in 2010. The 
Pittsburgh Steelers wore their throwbacks against the Cleveland Browns 
on October 17 and against the New England Patriots on November 14.[47] 
The Seattle Seahawks have retired the neon green uniform worn for one game 
in 2009 against Chicago, which was in turn an offshoot from an April Fools 
Day joke written about by Uni Watch founder Paul Lukas that year.[48] This 
is the fifth season under the current television contracts with the league's 
television partners: CBS (all AFC Sunday afternoon away games and one Thanksgiving 
game), Fox (all NFC Sunday afternoon away games and one Thanksgiving game), 
NBC (17 Sunday night games and the kickoff game), ESPN (17 Monday night 
games over sixteen weeks), NFL Network (eight late-season games on Thursday 
and Saturday nights, including one Thanksgiving game), and DirecTV's NFL 
Sunday Ticket package. These contracts run through at least 2013. In national 
radio, this is the second year on Westwood One's most recent contract extension. 
The network also agreed to a four-year extension on December 23, 2010. 
Nielsen Ratings for the fall 2010 television season have shown viewership 
increases of up to 10 percent for most of the NFL's broadcast partners; 
eighteen of the twenty most watched television broadcasts of the season 
have so far been NFL games.[49] New Meadowlands Stadium opened in 2010, 
replacing Giants Stadium as the home of both the New York Giants and the 
New York Jets. The new stadium is located a few hundred feet away from 
the old building in the parking lot of Meadowlands Sports Complex in East 
Rutherford, New Jersey. Unlike Giants Stadium (in which the Giants were 
the sole NFL tenant until the 1984 season), the new Meadowlands Stadium 
will be a 50/50 partnership between both New York teams. The Giants played 
their first regular season game on September 12 against the Carolina Panthers, 
while the Jets played the following night against the Baltimore Ravens 
in the first game of a Monday Night Football doubleheader. Arrowhead Stadium, 
home of the Kansas City Chiefs since 1972, underwent a two-year $375 million 
renovation project which was completed and unveiled in July 2010. The stadium 
hosted the second game of the Monday Night Football opening weekend doubleheader 
when the Chiefs played the San Diego Chargers. M&T Bank Stadium, home of 
the Baltimore Ravens, installed FieldTurf prior to the 2010 season. The 
field had been Sportexe Momentum Turf since 2002 and grass before that. 
Prior to Week 14, the inflatable roof of the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, 
home of the Minnesota Vikings, buckled and tore as a result of heavy snowfall 
in Minneapolis, spilling snow onto Mall of America field and rendering 
the stadium unusable for the remainder of the Vikings' season.[50] The 
Vikings' scheduled home game against the New York Giants was moved to Detroit's 
Ford Field and postponed to a 7:20 pm EST kickoff on Monday. Though stadium 
workers were initially "optimistic" that the roof could be repaired before 
the Vikings faced the Chicago Bears on December 20,[51] stadium officials 
determined that such a repair would not be possible in that time frame 
and the game was moved to TCF Bank Stadium.[52][53] Two stadiums received 
new naming rights: On January 20, LandShark Stadium, the home field of 
the Miami Dolphins, was renamed Sun Life Stadium. The Dolphins' home field, 
originally named Joe Robbie Stadium from 1987–1996, has undergone several 
name changes in its history, including Pro Player Stadium (1996–2005), 
Dolphin Stadium (2006–2009), and most recently, LandShark Stadium.[54] 
On July 27, Jacksonville Municipal Stadium, the home field of the Jacksonville 
Jaguars, was renamed EverBank Field.[55] Passing Starts Turnovers Special 
Teams Sacks Playoff records Gailey, who was last seen in the NFL as the 
Kansas City Chiefs' offensive coordinator before Todd Haley fired him prior 
to the 2009 regular season, was named the new Bills coach on January 19; 
he was recommended to the Bills by former Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill 
Cowher. On January 5, 2010, Shanahan, the former two-time Super Bowl winning 
coach with the Denver Broncos, was hired as the Redskins' new coach. Zorn 
was hired January 30, 2010 to be the quarterbacks coach for the Baltimore 
Ravens. Carroll had spent the past eight years as the head coach of the 
USC Trojans, having won a share of the 2003 and the outright 2004 national 
championships; however, many of Carroll's achievements at USC may be stricken 
from the record books due to improprieties involving Reggie Bush. He had 
previously been the head coach of the New York Jets in 1994 and New England 
Patriots from 1997 to 1999, with a career 33–31 record. The following were 
