The 2010 National League Division Series (NLDS) were two best-of-five game 
series to determine the participating teams in the 2010 National League 
Championship Series. The three divisional winners and a fourth team—a "Wild 
Card"—played in two series from October 6 to 11. TBS televised all games 
in the United States.[2] Under MLB's playoff format, no two teams from 
the same division were matched up in the Division Series, regardless of 
whether their records would normally indicate such a matchup. Home field 
advantage went to the team with the better regular-season record with the 
exception of the wild card team, which defers home field advantage regardless 
of record. The matchups were: The Phillies and Reds had met in the postseason 
once before: in the 1976 NLCS, which the Reds won 3–0. The Giants and Braves 
also had one prior postseason series—the 2002 NLDS—which the Giants won 
3–2. Philadelphia won the series, 3–0. †: No-hitter by Roy Halladay San 
Francisco won the series, 3–1. 5:00 p.m. (EDT) at Citizens Bank Park in 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania In his first career postseason start, Phillies 
ace Roy Halladay hurled a no-hitter, giving up only one walk (to Jay Bruce 
in the fifth inning). Halladay's was only the second postseason no-hitter 
in Major League Baseball history, and the first since Don Larsen's perfect 
game in the 1956 World Series.[10] He threw only 104 pitches. During the 
2010 regular season, Halladay had thrown a perfect game on the road against 
the Florida Marlins on May 29. He thus became the first and only pitcher 
to throw a no-hitter in the regular season and a no-hitter in the postseason 
in the same year. Halladay is also the fifth major league pitcher to throw 
two no-hitters in the same year, and the first since Nolan Ryan in 1973. 
The Phillies' offense got started early when Shane Victorino sliced a double 
down the left field line in the first inning. After stealing third base, 
Chase Utley brought him home with a sacrifice fly. Victorino went 2-for-4 
in the game and also had two RBIs on a single in the second inning that 
scored Wilson Valdez and Halladay. Halladay had reached earlier in the 
inning on an RBI single of his own, helping his own cause and becoming 
the first pitcher in major league history to outhit the opposing team in 
a postseason game. Cincinnati starter Edinson Volquez lasted only 1 2⁄3 
innings before Travis Wood was called upon in relief by manager Dusty Baker. 
Volquez gave up four hits, four runs (all earned), and two walks. He faced 
eleven batters, retiring only five. 6:00 p.m. (EDT) at Citizens Bank Park 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania On the fourth pitch he saw, Brandon Phillips 
hit a solo home run to lead off the first inning. This is both the first 
hit and first run since 1995 for the Reds in the postseason.[11] Laynce 
Nix scored another run in the top of the second inning on two throwing 
errors and a wild pitch. Jay Bruce hit a lead-off solo homer in the fourth 
inning to increase the lead to 3–0. In the top of the fifth inning, Phillips 
hit a lead-off double, advanced to third base on a sacrifice bunt, then 
scored on Joey Votto's sacrifice fly. The Phillies mounted their attack 
in the bottom of the fifth inning. Pinch-hitter Domonic Brown reached first 
base on a fielder's choice, then the Phillies loaded the bases on two consecutive 
defensive errors. Chase Utley delivered a two-out RBI single to get the 
Phillies on board. But Arroyo struck out Ryan Howard to limit the damage 
at two. The Phillies scored again in the sixth inning. Jayson Werth walked, 
stole second, then scored after two batters were hit by pitches and a bases-loaded 
walk by Reds relievers Arthur Rhodes and Logan Ondrusek. The Reds sent 
flame-thrower Aroldis Chapman to the mound in the bottom of the seventh 
inning. He hit Chase Utley, the third time by Reds' relievers in the night, 
then struck out Ryan Howard. Werth hit a ground ball to Reds third baseman 
Scott Rolen, but Utley was called safe at second base. The next batter 
Jimmy Rollins hit a fly ball to right field, but the Reds right fielder 
Jay Bruce lost it in the lights; Reds second baseman Phillips also missed 
the relay catch. These two crucial errors—the third and fourth on the night—let 
both Utley and Werth score. Rollins scored later on Raúl Ibáñez's single 
and Carlos Ruiz's RBI force-out. Reds reliever Nick Masset replaced Chapman 
and got Shane Victorino to ground out to end the inning. The Phillies took 
the 6–4 lead on Reds' errors into the eighth inning. In the bottom of the 
eighth inning, Utley hit a one-out single then stole second. Masset intentionally 
walked Howard, to set up a potential double play for the next batter. However, 
Werth hit an RBI single to left field to score Utley. Phillies closer Brad 
Lidge closed the ninth for the save. The six combined errors tied an LDS 
record previously set by the Athletics and Red Sox in the 2003 ALDS.[12] 
8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio Cincinnati 
was again dominated by Phillies' starting pitching. Cole Hamels pitched 
a complete game shutout, striking out nine while allowing five hits. Plácido 
Polanco scored for the Phillies on Orlando Cabrera's throwing error in 
the top of the first inning. Chase Utley added another run to the lead 
by hitting a solo home run in the fifth inning. With one out in the top 
of the ninth inning, Carlos Ruiz hit a double off Aroldis Chapman on a 
pitch that was clocked by PITCH f/x at 103.5 mph, making it the fastest 
pitched ball ever to result in a hit.[13] For the series, Cincinnati was 
shut out two times and scored just four runs, making them among the very 
few teams to lose in a shutout twice. (The 1966 Los Angeles Dodgers lost 
in three shutouts to the Baltimore Orioles in the World Series in a sweep.) 
2010 NLDS (3–0): Philadelphia Phillies over Cincinnati Reds 9:30 p.m. (EDT) 
at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California Game 1 was a pitching duel that 
matched the Giants' two-time Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum, in his 
first postseason start, against the Braves' Derek Lowe, a seasoned veteran 
of postseason play. The game's only run came in the fourth inning. Giants 
rookie catcher Buster Posey singled to left, stole second in a controversial 
play where he was called safe while appearing to be out, and then scored 
on a two-out single by Cody Ross. That run was the only one Lincecum needed, 
as the Giants' ace was dominant, pitching a complete game shutout, allowing 
only two hits and striking out a franchise record 14 while walking only 
one. 9:30 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California The Giants 
took a quick 3–0 lead as Pat Burrell hit a three-run home run, following 
Freddy Sanchez's single and Buster Posey's walk in the bottom of the first 
inning. Braves manager Bobby Cox was ejected from the game in the top of 
the second inning, arguing that Giants first baseman Aubrey Huff's foot 
did not stay on base on Álex González's ground-out. Giants starter Matt 
Cain also hit an RBI single in the bottom of the second inning, scoring 
Cody Ross, who had doubled earlier. Braves first baseman Derrek Lee hit 
a lead-off single in the top of the sixth inning and advanced to second 
base on Pat Burrell's fielding error. Brian McCann singled him home in 
the next at-bat to end the 14 scoreless innings streak for the Braves in 
this series. The Braves struck back in the top of the eighth inning. After 
consecutive singles by Lee and McCann, the Giants brought in closer Brian 
Wilson for a six-out save. However, the next hitter, Melky Cabrera, hit 
an RBI ground ball that scored Lee from third base and Cabrera beat the 
throw to first base due to Giants' third baseman Pablo Sandoval's throwing 
error. Following Brooks Conrad's sacrifice bunt, Álex González's RBI double 
scored both runners and tied the game at 4–4. The game remained tied and 
went to extra innings. In the bottom of the tenth inning, two consecutive 
bunts—one single, one sacrifice—knocked Braves closer Billy Wagner out 
of the game because of injury. Braves reliever Kyle Farnsworth hit the 
next batter, Freddy Sanchez, then walked Huff to load the bases. However, 
Posey grounded into a double play to end the inning. In the top of the 
eleventh inning, Rick Ankiel hit a go-ahead solo home run into McCovey 
Cove on the fly to give the Braves a 5–4 lead. At the time Ankiel was the 
only player in postseason history besides Barry Bonds to hit a home run 
into McCovey Cove. [14] Farnsworth threw a scoreless eleventh inning for 
the win and the series was tied at 1–1. 4:30 p.m. (EDT) at Turner Field 
in Atlanta, Georgia Game 3 was yet another dramatic matchup of strong pitching. 
The Giants sent lefty Jonathan Sánchez to the mound, who turned in a strong 
performance, pitching a no-hitter through six innings. The Braves countered 
with right-hander Tim Hudson, who matched Sánchez for seven innings, allowing 
only one unearned run. The Giants took an early lead in the second inning 
after leaving the bases loaded in the first. Third baseman Mike Fontenot 
started the inning by driving a triple off the right field wall. The next 
batter, Cody Ross, lofted a pop fly that was dropped by Atlanta second 
baseman Brooks Conrad, giving San Francisco a 1–0 lead. That run seemed 
to be all Sánchez would need, as he shut out the Braves for 7 1⁄3 innings. 
With a runner at first and one out in the bottom of the eighth inning, 
and the Giants still nursing their 1–0 lead, Giants setup man Sergio Romo, 
a right-hander, relieved Sánchez to face the right-handed Troy Glaus as 
a pinch-hitter. Braves manager Bobby Cox countered by sending left-handed 
batter Eric Hinske to the plate instead. With two strikes on him, Hinske 
turned on a hanging slider from Romo and drove it just inside the right 
field foul pole for a home run, giving the Braves a 2–1 lead, and electrifying 
the crowd at Turner Field. Rookie right-hander Craig Kimbrel came out of 
the bullpen to start the top of the ninth for the Braves, relieving Jonny 
Venters, who had struck out the side the previous inning. Kimbrel retired 
Ross on a popout to Conrad, for the first out. Travis Ishikawa then pinch-hit 
for Romo and drew a walk. After striking out leadoff man Andrés Torres, 
Kimbrel gave up a single to second baseman Freddy Sanchez, and was removed 
from the game, leaving runners on first and second base, with two outs. 
Another rookie Brave, lefty Michael Dunn came on and gave up a game-tying 
single to Aubrey Huff. Dunn was then pulled for a right-hander, Peter Moylan, 
who induced a grounder from Buster Posey, which proceeded to bounce through 
the legs of Conrad, the second baseman's third error of the game. Sanchez 
scored on the play, giving the Giants a 3–2 lead. Kyle Farnsworth came 
on and got the third out, but the damage was done. The Giants brought in 
their closer Brian Wilson for the bottom of the ninth. He held the lead, 
giving up a single to Brian McCann, but retiring Nate McLouth on a grounder 
to end the game. 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia With 
their backs against the wall, the Braves sent Derek Lowe to the mound on 
three days' rest. The Braves scored first in the bottom of the third inning 
when Brian McCann's sacrifice fly drove in Omar Infante. Lowe took a no-hitter 
into the sixth inning, but the Giants tied the game with one out on Cody 
Ross' first-pitch homer off a Lowe cutter. McCann answered with another 
in the bottom of the inning off the Giants' rookie starter, Madison Bumgarner, 
to take back the lead. Lowe was relieved after 6 1⁄3 innings. After walking 
Aubrey Huff and allowing an infield single to Buster Posey, Bobby Cox made 
his way out to the mound, apparently to remove Lowe from the game. However, 
after talking to him, Cox elected to leave Lowe in, prompting huge cheers 
from the Atlanta fans. The next batter, Pat Burrell, walked on a 3–1 pitch 
near the inside corner and Lowe's night was done. He struck out eight while 
allowing only two hits and walking two. Braves' relievers Peter Moylan 
and Jonny Venters could not hold the lead as the Giants scored two runs 
in the top of the seventh inning on Juan Uribe's RBI fielder's choice and 
Cody Ross' RBI single. The Braves might have been able to escape the one-out, 
bases-loaded jam, however, Álex González's throwing error, his second in 
the game, cost them. Both errors were debatable. The first, was a ball 
hit in the hole he didn't field cleanly with the speedy Andrés Torres running. 
The second, was again, another crucial controversial call that went against 
the Braves in the series. With two on and one out and a weakly hit groundball, 
González elected to go to second, throwing it high, causing Omar Infante 
to edge up, however, the umpire ruled he came off the base. Left-handed 
Giants reliever Javier López entered the game with two outs in the eighth, 
and pinch-runner Nate McLouth as the tying run at second base, and struck 
out Jason Heyward. In the bottom of the ninth inning, the Braves had one 
last chance to rally. With one out, Giants closer Brian Wilson walked Rick 
Ankiel and Eric Hinske to put the winning run on base. However, Omar Infante 
struck out swinging and Melky Cabrera grounded out to end the game and 
the series. This was Braves manager Bobby Cox's last game. After the game 
ended, he came out of the dugout briefly to acknowledge the fans. He was 
greeted with loud cheers from the entire stadium, as well as an ovation 
from the Giants' players and coaches. 2010 NLDS (3–1): San Francisco Giants 
