The 2010 Toronto Blue Jays season was the 34th season of Major League Baseball's 
Toronto Blue Jays franchise, and the team's 21st full season of play (22nd 
overall) at the Rogers Centre. The 2010 season was the first under general 
manager Alex Anthopoulos, who replaced J. P. Ricciardi after the 2009 season. 
After a poor 2009 season in which the Blue Jays finished with a 75–87 record, 
2010 saw the team improve by 10 games, finishing with an 85–77 record and 
in fourth place in the American League East. Led by José Bautista, whose 
54 home runs set a franchise record and led the Major Leagues, the team 
also set a franchise record with 257 home runs. One of the biggest trades 
in Blue Jays history (known as "The Doc Deal") was executed on December 
16, 2009, when the Blue Jays traded Roy Halladay and US$6 million to the 
Philadelphia Phillies for Kyle Drabek, Travis d'Arnaud and Michael Taylor;[1] 
Taylor was then traded to the Oakland Athletics for Brett Wallace. Halladay 
signed a contract extension with the Phillies worth $60 million for 3 years, 
with an option for another year worth $20 million.[2] The Phillies were 
scheduled to play in Toronto on June 25, 26 and 27, however due to the 
G20 summit meeting in Toronto, those games were held in Philadelphia. Halladay 
made his first start against his old team in spring training, getting lit 
up in the first inning allowing 4 runs on 5 hits. For more detailed information 
about arrivals and departures see Free agency and Waivers. In total, the 
Blue Jays lost 16 players in the offseason, 4 as free agents, but one re-signed. 
It was a trade-filled offseason, including The Doc Deal, which landed the 
Jays three players for Roy Halladay. The Jays made five trades in total. 
The Jays traded cash considerations for two pitchers in separate deals, 
and traded a player to be named for Zach Jackson. All told, the Blue Jays 
added 26 new players to their roster.[3] Of the five major league free 
agents of the Blue Jays, John McDonald was the only one to re-sign with 
the team, accepting a two-year, $3 million deal. Michael Barrett and Kevin 
Millar were designated for assignment and subsequently released, becoming 
minor league free agents. Rod Barajas declined salary arbitration, signing 
a contract with the New York Mets in February 2010;[4] this gave the Blue 
Jays a supplemental first-round compensation draft pick for the 2010 Major 
League Baseball draft (pick 41). Marco Scutaro signed a contract with the 
Boston Red Sox, giving the Blue Jays Boston's second-round draft pick (pick 
81) and a supplemental first-round compensation draft pick (pick 32). The 
team non-tendered Raúl Chávez, then signed him to a minor league deal. 
The Blue Jays signed shortstop Álex González to a one-year, $2.75 million 
contract on November 26, 2009, and catcher John Buck to a one-year, $2 million 
contract on December 16, 2009. On January 13, 2010, the Blue Jays signed 
four minor leaguers, Chris Lubanski, Willie Collazo, Jorge Padilla and 
Jesús Merchán.[5] On January 19, they also signed Jeremy Reed and Steven 
Register to minor-league contracts,[6] and on January 22 the Blue Jays 
signed Shawn Hill.[7] On January 19, 2010, José Molina signed a one-year 
deal with an option for 2011 with the Blue Jays, and on February 2, 2010, 
relief pitcher Kevin Gregg signed a one-year, $2.75 million deal with the 
Blue Jays. Blue Jays minor league free agents signed by other teams include 
Fabio Castro (Boston), Bill Murphy (Chiba Lotte Marines in Japan), and 
Bryan Bullington and Buck Coats (both signed by the Kansas City Royals). 
The Blue Jays made some moves with potential on the waiverwire. Alex Anthopolous 
made his first transaction ever when he picked up reliever Sean Henn from 
the Orioles in late October 2009. He acquired Jarrett Hoffpauir on November 
3. Once free agency started to kick in, he claimed shortstop Mike McCoy 
from Colorado, and never made a transaction for the rest of 2009. Anthopolous 
made his first waiver claim of 2010 on January 7, when he claimed Brian 
Bocock from the San Francisco Giants. Bocock was waived and picked up by 
the Phillies on January 26. The Blue Jays' only waiver loss during the 
2009–2010 offseason was utility player Joe Inglett, who was claimed by 
the Texas Rangers. On January 15, 2010, six Blue Jay pitchers filed for 
salary arbitration.[8] Shaun Marcum[8] re-signed with the Blue Jays on 
January 18 to a one-year, $850,000 contract.[9] The next day, Jeremy Accardo, 
Shawn Camp, Jason Frasor, Casey Janssen and Brian Tallet[8] signed one-year 
deals with the club. With three games left during the 2009 season, articles 
about Cito Gaston in the Toronto media suggested that some players had 
turned against him. Gaston responded to the accusations by saying "I've 
treated everybody with respect, so I am not sure what their bitch is."[10] 
There was also a report that Gaston's managerial techniques caused Scott 
Rolen to request a trade out of Toronto. Vernon Wells stated that "Obviously, 
there are issues". On the same topic, Wells was asked if he could play 
for the Jays next season, and he replied with "I cannot answer that at 
this point in time".[11] One day later, Blue Jays General Manager J. P. 
Ricciardi was fired. Ricciardi had received criticism for signing bulky, 
no-trade-clause contracts to players such as Vernon Wells, Frank Thomas, 
Alex Ríos and B. J. Ryan; three of the four were eventually released. Problems 
were also raised with Ricciardi's drafts and scouting. He had drafted more 
than 200 players during his tenure, and had only six were the major league 
players at the time of his firing. One of his biggest failures was drafting 
Russ Adams 14th overall in the 2002 entry draft,[12] passing by future 
All-Stars pitchers Scott Kazmir, Cole Hamels, and Matt Cain, also missing 
out on Nick Swisher. In other drafts, such as the one in 2005,[13] he narrowly 
missed out on a franchise player, like Ryan Braun and one pick later, got 
Ricky Romero, who took more time to develop. Some others criticized him 
for not drafting 30-home run slugger Troy Tulowitzki. Ricciardi made one 
of his biggest mistakes publicizing a trade for the face of the Blue Jays, 
Roy Halladay. In an interview on the FAN 590, he was asked if he was interested 
in trading Halladay, and he replied by saying "We would not be doing our 
job if we did not entertain offers from other teams". He went on to make 
numerous trade offers to the Phillies for top pitching prospects, primarily 
Kyle Drabek, or J. A. Happ.[14] The Phillies stuck with reigning Cy Young 
winner Cliff Lee instead, closing any door on Halladay being traded. The 
Jays had just lost three of four in a crucial series in New York when the 
rumours started, and the Jays' season went downhill. Affected by the trade 
talks, the Jays went from seven games behind to 13, and the Rays surpassed 
the Jays for good during the slide. On October 30, Cito Gaston announced 
that he will retire after the 2010 season, but he signed a four-year consulting 
deal with the Jays for post-retirement. The Jays had two other members 
of the coaching staff leave; Brad Arnsberg left to be the Pitching Coach 
of the Houston Astros, and hitting coach Gene Tenace also announced that 
he will retire, only he will not be present for the 2010 season. These 
moves resulted in former bullpen coach, Bruce Walton becoming the pitching 
coach, and the former first base coach Dwayne Murphy took over at hitting 
coach. The two new coaches are Rick Langford, who took the helm as Bullpen 
Coach, and Omar Malavé became the new first base coach. Brian Butterfield 
moved from first to third giving Malave room at first, and bumping Nick 
Leyva up to be the bench coach. After the death of Blue Jays owner Ted 
Rogers following the 2008 season, speculation has also surrounded a potential 
change in team ownership. Home attendance reached its lowest since the 
2003 season, and the Jays' management pursued attempts to shed payroll, 
including the releases of B. J. Ryan and Alex Ríos and the trade of Scott 
Rolen to the Cincinnati Reds. These moves spurred fans to speculate that 
Rogers Communications was attempting to make the franchise more attractive 
to potential buyers. On October 21, 2009, during an interview with radio 
station Fan 590, Tony Viner, the president and CEO of the company's media 
division that also controls the Blue Jays, stated emphatically that, "the 
team is not for sale. We are committed to winning and to doing the things 
that it takes to win."[15] Source[63] The 2010 MLB draft was held on June 
7–9. The Blue Jays had two first round picks, along with two compensation 
picks. The Blue Jays also had two picks each in the second and third rounds. 
Infielders Coaches As with previous seasons, Rogers Sportsnet serves as 
the official television broadcaster for the Blue Jays. Former catcher and 
manager Buck Martinez now serves as lead commentator for Sportsnet's broadcasts, 
replacing Jamie Campbell. Rogers Sportsnet will serve as the exclusive 
broadcaster for all Blue Jays games in the 2010 season, exchanging its 
rights to air ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball with TSN in order to acquire 
the rights to the Blue Jays games previously aired by TSN. Sunday Night 
Baseball would air on TSN2.[64] 25 regular season games were moved to the 
newly launched Rogers Sportsnet One beginning in August 2010, which launched 
exclusively on Rogers Cable systems on August 14, 2010,[65] a move which 
sparked criticism from viewers, fans, and critics. Of particular concern 
is the timing of the move considering the lack of the channel's availability 
across Canada, and the perceived strong-arming of Blue Jays fans and the 
other regional cable companies by Rogers, which owns the team, their stadium, 
the Sportsnet channels, and Rogers Cable, the only cable provider who carried 
the network upon its launch. Some fans cancelled Blue Jays ticket purchases 
in protest,[66] but Paul Beeston, the team president, has stated he is 
very happy to be going with Sportsnet One.[67] The FAN 590 was the Jays 
flagship radio station with Jerry Howarth and Alan Ashby calling the games, 
and Mike Wilner was the third man in the booth at times, and the post-game 
host. The games were simulcast on other radio stations across the country. 
The Blue Jays suffered their first injury seconds into 2010, when a freak 
accident occurred. Third baseman Edwin Encarnación was celebrating New 
Years at his hometown in Dominican Republic when a fireworks malfunction 
caused fireworks to go out of control. Encarnación suffered minor facial 
injuries to the front and right side of his face after he was struck by 
a firecracker rocket near his jaw and it exploded. No serious damage was 
done, and Encarnación was ready to play by spring training. He suffered 
first and second-degree burns.[68] The Jays still have other injury issues 
with their pitching staff. Their 3–4–5 pitchers in 2008 all underwent Tommy 
John surgery, and are all expected to be back for 2010. Jesse Litsch underwent 
Tommy John surgery in July 2009, and it is hoped he will return to the 
active roster in June 2010. Shaun Marcum also underwent Tommy John surgery 
after he went down late in 2008, and while a September 2009 return was 
possible, the Jays decided to sideline him for the rest of 2009. Marcum 
was the team's starter for Opening Day 2010, and will be the ace of the 
rotation. Dustin McGowan was the third Jay to have the same surgery, and 
he is not expected to be back in time for the start of 2010. A May return 
is a more realistic time for McGowan to return.[69] On January 29, McGowan 
took a step forward as he threw off a mound, with no pain.[70] Pitcher 
Dirk Hayhurst had arthroscopic shoulder surgery on February 5, and he will 
be out indefinitely. A couple of days before pitchers and catchers reported 
for training, Scott Richmond was sidetracked with a shoulder impingement,[71] 
which can be a sign of tendinitis or an actual tear of the rotator cuff. 
Richmond was later placed on the 60-day DL. Jesse Litsch and Dirk Hayhurst 
were placed on the 60-day DL on the week that pitchers and catchers reported.[72] 
The Jays suffered no major injuries during spring training except for Marc 
Rzepczynski, who suffered a broken finger on a bouncer that came back to 
the mound. Rzepczynski was placed on the 15-day DL along with Dustin McGowan, 
due to arm fatigue.[73] The first injury during the season was a significant 
one, as All-Star second baseman Aaron Hill was placed on the 15-Day DL 
with a tight hamstring on April 12. As expected the Blue Jays are entering 
2010 as re-builders, due to the loss of hitters (Barajas and Scutaro) to 
free agency, and the blockbuster trade of their long-time ace Roy Halladay 
for non-MLB ready prospects. Most fans and writers have called 2010 a rebuilding 
year, but a bright future is projected by Blue Jay writers and reporters.[74] 
It was a different story at "State of the Franchise" press conference held 
at the Rogers Centre on January 28, 2010. Paul Beeston said "we're not 
in a rebuild mode. We're in build mode". Alex Anthopolous then discussed 
his interest in free agents Carlos Delgado and Johnny Damon. Cito Gaston 
said he wants Carlos Delgado back. Beeston said in a later interview that 
winning will bring fans into the stadium, and that is their goal.[75] In 
the offseason, retired second baseman Roberto Alomar finished eight votes 
shy of being inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame on his first ballot. 
Alomar announced earlier that if he did get inducted into the Hall of Fame, 
he would like to be inducted as a Blue Jay,[citation needed] becoming the 
first ever. Former Montreal Expos outfielder Andre Dawson was inducted 
into the Hall of Fame, and he was inducted as an Expo; the second Expo 
to be inducted into Cooperstown behind Gary Carter. Alomar was inducted 
into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame on January 28, along with former 
Toronto pitcher Paul Quantrill and two others (Calvin Griffith and statistician 
Allan Roth). After hearing he would be inducted into the Canadian Baseball 
Hall of Fame, Alomar said, "This is an honor, truly a privilege. I cherished 
my years with the Blue Jays and have always loved the Canadian people. 
Those years were the very best of my career."[76] Ricky Romero got the 
first start of 2010 in spring training for the Jays against the Detroit 
Tigers. Chris Lubanski, an offseason addition, hit the Jays only home run 
in that game when he hit a solo shot in the 8th. In total, 6 pitchers were 
sent out on day one, 5 of which were in their first spring training with 
the Jays. A day later, the Blue Jays got their first win, defeating Detroit 
9–7. It was an interesting day as Kyle Drabek made his much anticipated 
debut for the Jays, and Halladay made his Debut with the Phillies. Halladay 
pitched 2 hitless innings, and Drabek pitched 2 innings giving up 2 runs 
on 3 hits. Drabek also struck out three. J. P. Arencibia hit a 2 run home 
run in the top of the 9th to break a 7–7 tie, and ultimately give the Jays 
a 9–7 win as Rommie Lewis closed the game out in the bottom of the ninth. 
The Jays played the Phillies a day later and beat them 14–9. The Jays once 
held a 14–2 lead at one point in that game. The Blue Jays won their third 
straight by smashing New York 9–1 at Legends Field. Shawn Marcum got the 
win in his first start with the Jays since 2008, and won their fourth straight 
over Detroit to improve their record to 4–1. Three of the four potential 
closers each pitched an inning giving up a combined 2 hits and 1 run with 
2 strikeouts. Kevin Gregg gave up a home run to Gerald Laird in the 4th 
inning, and was the only one of three to not get a strikeout. On March 
8, the Blue Jays cut their first three non-roster invites, two of them 
being catchers. Pitcher Daniel Farquhar was the first pitcher to be cut, 
and catchers Matt Luizza and Travis d'Arnaud (acquired in the Doc Deal) 
were among the catchers cut. All cuts will report to Minor League camp 
to be evaluated at which level each cut will start the year. A couple days 
later, Kyle Drabek was sent down to Minor League camp. He will start the 
year at AA New Hampshire or AAA Las Vegas.[77] The Jays lost two straight 
after a 5–1 start, losing to the Phillies 4–2 and Rays 4–1. The next game, 
slated to be against the Astros, was canceled due to rain. The Jays got 
back to their winning ways on March 13, when Ricky Romero threw 4 shutout 
innings to guide the Jays to a 3–0 win over Atlanta. The Jays lost a day 
later to the Braves 8–5 with help from to prospect Jason Heyward, who hit 
two doubles. Randy Ruiz hit the Jays' only home run. The Jays did not rebound 
nicely as the first at-bat of their next game against Detroit was a home 
run from Scott Sizemore. The Jays held a one-run lead going into the eighth, 
but collapsed and gave up 4 runs. The Jays rebounded after that by beating 
Baltimore in back-to-back days. The Jays won 4–1 on March 17 thanks to 
Travis Snider's first home run and Brian Tallet's second win. The Jays 
then pounded the Orioles 13–3 the next day on the strength of 6 home runs. 
Travis Snider and John Buck both hit two, and Aaron Hill and Chris Lubanski 
hit one. Ricky Romero got his team-leading third win. The Blue Jays also 
made some cuts on the 18th. Pitcher Zech Zinicola (acquired by the Jays 
in the Rule-5 draft) did not make the cut, and he was returned to Washington. 
Hitter Brian Dopirak also didn't make the cut, but he will stay in the 
Jays organization.[78] The Jays split their next two games before another 
game got canceled due to rain. Toronto lost to Houston 2–0, and beat Atlanta 
7–6. The Jays were going to play the Red Sox for the first time in spring 
training, but rain in Dunedin forced the game to be canceled. From there, 
the Blue Jays fell into a spring training freefall, losing five in a row. 
The Jays lost as a split squad twice on March 26, including a disappointing 
loss to the Boston Red Sox. The Jays took a 2–0 lead into the 9th when 
Zach Jackson came in to close the game out. The Sox rallied for 3 runs, 
and walked off. The Jays' other loss was a 14–10 loss to the Rays. The 
slump caused the Jays to fall below .500, and they could not rebound. The 
Jays beat Pittsburgh 11–2 to snap the five-game slide. The next day, The 
Jays blew a 2–0 lead late against the Tigers to earn their first tie of 
two in spring training. But on March 31, by far the most interesting match 
up in spring came against the Phillies. Sandwiched between 2 losses to 
the Yankees was a start by Roy Halladay. "Doc" struggled, as he gave up 
4 earned runs on five hits in 3 innings. All 4 runs were surrendered in 
the first inning. Four hits were extra base hits, including a 2-run shot 
by Aaron Hill. The Jays then entered Houston to finish up spring training. 
In Buck Martinez's play-by-play debut, Aaron Hill hit a two-run shot in 
the first inning to help jumpstart the Jays. The Jays failed to hold on 
to a 3–0 lead and surrendered a game-tying run in the 9th inning to tie 
the game at 3. The Jays rebounded by hitting the Astros hard and early. 
Aaron Hill hit his second straight first inning shot to jumpstart the Jays 
again, and Edwin Encarnación ended a disappointing spring with a 3-run 
home run. The Jays ended up winning 13–6. Their final spring training record 
was 12–13–2. Alex Anthopolous called it "a great spring" in an in-game 
interview with Rod Black and Pat Tabler. On March 22, Shaun Marcum was 
named the opening-day starter for the Toronto Blue Jays. This was Marcum's 
first opening day start of his career. Brian Tallet was later named the 
Day 2 starter, ahead of Ricky Romero. Tallet is the probable home opener 
starter. On April 3, Adam Lind signed a long-term contract with the Jays 
that could keep him with the club until 2016. Lind signed a four-year deal 
that will keep him in Toronto until at least 2013, with three club option 
years that could keep him in Toronto until the end of the 2016 season.[79] 
On April 12, Aaron Hill was placed on the DL with a tight hamstring. Toronto 
kicked off their 2010 regular season in Arlington, Texas, against the Texas 
Rangers. (See below for opening day results). The Blue Jays lost 5–4. The 
Blue Jays rebounded, and won 7–4 the next day. Vernon Wells continued his 
good start by homering twice, while Toronto starter Brian Tallet pitched 
a quality game and earned a win. The next day, Toronto was dealt a scare, 
as All-Star second baseman Aaron Hill was a late scratch due to a hamstring 
injury. The injury was said to be minor. Mike McCoy started at second base 
in place of Aaron Hill for his first career MLB start. McCoy earned his 
first career hit in his first at-bat of the game. McCoy finished the game 
2-for-5 with an RBI. Ricky Romero and C. J. Wilson held the game scoreless 
until the 7th when Ricky Romero threw a wild pitch to allow David Murphy 
to score and give the Rangers a 1–0 lead. Texas held on to that lead until 
the 9th inning when Frank Francisco came in to close the game. Vernon Wells 
hit a solo shot to jumpstart the Jays to a 3-run inning that would ultimately 
give the Jays a 3–1 win. Jason Frasor made his second straight save. The 
win marked the first time the Jays passed the .500 mark since July 7, 2009, 
when they were 43–42. The Jays then flew to Baltimore to play as visitor 
for the O's home opener. In front of 48,891 fans, the Jays quickly jumped 
out to a 3–0 lead, as Vernon Wells hit another RBI. Brandon Morrow had 
issues in the bottom of the first, as a lack of control helped the O's 
get back to tie the game at 3 on the strength of one hit. Toronto got back 
ahead before Miguel Tejada hit a 2-run shot in the 5th to tie the game 
again. Baltimore would then pull ahead in the 8th thanks to a César Izturis 
RBI with 2 outs. Mike Gonzalez entered the game to close it out, but like 
Thursday, Toronto rallied in the 9th for 2 runs to pull ahead for good. 
Kevin Gregg earned his first save with the Jays. Dana Eveland made his 
first start for the Jays in the 5th game, and earned a quality start. Eveland 
gave up 5 hits on 7.1 innings of work, and the offense scored 3 thanks 
to 2 RBIs from José Molina. Travis Snider was intentionally walked twice 
to bring up Molina. With the bases loaded, Molina was hit by a pitch to 
bring in a run. Molina also hit a RBI single after another Snider IBB. 
Jason Frasor earned his first save. The win gave the Jays sole possession 
of first place in the AL East for the first time since May 23, 2009. The 
Jays continued their hot start by winning their 5th straight. Baltimore 
took a 2–1 lead into the 8th. After Kevin Millwood retired the first two, 
John McDonald reached first thanks to a Miguel Tejada error. That error 
allowed José Bautista to hit a 2-run home run to give the Jays the lead. 
the Jays added insurance thanks to an Álex González solo shot (his second 
of the day), and Edwin Encarnación's first home run of 2010. Jason Frasor 
earned his fourth save. The Jays have started the season 5–1 for the past 
2 seasons. The Jays then started their first homestand of 2010 on April 
12 (see below for home opener results). Ricky Romero then pitched a gem 
in game 8, going 8 innings giving up 2 runs on 1 hit. The Jays took a 4–0 
lead, and that was all they needed thanks to Romero. Romero struck out 
12 and took a no-hitter into the 8th before A. J. Pierzynski was hit on 
a questionable call, and Alex Ríos ended the no-hit bid with a 2-run home 
run. Kevin Gregg earned to save to seal it. A day later the Jays were shut 
down, as they were only able to manage one run on two hits. The Sox put 
the Jays to sleep fast, thanks to 11 runs, 4 of which came from an Andruw 
Jones grand slam. Only 10,610 fans were there to witness that game, an 
all-time low for Jays games at Rogers Centre. Low opening-week attendance 
drew comments (unknown whether it was a joke or if they were serious) from 
Alex Ríos and Ozzie Guillén claimed that "Baseball is dead in Toronto", 
and that hockey is the reason nobody cares about baseball in Toronto. Ozzie 
Guillén claimed that if hockey players were on the field, people would 
come. Ríos then blamed hockey for lack of interest in baseball, even though 
no professional hockey team from Toronto was playing during the opening 
series. Ríos went on to say only diehards support the Blue Jays.[80] Ozzie 
Guillén did not understand why Ríos was booed by Jays fans. After watching 
a viral video uploaded two months before Ríos was released (when Ríos was 
leaving a charity event after a game in which he struck out 5 times in 
a 1-run loss, a kid asked for autographs, and Ríos declined it. Another 
fan told Ríos "The way you played today, you should be lucky someone wants 
your autograph". Ríos constantly replied "Who gives a fuck?" as the fan 
called Ríos a bum.) Ozzie Guillén said "I would beat the shit out of him 
and the guys."[81] The writer of that article (Joe Cowley), was also causing 
controversy[citation needed] for comments made about Canadian culture and 
the Jays organization. He claimed that "Baseball is failing in Toronto", 
and that MLB should be concerned with moving a team out of Canada. In the 
middle of this he claimed that all that was on TV in his hotel room was 
hockey, Olympics, and MuchMusic videos. He suggested that Toronto should 
move to Caracas, Venezuela.[82] In the end, the organization will not be 
moved out of Canada any time soon, as Paul Beeston said. But Toronto continued 
their homestand as they started a three-game set against the Angels. Toronto 
lost back-to-back games to LA to start the series. Their record dropped 
to 7–5. Venue: Rangers Ballpark in Arlington Attendance: 50,299 On April 
5, the Blue Jays opened the 2010 season in Arlington, Texas against the 
Texas Rangers. A first-inning Vernon Wells home run spotted starter Shaun 
Marcum – making his first start since September 16, 2008 – to a 2–0 lead. 
Adam Lind pushed the lead to 3–0 with a solo home run in the third. Marcum 
took a no-hitter into the seventh inning, but after a Josh Hamilton walk, 
Vladimir Guerrero broke the no-hitter with a single. The next batter, Nelson 
Cruz, hit an opposite-field three-run home run to tie the game. In the 
eighth, Wells hit a bases-loaded single to left-center to give the Jays 
a 4–3 lead. The Jays took the lead into the ninth inning, but closer Jason 
Frasor failed to convert the save opportunity. Michael Young led the inning 
off with a double, followed by a Guerrero infield single with one out and 
a game-tying RBI double from Nelson Cruz. Chris Davis was given an intentional 
walk to load the bases for Jarrod Saltalamacchia. Saltalamacchia hit a 
gapper to right-center that allowed pinch runner David Murphy to score 
the winning run. Only five Blue Jays from 2009 were starting at the same 
position in 2010, and only three are in the same batting position in 2009. 
The most notable change is Shawn Marcum taking the mound as Opening Day 
starting pitcher instead of Roy Halladay. The last time Halladay did not 
start on Opening Day was in 2002 when Chris Carpenter started. Honda Canada 
was named the official vehicle of the Toronto Blue Jays in March. As a 
part of the sponsorship, Honda has been named the official sponsor of the 
2010 home opener. It has officially been named Honda Home Opener. Venue: 
Rogers Centre Attendance: 46,321 The Jays entered their 2010 home opener 
on a five-game win streak, and had won four straight home openers. The 
Jays fell below 2–0 early, but came back thanks to a mammoth 2-run shot 
by John Buck that landed in the 400 level (over the ring of honour). The 
Jays then fell back by 2 runs again in the third inning, but responded 
in the bottom of the third with a 2-run shot by Vernon Wells and a 2 RBI 
hit by Adam Lind. Chicago came back to tie the game, thanks to a solo shot 
by Andruw Jones and an RBI single by Mark Teahen that scored Alex Ríos. 
Ríos was playing in Toronto for the first time since being placed on waivers 
in July 2009. Ríos was welcomed back with a chorus of "boos". Ríos was 
booed for every at-bat, and every time he fielded a ball. The Jays climbed 
back on top in the bottom of the inning when Adam Lind was walked on 4 
pitches with the bases loaded to give the Jays the lead again. Toronto 
held on to that lead, but it quickly vanished in the ninth. Jason Frasor 
blew another save, as he gave up a home run to Mark Teahen on an 0–2 pitch. 
The game stayed tied until the 11th when Teahen struck again this time 
with an RBI triple that scored pinch runner Omar Vizquel from first base. 
The Jays nearly walked off the next inning, but a long line drive by Álex 
González with one on missed the foul pole by about 5 feet. Gonzalez drew 
a walk, but the next batter Adam Lind struck out for the third time to 
end the game. The Jays had their five-game win streak snapped, their streak 
of four straight win for their home openers was snapped too, and their 
ten-game winning streak against the White Sox at home was also snapped, 
dating back to 2007. The loss put the Jays' record to 5–2. Both losses 
were aided with a blown save by Jason Frasor. Kevin Gregg would assume 
the full-time role as closer a day later. The Blue Jays' last interleague 
series was to be a home set against the Philadelphia Phillies. However, 
on May 12, the Blue Jays announced the series would be moved to Philadelphia's 
Citizens Bank Park due to logistical and security concerns brought about 
by the G20 Summit. Rogers Centre is next door to the Metro Toronto Convention 
Centre, where the summit took place. Fans would have faced numerous problems 
with parking and access, along with a number of unknown obstacles. Nonetheless, 
the Blue Jays were the home team for that series.[83][84][85] On July 30 
José Bautista hit a grand slam home run against the Cleveland Indians at 
Rogers Centre. The 2010 MLB and Toronto Blue Jays schedule was announced 
on September 15, 2009. It includes 162 games (as usual) — 81 at home, 81 
on the road. The Jays open and close on the road, started off in Arlington 
and lost to Rangers on Easter Monday, and will close it out with a four-game 
set in the brand new Target Field against the Twins. The Jays home opener 
opponent was the Chicago White Sox on a Monday night at 7:20 pm (past home 
openers have started at 7:15 pm), and lost 8–7 in 11 innings. The Jay's 
final home game of 2010 will be held on September 29 against the New York 
Yankees. All-Star Game Home Run Derby Player of the Week Player of the 
