The Texas Rangers' 2010 season was the 50th in franchise history. The team, 
managed by Ron Washington, won their first division title since 1999 and 
reached the World Series for the first time in only their fourth playoff 
appearance. Washington would become only the second manager in franchise 
history to lead the Rangers to the post season and the first to ever win 
a post season series. They would win the American League pennant by defeating 
the defending World Series champions, the New York Yankees in six games 
in the ALCS. In the World Series, they lost to the San Francisco Giants 
in five games. Because the National League held home-field advantage in 
this World Series, Arlington, Texas, is where the Curse of Coogan's Bluff 
died. The 2010 season showed the results of a 5-year plan[1] implemented 
by GM Jon Daniels in 2007 with the Mark Teixeira trade. The 2007 trade 
deadline and the amateur draft a month prior would all be key pieces of 
the successful Rangers season. Dominant rookie of the year closer Neftalí 
Feliz, defensive All-Star Elvis Andrus, and platoon outfielder David Murphy 
were all acquired at the trade deadline, while starting pitcher Tommy Hunter, 
centerfielder Julio Borbon and first baseman Mitch Moreland were each selected 
in the June 2007 draft. And trades which resulted in Cliff Lee, Bengie 
Molina, and Jorge Cantú were each completed with a member of the Rangers 
2007 draft class being sent in return. Mirroring the 2009 revelation of 
Josh Hamilton getting drunk at a bar in Arizona prior to spring training, 
the Rangers' team members learned that manager Ron Washington failed an 
MLB drug test prior to the All-Star game in 2009. Instead of dividing the 
locker room or casting doubt with the players, the teammates stood behind 
their manager. "I've got Wash's back. He's my manager", third baseman Michael 
Young told team mates during a meeting where Washington informed the players 
of his failed drug test.[2] The pitching staff, looking to be a strength 
for one of the first times in recent history, would depend on the #3 and 
4 starters, C. J. Wilson and Colby Lewis, due to a lack of expected production 
from Scott Feldman and free agent Rich Harden. Wilson, Lewis, and trade 
deadline ace Cliff Lee would each finish in the top 20 among American League 
pitchers in ERA, innings pitched, strikeouts, and WHIP. A complicated team 
sale that would end up in bankruptcy court and possibly cost the team president 
Nolan Ryan and GM Jon Daniels would be an outside threat the team would 
have to ignore until it was resolved in August. Thanks to utility infielder 
Esteban Germán the "claw and antlers" would become an active part of the 
Rangers in-game celebration. Following a play involving strength a Rangers' 
player would look to the bench and raise his right arm with fingers outstretched 
to make a claw. After a play involving speed a player would place his thumbs 
on each side of his head and outstretch his fingers to make antlers. The 
fans would embrace the "claws and antlers" and a "claw and antlers" T-shirt, 
designed by Rangers equipment manager Richard "Hoggy" Pricewould, would 
be the top selling MLB T-shirt sold in 2010, selling over 360,000, even 
though the design was not introduced until after the All-Star game.[3] 
On the final day of the season fans would participate in a pre-game "claw 
and antlers" parade. Rudy Jaramillo turned down a 1-year extension and 
took the hitting coach position with the Chicago Cubs. The Rangers signed 
Clint Hurdle for the position of hitting coach. Iván Rodríguez signed a 
2-year deal with the Washington Nationals. The Rangers received a compensation 
draft pick for Rodriguez who was a type B free agent. The other type B 
free agent on the Rangers, Marlon Byrd, signed a 3-year deal with the Chicago 
Cubs, re-joining his hitting instructor Jaramillo. Omar Vizquel signed 
with the Chicago White Sox, as well as Andruw Jones. Neither free agent 
met type A or B status so Texas received no compensation for their departures. 
At the winter meetings Jon Daniels made headline moves when Texas traded 
Kevin Millwood and $3 million to the Baltimore Orioles for pitcher Chris 
Ray and a PTBNL. The Orioles later selected Ben Snyder in the rule 5 draft 
from the San Francisco Giants and sent Snyder to the Rangers to complete 
the trade. Following the Millwood trade, the Rangers signed Rich Harden 
to a 1-year deal. The contract includes a mutual 2nd year option. Michael 
Young told the media his new teammate "… has the best stuff in the league. 
I didn't say some of the best stuff. I mean the best stuff I've seen."[4] 
Harden was not offered arbitration by his former club, the Cubs, so Texas 
did not lose a draft pick to sign the type A free agent. One trade that 
was not finalized would have sent Mike Lowell and approximately $9 million 
in cash to the Rangers and the Red Sox would have received AAA catcher 
Max Ramírez. The trade was cancelled after a physical discovered an injury 
to Lowell's thumb that would require surgery.[5] Vladimir Guerrero signed 
a 1-year contract with Texas with a mutual 2nd year option. Guerrero would 
be the DH and was planned to hit 4th behind Josh Hamilton. The Rangers 
signed Khalil Greene to a 1-year contract. Greene would have been the utility 
infielder meeting a need for the team by being able to play 3B and SS, 
able to back up Michael Young and Elvis Andrus. On January 14 the Rangers 
and Colby Lewis agreed to a two-year deal. The former Rangers draft pick 
spent the previous 2 years pitching in Japan where he led the league in 
strikeouts both seasons and issued only 46 walks in a total of 354 1⁄3 
innings pitched.[6] On January 21 it was reported the Rangers designated 
OF Greg Golson for assignment.[7] Golson was later traded to the New York 
Yankees for a minor league infielder.[8] On January 25 Joe Inglett was 
designated for assignment to make room for Lewis on the 40-man roster.[9] 
Inglett was claimed off waivers by the Milwaukee Brewers. All-Star 2nd 
baseman Ian Kinsler had praise for the offseason moves made by the front 
office. He acknowledged hating to lose Millwood, but recognized how the 
moves made 2010 the year the Rangers could win the division. We basically 
covered every question we had going into the off-season, with very little 
spending money. JD made some very smart moves at the winter meetings. You 
never like to see a teammate get traded, especially someone who did so 
much for the organization in four years like Kevin, but JD and the rest 
of his guys thought that move was necessary. When we were able to get Vlad 
... the signings we had before that were exciting, but to be able to get 
Vlad, it just got us all excited. We realize that this is our year. It's 
all up to us now. Two final additions to the pitching depth came from an 
unexpected source. Ranger pitchers Omar Beltré and Alexi Ogando had been 
banned from receiving US visas after being involved in a marriage-visa 
scam 5 years ago. Since that time the Rangers, the players, and their agents 
have been requesting new visas for the players and they were finally approved 
by February. Both players were listed on the restricted list on the team's 
40-man roster, meaning the Rangers retained rights to their MLB services 
if they ever returned to the United States, but they did not count towards 
total players allowed on the roster. Both players had to be removed from 
the restricted list at the completion of spring training.[11] Rangers owner 
Tom Hicks' company, Hicks Sports Group (HSG), defaulted on loan payments 
in 2008 or 2009.[12] Although Hicks had maintained the Rangers were not 
being affected by the financial transactions, the Rangers had been hampered 
by the financial troubles of HSG. Most notable was the Rangers inability 
to sign[13] their 2009 1st round draft pick Matt Purke.[14] After the deadline 
passed, it was reported the Rangers offered Purke a $4.0 million bonus,[15] 
two million less than what Purke was reported[16] to be demanding prior 
to the draft. However, a conflicting report by Randy Galloway said MLB 
rejected the Rangers contract offer[17] and told Purke that the Rangers 
would only be allowed to offer a $2.4 million bonus. Hicks later told The 
Dallas Morning News that the Rangers did offer Purke a $4.0 million offer, 
and MLB had no influence over the dollar amounts.[18] Ryan would later 
contradict this claim saying MLB and the commissioner's office had direct 
dealings with the Rangers in almost all aspects of their financial transactions 
including approval of bonus money and trade approvals. Ryan and Daniels 
both said the offer to Purke was "well above slot", but the exact details 
of the offer were not described, and there may have been other factors 
as to why Purke did not sign. By September 2009, speculation had begun 
to build about MLB forcing the Rangers to shut down front rotation man 
Kevin Millwood before he surpassed his inning threshold that would vest 
his 2010 option for $12 million.[19] Hicks did admit that the Rangers had 
received some advances from MLB,[18] but that the money borrowed would 
be repaid out of future earnings due the team at the end of the year. In 
October 2009, MLB executive vice president Rob Manfred sent a letter to 
then potential buyers Chuck Greenberg and Nolan Ryan informing them the 
Rangers had been in violation of the collective-bargaining agreement and 
owed around $40 million.[20] Another major problem for the Rangers following 
the 2009 season was the refund for prepaid post season tickets. Some fans 
did not receive refunds from the Rangers until late December, even after 
the team failed to make the post season.[21] During the winter meetings, 
Daniels told the press that the financial problems the Rangers were under 
was much like operating under a salary cap. These problems were why the 
Rangers had to trade Millwood before being able to make the Harden signing 
official. An increase was made to the team budget after the new year when 
the ownership sale was preliminarily finalized between Hicks and Greenberg/Ryan.[22] 
Ryan spoke about the financial constraints the team was under after the 
initial sale agreement was announced. We were required to have any expenditure 
that was not budgeted for had to be approved and also any signing outside 
of the slot limit had to be approved. There were obviously some restrictions 
that other clubs weren't under. MLB did not want to affect the normal day-to-day 
operations. It really did not encumber us to the point where we couldn't 
do anything. They realized we needed to run as usual as much as we possibly 
could. Hicks told reporters that from April 2007 to March 2009 he added 
an additional $85 million to HSG. According to Hicks, HSG took on too much 
debt because the teams were spending more than the budget allowed.[24] 
However, according to Forbes, the revenue and operating net income of both 
the Rangers and the Dallas Stars went up from 2006 to 2008. Between the 
2006 and 2007 seasons, the debt level for the Texas Rangers increased by 
approximately $100 million, the same time period when Hicks purchased Liverpool 
Football Club. From 2007 to 2009, Forbes reported the Rangers and the Stars 
were the third most leveraged franchises in their respective sports.[25][26][27][28][29][30][31] 
Hicks had been looking for someone to sell partial ownership of the club 
to since just prior to when the default on the loan was reported. By the 
2009 season, Hicks was possibly forced to find a buyer for the team.[citation 
needed] Three known bids were put in for the ownership of the Rangers. 
Former agent Dennis Gilbert, Houston businessman Jim Crane, and a partnership 
of Chuck Greenberg and Nolan Ryan placed bids believed to be around $500 
million for the purchase of the team. Hicks offered exclusive negotiation 
rights to the Greenburg-Ryan group on December 15 with a purchase expected 
to be complete prior to or following the start of the 2010 season. During 
the bidding process, it was discovered that Ryan, as president of the club, 
was not under contract, but working only on a handshake deal with Hicks, 
and that he would step down from the front office if another bidder were 
to win. After talks with Gilbert, Ryan later said he would not step down 
unless asked by the new owner to do so. In an e-mail dated December 29 
sent to HSG attorney Glenn West, MLB attorney Tom Ostertag instructed HSG 
that "negotiation toward a definitive purchase agreement is to be with 
the winning bidder only", and no other party is to be involved during the 
exclusive negotiation process. HSG attorney West then emailed the creditors 
of HSG on New Year's Eve saying "Basically, the response from the MLB was 
to prohibit us from negotiating with anyone other than Greenberg. Their 
intent seems to be to lock us into Greenberg even though Crane now has 
a clearly superior economic deal – and may always have had based on Greenberg's 
current position. We need help here. Unless the lenders weigh in, we are 
going to be stuck negotiating a deal that is clearly worse than Crane's." 
West also told the creditors that Crane's offer was at least $13 million 
more and maybe even $20 million more than Greenberg's.[32][33] The winter 
owners' meeting was held prior to the end of the 30-day exclusive negotiation 
between Hicks and Greenburg. Representing the Rangers at the meeting, Hicks 
told the media "You're not getting rid of us",[34] indicating the known 
desire for Hicks to keep his family a minority owner of the Rangers after 
the sale was completed. The 30-day negotiating period ended on January 
14, 2010, with no announcement about the pending sale. On Saturday, January 
16, Ryan and Greenberg released a joint statement regarding the sale of 
the MLB club saying they were "on the verge of an agreement". We have made 
extraordinary progress the last couple of weeks and have come too far to 
walk away now. We are fully committed and prepared to work around the clock 
if that's what it takes to reach a final agreement. We are at a point where 
deals get done as long as both parties share a desire to cross the finish 
line together. There just isn't much left to resolve.[35] It was reported 
on January 23 the sale agreement had been completed. Early reports indicated 
Hicks would remain a minority owner with the club and would serve on the 
board in a non-voting honorary position. Approval from the executive and 
ownership committee, the banks who were owed money by HSG, and 75% of MLB 
owners was still required before the sale could have been finalized.[36][37][38] 
The new company would be called Rangers Baseball Express. Greenberg would 
serve as CEO and managing partner, and Ray Davis and Bob Simpson would 
be co-chairmen of the board. As a part of the original purchase agreement, 
Rangers Baseball Express also would acquire approximately 153 acres (0.62 km2) 
of land adjacent to Rangers Ballpark in Arlington and Cowboys Stadium. 
A separate company owned by Hicks owns the land.[39] After the land sale 
was announced, Hicks was sued by a former partner over the land. The former 
partner claims Hicks never dissolved the partnership that was formed when 
the two groups were planning the development called Glorypark.[40] Hicks 
was also sued by an architectural firm, RTKL, and a construction company, 
Vratsinas, for $6.9 million of unpaid work done over three years ago.[41] 
Greenberg posted the following on his Facebook page after the original 
purchase agreement was announced: Tonight was a big night for Nolan Ryan 
and me as we signed the definitive agreement to purchase the Texas Rangers. 
Thank you to everyone for your incredible support and encouragement over 
the last few months. Nolan and I can't wait to get started in our efforts 
to bring Rangers fans everywhere what you have waited for ...all these 
years. Thanks again and.... See you at the Ballpark!....... Chuck[42] A 
report by Jon Heyman listed the sale price at $570 million.[43] At least 
one group whose approval was needed, Monarch Alternative Capital, refused 
to sign off on the sale. Monarch Alternative Capital, which purchased a 
portion of Hicks Sports Group's debt after HSG defaulted, believed Hicks 
passed up on a better purchase deal from Jim Crane, who was speculated 
by the December 29 email to have made a higher offer.[44] The reported 
gap between creditors demands and payment offered by HSG was $270 million 
and $300 million and would have been resolved if the amount Hicks was to 
receive from the land sale was lowered to increase the creditors for the 
debt. MLB's commissioner, Bud Selig, expressed his interest in the deal 
being approved by the creditors no later than April 9, 2010, and indicated 
that MLB could become more directly involved in the sale process.[45] On 
May 24, 2010, Hicks announced that HSG had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
protection to conclude the sale of the Rangers ballclub from Hicks Sports 
Group to the Rangers Baseball Express club. In a press conference held 
at the Ballpark in Arlington, Hicks, Ryan, and Greenberg announced the 
decision and effects from the action. It was believed by the parties involved, 
including MLB and Selig, that this action would be the quickest and easiest 
way to resolve the sale without the approval of HSG creditors, mainly Monarch 
Capital. The sale presented to the bankruptcy court is "virtually the same" 
deal that was agreed to by Hicks and Greenberg/Ryan when the two parties 
agreed to the sale in January 2010. The bankruptcy was not expected to 
have any noticeable effect on the day-to-day operations of the Rangers 
club, all vendors are expected to be paid, and all tickets already sold 
to the public are to be honored. The sale through the courts was expected 
to be completed in July prior to the trade deadline and the draft signing 
deadline.[46] The bankruptcy hearing was first heard in court on May 25. 
The Rangers claimed there was "no viable option" except approval of the 
$575 million sale to Ryan and Greenberg, while a group of lenders claimed 
the club could get a better deal and that the deal presented by the Rangers 
does not make the most out of the team's assets. The attorney for the Rangers 
claimed that Hicks funded a $100 million operating loss since acquiring 
the team in 1999.[47] After a seven-month process, the Rangers' bankruptcy 
was finalized by an August 5 auction for ownership of the team by two parties, 
Rangers Baseball Express led by Ryan and Greenberg, and a partnership of 
Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban and Crane. The auction was delayed by 
several hours due to objections raised by Greenberg and Ryan's group questioning 
the qualification of the Cuban-Crane bid, which was due no later than 8:00 
pm on August 3. The auction, which was due to begin at 9:00 am on August 
4, did not have its first opening bid determined until 2:50 pm. After no 
more than three bids by each party, Cuban withdrew from the bidding, and 
Greenberg and Ryan were declared the winners shortly after midnight.[48][49] 
Due to the auction process, the purchase was for only the MLB club and 
the lease for the ballpark. Almost none of the original side deals with 
HSG and Hicks, which were rejected by several of the lenders to the Texas 
Rangers, were included. Pitching Batting Washington would finish in second 
place for Manager of the Year voting. Khalil Greene did not report to camp 
at the start of spring training, and was expected to miss significant time 
with the club. Greene has suffered in the past with anxiety issues which 
limited his playing time in 2009.[52] Jon Daniels released a statement 
on Greene's absence from the club. The Rangers fully support Khalil's decision 
to address this private matter. Per club policy, we will not comment on 
his medical situation. We have agreed to leave the door open for a continued 
relationship, if both Khalil and the team desire that in the future. We 
have not put a timetable on a possible return to the club with the sole 
focus right now on doing what we can to assist him. The Rangers will continue 
to work with Khalil and his representatives to monitor his situation and 
interest in rejoining our organization. The Rangers voided Greene's contract 
in February.[54] On March 9 the Rangers acquired Edwar Ramírez from the 
Yankees for cash considerations.[55] Ramirez took the last spot of the 
40-man roster that was vacated by Greene's departure. Ramírez would be 
traded to the Oakland A's 15 days later. The starting rotation in previous 
years came down to the last minute to find out who would be the five starters 
at opening day, often having to get a free agent like Pedro Astacio, who 
signed in February prior to the 2005 season, or a trade like John Koronka 
and John Rheinecker, who were acquired at the end of March in 2006. The 
2010 season once again found this question needing to be answered, but 
unlike previous years, it was due to having too many potential candidates 
instead of scrambling to find a 5th starter or more. With a rotation starting 
off with Rich Harden, Scott Feldman, and Colby Lewis there were only two 
spots left, and with Tommy Hunter coming off a good 2009 showing he had 
the inside track for the number 4 spot. Remaining were Brandon McCarthy, 
who had still been unable to make a complete season healthy since 2006; 
Matt Harrison, who was coming back from surgery; Derek Holland, who started 
in the bullpen his rookie year of 2009 and finished the season in the rotation; 
Luis Mendoza, who only made one major league appearance in 2009 but had 
a strong showing in the winter leagues before Spring training; Neftalí 
Feliz, the 100 mph (160 km/h) throwing reliever who was expected to be 
in the bullpen during 2010 if he didn't make the rotation; and C. J. Wilson, 
who had spent every year with the team in the bullpen since his rookie 
year in 2005. Wilson, who has requested a chance to make the starting rotation 
since 2006, spoke about the upcoming season and his frustrations with the 
organization not giving him a chance to start prior to 2010. It's no secret 
I don't think I should be limited to the set-up role. I have too many weapons. 
Here is the reality. It is real simple. There are not very many guys that 
have the stuff that I do that would be willing to sign here if they were 
free agents. There is no experienced pitcher that has my stuff that would 
sign here, historically. Wilson's comments were not well received by media 
or fans of the team.[57] Team president Nolan Ryan stated CJ is a guy "who 
likes to communicate" and Ron Washington said the team would not address 
the situation.[58] This was not the first time comments made by Wilson 
caused problems for the talented left-hander. Wilson was a regular poster 
on the website lonestarball.com under the handle blueglovelefty and in 
2005 he stated the average ballplayer is a douchebag.[59] Wilson was later 
talked to by several team leaders on the Rangers, including Michael Young 
and Kevin Millwood. After the incident Wilson deleted his user ID and removed 
all posts from the web site. On March 17, 2010 Sports Illustrated's Jon 
Heyman reported Rangers manager Ron Washington failed a MLB drug test in 
2009. First-time offending non-playing personnel who fail a drug test or 
admit to using drugs are not suspended and are subject to counseling and 
a substance-abuse program. After taking the test Washington called the 
MLB offices and informed then the test might come back positive. Washington 
them informed the front office of the Rangers about the test. Washington 
called a team meeting the morning of the story to inform the players about 
the failed test.[60] On March 12 second baseman Ian Kinsler suffered a 
high ankle sprain. The injury forced the All-Star to start the 2010 season 
on the disabled list.[61] On March 27 the Rangers traded for Andrés Blanco 
from the Chicago Cubs for a player to be named later.[62] Blanco will be 
the utility infielder backing up second base, third base, and shortstop, 
but he will be the opening day second baseman while Kinsler is on the disabled 
list. Joaquín Árias will be the utility infielder until Kinsler recovers 
from injuries. On April 1 the Rangers claimed Ryan Garko off waivers from 
the Seattle Mariners.[63] Record (month, season): 11–12 Starting Rotation: 
Scott Feldman, Rich Harden, C. J. Wilson, Colby Lewis, Matt Harrison The 
Rangers ended the month with their 4th consecutive April under .500 tied 
for 3rd place in the division and 1⁄2 a game from 1st.[64] Scott Feldman 
was named the opening day starter for the April 5 home opener against the 
Blue Jays. Feldman was the first non-returning player originally signed/drafted 
by the Rangers to start opening day since Kenny Rogers in 1995 and the 
first to start the home opener since RA Dickey in 2004. After two blown 
saves in the first week of the season, Frank Francisco was replaced as 
the closer by Neftalí Feliz.[65] In a need to increase production from 
the top of the line-up center fielder Julio Borbon and shortstop Elvis 
Andrus switched positions in the batting order with Andrus leading off 
and Borbon hitting 9th.[66] On April 22 the Rangers sent first baseman 
Chris Davis to AAA for the second time in two years and called up rookie 
Justin Smoak to join the team at home against the Detroit Tigers.[67] Smoak 
would set a franchise record by recording at least one walk in each of 
his first 4 major league games. Right fielder Nelson Cruz, who had led 
most of the Rangers offensive production in the first month, injured his 
hamstring and was placed on the DL on April 27. The following day the Rangers 
optioned catcher Taylor Teagarden to AAA and recalled catcher Max Ramírez 
and outfielder Craig Gentry. Catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia was removed 
form the 15-day DL and optioned to AAA as well. Ian Kinsler, who missed 
most of spring training and 29 days in April with a high ankle sprain, 
made his 2010 season debut against the Seattle Mariners on April 30. To 
make room for his addition off the 15-day DL second baseman/utility infielder 
Joaquín Árias was placed on the 15-day DL with a strained back.[68] Record 
(month, year) 15–12, 26–24 Starting Rotation: C. J. Wilson, Rich Harden, 
Scott Feldman, Colby Lewis, Matt Harrison, Derek Holland The Rangers spent 
26 days of May either tied or in sole possession of 1st place in the West 
but would lose 6 of their last 7 and end the month in 2nd place behind 
the Oakland A's. On May 12, Derek Holland made his first start of the season 
after being called up from Triple-A Oklahoma. He had been 4–1 with a 0.93 
ERA in his time at Triple-A. He pitched 6 innings without allowing a run 
while striking out 7 and walking 1, picking up his first win of 2010. Matt 
Harrison was placed on the DL to make room for Holland's call-up. On May 
13, C. J. Wilson became the first pitcher in the franchise's history to 
begin the season with 7 straight quality starts. In the same game Wilson 
also set a new franchise record for most consecutive innings pitched without 
giving up a home run. The Rangers won the game 2–1 in the 12th inning. 
On May 14 Nelson Cruz was reactivated from the DL. Ryan Garko was placed 
on waivers to make room for Cruz. It was the first time in the season the 
line-up would include both Cruz and Kinsler. The Rangers scored 10 runs 
in the game against the Toronto Blue Jays but would lose the game. Nelson 
Cruz won the honor as player of the week from May 17–23.[69] Cruz pulled 
his left hamstring on the last at bat in a loss against the Royals on May 
26. This was the 2nd time Cruz would go on the DL for a hamstring, the 
previous was for his right hamstring.[70] Derek Holland would make 4 starts 
and 1 relief appearance in May. He suffered from inflammation in his left 
(throwing) arm on May 30 and left the game during the 2nd inning. The game 
was being broadcast by ESPN who had a microphone on the home plate umpire. 
During the injury visit to the mound Holland's voice was heard saying he 
"couldn't feel the ball" in his hand. He was placed on the DL by the next 
game.[71] Record (month, year) 21–6, 47–30 Starting Rotation: Rich Harden, 
Scott Feldman, C. J. Wilson, Colby Lewis, Tommy Hunter, Dustin Nippert, 
Omar Beltré The Rangers compiled their best monthly record in franchise 
history high-marked by an 11-game winning streak, the second best in franchise 
history and highest since 1992. The Rangers spent every day except one 
in first place for the division and ended the month of June tied with the 
Yankees for the best record in baseball. Hamilton and Guerrero's offensive 
production for the month put both players on the league leader boards with 
Hamilton and Guerrero tied for 5th in home runs, Hamilton at 4th in batting 
average followed by Guerrero at 5th, and Hamilton at 4th in hits, Guerrero 
at 10th, and Young tied for 5th in hits as well. Guerrero finished the 
month tied for 1st in RBIs at 68. Feliz also finished the month tied for 
2nd in saves. The Rangers called up reliever Pedro Strop after placing 
Holland on the disabled list. The Rangers recalled pitcher Tommy Hunter 
to take the 5th spot in the rotation, Strop was reassigned to AAA on June 
5. Hunter pitched a complete game in his 2010 debut earning a win against 
the Tampa Bay Rays on June 5. Rich Harden was placed on the DL after his 
June 11 game and replaced on he active roster by Alexi Ogando. Josh Hamilton 
and Colby Lewis shared the award for player of the week from June 7–13.[72] 
Michael Young became the all-time hit leader in club history on June 16 
passing Iván Rodríguez.[73] Cruz returned from the DL on June 22, Craig 
Gentry was optioned back to AAA for his return. Alexi Ogando became the 
3rd relief pitcher since 1900 to record a win in each of his first three 
appearances.[74] Omar Beltré made his major league debut joining the other 
formerly exiled Dominican Republican Ogando as team mates again.[75] Beltre 
started the last game of the month against the Angels. The Rangers also 
completed a trade with the San Francisco Giants sending Chris Ray and a 
PTBNL and receiving Bengie Molina and cash considerations.[76] The trade 
was not completed before the start of the game, and the Rangers sent Matt 
Harrison to AAA to make room for Beltre. Hamilton won player of the month 
for June.[77] Record (month, year) 14–13, 61–43 Rotation C. J. Wilson, 
Colby Lewis, Tommy Hunter, Scott Feldman, Omar Beltré, Cliff Lee, Rich 
Harden The Rangers lost four games in a row to the Baltimore Orioles going 
into the All-Star break, however they would win their next four series 
in a row, including going 4–2 against the Angels and sending them into 
third place in the division. The Rangers completed one of their biggest 
trades in franchise history on July 9 when they sent 2009 first-round draft 
pick Justin Smoak, minor leaguers Blake Beavan, Josh Lueke, and Matt Lawson 
to the Seattle Mariners for CY Young-award winner Cliff Lee, and Mark Lowe 
plus cash.[78] Lee would be the first former Cy Young winner to appear 
in a Rangers uniform since Gaylord Perry. Chris Davis was recalled from 
AAA to replace Smoak at first base. On July 16 against the Red Sox Bengie 
Molina became the first catcher in MLB history to hit a grand slam and 
for the cycle in the same game. Hamilton and Guerrero were voted as starters 
for the All-Star game and were joined by Kinsler, Andrus, and Feliz. The 
Rangers also added starting pitcher Lee to the All-Star roster after acquiring 
him from Seattle. Record (month, year): 13–15, 74–58 Rotation: Cliff Lee, 
Colby Lewis, C. J. Wilson, Tommy Hunter, Rich Harden, Derek Holland The 
Rangers finished the month of August with their worst record of the season 
going two games under 500. Despite a losing record for the month, the Rangers 
division lead did not drop below 7 games above the Oakland A's, and the 
Rangers ended to month 8.5 games ahead of second place. After making only 
one start in July, Harden would return to the DL following his August 7 
game against Oakland. Harden would make two more starts in the month, throwing 
only 13 1⁄3 innings and being sent to the bullpen at the end of the month. 
August would also be a tough month for the other Rangers ace Cliff Lee, 
whose record for the month was 1–6. Lee was also accused by ESPN radio 
host Colin Cowherd claiming people close to Lee said he wanted to sign 
with the Yankees or another elite team, that Lee didn't care about Texas, 
and Cowherd also accused Lee of mailing it in against Baltimore on August 
21, a game in which Lee gave up 8 runs. After the August 22 game Lee told 
reporters "It's a lie. Write that. Are you writing? Write that it's a lie. 
I did not say that and nobody close to me would say that. Either say who 
the source is or shut up because I am saying it is not true."[79] Following 
the events in Baltimore Lee would lose his next two games before reporting 
that he was having muscle pain in his back and would receive an injection.[80] 
Oft injured all-stars Cruz and Kinsler spent more time on the DL, Kinsler 
would not play a single game in the month of August following a late July 
injury, and Cruz missed a total of fifteen games. On August 1 former starting 
catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia was traded to the Red Sox for Roman Mendez, 
Chris McGuiness, a player to be named. Outfielder Jeff Francoeur was acquired 
on August 31 from the Mets for infielder Arias. The Rangers also received 
cash in the trade. Rookie Michael Kirkman would make his major league debut 
on August 21. Ranked as the 15th best prospect by Jamey Newberg prior to 
the start of the season,[81] Kirkman would pitch 7 2⁄3 innings in the month, 
striking out eight and giving up no runs in August 5 games. On August 23, 
the Rangers nearly combined for a no-hitter against the Minnesota Twins 
when Rich Harden pitched 6 and 2/3 innings of no-hit ball but was pulled 
after 111 pitches. Matt Harrison got the last out of the inning, and Darren 
O'Day pitched a perfect eighth before Neftalí Feliz gave up the first hit 
of the game with one out in the ninth to Joe Mauer. Record (month, year) 
16–14, 90–72 Rotation:Tommy Hunter, Derek Holland, Colby Lewis, C. J. Wilson, 
Scott Feldman, Cliff Lee, Rich Harden The Rangers' lead peaked at 11 games 
after clinching the division, setting a new franchise high. Hamilton injured 
himself after colliding with the outfield wall making a catch on September 
4.[82] it was the second time in consecutive years he would miss significant 
playing time after crashing into a wall making a catch. X-rays later showed 
Hamilton had cracked two ribs from the collision.[83] Although the injury 
itself did not prevent Hamilton from playing, Hamilton would continue to 
miss time due to pain from the injury and, due to Hamilton's drug past, 
lasted longer because he is unable to take pain medication. Hamilton would 
not return until the season series finale against the Angels. The Rangers 
would sweep the New York Yankees in a mid-September meeting. It was the 
first time the Rangers swept the Yankees since 2003, and the first time 
to do so at home since 1996. On September 22 Feliz would tie the major 
league record for saves by a rookie in a single season. Feliz would end 
the season with 40 saves. On September 25, the Rangers would clinch the 
division against the A's. On the same day Young would also set a new record 
by being the first major leaguer to start over 282 games at second base, 
short stop, and third base. Rangers starters Wilson and Lewis would each 
reach 200 plus innings in their last start of the season. It would be the 
first time two Rangers starters would reach the mark since 2006. With Lee's 
total innings pitched, it would be the first time the Rangers had three 
starters who would reach 200 plus innings since 2002. The Texas Rangers, 
at 90–72, advanced to the postseason for the fourth time in franchise history, 
and the first time since 1999. Their opponent in the ALDS were the Tampa 
Bay Rays. Their opponent for the ALCS were the New York Yankees The Rangers 
won the ALDS in 5 games versus the Rays. Each team won only away games 
and it was the first time a divisional round has ever been won by only 
the away teams. The game 1 win was Lee's first win in Tampa Bay of the 
year, it was also the Rangers first win in Tampa as well. Prior to game 
2 ESPN's Tim Kurkjian said C. J. Wilson was the best #2 pitcher in the 
American League playoffs. Game 2 would not be without controversy as Michael 
Young appeared to swing at a two strike pitch. The third base umpire ruled 
Young had checked his swing, and Young would hit the next pitch for a three 
run home run. Prior to game 5 in Tampa Bay the last time a runner scored 
from second base on an infield grounder was 1970. The Rangers would score 
from second on infield grounders twice in the game. After Lee's two starts 
there would only be 8 games in playoff history when a pitcher would have 
10+ strikeouts and no walks. Lee has pitched 4 of those games. Lee also 
tied the Division Series record of 21 strikeouts set by Kevin Brown in 
1998 with the San Diego Padres. Lee's 16 innings without a walk set a new 
ALDS record. Cruz and Kinsler would also hit 3 home runs each in the series. 
The last time two teammates each hit 3 or more home runs in the same playoff 
series was in 1928 when Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig did it for the New York 
Yankees. Texas won the series, 3–2. The Rangers would win the ALCS in 6 
games after splitting the first two games in Texas and winning two in New 
York. Colby Lewis would not only be the first Rangers pitcher to win a 
home playoff game, doing so in game 2, but would also win the second home 
playoff victory in franchise history in the same series, clinching the 
American League championship in Game 6. The Rangers advanced to the World 
Series for the first time. The Rangers' first three batters of the series 
would each get on base and score after Josh Hamilton hit a three run home 
run in the bottom of the first inning of game 1. It was only the second 
time in playoff history a team had done so. The Rangers game 2 win broke 
an 0–10 record versus the Yankees in playoff games. Prior to his one walk 
in game 3, Lee amassed 30 post-season strikeouts between walks, an MLB 
record. Lee is also the first pitcher to get 10+ strikeouts three times 
in the same post-season. Texas won the series, 4–2. While the Rangers starting 
pitching would continue to be strong in the World Series, giving up only 
33 runs in 97 2⁄3 innings, the Rangers offense would only score 29 total 
hits in the 5 games. The Giants would score as many runs as the Rangers 
had hits in the series. The Rangers would also be shut out by the Giants 
in two of the games. It was the first time a team had been shut out in 
two world series games since the 1966 series. A bullpen meltdown in game 
2 culminated by 4 walks in a row allowed the Giants to take a commanding 
lead scoring 7 runs in the 8th innings. The lone victory for the Rangers 
would be game 3. Colby Lewis would win his third home playoff victory after 
rookie first baseman Mitch Moreland took advantage of a 9-pitch at-bat 
with a 3-run home run. Moreland would be the only bright spot in the Rangers 
offense against the Giants finishing with a .462 batting average. No other 
Rangers batter would get 6 hits in the series, and the second best would 
need 7 more at bats to get to 5 hits. Neftalí Feliz would get the save. 
It was Feliz' only save opportunity in the entire postseason. The bullpen 
troubles would continue to grow worse for the Rangers when in game 4 setup 
reliever Alexi Ogando would leave the game with a strain. San Francisco 
won the series, 4–1. Among baseball publications the top four Ranger prospects 
are all agreed upon, with Neftalí Feliz most often being #1 and Tanner 
Scheppers being number #4 and all four were consistently ranked as top 
100 or top 50 prospects. Jamey Newberg[81] and Baseball America[95] had 
Smoak ahead of Perez. Baseball Time in Arlington listed Perez ahead of 
Smoak.[96] Keith Law, who ranked the Rangers as having the number 1 farm 
system[97] listed them in his top 100 with Perez being the highest of the 
four coming in at #7 overall in baseball.[98] MLB.com's top 50 players 
also included the Rangers prospects. Feliz and Smoak were both in the top 
10 on this list.[99] MLB Fanhouse ranked the Rangers system number 2[100] 
and listed them in their top 100 as well.[101][102] Baseball America had 
the Rangers farm system ranked the second best behind Tampa Bay.[103] Two 
of their main writers John Manuel[104] and Jim Callis[105] have stated 
they consider the Rangers to be the number 1 farm system as recently as 
December,2009. The Rangers minor league affiliates set a club record by 
sending six of the minor league teams to their respective playoffs.[106] 
On January 18 it was reported the Rangers signed Jorge Alfaro, a 16-year-old 
catcher from Colombia, for $1.3 million.[107] The 6' 1" 185 lb (84 kg) 
right-hander is a power hitter with a strong arm. The Rangers also signed 
Australian-born catcher Guy Edmonds for $150,000 in February.[108] The 
Rangers signed Dominican Republic short stop Luis Marte for 215,000 in 
November.[109] Draft: The Rangers accumulated 4 first round and supplemental 
round picks for the 2010 draft; the pick at 15, awarded for their failure 
to sign Matt Purke from the 2009 pick, their natural pick at 22, and picks 
45 and 49 from the loss of free agents Iván Rodríguez and Marlon Byrd respectively. 
This was the most 1st round picks the Rangers had acquired since 2007 when 
the Rangers had 5 1st round picks. Speculation prior to the draft predicted 
the Rangers would acquire a ‘safe' pick at 15 because if they failed to 
sign the pick the Rangers would receive no further compensation for the 
pick. It was also speculated the Rangers would select players expected 
to be signed close to slot due to financial difficulties with the bankruptcy 
process and being required to follow the budget the team had set out prior 
to the season and approved by MLB. Jake Skole did not make the top 200 
prospects in Baseball America's draft preview and an ankle injury at the 
start of his senior year of high school kept him out of action until the 
playoffs. However his performance in the playoffs helped increase his draft 
position getting two hits off Kaleb Cowart who was selected by the division 
rival Angels with the 18th pick. Some reviews see the pick as a stretch 
while others see the pick as a good selection of raw talent and believe 
Skole would have been picked a few selections later in the 1st round. Infielders 
Outfielders Coaches http://www.baseball-reference.com/teams/TEX/2010-schedule-scores.shtml 
