The Cincinnati Reds' 2010 season was the 121st season for the franchise 
in Major League Baseball. The Reds began their season at home against the 
St. Louis Cardinals on April 5, losing 6 to 11. Cincinnati was coming off 
a 78-84 (.481) season and fourth place in the NL Central. The Reds were 
managed by Dusty Baker, who was in his third season with the team. His 
coaches were Mark Berry (third base), Billy Hatcher (first base), Brook 
Jacoby (hitting), Juan Lopez (bullpen), Bryan Price (pitching), and Chris 
Speier (bench). For the second year in a row, Cincinnati hosted the Major 
League Baseball Civil Rights Game. They played St. Louis Cardinals and 
won 4 to 3. The majority owner of the Cincinnati Reds was Robert Castellini; 
the general manager was Walt Jocketty. Their home field was Great American 
Ball Park. The Cincinnati Reds clinched the National League Central division 
and a trip to the MLB postseason on September 28 by a walk-off home run 
from outfielder Jay Bruce. This was the first time the Reds were in the 
postseason since the 1995 season. The 2010 season ended when the Reds were 
swept by the Philadelphia Phillies in the NLDS. The 2010 Cincinnati Reds 
offseason was marked by two key pickups. After acquiring a key player in 
Scott Rolen midway through the 2009 season, another veteran was added in 
Orlando Cabrera. In late December 2009, the Reds GM Walt Jocketty made 
a move to acquire Aroldis Chapman out of Cuba. With the many late season 
wins in the 2009 season, many picked the Reds to finish higher than they 
did the previous season. The Reds won the National League Central over 
second-place St. Louis Cardinals by five games. Wednesday, October 6, 2010 
– 5:07 pm (ET) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania In his 
first career postseason start, Phillies ace Roy Halladay hurled a no-hitter, 
giving up only one walk (to Jay Bruce in the fifth inning). Halladay's 
was only the second postseason no-hitter in Major League Baseball history, 
and the first since Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series.[2] 
During the 2010 regular season, Halladay had thrown a perfect game on the 
road against the Florida Marlins on May 29. He thus became the only pitcher 
to throw a no-hitter or perfect game in the regular season and a no-hitter 
in the postseason in the same year. Halladay is also the fifth major league 
pitcher to throw two no-hitters in the same season, and the first since 
Nolan Ryan in 1973. Friday, October 8, 2010 – 6:07 pm (ET) at Citizens 
Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania On the fourth pitch he saw, Brandon 
Phillips hit a solo home run to lead off the first inning. This is both 
the first hit and first run since 1995 for the Reds in the postseason.[3] 
Laynce Nix scored another run in the top of the second inning on two throwing 
errors and a wild pitch. Jay Bruce also hit a lead-off solo homer in the 
third inning to increase the lead to 3–0. In the top of the fifth inning, 
Phillips hit a lead-off double, advanced to third base on a sacrifice bunt, 
then scored on Joey Votto's sacrifice fly. The Phillies mounted their attack 
in the bottom of the fifth inning. Pinch-hitter Domonic Brown reached first 
base on a fielder's choice, then the Phillies loaded the bases on two consecutive 
defensive errors. Chase Utley delivered a two-out RBI single to get the 
Phillies on board. But Arroyo struck out Ryan Howard to limit the damage 
at two. The Phillies scored again in the sixth inning. Jayson Werth walked, 
stole second, then scored after two batters were hit by pitches and a bases-loaded 
walk by Reds relievers Arthur Rhodes and Logan Ondrusek. The Reds sent 
flame-thrower Aroldis Chapman to the mound in the bottom of the seventh 
inning. He hit Chase Utley, the third time by Reds' relievers in the night, 
then struck out Ryan Howard. Werth hit a ground ball to Reds third baseman 
Scott Rolen, but Utley was called safe at second base. The next batter 
Jimmy Rollins hit a fly ball to right field, but the Reds right fielder 
Jay Bruce lost it in the lights; Reds second baseman Phillips also missed 
the relay catch. These two crucial errors—the third and fourth on the night—let 
both Utley and Werth score. Rollins scored later on Raúl Ibáñez's single 
and Carlos Ruiz's RBI force-out. Reds reliever Nick Masset replaced Chapman 
and got Shane Victorino to ground out to end the inning. The Phillies took 
the 6–4 lead on Reds' errors into the eighth inning. In the bottom of the 
eighth inning, Utley hit a one-out single then stole second. Masset intentionally 
walked Howard, to set up a potential double play for the next batter. However, 
Werth hit an RBI single to left field to score Utley. Phillies closer Brad 
Lidge closed the ninth for the save. The six combined errors tied an LDS 
record previously set by the Athletics and Red Sox in the 2003 ALDS.[4] 
Sunday, October 10, 2010 – 8:07 pm (ET) at Great American Ball Park in 
Cincinnati, Ohio Cincinnati was again dominated by Phillies' starting pitching. 
Cole Hamels pitched a complete game shutout, striking out nine while allowing 
five hits. Plácido Polanco scored for the Phillies on Orlando Cabrera's 
throwing error in the top of the first innings. Chase Utley added another 
run to the lead by hitting a solo home run in the fifth inning. Infielders 
Coaches Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H = Hits; 
Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In Stats through 
October 2, 2010 Note: Pos = Position; G = Games played; AB = At Bats; H 
= Hits; Avg. = Batting Average; HR = Home Runs; RBI = Runs Batted In Stats 
through October 2, 2010 Stats Through October 2, 2010 G=Games Played ; 
W=Wins ; L=Losses ; SV=Saves ; IP=Innings Pitched ; ERA = Earned Run Average ; 
SO=Strikeouts ; WHIP=Walks and Hits Per Inning Pitched. Stats Through October 
2, 2010 As of 10/3/10 All-Star Hank Aaron Award NL Most Valuable Player 
