The San Francisco Giants are a National League Major League Baseball team. 
Their 2010 season marked their 128th year in Major League Baseball, their 
53rd year in San Francisco since their move from New York following the 
1957 season, and their 11th in AT&T Park. The Giants won the National League 
West for the first time since the 2003 season and both the National League 
Division Series and National League Championship Series for the first time 
since the 2002 season. They would go on to win the World Series, their 
first championship since moving to San Francisco in 1958. The Giants had 
rebounded from their 2002 World Series loss to Anaheim. On October 7, the 
Giants played their first playoff game since 2003. In the first game of 
their National League Division Series against the Atlanta Braves, Tim Lincecum 
struck out fourteen in a 1–0 victory over Derek Lowe, setting a franchise 
postseason strikeout record.[1] On October 11, the Giants won their series 
against Atlanta, advancing to the National League Championship Series against 
the Philadelphia Phillies.[2] On October 23, the Giants defeated the Phillies 
to advance to the World Series where they faced the Texas Rangers. On November 
1, the Giants defeated the Rangers in Game 5 to win their first championship 
since 1954. Infielders Outfielders Coaches The Giants opened the season 
with a 5-2 win over the Houston Astros and won their first four games, 
including a thrilling 5-4 win over the Atlanta Braves in 13 innings in 
their home opener at AT&T Park. But they failed to put together a winning 
streak longer than 2 games for the rest of the month, losing four straight 
games between the 18th and 21st, though strong pitching often kept them 
in games despite an inconsistent offense. After a tough 7-6 loss to the 
Phillies in 11 innings on the 28th, the Giants rebounded for a 5-2 win 
over the Colorado Rockies to close out the month. After taking two out 
of three from the Rockies, the Giants traveled to Florida to start a three-game 
series with the Marlins. They led the first game 5-3 behind Tim Lincecum's 
13 strikeouts, but fell behind 6-5 in the eighth. Down to their last out, 
Aaron Rowand hit a home run to tie the game. The Giants won 9-6 in 12 innings 
and went on to sweep the series. The team then went through a rough stretch, 
losing two out of three to the Mets before getting swept by the NL West 
leading San Diego Padres. They recovered a bit by sweeping the Astros, 
and splitting a two-game series with the Padres but then went on a five-game 
losing streak before snapping it with a win over the Washington Nationals. 
On May 29, Buster Posey was called up to the Giants and had three hits 
and three runs batted in during a 12-1 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
That same day, the team signed Bay Area native Pat Burrell to a minor league 
contract. Padres CEO Jeff Moorad, Burrell's friend and his former agent, 
would later say he regretted not recruiting Burrell to the Padres.[21] 
Originally signed as a bench player, Burrell played his way into the starting 
lineup and wound up hitting .266 with 18 home runs and 51 runs batted in 
over 96 games. The team would end May with a flourish, winning 5 of their 
last 7 games. The Giants continued their strong play into the month of 
June. Though they lost the first series of the month to the Rockies, they 
won 3 out of their next 4 series, including completing a sweep of the Oakland 
Athletics, who had swept them the previous month. In the second half of 
the month, the team collapsed, losing their next 5 series in a row and 
ended the month with a 5-game losing streak culminating in a three-game 
sweep by the rival Dodgers. On June 30, the Giants traded Bengie Molina 
to the Texas Rangers, clearing the way for Buster Posey to become the everyday 
catcher. The month of July marked a very strong comeback for the team, 
although it did not start off well. The Giants started the month with a 
4-game series against the Rockies and lost the first two, extending their 
losing streak to 7. After coming back to win the third game despite losing 
a six-run lead early on, the Giants suffered an arduous 15-inning defeat 
to Colorado in the fourth game on July 4, putting their record at 41-40. 
The Giants immediately bounced back and went on a surge, coming back to 
sweep a 4-game series against the Brewers. They went on to win six of the 
next seven series during the month, including a sweep against the Diamondbacks, 
with the only blemish being a 4-game split with the Marlins, the most noteworthy 
of the four being a game in which the Giants led 9-2 at one point only 
to see the Marlins battle back to tie it. The game was won by the Giants 
in the bottom of the 10th inning when Andrés Torres hit a game-winning 
single for his fourth hit of the game, making the final score 10-9. On 
July 20, the Giants beat the Dodgers 7-5 at Dodger Stadium after trailing 
5-1 at one point. On July 31, Burrell hit a 2 run home run in the eighth 
inning to lead the Giants to another comeback win over the Dodgers. Overall, 
the team went 20-8 during the month, finishing July with a 60-45 record. 
Pitchers Tim Lincecum and Brian Wilson were selected for the All-Star Game. 
After their strong July, the Giants stumbled throughout August. Ace starting 
pitcher Tim Lincecum, who started the month with an 11-4 record and a 3.15 
ERA, lost his edge, going 0-5 with a 7.82 ERA over the month. The Giants 
lost series against the Braves, Cardinals, Phillies, and Diamondbacks, 
though they took three out of four from the Chicago Cubs early in the month. 
After scoring blowout wins in the first two games of a three-game series 
against the Cincinnati Reds, the Giants trailed 10-1 in the third game 
but scored six runs in the eighth and ended up taking an 11-10 lead. But 
the Reds came back to tie it in the top of the 9th after Drew Stubbs reached 
2nd base on a throwing error by Pablo Sandoval, and Brian Wilson gave up 
a game-tying single to Paul Janish. Then in the top of the 12th inning, 
Barry Zito, in a rare relief appearance, gave up the go-ahead hit to Joey 
Votto. Though the Giants got the tying run to third base on singles by 
Sandoval and Mike Fontenot in the bottom of the inning, they did not score 
and lost the game 12-11. The Giants then lost three of their next five 
games, ending the month 13-15 overall, as the calendar turned to September. 
The Padres, however, would go on a 10-game losing streak starting on August 
26.[22] Three days prior to the start of the Padres losing streak, the 
Giants acquired Cody Ross off waivers from the Florida Marlins to block 
him going to the Padres.[23] Ross didn't do much offensively for the rest 
of the regular season but would become a major factor in the postseason. 
On September 10, the Giants defeated the Padres to tie for first place 
in the NL West after trailing the Padres by 7 and a half games on July 
4. For the next 15 days, each team traded the top spot. Then the Giants 
began a four-game winning streak to take over first place, taking the lead 
for good on September 26. Their lead would grow to three games entering 
the final three games of the season against the Padres as the Giants won 
18 of the 26 games they played during the month. Lincecum also rebounded 
from his poor August, posting a record of 5-1 and striking out fifty two 
while walking only six. The Giants pitching staff posted historic numbers 
for the month of September, going a record 18 straight games giving up 
3 runs or less. (The last team to accomplish that feat was the 1917 Chicago 
White Sox.) Their 1.78 team ERA was the lowest in a month since divisional 
play started in 1969.[24] The Giants entered the three game series with 
the Padres needing just one win to clinch the NL West. They lost the first 
two games by scores of 6-4 and 4-2 before clinching the NL West with a 
3-0 win on the final day of the regular season, finishing with a 92-70 
record. Because the Atlanta Braves also defeated the Phillies that day, 
they clinched the NL Wild Card, eliminating the Padres from contention. 
They would face the Braves in the NLDS starting October 7. The NLDS was 
a close, hard-fought series. Tim Lincecum tossed a complete game two-hit 
shutout and struck out a franchise postseason record 14 in the opener as 
the Giants won 1-0. In game two, the Giants took a 4-0 lead behind Matt 
Cain's stellar pitching and Pat ("The Bat") Burrell's first inning three-run 
homer. But the Braves fought back, tying the score with three runs in the 
eighth, then winning in the 11th inning 5-4 on Rick Ankiel's home run as 
the series shifted to Atlanta. In game three Jonathan Sánchez was brilliant, 
striking out 11 and carrying a no-hitter into the sixth inning. The Giants 
led 1-0 in the eighth until Eric Hinske's pinch-hit two-run homer gave 
the Braves the lead. Rookie righthander Craig Kimbrel came out of the bullpen 
to start the top of the ninth for the Braves, relieving Jonny Venters who 
had struck out the side the previous inning. Kimbrel retired Cody Ross 
on a popout to Brooks Conrad for the first out. Travis Ishikawa pinch-hit 
for reliever Sergio Romo and drew a walk. After striking out leadoff man 
Andrés Torres, Kimbrel gave up a two-strike single to second baseman Freddy 
Sanchez and was lifted, leaving runners on first and second with two outs. 
Another rookie Brave, lefty Michael Dunn, came on and gave up a two-strike, 
game-tying single to Aubrey Huff. Right-hander Peter Moylan relieved Dunn 
and induced a grounder from Buster Posey which bounced through the Conrad's 
legs, the second baseman's third error of the game. Sanchez scored on the 
play, giving the Giants a 3–2 lead. Kyle Farnsworth came on and got the 
third out, but the damage was done. The Giants brought in their closer 
Brian Wilson for the bottom of the ninth. He held the lead, giving up a 
single to Brian McCann but retiring Nate McLouth on a grounder to end the 
game and earn a clutch save. With their backs against the wall, the Braves 
sent Derek Lowe to the mound on three days' rest. They scored first in 
the bottom of the third when Brian McCann's sacrifice fly drove in Omar 
Infante. Lowe took a no-hitter into the sixth inning, but the Giants tied 
the game with one out on Cody Ross' first-pitch homer off a Lowe cutter. 
Brian McCann answered with another in the bottom of the inning off Giants' 
rookie starter Madison ("Mad Bum") Bumgarner to take back the lead. After 
Lowe walked Aubrey Huff and allowed an infield single to Buster Posey with 
one out in the seventh, Bobby Cox, managing his last game after a long 
and distinguished career in Toronto and Atlanta, went to the mound apparently 
to remove Lowe from the game. But after talking to him, Cox elected to 
leave Lowe in, prompting huge cheers from the Atlanta fans. The next batter, 
Pat Burrell, walked on a 3–1 pitch near the inside corner, and Lowe's night 
was done after striking out eight while allowing only two hits and walking 
two. Relievers Peter Moylan and Jonny Venters couldn't hold the lead, as 
the Giants promptly scored two runs on Juan Uribe's RBI fielder's choice 
and Cody Ross' RBI single. The Braves might have been able to escape the 
one-out, bases-loaded jam unscathed and still ahead 2-1 if not for shortstop 
Álex González's bases-loading throwing error, his second in the game. Both 
errors were debatable. The first was a ball hit in the hole he didn't field 
cleanly with the speedy Andrés Torres running, earlier in the game. The 
second call was more controversial. With two on and one out and fielding 
a weakly hit groundball, González elected to throw to second but threw 
high to second baseman Omar Infante, who was ruled to have come off the 
base jumping for the throw. Lefthanded Giants reliever Javier López entered 
the game with two outs in the eighth and pinch-runner Nate McLouth the 
potential tying run at second base, and struck out slugging rookie sensation 
Jason Heyward. In the bottom of the ninth, the Braves had one last chance 
to rally. With one out, Giants closer Brian Wilson walked Rick Ankiel and 
Eric Hinske to put the potential tying and winning runs on base. But Omar 
Infante struck out swinging and Melky Cabrera grounded out to end the game 
and the series in Cox's final game as a manager, both teams giving him 
a standing ovation after the final out, which was almost not made: slick-fielding 
Travis Ishikawa had to stretch up and out as far as he could while just 
managing to keep his toe on the bag as he snow-coned the high, wide throw 
from third near the tip of the pocket of his first baseman's mitt. The 
Giants then advanced to the NLCS to face the heavily favored Philadelphia 
Phillies, who were looking for their third straight pennant. Behind two 
home runs by NLCS MVP Cody Ross and a strong start from Tim Lincecum, the 
Giants won Game 1, 4-3. The Phillies easily took Game 2 with a 6-1 win 
over Jonathan Sánchez before the series shifted to San Francisco for the 
next three games. Matt Cain and the Giants won Game 3, 3-0, for a 2-1 series 
lead. A heart-stopping, crucial Game 4 saw the Giants take an early 2-0 
lead. After the Phillies scored four runs in the top of the fifth, the 
Giants got a run back on an Aubrey Huff single up the middle in the bottom 
of the fifth, which scored Andrés Torres. In the sixth inning, Pat Burrell 
drew a leadoff walk and advanced to third on a Cody Ross double. Pablo 
Sandoval came to the plate and appeared to double down the right field 
line, but the ball hugged the line and was called foul. Four pitches later, 
however, the Kung Fu Panda lined a two-run double sharply into the left-center 
field gap, scoring Burrell and Ross and giving the Giants a 5–4 lead. The 
Phillies tied the score in the top of the eighth with back-to-back doubles 
by Ryan Howard and Jayson Werth. Giants reliever Sergio Romo recovered 
to retire the next three Phillies and strand Werth at second, retaining 
the 5-5 tie. Giants closer Brian Wilson retired the Phillies 1-2-3 in the 
top of the ninth. In the bottom of the ninth, Game 2 winner Roy Oswalt 
volunteered for a rare relief appearance. With one out Huff singled past 
a diving Howard. Posey followed with a single to right —- his fourth hit 
of the game -— that enabled Huff to reach third. Juan Uribe, batting for 
Wilson, followed with a sacrifice fly to deep left field that scored Huff 
with the winning run. The victory gave the Giants a commanding 3–1 series 
lead. With a chance to wrap up the NL pennant at home, Lincecum got the 
start in game 5. Although the Giants scored first, Philadelphia took a 
4-2 win, aided by a series of Giants defensive miscues that allowed the 
Phillies to score three runs in the third inning, to send the series back 
to Philadelphia. Game 6 saw Giant starter Jonathan Sánchez give up two 
early runs, but San Francisco rallied against Phillies starter Roy Oswalt 
in the third inning. Sánchez led off with a single, and took second when 
leadoff man Andrés Torres' long fly to the wall in center was dropped by 
Shane Victorino. Freddy Sanchez sacrificed the runners to second and third, 
and Aubrey Huff hit a single up the middle, which scored Sánchez before 
Victorino nailed Torres at home. But Huff took second base on the throw 
home and eventually scored on second baseman Plácido Polanco's throwing 
error to tie it up at 2–2. In the bottom of the inning, Sánchez lost his 
control by yielding a leadoff walk and then hitting Chase Utley with a 
pitch; Sanchez then lost his poise, prompting both benches to empty and 
glare at one another before order was restored. Replacing Sanchez, Lefty 
Jeremy Affeldt escaped the jam and retired six in a row. Manager Bruce 
Bochy then called on starter Madison Bumgarner, who survived two rocky 
innings without allowing a run, and Javier López, who retired the side 
in order in the seventh. With two outs in the top of the eighth, Juan Uribe 
hit an opposite field drive just over the right field barrier for a solo 
home run to give the Giants their first lead at 3-2. Starter Tim Lincecum, 
who had pitched 7 innings two days earlier, then entered the game in a 
relief role. He struck out Werth after falling behind 2-0, but then yielded 
back-to-back singles to Victorino and Raúl Ibáñez, prompting Bochy to bring 
in closer Brian Wilson. First baseman Huff then atoned for a critical Game 
5 error by gloving a sharp line drive from Carlos Ruíz and easily doubling 
off Victorino at second to end the inning. In the bottom of the ninth Wilson 
got pinch-hitter Ross Gload to ground out, but then walked leadoff man 
Jimmy Rollins. Plácido Polanco grounded to Uribe, who forced Rollins at 
second. Utley then drew a walk, moving the potential tying run to second 
and putting the potential winning run on first. With a full count and the 
runners moving on the pitch, Wilson froze slugger Ryan Howard with a called 
third strike on a hard tailing slider that just caught the bottom of the 
strike zone to send the Giants on to the World Series. The 2010 World Series 
pitted the Giants against the Texas Rangers, who had just won their first 
pennant. Game 1, in San Francisco because the National League had won the 
All-Star Game 1-0, saw Lincecum face lefty Cliff Lee, who had had a stellar 
first postseason for the Phillies the year before. Texas took a 2-0 lead 
in the first, but Lincecum induced a double play to limit the damage. Lee 
wasn't sharp, though, and gave up seven runs, one of them unearned because 
Rangers manager Ron Washington had gambled on putting veteran slugging 
designated hitter Vladímir Guerréro ("Bad Vlad") in AT&T Park's super-spacious 
right field which he simply could not cover and misplayed more than one 
would-be single into extra bases. Uribe hit a three-run home run in the 
sixth to extend a 5-2 lead to 8-2. Entering the ninth, the Giants were 
up 11-4 before the Rangers scored three essentially meaningless runs to 
make the final score 11-7. Game 2 was a pitcher's duel between Matt Cain 
and lefty C. J. Wilson. The game was scoreless until the bottom of the 
fifth, when Edgar Rentería hit a solo home run. Cain went 7 2⁄3 innings, 
allowing only four hits. Uríbe singled in another run in the seventh to 
extend the lead to 2-0, but in the eighth things fell apart for the Rangers 
as their bullpen imploded and the Giants scored seven runs. The Giants 
won Game 2, 9-0. The series shifted to Texas for the next (which proved 
to be the last) three games. Behind a solo home run by superstar slugger 
Josh Hamilton and an earlier three-run blast by rookie first baseman Mitch 
Moreland in support of a strong start by Colby Lewis, the Rangers defeated 
Jonathan Sánchez in Game 3, 4-2. Game 4 was played on a hot, sultry Halloween 
night. Designated hitter Huff in the third (with a man on) and catcher 
Posey in the eighth hit home runs, while Bumgarner pitched eight shutout 
innings as the Giants won 4-0, Wilson finishing up in a non-save situation. 
Game 5 was a pitching rematch of Game 1 between former Cy Young Award winners 
Cliff Lee and Tim Lincecum. Down 3–1 in the series, the Rangers needed 
a win in their ballpark to send the Series back to San Francisco or the 
Giants would return home as champions. What resulted was the pitching duel 
anticipated, but not realized, in Game 1. Both Lee and Lincecum pitched 
six shutout innings, with Lincecum allowing only two hits and Lee three. 
In the top of the seventh inning, Ross and Uríbe singled back to back to 
put two runners on with none out. The next hitter, Huff, who had never 
laid down a bunt in his major league career, sacrificed successfully, with 
only a quick pickup and crisp, accurate throw by Lee to just get Huff at 
first saved a bases-loaded, nobody out dilemma for Texas. Runners were 
now at second and third with one out for Burrell, whom Lee struck out after 
a struggle for the second out, preserving the scoreless tie for the moment. 
Shortstop Edgar Rentería, who had hit a walk-off single in Game 7 off Cleveland's 
Charles Nagy to win the 1997 World Series for Jim Leyland and his Florida 
Marlins in extra innings, now came to the plate. His two years with San 
Francisco had been considered a major disappointment, marred by injuries 
and slumps, but here in the World Series he became an unlikely hero by 
launching a three-run homer to left. After Nelson Cruz answered with a 
solo homer in the seventh, Lincecum shut the door on the Rangers, giving 
up just three hits and striking out ten in eight innings of work. Brian 
Wilson then retired the side in order in the ninth for the Series-winning 
save and first-time baseball world championships not just for the Giants 
(for the first time in 56 years) but for San Francisco,[17] since the Giants' 
five other world championships were won in New York (in 1905, 1921, 1922, 
1933 & 1954). Rentería was named World Series MVP for hitting .412 with 
two home runs (including the Series winner) and six RBI. It was Bochy's 
first world championship as a player or manager, having played as a second-string 
catcher for eight years and having managed the Padres and Giants for sixteen. 
The firsts with the championship were: In summing up the firsts, Larry 
Baer, the president of the Giants and a fourth generation resident of San 
Francisco, said that the team dedicated the championship to everyone who 
has worn a Giants uniform, and all Giants fans since the team's move to 
San Francisco, honoring 53 years of baseball in the city.[27] San Francisco 
won the series, 3–1. San Francisco won the series, 4-2. NL San Francisco 
Giants (4) vs. AL Texas Rangers (1) Note: G = Games played; AB = At Bats; 
R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W 
= Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games 
started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned 
runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts Note: G = Games played; 
AB = At Bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR 
= Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases 
Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; 
ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
