The 2010 American League Division Series (ALDS) were two best-of-five game 
series to determine the participating teams in the 2010 American League 
Championship Series. The three divisional winners and a fourth "Wild Card" 
team (the team with the best record among teams not winning their division) 
played in two series from October 6 to 12. TBS televised all games in the 
United States.[2] Under MLB's playoff format, no two teams from the same 
division were matched up in the Division Series, regardless of whether 
their records would normally indicate such a matchup. Home field advantage 
went to the team with the better regular-season record with the exception 
of the wild card team, which defers home field advantage regardless of 
record. The matchups for the 2010 ALDS were: This was the second consecutive 
season and fourth season overall in which the Twins and Yankees met in 
the ALDS; the Yankees won all their previous series, 3–1 in 2003 and 2004, 
and 3–0 in 2009. The Rays and Rangers had never met previously in the postseason, 
with Tampa Bay making only their second postseason appearance in franchise 
history (after 2008) and Texas making their fourth appearance (and first 
since 1999). The Rangers' win was the first postseason series victory in 
franchise history; the series also became the first MLB postseason series 
in which the visiting team won every game.[3] On the other side, the Yankees 
extended their postseason dominance over the Twins to four consecutive 
series wins. Texas won the series, 3–2. New York won the series, 3–0. 1:30 p.m. 
(EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida Rangers ace Cliff Lee 
dominated the American League East champions in the Game 1. He struck out 
ten while allowing five hits. During one stretch, he retired sixteen of 
seventeen batters before giving up a solo home run to Ben Zobrist in the 
seventh. The win also snapped a nine-game postseason losing streak that 
began in 1996 for the Rangers. Longtime Ranger Michael Young appeared in 
his first playoff game after playing in 1,508 games in his career. Only 
Randy Winn has played more games (1,717) without getting a shot in the 
postseason.[12] Young was 0-for-4. Nelson Cruz and Bengie Molina got to 
Rays ace David Price for a home run apiece, with Vladimir Guerrero contributing 
an RBI double as well. In the ninth inning, pitching in a non-save situation, 
Rangers closer Neftalí Feliz walked the first two batters, but then settled 
down and induced a lineout from Ben Zobrist before striking out Reid Brignac 
and Matt Joyce to end the game. 2:30 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. 
Petersburg, Florida The Rays still had no answers for both the Rangers' 
starting pitching and their offense. Matt Treanor was hit by a pitch, and 
eventually scored on Shields' pickoff error to first base in the third. 
Ian Kinsler hit a solo homer in the fourth to make it 2–0. In the top of 
the fifth inning, with one out and Julio Borbon on base, Elvis Andrus hit 
a single. Shields was pulled, replaced by Chad Qualls. After a controversial 
checked swing call, Michael Young hit a three-run home run to extend the 
lead to 5–0. Rays manager Joe Maddon was ejected after arguing that Young's 
prior swing on the 2–2 pitch should have been called strike three. Ian 
Kinsler's RBI single later in the same inning made it 6–0 Rangers. The 
Rays had their best chances in the bottom of the seventh inning. Ben Zobrist 
walked then advanced to the third base on Willy Aybar's double. However, 
Kelly Shoppach and Matt Joyce were both struck out, then Jason Bartlett 
hit a fly ball to center field to end the threat. C. J. Wilson pitched 
6 1⁄3 shutout innings for Texas, giving up two hits and striking out seven 
while walking two. 5:00 p.m. (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in 
Arlington, Texas In seeking their first franchise postseason home game 
win and series sweep, the Rangers sent Colby Lewis to the mound to face 
the Rays' Matt Garza. The Rays were counting on the 2008 ALCS MVP to come 
through once again and prevent a sweep. The Rangers struck first in the 
bottom of the third inning. Mitch Moreland hit a lead-off double in the 
bottom of the third inning, advanced to third on a passed ball by Rays 
catcher John Jaso, then scored on Elvis Andrus's RBI ground-out. After 
being shut down for 16 consecutive innings in this series, the Rays finally 
got back to life. After walking Evan Longoria, Lewis was replaced by reliever 
Derek Holland. The next hitter Matt Joyce hit a ground ball to Rangers 
second baseman Ian Kinsler. Longoria was out at second base, but Joyce 
was ruled safe at first on a close play. Dan Johnson singled, but Joyce 
was tagged out at second base after a failed attempt to advance to third. 
Holland was replaced by Alexi Ogando after walking Carlos Peña. Orgando 
gave up an RBI double to B. J. Upton that scored Johnson. The game was 
tied at 1–1. Another controversial play occurred in the bottom of the sixth 
inning when Andrus stole second on Josh Hamilton's strikeout. Garza and 
Maddon argued with the second base umpire Jeff Kellogg that Andrus' right 
leg did not stay on base. Ian Kinsler's go-ahead solo homer in the bottom 
of the seventh inning took the lead for the Rangers and also knocked Garza 
out of the game. Rays designated hitter Dan Johnson doubled in the top 
of the eighth inning, then Peña's RBI single scored pinch-runner Desmond 
Jennings to tie the game at 2–2. Later John Jaso hit a two-out RBI single 
that scored Peña. This was the Rays' first lead in the series. Carl Crawford 
led off the top of the ninth inning with a solo home run. Later Peña's 
two-run homer increased Rays' lead to four. The four-run lead was enough 
for the Rays closer Rafael Soriano, despite a solo home run by Nelson Cruz 
in the bottom of the ninth inning. 1:00 p.m. (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark 
in Arlington in Arlington, Texas The Rays scored first in the top of the 
second inning. Carlos Peña hit a triple that bounced over the head of the 
Rangers center fielder Josh Hamilton, then scored on Rangers second baseman 
Ian Kinsler's fielding error. Back-to-back doubles by Evan Longoria and 
Peña in the top of the fourth inning brought in another run for the Rays. 
After two strikeouts, B. J. Upton hit the third double in this inning to 
score Peña. Evan Longoria hit a two-run homer off the Rangers reliever 
Derek Holland in the fifth inning to increase Rays' lead to five. The Rangers 
showed some sign of life when Nelson Cruz hit a solo home run, his third 
in this series, in the bottom of the sixth inning. Later Mitch Moreland's 
RBI double off Grant Balfour scored Ian Kinsler to make the score 5–2. 
After that, the Rays bullpen was excellent. Balfour got out of the inning 
and pitched a scoreless seventh, before handing it over to setup man Joaquín 
Benoit, a Ranger until this year. He worked a perfect eighth to pick up 
the hold. Rays closer Rafael Soriano then pitched a perfect ninth for the 
save. The series was tied at two and the Rangers were unable to notch their 
first postseason home game win. It marked the first time since 2005 that 
a Division Series in either league went the full five games. 8:00 p.m. 
(EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida Game 5 featured a rematch 
of Game 1's two aces, the Rangers' Cliff Lee versus the Rays' David Price. 
Elvis Andrus led off the game with a single, later stole second, and scored 
for the Rangers on Josh Hamilton's RBI ground-out in the top of the first 
inning. Rays' pitcher David Price was covering first on the play and was 
unaware of the runner rounding third. The Rays tied up the game in the 
bottom of the third inning when Sean Rodriguez scored on Ben Zobrist's 
RBI single. In the top of the fourth inning, Nelson Cruz hit a two-out 
double that barely missed being a home run in the deepest corner of the 
field, stole third, then scored on Rays' catcher Kelly Shoppach's throwing 
error. The Rangers got another run in the top of the sixth on a similar 
play to the one that occurred in the first. Ian Kinsler grounded the ball 
to first and the Rays attempted to turn a double play, with Price covering 
first. Once again, Price seemed to forget about the runner coming from 
second when he turned to the umpire to see the call. Vladimir Guerrero 
barely beat Price's throw to the plate and the Rangers led, 3–1. All three 
Texas runs in the game to this point had been scored due to some sort of 
defensive miscue. Price was relieved by Grant Balfour in the seventh inning, 
having gone six innings, allowing three runs (all earned) on eight hits, 
a slightly better line than his first game but not good enough to match 
Cliff Lee. Lee dominated the Rays through nine innings, allowing one earned 
run on six hits, with eleven strikeouts. The Rangers got another two runs 
in the top of the ninth on Kinsler's two-run homer off Rays closer Rafael 
Soriano. Cruz had singled before the homer, one of his three hits. Kinsler 
also had three hits for Texas. Lee's complete game gem made this series 
become the first MLB postseason series in which the visiting team won every 
game, and his 21 strikeouts in the two games combined set an ALDS record 
for most strikeouts in a series. Lee finished the series with a 1.13 ERA 
in the two games. It is the first playoff series the Texas Rangers have 
ever won. 2010 ALDS (3–2): Texas Rangers over Tampa Bay Rays 8:30 p.m. 
(EDT) at Target Field in Minneapolis, Minnesota Hoping to break their streak 
of postseason defeats against the Yankees, the Twins struck first in this 
first postseason game in Target Field. In the bottom of the second inning, 
Yankee starter CC Sabathia hit the leadoff hitter, Jim Thome, then allowed 
a two-run home run by Michael Cuddyer. Orlando Hudson scored on Jorge Posada's 
passed ball to make it 3–0 in the bottom of the third inning. Francisco 
Liriano held the Yankees scoreless until the top of the sixth inning. Following 
Robinson Canó's and Jorge Posada's RBI singles, Curtis Granderson's RBI 
triple scored both Canó and Posada, made it 4–3 Yankees, and knocked Liriano 
out of the game. In the bottom of the sixth inning, Danny Valencia's bases-loaded 
walk tied the game at 4–4. The Yankees took the lead again in the top of 
the seventh inning as Mark Teixeira hit a two-run homer to right field. 
Yankees closer Mariano Rivera's four-out save (his 40th career postseason 
save[13]) sealed the Game 1 win. 6:00 p.m. (EDT) at Target Field in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota In Game 2, 17-game winner Carl Pavano started for the Twins, 
hoping to even the series. Pavano faced the Yankee veteran Andy Pettitte. 
Like in Game 1, the Twins struck first in the second inning when Delmon 
Young scored on a Danny Valencia sacrifice fly. The Yankees tied the game 
in the top of the fourth inning, as Curtis Granderson doubled, advanced 
to third base on Mark Teixeira's single, then scored on Alex Rodriguez's 
sacrifice fly. Designated hitter Lance Berkman homered in the fifth inning 
to take the lead for the Yankees. But Orlando Hudson tied it up with a 
solo homer in the bottom of the sixth inning. In the top of the seventh 
inning, Berkman's RBI double over the head of the Twins center fielder 
Denard Span once again took the lead for the Yankees. Like Joe Maddon did 
earlier in the Rangers–Rays game, Twins manager Ron Gardenhire argued about 
the 1–2 borderline pitch right before Berkman's double and got ejected.[14] 
Later Derek Jeter's RBI single scored Berkman and made the score 4–2. Granderson's 
RBI single scored Brett Gardner in the top of the ninth inning. In the 
bottom of the ninth inning, Mariano Rivera gave up a leadoff single to 
Joe Mauer, but got Delmon Young to ground into a double play and then induced 
a fly ball to left field from Jim Thome for the second consecutive save 
in the series. This was Andy Pettitte's 19th career and final postseason 
win and Mariano Rivera's 41st postseason save; both are all-time postseason 
pitching records. Also, this was the 11th straight postseason loss for 
the Twins and eighth straight postseason loss against the Yankees.[15] 
8:30 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York The Yankees took 
an early lead this time in the bottom of the second inning when Robinson 
Canó hit a lead-off triple, later scored on Jorge Posada's RBI single. 
Nick Swisher hit a two-out double in the bottom of the third inning, then 
scored on Mark Teixeira's RBI single to increase their lead to two. Canó 
singled again in the bottom of the fourth inning. And the next batter, 
Marcus Thames, who had a successful record against the left-handed pitcher 
this year, hit the first pitch he saw into the right field. Later Curtis 
Granderson walked, stole second, and advanced to third on Joe Mauer's throwing 
error. Brett Gardner's RBI sacrifice fly scored Granderson to make the 
score 5–0. Later Nick Swisher's solo homer in the bottom of the seventh 
inning increased the lead to six. After being shut down by Hughes for seven 
innings, the Twins finally got on board in the top of the eighth inning. 
Danny Valencia hit a lead-off double off Yankees reliever Kerry Wood. After 
J. J. Hardy flew out, both Denard Span and Orlando Hudson singled to score 
Valencia. Wood was removed from the game after walking Mauer. But Yankees 
relievers Boone Logan and David Robertson induced a popout and a flyout 
respectively to get out of the one-out bases-loaded jam. Yankees closer 
Mariano Rivera pitched a scoreless ninth for the series sweep. This was 
the first time that the Yankees advanced to the second round of the postseason 
as the Wild Card (they lost all three in 1995, 1997, and 2007), and this 
win marked the ninth time the Yankees advanced to the LCS since 1995, the 
most in MLB. The Minnesota Twins, with this loss, extended their postseason 
losing streak to twelve games, with nine of those coming against the Yankees. 
