The 2010 Major League Baseball season began Sunday, April 4, when the Boston 
Red Sox defeated their longtime rivals, the 2009 World Series champion 
New York Yankees at Fenway Park, 9–7; the regular season ended on October 
3. The 2010 All-Star Game was played on July 13 at Angel Stadium of Anaheim 
in Anaheim, California. The National League ended a 13-game winless streak 
with a 3–1 victory. Due to this result, the 2010 World Series began October 
27 in the city of the National League Champion, the San Francisco Giants, 
and ended November 1 when the Giants defeated the American League Champion 
Texas Rangers in the 2010 World Series, four games to one. Green backgrounds 
indicate teams that made the playoffs. Numbers in parentheses indicate 
seedings for the playoffs, determined by won-lost records. For much of 
the season, 2010 was frequently labeled the Year of the Pitcher (though 
this title is also taken by the 1968 season). 2010 saw many prominent pitching 
occurrences, including: * Served as interim manager, replacing Cecil Cooper. 
The following managers who were interim managers for 2009 will lead their 
respective teams in 2010: The Minnesota Twins inaugurated Target Field, 
their new 39,504-seat home field, in an exhibition game on April 2 against 
the St. Louis Cardinals (the Twins lost 8–4). On April 12, the Twins played 
their first regular season game in their new ballpark with a 5–2 win over 
the Boston Red Sox. The team moved from the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, 
which they shared with the Minnesota Vikings since the stadium opened in 
1982 and also with the University of Minnesota football program until the 
Golden Gophers returned to their campus and opened TCF Bank Stadium in 
September 2009. The Twins last played outdoor baseball at home in 1981 
when Metropolitan Stadium (where the Mall of America now stands) closed. 
Target Field is also the first stadium to have been built specifically 
for the Twins since their arrival in the Twin Cities in 1961, and the first 
stadium to have been built specifically for the franchise since Griffith 
Stadium was built for the original Washington Nationals in 1911. Also, 
the 2010 season was the first since 1936 in which the Twins/Senators franchise 
did not share its stadium with an NFL team. The Texas Rangers were sold 
at an auction in U.S. Bankruptcy Court on August 5 to a group led by Chuck 
Greenberg and Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan from former owner Tom Hicks. The 
ownership change was approved by MLB owners on August 12. The 2010 season 
marked the first full season in the USA for baseball games to be telecast 
in the digital format. The national telecast breakdown is as follows, along 
with the maximum number of appearances per team: In Canada, Toronto Blue 
Jays games will be televised on Rogers Sportsnet and Rogers Sportsnet One. 
RSN also holds the Canadian rights to air the Fox and ESPN/ESPN2 games 
if they do not conflict with Blue Jays games, as well as the All-Star Game 
and the entire postseason. Starting May 16, TSN2 holds rights to the ESPN 
Sunday Night Baseball telecasts. In Australia free to air channel One HD 
shows up to 5 regular season games live per week (no postseason coverage), 
and European channel ESPN America broadcasts games as well. ESPN Radio 
will again serve as MLB's national radio network, broadcasting Sunday Night 
Baseball as well as selected Saturday and holiday games during the regular 
season, the Home Run Derby and All-Star Game, and all postseason series. 
ESPN Deportes Radio holds the Spanish language rights to the Fall Classic. 
