The Tampa Bay Rays' 2010 season was their 13th season of baseball. They 
improved on their 84–78 record from 2009 by finishing the regular season 
96–66, and qualifying for the postseason for the second time in history 
by winning their second AL East division championship in three years. Outfielder 
Gabe Kapler, who had been signed before the 2009 season to just a one-year 
contract, was re-signed to another one-year deal for $1.05 million on October 
27, 2009.[1] Second baseman Akinori Iwamura was traded to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates in exchange for relief pitcher Jesse Chavez on November 3, 2009. 
Iwamura had a $4.85 million option for 2010, but with several other players 
in the organization who could fill the position, the Rays decided to part 
ways with Iwamura by trading him. Andrew Friedman, the Rays' Vice President 
of Baseball Operations, stated that it was "tough to put into words" what 
"Aki" meant to the Rays, who had been with the team since the 2006 season, 
and was the player who recorded the final out in the 2008 American League 
Championship Series that sent the Rays to their first World Series.[2] 
On November 9, 2009, the Rays chose to exercise the 2010 option of left 
fielder Carl Crawford, worth $10 million, but declined the options of relief 
pitcher Brian Shouse and catcher Gregg Zaun that would have been worth 
$2 million each.[3] The Rays acquired catcher Kelly Shoppach from the Cleveland 
Indians on December 1, 2009, for a player to be named later.[4] That player 
turned out to be minor-league pitcher Mitch Talbot.[5] Jesse Chavez was 
dealt to the Atlanta Braves for relief pitcher Rafael Soriano on December 
10, 2009.[6] The Rays had been in talks with the Chicago Cubs to send Pat 
Burrell to Chicago in exchange for Milton Bradley. Both players would make 
the same amount of money in 2010, but while Burrell would be at the end 
of his contract following the conclusion of the season, Bradley was owed 
$13 million in 2011, a price the Rays were not willing to take on all of. 
Unable to make an agreement on how to split the cost, the Cubs eventually 
sent Bradley to the Seattle Mariners on December 18, 2009.[7] First baseman 
Dan Johnson was signed to a $500,000 contract for one year on January 11. 
Johnson, who played the 2009 season in Japan's Central League, was regarded 
as a hero for the Rays in the 2008 season for a game-tying solo home run 
in the 9th inning of a game in early September against the Boston Red Sox 
at Fenway Park. The Rays, who needed a win that night to keep their division 
lead over Boston, went on to do just that.[8][9] Relief pitcher J. P. Howell, 
starting pitcher Matt Garza and shortstop Jason Bartlett all signed one-year 
contracts to avoid salary arbitration.[10] Only center fielder B. J. Upton 
went to salary arbitration, though he did state he was interested in a 
long-term deal with the Rays.[11] Upton's arbitration case was held on 
February 12. He asked for $3.3 million, but the case was awarded to the 
Rays, meaning he would make $3 million instead.[12] On February 3, 2010, 
the Rays signed reliever Mike Ekstrom, recently waived by the San Diego 
Padres, to a minor-league contract and placed him on the 40-man roster. 
Catcher Alvin Colina and reliever Heath Phillips were also signed to minor-league 
contracts and invited to spring training.[13] One day after the end of 
the 2008 season, the Rays let hitting coach Steve Henderson go. Quality 
assurance coach Todd Greene would not return either, as the position was 
eliminated.[14] Derek Shelton was hired as the team's new hitting coach 
on October 21. Shelton had been with the Cleveland Indians in the previous 
five seasons.[15] On February 3, the Rays announced a naming deal with 
fertilizer manufacturer The Mosaic Company for Charlotte County Stadium, 
their spring training facility, changing its name to Mosaic Field at Charlotte 
Sports Park.[16] However, after public opposition to this deal was made 
known, the plans were "deferred", and the stadium would continue to be 
known as Charlotte Sports Park.[17] Rocco Baldelli returned to the Rays 
on March 2 as a "special assistant" who would work with younger players. 
Baldelli stated that he hurt his shoulder in the previous season playing 
for the Boston Red Sox that may require surgery, and though he felt uncomfortable 
going into Spring training, he was "not ready to retire" and was hopeful 
to play again some day. Andrew Friedman, the Rays' Vice President of Baseball 
Operations, said that the one-year deal was not done with the intention 
of bringing Baldelli back as a player in 2010, but also said that "anything's 
possible."[18] Infielder Hank Blalock was signed to a minor-league contract 
on March 8.[19] Blalock was first reported to be interested in signing 
with either the Rays or the Florida Marlins just days before the deal was 
made.[20] Catcher Dioner Navarro injured his left leg on March 20 during 
a game against the Minnesota Twins, after Twins outfielder Jacque Jones 
collided with him at the plate. Navarro was reported to be in serious pain 
and had to be carted off the field. Later that day it was announced that 
Navarro suffered a bruised nerve. The Rays said that the injury was not 
bad enough that it would cause Navarro to miss opening day.[21] The Rays 
finished Spring training with a team record 20 wins, and had the highest 
win percentage of all teams in the league.[22] On April 6, during the Rays' 
first game of the season, Evan Longoria hit a home run that landed in the 
left field upper deck seating of Tropicana Field. In doing so, Longoria 
became just the second player to hit a home run that landed in that upper 
deck section without hitting one of the stadium's catwalks, the first player 
being Vinny Castilla on April 4, 2001. Longoria's home run was also estimated 
to have gone 473 feet, making it the third longest home run in the stadium's 
history, behind a 474-foot home run by Jonny Gomes on July 9, 2005, and 
the aforementioned home run by Castilla, which traveled 478 feet.[23] The 
Rays began the season with a 10–3 record, their best start in franchise 
history. At one point in the first two weeks of the season, the Rays won 
seven consecutive games, all on the road. Included in this win streak was 
their first series sweep of more than two games against the Boston Red 
Sox at Fenway Park.[24] Catcher Kelly Shoppach underwent right knee surgery 
on April 19 and was expected to be out for 4–6 weeks.[25] On April 23, 
Ben Zobrist was given a 5-year contract extension, with team options in 
both of the final two years of the contract.[26] Catcher Dioner Nivarro 
was given a two-game suspension on April 27 because of an on-field incident 
with umpire Dan Bellino that took place during a game on April 23. Navarro 
was ejected from that game by Bellino for arguing balls and strikes in 
the 6th inning, but before leaving the field, Navarro bumped chests with 
the umpire.[27] At the end of the month the Rays held the best record in 
the league at 17–6, and had a 1½ game lead in the division. The 17–6 record 
was the best in franchise history for the month of April, as well as the 
best April in league history since the New York Yankees went 21–6 in the 
2003 season.[28] Dallas Braden of the Oakland Athletics pitched the 19th 
perfect game in major league history against the Rays on May 9, the second 
time in less than a year that the Rays had been on the losing end of perfection. 
The first occurred on July 23, 2009, when Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White 
Sox did not allow a single Rays batter to reach base, which was also the 
most recent perfect game pitched prior to Braden's. The Los Angeles Dodgers 
had been the only other franchise to be the losing team of consecutive 
perfect games pitched in the majors. No team who had a perfect game pitched 
against them had a higher winning percentage than the Rays did, who entered 
the game with a league-best 22–8 record.[29] On May 15, Pat Burrell was 
designated for assignment after another struggling start to the season. 
He would later clear waivers and become a free agent.[30] The Rays called 
up Hank Blalock to replace him on the roster. Blalock's minor league contract 
included an out clause that his agent Scott Boras stated he would activate 
within the next week, which would force the Rays to either promote him 
or let him become a free agent. However Andrew Friedman, Executive Vice 
President of the Rays, said that this was not a factor in the decision 
to bring him up.[31] Having already missed the start of the season, relief 
pitcher J. P. Howell threw in a simulated game, but was forced to stop 
after only 12 pitches. After being examined by the Rays' head athletic 
trainer, manager Joe Maddon talked to reporters saying that Howell had 
a "definite setback."[32] On May 19 it was announced that Howell underwent 
surgery on his left shoulder, and would miss the entire 2010 season.[33] 
Shortstop Jason Bartlett suffered a "mild" right hamstring strain during 
a game on May 29 as he attempted to field a ground ball hit into center 
field. He was reported as day-to-day, expected to miss at least the next 
game.[34] A few days later it was revealed that there was a chance he would 
be placed on the disabled list,[35] and on June 3, that was the decision 
made.[36] The Rays went 17–12 in May, improving their league-best record 
to 34–18, and held a 2½ game division lead. Catcher Kelly Shoppach was 
brought up from his triple-A rehab assignment on June 3.[36] In the 2010 
MLB draft, the Rays used their first selection (17th overall) on Josh Sale, 
an outfielder out of Bishop Blanchet High School, located in Seattle, Washington.[37] 
His signing was officially announced by the team on the morning of August 
17.[38] Outfielder Gabe Kapler was put on the disabled list on June 12 
for a hip flexor strain. Justin Ruggiano was called up to take the open 
spot on the roster.[39] Ruggiano wouldn't stay long however, being sent 
back down when Jason Bartlett was activated from the disabled list on June 
15.[40] On June 12, Carlos Peña hit a home run for the sixth consecutive 
game. This broke the team record for homers in consecutive games, set by 
Jose Canseco, who went deep in five straight games during the 1999 season. 
Peña's streak was snapped the next day, going hitless in four at-bats.[41] 
Peña had been struggling throughout the season offensively, and some called 
for him to be benched as recently as the week prior.[42] Dioner Navarro 
was optioned to triple-A Durham on June 24. Left fielder Carl Crawford 
was removed from that day's game with soreness in his shoulder and reported 
as day-to-day, so outfielder Matt Joyce was called up to take the open 
spot on the roster.[43] On June 25, the Rays were once again unable to 
record a base hit in a game, this time in a 1–0 loss to the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
The pitcher who threw the no-hitter was Edwin Jackson, who spent four seasons 
with the Rays until being traded after the 2008 season. This was the third 
no-hitter pitched against the Rays in less than a year, however unlike 
the previous two, this was not a perfect game, as 10 batters reached base 
by virtue of a walk, error, or hit by pitch. The Rays became the first 
team to be no-hit twice in the same season since the San Diego Padres in 
2001.[44] Once Gabe Kapler was able to be activated from the disabled list, 
the Rays needed to make a cut on June 29. Hank Blalock was chosen to be 
designated for assignment. Manager Joe Maddon praised Blalock for his work 
ethic, professionalism, and the impact he had in the clubhouse, but said 
there just weren't enough opportunities for him with the team.[45] In the 
month of June, the Rays went 11–14. Dropping to 45–32 overall at the end 
of the month, they entered July two games behind the division lead. On 
July 4, three Rays were selected to play for the American League in the 
2010 MLB All-Star Game on July 13. Left fielder Carl Crawford and third 
baseman Evan Longoria were both named starters by way of fan vote, while 
pitcher David Price was elected by the players. This was Crawford's fourth 
selection to the Midsummer Classic, Longoria's third, and Price's first. 
All three became the first Rays to be starting players in the All-Star 
Game. Price was named the starting pitcher for the American League the 
day before the game.[46] Jose Canseco would have been the first in 1999, 
but missed out due to an injury. Longoria had the opportunity in 2009, 
but also had to withdraw due to an injury.[47] Closer Rafael Soriano was 
added to the roster on July 6, his first-ever selection, giving the Rays 
four all-stars. Soriano replaced New York Yankees closer Mariano Rivera 
after it was announced that Rivera would not play because of injuries. 
Soriano was picked by having the next-highest total of votes on the players' 
ballot.[48] At the All-Star Break, the Rays had a 54–34 record, were second 
in the AL East, and two games behind first. They led the AL wild card race 
by three games. Rocco Baldelli signed a minor-league contract with the 
Rays on July 19. There was speculation prior to the season that Baldelli 
would return to the Rays as a player when he returned to the organization 
as a "special assistant".[18] His first game was on the same day of the 
signing, having been assigned to class-A Charlotte. He has been expected 
to spend several weeks in the minors before a possible call-up to the Rays.[49] 
On July 26, the Rays were the winning team in a no-hitter for a change, 
as Matt Garza threw the first no-hitter in team history in a 5–0 win over 
the Detroit Tigers at Tropicana Field in front of an announced crowd of 
17,009. Throwing 120 pitches, Garza faced the minimum 27 batters, allowing 
only one to reach base on a walk in the second inning.[50] Posting a 19–7 
record for the month of July, the Rays finished the month with an overall 
record of 64–39. Though they were two games behind for the division lead, 
they led the wild card by 5½ games. Jeremy Hellickson, one of the Rays' 
best pitching prospects, made his major league debut on August 2 against 
the Minnesota Twins. He posted a 12–3 record and 2.45 ERA in triple-A before 
being called up. To make room for him on the roster, Andy Sonnanstine was 
placed on the 15-day disabled list, retroactive to July 23.[51] In his 
debut, Hellickson pitched seven innings, allowing two runs on three hits 
and retired the first ten batters he faced, ending up as the winning pitcher.[52] 
His stay in the majors lasted only that night however, as expected when 
it was first reported that he would make his first career start.[53] Following 
the game, he was optioned back down to triple-A, in favor of position player 
Dan Johnson. In triple-A, Johnson was hitting .303 with 30 home runs and 
95 RBIs.[54] First baseman Carlos Peña was placed on the disabled list 
on August 6, retroactive to August 1. On July 31, Peña was removed from 
a game with what was initially described as a foot injury and had not played 
since. The reason for his placement on the DL was reported as a partial 
tear of the plantar fascia ligament on the bottom of his foot. Relief pitcher 
Dale Thayer was recalled to fill the vacated roster spot.[54] David Price 
won his 15th game of the season on August 9, surpassing the franchise record 
for wins in a single season. The previous record of 14 wins was shared 
by Rolando Arrojo, James Shields and Edwin Jackson. Arrojo set the record 
in the club's inaugural season, while Shields and Jackson tied the record 
in 2008.[55] Starting pitchers Jeff Niemann and Wade Davis were both placed 
on the 15-day disabled list on August 9 for shoulder strains. The move 
allowed Jeremy Hellickson to be added back to the roster, as well as relief 
pitcher Mike Ekstrom.[56] Gabe Kapler was put on the disabled list with 
an ankle sprain on August 16. His spot on the roster was taken by Carlos 
Peña, who was eligible to come off the DL that same day.[57] On August 
27, the Rays signed outfielder Brad Hawpe to a minor league contract and 
assigned him to class-A Charlotte.[58] He was called up to the Rays on 
August 31, making him playoff eligible. To make room for him, pitcher Andy 
Sonnanstine was sent down to class-A Hudson Valley, though he will not 
have to remain there long, as a player can be recalled before the mandatory 
10 days if the team's season ends before then, and Hudson Valley's season 
ends September 4.[59] At the end of August, the Rays were 81–51, having 
gone 17–12 during the month. They trailed the New York Yankees for the 
division lead by a single game, though the two teams had been tied for 
first place in each of the previous eight days.[60] However the Rays were 
still in position to make the playoffs heading into the last full month 
of the regular season, leading the Boston Red Sox in the wild card by seven 
games. On the first of September, Rocco Baldelli, Jeremy Hellickson, Desmond 
Jennings and Dioner Navarro were all called up as a result of roster expansions, 
with Dale Thayer being sent down. Also, relief pitcher Grant Balfour was 
activated from the disabled list that day.[61] Closer Rafael Soriano recorded 
his 44th save on September 24, setting a new franchise record for saves 
in a single season. The previous record was held by Roberto Hernández, 
who saved 43 games in 1999.[62] They Rays secured a playoff spot on September 
28 after a 5–0 win at home against the Baltimore Orioles.[63] On the final 
day of the regular season, the AL East was still up for grabs with both 
the Rays and New York Yankees tied for first place. For the Rays to clinch 
the division, they needed either a win, or a loss by the Yankees. When 
all was said and done, both happened, as the Yankees lost to the Boston 
Red Sox prior to the Rays defeating the Kansas City Royals in extra innings. 
In September and October combined, the Rays split 30 games, going 15–15. 
They finished the regular season 96–66, winning the division by a single 
game, and finishing one win shy of their franchise record set in 2008. 
The Rays also had home field advantage through the American League side 
of the postseason. In the ALDS, the Rays face the Texas Rangers. The Rangers 
finished the regular season with a 90–72 record, and won the AL West division 
championship to clinch their first postseason berth since 1999. In the 
regular season, the Rays were 4–2 against the Rangers. The series opened 
at Tropicana Field for Game 1, with the Rays sending out 19-game winner 
David Price against Cliff Lee of the Rangers. The Rays put pressure on 
Lee in the 1st inning by loading the bases, but they would not plate a 
run after a controversial strikeout by Carlos Peña[64] and another strikeout 
by Rocco Baldelli to end the inning. In the 2nd inning, the Rangers jumped 
out to a 2–0 lead after RBIs from Jeff Francoeur and Bengie Molina. In 
the 3rd and 4th innings, Price would yield solo home runs to Nelson Cruz 
and Molina, respectively, which put Texas up 4–0. The Rangers added to 
their lead in the 5th when Vladimir Guerrero doubled off the wall in center 
field, which scored Josh Hamilton from 2nd base to make it 5–0. The Rays 
got on the board in the 7th inning when Ben Zobrist hit a solo home run 
to right-center. However it would be the Rays' only run of the game, as 
the Rangers went on to win 5–1.[65] In Game 2, it was James Shields who 
got the start against C. J. Wilson. With runners on the corners in the 
3rd inning, Shields went to 1st base for a pickoff attempt, but the throw 
over was errant, allowing the runner to score from 3rd base. Ian Kinsler 
launched a solo homer to left in the 4th, putting Texas up 2–0. In the 
5th, Shields was removed from the game with two on and one out, being replaced 
by Chad Qualls to face Michael Young. With a 2–2 count, Young checked his 
swing on a pitch that was called a ball. The Rays appealed to first base 
umpire Jerry Meals, but Meals ruled that Young held up in time, drawing 
the ire of the Rays dugout. Replays showed that Young may not have checked 
in time,[66] and had the ruling been made that he did not, it would have 
resulted in a strikeout. Instead, Young went deep to center on the very 
next pitch for a 3-run home run, putting the Rangers up 5–0. Rays manager 
Joe Maddon went out to the mound to talk to his pitcher after the home 
run, but began arguing with home plate umpire Jim Wolf about the check 
swing, which led to Wolf ejecting Maddon from the game. Texas added another 
run in the 6th inning, and held the Rays scoreless, winning 6–0 and taking 
a commanding 2–0 lead in the best-of-five series.[67] The series shifted 
to Texas at the Rangers Ballpark in Arlington for Game 3. It was a low-scoring 
affair for most of the game. Texas struck first when Mitch Moreland scored 
on a groundout in the 3rd inning. The Rays stranded two baserunners in 
both the 4th and 5th innings, but tied the game in the 6th inning after 
an RBI double by B. J. Upton. Ian Kinsler put the Rangers back ahead 2–1 
with a solo shot to left field in the 7th. An RBI single by Carlos Peña 
in the 8th scored a run from 2nd base to even the score again, and after 
a walk, John Jaso singled to center, bringing Peña home and giving the 
Rays a 3–2 lead. Carl Crawford and Peña both had home runs in the 9th inning 
to give the Rays a more comfortable 6–2 lead. Despite giving up a solo 
homer to Nelson Cruz, Rays closer Rafael Soriano was effective in the bottom 
of the 9th, and the Rays staved off elimination with a 6–3 victory.[68] 
Offensively, in Game 4 the Rays picked up right where they left off the 
previous day. Carlos Peña tripled to left-center field in the 2nd inning, 
and scored on an error by Rangers' second baseman Ian Kinsler, who misplayed 
a pop fly beyond the infield. Evan Longoria, who was inactive for the last 
several games of the regular season, had a huge game, starting with a leadoff 
double in the 4th inning. The next batter was Peña, who hit a double of 
his own to the opposite field, bringing Longoria home and giving the Rays 
a 2–0 lead. Later in the inning, another double came off the bat of B. 
J. Upton, putting the Rays up 3–0. Rangers starter Tommy Hunter did not 
come out to pitch the 5th inning. Derek Holland was sent in for relief, 
but Tampa Bay added to their lead when Longoria blasted a 2-run homer to 
left, making it 5–0. Texas had the bases loaded in the bottom of the 5th, 
but Rays starter Wade Davis got Vladimir Guererro to swing and miss for 
a strikeout to end the threat. The Rangers did score in the 6th inning, 
as Nelson Cruz led off with a home run, and Mitch Moreland hit an RBI double 
with two outs off of Rays reliever Grant Balfour to make cut the Tampa 
Bay lead to three runs. It was the only scoring Texas would do in the game, 
as Rafael Soriano entered the game in the 9th inning and picked up the 
save. The Rays took the game 5–2 to force a decisive Game 5 back home at 
the Trop.[69] In Game 5, however Cliff Lee was dominant. He outdueled David 
Price in a 5–2 victory to help the Rangers advance to their first ever 
American League Championship Series The Rays opened the 2010 season at 
home against the Baltimore Orioles, the first time since 2005 that they 
opened at Tropicana Field.[70] Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R 
= Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI 
= Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Source: ESPN.com[71] 
Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; 
R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts 
