The 2010 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was the best-of-seven 
game series pitting the winners of the 2010 American League Division Series 
for the American League Championship. The American League wild card-winning 
New York Yankees faced the American League West Division champions Texas 
Rangers. The Rangers won the 2010 ALCS and face the National League champion 
San Francisco Giants in the 2010 World Series, the franchise's first ever 
appearance in the World Series.[2] The series, the 41st in league history, 
began October 15 and ended on October 22. The Rangers had home field advantage 
in the series, as the wild-card team defers home field advantage in the 
LDS and LCS regardless of regular-season record. The Rangers and Yankees 
had met in the postseason in each of the Rangers' three previous postseason 
appearances; the Yankees had won all previous meetings, 3–1 in the 1996 
ALDS, and 3–0 in the 1998 and 1999 ALDS. Texas won the series, 4–2. Friday, 
October 15, 2010 – 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in 
Arlington, Texas The Yankees quickly fell behind as the Rangers got to 
their ace, CC Sabathia. In the first inning Josh Hamilton cracked a three-run 
home run to put Texas out in front. Michael Young added two more runs in 
the fourth with a double. Rangers starter C. J. Wilson had gone for seven 
strong innings, allowing only a single earned run, a solo homer by Robinson 
Canó. In the eighth inning, New York left fielder Brett Gardner reached 
base on an infield single to lead off the top of the inning and scored 
on a double by Derek Jeter. Darren Oliver relieved Wilson and allowed back-to-back 
walks to Nick Swisher and Mark Teixeira to load the bases with nobody out 
for Alex Rodriguez. Rodriguez hit a two-RBI single, reducing the deficit 
to 5–4. Robinson Canó tied the game with a single and Marcus Thames followed 
with a single of his own to give the Yankees a 6–5 lead. That lead would 
be enough, as Kerry Wood shut down the Rangers in the eighth and in the 
ninth Mariano Rivera secured his 42nd postseason save, his final postseason 
save of his career. Saturday, October 16, 2010 – 4:00 p.m. (EDT) at Rangers 
Ballpark in Arlington in Arlington, Texas Once again the Yankees starter, 
this time Phil Hughes, lasted only four innings. The Rangers' Elvis Andrus 
scored on a double steal in the bottom of the first inning. David Murphy's 
solo home run in the second and three straight two-out hits by Mitch Moreland, 
Elvis Andrus, and Michael Young made the score 3–0. Nelson Cruz hit a lead-off 
double off the right field wall in the bottom of the third and advanced 
to third base on Ian Kinsler's sacrifice bunt. Murphy and Bengie Molina's 
consecutive doubles increased the lead to five. Robinson Canó answered 
with a lead-off double off the center field wall in the top of the fourth. 
Canó advanced to third on a wild pitch. Colby Lewis struck out Nick Swisher 
and Jorge Posada, but surrendered an RBI single to Lance Berkman. Berkman's 
hard hit just passed first baseman Moreland's glove but Moreland recovered 
the ball and caught Berkman between first and second base. Cruz hit another 
lead-off double in the bottom of the fifth and scored on Kinsler's RBI 
triple. Hughes was then relieved by Joba Chamberlain. Chamberlain struck 
out Murphy and Molina, but surrendered an RBI single to Moreland. Canó 
hit a solo home run in the top of the sixth inning, but, despite having 
runners in scoring position the next three innings, the Yankees never scored 
again. This was Rangers' first postseason home game win, and it also snapped 
a 10-game losing streak to the Yankees in postseason. Monday, October 18, 
2010 – 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York Rangers 
ace Cliff Lee continued his postseason dominance as he pitched eight scoreless 
innings on 122 pitches, striking out thirteen while allowing only two hits 
and one walk. Josh Hamilton's two-run homer in the top of the first inning 
gave the Rangers an early lead which they never relinquished, . After the 
Hamilton home run, Yankees starter Andy Pettitte threw 6 2⁄3 scoreless 
innings, while reliever Kerry Wood pitched a scoreless eighth inning. The 
Rangers padded their lead in the top of the ninth inning, scoring six runs 
off Yankees relievers Boone Logan, David Robertson, and Sergio Mitre. Rangers 
closer Neftalí Feliz, entering the game in a non-save situation, pitched 
a perfect bottom of the ninth inning to preserve the shutout.[1] The Yankees' 
offense was just 1-for-14 with RISP over the last two games. Derek Jeter's 
postseason streak of getting on base in 21 consecutive games was stopped, 
as he went 0 for 4 and was not walked. His first at-bat was a pop-fly; 
the second, third, and fourth at-bats were strike-outs. Lee's shutout was 
the first time that the Yankees had failed to score a run in a post-season 
game since being shut out by the Detroit Tigers on October 6, 2006. Lee 
becoming the first pitcher to strike out at least 10 in three consecutive 
playoff appearances, and took his postseason tally to 7-0. Tuesday, October 
19, 2010 – 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York The 
Yankees jumped to an early lead in the bottom of the second on a controversial 
solo home run from Robinson Canó. Canó hit the ball over the right field 
wall and right-field umpire Jim Reynolds ruled the ball a home run, but 
Rangers right fielder Nelson Cruz argued that there was spectator interference. 
Television replays showed that the fans did not illegally interfere with 
the ball directly, but that a few fans did touch Cruz's glove while it 
was over the field of play. Instant replay review was not used and the 
home run call stood.[9] Two batters later, Lance Berkman hit the ball deep 
to right field and was initially ruled a home run by Reynolds, but the 
umpires elected to use instant replay review and overturned the call to 
a foul ball; Berkman eventually struck out looking. The Rangers took the 
lead in the top of the third. David Murphy led off the inning with a walk 
and Bengie Molina was hit by a pitch. A sacrifice bunt by Mitch Moreland 
followed by a RBI grounder from Elvis Andrus scored Murphy from third. 
Michael Young followed Andrus with an infield hit that drove in Molina. 
In the bottom half of the third, Derek Jeter tripled and scored on a Curtis 
Granderson RBI single to tie the game at 2–2. In the bottom of the fourth 
inning Alex Rodriguez was hit by a pitch, and Canó and Berkman each singled 
to load the bases. Nick Swisher struck out, and Rangers starting pitcher 
Tommy Hunter was replaced by Derek Holland. Brett Gardner hit a hard RBI 
grounder to shortstop Elvis Andrus, who forced Canó out at third but allowed 
Rodriguez to score, giving the Yankees a one-run lead. In the top of the 
sixth inning, Vladimir Guerrero singled, but was forced out at second on 
a Cruz grounder that resulted in Cruz safely reaching first. Cruz then 
tagged up to second on Ian Kinsler's fly out. David Murphy was then intentionally 
walked to get to Bengie Molina. On the first pitch of the at bat, Molina 
hit a three-run home run to left field, giving the Rangers a 5–3 lead. 
The Rangers piled onto their lead in the top of the seventh as Josh Hamilton 
hit a solo home run against Boone Logan. Guerrero then doubled, Cruz walked, 
and Kinsler hit a bloop single to right field to extend the lead to 7–3. 
In the bottom of the eighth, Holland walked Granderson and was replaced 
with Darren O'Day. O'Day then walked Rodriguez and was replaced by Clay 
Rapada, who promptly walked Canó. Finally, Darren Oliver came in and got 
Swisher to pop up and Berkman to ground out. In the top of the ninth, Hamilton 
hit another solo home run off Yankees reliever Sergio Mitre which tied 
the ALCS home run records. Guerrero followed up with an infield single. 
Cruz then homered to left to make the score 10–3. In the bottom of the 
ninth, Gardner singled to lead off and took second base on defensive indifference. 
Posada grounded out allowing Gardner to advance to third base, but Jeter 
flew out and Granderson lined out to Moreland, stranding Gardner at third 
base and ending the game. The Canó home run has been compared to the Jeffrey 
Maier play, according to many analysts. When asked about the Canó controversy, 
Maier replied, "it was pretty funny."[10] Wednesday, October 20, 2010 – 
4:00 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, New York The Yankees struck 
in the bottom of the second as Alex Rodriguez walked. Marcus Thames popped 
out, then Lance Berkman walked. Jorge Posada then hit a RBI single for 
the first run of the game. Curtis Granderson followed with a single of 
his own, driving in another. Jeff Francoeur's error scored another, making 
the score 3–0. The Yankees got two more runs as Nick Swisher and Robinson 
Canó hit back-to-back solo homers, extending the lead to five. Canó's homer 
was his fourth in the series. The homer also tied the ALCS home run records. 
Sabathia gave up his first run in the top of the fifth as Matt Treanor 
homered. The Yankees responded in the bottom of the inning as Swisher walked 
and Canó lined out. Rodriguez then hit a double, followed by Berkman's 
sacrifice fly that scored Swisher. In the top of the sixth, Vladimir Guerrero 
struck out. David Murphy, Ian Kinsler, and Francoeur hit consecutive singles. 
Treanor's grounder to third brought in the Rangers' second run, but Sabathia 
struck out Moreland to end the inning with runners on second and third. 
Curtis Granderson homered in the eighth to return the Yankees' lead to 
five. Although Sabathia allowed a season-high eleven hits, he gave the 
Yankees six innings. Kerry Wood pitched two scoreless innings, and Mariano 
Rivera pitched the ninth inning to seal the win for the Yankees. Friday, 
October 22, 2010 – 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington in 
Arlington, Texas Elvis Andrus doubled to lead off the bottom of the first, 
advanced to third on a Josh Hamilton single and scored on an RBI groundout 
from Vladimir Guerrero. Texas starter Colby Lewis shut down the Yankees 
until the top of the fifth, when Alex Rodriguez doubled and later scored 
on a wild pitch that appeared to hit Nick Swisher. In the bottom of that 
same inning, with Mitch Moreland on third and two outs, Yankees starter 
Phil Hughes intentionally walked Hamilton to face Guerrero. Guerrero doubled 
to score both Moreland and Hamilton. Hughes was then replaced by David 
Robertson, who promptly gave up a two-run home run to Nelson Cruz to give 
Texas a 5–1 lead. Ian Kinsler added a run on a sacrifice fly in the seventh 
inning. In the ninth, Neftalí Feliz closed out the series for Texas, striking 
out Alex Rodriguez sending the Rangers to the World Series for the first 
time in franchise history. 2010 ALCS (4–2): Texas Rangers over New York 
Yankees TBS carried all the games with Ernie Johnson, Ron Darling and John 
Smoltz in the broadcast booth. For international viewers, MLB International 
broadcast all the games, with the broadcast team of Gary Thorne and Rick 
