The 2011 Major League Baseball season began on Thursday, March 31, and 
ended on Wednesday, September 28.[1] This marked the first time a season 
began on a Thursday since 1976, and the first time a regular season ended 
on a Wednesday since 1990. The 82nd edition of the Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game was played at Chase Field in Phoenix, Arizona, on July 12 
with the National League defeating the American League for the second straight 
year, by a score of 5–1. As has been the case since 2003, the league winning 
that game has home field advantage in the World Series. Accordingly, the 
2011 World Series began on October 19, and ended on October 28, with the 
St. Louis Cardinals winning in seven games over the Texas Rangers.[1] Only 
two teams were unable to complete the entire 162-game regular season schedule, 
as the make-up game between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Washington 
Nationals at Nationals Park on September 8 was cancelled due to rain and 
not made up, owing to scheduling constraints and the game being inconsequential 
to the playoffs.[2] Green backgrounds indicate teams that made the postseason. 
Numbers in parentheses indicate seedings for the postseason, determined 
by won-lost records. On the last day of the 2011 regular season, the post-season 
fate of four teams fighting for two playoff spots across both leagues was 
decided.[3] In the National League, the St. Louis Cardinals defeated their 
National League Central division rival Houston Astros to win the National 
League wild card berth after the Atlanta Braves lost to their National 
League East division rivals, the Philadelphia Phillies.[4] In the American 
League, the Tampa Bay Rays defeated their American League East division 
rivals the New York Yankees with dramatic home runs in the 9th inning by 
Dan Johnson and later in extra innings by Evan Longoria to win the American 
League wild card berth after the Baltimore Orioles defeated the Boston 
Red Sox, both also rivals in the American League East, on a walk-off single.[5][6] 
This has been cited as the "most thrilling 129 minutes in baseball history." 
They will go down as the most thrilling 129 minutes in baseball history. 
Never before and likely never again—if we even dare to assume anything 
else can be likely ever again—will baseball captivate and exhilarate on 
so many fronts in so small a window the way it did September 28, 2011.[7] 
The Rays returned to the playoffs for the second consecutive year despite 
losing many players from the year before. The Red Sox and Braves suffered 
two of the most epic collapses their franchises had due to their losing 
the playoff spot the last day despite leading the next contending teams 
by multiple games the last month of the season.[8] The Cardinals eventually 
rode the momentum of their win to win the NLDS and NLCS on their way to 
defeating the Texas Rangers for their 11th World Series title in the 2011 
World Series.[9][10][11] Of note, the 2011 season was the final season 
of the single wildcard format, as MLB added second wildcard teams to each 
league starting with the 2012 season. The excitement of the final day of 
the 2011 season was cited as an argument against this change in format, 
as the new format would not have allowed for such an ending to the season.[12] 
Wednesday, September 28, 2011 – 7:05 pm (EDT) at Oriole Park at Camden 
Yards in Baltimore, Maryland The Red Sox were favored by pundits to win 
the American League pennant prior to the start of the season due to acquisitions 
of Adrian Gonzalez, Carl Crawford and Bobby Jenks.[13][14][15] Despite 
a slow start, Boston darted to the top of the division during the summer 
months. Injuries plagued the team and they slowly lost first place to the 
Yankees, but were still in comfortable contention for the wild card. The 
month of September started an epic slump for the team where the team had 
allowed the Rays to get back into contention.[16] However, Boston still 
controlled its own destiny going into their final series with the last 
place Orioles, but wound up having the season come down to the last game.[17] 
The Red Sox had taken a lead for a good part of the game, but the Orioles 
mounted a comeback. The game was interrupted by a rain delay in the middle 
of the 7th with Boston ahead 3–2. After play had resumed almost an hour 
and a half later, the Orioles still trailed by a run in the bottom of the 
9th. When leading after eight innings, the Red Sox were 77–0 in 2011.[18] 
Facing closer Jonathan Papelbon, Chris Davis and Nolan Reimold hit back-to-back 
doubles with two outs, which tied the game. The next batter, Robert Andino, 
hit a line drive to left field which Carl Crawford was unable to catch, 
allowing Reimold to score and the Orioles walked off with the win.[19][20] 
After the Orioles won, Andino, who had been a Red Sox killer of late, said, 
"End of season like this, to make Boston go home sad, crying, I'll take 
it all day."[21][22] Wednesday, September 28, 2011 – 7:10 pm (EDT) at Tropicana 
Field in St. Petersburg, Florida The Yankees had already won the American 
League East several days prior to this contest.[23] The Rays had been in 
third place behind both the Yankees and the Red Sox for much of the season.[24] 
However, Boston had slowly started to lose many games in September due 
to poor starting and relief pitching, disappointing hitting from newly 
acquired free agent Carl Crawford throughout the year, and injuries to 
key players like Kevin Youkilis. The Rays, who had won the division in 
2010, had lost many of their players to free agency. Despite the losses, 
the Rays had crawled back into contention and faced the Yankees in the 
final series of the year. Yankees manager Joe Girardi indicated that he 
would approach the final games so that the team's pitching staff would 
be set up for the 2011 ALDS against the Detroit Tigers.[25] Suspicions 
rose to whether or not the Yankees would compete intensely due to them 
wanting to rest their aging players for the playoffs and to keep the Red 
Sox out, their fierce rivals whom they had a lopsided losing record to 
that season.[26] Girardi indicated that many of his post-season pitchers 
would not be pitching that game. The Yankees, however, started the game 
strong by taking a 5–0 lead by the 2nd inning. Their lead grew to 7–0, 
which they held as the game entered the bottom of the 8th inning. In the 
8th inning, the Rays scored six runs, capped off by a three-run home run 
by Evan Longoria. In the bottom of the 9th inning, down to his final strike, 
struggling Rays first baseman Dan Johnson hit a solo home run to tie the 
game. Already depleted from wanting to get pitchers who were not going 
to be on the post-season roster in, the Yankees went into extra innings 
with struggling pitchers. During Tampa Bay's half of the 12th inning, Evan 
Longoria hit his second home run of the game, a walk-off home run that 
cleared a short wall near the left field foul pole to win the game for 
the Rays just minutes after the Orioles' victory over the Red Sox.[27] 
The win clinched the American League Wild Card for the Rays.[28] Seat No. 
10 in the first row behind the right-field foul pole has been painted white 
in honor of Dan Johnson's, game-tying, ninth-inning, pinch-hit blast during 
Game 162. They have also renamed the section beyond the left field foul 
pole "162 Landing" in honor of Longoria's game winning, 12th-inning home 
run.[29] The National League wildcard race came down to the fate of two 
games on the last day of the regular season. Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
– 7:05 pm (CDT) at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Texas The National League 
Central had been a two way race late into the season with the Cardinals 
and Milwaukee Brewers vying for contention. After the Reds had fallen off, 
the Brewers had clinched the division.[30][31] The Cardinals battled back 
despite perennial all-star Albert Pujols serving on the disabled list and 
not having pitcher Adam Wainwright.[11] Upon Pujols' return, the Cardinals 
came within one game by defeating the Astros under nine innings of dominant 
pitching by ace pitcher Chris Carpenter.[32] Wednesday, September 28, 2011 
– 7:10 pm (EDT) at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia The Philadelphia Phillies 
had clinched a playoff berth, the division title, and the best league record 
for weeks. For most of the season, the Atlanta Braves had been in 2nd place 
in the National League East by a good margin and well ahead in the wildcard 
standings.[33] The Phillies had something to play for, a franchise record 
in wins. They battled back to force the game into extra innings where they 
won and in effect, not only eliminated the Braves from post-season contention,[34] 
but also set that record with 102, surpassing the previous record of 101 
set back-to-back in 1976 and 1977 during their run of three straight division 
championships from 1976–1978.[35][36] Charlie Manuel also became the winningest 
manager in the history of the Phillies with 646 wins, surpassing Gene Mauch, 
the manager of the Phillies when they collapsed in a similar way the Braves 
did in 1964.[35] Note: Two teams in the same division cannot meet in the 
Division Series †: Suspended in bottom of the 2nd inning; resumed October 
1 †: postponed to October 10 due to rain The St. Louis Cardinals and the 
Milwaukee Brewers squared off in a season long division race and by the 
beginning of August, they were only a few games apart in the division. 
The Brewers would pull away for the crown, and the Cardinals continued 
poorly until they were 10 1⁄2 games back of the wild card on August 25. 
They made a historical comeback in September to win the wild card from 
the Atlanta Braves on the last day of the season. Both teams would advance 
through the NLDS in five games setting up a 1982 World Series rematch.[37] 
The Cardinals won the pennant in six games, clinching the series on the 
road. †: postponed from October 26, due to rain Four teams announced that 
a new manager will be hired for the 2011 season after the former manager 
retired from baseball. At the end of the 2010 season, three teams fired 
their managers and made replacements: The following managers who were interim 
managers for 2010 will lead their respective teams in 2011: One team has 
hired a new manager: Two more teams have joined the growing cable-exclusive 
telecast teams in 2011. Fox Sports Midwest will produce and televise all 
St. Louis Cardinals games on the cable station, along with selected areas 
of the Cardinals' DMA outside St. Louis including Fox Sports Tennessee 
in Tennessee, Fox Sports Indiana in parts of Indiana, and SportsSouth in 
Arkansas and parts of Oklahoma.[62] The 2010 season was their last season 
of splitting games with KSDK.[63] The Minnesota Twins will also join the 
group, with Fox Sports North becoming their exclusive local home starting 
this year.[64] The 2010 season was their last season of splitting games 
with WFTC. Also starting this season, Atlanta Braves games that air on 
WPCH-TV will be produced by (and simulcast on) Fox Sports South or SportSouth, 
marking the first season since 1972 which local Braves telecasts won't 
be produced by Turner Sports.[65] The national telecast breakdown is as 
follows, along with the maximum number of appearances per team: In Canada, 
Toronto Blue Jays games will be televised on Rogers Sportsnet. RSN also 
holds the Canadian rights to air the Fox and ESPN/ESPN2 games if they do 
not conflict with Blue Jays games, and additional regular season games 
on a regional basis on Rogers Sportsnet One as well as the All-Star Game 
and the entire postseason. TSN2 holds rights to the ESPN Sunday Night Baseball 
telecasts. In Australia, it is free to air channel One HD and shows up 
to five games live per week, and European channel ESPN America broadcasts 
games as well. For international viewers, MLB International will broadcast 
the All-Star Game, the NLCS and the World Series. ESPN Radio will once 
again serve as MLB's national radio network, broadcasting Sunday Night 
Baseball as well as selected Saturday and holiday games during the regular 
season, the Home Run Derby and All-Star Game, and all postseason series. 
ESPN Deportes Radio holds the Spanish language rights to the Fall Classic. 
The Los Angeles Angels celebrated their 50th Anniversary in 2011. Founded 
by Gene Autry in 1961, the team played at Los Angeles' Wrigley Field in 
their first season, then shared Dodger Stadium (called "Chavez Ravine" 
by Angels management) with the Dodgers before moving to Anaheim in 1966 
and their own stadium, Anaheim Stadium (later to become Edison International 
Field of Anaheim and finally Angel Stadium of Anaheim). That year, the 
team name was altered to the California Angels. After being purchased by 
The Walt Disney Company in 1997, the team name was changed to the Anaheim 
Angels and after Arte Moreno purchased the team, the name was changed to 
its current moniker to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in 2005. For the 
season, in addition to the patch, the Angels changed the color of the halo 
from silver to gold on their uniforms, just as it looked from 1971 through 
1996.[78] In addition, on selected Friday night games, the team donned 
replicas of five of the six styles of uniforms they have worn, the most 
notable omission being that of the "Periwinkle Blue" era from 1997 to 2001, 
when Disney owned the team. This was the Florida Marlins' final season 
at Sun Life Stadium, after 19 years,[79] they will move to their new ballpark 
in downtown Miami, where they'll become the Miami Marlins. Due to the U2 
360° Tour concert scheduled June 29 at Sun Life Stadium and the needed 
time to set up the stage, the Marlins were forced to move their scheduled 
home games for June 24–26 against the Seattle Mariners to the Mariners' 
park at Safeco Field. As the Marlins were the home team, NL rules (no designated 
hitter) were applied. Mariners and Marlins would not meet again in Miami 
until 2014. The Houston Astros were sold by Drayton McLane for US $680 
million to a group led by Jim Crane, the founder of a transit logistics 
company. The Detroit Tigers retired Sparky Anderson's #11 on June 26.[80] 
Bert Blyleven, elected to the Class of 2011 of the Baseball Hall of Fame, 
was honored with the retirement of his uniform #28 by the Twins on July 
16.[81] Roberto Alomar, also a 2011 Hall of Fame class member, became the 
first member of the Toronto Blue Jays to have his number (#12) retired 
on July 31.[82] The Atlanta Braves retired Bobby Cox's #6 prior to their 
game against the Chicago Cubs on August 12.[83] Trevor Hoffman, who had 
been the all-time saves leader until Mariano Rivera surpassed him on September 
