The Milwaukee Brewers' 2011 season was their 42nd season for the franchise 
in Milwaukee, the 14th in the National League, and 43rd overall. The Brewers 
posted a franchise-best record of 96-66, winning their first-ever National 
League Central Division title. The Brewers defeated the Arizona Diamondbacks 
in five games in the first round of the playoffs and advanced to the National 
League Championship Series, where they lost in six games to the St. Louis 
Cardinals. Despite having arguably the best offense in the National League, 
the Brewers had struggled in 2010 due to lack of starting pitching as the 
Brewers had finished next-to-last in the league in team ERA. Vowing to 
the Brewer fans to get more starting pitching, GM Doug Melvin traded or 
released three of the team's most ineffective starters in Jeff Suppan, 
Dave Bush, and Doug Davis. The Brewers also tabbed John Axford as the Brewers 
new closer with the retirement of Trevor Hoffman. In keeping with their 
vow of getting better starting pitching, the Brewers made a deal just hours 
into the Winter Meetings with the Toronto Blue Jays in acquiring starting 
pitcher Shaun Marcum in exchange for top prospect Brett Lawrie. The Brewers 
also were in the hunt for 2009 American League Cy Young Award winner Zack 
Greinke of the Kansas City Royals. On December 19, the Brewers reached 
a deal with the Royals. The Royals got Brewers starting shortstop Alcides 
Escobar and prospects Lorenzo Cain, Jake Odorizzi, and Jeremy Jeffress 
in exchange for Greinke, shortstop Yuniesky Betancourt, and $2 million, 
which would cover the last year of Betancourt's contract. The arrival of 
Greinke created a wave of excitement in Milwaukee. In the first 72 hours 
after the trade had been announced, the Brewers sold 1,500 season tickets 
compared to only 800 sold in the previous two months, and sold almost 1.5 
million individual tickets before Opening Day. The Brewers also signed 
to the team veterans Takashi Saito and Mark Kotsay and made a last minute 
trade at the end of Spring training in sending Class-A prospect Cutter 
Dykstra to the Washington Nationals in exchange for outfielder Nyjer Morgan. 
With the trades for Shaun Marcum and Zack Greinke, the Brewers were tabbed 
by many experts as favorites to not only win the NL Central Division, but 
also contenders for the National League pennant. The first month was a 
bumpy road for the Brewers as they were without Greinke due to a basketball-related 
rib injury during Spring training. The team opened the season with four 
consecutive losses. By the end of April, the Brewers had fallen to 5th 
place in the NL Central, but came back to have an impressive May, by taking 
advantage of the struggles of division rivals Cincinnati Reds and St. Louis 
Cardinals. The Brewers had problems offensively but were carried by the 
efforts of All-Stars Ryan Braun, Prince Fielder, and Rickie Weeks. Nyjer 
Morgan, who was acquired via trade on March 27 from the Washington Nationals, 
took over center field for struggling Carlos Gomez. Morgan became a fan 
favorite in Milwaukee because of his alter-ego and bizarre antics. By the 
All-Star Break, the Brewers were tied with St. Louis for the division lead 
despite having the National League's worst road record (16–29). Interestingly, 
the Brewers had NL's best home record at (33–14) which gave the Brewers 
a respectable 49–43 record at the midpoint of the 2011 season. To address 
some needed bullpen help, the Brewers made another big trade just hours 
after the All-Star Game, trading two Class A prospects to the New York 
Mets in exchange for ace reliever Francisco Rodríguez, and also made another 
trade before the end of the trade deadline for veteran infielder Jerry 
Hairston Jr., who would become essential to the Brewers success after All-Star 
second baseman Rickie Weeks suffered a bad ankle sprain in the last week 
of July and Carlos Gomez was lost with a shoulder injury. The Brewers started 
to overcome their road woes after the All-Star Break when they went on 
an 11-game road trip to Arizona, Colorado, and San Francisco. The Brewers 
ended up having a modest 5-6 mark on the road trip and came back to sweep 
the floundering Cubs and Astros and take two out of three games against 
the Cardinals to win eight of a nine-game homestand and take over 1st place 
in the NL Central. They followed the successful homestand with a sweep 
of the Astros in Houston; the first time they have swept the Astros away 
from Milwaukee, and also took 2 out of 3 games in St. Louis to extend the 
Brewers division lead to 7 games. The Brewers went on to have a stretch 
of 29 games from late July to mid August where they went 23-6 and finished 
the month of August with a 21-7 mark, setting a franchise record for most 
wins in one month. The Brewers went through a series of scuffles in early 
September where their division lead, which had been up as high as 10 games 
in late August, went down to as few as 4.5 games as the Cardinals went 
on a sudden hot streak, becoming the first team to sweep the Brewers at 
Miller Park during the season. The Brewers, though, were able to keep their 
division lead steady, thanks to a mid-September sweep of the Reds. On September 
16, Ryan Braun hit his 30th home run of the season. Along with his 31 stolen 
bases, Braun became only the 2nd Brewer ever to have a 30-homer, 30-steal 
season, joining Tommy Harper, who accomplished the feat in 1970. The Brewers 
came into their final 6 games with a 5-game lead over the Cardinals. On 
September 23, the Brewers beat the Florida Marlins 4-1, with Ryan Braun 
hitting a clutch 3-run homer in the 8th. In St. Louis, the Cardinals fell 
to the Cubs 5-1, giving the Brewers the NL Central Division title, their 
first division title since 1982. The Brewers also became the first franchise 
ever to win a division title in both the American and National leagues. 
The night drew eerie echoes to the Brewers playoff year of 2008, as the 
Brewers that year needed to beat the Cubs and needed the Marlins to win 
to get into the playoffs, whereas it was vice versa in 2011, with the Brewers 
needing to beat the Marlins and for the Cubs to win to get into the playoffs. 
And like in 2008, Ryan Braun hit the clutch, game-winning home run for 
the Brewers. On September 28, the final game of the season, the Brewers 
beat the Pirates 7-3, which was also their 96th win of the season, breaking 
the team record for wins in a season set in 1979 and tied in 1982. The 
Brewers finished the season 96-66, the second best record in the National 
League behind only the Philadelphia Phillies. Along with their team accomplishments, 
the Brewers had many individual achievements from their players. Ryan Braun 
finished the season with 33 homers and 33 steals while finishing second 
in the National League in batting average, hitting .332 while Prince Fielder 
finished second in the league in both home runs and RBIs, hitting 38 home 
runs while driving in 120. The Brewers starting pitching was also drastically 
better than 2010. Each of the Brewers 5 regular starters had 10-plus wins 
during the regular season. Yovani Gallardo won 17 games, the most by a 
Brewer since 2005, Zack Greinke won 16 games despite missing one month, 
both Shawn Marcum and Randy Wolf won 13 games, and number five starter 
Chris Narveson won 11 games. It was the first time since 1982 that the 
Brewers had five pitchers with 10 or more wins in a season. The Brewers 
also used fewer starting pitchers than any team in baseball, using only 
six starting pitchers, with Marco Estrada filling in for 7 games when Greinke 
and later Narveson were out with injuries. The Brewers bullpen was also 
stellar, led by closer John Axford, who set two new club records with most 
consecutive converted saves (42) and most saves in a season (46). The Brewers 
faced the Arizona Diamondbacks in the NLDS and won the first two games 
at Miller Park. The Brewers however got shelled by the Diamondbacks in 
games 3 and 4 in Arizona, and the series and season came down to Game 5 
at Miller Park. The Brewers won the game in extra innings 3-2 to give the 
Brewers their first postseason series win since the 1982 ALCS. The Brewers 
then faced their division rivals, the St. Louis Cardinals, in the NLCS, 
in a rematch of the 1982 World Series. The Brewers staged a come-from-behind 
victory, winning game one of the best-of-seven series by a score of 9-6. 
St. Louis however went on to pound the Brewers 13-2 in Game Two and scored 
4 runs in the first inning of Game 3 to take the game, 4-3. The Brewers 
would win Game 4 in St. Louis, however, they would then proceed to lose 
the next two games to surrender the National League Pennant to the Cardinals. 
Milwaukee Brewers won the series, 3–2. St. Louis won the series, 4–2. Source:[13] 
Infielders Other batters Coaches (through October 4, 2011) Source:[14] 
