The 2011 National League Division Series (abbreviated NLDS) were two best-of-five 
playoffs comprising the opening round of the Major League Baseball postseason, 
played to determine the participating teams in the 2011 National League 
Championship Series. Three divisional winners and a fourth team—a wild 
card—played in two series. TBS televised all games in the United States 
(except Game 3 of the Brewers–Diamondbacks series, which aired on TNT due 
to scheduling conflicts with the ALDS). The regular season finished on 
September 28, with the National League playoffs beginning October 1.[1][2] 
Under MLB's playoff format, no two teams from the same division were matched 
up in the Division Series, regardless of whether their records would normally 
indicate such a matchup. Home field advantage went to the team with the 
better regular-season record with the exception of the wild card team, 
which defers home field advantage regardless of record. The matchups are: 
The Phillies and Cardinals played against each other in the postseason 
for the first time. The Brewers and Diamondbacks also met for the first 
time, having both joined the National League in 1998—Arizona as an expansion 
team and Milwaukee in a move from the American League after the AL expanded 
by adding the Tampa Bay Rays. The Brewers-Diamondbacks series was also 
notable as the first postseason series played between two teams in ballparks 
with retractable roofs.[3] This is the first time since the strike-shortened 
1981 season that both National League Division Series matchups went to 
a deciding Game 5 (it happened to the American League in 2001). St. Louis 
Cardinals won the series, 3–2. Milwaukee Brewers won the series, 3–2. 5:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania The Cardinals 
struck first on Lance Berkman's three-run home run off Phillies' starter 
Roy Halladay in the first inning. The Phillies fought back on Shane Victorino's 
RBI single in the fourth, and Ryan Howard put Philadelphia ahead with a 
second-deck three-run shot in the sixth. Two batters later Raúl Ibañez 
added to the lead with a two-run homer to give the Phillies a three-run 
lead. Ibañez's homer was the decisive blow to Cardinals' starter Kyle Lohse, 
who was out of the game after 5 1⁄3 innings. The Phillies' offense punched 
five more runs off the Cardinals' bullpen. In the top of the ninth, the 
Cardinals scored three runs on Adron Chambers' RBI single and Skip Schumaker's 
two-run double off reliever Michael Stutes, but closer Ryan Madson struck 
out Jon Jay and Matt Holliday to seal the win for the Phillies. 8:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania The Phillies 
scored early on RBI singles by Ryan Howard and Raúl Ibañez in the first 
inning. Hunter Pence's single in the second scored Jimmy Rollins and gave 
the Phillies a 4–0 lead. With Cliff Lee on the mound, who was 7–2 in the 
postseason and 3–0 in the League Division Series, and Chris Carpenter, 
who pitched on three days' rest, was out after three innings, things did 
not look good for the Cardinals. However, the offense started to do their 
work in the fourth, when Ryan Theriot, Jon Jay, and Rafael Furcal each 
knocked in one run for the Cardinals. Jon Jay singled again in the sixth 
to tie the game and Albert Pujols' RBI single in the seventh gave the Cardinals 
the lead. The Cardinals' bullpen picked up where Carpenter left off, combined 
to throw six innings of scoreless, one-hit ball. The Cardinals' closer 
Jason Motte pitched a four-out save to seal the win. This is the third 
consecutive postseason loss for Lee going back to the 2010 World Series. 
5:07 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri After six scoreless 
innings from both starting pitchers, the Phillies sent Ben Francisco to 
pinch-hit for Cole Hamels, following an intentional walk to Carlos Ruiz, 
and a single by Shane Victorino. Francisco homered the second pitch from 
Jaime García 405 feet (123 m) over the left center wall to give the Phillies 
a 3–0 lead. In the sixth inning, a squirrel—soon to become more famous 
the next day under the name "Rally Squirrel"—appeared in the outfield, 
causing a brief interruption in play.[19] The incident was even immortalized 
in a promo for the "Legends are Born in October" ad campaign, complete 
with the background music set to the ads from that campaign, Tinie Tempah's 
"Written in the Stars."[20] In the bottom of the seventh, the Cardinals 
added a run with Allen Craig scoring off an RBI single by David Freese. 
In the bottom of the eighth, the Cardinals were able to load the bases 
with one out, thanks to singles by Ryan Theriot, pinch hitter Matt Holliday, 
and Rafael Furcal. However, the Cardinals were not able to capitalize, 
with Allen Craig grounding out into an inning ending double play. In the 
bottom of the ninth, Albert Pujols led off with his third double of the 
game. Following a flyout by Lance Berkman and a ground out by Freese (which 
sent Pujols to third), Yadier Molina singled to center, bringing Pujols 
home, and making it a one-run game. Theriot then grounded out to second 
to end the game, giving the Phillies a 2–1 series lead. 6:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri Before the second-largest crowd 
(47,071) in Busch Stadium history, the Cardinals staved off elimination 
with a 5–3 home victory over the Phillies. The Phils struck first with 
two runs in the first inning off Edwin Jackson. Jimmy Rollins doubled and 
scored on a triple by Chase Utley, who came home on Hunter Pence's single 
to make it 2–0. The Cards cut the lead to 2–1 in the bottom half when Lance 
Berkman doubled in Skip Schumaker. Berkman advanced to third when Shane 
Victorino misplayed the ball, but was unable to score. Meanwhile, Jackson 
settled down after the shaky first, allowing only two hits in the next 
five innings. The Cards took the lead on David Freese's two-run double 
in the fourth, scoring Berkman and Matt Holliday to make it 3–2, Cardinals. 
In the fifth inning, the Rally Squirrel again appeared, crossing home plate 
as Oswalt was delivering a pitch to Skip Schumaker. The pitch was called 
a ball, but Oswalt and manager Charlie Manuel argued for "no pitch", which 
appeal was denied by home-plate umpire Ángel Hernández. Schumaker then 
flied out, but the Rally Squirrel went on to become a cause célèbre in 
St. Louis.[21][22][23][24] St. Louis extended their lead to 5–2 in the 
sixth when Freese hit a two-run homer to the grassy area in center field. 
After that, the Cards' bullpen took it the rest of the way. Arthur Rhodes 
pitched a 1–2–3 seventh, but Fernando Salas ran into trouble in the eighth, 
allowing a run on a wild pitch to cut the Cardinals' lead to 5–3. The Phillies 
would bring the tying run to the plate in the form of St. Louis native 
Ryan Howard later in the inning, but Marc Rzepczynski struck out Howard 
to escape the jam. In the bottom half, Albert Pujols batted against Brad 
Lidge, a pitcher whom Pujols victimized with a three-run home run in the 
2005 playoffs, when Lidge was with Houston. Lidge, however, got Pujols 
to fly out to right. Jason Motte got the save by retiring the Phillies 
in order in the ninth. Center fielder Jon Jay made a sliding catch of a 
line drive by former Cardinal Plácido Polanco for the final out. 8:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania The Cardinals 
struck first in the first inning when leadoff batter Rafael Furcal hit 
a triple and Skip Schumaker followed with a double, but no other runs were 
scored with Halladay laboring through over 30 pitches in that inning. In 
the bottom of the fourth, the Phillies had runners at the corners with 
two outs. On a 3–2 count, batter Raúl Ibañez got a cutter down the middle 
and hit it deep to right field. The TV camera focused on the right field 
stands, but would move down to show Lance Berkman making the catch at the 
warning track.[25][26] Halladay was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the eighth 
after giving up six hits and one run, throwing 126 pitches, 87 for strikes. 
He walked one (intentional to Albert Pujols), striking out seven. Ryan 
Madson replaced Halladay in the ninth. Chris Carpenter got Ryan Howard 
to ground out to second, capping off a three-hit shutout.[27] This was 
only the third "winner-take-all" game in postseason history (following 
Game 7 of the 1962 World Series and Game 7 of the 1991 World Series) to 
end in a 1-0 score.[28] 2011 NLDS (3–2): St. Louis Cardinals over Philadelphia 
Phillies 2:07 p.m. (EDT) at Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin Game 1 
featured both teams' top winning pitchers, with the Diamondbacks' 21-game 
winner Ian Kennedy going against the Brewers' 17-game winner Yovani Gallardo. 
The Diamondbacks threatened in the 1st inning, where Willie Bloomquist 
was thrown out at home by Ryan Braun on a potential RBI single by Justin 
Upton. After that, Gallardo settled down, pitching 8 stellar innings, tying 
a franchise postseason record with 9 strikeouts. The Brewers scored first 
in the 4th when Ryan Braun scored on a Jerry Hairston sacrifice fly, and 
then scored again in the 6th when Yuniesky Betancourt tripled and was then 
driven in by a single by Jonathon Lucroy. In the 7th inning, with two outs, 
Braun doubled for the Brewers, with Prince Fielder coming up. Diamondbacks 
manager Kirk Gibson went to talk to Kennedy and allowed Kennedy to pitch 
to Fielder with first base open. This was considered by some observers 
an eerie case of déjà vu for Gibson, who had been in the same situation 
at the plate in the 1984 World Series when Goose Gossage chose to pitch 
to Gibson with 1st base open, and gave up a home run to Gibson. The same 
thing happened for Fielder, who hit the second pitch he saw from Kennedy 
out for a 2-run homer, giving the Brewers a comfortable 4-0 lead. Ryan 
Roberts broke up Gallardo's shutout with a home run in the 8th, but Brewers 
closer John Axford finished off the Diamondbacks in the 9th, giving the 
Brewers the 4-1 win and the first win of the series. 5:07 p.m. (EDT) at 
Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin The Brewers started Game 2 on a high 
note with Ryan Braun hitting a two-run homer in the first inning, but starter 
Zack Greinke, pitching on three days' rest, gave up three home runs to 
the Diamondbacks in five innings and left with the game in a 4–4 tie. The 
Brewers retook the lead in the sixth on a Jonathan Lucroy squeeze bunt 
and rallied to score four more runs in the inning, allowing the Brewers 
to have a five-run lead. The Brewers bullpen pitched scoreless ball for 
the last four innings in helping the Brewers gain a 2–0 series lead. 9:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at Chase Field in Phoenix, Arizona With support from the sellout 
crowd, the Diamondbacks' offense finally broke out in Game 3. The D-backs 
scored two runs in the first on Miguel Montero's RBI double and Paul Goldschmidt's 
RBI single, one in the third on Montero's RBI single, and five in the fifth 
on Goldschmidt's grand slam and Ryan Roberts' RBI single. Backed up by 
the offense, starter Josh Collmenter hurled seven innings, allowing two 
hits, one earned run, and two walks while striking out six. The only run 
for the Brewers came from Corey Hart's solo homer in the top of the third. 
With the 8–1 lead, relievers David Hernandez and J. J. Putz pitched the 
eighth and the ninth each to seal the win. 9:37 p.m. (EDT) at Chase Field 
in Phoenix, Arizona The Diamondbacks knocked in ten runs—eight on four 
homers—to force a decisive Game 5. The Brewers scored early in the first 
inning on Ryan Braun's RBI double. But the D-backs fought back in the bottom 
half on Ryan Roberts' grand slam and Chris Young's solo homer. The Brewers 
scored two more runs on George Kottaras' RBI groundout in the second and 
Jerry Hairston, Jr.'s RBI double in the third. The D-backs answered with 
Collin Cowgill's two-run single in the bottom of the third. Both starters 
were ineffective as each pitched only three innings, but the two homers 
allowed by Randy Wolf made the most difference, putting the Brewers into 
an early 7–3 hole. The Brewers continued scoring on Corey Hart's sacrifice 
fly in the sixth and Carlos Gómez's two-run homer. But the D-backs also 
scored three more runs on Aaron Hill's solo home run in the sixth and Chris 
Young's two-run homer, his second of the night, in the seventh. Closer 
J. J. Putz pitched a scoreless ninth to seal the win for the D-backs. 5:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin The Diamondbacks struck first 
with Justin Upton's solo home run in the top of the third inning, but the 
Brewers immediately tied the game in the bottom of the fourth with a Jerry 
Hairston, Jr. sacrifice fly scoring Nyjer Morgan. The Brewers took the 
lead in the bottom of the sixth when Yuniesky Betancourt hit an RBI single 
scoring Ryan Braun. In the top of the ninth John Axford came in on a save 
situation, but blew it when Willie Bloomquist hit an RBI bunt single scoring 
Gerardo Parra. Axford was able to escape with a pair of fielder's choice 
outs to Upton and Henry Blanco. The game went into extra innings after 
David Hernandez pitched a 1–2–3 ninth. In the top of the 10th Axford pitched 
a 1–2–3 inning of his own, and then with J. J. Putz pitching in the bottom 
of the 10th, Morgan hit the walk-off RBI single scoring Carlos Gómez to 
give Milwaukee the victory. It was the Brewers' first playoff series win 
since beating the California Angels 3–2 in the 1982 ALCS, and also made 
the NLCS for the first time, having moved to the National League in 1998. 
