The 2011 Atlanta Braves season was the Braves' 46th season in Atlanta, 
and the 136th of the franchise. For the first time since the 1990 season, 
Bobby Cox did not manage the club, having retired following the 2010 season. 
He was succeeded by Fredi González, the former third-base coach for the 
Braves between 2003 and 2006. After entering the playoffs with their first 
franchise Wild Card berth in 2010, the Braves attempted to return to the 
postseason for a second consecutive season. Entering the final month of 
the regular season with a record of 80–55 and an 8 1⁄2-game lead in the 
Wild Card standings, the Braves went 9–18 in September to finish the season 
with a record of 89–73. This September collapse caused the team to fall 
one game behind the St. Louis Cardinals in the Wild Card race after the 
final scheduled game of the season, which consequently eliminated them 
from postseason contention. On July 12, 2016, ESPN named the 2011 Braves 
collapse as the 25th worst collapse in sports history.[1] Names highlighted 
in bold appear in table above. October 13: The Atlanta Braves announced 
that Fredi González would replace long-time Braves manager Bobby Cox as 
manager of the team in 2011. The announcement came just two days after 
the 2010 Atlanta Braves were eliminated from the postseason. It was also 
announced that pitching coach Roger McDowell, third-base coach Brian Snitker, 
and bullpen coach Eddie Pérez would retain their current positions, while 
former hitting coach Terry Pendleton would replace Glenn Hubbard as the 
first-base coach. There were two newcomers to the staff, Larry Parrish, 
as the hitting coach, and Carlos Tosca as the bench coach. Hubbard and 
former bench coach Chino Cadahia were not offered positions on the new 
coaching staff.[2][3] October 19: The Atlanta Braves released left-fielder 
Melky Cabrera, reliever Takashi Saito, and back-up catcher J. C. Boscán 
in order to make room on their 40-man roster for future transactions that 
would come in the offseason.[4] November 2: The Braves picked up the $2.5 
million options for both shortshop Alex González and All-Star utility man 
Omar Infante. Additionally, the Braves resigned reliever Scott Proctor 
to a one-year deal worth $750,000 including incentives that bring the total 
to $1 million. Finally, the Braves declined reliever Kyle Farnsworth's 
$5.25 million option and center fielder Rick Ankiel's $6 million option 
for the 2011 season.[5] November 3: The Braves claimed utility man Joe 
Mather off waivers from the St. Louis Cardinals.[6] He was later placed 
on outright waivers by the Braves on March 27 after underperforming in 
Spring training. November 16: The Braves traded Omar Infante and Mike Dunn 
to the Florida Marlins for Dan Uggla. In January, Uggla's contract was 
extended to a five-year, $62 million deal.[7][8] December 2: The Braves 
decided to non-tender the contract of Matt Diaz, effectively ending his 
tenure as a Brave. On the same day, the Braves agreed to terms with infielder/outfielder 
Eric Hinske, allowing his return in 2011.[9][10] December 3: The Braves 
agreed to a two-player trade with the White Sox, sending minor league right-handed 
pitcher Kyle Cofield to Chicago in exchange for right-handed relief pitcher 
Scott Linebrink.[11] December 10: At the Winter Meetings, the Braves agreed 
to a one-year deal with left-handed relief pitcher George Sherrill for 
the 2011 season.[12] January 13: The Braves claimed right-handed reliever 
Anthony Varvaro off waivers from the Seattle Mariners in order to add bullpen 
depth to the organization.[13] January 18: In order to avoid arbitration, 
the Braves offered new one-year contracts to starting pitcher Jair Jurrjens 
($3.25 million), second baseman Martín Prado ($3.1 million), and relief 
pitchers Peter Moylan ($2 million) and Eric O'Flaherty ($895,000). These 
were the last four Braves players to be eligible for arbitration.[14] January 
31: The Braves signed right-handed pitcher Rodrigo López to a minor league 
contract, which included an invite to the major league Spring training 
camp.[15] February 21: The Braves announced that General Manager Frank 
Wren had been offered a two-year contract extension, taking him through 
the 2013 season with the Braves.[16] The 2011 Atlanta Braves played a 35-game 
slate that started on February 26, 2011 for the 2011 Spring training season. 
Pitchers and catchers were to report by February 14 with the first full-squad 
workout occurring February 19. For the fourteenth straight season, Champion 
Stadium at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in Lake Buena Vista served 
as the Florida home for the Atlanta Braves. The last two games, on March 
29–30, were played at Turner Field against the Minnesota Twins.[17] 2011 
Atlanta Braves spring training schedule Spring training standings In the 
first inning of the March 9 game versus the St. Louis Cardinals, Brian 
McCann pulled a foul ball sharply toward the Braves' dugout, striking Minor 
League manager Luis Salazar in the left eye. After being knocked down four 
stairs and falling on his head, he was airlifted to the Orlando Regional 
Medical Center for further treatment.[18][19] Following a strong recovery 
from multiple facial fractures, doctors determined that Salazar's left 
eye could not be saved and performed an operation to have it removed on 
March 16. Despite this, he still plans to perform his new job as manager 
of the Class A Advanced Lynchburg Hillcats.[20] During the entire ordeal, 
Brian McCann expressed feelings of guilt for hitting the ball and was notably 
shaken by the incident.[21] MLB Standings March 31, 2011: On Opening Day 
versus the Washington Nationals, right-fielder Jason Heyward launched a 
home run in his first at-bat of the season. Combined with his first at-bat 
home run on Opening Day of 2010, Heyward became just the second player 
in major league history to hit a home run on his first at-bat in his first 
two Opening Day games. The other player was Kaz Matsui who did the feat 
in 2004 and 2005.[22] April 8, 2011: In the sixth inning of the first game 
of the season at Turner Field, long-time Braves third-baseman Chipper Jones 
notched his 2,500th career hit, a single off of Antonio Bastardo. Braves 
long-time skipper Bobby Cox was in attendance to view the milestone. Chipper 
is just the ninth switch hitter to reach the 2,500 hit plateau.[23] April 
13, 2011: In the bottom of the ninth of a 1–5 loss to the Marlins, Chipper 
Jones hit a solo home run to collect the 1,500th RBI of his career. Combined 
with his hit milestone just five days prior, Chipper now stands with just 
Eddie Murray as the only switch-hitters in history to collect 2,500 hits 
and 1,500 RBIs in a career.[24] April 25, 2011: In his third major career 
milestone of the month, Chipper Jones collected his 500th career double 
to leadoff the top of the twelfth inning against the Padres. Chipper became 
just the 52nd player in MLB History and only the fourth switch-hitter to 
reach the milestone.[25] May 15, 2011: The May 15 series finale against 
the Philadelphia Phillies at Turner Field was the fifth annual Civil Rights 
Game, concluding four days of festivities in Atlanta. In a pre-game ceremony, 
Ernie Banks, Carlos Santana, and Morgan Freeman were honored with the Beacon 
of Life, Beacon of Change, and Beacon of Hope awards, respectively.[26][27] 
May 17, 2011: Down to the last strike and trailing by one run in the final 
game of a series against the Astros, Brian McCann hit a pinch-hit home 
run to tie the game. Two innings later, McCann hit another home run to 
win the game. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, McCann became just 
the second player in Major League history to hit a pinch-hit, game-tying 
home run in the ninth inning and then end an extra-inning game with another 
homer. The other player to achieve this was Jeff Heath for the Boston Braves 
in a 1949 win over the Reds.[28] June 12, 2011: With the 4–1 win against 
the Astros at Minute Maid Park, the team put the Braves franchise record 
since inception in the National League in 1876 at 9,983 wins and 9,982 
losses. This was the first time since June 4, 1923, when the overall record 
was 3,084 wins and losses, that the overall franchise record was over .500.[29] 
July 7, 2011: Braves rookie closer Craig Kimbrel collected his twenty-seventh 
save of the season with the series-sweeping 6–3 win against the Colorado 
Rockies, setting a major league record for most saves by a rookie before 
the All-Star break. The previous record was held by Jonathan Papelbon, 
who had registered twenty-six saves during his rookie season in 2006.[30] 
On June 3, Kimbrel broke the record for the most saves before the All-Star 
break by a National League rookie when he collected his seventeenth save 
against the Mets at Citi Field. The previous National League record holder 
was Yhency Brazobán, who had sixteen saves before the break for the Dodgers 
in 2005. Kimbrel entered the All-Star break with twenty-eight saves to 
set the mark for the new record.[31] July 15, 2011: In the first game after 
the All-Star break, the Braves defeated the Washington Nationals 11–1, 
earning the franchise its 10,000th win since inception into the National 
League in 1876. They, along with the San Francisco Giants and Chicago Cubs, 
are now the only Major League franchises with ten thousand or more wins.[32] 
July 26, 2011: Hosting the Pittsburgh Pirates for a four-game series at 
home, the Braves played the longest game in terms of time in franchise 
history. Starting at the scheduled 7:10 time in the evening, the marathon 
lasted six hours and thirty-nine minutes to end at 1:50 the following morning. 
The game, which ended with a very controversial walk-off for the Braves 
in the nineteenth inning,[33] was the longest in terms of innings for the 
team since May 4, 1973 when a game against Philadelphia lasted twenty innings 
and ended in a Phillies victory.[34][35] August 12, 2011: The Braves announced 
in the off-season that Bobby Cox would be inducted into the Atlanta Braves 
Hall of Fame after having retired at the end of the 2010 season. As a part 
of the Braves Alumni Weekend, his number six was retired at a special luncheon 
and afterward an on-field ceremony was held to recognize the long-time 
Braves manager before the scheduled game versus the Chicago Cubs.[36][37] 
August 12, 2011: Having recorded a hit in every game since July 4, Braves 
second-basemen Dan Uggla ran his hitting streak up to 32 games with a second 
inning solo home run off Carlos Zambrano, his first of two home runs on 
the night and the thirteenth home run of the streak. Uggla's long hitting 
streak set a new Atlanta Braves record, passing Rico Carty, who established 
a 31-game hitting streak in 1970. The only player with a longer streak 
in Braves franchise history is Tommy Holmes, who reached a 37-game streak 
in 1945 for the Boston team.[38] August 31, 2011: Closing out a 3–1 win 
against the Washington Nationals in front of a home crowd, Braves rookie 
closer Craig Kimbrel collected his 41st save of the season, setting a new 
major league record for most saves in a single season by a rookie closer. 
The previous record-holder was Neftalí Feliz, who saved forty games for 
the Texas Rangers during his rookie season in 2010.[39] Kimbrel went on 
to finish the season with 46 saves to set the mark for the new rookie record. 
September 8, 2011: While recording a no-decision in a 2–3 loss to the Phillies, 
Braves rookie pitcher Brandon Beachy set the record for most strikeouts 
in a season by an Atlanta Braves rookie by striking out Michael Martínez 
and recording his 140th strikeout. The old record of 139 strikeouts was 
previously held by Jair Jurrjens, who achieved that number in 2008.[40] 
September 28, 2011: Despite holding an 8 1⁄2-game lead in the Wild Card 
race on the first day of September, the Braves' horrible September win-loss 
record created a situation leading into Closing Day that almost mirrored 
the scenario presented on that day in 2010. The Braves again found themselves 
in a tie atop the Wild Card standings with just one scheduled game to play, 
this time with the St. Louis Cardinals. Taking on the Houston Astros in 
Houston on the final day, the Cardinals shutout their opponent 8–0 on a 
Chris Carpenter gem. Meanwhile, the Braves faced the Philadelphia Phillies 
at home to conclude their schedule. Despite a solid start by veteran Tim 
Hudson, the Braves fell to the Phillies 3–4 in thirteen innings, officially 
eliminating the team from playoff contention. It was the first time since 
June 8 that the Braves did not possess a portion of first place in the 
Wild Card standings.[41] The Braves led the National League Wild Card standings 
for much of the 2011 season, with the division-rival Philadelphia Phillies 
firmly in control of first place in the National League East. The Braves 
entered the final month of the regular season 25 games above .500 with 
a record of 80–55 and an 8 1⁄2-game lead in the Wild Card standings. The 
nearest team trailing them, the St. Louis Cardinals, who also trailed the 
National League Central-leading Milwaukee Brewers by 8 1⁄2 games at the 
time, were considered a long-shot to gain a spot in the postseason. Just 
days prior on August 26, the Cardinals found themselves 10 1⁄2 games behind 
and in third place.[42] Having swept the New York Mets in a doubleheader 
at Citi Field on the previous day, the Braves traveled to St. Louis on 
September 9 to play the Cardinals in a three-game series. Entering the 
series, the Braves still held a 7 1⁄2-game lead on the Cardinals in the 
Wild Card standings. Gaining a 3–1 advantage on the Cardinals entering 
the bottom of the ninth inning in the first game of the series, Braves 
rookie and eventual Major League Baseball Rookie of the Year Award winner 
Craig Kimbrel suffered his first blown save since June 8, ending a string 
of 25 straight converted saves and a personal scoreless innings streak 
of 37 2⁄3. With two outs and the bases loaded, Cardinals first baseman 
Albert Pujols sent a ball down the right field line that scored two to 
tie the game at three. In the bottom of the tenth, the Cardinals won on 
a Nick Punto line drive. The disheartening loss, which eroded the Braves' 
lead down to 6 1⁄2 games, proved to be a turning point for both teams.[43] 
The Cardinals went on to win the last two games of the series, lowering 
the team's Wild Card advantage to 4 1⁄2 games with 15 games to play. The 
Braves played decently in the subsequent homestand, going 3–3 against the 
Florida Marlins and New York Mets; however, the Cardinals, who went on 
a seven-game roadtrip to play the Pittsburgh Pirates and Philadelphia Phillies, 
went 5–2 over the same stretch. With nine games to play for both teams, 
the Braves' lead still held at three games. The Braves exited the homestand 
for a three-game series in Sun Life Stadium against the Florida Marlins. 
In the first game of the series on September 19, the team found themselves 
in a quick 0–2 hole. The offense rallied in the seventh inning, however, 
and lead the Marlins 5–4 going into the bottom of the ninth. Again closer 
Craig Kimbrel entered to give the team a much needed win. With two outs 
and no one on base, Emilio Bonifacio hit a slow grounder to Braves veteran 
third baseman Chipper Jones. Apparently losing the ball in the lights, 
Jones committed a fielding error that allowed Bonifacio to reach base. 
Two pitches later, Omar Infante, who the Braves had traded to the Marlins 
in the previous offseason, hit a two-run home run to left field that gave 
the Marlins a 6–5 win, stunning the Braves.[44] The club split the final 
two games of the series, putting them at 88–68 on the season. The Cardinals, 
however, took two of three from the Mets at home, shrinking the Braves' 
lead even further to a mere two games. With just two series remaining apiece 
for both the Braves and Cardinals, the Braves traveled to Nationals Park 
to play the Washington Nationals in their final road series of the season 
while the Cardinals remained at Busch Stadium for their final home series 
of the year. Braves veteran ace Tim Hudson pitched well enough to give 
the Braves a win in the first game of their series,[45] while the Cardinals 
struggled against Ryan Dempster and the Chicago Cubs.[46] After the Cardinals 
loss, the Milwaukee Brewers officially clinched the National League Central.[47] 
With five games to play, the Braves' lead returned to three games. The 
final two games of the Nationals series proved to be an offensive struggle 
for the Braves, scoring only one run between the two games and losing both 
of them.[48][49] The Cardinals, meanwhile, edged out the Cubs with one-run 
victories in the final two games of their series.[50][51] Entering the 
final series of the regular season, the Braves' once mighty lead was reduced 
to a mere game. The Braves returned home to Turner Field to host the Philadelphia 
Phillies, who had already clinched the National League East while the Cardinals 
traveled to Minute Maid Park to play the Houston Astros, a team that had 
already lost 104 games and was 39 games behind in the standings. Facing 
two Phillie aces in Cliff Lee and Roy Oswalt in the first two games of 
the series, the Braves found little success, losing the games by scores 
of 2–4 and 1–7, respectively.[52][53] In the first game of the series in 
Houston, the Cardinals lost a close game in ten innings by a score of 4–5.[54] 
The following game, however, resulted in a Cardinals blowout, finishing 
with a final score of 13–7. For the first time since June 8, the Braves 
had lost their lead in the Wild Card.[55] The Braves and Cardinals entered 
the final scheduled day of the regular season with the Wild Card standings 
tied between the two clubs. The situation was one familiar to the Braves, 
who were tied with the San Diego Padres in the Wild Card standings on the 
final day of the 2010 season.[56] Starting one hour before the Cardinals-Astros 
game, the Braves tossed veteran ace Tim Hudson against a Phillies pitching 
staff that was preparing for the 2011 National League Division Series. 
After giving up a run to the Phillies in the first inning and scoring one 
of their own in the bottom half, Braves second baseman Dan Uggla launched 
a two-run home run in the third inning that gave the Braves a 3–1 advantage. 
Meanwhile, the game in Houston began with the Cardinals scoring five runs 
in the top of the first. With veteran Cardinals' ace Chris Carpenter pitching 
for the Cardinals, the game was already out of reach. The Cardinals would 
sail to an 8–0 victory that assured at worst a tiebreaker at Busch Stadium 
the following night.[57] Back in Atlanta, the Phillies scored a run in 
the seventh to reduce the Braves' lead to one run. With the Cardinals game 
having already gone final, rookie closer Craig Kimbrel entered from the 
bullpen hoping to send the Braves to a tiebreaker game in St. Louis. After 
a leadoff single, Kimbrel struck out the next batter for the first out 
of the inning, but followed with two walks to load the bases. The next 
batter, Chase Utley, lofted a fly ball to deep left field, scoring the 
runner from third on a sacrifice fly to knot the game at three apiece. 
After another walk, Kimbrel finally got out of the inning. The score remained 
tied until the thirteenth inning when the Phillies rallied for a run. With 
two outs and runners on first and third, Hunter Pence, who was acquired 
by the Phillies in a midseason trade with the Houston Astros, sent a ground 
ball that reached the outfield grass for a single. The Braves needed a 
run to avoid an unfathomable ending to their season. After a leadoff strikeout, 
Dan Uggla reached base on a walk. Braves rookie first baseman Freddie Freeman, 
however, followed with a groundball double play, ending the inning, sending 
the Braves home, and sending the Cardinals to the National League Division 
Series to face the Phillies.[58][59] After sweeping the Braves to allow 
the Cardinals into the postseason, the Phillies lost the NLDS to the Cardinals 
in five games.[60] The Cardinals would go on to win the 2011 National League 
pennant in six games over Milwaukee in the NLCS, and the 2011 World Series 
in seven games over the AL Champion Texas Rangers. With 27 games to play, 
the Braves went 9–18 in September to finish the season with a record of 
89–73. The Cardinals, meanwhile, went 18–8 to finish at 90–72. Braves closer 
Craig Kimbrel, who had not surrendered a single earned run in July or August, 
carried a 4.76 ERA in September with three blown saves. After being dominant 
in his role for much of the season, Braves setup man Jonny Venters posted 
a 5.11 September ERA. These sharp declines in both relievers led many critics 
to question the handling of the bullpen by Braves manager Fredi González.[61] 
Veteran starter Derek Lowe posted a win-loss record of 0–5 in September 
with an ERA of 8.75.[62] Shortly into the offseason, Lowe would be traded 
to the Cleveland Indians.[63] The Braves starters lasted six or more innings 
only three times over the last 23 games.[62] Over the last five games, 
all of which were losses for the Braves, the team managed to score only 
seven runs.[59] Braves catcher Brian McCann, often regarded as the best 
offensive catcher in the Majors, hit only .183 with two home runs in September.[62] 
The offense as a whole hit for only a .235 batting average and a .300 on-base 
percentage in September, both second-worst in the National League. The 
.195 RISP average by Braves hitters was second worst in the Majors.[62] 
Hitting coach Larry Parrish was fired two days following the last game 
of the season.[64] 2011 Atlanta Braves Schedule All-Star Selections MLB 
Player of the Month MLB Pitcher of the Month MLB Rookie of the Month MLB 
Player of the Week Silver Slugger Award Major League Baseball Rookie of 
the Year Award After the April 23 game against the San Francisco Giants 
at AT&T Park, Braves pitching coach Roger McDowell was accused of making 
homophobic statements and gestures toward a group of men who attended the 
game. High-profile attorney Gloria Allred staged a press conference on 
April 27 to announce these allegations made by Justin Quinn of Fresno, 
California. Quinn alleges McDowell made crude sexual gestures in the direction 
of three men during batting practice before the game started. In response 
to the allegations, McDowell stated that he is deeply sorry about his response 
to the fans in San Francisco, and apologized to everyone involved. On April 
28, it was announced that the Atlanta Braves organization was conducting 
an investigation into the incident. In a statement, Major League Baseball 
commissioner Bud Selig said that he would take action when the results 
of the investigation were released.[68] On April 29, McDowell was placed 
on administrative leave until the investigation was complete. In response, 
the team named minor league pitching coordinator Dave Wallace to serve 
as the pitching coach in the interim.[69] On May 1, Major League Baseball 
levied a two-week suspension against McDowell, retroactive to April 29. 
McDowell was required to attend sensitivity training and personally apologize 
to Quinn. In response, Braves president John Schuerholz said he agreed 
with MLB's discipline measures.[70] Around ten in the evening of the scheduled 
off-day on April 28, Braves starting pitcher Derek Lowe was arrested in 
the Buckhead area of Atlanta and charged with a DUI. The arresting officer, 
detecting a strong odor from Lowe's vehicle, gave Lowe a field sobriety 
test. He was subsequently taken to and booked in the Atlanta City Jail. 
Being released the following afternoon, Lowe said in a statement that he 
was truly sorry to his family, friends, teammates, fans, and the Braves 
organization and hoped that the matter would not distract the team.[71] 
Nearly a month later on May 26, Cory Yager, the attorney for Derek Lowe, 
confirmed that the DUI charges have been dropped. Yager cited the reason 
as a lack of evidence.[72] Infielders Coaches Stats complete through September 
28, 2011 * = Acquired mid-season † = No longer with Braves Name = Player 
qualifies for batting title (batters) or ERA title (pitchers) Note: G = 
Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; AVG = Batting average; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in Complete batting stats can be found 
here. Note: G = Games played; IP = Innings pitched; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; SO= Strikeouts; WHIP = Walks and hits per innings 
