The 2011 World Series was the 107th edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series.[1] The best-of-seven playoff was played between the 
American League champions Texas Rangers and the National League champions 
St. Louis Cardinals,[2][3] with the Cardinals defeating the Rangers in 
seven games to win their 11th World Series championship and their first 
since 2006. The Series was noted for its back-and-forth Game 6, in which 
the Cardinals erased a two-run deficit in the bottom of the ninth inning, 
then did it again in the 10th. In both innings, the Rangers were one strike 
away from their first World Series championship. The Cardinals won the 
game in the 11th inning on a walk-off home run by David Freese. The Series 
was also known for the blowout Game 3, in which Cardinals player Albert 
Pujols hit three home runs, a World Series feat previously accomplished 
only by Reggie Jackson and Babe Ruth, and subsequently only by Pablo Sandoval 
(in 2012). The Series began on October 19, earlier than the previous season 
so that no games would be played in November.[4] The Cardinals enjoyed 
home-field advantage for the series because the National League won the 
2011 All-Star Game 5–1 on July 12.[5] The 2011 World Series was the first 
World Series to go all seven games since 2002. The Rangers appeared in 
their second consecutive World Series; they lost the 2010 Series to the 
San Francisco Giants in five games. They were the first American League 
team to play in consecutive World Series since the New York Yankees did 
it from 1998 to 2001.[6] They earned their postseason berth by winning 
the American League West division, and defeated the Tampa Bay Rays in the 
American League Division Series and the Detroit Tigers in the American 
League Championship Series to earn their World Series berth. The Cardinals 
appeared in their 18th World Series, and third in eight years.[7] They 
lost to the Boston Red Sox in 2004, but won in 2006 against the Detroit 
Tigers. The Cardinals earned their postseason berth by winning the National 
League Wild Card on the last day of the regular season, and defeated the 
Philadelphia Phillies in the National League Division Series and the Milwaukee 
Brewers in the National League Championship Series to earn their World 
Series berth. This Series was only the second time the Rangers and the 
Cardinals played each other; they met in regular-season interleague play 
in 2004, where the Cardinals won two games of a three-game series in Texas.[8] 
This was the first World Series assignment for umpires Greg Gibson and 
Ron Kulpa. Each of the other umpires had previously worked one World Series.[9] 
The Cardinals were supported by fans brandishing Rally Squirrel memorabilia 
to celebrate their new impromptu mascot acquired during the playoff run 
which they credited with turning the Cardinals' fortunes around. This was 
the Rangers' second appearance in the World Series. Heading into 2010, 
their 50th season as a franchise (counting its time as the Washington Senators), 
the team was the only one in Major League Baseball to never win a postseason 
series,[8] and was one of three teams (along with the Seattle Mariners 
and the Washington Nationals) to never appear in the World Series. However, 
that season, the Rangers won their first postseason series and made their 
first appearance in the World Series, only to lose to the San Francisco 
Giants in five games. During the offseason, Chuck Greenberg, who purchased 
the Rangers from Tom Hicks during the 2010 season along with Nolan Ryan, 
sold his interest in the team to Ryan, making him the Rangers' principal 
owner.[10] Notable player departures during the offseason included pitcher 
Cliff Lee and outfielder/designated hitter Vladimir Guerrero (both to free 
agency) and catcher Bengie Molina, who retired. Notable free agent additions 
during the offseason included pitchers Yoshinori Tateyama and Brandon Webb, 
catcher Yorvit Torrealba, and third-baseman Adrián Beltré. In January 2011, 
as part of a three-way trade with the Toronto Blue Jays and Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim, the Rangers acquired catcher Mike Napoli in exchange 
for pitcher Frank Francisco. During the season, the team acquired pitcher 
Koji Uehara from the Baltimore Orioles in exchange for infielder Chris 
Davis, and Mike Adams from the San Diego Padres in exchange for two minor-league 
pitchers. Pitcher Arthur Rhodes was released and signed with the St. Louis 
Cardinals days later; as a result, Rhodes would have been entitled to receive 
a World Series ring regardless of which team won.[11][12] With the exception 
of one day in late-April and a brief stretch in early-May, the Rangers 
led the American League West standings for most of the season. They finished 
the season with a franchise record 96–66 (.593 winning percentage) and 
won their second consecutive and fifth overall division title, 10 games 
ahead of the second-placers Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. They also set 
a franchise for a home attendance record 2,946,949.[13] Texas also earned 
the most shutouts in the American League. All five members of the opening 
day starting rotation stayed in the rotation for the entire year. C. J. 
Wilson tied for the league lead in starts with 34 while Derek Holland for 
second in shutouts with four, tied for first in the American League, and 
each pitcher had at least 13 wins. The offense also had another good year 
with three players getting 30-plus home runs for the first time in team 
history, and Ian Kinsler completed his second 30–30 season. The Rangers 
then defeated the Tampa Bay Rays by three games to one in the American 
League Division Series before beating the Detroit Tigers by four games 
to two in the American League Championship Series. The Rangers lost home-field 
advantage in the World Series as a result of the AL team, managed by Rangers 
manager Ron Washington, losing the 2011 All-Star Game, when the Ranger 
ace C. J. Wilson surrendered the game-winning three-run homer to Prince 
Fielder.[5] The Cardinals made their first World Series appearance since 
2006, when they defeated the Detroit Tigers four games to one to win their 
National League-leading 10th World Series title. This was manager Tony 
La Russa's sixth World Series appearance as manager and his third with 
the Cardinals. The Cardinals' last postseason appearance was in 2009, where 
they were swept by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the National League Division 
Series. They finished the 2010 season with a record of 86–76 (.531), finishing 
in second-place in the National League Central standings, five games behind 
the Cincinnati Reds. During the 2010 offseason, the team signed new contracts 
with manager Tony La Russa and picked up all-star slugger Albert Pujols' 
club option. Notable offseason departures included shortstop Brendan Ryan 
(traded to the Seattle Mariners) and relief pitcher Blake Hawksworth (traded 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers). Additionally, during the offseason the team 
announced that ace pitcher Adam Wainwright would miss the entire season 
due to Tommy John surgery. Notable offseason additions included shortstop 
Ryan Theriot, outfielder Lance Berkman, catcher Gerald Laird, and infielder 
Nick Punto. In late April after a number of blown saves, the Cardinals 
removed pitcher Ryan Franklin from the closer role, and released him on 
June 29. On July 27, the Cardinals sent outfielder Colby Rasmus and pitchers 
Trever Miller, Brian Tallet, and P. J. Walters to the Toronto Blue Jays 
in exchange for pitchers Edwin Jackson, Marc Rzepczynski, and Octavio Dotel, 
and outfielder Corey Patterson. They then acquired Rafael Furcal from the 
Dodgers in exchange for Alex Castellanos, a minor-league outfielder. On 
August 11, the team signed free agent pitcher Arthur Rhodes, who had been 
released by the Texas Rangers days earlier. The Cardinals spent much of 
the early part of the 2011 season in first-place in the NL Central standings 
but dropped to second-place for good on July 27. On August 25, the team 
trailed the Atlanta Braves in the NL wild card standings by 10 1⁄2 games. 
The Cardinals amassed a 21–9 record from August 26 to September 27, while 
the Braves were 10–19 over that same interval. Meanwhile, on September 
23, the Milwaukee Brewers clinched the NL Central division title. On September 
28, with the Cardinals and Braves tied atop the Wild Card standings on 
the last day of the regular season, the Cardinals routed the Houston Astros 
8–0 in Houston, while the Braves lost at home to the Philadelphia Phillies 
4–3 in 13 innings, securing the Cardinals' second wild card postseason 
berth in franchise history. St. Louis finished with a record of 90–72, 
six games behind the Brewers in the NL Central but one ahead of the Braves 
in the Wild Card. They defeated the Phillies in the National League Division 
Series three games to two, and then defeated the Brewers in the National 
League Championship Series four games to two. NL St. Louis Cardinals (4) 
vs. AL Texas Rangers (3) †: Postponed from October 26 due to rain[21] Aces 
were on the mound for Game 1 as C. J. Wilson faced Chris Carpenter. Both 
starters kept the game scoreless through the first three innings. In the 
fourth, Albert Pujols was hit by a pitch to lead off the inning. After 
a double by Matt Holliday, Lance Berkman hit a single to drive both runners 
in. The lead wouldn't last long. Mike Napoli hit a two-run home run to 
tie the game in the very next inning. David Freese doubled in the sixth 
with one out, and moved to third on a wild pitch. After Yadier Molina struck 
out, and Nick Punto walked, Allen Craig entered the game, pinch-hitting 
for Carpenter. Alexi Ogando relieved Wilson, and tried to finish off the 
inning. Craig hit a 1–2 pitch down the right field line that was just out 
of reach of a sliding Nelson Cruz. Freese scored to give St. Louis the 
lead. In the seventh, the Cardinals ran into trouble as Cruz singled and 
Napoli walked to put two on with one out. Marc Rzepczynski came on to face 
pinch-hitter Craig Gentry and struck him out. Pinch-hitter Esteban Germán 
was the next batter. Rzepczynski struck him out as well. In the ninth, 
closer Jason Motte pitched an easy 1–2–3 inning to give St. Louis the win. 
Controversy surrounded the inning, as Adrián Beltré was the victim of a 
blown call. Beltré grounded a ball to third, and Descalso threw the ball 
to first for the out, but replays showed he fouled the ball off his foot. 
Game 2 saw a pitchers' duel between Jaime García and Colby Lewis. Both 
starters kept the game scoreless through the first six innings. A pair 
of excellent defensive plays by Elvis Andrus stopped a couple of Cardinals 
rallies. In the seventh, David Freese again started a rally for St. Louis, 
much like in Game 1. He singled with one out, and moved to third on a single 
by Nick Punto with two outs. Allen Craig pinch-hit for García to face Alexi 
Ogando, setting up almost the same exact situation from the previous night. 
Again, Craig beat Ogando with a single to right field to drive in Freese. 
Jason Motte was brought in to save the game in the ninth. Ian Kinsler led 
off with a bloop single, and stole second with Andrus batting. Andrus singled 
into center field, and moved to second on the throw home, which got by 
Albert Pujols for an error. With runners on second and third, and none 
out, Tony La Russa switched in Arthur Rhodes for Motte. Consecutive sacrifice 
flies from Josh Hamilton and Michael Young gave Texas the lead. Neftalí 
Feliz came on in the ninth, and allowed a leadoff walk to Yadier Molina, 
but retired the next three batters in order to end the game and tie the 
Series at one game apiece. After a total of just eight runs scored in the 
first two games in St. Louis, the offense of the two lineups scored a combined 
23 runs on a historic night in Arlington in which Albert Pujols had what 
was described as "the greatest individual hitting performance in World 
Series history".[22] Allen Craig hit a home run in the first to put the 
Cardinals up 1–0. They scored four more runs in the fourth after a controversial 
call at first base by umpire Ron Kulpa and a run-producing error by Mike 
Napoli, but the Rangers came back in the bottom frame: Michael Young and 
Nelson Cruz hit home runs to make it 5–3. But in the next inning the Cardinals 
added three more runs including what became the game-winning two-RBI double 
by Yadier Molina making the score 8–3. The Rangers answered with three 
runs in the bottom half of the inning to make it a two-run game again. 
Albert Pujols, who had been hitless through the first two games, then hit 
a 423 ft (129 m) home run off Alexi Ogando in the sixth inning to drive 
in three runs. He homered two more times later and drove in six runs in 
total on the night. The Cardinals went on to win the game by a score of 
16–7, leading the Series by 2–1. Albert Pujols joined Babe Ruth (1926, 
1928) and Reggie Jackson (1977) as the only players in baseball history 
up to that time to hit three home runs in a World Series game. (Pablo Sandoval 
would also accomplish the feat the following year.) Pujols was 5-for-6 
with two singles, three HRs, four runs scored, and six RBIs. Yadier Molina 
added two doubles, driving in four runs. David Freese continued his postseason 
13-game hitting streak getting two hits (one double), driving in two runs. 
Pujols became the first player in World Series history[23] to get hits 
in four consecutive innings: fourth (single), fifth (single), sixth (HR, 
three RBIs), and seventh (HR, two RBIs). He tied records for most HRs (3), 
most hits (5), and most RBIs (6) in a World Series game, and established 
a new record with 14 total bases.[24] The 16 runs scored by the Cardinals 
were the most runs scored in a World Series game since 2002, when the San 
Francisco Giants scored 16 against the Anaheim Angels. The current record 
is 18 by the New York Yankees against the New York Giants in 1936. After 
a high scoring affair the night before, Derek Holland quieted the Cardinals' 
bats as he pitched 8 1⁄3 innings of two-hit baseball. Lance Berkman had 
both of the Cardinals' two hits. Josh Hamilton's first-inning RBI double 
put the Rangers in front for only the second time in the Series. A three-run 
home run by Mike Napoli provided Holland a comfortable 4–0 lead. The Cardinals 
managed a small rally in the ninth, but were unable to score against closer 
Neftalí Feliz.[25] Coincidentally, this game was only one of two major 
DFW vs. St. Louis sporting events taking place in Arlington on that day, 
as the NFL's Dallas Cowboys and St. Louis Rams had played at nearby Cowboys 
Stadium that afternoon; during the opening coin toss, Berkman and Hamilton, 
in uniform, had each served as honorary captains for their city's team.[26] 
Game 1 starters C. J. Wilson and Chris Carpenter faced off again. Wilson 
walked two batters, Matt Holliday and Lance Berkman, in the second inning 
and both came in to score, aided in part by an error by David Murphy. However, 
despite the Rangers walking nine batters in the game (including Albert 
Pujols three times intentionally), the Cardinals had not scored again, 
leaving twelve runners on base. Mitch Moreland hit a solo home run in the 
third, and Adrián Beltré also hit one in the sixth, to tie the score at 
2–2. The Rangers' half of the eighth featured a series of bullpen mix-ups 
by the Cardinals, leaving Tony La Russa without closer Jason Motte in a 
crucial situation. After Michael Young led off the inning with a double, 
La Russa sent both Motte (a right-hander) and left-handed reliever Marc 
Rzepczynski to begin warmups. However, Cardinals bullpen coach Derek Lilliquist 
later stated that he only heard Rzepczynski's name called. When La Russa 
saw that Motte was not warming up, he made a second call to the bullpen, 
but this time Lilliquist thought he heard La Russa called for reliever 
Lance Lynn, who was supposedly unavailable for the game due to throwing 
47 pitches in Game 3.[27] Dotel intentionally walked Nelson Cruz, whereupon 
La Russa summoned Rzepczynski to face the left-handed hitting Murphy. Usually, 
the Rangers would counter with a right-handed pinch-hitter, such as Craig 
Gentry or Yorvit Torrealba. However, Murphy stayed in the game, and hit 
a grounder off Rzepczynski, loading the bases. With Motte not yet available 
(La Russa thought he was warming up, but he was not yet ready), La Russa 
was forced to match Rzepczynski against the right-handed hitting Mike Napoli, 
who hit a two-run double scoring Young and Cruz. After a Moreland strikeout, 
La Russa summoned for Motte from the bullpen, only to be surprised to see 
Lynn coming out (it was then when he learned of the mix-ups). Lynn then 
was asked to intentionally walk Ian Kinsler, making him only the third 
pitcher in World Series history to make a relief appearance solely to serve 
an intentional walk.[27] Neftalí Feliz came in to save the game in the 
ninth, his second save of the Series. Game 6, moved from October 26 to 
27 due to rain, was a rematch of Game 2's starters: Cardinals lefty Jaime 
García and Rangers starter Colby Lewis. Texas jumped on top immediately, 
with Josh Hamilton driving in Ian Kinsler in the top of the first. The 
Cardinals responded quickly with a two-run Lance Berkman home run in the 
bottom half. Kinsler tied the game in the top of the second with a ground-rule 
double, scoring Craig Gentry. García was pulled after only three innings 
(and 59 pitches) and replaced with Fernando Salas. Leading off the top 
of the fourth, Matt Holliday misplayed a Nelson Cruz pop fly, putting Cruz 
at second. Mike Napoli singled him home to once again give Texas the lead. 
The Cardinals jumped right back in the game, taking advantage of a Michael 
Young error and scoring on a Yadier Molina groundout to knot the game at 
three. David Freese started off the top of the fifth by dropping a routine 
pop fly (the third consecutive half-inning to begin with an error), which 
immediately turned into the go-ahead run for Texas on Young's double. Colby 
Lewis was cruising for the Rangers until the bottom of the sixth. After 
an Albert Pujols strikeout, Berkman singled to third. Matt Holliday grounded 
into a possible double play which was mishandled at first by Michael Young 
(his second error of the game), leaving all runners safe. Lewis walked 
the bases loaded and was pulled for Alexi Ogando, who promptly walked Yadier 
Molina to force in a run. With the Cardinals in a prime position to rally 
ahead, Matt Holliday, standing 90 feet (27 m) away as the possible go-ahead 
run, was picked off at third by catcher Mike Napoli. Holliday injured his 
finger sliding in on the play and was forced to leave the game. The Rangers 
were able to slip out of the inning with the score still tied. Lance Lynn 
came on to pitch for the Cardinals in the top of the seventh and was promptly 
greeted with back-to-back home runs by Adrián Beltré and Nelson Cruz to 
put Texas up by two. Ian Kinsler added his second RBI later in the inning 
to make the score 7–4 Rangers. In the bottom of the eighth, Allen Craig 
(who entered the game as Holliday's replacement) hit a solo home run to 
pull the Cardinals within two. Rangers closer Neftalí Feliz entered in 
the bottom of the ninth to deliver the Rangers their first ever World Series 
Championship. After striking out Ryan Theriot, Feliz faced Albert Pujols. 
Facing possibly his last at-bat as a Cardinal, Pujols hit Feliz's first 
pitch into left field for a double. Feliz walked Lance Berkman to put the 
tying run on first, but got Craig to take a called third strike. The Rangers 
were one out away from a championship as David Freese stepped to the plate. 
Down in the count 1–2 and down to the last strike, Freese hit Feliz's pitch 
past a leaping Nelson Cruz off the wall for a triple, tying the game at 
seven in dramatic fashion. Sent into extra innings, Jason Motte went out 
for his second inning of work. Elvis Andrus singled, then the Rangers' 
MVP candidate Josh Hamilton put Texas up again with a towering two-run 
home run. Down 9–7, and out of bench players, the Cardinals once again 
faced only three outs until elimination. Left-hander Darren Oliver came 
in to pitch for the Rangers. St. Louis Players Daniel Descalso and Jon 
Jay got back-to-back singles, and starting pitcher Kyle Lohse was called 
to bunt. Lohse's sacrifice bunt put the tying run in scoring position. 
With right-handers coming up, right-hander Scott Feldman replaced Oliver 
on the mound. Ryan Theriot grounded out, scoring Descalso, and following 
an intentional walk to Pujols, Berkman stepped up to the plate. Feldmen 
got ahead on the count 1-2. Berkman worked the count to 2–2, and again 
the Rangers were one strike away from their first championship. Berkman 
took Scott Feldman's next pitch into center field for a single, scoring 
Jon Jay and tying the game once again. It was the first time in World Series 
history that a team came back from two different two-run deficits in the 
ninth inning or later in the same game.[citation needed] The Rangers failed 
to score in the top of the 11th, bringing David Freese to lead off the 
bottom of the inning. Freese hit Mark Lowe's 3–2 pitch into the center 
field grass for a game-winning home run, forcing the World Series to a 
Game 7 for the first time since 2002. Of the last 13 instances in which 
a Major League team won a Game 6 at home to force a Game 7 in the postseason, 
all but two went on to win Game 7. The exceptions were the New York Mets 
in the 2006 NLCS against, coincidentally, the Cardinals; and the Boston 
Red Sox in the 1975 World Series against the Cincinnati Reds.[28] Freese's 
walk-off home run was the fourth that won[29] in a Game 6 in World Series 
history.[30][31] The Cardinals set two World Series milestones in their 
Game 6 win—the first team to come back from deficits in both the 9th and 
10th innings, and the first team to score in the 8th, 9th, 10th, and 11th 
innings.[32] On Mike and Mike in the Morning the next day, ESPN senior 
baseball analyst Buster Olney called it the greatest game in the history 
of baseball.[33] Game 6 was originally scheduled for Wednesday, October 
26, but was postponed due to heavy rain in the forecast. Although rain 
was only falling fairly lightly in St. Louis when this decision was made, 
MLB officials did not want a repeat of Game 5 of the 2008 World Series, 
which was suspended after the top of the sixth inning and resumed two days 
later.[21] David Freese and Lance Berkman became the third and fourth players[34] 
in World Series history to get game-tying hits with their team one out 
from elimination.[35] Freese, who grew up a Cardinal fan in the suburbs 
of St. Louis, said that as he was circling the bases after his home run, 
he was thinking about a similar walk-off homer by Jim Edmonds for the Cardinals 
in Game 6 of the 2004 National League Championship Series. After Freese 
said he remembered that home run, Lance Berkman, who played for the losing 
Houston Astros in that series, said "So do I."[36] Before Game 7, the Cardinals 
replaced Matt Holliday, who sprained his wrist in Game 6, on their roster 
with Adron Chambers.[37] Josh Hamilton and Michael Young had RBI doubles 
in the first inning against Chris Carpenter, who became the first pitcher 
in a decade[38] to make three starts in one Series. David Freese had a 
game-tying two-run double in the bottom of the first, breaking the post-season 
RBI record, and Allen Craig hit a go-ahead homer in the third. Craig even 
robbed a home run from Nelson Cruz in the sixth. St. Louis added two runs 
off Scott Feldman in the fifth inning without getting a hit. Yadier Molina 
walked with the bases loaded, C. J. Wilson came on to relieve Feldman and 
promptly hit Rafael Furcal with his first pitch, forcing in another run 
to make it 5–2.[39] In the seventh inning, Lance Berkman scored on a Molina 
single to make it 6–2.[40] Chris Carpenter was relieved after pitching 
six innings and was credited with the win. The Cardinals used four relievers 
to hold Texas scoreless over the final three innings. The final out was 
recorded when Jason Motte got David Murphy to fly out to Cardinal left 
fielder Allen Craig as Busch Stadium went into a frenzy.[41][42] David 
Freese became the sixth player in history to earn a League Championship 
Series and World Series MVP award in the same postseason.[43] The Rangers 
set a Series record by issuing 41 walks, breaking the previous record held 
by the Florida Marlins when winning the 1997 World Series after issuing 
40. The Cardinals became the first wild card team to win the World Series 
since the Boston Red Sox won the 2004 World Series (coincidentally, against 
the Cardinals). 2011 World Series (4–3): St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) over 
Texas Rangers (A.L.) The series was televised in the United States and 
Canada by Fox. Joe Buck called play-by-play on his 14th World Series for 
the network, dating back to 1996, while color analyst Tim McCarver handled 
his 22nd World Series since 1985. Ken Rosenthal served as field reporter 
for the games, while Chris Rose hosted the pregame and postgame coverage 
with analysts A. J. Pierzynski and Eric Karros.[45] Joe Buck's call of 
... we will see you tomorrow night!" on David Freese's walk-off home run 
echoed his father Jack's call from Game 6 of the 1991 World Series, occurring 
20 years and a day apart from each other, given the similar situations: 
Game 6, first batter of the final inning, and breaking a 3-3 tie to win 
the game 4-3, and extend the series to a 7th game. MLB International syndicated 
television coverage of the Series (with Gary Thorne and Rick Sutcliffe 
announcing) to viewers outside of North America.[46] The ratings started 
off poorly, averaging just 8.4 through its first 5 games (at this time, 
the record for lowest World Series rating was 8.4, set by the 5 games 2008 
World Series and the 5 games 2010 World Series). Game 3 also produced a 
6.6 rating, making it the second lowest World Series rated game of all-time 
(behind the 6.1 rating in Game 3 of the 2008 World Series and Game 3 of 
the 2012 World Series).[47] However, Games 6 and 7 generated massive ratings 
that brought the overall average to 9.9. The 14.7 rating for Game 7 is 
the network's highest for a World Series telecast since Game 4 of the 2004 
World Series.[48] ESPN Radio also broadcast the games nationally. This 
was the first World Series for play-by play announcer Dan Shulman and analysts 
Orel Hershiser and Bobby Valentine.[49] ESPN Deportes Radio aired the Series 
for Spanish language listeners, with Ernesto Jerez and Guillermo Celis 
announcing. Locally, the two teams' flagship stations broadcast the Series 
with their respective announcing crews. The Rangers' broadcasts aired on 
KESN-FM (with Eric Nadel and Steve Busby announcing),[50] while the Cardinals' 
broadcasts aired on KMOX (with Mike Shannon and John Rooney announcing).[51] 
Due to contractual obligations, the non-flagship stations on the teams' 
radio networks carried the ESPN Radio broadcasts of the games, although 
the local broadcasts were available on XM Satellite Radio and to Gameday 
Audio subscribers at MLB.com. In the United Kingdom, Simon Brotherton and 
Josh Chetwynd called the games for BBC Radio 5 Live Sports Extra.[52] The 
2011 World Series was only the second World Series ever in which a team, 
one strike away from elimination, came back to win—with the Cardinals, 
in fact, achieving this feat twice in Game 6. The first was the 1986 World 
Series, in which the New York Mets rallied from a 5–3 deficit in the bottom 
of the 10th inning of Game 6 to win the game and, later, the decisive Game 7.[53][54] 
This was the third and final World Series title for Cardinals manager Tony 
La Russa, who announced his retirement on October 31, 2011, after 33 seasons 
as a major league manager.[55] La Russa had previously led the Cardinals 
(2006) and Oakland Athletics (1989) to World Series championships. Former 
Cardinals catcher Mike Matheny, who played for the 2004 Cardinals that 
lost the World Series, was hired to replace him. After the New York Giants 
won Super Bowl XLVI during the offseason, some news organizations, among 
them The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, compared the Cardinals to the Giants, 
invoking Al Michaels's call of the Giants winning the Super Bowl: "The 
New York Giants, given the last rites by many in December, are the Super 
Bowl Champs in February."[56] The Rangers became the first team to lose 
in the World Series in consecutive years since the Atlanta Braves in 1991 
and 1992 and the first American League team to do so since the New York 
Yankees in 1963 and 1964. Albert Pujols and C. J. Wilson would later end 
up signing with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in the offseason, in 
one of the deepest free-agent classes in recent MLB history, while the 
Rangers obtained the rights to sign Japanese star pitcher Yu Darvish to 
replace Wilson. In his first press conference as a Ranger, Darvish was 
asked about Game 6 of the World Series where David Freese hit walk-off 
home run in the bottom of the 11th, and said "If it was last year [2011], 
I would have given up a home run and lost the game. This year [2012] I 
won't let that happen."[57] Both teams would advance again into the postseason 
in the following year, both as wild cards entrants. The Rangers lost to 
the Baltimore Orioles in the inaugural American League Wild Card game, 
and would not make the post season again until 2015. The Cardinals won 
the inaugural National League Wild Card game against Atlanta before displaying 
more comeback magic in defeating the Washington Nationals in the NLDS in 
five games. After having a 3–1 series lead against the San Francisco Giants 
in the NLCS, the Cardinals fell one game short of a return trip to the 
World Series in losing each of the final three games to end the season. 
St. Louis would return to the World Series in 2013, continuing the pattern 
of Giants and Cardinals exchanging pennant victories. However, the Cardinals 
lost to the Boston Red Sox in six games despite leading 2–1. La Russa would 
