The 2011 New York Yankees season was the 111th season for the New York 
Yankees franchise. The Yankees began the season at home against the Detroit 
Tigers on Thursday, March 31.[2] The Yankees clinched a playoff berth in 
the first game of a doubleheader on September 21, 2011, and clinched the 
AL East division title in the second game.[3] The Yankees season ended 
on October 6 when they lost a deciding Game 5 of the 2011 American League 
Division Series to the Detroit Tigers 3–2. It was the first time since 
2007 the Yankees would lose an elimination game at home. Manager Joe Girardi's 
three-year contract with the Yankees ended at the conclusion of the 2010 
season. Having won one World Series and bringing his team to the playoffs 
the past two seasons, the Yankees quickly signed him to a new 3-year deal 
worth $9 million.[4] After firing pitching coach Dave Eiland, they replaced 
him with Cubs pitching coach Larry Rothschild. In November, they added 
minor leaguers Melky Mesa, Dellin Betances, Ryan Pope, and Brandon Laird 
to the 40-man roster. Mesa had to be added to avoid eligibility to be a 
minor league free agent, while Betances, Pope, and Laird had to be added 
to prevent being eligible for the Rule 5 draft. In November, long-time 
Yankees Derek Jeter, Andy Pettitte, and Mariano Rivera all became free 
agents, as well as veterans Nick Johnson, Javier Vázquez, Marcus Thames, 
Kerry Wood, Lance Berkman, Austin Kearns, and Chad Moeller. Dustin Moseley 
and Alfredo Aceves also became free agents as the Yankees opted not to 
tender their contracts . On November 18, 2010, the Yankees traded Juan 
Miranda to the Diamondbacks in exchange for minor league pitcher Scottie 
Allen. On November 19, 2010, they released reliever Jonathan Albaladejo 
per an agreement made with Albaladejo and the Yomiuri Giants of Nippon 
Professional Baseball. Sergio Mitre avoided arbitration with the Yankees 
by signing a one-year, $900,000 deal. Derek Jeter and the Yankees agreed 
to a new contract of $51 million over 3 years with fourth-year option after 
2013.[5] Mariano Rivera signed a two-year, $30 million contract with the 
Yankees, which he hinted may be the last contract of his career.[6] In 
the Rule 5 draft, the Yankees selected pitchers Robert Fish from the Angels 
and Daniel Turpen from the Red Sox. The Astros meanwhile selected Yankees 
minor leaguer Lance Pendleton while the Padres selected George Kontos. 
On December 13, 2010 it was announced that top free agent Cliff Lee rejected 
the Yankees six-year, $138 million contract offer to sign a five-year, 
$120 million contract with the Philadelphia Phillies. Lee was the Yankees 
top priority in the offseason.[7] In his place, the Yankees signed catcher 
Russell Martin[8] and reliever Pedro Feliciano. The Yankees have signed 
various former Major Leaguers to minor league deals, such as Brian Anderson, 
Luis Ayala, Ronnie Belliard, Doug Bernier, Buddy Carlyle, Eric Chavez, 
Bartolo Colón, Neal Cotts, Freddy García, Gustavo Molina, Mark Prior, Andy 
Sisco, and Luis Vizcaíno. Vizcaino's contract was later voided due to injury. 
They also claimed outfielder Jordan Parraz off of waivers from the Boston 
Red Sox. In January 2011, the Yankees signed Rafael Soriano to a three-year 
contract worth $35 million and agreed with Andruw Jones on a one-year, 
$2 million contract, pending a physical. This deal was made official on 
February 14.[9] On February 2, the Yankees acquired Justin Maxwell from 
the Washington Nationals in a trade for minor league pitcher Adam Olbrychowski. 
To make room for him on the roster, Parraz was designated for assignment. 
On February 4, Andy Pettitte announced his retirement from baseball via 
press conference. Pettitte played 13 seasons with the Yankees and 3 with 
the Astros, he was a 3x All Star selection, a 5x World Series champion, 
and finally a 2001 ALCS MVP. Infielders Coaches *Bold indicates completed 
season series. Facing the Detroit Tigers on Opening Day, Mariano Rivera 
notched his 560th career save to pull within 42 saves of surpassing Trevor 
Hoffman for the all-time Major League record.[10] This also marked Rivera's 
third career Opening Day save. On April 3 Mark Teixeira hit his third straight 
home run of the season, in three consecutive days marking the first time 
a Yankees player had accomplished this since Dave Winfield did it in 1983.[11] 
Never before—not even in their Murderers' Row days—had the Yanks hit nine 
homers through their first three games. Eight had been enough twice, in 
1932 and '81.[11] Against the Minnesota Twins the Yankees hit two more 
home runs, coming off the bats of Alex Rodriguez and Jorge Posada, bringing 
the Yankees home run total in the first four games to 11, falling short 
of the franchise record set at 12 in 2003. With the win clinched Iván Nova 
became the first rookie Yankee pitcher to record a win in the first four 
games of the season since Al Leiter did it in 1988. On April 5 in the second 
game against the Twins, Teixeira and Andruw Jones both connected for home 
runs, bringing the total number hit by the Yankees in the first five games 
to 13, tying the franchise record set by the 1932 World Champion Yankees. 
Going into the game against the Toronto Blue Jays on April 19, the Yankees 
hit 27 home runs in the first 14 games, the most in the history of the 
franchise. Against the Texas Rangers on May 8, Francisco Cervelli connected 
for the first grand slam of his career in a 12–5 Yankee win. On May 25, 
Mariano Rivera made his 1,000th appearance with the Yankees, making him 
the 15th reliever in Major League history to accomplish the feat, and the 
first to do so for one team.[12] Facing the Seattle Mariners on May 29, 
Derek Jeter stole his 327th base, breaking Rickey Henderson's record for 
the most in Yankees history.[13] On June 24, facing the Colorado Rockies, 
A. J. Burnett struck out 4 batters in the 6th inning, becoming the first 
Yankee to accomplish this feat.[14] Against the Milwaukee Brewers on June 
30, Mark Teixeira hit the 300th home run of his career. On July 9 against 
the Tampa Bay Rays, Derek Jeter became the first Yankee player in history 
and the 28th player in MLB history to join the 3,000 hit club with a home-run 
off David Price in the 3rd inning. He is the only player in the 3,000 hit 
club to record all of his hits with the New York Yankees and only the second 
player to record his milestone hit with a home-run, the other player being 
Wade Boggs. Derek is also the second player to record five hits during 
his 3,000th hit game, the other player being Craig Biggio, going 5-5 in 
the game.[15][16] On July 30, against the Baltimore Orioles, the Yankees 
scored a club record 12 runs in the first inning, en route to a 17–3 victory.[17] 
On August 4, the Yankees completed their first four-game sweep on the road 
against the Chicago White Sox since 1976 in a 7–2 victory.[18] It was only 
the third instance in modern baseball history in which a team swept a four-game 
series without giving up a walk.[19] Facing the Boston Red Sox, on August 
5, Jeter's run scored in the sixth inning was the 1,742nd of his career, 
moving him past Honus Wagner for sole possession of 21st place on baseball's 
all-time list.[20] On August 25, the Yankees became the first team in history 
to hit three grand slam home runs in one game with a 22–9 win over the 
Oakland Athletics. It was done by Robinson Canó, Russell Martin, and Curtis 
Granderson.[21] On September 13 against the Seattle Mariners, Mariano Rivera 
became the second player in history to attain 600 saves.[22] He also became 
the first to get all 600 with a single team. On September 19 against the 
Minnesota Twins, Mariano Rivera broke Trevor Hoffman's all-time save record 
with his 602nd career save.[23] The Yankees clinched a playoff berth on 
September 21 against the Tampa Bay Rays and, later that day during the 
2nd game of the doubleheader, clinched their 17th American League East 
crown. The Yankees faced off with the Detroit Tigers in the ALDS. Game 
1 was delayed by rain but continued a day later. Behind Robinson Canó's 
grand slam, the Yankees won the opener, 9-3. The Tigers won Game 2, 5–3, 
on the strength of a performance by Max Scherzer. When the series moved 
to Detroit, the Tigers took the series lead by edging the Yankees 5–4, 
getting a seventh-inning go-ahead Delmon Young home run. Starter A. J. 
Burnett, who got the starting nod because the Game 1 rainout forced the 
team to reshuffle its rotation, guided the Yankees to a 10–1 Game 4 win, 
forcing a decisive Game 5. Back home for the win-or-go-home Game 5, New 
York dropped a 3-2 decision to the Tigers, who jumped in front with back-to-back, 
first-inning solo home runs from Delmon Young and Don Kelly. In the finale, 
the Yankees were done in by their inability to come through with runners 
in scoring position, as they stranded 11 runners.[24] There was speculation[by 
whom?] that this season was Yankee mainstay Jorge Posada's last with the 
team, with his playing out the final year of his four-year deal. An emotional 
Posada had trouble containing his emotions as the media questioned him 
