The 2011 Chicago White Sox season was the club's 112th season in Chicago 
and 111th in the American League. The 2011 White Sox schedule was revealed 
at 7:00 pm CT on September 14, 2010[1] along with every other team in Major 
League Baseball. On December 2, 2010 the White Sox signed a new slugger 
Adam Dunn from the Washington Nationals for a 4yr/$56M contract.[2] On 
that same day, the Sox also re-signed A. J. Pierzynski to a 2yr/$8M extension.[3] 
Six days later, the Sox resigned Paul Konerko to a 3yr/$37.5M extension.[4] 
With Dunn, Konerko, and Pierzynski, there is a 5% chance that the White 
Sox will win the 2011 World Series.[4] On December 15, the White Sox acquired 
RHP Jesse Crain from the Minnesota Twins and offered a 3yr/$13M deal.[5] 
On January 18, the Sox acquired RHP Philip Humber off waivers from the 
Oakland A's. One month prior, the A's claimed Humber from the Kansas City 
Royals.[6] In addition to acquisitions, the White Sox also traded away 
some players, including Scott Linebrink to Atlanta Braves on December 3,[7] 
and J. J. Putz to Arizona Diamondbacks on December 7.[8] Bobby Jenks, who 
was non-tendered by the White Sox, has agreed to sign with the Boston Red 
Sox on December 16.[9] Infielders Outfielders Coaches The Sox opened the 
2011 season at Cleveland with a 15–10 victory over the Indians on April 
1. It was the first time since Sep 7, 2007 that the Sox won while allowing 
10 or more runs. The Sox had their first 2–0 start since 2005 with an 8–3 
win over Cleveland. In the third game of this series in the 4th inning, 
Alexei Ramírez bunted into a 3–4–6 triple play. It was the first time that 
the Sox hit into a triple play since 1978. The Sox went on to lose this 
game 7–1. On April 5 at Kansas City Royals, the Sox scored four runs in 
the first inning but they would not hold on to the lead. The Sox played 
for 12 innings until the new Royals batter Melky Cabrera hit a walk-off 
single to score the former Sox player Chris Getz to suffer their first 
walk-off loss of the season. Last season, the Sox did not suffer their 
first walk-off loss until July 18 at Minnesota. After the loss, Adam Dunn 
had his appendix removed and he'll miss five games, but he told Ozzie Guillén 
that he wants to play sooner. The next game against the Royals, the Sox 
trailed 5–0 going to the 7th inning. In the ninth inning, the Sox took 
the lead 7–6 by scoring four runs against the Royals closer Joakim Soria, 
but the Royals tied this game up in the bottom half. Then the Sox scored 
three runs in the 12th inning to take the victory 10–7 over the Royals. 
However, the Sox committed four errors in this game. The Sox had their 
home opener against the Tampa Bay Rays with a 5–1 victory on April 7. Edwin 
Jackson struck out 13 to set his new career high and most strikeouts by 
the White Sox pitcher in the home opener in club history. In next game 
for the first eight innings, the Sox led 7–4. In the top of the ninth inning, 
the Sox committed two errors which led to five unearned runs including 
a three-run homer by Dan Johnson off of Matt Thornton. The Sox would lose 
the game 9–7. That was their first win of the season for Rays. In addition, 
in the top of the ninth inning after Johnson's home run, the Rays took 
their first lead of the season after going 62 consecutive innings without 
lead. It is now the most consecutive innings without lead of any team of 
all-time. The Sox would then go on and win the final two games of this 
series to take three out of four from the Rays with the final scores of 
4–2 and 6–1. The next series against the Oakland A's, the Sox lost two 
out of three with the only win being a walk-off home run in 10th inning 
by Alexei Ramírez in Game 2. In both losses, the Sox led going into the 
ninth inning only to give up runs to tie the game and lose in the 10th. 
For the first 12 games this season, the bullpen allowed 12 runs including 
6 unearned runs in the ninth inning to lead the majors. They led the majors 
with 6 blown saves in 7 opportunities. In next series, the Sox got swept 
by Angels at home for the first time since 2005. The Sox finished 4–6 on 
the homestand. The Sox avoided a four-game sweep by beating the Rays 9–2 
behind Gavin Floyd on April 22. Then the Sox were swept by Tigers at Detroit, 
including being scoreless twice. The Sox split the series against the Yankees 
at New York, including two straight plays by Brent Lillibridge off the 
bats of Alex Rodríguez and Robinson Canó to end the game on April 26. The 
Sox finished their 11-game road trip 3–8. The Sox lost the first two games 
of the four-game series against the Baltimore Orioles to finish April with 
a 10–18 record. The Sox opened the month of May with a 6–4 loss to the 
Orioles. Then the Sox avoided getting swept by beating the Orioles 6–2. 
Then on May 3 against the Minnesota Twins, Francisco Liriano no-hit the 
White Sox. Liriano threw 123 pitches with six walks and just two strikeouts. 
Prior to this game, Liriano had an ERA of 9.13, which is the second highest 
ERA before the no-hitter since 1913. After the no-hitter, his ERA dropped 
to 6.61. It is the Twins first no-hitter since Eric Milton threw one on 
Sep 11, 1999 against the California Angels. The Sox went hitless for the 
first time since Aug 26, 1991 when the Royals' pitcher Bret Saberhagen 
threw against them. The Sox lost again 3–2 on the next day to Minnesota 
to have the worst record in MLB at 11–21. Then the Sox went on to the west 
coast in Seattle, Los Angeles, and Oakland, finishing 6–3 in that nine-game 
road trip. During the road trip on May 11 at Los Angeles, Jake Peavy started 
the game for the first time since July 6 of last season when he tore his 
lat muscle, also against the Angels. He went 6 IP 7 H 4 ER 4 K in no decision 
as Sox defeated Angels 6–4 in 10 innings. When Peavy added to the starting 
rotation and Philip Humber is too good to be moved to the bullpen, the 
Sox used the six-man rotation. On May 15, Mark Buehrle outdueled Trevor 
Cahill as Sox defeated Oakland 4–3. The Sox went back home splitting a 
two-game series against the Rangers and swept the two-game series over 
the first-place Indians, including a three-hit shutout by Jake Peavy in 
the first game of that series in his second start of the season. On the 
next night, the Sox lost the first game of the series against the Dodgers 
after giving up a home run to Russell Mitchell in the 9th inning by Sergio 
Santos which tied the game at 3. Until Mitchell's homer, Santos did not 
allow a run this season, he went 20 scoreless innings. Then the Dodgers 
scored three runs in the 10th to beat the Sox 6–4. The Game storm betts 
was go but his mom got a spedding ticket day before on way home from school 
Meanwhile, the Sox won the final two games against the Dodgers to win their 
first interleague series of the season. The Sox lost two out of three at 
Texas. In the second game of that series on May 24, the game was in a 2:58 
rain delay, but the Sox took this game 8–6 in 9 innings as the game ended 
at 1:27 am CT. In next series at Toronto, the Sox took the opener by a 
final score of 3–1 by scoring two runs in the ninth inning. In the third 
game of this series, the Sox tied the game up at 8 in the ninth inning. 
In the Sox half of the 11th inning, Brent Morel hit a lead-off double but 
the team did not score. In the Blue Jays' half of 14th inning with starter 
Gavin Floyd in relief, a leadoff hitter Corey Patterson hit a walk-off 
homer which ended the game with a final score of 9–8. The Sox suffered 
their fourth walk-off loss of the season. In the finale of that series, 
John Danks gave up 9 runs in 4 innings. The Sox went on to lose 13–4 and 
Danks was then 0–8 with a 5.25 ERA. With the only win in that four-game 
series coming in the opener of the series, the Sox had lost seven straight 
games in the finale of a four-game series when they won the opener and 
lost the next two dating back to the start of 2007 season. On Memorial 
Day, the Sox took Game 1 of the series at Boston with a final score of 
7–3. In Game 2, the Sox defeated the Red Sox 10–7, as the White Sox bullpen 
allowed 6 runs in final two innings. The Sox finished May with a 16–13 
record. Continuing the series at Boston starting in May, the Sox played 
the finale of the series at Boston looking for a second consecutive sweep 
at Boston, and then they did. The White Sox defeated the Red Sox 7–4 to 
win their seventh straight at Fenway Park, their longest since 1958–59 
when they also won seven straight. The White Sox have also won 13 of their 
last 15 contests against the Red Sox overall. Over the last 15 games, the 
White Sox have outscored the Red Sox 88–50 during that span. On June 3, 
the Sox began their 10-game homestand against the Tigers. The Sox won the 
opener of the three-game series 6–4 but they lost the series by losing 
the last two with final scores of 4–2 and 7–3. Finally on June 6, John 
Danks outdueled Michael Pineda to take the first win of the season by beating 
the Mariners 3–1. Danks is the last qualified starting pitcher of the season 
to record a win. Philip Humber dominated again as Sox defeat Seattle 5–1. 
In the finale of this three-game series, Carlos Quentin hit his game-tying 
two-run homer to tie the game 4–4 in eighth inning. That was his second 
homer of the game after his solo jack in first inning. However, the Sox 
will lose the game 7–4 in 10 innings. In the opener of the 4-game series 
against Oakland, Mark Buehrle outdueled Trevor Cahill again as they defeated 
Oakland 9–4. Then the next game was ugly. In the ninth inning with two 
outs, nobody one, and 0–2 count, Sox led 5–3, Josh Willingham walked and 
then deteriorated. Several at-bats later, Scott Sizemore (who just acquired 
from Detroit couple days prior) hit his game-winning three-run double to 
defeat the Sox 7–5 as Sergio Santos blows his second save of the season. 
On next day, Danks recorded his back-to-back win after losing eight decision 
by beating Oakland 3–2. In that game in the eighth inning, Brent Lillibridge 
made his game-saving home run robbing catch off the bat of Coco Crisp with 
runner on first. In the finale of this series on June 12, Sox defeat Oakland 
5–4 to take three out of four from Oakland and finish the homestand 6–4. 
The Sox played a two-game series at Minnesota from June 15–16 because the 
game was postponed due to rain on June 14. The Sox were swept in a two-game 
series including a 1–0 loss. The Sox went to Arizona for the first time 
since 2003, where they take two out of three. In the opener of this series, 
Edwin Jackson faced Daniel Hudson who switched teams between Sox and D-backs 
last season. Hudson wins 4–1 over Jackson. The Sox won the final two games 
of this series with the final scores of 6–2 and 8–2. Even though D-backs 
were 2nd in NL in home runs, D-backs did not hit any home runs against 
the Sox in this series. The Sox came home to play the Cubs and the Nats. 
The Sox lost the opener of the series to the Cubs 6–2 and won the last 
two by the scores of 3–2 and 4–3. The Sox allowed a home run to former 
Ray Carlos Peña in all three game of this series including a game-winning 
three-run homer in the 6th in the opener of this series. In the opener 
of the last season's rematch with the Nats, in the ninth inning, Mark Teahen 
hit a game-tying three-run homer to tie the game at 3. The Nats score a 
run in the tenth on Laynce Nix's solo home run. The Sox scored one in the 
bottom half to tie the game again. In the 12th inning, the Nats scored 
a run and in the bottom half, A. J. Pierzynski tied the game up yet again 
with a solo home run with two outs and an 0–2 count. In the 14th inning, 
Alexei Ramírez committed an error with led to four gifted runs for a 9–5 
Sox loss. Then the Sox won the second game of this series 3–0. John Danks 
got injured after 1.2 IP and he would go on the 15-day disabled list with 
a right oblique strain. Jake Peavy would pitch for 4 innings for his 4th 
victory of the season. In the finale of this series, in the 7th inning 
with one out and one on, Paul Konerko appeared to hit a GW two-run homer 
but the wind kept it in the ballpark and Jerry Hairston, Jr. made a catch 
in left field. The Sox would go on to lose 2–1 and the Sox lost the home 
series against the Nats even though the Sox swept the Nats at D.C. last 
season. Also in that game, Adam Dunn went 0–4 with four strikeouts, becoming 
the first big league player to strikeout 100 times this season. The Sox 
would then head to Denver for the first time since 2005, taking two out 
of three from the Rox, including a split in extra-inning games. The Sox 
finished the month of June with a 14–11 record. The Sox opened the month 
of July with a 6–4 comeback victory over the Cubs at Wrigley Field. They 
won the next game 1–0 by a great pitching performance by Humber and then 
they lost 3–1 in the finale of this series. The Sox finished the season 
series against the Cubs 4–2 and 11–7 in interleague play. The Sox lost 
two out of three from Kansas City and three out of four from Minnesota 
at U.S. Cellular Field before heading into the All-Star break. Both of 
those wins came on a walk-off. The Sox are 8–31 against Minnesota since 
May 21, 2009 and 1–7 against them in 2011. The Sox went on their 8-game 
road trip excluding a rain-out game at Cleveland. The Sox took two out 
of three from Detroit, lost two out of three to Royals, and swept two games 
at Cleveland. Then the Sox went on to their 10-game homestand with six 
games left in July. The Sox won the series against the Detroit again and 
then they lost two out of three to Boston Red Sox via the Rock Series (WLL) 
after the Sox swept the other Sox in Boston earlier this season. During 
the off day on July 27 before the series against Boston, the Sox traded 
away Edwin Jackson and Mark Teahen to Toronto Blue Jays for Jason Frasor 
and Zach Stewart. Jackson would then be traded to St. Louis Cardinals. 
The Sox finished the month of July with a 12–12 record with a losing home 
record (5–8) but a winning road record (7–4). The Sox continued their 10-game 
homestand started in July with four games to play against the Yankees. 
Worst of all, the Sox got swept in a four-game series at home against the 
Yankees for the first time since June 1976 and first time the Sox swept 
in a four-game series at home by an opponent since August 2007 when the 
White Sox were swept by Red Sox. In a third game of this dreadful four-game 
series, the Sox allowed a season high 18 runs, including 13 in the first 
three innings. Also during the four-game series, the Sox hitters never 
walked. After that dreadful series against the Yankees, the Sox went to 
Target Field to take on the Twins for the three-game series. In Game 2 
of this series, Zach Stewart, who acquired from Toronto in Edwin Jackson 
deal, started this game and got his first Major League win by going 6.1 
IP and 1 ER. In Game 3 of this series, Jake Peavy pitched eight shutout 
innings. The Sox would go on to sweep the Twins on the road for the first 
time since June/July 2004 by the scores of 5–3, 6–1, and 7–0. Then the 
Sox went to Baltimore and took three of four to even the season series 
against the Orioles 4–4. Then the Sox went home to play the Royals, Indians, 
and the first place Rangers. The Sox took two of three from the Royals, 
lost two of three from the Indians, and won two of three from the Rangers, 
all via rock series. The Sox went to the west coast to take on the Angels 
and the Mariners. The Sox were swept in a two-game series against the Halos 
and the Sox swept the Mariners in a three-game weekend series. In the finale 
of that series, Dayán Viciedo called up from Triple-A Charlotte to play 
right field as Carlos Quentin went to the 15-day DL. In his second at-bat, 
Viciedo hit his three-run homer to make it 3–0 Sox. A couple innings later, 
Tyler Flowers, who is playing for A. J. Pierzynski who is also on the 15-day 
DL, hit his first career grand slam and his second homer of his career. 
It is also the first grand slam the Sox have hit this season. The Sox would 
go on to win this game 9–3 to complete the sweep. Since the start of the 
2008 season, the Sox have won 23 of the last 25 games when they hit grand 
slam(s). The Sox concluded the month by taking two out of three from the 
struggling Twins. The Sox finished the month of August with a 16–12 record 
with a losing home record (7–9) but a winning road record (9–3). The Sox 
began the month by getting swept in the Motor City by Tigers, which increase 
the Sox deficit of Detroit from 5½ to 8½ games. In that series, the Sox 
were outscored 35–11 in a three-game series including an 18–2 loss in the 
second game. The Sox went to Minnesota and won their first three games 
of a four-game series and then lost the last game that would otherwise 
been their first four-game sweep in Minnesota ever. In the second game 
of this series (second game of a doubleheader), rookie Zach Stewart flirted 
with perfecto as he retired the first 21 Twin batters he faced before giving 
up a double to Danny Valencia. Stewart would then go on to retire six straight 
to end the game with a one-hitter. The Sox came back to U.S. Cellular Field 
to take on the Indians in a four-game set. The Sox split the series. On 
the morning of September 10, Jake Peavy decided to shut down for the rest 
of the season so he'll get more time to relax his lat muscles recovered 
from surgery and make him stronger for next season. Peavy finished the 
season with a 4.92 ERA in 18 starts and 1 relief appearance. Later on that 
day in the third game of a four-game set against the Indians, Alex Ríos 
hit a walk-off grand slam in the 10th inning for a 7–3 Sox victory. Then 
the Sox got ugly, they were swept by Detroit in a three-game series at 
home in September for the second consecutive year. In the finale of that 
series, the Sox led 5–2 going to the 9th inning and then Sergio Santos 
suffered his 6th blown save of the season by giving up two home runs and 
preventing rookie Dylan Axelrod from picking up his first major league 
win. The Sox would lose in the 10th inning 6–5. So the playoff chances 
for the Sox is nil as they fall to 13½ games behind Detroit. The Sox played 
their final road trip of the season: they lost three out of four against 
the Royals and won two out of four against the Indians. The Sox played 
their final homestand of the season: the Sox lost two out of three against 
the Royals and won two out of three against the Blue Jays. In the opener 
of that series against the Blue Jays, Dylan Axelrod picked up his first 
major league win, going 6 IP, 3 H, 0 ER, 2 BB, 6 K in a 4–3 Sox victory. 
After the opener against the Blue Jays, the manager Ozzie Guillén called 
it quits as the White Sox skipper and he will manage the Miami Marlins 
under his four-year contract starting next season. The pitching coach Don 
Cooper took over as manager for the final two games of the season. The 
Sox would go on to finish the month of September with an 11–17 record and 
a third-place finish at 79–83 overall, suffering their losing season in 
third consecutive odd-numbered years. With a road record of 43–38, it is 
the first team in franchise history to end the season with a losing overall 
record but a winning road record. Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting 
average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run 
average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings 
pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; 
HR = Home runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts; AVG = Opponent 
