The 2011 American League Championship Series (abbreviated ALCS) was a best-of-seven 
playoff pitting the winners of the 2011 American League Division Series, 
the Texas Rangers and Detroit Tigers, against each other for the American 
League championship and the right to be the league's representative in 
the 2011 World Series. The series was the 42nd in league history. While 
the 2010 American League Championship series began on October 15, the 2011 
series began on October 8[3] to accommodate the World Series, which is 
scheduled to begin on October 19.[4] Fox televised all games in the United 
States. Games 1, 2, and 6 were played at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, 
Texas, while the other games were played at Comerica Park in Detroit. This 
was the first postseason meeting between the Rangers and the Tigers. The 
Tigers appeared in the ALCS (and the postseason overall) for the first 
time since 2006, while the Rangers were playing in their second consecutive 
appearance. Texas won the series, 4–2. †: postponed from October 9 due 
to rain Saturday, October 8, 2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in 
Arlington, Texas [5] The Tigers loaded the bases in the first inning with 
one out, but C. J. Wilson escaped the jam when Magglio Ordóñez grounded 
into a double play. The Rangers scored two runs in the second on a triple 
from David Murphy and a single from Ian Kinsler. Nelson Cruz added a solo 
home run in the fourth. After a 41-minute rain delay, Austin Jackson doubled 
in the Tigers first run. Then after two walks loaded the bases, a wild 
pitch brought home Jackson to make the score 3–2 Rangers. After a second 
rain delay, Michael Gonzalez relieved Wilson and got Alex Avila to ground 
out to second with the bases loaded. Rick Porcello pitched two innings 
of relief of Verlander and the bullpens took over from there. After the 
Rangers bullpen threw 3 1⁄3 innings of scoreless relief, Neftalí Feliz 
came on to get the save. After allowing a lead off single, Feliz struck 
out the next three batters to save it for the Rangers. Monday, October 
10, 2011 – 4:19 pm (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas [6] Game 2 
was originally scheduled for October 9, but was postponed hours before 
it began due to the forecast of heavy rain in the area, in an attempt to 
avoid a repeat of the previous game. However, the rain never actually came; 
forecasts just prior to what would have been the beginning of the game 
indicated only a 10% chance of rain.[11] Josh Hamilton and Adrián Beltré 
each had an RBI in the first to give the Rangers an early lead. However, 
Ryan Raburn hit a three-run home run in the third to give the Tigers the 
lead, chasing Derek Holland out of the game. Nelson Cruz hit a home run 
in the seventh with no outs off Max Scherzer to tie the game at three, 
chasing Scherzer out of the game as well. The Rangers loaded the bases 
with no outs in the ninth against Tigers' closer José Valverde, but Valverde 
escaped the jam with a shallow fly ball and a 3–2–3 double play, leading 
to the Rangers' first postseason extra-inning game. After two scoreless 
innings from the bullpen, the Rangers again loaded the bases with no outs 
in the bottom of the 11th inning. This time, however, the Rangers ended 
the game when Nelson Cruz hit a game-winning grand slam, the first officially 
recorded[GS] walk-off grand slam in Major League Baseball postseason history 
and the first walk-off win in Rangers' postseason history. Tuesday, October 
11, 2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan [7] The 
Rangers began the game with three straight hits from Ian Kinsler, Elvis 
Andrus, and Josh Hamilton scoring a run. Tiger starter Doug Fister, however, 
limited the damage by getting Michael Young to ground into a double play 
and striking out Adrián Beltré. The Tigers tied the game in the bottom 
of the fourth on a Víctor Martínez solo home run. The Tigers took the lead 
in the fifth on a two-out two-strike hit by Miguel Cabrera. The Tigers 
made it 3–1 with another solo home run by Jhonny Peralta. They added another 
run on an Austin Jackson single. The Tigers extended their lead to 5–1 
on yet another solo home run in the seventh by Miguel Cabrera. José Valverde 
came on in the ninth to get the save. He worked around a leadoff double 
by Josh Hamilton to secure the Tigers' first victory of the series. Wednesday, 
October 12, 2011 – 4:19 pm (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan[8] 
After a 133-minute rain delay,[12] Game 4 commenced. The Tigers rallied 
for two runs in the bottom of the third inning on singles by Brandon Inge 
and Ryan Raburn. Miguel Cabrera drove them in with a two-run double. The 
Rangers got on the board in the sixth with a David Murphy single and an 
Ian Kinsler double. Elvis Andrus tied the game with a hit of his own. The 
Rangers grabbed the lead on a single by Michael Young after a wild pick-off 
throw to first allowed Andrus to advance to second base. Rick Porcello 
struggled in the seventh, allowing two singles, chasing him from the game. 
Al Alburquerque walked a batter to load the bases, but left them stranded. 
Brandon Inge tied the game with a solo home run in the seventh inning. 
In the eighth, the Tigers threatened when Miguel Cabrera walked and Víctor 
Martínez singled to advance Cabrera to third. Delmon Young hit a deep fly 
ball to Nelson Cruz, but he caught it and threw it to home plate to tag 
Cabrera out. In the 11th, the Rangers grabbed a 4–3 lead on a leadoff double 
by Josh Hamilton and a one-out single by Mike Napoli. Nelson Cruz then 
hit his fourth home run of the series, a three-run shot to make it 7–3 
Rangers. That would be the final score as the Tigers went down in order 
in the bottom of the inning. Thursday, October 13, 2011 – 4:19 pm (EDT) 
at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan [9] The Rangers struck quickly in 
the first inning against Justin Verlander on a leadoff double from Ian 
Kinsler, a bunt from Elvis Andrus, and sacrifice fly from Josh Hamilton. 
Avila homered for Detroit in the third inning to tie it at 1. Delmon Young 
gave Detroit the lead with a solo home run in the bottom of the fourth. 
Hamilton tied the game up in the fifth inning for the Rangers after Kinsler 
walked with one out and moved to second after an Andrus single. The Tigers 
rallied for four runs in the sixth inning on a Ryan Raburn single, a Miguel 
Cabrera double, a Víctor Martínez triple, and a Delmon Young homer to make 
it 6–2 Tigers. In doing so, they became the first team to hit for a "combined" 
natural cycle in four consecutive at bats.[13] The Rangers chipped away 
with another home run from Nelson Cruz, this time a two-run shot, which 
chased Verlander out of the game and brought Texas within three runs. The 
Rangers put the tying run on base in the ninth inning, but Phil Coke got 
Mike Napoli to ground out to second for the save. Saturday, October 15, 
2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas [10] Looking 
to force a decisive Game 7, the Tigers struck first on a solo home run 
in the first by Miguel Cabrera. They added another solo shot in the second 
by Jhonny Peralta with one out to make the score 2–0 Tigers. However, any 
chance the Tigers had of forcing a Game 7 would fall apart courtesy of 
a nine-run Rangers third inning. After Ian Kinsler grounded sharply to 
Brandon Inge for the first out, Elvis Andrus walked followed by a single 
from Josh Hamilton. Michael Young, who had been in a terrible slump the 
entire postseason, doubled down the left-field line sending both runners 
home to tie it at two. Adrián Beltré singled, scoring Michael Young. Following 
walks for both Mike Napoli and Nelson Cruz, the Tigers pulled Max Scherzer 
and put in Daniel Schlereth. David Murphy singled home both Napoli and 
Beltré, and with David Murphy and Nelson Cruz on first and second, respectively. 
Tiger starter Rick Porcello was bought in to face Endy Chávez; the Rangers 
countered by pinch-hitting Craig Gentry, who reached on a fielder's choice. 
Kinsler singled to score Cruz and Murphy. Andrus reached on a fielder's 
choice, loading the bases. Michael Young finished the inning by doubling 
down the right-field line, sending home Kinsler and Andrus. Young would 
become the first player in LCS history to have two extra-base hits in the 
same inning and fourth overall, the other three occurring in the World 
Series.[14] Looking for a comeback, the Tigers got two back on an Austin 
Jackson home run in the top of the fifth, chasing Holland, but the Rangers 
answered with a Josh Hamilton sacrifice fly in the bottom of the fifth 
to make it 10–4 Rangers. The Rangers extended the lead to 12–4 in the sixth 
and 15–4 with a home run from Young and the sixth home run of the series 
from Nelson Cruz in the seventh to rout the Tigers. The Tigers scored their 
last run on a second solo home run from Miguel Cabrera. Neftalí Feliz came 
on in the ninth inning for the Rangers in a non-save situation. He retired 
Brandon Inge on a pop-up for the last out, sealing the Rangers a second 
consecutive trip to the World Series. In hitting a postseason record six 
home runs throughout the series, including two in extra-innings (one being 
a walk-off grand slam), Nelson Cruz earned the Series MVP award.[1] 2011 
