The Los Angeles Dodgers major league baseball team underwent a period of 
turmoil in management in 2011-2012 that began when Major League Baseball 
seized control of the team from owner Frank McCourt on April 20, 2011 and 
ended when the team was sold to new owners on May 1, 2012.[1] Baseball 
Commissioner Bud Selig announced that the takeover was due to concerns 
over the team's finances, and a loss of confidence in the ability of owner 
Frank McCourt to run the team.[2] Selig announced his intention to appoint 
an overseer to supervise the day-to-day financial management of the Dodgers. 
In June, as the Dodgers struggled to meet payroll, Selig rejected a TV 
contract that would have pumped money into the organization. This led to 
the Dodgers filing for bankruptcy, and being forced to negotiate a loan 
with the MLB to keep the club operating. After a year of negotiations and 
court proceedings, the dispute ended with the sale of the team to Guggenheim 
Baseball Management LLC.[3] Frank McCourt and his wife Jamie purchased 
the Dodgers from the Fox Entertainment Group in 2004. In order to arrange 
the purchase, he needed a $145 million loan from Fox, for which he used 
his Boston parking lots as collateral. Fox eventually foreclosed on the 
parking lot property and sold it.[4] Under McCourt's ownership of the Dodgers 
the team made the playoffs four times, advancing to the NLCS twice. On 
October 14, 2009 it was announced the McCourts would be separating after 
nearly 30 years of marriage.[5] While speculation was raised on the impact 
upon the McCourt family Dodger ownership, a spokesperson for Jamie McCourt 
said the following day that "the focus of the Dodgers is on the playoffs 
and the World Series". Jamie McCourt was fired from her position as Dodgers 
CEO on Thursday, October 22, 2009, the day after the Dodgers were eliminated 
from the playoffs, thus ending the reign of the self-proclaimed "First 
Female CEO of a Baseball Team."[5] She officially filed for divorce shortly 
thereafter. Frank McCourt then accused her of having an affair with her 
bodyguard and changed the locks on her office. Frank McCourt claimed at 
the time that the divorce would have "no bearing on the team whatsoever". 
"[6] On December 7, 2010 the judge in the divorce case invalidated the 
post-nuptial marital property agreement ("MPA") that Frank McCourt had 
claimed provided him with sole ownership of the Dodgers. In the wake of 
this decision Frank McCourt's lawyers said that Frank would use other legal 
avenues to establish his sole ownership of the Dodgers, while Jamie McCourt's 
lawyers said that Jamie would be confirmed as the co-owner of the team 
as community property of their marriage.[7] On March 31, 2011, after the 
Opening Day game against the San Francisco Giants, a Giants fan was attacked 
by two men wearing Dodgers attire in the Dodger Stadium parking lot.[8] 
The fan suffered serious injuries and was diagnosed with brain damage. 
McCourt was criticized for his response to the incident.[9][10][11] The 
attack put a damper on attendance at Dodger games, and led to the Dodgers 
incurring increased expenses in security. On April 5, 2011, McCourt presented 
Selig's office with a contract giving Fox broadcasting rights to the team 
for the next 20 years. The deal is said to be valued at between US$2.5 
to US$3 billion.[12] Fox also provided McCourt with a personal loan of 
$30 million to cover the Dodgers payroll. To secure the loan, McCourt promised 
Fox he would pay them back with money from a settlement or judgment against 
the lawfirm that drafted the invalidated marital agreement. The lawfirm 
responded to the report by filing a lawsuit against McCourt, seeking a 
judicial declaration that the firm is not responsible for him losing control 
of the Dodgers[13] Just prior to the MLB taking over the Dodgers, the website 
TMZ.com reported that the Internal Revenue Service was investigating Frank 
& Jamie McCourt in response to allegations that they had been taking money 
out of the Dodgers for years without paying taxes.[14] In a statement to 
the press on April 20, 2011,[15] Commissioner Bud Selig stated the following: 
Pursuant to my authority as Commissioner, I informed Los Angeles Dodgers 
owner Frank McCourt today that I will appoint a representative to oversee 
all aspects of the business and the day-to-day operations of the Club. 
I have taken this action because of my deep concerns regarding the finances 
and operations of the Dodgers and to protect the best interests of the 
Club, its great fans and all of Major League Baseball. My office will continue 
its thorough investigation into the operations and finances of the Dodgers 
and related entities during the period of Mr. McCourt's ownership. I will 
announce the name of my representative in the next several days. Reactions 
to Selig's move have been generally positive. For example, The New York 
Times baseball journalist Tyler Kepner editorialized that "Bud Selig has 
never looked better than he does right now."[16] However, ESPN correspondent 
Gene Wojciechowski criticized Selig and MLB, making the case that Selig 
and the 29 other MLB owners at the time turned a blind eye to the financial 
problems that the McCourts were known to have when they purchased the team 
in 2004.[17] In a statement to the press on April 20, 2011,[18] owner Frank 
McCourt responded: Major League Baseball sets strict financial guidelines 
which all 30 teams must follow. The Dodgers are in compliance with these 
guidelines. On this basis, it is hard to understand the commissioner's 
decision today. Steve Soboroff, hired by McCourt as the Dodgers vice chairman 
April 19, 2011, described the takeover of the team's operations as "irresponsible".[12] 
On April 25, 2011, Selig appointed Tom Schieffer, former Ambassador to 
Japan and former President of the Texas Rangers, to oversee the team's 
finances. Schieffer must approve any team expenditure over $5,000.[19] 
In June, the cash-strapped McCourt struggled to meet payroll, only meeting 
it with help from some of his friends. As the Dodgers' end-of-June payroll, 
which included over $8 million in deferred payments to former Dodger Manny 
Ramirez, neared, it was reported that McCourt would be unable to meet payroll 
without the approval of a 17-year, $3 billion TV deal with Fox Sports Net. 
However, on June 20, MLB commissioner Bud Selig declined to approve the 
deal.[20] Selig's action also voided a settlement reached on June 17 between 
Frank and Jamie that divided their assets apart from the Dodgers. On August 
4, a one-day trial was scheduled decide whether the Dodgers are community 
property of Frank and Jamie McCourt, or the property of Frank alone. However, 
the trial was canceled when the Dodgers filed for bankruptcy. Frank & Jamie 
McCourt and the divorce court later agreed to a 30- to 45-day trial to 
settle their divorce and decide who owns the Dodgers. The trial was expected 
to start in spring or summer of 2012. In the meantime they agreed to sell 
some of their residential holdings.[21] On October 17, 2011 it was announced 
that the McCourt's had reached a settlement in their divorce case, in which 
Jamie would give up her claims on the Dodgers and Frank would pay her about 
$130 million. The divorce is believed to have been the costliest in California 
history.[22] On June 27, the Dodgers filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. 
(Bud Selig has) turned his back on the Dodgers, treated us differently, 
and forced us to the point we find ourselves in today. I simply cannot 
allow the Commissioner to knowingly and intentionally be in a position 
to expose the Dodgers to financial risk any longer. My goal from the outset 
has been to ensure that the Dodgers are being operated properly now and 
will be guided appropriately in the future for their millions of fans... 
The action taken today by Mr. McCourt does nothing but inflict further 
harm to this historic franchise In the filing, the Dodgers sought permission 
to use a $150 million loan from a hedge fund for daily operations, according 
to a team news release. If approved, this would allow the team to meet 
its payroll obligations to Ramirez, Andruw Jones, and others. [23][24] 
After the filing, the Dodgers told Tom Schieffer that he no longer had 
any authority in relation to the Dodgers and refused to let him return 
to work.[25] MLB filed their own response to the bankruptcy filing, in 
which they said that the court should reject McCourt's bid to save his 
ownership by "threatening the immediate demise of one of baseball's great 
teams." They also asked the court to consider if McCourt should remain 
the owner during the proceedings and if Schieffer can remain in his position.[26] 
In the court hearing on June 28, the Dodgers and MLB agreed that the Dodgers 
could use the hedge fund financing temporarily, pending a July 20 hearing 
on MLB's request to take over funding of the Dodgers. The language in McCourt's 
original filing asking for an auction of the television rights was deleted 
temporarily, though that could come up again in the next hearing.[27] As 
part of the bankruptcy proceedings, McCourt's lawyer served Selig and other 
top MLB executives with subpoenas, in an attempt to prove that Selig had 
predetermined that he was going to seize the Dodgers. MLB attorneys responded 
that allowing McCourt access to MLB documents and executives would turn 
the hearing into "a multi-ringed side show of mini-trials on his personal 
disputes."[28] The Judge sided with MLB and ruled that McCourt could not 
compel the release of the documents or depose Selig because they weren't 
relevant to the issue of the bankruptcy.[29] After a hearing on July 20, 
the judge rejected McCourt's further use of the Highbridge loan and ordered 
McCourt to negotiate a loan with MLB.[30] On September 23, the MLB made 
several requests of the court, to be decided at an October 12 hearing. 
It asked that the judge order the Dodgers seized and sold. It also threatened 
to block any attempt to sell TV rights (and perhaps even suspend the team 
from the league for the 2012 season), and alleged that McCourt's lawyers 
have no standing as he and they are in violation of MLB rules.[31][32] 
The Dodgers in a statement said that MLB was trying to force "an unnecessary 
and value-destroying distressed sale" of the team.[33] On September 30, 
Judge Gross ruled that McCourt's lawyers could not attempt discovery by 
looking into the records of other MLB clubs. However, he did say he expected 
Selig to testify in person. He set the hearing for the MLB and McCourt's 
lawyers to provide case for and against the sale of the club in early November, 
where he would rule on various points involving McCourt, the Dodgers, MLB, 
and the TV contract.[34] On November 1, 2011 McCourt and MLB issued a joint 
statement that McCourt had agreed to sell the team, the Stadium and the 
parking lots. The league hoped to have a new owner in place by opening 
day, 2012.[35] The Los Angeles Dodgers and Major League Baseball announced 
today that they have agreed to a court-supervised process to sell the team 
and its attendant media rights in a manner designed to realize maximum 
value for the Dodgers and their owner Frank McCourt. Opening bids on the 
team were due on January 24, 2012. Several groups of potential owners placed 
bids on the Dodgers, groups known to have placed bids include: After the 
initial round of bidding, the groups backed by Hershiser & Garvey, Claire, 
Gilbert & King and Mark Cuban did not advance to the next round, where 
the remaining bidders were vetted by MLB.[48] On March 27, 2012, it was 
announced that an agreement had been reached on the sale of the Dodgers 
between Frank McCourt and Guggenheim Baseball Management LLC, a group of 
investors fronted by Guggenheim CEO Mark Walter and including former Los 
Angeles Lakers player Magic Johnson, baseball executive Stan Kasten and 
film mogul Peter Guber.[49] The total sale price for the Dodgers (which 
includes Dodgers Stadium) exceeded $2 billion, making the sale the largest 
for a professional sports team in history, exceeding the approximately 
$1.5 billion purchase of Manchester United F.C. by Malcolm Glazer in 2005,[50] 
On the same day, it was also announced that the members of the group will 
partner McCourt in purchasing the property surrounding the stadium.[51] 
The sale price of the Dodgers was considered to be far higher than what 
the team was actually worth at the time of sale. Estimates made by Forbes 
placed the value of the Dodgers at approximately $1.4 billion, and the 
winning bid was more than 30% higher than the next highest bid.[52] On 
April 13, the sale was approved by the bankruptcy court[53] and on May 
