The 2011 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the franchise's 125th season as 
a member of the National League and 130th season overall. The season was 
the first with manager Clint Hurdle, who was hired to replace the fired 
John Russell. After going a major league worst 57–105, they enjoyed somewhat 
of a resurgence, winning more than 70 games for the first time since 2004 
and being covered significantly in the summer due to being involved in 
the pennant race, but they still locked up their 19th consecutive losing 
season. The Pirates won their opening game against the Cubs in Chicago 
6–3.[2] Neil Walker led the offense with a grand slam in the fifth inning, 
becoming the only Pirate other than Roberto Clemente to hit a grand slam 
on opening day. Pittsburgh blew a lead the following day and lost, but 
scored two runs in the final inning of the series finale to finish their 
first series with a 2–1 record.[3] Pittsburgh defeated the St. Louis Cardinals 
in two of three games during their second series, marking the first time 
the Pirates had won the majority of games in two consecutive road series 
since 2007.[4] Pittsburgh came home to face the Colorado Rockies; winning 
one game out of four. In the second game of the series, the Pirates prevailed 
in a 5-hour, 10-minute game which lasted 14 innings. After an injury to 
starting pitcher Ross Ohlendorf, the bullpen combined for 11⅓ scoreless 
innings—the most for the Pirates since 1900.[5] During the April 9 game 
in Pittsburgh, a local man was arrested in the left-field seating section. 
According to the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, the man "appeared to be drunk, 
bothered fans in his section and belligerently refused to cooperate" when 
he would not leave at the game at the request of PNC Park employees and 
police.[6] While being escorted from the section the man struck a ballpark 
employee, which was met with officers putting him under arrest after "Tasering 
him to little effect before clubbing him in the neck, head, side and legs."[6] 
The entire incident was captured on video.[7] He was charged with public 
drunkenness, resisting arrest, and two additional misdemeanors.[6] In a 
related incident, a woman was arrested and charged with aggravated assault, 
disorderly conduct, and defiant trespassing. After yelling at the officers 
making the initial arrest, she then "resisted an officer's attempts to 
remove her from the park" while yelling obscenities.[8] In May, the Pirates 
compiled a 13–13 (.500) record, and finished the month at 25–28 for the 
season. On June 24, 2011, the Pirates defeated the Boston Red Sox, 3–1, 
to improve their record to 38–37. This is the latest in the season that 
the Pirates have been above .500 since 1999. On June 28, 2011, the Pirates 
defeated the Blue Jays 7–6 at the Rogers Centre, to mark their first inter-league 
road victory in two years. On July 8, the Pirates defeated the Chicago 
Cubs to enter the All-Star break above the .500 mark for the first time 
since 1992. The Pirates also sent three players to the All-Star Game with 
the selections of Kevin Correia, Joel Hanrahan and Andrew McCutchen. This 
marked the first time since 1990 that the team had three All-Stars in the 
National League line-up.[9] While Correia did not enter the game, along 
with Tim Lincecum, McCutchen entered the game in the seventh inning, batting 
in the eighth. Hanrahan was called to close in the top of the ninth, striking 
out the first batter, however an untimely error from Cubs shortstop Starlin 
Castro and a single led to two men in scoring position. Brian Wilson got 
the save. On July 15, and again on July 18, the Pirates moved into first 
place of the NL Central. This marked the first two times that the Pirates 
were in first place this late in the season since 1997.[10] July 25 saw 
the Pirates return to the national stage with their game at Atlanta being 
televised on ESPN. This is the first time the Pirates had been on ESPN 
since September 22, 2004.[11] The Pirates went on to win the game 3 to 
1, moving them again into a first place tie in the NL Central. The next 
night, the Pirates fell victim to a controversial call in a 4–3 loss to 
the Braves after 19 innings. Braves infielder Julio Lugo was ruled safe 
at home plate by home plate umpire Jerry Meals even though replay clearly 
showed Lugo should have been called out. Meals and the league both admitted 
the call was incorrect. The team ended up filing a complaint with the commissioner's 
office.[12] Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 2011 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game NL Player of the Week Major League Baseball Delivery Man 
