The 2011 American League Division Series (abbreviated ALDS) were two best-of-five 
playoffs comprising the opening round of the Major League Baseball postseason, 
played to determine the participating teams in the 2011 American League 
Championship Series. Three divisional winners and a fourth team—a wild 
card—played in two series. TBS televised all games but Game 2's of both 
series in the United States. Game 2's of both series were aired on TNT 
due to schedule conflicting with other ALDS games or the NLDS.[1] The regular 
season finished on September 28, with the ALDS beginning September 30.[2] 
Game 5 of the Yankees–Tigers series was played on October 6.[3] Under MLB's 
playoff format, no two teams from the same division were matched up in 
the Division Series, regardless of whether their records would normally 
indicate such a matchup. Home field advantage went to the team with the 
better regular-season record with the exception of the wild card team, 
which defers home field advantage regardless of record. The matchups for 
the 2011 ALDS were: This was the second consecutive playoff meeting between 
the Rangers and Rays; the Rangers won 3–2 in the 2010 ALDS. The Tigers 
and Yankees previously met in the 2006 ALDS, in which the Tigers won 3–1, 
the last time they reached the postseason. Detroit won the series, 3–2. 
†: suspended in the bottom of the second inning due to rain Texas won the 
series, 3–1. 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York In front 
of a Yankee Stadium record setting crowd of 50,940, Justin Verlander, 24-game 
winner, Triple Crown winner, and Cy Young Award frontrunner, started Game 1 
for the Tigers against the Yankees' ace CC Sabathia. The Tigers started 
the scoring on Delmon Young's two-out solo home run in the top of the first 
inning. The Yankees managed to tie the game in the bottom half without 
a hit. Leadoff batter Derek Jeter reached first base on a wild pitch third 
strike. Jeter moved to third on Curtis Granderson's walk and Robinson Canó's 
groundout then scored on Alex Rodriguez's RBI groundout. The game was delayed 
by rain in the middle of the second inning and later suspended[17] and 
resumed at 8:37 p.m. on October 1, pushing Game 2 back to October 2. The 
suspension significantly altered both teams' pitching rotations for the 
series. Doug Fister and Iván Nova, both of whom were originally scheduled 
to start Game 2, entered as relief pitchers when Game 1 was resumed. Jorge 
Posada led off the continuation of the game with a single and then Russell 
Martin doubled, but Posada was tagged out trying to go home on a Brett 
Gardner grounder. The Tigers threatened in the fifth inning, putting men 
on first and second. However, Granderson made a strong throw to Jeter, 
who relayed to Martin at home to tag out Alex Avila trying to score the 
go-ahead run. Granderson hit a double in the bottom of the inning and Canó 
drove him in with an RBI double that was reviewed by instant replay after 
the ball hit the top of the wall near the boundary line. In the next inning, 
the Yankees scored six runs and, after Fister was relieved, a Canó grand 
slam, extending the Yankees lead to 8–1. Later, Canó knocked in his sixth 
RBI on an eighth-inning double to score Jeter, tying a Yankees postseason 
record for RBIs in a game by a single player. The Tigers threatened in 
the top of ninth when Delmon Young's single, Miguel Cabrera's walk, and 
Victor Martinez's single loaded the bases. Nova was relieved by Luis Ayala, 
who surrendered an RBI groundout by Avila, an RBI single by Ryan Raburn, 
and a single by Jhonny Peralta to load the bases again. The Yankees turned 
to their closer, all-time save leader Mariano Rivera, in a non-save situation, 
who struck out Wilson Betemit to end the game. 3:07 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee 
Stadium in Bronx, New York Max Scherzer threw 5 1⁄3 no-hit innings before 
allowing a single to Robinson Canó. Scherzer got help from the Tigers' 
offense early, as Magglio Ordóñez singled with one out in the first inning, 
then Miguel Cabrera hit an opposite-field home run one out later to put 
the Tigers in front 2–0. In the sixth, Austin Jackson reached on Derek 
Jeter's throwing error to first, then Orodnez singled. After Delmon Young 
struck out, back-to-back RBI singles from both Cabrera and Víctor Martínez 
made it 4-0 Tigers and knocked Freddy García out of the game. The Yankees 
got on the board in the eighth on Curtis Granderson's leadoff home run 
off of Joaquín Benoit, but in the ninth, Luis Ayala hit Brandon Inge with 
a pitch. Inge moved to second on a groundout and scored on Don Kelly's 
single to give the Tigers the run back. In the bottom of the inning, Nick 
Swisher hit a leadoff home run off José Valverde, who then allowed a triple 
to Jorge Posada and walked Russell Martin before Andruw Jones's sacrifice 
fly cut the Tigers' lead to 5-3. Jeter struck out and Granderson walked 
before Valverde retired one of the Yankees' most dangerous hitters (Robinson 
Canó) on a groundout, sending the teams to Detroit with the series tied 
at a game apiece. 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan 
In a rematch of Friday's game, Tigers ace Justin Verlander once again faced 
Yankees ace CC Sabathia. Verlander allowed two runs in the first inning—one 
by Curtis Granderson's RBI triple that scored Derek Jeter, and another 
by Alex Rodriguez's RBI groundout that scored Granderson. The Tigers got 
on the board when Ramón Santiago singled in Brandon Inge in the third inning. 
Then Miguel Cabrera grounded into double play but Austin Jackson scored 
to tie the game. Inge scored again on an RBI double by Santiago in the 
fifth inning, giving the Tigers the lead. Don Kelly scored on an RBI double 
by Jhonny Peralta in the sixth to increase Detroit's lead. After Alex Avila's 
sacrifice bunt, Sabathia was relieved by Rafael Soriano. The Yankees tied 
it back up with runs by Jorge Posada and Russell Martin on a Brett Gardner 
RBI double in the seventh. Detroit's Delmon Young hit a solo home run in 
the seventh to regain the lead. José Valverde recorded his 50th consecutive 
save in as many tries—including regular season—for the Tigers win, striking 
out Derek Jeter with the tying run on second and go-ahead run on first 
to end the game. 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan 
With their backs against the wall, the Yankees relied on A. J. Burnett 
to even the series. Burnett, who was assigned to the bullpen in the Division 
Series due to inconsistency, re-took the starting role thanks to the suspension 
in Game 1. Burnett was almost to be relieved by Cory Wade in the bottom 
of the first inning after issuing a two-out walk to Víctor Martínez that 
loaded the bases, but Curtis Granderson's run-saving catch helped Burnett 
escaped the jam unharmed. Derek Jeter's two-run double in the third put 
the Yankees on board, but Víctor Martínez's solo homer in the bottom of 
the fourth cut the Yankees' lead to one. Granderson's RBI double and Alex 
Rodriguez's sacrifice fly in the fifth increased the lead to three. Burnett 
was relieved after Don Kelly's two-out single in the bottom of the sixth, 
and he gave the Yankees what they were hoping for—tossing 5 2⁄3 innings, 
allowing four hits, one earned run, and four walks while striking out three. 
Later Granderson's second run-saving catch of the day ended the sixth inning 
for Burnett and the Yankees. The Yankees' offense erupted in the top of 
the eighth. Three struggling Yankees hitters—Alex Rodriguez, Mark Teixeira, 
and Nick Swisher—hit consecutive singles to start the eighth inning. A 
balk by the Tigers' reliever Al Alburquerque and an RBI single by pinch-hitter 
Jesús Montero brought in two more runs for the Yankees. Russell Martin 
was walked to load the bases again, followed by Brett Gardner's RBI single 
for another run. The next two batters—Derek Jeter and Curtis Granderson—were 
both struck out, but Jesús Montero scored on a wild pitch by the Tigers' 
reliever Daniel Schlereth during Granderson's at-bat. Robinson Canó singled 
in two more runs to increase the lead to 10–1. The six-run rally was more 
than enough for the Yankees, as the Yankees' relievers—Rafael Soriano, 
Phil Hughes, and Boone Logan—held the Tigers hitless in the remaining 3 1⁄3 
innings while striking out six. 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, 
New York Game 5 was a rematch of the two pitchers of record in Game 1—Iván 
Nova and Doug Fister. Despite the fans setting another Yankee Stadium record 
with 50,960 in attendance, the Tigers eliminated the Yankees with a 3–2 
win. Back–to–back homers by Don Kelly and Delmon Young early in the first 
inning put Detroit on top. Young's homer was his third, a Tigers record 
in a playoff series. Iván Nova did not last long, as he was pulled after 
the second inning with forearm tightness. The Tigers made it 3–0 in the 
top of the fifth when Víctor Martínez singled off CC Sabathia to drive 
in Austin Jackson. In the bottom of the fifth the Yankees finally scored 
on a Robinson Canó solo homer, and got another run in the seventh when 
Mark Teixeira walked with the bases loaded to score Derek Jeter. However, 
Joaquín Benoit managed to strike out Nick Swisher with the bases still 
loaded, ending the threat. José Valverde closed the door when he struck 
out Alex Rodriguez in the ninth, earning his 51st straight save of the 
combined 2011 season and postseason. The Tigers became only the third team 
to beat the Yankees in consecutive post-season series meetings; previously 
the 1921–22 New York Giants and the 2002 and 2005 Angels were able to beat 
the Yankees in consecutive playoff series meetings. This was also the first 
time since 2007 the Yankees were eliminated at home. CC Sabathia appeared 
in relief for the first time in his career when he relieved Boone Logan 
in the fifth, in which he surrendered the winning run.[18] Mariano Rivera 
made what would be his final postseason appearance, pitching a scoreless 
ninth.[19] 2011 ALDS (3–2): Detroit Tigers over New York Yankees 5:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas Rookie Matt Moore started 
Game 1 for the Rays, his second Major League start and fourth appearance 
since his September 12 promotion from Triple-A.[20] Moore gave the Rays 
seven strong innings—allowing two hits and two walks while striking out 
six. Johnny Damon's two-run homer in the second inning and Kelly Shoppach's 
two homers gave Moore enough support while the Rangers' offense was shut 
down by the Rays' pitching. 7:07 p.m. (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, 
Texas The Rays struck first on Kelly Shoppach's bases-loaded walk in the 
first inning and Matt Joyce's two-run home run in the fourth. However, 
the Rays' starter James Shields ran into trouble in the bottom of the fourth. 
After Elvis Andrus' hit-by-pitch and consecutive singles by Josh Hamilton 
and Michael Young to load the bases, Shields again hit Adrián Beltré and 
surrendered a two-run single to Mike Napoli. The next two batters, Nelson 
Cruz and David Murphy were both struck out, but Murphy advanced to first 
base on an uncaught third strike thanks to a wild pitch earlier to advance 
the runners. Beltré also scored on that play. Mitch Moreland followed up 
with an RBI groundout to score Napoli. The five-run fourth gave the Rangers 
a 5–3 lead over the Rays. The Rangers' starter Derek Holland put another 
zero on the scoreboard before handing the game to the bullpen. The Rangers 
continued to score on Ian Kinsler's two-run double in the sixth. Evan Longoria 
came up with a three-run homer in the seventh to bring the Rays within 
a run. Mitch Moreland answered with a solo homer in the eighth to increase 
the lead to two. Neftalí Feliz pitched a scoreless ninth to record the 
save. As of 2016, this is the only ALDS game the Rangers have won at home. 
5:07 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida A Desmond 
Jennings home run in the fourth gave the Rays an early lead. David Price, 
winless against the Rangers in his Major League career, held Texas without 
a run for six innings before giving up a Mike Napoli two-run homer after 
Adrián Beltré singled and advanced to second on a wild pitch. Josh Hamilton 
later hit a two-RBI single off reliever J. P. Howell to put Texas ahead 
4–1. Later in the bottom half Sean Rodriguez hit an RBI ground out to score 
Johnny Damon and cut Texas's lead to two. In the bottom of the eighth Jennings 
cut the deficit to one on his second solo home run of the game; however, 
the Rays' comeback attempt was put to rest on a double play grounder by 
Kelly Shoppach in the ninth. 2:07 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. 
Petersburg, Florida The Rangers struck first with an Ian Kinsler home run 
off Jeremy Hellickson in the first inning. Three homers by Adrián Beltré 
off Hellickson in the second and fourth, and off Matt Moore in the seventh 
gave Texas the much-needed cushion. The Rays tried to come back when Matt 
Joyce doubled in the second and scored Sean Rodriguez in a plate collision 
with Mike Napoli. Later Rodriguez also scored in the fourth and ninth off 
Casey Kotchman RBI singles, but the game ended after Joyce popped out in 
foul territory to Beltré and Desmond Jennings grounded into a force out. 
Beltré became the sixth player in MLB history to hit three home runs in 
a single postseason game, joined Babe Ruth (1926 and 1928 World Series), 
Bob Robertson (1971 NLCS), Reggie Jackson (1977 World Series), George Brett 
(1978 ALCS), and Adam Kennedy (2002 ALCS). With the win, the Rangers advanced 
to their second straight ALCS. This also marked the Rangers' fifth straight 
postseason win at Tropicana Field. 2011 ALDS (3–1): Texas Rangers over 
