The 2011 National League Championship Series (abbreviated NLCS) was a best-of-seven 
playoff pitting the winners of the 2011 National League Division Series, 
the St. Louis Cardinals and Milwaukee Brewers, against each other for the 
National League championship and the right to be the league's representative 
in the 2011 World Series. The series was the 41st in league history. The 
series began on October 9[1] to accommodate the World Series, which was 
scheduled to begin on October 19.[2] TBS televised all games in the United 
States with Game 1 starting at 4:05pm EDT.[3] Games 1, 2 and 6 were played 
at Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, while the other games were played 
at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri. By coincidence, Brian Anderson, 
who usually calls Brewers games on Fox Sports Wisconsin during the regular 
season, did the play-by-play for the NLCS on TBS, along with Ron Darling 
and John Smoltz. Anderson filled in for regular TBS lead baseball announcer 
Ernie Johnson, who was tending to a son in the hospital.[4] This was the 
Brewers' first ever appearance in the NLCS, having moved to the National 
League in 1998. As an American League team, the Brewers made the ALCS in 
their pennant season of 1982, defeating the California Angels 3–2. Thus, 
the Brewers became the first franchise to play in the LCS as a member of 
each league. The Cardinals, meanwhile, appeared in the NLCS for the first 
time since winning the 2006 World Series. This was a rematch of the 1982 
World Series (a.k.a. the "Suds Series", with both cities associated with 
the brewing industry—Milwaukee, whose ballpark was named after the Miller 
Brewing Company, and St. Louis, whose Anheuser-Busch company is namesake 
of the Cardinals' ballpark), in which the Cardinals won 4–3. St. Louis 
won the series, 4–2. Sunday, October 9, 2011 – 4:05 pm (EDT) at Miller 
Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin [5] Game 1 would be a back and forth affair. 
The Cardinals manufactured a run in the first with a walk by Jon Jay, a 
single by Albert Pujols, and a two-out single from Matt Holliday. The Brewers 
answered with a two-run home run from Ryan Braun in bottom half. The Cardinals 
would go ahead in the fourth on a David Freese three-run home run and would 
add on a run with a Lance Berkman single in the fifth. The Brewers came 
storming back in the fifth. The inning began with a Corey Hart single and 
a Jerry Hairston double. Braun then hit a ground-rule double, making the 
score 5–4. Prince Fielder put the Brewers ahead with a two-run home run 
and Yuniesky Betancourt hit another two-run home run to make it 8–5 Brewers. 
A Pujols double-play grounder would make it 8–6, but the Brewers got the 
run back with a Jonathan Lucroy RBI single in the seventh. Francisco Rodríguez 
would pitch a scoreless eighth inning and John Axford would get the save 
in the ninth as the Brewers took Game 1, 9–6. Monday, October 10, 2011 
– 8:05 pm (EDT) at Miller Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin [6] The Cardinals' 
offense erupted on Shaun Marcum for Game 2, with Albert Pujols leading 
the way with a home run, three doubles, three runs scored, and five RBIs. 
The Brewers had a chance to put the game within one run in the fifth, but 
Rickie Weeks grounded into a double play with the bases loaded, killing 
the Brewers rally. The Cardinals rallied for four more runs in the seventh 
to put the game away. The Cardinals won 12–3, tying the Series at a game 
apiece as well as potential momentum going back to St. Louis. Wednesday, 
October 12, 2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri 
[7] The Cardinals rallied for four runs in the first inning off Yovani 
Gallardo, but the Brewers tried to come back, scoring two runs in the second 
and another in the third on a Mark Kotsay home run. The Cardinals bullpen 
proved to be the difference, pitching four scoreless innings of relief 
for Chris Carpenter, giving the Cardinals the 4–3 win and a 2–1 series 
lead. Thursday, October 13, 2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. 
Louis, Missouri Brewers starter Randy Wolf kept Milwaukee from falling 
into a 1–3 series deficit, throwing seven stellar innings, striking out 
six batters. The Brewers scored two runs to tie the game in the fourth 
inning, with Jerry Hairston Jr. hitting an RBI double to score Prince Fielder, 
and Yuniesky Betancourt followed with a single to score Hairston. The Brewers 
scored another run in the fifth on a single by Ryan Braun, and another 
run in the sixth, thanks to a crucial error by Ryan Theriot. Though the 
Cardinals had the tying run at the plate in three of the last four innings, 
Wolf, along with relievers Francisco Rodríguez and John Axford, shut the 
Cardinals down to even the series at two games apiece and guaranteeing 
that the series would end in Milwaukee. It was also the Brewers first playoff 
win on the road since Game 1 of the 1982 World Series. Friday, October 
14, 2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri The Cardinals 
took advantage of four Milwaukee errors to grab a 3–2 series lead. Octavio 
Dotel got the win in relief of Jaime García and Jason Motte earned another 
save. Matt Holliday's two-run double in the eighth put the game out of 
reach. Sunday, October 16, 2011 – 8:05 pm (EDT) at Miller Park in Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin The Cardinals got off to a quick start, scoring four runs off 
Shaun Marcum in the first. Lance Berkman got things started with an RBI 
single. Series MVP David Freese hit a three-run blast to extend their early 
lead. Marcum would last only this one inning. The Brewers got a run right 
back on a leadoff solo shot by Corey Hart in the bottom half of the inning, 
but the Redbirds would make it a four run game again as Rafael Furcal homered 
to make the score 5–1 in the second. Milwaukee would start to claw their 
way back in their half of the inning, as Rickie Weeks and Jonathan Lucroy 
hit a pair of home runs to make the score 5–4. In the third, however, Albert 
Pujols led off with a solo shot of his own. St. Louis would add three more 
runs to give themselves a commanding 9–4 lead. In the ninth, with the score 
12–6, Cardinals closer Jason Motte came on to pitch in a non-save situation. 
Motte struck Mark Kotsay out swinging to end the game and give St. Louis 
the National League Pennant. 2011 NLCS (4–2): St. Louis Cardinals over 
