The 2012 New York Yankees season was the 112th season for the New York 
Yankees franchise. The Yankees began the season in St. Petersburg, Florida 
against the Tampa Bay Rays on April 6. They finished the season 95-67, 
1st place in the AL East. They began their post-season run by beating the 
Baltimore Orioles in five games in the Division Series. They advanced to 
play the Detroit Tigers in the American League Championship Series, but 
were swept in four games by the Tigers. Infielders Coaches Note: Pos = 
position On April 13 the Yankees won their home opener against the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim for the 14th time in the last 15 seasons. On 
April 20, against their arch-rival Boston Red Sox during the 100th Anniversary 
of Fenway Park, Alex Rodriguez hit his 631st career home-run, passing former 
teammate Ken Griffey, Jr. for sole possession of 5th on the all-time list. 
On July 23, the Yankees agreed to a trade that acquired Ichiro Suzuki from 
the Seattle Mariners for DJ Mitchell and Danny Farquhar.[2] On July 27 
the Yankees won their 60th game, the first team to do so. On October 3, 
during the last game of the season, the Yankees clinched their 18th American 
League East title when the Baltimore Orioles lost to the Tampa Bay Rays 
4–1. The Yankees went on to win their game against the Boston Red Sox, 
14–2, giving them the best record in the American League, and home-field 
advantage for the American League playoffs. The Yankees took on the Baltimore 
Orioles in the Division Series. 6:07 p.m. (EDT) at Oriole Park at Camden 
Yards in Baltimore, Maryland (moved to 8:47 p.m. EDT due to rain delay) 
The Yankees struck first in the first inning when Derek Jeter singled and 
Ichiro Suzuki doubled scoring Jeter for the game's first run, giving the 
Yankees a 1-0 lead. In the bottom of the 3rd inning Orioles outfielder 
Chris Davis singled, followed by a Lew Ford single, a Robert Andino sac 
fly, and a single by Nate McLouth gave the O's a 2-1 lead. Then in the 
top of the 4th the Yankees tied the game at 2 with a Mark Teixeira single 
with two men on. The game remained tied going into the ninth inning until 
a lead off home run by Russell Martin pushed the Yankees ahead 3-2. Singles 
by Raúl Ibañez, Derek Jeter, and Ichiro Suzuki all singled back-to-back-to-back 
scoring Ibañez giving the Yanks 4-2 lead. Canó doubled scoring Jeter and 
Ichiro. Nick Swisher hit a sac fly to score Cano, making the score 7-2. 
David Robertson came on to get the final out of the game, giving the Yankees 
the win and a one-game to nothing lead. 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Oriole Park 
at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland (moved to 8:47 p.m. EDT due to rain 
delay) 7:37 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York Baltimore got 
on the board first with a Ryan Flaherty solo home run in the top of the 
third inning, giving the Orioles a 1–0 lead. In the bottom half of the 
inning, the Yankees got on the board with Russell Martin double followed 
by a Derek Jeter triple tying the game at 1. The game remained tied until 
the top of the fifth inning when a Manny Machado solo home run gave the 
Orioles a 2–1 lead. The score remained the same until the bottom of the 
ninth inning, when Yankees manager Joe Girardi pinch hint Raúl Ibañez for 
Alex Rodriguez. On the second pitch of the at bat, Ibañez crushed a home 
run into the right field bleachers to tie the game at 2. The score remained 
2–2 going into the bottom of the 12th inning, until Ibañez came up to bat 
again crushing a walk-off home run into the upper deck in right field, 
giving the Yankees a 3–2 victory and a 2–1 lead in the series. Raúl Ibañez 
became the first player in Major League history to homer twice in a postseason 
game that he did not start. 7:37 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, 
New York 5:07 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York The Yankees 
clinched a trip to the ALCS for the third time in four years with a 3–1 
win. CC Sabathia gave the Yankees his second big performance of the series, 
pitching a complete game, giving up one run on four hits while striking 
out nine. The only nervous moments came in the sixth, when a long fly ball 
by Nate McLouth just barely went foul and the eighth, when the Orioles 
loaded the bases with one out, but Sabathia got out of the jam by striking 
out McLouth and getting J. J. Hardy to ground out. The Yankees scored first 
in the fifth, when Game 3 hero Raúl Ibañez singled to score Mark Teixeira. 
The Yankees tacked on some insurance in the sixth on an Ichiro Suzuki double 
and a Curtis Granderson home run in the seventh. It proved enough, as CC 
got Matt Wieters to ground out for the final out, sending the Yankees to 
a chance to play for the pennant versus the Detroit Tigers. The Yankees 
were defeated by the Detroit Tigers in the Championship Series. Saturday, 
October 13, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York[4] 
Sunday, October 14, 2012 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, 
New York[5] Tuesday, October 16, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park 
in Detroit, Michigan[6] Thursday, October 18, 2012 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at 
Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan, originally scheduled for Wednesday, 
