The 2012 National League Wild Card Game was a play-in game during Major 
League Baseball's (MLB) 2012 postseason played between the National League's 
(NL) two wild card teams, the St. Louis Cardinals and the Atlanta Braves. 
It was held at Turner Field in Atlanta, on October 5, 2012, at 5:07 p.m. 
EDT.[1][2] The Cardinals won by a 6–3 score and advanced to play the Washington 
Nationals in the NL Division Series. In addition to being the inaugural 
NL Wild Card Game, it is notable for being the final game of Chipper Jones's 
career, as well as for a controversial infield fly rule call made by umpire 
Sam Holbrook. The game was televised on TBS.[3] The Braves started Kris 
Medlen, who had a 9–0 win–loss record and 0.97 earned run average (ERA) 
in 12 games started during the 2012 season.[4] The Cardinals selected Kyle 
Lohse, who had a 16–3 win–loss record and 2.86 ERA during the season, as 
their starting pitcher.[5] Lohse allowed a two-run home run to David Ross 
in the second inning. The Cardinals scored three runs in the fourth inning, 
in which Chipper Jones committed a throwing error, taking a 3–2 lead. Medlen 
allowed a home run to Matt Holliday in the sixth inning. After the Cardinals 
scored two more runs in the top of the seventh inning, the Braves scored 
one in the bottom of the seventh.[4] In the bottom of the eighth inning, 
Andrelton Simmons hit a fly ball to left field that dropped in between 
Cardinals shortstop Pete Kozma and left fielder Holliday. Left field umpire 
Sam Holbrook called Simmons out, citing the infield fly rule.[6][a] Had 
an infield fly not been called, Simmons would have been credited with a 
single and Atlanta would have had the bases loaded with one out, trailing 
6–3. Fans littered the field with trash, delaying the game for 19 minutes 
before a message over the Turner Field public address system advised fans 
the game was subject to forfeiture by the umpires if the field continued 
to remain unplayable due to the thrown debris.[4][9][10] Atlanta manager 
Fredi González announced that the Braves would play the rest of the game 
under protest. The protest was denied shortly after the game by Joe Torre, 
MLB executive vice president for baseball operations, saying it was a judgment 
call—which cannot be protested under MLB rules—and confirming the call's 
correctness.[11] The questionable judgment call followed other questionable 
umpiring that went against the Atlanta Braves in the playoffs, including 
the Kent Hrbek–Ron Gant incident in the 1991 World Series and the Eric 
Gregg strike zone in the 1997 NLCS. In the bottom of the ninth inning, 
batting against Cardinals closer Jason Motte, Jones reached first base 
on an infield ground ball. Freddie Freeman hit a ground rule double, bringing 
Dan Uggla to bat as the potential tying run. Motte retired Uggla with a 
groundout to record the save, then both teams rushed off the field after 
