The 2012 Boston Red Sox season was the 112th in the team's history, and 
the 2012 season marked the 100th anniversary of Fenway Park. 2012 was Boston's 
first losing season since 1997, their first season with 90 or more losses 
since 1966, and their worst season since 1965. The Red Sox ended the season 
with a record of 69–93, finishing in last place in the American League 
East for the first time since 1992, and as the third worst team in the 
American League. The Red Sox opened 2012 away from Fenway, playing against 
the Detroit Tigers on Thursday, April 5, and closed the season on Wednesday, 
October 3 away from Fenway against the New York Yankees. 2012 marked the 
second season in a row where the Red Sox both opened and closed the season 
on the road. On the heels of a 2011 season that was mostly successful but 
had a very bad September that resulted in their elimination from playoff 
contention, the Red Sox struggled throughout their 2012 campaign under 
the new management of Bobby Valentine after Terry Francona was fired following 
the 2011 season. On Sunday, September 16, the Red Sox were mathematically 
eliminated from the playoff race. On Wednesday, September 19, the Boston 
Red Sox lost their 82nd regular season game, thus clinching their first 
losing season since 1997. On Sunday, September 30, a loss to the Orioles 
made the Red Sox hit the 90-loss mark, assuring them of their first season 
with 90 or more losses in 46 years. The next day, October 1, the Red Sox 
suffered their 91st loss of the season to the arch-rival Yankees; this 
is the most games the team has lost since their 1965 season, when they 
lost 100 games. On Thursday, October 4, a day after the Red Sox' final 
game of the season, manager Bobby Valentine, just ten months after being 
brought in to replace Terry Francona, was fired,[1] with one year and two 
option years still remaining on his contract. The Red Sox began Spring 
training play at the new JetBlue Park in Fort Myers, Florida, replacing 
City of Palms Park as their home field for Spring training. The Red Sox 
opened their 2012 season on April 5, 2012, against the Detroit Tigers. 
Tigers closer José Valverde recorded his first blown save since September 
2, 2010, allowing the Red Sox to tie the game in the 9th inning, but the 
Tigers won, 3–2, on a game-winning single by Austin Jackson. After new 
closer Andrew Bailey injured his thumb days before Opening Day, the Red 
Sox went 1–5 over their first six games before mercifully hitting a three-game 
winning streak, resulting in a second consecutive undesirable start for 
the Red Sox after going 0–6 over their first six games in 2011. Center 
fielder Jacoby Ellsbury was placed on the 15-day disabled list after a 
shoulder injury during the home opener on April 13.[2] During an interview 
aired on local television on April 15, manager Bobby Valentine ripped 3B 
Kevin Youkilis, saying he is not "as physically or emotionally into the 
game as he has been in the past". After outspoken defense of Youkilis by 
teammates Dustin Pedroia and Adrian Gonzalez, Valentine turned on his own 
words, saying he "was totally behind him".[3] After Valentine's comments, 
the Red Sox plunged into a 5-game losing streak. On April 20, the Red Sox 
celebrated 100 years at Fenway Park prior to the game against the New York 
Yankees with introductions of around 200 former Red Sox players, managers 
and coaches. Both teams wore throwback uniforms during the game similar 
to those used in the first major league game at Fenway Park.[4] The Red 
Sox had off-white uniforms and caps, with only the words "Red Sox" in red 
across the chest. The Yankees' uniforms were all grey with the only printing 
the letters "NY" on the caps and left breast.[5] After losing 4 consecutive 
games, the Red Sox took a 9-0 lead through 5 innings against the rival 
Yankees on April 21, but relief pitchers Vicente Padilla, Matt Albers, 
Franklin Morales, Alfredo Aceves, Justin Thomas, and Junichi Tazawa combined 
to allow 14 runs total in the 7th and 8th innings, as the Yankees prevailed 
by a score of 15-9, for the Red Sox' 5th consecutive loss.[6] After the 
game, the Red Sox traded pitcher Michael Bowden to the Chicago Cubs for 
outfielder Marlon Byrd to help out their outfield after the injuries to 
Carl Crawford before the season and Ellsbury earlier in the season.[7] 
After their losing streak, the road was kind to the Red Sox, as they amassed 
a six-game winning streak by sweeping the Minnesota Twins in Minneapolis 
and taking the first three games of a four-game series against the Chicago 
White Sox, including scoring 9 runs in 5 innings against Philip Humber, 
who had thrown a perfect game in his previous start.[8] In the end, the 
Red Sox closed out April with an 11-11 record. The second month of the 
season did not start well for the Red Sox, as they went winless over their 
first five games in May. The Red Sox dropped the latter two games of a 
three-game series against the Oakland A's and were swept by the Baltimore 
Orioles in a three-game series that featured both 13- and 17-inning romps. 
On May 6, the Red Sox used all of their available bullpen pitchers in the 
lengthy 17-inning game and had to send in outfielder Darnell McDonald to 
pitch,[9] ultimately leading to a 9–6 setback. On a lighter note, however, 
rookie third baseman Will Middlebrooks hit a grand slam in that game for 
his first Major League home run, and would then hit 2 home runs in the 
Red Sox' next game, which they won to snap their losing streak.[10] The 
Red Sox finally saw some measurable success at Fenway over and just after 
Mothers' Day weekend, taking three games of four from the Cleveland Indians 
and sweeping a quick two-game series over the Seattle Mariners before embarking 
on another road trip. During this time, McDonald went on the Disabled List, 
but the Red Sox recalled OF Daniel Nava and acquired OF Scott Podsednik, 
who had not played a Major League game since September 9, 2010. Podsednik 
was initially assigned to AAA Pawtucket for the time being. On this road 
trip, the Red Sox went 5-3, including taking 2 out of 3 games against the 
Philadelphia Phillies in their first interleague series of the year and 
2 out of 3 games against the division-leading Orioles. Closer Alfredo Aceves 
had 4 saves in the 8-game road trip. While on the road trip, outfielders 
Cody Ross and Ryan Sweeney were injured, but 3B Kevin Youkilis returned 
from the Disabled List. With Middlebrooks settled into starting at third 
base, the Red Sox used Youkilis at first base with Adrian Gonzalez playing 
right field. Podsednik and Che-Hsuan Lin were promoted from the minor leagues 
to help out in the injury-torn outfield. On May 26, Jarrod Saltalamacchia 
had a pinch-hit, two-run home run off Fernando Rodney with one out in the 
bottom of the ninth inning, to lift the Red Sox to a 3–2 win over the Tampa 
Bay Rays at Fenway Park. It was the first walk-off home run of Saltalamacchia's 
career, while Rodney suffered the first blown save of the season after 
opening the year with a perfect 15-for-15 in save opportunities.[11] On 
May 29, the Red Sox cruised to a 6–3 win over pitcher Justin Verlander 
and the Detroit Tigers to achieve a record of 25–24, their first winning 
record of the season. The Red Sox entered June having finally amassed a 
winning record, but they soon found themselves struggling to keep it afloat. 
The Sox peaked at 28–25 on June 2, before slipping into a three-game setback. 
The Red Sox took 2 of 3 from the Toronto Blue Jays but only salvaged one 
game of a three-game series against the Baltimore Orioles. With a short 
period of divisional play now through, the Red Sox commenced with interleague 
play, facing off against the Washington Nationals, only to be swept by 
the Nats in the weekend series and yet again shoved below the .500 winning-percentage 
mark. Then, the Sox proceeded to try to rack up wins on the road over a 
six-game road voyage. They challenged the Miami Marlins, winning two of 
three games while visiting the new Marlins Park in Miami for the first 
time, and then proceeded to also take two of three games from the Chicago 
Cubs at Wrigley Field. Back at Fenway, starting pitcher Clay Buchholz continued 
his domination against Miami at Fenway on June 19, racking his 8th win 
of the season. On June 24, the Red Sox cruised to a 9–4 victory against 
Atlanta at Fenway in what was to become Kevin Youkilis's last game with 
the Red Sox before being traded to the Chicago White Sox. Fans, aware of 
the trade rumors, gave Youkilis a standing ovation after he hit a triple 
during the game. The Red Sox received utility player Brent Lillibridge 
and pitcher Zach Stewart (who was assigned to AAA Pawtucket) in the trade.[12] 
On June 24, 2012, the Red Sox completed interleague play for the 2012 regular 
season. They finished off their homestand by welcoming the Blue Jays to 
Fenway and winning two of three games against them. To finish off June, 
the Red Sox set out on a seven-game western road swing beginning with the 
first three games of a four-game series against the Seattle Mariners at 
Safeco Field in Seattle, having amassed a 1–2 record in the series before 
entering July. The BoSox opened the month of July by ending the four-game 
Seattle series with a victory on July 1. The club traveled down the coast 
to Oakland, where they were swept by the Athletics in a 3-game series from 
July 2–4. Although they often have an afternoon home game on the Fourth 
of July, the Red Sox remained on the road during the holiday this season. 
The Sox came home to Fenway Park to face the rival Yankees in a four-game 
series, which included a Saturday doubleheader created to compensate for 
a rained out Red Sox-Yankees game earlier in the year. The Red Sox lost 
3 of 4 games against New York, dropping the Friday, Saturday afternoon, 
and Sunday games, and being victorious only in the Saturday night game. 
One bright spot for the Red Sox over the weekend was the surprising breakout 
performance of Pedro Ciriaco, making his debut with the Red Sox. Ciriaco 
amassed four hits and four RBIs in the Saturday night game, as his offensive 
prowess became the main storyline of the Red Sox' lone win of the series. 
Boston headed into the All-Star Break at exactly .500, harboring a 43–43 
record. They had gone 2–6 thus far in the month of July by that time. In 
their first week after the All-Star Break, things began to pick up for 
the Red Sox, as they took 2 of 3 from the Rays at Tropicana Field. Returning 
home, the Red Sox faced a four-game series against the Chicago White Sox, 
the team to which fan favorite Kevin Youkilis had been traded from the 
Red Sox less than a month prior. Youkilis received a standing ovation in 
his first at bat returning to Fenway Park, and continued to receive strong 
applause and "Youk" calls as the series went on. Cody Ross exploded in 
this series, slamming two three-run home runs on July 18 against Chicago 
and again crushing another three-run, walk-off home run in the bottom of 
the ninth on July 19, vaulting the BoSox from a 1–0 deficit to a 3–1 victory. 
The Red Sox enjoyed this offensive prowess in spite of the loss of big 
hitter David Ortiz to the 15-day disabled list after injuring himself during 
a slide. Mauro Gómez took his place as designated hitter during his absence. 
The Red Sox soon hit another bump in the road, however, getting swept in 
a vital intra-divisional series with Toronto, then proceeding to lose two 
of three to the Rangers. The Sox fell as low as 49–51 but were able to 
close out July with a strong surge, salvaging the Saturday and Sunday games 
of a weekend series against the Yankees in the Bronx after losing the Friday 
contest, and then winning the first two games of a three-game home series 
against Detroit, such that the BoSox were able to close out July on a four-game 
winning streak. The Sox went 12–14 in July, making it their worst month 
of the season thus far, but the club remained above .500 at 53-51. The 
Red Sox fell into a rut yet again as they entered the season's fifth month. 
They opened August with four consecutive losses and by August 9 they come 
out victorious in only two of their last nine matchups. Beginning on August 
10, the Sox began a pattern of alternating wins and losses. As of August 
14, the Sox' record stood at a measly 57–60. The club as a whole was jolted 
by the death of Red Sox legend Johnny Pesky on Monday, August 13, 2012, 
at the age of 92, in hospice care in the nearby North Shore suburb of Danvers. 
To honor Johnny's memory, the team added a black armband to the right sleeve 
of their road uniform, as well as added a black patch with a white #6 to 
their home uniform. Oddly, David Ortiz, Clay Buchholz, Vicente Padilla, 
and Jarrod Saltalamacchia were the only Red Sox players who attended Pesky's 
funeral, only for most of the team to appear at a bowling event led by 
pitcher Josh Beckett later that night, which angered fans, press, and front 
office executives alike.[13] After a two-game losing streak, the Sox recommenced 
their pattern of alternating wins and losses and traveled to Yankee Stadium 
for the second time in less than a month to take on the Bronx Bombers in 
a weekend series, which they lost, surrendering the Friday and Sunday games 
and salvaging only the Saturday contest. Returning home, the Sox were swept 
by the Angels and ended a losing streak at four games by triumphing over 
Kansas City. With playoff hopes looking dim, Red Sox office management 
decided to look ahead to the following season by freeing up money in the 
payroll by performing a salary dump trade that sent Adrian Gonzalez, Josh 
Beckett, Carl Crawford, and Nick Punto to the Dodgers in exchange for James 
Loney and four prospects: pitchers Allen Webster and Rubby De La Rosa, 
infielder Ivan De Jesus, Jr., and outfielder Jerry Sands. The trade was 
finalized on August 25, 2012.[14] The Red Sox took three of four from Kansas 
City but relapsed into another large rut as they commenced a West Coast 
road trip by being swept by the Angels (since the Angels also won all three 
of their games at Fenway Park against the Sox a week earlier, the Angels 
completely swept the season series against Boston, 6 games to 0) and losing 
extravagantly to the Oakland Athletics on Friday, August 31, by a score 
of 20–2; the game was the worst loss for the Red Sox in 12 years, as former 
Red Sox Brandon Moss, George Kottaras, and Josh Reddick hit home runs against 
their former team.[15] The Red Sox finished off an extremely shoddy August 
with a 9–20 record, only two wins more and the same number of losses as 
the Sox' infamous 7–20 record in their collapse of September 2011. The 
Red Sox opened September in the middle of a weekend series against Oakland, 
losing their first game in September, 7–1, and losing again the following 
day by a score of 6–2, giving Oakland the sweep. The Athletics had previously 
swept the Red Sox in 2012 in July. On Labor Day, the Red Sox opened up 
a three-game swing in Seattle with yet another loss, bringing their losing 
streak to a season-worst seven games. The Red Sox came out of the spiral 
with a 4–3 win against Seattle on Tuesday, September 4, but the extreme 
damage of the losing streak and of the Sox' August 9–20 to the team's playoff 
hopes had already been done. The Red Sox slipped into last place in the 
American League East shortly afterward after being swept by the Toronto 
Blue Jays in a weekend series, allowing the Jays to hop over the Red Sox 
up to fourth place. Boston broke yet another losing streak with a bottom-ninth 
victory over the rival Yankees on Tuesday, September 11, in a game wherein 
Jacoby Ellsbury recorded a walk-off single for the 4–3 triumph. Heading 
into a weekend series in Toronto, the Sox found some success, winning the 
three game series by taking the first two games on Friday, September 14 
and Saturday, September 15, resulting in the first consecutive victories 
for the BoSox since August 26–27. However, the very next day, on Sunday, 
September 16, the Sox fell to the Jays to put their record at 66–81, officially 
eliminating them, albeit unsurprisingly, from the playoff race for the 
third straight year. On Wednesday, September 19, the Tampa Bay Rays defeated 
the Red Sox, 13-3 at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg. As a result, the 
Red Sox are assured of their first losing season since 1997, when they 
went 78-84. The Red Sox closed out home play with a five-game homestand 
at Fenway, losing four of those five games. Their last home victory of 
the year was a 2–1 decision against the Orioles on Sunday, September 23. 
Fenway hosted its final MLB game until 2013 on Wednesday, September 26, 
a 4–2 setback to Tampa Bay. Embarking on a six-game road trip to close 
out their season, the Red Sox secured their first 90-loss season since 
1966 with a loss to Baltimore on Sunday, September 30. The Red Sox faced 
their archrival Yankees in the final series of the season and, fittingly, 
lost all three games, two of them by blowout scores of 10–2 and 14–2, and 
one in an extra-inning heartbreaker by a score of 4–3 after 12 innings. 
Their final few weeks of the 2012 season poignantly summed up the season 
as a whole: the Red Sox ended the season with their eighth straight loss, 
and lost 12 of 13 to finish out the club's most disastrous season since 
the 1990s. On the final day of the season, it was announced that the Red 
Sox have plans to fire Bobby Valentine from his position as manager after 
this one season with him as manager of the club, according to "people familiar 
with the situation", as quoted from a CBS report on the issue.[16][17] 
On Thursday, October 4, 2012, Valentine was officially fired from the position 
of manager of the Boston Red Sox after one season, confirming the earlier 
rumors.[1] He was replaced with Toronto Blue Jays manager John Farrell 
on Saturday, October 20, 2012.[18] The Red Sox proceeded to vault back 
into first place the following season, winning the 2013 World Series. Infielders 
