The 2012 Atlanta Braves season was the Braves' 16th season of home games 
at Turner Field, 47th season in Atlanta, and 137th season of the franchise. 
After a late season collapse in 2011 kept the Braves from the playoffs, 
the team returned to the postseason for the second time in three seasons 
as a Wild Card team, with a record of 94-68. They lost to the St. Louis 
Cardinals in the one-game Wild Card Playoff. Following the conclusion of 
the 2011 season, Braves general manager Frank Wren highlighted several 
important areas to improve during the offseason. Since most players were 
committed contractually to the team in 2012, Wren acknowledged that he 
would likely make few major changes. One spot that was mentioned for a 
major overhaul was the shortstop position, where Alex González had played 
since the Yunel Escobar trade with Toronto in July 2010. González entered 
the offseason as a free agent and proved too expensive for the team. Wren 
ultimately allowed prospect Tyler Pastornicky the starting duties in 2012, 
until he was replaced by Andrelton Simmons in mid-June. When Simmons was 
hurt in July, Jack Wilson, Paul Janish, and Martín Prado filled in for 
him. While center fielder Michael Bourn returned to his position in 2012, 
Wren also suggested that the corner outfield positions were areas of contention. 
In 2011, the Atlanta outfielders finished the season last in the National 
League in on-base plus slugging and slugging percentage. Wren stated that 
right fielder Jason Heyward and left fielder Martín Prado had no guarantee 
of getting the starting jobs in 2012.[1] On the day after the Braves were 
eliminated from the playoffs in 2011, Wren said that veteran starter Derek 
Lowe was unlikely to have a spot in the starting rotation in 2012, due 
his poor performance in 2011 and a plethora of rookie pitching talent in 
the Braves farm system. With Lowe guaranteed $15 million in 2012, Wren 
projected that any of Lowe's salary picked up by another team would significantly 
assist his efforts to find a shortstop or outfielder.[2] By the end of 
October, Lowe was traded to the Indians.[3] The Braves organization announced 
the third annual "Braves Country Caravan" on December 19, 2011. Players, 
coaches, and personalities of the Braves organization who participate in 
the Caravan will travel to twenty cities throughout the southeast United 
States, including ones in Georgia, Alabama, South Carolina, North Carolina, 
and Tennessee, from January 27 to February 9, 2012. In previous years a 
select few players and personnel have traveled to one venue to meet fans 
and sign autographs while others travel to another location. Braves president 
John Schuerholtz praised the Caravan as an excellent opportunity for the 
organization to personally thank fans for their support and to reach out 
to local communities.[4] Noting that the Caravan would make over forty 
stops and travel over three thousand miles, the organization revealed specific 
venues and participating members with a press release on January 19, 2012.[5] 
The Braves held a ceremony on February 6 unveiling new home alternate uniforms 
to be worn in 2012 with Chipper Jones, Dan Uggla, and Brian McCann modeling 
the new uniform and Hank Aaron present to help introduce it. The new jersey 
is a cream color, instead of white, and has a retro look reminiscent of 
the uniforms from the days in Milwaukee and first two years in Atlanta 
with the uniform number on the front of the jersey instead of a tomahawk.[6] 
The sleeve of the uniform will have a logo with two tomahawks crossing 
with "1876" (representing the organization's first year in the National 
League) above it and "Atlanta Braves" below the crossing tomahawks. The 
Braves also announced that the team will wear the new uniforms for all 
Saturday and Sunday home games. The red jerseys previously worn since 2005 
for Sunday home games will now be worn for Friday home games.[7] Names 
highlighted in bold appear on the table above. September 29: On the day 
following the historic elimination of the 2011 Atlanta Braves from playoff 
contention, Frank Wren announced that manager Fredi González and the entire 
coaching staff from 2011 would return to their respective roles in 2012.[8] 
The following day, however, after having a meeting with hitting coach Larry 
Parrish, Wren announced that Parrish would not return to the coaching staff 
in 2012. He stated that he would spend this offseason seeking a successor 
to Parrish. With Parrish's departure, the Braves will now have a third 
hitting coach in three seasons after removing Terry Pendleton from the 
role after the 2010 season.[9] October 21: Three weeks after firing Larry 
Parrish from his hitting coach duties, the Braves announced that Parrish 
would be succeeded in 2012 by Greg Walker, the former hitting coach for 
the Chicago White Sox from 2003 to 2011. Walker had stepped down as the 
White Sox hitting coach immediately following the end of the 2011 season. 
In the nine seasons Walker served as hitting coach, the White Sox offense 
ranked third in the Majors in home runs and seventh in slugging percentage. 
On the other hand, in 2011 the White Sox offense only ranked eleventh in 
the American League in runs, eighth in average, and seventh in on-base 
percentage.[10] In an accompanying move, the Braves hired Scott Fletcher 
to assist Walker in his duties and to serve as an on-site advance scout.[11] 
October 31: Three days following the conclusion of the 2011 World Series, 
the Braves began to make some organizational roster moves. In the first 
trade of the offseason in the Major Leagues, the Braves traded struggling 
starting pitcher Derek Lowe to the Cleveland Indians in return for High-A 
lefty reliever Chris Jones. In addition, the Indians agreed to pay $5 million 
of Lowe's guaranteed $15 million salary in 2012. Lowe served as the Atlanta 
Braves' Opening Day starter in 2009, 2010, and 2011. Due to his struggles 
in 2011, however, Lowe likely would have merely served in a middle relief 
role for the bullpen in 2012.[3] On the same day, the Braves announced 
that they had declined the $10.65 million option for center fielder Nate 
McLouth, ending his lackluster tenure as an Atlanta Brave. McLouth later 
signed a one-year contract to return to the Pittsburgh Pirates on December 
7.[12] Additionally, the Braves decided to exercise the $1.5 million option 
for utility man Eric Hinske, assuring his return for the 2012 season.[13] 
November 2: The Braves announced several internal roster moves that allowed 
for additional space on the forty-man roster. After spending the month 
of September 2011 with the Major League club, the team outrighted catcher 
J. C. Boscán, right-handed pitcher Stephen Marek, and outfielders Antoan 
Richardson and Wilkin Ramírez to the triple-A affiliate Gwinnett Braves. 
In addition, the Braves filled one roster spot with starting pitcher Todd 
Redmond, who has spent the previous three seasons pitching for Gwinnett. 
Accumulating a record of 10–8 with a 2.92 ERA in 2011, Redmond is unlikely 
to have playing time with the Major League club due to existing pitching 
depth.[14] November 3: With the beginning of free agency season, the Braves 
were able to remove offseason free agents from the forty-man roster. The 
free agents for this offseason include shortstop Alex González, infielder 
Jack Wilson, and veteran relievers Scott Linebrink and George Sherrill. 
In conjunction with the moves made on November 2, Frank Wren and his staff 
now have seven roster spots that will be filled with potential offseason 
acquisitions or prospects they wish to protect from the Rule 5 draft.[14] 
November 23: After becoming a free agent following the conclusion to the 
2011 season, the Braves decided to decline arbitration to shortstop Álex 
González. If the team had accepted his arbitration they would have received 
a compensatory draft pick between the first and second rounds of the 2012 
MLB draft if González signed with another team. The move made it very clear 
that González would not return as the starting shortstop in 2012. González 
looked to receive a multi-year contract on the free agent market, something 
the Braves were not willing to offer due to rising prospects such as Tyler 
Pastornicky and Andrelton Simmons.[15] On December 8, González signed a 
contract with the Milwaukee Brewers for one year and a vesting option for 
the 2013 season.[16] December 8: As a part of the Rule 5 draft at the 2012 
Winter Meetings, the Braves selected left-handed relief pitcher Robert 
Fish from the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in the Major League Phase.[17] 
Under draft rules, Fish must be kept on the Braves 25-man Major League 
roster for the entire 2012 season. If waived, Fish must first be offered 
back to the Angels. Left-handed relief pitcher George Sherrill departs 
the club as a free agent, later signing with the Seattle Mariners on December 
30,[18] after serving as the left-handed specialist to the Braves in 2011. 
With the departure of Sherrill, Fish has the opportunity to provide that 
role to the bullpen in 2012. No players were selected from the Braves organization 
by other teams in the Draft.[19] December 13: Following the deadline to 
tender contracts to arbitration-eligible players the previous night, the 
Braves declined to tender 2012 contracts to relief pitcher Peter Moylan 
and infielder Brooks Conrad, who would later be signed to a Minor League 
contract by the Brewers in January.[20] All other arbitration-eligible 
players on the Braves roster, including center fielder Michael Bourn, left 
fielder Martín Prado, starting pitcher Jair Jurrjens, and reliever Eric 
O'Flaherty, were tendered contracts.[21] January 13: After being named 
in trade rumors for much of the offseason, Braves utility man and 2011 
starting left-fielder Martín Prado signed a one-year contract worth $4.75 
million with the Braves for the 2012 season. The move assures that Prado 
will not go through the salary arbitration process and will likely return 
to the team for the 2012 campaign.[22] On the same day, backup infielder 
Jack Wilson agreed to terms for a one-year contract worth $1 million. Wilson 
was acquired by the organization from the Seattle Mariners on August 31, 
2011. The 34-year-old veteran will provide a dependable backup for Tyler 
Pastornicky, the projected starting shortstop who will be making his Major 
League debut. During the offseason, Wilson and Pastornicky have already 
been training together.[23] January 17: Only days after agreeing to avoid 
arbitration with Prado, the Braves agreed to a one-year contract worth 
$2.49 million with reliever Eric O'Flaherty. Making $895,000 in 2011, the 
left-handed pitcher posted a 0.98 ERA in 78 appearances, leading all Major 
League relievers. O'Flaherty also became the first pitcher in Major League 
history to post a sub-1.00 ERA with at least 70 appearances.[24] Hours 
later, the Braves avoided arbitration on starting pitcher Jair Jurrjens 
and center fielder Michael Bourn, the final two arbitration-eligible players 
on the Braves roster, by tendering them both one-year contracts. Both clients 
of Scott Boras, Jurrjens will receive $5.5 million and Bourn will receive 
$6.845 million in 2012.[25] Later the same day, the Braves announced the 
signing of free agent relief pitcher Peter Moylan to a one-year Minor League 
contract worth $1 million. Moylan, who suffered injuries through most of 
the 2011 season, was not tendered a contract by the Braves which would 
have allowed him to undergo the arbitration process. Expecting around $2 
million through arbitration, the Braves felt Moylan's surgically repaired 
right shoulder posed too much of an injury risk.[21] With his contract 
including an invitation to the Major League Spring training camp, Moylan 
will have an opportunity to prove his health.[26] The Braves officially 
announced their 2012 Spring training schedule on November 16, 2011. Pitchers 
and catchers were scheduled to report on February 19 and all other players 
were due to report by February 24. The 34-game Spring slate began on March 
3 against the Detroit Tigers in Champion Stadium, located at the ESPN Wide 
World of Sports Complex in Lake Buena Vista. Champion Stadium has been 
the Braves' Spring training home in Florida for the past fifteen seasons. 
The team announced on November 22, 2011 the signing of eleven Minor League 
free agents and invited them all to the Major League Spring training camp. 
Four of these players spent significant time at the Major League level 
in 2011, including relief pitchers Adam Russell and Dusty Hughes. Russell 
pitched in 36 games for the Tampa Bay Rays while Hughes pitched in 15 games 
for the Minnesota Twins. Infielder Drew Sutton batted .315 in 54 at-bats 
for the Boston Red Sox and infielder Josh Wilson served as a backup infielder 
for the Milwaukee Brewers during the second half of the season. Other players 
signed include pitchers Jason Rice and Yohan Flande, catchers J. C. Boscán 
and José Yépez, outfielders Luis Durango and Jordan Parraz, and infielder 
Ernesto Mejia.[27] On January 13, 2011 the team extended invitations to 
several promising prospects. Rising third baseman Joe Terdoslavich and 
starting pitcher Sean Gilmartin highlight the group of promising players 
set to showcase their skills. Catcher Christian Bethancourt, shortstop 
Andrelton Simmons, center fielder Todd Cunningham, pitcher Zeke Spruill, 
and outfielder Stefan Gartrell will also appear as non-roster invitees.[28] 
After dealing with increasing back pain for several seasons, Braves starter 
Tim Hudson underwent back surgery on November 28, 2011. Hudson stated that 
he had been using anti-inflammatory medication for the past two years to 
deal with the pain. After the procedure, Hudson's mobility has greatly 
improved and he anticipates that the surgery will prolong his career. Because 
the procedure requires three to six months for proper recovery, Hudson 
does not expect his 2012 debut to come until early May.[29] In his absence 
Randall Delgado will occupy his rotation spot. Recovering with haste, Hudson 
started the final exhibition game in Florida on April 2 against the New 
York Mets. In two scoreless innings of work, Hudson allowed only one hit 
and struck out two while throwing every pitch in his arsenal.[30] Driving 
to Champion Stadium for the first day of workouts for pitchers and catchers, 
Braves starter Tommy Hanson was involved in a one-car accident that caused 
him to bump his head around seven in the morning on February 20, 2012. 
After arriving at the stadium, Hanson informed the medical staff of the 
incident, stating that he was feeling abnormal.[31] Seeking medical attention, 
Hanson was diagnosed with a Grade 1 concussion, providing a delay in his 
Spring workouts.[32] The Braves medical staff performed several concussion 
impact tests on Hanson to gauge when a return to normal workouts would 
be appropriate. Hanson did not expect to miss his first start of the regular 
season.[33] After a full recovery and ample time for preparation during 
Spring training, Hanson was assigned as the Opening Day starter, making 
his first start against the New York Mets on April 5.[34] On the same day 
as he announced his retirement from baseball, Braves third baseman Chipper 
Jones also announced that he would be undergoing surgery to repair a torn 
meniscus in his left knee, a process that would place him on the Disabled 
List through Opening Day on April 5. Jones has stated repeatedly that he 
will make his first appearance of the season in the Home Opener on April 
13 against the Milwaukee Brewers.[35] Names highlighted in bold appear 
on the table above. Nearing the end of their Spring training schedule, 
the Braves made three significant transactions to bolster their Opening 
Day roster. On March 30, the Braves signed free agent Liván Hernández only 
hours after he was released from the Houston Astros camp. Signed to a one-year 
contract, Hernández will provide a veteran presence in the bullpen and 
act as a long reliever and, if necessary, a spot starter in the event of 
an injury.[36] On April 1, the organization traded Minor League pitching 
prospect J. J. Hoover to the Cincinnati Reds for third baseman Juan Francisco. 
Wren stated that the team had coveted Francisco for the past few years. 
Francisco will provide Prado a backup at third when Chipper cannot man 
the position.[37] Finally, on April 3, the Braves signed veteran reliever 
Chad Durbin to a one-year contract after he was released from the Washington 
Nationals camp. Durbin will provide added depth to the bullpen.[38] Rather 
than concluding Spring training with two games at Turner Field against 
a Major League team as had been the tradition in previous seasons, the 
Braves played their final exhibition game on April 3 at Coolray Field, 
the regular season home of the Triple-A affiliate Gwinnett Braves. The 
complete Major League club hosted a team composed of the top prospects 
in the Braves' farm system. The Braves Future Stars game is praised as 
an opportunity to highlight upcoming prospects.[39] The organization announced 
on February 3 that former Braves manager Bobby Cox, who retired following 
the 2010 season, would manage the Future Stars team against the Major League 
club.[40] In the top of the first Matt Lipka, the first batter of the game, 
was walked by Braves pitcher Mike Minor. After stealing second and advancing 
on an error, Lipka scored on a groundout that gave the Future Stars an 
early lead. Braves starting second baseman Dan Uggla launched a solo home 
run in the bottom of the second off Futures starter Sean Gilmartin to tie 
the game at one. The home run was Uggla's seventh of the Spring, tying 
him for the Major League lead. Liván Hernández, who was acquired in a trade 
only a few days before, relieved Minor in the fourth, throwing a scoreless 
frame. Reliever Cristhian Martínez followed in the fifth, allowing the 
Futures two runs to give them a lead of 3–1. In the bottom of the inning, 
an RBI double by starting center fielder Michael Bourn plated Juan Francisco, 
also just acquired in a trade a few days prior. Martín Prado continued 
the scoring with an RBI triple to score Bourn and starting catcher Brian 
McCann followed with an RBI double to plate Prado, giving the Major League 
team a 4–3 advantage. After scoreless outings by Kris Medlen and Eric O'Flaherty, 
the remainder of the game was canceled due to rain. Manager Fredi González 
stated that Jonny Venters and Craig Kimbrel would have pitched the eighth 
and ninth innings, respectively.[41] April 3, 2012 7:05 p.m. (EDT) at Coolray 
Field in Lawrenceville, Georgia. After finishing their Spring training 
schedule two days prior, the Atlanta Braves began their season on Opening 
Day as the guests for the New York Mets home opener at Citi Field on April 
5. Tommy Hanson, making the first Opening Day start of his career, faced 
Mets ace Johan Santana, who was making his first Major League appearance 
since September 2010. The first game proved to be dominated by defense 
and pitching. In the bottom of the sixth, Mets third baseman David Wright 
singled home center fielder Andrés Torres to give the Mets a 1–0 advantage, 
which would end up being the final score of the game. Hanson took the loss, 
giving up just the one earned run in five plus innings of work. Kris Medlen 
and Jonny Venters followed with three scoreless innings in relief, but 
the offense could never find the scoreboard. The Opening Day loss was only 
the second in the last seven seasons and the first since 2008. After nineteen 
seasons with the Atlanta Braves, third baseman Chipper Jones announced 
on March 22, 2012 that he would retire following the end of the season. 
Jones held a news conference the same day at Champion Stadium, the Spring 
training home of the team. The entire Braves team and former manager Bobby 
Cox were in attendance for the official announcement. Having spent the 
first eighteen seasons of his career with the Braves, Chipper leads all 
active players in years of service with one club. His first year with the 
team, the 1995 season, was the year the Braves won their first World Championship 
in Atlanta. Chipper remains as the last active player from that Championship 
team.[42] After sitting out the first four games of the season due to a 
knee injury, Jones hit a home run in his season debut against the Houston 
Astros on April 10. Five days later, Jones hit a home run in his first 
game of the season at Turner Field. Note that the teams not included in 
the wild card standings are currently leading their divisions and that 
the top two teams earn Wild Card berths. Infielders Coaches Note: G=Games 
played; AB=At Bats; R=Runs scored; H=Hits; AVG=Batting average; HR=Home 
Runs; RBI=Runs Batted In Complete batting stats can be found here.[43] 
Note: G=Games played; IP=Innings Pitched; W=Wins; L=Losses; ERA=Earned 
Run Average; SO= Strikeouts; WHIP=Walks and Hits Per Innings Pitched; HLD=Holds 
Complete pitching stats can be found here.[44] LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Lynchburg 
