The Philadelphia Phillies 2012 season was the 130th season in the history 
of the franchise. The Phillies are attempting to win the division title 
for the 6th year in a row which fell short in 3rd place with the record 
of 81-81. The offseason for the Phillies began on October 7, following 
their devastating loss in the NLDS to the St. Louis Cardinals. On November 
5, the Phillies signed long-time veteran slugger Jim Thome to a 1-year 
deal, worth $1.25 million.[1] Addiditionally, after numerous rumors, on 
November 14 the Phillies signed RHP Jonathan Papelbon to a 4-year deal, 
worth $50 million.[2] The Phillies also added pitcher Dontrelle Willis 
from the Cincinnati Reds, on a 1-year deal, worth 1 million dollars, but 
released him toward the end of spring training.[3] Laynce Nix was signed 
as a free agent and Ty Wigginton was acquired through a trade with the 
Colorado Rockies to shore up the bench. Several other veteran players including 
Dave Bush, Joel Piñeiro, Scott Elarton, Lou Montanez, and Scott Podsednik 
were signed to minor league deals with invitations to spring training. 
The Phillies opened the season in Pittsburgh in a 3-game series with the 
Pirates. Opening Day went as the Phillies drew it up, Roy Halladay threw 
8 scoreless innings, and offseason acquisition Jonathan Papelbon retired 
all 3 batters he faced for a 1–0 Phillies victory. These were the starters 
on Opening Day for the Phillies: The Phillies would end up losing the series 
to Pittsburgh. The Phillies home opener was a disaster, losing to the newly 
revived Miami Marlins, 2–6.[4] Halladay would end the three game skid, 
with another solid performance on the mound, as the Phillies won 7–1.[5] 
The Phillies would end up winning the series the next day, with a 3–1 victory. 
The Phillies would then go on to trade two wins and losses for the next 
8 games. In mid-April, the Phillies began their first major road trip of 
the season. They began the trip by taking 1 of 3 from the Giants. It was 
in the second game of the series, when Cliff Lee threw 10 scoreless innings, 
and ultimately not only did the Phillies lose the game in 11 innings, but 
Cliff Lee was placed on the 15-day DL with a left external oblique strain.[6] 
After splitting a 4-game series with San Diego, the Phillies finally won 
a series against the Diamondbacks, taking 2 of 3. The Phillies finally 
returned home for a four-game series with the Cubs, where they would split 
the series. Roy Halladay and Cole Hamels each finished April with 3 wins, 
and Papelbon was a perfect 8 for 8 on save opportunities.[7] The Phillies 
finished April with a record of 11–12, their first losing-record month 
since going 11–15 in June 2009.[8] However, the Phillies have experienced 
struggle in April before, most notably in 2008, when they would eventually 
win the World Series, and in 2009, when they would eventually win the National 
League pennant. The Phillies began May by taking two of three from the 
division-leading Braves. The only loss came in an 11-inning game, won by 
a walk off home run by Chipper Jones. The Phillies next series against 
the Washington Nationals began in the offseason. Andrew Feffer, the Nationals 
chief operating officer, launched a campaign in the offseason for the first 
home series against the Phillies to "Take Back the Park." In prior years, 
Nationals Park has been taken over by Phillies fans who could not get tickets 
for a home game, and the crowd was at times made up of over 80% Phillies 
fans.[9] The park was publicly referred to by Phillies fans as "Citizens 
Bank Park South." To avoid this, Feffer allowed only those with Maryland, 
Virginia, or D.C. addressed credit cards to purchase tickets. Once the 
series came near, the Nationals released an official "Fans Guide to Natitude 
Weekend", which explained fans how to approach the series, and gave them 
guidelines on how to cheer for their home team. Once the series came, it 
was the Nationals who were in 1st place in the division, and the Phillies 
who were at the bottom. The first game of the series went into extra innings, 
with the Nationals taking game 1, 4–3. Charlie Manuel was ejected in the 
game in the 1st inning, it was his first ejection of the season.[10] The 
Nationals also took game two of the series by a score of 7–1. However, 
the Phillies took the third game by a convincing 9–3 victory. In the game, 
former Phillie Jayson Werth broke his wrist, and while leaving the field, 
was heckled by a couple of Phillies fans. Following the game in an email 
to The Washington Post, Werth wrote "I am motivated to get back quickly 
and see to it personally those people never walk down Broad Street in celebration 
again."[11] Despite an attempt to be shut out, many Phillies fans still 
made the trip to Washington, many of them sporting their "Occupy Nationals 
Park" T-shirts.[12] Following the series in Washington, the Phillies returned 
home for a three-game set with the Mets. During that stretch, the Phillies 
had a difficult time advancing runners that were in scoring position, and 
as a result, they were swept. It must have been a wake-up call because 
the Phillies would go on to take 2 of 3 from the Padres, and sweep both 
the Houston Astros and the Chicago Cubs. The final victory against the 
Cubs put the Phillies over the .500 mark for the first time since Opening 
Day. The Phillies would then open inter league play against the Boston 
Red Sox, and would win the first game 6–4. They would then lose the next 
two games, and open up another three game set against the Nationals. The 
outcome of was the same as earlier in Washington, the Phillies would drop 
the first two games of the series, and then behind Cole Hamels, the Phillies 
would win the third game to end their losing skid at 4. The Phillies began 
to pick it up at the end of May; taking 3 of 4 from the St. Louis Cardinals. 
However, in the 4th game of the series, after giving up a 1st inning grand 
slam to Yadier Molina, Roy Halladay left the game after 2 innings due to 
soreness in his shoulder. It would turn out that Halladay would need surgery 
on his shoulder, and he would miss 6–8 weeks. However, after seeing a second 
doctor, it was concluded that Halladay may not need surgery, and needed 
to simply rest for a minimum of three weeks.[13] The Phillies finished 
May by taking 2 of 3 from the Mets, behind solid pitching performances 
from Hamels and Cliff Lee. Hamels finished May leading the Majors with 
8 wins, and Jonathan Papelbon continued his dominance as a closer, finishing 
2nd in the Majors with 14 saves. The Phillies finished May with a 27–25 
record, just 3 games out of the 1st place Nationals in the NL East. The 
Phillies entered June with a record of 27–25 and 3 games behind the Washington 
Nationals for first place in the East Division. The Phillies started the 
month by winning the first game to the Miami Marlins, but then lost the 
next 2. The Phillies struggled in the next series against the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, losing all 4 games in the series, causing them to slump to a 6-game 
losing streak and 5.5 games behind the Nationals. The Phillies then won 
1 of 3 games against the Baltimore Orioles and 2 of 3 games against the 
Minnesota Twins. However, they would get swept by the Toronto Blue Jays 
In game 2 of the series, it looked like Cliff Lee was about to finally 
get his first win of the season, but the Phillies ended up blowing a 5–2 
lead in extra innings. Then the Phillies won 2 of 3 games against the struggling 
Colorado Rockies In the next series against the Tampa Bay Rays, game 1 
was postponed to a double header on the same day as game 3. In game 2 of 
the series, however, the Phillies took a 2-run lead heading into the top 
of the 9th inning. The Rays however ended up tying the game, putting the 
game tied at 6–6 heading into the bottom of 9th inning. In the inning, 
Jim Thome hit a walk-off home run, giving the Phillies the win and putting 
Thome in 1st place in career walk-off homers. The Phillies would lose both 
games the next day, though. In the next series against the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
the Phillies would win the first 2 games of the series, but then lose the 
next 2. The Phillies would end the month by getting swept by the Marlins. 
By the end of July 1, the Phillies were 11 games behind the 1st place Nationals. 
At the end of the month, The Phillies traded Jim Thome to the Orioles for 
Class A players Gabriel Lino and Kyle Simon.[14] The Phillies were 36-45 
and 11 games behind the first place Nationals after their series against 
the Marlins. The Phillies started the month by taking 1 of 3 from the New 
York Mets. The one win, however, came with Cliff Lee finally winning his 
first game of the season after 13 starts. The streak tied for 5th for the 
longest winless streak for a pitcher.[15] The Phillies would end the first 
half by getting swept by the Atlanta Braves. They ended the first half 
with a disastrous 37–50 mark, their worst since 1997.[16] The Phillies 
seemed to have woken up in the second half, as they would take 2 of 3 from 
the Colorado Rockies and Los Angeles Dodgers. Although they only took 1 
of 3 from the San Francisco Giants, they would make it up by sweeping the 
Milwaukee Brewers, all from late comebacks. The sweep was their first 3-game 
sweep of the year. The sweep, however, got taken back by the Braves as 
they would get swept by them again because they had a hard time with runners 
in scoring position. The sweep woke up the Phillies, as they would blow 
out the Washington Nationals in the 1st game of the series on July 31, 
8–0. The Phillies would end up taking 2 of 3 from the Nationals. After 
the series against the Nationals on August 2, the Phillies were 47–58, 
15 and a half games behind the first place Nationals, and 13 game behind 
the second wild card. Although their playoff chances are slim, the Phillies 
performance after the all-star break looked promising for next season. 
Throughout the month, knowing that they will likely not make the post-season, 
the Phillies made trades with some of their players. One of the trades 
were Hunter Pence getting traded to the Giants for Nate Schierholtz, Tommy 
Joseph, and Seth Rosin. Another trade was Shane Victorino getting trading 
to the Dodgers for 2 pitchers.[17] Pitcher Joe Blanton also got involved 
in a trade with the Dodgers.[18] The Phillies would also resign Cole Hamels 
to a six-year, $144 million extension, the second-largest contract for 
a pitcher in baseball history.[19] The Phillies were 47–58, 15 1⁄2 games 
behind the first-place Nationals, and 10 games behind the second wild card 
after their series against the Nationals on August 2. The Phillies started 
the month by taking 2 of 3 from the Arizona Diamondbacks. The game 3 victory 
was huge for Ryan Howard, who had struggled since coming off his injury. 
After getting booed by striking out when the game was tied in the 8th inning 
with the bases loaded, Ryan Howard came through by hitting an RBI single 
with the bases loaded in the ninth inning to win the game and the series. 
The victory also put them out of last place in the NL East for the first 
time since June 27.[20] The Phillies then took 1 of 3 from the Braves, 
a team that they got swept by in the past 2 series. In game 1 of the series, 
the Phillies saw their sellout streak end when the Phillies did not have 
a sell-out crowd. This ended their streak at 257 games, the third-longest 
sellout streak in MLB history.[21] The Phillies then took 2 of 3 from the 
St. Louis Cardinals and came back from 3 runs down to win game 3 in extra 
innings. The Phillies then also took 2 of 3 from the Miami Marlins. The 
Phillies then split the series at 2–2 against the Milwaukee Brewers and 
Cincinnati Reds. After their game 4 win against the Reds, the Phillies 
moved up to third place in the division for the first time since April 
12.[22] The Phillies then pulled off a three-game sweep of the Nationals, 
marking their second three-game sweep of the season. The Phillies would 
however take just 1 of 3 from the New York Mets. To finish the month, the 
Phillies would pull off a comeback win against the Braves in game 1 on 
August 31. The Phillies ended up taking 2 of 3 from that series. They could 
have swept the series, but the Phillies blew a 7–3 lead in the bottom of 
the 9th inning in game 3. The Phillies finished August by going 17-12, 
their best month of the season overall so far. However, Carlos Ruiz, who 
had been the star of the Phillies with his remarkable performance this 
season,[citation needed] had to sit out for 4–6 weeks because of a fractured 
knee that took a beating throughout the month. Ruiz was replaced by Erik 
Kratz due to catcher Brian Schneider also suffering an injury.[23] This 
month also saw a huge improvement by Kyle Kendrick. After Charlie Manuel 
got really disappointed in an awful outing by Kyle in a 12-6 loss when 
he allowed 6 runs, he has been the hottest Phillies's pitcher since. Right 
away in his next outing, he shut the Miami Marlins out, allowing no runs. 
He did the same in his next outing against a normally strong Milwaukee 
Brewers offense. Although in his next outing Kyle allowed a 2-run home 
run against the Washington Nationals, Kendrick received his 3rd win in 
a row when the Phillies won 4-2. Kendrick picked up his fourth win in a 
row when the Phillies won 3-2 against the New York Mets.[24] The Phillies 
were 64-70 and were 8 games behind the Second Wild Card team St. Louis 
Cardinals after their series with the Braves on September 2. The Phillies 
will try to make an impressive late run to make the Wild Card. The Phillies 
started the month of September by taking 2 of 3 from the Cincinnati Reds. 
Then, the Phillies caught fire in the wild card standings, by sweeping 
both the Colorado Rockies and Miami Marlins in a 3-game series to climb 
back up above .500 for the first time since June 3, partly due to strong 
performances by Jimmy Rollins shortly after coming back after getting benched 
when he did not hustle after a pop-up on August 30.[25] Meanwhile, the 
teams ahead of them struggled, with the Pittsburgh Pirates losing 6 in 
a row and the Cardinals and Los Angeles Dodgers losing 6 of their last 
7 games. As a result, the Phillies were just 3 games behind the Cardinals 
on September 12.[26] However, just as it seemed like the Phillies were 
going to make an improbable run to the playoffs, disaster stroke in the 
next series against the Houston Astros. Mainly due to bad pitching performances, 
the Phillies lost 3 of 4 to the last-place Astros and were 4 games back 
after the series. This was also when the Phillies were elmimated for good 
from winning the division with a 6-7 loss on August 16.[27] However, the 
Phillies tried to rebound. They then had their revenge on the New York 
Mets for the tough losses they gave the Phils this season by sweeping them. 
This includes a come-from-behind 3-2 when Ryan Howard hit a 2-run home 
run when the Phillies were down to their final out and a huge blowout 16-1 
win when the Phillies scored 8 runs on the road in the first inning for 
the first time since 1912. Despite the sweep, the Phillies were unable 
to pick up any games as the Cardinals started getting hot around this time. 
Then in the next series against the Atlanta Braves, although they would 
win the first game to climb back to 3 games behind the Cardinals, they 
would lose the final 2 games which sunk them to 5 1⁄2 games behind the 
Cardinals and majorly damaged their playoff hopes. However, in game 2 of 
the series, Ryan Howard hit his 300th career home run after 1,093 games, 
becoming the second fastest player to hit the 300th homer.[28] The Phillies 
were unable to keep their now very slim playoff chances alive by taking 
just 1 of 3 from the Washington Nationals. However, Darin Ruf, who recently 
joined the Phillies from the minor leagues, saw that his first hit was 
also his first home run.[29] Their playoff chances then ended for good 
when the Phillies loss the first game of the next series against the Marlins 
on September 28.[30] The Phillies would then finish the year by winning 
the next 2 games against the Marlins, but would win only 1 of 3 from the 
Nationals. The Phillies would finish the year 81-81. Although it was impressive 
to recover from 14 games behind .500 in just half a season, this season 
was their first non-winning season since 2002.[31] The Phillies already 
fired first base coach Sam Perlozzo, bench coach Pete Mackanin and hitting 
coach Greg Gross. More roster moves are expected throughout the off-season. 
9-9 All players who made an appearance for the Phillies during 2012 are 
