The Los Angeles Dodgers 2012 season was the 123rd for the franchise in 
Major League Baseball, and their 55th season in Los Angeles. The Dodgers 
celebrated the Golden Anniversary of Dodger Stadium, their home since 1962. 
It was a transitional year as the sale of the team from Frank McCourt to 
Guggenheim Baseball Management was not finalized until May 1. The new ownership 
group put their stamp on the team quickly by making a number of big trades 
and putting more money into the team than McCourt did. After a fast start, 
the team faded down the stretch and finished eight games behind the World 
Series Champion Giants. The Dodgers muddled ownership situation which had 
been in question since Frank McCourt's separation from his wife at the 
end of the 2009 season started to resolve itself. First McCourt and estranged 
wife Jamie McCourt reached a settlement in their bitter divorce case, in 
which she gave up her claims on the team for $130 million[1] and then McCourt 
agreed to a settlement with Major League Baseball where the team would 
be put up for sale in a bidding process with the bankruptcy court.[2] Several 
groups of potential owners placed bids on the Dodgers, including Magic 
Johnson and Mark Walter, Steve Cohen, Rick Caruso and Joe Torre, Stanley 
Gold, Dennis Gilbert and Larry King, Mark Cuban and Orel Hershiser & Steve 
Garvey.[3] On March 27, 2012, it was announced that an agreement had been 
reached on the sale of the Dodgers between Frank McCourt and Guggenheim 
Baseball Management LLC, a group of investors fronted by Guggenheim CEO 
Mark Walter and including former Los Angeles Lakers player Magic Johnson, 
baseball executive Stan Kasten and film mogul Peter Guber.[4] The total 
sale price for the Dodgers (which includes Dodgers Stadium) exceeded $2 
billion, making the sale the largest for a professional sports team in 
history, exceeding the approximately $1.5 billion purchase of Manchester 
United F.C. by Malcolm Glazer in 2005,[5] On the same day, it was also 
announced that the members of the group will partner McCourt in purchasing 
the property surrounding the stadium.[6] The sale price of the Dodgers 
was considered to be far higher than what the team was actually worth at 
the time of sale. Estimates made by Forbes placed the value of the Dodgers 
at approximately $1.4 billion, and the winning bid was more than 30% higher 
than the next highest bid.[7] On April 13, the sale was approved by the 
bankruptcy court[8] and the deal was finalized on May 1.[9] On September 
30, 2011 the Dodgers announced that the entire coaching staff would return 
for the 2012 season. Dave Hansen, who had previously been hired as an interim 
hitting coach, was officially promoted to hitting coach.[10] The Dodgers 
got their offseason moves under way on October 4, 2011 when they declined 
the 2012 options on third baseman Casey Blake and pitcher Jon Garland and 
outrighted utility player Eugenio Vélez to the minor leagues.[11] The Dodgers 
other free agents at the end of the 2011 season were pitchers Jonathan 
Broxton, Hiroki Kuroda, Mike MacDougal and Vicente Padilla, catcher Rod 
Barajas, infielders Jamey Carroll and Aaron Miles and outfielder Juan Rivera.[12] 
Outfielder Jamie Hoffmann was claimed off waivers by the Colorado Rockies 
on December 5.[13] On December 8, the Dodgers traded starting pitcher Dana 
Eveland to the Baltimore Orioles for two minor leaguers.[14] On December 
12, the Dodgers chose not to offer a contract to relief pitcher Hong-Chih 
Kuo, making him a free agent. Kuo had been the longest tenured Dodger at 
the time of his release.[15] The Dodgers re-signed outfielder Juan Rivera 
to a one-year contract with a 2013 option.[16] They filled two of their 
open spots in rapid succession on November 15 by signing second baseman 
Mark Ellis to a two-year contract[17] and backup catcher Matt Treanor to 
a one-year contract.[18] The Dodgers signed infielder Adam Kennedy to a 
one-year contract on December 1 to provide some infield depth[19] and they 
signed veteran starting pitcher Chris Capuano to a two-year contract on 
December 2 to fill the void left by Kuroda's departure.[20] They added 
to their bench on December 5 by signing veteran utility player Jerry Hairston, 
Jr. to a 2-year contract.[21] The Dodgers finished their rebuilding of 
the rotation on December 8 by signing Aaron Harang to a 2-year contract, 
with a vesting option.[22] The Dodgers chose to re-sign relief pitcher 
Mike MacDougal, agreeing to a one-year contract (including a 2013 option) 
with him on January 5.[23] They added another relief pitcher on February 
3 by signing veteran Todd Coffey to a one-year contract.[24] The Dodgers 
opened the 2012 season on April 5, 2012 against the San Diego Padres at 
Petco Park. Reigning NL Cy Young winner Clayton Kershaw started for the 
Dodgers, despite suffering from severe flu. He pitched three scoreless 
innings before being replaced by several relief pitchers. Matt Kemp hit 
his first home run of the season, a 2 run shot, and the Dodgers won 5-3.[25] 
The Dodgers won the next game as Chad Billingsley pitched 8 1/3 scoreless 
innings with 11 strikeouts and Andre Ethier drove in 4 runs in the 6-0 
victory.[26] The Dodgers rushed to a 5-0 lead on April 7 but the Padres 
tied it in the fifth when Dodger pitchers walked five, hit one and issued 
a wild pitch. The Dodgers managed to win 6-5 in 11 innings. Dee Gordon 
was the star as he went 3-4 with three stolen bases, two walks and two 
runs scored as well as bringing home catcher A. J. Ellis with the go-ahead 
single.[27] After starting the season 3-0 for the first time since 1999, 
the Dodgers dropped the finale of the 4-game opening series to the Padres 
8-4 as new addition Aaron Harang struggled in his season debut.[28] For 
their home opener, the Dodgers beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 2–1. Ethier 
celebrated his 30th birthday by hitting an eighth-inning home run for the 
deciding run. Kershaw recovered from the flu by allowing only one earned 
run in seven innings of work, while striking out seven.[29] The Dodgers 
improved to 5–1 on the season by beating the Pirates 4-1 the next day behind 
another strong start by Billingsley.[30] The Dodgers beat the Pirates again 
the next night, 3–2, to complete the sweep of the series. The Dodgers 6-1 
record to start the season was their best start since 1981.[31] On April 
13, Aaron Harang struck out 9 consecutive batters after giving up a single 
to set the all time Dodgers record against the Padres. The record was previously 
held by Johnny Podres with 8 in 1962. The streak was stopped by Will Venable 
when he hit an opposite field home run. Harang finished one strikeout short 
of tying Tom Seaver's Major League record of 10 in a row set in 1970 and 
tied his career high with 13 total strikeouts in the game. The Dodgers 
won the game 9–8 after the bullpen allowed the Padres to tie the score.[32] 
The Dodgers continued their hot start by beating the Padres 6–1 behind 
two home runs by Kemp and one by Ethier. Ted Lilly made his first start 
of the season and pitched seven dominant innings for the win.[33] The Dodgers 
swept the Padres with a wild 5-4 win on April 15. After taking a 4–1 lead, 
partially thanks to Matt Kemp's league leading 6th home run, the Dodgers 
allowed the Padres to tie the game at 4 heading to the ninth. With two 
on and no outs in the top of the ninth, Javy Guerra threw the ball inside 
on Jesús Guzmán, somehow the ball hit his bat and dribbled into fair Territory 
where A.J. Ellis threw it to third for the start of a triple play, the 
Dodgers first since 1998. The Padres protested that umpire Dale Scott had 
signaled that the ball was dead originally before changing his call. In 
the bottom of the inning, the Dodgers won the game on a walk-off single 
by Dee Gordon.[34] The Dodgers opened their next road trip with a 5–4 defeat 
to the Milwaukee Brewers that snapped the six game win streak. The Brewers 
won on a walk-off double by George Kottaras off of Javy Guerra in the bottom 
of the ninth.[35] The Dodgers suffered their second straight defeat in 
walk-off fashion the next night when Nyjer Morgan scored on a sacrifice 
fly by Ryan Braun in the bottom of the 10th inning.[36] Matt Kemp hit his 
seventh home run of the season in the series finale to help the Dodgers 
avoid the sweep. Two good defensive plays at third base by Jerry Hairston, 
Jr. helped the Dodgers hold on to a 4-3 victory.[37] The Dodgers next traveled 
to Houston for a matchup with the Astros. In the opener, the one-two punch 
of Kemp & Ethier again accounted for all the Dodgers runs in a 3–1 victory.[38] 
Clayton Kershaw picked up his first win of the season in the next game 
as he struck out nine and only allowed three hits in seven scoreless innings. 
Kemp hit his ninth home run of the season and James Loney his first in 
the Dodgers 5-1 win over the Astros.[39] The Dodgers road trip ended on 
a sour note as they got pounded by the Astros 12–0. Billingsley allowed 
nine runs in only 3 1⁄3 innings, including a grand slam home run by Jordan 
Schafer.[40] The Dodgers returned home on April 23 and remained undefeated 
at Dodger Stadium by beating the Atlanta Braves 7–2. Juan Uribe tied a 
career high with four hits and drove in three runs in the win.[41] They 
picked up their first home loss of the season the next night, as Martín 
Prado hit a tie breaking RBI triple off of Javy Guerra in the ninth to 
set up the Braves 4-3 win.[42] The Dodgers lost again the next night as 
Guerra gave up three runs in the ninth inning and the Braves came back 
to win 4–2 despite Matt Kemp's 10th home run of the season, which tied 
Gary Sheffield's club record for home runs in April set in 2000.[43] The 
Washington Nationals came to town next and the Dodgers won the opener 3–2 
as ace Clayton Kershaw allowed only two runs in eight innings for his 12th 
straight win at Dodger Stadium. A two run home run by Andre Ethier accounted 
for most of the offense.[44] On April 28, Billingsley matched up against 
Stephen Strasburg and both pitched well, allowing one run each in seven 
innings of work. 19-year-old 2010 top draft pick Bryce Harper made his 
Major League debut for the Nationals, crushing a double for his first hit 
and driving in a run on a sacrifice fly to put the Nationals up in the 
ninth but the Dodgers came back to tie it in the bottom of the ninth. Matt 
Kemp crushed a walk-off home run off Tom Gorzelanny for the 4–3 win. It 
was Kemp's 11th home run of the season, breaking Sheffield's club record.[45] 
The Dodgers completed the sweep of the Nationals when James Loney's two 
RBI single backed Chris Capuano's 6 2⁄3 shutout innings in a 2–0 victory 
in the finale of the homestand.[46] The Dodgers ended the month of April 
in Denver with a road game against the Colorado Rockies. Kemp hit his league 
leading 12th home run early but the Rockies won 6–2 after Rockies relief 
pitchers struck out Kemp and Ethier with the bases loaded in the seventh 
inning. The Dodgers 16 wins in April was their most since the 1984 season.[47] 
The month of May ushered in a new era for the Dodgers as the sale of the 
team by Frank McCourt to Guggenheim Baseball Management was finalized.[48] 
The Dodgers then won their first game under the new management that night 
against the Rockies. Ted Lilly worked six strong innings and the Dodgers 
built a 7–0 lead thanks to homers by Dee Gordon (the first of his career) 
and Andre Ethier and then held on to win 7–6 after the bullpen allowed 
the Rockies to catch up. Javy Guerra picked up his eighth save to preserve 
the win.[49] The Dodgers lost the final game of the series against the 
Rockies, 8–5, when Jason Giambi hit a walk-off three-run homer against 
Scott Elbert.[50] Jerry Hairston, Jr. fell a double short of the cycle 
in the opener of a series against the Chicago Cubs on May 4 but the Dodgers 
still lost 5–4.[51] Chris Capuano pitched seven scoreless innings the next 
day and the Dodgers ended their brief two-game losing streak with a 5–1 
win.[52] Another costly blown save by Javy Guerra cost the Dodgers in the 
finale, which they lost 4–3 when Jamey Wright walked in the winning run 
in the 11th inning.[53] The Dodgers returned home for their first homestand 
under the new ownership and beat the San Francisco Giants 9-1.[54] The 
next night, Clayton Kershaw gave up a two-run homer to Brett Pill in the 
second inning before settling down to pitch eight strong innings, but the 
Dodgers were unable to get runs in against Ryan Vogelsong and lost 2–1.[55] 
A three-run pinch hit triple by Tony Gwynn, Jr. gave the Dodgers the lead 
in the series finale against the Giants and they held on to win 6-2.[56] 
On May 11, Capuano improved his record to 5–0, while allowing just one 
run on four hits in seven innings. Mark Ellis, Juan Uribe and Andre Ethier 
provided the offense as each hit a home run in the clubs 7–3 win over the 
Rockies.[57] Aaron Harang allowed just one run in eight innings on May 
12 and Tony Gwynn, Jr. came through again with a pinch hit RBI to drive 
in the winning run in the Dodgers 2–1 victory over the Rockies.[58] The 
Dodgers completed the sweep of the Rockies thanks to a 3-RBI double by 
Bobby Abreu and a 3-run homer by A. J. Ellis that led the team to an 11–5 
win in the series finale.[59] Kershaw pitched seven scoreless innings to 
outduel Ian Kennedy on May 14, as the Dodgers beat the Arizona Diamondbacks 
3–1.[60] Chad Billingsley struggled and the Dodgers had difficulty scoring 
in the finale of the homestand, losing to the Diamondbacks 5-1 and snapping 
their five-game winning streak.[61] With their lineup beset by injuries 
to key players, the Dodgers started a quick two game road trip to San Diego 
with a 4–2 loss to the Padres.[62] Aaron Harang pitched seven shutout innings 
as the Dodgers won big the next night, 8–1.[63] Back home for a weekend 
matchup with the NL Central leading St. Louis Cardinals, the Dodgers managed 
to survive a blown save by closer Kenley Jansen and won in the bottom of 
the ninth when Fernando Salas walked A.J. Ellis with the bases loaded. 
The Dodgers won 6–5.[64] Kershaw pitched a complete game shut out on May 
19, the fourth of his career, as the Dodgers beat the Cardinals 6–0.[65] 
Scott Van Slyke hit his first career home run on May 20, a three-run shot 
in the bottom of the seventh to lead the Dodgers to a 6–5 victory and a 
sweep of the Cardinals.[66] The Dodgers beat the Diamondbacks 6–1 on May 
22 at Chase Field as their win streak reached five games. Matt Treanor, 
James Loney and Ethier all homered in the win as Chris Capuano picked up 
his team leading sixth victory.[67] In the next game, the Dodgers fell 
behind 6–1 after 6 innings, then rallied for 5 runs of the Arizona bullpen 
to tie the game in the 7th. Lyle Overbay, who was 4–4 in the game, hit 
a solo homer in the 8th off Josh Lindblom to put the Diamondbacks back 
ahead. However the Dodgers went ahead 8–7 thanks to a 2 RBI double by Iván 
DeJesús, Jr. in the top of the ninth off Diamondbacks closer J. J. Putz. 
Kenley Jansen induced a game ending double play to preserve the Dodgers 
sixth straight victory.[68] The streak ended the next night, as did Ted 
Lilly's personal eight-game winning streak, as Lilly was shelled for 8 
runs on 9 hits and 5 walks over 3 1⁄3 innings and the Dodgers were crushed 
11–4 by the Diamondbacks.[69] Back home to play the Houston Astros on May 
25, Kershaw allowed a 2-run homer to J. D. Martinez in the third inning 
and were unable to overcome it in a 3–1 defeat.[70] The following day, 
L.A. again managed to avoid losing three in a row as A. J. Ellis hit a 
three-run walk-off homer in a 6–3 victory.[71] The Dodgers beat the Astros 
on May 27, 5–1 behind Chris Capuano who allowed only two hits in seven 
innings. Jerry Hairston, Jr. had 5 hits in 5 at-bats and backup catcher 
Matt Treanor homered in the win.[72] The Dodgers bats were silent on Memorial 
Day as they only scored two runs against Milwaukee Brewers starter Shaun 
Marcum and lost 3–2.[73] Nathan Eovaldi made his first start for the Dodgers 
(replacing the injured Ted Lilly) on May 29 and promptly allowed a two-run 
homer by Ryan Braun in the top of the 1st, which was all the Brewers needed 
to defeat the Dodgers 2–1.[74] The Dodgers lost their third straight game 
(for the first time in the 2012 season) when they fell to the Brewers 6–3 
the next day. In only his second day back after spending 15 days on the 
disabled list, Matt Kemp re-injured his left hamstring while scoring in 
the 1st inning.[75] After receiving the news that Kemp would likely be 
out for all of June, the Dodgers meekly lost to the Brewers 6–2 to end 
the homestand. The series marked the first time the Dodgers were swept 
in a four-game series at home since 1993 and the first time they were ever 
swept by the Brewers in any series.[76] The Dodgers began the month of 
June where they left off in May, losing their fifth straight game. This 
time they committed four errors and were pounded by the Colorado Rockies 
13–3 at Coors Field.[77] In that game, the Dodgers set a Major League record 
by having five sons of former Major Leaguers in the lineup at the same 
time (Tony Gwynn, Jr., Jerry Hairston, Jr., Iván DeJesús, Jr., Dee Gordon 
and Scott Van Slyke). It was also the first time a starting infield of 
four major league sons had ever occurred: first baseman Van Slyke, second 
baseman Hairston, third baseman De Jesus and shortstop Gordon.[78] The 
losing streak came to an end the next day, when they got a strong pitching 
performance from Aaron Harang and some timely hitting, including Bobby 
Abreu's first homer as a Dodger, in a 6–2 win.[79] However, the Dodgers 
offense went back into hibernation the next day as they dropped the series 
finale to the Rockies 3–2.[80] The Dodgers road trip continued on June 
4 as they traveled to Citizens Bank Park to open a four-game series against 
the Philadelphia Phillies. Dee Gordon hit a triple to lead off the ninth 
against Phillies closer Jonathan Papelbon and then scored on a single by 
Elián Herrera to give the Dodgers the winning margin in the 4–3 victory.[81] 
Herrera came through the next night as well, hitting a two-RBI double off 
Cliff Lee in the top of the eighth to give the Dodgers the go-ahead run 
in a 2–1 victory over the Phillies.[82] Dee Gordon delivered a two-run 
single during the Dodgers three-run sixth inning on June 6 as they again 
came from behind to beat the Phillies, this time by a score of 6-5. Kenley 
Jansen picked up his third save in three days against the Phillies.[83] 
The Dodgers, helped by three Phillies errors, swept the series with an 
8–3 victory in the series finale. The victory was the 100th career win 
for pitcher Aaron Harang and the team's first ever four-game series sweep 
in Philadelphia.[84] The Dodgers continued the lengthy road trip with a 
cross-country flight to Seattle to take on the Mariners in interleague 
play. In the opener Nathan Eovaldi pitched six scoreless innings before 
the Mariners got a run off of relief pitcher Scott Elbert. It was all they 
needed because Kevin Millwood and five relief pitchers combined to pitch 
a no-hitter against the Dodgers. This was the first official no-hitter 
against the Dodgers since Kent Mercker of the Atlanta Braves had done it 
on April 4, 1994.[85] The Dodgers got back into the winning ways the next 
day as Clayton Kershaw stuck out a season high 12 batters in 7 innings 
and Jerry Hairston, Jr. hit a home run and had 5 RBI in the 8–3 win.[86] 
Andre Ethier hit his fourth career grand slam to back Chad Billingsley's 
strong effort as the Dodgers closed out the lengthy road trip with an 8–2 
victory over the Mariners. Billingsley allowed only one run in 7 innings 
while striking out 8.[87] The Dodgers finally returned home on June 11 
only to lose 3–2 to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, led by rookie outfielder 
Mike Trout, who was 2 for 4 with a home run and two RBI in the game.[88] 
The Dodgers struggled against Angels starter Jerome Williams the next night, 
trailing 2–1 heading into the bottom of the eighth. However they battled 
back as Ethier hit a game-tying single and then Juan Rivera put the Dodgers 
ahead to stay with a three-run home run. Kenley Jansen picked up his 10th 
save in the 5–2 victory.[89] The Angels took the final game of the series 
as Erick Aybar hit a tie-breaking home run off Jansen in the top of the 
ninth to give them the 2-1 win over the Dodgers.[90] In the next game, 
on June 15 against the Chicago White Sox, Kershaw struggled, giving up 
5 runs in his 6 innings of work but the Dodgers came back and won the game 
7-6 thanks to a wild pitch by reliever Matt Thornton that pushed across 
the eventual winning run.[91] The Dodgers again fell behind early the next 
day, then came back to tie the game. However, this time they lost 5-4.[92] 
Chris Capuano struck out 12 in 8 innings of the series finale on Father's 
Day but left the game down 1–0. The Dodgers ralied to tie the game in the 
bottom of the 9th and won in the 10th after a triple by Tony Gwynn, Jr. 
and a walk off single by Dee Gordon.[93] Back on the road, the Dodgers 
were shut out by Oakland Athletics starter Brandon McCarthy and Aaron Harang 
struggled, walking 8 batters in only 4 innings and allowing 3 runs in the 
1st which was all Oakland needed in the 3–0 victory.[94] The Dodger offense 
continued to stumble the following day, losing again to Oakland, this time 
by a score of 4–1.[95] Clayton Kershaw allowed only one run on three hits 
in eight innings in the finale but the Athletics still swept the Dodgers 
thanks to a walk-off home run by Yoenis Céspedes off Josh Lindblom in the 
bottom of the ninth that gave them a 4–1 win.[96] The Dodgers traveled 
to Anaheim to begin another series with the Angels on June 22. They took 
an early 5–0 lead, partially thanks to a 3-run homer hit by Bobby Abreu, 
but lost the game 8-5 to extend their losing streak to four games.[97] 
The Dodgers ended their skid and picked up a win the next day as Chris 
Capuano allowed only one run in 7 innings to pick up his ninth win and 
Dee Gordon was 2-4 with a triple, a stolen base and 2 runs scored in the 
Dodgers 3–1 win over the Angels.[98] The Dodgers dropped the finale of 
the Freeway Series when they lost 5–3. This continued the Angels streak 
of beating the Dodgers in interleague series that has continued since 2006.[99] 
The Dodgers next traveled to San Francisco for a divisional series against 
the second place Giants. However, rookie Nathan Eovaldi struggled, allowing 
7 runs in the first 2 innings and 8 total in his 5 innings of work and 
the Dodgers lost 8–0 to see their lead over the Giants in the division 
drop to 2 games.[100] Clayton Kershaw allowed only 2 runs against the Giants 
the next day, but the team was again shut down offensively (this time by 
Ryan Vogelsong) as they lost 2–0. This was the first time the Dodgers had 
been shut out in back-to-back games against the Giants since 1987.[101] 
The Dodgers woes continued the next day as they were shut out 3-0 by Tim 
Lincecum and the Giants. The Dodgers, who were shut out in 3 straight games 
in the series and fell into a tie with the Giants for first place in the 
division, extended their scoreless streak to 30 innings. This was the first 
time one team had thrown three straight shutouts against the Dodgers since 
the 1937 Boston Braves did it to the Brooklyn Dodgers.[102] The Dodgers 
scoreless streak eventually reached 33 innings, fifth longest in team history 
and the longest since 2004 before they finally scored a run in the 4th 
inning against the New York Mets in the 1st game of a homestand. However, 
it was not enough as they lost 3–2 to the Mets, extending the losing streak 
to 5 games and dropping them out of first place for the first time since 
April 11.[103] The swoon continued the next day as the Dodgers were dominated 
by R. A. Dickey and his knuckleball and were shut out again, 9–0. This 
was the Dodgers sixth straight loss, the longest losing streak since September 
2010.[104] On June 30, it was Johan Santana's turn to hold the Dodgers 
scoreless as he allowed only 3 hits in 8 innings and the Dodgers lost again 
5–0 for their seventh straight loss, the longest losing streak since August 
2008. They ended the month of June by scoring runs in only one of the last 
57 innings they played.[105] The Dodgers ended their skid as the month 
turned to July. Clayton Kershaw allowed only one earned run in 7 innings, 
while striking out 9 and the Dodgers took advantage of 3 Mets errors to 
pull off an 8–3 victory. Dee Gordon was 2 for 5 with 3 steals and 2 errors 
in the game.[106] The Dodgers relapsed the next day as the Cincinnati Reds 
beat them 8–2 for Chad Billingsley's fourth straight loss.[107] The Dodgers 
came from behind to beat the Reds the next day, as Luis Cruz, just called 
up from the minors a few days before, doubled in the tie-breaking run in 
the seventh inning and stole home for the insurance run in the 3–1 win.[108] 
On the Fourth of July, Aaron Harang allowed only one run in seven innings 
to record his first victory since June 7 and the Dodgers won the series 
with a 4–1 victory in the finale.[109] The Dodgers opened up a four-game 
series with the Arizona Diamondbacks at Chase Field on July 5. Nathan Eovaldi 
earned his first win of the year after 5 loses when he allowed only one 
run in 6 innings. Solo homers by Scott Van Slyke and Elián Herrera led 
the offense as the Dodgers won 4–1.[110] Kershaw struggled in the next 
game, allowing 5 runs to score in the 6th inning as the Dodgers fell to 
the Diamondbacks 5–3.[111] Same story the next day as the Diamondbacks 
also beat Chad Billingsley 5–3. This was Billingsley's fifth straight loss, 
a new career high.[112] The Dodgers limped into the All-Star break as they 
dropped the finale to the Diamondbacks 7–1.[113] The Dodgers began the 
second half of the season with the return of injured stars Matt Kemp (out 
since mid-may with a hamstring injury) and Andre Ethier (out for two weeks 
with a strained oblique). A solid performance by Kershaw and Mark Ellis 
two-run homer propelled them to a 2–1 win over the San Diego Padres at 
Dodger Stadium.[114] The next night, the Dodgers led going into the ninth 
but Everth Cabrera stole hole against closer Kenley Jansen to tie the game 
and Will Venable scored the winning run when Jansen's throw to the plate 
went wide of catcher A. J. Ellis. The final score was 7-6.[115] A season 
high five errors, include two in the decisive seventh inning by Jerry Hairston, 
Jr. led to six unearned runs in the Padres 7–2 victory over the Dodgers 
on July 15.[116] Homeruns by Jimmy Rollins and Ryan Howard sent the Dodgers 
to a 3–2 loss to the Philadelphia Phillies.[117] A sore arm prevented Chad 
Billingsley from making his next start, on July 17, so the Dodgers called 
up Stephen Fife from the minors to make his Major League debut. Fife pitched 
well, allowing only 1 run in 6 innings, but the bullpen faltered and the 
team lost 3-2 for the second straight day.[118] The team picked up a win 
in the series finale the next day as Matt Kemp hit his first home run since 
April 30, a two-run walk-off blast in the bottom of the 12th to give the 
Dodgers a 5–3 victory.[119] The Dodgers began their first road trip of 
the second half of the season in New York City against the Mets on July 
20. Kemp and Luis Cruz each slugged two-run homers off Mets starter Johan 
Santana and the team held on for a 7-6 victory.[120] Juan Uribe, who had 
struggled in the first half of the season, broke out in the next game, 
with a homer, double, two walks, four RBI and three runs scored. Chris 
Capuano picked up his team leading 10th win in the 8–5 victory.[121] Matt 
Treanor's pinch hit two-run single in the top of the 12th inning led the 
Dodgers to an 8–3 victory over the Mets on July 22. The win completed the 
Dodgers first 3-game series sweep of the Mets in New York since 2002 and 
gave rookie Josh Wall the win. Wall was the first Dodger to pick up a win 
in relief in his first appearance since Tim Belcher in 1987.[122] Billingsley 
came off the disabled list to pitch six solid innings in the Dodgers 5–3 
win over the St. Louis Cardinals on July 24. Luis Cruz's three-run homer 
was main offense in the game.[123] Kershaw struggled in the next game, 
allowing 8 earned runs, in the Dodgers 8–2 loss to the Cardinals that ended 
the five-game winning streak.[124] The Dodgers acquired Hanley Ramírez 
from the Miami Marlins in a trade on July 25 and Ramírez went 2-for-4 with 
a triple in his Dodgers debut against the Cardinals. It wasn't enough, 
however, as ex-Dodger Rafael Furcal hit a two-out single to left in the 
bottom of the 12th to give the Cardinals a 3–2 victory.[125] Chris Capuano 
turned in his worst start of the season in the finale against the Cardinals, 
as the Dodgers lost 7–4.[126] Ramírez hit his first home run as a Dodger 
in the opener of a key series against the division leading Giants. The 
two-run homer, in the top of the 10th inning was the difference in a 5-3 
victory.[127] The Dodgers picked up another win against their rivals the 
next day as Chad Billingsley pitched 7 1⁄3 scoreless innings while allowing 
only 4 hits and Matt Kemp went 4 for 5 with two doubles and a home run 
in the 10–0 rout.[128] Kershaw pitched a five-hit complete game shutout 
to complete the Dodgers sweep of the Giants, 4–0, and move them back into 
a tie for first place in the division.[129] The Dodgers returned home on 
July 30, but Aaron Harang had a poor day, allowing a three run home run 
by Paul Goldschmidt and a grand slam by Chris Johnson as the Dodgers lost 
7–2.[130] Home runs also caused a problem for Chris Capuano, including 
a two-run homer by Goldschmidt and a three-run blast by Miguel Montero 
as the Dodgers closed out July with an 8–2 loss.[131] The Dodgers acquired 
Shane Victorino from the Philadelphia Phillies at the trade deadline[132] 
but it wasn't enough as they were held to 2 hits and 0 runs by Patrick 
Corbin and the Diamondbacks in a 4–0 defeat to start August.[133] Chad 
Billingsley allowed only 1 run in 7 innings, while striking out 7 and A. 
J. Ellis hit two home runs (the first multi-homer game of his career) as 
the Dodgers beat the Chicago Cubs 6-1 on August 3.[134] Clayton Kershaw 
followed the next day by pitching seven innings of one run, three-hit ball 
and picked up the win 3–1. Matt Kemp's two-run homer in the 4th inning 
sparked the offense.[135] The Dodgers acquired Joe Blanton in a trade with 
the Phillies on August 3 [136] and he made his Dodger debut on August 5 
in the finale against the Cubs. The Dodgers completed the sweep with a 
7–6 win, thanks to a walk-off single by Hanley Ramírez.[137] However, they 
were shut out the next night by the Colorado Rockies 2–0.[138] The Dodgers 
offense remained in hibernation for another day as the Rockies beat them 
3-1 on August 7.[139] The homestand ended with a 6-4 win by the Dodgers. 
Matt Kemp hit a three-run homer in the 1st inning, Victorino was 3-for-5 
with three runs scored and Billingsley picked up his 4th straight victory.[140] 
The Dodgers next traveled to Miami to begin their road trip with a 3-game 
series against the Marlins. In his first game back since his trade to the 
Dodgers, Hanley Ramírez was 3 for 5 with 2 RBI and Juan Rivera homered 
as Kershaw picked up his 10th win of the season in the 5–2 victory.[141] 
on August 11, the Dodgers left the bases loaded in each of the first two 
innings and left 10 men on base the whole game as the Marlins scored 4 
in the 5th off Joe Blanton to beat the Dodgers 7–3.[142] Chris Capuano 
did not allow a hit until the 7th inning in the series finale and left 
the game after 8 innings with only two hits and no runs allowed, as well 
as 10 strikeouts. The Dodgers won 5–0 as Ramírez drove in 3 runs against 
his former team.[143] Shane Victorino homered and drove in 3 runs to lead 
the Dodgers to a 5–4 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates on August 13.[144] 
The next night, Billingsley pitched eight shutout innings and Luis Cruz 
was 3 for 5 with 3 RBI in the Dodgers 11-0 rout of the Pirates.[145] The 
Dodgers moved back into sole possession of first place for the first time 
since July 13, when Kershaw pitched 8 solid innings (3 runs, 8 strikeouts, 
no walks) and the team racked up a season high 15 hits in a 9–3 win.[146] 
Matt Kemp and Don Mattingly were both ejected in the 2nd inning of the 
Dodgers 10-6 loss to the Pirates on August 16.[147] The Dodgers spoiled 
a strong start from Capuano on August 17 when Ronald Belisario allowed 
the tying runs in the eighth inning and Juan Francisco hit a walk-off single 
off Jamey Wright in the 11th inning to lead the Atlanta Braves to a 4–3 
win.[148] Mattingly was suspended for the final two games of the Braves 
series as a result of his argument with the umpires in the final game of 
the Pirates series.[149] With bench coach Trey Hillman leading the team 
as acting manager, the Dodgers only managed 4 hits against the Braves, 
but all of them were home runs. Hanley Ramírez hit two of the homers, and 
drove in 4 of the runs in the process for the 6–2 victory.[150] The Dodgers 
wrapped up the road trip with a 5–0 win over the Braves. Billingsley pitched 
seven shutout innings in the game.[151] The Dodgers returned home from 
the long road trip for a key divisional series with the San Francisco Giants. 
In the first game of the series, Kershaw allowed only two runs in 8 innings 
while striking out 10 but it wasn't enough as Madison Bumgarner also struck 
out 10 in 8 innings, but didn't allow any runs. The Dodgers lost 2–1 to 
fall back behind the Giants in the divisional race.[152] The Dodgers also 
dropped the next game, 4–1, as Tim Lincecum shut down the Dodgers offense 
and Joe Blanton struggled.[153] The Giants again pounced on the Dodgers 
early in the series finale, scoring 3 runs in the top of the 1st and coasting 
to an 8-4 victory that dropped the Dodgers 2 1⁄2 games back in the division. 
This was the Giants first three-game series sweep over the Dodgers at Dodger 
Stadium since 2007.[154] The Dodgers made up for the drought against the 
Giants by scoring runs in bunches against the Marlins and former teammate 
Nathan Eovaldi. Juan Rivera, Andre Ethier and Hanley Ramírez all homered 
in the 11-4 win.[155] The Dodgers and Boston Red Sox made a trade on August 
25, considered by many to be the "biggest August trade in MLB history" 
which sent James Loney and four minor leaguers to the Red Sox for Adrian 
Gonzalez, Josh Beckett, Carl Crawford and Nick Punto. Gonzalez made a huge 
splash with his new team, smashing a three run home run off Marlins ace 
Josh Johnson in his first at-bat with his new team. The Dodgers offense 
did not look back, running up 16 hits in the 8–2 win. Andre Ethier got 
his tenth straight base hit, breaking the L.A. Dodger record set by Ron 
Cey in 1977 and tying the franchise record set by Ed Konetchy in 1919.[156] 
The Marlins hit four home runs off the Dodgers the next day to win the 
series finale 6–2. Giancarlo Stanton hit home runs in each game of the 
series for the Marlins.[157] Beckett made his Dodgers debut in the opener 
of a series against the Colorado Rockies at Coors Field. He allowed 3 runs 
in 5 2⁄3 innings and struck out 6, but the Dodgers offense was shut out 
completely and the bullpen blew up in a 10–0 loss.[158] Kemp injured himself 
by crashing into the center field wall in the 1st inning and had to leave 
the game, Capuano allowed 4 runs in the first and the Dodgers new look 
offense continued to struggle as they lost 8–4 on August 28.[159] The Dodgers 
offense finally came alive the next day, jumping to a 10–1 lead thanks 
to a 2-run homer by Hanley Ramírez, a grand slam by A. J. Ellis and 7 1⁄3 
solid innings from Joe Blanton. The bullpen faltered in the seventh and 
eighth by the Dodgers held on to win 10–8.[160] The Dodgers returned home 
on August 30 to play the Arizona Diamondbacks. Ian Kennedy and three relievers 
held the Dodgers scoreless and Kershaw allowed one 2-run homer by Chris 
Young and that was all they needed as the Diamondbacks beat the Dodgers 
2–0. The team dropped to 4 1⁄2 games behind the Giants, their largest deficit 
of the season.[161] Reliever Matt Guerrier allowed a solo homer to Jason 
Kubel in the 11th inning on August 31, to give the Dodgers a 4–3 loss, 
their eighth straight loss to the Diamondbacks on the season.[162] The 
Dodgers finally beat the Diamondbacks on September 1 as Josh Beckett only 
allowed one run in 6 2⁄3 innings, while striking out 9, tying his season 
high. Andre Ethier and Hanley Ramírez each hit solo homers to account for 
the 2–1 victory.[163] The Dodgers finished off the series with another 
win, thanks to a two-run walk-off double by Adrian Gonzalez off Diamondbacks 
closer J. J. Putz for the 5–4 win.[164] The Dodgers won again the next 
night against the San Diego Padres as Ethier hit a solo homer in the bottom 
of the ninth to tie the game and A. J. Ellis hit a walk-off single in the 
bottom of the 11th for the 4–3 victory.[165] Clayton Kershaw only allowed 
one run in 7 innings on September 4, while striking out 9. Kerhsaw became 
just the fifth Dodgers pitcher to post three straight 200 strikeout seasons 
(Sandy Koufax, Don Drysdale, Fernando Valenzuela and Hideo Nomo). Ethier 
hit a solo homer in the second inning for his 1,000th career hit but it 
wasn't enough as Matt Guerrier gave up a two-run game-tying homer in the 
eighth and John Ely allowed three runs to score in the 11th as the Dodgers 
lost to the Padres 6–3.[166] The Dodgers lost the series finale as well, 
4–3, to the Padres.[167] The Dodgers next started a key series against 
the San Francisco Giants at AT&T Park, hoping to make up ground in the 
standings. However, they dropped the opener of the series 5–2.[168] They 
evened the series the next day as Adrian Gonzalez tripled in the eighth 
inning and scored on a double by Hanley Ramírez for the key run in a 3–2 
victory.[169] However, the team fell 5 1⁄2 games behind the Giants when 
Barry Zito shut them out the next day, 4–0.[170] On September 11, Kershaw 
only allowed three hits and one unearned run against the Arizona Diamondbacks 
but it was too much as Ian Kennedy blanked the Dodgers 1–0.[171] The Dodgers 
actually scored first the next night, Adrian Gonzalez double scored two 
runs to give the Dodgers an early lead... but Trevor Cahill shut them down 
the rest of the game and the Diamondbacks came back to win 3–2.[172] The 
Dodgers returned home on September 13 to open up a series against the St. 
Louis Cardinals, who held a one-game lead over them in the wild card race 
to start the series. However, they continued to struggle offensively and 
dropped the game 2–1.[173] The Dodgers dropped behind 4-1 in the next game, 
but fought back to win 8-5 thanks to home runs by Ethier and Luis Cruz, 
ending their four-game losing streak.[174] Trailing by one run entering 
the ninth on September 15, Luis Cruiz RBI double and Juan Rivera's pinch 
hit walk off single, both off Cardinals closer Jason Motte, gave the Dodgers 
a 4-3 win and moved them into a tie with the Cardinals for the final Wild 
Card spot.[175] However, they dropped the last game of the series, in 12 
innings, 5-2.[176] The Dodgers next began a key road trip against the two 
teams with the best records in the National League, the Washington Nationals 
and Cincinnati Reds. The opener of their series against the Nationals was 
rained out, forcing them to play a double-header on September 19. In the 
first game, the bats continued to be non-existent as they lost 3-1.[177] 
In the second game, Josh Beckett was brilliant for 7 innings as they Dodgers 
built a 6-0 lead, only to see the bullpen falter in the 8th and the Nationals 
tied the game. Matt Kemp homered in the top of the ninth to provide the 
crucial run in the 7-6 victory.[178] They closed out the series the next 
day with a 4-1 loss, dimming their post-season hopes.[179] The Dodgers 
beat the Reds on September 21, thanks to a 2 RBI single by Kemp in the 
top of the 10th inning.[180] Mat Latos shut down the Dodgers the next day, 
for a 6-0 Reds victory.[181] Clayton Kershaw made the start on September 
23, his first start since in 12 days since suffering a hip injury. Kershaw 
allowed only one run in 5 innings and Adrian Gonzalez hit two home runs, 
to lead the Dodgers to a 5-3 victory over the Reds.[182] The Dodgers, with 
their season hanging by a thread, next traveled to San Diego for a series 
with the Padres. They dropped the first game of the series 2-1.[183] Kemp 
had four hits, including a home run the next night as the Dodgers offense 
finally showed some life and they beat the Padres 8-2.[184] The Dodgers 
finished off their last road trip of the season with an 8-4 victory over 
the Padres, with both A.J. Ellis and Luis Cruz driving in 2 runs in the 
game.[185] Trailing by 3 games in the Wild Card race with 6 games remaining, 
the Dodgers returned home on September 28 to play the Colorado Rockies. 
Clayton Kershaw struck out 10 in 8 scoreless innings and Shane Victorino 
hit a three-run homer in the 2nd inning as the Dodgers won 8-0. The Dodgers 
scored 8 runs in their third straight game, the first time they had done 
that since July 8–14, 2007.[186] Matt Kemp hit 2 home runs on September 
29 and Joe Blanton and 3 relievers combined to shut out the Rockies 3-0. 
The win, coupled with the Cardinals losing a game to the Nationals, moved 
the Dodgers to 2 back in the Wild Card race with 4 games remaining.[187] 
The Dodgers finished off the sweep of the Rockies with a 7-1 win. Kemp, 
A.J. Ellis and Cruz all homered in the win.[188] The Dodgers began their 
final series of the regular season on October 1 against the San Francisco 
Giants. In the opening game, they kept their slim post-season chances alive 
with a walk-off single by Elián Herrera to beat the Giants 4-2. Andre Ethier 
hit his 20th home run earlier in the game.[189] The Dodgers hopes were 
extinguished the next day as they dropped the game to the Giants 4-3 and 
were eliminated from the post-season contention.[190] The Dodgers ended 
their season on October 3 with a 5-1 win over the Giants. Clayton Kershaw 
struck out 8 in his 8 innings of work and finished the season with a Major 
League best 2.53 ERA and 229 strikeouts, second in the league.[191] Infielders 
Outfielders Manager Coaches List does not include pitchers. Stats in bold 
are the team leaders. Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs; H 
= Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; 
BB = Walks; SO = Strikeouts; SB = Stolen bases; Avg. = Batting average; 
OBP = On-base percentage; SLG = Slugging; OPS = On-base plus slugging Stats 
in bold are the team leaders. Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned 
run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings 
pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; 
K = Strikeouts The Dodgers selected 41 players in this draft. Of those, 
seven of them have played Major League Baseball as of the 2016 season. 
The Dodgers received a supplemental first round pick as compensation for 
the loss of free agent Rod Barajas. The first pick of this draft was shortstop 
Corey Seager from Northwest Cabarrus High School. The supplemental pick 
was shortstop Jesmuel Valentin from the Puerto Rico Baseball Academy. He 
was traded to the Philadelphia Phillies during the 2014 season. Left-handed 
reliever Paco Rodriguez from the University of Florida became the first 
player from this draft to make his Major League debut when he was called 
