The 2012 National League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
pitting the San Francisco Giants against the St. Louis Cardinals for the 
National League pennant and the right to play in the 2012 World Series. 
The series, the 42nd in league history, began Sunday, October 14, and ended 
Monday, October 22, with Fox airing all games in the United States. The 
Giants came back from 3–1 deficit and outscored the Cardinals 20–1 over 
the final three games to win the series 4–3. This was the third postseason 
meeting between the Giants and the Cardinals, and also marked the first 
time in MLB history since the creation of the League Championship Series 
in 1969 that the last two World Series champions faced off against each 
other for the pennant.[2] The Giants won in 2010 while the Cardinals won 
in 2011. Coincidentally, the last two postseason meetings between the two 
teams occurred in the NLCS, which both ended on October 14, the day of 
Game 1. The Cardinals won Game 7 of the 1987 NLCS, while the Giants triumphed 
in the pennant-clinching Game 5 of the 2002 NLCS. San Francisco won the 
series, 4–3. Sunday, October 14, 2012 – 8:15 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in 
San Francisco, California[10] The Cardinals scored first in the second 
inning, with a Yadier Molina single followed by a two-run home run by David 
Freese. In the fourth inning, Daniel Descalso doubled and scored on a Pete 
Kozma double; Kozma then stole third base during Lance Lynn's at-bat and 
scored on a Jon Jay single. With Jay on first, Carlos Beltrán hit a two-run 
home run to give the Cardinals a 6–0 lead; Giants starting pitcher Madison 
Bumgarner was then replaced by George Kontos, who got Matt Holliday to 
pop out to end the inning. The Giants rallied back against Cardinals starting 
pitcher Lance Lynn in the bottom half of the fourth inning. Lynn gave up 
a leadoff single to Marco Scutaro, who later advanced to third on a Hunter 
Pence single and scored on a Brandon Belt single that also advanced Pence 
to third. Gregor Blanco then tripled to score Pence and Belt, and Brandon 
Crawford doubled to score Blanco, which cut the Cardinals' lead to 6–4. 
Lynn was then replaced by Joe Kelly, who got Ángel Pagán to ground into 
a force play to end the inning. Neither team's bullpen allowed a run for 
the rest of the game; additionally, the Giants' bullpen did not allow a 
runner into scoring position over 5 1⁄3 innings, while the Cardinals' bullpen 
only allowed one runner to advance into scoring position over the same 
number of innings. Monday, October 15, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park 
in San Francisco, California[11] Cardinals starter Chris Carpenter gave 
up a home run to the leadoff hitter Ángel Pagán to give the Giants an early 
one-run lead. The lead was short-lived, however, as Carpenter hit a double 
in the top of the second inning that scored Pete Kozma. The game remained 
tied until the bottom of the fourth inning, when the Giants scored four 
runs, three of which were unearned amid two Cardinals errors. Brandon Belt 
hit a double off Carpenter and advanced to third on Gregor Blanco's single. 
Brandon Crawford then reached first base on a throwing error by first baseman 
Allen Craig; Belt scored on the play and Blanco advanced to second. Crawford 
and Blanco then advanced to second and third, respectively, on Vogelsong's 
sacrifice bunt, and Pagán was walked to load the bases. Marco Scutaro—who 
had been involved in a collision with Cardinals left fielder Matt Holliday 
in the first inning in what some termed a "questionable" slide into second 
base—then hit a single to left field that went between Holliday's legs, 
allowing Blanco, Crawford, and Pagán to score. The Giants padded their 
lead in the eighth inning when Ryan Theriot hit a two-RBI single with the 
bases loaded, scoring Blanco and Aubrey Huff. Wednesday, October 17, 2012 
– 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[12] The Giants 
scored first in the third inning. Ángel Pagán singled to lead off the inning, 
advanced to third on a Marco Scutaro double, then scored on a Pablo Sandoval 
groundout. The Cardinals took the lead in the bottom half of that inning, 
when Matt Carpenter—who had replaced Carlos Beltrán due to injury in the 
first inning—hit a two-run home run. Giants starter Matt Cain only allowed 
one baserunner over the next three innings, but the Cardinals threatened 
in the seventh inning. After David Freese doubled with one out, Cain intentionally 
walked Daniel Descalso. Pete Kozma then singled to load the bases. Shane 
Robinson then grounded out, scoring Freese on the play. After Robinson 
grounded out, there was a 3-hour-and-28-minute rain delay. When the game 
resumed—with Kozma and Descalso still on base—Javier López replaced Cain 
and got Jon Jay to ground out to end the inning. Jason Motte pitched two 
perfect innings for the Cardinals to earn his third save of the postseason. 
Thursday, October 18, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, 
Missouri[13] The second-largest crowd of the year at Busch, 47,062 saw 
their Redbirds win, 8–3 without the benefit of a home run. Adam Wainwright 
went seven strong innings, giving up only four hits and one run, a homer 
to Hunter Pence, walking none and striking out five, while Tim Lincecum 
gave up four runs in 4 2⁄3 innings. Friday, October 19, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[14] The Cardinals had runners 
on second and third with no outs early in the bottom of the second inning. 
Giants starting pitcher Barry Zito retired Daniel Descalso and intentionally 
walked Pete Kozma to bring Cardinals starting pitcher Lance Lynn to the 
plate. Lynn grounded into a double play, and Zito escaped the jam. Just 
as he had done in Game 1, Lynn pitched three scoreless innings but then 
gave up four runs and could not finish the fourth inning. In that inning, 
with one out and Marco Scutaro and Pablo Sandoval on base after two singles, 
Hunter Pence grounded back to Lynn, whose throw to second base to force 
Sandoval hit the bag and bounced into center field, allowing Scutaro to 
score. After another out and a walk, Brandon Crawford hit a two-RBI single, 
and then Zito scored another run with a bunt single. Lynn was then relieved 
by Joe Kelly, who finished the inning with a strikeout. Sandoval extended 
the Giants' lead with a solo home run in the top of the eighth. Zito pitched 
shutout ball into the bottom of the eighth inning, and the final four outs 
were recorded by Santiago Casilla and Sergio Romo. Sunday, October 21, 
2012 – 7:45 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California[15] Strong 
pitching by starting pitcher Ryan Vogelsong helped the Giants to a 6–1 
victory. The Giants became the first team since the 2007 Boston Red Sox 
to come back from a 3–1 deficit to tie the series, and first in the National 
League since the 2003 Florida Marlins. Brandon Belt tripled to right-center 
leading off the second. Gregor Blanco struck out swinging and Brandon Crawford 
was intentionally walked. With Crawford trying to steal second on the pitch, 
Vogelsong chopped a ball that shortstop Pete Kozma couldn't handle as Belt 
scored. Scutaro doubled to left and Sandoval singled on the 10th pitch 
from Chris Carpenter to put the Giants ahead 5–0. Ryan Vogelsong exceeded 
his career high by one with nine strikeouts, and the San Francisco Giants 
took a 5–1 lead over the St. Louis Cardinals through six innings. Marco 
Scutaro hit a two-out, two-run double off Chris Carpenter to highlight 
San Francisco's four-run second. Buster Posey's groundout in the first 
scored Scutaro and gave the NL batting champion his first RBI of the series. 
The only baserunner Vogelsong allowed was a one-out walk to Matt Carpenter 
in the first, until Daniel Descalso's broken-bat single to center with 
two outs in the fifth. Pete Kozma also singled before Vogelsong got pinch-hitter 
Skip Schumaker to ground out to first. Allen Craig's two-out single in 
the sixth drove home Carlos Beltrán for the Cardinals' only run. Chris 
Carpenter was replaced after allowing six hits and five runs, three unearned, 
in four innings. He walked two and struck out six. Matt Carpenter replaced 
Matt Holliday at first base in the St. Louis lineup and batted second when 
the left fielder was scratched about 45 minutes before first pitch because 
of lower back tightness. Allen Craig shifted from first to left field, 
and Beltrán slid back a spot to third in the batting order, while playing 
right field. After Scutaro drew a one-out walk in the first, Pablo Sandoval 
doubled over the head of Jon Jay as the center fielder got turned around 
fighting the sun and shadows during the twilight start. Scutaro scored 
on Posey's groundout to third to give the Giants a 1–0 lead. The 10 unearned 
runs allowed by the Cardinals in the series were the most in NLCS history, 
according to STATS LLC.[16] Monday, October 22, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California[17] Game 7 featured a rematch 
of Game 3 starters Matt Cain and Kyle Lohse. The Giants took an early lead 
in the first inning after consecutive singles by Ángel Pagán and Marco 
Scutaro followed by a Pablo Sandoval RBI groundout. However, the Cardinals 
threatened in the second inning with runners on second and third and two 
outs. Cain ended the threat by inducing a Lohse line-out to a leaping Brandon 
Crawford. The Giants added insurance in the bottom of the second after 
a Cain RBI single, marking the third consecutive game in which a Giants 
pitcher had batted in a run. The Giants jumped on Lohse in the bottom of 
the third, and the Cardinal starter's night was ended after he proceeded 
to give up a single to Scutaro, a double to Sandoval, and a walk to Posey 
to load the bases. Hunter Pence then hit an odd double that somehow made 
contact with his broken bat three times, causing it to unexpectedly knuckle 
away from and past the shortstop Pete Kozma. Scutaro and Sandoval scored, 
and center fielder Jon Jay misplayed the ball in center field, allowing 
Posey to score. Crawford and Pagán would later hit into fielder's choice 
plays to give the Giants a 7–0 lead. Finally, Sandoval lined out to first 
baseman Allen Craig to end the five-run third. Cain went 5 2⁄3 innings 
without giving up a run, and the bullpen would continue to shut out the 
Cardinals. A run-scoring double play by Aubrey Huff in the seventh inning 
and a solo home run by Brandon Belt in the eighth added to the onslaught 
as the Giants surged ahead 9–0. Under a steady downpour in the ninth inning, 
reliever Javier López notched the first two outs, but was lifted after 
two walks. In the sloppy conditions, closer Sergio Romo then allowed both 
runners to reach scoring position with a wild pitch, but ultimately got 
Matt Holliday to pop out to Scutaro to win the series for San Francisco. 
The victory marked the first time the Giants had ever won a postseason 
Game 7, having previously lost Game 7 of the 1912 World Series, the 1924 
World Series, the 1962 World Series, the 1987 National League Championship 
Series and the 2002 World Series. It was also the second time in three 
games that the Giants staff had tossed a shutout; the Cardinals scored 
only one run over the final 28 innings of the series. San Francisco also 
became the second club in MLB history to win six elimination games in one 
postseason, following the 1985 Kansas City Royals.[18] With three hits 
in the game, Series MVP Marco Scutaro finished 14-for-28 batting, tying 
the LCS record for hits.[19] Nielsen ratings showed that 31.8% of households 
in the St. Louis area watched the game compared with 27.5 in the San Francisco 
Bay Area. Nationally, Nielsen found that 8.1 million viewers saw this game, 
a 4.9% share of households. The rating peaked at 5.8 at 7:30 p.m. (Central 
Time Zone) before declining as viewers switched to Monday Night Football 
or the presidential debate.[20] 2012 NLCS (4–3): San Francisco Giants over 
