The 2012 American League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
pitting the New York Yankees against the Detroit Tigers for the American 
League pennant and the right to play in the 2012 World Series. The series, 
the 43rd in league history, began on Saturday, October 13 in New York and 
ended on Thursday, October 18 in Detroit. The Tigers won the series 4–0.[2] 
TBS televised all games in the United States. In global markets, MLB International 
broadcast the ALCS in its entirety, with long-time Baltimore Orioles announcer 
Gary Thorne and ESPN's Rick Sutcliffe calling the games. This was the third 
postseason meeting between the Yankees and the Tigers, but the first in 
the ALCS. The Tigers previously beat the Yankees in the 2006 ALDS (3–1) 
and the 2011 ALDS (3–2). The last appearance for each team in the ALCS 
resulted in a loss to the Texas Rangers; the Yankees in the 2010 ALCS and 
the Tigers in the 2011 ALCS. Detroit won the series, 4–0. †: postponed 
from October 17 due to rain Saturday, October 13, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York[7] The Yankees threatened in the first 
inning when they loaded the bases, but Jhonny Peralta robbed Alex Rodriguez 
of an RBI single with a diving stop to end the inning. Peralta also took 
away a run in the second when, with the bases loaded and two outs once 
again, Robinson Canó hit a ball that glanced off the wrist of Tiger starter 
Doug Fister and caromed to shortstop. Peralta fielded it and just nipped 
Canó at first, which was revealed to be the wrong call. The Yankees would 
leave the bases loaded for the third time in the game in the sixth inning, 
and were 1-for-10 with runners in scoring position, with the only hit being 
an infield single that did not score a run.[8] Fister threw shutout ball 
into the seventh inning, scattering six hits. Postseason veteran Andy Pettitte 
almost matched him, pitching five shutout innings for the Yankees before 
giving up RBI singles to Prince Fielder and Delmon Young in the sixth. 
A solo home run by Delmon Young and an RBI single by Avisail García in 
the eighth off Derek Lowe and Boone Logan gave Detroit a 4–0 lead. In the 
bottom of the ninth, Detroit brought in José Valverde to get the final 
three outs. Russell Martin led off the Yankees ninth with a single, and 
Ichiro Suzuki followed two batters later with a home run to cut the lead 
in half. Canó then struck out for the second out, and Valverde got to 0–2 
on Mark Teixeira before walking him. Raúl Ibañez hit a game-tying home 
run, forcing extra innings. Rafael Soriano and David Robertson each pitched 
one scoreless inning out of the bullpen, but the Yankees could not capitalize 
off Tiger relievers Octavio Dotel and Drew Smyly. Detroit finally broke 
the tie in the top of the 12th on a Delmon Young double off David Phelps, 
which scored Miguel Cabrera. Six pitches later, Derek Jeter broke his left 
ankle while stopping a groundball from Peralta, forcing him to miss the 
rest of the postseason. One batter later, Andy Dirks drove in an insurance 
run on a chopper that glanced off Phelps' pitching hand for an infield 
single. The Tigers held on to their two-run lead in the bottom of the 12th, 
to take the series' first game. Despite the loss, Ibañez's clutch homers 
in both the ALDS and ALCS brought him distinction as the only player to 
ever hit three home runs in the ninth inning or later in one postseason.[9] 
This was Derek Jeter's 158th and final playoff game.[10] Sunday, October 
14, 2012 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York[11] Hiroki 
Kuroda retired the first 15 Detroit Tigers he faced and held the Tigers 
scoreless through six innings, allowing only one hit and no walks while 
striking out eight—including seven of the first nine batters. The Tigers' 
Aníbal Sánchez was nearly as efficient, allowing three hits, striking out 
five and walking two. The Tigers finally broke through with a run off Kuroda 
in the seventh. Quintin Berry doubled to lead off the inning, and advanced 
to third on a single by Miguel Cabrera. After Kuroda struck out Prince 
Fielder, Delmon Young hit an RBI force out, on which the potential double 
play relay throw was mishandled by Robinson Canó. Yankees Manager Joe Girardi 
was ejected by second base umpire Jeff Nelson in the top of the eighth 
after arguing a call at second base which television replays confirmed 
was incorrectly ruled.[12] The play would have resulted in the inning's 
third out, and the Tigers took advantage by getting two insurance runs 
on RBI singles by Avisail García and Miguel Cabrera. Prior to the game, 
Tiger manager Jim Leyland stated that struggling closer José Valverde, 
who had allowed seven runs in his last two postseason appearances, would 
not close Game 2 if the situation called for it.[13] He instead used Phil 
Coke over the final two innings in this game, and Coke earned the save. 
The Yankees' lineup continued its struggles in Game 2. Robinson Canó, batting 
second for the first time since September 2010, grounded out in all four 
times at bat, with this 0-for-4 performance resulting in an 0-for-26 hitless 
streak—the longest such barren streak in any single year of postseason 
play in MLB history.[14] Alex Rodriguez took a called third strike on a 
changeup in the second and struck out on a foul tip in the fourth, dropping 
to 2-for-21 with no RBIs in the postseason, including 0-for-18 with 12 
strikeouts against right-handers.[15] Curtis Granderson fanned twice, falling 
to 3-for-25 with 13 strikeouts. Tuesday, October 16, 2012 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan[16] Game 3 saw Justin Verlander pitch 
for the third time against the Yankees in postseason play. In the previous 
season's Division Series, Verlander struck out eleven batters, but in the 
process, he expended 120 pitches and gave up four runs. This time around 
was no different, as the Yankees waited out pitches and struck out only 
three times against him. Nonetheless, Verlander took a shutout into the 
ninth inning. He allowed only a pair of singles by Ichiro Suzuki and a 
leadoff homer by Eduardo Núñez in the ninth. After Brett Gardner grounded 
out on Verlander's 132nd pitch of the night, the Tigers starter was lifted 
for Phil Coke. Coke induced a grounder from Suzuki for the second out of 
the inning, but then gave up consecutive singles to Mark Teixeira and Robinson 
Canó. (Canó's single ended a personal 0-for-29 slump.) Postseason star 
Raúl Ibañez worked Coke to a 3–2 count before striking out on a slider, 
giving Coke his second save in two games. Delmon Young hit a solo home 
run (his seventh post-season home run with the Tigers), and Miguel Cabrera 
had an RBI double. Yankees starter Phil Hughes was lifted in the fourth 
because of a stiff back, and manager Joe Girardi's lineup shuffle had Alex 
Rodriguez benched again. The home run by Núñez ended a streak of 30 1⁄3 
scoreless innings by Tigers starters in the postseason, breaking the 1974 
record of 29 innings set by the Oakland Athletics.[17] The Tiger starters 
had also gone 37 straight innings without surrendering an earned run. Thursday, 
October 18, 2012 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan,[18] 
originally scheduled for Wednesday, October 17, 2012 - 8:07 p.m. (EDT) 
and was postponed due to rain. Game 4 saw Detroit come out swinging early. 
Taking a 2–0 lead into the fourth inning, the Tigers broke this game open 
with a pair of two-run home runs by Miguel Cabrera and Jhonny Peralta. 
Yankee starter CC Sabathia exited after just 3 2⁄3 innings. The Tigers' 
Max Scherzer, meanwhile, maintained a no-hitter until the sixth inning, 
and struck out 10 batters in his 5 2⁄3 innings of work. The Yankees drove 
in one run in the sixth, when a triple by Eduardo Núñez was followed by 
a Nick Swisher double. Austin Jackson homered in the seventh inning, and 
Peralta closed the Tigers' scoring with his second homer, a solo shot in 
the eighth to give the Tigers an 8–1 lead. Former Yankee Phil Coke, who 
was on the 2009 World Series champions team, closed the game by pitching 
the final two innings, finishing the series and sweeping the Yankees for 
the first time since the 1980 American League Championship Series, when 
the Kansas City Royals swept New York. It was also the first time the Yankees 
were swept in a best-of-seven series since the 1976 World Series against 
the Cincinnati Reds. Delmon Young, who hit .353 in the series with two 
home runs and six RBI, was named ALCS MVP for 2012.[19] The Yankees finished 
the 2012 postseason hitting a dismal .188, including batting only .157 
against Tiger pitching in the ALCS. Tiger starters allowed only two earned 
runs in the ALCS, posting a 0.66 ERA.[20] Miguel Cabrera set a major league 
record by having at least one hit in all 17 of his League Championship 
Series games, besting the previous mark of 15 shared by Manny Ramirez and 
Pete Rose. Cabrera has also reached base safely in all 20 of his postseason 
games with the Tigers, a team record.[21] 2012 ALCS (4–0): Detroit Tigers 
