The 2012 National League Division Series were two best-of-five game series 
to determine the participating teams in the 2012 National League Championship 
Series. The three divisional winners and a fourth team—the winner of a 
one-game Wild Card playoff—played in two separate series. This series with 
the Washington Nationals was their first playoff berth since moving to 
Washington D.C. and the first franchise playoff berth since 1981 when they 
were the Montreal Expos. TBS carried most of the games, with some on TNT. 
The Wild Card Game was held on October 5, 2012. The series used the 2–3 
format (three consecutive games at home for the team with home field advantage 
preceded by two consecutive games at home for the other team) for 2012 
because Major League Baseball implemented the second wild card slot on 
March 2, 2012, long after the 2012 regular season schedule had been set, 
leaving no room for the 2–2–1 format which requires a travel day between 
Games 4 and 5.[1] The 2–3 format was used for best-of-five Championship 
Series prior to 1985 and for the Division Series from 1995 to 1997. The 
matchups for the 2012 NLDS were: Both series saw the first postseason meetings 
between the respective clubs and both went to the maximum five games. St. 
Louis won the series, 3–2. San Francisco won the series, 3–2. 3:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[12] The series opened on 
a sunny afternoon in St. Louis, before 47,078 fans watching the Nationals' 
first playoff game since October 19, 1981, when they were the Montreal 
Expos. It was the first time a team from Washington D.C. played in a postseason 
contest since the 1933 World Series, when the Washington Senators lost 
to the Giants. The Nationals struck first on an RBI single by Kurt Suzuki 
in the second inning, but the Cardinals responded with two of their own, 
as 21-game winner Gio Gonzalez walked four batters and threw a wild pitch, 
helping St. Louis score without the benefit of a hit. The score stayed 
2–1 until the top of the eighth, when Tyler Moore delivered a two-out, 
pinch-hit single to give the Nationals a 3–2 lead they would not relinquish, 
as Tyler Clippard and Drew Storen sealed the deal out of the bullpen for 
the first playoff win for the franchise in 31 years. 4:37 p.m. (EDT) at 
Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[13] The Cardinals tied up the series 
in Game 2 with a decisive 12–4 win. The Nationals drew first blood in the 
top of the second, but St. Louis rallied in the bottom of the inning for 
four runs, featuring RBIs by David Freese, Daniel Descalso, Skip Schumaker 
(who was pinch hitting for starter Jaime García) and Jon Jay. Allen Craig 
homered in the third, and the Cardinals never looked back from there on 
out, sending the series to D.C. tied at one game apiece. Both teams combined 
to use 13 pitchers, with Lance Lynn working three relief innings to get 
the win. 1:07 p.m. (EDT) at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C.[14] Washington 
D.C.'s first playoff game in 79 years was not a pleasant one for the home 
team. The Nationals were blown out for the second straight game and left 
10 men on base—including the bases loaded in the fifth inning—and didn't 
even get anyone on in the last three innings. Chris Carpenter ran his postseason 
record to 10–2 (2.88 ERA) in 16 postseason starts in 100.0 innings, in 
seventh place for wins, only one behind Curt Schilling (11–2, 2.23 ERA) 
and Greg Maddux (11–14, 3.27 ERA) for fifth place. Now tied for fourth 
place in postseason winning percentage (.833).[15] The Cardinals have won 
13 of his 16 starts. He pitched extremely well for St. Louis in only his 
fourth start since recovering from transplanted nerve surgery on July 19, 
not starting a game until September 21. He pitched 5 2⁄3 innings without 
allowing a run in 106 pitches, his season high.[16] Pete Kozma hit a three-run 
home run in the second inning for the big blow of the game. The Nationals' 
pitching was shaky. Edwin Jackson surrendered four runs and eight hits 
in five innings, including Kozma's three-run homer. Craig Stammen, Christian 
Garcia, and Ryan Mattheus gave up one run apiece out of the bullpen, with 
Stammen increasing his ERA in the series to 11.57. 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Nationals 
Park in Washington, D.C.[17] The Nationals had their backs against the 
wall in this must-win game. Adam LaRoche provided the first offense of 
the game with a homer for Washington in the bottom of the second, but the 
Cardinals manufactured a run in the third inning through a walk, a sacrifice 
bunt, an error, and a sacrifice fly. It was 1–1 for the majority of the 
rest of the game, as both pitching staffs refused to blink. Ross Detwiler 
pitched very well for the Nationals, tossing six innings while giving up 
just three hits and one run. The bullpen, in three innings, combined for 
eight strikeouts—after Detwiler had fanned just three—and did not give 
up a hit. St. Louis turned in a similar performance, with Kyle Lohse pitching 
sevens strong innings. In the bottom of the ninth, Jayson Werth, on the 
13th pitch of a lead off at-bat against Lance Lynn, lined a homer into 
left field, giving the Nationals a 2–1 win and forcing a Game 5. 8:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C.[18] In the deciding Game 5, 
St. Louis clinched a trip to the NLCS for the second straight year. The 
Nationals jumped out early on, taking a 6–0 lead, with help from home runs 
by Ryan Zimmerman, Bryce Harper, and Michael Morse. With their ace Gio 
Gonzalez on the mound, the Nationals appeared headed towards the NLCS. 
In the fourth inning, Matt Holliday hit an RBI double to get the Cardinals 
on the board. In the fifth, St. Louis scored two more runs on a wild pitch 
and a walk, but wound up stranding the bases loaded. In the seventh, the 
Cardinals tacked on another run off Edwin Jackson appearing in relief on 
two days' rest. The Cardinals continued to chip away at the Nationals' 
lead when Daniel Descalso homered off Tyler Clippard to make it 6–5 Washington. 
The Nationals got a much-needed insurance run in the bottom of the eighth, 
and sent out Drew Storen, who had recently replaced Clippard as the team's 
closer, in the hopes of getting three outs while stifling the Cardinals' 
comeback. Storen gave up a leadoff double to Carlos Beltrán, who then advanced 
to third on a Matt Holliday groundout. Allen Craig then struck out, putting 
the Nationals one out away from going to the NLCS for the first time in 
31 years. Yadier Molina, who had had postseason heroics in the past, walked, 
sending up David Freese as the go-ahead run. Freese, also known for clutch 
performance in the postseason, also walked. Descalso then hit a two-run 
single, scoring Beltrán and pinch-runner Adron Chambers which tied the 
game at seven. Pete Kozma then hit a two-run single, which scored Freese 
and Descalso making it 9–7 St. Louis. Washington went down in order in 
the bottom of the ninth against Jason Motte, sending the Cardinals to the 
NLCS for the second year in a row. 2012 NLDS (3–2): St. Louis Cardinals 
over Washington Nationals The San Francisco Giants defeated the Cincinnati 
Reds to advance to the 2012 National League Championship Series. 9:37 p.m. 
(EDT)[19] at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California[20] Matt Cain and Johnny 
Cueto faced off against each other for the first time in 2012. Everyone 
expected a pitchers' duel from the two right-handed aces. In the top of 
the first, Brandon Belt made an amazing catch, leaping over the fence in 
foul territory and into the crowd, but holding on for the second out to 
help Cain pitch a 1–2–3 inning. In the bottom of the first, however, after 
Cueto struck out Ángel Pagán and then got ahead in the count 0–2 on Marco 
Scutaro, Cueto left the game with back spasms. Sam LeCure replaced him. 
LeCure got out of a bases-loaded jam in the second inning by getting Cain 
to line out to deep right. In the top of the third, Brandon Phillips put 
the Reds up with a two-run blast. It was the start of a great day for Phillips. 
After a Jay Bruce homer in the fourth, Buster Posey got some revenge with 
a homer to lead off the sixth off Mat Latos. Then, Gregor Blanco bunted 
with two out. Scott Rolen picked up the ball and threw it away, but Phillips 
made a great diving stop to keep Blanco off second and keep the Giants 
from scoring anymore. In the ninth, the Reds added two big insurance runs, 
thanks to an RBI single from Phillips and a passed ball by Posey. In the 
bottom of the ninth, it got dicey when Aroldis Chapman struggled and allowed 
a run to score, but he struck out Posey to end the ballgame and seal the 
Reds' 5–2 win over the Giants in Game 1 to take a 1–0 series lead. This 
was the first Reds postseason win since 1995 breaking an eight-game losing 
streak in the postseason.[21] 9:37 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, 
California[22] Game 2 was a blowout. Reds starter Bronson Arroyo gave up 
just two hits in seven innings, while walking one and striking out four. 
J. J. Hoover and José Arredondo combined for two scoreless innings out 
of the bullpen. In contrast, the Giants' pitching was disappointing, as 
Bumgarner surrendered seven hits and four runs while working just four 
innings, including a homer by Ryan Ludwick in the second. Six relievers 
followed Bumgarner, including Tim Lincecum, who worked two scoreless innings 
after being demoted to the bullpen, and Guillermo Mota, who surrendered 
three hits and two runs in just 2⁄3 of an inning. The Giants were now in 
a two games to none hole, while Cincinnati was just one win away from going 
to the NLCS for the first time in 17 years, with three chances to clinch 
the series at home.[23] 5:37 p.m. (EDT) at Great American Ball Park in 
Cincinnati, Ohio[24] In contrast to Game 2's blowout, Game 3 was a tightly 
contested affair that came down right to the wire. Cincinnati attacked 
first on Jay Bruce's RBI single in the first inning off Ryan Vogelsong, 
scoring Zack Cozart. That would be practically it for the Reds' offense, 
as the Giants' pitching composed themselves to give up just one hit the 
rest of the way. Homer Bailey, who had pitched a no-hitter just two starts 
before, was flirting with another one, not giving up a hit through 5 2⁄3 
innings before Marco Scutaro broke it up with a two-strike single. That 
was the only hit the Giants would get in regulation, as Bailey was brilliant, 
pitching seven innings while striking out ten. However, the Giants still 
managed to score a run in the third inning with a hit by pitch, a walk, 
a sacrifice bunt, and a sacrifice fly. Neither team came close to scoring 
after that until the 10th inning, when Buster Posey and Hunter Pence got 
back to back singles to kick off the inning. Jonathan Broxton settled down 
after that to strike out the next two hitters. After the runners advanced 
on a passed ball, the usually sure-handed Scott Rolen bobbled a ground 
ball hit by Joaquín Árias, allowing Posey to score. The Reds went down 
quietly in the 10th inning as the Giants avoided the sweep.[25] 4:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio[26] In Game 4, needing 
another win to keep their season alive, the Giants' offense finally came 
to life. Ángel Pagán hit the second pitch of the night, from emergency 
starter Mike Leake, over the right field wall for a lead-off home run, 
the first in Giants postseason history.[27] Pitching for the Giants, Barry 
Zito struggled early, walking three consecutive Reds hitters in the first 
inning to force in a run. The score was 1–1 in the second inning, when 
Gregor Blanco hit a two-run home run to give the Giants a 3–1 lead. Zito 
continued to struggle, needing 76 pitches to complete just under three 
innings of work. George Kontos relieved Zito, and retired both batters 
he faced in the third. Back-to-back doubles by Joaquín Árias and Pagán, 
followed by a Pablo Sandoval sacrifice fly gave the Giants a 5–2 lead, 
and in came Tim Lincecum. Lincecum struck out six batters in 4 1⁄3 innings, 
ultimately getting the win. Sandoval increased the lead further by hitting 
a tape-measure home run in the seventh inning down the right field line. 
Santiago Casilla closed out the game, and the Giants avoided elimination 
for the second straight night, setting up a decisive Game 5. 1:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio[28] The Reds' Mat 
Latos and the Giants' Matt Cain were locked in a pitchers duel for four 
innings. In the top of the fifth Brandon Crawford tripled home Gregor Blanco 
to open the scoring. Angel Pagan then reached on an error by Zack Cozart, 
allowing Crawford to score the second run of the inning. After a walk to 
Scutaro, Sandoval singled to load the bases. Buster Posey then crushed 
a 2-2 pitch from Latos off the facing of the second deck for a grand slam 
and a 6–0 lead. The crowd at Great American Ball Park went completely silent 
as Posey rounded the bases. The Reds did not go quietly, and brought the 
tying run to the plate in the sixth, seventh, and eighth innings, and the 
winning run to the plate in the ninth inning. With two men on and the Giants 
clinging to a two-run lead in the bottom of the ninth, Sergio Romo retired 
Jay Bruce on a harmless fly ball to left after a 12-pitch duel. Romo then 
settled down and struck out Scott Rolen to give the Giants the victory. 
The Giants became the second National League team to rally from an 0–2 
Division Series deficit to advance to the Championship Series (the other 
being the 1981 Los Angeles Dodgers) and first in Major League Baseball 
to advance by winning three games on the road. Cincinnati joins the 1984 
Chicago Cubs and 1981 Houston Astros as the only National League teams 
to blow a 2–0 lead in a best–of–five series.[29] This series also joins 
the 2010 ALDS matchup between the Texas Rangers and the Tampa Bay Rays 
as the second MLB postseason series in which the road team won every game. 
The Reds to date have yet to win a postseason game at Great American Ball 
Park (0-4) and have a seven-game home losing streak in the postseason in 
Cincinnati, losing their last three postseason games at Riverfront Stadium/Cinergy 
Field, including losing the wild card tiebreaker to the New York Mets in 
