The 2012 Major League Baseball season began on March 28 with the first 
of a two-game series between the Seattle Mariners and the Oakland Athletics 
at the Tokyo Dome in Japan.[1] On November 22, 2011, a new contract between 
Major League Baseball and its players union was ratified, and as a result, 
an expanded playoff format adding two clubs will be adopted no later than 
2013 according to the new Collective Bargaining Agreement.[2] The new format 
was finalized for the 2012 season on March 2, 2012, and will use the 2–3 
game schedule format for the Division Series for the 2012 season only.[3] 
The restriction against divisional rivals playing against each other in 
the Division Series round that had existed in previous years was eliminated, 
as the Baltimore Orioles and New York Yankees squared off in one of the 
best-of-5 LDS series in the American League. The stateside portion of the 
regular season started April 4 in Miami with the opening of the new Marlins 
Park, as the newly renamed Miami Marlins hosted the defending World Series 
champion St. Louis Cardinals. The regular season ended on Wednesday, October 
3.[4] The entire master schedule was released on September 14, 2011. The 
Major League Baseball postseason was expanded to include a second wild 
card team in each league beginning in the 2012 season.[5] The season marked 
the last for the Houston Astros as a member of the National League. Following 
the sale to new owner Jim Crane, the Astros agreed to move to the American 
League effective in the 2013 season, and would be assigned to the American 
League West, joining their in-state rivals, the Texas Rangers.[6] The Major 
League Baseball All-Star Game's 83rd edition was held on July 10 at Kauffman 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, with the National League winning the 
All-Star Game for the third consecutive year in an 8–0 shutout of the American 
League.[7] With the win, the National League champion earned home field 
advantage for the 2012 World Series, which began on October 24 and ended 
on October 28 when the San Francisco Giants swept the Detroit Tigers. The 
Civil Rights Game was held on August 18 at Turner Field, as the Los Angeles 
Dodgers beat the host Atlanta Braves, 6–2.[8] Friday, October 5, 2012 – 
8:37 pm (EDT) at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington, Texas Friday, October 5, 
2012 – 5:07 pm (EDT) at Turner Field in Atlanta †: postponed from October 
17 due to rain The following managers were hired for the 2012 season after 
the former manager retired from baseball. At the end of the 2011 season, 
the following teams made replacements to their managers. ** Melky Cabrera 
of the San Francisco Giants was ineligible to win the batting title, at 
his request, due to being suspended for testing positive for testosterone. 
He finished the season with a .346 average.[19] [60] Five teams have made 
wholesale changes to their uniforms in 2012, while a sixth has new road 
uniforms. Two other teams added alternate uniforms to their existing set. 
The San Diego Padres were the first team to announce changes to their logos 
and uniform set on November 9. The new primary features the "SD" cap logo 
inside a navy circle with the words "San Diego Padres Baseball Club" encircling 
it. The "swinging friar" logo was also revived, albeit in the current colors. 
Another secondary logo features the Padres script from last season below 
the depiction of Petco Park in sand and above the year of establishment; 
a blue and white version is used on the away and alternate uniforms. The 
front of the home uniform remains the same, except that the sand trim in 
"Padres" is now in trim instead of a drop shadow and the addition of navy 
piping. Originally they'll use the sand Petco patch on the left sleeve, 
but upon unveiling the uniforms, the "swinging friar" patch was placed 
instead. The road uniforms now feature "San Diego" in an arched position 
with navy piping. The alternate blue uniforms feature the "SD" cap logo 
on the left chest with white piping. All three uniforms now feature the 
block numerals on the reverse side. The digital camouflage uniforms were 
retained, save for the change to block numerals. The caps with the sand 
"SD" were retired.[97] The Marlins unveiled their changes on November 11, 
2011, as the team was rebranded as the Miami Marlins,[98] complete with 
a new logo featuring a stylized Marlin jumping over an art deco colored 
"M" in coral, yellow and blue. "MIAMI" will grace the primary white uniform, 
and there will be an orange home alternate which feature the team name, 
while the black alt had been reduced to road alternate jersey. The black 
cap is used for the regular home, away and black alternates, while the 
orange cap is paired with the orange alternates. The Marlins become the 
second team to use the city (or state) name on the home uniforms, after 
the Texas Rangers. November 15 saw the Baltimore Orioles redesign their 
road and home uniform sets and returned to a version of the cartoon logo 
used from the mid-1960s to 1988.[99] The home caps are white in front and 
black on the back with an orange bill, while the away caps will be all 
black with an orange bill, both featuring the cartoon bird. They also unveiled 
a modernized version of the orange alternate uniforms last worn in 1992, 
and were worn on select home games, but retained the black alternate uniforms 
paired with the black and orange cap with the "O's" script.[100] As part 
of their golden anniversary season, the New York Mets modified their home 
and road uniforms to resemble the style worn in 1962, having their unveiling 
November 16.[101] The black drop-shadow trim was removed from the team/city 
script logos, player numerals and name lettering on the off-white pinstriped 
home uniforms (now the primary home uniform), the white alternate home 
uniforms, and the grey road uniforms, all of which were worn only with 
the team's traditional blue cap with orange "NY" crest and blue undersleeves, 
belts and socks. In addition, the black alternate jersey (which will be 
worn occasionally on the road in 2012) is being phased out, to be replaced 
by a blue alternate starting in 2013. The solid black cap with the blue/white/orange 
crest will also be retained for one more season, to be worn only with the 
black alternate jersey. The black cap with blue bill and blue/orange crest 
has been eliminated. In addition, the Mets have removed the color black 
from their batting-practice jerseys and caps; both will be blue with orange 
lettering/logos outlined in white. The Toronto Blue Jays unveiled new uniforms 
on November 18, returning to a variation of their vintage logo used from 
1977 through 1996.[102] The new logo is similar to the original used from 
1977–96, with a few exceptions: a more prominent maple leaf, a sleeker-looking 
blue jay, serifed modern lettering on the team name, and a split-line blue 
circle enclosing the logo. The new uniforms are similarly based on the 
set used from 1989–96; a white home uniform with "Blue Jays", a grey road 
uniform with "Toronto", and a blue alternate uniform with "Blue Jays". 
The team/city name is arched above the secondary logo of the blue jay with 
the maple leaf, sans the baseball, situated on the left side. The secondary 
logo is also placed in the blue cap. The uniforms use the breathable double-knit 
polyester fabric, claiming the previously lighter Climate Base fabric became 
too heavy, once players began to sweat.[103] The Colorado Rockies replaced 
their purple road pinstripes with a more traditional solid gray uniform 
which was unveiled at RockiesFest in Denver on January 2012. The San Francisco 
Giants and Atlanta Braves added alternate uniforms to their set. The Giants 
wear a Sunday road game grey alternate based on the road uniforms they 
wore during their 1989 World Series run, with the interlocking 'SF' logo 
on the left chest and black neck-hoop piping. The black piping was also 
incorporated into the team's normal road gray uniforms. The Braves unveiled 
a cream (heritage white) home alternates based on the uniforms worn in 
their first season in Atlanta. The uniform has the 'Braves' wordmark without 
the tomahawk with the uniform number below on the left chest and navy piping. 
The sleeves have a logo commemorating the Braves franchise's first season 
in 1876. A new, slightly altered Los Angeles Dodgers logo made its way 
to the Dodgers dugout wall at Dodger Stadium and for their "Social September" 
promotion in September 2011.[104] The baseball and flight lines have been 
thickened, while the "o" in the script "Dodgers" no longer has a line on 
the bottom left. The home uniform script continues to use the previous 
script, though. After reviving the popular Northwest Green jerseys at home, 
the Seattle Mariners are bringing back their navy with teal bill caps, 
last worn in 2002, for Monday and Friday home contests. Also, their navy 
road alternate will now have "SEATTLE" on the jersey front.[105] The Royals 
unveiled minor tweaks to their light blue home alternate jersey, with all 
numbers and lettering now white with royal trim, and a revamped away uniform 
(changed to a darker blue-gray color and a revamped "Kansas City" script). 
In addition, the team has dropped their light blue caps.[106] The Cleveland 
Indians made minor tweaks to the home and alternate uniforms. The white 
home uniform features navy collar piping and the 'Indians' script in red 
and navy trim, removing the white inner trim as well as the navy piping 
on the button lines. The navy alternate features gray collar piping and 
the 'Indians' script in red and white trim, removing the navy inner trim 
as well as the grey piping on the button lines.[107] The Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim revert to the silver halo after changing it to gold the previous 
year. They also added a sleeve patch that says 'Angels Baseball' with the 
foundation year (1961) separated by the current logo in between. The logo 
is wrapped in a red, navy and silver circle. This patch will be placed 
on all uniforms. As part of their 40th anniversary in Arlington, the Texas 
Rangers will wear replicas of the four different uniforms they've worn 
throughout the team's history, the most notable of which are the two uniforms 
worn during the ownership of then-future President of the United States 
George W. Bush. As part of their 50th anniversary, the Astros will wear 
throwbacks throughout the season, including a game with Colt .45s uniforms. 
The Red Sox and the Yankees wore 1912 throwbacks on April 20 to mark the 
100th anniversary of Fenway Park. It marked only the second time the Yankees 
have worn throwbacks; the first was in 1996, when they wore New York Black 
Yankees uniforms at a Negro League tribute game in Detroit. The Red Sox 
and Athletics wore 1936 uniforms on May 2 at Fenway Park. The Twins wore 
Minneapolis Millers uniforms on June 30 in the second game of a make-up 
doubleheader against the Royals, who wore the uniforms of the Kansas City 
Blues. The Nationals wore the uniforms of the 1924 Washington Senators 
on July 5 against the Giants, who wore the 1924 New York Giants uniforms. 
The Athletics wore the PCL Oakland Oaks uniforms, and the Mariners the 
Rainiers, on July 8. The Brewers will wear Milwaukee Bears Negro League 
uniforms on July 28. The Diamondbacks will wear a throwback uniform on 
September 15. Fans decided online that their 1998 purple uniform will be 
worn. The White Sox are wearing 1972 uniforms on Sundays at home this season. 
The Detroit Tigers and Pittsburgh Pirates wore throwback uniforms paying 
tribute to the Negro league baseball teams Detroit Stars and Pittsburgh 
Crawfords on May 19. The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim and Seattle Mariners 
wore throwback uniforms of defunct Pacific Coast League teams Los Angeles 
Angels and Seattle Rainiers on May 26. The Chicago Cubs and San Francisco 
Giants wore 1912 throwback uniforms on June 2. The Pirates and Royals wore 
Negro League uniforms on June 9 – the Pirates, the Homestead Grays and 
the Royals, the Kansas City Monarchs. The Tampa Bay Rays wore 'faux-back' 
1979 throwback jerseys on June 30 against the Tigers, who also wore throwback 
jerseys from the same year. Due to the fact the Rays did not exist as a 
franchise in 1979, their uniform design was inspired from popular uniform 
styles such as pullovers and two-tone caps.[108] The San Diego Padres and 
New York Mets wore 1989 throwback uniforms on August 3. The St. Louis Cardinals 
and Milwaukee Brewers celebrated the 30th anniversary of the 1982 World 
Series by wearing throwback uniforms on August 4. The Cardinals also added 
a 30th anniversary patch commemorating their World Series victory, exclusive 
to their throwback uniforms.[109] The next night, the Cardinals wore their 
road blue uniforms against the Brewers.[110] The Cincinnati Reds and Philadelphia 
Phillies wore throwback uniforms from the 1991 season on August 22. Ironically, 
on June 16, 1991, the Reds and Phillies had worn 1957 uniforms at Veterans 
Stadium. The Reds won both games. The Cardinals wore special uniforms to 
commemorate their 2011 World Series win on April 13–14. The 'STL' on the 
caps was gold with navy trim, while the word 'Cardinals' and the block 
numbers on the uniforms were gold with navy trim. The Cardinals wore them 
during the unfurling of their championship flag on April 13, and the presentation 
of the Commissioner's Trophy and World Series rings on April 14. MLB players 
wore No. 42 on April 15, the 65th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's MLB 
debut. The Dodgers wore a Brooklyn-era cap and batting helmet that day, 
as well. The Pirates and Orioles donned camouflage uniforms during Memorial 
Day weekend. The Brewers wore an Italian-language batting practice uniform 
with the word "Birrai" on July 1; their opponents Arizona Diamondbacks 
('I D-Backs') also wore Italian-language uniforms. They also wore the Cerveceros 
uniforms on June 2 against the Pirates ('Piratas'). Players wore special 
caps on Memorial Day and Independence Day; the Blue Jays also wore special 
caps on Canada Day, along with a specialized red uniform. This year, a 
camouflage design was used in lieu of the American and Canadian flags. 
In commemoration of the September 11 attacks, all American teams wore caps 
with the American flag sewn on the left; the Blue Jays sported both the 
American and Canadian flags on both sides of their caps. As part of Cinco 
de Mayo the San Francisco Giants ("Gigantes") and Houston Astros ("Los 
Astros") wore Spanish-language home uniforms for the game. On July 6, the 
New York Mets ("Los Mets") wore blue Spanish-language jerseys for the game 
against the Chicago Cubs. They wore the uniforms again on August 24 against 
the Astros. The Chicago White Sox wore a variation of their home uniforms 
on September 7 against the Royals, as part of the "Halfway to St. Patty's" 
promotion. The uniform substitutes the traditional black color for green. 
The Athletics and Diamondbacks wore Spanish-language uniforms in celebration 
of Mexican Independence Day on September 16, against the Orioles and Giants, 
respectively. The A's used their primary home uniform, with "Atléticos" 
substituting for "Athletics", while the D-Backs used their black alternate 
uniform, with "Los D-Backs" substituting for the secondary "A" logo. The 
following teams will wear commemorative patches for special occasions: 
The Florida Marlins vacated Sun Life Stadium at the end of the 2011 season 
and moved into Marlins Park, which was built on the site of the old Orange 
Bowl stadium. The team officially adopted its new name of Miami Marlins 
on November 11, 2011. The 2012 season marked the 100th anniversary of the 
opening of Boston's Fenway Park. In addition, Dodger Stadium—home of the 
Los Angeles Dodgers—celebrated its 50th Anniversary, and the Baltimore 
Orioles home, Oriole Park at Camden Yards, also celebrated its 20th anniversary. 
The 2012 season also marked the 50th anniversary for the New York Mets 
and the Houston Astros, but the 51st season for both teams. The Mets began 
play four years after the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants moved west 
in 1958, leaving New York City with only one MLB team in the Yankees. In 
1959, New York City attorney William Shea, with support from baseball figures 
including former Dodgers executive Branch Rickey, proposed a third major 
league called the Continental League. Houston and New York City were both 
among the announced CL cities. MLB responded to the threat by placing new 
franchises in several of these cities, and offered a National League franchise 
to the owners of the proposed New York CL team, who accepted. With Shea's 
goal of bringing a second major-league team to New York successful, he 
abandoned the new league, which officially folded in 1960 without ever 
playing a game. The Mets began play in 1962 at the Giants' former home 
of the Polo Grounds in Manhattan, moved in 1964 to Shea Stadium (named 
after the aforementioned William Shea) in Queens, and opened their current 
home of Citi Field, adjacent to the former Shea Stadium site, in 2009. 
The Astros were also enfranchised as a direct response to the plans to 
launch the CL. They began play in 1962 as the Houston Colt .45s; following 
a dispute with Colt Firearms over revenues from souvenir sales and licensing 
fees, the team moved to the Astrodome in 1965 and renamed itself the Astros. 
In 2000, they opened their current home, now known as Minute Maid Park. 
In honor of the Astros' 50th anniversary, they donned different throwback 
uniforms at home on Friday night themed to each decade. Major League Baseball 
enters the 6th year of seven-year contracts it signed with its broadcast 
partners prior to the 2007 season. This year, Fox will televise the Saturday 
Game of the Week (which will be shown in prime time each week from May 
19 to July 7), the All-Star Game, the National League Championship Series, 
and the World Series. TBS will show a Sunday Game of the Week, the All-Star 
Selection Show, all but two Division Series games, the American League 
Championship Series, and the new wild card elimination games. ESPN will 
show games on Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights (with Monday and Wednesday 
Night Baseball airing on ESPN2 during April, May and early June due to 
ESPN's priority to the NBA regular season and playoff coverage, and then 
Monday Night Baseball moving to form either a Wednesday night doubleheader 
or a simultaneous airing of a Monday Night game on ESPN and a Wednesday 
Night game on ESPN2 when the NFL season starts, to accommodate Monday Night 
Football), and the All-Star Home Run Derby. They will also air 10 spring 
training games, as well as five nationally televised games on Opening Week 
from April 4–6. The MLB Network will air a national Game of the Week broadcast 
every Thursday and the two Division Series games not shown on TBS. Major 
League Baseball International will air in syndication the All-Star Game, 
the ALCS, and the World Series to global markets. The Padres have switched 
from Cox Cable-owned 4SD to a new channel called Fox Sports San Diego, 
which the Padres also have a minority stake in.[112] This is the last season 
of Houston Astros games on Fox Sports Houston and KTXH. Starting next season, 
all games will be on Comcast SportsNet Houston, a new channel the Astros 
will co-own with the Houston Rockets.[113] The Mid-Atlantic Sports Network 
(MASN), which broadcasts Orioles and Nationals games, became the latest 
network to adjust its score box to the 16:9 aspect ratio for high-definition 
television broadcasts. The adjustment, which began with Fox Sports' MLB 
coverage in 2010, was later adopted to other networks, notably ESPN, TBS, 
Fox Sports Net (except Fox Sports South and some terrestrial television 
broadcasts produced by Fox Sports), and Root Sports during the 2011 season. 
As of this season, only the YES Network, New England Sports Network, Comcast 
SportsNet, SportsNet New York and SportsTime Ohio have yet to move to the 
newly adjusted high definition broadcast. List of Major League Baseball 
