The 2012 American League Division Series were two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the participating teams in the 2012 American League Championship 
Series. The three divisional winners and a fourth team—the winner of a 
one-game Wild Card playoff— played in two series. TBS carried most of the 
games, with some on MLB Network or TNT. The series used the 2–3 format 
for 2012 because on March 2 the league had implemented the new "wild card" 
playoff, eliminating the travel day between Games 4 and 5.[1] The 2–3 format 
was used for best-of-five Championship Series rounds prior to 1985 and 
for the Division Series rounds from 1995–1997. The matchups for the 2012 
ALDS were: This was the third postseason match-up between the Athletics 
and the Tigers, and previously the Tigers had defeated the A's 4–0 in the 
2006 ALCS. The Yankees and Orioles were meeting in the postseason for the 
second time; the Yankees had beaten the Orioles 4–1 in the 1996 ALCS, which 
witnessed the controversial Jeffrey Maier incident in Game 1. New York 
won the series, 3–2. Detroit won the series, 3–2. 6:07 p.m. (EDT) at Oriole 
Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland (moved to 8:47 p.m. EDT due 
to rain delay)[12] The Yankees struck first in the first inning when Derek 
Jeter singled and Ichiro Suzuki doubled to score Jeter for the game's first 
run, giving the Yankees a 1–0 lead. In the bottom of the third inning, 
Orioles outfielder Chris Davis singled, followed by a Lew Ford single, 
a Robert Andino sacrifice bunt, and a single by Nate McLouth gave the O's 
a 2–1 lead. Then in the top of the fourth the Yankees tied the game at 
two with a Mark Teixeira single with two men on. The game remained tied 
going into the ninth inning, until a lead off home run by Russell Martin 
pushed the Yankees ahead 3–2. Consecutive singles by Raúl Ibañez, Derek 
Jeter, and Ichiro Suzuki scored Ibanez, giving the Yankees a 4–2 lead. 
Robinson Canó doubled to score Jeter and Ichiro. Nick Swisher hit a sacrifice 
fly to score Canó, making the score 7–2. David Robertson came in to get 
the final out of the game, giving the Yankees the win and a one-game to 
nothing lead.[13] 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, 
Maryland (moved to 8:47 p.m. EDT due to rain delay)[14][15] The Game 2 
pitching matchup was a sharp contrast, pitting postseason veteran Andy 
Pettitte against rookie Wei-Yin Chen. Similar to the first game, both Jeter 
and Ichiro would reach base. With two men on and nobody out, Alex Rodriguez 
hit a sinking line drive which was speared in the air by Robert Andino, 
who then doubled up Derek Jeter off second. Later in the inning, Robinson 
Canó ripped a double down the right field line, and Ichiro Suzuki masterfully 
avoided the tag of Matt Wieters to score, giving the Yankees an early 1–0 
lead. It was all for naught, however, as Pettitte gave up a two-run single 
to Chris Davis in the third inning. Baltimore tacked on some insurance 
in the sixth on a Mark Reynolds single. The Yankees threatened in the seventh 
when Jeter hit a single to make it 3–2. New York had players on second 
and third with two out in that inning, but Nick Swisher flied out to end 
the inning. Jim Johnson got the save to send the series to the Bronx tied 
at one game apiece. 7:37 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York[16] 
Baltimore had a 2–1 lead going into the ninth inning behind a strong performance 
by Miguel González. Rookies Ryan Flaherty and Manny Machado became the 
first pair of rookies to ever homer for the same team in the same game. 
Machado's blast ranked him as the second youngest player in postseason 
history, behind the Yankees' own Andruw Jones who had done so against the 
Yankees while with the Atlanta Braves in the 1996 World Series. Machado 
also became the youngest nine-hole hitter to homer in a postseason game 
at 20 years, 96 days. Heading to the ninth inning and three outs away from 
a 2–1 series deficit, Yankees' sent up Raúl Ibañez to pinch-hit for a struggling 
Alex Rodriguez with one out. Ibañez then lined a home run into the right 
field seats off Orioles closer Jim Johnson to tie the game in the ninth 
inning. Later in the 12th inning, Ibañez crushed the first pitch of the 
inning into the second deck of Yankee Stadium to win the game and take 
a series lead in walk-off fashion. At age 40, Ibañez set at least four 
MLB postseason records with his two HRs.[17][18] 7:37 p.m. (EDT) at Yankee 
Stadium in Bronx, New York[19] Game 4 was another marathon affair. Joe 
Saunders and Phil Hughes matched zeroes for four innings, before Nate McLouth 
led off the fifth for Baltimore with a home run. The Yankees responded 
in the sixth when Robinson Canó had an RBI groundout, but they left a runner 
in scoring position in that inning when Alex Rodriguez struck out. Rodriguez 
also left men on second and third with one out in the bottom of the eighth, 
dropping his batting average for the series down to .125 and continuing 
to draw the scorn of Yankees fans. The game remained tied until the 13th 
inning, when David Phelps allowed an RBI double to J. J. Hardy. Jim Johnson 
got his second save of the series, ensuring a deciding Game 5 the next 
day. This was the third time a postseason series had back to back games 
going at least 12 innings, joining the 1986 NLCS and the 2004 ALCS. 5:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Yankee Stadium in Bronx, New York[20] The Yankees clinched a trip 
to the ALCS for the third time in four years with a 3–1 win. CC Sabathia 
gave the Yankees his second big performance of the series, pitching a complete 
game, giving up one run on four hits while striking out nine. The only 
nervous moments came in the sixth, when a long fly ball by Nate McLouth 
was ruled foul and the eighth, when the Orioles loaded the bases with one 
out, but Sabathia got out of the jam by striking out McLouth and getting 
J. J. Hardy to ground out. The Yankees scored first in the fifth, when 
Game 3 hero Raúl Ibañez singled to score Mark Teixeira. The Yankees tacked 
on some insurance in the sixth on an Ichiro Suzuki double and a Curtis 
Granderson home run in the seventh. It proved enough, as CC got Matt Wieters 
to ground out for the final out, sending the Yankees to a chance to play 
for the pennant versus the Detroit Tigers. Sabathia was the first Yankee 
pitcher to pitch a complete game in the postseason since Roger Clemens 
pitched one against the Seattle Mariners in game four of the 2000 ALCS. 
2012 ALDS (3–2): New York Yankees over Baltimore Orioles 6:07 p.m. (EDT)[21] 
at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan[22] In the top of the first of Game 1, 
Coco Crisp led off the game with a home run on Justin Verlander's fourth 
pitch, a 1–2 fastball. Verlander threw 26 pitches in the first inning, 
but he managed to only allow one run. The lead did not last long, as Austin 
Jackson doubled to lead off the bottom of the first, and moved to third 
on an infield hit by Quintin Berry. Miguel Cabrera followed with a double 
play grounder, with Jackson scoring on the play. In the bottom of the third, 
with the game tied at one, Quintin Berry hit a slow ground ball up the 
first-base line. A's starter Jarrod Parker fielded the ball, but it rolled 
out of his glove for an error. That allowed Omar Infante, who doubled earlier 
in the inning, to score from second base and give the Tigers a 2–1 lead. 
Alex Avila led off the fifth inning with a first-pitch solo homer to extend 
the Detroit lead to 3–1. In the top of the seventh, Verlander struck out 
Derek Norris to tie a playoff career-high in strikeouts with 11, which 
he set last year in Game 3 of the ALDS against the Yankees, a game in which 
he won. In the bottom of the seventh, with two runners on, Pat Neshek, 
pitching for the first time since the death of his one-day-old son, got 
out of the jam by getting Infante to ground into a force out and striking 
out Austin Jackson. In the top of the eighth, Brandon Moss came close to 
a game-tying two-run home run off Joaquín Benoit, but fell just short when 
the ball held up at the right-field wall for Andy Dirks, who made the catch. 
José Valverde pitched a scoreless ninth inning for his first save of the 
2012 postseason. He struck out two and got George Kottaras to pop up to 
end the game. 12:07 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan[23] 
Oakland took a 1–0 lead in the top of the third inning when they put together 
three singles off Tiger starter Doug Fister, with Yoenis Céspedes' base 
hit driving in the game's first run. Brandon Moss followed with another 
single, but Tiger right fielder Avisail García threw out Coco Crisp at 
home plate as Crisp was attempting to score from second base. The Tigers 
tied the score at one in the bottom of the third. Miguel Cabrera hit his 
second double of the game, moved to third on a single by Prince Fielder, 
and scored on a slow roller to first off the bat of Delmon Young. Oakland 
retook the lead in the seventh inning when an RBI single by Cliff Pennington 
plated Seth Smith, but the lead was short-lived. In the bottom of the frame, 
Austin Jackson and Omar Infante each hit two-out singles. Miguel Cabrera 
followed with a short fly ball to center field, which a hard-charging Coco 
Crisp bobbled and dropped. Jackson and Infante both scored on the error, 
and the Tigers had their first lead of the game, 3–2. Detroit reliever 
Joaquín Benoit, however, failed to hold the lead in the next inning. Yoenis 
Cespedes singled and stole both second and third bases. With one out and 
the infield in, Benoit threw a wild pitch that scored Cespedes to tie the 
game at three. Josh Reddick then quickly untied it one batter later, with 
a solo home run to right. For the third time in the game, and fourth time 
in the series, the A's failed to hold a lead in the bottom of an inning 
that they had gained in the top of the same inning. Delmon Young greeted 
reliever Ryan Cook with a single, and was lifted for pinch runner Don Kelly. 
Jhonny Peralta followed with a single, sending Kelly to second. Kelly and 
pinch runner Danny Worth then moved up 90 feet on a sacrifice bunt by Andy 
Dirks. Kelly scored on a Cook wild pitch, knotting the game at four. A's 
closer Grant Balfour was called upon in the ninth to keep the game tied, 
but could not succeed. After back-to-back one-out singles by Omar Infante 
and Miguel Cabrera, Prince Fielder was intentionally walked, bringing Don 
Kelly to the plate. Kelly, a .186 hitter during the regular season, delighted 
the home crowd by hitting a walk-off sacrifice fly to right that plated 
Infante with the winning run. Al Alburquerque got the win in relief, while 
Balfour took the loss. 9:07 p.m. (EDT) at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, California[24] 
Returning home to Oakland, the A's took a 1–0 lead for the third time in 
the series, but this time it would not be relinquished. Coco Crisp led 
off the first inning with a single, and moved to second on a walk to Stephen 
Drew. Yoenis Céspedes followed with an RBI single to center that scored 
Crisp. Tiger starter Aníbal Sánchez avoided further damage by striking 
out Brandon Moss and getting Josh Reddick to ground into an inning-ending 
double play. The A's scored one more time off Sánchez when Seth Smith hit 
a solo homer in the fifth, giving the A's a 2–0 lead. That was all the 
scoring in this game, as the Tiger hitters could manage only four hits 
and no runs off starter Brett Anderson and three relievers. Grant Balfour 
redeemed himself from Game 2 by closing the door on the Tigers in the ninth 
for his first save of the series. The A's turned in several fine defensive 
plays as well, highlighted by Coco Crisp's over-the-wall catch in center 
field on a potential home run off the bat of Prince Fielder. Fielder was 
victimized later by Yoenis Céspedes, who robbed the Tiger first baseman 
of extra bases with a diving catch of a line drive in left-center. 9:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, California[25] For the first time in 
the series, the Tigers took the first lead of the game. In the top of the 
third inning, Alex Avila doubled off A's starter A. J. Griffin, took third 
on a sacrifice bunt by Omar Infante, and scored on a single by Austin Jackson. 
Prince Fielder made it 2–0 in the fourth with a solo home run. The A's 
got one run back in the bottom of the sixth, scoring an unearned run off 
Tiger starter Max Scherzer. Coco Crisp, who had reached on a Prince Fielder 
error and advanced to second on a wild pitch, scored on a double by Stephen 
Drew. Drew, however, was thrown out trying to stretch the hit into a triple. 
The Tigers got the run back in the top of the eighth. Omar Infante singled, 
advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt by Austin Jackson, and scored on 
a single by Avisail García. Tiger closer José Valverde was called upon 
in the ninth to protect the 3–1 lead, the same lead he had when earning 
the save in Game 1. But the A's greeted Valverde with three straight hits. 
A single by Josh Reddick and a double by Josh Donaldson were followed by 
a two-run double off the bat of Seth Smith that tied the game at three. 
It looked like the game might go into extra innings after Valverde got 
a pop out and a strikeout, but the A's—who had a league-leading 14 walk-off 
wins during the regular season—were not done. Coco Crisp hit a two-out, 
game-winning single to score Smith, sending the home crowd into a wild 
victory celebration. 9:37 p.m. (EDT) at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, California[26] 
With the series on the line, the teams turned to their Game 1 starters—Justin 
Verlander for the Tigers and Jarrod Parker for the A's. As he had done 
so many times after a Tiger loss over the last few seasons, Verlander was 
the Tigers' stopper. The 2011 Cy Young and MVP winner allowed just four 
hits and a walk in a complete-game shutout, and only one Oakland baserunner 
made it as far as second base (Josh Donaldson in the eighth). Verlander 
also struck out 11 batters for the second time in the series, giving him 
an ALDS record of 22 K's.[27] The Tiger batters did all of their scoring 
in just two innings. Omar Infante led off the third inning with a single, 
advanced to second on a wild pitch, and scored on an Austin Jackson double. 
Jackson advanced to third on a sacrifice bunt by Quintin Berry and scored 
on Parker's second wild pitch of the inning. In the top of the seventh, 
Jhonny Peralta led off with a single and stole second. One out later, Omar 
Infante singled to send Peralta to third, and Austin Jackson knocked in 
Peralta with a single off A's reliever Ryan Cook. Quintin Berry drew a 
walk to load the bases before Cook hit Miguel Cabrera with an 0–2 pitch 
to force in the Tigers' fourth run of the game. Prince Fielder followed 
with a run-scoring single off reliever Jerry Blevins, and Stephen Drew's 
error on a hard grounder by Delmon Young allowed Berry to score the sixth 
and final run of the game. The Tigers would move on to the ALCS for the 
second straight season. 2012 ALDS (3–2): Detroit Tigers over Oakland Athletics 
