The 2012 World Series was the 108th edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series.[1] The San Francisco Giants, the National League champions, 
won the best-of-seven playoff in a 4-game sweep over the American League 
champions Detroit Tigers. This marked the Giants' seventh World Series 
title in franchise history, their second in San Francisco (they won five 
in New York), and their second in a three-year period (2010–2012). Their 
World Series sweep was the first by a National League team since the Cincinnati 
Reds swept the Oakland Athletics in the 1990 series and the first NL sweep 
not by the Reds since 1963, when the Los Angeles Dodgers swept the New 
York Yankees. The Giants' Pablo Sandoval, who in Game 1 tied a record by 
hitting three home runs in one World Series game, two off of Tigers' ace 
Justin Verlander, was named the World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP). 
The San Francisco Giants held home field advantage for the best-of-seven 
World Series: San Francisco hosted Games 1 and 2, and would have hosted 
Games 6 and 7 if these had been necessary to decide the Series. The 2012 
series began on Wednesday, October 24, at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California 
and ended on Sunday, October 28, at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan, 
with the conclusion of the fourth game. The Tigers entered Game 1 in San 
Francisco, six days after sweeping the Yankees in the American League Championship 
Series. Two days before Game 1, the Giants had taken the National League 
Championship from the St. Louis Cardinals, the defending World Series champions, 
at home in San Francisco, after winning Game 7 of the National League Championship 
Series. In accordance with the standard since 2003, the outcome of the 
All-Star Game decided whether the American or National League would hold 
home field advantage in the World Series. The National League All-Star 
Team won the 2012 All-Star Game, played on July 10 in Kansas City, Missouri, 
by a score of 8–0. Representatives of both the Giants and the Tigers played 
key roles in the outcome. Giant players scored and/or drove in seven of 
the NL All-Star team's eight runs. The NL scored five runs in the first, 
all yielded by a Tiger, ace Justin Verlander.Pablo Sandoval would hit a 
triple, and Melky Cabrera who would wind up winning the All-Star Game MVP 
hit a homerun during the game. The Giants finished the regular season atop 
the National League West with 94 wins and 68 losses, eight games ahead 
of the second place Los Angeles Dodgers. They defeated the Cincinnati Reds 
in the National League Division Series, a best-of-five series, in five 
games. They then defeated the defending 2011 World Series champions, the 
St. Louis Cardinals, in a seven-game series to capture the National League 
pennant. The manner in which the Giants defeated the Reds and then the 
Cardinals created some historical firsts. Because of the addition of a 
wildcard game, the National League Division Series between the Giants and 
Reds began with two games in San Francisco. Cincinnati, who posted a better 
won-lost record than the Giants, hosted the final three games. The Giants 
lost the first two games at home in San Francisco, yet won the last three 
on the road. The Giants became the first major league team to win three 
straight road games in a best-of-five playoff series after losing the first 
two games at home.[2] In the second round of the playoffs, the National 
League Championship Series, they came back from a three-games-to-one deficit 
to defeat the St. Louis Cardinals. Through this playoff course, the 2012 
Giants became the first National League team and the second team in American 
major league baseball history (after the 1985 Kansas City Royals) to win 
six consecutive playoff games in which they had faced elimination. This 
was the Giants' twenty-second NL pennant overall, their fifth as the San 
Francisco Giants. Their World Series berth was their second in three years 
(since 2010, when they defeated the Texas Rangers in five games). San Francisco's 
notable preseason acquisitions were outfielders Melky Cabrera and Ángel 
Pagán. Cabrera set the Giants' franchise record for hits in the month of 
May, with 51,[3][4] and Pagán set the San Francisco Giants record for triples 
in a season, with 15.[5] On August 15, Major League Baseball meted a fifty-game 
suspension upon Cabrera for his use of a banned substance.[6] At the time, 
his 159 hits led both leagues, his .346 batting average measured second 
in the NL, and he had received the 2012 All-Star Game MVP.[7][8][9] The 
suspension expired after the NLDS, but the Giants opted not to add him 
to the team's NLCS or World Series rosters.[10] All-Star Buster Posey finished 
the regular season with a .336 batting average to win the 2012 NL batting 
championship. In the World Series, he would go on to catch every inning, 
including complete game shutouts in Game 2[11] and Game 3.[12] He would 
homer in Game 4.[13] He would, in the World Series, not allow any baserunners 
to advance by either passed ball, stolen base, or wild pitch.[14] He would 
begin a double play in Game 1[15] and execute an important tag play in 
Game 2.[11] Earlier in the regular season, starting pitcher Matt Cain threw 
the first perfect game in Giants history, and the twenty-second in American 
major league history, on June 13.[16] He would start Game 4 of the World 
Series, which the Giants would win to clinch.[13] Relief pitcher Sergio 
Romo contributed to team success by converting 14 out of 15 save opportunities 
after an injury sidelined closer Brian Wilson a few days after the season 
began. Romo would convert three saves in the World Series, including the 
Game 4 clincher, which would end with Romo striking out the 2012 American 
League MVP.[13][14] Midseason addition Marco Scutaro ended the regular 
season with a .306 batting average and a 20-game hitting streak. In October, 
Scutaro tied a League Championship Series record with 14 hits (and a .500 
average) against the Cardinals, and he received the NLCS MVP. In the World 
Series, his Game 4 tenth-inning single drove home a run that gave the Giants 
a lead the team would not relinquish.[13] Bruce Bochy made his third World 
Series appearance as a manager, his second with the Giants. Bochy led San 
Francisco to the 2010 title. Before that, he led the 1998 San Diego Padres 
to the World Series, where the New York Yankees swept. Bochy would win 
his second World Series title. Bochy's starting rotation for the 2012 World 
Series: Barry Zito in Game 1, Madison Bumgarner in Game 2, Ryan Vogelsong 
in Game 3 and Matt Cain in Game 4.[17] The Tigers finished the regular 
season atop the American League Central, with 88 wins and 74 losses. The 
Tigers repeated as champions of this division, having also won it in 2011. 
This was their first repeat title in the divisional-play era (i.e., since 
1969). The last time, before 2011–2012, that the Tigers franchise had made 
consecutive playoff appearances was 1934–1935. The Tigers defeated the 
Oakland Athletics in the American League Division Series three games to 
two. The Tigers then captured their eleventh American League pennant, sweeping 
the New York Yankees four games to none in the American League Championship 
Series. This World Series berth was their first since 2006, when the St. 
Louis Cardinals defeated them four games to one.[18] The 2012 Tigers became 
the fourth team to accomplish a four-game sweep in an ALCS. The three other 
teams to do so (1988 Oakland A's, 1990 Oakland A's, and 2006 Detroit Tigers) 
did not win the World Series, and the 2012 Tigers would, in the 2012 World 
Series, continue this trend. Pitcher Justin Verlander (17–8) led the American 
League in strikeouts with 239. Max Scherzer (16–7) finished second in the 
AL with 231 strikeouts.[19] During the 2012 season, pitcher Doug Fister 
set an AL record by striking out nine consecutive batters.[20] Miguel Cabrera 
became the first player in 45 years (since Carl Yastrzemski in 1967) to 
win the Triple Crown.[21] Miguel Cabrera compiled a .330 average, hit 44 
home runs, and had 139 RBIs, all of which led the American League. In the 
2012 ALCS, Cabrera extended his hitting streak in LCS games to 17, a major 
league LCS record. (Cabrera made ten hits in seven games with the Florida 
Marlins in the 2003 NLCS, eight hits in six games with the Tigers in the 
2011 ALCS, and five hits in the Tigers' 2012 ALCS sweep).[22] As of 2012[update], 
Miguel Cabrera has played in exactly 17 LCS games. Miguel Cabrera would 
compile a .231 batting average for, and make the last out of, the 2012 
World Series.[23] In January 2012, prior to the start of the season, the 
Tigers signed first baseman Prince Fielder to a nine-year, $214 million 
contract.[24] In the 2012 World Series, Prince Fielder would manage only 
one hit, a single, in 14 at-bats. Manager Jim Leyland made his third trip 
to the World Series, and his second with the Tigers (he also managed them 
in 2006). He managed the 1997 Florida Marlins to a seven-game victory in 
the World Series. Leyland's starting rotation for the 2012 World Series: 
Verlander in Game 1, Doug Fister in Game 2, Aníbal Sánchez in Game 3, and 
Scherzer in Game 4.[25] In Game 1 of the World Series, Verlander would 
not fare much better against Giant bats than he had in the All-Star Game; 
allowing five earned runs in four innings.[15] NL San Francisco Giants 
(4) vs. AL Detroit Tigers (0) The Giants' Pablo Sandoval was named the 
MVP of the series after hitting .500 with three home runs.[30] Gerry Davis, 
as senior umpire, served as crew chief for the six-man crew. With his work 
in this Series, Davis set a new record for postseason games umpired in 
American major league history, with 115. Fellow regular-season crew chiefs 
Brian Gorman and Joe West assisted Davis, along with Fieldin Culbreth, 
Dan Iassogna and Brian O'Nora.[31] The Giants jumped out to a 6–0 lead, 
scoring in four of the first five innings of Game 1, en route to an 8–3 
victory. Pablo Sandoval went four-for-four. He drove in four runs on three 
home runs. He joined Babe Ruth (in 1926 and 1928), Reggie Jackson (in 1977) 
and Albert Pujols (in 2011) as the only players to ever hit three home 
runs in one World Series game. Sandoval became the first player to hit 
three homers in Game 1 of a World Series, and the first one to homer in 
his first three plate appearances.[32] Tigers' ace pitcher Justin Verlander 
lasted only four innings, giving up five Giant runs. Sandoval's first two 
homers came off Verlander. San Francisco starting pitcher Barry Zito allowed 
only one run in 5 2⁄3 innings, and drove in a run with a fourth-inning 
hit. The Giants scored their final two runs in the seventh inning off Tiger 
relief pitcher José Valverde, who failed to convert saves in previous stages 
of the postseason. In the top of the ninth, Jhonny Peralta hit a two-run 
home run off George Kontos to cut the lead to 8-3 but Jeremy Affeldt came 
in relief of Kontos and got Ramon Santiago to ground out for the final 
out of the game to seal game 1 and a 1-0 series lead.[33] After Zito allowed 
a run on three hits in the sixth inning, Tim Lincecum relieved him. Lincecum 
pitched 2 1⁄3 perfect innings, striking out five. Three Cy Young Award 
winners (Lincecum, Verlander and Zito) pitched in Game 1, the first time 
this has happened since Game 3 of the 1983 World Series, when Jim Palmer 
relieved Mike Flanagan, in a contest against Steve Carlton.[32] A shutout 
win in Game 2 gave the Giants a two games to none lead in the Series. In 
the top of the second, with Prince Fielder on first, Delmon Young lined 
a double into the left field corner. Tiger third base coach Gene Lamont 
waved Fielder home, but with accurate throws by left-fielder Gregor Blanco 
and second baseman Marco Scutaro, catcher Buster Posey tagged out Fielder 
in a close play at the plate. In the bottom of the second, Doug Fister 
was struck in the head by a Blanco line drive but stayed in the game, pitching 
out of a bases-loaded jam. Game 2 remained scoreless until the bottom of 
the seventh. Hunter Pence led off with a single, Brandon Belt drew a walk, 
then Blanco executed a perfect bunt down the third base line. The ball 
came to rest just fair, halfway between third base and home, allowing Blanco 
to reach safely while both runners advanced. With the bases loaded and 
nobody out, Brandon Crawford grounded into a double play, scoring Hunter 
Pence. In the eighth, with the bases loaded and one out, Pence hit a sacrifice 
fly to right field, scoring Ángel Pagán with the second and final Giant 
run of the game. Madison Bumgarner pitched seven shutout innings, yielding 
only two hits and striking out eight, for the win.[34] The Giants' 2–0 
victory in Game 3 was the team's second straight shutout. Matching the 
2010 Giants team that also recorded two shutouts in the World Series, San 
Francisco became the first team since the 1966 Baltimore Orioles to record 
back-to-back World Series shutouts. (The 1966 Orioles, who threw three 
straight shutouts in Games 2–4, also swept the World Series, defeating 
the Los Angeles Dodgers.) The 2012 Giants became the first NL team to do 
so since the 1919 Cincinnati Reds, who threw back-to-back shutouts against 
the Chicago White Sox.[35] These were the first back-to-back postseason 
shutouts for the franchise since 1917, where the New York Giants ultimately 
lost to the Chicago White Sox.[36] The only runs of the game came in the 
Giant half of the second inning. A one-out triple off the bat of Gregor 
Blanco scored Hunter Pence from third. A two-out single by Brandon Crawford 
then scored Blanco.[37] San Francisco starter Ryan Vogelsong pitched 5 2⁄3 
shutout innings. Detroit loaded the bases with one out in the fifth inning. 
Vogelsong struck out Quintin Berry. Then, Vogelsong threw a pitch near 
the hands of the next batter, Miguel Cabrera, which induced a pop fly to 
end the inning. As in Game 1, Tim Lincecum relieved the Giants' starter, 
and pitched 2 1⁄3 scoreless innings. As in Game 2, Sergio Romo converted 
a save, his second of three in the Series. Game 4 extended into extra innings. 
Marco Scutaro's RBI single in the top of the tenth, which allowed Ryan 
Theriot to score, proved the difference in the Giants' 4–3 victory. With 
the Game 4 victory, the Giants took the 2012 World Series, four games to 
none. San Francisco scored the first run of the game, in the top of the 
second inning. With one out, Brandon Belt tripled off starter Max Scherzer 
to right field, scoring Hunter Pence. The Tiger defense then corralled 
Belt at third. In the third inning, Detroit took its first lead in any 
series game. Miguel Cabrera hit a high fly ball off Matt Cain towards right 
field, Hunter Pence had a chance to catch it but a strong wind drifted 
the ball out for a two-run home run. The shot snapped what was a 20-inning 
scoreless streak for the Tigers.[38] The Giants regained the lead in the 
sixth inning, with a two-run home run, off the bat of Buster Posey. Posey's 
shot stayed just inside the left-field pole as it carried out. In the bottom 
of the same inning, Delmon Young tied the game with a solo home run, off 
of Giant pitcher Matt Cain, that landed over the fence in right-center. 
Strong relief pitching sent the game into extra innings. After a leadoff 
walk in the bottom of the eighth, Giant pitcher Jeremy Affeldt struck out 
the heart of the Tigers batting order. In the top of the ninth, Tiger pitcher 
Phil Coke struck out three consecutive Giant batters. Coke set a World 
Series record by striking out seven consecutive batters, dating back to 
his appearances in Games 2 and 3.[39] Affeldt and Santiago Casilla combined 
for a scoreless bottom of the ninth. In the top of the 10th, Ryan Theriot 
ended Coke's strikeout streak, leading off with a single to right. A sacrifice 
bunt by Brandon Crawford moved Theriot to second. Ángel Pagán struck out. 
Then Scutaro served a single in front of center-fielder Austin Jackson, 
which scored the decisive run. Closer Sergio Romo struck out the side in 
the bottom of the 10th. The Series ended with Umpire Brian O'Nora calling 
a third strike on Miguel Cabrera. After throwing Cabrera several consecutive 
sliders, Romo threw a fastball that backed into Cabrera's zone, which may 
have surprised the batter.[13][38][40] Because they won the Series away 
from their home field, the Giants accepted the World Series Championship 
Trophy and the World Series MVP award in their locker-room. (Incidentally, 
the franchise clinched its last four World Series victories away from home.).[41] 
Of note in this game was the fact that it was played during heavy winds, 
and a swirling rain for a good portion of the evening. The city of Detroit 
was feeling the effects of the outer bands of Hurricane Sandy, which would 
hit several hours later on the North Eastern Atlantic Coast. 2012 World 
Series (4–0): San Francisco Giants (N.L.) over Detroit Tigers (A.L.) In 
the United States, Fox televised the games, with Joe Buck calling play-by-play 
in his 15th World Series, and Tim McCarver handling color commentary for 
his 23rd World Series. Ken Rosenthal also appeared on the Fox telecasts 
as a field reporter, with Erin Andrews and Chris Myers joining him for 
select games. MLB International syndicated its own telecast of the series, 
with announcers Gary Thorne and Rick Sutcliffe, to various networks outside 
the U.S.[43] Additionally, the American Forces Network and Canadian Forces 
Radio and Television carried the games to U.S. and Canadian service personnel 
stationed around the globe. Fox Deportes carried the Series in Spanish 
on American cable and satellite TV. However, on August 24, Tribune removed 
Fox-affiliate WTIC-TV from Cablevision systems in Connecticut, causing 
viewers to miss Games 1 and 2 of the series. An agreement between Cablevision 
and Tribune was reached on October 26, the day before Game 3.[44] According 
to Nielsen Media Research, the four-game series on Fox averaged a record-low 
7.6 rating and 12 share. The previous low was an 8.4 rating for both the 
2008 and the 2010 World Series, which each went five games. The 6.1 rating 
in Game 3 matched the lowest rating for any World Series game with Game 3 
in 2008; that year, a rain delay moved the start of the game to after 10 
p.m. on the East Coast with the game not ending until 1:47 a.m.[45] Hurricane 
Sandy contributed to the low amount of viewers as most residents on the 
East Coast were preparing for the storm's arrival during the series.[46] 
ESPN Radio broadcast the World Series nationally, with Dan Shulman and 
Orel Hershiser working their second consecutive World Series together. 
ESPN Deportes Radio aired the Series for Spanish language listeners, with 
Ernesto Jerez and Guillermo Celis announcing. Locally, the two teams' flagship 
stations broadcast the series with their respective announcing crews. The 
Giants' English-language broadcasts aired on KNBR-AM (with Dave Flemming, 
Jon Miller, Mike Krukow, and Duane Kuiper announcing) with their Spanish-language 
broadcasts on KIQI-AM (with Erwin Higueros and Tito Fuentes), while WXYT-FM 
and AM carried the Tigers' English-language broadcasts (with Dan Dickerson 
and Jim Price). Due to contractual obligations, the non-flagship stations 
on the teams' radio networks carried the ESPN Radio broadcasts of the games, 
although the local broadcasts were also available on XM Satellite Radio 
and to Gameday Audio subscribers at MLB.com. The Tigers became only the 
third team to be swept in the World Series after sweeping the League Championship 
Series (LCS), joining the 1990 Oakland Athletics and the 2007 Colorado 
Rockies with this distinction. For the fourth time since 1985, when the 
MLB postseason expanded the LCS to a best of 7, the World Series saw a 
team who swept its LCS face a team who won a LCS Game 7. The previous three 
times, 1988, 2006, and 2007, the Game 7 pennant-winner prevailed. This 
trend continued in 2012.[47] The 2012 World Series was the first since 
1954 to feature the batting champions from each league, Buster Posey of 
the Giants and Miguel Cabrera of the Tigers. (The 1954 Series showcased 
Willie Mays of the New York Giants and Bobby Ávila of the Cleveland Indians).[48] 
Cabrera and Posey had been voted the MVP of their respective leagues (announced 
and awarded, as usual, after the World Series), making this the first World 
Series since 1988 to feature both league MVPs.[49][50] (1988 saw the Oakland 
Athletics' Jose Canseco and the Los Angeles Dodgers' Kirk Gibson meet).[49][50] 
The Giants became the first team since the 1966 Baltimore Orioles and the 
first NL team since the 1919 Cincinnati Reds to achieve consecutive shutouts 
in the World Series.[51] Giants' pitching held the Tigers to a .159 batting 
average in the Series, the 3rd lowest for a team all-time in the World 
Series, behind the Los Angeles Dodgers hitting .142 against the Orioles 
in the 1966 World Series and the Baltimore Orioles hitting .146 against 
the New York Mets in the 1969 World Series.[52] With the Giants winning 
Game 4 in extra innings to win the series, they became the eighth team 
to win a World Series clinching game in extra innings and the first to 
do so since the 1997 Florida (now Miami) Marlins clinched the series in 
Game 7 in the 11 innings. They were the first Giants team to do so since 
game 5 of the 1933 World Series against the Washington Senators (now Minnesota 
Twins) in Washington when the Giants were in New York. After sweeping this 
series 4-0, Bruce Bochy became the fourth World Series Manager to be on 
a winning side and losing side of a sweep, having lost in a four-game sweep 
against the New York Yankees as the San Diego Padres manager in 1998. Miller 
Huggins, Walter Alston and Tony La Russa were the other three. An estimated 
crowd of over 1 million people attended a Halloween-day victory parade 
along Market Street in San Francisco.[53] The Giants failed to defend their 
World Series championship in 2013. San Francisco led the National League 
West early in the season, but critical injuries (including the loss of 
Pagan for three months) and subpar play on both ends doomed the Giants. 
They were eliminated from the playoff race on September 11, 2013, becoming 
the second defending World Series champion in three years to not make the 
postseason, after the 2011 Giants. In 2014, the Giants would, again, win 
the World Series and thereby continue their even-years streak of pennants 
and World Championships (2010, 2012, and 2014) . The Tigers would win the 
American League Central division championship for the fourth straight season 
in 2014, marking the first season since 1909 that the Tigers won three 
consecutive regular season pennants. The Tigers lost the 2013 ALCS to the 
eventual champions Boston Red Sox in six games. In 2014, they lost the 
