FSN West KCOP (My 13) KLAA (AM 830) KSPN (AM 710) (Terry Smith, José Mota) 
The Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim's 2012 season was the franchise's 52nd 
season and 47th in Anaheim (all of them at Angel Stadium of Anaheim). The 
day after the end of the 2011 Regular Season, the Angels vowed to be "creative" 
and "aggressive" in their approach to the upcoming offseason because of 
the team missing out on the postseason two years in a row for the first 
time since 2000–01.[1] Just a day after that statement, the Angels announced 
that general manager Tony Reagins had resigned with owner Arte Moreno saying 
that "we felt a change was needed", Reagins will remain part of the front 
office in a different capacity.[2] On October 27, 2011, it was reported 
that the Angels will hire Jerry Dipoto to serve as the franchise's eleventh 
general manager, there will be an official announcement by the Angels on 
October 28.[3] The Angels also signed a major new television deal with 
Fox Sports worth $3 billion over a span of 20 years which works out to 
$150 million a year. It is the new TV deal, that many speculate, enabled 
the Angels to spend so much in the 2011–12 offseason.[4] On December 8, 
2011, the Angels shocked the baseball world by signing former St. Louis 
Cardinals star Albert Pujols and Texas Rangers ace C. J. Wilson spending 
up to $331 million on the two players.[5] According to analysts, Pujols 
was regarded as the best offensive player (along with arguably being the 
best player of this generation) and Wilson being the best pitcher on the 
market. Pujols had been a mainstay in the St. Louis Cardinals organization 
for 11 years prior to the signing and the Angels reportedly came into the 
negotiations at the last minute to sign the prized free agent. All media 
speculation prior to Dec 8 surrounding Pujols was centered around the Cardinals 
and Miami Marlins, while not as much as the Marlins, the Angels reported 
offer of $254 million over 10 years was much more than the reported offer 
by the Cardinals and had a full no-trade clause.[6] As for C. J. Wilson, 
analysts predicted that the Angels would go after him, and while the Marlins 
offered him more money and a longer contract term, the Orange County native 
opted to return home and play for the Angels for a reported $77.5 million 
over 5 years.[7] The two prize signings were introduced to the Southern 
California media and fans on December 10 in front of the two large hats 
at Angel Stadium. Because the press conference was outdoors and in front 
of the stadium, fans were encouraged to attend and anywhere between 3,000 
and 5,000 fans attended to get a glimpse of the two new Angels.[8][9] Also, 
within just a few days of the signings, the Angels reportedly sold over 
1,000 new season ticket packages, 500 online subscriptions, and a large 
spike in merchandise sales at the Angels team store in Anaheim.[10] One 
of the first moves made by new general manager Jerry Dipoto was to acquire 
former Rockies catcher Chris Iannetta for pitcher Tyler Chatwood and sending 
former Angels catcher Jeff Mathis to Toronto in order to make room at the 
catching position for Iannetta.[11][12] On December 7, the Angels signed 
veteran reliever LaTroy Hawkins a fact that was somewhat overshadowed by 
the Pujols and Wilson signings just a day later.[13] Later, on December 
12, the Angels announced that all eligible players will be tendered a contract, 
including Kendrys Morales, the slugger who has not played since his breaking 
his leg early in the 2010 season.[14] The Angels also re-signed pitcher 
Jerome Williams to a one-year deal.[15] The Angels gave 2B Howie Kendrick 
a 4-year $33 million deal They also released OF Chris Pettit and signed 
Francisco Rodriguez (Angels) to a $2 million deal. The Cactus League slate 
of games for the Angels began on Monday 1, March on the road against Oakland, 
a 9–1 Angels victory. Their first home game at Tempe Diablo Stadium was 
a 6–2 win on Tuesday, March 6 against the Chicago White Sox. The 2012 season 
marks the Angels 20th season at Tempe Diablo Stadium in Tempe, Arizona 
and the 7th season since the venue's massive renovations were completed 
in 2006. The Angels came into the Spring with high expectations for the 
following 2012 campaign due to the large amount of money spent by owner 
Arte Moreno in the offseason signing slugger Albert Pujols and lefty C. 
J. Wilson. Both prized acquisitions played in the Angels first spring game 
against the Athletics and the two did not disappoint: Pujols went 2 for 
three with 1 run scored and 1 run batted in while Wilson threw 2 complete 
innings with no runs and giving up only one hit. Because of the high expectations 
for the Angels in 2012, the Angels are expecting larger than usual crowds 
in Tempe this spring. One of the biggest questions surrounding the Angels 
franchise going into the Spring training was whether or not Kendrys Morales 
would make a comeback from breaking his ankle in 2010. Morales played in 
his first baseball game in nearly two years on March 16, 2012 in a minor 
league game and played in his first major league game of any kind on March 
22.[16] In that game, Morales went two for three with a run scored and 
was described by Angels personnel and Morales as a large step forward for 
the slugger.[17] On March 23, in a split squad game against the Cleveland 
Indians in Goodyear, Morales again went two for three with a run scored 
in only his second game of the spring, but this time with his first home 
run since the 2010 regular season.[18] According to the Angels radio broadcaster 
Terry Smith, the Angels have already sold out six home games at Tempe Diablo 
Stadium. The first sell-out crowd of the spring was for an Angels loss 
to the San Diego Padres on March 9. The Angels finished their spring training 
slate of games on April 4, 2012 with a record of 19–12–2, good for 3rd 
place in the Cactus League in terms of win percentage and 2nd in terms 
of number of wins (19). The average attendance at Tempe Diablo Stadium 
was 8,675 (total of 130,126) which was an average of 90.76% capacity. The 
Angels also sold out 9 of their 15 home Cactus League games. The season 
for the Angels begins on Friday, April 6 at home against Kansas City. Their 
first road game will be on Monday, April 9 at Minnesota. Their longest 
homestand will be from July 20–29 (10 home games), and their longest road 
trip will be May 18–27 and July 30 – August 8 (10 road games). Their final 
game of the regular season will be on Wednesday, October 3 on the road 
against Seattle. *Jered Weaver threw the tenth no-hitter in Angels history. 
*Freeway Series, Angels win 4–2. Regular Season Schedule (calendar style) 
Regular Season Schedule (sortable text) Infielders Outfielders Coaches 
