The 2013 American League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
pitting the Boston Red Sox against the Detroit Tigers [1] for the American 
League pennant and the right to play in the 2013 World Series against the 
St. Louis Cardinals. The Red Sox won the series 4 games to 2. The series 
was the 44th in league history, and was the first postseason meeting between 
the two teams. Fox aired all games in the United States. Koji Uehara was 
the series MVP. To reach the 2013 ALCS, the Red Sox (East Division champions, 
97–65) defeated the AL Wild Card Game-winning Tampa Bay Rays in the ALDS, 
3 games to 1. The Tigers (Central Division champions, 93–69) defeated the 
AL West Champion Oakland Athletics in the ALDS, 3 games to 2. Boston won 
the series, 4–2. Saturday, October 12, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts Five Tiger pitchers (Aníbal Sánchez, Al Alburquerque, 
José Veras, Drew Smyly and Joaquín Benoit) combined to strike out 17 and 
hold the Red Sox hitless for 8.3333333333333 !81⁄3 innings. Starter Sánchez 
struck out 12 and walked six through six shutout innings, but was lifted 
after throwing 116 pitches. Daniel Nava broke up the no-hitter with a one-out 
single in the ninth off Benoit. He was then lifted for a pinch-runner, 
former Tiger Quintin Berry, who stole second base with two outs but was 
stranded there when Xander Bogaerts popped to shortstop to end the game. 
Benoit lost the no-hitter, but he earned the save, and the Tigers held 
on to win 1–0. The only run of the game scored in the sixth when Jhonny 
Peralta, the only player with multiple hits in the game (three), drove 
in Miguel Cabrera with an RBI single.[8] Sunday, October 13, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Tiger starters continued 
their mastery of Red Sox hitters, this time with Max Scherzer on the mound. 
Scherzer no-hit Boston through the first 5 2⁄3 innings, struck out 13, 
and allowed just one run on two hits overall, leaving the game after seven 
innings with a 5–1 lead. The Tigers got a run in the second inning, when 
Víctor Martínez doubled, went to third on a Jhonny Peralta single, and 
scored on a single by Alex Avila. In the top of the sixth, the wheels came 
off for Red Sox starter Clay Buchholz. Miguel Cabrera hit a one-out solo 
home run over the left-field wall to start the scoring. Prince Fielder 
followed with a double off the left-field wall, then Martínez hit his second 
double of the night to score Fielder. One out later, Alex Avila hit a two-run 
homer to right, making the score 5–0. Scherzer allowed his lone run in 
the bottom of the frame, when Dustin Pedroia doubled to drive in Shane 
Victorino.[9] That ended a string of 23 consecutive scoreless innings by 
Tiger pitching, going back to Game 5 of the ALDS against Oakland. Tiger 
manager Jim Leyland used four relief pitchers in the bottom of the eighth 
inning, none of whom was very effective. José Veras allowed a one-out double 
to Will Middlebrooks, and Drew Smyly was brought in to face Jacoby Ellsbury, 
whom he promptly walked. Al Alburquerque struck out Victorino for the second 
out of the inning, but Pedroia followed with a single to load the bases. 
Leyland went to his closer, Joaquín Benoit, to face David Ortiz. On a first-pitch 
changeup, Ortiz hit a grand slam home run to tie the game at 5–5.[10][11] 
After Koji Uehara pitched a perfect ninth, Boston scored the winning run 
in the bottom of the frame.[12] Jonny Gomes led off with an infield single 
off reliever Rick Porcello, and advanced to second on a throwing error 
by Tiger shortstop José Iglesias. Porcello threw a wild pitch, allowing 
Gomes to reach third. Jarrod Saltalamacchia followed with a walk-off RBI 
single to left, giving the Red Sox a wild 6–5 comeback win.[13] Tuesday, 
October 15, 2013 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan 
In the bottom of the second, an electrical problem sidelined the game for 
17 minutes. However once the game resumed, Game 3 resembled Game 1, featuring 
outstanding pitching from both teams. Boston's John Lackey gave up four 
hits and no runs in 6 2⁄3 innings and struck out eight. Detroit's Justin 
Verlander, who had not yet allowed a run in the postseason, pitched 6 1⁄3 
shutout innings before allowing a solo home run to left field off the bat 
of Mike Napoli. Verlander would exit after eight innings pitched, giving 
up four hits and striking out ten. Boston escaped a jam in the bottom of 
the eighth inning when a walk to Austin Jackson and a single by Torii Hunter 
put runners on first and third with one out.[14] But Red Sox reliever Junichi 
Tazawa struck out slugger Miguel Cabrera, then Koji Uehara came on and 
struck out Prince Fielder on three pitches to end the threat. Uehara then 
completed the ninth inning to earn the save. For Cabrera, this was the 
first time in 33 career postseason games that he failed to reach base.[15] 
Wednesday, October 16, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, 
Michigan The Red Sox sent Jake Peavy to the mound looking to build a commanding 
3–1 series lead. However, Peavy struggled in his only start of the series. 
After a scoreless first inning, Peavy gave up a leadoff single to Víctor 
Martínez to start the second inning. He then walked both Jhonny Peralta 
and Alex Avila to load the bases. After Omar Infante was robbed on a diving 
catch by right fielder Shane Victorino, Austin Jackson walked on four pitches 
to give the Tigers a 1–0 lead. José Iglesias then hit a potential double-play 
grounder to second, but Dustin Pedroia bobbled the ball and was only able 
to force Jackson at second, allowing Peralta to score. Torii Hunter then 
doubled to score Avila and Iglesias. Hunter would then score on a single 
to center field by Miguel Cabrera, making the score 5–0 after two innings. 
In the fourth inning, the Tigers chased Peavy from the game with a ground-rule 
double by Infante and an RBI single by Jackson. Brandon Workman then replaced 
Peavy on the mound. After Jackson stole second base, Iglesias sacrificed 
him to third. One out later, Cabrera singled to score Jackson and make 
the score 7–0. For the Tigers, Doug Fister scattered eight hits over six 
innings, striking out seven and giving up only one run on a series of hits 
in the sixth, capped by an RBI single from Jarrod Saltalamacchia. Shane 
Victorino and Jacoby Ellsbury would later plate runs of their own off the 
Tiger bullpen, but it was not enough and the Tigers took Game 4 by a score 
of 7–3 to even the series at two games apiece. Tiger leadoff hitter Austin 
Jackson, struggling with an .091 postseason batting average coming into 
the game (3–for–33) was dropped to eighth in the batting order by manager 
Jim Leyland. He responded by reaching base four times (two hits and two 
walks) while driving in two runs.[16] Thursday, October 17, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan Detroit threatened early against 
Boston starter Jon Lester. With two on and two out, Jhonny Peralta singled 
to left field, but Jonny Gomes threw out Miguel Cabrera, who was attempting 
to score from second base. The Red Sox offense scored early against Tiger 
starter Aníbal Sánchez, who had baffled them in Game 1. Mike Napoli led 
off the second inning with a massive home run that landed in the ivy well 
beyond the 420-foot center field wall at Comerica Park. Jonny Gomes then 
reached on a fielding error by third baseman Miguel Cabrera, and went to 
third on a one-out double by Xander Bogaerts. Gomes scored on a double 
by David Ross, making the score 2–0, though Bogaerts only reached third 
base after he went back to tag up at second. Jacoby Ellsbury then lined 
a ball off the glove of Sánchez, which trickled away for an infield single, 
allowing Bogaerts to score the third run of the inning. Ross was then thrown 
out at the plate by Omar Infante, attempting to score on a ground ball 
to second by Shane Victorino. On the play, Ross collided with Tigers catcher 
Alex Avila, injuring Avila's knee. Avila would stay in the game for two 
more innings while apparently wincing as he moved about. He was eventually 
pinch hit for by backup catcher Brayan Peña. In the third inning, the Red 
Sox went up 4–0, when Napoli doubled, went to third on a ground out, and 
scored on a wild pitch by Sánchez. After holding the Tigers scoreless for 
4 2⁄3 innings, Lester allowed a two-out RBI single by Miguel Cabrera, scoring 
Austin Jackson from second. Lester then allowed two baserunners in the 
Tiger sixth before being pulled for reliever Junichi Tazawa. Peña then 
greeted Tazawa with first-pitch single that plated Victor Martinez, making 
the score 4–2. The Tigers closed the gap to 4–3 in the seventh, when José 
Iglesias scored on a double-play grounder by Cabrera. Boston closer Koji 
Uehara would enter with one out in the eighth inning, recording a perfect 
1 2⁄3 innings, earning a save, and sending the Red Sox back home with a 
3–2 series lead.[17] Saturday, October 19, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts Game 6 was originally scheduled for the afternoon, 
but with the NLCS having ended the night before, MLB and Fox moved the 
game into primetime. The first pitch came at 8:07 p.m. EDT. Both starters, 
Max Scherzer and Clay Buchholz, were very strong in the early innings. 
After four and a half scoreless innings, during which Dustin Pedroia missed 
a home run off the left field foul pole by inches in the third, Boston 
drew first blood against Scherzer. Xander Bogaerts smacked a two-out double 
off the Green Monster and scored on a single by Jacoby Ellsbury. Ellsbury, 
who had only been caught stealing four times out of 56 attempts during 
the regular season, then tried to swipe second but was thrown out. Buchholz 
allowed Torii Hunter and Miguel Cabrera to reach base in the top of the 
sixth and was relieved by Franklin Morales. Morales did not record a single 
out, walking Prince Fielder and allowing a two-run single by Víctor Martínez 
to make the score 2–1. Brandon Workman then came in and induced a bizarre 
double play in which Martinez was tagged by Dustin Pedroia, followed by 
Fielder getting caught between third and home in a rundown.[18] Jonny Gomes 
led off the seventh with a double and after a Stephen Drew strikeout and 
a walk by Bogaerts, Ellsbury hit a ground ball that popped out of the glove 
of José Iglesias for an error. That brought up Shane Victorino, who coming 
into this at bat was 2–for–23 in the series. Victorino crushed an 0–2 José 
Veras curveball over the Green Monster for a grand slam and a 5–2 Red Sox 
lead. After Craig Breslow tossed a perfect eighth, Koji Uehara, who would 
receive MVP honors, earned the save by pitching a scoreless ninth.[19] 
With the victory, the Red Sox won their third pennant in a span of ten 
years and set a Fall Classic rematch with the St. Louis Cardinals, whom 
they swept in 2004 to win their first World Series in 86 years.[20] 2013 
