The 2013 National League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
pitting the St. Louis Cardinals against the Los Angeles Dodgers for the 
National League pennant and the right to play in the 2013 World Series 
against the Boston Red Sox. The series was the 43rd in league history with 
TBS broadcasting all games in the United States. This was the fourth postseason 
meeting between the Cardinals and Dodgers. The two teams previously met 
in the 1985 NLCS (Cardinals won 4–2), 2004 NLDS (Cardinals won 3–1), and 
2009 NLDS (Dodgers won 3–0). St. Louis won the series, 4–2. Friday, October 
11, 2013 – 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[7] Carlos 
Beltran drove in all three runs, including the game-winner in the bottom 
of the 13th with a line drive into the right-field corner. He also threw 
out a runner at home in the top of the tenth, temporarily saving the game 
until his game-winning hit. Zack Greinke allowed only two runs in eight 
innings, while striking out a season high ten batters, the first pitcher 
to strike out ten Cardinals in a post-season game since Denny Galehouse 
in the 1944 World Series.[8] The game was the third longest NLCS game ever 
(after game six in 1986 and game five in 1999), the Dodgers' longest post-season 
game since game two of the 1916 World Series and the Cardinals' longest 
ever. It was the longest NLCS Game 1 ever.[9] Saturday, October 12, 2013 
– 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[10] The Dodgers' 
offense was short-handed in game two because Hanley Ramírez sat out with 
injured ribs, the result of getting hit with a pitch in game one, and with 
Andre Ethier getting a day off for playing the entirety of Game 1's 13-inning 
affair. The game was a pitchers' duel as the Cardinals only got two hits 
off of Clayton Kershaw and two relievers. Jon Jay's sacrifice fly scored 
David Freese (after he doubled to lead off the inning) for the game's only 
run, in the bottom of the fifth. Due to a passed ball, Freese's run was 
unearned. The Dodgers managed five hits off Michael Wacha but were unable 
to get any runs. They loaded the bases in the sixth inning with one out, 
but Wacha struck out Yasiel Puig and Juan Uribe to end the threat. Trevor 
Rosenthal struck out the side (Puig, Uribe, and pinch hitter Ethier) in 
the ninth inning for the save and the Dodgers fell behind 2–0 in the series. 
Kershaw was the first starting pitcher in postseason history to allow no 
earned runs and two or fewer hits and lose the game.[11] Monday, October 
14, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California 
In Game 3, Hyun-jin Ryu pitched seven shutout innings and the Dodgers managed 
to score off Adam Wainwright to take the game 3–0. Hanley Ramirez had two 
hits and an RBI in his return to the Dodgers lineup, despite a fractured 
rib, and Yasiel Puig tripled for his first hit of the series, after 11 
hitless at-bats.[12] Tuesday, October 15, 2013 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Dodger 
Stadium in Los Angeles, California Ramirez was still hobbled by the rib 
injury and struggled at the plate and in the field before leaving the game 
in the sixth inning. Matt Holliday and Shane Robinson each hit home runs 
in this game, the first homers of the series, as the Cardinals took a commanding 
3–1 lead.[13] Wednesday, October 16, 2013 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California The Dodgers staved off elimination in Game 5 
as Zack Greinke pitched seven strong innings and the bats came alive. Adrian 
Gonzalez hit two home runs and Carl Crawford and A. J. Ellis also homered. 
The four homers tied a Dodger post-season record that had previously been 
accomplished in Game 2 of the 1977 World Series and Game 1 of the 1978 
NLCS.[14] The Cardinals managed two runs off Kenley Jansen in the ninth 
but the Dodgers held on to win 6–4 and send the series back to St. Louis.[15] 
Friday, October 18, 2013 – 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, 
Missouri Hoping to force a game seven, the Dodgers sent their ace Clayton 
Kershaw to the mound to face the St. Louis Cardinals rookie Michael Wacha 
in a rematch of Game two's match up. This time, Kershaw had his worst outing 
of the season, as he struggled through the third inning with 48 total pitches 
and surrendered a total of seven earned runs, ten hits, and two walks in 
four innings of work.[16] Dodgers phenom Yasiel Puig committed two costly 
throwing errors that summarized the frustration of that night. By contrast, 
Michael Wacha, backed up by solid defense and timely hits, stymied the 
Dodgers' offense, going seven innings and allowing just two hits and no 
runs. The Cardinals notched the scoreboard in the third inning when Matt 
Carpenter lined a double into right field after an eleven pitch battle 
with Kershaw. Carlos Beltran scored Carpenter from second with a line drive 
single again to right field and advanced to second. Kershaw struck out 
Matt Holliday but yielded another single to Yadier Molina which scored 
Beltran from second to make it 2–0 Cardinals. David Freese singled to center 
field to move Molina to second and Kershaw, already having an uncharacteristic 
night, walked Matt Adams to load the bases for Shane Robinson. Robinson 
drove in two runs with a single to right fielder Yasiel Puig, extending 
the Cardinals' lead to 4–0. Puig committed a throwing error by tossing 
the ball on a misstep and slinging it all the way to backstop over the 
head of catcher A.J. Ellis. Kershaw ended the inning by intentionally walking 
Pete Kozma and striking out Michael Wacha. The Cardinals added on five 
more runs in the fifth inning. Yadier Molina singled to right field and 
reached second base on Yasiel Puig's second throwing error of the night. 
David Freese singled to advance Molina to third base and Matt Adams drove 
him home with a double in to make it 5–0 Cardinals. Kershaw left the game 
with runners on second and third after throwing 98 pitches and was replaced 
by reliever Ronald Belisario. Shane Robinson came up to the plate and reached 
second base on a choice out by shortstop Hanley Ramirez to catcher A.J. 
Ellis, who tagged out David Freese in a run down between third and home. 
With runners still on second and third, Pete Kozma was intentionally walked 
for the second time that night. Then Michael Wacha hit Belisario's pitch 
and reached first base on a fielder's choice by second baseman Mark Ellis 
who allowed Matt Adams to score after hesitating on a throw to home, making 
the score 6–0 Cardinals. Belisario was replaced by relief pitcher J.P. 
Howell who allowed Robinson and Kozma to score on a sacrifice fly by Carpenter 
and a wild pitch to Molina respectively, stretching the lead to 8–0. Carlos 
Beltran closed the door on the Dodgers postseason by singling to left field 
and scoring Wacha for the final run of the game, giving the Cardinals a 
commanding 9-0 lead. The Dodgers eked out just one more hit on a double 
by catcher A.J. Ellis and the Cardinals pitching staff retired the next 
twelve batters in a row to end the game. Winning pitcher Michael Wacha 
was named the NLCS MVP after winning both of his starts with a 0.00 ERA, 
holding the Dodgers to a .149 batting average against (BAA), two walks 
and 13 SO in 13 2⁄3 scoreless IP. He became the fourth rookie to win a 
postseason series MVP award, following Larry Sherry (1959 World Series), 
Mike Boddicker (1983 NLCS), and Liván Hernández (1997 NLCS and 1997 World 
Series).[17][18] The victory earned the Cardinals their nineteenth pennant 
as a franchise and their second World Series appearance in three years. 
