The Qualifying Round of the 2013 World Baseball Classic was held from September 
19 to November 19, 2012. Although the 2006 and 2009 editions of the World 
Baseball Classic were contested by the same pre-selected field of 16 teams, 
for the 2013 tournament only the 12 teams that won at least one game in 
2009 were guaranteed a berth in the main tournament. The other four (Canada, 
Chinese Taipei, Panama, and South Africa) contested the qualifying round 
along with 12 additional teams invited by the International Baseball Federation 
(IBAF).[1] The qualifiers were organized as four independent modified double-elimination 
tournaments featuring four teams each. The final game was winner-take-all, 
even if won by the team emerging from the loser's bracket. That is, the 
team emerging from the winner's bracket might be eliminated despite losing 
only one game (as, in fact, happened to Israel in Qualifier 1). Canada 
and Chinese Taipei dominated in Qualifiers 2 and 4 to advance easily. In 
Qualifier 1, Spain and Israel both won in the first round, then Israel 
beat Spain in the winner's bracket. Spain then eliminated South Africa 
(the only team in the qualifier to have previously contested the WBC) to 
earn a rematch with Israel, which was without its several Major League 
players due to the qualifier taking place during the MLB season. Spain 
won the winner-take-all final game, 9–7 in 10 innings, to advance to the 
main tournament. In Qualifier 3, favorites Panama and Nicaragua lost in 
the first round, and Panama then eliminated Nicaragua. After both teams 
defeated Colombia, underdog Brazil defeated Panama 1–0 to advance to the 
main tournament. Under the Classic's rules, Team Israel was entitled to 
have non-Israeli citizens of Jewish heritage play for the team. Such players 
included major leaguers catcher Ryan Lavarnway, first baseman Ike Davis, 
second basemen Ian Kinsler and Josh Satin, third basemen Kevin Youkilis 
and Danny Valencia, outfielders Ryan Braun (whose father is Israeli), Sam 
Fuld, Ryan Kalish, and Gabe Kapler, and pitchers Jason Marquis, Scott Feldman, 
Craig Breslow, and John Grabow, as well as what were then recent major 
leaguers catcher Brad Ausmus and pitcher Scott Schoeneweis.[2][3][4][5][6][7] 
Kinsler said: "Wow, I would be happy to play for Team Israel.... The truth 
is that if a proposal comes from Team USA to play for them, I will have 
a very difficult decision to make. Yuk [Kevin Youkilis], Braun [Ryan Braun], 
and I could make a fantastic team. I am sure that I'll talk it over with 
Yuk – we always laugh about things like this."[8] Outfielder Shawn Green, 
who retired in 2007, was also eligible because he is Jewish. In early June 
2011 he said it "would be an honor" and he "would love to" play for Israel 
in the Classic.[9][10] Because they were held in September, while the Major 
League Baseball season was still in progress, Qualifiers 1 and 2 could 
not feature major league players.[11][12] Kevin Youkilis announced that 
he would play for the team if they made it past the qualifying round.[13] 
The highest-level players involved in Qualifiers 1 and 2 were minor-league 
prospects ranked among the top 20 in their respective organizations.[14] 
Team Israel, managed by former major league All Star Brad Ausmus, included 
minor league pitchers Eric Berger (1–0) and Brett Lorin, first baseman 
Nate Freiman (.417; 4 HR in 12 AB), second baseman Josh Satin (.273), shortstops 
Jake Lemmerman and Ben Orloff, and outfielders Adam Greenberg, Ben Guez, 
Joc Pederson (.308), and Robbie Widlansky.[15][16] Retired major leaguer 
Shawn Green played for Israel (.333).[15] Similarly, Joey Votto and Justin 
Morneau were unable to play for Canada.[17] They were led by minor league 
first baseman Jimmy Van Ostrand (.538; 10 RBIs in 13 at-bats).[16] Although 
Canada advanced easily despite the unavailability of its Major Leaguers, 
Israel was eliminated after narrowly losing the final game to Spain. By 
contrast, all four teams in Qualifier 3 boasted Major League players, as 
it took place in November and did not conflict with the MLB season. Established 
Major Leaguers included Carlos Ruiz, Rubén Tejada, Manny Acosta, Manny 
Corpas, and Carlos Lee of Panama; and Everth Cabrera and J. C. Ramírez 
of Nicaragua. Major League rookies and prospects included Erasmo Ramírez 
and Cheslor Cuthbert of Nicaragua; Yan Gomes of Brazil; and Luis Martinez 
and brothers Donavan and Jhonatan Solano of Colombia. Retired Major Leaguers 
included Ramiro Mendoza of Panama and Edgar Rentería of Colombia.[18] Although 
Qualifier 4 also took place in November, it did not feature any current 
MLB players, as both Wei-Yin Chen and Chien-Ming Wang of Chinese Taipei 
elected to skip the qualifier. Chinese Taipei did feature Japanese major 
leaguer Yao-Hsun Yang as well as Taiwanese league players such as Peng 
Cheng-min and Lin Chih-sheng, and qualified easily. Both New Zealand and 
the Philippines included minor league players, while Thailand included 
former Major Leaguer Johnny Damon.[19] Four stadiums were used during the 
qualifying round:[20][21] 103,774 (avg. 4,324; pct. 30.7%) * Minimum 2.7 
plate appearances per game * Minimum 0.8 innings pitched per game ** Mendoza 
is tied with 27 others with a 0.00 ERA but he pitched the most innings 
with 8.2 A pitcher threw no more than 85 pitches per game in the Qualifying 
Round unless the pitcher needed more to complete a batter's plate appearance. 
A pitcher must: A mercy rule came into effect when one team led by either 
fifteen runs after five innings, or ten runs after seven innings. An alternative 
version of the IBAF's extra inning rule was also used. If after 12 innings 
the score was still tied, each half inning thereafter would have started 
with runners on second and first base. The runners would have been the 
eighth and ninth hitters due in that inning respectively. For example, 
if the number five hitter was due to lead off the inning, the number three 
hitter would have been on second base, and the number four hitter on first 
base. However, this rule was never actually employed in this year's qualifiers, 
as the two extra-inning games in the qualifying round ended prior to a 
