The 2013 Boston Red Sox season was the 113th in the team's history. The 
Red Sox opened 2013 away from Fenway, playing against their arch-rival, 
the New York Yankees[2][3] on Monday, April 1. They closed the regular 
season on Sunday, September 29 away from Fenway against the Baltimore Orioles. 
A road series against the NL West's Colorado Rockies was Boston's second-to-last 
series of the season. Major League Baseball began conducting year-round 
interleague play (instead of having interleague play confined to May and 
June) for the first time in 2013, due to the relocation of the Houston 
Astros from the National League to the American League, resulting in fifteen 
teams in each league.[4] On October 21, 2012, the Boston Red Sox announced 
that John Farrell was hired to manage the team for the 2013 season,[5] 
and was signed to a deal that would take him through the 2015 season as 
manager.[1] Farrell was hired only after a compensation was agreed to between 
the Boston Red Sox and the Toronto Blue Jays, where the Red Sox sent shortstop 
Mike Aviles to the Toronto Blue Jays in exchange for David Carpenter.[6] 
Finishing with a record of 97 wins and 65 losses, 2013 marked the first 
season since 2007 in which the Red Sox won the American League East and 
the first season since 2009 in which they qualified for the postseason. 
Boston recovered well from a disastrous 2012 campaign and won 28 more games 
in 2013 than in 2012. They defeated the Tampa Bay Rays in the Division 
Series and defeated the Detroit Tigers in the ALCS to advance to their 
first World Series since 2007 and their third in nine years. The Red Sox 
beat the St. Louis Cardinals in 6 games to win the 2013 World Series. The 
2013 Red Sox became the second team to win the World Series one year after 
finishing last in their division; the first had been the 1991 Minnesota 
Twins. Updated for games through September 29, 2013 The 2013 Red Sox season 
opened on April 1, 2013, with an afternoon game against the New York Yankees. 
Jon Lester went five innings, leading to an 8–2 win for the Red Sox. This 
was Boston's first Opening Day victory since 2010. Following their Opening 
Day triumph, the Red Sox improved to 2–0 on Wednesday, April 3, in the 
second tilt of the three-game series, in a game that saw offseason acquisition 
Joel Hanrahan rack up his first save as a Red Sox. Boston failed to complete 
the sweep, however, with starting pitcher Ryan Dempster relinquishing a 
4–2 defeat in his Red Sox debut the following evening. In Toronto, the 
Sox split the first two games of a series against the Blue Jays on April 
5 and 6, winning 6–4 in the first frame and falling 5–0 in the second. 
Boston was then victorious in the rubber game, shutting out the Jays 13–0. 
The Red Sox won their fourth straight against the Cleveland Indians on 
April 16. The Red Sox and Indians wore black armbands to honor the victims 
of the Boston Marathon bombing. A giant American flag flew at half-mast 
before the series opener with a moment of silence prior to the first pitch. 
A young Indians fan presented the Red Sox with a sign he wrote in red ink 
and ordained with hearts. The note, which was hung in Boston's dugout, 
read: "From our city to your city: Our hearts and prayers go out to you, 
Boston. Love, Cleveland." For the entire game, a jersey with No. 617 (one 
of Boston's area codes), displaying "Boston" above the numerals and "Strong" 
below them, hung in the Sox' dugout. Additionally, to commemorate Jackie 
Robinson Day, both teams wore No. 42 jerseys. The Red Sox also placed closer 
Joel Hanrahan on the disabled list with a hamstring injury.[16][17] The 
Red Sox swept two consecutive series between April 13–18. One at home against 
the Tampa Bay Rays and another on the road against the Cleveland Indians, 
resulting in a six-game winning streak which improved their record to 11–4, 
and put them in first place in the American League East. The Red Sox had 
a scheduled weekend series against the Kansas City Royals during April 
19–21. The immediate Greater Boston area went on a city-wide lockdown in 
search of a suspect in the Boston Marathon bombing on the morning of April 
19 and the first game of the weekend was postponed.[18][19][20][21] The 
Red Sox reported the decision was made "to support efforts of law enforcement 
officers."[22] A make-up date for the game was not immediately announced. 
However, with the second suspect captured that same evening and Fenway 
Park under tight security, play resumed Saturday, April 20 with a win of 
4–3 by Boston over the Royals (assisted by a go-ahead three run home run 
by Daniel Nava). Both teams honored the victims of the bombing tragedy 
by wearing special uniforms/logos. The Red Sox wore white home jerseys 
with "Boston" on the front instead of the customary "Red Sox" while Kansas 
City players and staff wore a "B Strong" patch on the front of their jerseys, 
with the shirts being auctioned off for funds to support victims of the 
bombing. Following a pregame ceremony, the Red Sox won their sixth straight 
game, their best start in 11 years[citation needed] with the win against 
Kansas City. David Ortiz was bothered by inflammation in both heels during 
spring training and didn't play in any exhibition games, but he was 2 for 
4 in his return, tying the score 1-all with a sixth-inning RBI single off 
James Shields.[23] The Red Sox later announced Friday's (April 19) game 
would be made up as part of a day-night doubleheader on Sunday (April 21). 
The regularly scheduled game took place at 1:35 p.m., and a nightcap at 
7 p.m.[24] On April 21, Kansas City ended Boston's seven-game winning streak 
with a 4–2 win over the Red Sox in the opener of a day-night doubleheader. 
The Royals ended a season-opening streak of 16 games by Red Sox starters 
allowing three runs or less, tying an AL record achieved by the Oakland 
Athletics in 1978 and 1981. Red Sox RF Shane Victorino missed his first 
game of the season after leaving the game on April 20 with back spasms.[25] 
In the second game of the doubleheader, Kansas City narrowly beat Boston 
5–4 in 10 innings to win the weekend series (and sweep the doubleheader), 
as a result of Lorenzo Cain walking with two outs and bases loaded in the 
10th inning. Even with both wins against the Red Sox on April 21, Boston 
remained in first place in the AL East as did Kansas City in the AL Central.[26] 
Dustin Pedroia reached base in all their first 18 games, the most consecutive 
games to start a season by a Red Sox 2B (breaking the record set by Pete 
Runnels in 1959)[citation needed]. Koji Uehara went 18 1/3 scoreless innings 
before allowing Billy Butler's homer in the eighth inning of the night 
game. In his first two at bats on the day game, Jonny Gomes used a bat 
with the words "Boston Strong" on it as well as the names of the four people 
killed in the bombings and its aftermath. He popped out and grounded out, 
then said he planned to auction off the bats for charity.[25] Opening a 
new series against Oakland, the Red Sox came out victorious (9–6) in the 
first game on April 22. They were defeated (13–0) in a rain-shortened 7-inning 
game on April 23.[27] Boston proceeded to win the rubber game of the series 
on April 24 by a score of 6–5. The Red Sox swept a four-game home stand 
on April 25–28 against the Astros, their first series against Houston since 
the Astros moved to the American League West. The sweep improved Boston's 
record to 18–7.[28] The Red Sox closed April by falling, 9–7, on the road 
to the Blue Jays. Boston opened the month of May in the middle of a three-game 
road series against Toronto. Having lost the first game on April 30, the 
Red Sox won the next two games 10–1 and 3–1 on May 1 and 2. Traveling to 
Texas to take on the Rangers, the team was shut out for the third time 
of the season, relinquishing 7 runs and 18 hits to Texas on May 3. The 
Rangers took the next two games, on May 4 and 5, by respective scores of 
5–1 and 4–3. This marked the first time Boston was swept in the 2013 season. 
The Red Sox' May slide continued when they lost three of four games at 
home against Minnesota from May 6–9. They closed out their weeklong homestand 
by losing 2 of 3 to the Blue Jays from May 10–12. On Sunday, May 12, the 
Red Sox' new 2013 starting pitcher, Ryan Dempster, fell to 2–4 in a game 
in which Boston relinquished 12 runs. Traveling to Tampa Bay, the Red Sox 
recovered by taking two of three games from the Rays from May 14–16. Boston 
scored three runs in the top of the 9th inning on May 16. Opening a weekend 
series in Minnesota against the Twins, the Red Sox posted another come-from-behind 
victory on May 17, tying the game in the 7th inning and scoring the winning 
run in the 10th. Boston swept the series with 12–5 and 5–1 triumphs on 
May 18 and 19, improving their winning streak to five games and their record 
to 27–17.[29] Boston then closed out their road trip with a three-game 
series against the Chicago White Sox. The Red Sox lost the first two games 
on May 20 and 21, but avoided the sweep in a 6–2 victory on May 22 that 
brought starting pitcher Clay Buchholz's record to 7–0.[30] The Red Sox 
welcomed 2004–11 manager and two-time World Series champion manager Terry 
Francona back to Fenway Park on May 23 as they hosted Francona's new team, 
the Cleveland Indians. Francona received a standing ovation in the first 
game of the four-game series. Boston fell to Cleveland in a lopsided 12–3 
loss on May 23, but proceeded to triumph in the following three matches 
on May 24, 25 and 26 to win the four-game series. On Memorial Day, May 
27, the Red Sox opened a four-game home-and-home series against Philadelphia, 
the team's first interleague series of 2013. The Phillies are considered 
Boston's interleague "rival", playing the Red Sox every season. The first 
two games of the series were held at Fenway Park, with the Red Sox winning 
on May 27 but then losing, 3–1, on May 28, in a game in which former Boston 
closer Jonathan Papelbon was awarded a save. Papelbon repeated the feat 
again on May 29 as the series shifted to Philadelphia. These were Papelbon's 
second and third saves against the Red Sox since leaving the team; he recorded 
the other on May 18, 2012. Boston evened the four-game series with a 9–2 
victory on Thursday, May 30. Center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury set a Red Sox 
record with five stolen bases in the game.[31] The Red Sox closed out the 
month of May with a road loss against the archrival Yankees. Boston's series 
in the Bronx continued on June 1 and 2, and the Red Sox racked up two victories 
to take the three-game series. The Sox pounded the Yankees, 11–1, on June 
1, and prevailed, 3–0, in a rain-shortened six-inning game on June 2 that 
was eventually called due to thunderstorms. Clay Buchholz's record remained 
spotless at 8–0. Coming home to Fenway Park, the Red Sox took 2 of 3 games 
from the Texas Rangers from June 4–6, including a 17–5 romp. On June 8, 
Boston faced the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in a day-night doubleheader, 
losing the first game but winning the second as Buchholz's aforementioned 
perfect record improved to 9–0. To close out the series, the Red Sox gave 
Angels starting pitcher Joe Blanton his tenth loss of the season in a 10–5 
victory on June 9. The condensed two-day series and day-night doubleheader 
were necessitated by effects from Tropical Storm Andrea which rained out 
the scheduled Friday, June 7 game. Heading back out on the road, the Red 
Sox played a 14-inning game on national television as ESPN's Monday Night 
Baseball covered the 10–8 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays at Tropicana 
Field. This was the second longest game by time in Rays history. The Red 
Sox gave up a 6–0 lead after a first inning in which the first eight Boston 
batters all reached base, and then Andrew Bailey had a blown save in the 
10th inning, giving up two Tampa Bay runs. Eventually, well after midnight, 
the Red Sox scored two runs in the top of the 14th which were unanswerable 
by the Rays in the bottom half of the inning. The Red Sox then split the 
two remaining games of the series to win 2 of its 3 games. Boston lost 
3 of 4 games in a road series against Baltimore from June 13–16. After 
losing 3 out of 4 in a tough series to the Detroit Tigers, the Red Sox 
would go to win 5 of their next 6 in June and extending that streak for 
9 out of 10 into July, which included a walk off home run against the San 
Diego Padres by Jonny Gomes. After sweeping the San Diego Padres the Red 
Sox headed west for a 10-game road trip and extended the winning streak 
to 5 games with a win against the Los Angeles Angels. On the following 
day Boston dropped a 4 run lead with 2 outs in the bottom of the 9th against 
the Halos, with Koji Uehara's second blown save out of six save opportunities 
since taking over the closer role from Andrew Bailey on June 21,[32] and 
ultimately lost the game 9-7 in the 11th inning. Boston then lost the following 
2 games against Los Angeles (splitting the season series 3–3 in the process) 
and the Seattle Mariners before starting a 4-game winning streak, taking 
3 out of 4 games against the M's and the first game of the series against 
the A's. The 4 game series in Seattle saw the first Major League win for 
Pitcher Steven Wright and the first appearance of Brandon Workman in the 
big leagues. Workman had his first start only 4 days later against the 
Oakland Athletics, taking a no-hit bid to the 7th inning. In Oakland the 
Red Sox bats went cold, scoring only 6 runs in 3 games, and losing the 
remaining 2 games which led to a season series split of 3–3. Boston headed 
with a 58–39 record to the All-Star break, leading the AL with 1 game ahead 
of the Athletics (56–39) and with most wins in the majors, just ahead of 
the St. Louis Cardinals with 57–36, who entered the break with the best 
record. Following the All-Star break the Red Sox played the Yankees for 
the first time at Fenway in 2013. Like the previous two series in the Bronx, 
Boston could take 2 out of 3 games against New York. Mike Napoli secured 
the series win in the rubber match with a walk-off home run in the bottom 
of the 11th. With 1.5 games behind Boston, Tampa Bay visited the Fens for 
their third and final time. The Rays took game one and shrunk the lead 
to just .5 games, the smallest margin since Boston took over the lead in 
the AL East on May 27. In game 2 the Red Sox put themselves back to a 1.5 
game lead, including Shane Victorino's steal of home in a delayed double 
steal with Dustin Pedroia, who agreed to a seven-year contract extension 
through the 2021 season a day later.[33] Tampa Bay threatened the AL East 
lead again by taking game 3 but game 4 was rain delayed and later postponed 
to the scheduled off day on July 29, after Boston's 3 game road trip to 
Camden Yards and Rays' trip to the Bronx. In game one against Baltimore, 
the only team in the AL East Boston had a losing record against at that 
time, the Red Sox were shut out for the fourth time in July (with four 
shutouts in all of April, May and June combined) and lost the AL East top 
spot for the first time since May 27. Boston battled back and took game 
2 with Stephen Drew going yard twice for the second time in his career 
in a single game. Game 2 also saw the ejection of David Ortiz in the top 
of the 7th, following an argument over balls and strikes with homeplate 
umpire Tim Timmons and the destruction of a dugout phone with his bat.[34] 
In the rubber match, Big Papi homered for the 20th time that season, his 
12th consecutive season with 20+ home runs and his 11th with Boston, joining 
Dwight Evans and Jim Rice but still behind Ted Williams, who accomplished 
this feat in 16 seasons with the Red Sox. Jon Lester earned his 10th individual 
win, the first Red Sox pitcher to reach that mark in 2013, and Boston were 
able to shut out the Orioles and reclaimed the AL East lead just to give 
it back the other day to the Rays in the makeup match of the 4 game series 
in which the Red Sox fell victim to a controversial call at home plate. 
Umpire Jerry Meals incorrectly ruled Daniel Nava out which would have tied 
the game in the 8th inning.[35] The Red Sox wrapped up the month of July 
at home with back-to-back wins against the Mariners, including a 15 inning 
game (the longest season game to date for the Red Sox). Both games saw 
the first major league wins for Brandon Workman, in his third start, and 
Drake Britton respectively. On July 30, Boston acquired starting pitcher 
Jake Peavy from the White Sox in a three-way deal, sending infielder José 
Iglesias to the Tigers and Avisail García from Detroit to Chicago. August 
started just like July ended, with a walk-off win against the Mariners. 
In the series finale, the Red Sox were trailing by five in the ninth, but 
scored six runs for their 11th walk-off win in 2013. This was the biggest 
ninth inning come from behind victory since the 2007 Mother's Day Miracle 
against the Orioles and the biggest eighth inning comeback, trailing by 
6, since July 3, 1940 against the Athletics, at that time still located 
in their origin city Philadelphia.[36] Despite winning the first two series 
against the Diamondbacks and the Astros the Red Sox played .500 ball for 
the first 3 1/2 weeks of August. The interleague series against Arizona 
saw the first start for newly acquired starting pitcher Jake Peavy, who 
tied the series with a strong performance after the D-Backs took game one, 
with the winning run driven in by former Red Sox player Cody Ross. In a 
combined effort of Doubront and the bullpen, Boston shut-out the team from 
the NL West. With no off-day the Red Sox headed west to play the Astros 
for the first time in Minute Maid Park as a team of the American League. 
In a slugging fest, with 25 runs and 26 hits of both teams combined, Boston 
took game two after completely failing to score in game one and took the 
series in game three with a come from behind victory in the ninth. Slowly 
crawling their way back east the Red Sox stopped for a four-game series 
in Kansas City dropping 3 games before heading to Toronto, dropping two 
out of three against the AL East rival but still maintaining a 2-game lead 
over the Rays. On their second visit to Boston, the Yankees clinched their 
first series of the season against the fierce rival by taking two games 
out of three. Red Sox lost their season tying three series in a row. The 
tides turned when Boston headed to the west coast for a three-game series 
against the 2012 World Series champion San Francisco and the, to that time, 
red hot Dodgers. Lester with the help of Workman shut-out the Giants in 
game one before the Red Sox dropped game two and giving the AL East lead 
to the Rays but earning the lead back holding San Francisco to a single 
run in game three. In game one in Los Angeles Boston could not score but 
were able to take game two and three, inflicting the Dodgers first series 
loss since June 16. Back home in Boston the Red Sox took two out of three 
against Baltimore and the two remaining games in August against the White 
Sox for their 28th series win that season and a 4 1/2 game lead over the 
Rays in the AL East. Boston swept the White Sox and extended the AL East 
lead to 5 1/2 games but ended a streak of 11 games allowing only three 
runs or less. Another streak however continued in game one of the home 
series against the Tigers. John Lackey received absolutely no run support 
for the fifth time of his last 11 starts and four or less runs in the ninth 
game over the same stretch. Allowing only one run and handing Max Scherzer 
just his second loss of the season, the Red Sox took game two and exploded 
in game three, scoring 20 runs, a season high amongst all Major League 
teams, on 19 hits including 8 long balls. On their last trip to the Bronx, 
Boston headed into the seventh with a five run lead but the combination 
of Peavy, Thornton and Tazawa could not stop the Yankees from scoring 6 
runs. Down on their last strike, Boston scored against New York's closer 
Mariano Rivera in the ninth and took game one in extra frames. Down by 
five, Boston scored nine runs in two innings, including a grand slam by 
Mike Napoli and took game two. In search for run support the offense gave 
Lackey 13 runs in game three, the most in any start for him this season, 
to extend the winning streak to five and extending the lead in the AL East 
to a season high 8 1/2 games but failed to sweep the four game set when 
Workman gave up a walk-off wild pitch in the bottom of the ninth after 
Rivera suffered his second blown save in the series while trying for a 
two inning save. Buchholz returned to the rotation three months after his 
last start on June 8 and protected his undefeated season record in game 
one of a three-game series in St. Peterburg by allowing, with the help 
of the relievers, no runs. In game two Mike Carp hit a game deciding pinch-hit 
grand slam in the tenth but Boston failed to sweep the Rays in the series 
finale. Back at Fenway Park for the last regular season home stand, Jarrod 
Saltalamacchia became the third Red Sox player within a week to hit a grand 
slam, breaking a tie in the seventh against the Yankees, and Koji Uehara 
set a new franchise record by retiring his 37th consecutive batter. Jon 
Lester and Clay Buchholz then secured the series sweep by back-to-back 
strong outings. Lester allowed only one run on three hits, while Buchholz 
allowed only one unearned run on two hits. Struggling again against the 
Orioles, Boston dropped the first two games before John Lackey posted a 
two hit gem and the Red Sox clinched a spot in the postseason. With a Tampa 
Bay loss, the Red Sox cut the magic number for winning the division down 
to 1. A day later the Red Sox clinched their first AL East title since 
2007 by beating the Toronto Blue Jays 6–3. In game two Buchholz suffered 
his first loss of the season, albeit allowing only three runs, two of them 
earned. Boston secured the series with a 5–2 win on their last regular 
season home game. On their last interleague trip, the Red Sox split the 
two game series against the Colorado Rockies, losing game one but winning 
game two scoring 15 runs. Will Middlebrooks posted two home runs, including 
the fifth grand slam in the month of September for Boston, and David Ortiz 
collected his 100th RBI on the season. On September 27, the Red Sox secured 
home field advantage for the American League Division Series by beating 
the Orioles 12–3. Ortiz hit his 30th home run of the season, making it 
his seventh season with 30 HR/100 RBI, tying Ted Williams for the club 
record. A day later, the Red Sox secured home field advantage throughout 
the playoffs thanks to a 7-5 loss by the Oakland A's to the Seattle Mariners, 
making the last two games virtually pointless. Boston lost both games, 
giving up a 5–0 lead in the fifth in game three. The Red Sox headed into 
the postseason with the best record in the majors, tied with the St. Louis 
Cardinals. 3:07 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The 
Red Sox had a shaky opening in Game 1, with Jon Lester surrendering solo 
home runs to Sean Rodriguez and Ben Zobrist. However, the Red Sox' offense 
ignited in the bottom of the fourth inning, with several doubles combining 
with poor Tampa Bay fielding to stitch together a five-run frame. Boston 
then tacked on three more in the bottom of the 5th and four more in the 
bottom of the 8th. Jon Lester pitched 7 2/3 innings, having surrendered 
only 3 hits and 2 earned runs. Junichi Tazawa and Ryan Dempster provided 
effective relief pitching in the eighth and ninth to seal the Game 1 victory 
for the Red Sox. 5:37 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts 
David Ortiz had his first multi-home run postseason game to lead the Red 
Sox to victory, smashing solo blasts in the 1st and 8th innings. Tampa 
Bay starter David Price had a rough outing, being charged with all seven 
of Boston's runs. The Rays attempted to catch up with the Red Sox with 
significant offense in the 2nd, 5th, and 6th innings, but their efforts 
were fruitless. In the 7th and 8th innings, the Rays threatened with two 
runners on base, but in each frame no runners could score for Tampa Bay 
due to inning-ending 4–6–3 double plays to conserve the Sox' two-run lead, 
which stretched to a three-run gap with Ortiz's home run. In the top of 
the ninth, closer Koji Uehara struck out the first two batters he was facing 
and the game ended with an unassisted ground out by Mike Napoli to secure 
the 2–0 series lead. Throughout the game, fans at Fenway Park heckled Wil 
Myers, a Tampa Bay right fielder who made a critical error that had helped 
open up scoring for the Red Sox in Game 1.[37] 6:07 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana 
Field in St. Petersburg, Florida The Red Sox jumped on the scoreboard early 
in Game 1, with a one-run top of the 1st inning, but Rays starter Alex 
Cobb kept the Rays in the game. In the top of the 5th inning, Boston added 
two more runs, giving them a three-run cushion, but their lead was shattered 
in the bottom half of the frame with one swing, a three-run home run by 
Evan Longoria. Neither team scored again until the bottom 8th, when Delmon 
Young drove in a go-ahead RBI. The Red Sox battled back in the top of the 
9th inning, tying the game with runners on second and third base, and closer 
Koji Uehara's efforts retired two batters easily in the bottom of the 9th, 
until Tampa Bay catcher José Lobatón suddenly crushed a walk-off solo home 
run. 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg, Florida Starter 
Jake Peavy pitched 5 2/3 solid innings for Boston, but the Rays got on 
the board first in the bottom of the sixth with a deep outfield RBI double 
by David DeJesus. This, however, would prove to be Tampa Bay's lone run. 
Boston threatened early with two walks and a single, which could not score 
David Ortiz from second, in the top of the second. With the bases loaded 
the Rays pulled their struggling starter Jeremy Hellickson, responsible 
for all three runners, and Jamey Wright successfully pitched out of the 
jam with a strike out and a double play. Tampa Bay sent a postseason record 
nine pitchers to the mount in the course of the game, emptying their bullpen, 
and scheduled game five starter David Price was warming in the pen. In 
the bottom of the seventh, with two on and two outs, Jacoby Ellsbury stole 
second base, his fourth steal of the series, and advanced to third on a 
wild pitch, which scored Xander Bogaerts from third. Shane Victorino legged 
out the two out infield hit to score the runner from third and gave the 
Red Sox the lead. In the top of the ninth, a melting Rays closer Fernando 
Rodney walked two of the first three batters he faced and drilled Victorino 
on a two strike pitch. This was the fourth time Victorino was hit by a 
pitch in this series. With the bases loaded Dustin Pedroia delivered a 
sacrifice fly which scored Bogaerts to add some insurance for Boston. Closer 
Koji Uehara came into the game with two outs in the bottom of the eighth 
and successfully racked up the four-out save. Uehara struck out Evan Longoria, 
who had hit a game-tying home run in Game 3, to send the Rays home and 
to secure a spot in the 2013 American League Championship Series 8:00 p.m. 
(EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Boston's bats were ice cold 
in Game 1, nearly ceding a combined no-hitter to the Tigers. The Red Sox 
saved themselves from the embarrassment of being no-hit with a Daniel Nava 
single in the bottom of the ninth inning, but Boston failed to rally further 
to make up the one-run gap. Detroit had scored the game's lone run by virtue 
of a Jhonny Peralta RBI in the sixth inning. While Red Sox starter Jon 
Lester allowed only one run, he did give up nine hits and struck out six 
batters, whereas Detroit's Aníbal Sánchez struck out twelve. Sánchez walked 
six batters, but those who were fortunate enough to get on base could never 
stitch together any runs. Ultimately, Boston's disgruntled offense would 
strike out 17 times, an ALCS record. 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park in 
Boston, Massachusetts Tiger pitching again came out strong, with starter 
Max Scherzer holding the Red Sox hitless through five innings. At the end 
of the fifth inning, the Red Sox had not recorded a base hit but had held 
Detroit to only one run, making the game look very similar circumstantially 
to Game 1. However, Red Sox starter Clay Buchholz gave up home runs to 
Miguel Cabrera and Alex Avila in the top of the 6th, widening the Tigers' 
lead to five runs. The Red Sox scrounged out one run in the bottom of the 
6th, a Dustin Pedroia RBI double which seemed insignificant at the time 
but would prove crucial later. Neither team scored in the seventh inning. 
In the bottom of the eighth inning, the Red Sox were able to load the bases, 
and David Ortiz crushed a two-out grand slam to tie the score at 5–5 off 
the first pitch from new Detroit pitcher Joaquín Benoit. The home run provided 
one of the 2013 season's most enduring images, when Tigers outfielder (and 
Ortiz's close friend) Torii Hunter dove over the wall into the Red Sox' 
bullpen in an attempt to catch the ball, resulting in his legs being completely 
vertical while Boston Police officer Steve Horgan lifted his arms in celebration.[38] 
Following the home run, Mike Napoli struck out to stop the bleeding for 
the Tigers. Boston closer Koji Uehara held Detroit hitless in the top of 
the ninth inning. Jonny Gomes started off the Red Sox offense in the bottom 
of the ninth with a single. Gomes was then able to advance to second base 
on a flubbed fielding play. Gomes then took third base on a Rick Porcello 
wild pitch, and easily scored the winning run on a walk-off hit from Jarrod 
Saltalamacchia, capping the stunning comeback. Earlier in the day, the 
New England Patriots had a stunning comeback of their own, with quarterback 
Tom Brady throwing a touchdown with 5 seconds left to beat the New Orleans 
Saints at home by a score of 30–27. The dual-victory was renowned as one 
of the most sensational days in Boston sports history, and will be remembered 
for some time. 4:00 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan Mike 
Napoli's one-out, seventh-inning solo home run was one of only four hits 
surrendered by Detroit starter Justin Verlander, and yet it was enough 
to lift the Red Sox to victory. The Tigers outhit the Red Sox, and Detroit 
had several prime scoring opportunities, especially in the first and eighth 
innings, but all were stanched by effective pitching from starter John 
Lackey, relievers Craig Breslow and Junichi Tazawa, and closer Koji Uehara. 
Although there was still daylight present, Game 3 temporarily ceased in 
the middle of the second inning due to a light failure at Comerica Park 
which commenced at 4:42 p.m. EDT and lasted for seventeen minutes.[39] 
8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan Boston starter Jake 
Peavy melted early, surrendering a five-run second inning to the Tigers. 
Detroit added two more in the fourth inning before being relieved by Brandon 
Workman, and that was all the Tigers would need to coast to a 7–3 victory. 
Boston scratched out runs in the sixth, seventh, and ninth innings, but 
could never ignite an offensive rally as they did in Game 2. With the loss, 
the series was guaranteed to return to Boston for Game 6 at Fenway Park 
on Saturday, October 19. 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan 
Mike Napoli hit a 445 ft blast of a solo home-run off of Detroit's Aníbal 
Sánchez (who had surrendered no hits to the Red Sox in Game 1), igniting 
a 3-run second inning that saw David Ross and Jacoby Ellsbury also drive 
in runs. Boston added an important insurance run in the third, which turned 
out to be the difference in game five, with Mike Napoli scoring on a wild 
pitch by Sánchez. The Red Sox allowed Detroit to stay in the game, however, 
surrendering a run each in the fifth, sixth, and seventh innings. In the 
seventh, the Tigers scored on a double play, bringing them within a run. 
Craig Breslow pitched to only one batter in the bottom of the eighth inning, 
and then closer Koji Uehara again worked his magic to secure the win for 
Boston, striking out two batters and earning a five-out save. 8:00 p.m. 
(EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Red Sox scored first 
but with the bases loaded and nobody out the Tigers took the lead on a 
two run single off the Green Monster. Reliever Brandon Workman stopped 
the bleeding and in the bottom of the seventh inning, Shane Victorino's 
one-out grand slam home run off of Detroit reliever José Veras launched 
the Red Sox into a 5–2 lead, which they maintained to finish off the Tigers 
in six games and head to the World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals, 
who had punched their ticket to the Fall Classic a day earlier by defeating 
the Dodgers. Victorino's grand slam was the second in the ALCS by the Red 
Sox, which was the first time that a team hit more than one grand slam 
in the same series in the post-season since the Atlanta Braves in the 1998 
NLDS. 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Jon Lester 
pitched a gem, going 7 2/3 shutout innings as the Red Sox started early 
with a bases clearing 3-run double by Mike Napoli in the first. They extended 
their to lead to 5–0 in the second, during which Carlos Beltrán robbed 
David Ortiz of a second postseason grand slam, injuring himself on the 
play. Ortiz later put an exclamation mark on the game with a 2-run shot 
to right in the 7th, for his 4th HR of the postseason. Matt Holliday prevented 
a shutout by hitting a solo shot into the Green Monster in the top of the 
9th off Ryan Dempster. Dating back to 2004, the Red Sox have scored a run 
in the first inning for five straight games against the Cardinals in postseason 
play and have won nine straight world series games. 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at 
Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Red Sox suffered their first World 
Series loss since 1986 in that year's Game 7. Down 1–0 in the sixth inning, 
further long-ball theatrics were showcased by David Ortiz, who hit a two-run 
home run with Dustin Pedroia on base to give Boston a 2–1 lead. However, 
it all went to naught for the Red Sox in the seventh inning when two fielding 
errors on the same play gave St. Louis the lead. With the bases loaded 
with one out and Craig Breslow pitching in relief, Matt Carpenter hit a 
fly ball to left field, but the runner on third beat the throw home, tying 
the game. Catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia then flubbed the ball, which was 
retrieved by the pitcher Breslow. Breslow then made an errant throw to 
third base, allowing Jon Jay to score as well, giving St. Louis a 3–2 advantage. 
Carlos Beltrán then singled to bring in a fourth Cardinals run. The Red 
Sox' subsequent comeback attempts failed, and Cardinals closer Trevor Rosenthal 
struck out the side in the bottom of the ninth to end the game. 7:30 p.m. 
(EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri St. Louis took early advantage 
of starter Jake Peavy, who gave up two runs on four hits in the first inning. 
After that Peavy settled in and pitched himself out of a bases loaded, 
nobody out situation in the fourth. Boston tied the game after a leadoff 
triple by rookie Xander Bogaerts who scored on a fielders choice at second 
by Mike Carp in the fifth and Daniel Nava drove in Shane Victorino, who 
reached base on a leadoff walk in the sixth and was advanced to third by 
a David Ortiz base hit. Félix Doubront pitched two scoreless innings and 
Craig Breslow took over in the seventh but was quickly replaced by Junichi 
Tazawa after giving up a hit and drilled Carlos Beltrán. Both inherited 
runners scored on a double by Matt Holliday. The Red Sox came back again 
in the eighth after a leadoff single by Jacoby Ellsbury and Shane Victorino 
was hit by reliever Carlos Martínez. Dustin Pedroia advanced the runners 
on a ground out, Ortiz was intentionally walked to load the bases and Cardinals 
closer Trevor Rosenthal took over for a 5 out save which he ended up blowing 
after Nava reached on a force out at second, scoring Ellsbury and a single 
by Bogaerts, scoring Victorino. In the bottom of the ninth with one out, 
Koji Uehara took the mound and gave up a double on his first pitch to Allen 
Craig which advanced Yadier Molina, who singled earlier in the inning, 
to third. On a ground ball to Pedroia, who was playing the infield grass, 
Molina was tagged out at home by Jarrod Saltalamacchia, who fired to third 
to try to get Craig. Will Middlebrooks was not able to field the ball cleanly 
and it got away from him. Craig stumbled over the fallen Middlebrooks and 
Daniel Nava, who backed up the play, quickly fired to home but third base 
umpire Jim Joyce called obstruction and gave Craig home plate, scoring 
the first obstruction walk-off win in a World Series ever. Middlebrooks 
raised his calves in the process but the call would have probably made 
with him lying flat on the ground. 8:00 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in 
St. Louis, Missouri Like in the last two games, St. Louis scored first. 
Matt Carpenter singled in the third and advanced on a fielding error by 
Jacoby Ellsbury. Carlos Beltrán drove in the run on a base hit, unearned 
for starter Clay Buchholz. David Ortiz lead off the fifth on a double, 
followed by back-to-back walks by Jonny Gomes on 10 pitches and Xander 
Bogaerts. Stephen Drew scored Ortiz on a sacrifice fly. With two outs in 
the sixth, Dustin Pedroia singled and Ortiz drew a four pitch walk before 
Gomes hit a three-run shot into the Red Sox bullpen, his first hit of this 
World Series. Félix Doubront, who relieved Buchholz after four innings, 
pitched 2 2/3 innings before giving up his only hit, a double by Shane 
Robinson. Craig Breslow gave up a hit against Carpenter, scoring the sixth 
of seven inherited runners in this series by Boston relievers, and a walk 
to Beltrán. He was immediately relieved by Junichi Tazawa who stranded 
both runners. In the eighth, after his third hit on three at bats that 
night, Ortiz was pinched run for by Quintin Berry who stole the first Red 
Sox base on the very first attempt in the series against the Cardinals. 
John Lackey took the mound in the bottom of the eighth. With one out Yadier 
Molina reached base and advanced to second on a throwing error by Bogaerts 
and even took third on a wild pitch but St. Louis could not bring him home. 
In the bottom of the ninth Red Sox closer Koji Uehara took over, giving 
up a one out long single to Allen Craig. Uehara ended the game by picking 
off pinch runner Kolten Wong, earning his first save of the series and 
the sixth in this postseason. This was the first time a World Series game 
ended on a pickoff. Red Sox pitching struck out five batters, all looking. 
7:30 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri Game 5 saw a battle 
of the aces with Adam Wainwright on the short end as Lester pitched another 
gem of 7 2/3 innings. Boston struck first on back-to-back one out doubles 
by Dustin Pedroia and David Ortiz, who continued his monstrous tear, hitting 
.733 in the series. Wainwright ended up striking out the side in the first 
two innings before Jon Lester broke the streak with a groundout. St. Louis 
had back-to-back leadoff singles in the second and third by Carlos Beltrán 
and David Freese, latter advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt by Pete 
Kozma but was left in scoring position. In the fourth Ortiz tied a World 
Series record by Billy Hatcher on a hit, reaching base in nine consecutive 
plate appearances, but failed to set a new record by flying out to center 
field in the sixth. With one out in the bottom of the fourth, Matt Holliday 
hit a solo shot to center field to tie the game. Boston threatened in the 
fifth after a leadoff hit by Xander Bogaerts and a one out single by David 
Ross but Wainwright struck out Lester and Ellsbury to strand both runners. 
After a leadoff single by Bogaerts, Stephen Drew walked and Ross drove 
in one run on a ground rule double to left field. With two runners in scoring 
position Ellsbury's single scored Drew but Ross was tagged out at home 
plate on the throw by Shane Robinson. In the bottom of the eighth Lester 
allowed a one out double against Freese and Koji Uehara took over the mound 
for a four out save after Kozma hit a fly ball to left field for the second 
out of the inning. Uehara struck out pinch hitter Matt Adams on three pitches 
for the third out. The Red Sox closer struck out Matt Carpenter, grounded 
out pinch hinter John Jay and Holliday flew out to right field to earn 
the save in back-to-back games. This was the first game of this series 
neither team committed an error. 7:30 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, 
Massachusetts St. Louis threatened first with back-to-back hits in the 
second by Allen Craig, who hit a wallball leadoff single, and Yadier Molina 
with another single to left field. John Lackey induced two flyouts against 
Matt Adams and David Freese, before the runners advanced on a wild pitch, 
but Lackey ended the threat by striking out Jon Jay. In the same inning 
the first two batters for the Red Sox reached base, a single by Jonny Gomes 
and a walk by Shane Victorino, but after back-to-back popouts into foul 
territory by Xander Bogaerts and Stephen Drew, David Ross struck out. Jacoby 
Ellsbury lead off the third inning with a single and Pedroia advanced him 
to second on a groundout. With first base open, Michael Wacha intentionally 
walked David Ortiz, Ortiz's second walk of the game, and struck out Mike 
Napoli but then drilled Gomes and with the bases loaded Victorino hit a 
double off the Green Monster, his first hit in this series, scoring all 
three runners. Victorino just missed his second grand slam of this postseason 
but Wacha's streak ended, who to this point had not allowed a hit with 
runners in scoring position this October. Bogaerts lined out to third base 
to end the inning. In the top of the fourth, the just awarded AL Golden 
Glove winner on second base, Dustin Pedroia, committed a fielding error 
on a possible double play ball with one out and Craig on first. Lackey 
pitched out of the jam on a flyout by Adams and striking out Freese. On 
the first pitch in the bottom of the fourth, Drew homered into the Red 
Sox bullpen and Ellsbury followed him with a double. After a flyout by 
Pedroia which advanced Ellsbury to third, Ortiz was again intentionally 
walked. Cardinals manager Mike Matheny tried to stop the bleeding and replaced 
his rookie starter with game 4 losing pitcher Lance Lynn, who quickly warmed 
up after Drew went yard earlier in this inning. Lynn could not make an 
out as Napoli drove in Ellsbury on a single, Gomes drew a walk to load 
the bases and Victorino collected his fourth RBI on a base hit which scored 
Ortiz from third. Seth Maness relieved Lynn and ended the inning by striking 
out Bogaerts. Michael Wacha left the game with six earned runs in 3 2/3 
innings of work. Prior to this game he posted a 1.00 ERA in the postseason. 
The Cardinals threatened again in the fifth after a leadoff hit by John 
Jay, a one out single by Carpenter and a flyout to right field by Carlos 
Beltrán, which advanced Jay to third. But Lackey induced another flyout 
against Matt Holliday. St. Louis brought in their fourth arm of the night 
in the bottom of the fifth, Kevin Siegrist. After two quick outs, Ellsbury 
reached on a fielding error by Matt Carpenter and was then in a rundown, 
after he took off too early on a steal attempt. Siegrist misplayed his 
position on first base, standing too far away, and Ellsbury safely returned 
to the bag. Lackey got two quick outs in the top of the seventh, before 
Daniel Descalso hit a long single into right field and Carpenter followed 
him with a double to left field, advancing the runner to third. Beltrán 
drove in the Cardinal's first run on a left field single into the shift 
and advanced on a wild pitch. Lackey walked Holliday to load the bases 
before he was relieved by Junichi Tazawa. He induced a ground ball against 
Allen Craig to first base, Mike Napoli bobbled the ball but could recover 
in time and Tazawa, covering first base, got the out. With Ellsbury on 
first, Pedroia grounded into a fielder's choice in the bottom of the eighth, 
which ended his streak of reaching base safely in 20 consecutive postseason 
games at home. In a non-save situation, the Red Sox brought in their closer 
Koji Uehara, in relief of Brandon Workman, who worked a quiet eighth inning. 
John Jay flew out to Gomes, Descalso popped out to Gomes and Carpenter 
struck out and the Red Sox clinched their eighth World Series. John Lackey 
became the first pitcher in MLB history to win two World Series clinching 
games with two different teams. Lackey won the series clincher with the 
Los Angeles Angels in 2002 as a rookie. David Ortiz was named 2013 World 
Series MVP for the first time in his career with 2 HRs, 6 RBIs, .688 batting 
average and 1.948 OPS. He is the first non-Yankee to win three rings with 
one team since Jim Palmer did it for the 1966-70-83 Baltimore Orioles. 
He is also only the 2nd exclusive designated hitter to be awarded the World 
Series MVP (2009-Hideki Matsui). The Red Sox are also the first team to 
win three Championships after 2000, having previously been the first to 
win two Championships after 2000, when they won in 2007. This was the first 
World Series victory clinched at Fenway Park by the Boston Red Sox in 95 
years, having won their 2004 and 2007 titles on the road, and the first 
time a World Series was won at Fenway since 1975 (when the Cincinnati Reds 
defeated the Red Sox). Infielders Coaches Throughout the regular season, 
numerous Red Sox players sported considerable facial hair, which drew media 
attention and later drove team marketing. The trend began during spring 
training, when outfielder Jonny Gomes arrived considerably unshaven. This 
caught the eye of first baseman Mike Napoli and catcher David Ross, who 
decided to also stop shaving. With time, other players joined, including 
second baseman Dustin Pedroia; designated hitter David Ortiz; outfielders 
Mike Carp and Shane Victorino; pitchers Brandon Workman, Ryan Dempster, 
John Lackey, and Clay Buchholz; and catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia. Other 
players joined from time to time. The trend grabbed the attention of the 
audience, who started wearing real and fake beards to the stadium in support 
of the team. Team marketing started campaigns to take advantage of the 
beards' popularity. They even gave nicknames to each player's beards such 
as "The Ironsides" (Gomes), "The Siesta" (Napoli), or "The Saltine" (Saltalamacchia).[40] 
Steve Rushin wrote an article and interview for Sports Illustrated, "The 
Hirsute of Happiness", exploring how the beard trend had helped unite the 
team.[41] The team has also developed the custom of tugging each other's 
beards to celebrate a hit or home run.[42] After the team won the World 
Series, some of the players decided to shave their beards. Victorino and 
Ortiz shaved theirs during a charity event sponsored by Gillette. At the 
event, the Boston company donated $100,000 to One Fund Boston, a charity 
dedicated to the victims of the April 2013 Boston Marathon bombings.[43][44] 
*This attendance figure marked the official end of the Red Sox' sellout 
streak extending back to May 15, 2003.[46] ^Day–night doubleheader *Day–night 
doubleheaders Reference:[21] *The winner of the 2013 American League Wild 
Card Game plays the Red Sox. The Wild Card game was contested on October 
2 between the Cleveland Indians and the Tampa Bay Rays at Progressive Field. 
The Rays were victorious by a score of 4–0. **The winner of the 2013 American 
League Division Series plays the Red Sox in the ALCS. The ALDS was contested 
from October 4 to 10 between the Oakland Athletics and the Detroit Tigers. 
The Tigers won the series 3–2. ***The winner of the 2013 National League 
Championship Series plays the Red Sox in the WS. The NLCS was contested 
from October 11 to 18 between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Los Angeles 
Dodgers. The Cardinals won the series 4–2. LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Salem[48] 
