The 2013 Chicago White Sox season was the club's 114th season in Chicago 
and 113th in the American League. White Sox promoted Kenny Williams to 
Executive Vice President; Rick Hahn became the team's new General Manager. 
Ranked before 2013 season * According to Baseball America Top 100 Prospects[2] 
* According to 2013 Prospect Watch[3] * Top 10 White Sox prospects via 
Baseball America[4] Updated for games through September 29, 2013 The Sox 
won the opening series against the Royals, including a 1-0 victory on Opening 
Day and then won the series against the Mariners to complete their first 
homestand of the season. In the finale of that series, the Sox achieved 
their first walk-off win of the season in extras. Last season, the Sox 
did not achieve their first walk-off win until June 7. Since 2008, the 
Sox went 19-4 at home against Seattle. The Sox went to Washington, D.C. 
where they took on one of the World Series contending teams, the Nationals. 
The Sox were unsurprisingly been swept and fall to 4-5 all time against 
the Nationals. Until 2013, April was the only baseball month when Sox never 
faced NL teams along with all other AL teams. The Sox swept the Nationals 
in their last visit to D.C. in 2010. The Sox went to Cleveland where they 
lost two of three to that upgraded team. The Sox went to Toronto where 
they faced the top favorite in the AL East, the Blue Jays. The Sox would 
split the four-game series, winning in second and third games. That was 
the seventh consecutive seasons that they played four-game series in Toronto, 
and the Sox are 9-19 in that span. The Sox went to the homestand for the 
second time this season. Friday's game against the Twins was postponed 
due to cold and the three-game series was reduced to two-game series. The 
Sox were swept in that short series. In the next home series against another 
division rival, the Indians. The scheduled three-game series was against 
reduced to two-game series as one of the games was postponed due to rain. 
This series has a different result as they split the series. The Sox would 
go on to play the series against the Rays for as many games as against 
the division rivals in this homestand. The Sox resulted in the split, winning 
in first two games before losing final two. They went back on the road 
to play the Rangers, Royals, and Mets, though only the first game was played 
in April. The Sox lost the first game of the series in Texas before winning 
the final two. The Rangers suffered only their first series loss of the 
2013 season. The team went straight to Kansas City, but the opening game 
was postponed due to rain. Next day, the Sox were shut out against Jeremy 
Guthrie, 2–0. Guthrie set the franchise record at 17 consecutive starts 
without a loss. Before the game, it was announced that Gavin Floyd would 
undergo Tommy John surgery and miss 14–19 months. In the following game, 
the Sox led after eight innings but went on to lose in extras. In the series 
finale, which was a make-up game from three days earlier, Alexei Ramírez 
hit a long ball that was ruled foul but video showed it was actually a 
home-run that would have given the Sox the lead. The Sox trailed at that 
point until they tied it in the ninth of that same batter. In the eleventh 
inning, Jordan Danks hit the solo shot for a 2-1 Sox lead and went on to 
win by that score. Danks' first two career homers were game-winning. The 
Sox went on to play the Mets for the first time since 2002. In the first 
of two-game set against them, the Sox went almost offenseless as only one 
batter reached base via an infield single by Alex Ríos in the seventh. 
Mets ace Matt Harvey shut down the Sox lineup for nine innings, striking 
out a career-high twelve batters. The Sox played extra innings for a third 
consecutive game, tied 0-0. In the bottom of the tenth, Mike Baxter hit 
a walk-off single for the Sox's third walk-off loss of the year in their 
first ever visit to the Queens. In the second game of the set, the Sox's 
offense broke through with six runs on 13 hits as the Sox defeated the 
Mets 6–3 for the series split. The Sox then came home for a three-game 
series with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. After losing the first two 
games of the series, on May 12, the Sox avoided a sweep with the help of 
Chris Sale. Sale pitched a one-hit complete game shutout. He had a pefect 
game with one out in the seventh inning when Mike Trout singled up the 
middle. Trout was the lone base runner in the game as Sale had 7 strikeouts 
and walked none. This occurred just five days after team's offense was 
held to one hit and one base runner. The Sox then went on a seven-game 
road trip, three against the Twins and four against the Angels. The Sox 
lost the opener of the series and then won final two to win the series. 
The Sox won first two against the Angels and then lost the final two for 
a split. The Sox went on to their 8-game homestand, five against last place 
teams in respective divisions. But first, they played three against the 
Red Sox, who were near the top of the AL East. In the series, White Sox 
beat Red Sox twice, including one when José Quintana took his no-hitter 
into the seventh inning until David Ortiz ended it with a single. After 
the series win, the Sox played three against the Marlins, who at the time 
had the worst record in baseball. The Sox swept that series against the 
Marlins, including two on walk-offs and one in extra innings. The Sox then 
played consecutive home-and-home series against the crosstown rival Cubs, 
starting with two in the South Side and finishing with two at Wrigley Field. 
The Sox lost the first game at the "Cell", 7–0, and the second game was 
postponed due to rain. Then the Sox lost both games at Wrigley Field, getting 
outscored 17-6. In the final game of the month, the Sox got shut out in 
Oakland 3-0 by former Sox pitcher Bartolo Colón. Despite a four-game losing 
streak to close out the month, the Sox finished the month with a winning 
record of 14–13. The Sox started June getting swept by Athletics and losing 
two of three against the Mariners in the West. In the third game of that 
series on June 5, neither team scored runs until the 14th inning when Sox 
scored five runs in the top half, but the Mariners tied it in the bottom 
half with a grand slam by Kyle Seager. The Sox went on to win 7-5 in 16 
innings. It was the first time in MLB history that each team scored five 
or more runs while neither team scored during the regulation (first nine 
innings). The Sox then played the A's again, this time at home where the 
Sox split the four-game series after winning the final two games of the 
series. The Sox split a short, two-game series against the Blue Jays that 
was cut short due to finale being rained out. The Sox went on a lengthy, 
10-game road trip. First stop was Houston, first visit there since winning 
the 2005 World Series. However, the Sox did not fare well as they lost 
the first three games of the series, but managed to win the series finale. 
Next stop was Minnesota, where they were swept in the three-game series. 
The final stop was south to Kansas City, where they took the first two 
games from the Royals. In the third game, the Sox lost 7-6 with three of 
those runs given up were unearned in the 8th inning. Jesse Crain gave up 
runs (all unearned) for the first time since April 12, snapping the franchise 
record 29 straight scoreless appearances. In the next series, the Sox split 
a two-game series against the Mets at home. In the first game, Addison 
Reed blew his save in the ninth when Daniel Murphy hit a popup, Gordon 
Beckham ran towards the territory where Reed and Conor Gillaspie were calling 
for but Beckham got in the way and no one caught the ball. The game was 
then tied at four as David Wright scored. However, in the bottom of the 
ninth inning Alexei Ramírez hit a walk-off single, scoring Jeff Keppinger 
for a 5-4 Sox win. In the next game, the Sox were shutout 3-0, they were 
tied for the AL lead in shutouts as a result. Shawn Marcum picked up his 
first win of the season after starting the season 0-9. Marcum is now 4-0 
with a 1.99 ERA in six career starts against the Pale Hose. The Sox played 
their consecutive doubleheader on June 28 against the Indians. In Game 
1, the Sox lost 19-10, it was the first time the Sox lost a game despite 
scoring 10 or more runs since July 13, 2008 when they lost 12-11 to the 
Randers. Game 1 lasted nearly four hours, their longest 9-inning game this 
season. In Game 2, the Sox led 8-5 going to the ninth inning but Reed blew 
his second straight save by allowing four runs including game-winning solo 
home run by former Sox Nick Swisher and went on to lose 9-8. The Sox closed 
out the month by losing the final two games of the series by the final 
scores of 4-3 and 4-0. The Sox had the worst record in baseball for the 
month of June with a record of 8-19. The Sox kicked off July by winning 
the series at home against the Orioles which began on July 2, including 
a walk-off win on Fourth of July by a home run by Adam Dunn, his ninth 
career. Ironically, the Sox had a walk-off win on Fourth of July in three 
straight years, last year was a single by Kevin Youkilis against the Rangers 
and the year before was a balk with Dunn at the plate against the Royals. 
After that series win, they headed to St. Pete where they get swept by 
Rays scoring only 4 runs during the three game sweep. The Sox then played 
the makeup game with the Cubs that got rained out on May 28. The Sox lost 
the game 8-2 to complete the Cubs 4-game sweep of the Sox. The Sox were 
outscored 32-8 during the Cubs Crosstown Classic sweep. In the first game 
of a three games series in Detroit, the Sox scored a season high eleven 
runs during an 11-4 victory over the Tigers. The Sox also had a season 
high 23 hits and Alex Ríos went 6 for 6 with a triple and five singles 
during the game. The six hits by Rios tied a franchise and American League 
record for most hits during a 9-inning game. The last White Sox player 
to have six hits in a 9-inning game was Lance Johnson on September 23, 
1995 against the Twins. The Sox lost game two of the series vs. the Tigers 
but won the overall series due to a grand slam by rookie catcher Josh Phegley 
in the third and final game of the series. Phegley became the first Sox 
player with three home runs in his first five games since Magglio Ordóñez 
in 1997. The Sox then opened up a three-game series with the Philadelphia 
Phillies in Philadelphia. Just before the series began, Matt Thornton and 
cash was traded to the Boston Red Sox for minor leaguer Brandon Jacobs. 
After the first games was postponed due the rain the Sox split a doubleheader 
with the Phillies with both games going into extra innings and each team 
winning by one run. The Sox lost the final games of the series once again 
in extra innings and lost by one run. The Sox were off from July 15–18 
because of the All-Star break. Chris Sale and Jesse Crain were both All-Stars 
for the White Sox. Crain did not play in the All-Star game because of an 
injury and Sale was the winning pitcher in the game pitching two scoreless 
innings. After the All-Star break, the Sox started a 10-game homestand 
starting with a three-game series against the Atlanta Braves, their final 
series against the National League this season. The Sox lost the first 
game, 6-4 but won the final two games of the series, 10-6 and 3-1 respectively. 
The Sox played the Tigers for four games losing the first three but salvaging 
the series with a win in the fourth game over Justin Verlander. The Royals 
then came to Chicago where the Royals swept the Sox, first Royals sweep 
in Chicago since April 9–11, 1999. The Sox only scored three run during 
the three games series losing 5-1 in game 1, 1-0 in game 2 and 4-2 in twelve 
innings in game 3. The Sox traveled to Cleveland for a four-game series. 
Before the series against Cleveland, the Sox traded Jesse Crain to the 
Tampa Bay Rays for players to be named later and/or cash considerations. 
In game one, the Sox lost 3-2 due to a pinch-hit walk-off homer by 42-year-old 
veteran Jason Giambi. Giambi became the oldest player to hit a walk-off 
homer. Hank Aaron previously held the record set in 1976. The Sox went 
on to lose the second game of the series, 7-4. After that game, the Sox 
traded Jake Peavy to the Boston Red Sox in part of a three-way trade with 
the Tigers. The Sox acquired Avisail García from the Tigers and J.B. Wendelken, 
Francelis Montas and Cleuluis Rondon from the Red Sox. The Sox lost third 
of a four-game set against the Indians, 6-5 in 10 innings on July 31. It 
was their sixth straight loss and the White Sox closed out the month of 
July with a record of 8-18, the worst in baseball for the second straight 
month. The Sox began the month with one more game against the Indians, 
who completed their four-game sweep of the Sox. The Sox would then get 
swept by Tigers to finish the road trip with a record of 0-7, their first 
win less road trip of at least seven games in franchise history. They have 
also lost 10 in a row, their longest since June 11–20, 1976. As a result, 
the team carried their worst record (40-69) after 109 games since 1970. 
The Sox then welcomed into town the New York Yankees for a three-game series. 
Before the first game of the series, it was announced that Yankees third 
baseman Alex Rodriguez was given a 211-game suspension for his part in 
the Biogenesis baseball scandal. Rodriguez appealed the suspension and 
therefore was activated from the disabled list before the game with the 
Sox. Rodriguez singled on his first plate appearance of the season and 
finished the game batting 1 for 4. The Sox beat the Yankees in game 1, 
8-1 breaking their 10-game skid. The Sox won game 2 of the series, 3-2 
and it was their first 2-game winning streak since July 20–21 when the 
Sox won two in a row against the Braves. The Sox finished off the series 
with a 6-5 victory in 12 innings and three-game series sweep of the Yankees. 
This was the final game at U.S. Cellular Field for Yankees closer Mariano 
Rivera. Rivera came into the game in the bottom of the 9th inning to try 
and close the game but the Sox scored sending the game into extras giving 
Rivera only his third blown save of the season and the first time since 
2006 that Rivera had blown a save against the White Sox. The three-game 
sweep of the Yankees was the first since the Sox swept the Miami Marlins 
on May 24–26. The Sox then opened up a four games series with the Twins 
starting with a doubleheader. Before the doubleheader, Alex Ríos was claimed 
off waivers by the Rangers for Leury García. The Sox lost both games of 
the doubleheader by scores of 5-7 and 2-3 in 10 innings. They won the third 
game but lost the fourth game of the series. The Sox then took two of three 
at home against the division leading Tigers. The Sox traveled to Target 
Field for a four-game series with the Twins. After losing the first game 
of the series, the Sox won the next three. It was the first time the Sox 
won three straight road games since May 15–17 when the Sox defeated the 
Twins once and then two straight against the Angels. The closed out the 
road trip with three in Kansas City. The Sox won the first two games of 
the series by scores of 2-0 and 5-2. After the 5-2 win, the Sox had their 
longest win streak of the season, 5 games. The Sox finished of with a sweep 
of the Royals with a 4-3 victory in 12 innings and their 6th straight win. 
In that game, pitcher Jake Petricka made his MLB debut and also got his 
first major league victory and Conor Gillaspie hit the game-winning home 
run in the top of 12th. During the six game win streak, closer Addison 
Reed saved all six games. The last time a pitcher got a save in six straight 
games was in 2003 when Éric Gagné of the Los Angeles Dodgers accomplished 
the feat. The Sox returned home for a three-game series with the Rangers. 
After losing the first game 11-5, the Sox and Rangers played in the Civil 
Rights Game in game two which the Sox won 3-2 on a walk-off base hit by 
rookie catcher Josh Phegley. The Sox then won the rubber match with a 5-2 
victory. During the Sox 5-2 victory over the Rangers, pitcher John Danks 
earned the victory and his younger brother, Jordan Danks, hit the go-ahead 
home run in the game. According to Elias Sports Bureau, it was the first 
time since June 5, 1955, that a player homered in support of his brother 
on the mound, when Kansas City Athletics catcher Billy Shantz homered for 
his brother Bobby Shantz. The Sox then took two of three against the Houston 
Astros at home. The Sox finished the month on a 10-game road trip on he 
east coast starting with three in Boston. The Sox lost their final two 
games of the month to the Red Sox. The first game they lost by a score 
of 3-4 to former Cubs pitcher Ryan Dempster and lost the second game to 
Jake Peavy, who the Sox traded to Boston a month earlier, by a score of 
2-7. Despite losing the final two games of the month, the Sox still finished 
with a winning record during the month with a record of 16-13. It was only 
their second winning record during a month and their first since May when 
they went 14-13. The Sox started the month of September with the last game 
of a three-game series with the Red Sox. The Sox lost the game 7-6 and 
got swept by the Red Sox. The Sox then traveled to the Bronx for a three-game 
series where they were swept by the Yankees. The Sox finished off their 
10-game road trip with four in Baltimore. The Sox lost the first three 
games of the series but won the last game to stop a 9-game losing streak 
and finished the road trip with a putrid record of 1-9. The Sox returned 
home to face the division leading Tigers. The Sox won the first game of 
the series with Chris Sale outdueling Max Scherzer and prevented Scherzer 
from reaching his 20th victory of the season. The Sox would go on to lose 
the final two games of the series. The Sox would then get swept in a four-game 
series at home against the Indians for the second time this season and 
third overall. The Sox becomes the first MLB team to get swept in four-game 
series by a same team three times in one season. The Sox closed out their 
home stand taking two of three from Minnesota. The Sox traveled to Detroit 
for a three-game series and lost two of three. In the second game of the 
series in Detroit, the Sox had a 6-0 lead going to the bottom of the ninth 
inning before giving up six runs that tied the game. They went on to lose 
in 12 innings. It was the first time in franchise history that Sox had 
a lead by six or more runs in the ninth inning or later and lost. They 
then returned home for one game, a makeup game with the Blue Jays. The 
Sox won that game 3-2, backed by the first major league home run by Marcus 
Semien. The Sox closed out their road schedule with a quick two game series 
in Cleveland. The Sox lost both games to finish with the franchise worst 
26-55 road record, and finished with a record of 2-17 vs. the Indians this 
season; they extended their losing streak to 14 straight against the Indians, 
franchise record against one team. The Sox closed out the 2013 season with 
a four-game series at home against the Royals. The Sox lost three of four 
and finished with the third worst record during the 2013 season, with a 
record of 63-99. It was only the fifth time in White Sox history that they 
finished with 98 or more losses. Infielders Outfielders Coaches Note: G 
= Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 
3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; 
SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: G = Games 
played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; 
HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; 
AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs 
