The 2013 World Series was the 109th edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series.[1] The American League (AL) champions Boston Red Sox 
defeated the National League (NL) champions St. Louis Cardinals in the 
best-of-seven playoff 4 games to 2. The Red Sox had home field advantage 
for the series, based on the American League's win in the Major League 
Baseball All-Star Game at Citi Field in Queens, New York, on July 16.[2] 
The Series started on Wednesday, October 23, ending on Game 6 the following 
Wednesday, October 30, 2013. The Red Sox won the first game at Fenway Park 
on October 23, followed by the Cardinals winning the second game on October 
24 to tie the series 1–1. The series then moved to Busch Stadium, where 
the Cardinals won the third game on October 26 to gain a 2–1 lead. The 
Red Sox won the fourth game on October 27 to tie the series at 2–2, then 
won the last of three games at Busch Stadium on October 28 for a 3–2 lead. 
The series then moved back to Fenway Park, where the Red Sox decisively 
won the final game on October 30, becoming the World Series champions for 
2013. This was the fourth meeting of the Cardinals and the Red Sox in the 
World Series (previously meeting in 1946, 1967, and 2004).[3][4] Winning 
in six games, the Red Sox clinched their first World Series championship 
at their home field of Fenway Park since 1918,[5][6][7] and the last such 
Series to date won by the home team. David Ortiz was awarded the World 
Series Most Valuable Player Award.[8][9] He became the first non New York 
Yankees to win 3 World Series titles with one team since Jim Palmer (Baltimore 
Orioles 1966, 1970, & 1983) The Cardinals finished the 2013 regular season 
at 97–65, earning the best record in the National League. They set a new 
Major League Baseball record for hitting efficiency with runners in scoring 
position, hitting .330 (447–for–1,355), the best in baseball since the 
Boston Red Sox hit .312 in 1950,[10] also beating the 2007 Detroit Tigers, 
and 1996 Colorado Rockies with a .311 average.[11] Despite losing first 
baseman Albert Pujols to the Angels and manager Tony La Russa to retirement, 
the Cardinals under new manager Mike Matheny still came within one game 
of a return trip to the World Series, but lost the final three games to 
the eventual World Series champion San Francisco Giants in the 2012 National 
League Championship Series. However, with the help of Matheny and general 
manager John Mozeliak, the Cardinals were able to stay in contention even 
with a roster consisting mostly of rookies, free-agent veteran additions, 
and a few holdovers from the 2011 World Series championship team.[citation 
needed] The Cardinals' offense was led by catcher Yadier Molina, second 
baseman Matt Carpenter, and first baseman Allen Craig, all of whom finished 
in the top 10 in batting average. They were joined by outfielders Carlos 
Beltrán and Matt Holliday, third baseman David Freese, and first baseman 
Matt Adams. The Cardinals' pitching staff were led by Adam Wainwright, 
who returned to form after posting an NL-leading 19 wins. Wainwright was 
joined by youngsters Lance Lynn, Joe Kelly, Shelby Miller, and late-season 
call-up Michael Wacha. Wainwright's return to form, along with the emergence 
of the young starters, helped fill the void left by star pitcher Chris 
Carpenter, who missed the entire season due to various injuries. The bullpen 
were also powered by youngsters, led by closer Trevor Rosenthal, set-up 
man Carlos Martínez, and middle relievers Seth Maness and Kevin Siegrist.[citation 
needed] St. Louis opened the playoffs by defeating the Pittsburgh Pirates 
in five games in the Division Series. Then, in their third consecutive 
National League Championship Series appearance, St. Louis defeated the 
Los Angeles Dodgers four games to two for their 19th National League pennant.[12] 
After finishing last in the AL East with a 69–93 record in 2012, the Red 
Sox fired Bobby Valentine and hired John Farrell as their new manager.[13] 
Under Farrell, the team finished the 2013 regular season at 97–65, the 
best record in the American League.[14] In the aftermath of the infamous 
September collapse in 2011 and the ill-fated Valentine experiment of 2012, 
general manager Ben Cherington brought in Farrell, a former pitching coach 
under Terry Francona, and several role players in hopes of turning the 
Red Sox around. The Boston Marathon bombings on April 15 helped inspire 
a season-long rally for the Red Sox in support of the victims and the city 
of Boston. In games after the marathon, the Red Sox hung a jersey on the 
dugout saying Boston Strong and 617, representing the city's area code. 
The team also wore "B Strong" patches in their uniforms. In addition, some 
of the Red Sox players grew beards during the season as a sign of unity. 
The inspired play of the Red Sox took them from last place the previous 
season to American League East champions with a 28-game turnaround, helped 
by Farrell's calming presence and familiarity with some of the players.[15] 
Boston's offense was powered by designated hitter David Ortiz, who hit 
.309 during the season. They also relied on the baserunning exploits of 
center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury, whose 52 stolen bases led the major leagues, 
while right fielder Shane Victorino, second baseman Dustin Pedroia, first 
baseman Mike Napoli, catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia, and outfielder Jonny 
Gomes helped the Red Sox to a league-leading 853 runs scored. The pitching 
staff was led by Jon Lester, who rebounded from a miserable 2012 campaign 
to post a 15–8 record and 3.75 ERA. Lester was joined by Clay Buchholz, 
John Lackey and midseason acquisition Jake Peavy. The bullpen were led 
by closer Koji Uehara, who unexpectedly took over following injuries to 
Joel Hanrahan and Andrew Bailey to post 21 saves and a 1.09 ERA. He was 
joined by compatriot and set-up man Junichi Tazawa, and middle relievers 
Brandon Workman and Craig Breslow. While Stephen Drew and David Ross were 
limited offensively, their defense proved to be an asset to the team's 
success, especially during the postseason.[citation needed] Boston opened 
the playoffs by defeating the Tampa Bay Rays in four games in the Division 
Series. Then in the American League Championship Series, the Red Sox defeated 
the Detroit Tigers four games to two to win their 13th American League 
pennant. Boston won the series, 4–2. After Boston starter Jon Lester pitched 
a scoreless top half of the first inning, St. Louis ace Adam Wainwright 
found trouble in the bottom of the inning. He walked leadoff batter Jacoby 
Ellsbury and after an out, Dustin Pedroia singled. Wainwright then got 
David Ortiz to ground to second base, but Matt Carpenter's flip was mishandled 
by shortstop Pete Kozma, ending the possibility of a double play. Initially, 
the Cardinals had been awarded a force-out at second base, but after conferring, 
the umpires ruled that Kozma never had control of the ball, and Pedroia 
was reinstated at second base. With the bases loaded and one out, Mike 
Napoli doubled to left-center, scoring Ellsbury, Pedroia and Ortiz, the 
latter after Shane Robinson misplayed a carom off the wall. In the bottom 
of the second inning, Stephen Drew led off with a pop-up in front of the 
pitcher's mound. Wainwright and catcher Yadier Molina both converged, but 
both let the ball drop for a leadoff single. David Ross then singled to 
center field, followed by a flyout by Ellsbury. Shane Victorino then hit 
a ground ball to deep short, but Kozma again mishandled it, his second 
error of the game, and once again the bases were loaded with one out. Pedroia 
then singled under the glove of a diving David Freese to make the score 
4–0. Ortiz then hit a deep fly to right field, but was robbed of a grand 
slam by Carlos Beltrán. Ross did tag and score to give Boston a 5–0 lead. 
Beltrán would leave the game, with Robinson moving to right field, and 
Jon Jay taking over in center. Meanwhile, Lester was brilliant for the 
Red Sox, pitching 7 2/3 scoreless innings. The Red Sox added to their lead 
in the bottom of the seventh with Ortiz hitting a two-run home run off 
Kevin Siegrist to give them a 7–0 lead. After the Red Sox plated another 
run in the eighth inning, the Cardinals finally got on the board with Matt 
Holliday leading off the ninth with a home run off Ryan Dempster. Dempster 
recovered and closed out the 8–1 victory by striking out Matt Adams.[22][23][24] 
Lester was accused of using a foreign substance on his glove, but he claimed 
that it was just rosin, which is legal, and the Cardinals organization 
elected to not file a complaint.[25] Game 2 pitted the NLCS MVP Michael 
Wacha against the Red Sox' John Lackey. After three scoreless innings, 
Matt Holliday led off the fourth inning for the Cardinals with a triple 
to center field. After Matt Adams lined out, catcher Yadier Molina grounded 
out softly to Dustin Pedroia to score Holliday and give the Cardinals a 
1–0 lead. The Red Sox threatened in the bottom half as the first two batters 
reached with Pedroia leading off with a double and David Ortiz drawing 
a walk. Mike Napoli then grounded into a double play to partially kill 
the threat and Wacha got Jonny Gomes to pop out to Matt Carpenter to end 
the inning. In the bottom of the sixth inning, the Red Sox finally got 
on the scoreboard, as Pedroia walked with one out and Ortiz hit a two-run 
home run to left center field on a 3–2 changeup to give the Red Sox a 2–1 
lead. In the seventh inning, the Red Sox' defense let them down. With one 
out and the bases loaded (David Freese walked, Jon Jay singled and Daniel 
Descalso walked), Carpenter hit a fly ball to Gomes in left field for the 
second out. With Pete Kozma, who pinch-ran for Freese, scoring on the throw, 
the ball got away from catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia. Jay and Descalso 
attempted to advance on the misplay and pitcher Craig Breslow, who was 
backing up on the play, tried to get Jay at third but his throw was wild 
and went into the stands. Jay scored and Descalsco went to third as the 
Cardinals now led 3–2. Carlos Beltran then singled to right to score Descalso 
and give the Cardinals a 4–2 lead. Things got a little interesting in the 
bottom of the eighth inning. With Carlos Martinez on the mound for the 
Cardinals, the Red Sox had Jacoby Ellsbury reach on an error and after 
two strikeouts, Ortiz reached on a single. With two outs, Martinez jammed 
Napoli and he popped out to short to end the inning. In the bottom of the 
ninth with the 4–2 lead, Cardinals closer Trevor Rosenthal entered the 
game and made quick work of the Red Sox by striking out Gomes, Saltalamacchia 
and pinch-hitter Daniel Nava on 17 pitches. The Cardinals evened up the 
series at one game each as the series shifted to St. Louis for the next 
three games. With the win, St. Louis snapped Boston's nine-game winning 
streak in the World Series. The Cardinals got off to a good start in the 
bottom of the first inning, putting two on the board from RBI singles by 
Matt Holliday and Yadier Molina off of Boston starter Jake Peavy. It wasn't 
until the top of the fifth inning before the Red Sox got on the board themselves, 
when pinch hitter Mike Carp grounded into a fielder's choice off Cardinals 
starter Joe Kelly. In the next inning, Boston tied the game at 2–2 on a 
Daniel Nava single. But in the bottom of the seventh, Matt Holliday hit 
a line drive off of reliever Junichi Tazawa that just got past a diving 
Xander Bogaerts that drove in two, and Holliday advanced to third on the 
throw. Even though this happened with no outs, Holliday was stranded at 
third. Boston quickly responded in the top of the eighth by loading the 
bases off Carlos Martínez. Trevor Rosenthal came in to pitch, and the first 
batter he faced, Daniel Nava, grounded in to a fielder's choice, after 
a great diving stop by rookie second baseman Kolten Wong. The next batter, 
Xander Bogaerts, bounced a ball up the middle for an RBI single of his 
own, knotting the game at 4–4.[26] In the bottom of the ninth inning, Brandon 
Workman stayed in, having pitched in the eighth inning and batted in the 
top of the ninth. He gave up a one out single to Molina. Boston closer 
Koji Uehara was brought in to face pinch hitter Allen Craig, who doubled 
on the first pitch. With one out, Jon Jay hit a grounder to second baseman 
Dustin Pedroia. He made a diving stab and threw home to catcher Jarrod 
Saltalamacchia, who tagged out the sliding Molina. But then Saltalamacchia 
threw to third trying to get Craig, who was running on the play. Saltalamacchia's 
throw was wide, and it pulled Middlebrooks toward the second-base side 
of the bag. Middlebrooks tried to keep the ball on the infield, but it 
skipped into foul territory. Craig slid into third, popped up and started 
for home. He made contact with Middlebrooks, who was lying face-first on 
the dirt, with his feet in the air. Craig fell, got back up and ran home. 
The third base umpire, Jim Joyce, called obstruction on the play; home 
plate umpire Dana DeMuth determined that Craig would have scored without 
the obstruction, giving the Cardinals the win and a 2–1 lead in the World 
Series.[27] The largest paid crowd in the history of Busch Stadium (47,432) 
saw the game. It was the first time in a World Series game that a winning 
play was on an obstruction call.[28] The largest paid crowd in the history 
of Busch Stadium (47,469) saw the game, surpassing the previous night's 
record attendance. After Boston starter Clay Buchholz, pitching through 
a shoulder injury, was removed for a pinch-hitter after four innings, five 
Red Sox relievers combined to hold St. Louis to one run on three hits the 
rest of the way. In the sixth inning, the bases were empty with two outs 
before Dustin Pedroia singled and David Ortiz walked. Then, outfielder 
Jonny Gomes came to bat and the Cardinals brought in Seth Maness to face 
him. Gomes worked the count to 2–2 before he broke the tie with a three-run 
homer that would become the difference in the game. The game ended when 
Boston closer Koji Uehara picked off pinch runner Kolten Wong with Carlos 
Beltran at the plate, making it the first postseason game in baseball history 
to end on a pickoff.[29] Felix Doubront pitched 2⅔ innings out of the bullpen 
to earn his first career postseason win. John Lackey, who pitched a scoreless 
eighth, made his first relief appearance since 2004 and first in the postseason 
since 2002.[30] In a rematch of the staff who faced off in Game 1, Jon 
Lester again outdueled Adam Wainwright to give the Red Sox a 3–2 series 
lead.[31] Boston scored first for the first time since Game 1 when Dustin 
Pedroia and David Ortiz hit back-to-back doubles with one out in the first.[32] 
Matt Holliday tied the score with a home run to center in the fourth inning, 
but it would be the only run Lester would allow over strong 7⅔ innings 
of work. Wainwright matched Lester until the seventh inning, when a ground-rule 
RBI double by David Ross and RBI single by Jacoby Ellsbury scored Xander 
Bogaerts and Stephen Drew to give Boston a 3–1 lead.[33] Koji Uehara relieved 
Lester with two outs in the eighth and retired all four Cardinals he faced 
to earn his second save of the series.[34][35][36] Uehara tied John Wetteland, 
Robb Nen, Troy Percival, and Brad Lidge for most saves in one postseason 
year, with 7 (since then, Greg Holland matched this record the next year). 
In addition, Lester joined Babe Ruth as the only Red Sox lefthanders to 
win three World Series games.[37] Boston won game 6 in a rout by scoring 
six runs on the Cardinals rookie Michael Wacha, who had previously been 
unbeaten in the playoffs.[38] World Series Most Valuable Player David Ortiz 
was walked by the Cardinals four times, and scored twice. Boston's Shane 
Victorino opened the scoring with a three-run double in the third inning[39] 
and had four runs batted in.[40] Red Sox pitcher John Lackey pitched six 
scoreless innings. The Cardinals only seriously threatened in the seventh 
inning when they scored on Carlos Beltran's single and had the bases loaded 
with two outs, but Boston reliever Junichi Tazawa got the final out.[38] 
Koji Uehara came in again to pitch a perfect ninth, striking out Matt Carpenter 
swinging to end the game, series, baseball season, and clinch their 8th 
overall title. With this win, Boston won the championship at Fenway Park 
for the first time since 1918.[41][42][43][44] This is also the last World 
Series to date in which the home team has won the deciding game of a Series, 
thus the trophy presentation was done on the field. The average list price 
on the resale market for a ticket to game 6 was $1,860, according to TiqIQ, 
a ticket tracking company.[45][46] The win was the third championship in 
the last ten seasons for the Red Sox.[47][48] 2013 World Series (4–2): 
Boston Red Sox (A.L.) beat St. Louis Cardinals (N.L.) Fox televised the 
series in the United States and Canada, with Joe Buck calling play-by-play 
and Tim McCarver handling color commentary. This was McCarver's 24th and 
final World Series broadcast (including four with ABC and four with CBS 
prior to his joining Fox in 1996), as he had announced that he would retire 
from the network's lead crew following the season.[50][51] Working with 
Buck and McCarver were field reporters Ken Rosenthal and Erin Andrews.[52] 
Pregame coverage was handled by host Matt Vasgersian, joined by regular 
analyst Harold Reynolds. They were joined by special guest analysts A. 
J. Pierzynski of the Texas Rangers (his third consecutive World Series 
as a guest analyst), and Jimmy Rollins of the Philadelphia Phillies.[citation 
needed] A partnership with Fox Sports featured Pearl Jam as the November 
artist of month for all entities within the Fox Sports domain and licensed 
48 songs from their catalogue to play during the 2013 World Series. The 
group's music was included in anything from "opening teases and commercial 
bumpers to montages, as well as additional promotional inventory across 
Fox prime-time and cable."[53] Major League Baseball International syndicated 
the television coverage outside Canada and the U.S., with English-language 
commentary provided by Baltimore Orioles play-by-play announcer Gary Thorne 
and ESPN analyst Rick Sutcliffe.[citation needed] According to Nielsen 
Media Research, the six-game series on Fox averaged an 8.9 rating and 15 
share. The 8.9 rating was, by a large margin, the lowest for a six-game 
World Series (The 2009 World Series that pulled an 11.7 was the prior lowest) 
and the fourth lowest overall, behind the 2010, 2008 and 2012 series (The 
latter holding the record low at 7.6). Game 3, which pulled a 7.4 rating, 
is the fourth lowest rated MLB World Series game, ahead of just Game 3 
of the 2011 World Series (6.6), Game 3 of the 2012 World Series (6.1), 
and Game 3 of the 2008 World Series (6.1).[54] Some analysts expressed 
alarm at the low ratings, considering the prestigious franchises involved 
(a combined 20 World Championships and 32 pennants). Boston, moreover, 
had a storybook narrative because of the recent Boston Marathon bombing, 
which, some felt, should have attracted casual audiences.[55] ESPN Radio 
broadcast the series in the U.S., with commentators Dan Shulman and Orel 
Hershiser. Locally, the two teams' flagship radio stations broadcast the 
series with their respective announcing crews. Mike Shannon and John Rooney 
called the games for the Cardinals on KMOX in St. Louis, while Joe Castiglione, 
Dave O'Brien, and Lou Merloni announced for the Red Sox on WEEI in Boston.[citation 
needed] Following the team’s World Series win, Boston Red Sox fans congregated 
at the site of the Boston Marathon bombing to celebrate the title.[56] 
The white lights of Boston's Prudential Tower displayed "GO SOX." Red Sox 
owner John Henry said after the game that the parade would take place on 
Saturday, November 2.[57] [58][59][60] On November 2, the Red Sox parade 
began at Fenway Park and headed down Boylston Street. The 25 duck boats 
carrying the players and executives paused at the marathon finish where 
three spectators died during the April bombings. [61][62][63][64] Boston 
failed to maintain the momentum of their World Series championship in the 
following year, falling back to last place in the American League East 
with a 71–91 record. This marked the third time in four years that a defending 
World Series champion failed to make the postseason. The Cardinals extended 
their postseason streak to a fourth consecutive season, winning the National 
League Central title for a second straight year with a 90–72 mark. They 
also made the NLCS for the fourth time in as many seasons, but like in 
2012, they lost to the eventual World Series champions San Francisco Giants, 
