The 2013 Major League Baseball season started on March 31 with a Sunday 
night game between the Texas Rangers and the Houston Astros.[1] Opening 
Day for most clubs was a day later on April 1. The regular season ended 
on September 30, extended one day for a one-game playoff between the Tampa 
Bay Rays and the Texas Rangers to decide the second American League Wild 
Card winner. The 2013 season was the first with the Houston Astros as a 
member of the American League (AL) in the West Division. This marks the 
first growth in the number of American League teams since the 1977 Major 
League Baseball expansion added the Seattle Mariners and Toronto Blue Jays. 
When the then-named Tampa Bay Devil Rays were added to the AL in 1998, 
the Milwaukee Brewers were reassigned to the National League (NL) the same 
year, keeping the AL at 14 teams. Owing to the Astros' league switch, both 
leagues have fifteen teams, necessitating inter-league games to be played 
throughout the entire season for the first time in MLB history. The Major 
League Baseball All-Star Game's 84th edition was held on July 16 at Citi 
Field in Queens, New York City, home of the New York Mets with the American 
League winning the All-Star Game with a 3–0 shutout of the National League. 
With the win, the American League champion (Boston Red Sox) earned home 
field advantage for the 2013 World Series. Several minor rule changes took 
effect during the 2013 season. These changes were approved by MLB owners; 
unless otherwise noted, they will also need the approval of the players' 
union.[2] At the end of the 2012 season, the following teams made replacements 
to their managers. The Houston Astros' move to the American League West 
created two 15-team leagues each separated into three five-team divisions. 
With an odd number of teams in each league, interleague games were played 
nearly every day during the season (with the only exception being when 
not every team had a game). For this season, each team played 20 interleague 
games (up from 15-18 games in 2012) in eight series. Each team played one 
three-game series against four teams from one division in the other league, 
and two two-game series (one home, one away) against the remaining team 
in that division (for 2013 the match-ups are AL East vs. NL West, AL Central 
vs. NL East, and AL West vs. NL Central, meaning the changes of the Astros 
and the small increase in interleague play will not affect the yearly rotation, 
also the Astros played all of their former NL Central rivals in 2013). 
The remaining four games were played against a team's "natural rival" in 
two back-to-back two-game series from May 27–30. Teams played in one city 
May 27 and 28, then traveled to the other city for games on May 29 and 
30. It was the first season that every team has an interleague rivalry, 
according to the table below, with new rivalries for the season shown in 
italics. The remaining 142 games will be played within the league. Each 
team will play its four division rivals 19 games (up from 15-18 in 2012) 
for a total of 76 games. Each team will play either 6 or 7 games against 
the ten teams in the two other divisions in its league, for a total of 
66 games. In 2012, these season series ranged anywhere from five to ten 
games, creating large disparities between teams' strengths of schedule. 
Aside from the natural rivalries, teams from the same division will play 
the same opponents for roughly the same number of games. The only variation 
occurs in interleague match-ups (either 3 or 4 games) and same-league interdivision 
match-ups (either 6 or 7 games). All 30 teams are wearing new batting practice 
caps. The new caps provided by the New Era Cap Company are of the 59Fifty 
style instead of the 39Fifty used in seasons past.[124] In addition to 
batting practice and spring training games, Major League Baseball has also 
allowed the use of the new caps during regular season play.[125] The Houston 
Astros unveiled a new/old identity at a fan event November 2, 2012 at Minute 
Maid Park, as the team reverted to the orange and navy colors used from 
their inception in 1962 through 1993. There are four uniforms and three 
hats. Houston will wear white uniforms with orange piping at home, and 
gray ones with blue piping on the road. There's an orange alternate jersey 
with blue piping that can be worn at home or on the road, as well as a 
blue jersey to be worn for Sunday games.[126] On November 14, the New York 
Mets introduced two new blue alternate jerseys. The home alternate features 
the "Mets" script, player numerals and names in orange outlined in white, 
while the road alternate features the "NEW YORK" script, player numerals 
and names in gray outlined in orange.[127] The team also introduced a new 
alternate cap with a blue crown and an orange brim, with an orange "NY" 
logo outlined in white.[128] On November 19, the St. Louis Cardinals introduced 
an alternate uniform to be worn for Saturday home games. The uniform is 
off-white and the jersey features the "St. Louis" script on the front. 
This is the first time in 80 years the city name appears in the team's 
uniforms.[129] On December 14, the Pittsburgh Pirates introduced an alternate 
uniform to be worn for Sunday home games. It is the same uniform that the 
team wore from mid-1970 through 1976 and was worn doring their championship 
season of 1971. The hat that goes with this uniform is mustard gold with 
a black bill.[130] On January 24, 2013, the Chicago White Sox announced 
they will be wearing 1983 throwback uniforms on Sunday home games to celebrate 
the 30th anniversary of their 1983 division title.[131] The uniforms replaced 
the 1972 red pinstriped throwbacks from last season. On January 24, the 
Milwaukee Brewers promoted their special edition 'gold-out' uniforms to 
alternate status. The uniforms were first used on September 10, 2011 against 
the Phillies, but did not wear them the previous season. The Brewers have 
also worn a Latin Nights version of the gold uniform (with 'Cerveceros' 
wordmark) the last two seasons, and would wear them again on June 8 against 
the Phillies.[132] They also wore a fan-designed uniform for two spring 
training games, featuring an updated version of the Beer Barrel Man logo 
in the current colors, and classic typeface design.[133] As part of the 
franchise's 20th anniversary, the Colorado Rockies wore their original 
grey away uniforms at Coors Field on April 16 against the Mets. The uniforms, 
complete with the inaugural season patch, team name and purple piping, 
were the uniforms the Rockies used on their inaugural 1993 season. Though 
it was a home game, they wore the grey throwbacks to correspond to the 
franchise's first game at Shea Stadium. The Mets wore corresponding throwback 
white pinstripe uniforms with an underscore below the word 'Mets'. The 
Detroit Tigers donned Detroit Stars throwbacks for Negro League tribute 
night against the Atlanta Braves on April 27. The Braves wore Atlanta Black 
Crackers throwbacks. The Brewers wore the 1913 American Association throwbacks 
on May 5 against the Cardinals, who wore corresponding throwbacks. The 
San Diego Padres wore their orange, gold and brown home throwbacks from 
the 1984 season against the Washington Nationals on May 17. On June 14, 
they wore their 1998 navy alternates against the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
On July 12, they wore throwbacks of the 1948 Padres of the Pacific Coast 
League against the Giants. The Minnesota Twins wore the 1948 St. Paul Saints 
uniforms on May 30 against the Brewers. Even though the game was held at 
Target Field, the Twins wore the road grey versions of the throwbacks, 
while the Brewers will wore the home whites. Four teams – the Pirates, 
the Reds, the Nationals and the Braves – wore Negro League throwbacks on 
June 1. The Pirates wore the Homestead Grays uniforms, while the Reds wore 
the Cincinnati Tigers uniforms. The Nationals and Braves wore Negro League 
throwbacks that day as well, the Nationals wearing Grays uniforms, and 
the Braves donning Black Crackers uniforms. (The Grays called Pittsburgh 
and Washington home.) On July 20, the Brewers wore the Negro League Milwaukee 
Bears uniforms against the Marlins, who wore the uniforms of the International 
League Marlins. The Nationals again represented the Grays on August 24 
against the Royals, who wore Kansas City Monarchs uniforms. The Seattle 
Mariners wore the 1909 Seattle Turks uniforms for their interleague matchup 
with the Chicago Cubs on June 29. The Cubs wore their 1909 throwbacks, 
as well. The Kansas City Royals wore their 1985 powder blue pullover uniforms 
on June 9 against the Astros. The Tampa Bay Rays wore their faux-back 1970s 
uniforms on July 6 against the White Sox, who wore the previous season's 
Sunday home throwback jerseys from the 1972 season. The Cleveland Indians 
wore the 1902 Cleveland Bronchos uniforms on July 13, in a non-televised 
game against the Royals. Despite the game taking place at Progressive Field, 
the Indians wore the road version of the Bronchos uniforms (navy jersey, 
cap, and pants, with black socks). The White Sox, in celebration of their 
1983 AL West champion team, donned 1983-replica jerseys during each Sunday 
home game, as well as other select occasions. The Angels and Athletics 
wore 1969 throwbacks on July 27. The Angels then wore a hybridized version 
of their 1980s throwbacks (with buttons, belts and California patch on 
the left sleeve) on August 16, and then their 1961–65 throwbacks the following 
day against the Astros. The 1961–65 throwbacks were worn again on September 
5 against the Rays to pay tribute to Bobby Knoop's induction to the Angels 
Hall of Fame. The Philadelphia Phillies wore their 1991 home pinstripe 
throwbacks on August 23 against the Diamondbacks, who wore their 1999 black 
alternate throwbacks. The Diamondbacks also wore the said throwback uniforms 
on August 31 against the Giants. The San Francisco Giants wore special 
uniforms to commemorate their 2012 World Series win on April 7. Similar 
to their commemoration of their 2010 World Series championship, the jerseys, 
instead of bearing the familiar "GIANTS" across the chest, displayed the 
interlocking "SF" logo on the front of the jersey's left side in gold. 
The Giants also wore caps with the "SF" logo also in gold. On April 20 
and 21, the Boston Red Sox wore home uniforms with "BOSTON" on the front 
of the jerseys instead of the familiar "RED SOX" to honor the victims of 
the Boston Marathon bombings. Cinco de Mayo saw two teams don Hispanic-flavored 
uniforms. The Giants wore their cream home uniforms with 'Gigantes' in 
front against the Dodgers, while the Houston Astros wore their current 
home uniforms with 'Los Astros' in front against the Detroit Tigers. The 
Cincinnati Reds wore red jerseys with 'Los Rojos' in front for their May 
11 game against Milwaukee. The Giants again wore the 'Gigantes' uniforms 
against the Diamondbacks on September 7. On the same day, the Seattle Mariners 
wore a modified version of their white uniforms against the Rays, featuring 
'Marineros' in front. The Pittsburgh Pirates wore desert camouflage uniforms 
for their games against the Astros May 17 and 18. All teams wore uniforms 
with camouflaged logos, names and numerals on May 27, Memorial Day in the 
United States. The Milwaukee Brewers wore special batting practice uniforms 
against the Braves on June 23 for Polish Heritage Day. The uniform is white 
with red striping, featuring "Piwowarzy" in front. They also wore red fielding 
caps. The Toronto Blue Jays wore red jerseys against the Detroit Tigers 
on July 1, Canada Day in Canada. The Arizona Diamondbacks wore special 
black uniforms during their homestand from July 5–14 to commemorate the 
19 firefighters who perished in the Yarnell Hill Fire. The style was similar 
to their alternate black uniforms, except the front read 'Arizona' in brick 
red, and had black and sand trim.[134] All teams wore special caps with 
an American (or Canadian) flag on July 4. The Reds, whose game was rained 
out that day, wore the caps on July 5 against Seattle. The New York Mets 
wore a special orange 'Los Mets' jersey on July 24 against Atlanta. The 
Tigers wore a Hispanic-flavored home uniform against the White Sox on August 
3 as part of the 'Fiesta Tigres' promotion. The uniform is similar in style 
to the 1960 script uniforms, but read 'Tigres' in front. The Washington 
Nationals wore US Navy caps on September 17 during pre-game before the 
first game of a doubleheader against Atlanta to commemorate the victims 
of the Washington Navy Yard shooting. The first game was a makeup game 
for the one scheduled for September 16 which was postponed due to the shooting. 
The following teams wore commemorative patches for special occasions: This 
was the seventh and final year of the current TV contracts with ESPN, Fox 
Sports and TBS, before the new eight-year TV contracts begin in 2014. ESPN 
aired games on Sundays, most Mondays, and Wednesdays, in addition to a 
four-game Opening Day schedule. ESPN also aired the Home Run Derby during 
All-Star week. TBS carried Sunday afternoon games, along with two League 
Wild Card Games, League Division Series, and National League Championship 
Series. Fox aired games on Saturday afternoons and select Saturday nights, 
and also aired the All-Star Game, American League Championship Series, 
and World Series. MLB Network had a Thursday game of the week and several 
simulcasted games from local channels during the season. The Houston Astros 
switched from Fox Sports Houston to Comcast SportsNet Houston starting 
this season.[135] On March 1, 2013, Fox Sports South and SportSouth announced 
they have picked up 45 more Atlanta Braves games, ending the team's contract 
with WPCH-TV. This will be the first season in 40 years without locally 
produced Braves games on over-the-air TV.[136] This is the final season 
of Los Angeles Dodgers games on Prime Ticket and KCAL-TV. They will move 
to a new channel called SportsNet LA in 2014.[137] Cleveland Indians owner 
Larry Dolan sold SportsTime Ohio to Fox Sports Networks on December 28, 
2012, and it was rebranded as Fox SportsTime Ohio on April 1, 2013.[138] 
