The 2013 National League Wild Card Game was a play-in game during Major 
League Baseball's (MLB) 2013 postseason played between the National League's 
(NL) two wild card teams, the Cincinnati Reds and the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
It was held at PNC Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on October 1, 2013.[1] 
The Pirates won by a 6–2 score and advanced to play the St. Louis Cardinals 
in the NL Division Series. The game was televised on TBS, and was also 
broadcast on ESPN Radio.[2] The game marked the first postseason appearance 
by the Pirates since 1992.[3] This was the third postseason appearance 
for the Reds in four seasons. It was the sixth postseason meeting between 
the Pirates and Reds (the others being in the NLCS in 1970, 1972, 1975, 
1979, and 1990). Pirates manager Clint Hurdle made his first postseason 
appearance since competing in the 2007 World Series as manager of the Colorado 
Rockies, while Dusty Baker fell to 0–3 in postseason appearances as manager 
of the Reds, a position from which he was relieved three days after the 
loss.[4] The loss continued the Reds' postseason win drought, active since 
their last World Series championship in 1990.[5] After a scoreless first 
inning and a half, the Pirates secured the first runs of the game with 
home runs by Marlon Byrd and Russell Martin in the bottom of the 2nd inning.[6] 
Martin's home run came after Reds starting pitcher Johnny Cueto, having 
his name chanted mockingly by over 40,000 Pirates fans, dropped the baseball 
from the mound. Martin hit a home run on the next pitch. In the bottom 
of the third, Pedro Alvarez hit a sacrifice-fly to Shin-Soo Choo, which 
allowed Andrew McCutchen to score. In the top of the fourth, with Choo 
and Ryan Ludwick on base, Jay Bruce hit a groundball single to Pirates 
left-fielder Starling Marte, allowing Choo to score. In the bottom of the 
fourth, Marte and Neil Walker scored off RBIs. In the bottom of the 7th 
inning, Russell Martin hit a solo home run. The Reds could only further 
respond with a Choo home run off of Tony Watson. The Pirates would maintain 
their lead and go on to win, with Jason Grilli closing the game.[7][8] 
