The 2013 American League Division Series were two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the teams that will participate in the 2013 American League 
Championship Series. The three divisional winners (seeded 1-3 based on 
record) and a fourth team — the winner of a one-game Wild Card playoff 
— played in two series. TBS carried most of the games, with some on MLB 
Network. These matchups were: This was the 2nd time the Rays and Red Sox 
have faced each other in the postseason. The only other time was the 2008 
ALCS which was won by the Rays 4 games to 3.[1] This was the 4th time the 
Tigers and the A's have faced each other in the postseason. The Tigers 
and the A's faced each other in the 1972 ALCS (A's won 3–2), in the 2006 
ALCS (Tigers won 4–0) and in the 2012 ALDS (Tigers won 3–2).[2] Boston 
won the series, 3–1. Detroit won the series, 3–2. 3:07 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway 
Park in Boston, Massachusetts The Red Sox had a shaky opening in Game 1, 
with Jon Lester surrendering solo home runs to Sean Rodriguez and Ben Zobrist. 
However, the Red Sox' offense ignited in the bottom of the fourth inning, 
with several doubles combining with poor Tampa Bay fielding to stitch together 
a five-run inning. Boston then added three more in the bottom of the fifth 
and four more in the bottom of the eighth. Jon Lester pitched 7.6666666666667 
!72⁄3 innings, having surrendered only three hits and two earned runs. 
Junichi Tazawa and Ryan Dempster provided effective relief pitching in 
the eighth and ninth to seal the Game 1 victory for the Red Sox.[12] This 
was the first postseason win for the Red Sox since Game 6 of the 2008 ALCS; 
that win had also come against the Rays. 5:37 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park 
in Boston, Massachusetts Game 2 featured a match up between David Price, 
and John Lackey. In the first inning, Jacoby Ellsbury hit a blooper-single 
before stealing second and moving to third on a missed throw-out attempt. 
Dustin Pedroia got the sac-fly to bring him home. Ortiz, who had never 
hit a homer off Price, hit a solo home run into the bullpen to give the 
Red Sox an early 2–0 lead. The next inning, Tampa hit a sac fly of their 
own to make it 2–1. In the fifth, Tampa was trailing 5–1 before Loney hit 
a two-run double to make it 5–3. In the bottom of the fifth, Boston would 
however get their three run lead back on a Pedroia line drive double that 
scored Ellsbury from first. In the bottom eighth while it was still a two-run 
game, David Ortiz hit a deep solo homer. Lackey allowed four runs while 
coming through in clutch situations to keep the Sox in the lead throughout 
the game. According to Joe Maddon after the game, Price did not pitch badly 
even though he gave up seven earned runs. During Price's post-game interview, 
he claimed it was a lucky win for the Sox.[13] 6:07 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana 
Field in St. Petersburg, Florida Dustin Pedroia started with an RBI ground 
out in the 1st which scored Jacoby Ellsbury. In the top of the fifth a 
wild pitch to Pedroia scored Ellsbury and David Ortiz got an RBI single 
to score Shane Victorino in the fifth. In the bottom of the fifth Evan 
Longoria hit a 3 run home run to tie the Red Sox at three. Tampa Bay's 
José Lobatón hit a solo home run with two outs in the bottom of the ninth 
inning beyond the center-field wall to beat the Red Sox 5–4 and keep the 
series alive. This was the Ray's first postseason win at home since Game 
2 of the 2008 World Series[14] 8:37 p.m. (EDT) at Tropicana Field in St. 
Petersburg, Florida Craig Breslow came out of the bullpen to send the Red 
Sox into the AL championship series for the first time in five years.[15] 
Breslow relieved Red Sox starter Jake Peavy in the sixth inning and struck 
out his first four batters.[16] With the series win, the Red Sox improved 
to 6–4 all-time in ALDS play; the Rays fell to 1–3. 2013 ALDS (3–1): Boston 
Red Sox over Tampa Bay Rays 9:37 p.m. (EDT) at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, 
California Bartolo Colón surrendered three runs in the first inning. After 
a double by Austin Jackson, Colon hit Torii Hunter with a pitch and Miguel 
Cabrera followed with an RBI single that sent Hunter to third. Prince Fielder 
grounded into a double play, with Hunter scoring on the play. After a Victor 
Martínez double, Alex Avila grounded a seeing-eye single to right, which 
gave Detroit an early 3–0 lead. Max Scherzer struck out 11 and gave up 
one hit through the first six innings. In the bottom of the seventh, Yoenis 
Céspedes hit a two-run home run to trim the Tigers lead to 3–2. Joaquín 
Benoit got Josh Donaldson to pop out to first to end the eighth inning, 
and he then struck out the side in the ninth to close out the win. A's 
hitters fanned 16 times off three Tigers pitchers.[17] 9:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, California Game 2 was a fierce pitching duel 
between both teams. Oakland Athletics rookie starter Sonny Gray matched 
Detroit Tigers veteran Justin Verlander with eight shutout innings and 
nine strikeouts. Verlander was dominant as well, with seven shutout innings 
and 11 strikeouts. Both teams' bullpens carried the game scoreless into 
the bottom of the ninth. A's leadoff batter Yoenis Céspedes started the 
inning with a ground ball single into left field. Seth Smith followed up 
with a ground ball single into right field, moving Céspedes over to third 
base. Tigers reliever Al Alburquerque then intentionally walked Josh Reddick 
to load the bases. With no outs in the bottom of the ninth, Alburquerque 
was lifted for Rick Porcello. A's catcher Stephen Vogt greeted Porcello 
with a line-drive single to left field, driving in Céspedes for the walk 
off win and tying the series at one game apiece.[18] 1:07 p.m. (EDT) at 
Comerica Park in Detroit, Michigan The A's scored six runs (five earned) 
off 2013 AL ERA leader Aníbal Sánchez. The first run was unearned, when 
Yoenis Céspedes hit a sharp grounder to third that Miguel Cabrera mishandled 
for an error, allowing Coco Crisp to score from second. In the top of the 
fourth, Josh Reddick led off with a home run. Stephen Vogt followed with 
a triple, and scored on a sacrifice fly by Crisp, making the score 3–0. 
The Tigers tied the game off Jarrod Parker in the bottom of the fourth, 
on an RBI double by Victor Martínez and a two-run single by Jhonny Peralta. 
This ended a streak of 20 consecutive scoreless innings by A's pitchers. 
The A's quickly went back on top by three runs in the fifth, on a solo 
homer from Brandon Moss and a two-run shot by Seth Smith. In the bottom 
of the ninth inning, A's pitcher Grant Balfour got into a heated argument 
with Detroit batter Víctor Martínez. The argument included a profane exchange 
between Martinez and Balfour, caught by MLB Network's on-field microphones, 
and caused the benches to empty. No injuries were reported and no ejections 
were made because of the incident, and Balfour went on to earn the save. 
Because MLB Network is a cable channel not under FCC purview, no action 
could be taken against them, though the game announcers apologized for 
the profanity shortly after.[19] 5:07 p.m. (EDT) at Comerica Park in Detroit, 
Michigan The A's took another early lead on the Tigers, when Coco Crisp 
led off the game with a triple off Doug Fister and scored on a Jed Lowrie 
single. The A's extended the lead to 3–0 in the top of the fifth, when 
Lowrie hit a two-run homer to right field. It looked like the Tiger hitters, 
who had struggled to put up runs all series long, were on their way to 
another frustrating evening when starter Dan Straily no-hit them through 
the first four innings. But Prince Fielder led off the bottom of the fifth 
with a bloop single to left, Victor Martínez grounded a single to right, 
and Jhonny Peralta followed with a three-run homer to left to tie the game. 
Tiger manager Jim Leyland went to Game 1 starter Max Scherzer as a reliever 
in the top of the seventh, and Oakland promptly went up 4–3 when Coco Crisp 
drove in Stephen Vogt with a single. On a controversial play, the Tigers 
managed to tie the game in the bottom of the inning, when Victor Martínez 
hit the ball to the right-center field wall and a fan reached into the 
field of play and disrupted its trajectory. The call on the field was a 
home run for Martínez. Umpires reviewed the play because the fan had clearly 
interfered with the path of the ball, but they let the home run stand after 
concluding that there was not enough video evidence to determine if right 
fielder Josh Reddick would have made a leaping catch. Later in the inning, 
Austin Jackson gave the Tigers a 5–4 lead on a broken-bat RBI single that 
scored pinch runner Andy Dirks. Scherzer nearly gave the lead back when 
he loaded the bases with no outs in the top of the eighth, but he struck 
out Reddick and Vogt before getting pinch hitter Alberto Callaspo on a 
line out to center. The Tigers got three additional runs in the bottom 
of the inning, when pinch runner Hernán Pérez scored on a bases-loaded 
wild pitch by Brett Anderson, and Omar Infante followed with a two-run 
double to make the score 8–4. The A's made it interesting in the top of 
the ninth, getting the tying run to the plate after a two-run single by 
Yoenis Céspedes, but Joaquín Benoit struck out Seth Smith to prevent any 
further damage.[20] 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at O.co Coliseum in Oakland, California 
Having used Max Scherzer in relief during Game 4, Jim Leyland sent Game 
2 starter Justin Verlander to the hill. A's manager Bob Melvin also chose 
to go with his Game 2 starter, Sonny Gray, who had befuddled the Tigers 
for eight shutout innings earlier in the series. Gray looked solid again, 
surrendering only a walk through the first three innings. Torii Hunter 
got the Tigers' first hit in the fourth, a one-out single up the middle, 
then Gray made a mistake on an inside fastball to Miguel Cabrera that the 
slugger hit for a two-run homer to left. It was Cabrera's first extra-base 
hit of the series and only his second home run since August. The Tigers 
got a third run with one out in the sixth inning. With runners on first 
and third, Omar Infante hit a potential inning-ending double play ball 
to third off reliever Dan Otero, but Josh Donaldson bounced his throw to 
second baseman Alberto Callaspo. Callaspo corralled the ball for a force 
out but had no chance to get Infante at first, and Victor Martínez scored 
on the play. Verlander, who threw a four-hit shutout in Game 5 of the 2012 
ALDS, also in Oakland, was brilliant again. He retired the first 16 Oakland 
batters before giving up a one-out walk to Josh Reddick in the sixth inning. 
He lost his no-hit bid with two outs in the seventh, when Yoenis Céspedes 
hit a hard single to center, but escaped the inning with no damage. Verlander 
would leave after eight shutout innings, surrendering two hits and one 
walk, while striking out ten. Closer Joaquín Benoit surrendered a two-out 
double to Jed Lowrie and hit Céspedes with a pitch to bring the tying run 
to the plate for the second straight game. But he got Seth Smith to fly 
out to short right field, ending the game and the series. Verlander's effort 
gave him 30 straight scoreless innings against the A's in the playoffs, 
breaking the record for scoreless innings against one team in the postseason 
set by Christy Mathewson (28). The A's also struck out 57 times in the 
series, breaking the old record for a best-of-five playoff series of 55 
strikeouts set by the 2010 Tampa Bay Rays. Both Austin Jackson of the Tigers 
and Brandon Moss of the A's fanned 13 times in the series, setting an ALDS 
record for an individual player. The Tigers made it to the ALCS for the 
third straight season, becoming the first team to do so since the 1998–2001 
New York Yankees made four straight appearances. The Athletics have now 
lost their last six winner-take-all Game 5s, the last two at the hands 
of the Tigers (2012 and 2013). They are now 1–12 in playoff-clinching games 
since 2000, the only win coming in 2006 when they swept the Minnesota Twins 
in the ALDS.[21] 2013 ALDS (3–2): Detroit Tigers over Oakland Athletics 
