The 2013 New York Yankees season was the 113th season for the New York 
Yankees franchise. The Yankees began their season at home with an 8–2 loss 
against the Boston Red Sox on April 1.[1] They finished tied for third 
place in the American League East with a 85-77 record, which was their 
worst since 1992. The Yankees failed to reach the playoffs for the first 
time since 2008 and only the second time in nineteen years. Longtime Yankees 
closer Mariano Rivera and longtime starting pitcher Andy Pettitte retired 
following the 2013 season. Following a sour four-game sweep in the 2012 
American League Championship Series and the loss of Derek Jeter to a broken 
ankle, expectations entering the Yankees' 113th season were uncharacteristically 
low. With the Blue Jays and Red Sox each making key acquisitions in the 
offseason as Yankee GM Brian Cashman's adjusted his strategy toward salary 
reduction, the American League East Division's reputation as a perennial 
powerhouse had shifted sharply against the Yankees. On Opening Day, the 
Bombers hosted their long–time rivals, the Boston Red Sox, but lost 8–2. 
Their next game was also a defeat, but veteran pitcher Andy Pettitte was 
able to prevent an early sweep by pitching to a 4–2 victory. Mariano Rivera 
would also earn his first save in what would be a farewell tour of sorts 
for the future Hall of Fame closer. Much to the surprise of fans and pundits 
alike, the injury-plagued Yankees held a first place lead in the division 
at the end of April with a record of 16–10. On April 12, they turned a 
4–6–5–6–5–3–4 triple play in the 8th inning of a 5-2 win against the Baltimore 
Orioles. On May 9, Yankees second baseman Robinson Canó hit his 1500th 
career hit with a single to center field at Coors Field in a 3-1 win against 
the Colorado Rockies. Without the help of core players Derek Jeter, Alex 
Rodriguez, Curtis Granderson, and Mark Teixeira, all of whom had been assigned 
to extended DL stints, the Yankees remained competitive through shrewd 
acquisitions of journeyman and platoon roleplayers such as Travis Hafner, 
Brennan Boesch, Lyle Overbay, and former Boston Red Sox first-baseman Kevin 
Youkilis. Though Granderson and Teixeira would return to the Yankee lineup 
by early summer, both would return to the DL after each suffered further 
injury. On May 30, the Yankees were swept by their crosstown rival New 
York Mets for the first time in the season series between the teams after 
a 3–1 loss at home. The Mets' sweep come a full decade after the 2003 Yankees 
won all six games from the Mets.[11][12] In the second game, Mariano Rivera 
suffered his blown save of the season and first in his career where he 
failed to get an out by allowing two runs in the ninth in a 2-1 loss. Despite 
entering the month of June with winning records for both April and May, 
the Yankees would finish the month with unimpressive offensive productivity 
and, due in large part to continued injury, a frustratingly inconsistent 
lineup. Following a sweep of the Cleveland Indians, the Yankees took three 
out of four games in Seattle and seemed capable of maintaining competitiveness 
until some of their core players returned. On June 8, Andy Pettitte won 
his 250th career win and Mariano Rivera continued his age-defying season 
by earning his 22nd save. But by the end of an extended west coast trip, 
Kevin Youkilis and Mark Teixeira's injuries were aggravated and both were 
lost for the remainder of the season. The Yankees lost three games against 
the Oakland Athletics, including the 18-inning finale to complete the sweep. 
The end of June looked bleak for the Yankees, winning only one of three 
games against the Texas Rangers and getting swept by the Baltimore Orioles 
for the first time since 2005. The Yankees finished June with a record 
of 11 wins and 16 losses, the first time they finished a month with a losing 
record since September 2010, where they went 12–15. July showed some improvement 
after winning six straight games, their longest winning streak of the year. 
On July 1, pitcher Andy Pettitte recorded his 1,958th strikeout as a Yankee, 
becoming the franchise's all-time strikeout leader with a strikeout of 
the Minnesota Twins' Justin Morneau, surpassing Whitey Ford. They swept 
a four-game set against the Twins in Minnesota and won the first two of 
three at home versus the Orioles, but Rivera's second blown save of the 
season, similar to the first (allowing two runs in the ninth in a 2-1 loss) 
snapped the streak. The Yankees finished the first half by losing two of 
three to the Twins at home for the first time since 2001. As was originally 
hoped at the beginning of the year, the return of much-needed reinforcements 
had started to look promising. Derek Jeter came back to the lineup for 
the first time since breaking his ankle in the 2012 ALCS, picking up a 
hit in his first at bat. Long-injured starting pitcher Michael Pineda also 
began playing in game situations in the minors, and third-baseman Alex 
Rodriguez had started at 20-game rehab assignment in Scranton. But Jeter's 
return was quickly marred by a quadriceps strain that would sideline the 
captain for several weeks after only one game. With the summer trade deadline 
quickly approaching, the lack of right handed power, and the return dates 
of Rodriguez, Jeter, and Granderson still uncertain, the Yankees acquired 
outfielder Alfonso Soriano from the Chicago Cubs in the hopes of increasing 
the team's dismal power numbers (Soriano had hit 8 home runs the month 
prior to moving to New York, which is one more home run than the entire 
Yankee team had hit during that span). Soriano, who started his career 
with the Yankees, received a warm ovation from the Yankee fans upon his 
return on July 26. The New York Post reported soon after that Brian Cashman 
had reservations about acquiring Soriano, but was overruled by Yankee management. 
Derek Jeter returned to the Yankee lineup for the second time on July 28 
and hit a solo home run on the first pitch of his first at bat. Alfonso 
Soriano would hit a walk-off single to give the Yankees a 6–5 victory. 
On August 5, Alex Rodriguez was suspended for 211 games (until the end 
of the 2014 MLB season) for his involvement with the South Florida anti-aging 
clinic Biogenesis. He promptly appealed this suspension and was allowed 
to resume play for the rest of the season, but the suspension was upheld 
for the entire 2014 MLB regular season and postseason.[13] On August 22, 
the Yankees swept a four-game set versus the Toronto Blue Jays at home 
for a perfect 10-0 home record versus them. After sweeping a three-game 
set at home versus the Chicago White Sox to start the month after being 
swept by them in Chicago on August 5–7 for the second straight year, the 
Yankees lost the first three of four at home to the Red Sox with Rivera 
blowing two saves, but won the last on a ninth inning wild pitch. They 
took three of four from the Orioles in Camden Yards before being swept 
by the Red Sox at Fenway Park. The Yankees closed interleague play with 
three games at home versus the San Francisco Giants. On September 20, Alex 
Rodriguez hit his 24th career grand slam to surpass Lou Gehrig as the all-time 
grand slam leader in a 5-1 win. Iván Nova pitched a complete shutout in 
the Yankees 6-0 win. In the series finale, Pettitte makes his final home 
start in a 2-1 loss. On September 25, 2013, the Yankees lost to the Tampa 
Bay Rays, which for the second time in the wild card era, eliminated them 
from making the playoffs for the first time since 2008.[14] The Rays swept 
the three-game set in the Bronx for the first time ever and Rivera made 
his final appearance in the 8th inning of the series finale, retiring all 
four batters he faces. The Yankees finished the season by sweeping the 
Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park with Pettitte earning his final victory 
in the second game. Infielders Other batters Coaches Note: Pos = position 
Updated for games through September 29, 2013 LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Trenton[15] 
