The 2013 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the franchise's 127th season as 
a member of the National League, 132nd season overall, and 13th season 
at PNC Park. The regular season began at home with a loss against the Chicago 
Cubs on April 1 and ended with a win at Great American Ball Park against 
the Cincinnati Reds on September 29. In their first winning season since 
1992, the Pirates finished in second place in the National League Central 
Division with 94 wins and 68 losses. The Pirates earned their 82nd win 
of the season on September 9, ensuring the team's first winning season 
since 1992 and ending the longest stretch of losing seasons—20—in North 
American professional sports history. Although the St. Louis Cardinals 
won the NL Central Division, the Pirates clinched a playoff berth for the 
first time since 1992 in one of two NL Wild Card spots on September 23. 
In the Wild Card Game, the Pirates secured their first postseason win since 
Game 6 of the 1992 National League Championship Series by defeating the 
Cincinnati Reds. In doing so, the team advanced to the 2013 National League 
Division Series, where they were defeated in five games by the eventual 
National League champion Cardinals, eliminating them from the 2013 postseason. 
Five members of the 2013 Pirates were selected to represent the National 
League in the All-Star Game. In addition, team manager Clint Hurdle won 
the 2013 NL Manager of the Year Award in his third year with the Pirates, 
center fielder Andrew McCutchen was named NL Most Valuable Player, pitcher 
Francisco Liriano was named NL Comeback Player of the Year, and third baseman 
Pedro Álvarez tied for first place in home runs hit in the National League 
at 36. Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 2013 Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game[10] NL Player of the Week Major League Baseball Delivery 
Man Award NL Rookie of the Month The Sporting News Comeback Player of the 
Year Award The Sporting News Manager of the Year Award NL Comeback Player 
of the Year NL Manager of the Year NL MVP      – Qualified for batting 
title (3.1 plate appearances per team game)      – Qualified for ERA title 
(1 inning pitched per team game) † – Denotes player was acquired mid-season. 
‡ – Denotes player was relinquished mid-season. The Pirates were involved 
in the following transactions during the 2013 season: Luis Rico Luis Santos 
Vin Mazzaro Clint Robinson PTBNL (Kyle Kaminska) Zach Stewart Yamaico Navarro 
Jhondaniel Medina Chris Resop Zach Thorton Ramón Cabrera Andrew Oliver 
Joel Hanrahan Brock Holt Mark Melancon Stolmy Pimentel Iván DeJesús, Jr. 
Jerry Sands Quincy Latimore Jeanmar Gómez PTBNL or Cash John McDonald Cash 
Brian Jeroloman Román Colón Cash Brian Jeroloman PTBNL (Brian Bocock)[36] 
Cash Atahualpa Severino Cash Graham Godfrey John McDonald PTBNL or Cash 
Tim Alderson Russ Canzler PTBNL or Cash Robert Andino PTBNL or Cash Doug 
Mathis Dilson Herrera PTBNL or Cash (Vic Black)[43] John Buck Marlon Byrd 
