The 2013 National League Division Series were two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the teams to participate in the 2013 National League Championship 
Series. The three divisional winners (seeded 1-3 based on record) and a 
fourth team — the winner of a one-game Wild Card playoff — played in two 
series. TBS carried most of the games, with some on MLB Network. These 
matchups were: This was the first postseason meeting between the current 
National League Central division rivals St. Louis and Pittsburgh. The Pirates 
made their first postseason appearance since 1992, and their first appearance 
in the Division Series in franchise history. This was the second postseason 
meeting between the Dodgers and Braves. The Braves previously defeated 
the Dodgers 3–0 in the 1996 NLDS. St. Louis won the series, 3–2. Los Angeles 
won the series, 3–1. 5:07 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[12] 
The Cardinals set a new NLDS record with seven runs in an inning,[13] highlighted 
by Carlos Beltran's towering three-run home run (443 feet), his 15th in 
post-season play tying Babe Ruth for eighth place on the list. Only Derek 
Jeter (20) and Albert Pujols (18) among active players have more.[14] 1:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[15] The Pirates scored first 
with two outs in the second inning as Gerrit Cole drove in Pedro Álvarez 
with a single after Jordy Mercer was intentionally walked. Alvarez hit 
his second home run of the series in the third, a two-run line drive. The 
Pirates added to their lead with two runs in the fifth inning as Marlon 
Byrd drove home Justin Morneau with a double and Russell Martin plated 
Byrd with a single. The Cardinals finally got on the board with a solo 
home run from Yadier Molina in their half of the fifth inning. It was his 
third post-season home run. The Pirates added to their lead in the seventh 
inning as Martin plated Byrd again, this time via a sacrifice fly. 4:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at PNC Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania[16] The Pirates opened up 
their first non-Wild Card postseason home game in 21 years by scoring two 
runs in the first inning. The Cardinals would later tie the game in the 
fifth with a two-out RBI single by Carlos Beltran. The Pirates responded 
by scoring the next inning on a Russell Martin sacrifice fly, which was 
later answered by a Carlos Beltran home run in the eighth. The home run 
was Beltran's 16th playoff home run, which moved him past Babe Ruth for 
eighth place in postseason history. The Pirates would take the lead in 
the bottom of the 8th and win the game by the score of 5-3. 3:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at PNC Park in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania[17] Game 4 featured a pitching 
gem from St. Louis Cardinals rookie Michael Wacha. Wacha held the Pirates 
to just three base runners (one hit, two walks) through 7.3333333333333 
!71⁄3 innings pitched. It was the longest no-hitter length by a rookie 
pitcher since Jeff Tesreau went 5.3333333333333 !51⁄3 innings with no hits 
allowed for the 1912 New York Giants. Wacha was acquired in the 2012 draft 
with the 19th overall pick, from the Los Angeles Angels as compensation 
for losing Albert Pujols.[18] Pedro Alvarez broke up Wacha's no-hitter 
in the eighth with his third home run of the series. Matt Holliday provided 
all the runs the Cardinals needed with his two-run homer in the sixth. 
Charlie Morton, the opposing starting pitcher, went 5.6666666666667 !52⁄3 
innings pitched, allowing just two runs. With the Game 4 win, the Cardinals 
guaranteed a Game 5, making it the third straight NLDS Game 5 in as many 
years. Trevor Rosenthal picked up his first career post-season save. 8:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri[19] Game 5 pivoted Game 1 
winner Adam Wainwright against the Pirates' rookie Gerrit Cole. The Cardinals 
got on the board first in the bottom of the second inning as Jon Jay walked 
with two-outs and David Freese broke the tie with a two-run home run. The 
Cardinals added to their lead in the sixth as Jay singled home Matt Holliday 
to make it 3–0. The Pirates made some two-out noise in the top of the seventh 
as Justin Morneau, Marlon Byrd and Pedro Alvarez all singled (the last 
driving home Morneau), but Wainwright was able to get Russell Martin to 
ground out to end the threat. Entering the bottom of the eighth and with 
the Cardinals leading 3–1, they put the game out of reach as Matt Adams 
hit a two-run home run off of Mark Melancon to make it 5–1. They added 
another run on a Pete Kozma single. Wainwright finished the complete game 
by striking out Alvarez with two runners on base to send the Cardinals 
to the National League Championship Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Wainwright joins John Smoltz as the only pitchers in postseason history 
with three or more wins as a starter and at least three saves.[20] Adam 
Wainwright also became the 5th Cardinal to pitch a CG with one ER in a 
winner-take-all postseason game. This was umpire Wally Bell's final MLB 
game as he died 5 days later of a heart attack.[21] 2013 NLDS (3–2): St. 
Louis Cardinals over Pittsburgh Pirates 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Turner Field 
in Atlanta, Georgia Game 1 of the series featured a pitching match-up of 
Kris Medlen against Clayton Kershaw. Kershaw would go on to strike out 
12 Atlanta Braves batters in seven innings, while Medlen was forced out 
after just four innings pitched. Kershaw's 12 strikeouts was the third 
most strikeouts by a Dodger pitcher in the playoffs, behind only Sandy 
Koufax (15 in the 1963 World Series) and Carl Erskine (14 in the 1953 World 
Series).[22] His six straight strikeouts in the game tied a MLB post-season 
record set by Tim Belcher in game 2 of the 1988 NLCS. The Dodgers won the 
game 6–1.[23] 6:07 p.m. (EDT) at Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia In Game 
2, Hanley Ramirez homered and doubled twice to account for all three Dodgers 
runs. However, the Braves scored two runs off Zack Greinke and then two 
more when Jason Heyward had a two run single in the top of the eighth off 
the Dodgers reliever Paco Rodriguez.[24] Craig Kimbrel recorded the four 
out save and the Braves evened the series at one game each.[25] Braves 
shortstop Andrelton Simmons and Braves catcher Gerald Laird combined for 
a huge defensive play in the 9th inning throwing out Dodger's base runner 
Dee Gordon when he attempted to steal second base. [26] 8:07 p.m. (EDT) 
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California Game 3 featured two rookies 
starting a playoff game for the first time since 2007. Game 3 was an offensive 
explosion from both teams in the early innings. The Braves scored two in 
the first inning, highlighted by an Evan Gattis RBI single and a Brian 
McCann RBI groundout. The Dodgers answered back in the second inning with 
a Hyun-jin Ryu sacrifice fly and a Carl Crawford three run home run. The 
Braves would score two more in the top of the third to tie the game. The 
Dodgers quickly responded by scoring two of their own in the bottom of 
the inning and four runs the next inning. Hanley Ramirez would continue 
his torrid NLDS by hitting two more extra base hits, tying a Dodgers franchise 
record for extra-base hits in a playoff series set by Steve Garvey and 
Duke Snider.[27] Additionally, the 13 runs scored was a Dodgers record 
for a playoff game.[28] At the age of 35 years, Chris Capuano picked up 
his first career post-season victory. 9:37 p.m. (EDT) at Dodger Stadium 
in Los Angeles, California The Dodgers brought Kershaw back on short rest 
in Game 4 and he pitched six innings, while allowing only two unearned 
runs (thanks to two Adrian Gonzalez errors). Carl Crawford hit two solo 
homers in his first two at-bats, the first Dodger to do so in the playoffs 
since Shawn Green in the 2004 National League Division Series.[29] An RBI 
single by José Constanza off Ronald Belisario in the seventh gave the Braves 
the lead but the Dodgers went back up thanks to a two-run homer by Juan 
Uribe in the eighth off David Carpenter.[30] Kenley Jansen struck out the 
side in the ninth to preserve the 4–3 series clinching victory for the 
Dodgers.[31][32] 2013 NLDS (3–1): Los Angeles Dodgers over Atlanta Braves 
