The 2014 National League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
pitting the St. Louis Cardinals against the San Francisco Giants for the 
National League pennant and the right to play in the 2014 World Series. 
The series was the 44th in league history with Fox airing Game 1 and Fox 
Sports 1 airing Games 2–5 in the United States. Game 1 was simulcast on 
Fox Sports 1 and was hosted by Kevin Burkhardt, Gabe Kapler and C.J. Nitkowski, 
who offered sabermetric analysis of the game.[1] To reach the 2014 NLCS, 
the Cardinals (Central Division champions, 90–72) defeated the Dodgers 
(West Division champions, 94–68) in the NLDS, 3 games to 1.[2] The Giants 
(Wild Card, 88–74) defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates in the NL Wild Card 
Game and then defeated the Nationals (East Division champions, 96–66) in 
the NLDS, 3 games to 1.[3] This was the fourth time the two teams have 
met in the postseason (1987 NLCS, 2002 NLCS, and 2012 NLCS). The Cardinals, 
by virtue of being a division winner, had the home field advantage. The 
Giants clinched their third pennant within a five-year span, with NLCS 
wins in 2010 and 2012. San Francisco won the series, 4–1. Madison Bumgarner 
and the Giants bullpen pitched a shutout and limited the Cardinals to only 
4 hits. The Giants scored first in the top of the second off Cardinals 
starter Adam Wainwright. With the bases loaded, Travis Ishikawa hit a bloop 
single to left to drive in the first run of the game. The Giants took a 
2–0 lead when Gregor Blanco reached safely on a Matt Carpenter error. The 
Giants tacked on a third run in the top of the third on a Brandon Belt 
sacrifice fly. The Cardinals threatened to score in the bottom of the seventh, 
with runners at second and third with two outs. Bumgarner appeared to balk 
when he stepped off the mound while facing Tony Cruz, but no balk was called 
by the umpires. Bumgarner recovered to strike out Cruz and got two more 
outs in the eighth before giving way to Sergio Romo who retired Matt Holliday 
to end the eighth. Santiago Casilla pitched a 1-2-3 ninth to close out 
a 3–0 victory for the Giants. Game 2 was a back-and-forth affair that ended 
on a Kolten Wong walk-off home run in the bottom of the ninth inning to 
give the Cardinals a 5–4 win. The Cardinals struck first when Matt Carpenter 
hit a solo home run off Jake Peavy in the bottom of the third. Randal Grichuk's 
bases-loaded singled in the fourth to make it 2–0. The Giants cut the lead 
in half when Joaquín Árias pinch-hit for Peavy in the top of the fifth 
and scored Brandon Belt on an RBI groundout. In the sixth, the Giants tied 
it up on a Pablo Sandoval double and Hunter Pence single. The Giants took 
the lead in the top of the seventh on an RBI single from Gregor Blanco 
off Cardinals reliver Carlos Martínez. The Cardinals tied it back up in 
the bottom of the seventh on a pinch-hit solo home run from Oscar Taveras 
off Jean Machi. In the bottom of the eighth, Matt Adams gave the Cardinals 
a 4–3 lead on another solo home run, this time off Hunter Strickland. The 
Cardinals brought in closer Trevor Rosenthal in the top of the ninth, but 
he could not hold the lead. With one out, Andrew Susac singled and Matt 
Duffy came on as a pinch runner. Juan Pérez singled to put runners at first 
and second. After Gregor Blanco lined out, Joe Panik worked a walk, with 
ball four coming on a wild pitch that allowed Duffy to score the tying 
run from second base. The Cardinals were able to escape the inning without 
further damage. With the game tied 4–4 in the bottom of the ninth, Kolten 
Wong lined the second pitch he saw from Sergio Romo over the right field 
wall for a walk-off home run, the Cardinals' fourth solo home run of the 
game. As the series shifted to San Francisco, the Giants took a 2–1 series 
lead after Cardinals reliever Randy Choate's wild throw on a bunt in the 
bottom of the 10th inning allowed Brandon Crawford to score the winning 
run. The Giants got to Cardinals starter John Lackey in the bottom the 
first. With two outs, Buster Posey and Pablo Sandoval both singled, and 
Posey scored when Hunter Pence hit a double to right field. With runners 
at second and third, the Cardinals intentionally walked Brandon Belt to 
load the bases. Travis Ishikawa hit a deep drive to right-center that was 
nearly a grand slam but was blown back towards the outfield due to a strong 
wind blowing in from right field. Ishikawa's double scored all three runners 
to give the Giants an early 4–0 lead. Lackey settled down to keep the Giants 
scoreless after that, allowing the Cardinals to chip away at the Giants' 
lead. A Kolten Wong triple in the top of the fourth off Giants starter 
Tim Hudson knocked in two runs to cut the Giants lead in half. The Cardinals 
cut the lead to 4–3 with a Jhonny Peralta RBI single in the sixth. Randal 
Grichuk's solo home run in the top of the seventh tied the game at 4–4. 
As the bullpens took over, the game remained tied until the bottom of the 
tenth inning when Randy Choate issued a leadoff walk to Brandon Crawford 
and a single to Juan Pérez. After Gregor Blanco attempted to bunt the runners 
over, Choate threw wildly to first base, allowing Crawford to score the 
winning run. The Giants scored three runs in the sixth inning en route 
to their 6–4 win. The Cardinals got out to an early 4–1 lead after three 
innings to knock Giants starter Ryan Vogelsong out of the game. The Giants 
got two runs back in the bottom of the third off Shelby Miller. Yusmeiro 
Petit came on in relief for the Giants and pitched three scoreless innings. 
In the bottom of the sixth, the Giants scored two runs on ground balls 
that didn't leave the infield off Marco Gonzales. Buster Posey knocked 
in the third run of the inning off Seth Maness to give the Giants a 6–4 
lead. Five Giants relievers combined to get the final nine outs and give 
the Giants a 3–1 series lead. Game 5 was a rematch of Game 1 starters Madison 
Bumgarner and Adam Wainwright. The Cardinals got to Bumgarner first, scoring 
a run after two walks and a John Jay double in the top of the third. The 
Giants responded in the bottom of the third when Joe Panik hit a two-run 
home run to right field, the Giants' first home run since Brandon Belt's 
game winner in Game 2 of the NLDS, a drought that lasted six games and 
242 plate appearances.[14] The Giants' lead didn't last long, as Bumgarner 
gave up solo home runs to Matt Adams and Tony Cruz in the top of the fourth. 
Both starters settled down as Bumgarner retired the final 13 batters he 
faced, and Wainwright retired his final 10 straight. The Cardinals carried 
a 3–2 lead into the eighth inning and brought in Pat Neshek to hold the 
lead. Pinch hitter Michael Morse knocked a solo home run to left to tie 
the game at 3–3. Neshek retired the next three batters. In the top of the 
ninth, Santiago Casilla gave up a single and two walks, leading manager 
Bruce Bochy to bring in Jeremy Affeldt, who retired Oscar Taveras (in what 
would be his final at bat before his death in the offseason) to escape 
the jam. In the bottom of the ninth, the Cardinals brought in Michael Wacha, 
who put two runners on before giving up a 3-run walk-off home run to Travis 
Ishikawa that clinched the pennant for the Giants, sending San Francisco 
to its third World Series appearance in five seasons. Ishikawa's home run 
was the first to send a National League team to the World Series since 
Bobby Thomson's Shot Heard 'Round the World in 1951. Ishikawa's home run 
was the first ever to end an NLCS and the fourth to end any LCS, after 
Chris Chambliss (1976 ALCS), Aaron Boone (2003 ALCS), and Magglio Ordonez 
(2006 ALCS).[15] All previous pennant winners on a walk off home run, including 
Thomson's, lost the World Series. It was the first walk off of any kind 
to end the NLCS since an RBI single by San Francisco Giant center fielder 
Kenny Lofton in Game 5 of the 2002 NLCS. 2014 NLCS (4–1): San Francisco 
