The 2014 San Francisco Giants season was the Giants' 132nd year in Major 
League Baseball, their 57th year in San Francisco since their move from 
New York following the 1957 season, and their 15th at AT&T Park. The Giants 
finished the season in second place in the National League West, but qualified 
for the playoffs and defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates in the National League 
Wild Card Game and the Washington Nationals in the National League Division 
Series. They defeated the St. Louis Cardinals in the National League Championship 
Series in five games and beat the Kansas City Royals in seven games in 
the 2014 World Series, their third World Series win in five years. All 
schedule and scores taken from MLB.com.[11] Infielders Outfielders Coaches 
The Giants tabbed 18-game winner Madison Bumgarner to start the Wild Card 
elimination game, while the Pittsburgh Pirates starter was Edinson Vólquez. 
A scoreless tie was broken in the fourth inning in style, when Brandon 
Crawford launched a grand slam to right field. Crawford became the first 
shortstop to hit a grand slam in Major League Baseball postseason history. 
Brandon Belt hit singles in back-to-back at-bats in the 6th and 7th innings, 
driving in three more runs and Buster Posey added the 8th run for the Giants 
in the 8th inning. Bumgarner was masterful, as he went the distance, shutting 
out the Pirates on just four hits, making 109 pitches, striking out 10 
and walking only 1. The win marked the Giants 7th-straight victory in postseason 
elimination games, tying the MLB record. The Giants moved on to face the 
number-one seeded Washington Nationals in the National League Division 
Series.[13] Wednesday, October 1, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at PNC Park in 
Pittsburgh The Giants opened the series with Jake Peavy on the mound to 
counter Nationals starter Stephen Strasburg. Joe Panik put the Giants on 
the board in the 3rd inning with an RBI single and Brandon Belt followed 
suit in the 4th to support Peavy, who didn't allow a hit until the bottom 
of the 5th inning. The first signs of trouble for the Giants came in the 
bottom of the 6th when, after a leadoff double from former Giant Nate Schierholtz 
and a two-out walk to Jayson Werth, Peavy was taken out of the game. Javier 
López came into the game only to surrender a walk to Adam LaRoche. With 
the bases loaded, Hunter Strickland came on to make just his tenth overall 
Major League appearance and struck out Ian Desmond to end the threat. The 
Giants added a 3rd run when Panik tripled to lead off the 7th, and Buster 
Posey singled to knock him in. This run was to prove crucial, as when Strickland 
came out in the bottom half of the inning, he allowed home runs to both 
Bryce Harper and Asdrúbal Cabrera to make it a one-run game. Jeremy Affeldt 
finished off the Nationals in the 7th and Sergio Romo pitched a scoreless 
8th, before Santiago Casilla retired the side in order for the save, as 
the Giants held on to win by a score of 3-2.[14] 3:07 p.m. (EDT) at Nationals 
Park in Washington, D.C. Game Two of the Division Series between the Washington 
Nationals and the Giants at Nationals Park on October 4 lasted 18 innings 
before the Giants won 2-1. It was the longest postseason game in Major 
League Baseball history by time, lasting 6 hours 23 minutes, and tied the 
postseason record for number of innings played.[15] Tim Hudson struck out 
8 Nationals and conceded one run in 7⅓ innings of work, but was bettered 
by Nationals starter Jordan Zimmermann who came an out shy of recording 
a three-hit shutout, before walking Joe Panik and being removed from the 
game. The Giants continued to rally in the ninth when Buster Posey singled 
on the first pitch from closer Drew Storen, and Pablo Sandoval drove in 
Panik with a double. Posey was thrown out at home plate on the same play, 
and manager Bruce Bochy called for the first video review in MLB postseason 
history. The review was unsuccessful and the game went to extra innings. 
As neither team could break the deadlock, Yusmeiro Petit became just the 
7th pitcher to throw 6 or more shutout innings of relief in a playoff game.[16] 
Brandon Belt finally broke the tie, launching a home run into the second 
deck in right field to lead off the 18th inning. With the tying run on 
first, Hunter Strickland got slugger Jayson Werth to fly out to the warning 
track to earn the save, and a 2-0 series advantage for the Giants. The 
win marked the 10th consecutive postseason victory for the Giants, a streak 
extending back to the 2012 National League Championship Series. 5:37 p.m. 
(EDT) at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C. Game 3 saw the Giants winner 
from the Wild Card game Madison Bumgarner square off against Nationals 
starter Doug Fister, in a repeat of the pitching match-up from Game 2 of 
the World Series in 2012. Just as in that game, the first 6 innings of 
the game were scoreless, as Bumgarner and Fister were both dominant. The 
tie was broken in the top of the 7th inning when, after Ian Desmond's leadoff 
single and Bryce Harper's walk, Bumgarner threw the ball past third baseman 
Pablo Sandoval, trying to nail the lead runner on a Wilson Ramos sacrifice 
bunt, allowing both Desmond and Harper to score. Asdrúbal Cabrera padded 
the Nationals lead with a single to knock in Ramos and that gave the Nationals 
a 3-0 lead. Harper launched his second home run of the series in the 9th 
inning off Jean Machi to put the game further out of reach. The Giants 
led off the bottom of the ninth with Sandoval, who singled and when Hunter 
Pence doubled to follow him, the Giants had faint hopes of a comeback. 
However, Drew Storen recovered to allow the Giants just the one run on 
Brandon Crawford's sacrifice fly, as the Giants avoided being shut out, 
but lost game three by a final score of 4-1.[17] 5:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T 
Park in San Francisco, California In what was to prove the decisive game 
of the series, Ryan Vogelsong started for the Giants against Nationals 
starter Gio Gonzalez. Vogelsong had struggled down the stretch, while Gonzalez 
had been dominant through September. The Giants were able to strike early 
in the 2nd inning thanks to some bizarre circumstances. After Brandon Crawford 
hit a one-out single, Juan Pérez hit a ground ball back to Gonzalez, who 
bobbled the ball and diverted it into the gap between first and second 
base, allowing Pérez to reach. Then Vogelsong's attempted sacrifice bunt 
turned out to be the perfect bunt, with neither Gonzalez nor third baseman 
Anthony Rendon taking charge to field the ball, and all the runners were 
safe. With the bases loaded, Gregor Blanco was walked on four pitches by 
Gonzalez to force in a run. Joe Panik then hit a soft ground ball to first 
base, and the Nationals were forced to take the out there, allowing Pérez 
to score and giving the Giants a 2-0 lead. Vogelsong didn't allow a hit 
until the 5th inning when Ian Desmond singled to lead off the inning, however 
he was soon under pressure as Bryce Harper doubled down the left-field 
line to knock in Desmond and the tying run was in scoring position with 
no outs. Vogelsong pitched out of the inning without allowing the runner 
to score. The Giants loaded the bases in the bottom half of the inning 
with one out, but couldn't score as both teams squandered golden opportunities 
to seize the initiative. Hunter Pence made a spectacular catch up against 
the archways in right field to retire Jayson Werth and that was the end 
of the night for Vogelsong, who allowed one run on two hits in 5 2⁄3 innings. 
Bryce Harper came up again in the top of the 7th, and just as in Game 1 
of the series, homered deep to right off Hunter Strickland for his third 
home run of the series to tie the game. The Giants didn't wait long to 
answer back, as they again loaded the bases with one out, and Aaron Barrett 
made a wild pitch to give the Giants a lead again. On an attempt to walk 
Pablo Sandoval intentionally, Barrett threw the ball past catcher Wilson 
Ramos, but Buster Posey was thrown out trying to score from third base. 
Again, just as in Game 1 a collision play at the plate with Posey as the 
runner was reviewed, and again the out call was upheld. The Giants relief 
pair of Sergio Romo in the 8th and Santiago Casilla in the 9th combined 
to shut the Nationals down, and send the Giants into the NLCS, beating 
the Nationals by 3 games to 1.[7] 9:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, 
California The Giants set up Madison Bumgarner to start Game 1 against 
Cardinals ace Adam Wainwright. After being retired in order in the 1st 
inning, the Giants loaded the bases in the 2nd with nobody out. Brandon 
Crawford struck out, then Travis Ishikawa blooped a single down the left-field 
line to give the Giants a 1-0 lead. With two outs, Gregor Blanco hit a 
hard ground ball to third-baseman Matt Carpenter that proved too hot to 
handle, and allowed a second run to score for the Giants. Brandon Belt 
added a third on a sacrifice fly in the 3rd inning, and that was to prove 
to be the final run of the contest. After Wainwright was forced to leave 
the game in the fifth inning due to his pitch count, the Cardinal bullpen 
shut the Giants line-up down the rest of the way. However, Bumgarner displayed 
the same form he had in the Wild Card game, pitching 7 2⁄3 shutout innings 
giving up just 4 hits (all singles), walking only 1 and striking out 7. 
Bumgarner set a postseason record for scoreless innings on the road, his 
streak standing at 26 2⁄3. Sergio Romo came in to finish the 8th inning, 
and Santiago Casilla closed out the game retiring the Cardinals in order 
in the 9th as the Giants won 3-0.[18] Saturday, October 11, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri The Giants sent Peavy to 
the mound, while the Cardinals started Lance Lynn. The game was a back 
and forth encounter, and Matt Carpenter opened the scoring in the bottom 
of the 3rd inning with the first of four solo home runs the Cardinals were 
to hit. St. Louis doubled its advantage in the 4th, when Randal Grichuk 
singled with the bases loaded. Peavy escaped the jam conceding just the 
one run, but was taken out of the game after just 4 innings, as his spot 
in the lineup came up with runners at second and third with one out in 
the 5th. Pinch-hitter Joaquín Árias grounded out to score a run and cut 
the deficit. Lynn struck out the next three batters but with two outs in 
the 6th inning, Pablo Sandoval doubled down the left-field line and Hunter 
Pence lined a single to knock him in and tie the game. The Cardinals turned 
to their bullpen, and the Giants promptly loaded the bases in the 7th, 
with Gregor Blanco's RBI single giving the Giants their first lead of the 
game. This was to prove short-lived however, as Oscar Taveras hit a solo 
shot off Jean Machi to tie the game in the bottom half of the inning. The 
Cardinals then took the lead in the 8th thanks to another solo dinger, 
this time from Matt Adams, as Hunter Strickland surrendered his fourth 
home-run of the postseason. After Pat Neshek held the Giants in check in 
the 8th, Trevor Rosenthal was called upon to get the final three outs. 
He retired the lead-off hitter, but Andrew Susac's pinch-hit single was 
followed by a Juan Pérez base hit. With the Cardinals one out away and 
the Giants down to their last strike with Joe Panik at the plate, Rosenthal 
spiked a 3-2 pitch in the dirt that went to the backstop, and pinch-runner 
Matt Duffy was able to score all the way from second base to tie the game 
once again. The Giants couldn't take the lead however, and this was to 
prove decisive as Sergio Romo gave up a walk-off homer to Kolten Wong to 
lead off the bottom of the 9th, and the Cardinals levelled the series at 
1.[19] Sunday, October 12, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Busch Stadium in St. 
Louis, Missouri The Giants starter for Game 3 was Tim Hudson who, at the 
age of 39 was making his first Championship Series start. John Lackey went 
against him, coming off a victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in the Cardinals 
NLDS. Hudson sent the Cardinals down in order in the top of the 1st, and 
Lackey retired the first two Giant hitters in the bottom half. The Giants 
then staged a big two-out rally which, after an RBI double by Hunter Pence, 
was capped off by Travis Ishikawa's bases clearing double to give the Giants 
a 4-0 lead. The wind was blowing fiercely and carried the ball several 
feet away from where Cardinals right-fielder Randal Grichuk expected to 
play the ball. The Cardinals began their efforts to come back in the top 
of the 4th inning. After singles by Jon Jay and Matt Holliday to start 
the inning, Hudson appeared to be working through the trouble as he retired 
the next two hitters, however Kolten Wong hurt the Giants at the plate 
again, this time launching a two-run triple to cut the Giants lead to 2 
runs. Pence had the same problems with the wind in right-field as Grichuk 
had earlier, again being nowhere near the point where the ball eventually 
hit off the bricks. With Lackey settling into a rhythm for the Cardinals, 
they continued to chip away at the Giants lead in the 6th. Jhonny Peralta 
hit a two-out RBI single that created a one-run game. Hudson came back 
out in the 7th inning, and with one out gave up a towering game-tying home-run 
to Grichuk that hit high off the foul pole in left-field. With both starters 
out of the game the bullpens settled in to their work, and sent the game 
to extra innings. In the bottom of the 10th inning, with Randy Choate pitching 
for the Cardinals, Brandon Crawford drew a walk to lead off the inning. 
Juan Pérez was asked to perform a sacrifice bunt, and after fouling off 
two bunt attempts, Pérez ended up swinging the bat and lining a base-hit 
into left. Gregor Blanco was in turn asked to bunt the runners over. At 
the second attempt he got the bunt down, and Choate promptly threw the 
ball past first-base allowing Crawford to score the winning run on the 
throwing error.[20] Tuesday, October 14, 2014 – 4:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T 
Park in San Francisco, California In Game 4, the starting pitchers were 
Ryan Vogelsong for the Giants, and Shelby Miller for the Cardinals. A bout 
of early scoring was started by leadoff man Matt Carpenter, who doubled 
on a ball that was slowed down by a deflection from second-baseman Joe 
Panik, and scored on a single by Matt Adams. The Giants answered immediately 
though in the bottom of the 1st, as Gregor Blanco also had a leadoff double 
go off a fielders' glove, this time a fly-ball that was dropped by Jon 
Jay on the run. Blanco scored on Buster Posey's sacrifice fly to even the 
game. With an eerie similarity to Game 3, a fielding mistake by the Cardinals 
was copied later by the Giants, as Kolten Wong doubled off the glove of 
Blanco to make it three straight leadoff doubles. A. J. Pierzynski, in 
the lineup for the injured Yadier Molina, knocked in Wong as the Cardinals 
took the lead back. The Cardinals added on in the top of the 3rd when, 
with runners at the corners and no outs, Jhonny Peralta grounded into a 
double-play to score a run. Wong then launched his second home-run of the 
series to make it 4-1. That home-run meant the Cardinals had hit six in 
the series, while the Giants hadn't hit any. In the bottom of the third, 
the Giants cancelled out the two scored by the Cardinals in the top half 
of the inning, with two-out RBI singles by Posey and Hunter Pence. Vogelsong 
was taken out of the game, and the bullpen was again superb for the Giants 
as the Cardinals couldn't add to the four runs they had at that point. 
The Cardinals went to their bullpen as well with two outs in the 4th inning. 
After putting runners in scoring position in both the 4th and 5th innings 
and failing to cash in, the Giants rally came in the 6th with the help 
of some more odd plays. With Marco Gonzales pitching for St. Louis, Juan 
Pérez leadoff with a walk and Brandon Crawford followed with a single. 
Matt Duffy laid down a sacrifice bunt to put runners at second and third 
with one out. With the infield playing in, Blanco hit a ground ball to 
Adams at first-base and with Pérez running on contact his off-balance throw 
was too late at the plate and all the runners were safe. The go-ahead run 
scored when Panik hit a hard ground-ball to Adams who stepped on first-base 
for an out and then delivered a loopy throw to Peralta at second for an 
attempted double-play that pulled him off the base, and gave Crawford enough 
time to come home from third. Posey added an insurance run on a single 
off new pitcher Seth Maness. The Giants late inning relief shut down the 
Cardinals, with Santiago Casilla finishing the game with the save.[21] 
Wednesday, October 15, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco, 
California In a rematch of Game 1, Madison Bumgarner and Adam Wainwright 
were the starting pitchers. Just as in Game 4, the lead changed hands quickly 
early in the game. The Cardinals struck first in the top of the 3rd inning, 
when Travis Ishikawa misplayed a fly-ball off the bat of Jon Jay that went 
over his head to score a run for the Cardinals. Bumgarner escaped the inning 
without any further damage. With two outs in the bottom half of the inning, 
Gregor Blanco singled for the second time in as many at-bats, and then 
Joe Panik hit a two-run home run inside the foul-pole in right-field. This 
was Panik's first home-run at AT&T Park and just his second since being 
called up. However, the Cardinals then grabbed the lead right back, as 
Bumgarner surrendered solo shots to both Matt Adams and Tony Cruz to give 
the Cardinals a 3-2 lead. Both starting pitchers then found their rhythm, 
and no more runs were scored until the bottom half of the 8th, as both 
pitchers combined to retire 22 consecutive batters. Wainwright was taken 
out of the game in favour of set-up man Pat Neshek. The Giants too made 
a change as Bumgarner's night was to be over after 8 quality innings. Michael 
Morse stepped in to pinch-hit, and hit a game-tying home run into the corner 
in left field. This was the 5th pinch-hit home run in Giants playoff history. 
Neshek retired the next three hitters to send the game to the 9th inning. 
Santiago Casilla the Giants closer was asked to pitch the ninth, and he 
ended up loading the bases with two outs. Oscar Taveras was announced as 
the pinch-hitter, so Jeremy Affeldt was called in. Affeldt coaxed a chopper 
back to the mound that he took to first base himself to leave the sacks 
full, and send the game to the bottom of the 9th. The Cardinals brought 
in 2013 NLCS MVP Michael Wacha, who was making his first appearance since 
September 26. Pablo Sandoval led off with a single, and with one out Brandon 
Belt drew a four pitch walk. Up stepped Ishikawa, who had been lifted for 
a defensive replacement before the 9th inning in every other game in the 
series. After working the count to 2-0, Ishikawa launched a walk-off three-run 
home run over the high wall in right. Ishikawa became the first player 
in NLCS history to hit a walk-off home run to send his team to the World 
Series.[8] Thursday, October 16, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in 
San Francisco, California Thanks to the days off between the NLCS and the 
World Series, the Giants were able to start their ace Madison Bumgarner 
in back-to-back games, James Shields was on the mound for the Royals. The 
Giants wasted no time in pouncing on Shields in the 1st inning. Gregor 
Blanco led off with a single and Buster Posey had another to put runners 
at the corners with one out. Pablo Sandoval then doubled down the right 
field line to knock in Blanco. Posey was thrown out at home plate trying 
to score for the third time in the postseason as the Giants challenged 
the arm of Norichika Aoki. That brought Hunter Pence to the plate and he 
delivered a big home run to right-center field to give the Giants a 3-run 
inning. The Giants added on in the 4th when Pence doubled to lead off the 
inning and Brandon Belt walked to bring up DH Michael Morse, who singled 
up the middle to knock in Pence and knock out Shields. Danny Duffy was 
brought in to the game and after a sacrifice bunt, walked the next two 
batters, with Blanco picking up an RBI on his base on balls to give the 
Giants a 5-0 lead. Joe Panik tripled in a run past a diving Aoki in the 
7th, and Sandoval drove in another through the drawn-in infield to account 
for the 6th and 7th runs for the Giants. Salvador Pérez homered off Bumgarner 
in the bottom of the 7th, but that was the only run he allowed. Again magnificent, 
he gave up just 3 hits and walked 1 batter in 7 innings. Bumgarner himself 
extended his postseason scoreless streak on the road to a new MLB record 
32 2⁄3 innings, and took over the Giants record for postseason wins with 
6. With their 7-1 victory, the Giants had now won 16 of their last 18 in 
the postseason, and handed Kansas City their first loss of the 2014 postseason.[22] 
Tuesday, October 21, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas 
City, Missouri Jake Peavy was tabbed by the Giants to start Game 2, while 
Yordano Ventura took the mound for the Royals. The game started with a 
bang, as Gregor Blanco lead off the game with a solo home run. The Royals 
hit back immediately however, with a single from Billy Butler tying the 
score in the bottom of the 1st. In the 2nd, the Royals took the lead on 
a double from Alcides Escobar. The Giants came back to tie the game at 
2 thanks to an RBI double off the bat of Brandon Belt in the 4th inning. 
The Giants knocked Ventura out of the game in the 6th, but their attempted 
rally was shut down by Kelvin Herrera. The Giants were also forced to remove 
Peavy in the 6th after the first two men reached base in the inning. However, 
where the Royals bullpen had shut down the Giants, the San Francisco bullpen 
proceeded to melt down. Jean Machi lost the lead and was replaced by Javier 
López who retired the only batter he was allowed to face. Hunter Strickland 
was brought in, and surrendered a 2-run double to Salvador Pérez and then 
a two-run home run to Omar Infante. The benches briefly cleared after Strickland 
took exception to events after the home run was hit. The Royals bullpen 
shut the Giants down the rest of the way, and Kansas City had all the offense 
they needed to win 7-2 and tie the World Series at 1-1.[23] Wednesday, 
October 22, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, 
Missouri Tim Hudson was the starter for the Giants, and Jeremy Guthrie 
for the Royals. At the ages of 39 and 35 respectively, both were making 
their first World Series starts. The Royals took the lead with a run in 
the top of the 1st inning, Alcides Escobar leading off with a double and 
scoring on Lorenzo Cain's RBI groundout. This was a lead they would not 
relinquish, as Guthrie shut the Giants down until the 6th inning. Hudson 
also settled down, but gave up another run on a double by Alex Gordon in 
the 6th and was removed from the game. Eric Hosmer added the third run 
for the Royals with an RBI single off reliever Javier López. The Giants 
did answer back in the bottom half of the inning, with Michael Morse delivering 
another pinch-hit RBI on a double, and after Guthrie was lifted, Buster 
Posey's RBI groundout. The Giants had closed the gap to a one-run game 
but couldn't make any further impression on the Royals bullpen, as Greg 
Holland picked up the save to give Kansas City a 3-2 victory, and the lead 
in the series 2-1.[24] Friday, October 24, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T 
Park in San Francisco In an unpredictable Game 4, Ryan Vogelsong and Jason 
Vargas were the starting pitchers. The early signs were good for the Giants, 
as Gregor Blanco lead off with a walk, advanced on a wild pitch and stole 
third base, coming in to score on Hunter Pence's groundout. Having retired 
Kansas City in the 1st and 2nd innings relatively easily, Vogelsong hit 
a roadblock in the 3rd. He gave up 5 singles, a walk and a stolen base 
as the Royals scored 4 runs to knock him out of the game after recording 
just 8 outs. Buster Posey reduced the gap to 2 runs in the bottom of the 
3rd with a two-out RBI single. Yusmeiro Petit was called on to pitch, and 
he delivered another 3 scoreless innings of relief to hold the Royals at 
4. Petit also had a single despite an .049 career batting average that 
put a runner in scoring position in the 4th, but the Giants couldn't cash 
in. Joe Panik lead off the 5th inning with a double and Royals manager 
Ned Yost took Vargas out of the game. This was to prove a costly decision, 
as Jason Frasor gave up an RBI single to Pence that made it a one-run game. 
Danny Duffy was brought in, but he too struggled allowing a single to Pablo 
Sandoval that moved Pence to 3rd base, and a walk to Brandon Belt to load 
the bases. Juan Pérez hit a sacrifice-fly to tie the game at 4. In the 
6th, Brandon Finnegan was the next Royals reliever to be touched up as 
Sandoval came through again, this time with a bases-loaded two-run single. 
Belt added another run on a single to give the Giants a 7-4 lead. Finnegan 
allowed the first two runners to reach in the 7th, as he was removed from 
the game in favour of Tim Collins. Blanco then attempted to bunt the runners 
over, and Collins threw the ball into him as he was running down the line 
allowing a run to score, the trail runner to 3rd base and Blanco to reach. 
Panik then drove in two more with his second double of the game as the 
Giants hit double digits in runs scored. Pence also doubled to make the 
score 11-4 Giants. Sergio Romo and Hunter Strickland delivered scoreless 
innings to give the Giants the win that tied the series at 2.[25] Saturday, 
October 25, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisco In a rematch 
of Game 1, Madison Bumgarner and James Shields opposed each other on the 
mound. The Giants opened the scoring in the 2nd off Shields, in an inning 
that began with a single from Hunter Pence and a bunted base hit against 
the shift for Brandon Belt. After a deep fly-ball moved both runners up, 
Brandon Crawford grounded out to second base and with the infield playing 
back, Pence scored and the Giants had a 1-0 lead. This was added to in 
the bottom of the 4th, with Crawford again providing the RBI on a base-hit 
to center fielder Jarrod Dyson. Although not ruled an error, Dyson bobbled 
the ball with the runner holding at third base and had the ball been played 
cleanly the run would not have scored on the play. The Giants offense was 
held in check by the Royals pitching until an outburst in the 8th inning 
provided the cushion they were looking for. Pablo Sandoval and Pence hit 
back-to-back singles to start the inning, and with one out Juan Pérez launched 
a double that missed clearing the center field wall for a home run by inches, 
but knocked in two runs. Pérez was allowed to reach third base on an errant 
throw, and Crawford drove him in for his third RBI of the night to make 
the score 5-0 Giants. However, the night was really about Bumgarner. Just 
as in the Wild Card game, he threw a complete-game shutout, allowing just 
4 hits, not walking a batter and striking out 8 and making 117 pitches. 
Bumgarner became just the second pitcher to allow 1 run or fewer in each 
of his first four career World Series starts. The win meant the Giants 
held a 3-2 lead in the series, heading back to Kansas City.[26] Sunday, 
October 26, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at AT&T Park in San Francisc Giants 
starter Jake Peavy was in trouble early on, escaping a jam in the 1st inning. 
He wasn't able to do so in the 2nd. Peavy allowed four singles and a double 
to Mike Moustakas and was removed from the game with the score at 2-0. 
The Giants called upon Yusmeiro Petit to get them out of the inning, however 
Petit only compounded the Giants difficulties. Lorenzo Cain's single scored 
two more runs and Eric Hosmer's double did the same, before Billy Butler 
drove in the 7th and final run of the inning. The game was as good as over 
almost as soon as it began. The Giants had one chance at an unlikely comeback, 
loading the bases in the 3rd inning but Buster Posey grounded into an inning-ending 
double play to end the Giants threat. The Royals continued to tack on to 
their already unassailable lead, Cain doubling in a run in the 3rd, Alcides 
Escobar repeating the dose in the 5th, and Moustakas adding another on 
a home run in the 7th. Whilst the Giants drew 5 walks against Kansas City 
starter Yordano Ventura they couldn't put any runs on the scoreboard against 
him as he pitched 7 scoreless innings. The Royals completed a shutout and 
a crushing 10-0 victory to send the World Series to a deciding Game 7.[27] 
Tuesday, October 28, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas 
City, Missouri In the deciding game of the World Series, Tim Hudson took 
the mound for the Giants setting a new record for the oldest pitcher to 
start a World Series game. Jeremy Guthrie was the starter for the Royals. 
After being sent down in order in the 1st inning, the Giants offense awoke 
in the 2nd. Pablo Sandoval started the inning being hit by a pitch, Hunter 
Pence and Brandon Belt followed with base hits to load the sacks with nobody 
out. Michael Morse and Brandon Crawford produced consecutive sacrifice 
flies to give the Giants a 2-0 lead. The advantage was to be short-lived, 
as Hudson gave up a single to Billy Butler and an RBI double to Alex Gordon. 
Salvador Pérez was drilled by a pitch that forced him to hobble down to 
first base. Mike Moustakas hit a fly-ball to left-field, and Gordon tagged 
up to go to third base, allowing Omar Infante to tie the game with a sacrifice 
fly. Alcides Escobar singled, and that was that for Hudson as the Giants 
were forced to remove a starter before the end of the 2nd inning for two 
straight games. Jeremy Affeldt came into the game and got the Giants out 
of the inning. In the bottom of the 3rd inning, the Giants turned a potentially 
game-changing double play after the leadoff man reached. Joe Panik dived 
to snare a ball hit off the bat of Eric Hosmer, flipped the ball with his 
glove to Crawford who turned the ball over to first base where, after a 
replay review called for by the Giants, Hosmer was ruled out having elected 
to slide head-first. In the top of the 4th, Sandoval and Pence again reached 
to start the inning, and Morse knocked in the go-ahead run off Kelvin Herrera. 
From that point on, the game became all about the pitchers. Affeldt pitched 
the fourth, keyed by another Panik-Crawford-Belt double play, before the 
Giants called upon Madison Bumgarner to hold the lead. The Royals missed 
two chances with a runner in scoring position in the 5th. Bumgarner retired 
12 hitters in a row to send the game into the 9th inning with the Giants 
holding a one-run lead. Instead of electing to use his closer, manager 
Bruce Bochy allowed Bumgarner to go out and pitch the 9th. Hosmer struck 
out and Butler popped up and the Giants were an out away. Gordon hit a 
sinking liner that was misplayed by Gregor Blanco in center field, and 
then bobbled by Juan Pérez and Gordon reached third base. With Salvador 
Pérez batting, Bumgarner induced a pop up that was caught by Sandoval and 
the Giants won the World Series title. Bumgarner's personal performance 
earned him the World Series MVP. Incredibly only three days after making 
117 pitches in shutting out the Royals in Game 5, Bumgarner pitched 5 innings 
of scoreless relief making 68 pitches and not walking a batter. He broke 
the record set by Curt Schilling for the most innings pitched in a single 
postseason.[10] Wednesday, October 29, 2014 – 8:07 p.m. (EDT) at Kauffman 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Stats in bold are team leaders. Pitchers 
are not included in the list. Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = 
Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI 
= Runs batted in; AVG = Batting average; OBP = On-base percentage; SLG 
= Slugging Percentage; OPS = On-base + Slugging percentage SB = Stolen 
bases Stats in bold are team leaders. Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = 
Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; HR = 
