The 2014 American League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
pitting the Baltimore Orioles against the Kansas City Royals for the American 
League pennant and the right to play in the 2014 World Series. The Royals 
won the series four games to zero. The series was the 45th in league history 
with TBS airing all games in the United States. To reach the 2014 ALCS, 
the Orioles (East Division champions, 96–66) defeated the Tigers (Central 
Division champions, 90–72) in the ALDS, 3 games to 0.[1] The Royals (Wild 
Card, 89–73) defeated the Oakland Athletics in the AL Wild Card Game and 
then defeated the Angels (West Division champions, 98–64) in the ALDS, 
3 games to 0.[2] It was the first-ever postseason meeting between the two 
teams. It was the first ALCS since 2005 not to feature the Yankees, Red 
Sox, or Tigers. Kansas City won the series, 4–0. *: postponed from October 
13 due to rain The Royals drew first blood in a back-and-forth opener that 
featured high offensive output from both teams. After hitting just three 
home runs in the regular season,[8] Alcides Escobar hit a one out, solo 
homer to left to give the Royals a 1–0 lead. Later in the inning, with 
the bases loaded, Alex Gordon hit a broken bat, looping fly ball that dropped 
just fair inside the right-field line to plate all three runners. Suddenly, 
it was 4–0 Kansas City. Baltimore got a run back in the bottom of the inning 
on Adam Jones' RBI-single, but it could have been more had it not been 
for a great diving catch by Gordon in the left-center field gap, robbing 
Steven Pearce of a hit. In the bottom of the fifth, after the Royals added 
a run in the top of the frame, the Orioles finally got to James Shields. 
Nelson Cruz added to his postseason legacy with an RBI-double and Ryan 
Flaherty delivered a two-run single to make it a one-run game, 5–4. In 
the sixth, after a walk to Jonathan Schoop and a flare single to right 
by Nick Markakis, Alejandro De Aza hit a high chopper past the pitcher's 
mound that shortstop Escobar had no play on; Schoop scored to tie the game. 
Jones hit what appeared to be a double play ball, but Mike Moustaskas' 
relay throw short-hopped first baseman Eric Hosmer and the inning continued 
to bring up Cruz. He could not deliver the big hit this time as he rolled 
into an inning-ending double play. The game turned to the bullpens, generally 
decided to be a strength for both teams, but in the top of the ninth, Orioles' 
reliever Zach Britton struggled to find the strike zone, walking the first 
three batters; at one point, Britton missed with twelve straight pitches. 
Britton then got out of the jam by getting Hosmer on a force play at home, 
before getting Butler to hit into a double play to keep the game tied heading 
to the bottom of the ninth. Wade Davis finished a strong outing by striking 
out the heart of the Orioles' lineup in the bottom of the ninth, and Game 
1 was headed to extra innings. Alex Gordon's postseason breakout was complete 
when his tenth inning fly landed over the top of the high right-field wall 
to give Kansas City a 6–5 lead, but they weren't done yet. Salvador Perez 
reached on a walk, then Moustakas launched his third home run of the playoffs, 
giving the Royals a three-run lead. Royals' closer Greg Holland got the 
first two outs in the bottom of the tenth, but then gave up a single to 
Flaherty. Pinch-hitter Jimmy Paredes reached on a walk, then Delmon Young 
delivered a pinch-hit single to make it a two-run game. Holland would then 
get Markakis to ground out to second, ending the game. The Royals struck 
first in Game 2 off of Bud Norris when with one out in the first when Nori 
Aoki singled, Lorenzo Cain doubled, and Eric Hosmer singled to score both 
runners. In the bottom of the second, Yordano Ventura walked three batters 
to load the bases for the Orioles before Caleb Joseph's sacrifice fly cut 
the Royals' lead to 2-1. They get the run back in the third when Cain singled 
with two outs, moved to third on Hosmer's single and scored on Billy Butler's 
double. In the bottom of the inning, Alejandro De Aza doubled before Adam 
Jones's two-run home run tied the game. In the fourth, Mike Moustakas's 
home run put the Royals back in front 4-3. The Orioles tied it in the fifth 
when De Aza singled, moved to third on Jones's single, and scored on Nelson 
Cruz's groundout. The Kansas City defense continued their postseason run 
of highlight reel plays in the 6th when Adam Jones led off the inning with 
what appeared to be (at least) a double to the right-center field gap. 
However, Cain made diving catch to retire Jones. Statcast calculated that 
Cain covered 82 feet (25 m) in 3.65 seconds, reaching a top speed of 21.2 
miles per hour (34.1 km/h) on the play.[10] In the 7th, Cain (now playing 
in right field) would make another great catch, with the bases loaded, 
down the right field line to rob J.J. Hardy of at least 2 RBI. The game 
stayed tied until the top of the ninth when Omar Infante hit a leadoff 
single off of Darren O'Day. Terrance Gore came in to pinch-run for Infante 
and moved to second on a sacrifice bunt after Zach Britton relieved O'Day, 
and the speedy runner scored easily on Alcides Escobar's double. After 
Jarrod Dyson reached on an error, Lorenzo Cain's single made it 6-4 Royals. 
Greg Holland threw a scoreless bottom of the ninth for his second save 
of the series. The Orioles struck first in Game 3 on back-to-back doubles 
in the second by Steve Pearce and J.J. Hardy off of Jeremy Guthrie, but 
that would be the only time they led in the series as four relievers threw 
four perfect innings. The Royals loaded the bases in the fourth on two 
singles and a walk off of Wei-Yin Chen before Alex Gordon's groundout tied 
the game. In the sixth, Nori Aoki hit a leadoff single off of Chen, moved 
to third on Eric Hosmer's single one out later, and scored on Billy Butler's 
sacrifice fly. The Royals' 2-1 lead held, with Jason Frasor pitching a 
perfect 6th, Kelvin Herrera a perfect 7th, Wade Davis a perfect 8th, and 
Greg Holland a perfect 9th for the save, putting them one win away from 
the World Series. The Royals continued their postseason streak of highlight 
reel defensive plays, this time highlighted by Mike Moustakas. In the 4th 
he dove and snagged a hard liner from Steve Pearce for an out, but that 
play seemed routine compared to his play in the 6th. Adam Jones popped 
a ball up in foul territory past 3rd base. Moustakas gave chase and caught 
the ball while falling over the railing and into the fan dugout, where 
the loyal Royals fans caught him to prevent him from landing on his head. 
In Game 4, the Royals took a 2-0 lead in the first off of Miguel Gonzalez 
when Alcides Escobar hit a leadoff singled and moved to second on Nori 
Aoki's hit-by-pitch. Lorenzo Cain's sacrifice bunt (the eventual ALCS MVP's 
first ever sacrifice bunt) moved both runners a base before Eric Hosmer 
grounded to first. Baseman Steve Pearce threw the ball to catcher Caleb 
Joseph, but the ball got away, allowing Escobar and Aoki to score. Though 
Gonzalez and the Orioles bullpen shut out the Royals for the rest of the 
game, Jason Vargas and the Kansas City bullpen limited Baltimore to only 
Ryan Flaherty's home run in the third and four hits. The Royals extended 
their postseason win streak to 11 games, dating back to Game 5 of the 1985 
World Series. This win gave Kansas City its first American League Pennant 
since 1985 (and third overall, the most of any AL expansion franchise), 
and for the first time in Major League history, a team won all eight of 
their first postseason games (the previous record was seven, held by the 
2007 Colorado Rockies and the 1976 Cincinnati Reds). The Kansas City 8-game 
postseason winning streak wouldn't be complete without a defensive gem, 
this time provided by multi-time gold-glove left-fielder Alex Gordon. In 
the 5th, J.J. Hardy looked to have an extra-base hit deep to left-center 
field, but Gordon, running full speed, leaped and caught the ball, while 
crashing into the wall for the out. 2014 ALCS (4–0): Kansas City Royals 
