The 2014 American League Wild Card Game was a play-in game during Major 
League Baseball's (MLB) 2014 postseason played between the American League's 
(AL) two wild card teams, the Oakland Athletics and the Kansas City Royals. 
It was held on September 30, 2014. The Royals won by a score of 9–8 in 
12 innings,[1] and advanced to play the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in 
the 2014 American League Division Series.[2] This was the second postseason 
meeting between the Athletics and Royals, having first met in the 1981 
ALDS (Athletics won 3–0). The 12-inning contest tied the record for the 
longest (by innings) "winner-take-all" game in postseason history, shared 
with Game 7 of the 1924 World Series.[3][4] The one-game playoff was touted 
as a duel between the Royals' James Shields and the Athletics' Jon Lester, 
but neither starting pitcher would earn a decision in the game. Oakland's 
Brandon Moss homered early off of Shields with Coco Crisp on base, giving 
the Athletics a 2–0 advantage; Kansas City halved the lead in the bottom 
of the first when Billy Butler singled to score Nori Aoki. Lorenzo Cain 
and Eric Hosmer had RBI hits for the Royals in the third inning, vaulting 
Kansas City to a 3–2 lead. In this third inning, Oakland catcher Geovany 
Soto left the game with a thumb injury sustained in a play at the plate. 
Soto had started the game because he would be more adept at controlling 
the running game of the Royals.[5] This would come back to haunt the Athletics 
later in the game. The fourth and fifth innings were scoreless, but a big 
sixth inning gave Oakland a large lead. Sam Fuld singled to lead off the 
inning, and Shields was relieved by Yordano Ventura after walking Josh 
Donaldson. Ventura's first batter, Moss, belted a three-run homerun to 
give the Athletics a 5-3 lead. After Ventura was relieved by Kelvin Herrera, 
Derek Norris and Crisp singled in two additional runs. Both Oakland and 
Kansas City batted fruitlessly in the seventh inning, and Royals relief 
pitcher Wade Davis recorded three straight outs in the top of the eighth. 
In the bottom of the eighth, with Kansas City six outs away from having 
their season ended, the Royals manufactured a productive inning of their 
own. Alcides Escobar singled, and then stole second base with Nori Aoki 
at the plate. Lorenzo Cain singled, scoring Escobar. Cain stole second 
base himself with Eric Hosmer batting; Hosmer was then walked, at which 
point starting pitcher Jon Lester was relieved by Luke Gregerson. Nerves 
seemed to get the better of Gregerson, who allowed Billy Butler to single 
and score Cain, and then allowed Hosmer to score from third base on a wild 
pitch. After walking Alex Gordon Gregerson struck out the next two batters 
to preserve the Athletics' lead, but the Royals had crept to within one 
run. Closer Greg Holland took the mound for Kansas City and was somewhat 
shaky, walking three batters, but mustered the three required outs without 
major damage, and Kansas City took their one-run deficit to the bottom 
of the ninth. Oakland's closer, Sean Doolittle, pitched in relief of Gregerson. 
Pinch-hitter Josh Willingham hit a bloop single and was replaced by pinch-runner 
Jarrod Dyson. Dyson moved to second base on a successful bunt from Alcides 
Escobar, and then stole third with Aoki at bat. Aoki hit a deep sacrifice 
fly to right field for the second out of the inning, but Dyson was able 
to jog home, tying the game at 7–7 and completing the Royals' four-run 
comeback. Cain lined out to end the inning for Kansas City. Brandon Finnegan, 
who 3 months earlier had pitched for TCU in the College World Series, began 
a strong inning of work in the tenth, replacing Greg Holland and recording 
three outs in quick succession. The Royals advanced Eric Hosmer to third 
base with two outs in the bottom of the tenth, but Salvador Pérez grounded 
out, putting a Royals victory on hold. Finnegan again pitched well in the 
top of the eleventh, allowing only one hit and striking out Brandon Moss, 
who had already hit two home runs. Kansas City's offense produced in the 
bottom of the eleventh a situation identical to that of the tenth; the 
winning run stood 90 feet away with two outs, but Jayson Nix struck out 
to end the inning. Finnegan began the twelfth inning by walking Josh Reddick, 
who advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt by Jed Lowrie. Finnegan was 
then relieved by Jason Frasor. Pinch-hitter Alberto Callaspo of Oakland 
took a wild pitch from Frasor, allowing Reddick to go to third base. Callaspo 
then hit a line drive to left field, scoring Reddick. The new pitcher Frasor 
quickly stopped the bleeding by retiring Derek Norris and Nick Punto, but 
the Athletics had retaken the lead, 8–7. Lorenzo Cain failed to get the 
bottom of the twelfth off to a promising start for Kansas City when he 
grounded out. The Oakland Athletics were two outs away from advancing to 
the ALDS. However, Hosmer nursed a lengthy at-bat into a deep hit off the 
left field wall that was poorly fielded, allowing him to reach third base. 
Christian Colon then managed an infield single to tie the game again, scoring 
Hosmer. Oakland pitcher Dan Otero was replaced by Fernando Abad, who threw 
to only one batter, Gordon, who popped out. Abad was then relieved by Jason 
Hammel. Christian Colon, still on first base, stole second (the 7th steal 
of the game for the Royals) with Pérez at the plate, after a pitchout was 
dropped by Derek Norris. Pérez (who was 0-for-5 at this point) then singled 
down the line to left field, which narrowly missed the outstretched glove 
of Josh Donaldson, scoring Colon and ending the marathon game with a Royals 
victory and a ticket to the ALDS against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. 
Kansas City would go on to sweep Los Angeles in three games of a five game 
series and the Baltimore Orioles in four games of a seven game series before 
losing in seven games to the San Francisco Giants in the 2014 World Series. 
This victory would be the first of four extra-inning victories for the 
Royals in the 2014 Postseason. After the game, many Royals fans considered 
it "The Best Game Ever" in their franchise history because of the incredible 
4-run comeback by Kansas City. It was the Royals' first playoff win in 
29 years. The 2014 Royals were the first team in MLB history to trail going 
