The 2014 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 85th edition of the 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game, held at Target Field in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, the home of the Minnesota Twins.[1][2] This was the third All-Star 
Game played in the Twin Cities; Metropolitan Stadium hosted the game in 
1965, while the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome hosted the game in 1985. It 
was televised in the United States on Fox as part of a new eight-year deal. 
In preparation for the game the Twin Cities' transit company, MetroTransit, 
completed the new METRO Green Line light-rail between downtown Minneapolis 
and downtown Saint Paul, and began service on June 14, 2014.[3] The Chicago 
Cubs were the only other team that made a bid for hosting the 2014 All-Star 
Game.[4] Typically the leagues alternate hosts every year, except for 2006, 
2007, 2015, and 2016, which were hosted by the Pittsburgh Pirates, San 
Francisco Giants, Cincinnati Reds and San Diego Padres, respectively. With 
2014 being the American League's turn, Chicago made a bid hoping an exception 
would be made for the National League Cubs in order to honor the centennial 
of Wrigley Field (which last hosted an All-Star Game in 1990).[5] Balloting 
for the 2014 All-Star Game starters began online April 24 and ended on 
July 3. The top vote-getters at each position (including the designated 
hitter for the American League) and the top three among outfielders, were 
named the starters for their respective leagues. The results were announced 
on July 6. After the rosters were finalized, a second ballot of five players 
per league was created for the All-Star Final Vote to determine the 34th 
and final player of each roster. The online balloting was conducted from 
July 6 through July 10. The American League took a 3–0 lead in the first 
inning on a Derek Jeter double, a Mike Trout triple and a Miguel Cabrera 
home run. The NL scored two runs in the second with three consecutive hits 
by Aramis Ramirez, Chase Utley and Jonathan Lucroy against Jon Lester. 
Lucroy tied the game at three in the fourth with another RBI double. The 
American League took a 5–3 lead in the 5th on a Trout double and a Jose 
Altuve sacrifice fly. The lead held up and the AL won by the score of 5–3.[7] 
Umpires:Home Plate - Gary Cederstrom (crew chief); First Base - Jeff Nelson; 
Second Base - Bob Davidson; Third Base - Scott Barry; Left Field - Todd 
Tichenor; Right Field - Vic Carapazza Weather: Temperature: 72 °F (22 °C), 
partly cloudy; Wind: 11 mph, in from left field Time of Game: 3:13 Attendance: 
41,048 In postgame interviews, pitcher Adam Wainwright suggested that he 
intentionally gave Derek Jeter some easy pitches to hit, knowing that it 
was the Yankee shortstop's final All-Star appearance before retiring at 
the end of the season. Because the American League took a 3–0 lead in the 
first inning partly because of Jeter's double off of Wainwright, some writers 
questioned the integrity of the rule awarding home field advantage in the 
