The 2014 World Series was the 110th edition of the Major League Baseball 
(MLB) championship series, a best-of-seven playoff between the National 
League (NL) champion San Francisco Giants and the American League (AL) 
champion Kansas City Royals. The Giants defeated the Royals four games 
to three to clinch their third World Series championship in a five-season 
span (2010–14), and their third overall since the club's move to San Francisco 
from New York.[note 1] It was the Giants' eighth World Series championship 
in franchise history. The Giants won Game 1 behind a strong pitching performance 
by Madison Bumgarner while the Royals won Games 2 and 3 as their pitchers 
limited San Francisco to 2 runs per game. The Giants won Games 4 and 5, 
thanks to 11 runs in Game 4 and Bumgarner's complete game shutout in Game 
5. Kansas City tied the series in Game 6, shutting out San Francisco and 
scoring 10 runs, which forced a Game 7. The Giants won the final game, 
3–2, thanks to timely hitting, including the game-winning RBI by Michael 
Morse to score Pablo Sandoval. Bumgarner pitched five shutout innings in 
relief on two days' rest to clinch the championship, claiming the series 
MVP award. The Royals made their third World Series appearance in franchise 
history, the others being in 1980, when they lost to the Philadelphia Phillies 
in six games, and 1985, when they defeated the St. Louis Cardinals in seven 
games. The Royals entered the 2014 World Series after defeating the Oakland 
Athletics 9–8 in the AL Wild Card game,[2] sweeping the Los Angeles Angels 
of Anaheim in three games in the ALDS,[3] and sweeping the Baltimore Orioles 
in four games in the ALCS.[4] They were the first team to enter a World 
Series with an 8–0 record in that year's postseason and only the second 
to enter the World Series undefeated in the postseason since the creation 
of the Wild Card in 1994.[note 2] The Giants made their third World Series 
appearance in five years, having won in 2010 and 2012, their 20th appearance 
overall, and their sixth appearance since moving to San Francisco from 
New York City in 1958. The Giants defeated the Pittsburgh Pirates 8–0 in 
the NL Wild Card game,[5] the Washington Nationals in four games in the 
NLDS 3 games to 1,[6] and the St. Louis Cardinals in five games in the 
NLCS 4 games to 1 [7] (in the process denying a rematch of the 1985 World 
Series). The World Series was the Giants' second trip to Kauffman Stadium 
in 2014, as the Royals had swept them in a three-game series on August 
8–10. The Royals had home field advantage in this World Series as a result 
of the American League's 5–3 victory in the 2014 All-Star Game. During 
that game, the American League took a 3–0 lead in the first inning, aided 
by New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter's double off of St. Louis Cardinals 
pitcher Adam Wainwright. In post-game interviews, Wainwright suggested 
that he intentionally gave Jeter some easy pitches to hit, knowing that 
it was the Yankees shortstop's final All-Star appearance before retiring 
at the end of the season. This caused several writers to question the integrity 
of the rule awarding home field advantage in the World Series to the winning 
league in the All-Star Game.[8][9] San Francisco won the series, 4–3. Both 
teams sent their respective aces to the mound for Game 1: James Shields 
for the Royals and Madison Bumgarner for the Giants. The Giants scored 
the first run in the opening inning when a Pablo Sandoval double scored 
Gregor Blanco from second base, though Buster Posey was thrown out at home. 
The next batter, Hunter Pence, hit a home run to center field, which also 
scored Sandoval to give the Giants a three-run lead. The Royals did not 
threaten until the third inning. Omar Infante reached on an error by Giants' 
shortstop Brandon Crawford, and Mike Moustakas hit a double down the line 
to move Infante to third. Bumgarner struck out both Alcides Escobar and 
Norichika Aoki, but walked Lorenzo Cain to load the bases. Eric Hosmer 
grounded out to second base on the first pitch to end the threat. The Giants 
threatened again in the top of the fourth when Pence doubled, went to third 
on a wild pitch, and Brandon Belt walked. Michael Morse then singled to 
score the fourth run of the game, which knocked Shields out of the game. 
Danny Duffy was brought in. After allowing a sacrifice bunt to Juan Pérez 
(who pinch hit for Travis Ishikawa), Duffy allowed two straight walks to 
Crawford and Blanco, bringing the fifth run in for the Giants. He retired 
the next two batters to end the inning. The score remained 5–0 until the 
top of the seventh, when Blanco drew another walk. Joe Panik hit a ball 
to right fielder Aoki, which he misplayed, allowing Blanco to score and 
Panik to reach third. Tim Collins was brought in and allowed a single to 
Sandoval after Posey lined out, which was the seventh and final run for 
San Francisco. The Royals scored their only run on a Salvador Pérez solo 
home run with two outs off Bumgarner, which proved to be the only run given 
up by Bumgarner in the series. That homer also ended Bumgarner's consecutive 
scoreless innings streak in the World Series at 21, second only to Giants 
Hall of Famer Christy Mathewson who went 28.[18] Collins and Jason Frasor 
each pitched scoreless innings for the Royals, while Javier López and Hunter 
Strickland closed out the game for the Giants with scoreless eighth and 
ninth innings. The loss was Kansas City's first of the 2014 postseason, 
following eight consecutive wins in the Wild Card Game, ALDS and ALCS. 
This also snapped the Royals' franchise postseason winning streak at 11 
games dating back to the 1985 World Series.[19] Kansas City sent rookie 
Yordano Ventura to the mound in an attempt to even the series. San Francisco 
countered with Jake Peavy. The Giants scored first on a lead-off home run 
by Gregor Blanco, this would turn out to be the last home run the Giants 
would hit in this series. Alcides Escobar singled leading off the Royals' 
first but was thrown out trying to steal second base. The Royals, however, 
tied up the game on a Lorenzo Cain double, Eric Hosmer walk and a Billy 
Butler single, all with two outs. The Royals gained the lead in the bottom 
of the second inning on doubles by Omar Infante and Escobar, but the Giants 
tied the game on doubles by Pablo Sandoval and Brandon Belt. Belt got doubled 
off when Michael Morse flied out to right fielder Norichika Aoki, who threw 
to Ventura, who threw to Infante, thus ending the inning. In the top of 
the sixth inning, both Buster Posey and Hunter Pence singled, knocking 
Ventura out of the game. Kelvin Herrera was brought in and got the last 
two outs to end the inning. Kansas City regained the lead in the bottom 
of the sixth inning as Cain singled to center and Hosmer walked, prompting 
Bruce Bochy to take out Peavy and put in Jean Machi. Butler singled to 
left, which drove in Cain and gave the Royals the lead. He was replaced 
for a pinch runner in Terrance Gore. Javier López was brought in to face 
Alex Gordon, whom he retired. Hunter Strickland was then brought in. A 
wild pitch advanced the runners to second and third. Salvador Pérez hit 
a double to left-center to drive in both runners. Infante then hit a two-run 
home run to left field, bringing the score to 7–2 Royals. Tensions began 
to rise as Strickland and Perez got into a shouting match as Perez was 
crossing home plate. Both dugouts cleared but the umpiring crew managed 
to calm the situation down. Jeremy Affeldt came in and allowed a single 
to Mike Moustakas but then induced a double play from Escobar to end the 
inning. Herrera returned for the seventh inning. He struck out Travis Ishikawa 
but allowed consecutive walks to Brandon Crawford and Blanco. He then retired 
the last two batters to end the Giants's seventh. Tim Lincecum pitched 
1 2⁄3 innings for the Giants, but left the game due to an injury and Santiago 
Casilla faced Lincecum's last batter in the eighth. Wade Davis pitched 
a perfect eighth, and Greg Holland struck out the side in the ninth around 
a hit to end the game and secure the victory for the Royals. The series 
shifted to San Francisco for Game 3. Tim Hudson started his first career 
World Series game, as did Royals' starter Jeremy Guthrie. The Royals scored 
first when Alcides Escobar doubled to lead off the game and came around 
to score on groundouts by Alex Gordon and Lorenzo Cain. Kansas City mounted 
a rally when Mike Moustakas singled and Omar Infante walked, but Hudson 
ended the threat with a lineout and a double play. Both pitchers settled 
down until the sixth inning. The Royals started another threat in the top 
of the sixth inning. Escobar singled with one out. Gordon then doubled 
to center field to score Escobar and increase the Royals' lead. Cain grounded 
to third for the second out, and Bruce Bochy brought in southpaw Javier 
Lopez to face the left-handed hitting Eric Hosmer. Hosmer battled an eleven 
pitch at-bat with Lopez until finally singling to center to score Gordon 
for what would end up being the game-winning RBI. Lopez retired Moustakas 
to end the inning. The Giants responded with two runs in the bottom of 
the inning. Brandon Crawford singled and Michael Morse doubled, scoring 
Crawford, and causing the Royals to replace Guthrie with Kelvin Herrera. 
Herrera walked Gregor Blanco to put runners on first and second. After 
Joe Panik grounded out to advance the runners to second and third, Buster 
Posey then hit an RBI groundout scoring Morse and cutting the Giants' deficit 
to one. Pablo Sandoval then grounded out to Hosmer to end the inning. Sergio 
Romo pitched a scoreless seventh for the Giants. Herrera walked Hunter 
Pence to lead off the inning, but struck out Brandon Belt. Brandon Finnegan 
was then brought in for the Royals, which also made him the first rookie 
pitcher to pitch in the College World Series and the World Series in the 
same year. He retired the last two batters to end the seventh. Romo struck 
out the first batter of the eighth inning. Jeremy Affeldt came in for the 
Giants and retired Gordon and Cain. Wade Davis retired the side in order 
in the bottom of the eighth. Affeldt retired the first two batters of the 
ninth. Santiago Casilla came in and retired the last batter. Greg Holland 
was brought in to save the game for the Royals. He retired the middle of 
the Giants lineup in order and saved the game for the Royals, giving them 
a 2–1 series lead. This was only the second World Series loss at home for 
the Giants since AT&T Park opened in 2000, and the first since Game 3 of 
the 2002 Series. Holland saved his record-tying seventh game of the playoffs, 
tying John Wetteland, Robb Nen, Troy Percival, Brad Lidge, and Koji Uehara 
for most ever. The Giants sent Ryan Vogelsong to the mound, while the Royals 
sent Jason Vargas. The Giants scored in the bottom of the first inning 
when Gregor Blanco walked, advanced to second on a wild pitch, stole third 
base, and scored on a fielder's choice off the bat of Hunter Pence. The 
Royals countered in the top of the third inning where they batted around. 
Alcides Escobar singled with one out. Alex Gordon grounded into a forceout 
for the second out of the inning, then stole second base. Consecutive infield 
singles by Lorenzo Cain and Eric Hosmer brought Gordon home to tie the 
game. Mike Moustakas then walked to load up the bases. Omar Infante singled 
to center to score Cain and Hosmer to make it 3–1 Royals. Salvador Pérez 
followed with another single to score Moustakas and knock Vogelsong out 
of the game. Jean Machi came in and walked Jarrod Dyson, but struck out 
the pitcher with the bases loaded to end the threat. The Giants scored 
a run in the bottom of the inning when pinch hitter Matt Duffy singled, 
advanced to second on a groundout, and scored on a single to left field 
by Buster Posey. Yusmeiro Petit pitched three scoreless innings starting 
with the fourth to keep the Royals off the board. After the Royals failed 
to do anything with a lead-off double from Hosmer in the top of the 5th, 
the Giants tied the game in the bottom of the inning. Joe Panik started 
the inning with a double to right-center, which knocked Vargas out of the 
game. Jason Frasor was brought in. A groundout moved Panik to third, and 
he scored on a single to center by Hunter Pence. Danny Duffy replaced Frasor 
in the game. Pablo Sandoval singled and Brandon Belt walked to load the 
bases. Juan Pérez hit a sinking liner to center, but it was caught by a 
diving Jarrod Dyson. Pence tagged up at third and scored the tying run. 
Duffy struck out Brandon Crawford to end the inning. San Francisco gained 
the lead in the bottom of the sixth. Brandon Finnegan replaced Duffy. Pinch 
hitter Joaquín Árias and Blanco both singled to lead off the inning. Panik 
bunted to move the runners over to second and third. Finnegan intentionally 
walked Posey to load the bases and set up a force play at any base. Hunter 
Pence hit the ball to shortstop Escobar, who threw home for the forceout. 
However, Sandoval singled to center to score Blanco and Posey, giving the 
Giants a two-run lead. Belt hit another single to center which scored Pence 
to score the third run of the inning. Perez grounded out to end the inning. 
Jeremy Affeldt pitched a scoreless seventh for the Giants. Finnegan started 
the Giants' seventh by allowing an infield single to Crawford and a walk 
to pinch-hitter Michael Morse, knocking him out of the game. Tim Collins 
was then brought in. He fielded a bunt ground ball by Blanco, but threw 
the ball away, allowing Crawford to score. Panik then hit a double to center 
field to score both Morse and Blanco. After Posey grounded out, Pence doubled 
to left field, scoring Panik, and giving the Giants' their eleventh and 
final run of the game. Sergio Romo pitched a scoreless eighth for the Giants, 
as did Collins for the Royals. Hunter Strickland allowed a double to Gordon 
in the ninth inning, but he did not score, as Hosmer grounded out to end 
the game.[23] In this game, the Giants set a Series record for NL teams 
by getting hits from 11 different players. Of the 16 total hits, 13 were 
singles. Madison Bumgarner became the first pitcher to record a complete 
game shutout in a World Series game since Josh Beckett did so for the Florida 
Marlins in Game 6 of the 2003 World Series, and the first Giants pitcher 
to accomplish the feat since Jack Sanford in Game 2 of the 1962 World Series. 
Bumgarner only allowed four hits, recorded eight strikeouts and no walks. 
When Bumgarner did allow a hit, he shut down the Royals after that by coming 
up with 6 of his 8 strikeouts immediately after allowing a hit.[25] The 
only time that the Giants pitcher allowed the Royals to get into scoring 
position was Omar Infante's one-out double in the fifth inning, but Bumgarner 
then struck out the next two Kansas City batters. This was the third straight 
game in which neither team hit a home run, the first such occurrence in 
a World Series since 1948.[26][27] The Giants opened the scoring in the 
second, starting with Hunter Pence's single and Brandon Belt's bunt base 
hit. After Travis Ishikawa flied out to center to advance both runners, 
Brandon Crawford grounded out to second, with Pence scoring. Crawford then 
recorded an RBI single to right in the fourth, allowing Pablo Sandoval 
to score from second base to give San Francisco a 2–0 lead. Kansas City 
starter James Shields was relieved by Kelvin Herrera after pitching six 
innings. Herrera kept the score at 2–0 in the seventh. But in the eighth, 
Sandoval and Pence led off with back-to-back singles, and Herrera was then 
relieved by Wade Davis. Juan Pérez hit a one-out double, scoring Sandoval 
and Pence, with Pérez reaching third base on a throwing error by Royals 
shortstop Alcides Escobar. Pérez had learned of his friend Oscar Taveras 
having died in the middle of the game and broke down in tears. He dedicated 
the double to Oscar, posting a tweet. Crawford then recorded his third 
RBI of the game with a single to left to score Pérez to make it 5–0. The 
Royals scored seven runs in the second inning en route to a 10–0 win and 
forcing a Game 7. Kansas City starter Yordano Ventura in memory of his 
lost friend Oscar Taveras pitched seven innings, allowing only three Giants 
hits.[29] Royals hitters knocked out San Francisco starter Jake Peavy after 
1 1⁄3 innings. After Alex Gordon and Salvador Pérez led off the second 
with back-to-back singles, Mike Moustakas hit an RBI double to score Gordon. 
After Omar Infante struck out for the first out with runners on second 
and third, Alcides Escobar reached base safely on an infield hit, where 
firstbaseman Brandon Belt hesitated to make sure Perez didn't try to head 
home, which allowed Escobar to slide safely to first. Now with the bases 
loaded Nori Aoki recorded an RBI single to score Pérez, which ended Peavy's 
night. Yusmeiro Petit replaced Peavy on the mound, and allowed a single 
by Lorenzo Cain, and doubles by Eric Hosmer and Billy Butler that scored 
five more Kansas City runs to make the score 7–0. Cain then hit an RBI 
ground rule double in the third, Escobar an RBI double in the fifth, and 
Moustakas a home run in the seventh.[30] The solo shot from Moustakas was 
his fifth homer of the postseason, which broke Willie Aikens' franchise 
record of 4 home runs in a single postseason.[31] Although Giants starter 
Tim Hudson failed to make it past the bottom of the second inning after 
giving up two runs, reliever Jeremy Affeldt and series MVP Madison Bumgarner 
shut out the Kansas City offense the rest of the game, as the Giants held 
on for a tense 3–2 victory. After a scoreless first inning, the Giants 
struck first in the top of the second inning. Pablo Sandoval reached on 
an infield single and Hunter Pence and Brandon Belt each singled to load 
the bases with nobody out. Michael Morse hit a sacrifice fly to right that 
scored Sandoval and moved Pence to third. Brandon Crawford followed with 
another sacrifice fly to center that scored Pence, giving the Giants a 
2–0 lead. The Royals immediately struck back in the bottom of the second. 
Billy Butler came through with a single and then an Alex Gordon double 
managed to score the slow-running Butler from first. Salvador Perez was 
hit by a pitch from Hudson on the knee, which put the now hobbled Perez 
on first. Mike Moustakas advanced Gordon to third and then the Royals tied 
the game on a sacrifice fly by Omar Infante. After Alcides Escobar singled 
to put two men on with two outs, manager Bruce Bochy brought in Jeremy 
Affeldt, who retired Nori Aoki to end the threat. Affeldt pitched a scoreless 
third inning, with excellent defensive help by Giants rookie second baseman 
Joe Panik on a key double play. With a runner on first and no outs, Panik 
made a diving stop on a ball hit up the middle by Eric Hosmer and then 
flipped the ball from his glove while still on the ground to Crawford at 
second base, who quickly threw over to Belt at first. Hosmer made a diving 
slide into first instead of running through the bag. Although first base 
umpire Eric Cooper initially ruled that Hosmer was safe, Giants manager 
Bruce Bochy challenged the umpire's call. After a two-minute and fifty-seven 
second video review, the call was overturned. That play became the first 
successful challenge by a manager in a World Series.[33] In the top of 
the fourth inning, Sandoval reached on an infield single and moved to third 
after Pence singled and Belt flied out to left. Manager Ned Yost brought 
in Kelvin Herrera to face Michael Morse, but Morse fought off an 0–2 pitch 
and looped a broken-bat single to right field to score Sandoval, giving 
the Giants a 3–2 lead. After Affeldt pitched a scoreless bottom of the 
fourth, the Giants brought in Madison Bumgarner on two days' rest to protect 
their one-run lead in the fifth. Bumgarner promptly gave up a base hit 
to Infante, but that would be the last baserunner Bumgarner allowed until 
the ninth inning. Bumgarner would hold the Royals scoreless over the final 
five innings, earning the longest save in World Series history.[34] After 
allowing that single to Omar Infante in the fifth inning, Bumgarner retired 
14 batters in a row. The game ended in dramatic fashion when, with 2 outs, 
Alex Gordon of the Royals lined an 87-mph slider to left-center field. 
Centerfielder Gregor Blanco misplayed the ball, and it rolled to the wall. 
Left-fielder Juan Perez had trouble grabbing the ball, which allowed Gordon 
to reach third base as the potential tying run, on a base hit and error 
combination. (After the game, there was much discussion among fans and 
statisticians about the decision by third-base coach, Mike Jirschele, not 
to wave Gordon home in an attempt to tie the game.)[35][36] With the tying 
run 90-feet away Bumgarner faced Salvador Pérez who had the game-winning 
hit in the AL Wild Card Game on his resume. Bumgarner decided to throw 
high, inside fastballs to Perez, which are the easiest to see and the hardest 
to hit.[37] Bumgarner threw 6 pitches—all fastballs—to Perez, which finally 
induced a foul popup that was caught by Pablo Sandoval to end the game, 
series, and baseball season.[38] Bumgarner was initially credited with 
the win, which would have given him a 3-0 record in the series, the first 
since Randy Johnson in the 2001 World Series. However, following deliberation 
among the official scorers, it was decided that Affeldt by rule was entitled 
to the win.[39] 2014 World Series (4–3): San Francisco Giants (NL) beat 
Kansas City Royals (AL) In all but one of the seven games, the team that 
scored first went on to win; the exception was in Game 2. Similarly, statistics 
show this pattern of scoring first to win has prevailed in 67% of Series 
Game-7 outcomes, as it did here after the victorious Giants scored in the 
top of the second. Fox broadcast the series in the United States (simulcast 
in Canada on Sportsnet), with play-by-play announcer Joe Buck calling the 
action along with color analysts Harold Reynolds and Tom Verducci and field 
reporters Ken Rosenthal and Erin Andrews. This was the first World Series 
telecast for Reynolds and Verducci, who replaced longtime Fox analyst Tim 
McCarver after the latter's retirement from the network following the 2013 
World Series.[40] Kevin Burkhardt hosted the pre-game and post-game shows 
with analysts Gabe Kapler, Frank Thomas, and Nick Swisher; David Ortiz 
joined them for Games 1 and 2. Fox Deportes offered a Spanish-language 
telecast of the series, with Pablo Alsina, Duaner Sánchez, and José Tolentino 
commentating. MLB International televised the series outside the U.S. and 
Canada, with Gary Thorne and Rick Sutcliffe announcing.[41] The World Series 
started on a Tuesday for the first time since 1990, instead of a Wednesday 
as in previous years.[42][43][note 3] The 2014 World Series averaged a 
national Nielsen rating of 8.3/14, making it the second-worst rated World 
Series in Major League Baseball history (after the 2012 series).[44] Through 
six games, the series was averaging 7.4, which would have made it the worst-rated 
World Series, but Game 7 produced a respectable 13.7 to bolster the series 
average enough to avoid the notorious distinction.[note 4] The 2014 World 
Series set records for lowest-rated Games 1, 4, 5, 6, and 7 in World Series 
history. The previous Game 7 in World Series history occurred in 2011, 
when the St. Louis Cardinals and Texas Rangers produced a 14.7 rating, 
a full 1.0 over 2014's Game 7. This was the fifth consecutive World Series 
(and the sixth in seven years) to earn a national rating under 10.0.[note 
5] ESPN Radio aired the series, with Dan Shulman on play-by-play and Aaron 
Boone handling color commentary. Marc Kestecher anchored pre- and post-game 
coverage for the network along with Jon Sciambi, Chris Singleton and Peter 
Pascarelli. ESPN Deportes Radio offered a Spanish-language broadcast, with 
Eduardo Ortega announcing along with Renato Bermúdez, Armando Talavera 
and José Francisco Rivera.[46] Locally, the series was broadcast on the 
teams' flagship radio stations with their respective announcing crews. 
In San Francisco, KNBR aired the games in English (with Jon Miller, Duane 
Kuiper, Mike Krukow and Dave Flemming announcing),[47] while KTRB broadcast 
in Spanish (with Erwin Higueros and Tito Fuentes announcing). In Kansas 
City, KCSP broadcast the games (with Denny Matthews and Ryan Lefebvre announcing). 
Due to contractual obligations, the affiliate stations on the teams' radio 
networks had to carry the ESPN Radio feed of the games,[48] although the 
local broadcasts were also available on Sirius and XM satellite radio and 
to Gameday Audio subscribers at MLB.com. In Kansas City, WHB carried the 
ESPN Radio feed in direct competition with KCSP's broadcast. This was the 
first World Series for which Jon Miller, who had been the Giants' primary 
radio announcer since 1997, called the final, championship-clinching out 
to a local San Francisco audience.[citation needed][note 6] This was the 
second World Series in history in which two wild card teams faced each 
other. The first being the 2002 World Series between the Giants and the 
Anaheim Angels[note 7] It was the first World Series to involve a team 
(let alone two) that played in the additional wild card game instituted 
in 2012. Consequently, by winning, the Giants set the record for most victories 
in a single postseason with 12. This was also only the second World Series 
since 2002 to go to seven games.[note 8] Additionally, this was the first 
World Series in which both teams played in a play-in game[note 9] since 
the Division Series was added in 1994. It was also the first time in World 
Series history (after the advent of the 162-game schedule) that the opponents 
both had fewer than 90 wins in the regular season.[note 10] It was the 
first Series in history in which at least five games were decided by five 
or more runs.[49] It was the third World Series to end in Game 7 with the 
tying run on third base, after 1946 and 1962.[50] The Giants became the 
first road team to win Game 7 of the World Series since the 1979 Pirates, 
ending a string of nine straight home team victories in the deciding game.[51] 
The Giants were also the first team to come back to win Game 7 after losing 
Game 6 since the 1997 Marlins as well as the first road team to do since 
the 1975 Reds.[52] It was the Giants' first ever Game 7 victory in a best-of-seven 
World Series.[note 11] The victory wrapped up the Giants' third championship 
in five seasons, a feat not accomplished by a National League team since 
the St. Louis Cardinals in 1942, 1944, and 1946. The Giants became the 
fifth franchise to win at least three titles in five years (or fewer), 
joining the Athletics, Cardinals, Red Sox, and Yankees.[53][54][55] Manager 
Bruce Bochy became the tenth manager in MLB history to win three championships, 
with the previous nine all inducted into the Hall of Fame.[note 12][56][57] 
Earlier in the postseason, both teams extended their record streaks of 
victories in postseason elimination games to seven in their respective 
wild card games.[note 13] The Royals extended their streak to eight games 
with their victory in Game 6.[58] With their victory in Game 7, the Giants 
also extended their streak to eight games and consequently ended the Royals 
streak. The Giants extended their streak of postseason series wins to ten, 
extending the National League record, a streak surpassed only by the New 
York Yankees from 1998–2001 (11 consecutive series wins).[59] Madison Bumgarner 
pitched 21 innings in the 2014 World Series and allowed just one run, giving 
him a series ERA of just 0.43,[60] the lowest since Sandy Koufax's 0.38 
ERA in the 1965 World Series.[61] In the World Series, Bumgarner pitched 
more than one-third of the 61 innings thrown by the Giants.[53][62] Bumgarner 
set a new World Series record for lowest career ERA with 0.25 (minimum 
25 innings pitched), besting Jack Billingham's 0.36 career ERA.[63] Bumgarner's 
52 2⁄3 innings pitched in the postseason set a new record, surpassing Curt 
Schilling's 48 1⁄3 innings pitched in 2001.[64] Despite rainy weather, 
hundreds of thousands of fans turned out for the Giants' victory parade 
in San Francisco on October 31, 2014.[65] The Giants continued their pattern 
of winning the World Series in even-numbered years and missing the postseason 
in odd-numbered years, failing to make the playoffs in the 2015 season 
with an 84–78 record. Despite a successful season from Madison Bumgarner, 
San Francisco was unable to return to the playoffs due to numerous injuries 
and a below-par performance from its pitching staff.[66][67] The Royals 
carried over their momentum from the previous fall, winning the American 
League Central the very next season. This was Kansas City's first division 
title since 1985, when they won the American League West. Their 95–67 record 
was the best in the American League, and the Royals' best since 1980.[68] 
Kansas City would go on to return to the World Series, where they defeated 
the New York Mets four games to one, making them the first team since the 
1989 Oakland Athletics to win the World Series after losing the previous 
