The 2014 Canadian Football League season was the 61st season of modern 
Canadian professional football. It was the 57th season of the league. Vancouver 
hosted the 102nd Grey Cup on November 30. The league expanded to nine teams 
with the addition of the Ottawa Redblacks, giving the CFL nine teams for 
the first time since the 2005 season. As a result of the expansion, the 
schedule shifted to a 20-week regular season plus three weeks of playoffs 
(including the Grey Cup); the season started on June 26, 2014. The collective 
bargaining agreement between the CFL and the CFL Players' Association (CFLPA) 
expired on May 29, 2014. With a new and more lucrative television contract 
with TSN beginning this season,[1] revenue distribution was a major sticking 
point in CBA negotiations. Unlike other professional sports leagues in 
North America, the CFL salary cap is not tied to league revenues. The league 
had offered to raise the previous $4.4 million (CAD) salary cap to $5 million, 
with further increases of $50,000 for each subsequent year. The players' 
union originally countered with a proposal that would have increased the 
cap to $6.24 million in 2014 with the cap in subsequent years being calculated 
as a percentage of league revenues, but CFL Commissioner Mark Cohon had 
said the league would never agree to such a formula. The CFLPA then withdrew 
its demand for revenue sharing and put forth a proposal that would have 
increased the cap to $5.8 million with 3% annual increases and a $4.8 million 
salary floor that would increase with the cap, but this offer was also 
rejected by the league. The CFLPA had indicated that it would not play 
the 2014 season under the terms of the expired agreement. After negotiations 
broke down on May 21, the CFLPA began preparations for a strike vote. Had 
the players gone on strike, it would have been only the second work stoppage 
in CFL history and possibly the first to have caused the cancellation of 
regular season games. It would also have been the first work stoppage in 
North American professional sports in almost 20 years to be initiated by 
players, since all such labour disputes since the 1994–95 Major League 
Baseball strike have been owners' lockouts. The first CFL strike, in 1974, 
occurred during training camp and was settled before the regular season 
began. On June 7, the CFL and CFLPA announced that they had reached a tentative 
labour agreement, pending ratification by the players and owners.[2] The 
agreement was ratified by the players on June 12.[3] The new collective 
bargaining agreement will be in place until May 15, 2019 or the first day 
training camp in 2019, whichever comes later. However, if the nine member 
clubs' total aggregate revenues increase by more than $27 million in any 
year starting in 2016, both sides will renegotiate the salary cap. The 
salary cap for the 2014 season is set at $5 million per team, a 13.6% increase 
from the previous season, with the salary floor set at $4.4 million. Both 
figures will increase by $50,000 each year until 2018. The minimum salary 
per player increased by $5000 to $50,000 and will increase by $1000 each 
year until 2018.[3] The game-day roster increased from 42 players to 44 
players, with 46 players still being named to the active roster, meaning 
the reserve roster decreased from four to two players. The practice roster 
for teams also increased from seven to ten players in the Summer and from 
12 to 15 players in the Fall. The nine-game injury list was replaced with 
a six-game injury list, while retaining the option of removing two players 
early from the list. Clubs are also permitted to keep players on the list 
past the six games and not have their salaries count against the salary 
cap. The league has also removed the option-year clause on contracts for 
veteran players, making it possible for players to sign one-year contracts. 
Rookie players must still have option years on their contracts.[3] This 
is the first season of play for the Ottawa Redblacks, as the CFL returned 
to the city of Ottawa for the first time since 2005 when the Ottawa Renegades 
suspended operations during the following off-season.[4][5] The team was 
able to sign players starting on the day after the 101st Grey Cup on November 
25, 2013 and an expansion draft for the club was held on December 16, 2013.[6] 
The 2013 CFL Expansion Draft allowed the RedBlacks to select one import[Note 
1] and two non-import[Note 1] players from each of the eight existing member 
clubs. Additionally, after selecting four players in the 2013 CFL Draft, 
the RedBlacks fully participated in the 2014 CFL Draft, with the first 
picks in each of the draft's seven rounds.[7] Their first regular season 
game was in Winnipeg on July 3, while their first regular season home game 
took place against the Toronto Argonauts on July 18.[8] The RedBlacks play 
in the CFL East Division, after the Winnipeg Blue Bombers moved to the 
CFL West Division.[9] Similar to the previous two times the league changed 
to a nine-team league, in 1996 and 2002, Winnipeg immediately moved to 
the west. There was earlier speculation that Winnipeg would continue to 
be an East Division team, due to the CFL's board of governors' desire to 
have long-term stability.[10] However, due to the desire of the Blue Bombers 
organization to return to the West Division, the switch was made for the 
2014 season.[11] Since the creation of the Canadian Football League in 
1958, the Blue Bombers spent the first 29 seasons in the West Division, 
but 21 of the last 27 seasons in the East. The regular season schedule 
consists of 81 games played over 20 weeks, with 19 weeks featuring four 
games and week 8 featuring five games. Each team has two bye weeks except 
for the Toronto Argonauts, which will have three bye weeks since they are 
the only team scheduled to play two games in one week. In terms of team 
matchups, each team will play two divisional opponents three times and 
every other team twice. Each West Division team will play 10 divisional 
games, while each East Division team will play eight divisional games. 
The playoffs begin on November 16 and the 102nd Grey Cup will be played 
on November 30 at BC Place Stadium in Vancouver.[12] The schedule was announced 
on February 12, 2014 with the Winnipeg Blue Bombers hosting the league 
opener for the second consecutive season on June 26.[13] The Grey Cup champions 
hosted a Grey Cup rematch in week 1 for the first time since 2011 and only 
the third time in the past nine seasons. Following the previous season's 
hiccup with the Labour Day Classic, the traditional rivalry game between 
the Argonauts and Hamilton Tiger-Cats resumed, along with Ottawa playing 
Montreal that same weekend (also historic Labour Day rivals). For the second 
consecutive season, the league is featuring all-division match ups in the 
final four weeks of the regular season. However, in stark contrast to the 
previous season's 13 home-and-home series, this season holds only two (both 
featuring Labour Day match ups). There are 25 double headers this year, 
with nine on Fridays, 11 on Saturdays, three on Sundays, and two (the traditional 
Labour Day and Thanksgiving contests) on Mondays. The Ottawa Redblacks 
began play at the newly renovated (and renamed) TD Place Stadium, which 
finished construction on time and on budget.[14] The old south side stands 
were condemned and demolished with construction completed in June 2014. 
The existing north side stands were refurbished and renovated to match 
the design of the completely rebuilt south side stands.[15] The capacity 
of the stadium will be approximately 24,000 seats, which is a reduction 
of its prior capacity of approximately 29,000. The Hamilton Tiger-Cats 
also began play at their new stadium, Tim Hortons Field, during the 2014 
season. The stadium is being built on the same grounds as Ivor Wynne Stadium, 
which was demolished at the conclusion of 2012 CFL season. The new stadium 
will seat approximately 24,000 fans and will change to a north-south orientation 
as opposed to the east-west setup of Ivor Wynne Stadium.[16] For the 2013 
CFL season, the Tiger-Cats played at Alumni Stadium in Guelph, Ontario. 
To accommodate continued construction, the Tiger-Cats began the 2014 season 
with a four-week, three-game road trip; the stadium was slated to open 
in July but construction delays forced the Tiger-Cats to move the first 
three games of the 2014 season to McMaster University's Ron Joyce Stadium. 
Tim Hortons Field, still not completely finished, opened in time for the 
Labour Day Classic. Due to stadium unavailability, three teams played their 
pre-season home games in stadiums that are not their regular season homes. 
The Redblacks' "home" pre-season game took place in Regina on June 14, 
2014 with the Saskatchewan Roughriders as the visitors, as TD Place Stadium 
in Ottawa was not yet ready in time for that game.[17] The Hamilton Tiger-Cats 
played at Ron Joyce Stadium against the Alouettes on June 14, 2014.[18] 
Finally, the Argonauts played at the University of Toronto's Varsity Stadium 
against the Tiger-Cats on June 19, 2014.[19] Beginning with the 2014 CFL 
draft, non-import[Note 1] Canadian Interuniversity Sport (CIS) players 
will be eligible to be selected in the draft three years after completing 
their first season of eligibility. This eliminates any rookies who sat 
out or redshirted for their first playing year and would be eligible to 
return to university. Prior to this change, players were eligible to be 
selected after their fourth year of post-secondary education. Additionally, 
for non-import players playing in the National Collegiate Athletic Association 
(NCAA) or National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), they 
are now eligible to be selected after completing their senior year. This 
change eliminates the possibility of NCAA or NAIA students returning to 
college after being drafted.[20] This will be the first season of the CFL's 
new international, multi-platform broadcast agreement with the ESPN Networks. 
In Canada, the league gave a no-bid extension to its existing exclusive 
contract with TSN and RDS, ESPN's partially owned Canadian subsidiary.[21] 
This will mark the seventh season that TSN and RDS have been the exclusive 
broadcasters of the CFL. The agreement was expanded to the United States 
on June 27, one day before the regular season began. In the U.S., the contract 
will see the network's online platform, ESPN3, continue to present CFL 
games (as it has done since 2008), and will also see a minimum of 17 games 
(including the 102nd Grey Cup) air on one of ESPN's conventional networks 
(ESPN, ESPN2, or ESPNews) as well as through the WatchESPN platform. ESPN 
had aired 5 CFL games in 2013.[22] The broadcast agreements for both the 
U.S. and Canadian rights run through the 2018 season. It is believed that 
TSN/ESPN will pay the CFL over $30 million per season over the course of 
the deal, which would be more than double the previous deal which was approximately 
$15 million. The impact of such an increase would allow for money-losing 
clubs to become profitable and allow all clubs to make more investments 
in stadiums and practice facilities.[23] The agreement also ends the CFL's 
relationship with the U.S. cable network NBCSN, who carried a limited selection 
of games (see CFL on NBC) during the 2012 and 2013 seasons. The Edmonton 
Eskimos relieved Kavis Reed of his coaching duties following the 2013 season. 
Reed had been the head coach of Edmonton for three seasons from 2011 through 
2013, compiling a record of 22 and 32 (1–2 in the playoffs). Edmonton management 
replaced Reed with Chris Jones who had most recently been the Defensive 
Coordinator/Assistant Head Coach/Assistant General Manager of the Argonauts 
for the previous two seasons. Tom Higgins was brought in by Montreal Alouettes 
GM Jim Popp to take over from the intern head coach position which Popp 
had been filling since early in the 2013 season. Higgins had been the CFL's 
Head of Officiating from 2008 through 2013. This will be Higgins' third 
stint as a CFL head coach, having previously served under the Calgary Stampeders 
(2005–06) and Eskimos (2001–04). Mike O'Shea became the 30th coach of the 
Blue Bombers after he replaced Tim Burke. O'Shea had been the Special Teams 
Coordinator of the Toronto Argonauts from the 2010 season through 2013. 
The Ottawa RedBlacks began their inaugural season under the tutelage of 
Rick Campbell. Campbell had been the Defensive Coordinator of the Stampeders 
for the previous two seasons. The deadline for teams to complete trades 
is Wednesday, October 15 at 3:59pm EDT. In Week 15, the Saskatchewan Roughriders 
scored three 2-point converts in a single game, establishing a new CFL 
record for most successful 2-point converts in a single contest.[24] On 
August 6, 2014, the league announced that each team would be wearing brand 
new alternate uniforms, complete with new jerseys, pants, helmets, and 
socks.[26] The BC Lions were the first to debut the new uniforms during 
the previous season, with the other eight clubs unveiling theirs this year. 
One of the most noticeable features were logos centred on the front of 
four of the uniforms (Edmonton, Winnipeg, Toronto, and Ottawa), which had 
not been seen since the 1995 CFL season. Each team wore the uniforms at 
two times this season with the exception of Winnipeg, who wore theirs once, 
and Ottawa and Calgary, who wore theirs three times. Each team is scheduled 
to wear these uniforms at least once for the 2015 CFL season. Teams play 
eighteen regular season games, playing two divisional opponents three times 
and all of the other teams twice. Teams are awarded two points for a win 
and one point for a tie. The top three teams in each division qualify for 
the playoffs, with the first place team gaining a bye to the divisional 
finals. A fourth place team in one division may qualify ahead of the third 
place team in the other division (the "Crossover"), if they earn more points 
in the season.[27] If two or more teams in the same division are equal 
in points, the following tiebreakers apply:[28] Notes: Note: GP = Games 
played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, PF = Points for, PA = Points against, 
Pts = Points Teams in bold are in playoff positions. X – clinched playoff 
berth Y – clinched first place and bye to division final On March 8, 2013, 
it was announced at a news conference that BC Place in Vancouver, BC, will 
play host to the 102nd Grey Cup.[12] It was the 16th Grey Cup to be held 
in Vancouver (and 8th at BC Place). The Calgary Stampeders defeated the 
Hamilton Tiger-Cats 20–16 to claim their seventh Grey Cup championship. 
Calgary's quarterback Bo Levi Mitchell was named the Grey Cup's Most Valuable 
Player, while Hamilton's slot back, Andy Fantuz was named Grey Cup's Most 
Outstanding Canadian. *-Team won in Overtime. Source[29] Source[30] Source[31] 
