The 2014 New York Yankees season was the 114th season for the New York 
Yankees franchise. The Yankees began the season on April 1 at Minute Maid 
Park against the Houston Astros, and finished on September 28 at Fenway 
Park against the Boston Red Sox. They finished in second place in the American 
League East with an 84-78 record, which was their worst since 1992. It 
is also notable for being team captain Derek Jeter's final season after 
announcing retirement on February 12, 2014. The Yankees failed to make 
the playoffs for the second year in a row, and only the third time in twenty 
years. On October 9, 2013, the Yankees agreed to a new contract with free 
agent manager Joe Girardi for four years and $16 million. At the time, 
the contract was the second most expensive contract for a manager behind 
Mike Scioscia of the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim.[1] On November 1, the 
Yankees announced they made a new deal with shortstop Derek Jeter for one 
year and $12 million over the original $9.5 million option in the original 
deal signed in 2010.[2] Three weeks later, on November 18, the club announced 
they had reached a deal with free agent utility infielder Brendan Ryan 
originally reported to be for one year and worth $1 million.[3] However, 
on December 2, the club and Ryan both announced that the deal was for two 
years and $5 million with a mutual option for 2016.[4] The same day, the 
Yankees non-tendered utility infielder Jayson Nix, third baseman David 
Adams and pitcher Matt Daley, who all became free agents.[5] On December 
3, the Yankees announced that the first of their high-profile signings, 
former Atlanta Braves catcher Brian McCann had made a five-year, $85 million 
deal official. The deal also had a vesting option for a sixth year worth 
$15 million. Just hours prior to the deal, the club traded catcher Chris 
Stewart to the Pittsburgh Pirates for a player to be named later.[6] Just 
two days later, the Yankees held a press conference for the signing of 
McCann, who would wear number 34 in honor of Eric O'Flaherty and Derek 
Lowe, former teammates on the Braves.[7] On December 3, just hours after 
the McCann signing was made official, it was reported that the Yankees 
had agreed to a deal with former Boston Red Sox outfielder Jacoby Ellsbury 
for seven years and $153 million.[8] The deal, which contained an option 
for 2021, was announced on December 7, after Ellsbury passed a physical. 
A press conference to unveil Ellsbury was held planned on December 13.[9] 
On December 4, the Yankees announced they had reached a deal with free 
agent utility player Kelly Johnson for one year and $3 million.[10] On 
December 6, former Yankee and free agent Robinson Canó accepted a ten-year, 
$240 million deal with the Seattle Mariners with a full no-trade clause. 
The deal to leave the Yankees was the third largest in big league history, 
behind Alex Rodriguez's deals with the Yankees in 2007 and the Texas Rangers 
in 2000 and tied Albert Pujols's $240 million deal with the Angels.[11] 
Later that day, Curtis Granderson, a member of the club from 2010–2013, 
was announced to join the New York Mets on a four-year, $60 million deal.[12] 
While Cano and Granderson left the Yankees on December 6, the Yankees also 
made two signings on that date; the team reached a one-year, $16 million 
deal with pitcher Hiroki Kuroda,[13] which became official the following 
day.[14] Also on December 6, the Yankees reached an agreement to sign free 
agent outfielder Carlos Beltrán on a three-year, $45 million deal.[15] 
On December 13, the Yankees introduced Ellsbury at a press conference, 
adorning the number 22.[16] Four days later, the Yankees announced a pair 
of signings, bringing infielder Brian Roberts to the Bronx on a one-year, 
$2 million deal, along with reliever Matt Thornton on a two-year, $7.5 million 
contract.[17] On December 19, the Yankees contract with Beltran became 
official,[18] and the Yankees introduced him to the public at a press conference 
the next day.[19] In order to make room on the roster, Brett Marshall was 
designated for assignment on December 19, and claimed by the Chicago Cubs 
off waivers four days later.[20] On January 10, 2014, the Yankees made 
the Thornton signing official, and in order to clear room on the roster, 
the Yankees designated Vernon Wells for assignment.[21] On January 11, 
a panel of three, led by Major League Baseball arbitrator Fredric Horowitz, 
announced that the group had decided 2–1 to reduce the suspension on Alex 
Rodriguez from 211 games to 162 games and the postseason.[22] The next 
day, the Yankees signed infielder Scott Sizemore to a minor league deal, 
with an invitation to Spring training.[23] On January 14, the Yankees announced 
in a press release that the deal with Brian Roberts was made official, 
taking Alex Rodriguez's vacated space on the 40-man roster.[24] On January 
22, 2014, it was announced that the Yankees had agreed to a deal with free 
agent/Rakuten Golden Eagles starting pitcher Masahiro Tanaka. The seven-year, 
$155 million deal which contains an opt-out clause at the 2017–2018 offseason 
was made official the same day,[25] as the Yankees chose to not have Tanaka 
take a physical examination. In order to make room on the roster, left-handed 
pitcher David Huff was designated for assignment.[26] On January 24, the 
San Francisco Giants announced that they had acquired Huff off waivers 
for cash considerations.[27] On February 11, the Yankees held a press conference 
for Tanaka, in front of over 200 members of the media, including reporters 
from Japan, marking the biggest press conference for the Yankees since 
the one held for Hideki Matsui in 2003.[28] A day later, Derek Jeter announced 
on his Facebook page that he would retire after the 2014 season.[29] At 
a press conference held on February 19, Jeter mentioned that the decision 
was not about the injury he sustained in the 2012 American League Championship 
Series but that he felt it was time to move on.[30] After the beginning 
of Spring training on February 14, the Yankees reportedly signed free agent 
relief pitcher Andrew Bailey to a minor league deal on February 22.[31] 
On February 24, the Yankees announced that they had extended outfielder 
Brett Gardner to a 4-year, $52 million deal, which would keep him on the 
Yankees until 2018 with a club option for 2019.[32] The Yankees began the 
2014 season without longtime starting pitcher Andy Pettitte and longtime 
closer Mariano Rivera, each of whom retired following the 2013 season. 
The Yankees unexpectedly designated Eduardo Núñez for assignment in order 
to call up Yangervis Solarte on April 1, only hours before the Yankees 
would begin their season at Minute Maid Park, home of the Houston Astros. 
The newly acquired pitcher from Japan, Masahiro Tanaka made his Major League 
debut and Yankees debut on April 4 against the Toronto Blue Jays at the 
Rogers Centre. Hosting the Boston Red Sox on April 10, pitcher Michael 
Pineda earned a win for the Yankees over their rivals. However, the game 
sparked a controversy as analysts were quick to discover a foreign substance, 
most likely pinetar, on Pineda's neck. The Red Sox chose not to appeal 
it but Major League Baseball agreed to talk to the Yankees organization 
about it. In Pineda's defense, the pitcher claimed he had dirt on his hand. 
The substance, which was discovered in the third inning, disappeared by 
the fifth inning. On April 17, pitcher CC Sabathia earned a win on the 
road against the Tampa Bay Rays 10–2; during the game, Sabathia was on 
the mound for the third time witnessing a triple play as Sean Rodriguez 
bounced a ball to Yangervis Solarte (playing third base). The play was 
turned 5U–4–3. A few days later, during a terrible outing against the Rays, 
Iván Nova felt discomfort in his right arm. Nova would later be confirmed 
to be undergoing successful season-ending surgery. On April 23, Michael 
Pineda started another game against the Red Sox. This game was away at 
Fenway Park. Not unlike the start against the Boston Red Sox on April 10, 
Pineda had another foreign substance on his body. Shockingly, it was a 
large amount of the substance on his neck. This occurred in the second 
inning, as the Red Sox manager John Farrell decided to appeal against the 
pitcher. As a result, umpire Gerry Davis examined the substance on Michael 
Pineda's neck. The substance was indeed pine tar, an illegal foreign substance. 
Thus, Davis immediately ejected Michael Pineda from the game and Pineda 
was put on a 10-game suspension. The controversy triggered analysts to 
discuss the possibility of Major League Baseball changing the rules and 
making a small amount of pine tar available for pitchers to use in very 
cold weathers to gain a grip on the ball. However, the substance wouldn't 
be allowed in decent weather. Analysts believe the rule, if looked into, 
could be made effective as of the 2015 season. Pineda took responsibility 
for cheating, however, and claimed that he would learn from his mistake. 
On May 20 in a 1–6 loss to the Chicago Cubs, Masahiro Tanaka picked up 
his first regular season loss in professional baseball since 2012. He went 
34–0 during this streak. Through June 18, the Yankees led the majors with 
a 20-11 record in games decided by two runs or fewer.[33] The team has 
been plagued by lack of offense.[34] A crisis surrounding CC Sabathia struck 
the Yankees within the first few days of July. Sabathia, who was rumored 
to be progressing greatly in his rehab stint in the minors (coming back 
from an injury suffered in the month of May), unexpectedly awoke one morning 
to find his knee swollen quite seriously. As a result, Sabathia is scheduled 
to meet Dr. James Andrews on July 14. Manager Joe Girardi confirmed that 
Sabathia's season is most likely over. After the All Star Game, Sabathia's 
season was confirmed to be over as he would be undergoing knee surgery 
performed by the Los Angeles Dodgers's physician and would not return until 
2015.[35] In early July, Alfonso Soriano was designated for assignment 
and later released by the Yankees after the struggling outfielder and designated 
hitter failed to break out of his hitting slump. Soriano proved to spend 
almost all of his part of the season failing to produce both offensively 
and defensively. A few days before, the highly perceived Yangervis Solarte 
was also optioned back to the Minors due to his obtained confidence issues 
that resulted because of an offensive slump. He was recalled back to the 
Majors not long after. On July 6, the Yankees acquired right handed pitcher 
Brandon McCarthy from the Arizona Diamondbacks for left handed pitcher 
Vidal Nuño.[36] On July 3, Derek Jeter, Masahiro Tanaka, and Dellin Betances 
were all named American League All-Stars. Koji Uehara of the Boston Red 
Sox was selected to replace Tanaka on the All Star roster.[37] After an 
outing against the Cleveland Indians on July 8, the fourth of the original 
five starting rotation pitchers was put on the disabled list. Masahiro 
Tanaka, who was a most valuable asset to the Yankees and an All-Star, complained 
about feeling discomfort in his pitching elbow to the Yankees. As a result, 
Tanaka was flown to New York City from Cleveland to get an MRI. He was 
quickly sent to Seattle to get examined as the most efficient doctors were 
all engaged in a meeting in Seattle. It was announced that Tanaka had partially 
torn his collateral ligament in his right elbow.[38] None of the doctors 
who met with Tanaka suggested Tommy John surgery and instead a more subtle 
rehab was suggested for the pitcher. This would take six weeks to complete 
before returning to the mound. Masahiro Tanaka was leading the Majors in 
wins. He was also on pace to contend for American League Rookie of the 
Year, the American League Cy Young Award, and possibly even the American 
League MVP. With the injury, Hiroki Kuroda was the last standing starter 
and became the Yankees ace. As a result of the injuries to all the starting 
pitchers, GM Brian Cashman pursued trades with other organizations in hopes 
to acquire replacement starters. As a result, Cashman acquired Brandon 
McCarthy from Arizona and Jeff Francis from the Oakland Athletics.[39] 
Francis was later designated for assignment.[40] On July 22, at 12:01 AM, 
Jack Curry reported that a deal between the Yankees and San Diego Padres 
had been confirmed that sent Yangervis Solarte and minor league right-handed 
pitcher Rafael De Paula to San Diego in exchange for third basemen Chase 
Headley and cash considerations.[41] Before the trade deadline at 4:00 
EST on July 31, the Yankees' general manager Brian Cashman made a few moves 
to bolster the Yankees offense. The Yankees traded prospect Peter O'Brien 
to Arizona for Martín Prado.[42] Also, for the first time since 1997, the 
Yankees made a trade with the very active Boston Red Sox that sent Kelly 
Johnson to Boston for Stephen Drew.[43] Earlier that day, the Yankees acquired 
pitcher Esmil Rogers from Toronto via claiming him off from waivers after 
he was designated for assignment by Toronto. The Yankees unconditionally 
released Scott Sizemore to make room for Rogers.[44] The Yankees designated 
Brian Roberts to make room for Stephen Drew. Drew would replace Roberts 
at second base, a position he has never played before at the professional 
level (including the Minors). Drew claimed he last played second base as 
a sophomore in high school for a varsity team. After Masahiro Tanaka began 
his rehab and strengthening programs in late August so he could come back 
and pitch before the end of season, he was sent back to New York City on 
August 29 with arm soreness. He later returned in September, but he finished 
the season 13–5. Derek Jeter ended up finishing his career in style including 
a walk off RBI win against the Baltimore Orioles at home and a big performance 
against the Red Sox at Fenway Park to finish the season.[45] In Derek Jeter's 
final game he finished his career with a RBI infield single at Fenway Park 
to drive in Ichiro Suzuki and was taken out of the game after his hit. 
The Yankees went on to win 9 to 5.[46] The Yankees did not make the playoffs 
for the second year in a row, as they failed to produce enough the last 
