The Kansas City Royals' season of 2014 was the 46th for the Royals franchise. 
On September 26, 2014 the Royals clinched a playoff berth for the first 
time since 1985. They began the post-season by defeating the Oakland Athletics 
in the Wild Card Game and sweeping both the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim 
in the ALDS and the Baltimore Orioles in the ALCS, becoming the first team 
in Major League history to win their first 8 postseason games in a row. 
They lost to the San Francisco Giants in seven games in the 2014 World 
Series. After the first 29 games of the 2014 regular season, the Royals 
had a record of 14-15. In all of their 14 wins, the Royals had scored at 
least 4 runs. In all of their 15 losses, the Royals had scored 3 runs or 
less. In the 30th game of the regular season, the Royals were playing the 
Tigers at home and the Tigers were winning 9-3 going into the bottom of 
the ninth inning. Mike Moustakas walked to lead off the bottom half of 
the inning, Alcides Escobar struck out, and Jarrod Dyson grounded out, 
but advanced Moustakas to second. With two outs and a runner on second 
in the bottom of the ninth inning, with his team down 6 runs, Nori Aoki 
hit a single to center field that would score Moustakas, making the score 
9-4 Tigers. After Omar Infante singled and advanced Aoki to second, Eric 
Hosmer recorded the final out of the game with his team at 4 runs by popping 
out to the catcher, becoming the first Royal in the 2014 regular season 
to hit into the final out with the Royals at 4 runs or more. The Royals 
would then become 14-1 when scoring at least 4 runs. After 30 games, however, 
the trend of always losing when scoring 3 or less was still in place, with 
the Royals being 0-15 in these games. Finally, on the 32nd game of the 
regular season, the Royals had a record of 14-17 heading into the game. 
They beat the Padres in San Diego 3-1 in 11 innings to end the winless 
streak of games where they scored 3 runs or less. The Royals went on a 
10-game winning streak in June, beating the Yankees twice at home, the 
Indians twice at home, the White Sox three times on the road, and the Tigers 
three times on the road. At the end of the streak, the Royals were in first 
place in the AL Central. This was the first time since 2003 that they were 
leading their division that late in the season. From June 1–18, the Royals 
posted a 13-3 record with one rainout, followed by a 9-17 record from June 
19 to July 20. The last three games of this slump, which immediately followed 
the All-Star break, was a three-game sweep by the Boston Red Sox. After 
the July 20 game, first base coach Rusty Kuntz entered the team's clubhouse 
and found many of the players intently playing the computer game Clash 
of Clans on their smart phones. The team lost a fourth game to the Chicago 
White Sox on July 21. Before the July 22 game Raul Ibanez, who joined the 
team only three weeks earlier after being released by the Los Angeles Angels, 
called a players-only team meeting to discuss the priorities of the team. 
[1] After that meeting, the team went 25-9 between then and August 27.[2] 
On Friday, September 26, 2014, the Royals won a game in Chicago against 
the White Sox 3-1, which would clinch a postseason berth for the Royals 
for the first time since 1985.[3] (updated through September 28) Infielders 
Outfielders Coaches 7:07 p.m. CDT at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri 
The one-game playoff was touted as a duel between the Royals' James Shields 
and the Athletics' Jon Lester, but neither starting pitcher would earn 
a decision in the game. Oakland's Brandon Moss homered early off of Shields 
with Coco Crisp on base, giving the Athletics a 2–0 advantage; Kansas City 
halved the lead in the bottom of the first when Billy Butler singled to 
score Nori Aoki. Lorenzo Cain and Eric Hosmer had RBI hits for the Royals 
in the third inning, vaulting Kansas City to a 3–2 lead. The fourth and 
fifth innings were scoreless, and Oakland proceeded to stitch together 
five runs in the top of the sixth as Moss homered a second time, scoring 
himself, Sam Fuld, and Josh Donaldson. Derek Norris and Crisp singled in 
two additional runs. Both Oakland and Kansas City batted fruitlessly in 
the seventh inning, and Royals relief pitcher Kelvin Herrera recorded three 
straight outs in the top of the eighth. In the bottom of the eighth, with 
Kansas City six outs away from having their season ended, the Royals manufactured 
a productive inning of their own. Alcides Escobar singled, and then stole 
second base with Nori Aoki at the plate. Lorenzo Cain singled, scoring 
Escobar. Cain stole second base himself with Eric Hosmer batting; Hosmer 
was then walked, at which point starting pitcher Jon Lester was relieved 
by Luke Gregerson. Nerves seemed to get the better of Gregerson, who allowed 
Billy Butler to single and score Cain, and then allowed Hosmer to score 
from third base on a wild pitch. Gregerson struck out the next two batters 
to preserve the Athletics' lead, but the Royals had crept to within one 
run. Closer Greg Holland took the mound for Kansas City and was somewhat 
shaky, walking three batters, but mustered the three required outs without 
major damage, and Kansas City took their one-run deficit to the bottom 
of the ninth. Oakland's closer, Sean Doolittle, pitched in relief of Gregerson. 
Pinch-hitter Josh Willingham singled and was replaced by pinch-runner Jarrod 
Dyson. Dyson moved to second base on a successful bunt from Alcides Escobar, 
and then stole third with Aoki at bat. Aoki hit a deep sacrifice fly to 
right field for the second out of the inning, but Dyson was able to jog 
home, tying the game at 7–7 and completing the Royals' four-run comeback. 
Cain lined out to end the inning for Kansas City. Brandon Finnegan began 
a strong inning of work in the tenth, replacing Greg Holland and recording 
three outs in quick succession. The Royals advanced Eric Hosmer to third 
base with two outs in the bottom of the tenth, but Salvador Pérez grounded 
out, putting a Royals victory on hold. Finnegan again pitched well in the 
top of the eleventh, allowing only one hit and striking out Brandon Moss, 
who had already hit two home runs. Kansas City's offense produced in the 
bottom of the eleventh a situation identical to that of the tenth; the 
winning run stood 90 feet away with two outs, but Jayson Nix struck out 
to end the inning. Finnegan began the twelfth inning by walking Josh Reddick, 
who advanced to second on a sacrifice bunt by Jed Lowrie. Finnegan was 
then relieved by Jason Frasor. Pinch-hitter Alberto Callaspo of Oakland 
took a wild pitch from Frasor, allowing Reddick to go to third base. Callaspo 
then hit a line drive to left field, scoring Reddick. The new pitcher Frasor 
quickly stopped the bleeding by retiring Derek Norris and Nick Punto, but 
the Athletics had retaken the lead, 8–7. Lorenzo Cain failed to start the 
bottom of the twelfth in a promising fashion, grounding out. The Oakland 
Athletics were two outs away from advancing to the ALDS. However, Hosmer 
nursed a lengthy at-bat into a deep left field hit that was poorly fielded, 
allowing him to reach third base. Christian Colon then singled to tie the 
game again, scoring Hosmer. Oakland pitcher Dan Otero was replaced by Fernando 
Abad, who threw to only one batter, Alex Gordon, who popped out. Abad was 
then relieved by Jason Hammel. Christian Colon, still on first base, stole 
second with Pérez at the plate. Pérez then singled to left field, scoring 
Colon and ending the marathon game with a Royals victory and a ticket to 
the ALDS against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. 6:07 p.m. PDT at Angel 
Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California Mike Moustakas' solo home run 
in the top of the eleventh inning off of Angels pitcher Fernando Salas 
proved to be the difference for Kansas City, as the Royals surprised the 
favored Angels by winning a low-scoring Game 1. Moustakas also scored one 
of the Royals' other two runs, running home from first base on a double 
by Alcides Escobar in the third inning, giving Kansas City a 1–0. The Angels 
battled back quickly, though, as catcher Chris Iannetta homered with the 
bases empty off Jason Vargas for a 1–1 tie. The two teams traded runs again 
in the fifth—Alex Gordon scoring from second on an Omar Infante sac fly 
for the Royals, David Freese hitting a solo line drive home run for the 
Angels—before engaging in a scoreless battle for five innings until Moustakas' 
game-winner. Royals starter Vargas was replaced after six innings by a 
battery of relievers that included Kelvin Herrera, Brandon Finnegan, Wade 
Davis, Tim Collins, Jason Frasor, Danny Duffy, and Greg Holland. Herrera, 
however, left Game 1 with tightness in his right forearm, and the exit 
of the effective relief pitcher put a slight damper on the Royals' opening 
victory. 6:37 p.m. PDT at Angel Stadium of Anaheim in Anaheim, California 
The eleventh inning was again a magical time for the Royals, as Eric Hosmer's 
two-run home run to right field broke a 1–1 tie and vaulted Kansas City 
over the Angels. Lorenzo Cain scored from first base on Hosmer's blast. 
The Royals added a third run when Alex Gordon walked, stole second and 
advanced to third on an Angels fielding error with Salvador Pérez at the 
plate, and then scored on a single by Perez. The Royals led 4–1 heading 
into the bottom of the eleventh inning, and closer Greg Holland retired 
three out of four batters faced to rack up his second postseason save and 
to send the Royals home to Kansas City with an opportunity to sweep the 
Angels in Game 3. The Royals' one run prior to the eleventh came in the 
second inning, as Hosmer scored from second base on a Gordon single. The 
Angels' lone run of the game came during the sixth inning. Kole Calhoun 
singled, Mike Trout walked, advancing Calhoun to second, and Calhoun scored 
from second courtesy of an Albert Pujols single. The Angels very nearly 
broke the 1–1 tie and took the lead in the bottom of the eighth inning, 
but astute defensive play by the Royals kept the stalemate intact. Jarrod 
Dyson came into center field as the result of a defensive substitution. 
With Wade Davis on the mound, C. J. Cron doubled and was replaced by pinch-runner 
Collin Cowgill. Angels catcher Chris Iannetta hit the ball deep to center 
field, but Dyson made a difficult catch and then launched a laserlike throw 
to the third baseman Moustakas, who tagged out Cowgill, attempting to tag 
up from second, to complete a double play. The Royals received a scare 
in the fifth inning when Los Angeles' Josh Hamilton hit catcher Salvador 
Pérez on the head with his bat on the follow-through of a swing. Perez 
underwent a brief concussion test while still on the field and remained 
in the game.[4] The Royals' victory also made them the first team in the 
history of Major League Baseball to win three straight extra inning games 
in the postseason. 6:37 p.m. CDT at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri 
Royals starter James Shields gave up a home run to slugger Mike Trout to 
give the Angels an early 1–0 lead. However, back to back singles by Aoki 
and Cain and a walk to Billy Butler loaded the bases with one out. Alex 
Gordon came up and smacked the ball for a bases clearing double to put 
the Royals up 3–1. Angels starter C. J. Wilson didn't last more than two-thirds 
of one inning and was replaced by Vinnie Pestano after Gordon's hit. Kansas 
City's offense struck again in the third inning as Eric Hosmer homered 
to center field with Nori Aoki on base, giving the Royals a capacious 5–1 
lead. The Angels inched closer in the top of the fourth inning with a solo 
home run by Albert Pujols, but still trailed 5–2. In the bottom half of 
the inning, Mike Moustakas crushed a long ball of his own, such that Moustakas 
and Hosmer, who hit game-winning home runs in the top of the eleventh inning 
in Games 1 and 2, respectively, both homered again in Game 3. Alcides Escobar 
singled, found second base on a wild pitch from the Angels' Morin, took 
third on a single by Aoki, and scored on a Lorenzo Cain sacrifice fly, 
capping a 2-run fourth for Kansas City and putting the floundering Angels 
in a 7–2 hole. The Royals' final run of the game was delivered in the sixth 
inning. Omar Infante walked, went to second base on an Escobar single, 
and scored from second on an Aoki single. Trailing 8–2, the Angels scrounged 
together one more run with Wade Davis pitching (Howie Kendrick doubled, 
to third on an Erick Aybar single, scoring on a Josh Hamilton ground out), 
but closer Greg Holland's effort was superb, racking three straight outs, 
two on strikeouts. The Royals advanced to the ALCS, and the Angels' highly 
anticipated season ended, with star center fielder Mike Trout striking 
out swinging. The Baltimore Orioles had defeated the Detroit Tigers earlier 
in the day, securing their ticket to the ALCS. With the Royals having last 
reached the World Series in 1985 and the Orioles having last reached the 
World Series in 1983, the 2014 World Series is guaranteed to have a participant 
that has been absent from it for at least the last twenty-nine years. 8:07 p.m. 
EDT at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland For the fourth 
time in five games, the Royals broke an extra-innings tie, and for the 
third time in four games did so via longballs. Alex Gordon and Mike Moustakas 
both crushed respective solo and two-run home runs to combine for a three-run 
top of the tenth for Kansas City. The twin home runs came off of Orioles 
pitchers Brian Matusz and Darren O'Day. Salvador Pérez was on first base 
during Moustakas' home run, which proved to be the difference as the Orioles 
did manage to score one run in the bottom of the tenth before closer Greg 
Holland composed himself to record the final out. The Royals' offensive 
explosion in the tenth saved them from a potentially devastating situation 
in the ninth inning, when they failed to score a run despite having the 
bases loaded with no outs. Kansas City had been aided previously in the 
game by an Alcides Escobar solo home run and an Alex Gordon 3-RBI double, 
both in the third inning. They added a run in the fifth when Billy Butler 
hit a sacrifice fly to score Lorenzo Cain, who had doubled. The Royals' 
bats then remained quiet until their game-winning performance in the tenth. 
Baltimore struck for one run in the third inning (Nick Markakis scoring 
from third on an Adam Jones line drive) and for three runs in the fifth 
inning (Alejandro De Aza scored from second on a Nelson Cruz double, Cruz 
and Jones scored from second and third on a Ryan Flaherty line drive). 
The Orioles tied the score at 5–5 in the bottom of the sixth inning, as 
reliever Brandon Finnegan suffered some shakiness, walking Jonathan Schoop 
and surrendering a Nick Markakis line drive. Both stole bases with De Aza 
at the plate to advance to second and third base, and Schoop came home 
on a sacrifice fly by De Aza. No scoring occurred in the seventh, eighth, 
or ninth innings. Wade Davis earned the win for the Royals, striking out 
the side in the bottom of the ninth, paving the way for Kansas City's three-run 
tenth. 4:07 p.m. EDT at Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore, Maryland 
The Royals won only their second nine-inning game of the postseason, but 
still had to resort to late-game heroics to do so. With the score tied 
in the top of the ninth and with Darren O'Day pitching for the Orioles, 
Kansas City's Omar Infante hit a single toward third base. Infante was 
replaced by pinch runner Terrance Gore, and O'Day was relieved by Zach 
Britton. Mike Moustakas, with three home runs in the postseason, played 
small ball instead of long ball, laying down a sacrifice bunt to advance 
Gore to second. Alcides Escobar then doubled to right field to score Gore 
and give the Royals a 5–4 lead. Kansas City added insurance when Escobar 
reached third on a fielding error and then strolled home on a single by 
Dyson. Britton recovered to strike out both Eric Hosmer and Billy Butler, 
but the Royals' damage had yet again been done, and closer Greg Holland 
was effective for the second straight game in quelling an Orioles rally 
attempt. The Royals had struck first at Camden Yards on this Saturday afternoon, 
with Hosmer driving in Nori Aoki and Lorenzo Cain in the top of the first 
inning. The O's halved the lead in the bottom of the second, milking one 
run out of a succession of walks and a sacrifice fly from starter Yordano 
Ventura, although Ventura composed himself sufficiently to ward off further 
Baltimore offense. Kansas City added a third run in the top of the third 
inning, as Cain singled, advanced to third base on a Hosmer line drive, 
and scored on a Butler double. Baltimore roared back in the bottom of the 
third, however, as Adam Jones hit a line drive home run with Alejandro 
De Aza on base, pulling the Orioles even with the Royals. With the score 
tied 3–3, each team scored one more run before a 4–4 stalemate that held 
until Kansas City's two-run ninth. In the top of the fourth inning, Mike 
Moustakas crushed his fourth home run of the playoffs off of Oriole starter 
Bud Norris. Baltimore pulled even again in the bottom of the fifth inning, 
as De Aza singled, advanced to third base on a Jones single, and made it 
to home plate during a force out at second base. Neither starter lasted 
beyond the sixth inning, Ventura being pulled after 5.2 innings and Norris 
after only 4.1. Both recorded three strikeouts. The winning and losing 
pitchers, Wade Davis for Kansas City and Darren O'Day for Baltimore, were 
the same as in Game 1. 7:07 p.m. CDT at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, 
Missouri Kansas City's Jeremy Guthrie pitched five solid innings and the 
Royals' bullpen was lights out during a 2–1 Game 3 victory that was less 
eventful and lower scoring than any of the Royals' previous postseason 
games. The Orioles struck first in the second inning, when Steve Pearce 
doubled and was then batted in by J. J. Hardy, but that was all the offense 
Baltimore would demonstrate. The Royals tied the score in the bottom of 
the fourth, as Lorenzo Cain scored from third base on an Alex Gordon ground 
ball. Kansas City then took the lead in the sixth, as Jarrod Dyson, pinch 
running for Nori Aoki, who had singled, moved from first to third base 
on a hit by Eric Hosmer, and then came to home plate on a sacrifice fly 
from Billy Butler. Royals closer Greg Holland was again effective in silencing 
any Orioles comeback attempts, retiring three straight batters in the top 
of the ninth to bring Kansas City within one win of the Fall Classic. This 
third game of the series had been originally slated for Monday, but was 
postponed to Tuesday due to inclement weather. Game 4, which had been slated 
for Tuesday, was subsequently moved to Wednesday. 3:07 p.m. CDT at Kauffman 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri The Royals would need only two first-inning 
runs and solid pitching from Jason Vargas to propel themselves into the 
World Series with an 8–0 postseason record and complete the sweep of Baltimore. 
Kansas City's lone offensive rally began with Alcides Escobar reaching 
first base and Nori Aoki being hit by a pitch to move Escobar to second. 
Following a ground ball by Eric Hosmer, a missed catch error by the Orioles' 
Caleb Joseph enabled both Escobar and Aoki to score and Hosmer to reach 
second base. The Orioles' lone run came via a Ryan Flaherty solo home run. 
Kelvin Herrera and Wade Davis again proved unhittable in relief, and closer 
Greg Holland recorded his fourth straight save. The Royals faced the San 
Francisco Giants. The Royals were granted home-field advantage in the World 
Series after the American League won the All-Star Game. 7:07 p.m. CDT at 
Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri San Francisco starter Madison 
Bumgarner was brilliant through seven innings of work, surrendering only 
one RBI—a Salvador Pérez home run—and getting out of a bases-loaded jam 
in the third inning, and Hunter Pence delivered three RBIs, including a 
two-run home run, as the Giants handed the Royals their first postseason 
loss since Game 4 of the 1985 World Series. Kansas City's previously potent 
bats fell flat against Bumgarner. Trailing 4–0, they threatened briefly 
in the third inning when Lorenzo Cain came back from an 0–2 count to walk 
and load the bases with two outs, Omar Infante and Mike Moustakas having 
reached base previously. But Eric Hosmer grounded out with the bases loaded 
to preserve Bumgarner's shutout, broken up by only Perez's solo long ball. 
7:07 p.m. CDT at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri The Royals and 
Giants battled to a 2–2 stalemate through five innings, until Kansas City's 
offense ignited–and San Francisco's pitching melted–in the sixth. The Giants 
used five pitchers in one inning as Lorenzo Cain scored from second base 
on a hit by Billy Butler, Salvador Pérez hit a 2RBI double scoring Eric 
Hosmer and Terrance Gore, and Omar Infante blasted a home run to left field, 
scoring himself and Perez. The Giants went limp offensively after the Royals' 
five run inning, and never closed the 7–2 gap. Kansas City's Kelvin Herrera–Wade 
Davis–Greg Holland relief lineup again kept the lead intact. The Royals' 
victory evens the World Series at one game apiece and thus forces a Game 
5 on Sunday, October 26. 5:07 p.m. PDT at AT&T Park in San Francisco, California 
The Royals took a 2–1 series lead in the first tilt of the Fall Classic 
that was a closely contested pitchers' duel instead of a lopsided hitting 
spree, as Games 1 and 2 had been. Kansas City hung one run on the Giants 
in the top of the first inning (Alcides Escobar doubling, and then advancing 
to third and scoring on two ground outs). However, the majority of offense 
came in the sixth. Still holding onto a 1–0 cushion, the Royals began a 
two-run inning as Escobar singled. Alex Gordon doubled, scoring Escobar. 
Following a Lorenzo Cain ground out, San Francisco starter Tim Hudson, 
who had pitched 5 2/3 innings, was relieved by Javier López, but López 
could not completely shut down the Royals' offense, allowing Eric Hosmer 
to single to center field, scoring Gordon, before he struck out Mike Moustakas 
to end the inning. In the bottom of the sixth, the Giants gave Kansas City 
some pitching hiccups of their own. Brandon Crawford scored from first 
base on a Michael Morse double. Kelvin Herrera was then summoned to replace 
starter Jeremy Guthrie. Again, as with López in the top of the inning, 
the presence of the new pitcher Herrera did not immediately stop the bleeding 
for Kansas City, as Morse advanced to third base and then scored on respective 
Joe Panik and Buster Posey ground outs. Herrera kept San Francisco to a 
two run inning as heavy hitting Pablo Sandoval grounded out. The Royals' 
bullpen, this time adding Brandon Finnegan to the usual late-inning Herrera–Wade 
Davis–Greg Holland lineup, kept the Giants at bay for the remaining three 
innings. Kansas City never recorded an insurance run to pad their 3–2 lead, 
but the closer Holland racked up three straight outs to secure a Royals 
victory without further rebut. 5:07 p.m. PDT at AT&T Park in San Francisco, 
California The World Series was forced to at least a sixth game back in 
Kansas City following a definitive and conclusive victory by the Giants 
in which they attacked the Royals' bullpen in the fifth, sixth, and seventh 
innings, especially rookie Brandon Finnegan, who surrendered five earned 
runs. Hunter Pence, Pablo Sandoval, and Joe Panik all had multi-RBI games 
for San Francisco. Eric Hosmer, Mike Moustakas, Omar Infante, and Salvador 
Pérez had combined for a four-run fourth inning for the Royals, who held 
a 4–2 lead heading into the bottom of the fifth, when the Giants tied the 
game with Pence and Juan Pérez RBIs, one with Jason Frasor pitching, the 
other with Danny Duffy on the mound. Finnegan then replaced Duffy prior 
to San Francisco's three-run sixth, which included a 2-RBI line drive from 
Sandoval and a Brandon Belt RBI single. The Giants added further insult 
to injury with a four-run seventh. The Royals never scored in the game 
outside of their four-run third inning, and this time it was the Giants 
who used an effective lineup of seventh, eighth, and ninth-inning relievers 
to quell any further Kansas City threat. 5:07 p.m. PDT at AT&T Park in 
San Francisco, California Madison Bumgarner was the only pitcher the Giants 
required to take a 3–2 lead in the World Series over the Royals, again 
puzzling Kansas City hitters as he had in Game 1. Kansas City starter James 
Shields was more effective than four games earlier, only surrendering two 
runs across seven innings of work, but the Giants added three runs insurance 
off Royals relievers Kelvin Herrera and Wade Davis. San Francisco's five 
runs were delivered by only two batters: Juan Pérez, who batted in two, 
and Brandon Crawford, who drove in three. This was the fourth postseason 
shutout suffered by the Royals in franchise history, following Game 1 of 
the 1981 American League Division Series, Game 4 of the 1984 American League 
Championship Series, and Game 4 of the 1985 World Series. 7:07 p.m. CDT 
at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri Lorenzo Cain drove in three 
runs, and Mike Moustakas batted in two as the Royals forced a decisive 
seventh game in domineering fashion, saddling Giants starter Jake Peavy 
for five earned runs as part of a seven-run second inning. Peavy's struggles 
came on the heels of a 7–2 Royals victory in Game 2 for which he was also 
charged with the loss. Contrarily, Kansas City's Yordano Ventura pitched 
seven innings and only surrendered three hits. Ventura honored St. Louis 
Cardinals outfielder and fellow Dominican Republic countryman Oscar Taveras, 
who had died two days earlier in a car crash, with the message "R.I.P. 
O.T. #18" scrawled onto his cap.[5] When Kansas City turned to its bullpen, 
it appeared to save Kelvin Herrera, Wade Davis, and Greg Holland for Game 
7, using Jason Frasor and Tim Collins instead. 7:07 p.m. CDT at Kauffman 
Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri The Royals were 90 feet away from tying 
the decisive seventh game at three runs apiece in the bottom of the ninth, 
having trailed by a run for the previous five innings. Left fielder Alex 
Gordon hit a controversial two out single, which was dramatically followed 
up with two fielding errors by San Francisco's center fielder Gregor Blanco 
and left fielder Juan Perez, allowing Gordon to reach third standing up. 
Unfortunately for Kansas City, Salvador Pérez, the next batter, popped 
a ball up into foul territory on a 2-2 count, which was easily caught by 
Giants third baseman Pablo Sandoval to give San Francisco their third World 
Series victory in five seasons and crush Kansas City's Cinderella run through 
the postseason. Madison Bumgarner worked on short rest for San Francisco; 
although he did not start the game, he came into relieve Jeremy Affeldt 
(who had himself relieved starter Tim Hudson) in the fifth inning and pitched 
five innings in a masterful performance that prevented the Royals' offense 
from igniting. Bumgarner was awarded a save; the win went to Affeldt. No 
scoring occurred after the fourth inning, when Pablo Sandoval came home 
from third on a one-out hit to right field by Michael Morse. This would 
prove to be the World Series-winning run for the Giants. Prior to the fourth 
inning, both teams scored two runs each in the second inning.[6] Alex Gordon 
and Omar Infante batted in the Royals' only runs.[7] LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 
