The 2014 National League Division Series was two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the participating teams in the 2014 National League Championship 
Series. The Washington Nationals, Los Angeles Dodgers, and St. Louis Cardinals 
(seeded 1–3 based on record, respectively) and San Francisco Giants—played 
in two series. Fox Sports 1 carried most of the games, with two of the 
games on MLB Network. These matchups were: This was the first postseason 
meeting between the Nationals and Giants. The Dodgers and Cardinals met 
in the postseason for the fifth time, with the Cardinals having won three 
of the first four matchups, including the previous year's NLCS which the 
Cardinals won 4 games to 2. San Francisco won the series, 3–1. St. Louis 
won the series, 3–1. The Giants opened the series with Jake Peavy on the 
mound to counter Nationals starter Stephen Strasburg. Joe Panik put the 
Giants on the board in the third inning with an RBI single and Brandon 
Belt followed suit in the fourth to support Peavy, who didn't allow a hit 
until the bottom of the fifth inning. The first signs of trouble for the 
Giants came in the bottom of the sixth when, after a leadoff double from 
former Giant Nate Schierholtz and a two-out walk to Jayson Werth, Peavy 
was taken out of the game. Javier López came into the game only to surrender 
a walk to Adam LaRoche. With the bases loaded, Hunter Strickland came on 
to make just his tenth overall Major League appearance and struck out Ian 
Desmond to end the threat. The Giants added a third run when Panik tripled 
to lead off the seventh, and Buster Posey singled to knock him in. This 
run was to prove crucial, as when Strickland came out in the bottom half 
of the inning, he allowed solo home runs to both Bryce Harper and Asdrúbal 
Cabrera to make it a one-run game. Jeremy Affeldt finished off the Nationals 
in the seventh, and Sergio Romo pitched a scoreless eighth, before Santiago 
Casilla retired the side in order for the save, as the Giants held on to 
win by a score of 3–2.[10] Game 2 of the Division Series between the Nationals 
and the Giants lasted a record 18 innings, with the Giants winning 2–1. 
It was the longest postseason game in Major League Baseball history both 
by time (6 hours 23 minutes) and innings played (18), exceeding the previous 
innings-played mark by ⅔ of a half-inning (Game 4 of the 2005 NLDS ended 
when the home team scored with one out in the bottom of the 18th inning).[12] 
Coincidentally, Adam LaRoche of the Nationals and Tim Hudson of the Giants 
both played in the 2005 game as Atlanta Braves, becoming the only two players 
to play in both 18 inning games. Hudson struck out eight Nationals and 
conceded one run in 7⅔ innings of work, but was bettered by Nationals starter 
Jordan Zimmermann who came an out shy of recording a three-hit shutout, 
just six days after throwing a no-hitter on the last day of the regular 
season.[13] Zimmermann retired 20 Giants in a row before walking Joe Panik 
with two outs in the ninth and being removed from the game. The Giants 
continued to rally in the ninth when Buster Posey singled on the first 
pitch from closer Drew Storen, and Pablo Sandoval drove in Panik with a 
double. Posey was thrown out at home plate on the same play, and manager 
Bruce Bochy called for a video review but it was unsuccessful and it ended 
the inning. Sergio Romo retired the side in the bottom half and the game 
went to extra innings, tied 1–1. Entering the game in the 12th inning, 
Giants pitcher Yusmeiro Petit became just the seventh pitcher to throw 
six or more shutout innings of relief in a playoff game,[14] as neither 
team could break the deadlock. Brandon Belt finally broke the tie, launching 
a home run into the second deck in right field to lead off the 18th inning. 
As the clock struck midnight, Hunter Strickland finished off the game to 
earn the save and a 2–0 series advantage for the Giants. The win marked 
the tenth consecutive postseason victory for the Giants, a streak extending 
back to the 2012 National League Championship Series.[15] By allowing one 
run in the third and subsequently never allowing another one for the rest 
of the game, the Giants' pitching staff combined for a new postseason record 
15 scoreless innings in a single game, breaking Babe Ruth's 13 scoreless 
innings in Game 2 of the 1916 World Series against the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
Hoping to avoid a sweep, the Nationals sent Doug Fister to the mound in 
Game 3. Opposing him was Madison Bumgarner who threw a complete game shutout 
in the NL Wild Card game. Both pitchers threw six scoreless innings, but 
in the top of the seventh, Ian Desmond and Bryce Harper opened up the inning 
with back-to-back singles. Wilson Ramos attempted to bunt the runners over, 
but Bumgarner's throw to get the force out at third went past Pablo Sandoval 
and down the left field line, allowing both Desmond and Harper to score, 
with Ramos ending up at second on the error. Asdrúbal Cabrera singled in 
Ramos and the Nationals had a 3–0 lead. The score remained 3–0 until the 
ninth when Harper led off the inning with a home run to stretch the lead 
to 4–0. Drew Storen came on in the bottom half and allowed a single to 
Sandoval and a double to Hunter Pence to open the inning. Brandon Belt 
struck out looking for the first out. Brandon Crawford hit a sacrifice 
fly to score Sandoval and cut the lead to 4–1, but Storen got Travis Ishikawa 
to ground out for the final out of the game as the Nationals avoided a 
sweep. As it turned out, this would be the only loss Bumgarner would have 
the entire postseason. Ryan Vogelsong and Gio Gonzalez were the starters 
for Game 4, with the Nationals needing a victory to send the series back 
to the nation's capital. The Giants struck first with two runs in the bottom 
of the second off Gonzalez. After Brandon Crawford singled and Juan Pérez 
reached on an error, Vogelsong reached first safely on a well-placed bunt 
to load the bases with one out. Gregor Blanco walked and Joe Panik hit 
an RBI groundout to give the Giants a 2–0 lead. Vogelsong held the Nationals 
hitless until the fifth inning, when Ian Desmond singled and Bryce Harper 
doubled him home to cut the Giants' lead to 2–1. The Giants threatened 
against Nationals reliever Tanner Roark in the bottom of the fifth by loading 
the bases, but manager Matt Williams summoned Jerry Blevins to face Brandon 
Belt, whom he struck out to end the threat. Bryce Harper tied up the game 
in the top of the seventh inning with a towering solo home run off Hunter 
Strickland into McCovey Cove, Harper's third home run of the series. Left-hander 
Matt Thornton started the bottom of the seventh inning by getting the first 
out but allowed singles to Joe Panik and Buster Posey. He was replaced 
by Aaron Barrett, who walked Hunter Pence to load the bases. Facing Pablo 
Sandoval, Barrett threw a wild pitch which allowed Panik to score what 
would prove to be the game-winning run. Sergio Romo pitched a perfect eighth, 
and Santiago Casilla followed with a scoreless ninth. After issuing a two-out 
walk to Bryce Harper, Casilla retired Wilson Ramos on a groundout to eliminate 
the Nationals and send the Giants to their third NLCS in five years. According 
to Elias Sports Bureau, this was the fourth time in MLB postseason history 
that the winning run in a series-clinching game scored on a wild pitch 
in the seventh inning or later, after the 1927 Yankees (9th inning), 1972 
Reds (9th inning), and 2004 Yankees (11th inning).[18] 2014 NLDS (3–1): 
San Francisco Giants over Washington Nationals This game was hailed as 
the first post-season matchup of 20 game winners (the Dodgers' Clayton 
Kershaw and the Cardinals' Adam Wainwright) since Curt Schilling faced 
Roger Clemens in Game seven of the 2001 World Series. However, neither 
pitcher was his usual self. The Cardinals jumped out to a quick lead on 
a solo homer by Randal Grichuk in the top of the first. The Dodgers went 
ahead in the third with a RBI single by Hanley Ramírez, who was then doubled 
in by Carl Crawford. They got two more the next inning and then made it 
six with a two run homer by A. J. Ellis (who was 4–for–5 in the game) in 
the fifth to chase Wainwright from the game. Kershaw did not allow another 
hit after the first inning homer until Matt Carpenter hit a solo homer 
in the sixth. He started to unravel in the seventh, allowing four straight 
singles to start the inning and score a run. A strikeout of Pete Kozma 
was the first out and a Jon Jay RBI single cut the lead to two runs. Carpenter's 
three-run double put the Cardinals ahead 7-6 and chase Kershaw. Reliver 
Pedro Báez came on in relief, walked Randal Grichuk and then allowed a 
three-run homer to Matt Holliday to put the Cardinals ahead by four runs. 
This tied a record of eight runs in an inning in Division Series history, 
as the Baltimore Orioles completed the feat just a day earlier in their 
ALDS matchup with the Detroit Tigers. Kershaw (who also struggled in game 
six of the 2013 NLCS) became the first pitcher in history to allow at least 
seven runs in consecutive post-season starts, and also the first pitcher 
in history to allow eight runs in a post-season game while also striking 
out ten. The Dodgers got a two-run homer by Adrian Gonzalez in the eighth 
and also added one more in the ninth but it was not enough as they lost 
the opener 10–9.[20] In Game two, Zack Greinke struck out seven while allowing 
zero runs and two hits in seven innings. The Dodgers pushed ahead two runs 
off Lance Lynn in the third to take the lead. However, Carpenter again 
was the key player for the Cardinals, as he hit a two-run homer off J. 
P. Howell in the top of the eighth to even up the game. Matt Kemp hit a 
solo homer in the bottom of the inning to put the Dodgers back ahead and 
Kenley Jansen shut the door in the ninth to even up the series.[22] Hyun-jin 
Ryu made the start for the Dodgers at Busch Stadium in Game 3, his first 
appearance since leaving a game against the Giants with an injury on September 
12. He pitched well, allowing only one run (on another Carpenter homer) 
and four hits in six innings. However, the Dodgers were also only able 
to push across one run against Cardinals starter John Lackey. For the third 
straight game, the Dodgers bullpen faltered. This time it was Scott Elbert 
who allowed a two-run homer to Kolten Wong, the difference maker in the 
3–1 Cardinals win.[24] In game four, Kershaw started on three-days rest 
and pitched a one-hit shutout through the first six innings. The Dodgers 
took a 2–0 lead on an double play grounder by Matt Kemp and an RBI single 
by Juan Uribe but in a repeat of the first game, it fell apart in the seventh. 
Matt Holliday and Johnny Peralta each hit infield singles to lead off the 
inning. Matt Adams came up with two on and hit a three-run homer that was 
the decisive blow, the first time a left-handed hitter had ever hit one 
of Kershaw's curve balls for a homerun. The Dodgers attempted to rally 
in the ninth inning with runners on first and second but Carl Crawford 
grounded into a fielders' choice to end the game. The Cardinals won 3–2 
and eliminated the Dodgers in the post-season for the second straight year.[26] 
