The Miami Marlins' 2015 season was the 23rd season for the Major League 
Baseball franchise, and the fourth as the "Miami" Marlins. October 30: 
Rafael Furcal, Kevin Gregg, Reed Johnson, and Brad Penny become free agents. 
Week of November 3: Signed 5 players to a minor league contract. Week of 
November 12: Signed 4 players to a minor league contract and sent Kyle 
Jensen to the Los Angeles Dodgers for an unnamed players. November 20: 
Promoted 5 players from the minors. November 24: Signed Cole Gillespie 
to a minor league contract. November 28: Received Aaron Crow from the Kansas 
City Royals for Brian Flynn and Reid Redman. December 1: Signed James Leverton 
to a minor league contract. December 2: Signed Chris Narveson to a minor 
league contract. December 9: Invited 7 players to Spring training and signed 
Jhonatan Solano to a minor league contract and invited him to Spring training. 
December 10: Signed Issac Galloway to a minor league contract. December 
11: Drafted Andrew McKirahan and conducted these trades: Week of December 
15: Signed 5 players to a minor league contract and invited 1 of them to 
Spring training. Also signed Michael Morse and conducted these trades: 
December 23: Claimed Preston Claiborne off waivers from the Yankees. Week 
of January 2: Signed 5 players to a minor league contract and invited 3 
of them to Spring training. Week of January 12: Signed 4 players to a minor 
league contract and invited 3 of them to Spring training. January 20: Signed 
2 players to a minor league contract. January 21: Invited 9 players to 
Spring training. January 22: Signed Tim Fedroff to a minor league contract. 
January 27: Signed Ichiro Suzuki. February 4: Sent Arquimedes Caminero 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates for cash. Playing against the St. Louis Cardinals 
at Busch Stadium on August 14, Ichiro Suzuki tied and passed a hits milestone. 
Ichiro collected his 4,191st hit in top-level professional baseball off 
Cardinals starting pitcher Jaime García, matching Ty Cobb. It was Suzuki's 
2,913th hit in Major League Baseball, following 1,278 hits in nine seasons 
in the Nippon Professional Baseball league in Japan.[1] He passed Cobb 
the next night with two singles off John Lackey.[2] In the 1989 film Back 
to the Future Part II, a Major League Baseball team from Miami plays in 
the 2015 World Series, losing to the Chicago Cubs. Although the city of 
Miami has created a professional baseball team since 1989, the 2015 team 
is in the National League and thus, would not have played the Cubs in the 
World Series. Interestingly, the 2015 Chicago Cubs competed in the National 
League Championship Series. Infielders Outfielders Coaches Through August 
21, 2015 Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 
2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = 
Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases 
Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; 
R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB 
