The 2015 American League Division Series were two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the participating teams in the 2015 American League Championship 
Series. The three divisional winners (seeded 1-3) and a fourth team—the 
winner of a one-game Wild Card playoff— played in two series. Fox Sports 
1 carried the majority of games in the United States, while Sportsnet primarily 
simulcast Fox Sports 1's coverage in Canada.[1] MLB Network had exclusive 
coverage of Game 3 of the Kansas City Royals–Houston Astros series in both 
the United States and Canada, and Game 2 of the Toronto Blue Jays–Texas 
Rangers series in the U.S. only (Sportsnet, co-owned with the Blue Jays 
by Rogers Communications, simulcast MLB Network's coverage for the latter).[2] 
The ALDS began on October 8 and ran until October 14.[3] The Toronto Blue 
Jays and Kansas City Royals had home field advantage in this round of the 
playoffs. With the New York Yankees being eliminated by the Astros in the 
AL Wild Card Game, this is the first time in ALDS history that all four 
ALDS teams were expansion teams. These matchups were: The higher seeded 
team in each series hosted Games 1, 2, and 5, and the lower seeded team 
hosted Games 3 and 4. This was the first ALDS appearance for both the Astros 
and Blue Jays. Toronto's last postseason berth came in 1993, the final 
season of the two-round playoff format. Houston, on the other hand, made 
its first playoff appearance as an American League team; the franchise's 
preceding postseason berth came in 2005 while a member of the National 
League. The Blue Jays and the Rangers, and the Astros and the Royals, met 
for the first time in postseason play. Kansas City won the series, 3–2. 
Toronto won the series, 3–2. The Astros quickly quieted a raucous Kansas 
City crowd by scoring 2 runs in the 1st inning, both coming on RBI groundouts 
from Colby Rasmus and Evan Gattis respectively. José Altuve would add an 
RBI single in the 2nd to give Houston a 3-0 lead. Kendrys Morales would 
get the Royals on the board with a solo home run in the bottom of the frame 
to make it 3-1. A 49-minute rain delay prompted Kansas City manager Ned 
Yost to pull starter Yordano Ventura from the game, while Houston stuck 
with Collin McHugh who would only surrender another solo shot from Morales 
in the 4th in his 6 innings of work. The Astros bullpen would shut out 
Kansas City from there while George Springer and Rasmus would add solo 
shots to provide Houston with all the insurance runs they would need to 
steal home field advantage from the Royals in taking a 1-0 series lead.[14] 
Early on, this game looked like a mirror image of the first game with Houston 
taking a quick 3-0 lead in the first 2 innings on an RBI double from Colby 
Rasmus in the 1st, and then a 2 RBI single from George Springer in the 
2nd. And just like Game 1, Kansas City added a solo home run in the bottom 
of the 2nd, this time from Salvador Pérez to make it 3-1 heading into the 
3rd. Rasmus continued his hot hitting in the 3rd with a solo home run to 
give the Astros a 4-1 lead, but in the bottom of the 3rd the Royals got 
the run back when Ben Zobrist grounded into a double play, which scored 
Alex Ríos from 3rd base to make it 4-2.[15] The score would remain 4-2 
until the bottom of the 6th, where the Royals mustered the first of their 
many comebacks of this postseason. With the Astros threatening to take 
a 2-0 series lead back to Houston, where the Royals would have to face 
eventual AL Cy Young winner Dallas Keuchel, Lorenzo Cain got a rally started 
with a double. Eric Hosmer then drove him in with an RBI single. Two batters 
later, with the bases now loaded, the Astros brought in Josh Fields to 
face Perez. Fields threw 4 straight balls to walk in the game-tying run. 
Fields did recover and struck out the next 2 batters to get out of the 
jam, but now the game was tied at 4.[16] In the bottom of the 7th Will 
Harris relieved Fields, but surrendered an immediate triple to Alcides 
Escobar. Zobrist then drove in Escobar with an RBI single to give Kansas 
City the 5-4 lead. That was all the vaunted Royals bullpen needed as Ryan 
Madson and Wade Davis pitched scoreless 8th and 9th innings respectively 
to take the must-win game 2 to even the series at 1-game apiece.[17] Dallas 
Keuchel had assembled a perfect 15-0 record at Minute Maid Park during 
the regular season, and he continued his winning ways with another win 
in Game 3. It was initially a pitchers duel between Keuchel and Edinson 
Vólquez until Keuchel surrendered his only run of the game on a Lorenzo 
Cain solo home run. The Royals' lead wouldn't last long though, as in the 
bottom of the 5th, catcher Jason Castro, not known for his hitting, got 
a hold of a 1-out, 2-strike pitch for a 2-run RBI single up the middle 
for the first postseason hit of his career. Carlos Gómez would add an RBI 
single in the 6th, and Chris Carter added a solo homer in the 7th on his 
way to a 3-hit night. Closer Luke Gregerson would surrender a solo home 
run to Alex Gordon in the 9th, but he would close out the Royals from there 
to put the Astros one win away from advancing to the 2015 ALCS.[18] Kansas 
City opened the scoring of this game with a 2-run homer from Salvador Pérez 
in the top of the 2nd. However, Carlos Gómez and Carlos Correa hit solo 
home runs in the bottom of the 2nd and 3rd innings respectively to tie 
the game. Correa would drive in another run in the 5th with an RBI double 
to give Houston a 3-2 lead. Then in the 7th, Correa hit another home run, 
this time driving in 2 runs, followed immediately by a Colby Rasmus home 
run to give the Astros a seemingly insurmountable lead of 6-2.[19] Now 
trailing by four runs and six outs away from being eliminated from the 
postseason, Kansas City opened the eighth with five straight singles off 
relievers Will Harris and Tony Sipp, with RBI hits by Lorenzo Cain and 
Eric Hosmer making it 6–4 and leaving the bases loaded with no outs. Kendrys 
Morales followed with a hard, one-bouncer off Sipp's glove. The ball took 
two more hops and got past the top of Carlos Correa's mitt, rolling into 
center field as two runs scored to tie it at six. Alex Gordon's RBI groundout 
off Luke Gregerson later in the inning put Kansas City ahead. Hosmer launched 
a two-run homer in the ninth for insurance as Wade Davis pitched a 2-inning 
save to save the Royals' season. This marked the second time in franchise 
history that Kansas City had rallied from a four-run deficit after seven 
innings to win a postseason game. The first came in 2014, when the Royals 
trailed the Oakland Athletics 7–3 in the eighth of their AL Wild Card Game 
before eventually winning in the 12th. These are the only two instances 
in Major League history of a team taking a must-win game after trailing 
by four runs after seven innings.[20] Johnny Cueto was 2 pitches away from 
potentially having a perfect game. The first was a pitch that Evan Gattis 
hit down the left field line and was fielded by Mike Moustakas in foul 
territory. Had Moustakas had a clean throw to 1st, Kansas City would have 
been out of the inning, but Moustakas’ throw was off the mark, bringing 
1st-baseman Eric Hosmer off the bag, and Hosmer couldn’t hang on to the 
ball to tag out Gattis, thus giving Gattis a base hit. On the next pitch, 
Luis Valbuena sent the ball into the Astros bullpen for a 2-run home run. 
That would be the last baserunner Cueto would allow, as he retires the 
last 19 Astros batters he faced. Cueto became the first pitcher to retire 
the last 19 batters he faced in a postseason game since Roy Halladay's 
no-hitter in 2010 where he retired 21 in a row.[21] In the 4th, Lorenzo 
Cain reached base on a single. Then Hosmer hit a single to center field 
with Cain running on the pitch. Center fielder, Carlos Gómez, slipped onto 
his backside when he fielded the ball, which allowed Cain to go all the 
way home to make it a 2-1 game. This would be the first of 2 times during 
the postseason that Cain would score from 1st base on a single from Hosmer. 
In the 5th, Salvador Pérez reached base when he was hit by a Collin McHugh 
pitch. The next batter, Alex Gordon hit a ball to deep right-center field, 
which bounced into the stands for a ground rule double to put runners on 
2nd and 3rd. At this point Houston brought in Mike Fiers to replace McHugh 
on the mound to face Alex Ríos. On a 1-1 pitch, Rios hit the ball down 
the left-field line that got by the 3rd baseman for a double to score both 
runners and give Kansas City a 3-2 lead. Alcides Escobar then bunted Rios 
to 3rd for the 1st out of the inning. Ben Zobrist then hit a ball to right-center 
field, which was enough to get Rios home with a sacrifice fly to give the 
Royals a 4-2 lead. Dallas Keuchel was brought in for a relief appearance 
on just 2 days of rest in the 8th inning and quickly surrendered a double 
to Escobar down the right-field line. After Zobrist lined out to José Altuve 
at 2nd, Keuchel intentionally walked Cain to put runners on 1st and 2nd. 
Hosmer popped out for the 2nd out to bring up Kendrys Morales. Keuchel 
worked a 1-2 count when he just missed outside to make it a 2-2 count. 
On the next pitch, Morales lined the ball to the left-center field bleachers 
for a 3-run home run to just about put the game away. Wade Davis pitched 
a perfect 9th with Paulo Orlando making the final out with a catch against 
wall to send the Royals to back-to-back ALCS appearances for the first 
time since 1984-’85.[22] 2015 ALDS (3–2): Kansas City Royals beat Houston 
Astros David Price took the mound in search of his first playoff win as 
a starter, and coming into the game he was 0–3 lifetime against the Texas 
Rangers in the postseason. Opposing him was Yovani Gallardo, who provided 
the Rangers with their only two victories against Toronto in the regular 
season, and had been one of the few starters in the majors who had been 
able to shut down the Blue Jays' bats. In the top of the third inning, 
Price hit leadoff hitter Rougned Odor with a pitch. One out later, Delino 
DeShields hit a single up the middle scoring Odor for the first run of 
the game. A few batters later, Adrián Beltré gave Texas a 2–0 lead with 
an RBI single. The Jays cut the lead in half in the fourth thanks to an 
infield single by Edwin Encarnación scoring Ben Revere. After Price once 
again hit Odor in the top of the fifth inning, Robinson Chirinos hit a 
fly ball home run to give the Rangers a 4–1 lead. The Jays would claw back 
to within a run before Odor hit a line drive solo home run into the visitor's 
bullpen in right field, giving the Rangers breathing room and the eventual 
5–3 win. The injury bug hit both clubs, as Beltre was forced to leave due 
to a nagging back injury and was replaced by Hanser Alberto. Josh Donaldson 
left in the fifth inning with a possible concussion, after being hit by 
the knee of Odor after a slide during an attempted double play, and José 
Bautista left in the top of the ninth due to a hamstring cramp. The contest 
was the fourth longest (in terms of innings played) in Division Series 
history, and the second-longest in ALDS history.[23] In a do-or-die Game 
3, the Blue Jays sent Marco Estrada to the hill. Opposing him was Martín 
Pérez, making his first career start and appearance against the Blue Jays. 
Estrada was sharp throughout his start, only running into trouble late. 
Perez lost control of the strike zone in the fourth inning after intentionally 
walking Edwin Encarnación, and he eventually gave up a bases loaded walk 
to Troy Tulowitzki making it 2–0 Jays before getting a double play ball 
off the bat of Dioner Navarro to end the inning. In the sixth inning, Perez 
got into trouble again after two straight singles by Josh Donaldson and 
José Bautista, forcing the Rangers to go to Chi Chi Gonzalez to try and 
end the threat. After walking Edwin Encarnación and loading the bases with 
nobody out, the Blue Jays bad luck struck again as Chris Colabello hit 
a ball right to first baseman Mitch Moreland who completed a 3-2-3 double 
play to put the Jays rally in jeopardy. The next batter in the inning, 
Tulowitzki, worked Gonzalez to a full count and then on the sixth pitch 
of the at bat drilled a three-run home run that broke the game open. The 
Rangers only threatened in the seventh inning, and Estrada was pulled after 
back-to-back hits by Elvis Andrus and Josh Hamilton with one out. The Jays 
went to Aaron Loup for a favorable lefty-lefty matchup which resulted in 
an RBI groundout by Rougned Odor. The Jays then went to Mark Lowe to face 
Robinson Chirinos who worked him to a full count and then on the eighth 
pitch of the at-bat caught Chirinos looking to end the inning, Roberto 
Osuna came on and pitched a perfect ninth as Toronto forced Game 4. After 
the Blue Jays forced Game 4, the Rangers turned to Derek Holland to end 
the series. Opposing him was knuckleballer R.A. Dickey, making his first 
postseason start. The Blue Jays jumped on Holland for three runs in the 
first inning on a single by Ben Revere and home runs by Josh Donaldson 
and Chris Colabello. A Kevin Pillar home run in the second inning made 
it 4−0 Toronto. A walk by Donaldson and a double by José Bautista chased 
Holland and put runners on second and third with no one out. Colby Lewis 
came on in relief of Holland and allowed a fielder's choice ground out 
from Edwin Encarnación, getting Bautista out at third but allowing Donaldson 
to score to make it 5−0. A double by Colabello scored Encarnacion to make 
it 6–0. A fly ball by Troy Tulowitzki was the second out, Russell Martin 
walked and Pillar struck an RBI single to score Colabello and make it 7−0 
after three innings. In the bottom of the third, Prince Fielder scored 
on a wild pitch from Dickey to cut the lead to six, but that was the only 
run Dickey would allow in 4⅔ innings. David Price relieved Dickey and got 
Shin-Soo Choo to fly out on his first pitch to end the fifth. In the seventh, 
another RBI single by Pillar scored Martin and pushed the lead back to 
seven runs. Although the Rangers tried to chip away at the lead, scoring 
a run in the seventh and two more in the eighth off Price to cut the lead 
to four runs but Aaron Sanchez came on and struck out Drew Stubbs to end 
the threat. Osuna retired the Rangers in order in the ninth inning to force 
a game 5 back in Toronto. Prior to the game, fans signed a petition to 
play the game with the roof open.[24] The roof was kept closed despite 
thousands of fans signing the petition.[25] The reason for the closure 
was that keeping it open during cold temperatures would cause it to be 
stuck in the open position.[26] An RBI single by Prince Fielder in the 
first and a solo homer by Shin-Soo Choo in the third gave the Rangers an 
early lead over Marcus Stroman and the Jays. The Jays fought back to tie 
it with an RBI double by José Bautista in the third and a solo home run 
by Edwin Encarnación in the sixth. The 53-minute seventh inning was laden 
with controversy. At the top of the inning, with Rougned Odor on third 
and two outs, Russell Martin was in the process of throwing the ball back 
to the mound after Aaron Sanchez delivered a pitch, but the ball hit Shin-Soo 
Choo's bat and bounced toward third base. Odor observed this and ran to 
home to score the go-ahead run, though the play was initially ruled a dead 
ball by home-plate umpire Dale Scott and the run was voided. Rangers manager 
Jeff Banister came out to argue and after a discussion, the umpires awarded 
the run to Texas, citing rule 6.03a – that Choo was not intentionally interfering 
with the throw back to the pitcher. Since Choo was in the batter's box 
interference could not be called and the play was ruled a live ball. The 
game was delayed 18-minutes while angry home fans tossed beer cans and 
garbage on the field. During this time, a video review from the umpires 
was on confirming with a rules check, Blue Jays manager John Gibbons announced 
he was playing the game under protest. The turning point in the game came 
during the bottom of the seventh inning, when the Rangers made three consecutive 
errors; a fielding error by Elvis Andrus, a throwing error by first baseman 
Mitch Moreland (that was thrown at Andrus), and a missed catch error, also 
by Andrus, loaded the bases with nobody out. Ben Revere proceeded to hit 
into a fielder's choice to first, with Moreland throwing to home, where 
pinch runner Dalton Pompey slid into the catcher Chris Gimenez to prevent 
the chance of a double play; after a Texas review, the play stood, and 
no interference was called. At that point the Rangers' sinker-baller Sam 
Dyson relieved Cole Hamels. Josh Donaldson hit a ball just over the glove 
of Rougned Odor. Odor recovered and threw the ball to second base for a 
force out but the tying run scored and left runners on first and third. 
The following batter, José Bautista, would then hit a three-run home run 
off Dyson to give the Blue Jays a 6–3 lead. He would flip his bat before 
running the bases, an action widely applauded by Blue Jays fans and several 
media outlets but considered unsportsmanlike by some observers.[27] The 
benches would clear afterward, when Edwin Encarnación threw up his hands 
to the fans in an attempt to discourage any more garbage being thrown on 
the field but Dyson interpreted that as Encarnación showboating. At the 
end of the inning, Dyson and Troy Tulowitzki got into an argument after 
Dyson touched Tulowitzki on the buttocks when the former was walking back 
to his dugout, and the benches cleared once again. Roberto Osuna would 
record a five-out save, and at the age of 20, became the youngest pitcher 
in American League history to record a save in the postseason, as well 
as the second-youngest pitcher in Major League history to do so.[28] The 
game marked the third time in the history of the Division Series in which 
a team lost the first two games at home, but came back to win the series.[29] 
