The 2015 Kansas City Royals season was the 47th for the franchise, and 
their 43rd at Kauffman Stadium. The Royals made their second consecutive 
World Series appearance in 2015, after winning the American League in 2014. 
They won the series for the first time since 1985. The team won their first 
AL Central title on September 24, 2015, the first time the Royals won their 
division since 1985. They opened the playoffs by defeating the Houston 
Astros in five games in the Division Series and then defeated the Toronto 
Blue Jays in six games in the American League Championship Series. They 
defeated the New York Mets in five games in the 2015 World Series, the 
second World Series championship in franchise history. The 2015 Royals 
are the first team since the 1989 Oakland Athletics to win the World Series 
after having lost the series in the previous season. October 30: Josh Willingham, 
James Shields, Raúl Ibañez, Luke Hochevar, Jason Frasor, Scott Downs, and 
Norichika Aoki become free agents. November 1: Billy Butler becomes a free 
agent. He would sign with the Oakland Athletics. November 3: Promoted Paulo 
Orlando. Week of November 5: Signed 4 players to a minor league contract, 
and invited 2 of them to Spring training. November 20: Received Reymond 
Fuentes from the San Diego Padres for Kyle Bartsch and promoted 2 other 
players. November 24: Jayson Nix becomes a free agent while Juan Flores 
signs a minor league contract. November 26: Received Ryan Jackson from 
the Los Angeles Dodgers for cash. November 28: Received Bryan Flynn and 
Reid Redman from the Miami Marlins for Aaron Crow. Signed Jason Frasor 
and also gave Ismaldo Rodriguez to a minor league contract. December 2: 
Francisley Bueno becomes a free agent as Dany Geraldo signs a minor league 
contract. December 8: Signed Gabriel Noriega to a minor league contract 
and invited him to Spring training. December 11: Received Jandel Gustave 
from the Boston Red Sox for cash. December 14: Signed Angel Franco to a 
minor league contract. Week of December 15: December 28: Signed 3 players 
to a minor league contract. December 29: Signed Edinson Vólquez. January 
4: Signed Ryan Madson to a minor league contract and invited him to Spring 
training. January 16: Signed 2 players to a minor league contract and invited 
them to Spring training. January 26: Invited 16 players to Spring training 
and signed J. C. Boscán to a minor league contract and also invited him 
to Spring training. Brian Bocock also signs a minor league contract. The 
Houston Astros defeated the New York Yankees 3–0 in the 2015 American League 
Wild Card Game on Tuesday, October 6, earning them the right to play the 
Royals in the ALDS. 6:37 p.m. CDT at Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri 
One season after the Royals blazed through the 2014 ALDS and ALCS with 
sweeps, they fell to the Astros in their first postseason game of 2015, 
struggling to manufacture offense against Houston's Collin McHugh. McHugh 
pitched six innings, holding the Royals to two runs and six hits. The only 
Kansas City hitter to produce runs was Kendrys Morales, who cracked a pair 
of solo shots off McHugh in the second and fourth innings. Morales had 
been the leadoff batter in the second; and in the fourth, the Royals could 
not put any men on base prior to Morales' second blast. Kansas City's own 
starter, Yordano Ventura, seemed dazed early, giving up a walk and two 
hits to the Astros before he recorded the game's first out. Houston then 
utilized sacrifice ground outs to bring home their first two runs of the 
game. After surrendering a third run in the second inning, Ventura, having 
amassed only two innings of work and having struck out two, was replaced 
by Chris Young following a rain delay. Young would go on to pitch four 
innings, the most of any Royal in the game. Young put three zeroes on the 
board against Houston, but the Astros did strike once against him in the 
fifth, taking a 4–2 lead, as George Springer hit a solo home run to left 
field. Houston's offense was nightcapped, appropriately, by a Colby Rasmus 
home run in the eighth; Rasmus had crushed a home run in the wild card 
game against New York to help the Astros earn a series against the Royals. 
A loyal crowd in Kansas City tried to unnerve Houston closer Luke Gregerson 
in the ninth, especially after he hit Mike Moustakas with a pitch, but 
the final inning was otherwise uneventful, and the Astros sealed their 
5–2 Game 1 victory over the Royals with relative ease. 2:47 p.m. CDT at 
Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri The Royals struck back in Game 
2 to force a Game 4 in Houston, but it wasn't easy. They again fell behind 
early as starter Johnny Cueto's struggles continued, Colby Rasmus doubling 
to bring in George Springer to give the Astros a 1–0 lead. They would pad 
it in the second with two more runs off of Cueto, courtesy of a Springer 
line drive that brought home Chris Carter and Jason Castro, who had previously 
reached on a single and walk, respectively. The Royals' offense rolled 
out of bed in the bottom of the second, with Salvador Pérez cracking a 
solo shot off of Houston's Scott Kazmir. The Astros negated the effect 
of the Kansas City run in the top of the third as Rasmus homered for his 
third consecutive postseason game. Kansas City remained resilient, however, 
with Alex Ríos doubling, Alcides Escobar singling on an overturned video-review 
call, and Ben Zobrist hitting a sacrifice ground out to bring Rios home. 
At the end of the third inning, Houston led 4–2. The Astros' scoring for 
the evening was over. Neither team posted a run in the fourth or fifth 
innings, but the Royals hung their first two-spot in the bottom of the 
sixth. After Lorenzo Cain doubled with one out, Kazmir was relieved by 
Óliver Pérez, who was shaky, allowing Eric Hosmer to score Cain. Kendrys 
Morales then singled and Mike Moustakas drew a walk. Josh Fields entered 
the game as Houston's third pitcher of the inning. Fields walked yet another 
batter, bringing home the tying run in Hosmer, before ending the inning 
with two consecutive strikeouts. Kansas City then took the lead in the 
bottom of the seventh, Escobar tripling and then being brought home by 
a Zobrist single. Ryan Madson was effective in relief for Kansas City in 
the eighth. In the ninth, closer Wade Davis struck out Jed Lowrie, but 
then walked Preston Tucker. Carlos Gomez entered the game as a pinch-runner 
for Tucker. However, in their second challenge victory of the night, a 
Davis pickoff throw in which Gomez was originally ruled to be safe was 
overturned, retiring him for the second out of the inning. José Altuve 
then grounded out to end the game. 3:07 p.m. CDT at Minute Maid Park in 
Houston, Texas The Kansas City Royals' Edinson Vólquez pitched valiantly, 
only allowing three of four runs from Houston's power-hitting lineup, but 
the Astros surged ahead 2–1 in the series anyway on the back of another 
strong pitching performance from their own starter, Dallas Keuchel, who 
struck out seven Royal batters and surrendered only a solo home run, a 
fourth inning blast off the bat of Lorenzo Cain. Kansas City's only other 
run would come off of Houston relief pitching. Houston's own offense struck 
in the bottom of the fifth inning, the Astros posting a two-run frame to 
negate the Cain blast. Volquez, after striking out Carlos Gómez, walked 
Luis Valbuena, who was then moved over to third base by virtue of a Chris 
Carter double. Jason Castro then manufactured a ground ball single to score 
both Carter and Gomez. The Astros then hung two more runs on the Royals, 
one each in the sixth and seventh. Alex Gordon homered for Kansas City 
in the top of the ninth, a solo shot off closer Luke Gregerson, but Gregerson 
then gathered himself and retired the remainder of the Royals' ninth without 
suffering any further damage, sealing the Houston victory. The Royals now 
must win in Game 4 on the road to extend the series, and their season, 
to a Game 5. The Royals' string of clutch hits in the top of the eighth 
against a frazzled Houston bullpen restored life to a team that had been 
pushed to the brink of elimination by Astro starter Lance McCullers. Reliever 
Ryan Madson was credited with the win for Kansas City in spite of giving 
up back to back home runs in the bottom of the seventh that had a raucous 
Minute Maid Park crowd thinking that an Astros seat in the ALCS was all 
but assured. Houston's Will Harris was charged with four earned runs and 
Tony Sipp with one during Kansas City's eighth inning comeback. The Blue 
Jays had defeated the Texas Rangers three games to two in the 2015 American 
League Division Series. This game marked the fourth time the Royals had 
rallied back from a multi-run deficit to win in this post-season.[2] With 
the Royals trailing 3–0, Ben Zobrist led off the seventh inning with a 
pop-up to shallow right field. Second baseman Ryan Goins had a lead on 
the ball and waived off charging right fielder José Bautista only to duck 
out of the way at the last moment, allowing the ball to drop for what was 
ruled a single. The Royals went on to score five runs in the inning.[3] 
This marked David Price's seventh consecutive playoff loss, tying him with 
Randy Johnson for the record.[4] This game marked the first time in postseason 
history that a position player was brought in to pitch. Cliff Pennington 
of the Blue Jays was brought in during the 9th inning as Toronto's bullpen 
became increasingly thin after the Royals scoring refused to cease after 
numerous pitching changes. The players in the dugout and the few remaining 
fans left found this very amusing. Pennington gave up two unearned runs 
before retiring the side.[5] The New York Mets had defeated the Chicago 
Cubs four games to zero in the 2015 National League Championship Series. 
The ceremonial first pitch was thrown out by George Brett.[6] Matt Harvey 
started Game 1 for the Mets, while Edinson Vólquez started for the Royals.[7] 
Volquez's father died earlier in the day.[8] He was not aware of his father's 
death until after he left the game.[9] On the first pitch thrown by Harvey, 
Alcides Escobar hit an inside-the-park home run, the first in a World Series 
game since Mule Haas in the 1929 World Series[10][11] (and the first hit 
by a leadoff batter since Patsy Dougherty did it for the Boston Americans 
(now Red Sox) in 1903).[12] In the fourth inning, Daniel Murphy recorded 
the Mets' first hit, and later scored their first run on a hit by Travis 
d'Arnaud.[13] Curtis Granderson hit a home run in the fifth inning to give 
the Mets a 2–1 lead.[14] Eric Hosmer reduced the lead to 3–2 with a sacrifice 
fly, and set a new Royals' postseason run batted in (RBI) record in the 
process.[15][16] A single by Mike Moustakas tied the game at three, but 
in the top of the eighth, Wilmer Flores reached on an fielding error by 
Hosmer, allowing Juan Lagares to score the go-ahead run and give the Mets 
a 4–3 lead. Alex Gordon tied the game for the Royals with a home run in 
the bottom of the ninth inning, as Jeurys Familia blew his first save in 
six opportunities this postseason.[17][18] In the bottom of the 14th inning, 
Escobar reached first base on a throwing error by David Wright, and Bartolo 
Colón gave up a base hit to Ben Zobrist, allowing Escobar to reach third 
base. Hosmer hit a sacrifice fly to Granderson in right field to drive 
in the winning run. The game ended at 1:18 AM EDT, lasting five hours and 
nine minutes.[19] The game tied the record for the longest game by innings 
in World Series history, shared with Game 2 in 1916 and Game 3 in 2005.[20] 
The loss made Colón the oldest man ever to lose a World Series game.[21] 
In Game 2, Jacob deGrom started for the Mets, and Johnny Cueto started 
for the Royals.[22] The Mets scored the first run of the game with a Lucas 
Duda single that scored Murphy in the fourth inning. In the fifth inning, 
the Royals scored four runs on RBI singles by Alcides Escobar, Eric Hosmer, 
and Mike Moustakas. The Royals scored three more runs in the eighth inning.[23] 
Cueto pitched a complete game, the first by an AL pitcher in the World 
Series since Jack Morris in Game 7 in 1991, as the Royals defeated the 
Mets and took a two games to zero lead in the series.[24][25] At Citi Field, 
Game 3 was started by Yordano Ventura of the Royals and Noah Syndergaard 
of the Mets.[26] The ceremonial 1st pitch was thrown by Mike Piazza.[27] 
With no designated hitter (DH) in NL parks, the Mets started Michael Conforto, 
their DH for Game 2, in the outfield instead of Juan Lagares, and the Royals 
did not start Kendrys Morales, their regular DH.[28] Ben Zobrist scored 
the Royals' first run in the first inning on a force play. The first pitch 
thrown by Syndergaard was over the head of Royals shortstop Alcides Escobar 
causing the Royals to complain. In the bottom of the first inning, David 
Wright responded with a two-run home run that also scored Curtis Granderson. 
For the Royals, Alex Ríos drove Salvador Pérez home in the second inning, 
and scored on a passed ball by Travis d'Arnaud, giving the Royals a 3–2 
lead. Granderson hit a two-run home run in the third inning, and the Mets 
took a 4–3 lead. The Mets added a run in the fourth inning on an RBI single 
by Conforto, and four more in the sixth inning. The Royals made a few uncharacteristic 
mistakes in this game, the first coming in the fourth inning when pitcher 
Yordano Ventura forgot to cover the base on a ground ball to the first 
baseman, and the second in the sixth inning when Royals pitcher Franklin 
Morales triple-clutched Granderson's ground ball, allowing all runners 
to be safe, which led to a 2-run single by David Wright. In the 5th inning, 
Royals player Raúl Adalberto Mondesí made his Major League Baseball debut, 
pinch hitting for Danny Duffy, becoming the first player to ever make their 
MLB debut in the World Series.[29] The ceremonial first pitch was thrown 
out by country singer Tim McGraw, son of the late Mets relief pitcher Tug 
McGraw.[30] The starting pitchers for Game 4 are Chris Young of the Royals 
and Steven Matz of the Mets.[31] Conforto scored the game's first run with 
a home run in the third inning, and Wilmer Flores scored later in the inning.[32] 
Conforto hit another home run in the fifth inning, becoming the first rookie 
to hit two home runs in a World Series game since Andruw Jones in the 1996 
World Series.[33] In the sixth inning, Zobrist hit his eighth double of 
the postseason, tying a postseason record previously set by Albert Pujols 
and David Freese of the 2011 St. Louis Cardinals.[34] The Royals took the 
lead in the eighth inning off of Tyler Clippard and Familia, who had his 
second blown save of the series. Volquez returned to the Dominican Republic 
for his father's funeral the day after Game 1, but returned to the Royals 
in time to start Game 5.[35][36] Harvey started for the Mets.[37] Tony 
Bennett performed America the Beautiful, and the first pitch was thrown 
by Cleon Jones, Mookie Wilson, and Darryl Strawberry.[38] Granderson led 
off the first inning with a home run for the Mets,[39] and scored the Mets' 
second run in the sixth inning. Harvey pitched eight shutout innings for 
the Mets. It appeared manager Terry Collins would go to Familia, his closer, 
for the ninth inning, but Harvey convinced Collins to keep him in the game. 
He then gave up a leadoff walk to Lorenzo Cain in the ninth inning, and 
the Royals got a run when Hosmer drove Cain in with a double, prompting 
Collins to go get Familia. Hosmer scored the tying run, and Familia blew 
his third save of the postseason and series; his eight save opportunities 
tied the postseason record set in 2002 by Robb Nen.[40] In the top of the 
twelfth inning, with Addison Reed pitching for the Mets, Pérez hit a single 
for the Royals. Pinch running for Pérez, Jarrod Dyson stole a base and 
scored on a single by pinch hitter Christian Colón. Colón scored on a hit 
by Paulo Orlando, who had substituted into the game earlier. The Royals 
loaded the bases, and Cain drove home three more runs with a double off 
Bartolo Colón. Davis pitched a shutout inning for the Royals to complete 
the series and win the championship; he struck out Wilmer Flores looking 
to end the game, series, and baseball season.[41][42] This marked the second 
consecutive year (and the fourth time in the last six years) that the home 
team did not win the World Series, thus the trophy presentation was done 
in the locker room. Infielders Outfielders Coaches Note: G = Games played; 
AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR 
= Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; 
AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA 
= Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs 
allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts Outfielder 
José Martínez, while playing for Omaha, broke the Pacific Coast League 
(PCL) batting record with a .384 average[43] and led the league in on-base 
