The 2015 World Series was the 111th edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series, a best-of-seven playoff between the National League 
(NL) champions New York Mets and the American League (AL) champions Kansas 
City Royals. The series was played between October 27 and November 1, with 
the Royals winning the series 4 games to 1. It was the first time since 
the 2010 World Series that the World Series extended into November.[2] 
The Royals became the first team since the Oakland Athletics in the 1989 
World Series to win the World Series after losing in the previous year. 
It was also the first World Series since the 2009 World Series to not feature 
the St. Louis Cardinals or San Francisco Giants as the NL Champions. The 
Royals had home field advantage for the first two games of the series because 
of the AL's 6–3 victory in the Major League Baseball All-Star Game. It 
was the 13th World Series in which home field advantage was awarded to 
the league that won the All-Star Game. The series was played in a 2–3–2 
format: the Royals hosted Games 1 and 2, and the Mets hosted Games 3, 4, 
and 5 (there was no Game 6 or 7, which the Royals would have hosted). The 
Royals won Game 1 in extra innings, tying for the longest game in World 
Series history. The Royals also won Game 2 with a complete game by Johnny 
Cueto, who allowed only one unearned run and two hits. With the series 
shifting to New York, the Mets won Game 3 with home runs by David Wright 
and Curtis Granderson. The Royals came from behind to win Game 4 after 
an error by Daniel Murphy led to a blown save by Jeurys Familia. Game 5 
also went into extra innings, where bench player Christian Colón drove 
in the go-ahead run for the Royals, who clinched the series. Salvador Pérez 
was named the World Series Most Valuable Player. The Mets made their fifth 
appearance in the World Series after sweeping the Cubs 4–0 in the 2015 
National League Championship Series (NLCS).[3] They had split their four 
previous appearances, winning the 1969 World Series against the Baltimore 
Orioles and the 1986 World Series against the Boston Red Sox, while losing 
the 1973 World Series against the Oakland Athletics and the 2000 World 
Series against the New York Yankees, their cross-town rivals.[4] The Mets 
qualified for the postseason by winning the National League (NL) East, 
their sixth division title.[5] They faced the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 
2015 NL Division Series, winning in five games. In the 2015 NLCS, Daniel 
Murphy led the team by hitting home runs in each game of the four-game 
sweep of the Chicago Cubs.[6] By winning the NLCS, the Mets ensured that 
they have the most World Series appearances by an expansion franchise with 
five. In addition, the Mets have made World Series appearances in all but 
one of their six decades of existence, not appearing in any that were played 
during the 1990s.[7] This was the first World Series appearance for Mets' 
manager Terry Collins.[8][9] The Royals made their second consecutive appearance 
in the World Series, both under Ned Yost, and fourth overall. They won 
the 1985 World Series against the St. Louis Cardinals, and lost their two 
other appearances, the 1980 World Series against the Philadelphia Phillies 
and the 2014 World Series against the San Francisco Giants.[10] The Royals 
qualified for the postseason by winning the American League (AL) Central, 
their seventh division title and their first since winning the AL West 
in 1985.[11] They faced the Houston Astros in the 2015 American League 
Division Series, winning in five games. They followed that up in the 2015 
American League Championship Series, beating the Toronto Blue Jays in six 
games.[12] By winning the ALCS, the Royals became the first team to play 
in consecutive World Series since the Texas Rangers played in the 2010 
World Series and 2011 World Series.[13] The series began on October 27.[14] 
As the AL won the 2015 All-Star Game, the Royals had home field advantage 
for the series.[15] The Mets and Royals had not played since 2013. Though 
the Mets boasted four starting pitchers who could throw over 95 miles per 
hour (153 km/h) in Matt Harvey, Noah Syndergaard, Jacob deGrom and Steven 
Matz, the Royals had the best team batting average against pitches over 
that speed during the 2015 season. While the Mets starting pitchers had 
the best strikeout-to-walk ratio in the majors, the Royals, consisting 
of strong contact hitters, led baseball in contact rate. The Royals also 
had a superior defensive team, finishing second in the majors in Defensive 
Runs Saved, while the Mets finished 21st.[16] The Royals bullpen, anchored 
by Wade Davis and Kelvin Herrera, also provided a strength.[17] While the 
Mets hitters performed better against left-handed pitchers than right-handed 
pitchers, the Royals four starting pitchers, Johnny Cueto, Edinson Vólquez, 
Yordano Ventura, and Chris Young, and primary relievers, Davis, Herrera, 
Ryan Madson, and Luke Hochevar, are right-handed.[18] This was also the 
first time the World Series was played by teams which both entered the 
league as expansion teams. The Mets joined the National League in 1962, 
and the Royals joined the American League in 1969. Kansas City won the 
series, 4–1. The ceremonial first pitch was thrown out by George Brett.[24] 
Matt Harvey started Game 1 for the Mets, while Edinson Vólquez started 
for the Royals.[25] Vólquez's father had died earlier in the day.[26] He 
was not aware of his father's death until after he left the game.[27] On 
the first pitch thrown by Harvey, Alcides Escobar hit an inside-the-park 
home run, the first in a World Series game since Mule Haas in the 1929 
World Series,[28][29] and the first hit by a leadoff batter since Patsy 
Dougherty did it for the Boston Americans in the 1903 World Series.[30] 
In the fourth inning, Murphy recorded the Mets' first hit, and later scored 
their first run on a hit by Travis d'Arnaud.[31] Curtis Granderson hit 
a home run in the fifth inning to give the Mets a 2–1 lead.[32] The Mets 
took a 3–1 lead in the top of the sixth when Michael Conforto drove in 
Yoenis Céspedes with a sacrifice fly. Mike Moustakas then saved a run with 
a diving stop and throw out to first to end the top of the sixth.[33] Eric 
Hosmer reduced the lead to 3–2 with a sacrifice fly, and set a new Royals' 
postseason run batted in (RBI) record in the process.[34][35] A single 
by Moustakas tied the game at three, but in the top of the eighth, Wilmer 
Flores reached on an fielding error by Hosmer, allowing Juan Lagares to 
score the go-ahead run and give the Mets a 4–3 lead. In the bottom of the 
ninth with the Mets 2 outs away from taking Game 1, Alex Gordon tied the 
game for the Royals with a home run to deep center field, as Jeurys Familia 
blew his first save in six postseason opportunities and his first since 
July 30.[36][37][38] With the home run, Gordon became the first player 
since Scott Brosius in the 2001 World Series, and just the fifth player 
in history, to tie a World Series game on a home run in the ninth inning.[39] 
In the bottom of the 11th inning, Granderson robbed the speedy Jarrod Dyson 
of a multi-base hit with a running, leaping catch that prevented what probably 
would have been a lead-off triple. The Mets went on to get out of the inning.[40] 
In the bottom of the 14th, Escobar reached first on a throwing error by 
David Wright, and Bartolo Colón gave up a base hit to Ben Zobrist, allowing 
Escobar to reach third. Hosmer hit a sacrifice fly to Granderson in right 
field to drive in the winning run. This was the first time in World Series 
history that the same player scored both the first run of the game on the 
first pitch, and the last run of the game on the final pitch. The game 
ended at 1:18 AM EDT, lasting five hours and nine minutes.[41] The game 
tied the record for the longest game by innings in World Series history, 
shared with Game 2 in the 1916 World Series and Game 3 in the 2005 World 
Series.[42] The loss made Colón the oldest player ever to lose a World 
Series game.[43] In Game 2, Jacob deGrom started for the Mets, and Johnny 
Cueto started for the Royals.[44] The ceremonial first pitch was thrown 
out by Medal of Honor recipients Ballard, Charles Hagemeister, and Roger 
Donlon. [45] Cueto walked Curtis Granderson to lead off the fourth and 
Daniel Murphy one out later. Yoenis Cespedes's hit into a forceout at second 
before Lucas Duda's RBI single put the Mets up 1-0. Duda hit the Mets' 
only other hit in the game in the second and Cueto retired them in order 
through the ninth. In the fifth inning, Degrom allowed a leadoff walk to 
Alex Gordon and subsequent single to Alex Rios before Alcides Escobar's 
RBI single tied the game. Ben Zobrist's groundout moved the runners up 
and after Lorenzo Cain lined out to center, Eric Hosmer's two-run single 
put the Royals up 3-1. Kendrys Morales's single moved Hosmer to third and 
Mike Moustakas's single made it 4-1 Royals. The Royals blew the game open 
in the eighth off of Jon Niese, who allowed a leadoff single to Moustakas, 
subsequent single to Salvador Perez, and RBI double to Gordon. Addison 
Reed relieved Niese and allowed a sacrifice fly to Paulo Orlando and RBI 
triple to Escobar to make it 7-1 Kansas City. [46] Cueto walked Murphy 
with two outs in the ninth before getting Cespedes to fly out to right 
to finish the complete game, becoming the first AL pitcher to accomplish 
this feat in the World Series since Jack Morris in Game 7 of the 1991 World 
Series, as the Royals defeated the Mets and took a two games to zero lead 
in the series.[47][48] Cueto became the first AL pitcher since Jim Lonborg 
in the 1967 World Series to throw a World Series complete game while allowing 
two hits or fewer.[49] The series shifted to Citi Field, the home stadium 
of the Mets, for Game 3. Yordano Ventura started for the Royals and Noah 
Syndergaard started for the Mets.[50] The ceremonial first pitch was thrown 
by Mike Piazza to catcher Kevin Plawecki.[51] With no designated hitter 
(DH) in NL parks, the Mets started Michael Conforto, their DH for Game 
2, in the outfield instead of Juan Lagares, and the Royals did not start 
Kendrys Morales, their regular DH.[52] Zobrist scored the Royals' first 
run in the first inning on a force play. In the bottom of the first inning, 
Wright hit a two-run home run that also scored Granderson. For the Royals, 
Alex Ríos drove Salvador Pérez home in the second inning, and scored on 
a passed ball by d'Arnaud, giving the Royals a 3–2 lead.[53] After a Syndergaard 
single, Granderson hit a two-run home run just over the right field wall 
in the third inning, and the Mets took a 4–3 lead. The Mets added a run 
in the fourth inning on an RBI single by Conforto, and four more in the 
sixth inning, including an RBI single by Juan Uribe, in his first at bat 
since September 20.[54] The Royals made a few uncharacteristic mistakes 
in this game, the first coming in the fourth inning when pitcher Yordano 
Ventura forgot to cover the base on a ground ball to the first baseman, 
and the second in the sixth inning when Royals pitcher Franklin Morales 
triple-clutched Granderson's ground ball, allowing all runners to be safe, 
which led to a 2-run single by Wright.[55] In the fifth inning, Royals 
player Raúl A. Mondesí made his Major League Baseball debut, pinch hitting 
for Danny Duffy. Mondesí became the first player ever to make his MLB debut 
in the World Series.[56] The ceremonial first pitch was thrown out by country 
singer Tim McGraw, son of the late Mets relief pitcher Tug McGraw.[58] 
The starting pitchers for Game 4 were Chris Young of the Royals and Steven 
Matz of the Mets.[59] Conforto scored the game's first run with a home 
run in the third inning, and Flores scored later in the inning on a Granderson 
sacrifice fly, where right-fielder Ríos didn't make an immediate throw 
home thinking that was the third out, even though it was just the second 
out of the inning. [60] The Royals cut the deficit to 2–1 in the top of 
the fifth when Pérez doubled and was then driven in by Gordon.[61] However, 
in the bottom of the fifth, Conforto hit another home run, becoming the 
first rookie to hit two home runs in a World Series game since Andruw Jones 
in the 1996 World Series.[62] In the sixth inning, Zobrist hit his eighth 
double of the postseason, tying a postseason record previously set by Albert 
Pujols and David Freese of the 2011 St. Louis Cardinals.[57] Lorenzo Cain 
drove in Zobrist in to make it a 3–2 game.[61] In the eighth inning, after 
recording the first out, Tyler Clippard walked two consecutive batters 
to force Terry Collins to bring in Familia. A key fielding error by Daniel 
Murphy allowed the tying run to score. The Royals took the lead on an RBI 
single from Moustakas, and then Pérez added an insurance run with another 
RBI base hit to give Kansas City the 5–3 lead. For Familia, it was his 
second blown save of the series, and second out of seven opportunities 
this postseason, though this one could be partly attributed to Murphy's 
error. Wade Davis converted a two-inning save for the Royals, his fourth 
overall this postseason.[63] Davis pitched a perfect eighth, but got into 
some trouble with one out in the ninth when Murphy hit a hard grounder 
that Moustakas couldn't field cleanly, and then Céspedes got a base hit 
to bring the winning run to the plate in Duda. However, Duda hit a soft 
line drive that was caught by Moustakas, who then doubled off Céspedes 
at first base to end the game. Céspedes had started running thinking that 
the ball would hit the ground.[64] Vólquez returned to the Dominican Republic 
for his father's funeral the day after Game 1, but returned to the Royals 
in time to start Game 5.[65][66] Harvey started for the Mets.[67] Tony 
Bennett performed "America the Beautiful", and the first pitch was thrown 
by Cleon Jones, Mookie Wilson, and Darryl Strawberry.[68] Granderson led 
off the first inning with a home run for the Mets,[69] and scored the Mets' 
second run in the sixth inning. The Mets had a chance to break the game 
open in that sixth inning as they loaded the bases with no outs, but had 
to settle for one run after Céspedes lined a foul ball off his leg and 
was injured, leaving the game after popping up for the first out of the 
inning. Duda hit a sacrifice fly before d'Arnaud grounded out to end the 
inning. Harvey pitched eight shutout innings for the Mets, and convinced 
Collins to keep him in the game for the ninth. He then gave up a leadoff 
walk to Cain in the ninth inning, and the Royals got a run when Hosmer 
drove Cain in with a double, prompting Collins to call upon Familia to 
relieve Harvey. After a groundout by Moustakas advanced Hosmer to third 
base with one out, Pérez hit a ground ball to third baseman Wright, who 
after checking Hosmer at third, threw to first base for the second out; 
however, Hosmer broke for home as soon as the ball was thrown, and Duda, 
who fielded the out at first, threw wide at home attempting to throw Hosmer 
out, and the latter scored the tying run, resulting in Familia blowing 
his third save of the postseason and the series; his eight save opportunities 
tied the postseason record set in 2002 by Robb Nen.[70] In the top of the 
12th inning, with Addison Reed pitching for the Mets, Pérez hit a single 
for the Royals. Pinch running for Pérez, Dyson stole a base and scored 
on a single by pinch hitter Christian Colón.[71] Colón scored on a hit 
by Escobar. The Royals loaded the bases, and Cain drove home three more 
runs with a double off of Bartolo Colón. Davis pitched a shutout inning 
for the Royals to complete the series and win the championship.[72][73] 
He struck out Flores looking to end the game, series, baseball season, 
and their 30-year World Series title drought.[74] Pérez, who batted 8-for-22 
(.364) in the series, and caught every inning for the Royals with the exception 
of the final inning of the series, won the World Series Most Valuable Player 
Award. He became the first catcher to win the award since Pat Borders won 
it in the 1992 World Series, and the second Venezuelan player, following 
Pablo Sandoval, who won it in the 2012 World Series.[75] 2015 World Series 
(4–1): Kansas City Royals beat New York Mets. Fox broadcast the series 
in the United States, with play-by-play announcer Joe Buck calling the 
action along with color analysts Harold Reynolds and Tom Verducci and field 
reporters Ken Rosenthal and Erin Andrews. The pregame and postgame show 
featured host Kevin Burkhardt with analysts Frank Thomas, Raul Ibanez, 
Pete Rose, and Alex Rodriguez. Fox Deportes offered a Spanish telecast 
of the series in the United States. The MLB International feed featured 
Matt Vasgersian and John Smoltz with play-by-play and analysis, respectively.[76] 
Fox suffered an outage during their broadcast of Game 1, resulting in a 
loss of coverage for 15 minutes, followed a 5-minute delay in-game while 
officials addressed the availability of video review due to the loss of 
Fox's feed; the teams agreed to allow the use of footage from the world 
feed of the game for video review. Fox temporarily switched to the MLB 
International feed of the game with Vasgersian and Smoltz to restore coverage. 
The world feed commentators were then overdubbed by Fox's commentators 
before the full Fox production was restored.[77] The World Series started 
on a Tuesday for the second straight year, instead of a Wednesday as in 
the past. The practice was to avoid games on Thursday and Monday nights, 
generally big days of television viewing, where Fox's telecast would face 
stiff competition from Thursday Night Football, ESPN College Football Thursday 
Primetime, various popular primetime entertainment shows, and Monday Night 
Football.[78] Game 1 of the World Series averaged a 4.6 rating on Fox, 
making it the most watched Game 1 since the 2010 World Series.[79] Game 
2 then had a 3.9 rating, up 24 percent from last season's Game 2.[80] The 
series also recorded the most watched Game 3 since 2009.[81] Game 5 went 
head-to-head with an NBC Sunday Night Football game between the Green Bay 
Packers and Denver Broncos, both of which were previously unbeaten. Media 
sources like Sporting News predicted that this heavy competition would 
result in series-low ratings.[82] While the football game drew the larger 
audience, the Royals and Mets did average a 10.0 rating, the highest for 
a World Series Game 5 since 2003.[83] ESPN Radio aired the series, with 
Dan Shulman on play-by-play, Aaron Boone handling color commentary, and 
Buster Olney serving as field reporter. Tampa Bay Rays pitcher Chris Archer 
served as a guest commentator for selected innings in Games 1, 2 and 5. 
Marc Kestecher anchored pre-game and post-game coverage for the network 
along with Chris Singleton and Peter Pascarelli.[89] Locally, the series 
was broadcast on the teams' flagship radio stations with their respective 
announcing crews. In New York, WOR aired the games in English, with Howie 
Rose and Josh Lewin announcing, while WEPN-AM aired the games in Spanish, 
with Juan Alicea and Max Pérez Jiménez announcing. In Kansas City, KCSP 
broadcast the games, with Denny Matthews, Ryan Lefebvre, Steve Stewart, 
and Steve Physioc announcing.[90] WEPN-FM and WHB, the ESPN Radio affiliates 
in New York and Kansas City respectively, aired the network's coverage 
of the series in those cities.[91][92] This was the first World Series 
in which both teams were expansion teams, which are teams that were formed 
after the 1960 season; the Mets began play in 1962, while the Royals began 
play in 1969.[93][94] Additionally, they have been the most successful 
expansion teams in the major leagues: the Mets and Royals were the first 
expansion teams in their respective leagues to not only win a league championship 
pennant (1969 for the Mets and 1980 for the Royals) but the World Series 
as well (the Mets in 1969 and the Royals in 1985); with five and four pennants 
respectively, they are the only expansion franchises with more than two 
league titles. Each team was also seeking to end a championship drought; 
the Royals' previous championship was in 1985, with the Mets' last title 
coming one year later in 1986.[95] The Mets and Royals met on Opening Day 
of the 2016 season, on April 3, 2016, for a Sunday night game in Kansas 
City.[96] In the 1989 film Back to the Future Part II, the Chicago Cubs 
are depicted as the 2015 World Series champions, defeating a fictional 
American League team from Miami (the Miami Marlins had not yet been formed), 
whose mascot is an alligator.[97] Screenwriter Bob Gale, who co-wrote the 
script of Back to the Future Part II, originally intended it as a joke, 
saying "Being a baseball fan, I thought, 'OK, let's come up with one of 
the most unlikely scenarios we can think of'", referencing both the Cubs' 
long championship drought, and the fact that Florida did not have a baseball 
team in 1989. He also explained the October 21 prediction was based on 
the postseason structure at the time, and thus could have been accurate 
had MLB not added the Division Series in 1994 (but not played until 1995 
due to the strike) and the Wild Card Game in 2012.[98] In the actual 2015 
postseason, the Cubs advanced to the National League Championship Series, 
but were eliminated in four games. Coincidentally, the final game of the 
NLCS took place on October 21, the same date as the fictional events of 
Back to the Future Part II. While the film's prediction proved to be incorrect, 
the Cubs did win the following year's World Series, marking an end to the 
