The 2015 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament began on Friday, May 29, 2015 
as part of the 2015 NCAA Division I baseball season. The 64-team double 
elimination tournament concluded with the 2015 College World Series in 
Omaha, Nebraska, which began on June 13 and ended on June 24th with the 
Virginia Cavaliers upsetting the defending champion Vanderbilt Commodores 
4–2 in the decisive game three.[1][2] The 64 participating NCAA Division 
I college baseball teams were selected out of an eligible 298 teams.[3] 
Thirty-one teams were awarded an automatic bid as champions of their conferences, 
and 33 teams were selected at-large by the NCAA Division I Baseball Committee. 
Teams were divided into sixteen regionals of four teams, which conducted 
a double-elimination tournament. Regional champions then faced each other 
in Super Regionals, a best-of-three series to determine the eight participants 
of the College World Series.[2] Vanderbilt University and the University 
of Virginia split the first two games of the best-of-three championship 
series, before Virginia won game 3, 4–2, to win their first national championship 
in baseball. The two teams previously met in the championship series in 
2014, which Vanderbilt won. With the exception of Missouri State, these 
teams would automatically host a Super Regional if they advanced that far. 
Missouri State was not able to host because of a venue scheduling conflict.[4] 
Bold indicates College World Series participant † indicates teams that 
were eliminated in the Regional Tournament ‡ indicates teams that were 
eliminated in the Super Regional Tournament Bold indicates winner. Seeds 
for regional tournaments indicate seeds within regional. Seeds for super 
regional tournaments indicate national seeds only. Hosted by Virginia at 
Davenport Field[5] Hosted by Arkansas at Baum Stadium[6] The College World 
Series was held at TD Ameritrade Park in Omaha, Nebraska. Seeds listed 
below indicate national seeds only The following players were members of 
the College World Series All-Tournament Team.[7] Seeds listed below indicate 
national seeds only The columns RF, SR, WS, NS, CS, and NC respectively 
stand for the Regional Finals, Super Regionals, College World Series, National 
Semifinals, Championship Series, and National Champion. NRG Media provided 
nationwide radio coverage of the College World Series through its Omaha 
station KOZN, in association with Westwood One. It was streamed at westwoodonesports.com 
and on TuneIn. Kevin Kugler and John Bishop called all games leading up 
to the Championship Series with Gary Sharp acting as the field reporter. 
The Championship Series was called by Kugler and Scott Graham with Sharp 
acting as the field reporter. ESPN carried every game from the Regionals, 
Super Regionals, and College World Series across the ESPN Networks (ESPN, 
ESPN2, ESPNU, SEC Network, LHN, and ESPN3). ESPN also provided "Bases Loaded" 
coverage for the Regionals. Bases Loaded was hosted by Brendan Fitzgerald 
and Matt Schick with Kyle Peterson and Ben McDonald providing analysis. 
"Bases Loaded" aired Friday-Sunday from 1:00 pm–midnight EDT and Monday 
from 6:00 pm–midnight EDT on ESPN3. ESPN2 and ESPNU aired "Bases Loaded" 
in between games and throughout other select times during the tournament.[8] 
Regionals[8] Super Regionals[9] College World Series[10] Regionals[8] Super 
