The 2015 Major League Baseball season began on April 5 with a Sunday night 
game between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Chicago Cubs at Wrigley Field, 
and ended on November 1 with the Kansas City Royals winning the World Series. 
This was Rob Manfred's first season serving as Commissioner of Baseball. 
The Major League Baseball All-Star Game's 86th edition was held on Tuesday, 
July 14 at Great American Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio, home of the Cincinnati 
Reds. The American League won the game 6–3, to give the American League 
home-field advantage in the World Series. The series was won by the Kansas 
City Royals. As was the case in 2014, teams are scheduled to play 19 games 
against each division opponent for a total of 76 games, and six or seven 
games against each team from the other two divisions in its league for 
a total of 66 games. All teams are scheduled to play 20 interleague games 
throughout the season. For 2015, the interleague matchups will be AL East 
vs. NL East, AL Central vs. NL Central, and AL West vs. NL West. Since 
"natural rivalry" matchups will be part of the three-year divisional rotation 
(for the first time), the schedule format for interleague games is different 
from other years. The 20 interleague games each team will play consist 
of two three-game series (one home, one away) against its natural rival 
(total of six games), two two-game series (one home, one away) against 
each team for two other opponents (total of eight games; one of the matchups 
takes place back-to-back within the same week), and a single three-game 
series against each team for the last two (one home, one away; total of 
six games). During the final day of the regular season, all games are scheduled 
to start simultaneously at 3:00 p.m. Eastern Time, reminiscent of the English 
Premier League's last-day "Survival Sunday" scheduling.[1][2] MLB hopes 
that this will add excitement and drama during the final day, and also 
limit teams' ability to rest starters at the last minute based on early 
game results.[3] At the end of the 2014 season, the following teams made 
replacements to their managers. The New York Mets changed their home jersey 
from a cream shade to white and took away the home white alternate jersey.[92] 
The Minnesota Twins took away the pinstripes from their home jersey and 
added a gold trim to the "Twins" wordmark. A hat was also added highlighting 
the "Twin Cities" logo in gold.[93] The Pittsburgh Pirates introduced a 
new camouflage alternate jersey in honor of the U.S. Military which will 
be worn during all Thursday home games. A new camo-style hat also accompanies 
this uniform with a black bill and black "Pittsburgh" logo.[94] The Seattle 
Mariners have added an alternate cream color jersey with blue and yellow, 
the original colors of the team from 1977–1992. An alternate light blue 
hat with a gold "Seattle" logo will accompany the uniform as well. The 
San Francisco Giants have added an alternate black jersey, featuring a 
new alternate logo depicting the Golden Gate Bridge. The Cleveland Indians 
darkened the shade of navy blue in their caps and jerseys. The following 
teams will wear commemorative patches for special occasions: The Astros 
and Angels wore 1965 uniforms on April 18 to mark the 50th anniversary 
of the Astrodome and the 50th anniversary of the renaming of the team to 
Astros. The Reds and Cubs wore 1990 uniforms on April 24 to mark the 25th 
anniversary of the Reds' winning the 1990 World Series. The Tigers and 
Indians wore Negro League throwbacks on April 25. The Tigers wore the uniforms 
of the Detroit Stars, while the Indians wore the uniforms of the Cleveland 
Buckeyes. The Red Sox wore their 1975 home uniforms on May 5 to mark the 
40th anniversary of the club's 1975 AL Championship and trip to the 1975 
World Series. The uniforms had the Massachusetts bicentennial patch. The 
Mariners and Red Sox wore Negro League throwbacks on May 16. The Red Sox 
wore the uniforms of the Boston Royal Giants, and the Mariners wore the 
uniforms of the Seattle Steelheads. The Cubs and Royals wore 1915 Federal 
League throwbacks on May 31 (originally, they were supposed to have worn 
them on May 30, but the game was postponed due to rain). The Cubs wore 
the uniforms of the Chicago Whales, while the Royals wore the uniforms 
of the Kansas City Packers. The Cardinals and Phillies wore 1960s throwbacks 
on June 19. The Cardinals wore 1961 uniforms, which did have the players' 
numbers on the fronts of the shirts. The Phillies wore 1969 throwbacks. 
The Mets and Braves wore Negro League throwbacks on June 20. The Mets wore 
the uniforms of the Brooklyn Royal Giants, while the Braves wore the uniforms 
of the 1938 Atlanta Black Crackers. The Red Sox wore their 1975 road uniforms 
on June 27 against the Rays. The Rays, meanwhile, wore their "fauxback" 
jerseys, which have a retro feel yet never actually were worn regularly 
because the franchise did not exist back then. The Athletics wore 1965 
Kansas City Athletics uniforms June 27. Ironically, the Kansas City Royals 
were their opponents. The Pirates and Brewers wore Negro League throwbacks 
on July 18. The Pirates wore the uniforms of the Pittsburgh Crawfords, 
while the Brewers wore the uniforms of the Milwaukee Bears. The Rangers 
and Astros wore 1980s throwbacks on July 18 as part of an 1980s night promotion 
at Minute Maid Park. The Cardinals and Royals wore 1985 uniforms on July 
23 to mark the 30th anniversary of the 1985 World Series. They were supposed 
to be worn on June 14, but that game was postponed due to rain. The Cubs 
and White Sox wore 1959 uniforms on August 14 in honor of Minnie Miñoso 
at US Cellular Field. Each of the White Sox players wore Minoso's number 
9. The Cubs and Tigers wore 1945 uniforms on August 19 to mark the 70th 
anniversary of the 1945 World Series. The White Sox wore 1976 uniforms 
on August 27. Players, coaches, and umpires at all games wore #42 on April 
15, the 68th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's debut in the majors. The 
Giants wore uniforms with gold "Giants" script lettering and numbering 
on April 18 to celebrate their 2014 World Series title. On April 20 (Patriots' 
Day), the Boston Red Sox wore home white jerseys with "BOSTON" written 
on the front to mark the two year anniversary of the Boston Marathon bombings. 
The uniform also sported the 2013 navy-blue circular patch with a white 
border on the left shoulder saying "B Strong" (with the red B in the classic 
font featured on the Red Sox's caps). The Milwaukee Brewers wore their 
batting practice jerseys as an alternate on April 21. The front has the 
Brewers' "M" logo on front, and has gold trim on the side. The Giants wore 
Spanish-language "Gigantes" uniforms on May 5, Cinco de Mayo. The Orioles 
wore a special uniform May 11, the first game at Camden Yards with spectators 
since April 26 due to the riots that took place in the city in April. The 
uniforms were in their home whites, but had their road "Baltimore" script 
on the front instead of the usual "Orioles". The Reds wore camouflage uniforms 
and caps on May 16 and June 6. The uniforms had the "Reds" script on the 
front, instead of the player's number and the Reds' logo. All teams wore 
camouflage uniforms on May 25, Memorial Day in the United States. Although 
Memorial Day is not a legal holiday in Ontario, the Blue Jays wore camouflage. 
The Reds wore green caps and uniforms on June 19 as part of a "Shamrock 
the Ballpark" promotion. Like the camouflage uniforms, the uniforms had 
the "Reds" script on the front, instead of the player's number and the 
Reds' logo; the uniforms have a shamrock on the right sleeve, instead of 
the Mr. Redlegs mascot. The Blue Jays wore a special uniform on Canada 
Day. July 1. The uniform had the Blue Jays wordmark in red, instead of 
blue. They had the Canadian flag on their right sleeve. The Red Sox, their 
opponent, wore a Canadian flag on their uniform as well. The uniform was 
worn again on August 30. All teams wore American flag-themed caps and uniforms 
on July 4, Independence Day in the United States. The uniforms had an American 
flag on a sleeve. The logos and players' numbers had stars on them; the 
caps had a star instead of a baseball on the MLB logo. The Blue Jays wore 
a jersey with both the U.S. and Canadian flags. The Royals and the Astros 
wore Spanish-language "Los Reales" and "Los Astros" uniforms on July 25. 
The Tigers wore Spanish-language "Tigres" uniforms August 8. The uniforms 
were based on the Tigers' 1960 uniforms. The Reds and the Diamondbacks 
wore Spanish-language "Los Rojos" and "Los D-backs" uniforms August 21. 
The Mets wore camouflage uniforms on August 31. The Mariners wore Spanish-language 
"Marineros" uniforms on September 12. The Astros wore Spanish-language 
"Los Astros" uniforms on September 27. 2015 marks the second year of MLB's 
eight-year deal with Fox Sports, ESPN, & TBS. Fox will televise Saturday 
night games for eight consecutive weeks, leading up to the All Star Game, 
which will also air on Fox. Fox will then televise Saturday afternoon games 
for the last four weeks of the regular season. Fox Sports 1 will televise 
games on Tuesday nights and Saturdays, both during the afternoon and at 
night. ESPN will televise games on its flagship telecast, Sunday Night 
Baseball, as well as Monday and Wednesday nights. TBS will televise Sunday 
afternoon games for the last thirteen weeks of the regular season. Fox 
and ESPN Sunday Night Baseball telecasts will be exclusive; all other national 
telecasts will be subject to local blackout. TBS will televise the National 
League Wild Card Game, Division Series, and Championship Series. ESPN will 
televise the American League Wild Card Game, Fox Sports 1 and MLB Network 
will televise American League Division Series, and Fox and Fox Sports 1 
will televise the American League Championship Series. The World Series 
will air exclusively on Fox for the sixteenth consecutive year. All postseason 
games will air on ESPN Radio. 2015 was the second year of MLB's eight-year 
contracts for national broadcasts in Canada. Rogers Communications-owned 
Sportsnet holds English-language rights to the All-Star Game and Home Run 
Derby, almost all postseason games, and various regular season games, all 
of which are in addition to the channel's Canada-wide "regional" deal for 
all regular season games of the co-owned Toronto Blue Jays.[96] With the 
Blue Jays reaching the postseason in 2015 for the first time since 1993, 
Sportsnet president Scott Moore announced the channel was unable to produce 
separate Canadian telecasts of the Blue Jays' postseason games, and picked 
up the U.S. network telecasts of these games as it typically did for its 
postseason coverage.[97] As in 2014, when the two Division Series games 
carried by MLB Network in the U.S. was also exclusive to that channel in 
Canada despite very limited carriage,[98] Game 3 of the Royals-Astros ALDS 
was exclusive to MLBN in both countries.[99] However Sportsnet aired all 
games of the Blue Jays-Rangers ALDS in Canada (MLBN carried Game 2 in the 
United States).[100] TSN holds English-language rights to most regular 
season games in ESPN's U.S. package.[101] French-language rights are split 
between RDS and TVA Sports.[102][103] The Chicago Cubs opted to re-negotiate 
their terrestrial television contracts for the 2015 season through 2019, 
when all the Cubs' television rights contracts will expire, including their 
cable deal with Comcast SportsNet Chicago. WGN-TV will still hold rights 
to 45 Cubs games per season, and its overflow broadcasts will move to WPWR-TV 
in place of WCIU-TV. WGN will be joined by ABC-owned station WLS-TV, which 
will now broadcast 25 games per season.[104][105][106] Broadcast Cubs games 
among the three stations in the market, along with White Sox games (which 
will also have games move from WCIU to WPWR) will be carried in the Indianapolis 
market among Media General's duopoly of WISH-TV and WNDY-TV, in addition 
to a regional network in Iowa and downstate Illinois.[107] The cable network 
WGN America will no longer carry Chicago White Sox or Chicago Cubs games, 
as the network has phased out Chicago sports programming as part of its 
transition towards becoming a nationally focused entertainment network. 
This brings an end to the "superstation" era of cable broadcast, started 
in 1976 when WTCG (later to become WTBS) broadcast Atlanta Braves games, 
followed by WGN and other stations such as WOR-TV (New York Mets), WSBK-TV 
(Boston Red Sox) and KTLA (California Angels) airing simulcasts via satellite 
or cable. After an absence of over a decade, New York Yankees telecasts 
will return to WPIX, sharing time with the Mets after WWOR-TV gave up its 
contract due to the rejection of a contract extension. Both teams' games 
on WPIX will still be produced by the YES Network and SportsNet New York 
respectively. ESPN Radio will air its 18th season of national coverage, 
including Sunday Night Games, Saturday games, Opening Day and holiday games, 
the All-Star Game, and Home Run Derby, and the entire postseason. WBBM 
will be the new radio home of the Chicago Cubs starting in April 2015 after 
long time home WGN gave up the broadcasting rights after 90 years. WJZ-FM, 
for the second time, will become the flagship radio station for the Baltimore 
Orioles. WJZ-FM held the rights for the 2009 and 2010 seasons. New rules 
