The 2015 New York Mets season was the franchise's 54th season. The Mets 
finished the regular season with a record of 90–72, winning the National 
League East title on September 26, their first division title since 2006 
and sixth overall. They defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in the Division 
Series in five games and swept the Chicago Cubs in the National League 
Championship Series. They lost to the Kansas City Royals in five games 
in the 2015 World Series. It was the Mets' first appearance in the World 
Series since 2000 when they lost to the New York Yankees. On November 10, 
2014, the Mets signed Michael Cuddyer to a two-year $21 million deal.[1] 
On December 2, 2014, the Mets officially non-tendered Eric Young Jr.[2] 
On December 11, 2014, the Mets agreed to a one-year contract with John 
Mayberry Jr.[3] During Spring training, the Mets made trades for relief 
pitchers Jerry Blevins from the Washington Nationals and Alex Torres from 
the San Diego Padres.[4][5] The Mets, who were being no-hit into the 6th 
Inning by Max Scherzer, pulled off a stunning upset on Opening Day, as 
they were able to capitalize on two errors by Washington in the sixth. 
Ian Desmond committed a throwing error and Dan Uggla dropped a David Wright 
pop-up, and Lucas Duda finished off the rally with a two-run single into 
the right-center gap off a 98-MPH fastball from Scherzer. Terry Collins' 
decision to start Bartolo Colón was questionable, but it wound up working 
as his only blemish was allowing a home run to Bryce Harper. After Colon 
left the game, Buddy Carlyle, filling in for an injured Jenrry Mejía nailed 
down the save, giving the Mets a 3-1 victory. After their opening series 
in Washington, it was announced that former closer Jenrry Mejía had been 
suspended 80 games for the use of stanozolol, a performance-enhancing drug 
(PED) banned by Major League Baseball. The Mets scuffled to start the season, 
dropping 3 of their first 5 games. After losing the first two in Atlanta 
to start their second series, the Mets began an 11-game win streak that 
started on Sunday with Colón picking up his second win. The Mets then returned 
home, and swept the Philadelphia Phillies, Miami Marlins, and Atlanta Braves. 
On April 23, 2015 the New York Mets beat the Braves 6-3 to complete a perfect 
10 game homestand, tying their start to the 1986 season with a 13-3 record 
and tying the team record with an 11-game winning streak. During the 8th 
game of the season, David Wright pulled his hamstring while stealing a 
base. He left the game and Anthony Recker was brought in to play third 
base. After a number of weeks, Wright was diagnosed with spinal stenosis, 
raising questions as to whether the captain could ever return.[6] During 
the 11 game winning streak, catcher Travis d'Arnaud was hit by a pitch, 
leading to a wrist injury. Kevin Plawecki was called up to replace d'Arnaud. 
In the same game, relief pitcher Jerry Blevins was hit by a line drive, 
breaking his arm. Their winning streak was broken in the first game of 
the Subway Series, where Jacob deGrom lost to Michael Pineda. The next 
day, in the second game of the series, Matt Harvey pitched 8.2 innings, 
but after giving up back-to-back hits, Harvey was taken out of the game. 
He would still get the victory. No Met would pitch a complete game until 
September. The Mets then lost the rubber match against the Yankees on Sunday 
night, their first appearance on ESPN Sunday Night Baseball since the 2013 
season. In May, they dropped a bit, and the Nationals took the Division 
lead after taking 3 of 4 from the Mets at Citi Field to start the month. 
Many predicted at the start of the season that Washington would win the 
division, and they continued to have a strong month while the Mets scuffled. 
It was a rough month for the pitchers, but Bartolo Colón struggled the 
most, as he saw his ERA balloon to 4.80 at one point, effectively ending 
his All-Star chances. Noah Syndergaard was called up in mid-May to help 
provide an impact, and made his Major League debut on May 12 against the 
Chicago Cubs. He struggled mightily, losing 6-1 in part of a 4-game sweep 
at the hand of the Cubs at Wrigley Field. The Mets then returned home that 
weekend for a weekend series against the Milwaukee Brewers and took the 
series 2 games to 1. On Saturday, the Mets offense exploded for 14 runs, 
scoring 10 in the 4th inning, which included a grand slam hit by Wilmer 
Flores. Syndergaard picked up his first major league win on Sunday as the 
Mets won 5-1. The rest of the month was not good for the Mets, as in the 
following week, they split a 4-game series with the Cardinals and were 
swept by the Pirates. While they started the final week of May by sweeping 
the Phillies, they closed the month by losing a series to the Marlins, 
ending May with a 28-23 record. The Mets continued their struggles on a 
road trip to the West, as they dropped a series in San Diego and also split 
a series in Arizona. Their return home was not kind either, as they were 
no-hit by Chris Heston on June 9, which would turn out to be the first 
of two no-hitters thrown against the Mets in 2015. New York rebounded to 
win a weekend series against the Braves, and also snapped the Toronto Blue 
Jays' 11 game winning streak, which matched the Mets' 11-game streak as 
the longest winning streak of the year, by beating them on a walk-off hit 
by Wilmer Flores. After another win the following day, the Mets retook 
the division lead again as Washington continued to not live up to experts' 
expectations. However, the Mets began to struggle again, as they dropped 
their next 7 in a row to fall back to under .500, at 36-37. Facing the 
Brewers, Jacob deGrom snapped the losing skid with a strong winning effort, 
pitching 8 shutout innings to guide the Mets to a 2-0 victory and get them 
back to .500 returning home for a three-game set with the Cincinnati Reds. 
On June 28, left-handed pitching prospect Steven Matz, a native of Stony 
Brook, New York and a lifelong Mets fan, made his Major League debut for 
the Mets against the Cincinnati Reds. He recorded four runs batted in (RBIs), 
breaking the Mets' franchise record for RBIs in a major league debut and 
setting an MLB record for most RBI by a pitcher in their debut. He went 
on to get the win in that game. Matz was the first pitcher from Long Island 
to make his MLB debut with the Mets since Ray Searage in 1981. With the 
win, the Mets swept the Reds to end June with a 40-38 record. The Mets 
then started the month of July poorly, as they unexpectedly began to struggle 
to score runs despite an offensive outburst over the previous weekend against 
the Reds. The Mets opened July by getting swept by the Chicago Cubs at 
Citi Field. In the three game series, the Mets scored only one run. The 
team lost 6-1 on Thursday afternoon to drop to 40-40. After the game, local 
news pundits tore into the Wilpon's ownership of the team and GM Sandy 
Alderson not admitting there was a problem with the offense. Alderson then 
addressed the media and dubbed the reporters "residents of Panic City". 
Panic City became a popular term used to describe Mets fans, especially 
on social media. After the sweep, the Mets went 4-2 on a road trip to the 
west coast in Los Angeles and San Francisco. They followed this with a 
sweep of the Arizona Diamondbacks at Citi Field that brought the team's 
record to 47-42 heading into the 2015 All Star Break. In the final game 
of this series, Kirk Nieuwenhuis became the tenth Met to hit three home 
runs in one game, and the first player in Mets history to hit three home 
runs in one home game; the previous nine did so on the road. On July 29, 
the Mets were involved in a bizarre series of events where it was reported 
through various social media outlets that Wilmer Flores had been traded, 
along with Zack Wheeler to the Milwaukee Brewers in exchange for outfielder 
Carlos Gómez, as part of the Mets' desire to bring in an outfield bat. 
Word spread quickly around the stadium, and eventually to Flores, who took 
the field in the 8th inning crying and visibly emotional. After the game, 
general manager Sandy Alderson confirmed with the media that the trade 
had fallen through due to either medical concerns or disagreements on money, 
meaning Flores and Wheeler remained Mets. The next day, Flores was on the 
bench while the Mets tried to put the previous night behind them, leading 
the Padres 7-1 in the 7th inning. However, Derek Norris cut into the lead 
with a grand slam off Hansel Robles, but the newly acquired reliever Tyler 
Clippard sent the game into the 9th with the Mets retaining a 7-5 lead. 
Jeurys Familia came in to close the game, but with two outs and one strike 
on Norris, a heavy rainfall prompted the umpires to delay the game. After 
the delay, Norris blooped an 0-2 single to right field, Matt Kemp grounded 
a single to left field, and Justin Upton provided the final blow, homering 
to give the Padres an 8-7 lead, which would hold up. Following the crushing 
defeat, the Mets faced the Washington Nationals in a pivotal three game 
series, considering that the Nationals were 3 games ahead of the Mets, 
and a New York sweep could give the Mets the division lead, while a Nationals 
series win might do the Mets in for good. Prior to the first game, the 
Mets got their big outfield bat, Yoenis Céspedes, in a trade with the Tigers 
for minor league pitchers Michael Fulmer and Luis Cessa. That night, in 
a pivotal game against their division rivals, the Washington Nationals, 
Flores hit a walk-off home run in the 12th inning, winning the game for 
the Mets by a score of 2-1. Flores had also driven in the other Mets run 
earlier in the game. It was also the only walk-off home run the Mets hit 
in the regular season. The Mets started August on a hot streak, sweeping 
the Washington Nationals and the Miami Marlins with their new addition 
Yoenis Céspedes on a hot streak as well. They regained the lead in the 
NL East on August 3[7] and did not relinquish it for the rest of the season. 
On August 21, Céspedes became the 11th Met in franchise history and the 
third Met in 2015 to hit three home runs in a game when he did so against 
the Rockies.[8] This feat was achieved early in the season by Lucas Duda 
and Kirk Nieuwenhuis. On August 24 against the Phillies, David Wright played 
in his first game since April 14, missing over four months due to a hamstring 
injury and a career-threatening bout with spinal stenosis. Wright hit a 
home run into the second deck in his first at-bat; this would be the first 
of eight Met home runs in the game, setting a new franchise record in their 
16-7 win. The Mets also hit 45 home runs in August, setting the club record 
for most home runs in a calendar month. The Mets finished the month of 
August with a 20-8 record, their first month with at least 20 wins since 
September 2000. The Mets swept an important 3-game series in Washington 
against the Nationals, coming from behind in each game to do so; this sweep 
increased their division lead, which they would not relinquish, to seven 
games, effectively ending the chances of a Nationals comeback. On September 
26, the Mets clinched the National League East Division regular season 
championship after defeating the Cincinnati Reds 10-2. The Mets began October 
on a low note. They were the favorites to win home-field advantage over 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in the divisional round, but finished 1-5 to end 
the season, including being swept the rival Phillies and dropping a series 
against the Nationals, which included a no-hitter thrown by Max Scherzer 
on October 3,[9] which was the second no-hitter thrown against the Mets 
all season. However, the Mets rebounded the next day with a 1-0 win to 
head into the postseason on a positive note. Jacob deGrom pitched 4 shutout 
innings and the Mets took a combined no-hitter into the 8th, but Clint 
Robinson singled off Jon Niese to end the no-hitter. Curtis Granderson 
then homered for the only run of the game, and Jeurys Familia earned his 
43rd save of the year, tying a club record previously held by Armando Benitez, 
who recorded 43 saves in 2001.[10] The win also gave the Mets a solid 90 
victories, which Alderson had predicted of the team in 2014. The club ended 
the regular season with a record of 90-72, making it the first time since 
2006 that the Mets won at least 90 games. The Mets played the Los Angeles 
Dodgers in the 2015 National League Division Series, winning in five games. 
They then swept the Chicago Cubs in the 2015 National League Championship 
Series before losing in five games to the Kansas City Royals in the 2015 
World Series. It was the first World Series to feature two expansion teams. 
Game 5 was the first game in franchise history in the month of November. 
Infielders Coaches Players bolded are presently on Mets active roster. 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 
3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; SB = Stolen bases; 
BB = Base on balls; K = Strike Outs; AVG = Batting average Players bolded 
are presently on Mets active roster. Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; 
R = Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in; SB = Stolen bases; BB = Base on balls; K = Strike 
Outs; AVG = Batting average Players bolded are currently on the Mets active 
roster. Note: G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; W = Wins; L = Losses; 
SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits; R = Runs; ER = Earned runs 
allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts; ERA = Earned run average; 
