The 2015 Virginia Cavaliers baseball team represented the University of 
Virginia during the 2015 NCAA Division I baseball season. The Cavaliers 
played their home games at Davenport Field as a member of the Atlantic 
Coast Conference. They were led by head coach Brian O'Connor, in his 12th 
season at Virginia. 2015 was a tough regular season for the 2014 NCAA runner-up. 
The Cavaliers slogged through a disappointing and injury filled regular 
season. By winning 5 of its last 6 ACC games, the Cavs managed to cobble 
together a .500 ACC record, qualifying them for a play in game at the ACC 
tournament. At the tournament they won the play in game against Georgia 
Tech and then promptly lost the last three games. Virginia was given an 
NCAA tournament berth, as a No. 3 regional seed, and the Cavs took full 
advantage. They swept through the Lake Elsinore (Calif.) Regional, and 
because Maryland, also a #3 seed, had won its regional, were able to host 
a Super Regional, which the Cavaliers swept as well. In Omaha the Cavaliers 
wan the 2015 College World Series, highlighted by winning two of three 
games against Florida before ousting Vanderbilt in three games in the CWS 
Finals. Virginia's season was notable for the Cavaliers continuing to battle 
in spite of numerous setbacks. That never give up attitude was evident 
in its post season as well: UVA scored the go-ahead run in the fifth inning 
or later in each of their 10 postseason wins.[2] In 2014, the Cavaliers 
finished the season 2nd in the ACC's Coastal Division with a record of 
47–14, 22–8 in conference play. They qualified for the 2014 Atlantic Coast 
Conference Baseball Tournament, and were eliminated in pool play. They 
qualified for the 2014 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament as the #3 overall 
national seed, and were placed in the Charlottesville Regional, of which 
they were hosts. Also in the regional were Bucknell, Liberty, and Arkansas. 
The Cavaliers defeated Bucknell, 10–1, in the opening game, and then shut 
out Arkansas, 3–0, to advance to the regional final. There, they again 
defeated Arkansas, this time by a score of 9–2. In the Super Regional, 
the Cavaliers fell in the opening game to ACC foe Maryland, 4–5. However, 
they rebounded and defeated the Terrapins in the next two games, 7–3 and 
11–2, to advance to the College World Series. In the College World Series, 
Virginia's first game was against Ole Miss, whom the Cavaliers defeated, 
2–1. In the second round, Virginia defeated #7 national seed TCU, 3–2, 
in 15 innings. In the semifinals, the Cavaliers again defeated Ole Miss, 
this time by a score of 4–1. The Cavaliers advanced to the College World 
Series finals to play Vanderbilt. In the first game of the finals, the 
Commodores won by a score of 9–8. Virginia then rebounded to defeat Vanderbilt, 
7–2, in game two. In a winner-take-all game three, Vanderbilt prevailed, 
3–2, to be crowned national champions. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
All rankings from Collegiate Baseball. ^ Collegiate Baseball ranks 40 teams 
in their preseason poll, but only ranks 30 teams weekly during the season. 
† NCBWA ranks 35 teams in their preseason poll, but only ranks 30 teams 
weekly during the season. * New poll was not released for this week so 
for comparison purposes the previous week's ranking is inserted in this 
