The 2015 Minnesota Twins season was the 55th season for the franchise in 
the Twin Cities of Minnesota, their sixth season at Target Field and the 
115th overall in the American League. The team finished second in the AL 
Central with a 83-79 record, their best overall result since the 2010 season. 
The team remained in the running for a wild card berth in the American 
League playoffs until losing Game 161 (their second to last). After seven 
years away, outfielder Torii Hunter returned for his twelfth year as a 
Twin. Lauded rookies Eddie Rosario, Miguel Sano and Byron Buxton arrived 
from the minors; each tallied their first big-league hit, home run and 
run batted in. In Rosario's case, he did all three on May 6 with his first 
big-league swing, just the twenty-ninth player in history to do so.[1] 
October 30: Jared Burton becomes a free agent. Week of November 11: Signed 
4 players to a minor league contract and invited 3 of them to Spring training. 
November 20: Signed 3 players to a minor league contract (2 with a Spring 
training invite) and promoted 4 players from the minors. November 25: Sent 
Anthony Swarzak to the minors. December 3: Signed Torii Hunter to a one-year, 
$10.5 million contract. December 5: Signed Shane Robinson to a minor league 
contract and invited him to Spring training. December 11: Drafted J. R. 
Graham. December 13: Signed Ervin Santana and Carlos Paulino (minor league 
contract) while sending Chris Parmelee to the minors. Week of December 
15: Signed 5 players to a minor league contract (1 with an invite to Spring 
training) and invited 11 others to Spring training. December 23: Signed 
Tim Stauffer. December 31: Signed Blaine Boyer to a minor league contract 
and invited him to Spring training. Week of January 7: Signed 3 players 
to a minor league contract. New manager Paul Molitor oversaw a winning 
season (83-79) for his Minnesota club, following four consecutive seasons 
of 90 or more losses under previous manager Ron Gardenhire. 2.22 million 
fans attended Twins games at Target Field, the ninth highest total in the 
American League. The season brought some "Twins' firsts" and broke or matched 
several longstanding club records:[2] Two Twins made the All-Star Game: 
relief pitcher Glen Perkins and second baseman Brian Dozier. In the eighth 
inning, Dozier pinch hit and homered off Mark Melancon in his only at-bat 
in Cincinnati's Great American Ball Park. Perkins pitched the ninth inning 
in the AL's 6-3 win. Pitchers Phil Hughes and Kyle Gibson each finished 
with eleven wins for tops in the Win column. No pitcher lost more than 
eleven games. Eight Twins finished with ten or more homers.[3] Infielders 
Outfielders Coaches Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs scored; 
H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted 
in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting average; SB = Stolen 
bases Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; 
GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; 
R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB 
