The following are the baseball events of the year 2015 throughout the world. 
Postseason Major League Baseball awards Sporting News awards Players Choice 
Awards Others Silver Slugger Awards Gold Glove Awards November 1 – The 
Kansas City Royals captured the second World Series title in franchise 
history, with a 12-inning, 7–2 victory over the New York Mets in Game 5 
at Citi Field. Once again, Kansas City came from behind to overcome a dominant 
start by Matt Harvey, who carried a 2–0 shutout through eight innings, 
then convinced Mets manager Terry Collins to let him remain in the game. 
As a result, the Royals rallied for a pair of runs in the ninth to tie 
it at 2–2 before the five-run explosion in the decisive 12th. Salvador 
Pérez, who hit .364 (8-for-22) in the Series, earned Most Valuable Player 
honors. Pérez also was involved in the tying run and started the five-run 
rally to put the game away. Edinson Vólquez returned from his father's 
funeral in the Dominican Republic in time to start the game for the Royals. 
When Vólquez was preparing to start Game 1 of the Series, his father Daniel 
died at age 63 and had been battling heart disease. Even though, Vólquez 
allowed just three runs on six hits in six innings of Kansas City's 5–4 
victory in the opener. This time Vólquez gave up a leadoff home run to 
Curtis Granderson on his third pitch of the night. But he settled down 
and retired the next three batters, then faced the minimum nine batters 
over the next three frames thanks to a pair of double plays, holding the 
Mets’ lead at 1–0 while Harvey dominated the Royals inning after inning. 
Vólquez kept his composure as the game moved to the sixth, when the Mets 
used a Granderson walk, a David Wright single and an error to load the 
bases with nobody out. But Vólquez limited the damage to one run, striking 
out Yoenis Céspedes and allowing a sacrifice fly RBI to Lucas Duda before 
retiring Travis d'Arnaud on a third base ground ball, keeping the Royals 
well within striking distance. Harvey took the mound for the ninth with 
his pitch count at 102 and the Mets leading 2–0. Up to that point, Harvey's 
line was four hits with nine strikeouts and one walk. Harvey proceeded 
to walk leadoff batter Lorenzo Cain, who subsequently stole second base 
and scored on an RBI double by Eric Hosmer. Mets manager Collins then summoned 
Jeurys Familia to close out the game, but with Hosmer at third base and 
one out, Pérez hit a soft ground ball to third, with the infield in, and 
Wright looked Hosmer back to third and threw to first for the out. But 
Hosmer bounced around third the whole play, waited for Wright to make the 
throw and he bolted for home. Duda took the throw for the second out but 
his relay to the plate was wide right, pulling d'Arnaud away from the play 
and allowing Hosmer to score the tying run. With both teams tied at 2–2, 
the game went into extras innings, and the Royals took control in the top 
of the 12th scoring five runs. Pérez started with a leadoff single off 
losing pitcher Addison Reed, while pinch-runner Jarrod Dyson stole second 
and moved to third on a grounder. Christian Colón then stepped in as a 
pinch-hitter for reliever Luke Hochevar. It was his first plate appearance 
since October 4, but he was able to hit a hard single to left field that 
brought home the tiebreaking run. After that, Paulo Orlando grounded into 
fielder's choice to second baseman Daniel Murphy, and was safe at second 
on a two bases error by Murphy. Alcides Escobar followed with a double 
that scored Colón and advanced Orlando to third. With Kansas City up 4–2, 
Ben Zobrist was intentionally walked and Bartolo Colón replaced Reed. Cain 
then hit a bases loaded double against Colón to push the score to 7–2. 
Hochevar was credited with the win and Wade Davis retired the last three 
outs of the Series. The Kansas City Royals are the first team since the 
1989 Oakland Athletics to win the World Series a season after losing the 
World Series the previous year. They also are the first American League 
team since the 1961 New York Yankees to win a World Series a year after 
