The 2015 National League Division Series were two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the participating teams in the 2015 National League Championship 
Series. The three divisional winners (seeded 1-3) and a fourth team—the 
winner of a one-game Wild Card playoff— played in two series. TBS carried 
all the games in the United States, with Sportsnet simulcasting TBS coverage 
for Canada.[1] The Division Series began on October 9 and concluded on 
October 15.[2] The Los Angeles Dodgers and St. Louis Cardinals had home 
field advantage in this round of the playoffs. These matchups were: The 
higher seeded team in each series hosts Games 1, 2, and 5 (if necessary), 
and the lower seeded team hosts Games 3 and 4 (if necessary). The Mets 
and the Dodgers met for the third time in postseason play, having split 
the first two meetings (Dodgers won 4–3 in the 1988 NLCS; Mets won 3–0 
in the 2006 NLDS). This was the third overall postseason meeting between 
the Cubs and Cardinals, with the two having met in the 1885 and 1886 World 
Series, and their first since the Cardinals joined the National League 
in 1892. Chicago won the series, 3–1. New York won the series, 3–2. The 
St. Louis Cardinals shut-out the rival Chicago Cubs 4–0 behind John Lackey's 
7⅓ shutout innings in the first meeting between the two in the playoffs. 
Lackey pitched into the sixth inning with a no-hitter before the Cubs' 
Addison Russell singled in the seventh. The Cardinals scored first when 
Matt Holliday hit a RBI single in the first. Lackey and Jon Lester, pitched 
well as neither team scored again until the eighth inning, when Thomas 
Pham and Stephen Piscotty homered for the Cardinals to increase the lead 
to 4–0.[12] The Cubs attempted a comeback in the ninth inning, but the 
Cardinals secured the victory when Kris Bryant struck out with runners 
on first and third for the final out of the game.[13] Searching for their 
first divisional series game win since 2003 in Game 2 of the series, the 
Cubs got a two-run home run from Jorge Soler and five second inning runs 
en route to a 6–3 win. Cardinals starter Jaime Garcia lasted two innings 
and committed a crucial throwing error on the first of back-to-back successful 
squeeze bunts by the Cubs in the second inning. With seven strikeouts in 
4⅔ innings, Cubs starter Kyle Hendricks pitched well but allowed a home 
run to the leadoff batter, third baseman Matt Carpenter in the first, and 
back-to-back solo shots to Kolten Wong and Randal Grichuk in the fifth 
inning.[14] Travis Wood, Trevor Cahill and Hector Rondon worked 4⅓ innings 
of shutout relief as the Cubs evened the series.[15] Jake Arrieta struck 
out nine Cardinals over 5⅔ innings and served up four runs, the most he 
has allowed since June 16. But, the Cubs set a Major League playoff record 
with six home runs in an 8–6 victory. Six different Cubs players homered: 
Kyle Schwarber in the second inning, Starlin Castro in the fourth, Kris 
Bryant and Anthony Rizzo back-to-back in the fifth, Jorge Soler in the 
sixth and Dexter Fowler in the eighth inning.[16] Jason Heyward and Stephen 
Piscotty hit homers for the Cardinals, and the eight total home runs for 
both teams set a Major League mark for one postseason game.[17] Eight Chicago 
Cub pitchers allowed eight hits and combined for fifteen strikeouts and 
four walks to defeat the St. Louis Cardinals and win a postseason series 
for the first time ever in Wrigley Field.[18] The game did not start well 
for the Cubs with the second batter, Stephen Piscotty, hitting a two-run 
homer. In the bottom of the second inning, starting pitcher Jason Hammel 
drove in Starlin Castro with a sharp single to center and Addison Russell's 
replacement at shortstop, Javier Baez followed with a three run homer to 
right. The Cardinals were resilient and tied the score in the top of the 
sixth. However, they were prevented from taking the lead by a strong throw 
by right fielder, Jorge Soler, to catcher Miguel Montero, cutting down 
Tony Cruz at the plate as he attempted to score the lead run from second.[19] 
Anthony Rizzo hit a solo go-ahead homer off Cardinal reliever Kevin Siegrist 
in the bottom of the inning on a two out, 0-2 pitch.[20] Kyle Schwarber 
added an insurance home run in the seventh inning, also off Siegrist, that 
landed on top of the new right field Budweiser scoreboard.[21] Pedro Strop 
in the eighth and Hector Rondon in the ninth struck out four of the seven 
batters they faced to preserve the 6–4 victory.[22] 2015 NLDS (3–1): Chicago 
Cubs beat St. Louis Cardinals Jacob deGrom made his postseason debut to 
open the series for the Mets. He was opposed by reigning Cy Young Award 
and Most Valuable Player Award winner Clayton Kershaw. Misplays by left 
fielder Michael Cuddyer resulted in doubles for Justin Turner in the second 
and Corey Seager in the third. deGrom escaped damage in both innings and 
eventually retired the last 11 batters to face him, exiting after the seventh 
having shut the Dodgers out allowing five hits and one walk to go along 
with 13 strikeouts. Kershaw made quick work of the Mets for most of his 
outing, allowing only a solo home run to Daniel Murphy through his first 
six innings. However, in the top of seventh, Kershaw uncharacteristically 
walked three batters, leading to Don Mattingly electing to go to right-hander 
Pedro Báez to face David Wright with the bases loaded and two out. Wright 
lined a 3-2 pitch back up the middle against Báez, scoring two runs and 
making it a 3–0 game to that point. The two runs were charged to Kershaw, 
who ultimately finished with a line of 6⅔ innings with four hits, three 
earned runs, four walks, and 11 strikeouts.[23] The Dodgers got on the 
board with a two-out RBI single from Adrian Gonzalez in the bottom of the 
eighth off of Mets reliever Tyler Clippard. With Turner due up as the potential 
tying run, Terry Collins responded by inserting closer Jeurys Familia into 
the game for a 4-out save. Turner lined out to first to end the eighth 
and Familia finished off a spotless ninth for his first career postseason 
save as the Mets took the series opener, 3–1. DeGrom's 13 strikeouts tied 
a Mets post-season franchise record (previously set by Tom Seaver in the 
1973 National League Championship Series). He and Kershaw were the first 
pair of starters to each pitch 11 or more strikeouts in a post-season game 
and only the second pair to each have double digit strikeouts (along with 
Mort Cooper and Denny Galehouse in game five of the 1944 World Series).[24] 
Looking to even the series, the Dodgers turned to Zack Greinke, who led 
the league in earned run average in the regular season. The Mets countered 
with rookie Noah Syndergaard in an attempt to go back to New York with 
a 2–0 series lead. The Mets scored two in the second off of Greinke on 
solo home runs by Yoenis Céspedes and rookie Michael Conforto, the latter 
doing so in his first career postseason at-bat. Greinke was stellar after 
that, shutting out the Mets and facing the minimum of 15 batters from the 
third through seventh innings. He allowed five hits with no walks and eight 
strikeouts. However, through six innings, Greinke was out-dueled by Syndergaard, 
who gave up one run through his first six innings while striking out nine.[25] 
Syndergaard and the Mets took a 2–1 lead to the bottom of the seventh. 
L.A.'s eighth-place hitter, Enrique Hernández, drew a one-out walk. Don 
Mattingly sent up veteran Chase Utley to hit for Greinke. Hernández stole 
second and Utley followed with a single to put the tying run on third and 
the go-ahead run at first with one out. Utley's hit chased Syndergaard 
from the game, manager Terry Collins sending in 42-year-old Bartolo Colón. 
Howie Kendrick lined a 1-2 pitch over the outstretched arm of Colón but 
on a hop to second baseman Daniel Murphy, setting up the most controversial 
play of the game. Murphy tossed to shortstop Rubén Tejada, who was moving 
to second base to start a potential double play. Utley slid late, with 
his helmet making contact with Tejada's thigh, who tried to jump over the 
runner but was upended and injured. Hernández scored, Kendrick was safe 
at first, and it appeared a runner would be at first with two outs and 
the game tied at 2-2. The Dodgers challenged the ruling at second base, 
arguing that Tejada never made contact with the bag to force out Utley. 
Just as the Mets were about to cart Tejada off of the field with what would 
later be diagnosed with a fractured fibula,[26] the call at second was 
overturned to safe. Now with runners on first and second and one out, Collins 
inserted Addison Reed in relief. After a Corey Seager flyout, the Dodgers 
took a 5–2 lead on back-to-back doubles from Adrian Gonzalez and Justin 
Turner. Dodger relievers Chris Hatcher and Kenley Jansen pitched scoreless 
eighth and ninth innings, respectively, to even the series at a game apiece.[27] 
In front of a raucous crowd on hand for the first postseason game ever 
hosted at Citi Field, the Mets took a 2–1 series lead in a rout. The night 
didn't start well for the Mets, as starter Matt Harvey gave up three runs 
on one play in the second inning on a bases-loaded single by Yasmani Grandal 
and an error by right fielder Curtis Granderson. Harvey would escape further 
damage in the frame thanks to a leaping grab by David Wright on a Howie 
Kendrick line drive to retire the side. There was concern before Game 3 
that the Mets might seek retaliation against the Dodgers for the Chase 
Utley slide that injured Rubén Tejada in Game 2. Utley appealed a two-game 
suspension and was eligible to play, but did not. Instead of retaliation, 
the Mets had a record-setting night offensively. Granderson atoned for 
his error with a bases-clearing double in the bottom of the second off 
Dodger starter Brett Anderson to give the Mets a 4–3 lead. Travis d'Arnaud 
homered off of Anderson in the third and Yoenis Céspedes homered off of 
reliever Alex Wood in the fourth, and the Mets never looked back, winning 
13–7. The 13 runs scored by the Mets set a new franchise record for a postseason 
game. Granderson's five RBIs tied a Mets single-game postseason record.[28] 
In a must-win Game 4, the Dodgers turned to their ace Clayton Kershaw on 
three days rest to try to send the series back to Los Angeles. A win for 
the Mets would mean their first trip to the NLCS in nine years. They turned 
to the second rookie member of their starting rotation, Steven Matz. The 
pitchers traded zeroes for two innings before the top of the third. Kershaw 
himself had a one-out single to get a rally started. Although he was erased 
on a fielder's choice, the Dodgers followed with three consecutive hits: 
singles by Howie Kendrick and Adrian Gonzalez, the latter of which scored 
the first run, and a two-run double by Justin Turner, giving the Dodgers 
the 3–0 edge. Though Daniel Murphy connected in the fourth inning for his 
second solo home run off the Dodgers ace in the series, Kershaw would allow 
nothing more. He went seven innings, allowing only three hits and a walk 
to go with eight strikeouts, outdueling the rookie Matz, who only lasted 
five innings. Though the Mets drew two walks in the eighth inning, putting 
the tying runs on base and the potential go-ahead run at the plate, Dodgers 
closer Kenley Jansen induced a Murphy flyout to retire the side before 
retiring the Mets in order in the ninth for a 4-out save. The win for the 
Dodgers snapped a seven-game road playoff losing streak. It was also the 
first time the Dodgers won an elimination game on the road since the 1981 
NLCS against the Montreal Expos. The rubber game of the 5-game series was 
started by Zack Greinke for the Dodgers and Jacob deGrom for the Mets. 
The game's first play went for an infield single for Curtis Granderson, 
who was initially called out prior to a challenge by Mets manager Terry 
Collins. Two batters later, Granderson was driven in by a Daniel Murphy 
double. Murphy reached third after an error by left fielder Enrique Hernández, 
but was stranded there after Greinke struck out Yoenis Céspedes and Lucas 
Duda. The Dodgers immediately answered in the bottom half of the inning. 
After Howie Kendrick lined out, the Dodgers put together four consecutive 
singles against deGrom, who was not showing the same sharpness of his Game 
1 victory. The Dodgers scored two runs and were still threatening with 
runners on first second, but deGrom struck out Yasmani Grandal and Hernández 
to end the threat. deGrom would pitch in and out of trouble, dealing with 
runners in scoring position through each of the first five innings. Justin 
Turner continued his domination of his former team with three hits off 
of deGrom, including a double to lead off the bottom of the third. Turner 
stole third with one out, but deGrom escaped unscathed after fielding a 
comebacker from Hernández to start a 1–6–3 double play to end the inning. 
DeGrom's multiple escapes afforded the Mets the opportunity to get back 
into the game, with Murphy stealing a run for the Mets in the top of the 
fourth. After singling, Murphy advanced to second after a Duda walk. As 
the infield had shifted for Duda, the Dodger third baseman Turner was in 
shallow right field. The infielder furthest to the left for the Dodgers 
was the shortstop Corey Seager, who was just to the left of second base. 
Murphy, noticing third base uncovered, trotted to second base, then rounded 
the bag and sprinted to third unchallenged for a stolen base. Travis d'Arnaud 
followed with a sacrifice fly to right to drive in Murphy and tie the game 
at 2-2. Murphy came through again in the sixth inning with a solo home 
run off of Greinke, his third homer of the series. The Mets were back in 
front 3–2 and never trailed thereafter. deGrom finished off a 1–2–3 sixth 
before giving way to Game 2 starter Noah Syndergaard, who featured 100 
mph fastballs in a scoreless seventh inning, allowing only one walk. The 
Mets turned to closer Jeurys Familia for a two-inning save, something he 
had never been asked to do previously in his career and not been done in 
the postseason by any Mets pitcher since Jesse Orosco saved Game 7 of the 
1986 World Series. Familia set down the six batters he faced in order, 
sending the Mets to the NLCS for the first time since 2006. Turner finished 
the series hitting a scintillating .526 with six doubles. The six doubles 
were the most in Division Series history and tied a record for most doubles 
in any one postseason series. Familia finished the series having retired 
all 16 batters to face him while the Mets captured their first win in a 
deciding game of a postseason series since the aforementioned Game 7 of 
the 1986 World Series. 2015 NLDS (3–2): New York Mets beat Los Angeles 
