The 2015 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a best-of-seven 
playoff contested between the Toronto Blue Jays and Kansas City Royals 
for the American League (AL) pennant and the right to play in the 2015 
World Series. The series is the 46th in league history. The series was 
broadcast by Fox and Fox Sports 1 in the United States, with Fox airing 
Game 1 and Fox Sports 1 airing Games 2–6. Sportsnet, a property of Blue 
Jays owner Rogers Communications, simulcast Fox and Fox Sports 1's coverage 
in Canada. Game 1 took place on October 16, and the series ended with the 
Royals winning Game 6 on October 23.[2] This was the second ALCS matchup 
between Kansas City and Toronto; the Royals previously rallied from a 3–1 
deficit to defeat the Blue Jays in seven games in the 1985 ALCS. The Kansas 
City Royals finished the season with a 95–67 record, winning the American 
League Central division title for the first time since that division was 
created in 1994. Their season win total was the most since winning 97 games 
in 1980. The Royals defeated the Houston Astros in five games in the American 
League Division Series (ALDS), advancing to their second straight ALCS 
and eighth overall. The Toronto Blue Jays made it to the postseason for 
the first time since winning the 1993 World Series, finishing the season 
93–69 to clinch the American League East title. Playing in their first 
ALDS in team history, the Blue Jays overcame a 2–0 deficit to defeat the 
Texas Rangers in five games and move on to the ALCS. It was their first 
ALCS appearance since 1993, and sixth overall. The Blue Jays won four of 
seven games against the Royals in the 2015 regular season. Kansas City 
won the series, 4–2. Kansas City opened the scoring in the 3rd inning with 
RBI hits from Alcides Escobar and Lorenzo Cain. Salvador Pérez added a 
solo homer in the 4th to give the Royals a 3-0 lead. Meanwhile, Edinson 
Vólquez pitched 6 scoreless innings and surrendering only 2 hits to earn 
his first postseason win. The Royals' touted bullpen completed the shutout, 
making this just the 6th time all season that Toronto was held to no runs.[9] 
This game marked the fourth time that the Royals rallied back from a multi-run 
deficit to win in this post-season.[10] With a 3-0 lead and having retired 
18 batters in a row,[11] David Price was cruising and appeared to be in 
line for his first ever postseason win as a starting pitcher. However, 
Ben Zobrist led off the seventh inning with a pop-up to shallow right field; 
second baseman Ryan Goins tracked the ball back and waived off charging 
right fielder José Bautista, but inexplicably ducked out of the way at 
the last moment and allowed the ball to drop for a single. Price began 
to unravel, surrendering hits to four of the next six batters, including 
a go-ahead RBI double by Alex Gordon.[12] The Royals would score a total 
of 5 runs in the inning and would add an insurance run in the 8th before 
sealing a 6-3 victory.[13] This was David Price's seventh consecutive playoff 
loss, tying him with Randy Johnson for the all-time record.[14] Toronto's 
high powered offense finally came to life in Game 3 in front of their home 
fans. Ryan Goins had a big game both at bat and on the field to recover 
from his defensive gaffe in Game 2. He hit a 2-run single in the 2nd and 
homered in the 5th, but not before the Blue Jays opened the game wide open 
in the 3rd when Troy Tulowitzki homered, Kevin Pillar hit an RBI double, 
and Josh Donaldson added another homer, giving Toronto a 9-2 lead. Kansas 
City wouldn't give up, however, as they plated 4 runs in the 9th, forcing 
Toronto to bring in closer Roberto Osuna, who surrendered a home run to 
Kendrys Morales. It wouldn't be enough, as Osuna finally ended the rally 
and Toronto took the must-win game to earn their first ALCS win since 1993.[15] 
The Royals got to Toronto starter R.A. Dickey early in Game 4, with a 2-run 
homer from only the second batter of the game, Ben Zobrist. Kansas City 
put up 5 total runs in the first 2 innings to chase Dickey from the game. 
Royals starter Chris Young, who had split time in the starting rotation 
and the bullpen, surrendered Toronto's only 2 runs in 4 and 2/3 innings 
pitched; Kansas City's bullpen then shut the Blue Jays down for the rest 
of the game. Meanwhile, the Royals' offense exploded, adding 9 runs in 
the final 3 innings as Toronto's bullpen failed to stop the bleeding.[16] 
In an effort to save his bullpen and to the amusement of some fans and 
players, Toronto manager John Gibbons elected to bring utility infielder 
Cliff Pennington to pitch the 9th inning against the Royals.[17] This marked 
the first time that a position player pitched in a playoff game. Pennington 
surrendered two unearned runs before retiring the side. Game 5 appeared 
to be a pitchers' duel early on. Toronto starter Marco Estrada and Kansas 
City starter Edinson Vólquez dominated early on, with the first run of 
the game being scored on Chris Colabello's solo home run in the 2nd. Things 
began to unwind for Volquez in the bottom of the 6th as he walked two batters 
and hit a third to load the bases. Volquez then walked Edwin Encarnación 
to force in a run and give the Blue Jays a 2-0 lead. With Troy Tulowitzki 
coming to the plate, Royals manager Ned Yost opted to pull Volquez in favor 
of Kelvin Herrera; however, Tulowitzki promptly lined a bases-clearing 
double off the center-field wall to make the score 5-0. That proved to 
be more than enough for Estrada, who only surrendered a solo home run from 
Salvador Pérez in his 7 and 2/3 innings of work. Roberto Osuna pitched 
a perfect 9th to keep Toronto's season alive and send the series back to 
Kansas City.[18] Ben Zobrist opened the scoring just 2 batters into the 
bottom of the 1st with a solo home run to left field. Mike Moustakas added 
another solo home run for Kansas City in the 2nd inning, but this one was 
not without controversy. It was a liner right at the right-center field 
wall, where a fan reached out and caught the ball at the top corner of 
the wall. The ball was initially ruled a home run, but Toronto wanted the 
play reviewed. The Fox commentary crew of Joe Buck, Harold Reynolds, and 
Tom Verducci seemed confident that the ruling would be overturned, but 
the ruling of a home run stood with the play being too close to overturn. 
Buck, Reynolds, and Verducci would later call it a good call by the reviewing 
crew upon viewing further replays, but debated the call several times throughout 
the broadcast.[19] Toronto got on the board in the 4th when José Bautista 
blasted a solo home run off the Royals Hall of Fame sign in left field 
to make it 2-1. The Blue Jays would threaten again in the 5th when Yordano 
Ventura gave up consecutive walks to lead off the inning. However, he settled 
down and induced two pop-outs, which then brought up eventual AL MVP Josh 
Donaldson. Donaldson hit a hard line-drive towards 3rd base, but Moustakas 
was able to come up with a spectacular diving catch to end the inning.[20] 
In the bottom of the 7th, Moustakas reached base on a broken bat blooper 
to center-field. Salvador Pérez next hit a deep fly ball to left field. 
Left fielder Ben Revere then one-upped Moustakas’ earlier catch with a 
leaping catch at the top of the left-field wall. Revere then tried to double 
up Moustakas at 1st, but Moustakas got back in time to leave it at one 
out. Ryan Goins then kept the good defense going by making a sliding stop 
on a hard Alex Gordon grounder to get Gordon out at 1st, to make it two 
outs, but Moustakas reached 2nd on the play. At this point David Price 
was taken out of the game in favor of right hander Aaron Sanchez to face 
Alex Ríos. On a 1-2 pitch, Rios hammered a ball to left field for a single 
that drove in Moustakas to give Kansas City a 3-1 lead.[21] In the top 
of the 8th, Kansas City manager Ned Yost brought in Ryan Madson to get 
the Royals through the inning after Kelvin Herrera kept Toronto scoreless 
for the last 1 and 2/3 innings. Yost would say after the game he put in 
Madson because of the impending rain: he didn’t want to bring in closer 
Wade Davis early in case there was a lengthy rain delay which could prevent 
him from pitching the 9th.[22] Revere hit a high chopper to Alcides Escobar 
and beat the throw to 1st base for a lead-off infield single. Up next was 
the Donaldson, but he remained hitless on the night when Madson got him 
to strike out for the first out. Madson faced Bautista next who promptly 
blasted a 2-run home run down the left-field line to tie the game at 3. 
Madson then walked Edwin Encarnación, forcing Yost to pull Madson from 
the game in favor of Davis. Davis induced a pop-out from Chris Colabello, 
before throwing a wild pitch against Troy Tulowitzki which allowed Encarnacion 
to advance to 2nd. It was only Davis’ 2nd wild pitch of the season. Facing 
a 3-2 count against Tulowitzki, the rain started to fall in Kansas City. 
Davis got Tulowitzki to swing and miss for a strike out to end the inning, 
but Yost's fears came true as the grounds crew brought out the tarp for 
a rain delay, meaning Davis would have a lengthy wait between pitching 
appearances if he was even able to return depending on the length of the 
delay.[23] After a 45-minute rain delay, Toronto manager John Gibbons sent 
out closer Roberto Osuna to pitch the bottom of the 8th. Lorenzo Cain worked 
an 8-pitch walk to get on base. Eric Hosmer was up next and worked a 2-2 
count before driving a ball to the right field corner for a hit, and Cain 
ran on contact. Bautista fielded the ball and threw to 2nd while Cain was 
flying around 2nd. As soon as Royals 3rd base coach Mike Jirschele saw 
Bautista throw to 2nd, he started waiving Cain home. By the time the throw 
reached 2nd base, Cain was already well past 3rd base and by the time Tulowitzki's 
throw to home reached catcher Russell Martin, Cain was sliding past home 
for the go-ahead run. It was the second time of the 2015 post-season that 
Cain had scored from 1st base on a single from Hosmer.[24] On the play, 
Cain went from 1st to home in under 10.5 seconds.[25] Davis came back in 
to pitch the top of the 9th after having waited just over an hour between 
in-game pitches. Martin greeted Davis with his first hit of the series 
on a single to center-field. Dalton Pompey then came in to run for Martin 
and promptly stole 2nd base to put the tying run in scoring position. Then 
on a 2-2 pitch into the dirt to Kevin Pillar, Pompey stole 3rd and Perez 
couldn’t scoop up the ball to even make a throw. That put a runner on 3rd 
with no outs and a 3-2 count to Pillar. After a foul ball, Davis missed 
on a pitch inside to walk Pillar to put runners on the corners with no 
outs. Dioner Navarro came in to pinch-hit for Goins with Toronto needing 
a catcher to replace Martin. On a 1-1 pitch, Davis got a called strike 
that was high and outside. The Toronto dugout not only started complaining 
about that, but they believed Davis should’ve been called for a quick pitch 
balk, which would have brought the tying run home. Instead it was a 1-2 
count and Davis got Navarro to swing and miss for the first out. However, 
Pillar stole 2nd on the pitch to leave the Royals without a double-play 
chance and thus putting 2 runners in scoring position. That brought up 
Revere who worked a 2-1 count when Davis threw a called strike to make 
it a 2-2 count. On the next pitch, Revere swung and missed for the second 
strikeout of the inning, bringing up Donaldson with two runners in scoring 
position in a 4-3 game. On a 2-1 pitch Donaldson grounded out to 3rd for 
the final out to clinch back-to-back AL Pennants for the Kansas City Royals.[26] 
Alcides Escobar, who batted .478 in the series with 2 doubles and a triple, 
was named 2015 ALCS MVP.[27] 2015 ALCS (4–2): Kansas City Royals beat Toronto 
