The 2015 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the franchise's 134th season overall, 
the 129th season as a member of National League, and 15th season at PNC 
Park. The regular season began with a loss at Great American Ball Park 
against the Cincinnati Reds on April 6 and ended with a win against the 
Reds at PNC Park on October 4. The Pirates finished the regular season 
with the second best record in baseball, finishing in second place for 
the third consecutive year in the National League Central Division with 
98 wins and 64 losses. The Pirates clinched their third consecutive playoff 
berth on September 23, finishing second in their division behind the St. 
Louis Cardinals. The team secured one of two NL Wild Card spots. The Pirates 
lost to the Chicago Cubs in the 2015 National League Wild Card Game on 
October 7 and were, as a result, eliminated from the 2015 postseason. Four 
members of the 2015 Pirates were selected to represent the National League 
in the All-Star Game, including pitcher A. J. Burnett for the first time 
in his career in his final major league season. In addition, one player 
was named NL Player of the Month: Andrew McCutchen in August, one was named 
NL Rookie of the Month: Jung-ho Kang in July, and one was named NL Pitcher 
of the Month: Gerrit Cole in April. On October 2, the penultimate game 
of the regular season, the Pirates set a PNC Park season attendance record 
for the second consecutive year at 2,498,596, beating the record set in 
2014 (2,442,564).[2] Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 2015 Baseball 
America Organization of the Year 2015 National League Saves Leader 2015 
Roberto Clemente Award 2015 Trevor Hoffman Award Silver Slugger Award Wilson 
Defensive Player of the Year Award 2015 Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game[15] NL Pitcher of the Month NL Rookie of the Month NL Player of the 
Week NL Player of the Month Final stats – Stats reflect time with the Pirates 
only. † – Denotes player was acquired during season. ‡ – Denotes player 
was relinquished during season. – Injured reserve.  Bold  – Qualified for 
batting title (3.1 plate appearances per team game) or ERA title (1 inning 
pitched per team game) The Pirates were involved in the following transactions 
during the 2015 season: Shane Carle Rob Scahill Justin Wilson Francisco 
Cervelli Ike Davis International Signing Bonus Money PTBNL or Cash Considerations[Note 
1] Sean Rodriguez Joely Rodriguez Antonio Bastardo Travis Snider Stephen 
Tarpley PTBNL[Note 2] Cash Considerations Steve Lombardozzi Cash Considerations 
Arquimedes Caminero Bryton Trepagnier Edward Salcedo PTBNL Hunter Morris 
Cash Considerations Jayson Aquino Clayton Richard Cash Considerations Yhonathan 
Barrios Aramis Ramírez Cash Considerations Jayson Aquino Cash Considerations 
Cash Considerations Joe Blanton Justin Sellers Cash Considerations or PTBNL 
JaCoby Jones Joakim Soria Adrian Sampson J. A. Happ José Tábata Michael 
Morse Cash Considerations LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: West Virginia Black Bears[52] 
