The 2015 National League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
contested between the Chicago Cubs and the New York Mets for the National 
League (NL) pennant and the right to play in the 2015 World Series. The 
Mets swept the Cubs four games to none for their fifth National League 
pennant in franchise history. The series was the 45th in league history 
with TBS airing all games in the United States. Game 1 was played on October 
17.[1] This was the first postseason meeting between the Mets and Cubs, 
and first NLCS in which the losing team never had a lead during a game. 
It was also the first since 2007 to end in a sweep and the third best-of-seven 
NLCS to do so (the other being in 1995). The Chicago Cubs finished the 
2015 season with a 97–65 record, the third best record in the majors. With 
new manager Joe Maddon and the great play of pitcher Jake Arrieta and hitters 
Anthony Rizzo and Kris Bryant, the Cubs experienced their best season since 
2008 when they also won 97 games. Despite their record, the Cubs only received 
the second Wild Card bid and had to travel to play the Pittsburgh Pirates 
in the 2015 National League Wild Card Game, where they won 4–0.[2] They 
then advanced to the NLCS by defeating the St. Louis Cardinals 3 games 
to 1 in the NLDS. This was the first time the Cubs won a postseason series 
at Wrigley Field. It is their first appearance in the NLCS since 2003 and 
their fourth appearance overall. It also snapped the Cardinals' NLCS appearance 
streak at four; they had appeared in every NLCS from 2011 to 2014, winning 
in 2011 and 2013. The New York Mets made their first playoff appearance 
since 2006 with help from their starting pitchers Matt Harvey, Jacob deGrom 
and Noah Syndergaard as well the late season acquisition of hitter Yoenis 
Céspedes. The Mets finished 2015 with a 90–72 record, clinching the National 
League East on September 26 with a 10–2 victory over the Cincinnati Reds. 
They defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in five games in the 2015 NLDS, their 
first playoff series played at Citi Field since its opening in 2009. This 
is the second straight NLDS in which the Mets clinched in L.A., advancing 
to the NLCS for the first time since 2006 and their eighth appearance overall. 
During the 2015 regular season, the Cubs won all seven games against the 
Mets. This was the first NLCS since 2007 that didn't involve the Phillies, 
Giants, Dodgers or Cardinals. New York won the series, 4–0. Having used 
aces Jake Arrieta and Jacob deGrom late in their respective Division Series, 
the Cubs turned to Jon Lester and the Mets to Matt Harvey for Game 1 of 
the Championship Series. Daniel Murphy, fresh off a Division Series in 
which he hit three home runs, jumped Lester early on with a solo home run 
in the first inning. Lester would settle down, only allowing that lone 
run through four innings, but Harvey was even better, throwing four perfect 
innings as he blew away the Cubs hitters.[7] After getting ahead of Anthony 
Rizzo on an 0–2 count, Harvey came inside with a fastball and plunked the 
Cubs first baseman on the arm, allowing Rizzo to reach base as the first 
Cubs baserunner of the night. The next batter, Starlin Castro, jumped Harvey 
for a double that eluded the reach of Gold Glove winner Juan Lagares in 
center field that scored Rizzo and knotted the game at one. Harvey would 
retire the following batter, Jorge Soler, on a groundout to third, forcing 
Castro to hold at second, but subsequently allowed a base hit to left by 
Javier Báez. Testing the strong arm of left fielder Yoenis Céspedes, Castro 
attempted to score on the hit by Báez, but was thrown out at the plate 
by Céspedes in plenty of time, helping Harvey escape the inning having 
only allowed the one run. In the bottom of the fifth, Wilmer Flores and 
Lagares would both reach on one-out singles against Lester, bringing up 
Harvey with runners on first and second. The Met starter attempted to move 
the runners over with a sacrifice bunt, but did so right towards the first 
baseman Rizzo who fired over to third to force out Flores for the second 
out of the inning. The third baseman Kris Bryant attempted to make a return 
throw to first base which may have forced out Harvey for a double play, 
but Bryant fumbled the ball from his glove hand to his throwing hand, allowing 
the inning to continue. The next batter, Curtis Granderson, then blooped 
a single into center field to score Lagares and help the Mets regain the 
lead. Once again with the lead Harvey would regain control and blank the 
Cubs in the top halves of the sixth and seventh, while the Mets would add 
insurance runs off of Lester. Travis d'Arnaud hit a solo home run in the 
sixth inning off of Citi Field's Home Run Apple in center field. The Mets 
would then manufacture another run in the seventh after a Lagares leadoff 
single. After Harvey sacrificed Lagares to second, the Met center fielder 
stole third with one out, setting up a Granderson sacrifice fly to make 
it a 4–1 game. With Harvey still pitching into the eighth, Kyle Schwarber 
smoked a solo home run deep into the Cubs bullpen in right center, ending 
Harvey's night after 7⅔ innings, having allowed only two runs and four 
hits to go along with nine strikeouts. Mets closer Jeurys Familia came 
on for the 4-out save, and would finish it off for Harvey, getting help 
from a Murphy diving play for the last out of the game.[8] Looking to rebound 
and tie the series, the Cubs turned to ace Jake Arrieta in a matchup against 
Mets rookie Noah Syndergaard. Much like in Game 1, the Mets got on the 
board in the first inning after a Curtis Granderson single, a David Wright 
RBI double, and a Daniel Murphy two-run home run to give the Mets a 3–0 
lead through three batters against Arrieta. For Wright, it was his first 
hit and RBI since Game 1 of the NLDS. Murphy's home run extended his streak 
of consecutive postseason games with a home run to four, and also gave 
him five home runs for the entire postseason, a Mets record.[9] The three 
runs was all Syndergaard would need. He went on to pitch 5⅔ innings, striking 
out nine while only walking one. He allowed only three hits, the last of 
which was a Kris Bryant RBI double that plated the only run against him 
and ended his outing in the sixth inning. Met relievers Jon Niese, Addison 
Reed, Tyler Clippard, and Jeurys Familia combined for 3⅓ scoreless innings 
to finish off the win, giving the Mets a 2–0 series lead.[10] Hosting their 
first NLCS game at Wrigley Field in 12 years, the Cubs started Kyle Hendricks 
in an attempt to pick up their first win of the series. Though Mets leadoff 
hitter Curtis Granderson reached base after an error by shortstop Javier 
Báez, Granderson was caught stealing one batter later to negate the error. 
The Mets would still score one run in the frame after a Yoenis Céspedes 
RBI double, but the caught stealing proved costly for the Mets who as a 
result were unable to capitalize any further. The Cubs would tie the game 
right back up in the bottom half of the inning after a Kyle Schwarber opposite 
field solo home run off of Mets ace Jacob deGrom, though they too missed 
an opportunity to inflict further damage. Anthony Rizzo and Starlin Castro 
would hit back-to-back two-out singles off of deGrom, but Jorge Soler would 
ground out to end the threat with the game still tied at 1–1. Daniel Murphy 
continued his historic hot streak with yet another home run, a solo shot 
to center field to give the Mets back the lead in the top of the third. 
For Murphy, it was his sixth home run of the postseason, making him the 
all-time Mets postseason home run leader in just eight games. It was also 
his fifth consecutive postseason game with a home run, tying Carlos Beltrán's 
all-time mark from the 2004 postseason. The Cubs would tie the game on 
a Soler solo home run in the fourth, but deGrom would allow nothing further. 
After a first inning where he gave up three hits, the only hit that deGrom 
allowed was the Soler home run. Meanwhile, Hendricks was pulled after four 
innings as Joe Maddon turned to his bullpen starting in the fifth. Left-hander 
Clayton Richard escaped the fifth inning unscored upon after inducing a 
double play from none other than Murphy to retire the side. Right-hander 
Trevor Cahill was called upon next for the sixth, and he promptly gave 
up a single to Céspedes to lead off the inning. The struggling Lucas Duda, 
at that point just 3-for-23 in the postseason, attempted to bunt against 
the infield shift, but was thrown out at first for a sacrifice, advancing 
Céspedes to second. Céspedes then stole third base with one out, but Cahill 
retired Travis d'Arnaud on a ground out to third with the infield drawn 
in, forcing Céspedes to hold at third. The following batter, rookie Michael 
Conforto, saw nothing but curveballs from Cahill, who often bounced his 
curveballs despite the go-ahead run being on third base. Catcher Miguel 
Montero was up to the task of blocking Cahill's curveballs in the dirt 
until the 2-2 pitch when Conforto chased another curveball for strike three. 
Montero could not handle this last curveball, allowing it to get past him 
and roll to the backstop. Conforto would reach first safely after the uncaught 
third strike while Céspedes scored to give the Mets back the lead for the 
third time. The Cubs would catch a break as the following batter Wilmer 
Flores hit a line drive that got past a diving Soler in right and would 
have assuredly scored Conforto had the ball not rolled to the outfield 
wall and gotten stuck in the Wrigley Field ivy. Per Wrigley's ground rules, 
Flores was awarded an automatic double while Conforto was called back to 
third base. Cahill would retire deGrom on a flyout to end the threat, but 
the Mets weren't yet done offensively.[11] The Mets were presented with 
more opportunities in the seventh due to more defensive miscues by the 
Cubs. With one out and facing new reliever Travis Wood, David Wright doubled 
down the line in left, narrowly beating the throw from the left fielder 
Schwarber. The next batter Murphy hit a soft tapper towards the hole between 
the third baseman Kris Bryant and the shortstop Báez. Bryant fielded the 
ball moving to his left but double-clutched before throwing to first, allowing 
Murphy to reach safely for an infield single as Wright advanced to third. 
Looking for a strikeout, Maddon inserted Justin Grimm to replace Wood, 
but Céspedes would follow with a line drive to deep left that glanced off 
of Schwarber's glove, going for what was ruled to be a long RBI single 
with Wright scoring, Murphy advancing to third, and Céspedes reaching second 
after Schwarber's throw went to third. Murphy would score after the next 
batter Duda hit a high chopper fielded by Rizzo, who elected to step on 
first base to force out Duda before throwing home, which may have given 
Murphy extra time to score. With the Mets up 5–2, deGrom shut the Cubs 
down with a perfect seventh inning, ending his night having only allowed 
four hits and two runs while striking out seven. He would pick up the win 
after Jeurys Familia finished off the ninth for his third save in as many 
games in the series, giving the Mets a commanding 3–0 series lead. It was 
Familia's fifth save this postseason.[12] The Cubs entered Game 4 facing 
the daunting task of having to overcome a 3–0 series deficit, done only 
once in MLB history when the Boston Red Sox defeated the New York Yankees 
after losing the first three games of the 2004 ALCS. Attempting to repeat 
the accomplishment was Cubs president of baseball operations Theo Epstein, 
who was the general manager of the Red Sox in 2004. However, as had happened 
in every previous game of the series, the Mets took the first lead of the 
game in the first inning. Lucas Duda, just 1-for-6 in the series in the 
first three games, launched a three-run home run to center field against 
Cubs starter Jason Hammel to get the Mets off to a fast start again. The 
next batter, Travis d'Arnaud also took Hammel deep with an opposite field 
solo home run to make it 4–0 before the Cubs would even step up to the 
plate. After Mets starter Steven Matz quickly retired the side in order 
in the bottom of the first, Hammel issued a one-out walk to David Wright 
in top of the second, ending his night as Joe Maddon quickly went to his 
bullpen. Reliever Travis Wood allowed a two-run double to Duda later in 
the inning, making it a 6–0 game.[13] Matz held the Cubs hitless through 
three innings, but Chicago mounted its first rally in the bottom of the 
fourth, loading the bases with nobody out for Starlin Castro. Though Castro 
hit a bullet of a line drive, Wright made a leaping grab at third base 
to save an extra base hit and at least two runs. The Cubs would score their 
first run after an RBI groundout from Kyle Schwarber, but Javier Báez popped 
out in foul territory near the Cubs bullpen, stranding two runners and 
leaving the Cubs still down 6–1.[14] In the bottom of the fifth inning, 
Matz looked as though he would retire the Cubs in order, but with two outs 
a Dexter Fowler fly ball dropped into shallow right field after a misplay 
by second baseman Daniel Murphy. Fowler, however, was not hustling out 
of the batter's box and thus only made it to first base. He was not in 
scoring position when the next batter Jorge Soler singled. After Soler's 
single, Matz was chased from the game as Bartolo Colón was called upon 
to make his first relief appearance of the series. The veteran Colón struck 
out Kris Bryant and again the Cubs stranded two baserunners.[15] The Mets 
themselves wasted opportunities to extend their lead, getting Wilmer Flores 
on third with less than two out in the top of the sixth as well as having 
the bases loaded in the top of the seventh but never scoring in either 
inning. However, in the top of the eighth inning, New York would finally 
pad its lead with a two-run home run from Murphy, his fourth home run of 
the series, his seventh of the postseason, and his sixth consecutive game 
with a home run, a new postseason record. Though Bryant would hit a two-run 
home run in the bottom of the eighth off Tyler Clippard, he would allow 
nothing more. Jeurys Familia finished off the sweep by striking out Fowler, 
sending the Mets back to the World Series for the first time since 2000. 
After hitting .529 with the four home runs and a 1.294 slugging percentage 
for the series, Murphy was named series MVP.[16] 2015 NLCS (4–0): New York 
