The 2015 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 86th edition of the 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game. The game was played at Great American 
Ball Park in Cincinnati, Ohio on Tuesday, July 14. It was televised nationally 
on Fox. The American League All-Stars defeated the National League All-Stars 
by a score of 6–3. On January 21, 2013, then-Major League Baseball (MLB) 
Commissioner Bud Selig, announced the 2015 All-Star Game would be hosted 
by the Cincinnati Reds. This was the first time the city of Cincinnati 
has hosted the All-Star Game since the 1988 All-Star Game was played at 
Riverfront Stadium.[1] On July 15, 2014, Selig also announced that Pete 
Rose would not be prohibited from participating in the 2015 All-Star Game 
ceremonies.[2] Rose was an All-Star for 13 of the 19 seasons he played 
on the Reds and was a member of the Big Red Machine. In 1991, Rose was 
permanently banned from MLB for baseball betting. Rose, wearing a red sport 
coat, appeared on the field in front of the pitcher's mound before the 
game and received a standing ovation alongside former teammates Johnny 
Bench, Barry Larkin, and Joe Morgan. On May 12, 2015, the Reds announced 
that Todd Frazier would serve as the 2015 All-Star Game spokesperson.[3][4] 
Mike Trout, an outfielder for the Los Angeles Angels, was named the 2015 
All-Star Game Most Valuable Player for the second straight year. Balloting 
for the 2015 All-Star Game starters began online April 23 and ended on 
July 2. The top vote-getters at each position (including the designated 
hitter for the American League) and the top three among outfielders, were 
named the starters for their respective leagues. The results were announced 
on July 5. A record 620 million votes were cast, surpassing the record 
of 391 million votes in 2012. Josh Donaldson was the leading vote-getter 
with 14,090,188 votes, breaking the record that Josh Hamilton set in 2012 
with 11,073,744 votes. Bryce Harper set a new NL record for votes this 
year with 13,864,950 votes.[5] MLB however canceled at least 65 million 
ballots on grounds of fraud and ballot stuffing.[6] At one point during 
the balloting, the top vote-getters for eight of the starting nine positions 
for the American League were Kansas City Royals players.[7] After the rosters 
were finalized, a second ballot of five players per league was created 
for the All-Star Final Vote to determine the 34th and final player of each 
roster. The online balloting were conducted from July 6 through July 10. 
Brett Gardner of the New York Yankees was removed from the ballot on July 
9 after he replaced Alex Gordon on the roster due to injury.[8] The winners 
of the All-Star Final Vote were Mike Moustakas of the Kansas City Royals 
(AL) and Carlos Martinez of the St. Louis Cardinals (NL).[9] The first 
score of the game occurred in the top of the first inning when Mike Trout 
of the Angels led off with a home run off NL starter Zack Greinke to give 
the AL a 1–0 lead. The NL tied the score in the bottom of the second when 
Jhonny Peralta drove in Paul Goldschmidt with an RBI single off AL starter 
Dallas Keuchel. In the top of the fifth, Prince Fielder, who was pinch 
hitting for Nelson Cruz, hit a go-ahead RBI single off Dodgers ace Clayton 
Kershaw that scored Trout to give the AL a 2–1 lead.[10] The next batter, 
Lorenzo Cain, hit an RBI double to score Albert Pujols to make it a 3–1 
ballgame. In the bottom of the sixth, Andrew McCutchen homered off Chris 
Archer to make it a one-run game. In the top of the seventh, Trout walked 
and was lifted for pinch runner Brock Holt who scored on an RBI double 
by Manny Machado to give the AL a 4–2 lead. Machado then scored on a sac 
fly by Fielder to make it a 5–2 game. In the top of the eighth inning, 
the Twins' Brian Dozier hit a solo home run to make it a 6–2 ballgame.[11] 
In the bottom of the ninth, Ryan Braun led off with a triple to right field 
off of Twins closer Glen Perkins, then scored on a sacrifice fly by Brandon 
Crawford to make it a 6–3 score. The next batter, Cubs rookie Kris Bryant, 
flied to right for the second out, and finally, Joe Panik lined out to 
left field to seal the AL's third straight victory and earn home-field 
advantage in the World Series.[12] Umpires: Home Plate – Tim Welke; First 
Base – Jerry Meals; Second Base – Paul Schrieber; Third Base – Ron Kulpa; 
Left Field – James Hoye; Right Field – Alan Porter; Replay Official – Brian 
Gorman[14] Weather: Temperature: 78 °F (26 °C), partly cloudy; Wind: 5 
