The 2016 National League Wild Card Game was a play-in game during Major 
League Baseball's (MLB) 2016 postseason played between the National League's 
(NL) two wild card teams, the New York Mets and the San Francisco Giants. 
As both teams finished with identical 87–75 records, a tiebreaker was used 
to determine the host team. In accordance with MLB tiebreaking rules, the 
Mets earned the right to host the game by winning their season series against 
the Giants 4–3. The game was played on October 5, 2016 at Citi Field in 
Queens, New York, and the winner advanced to play the first-seeded Chicago 
Cubs in the Division Series.[2][3] It was televised in the United States 
on ESPN. The Giants defeated the Mets, 3–0. This was New York's first appearance 
in the Wild Card Game, and their second consecutive postseason appearance 
after winning the National League pennant the previous season, while it 
was San Francisco's second appearance since 2014, when they went on to 
win the World Series. It was the second postseason meeting between the 
Mets and the Giants, after the 2000 National League Division Series. With 
the winner advancing and the loser finished for the year, each team sent 
its best starting pitcher to the mound, and the game was a pitchers' duel 
between the Mets' Noah Syndergaard and the Giants' Madison Bumgarner. Syndergaard 
did not allow a hit until the sixth inning, and finished with seven scoreless 
innings and ten strikeouts. On the other side, Bumgarner matched zeroes 
with Syndergaard. In the top of the sixth, with two outs and a runner on 
second, Curtis Granderson made a terrific catch in center field on a drive 
by Brandon Belt to preserve the shutout. In the top of the eighth, reliever 
Addison Reed allowed the Giants to load the bases with two outs on a single 
and two walks (one intentional), but struck out Hunter Pence to end the 
inning. In the bottom of the inning, with a runner on second, a hard line 
drive by Asdrubal Cabrera right at Bumgarner ended the threat. In the top 
of the ninth, Mets closer Jeurys Familia allowed a leadoff double to Brandon 
Crawford, then after Angel Pagan struck out and Joe Panik walked, journeyman 
infielder Conor Gillaspie hit a three-run home run to deep right to give 
the Giants a 3−0 lead.[5] In the bottom of the ninth, Bumgarner returned 
to the mound and set down the Mets in order for a complete game shutout. 
Exactly as he had done in the 2014 National League Wild Card Game, Bumgarner 
