The 2016 National League Division Series were two best-of-five-game series 
to determine the participating teams in the 2016 National League Championship 
Series. The three divisional winners (seeded 1-3) and a fourth team—the 
winner of a one-game Wild Card playoff— played in two series. FS1 and MLB 
Network carried all the games in the United States.[2][3] These matchups 
were: The higher seeded team in each series hosted Games 1, 2, and 5 (if 
necessary), and the lower seeded team hosted Games 3 and 4 (if necessary). 
This was the second postseason meeting between the Dodgers and the Nationals 
franchise. Their most recent meeting was in the 1981 National League Championship 
Series, in which the Dodgers won the National League pennant over the then-Montreal 
Expos in five games.[4] The Dodgers defeated the Nationals in five games 
and reached the National League Championship Series for the first time 
since 2013.[5] The Cubs and Giants also met for the second time in postseason 
play after the Giants defeated the New York Mets 3–0 in the National League 
Wild Card Game. Their last meeting was in the 1989 National League Championship 
Series, which the Giants won in five games. However, they did meet in a 
Wild Card tiebreaker in 1998 where the Cubs advanced, beating the Giants 
5–3.[6] The Cubs won the Division Series three games to one and advanced 
to the NLCS for the second consecutive year.[7] Chicago won the series, 
3–1. Los Angeles won the series, 3–2. The Cubs began postseason play with 
starter Jon Lester on the mound facing Johnny Cueto for the Wild Card Game-winning 
Giants. In the pitching duel, Lester scattered five hits in eight innings 
of work, shutting out the Giants.[17] Cueto also blanked the Cubs allowing 
only two hits prior to the eighth inning. In the eighth, Javier Baez hit 
a solo home run into the left field basket to put the Cubs up 1–0. Aroldis 
Chapman appeared for the save in the ninth and gave up a double to Buster 
Posey, but shut the Giants down as the Cubs took a 1–0 series lead. In 
game two of the series, the Cubs scored a run in the first inning on a 
Ben Zobrist single off former Cub Jeff Samardzija.[18] Starting pitcher 
Kyle Hendricks had the key hit in the second inning, driving in two runs 
on a single up the middle. Kris Bryant drove in the Cubs' fourth run of 
the game two batters later and the Cubs led 4–0, forcing Samardzija from 
the game. In the top of the third, the Giants answered, scoring two runs 
on back-to-back doubles by Joe Panik and pinch-hitter Gregor Blanco and 
a sacrifice fly by Brandon Belt. Hendricks was hit in the arm by an Ángel 
Pagán line drive, forcing him to leave the game. Reliever Travis Wood ended 
the Giants' rally and, in the bottom half of the inning, hit a solo home 
run to put the Cubs up 5–2. The home run was the first by a relief pitcher 
in a postseason game since 1924.[18] The Cub bullpen of Carl Edwards Jr., 
Mike Montgomery, and Héctor Rondón shut down the Giants for the remainder 
of the game with Chapman getting the save. The Cubs looked to finish the 
series sweep with Jake Arrieta facing the Giants' Madison Bumgarner in 
game three. The Giants looked to extend their streak to 10–0 in their last 
10 elimination games.[19] Arrieta hit a three-run homer in the top of the 
second, putting the Cubs up 3–0. The Cubs threatened to chase Bumgarner 
from the game in the third inning putting runners on first and second with 
only one out following singles by Ben Zobrist and Addison Russell. However, 
the Cubs failed to score and the Giants scored a run in the third following 
a Denard Span double and added a second run in the fifth following Span's 
triple.[20] In the eighth inning, Travis Wood gave up a single and Héctor 
Rondón walked a batter. Closer Aroldis Chapman came in early to get a six-out 
save, but Chapman gave up a two-run triple to Conor Gillaspie to give the 
Giants' their first lead of the series. Chapman was lifted shortly thereafter, 
getting only one out. The Giants added another run on a single by Brandon 
Crawford. In the ninth, trailing 5–3, Dexter Fowler led off with a walk 
and Kris Bryant hit a two-run home run off Giants' closer Sergio Romo.[21] 
Mike Montgomery, took over in the ninth for the Cubs and held the Giants 
scoreless for four innings. In the 13th inning, the Giants' Brandon Crawford 
doubled to lead off the inning and Joe Panik hit a walk-off double to send 
the series to a game four. The Giants looked to continue their streak of 
wins in elimination games to 11 as the Cubs sent John Lackey to the mound 
against the Giants' Matt Moore. Lackey started off slow, allowing a leadoff 
double to Denard Span and a sacrifice fly by Buster Posey to give the Giants 
an early 1–0 lead. David Ross answered for the Cubs in the third with a 
solo home run to tie the game. The home run made Ross the oldest catcher 
ever to homer in a postseason game.[22] However, Lackey got in trouble 
again in the fourth, giving up a run-scoring to single to Moore with the 
bases loaded and a force-out grounder by Span to put the Giants up 3–1.[23] 
The Cubs bounced back with a run in the top of the fifth on a three base 
throwing error by Brandon Crawford and a sacrifice fly by Ross.[22] Justin 
Grimm relieved Lackey in the bottom of the fifth and surrendered a single 
to Posey and double that just missed being a home run by Brandon Crawford. 
Travis Wood entered and gave up a single to Conor Gillaspie and sacrifice 
fly to Joe Panik as the Giants surged to a 5–2 lead. Moore cruised through 
the next three innings, retiring the Cubs in order in the eighth before 
being lifted for the Giants' bullpen to start the ninth as it appeared 
a Game Five was inevitable. However, the Giants ended up using five pitchers 
in the inning as Kris Bryant singled, Anthony Rizzo walked, and Ben Zobrist 
doubled to score Bryant and tighten the game at 5–3. Cubs manager Joe Maddon 
decided to pinch hit for Addison Russell and his 95 RBIs with Chris Coghlan. 
Giants manager Bruce Bochy countered with lefty reliever Will Smith and 
Maddon used rookie catcher Willson Contreras instead. Contreras promptly 
singled up the middle to tie the game at five.[24] Jason Heyward's attempted 
sacrifice bunt was too hard and Contreras was forced out at second, but 
gold-glove winner Crawford's throw to first ended up in the dugout allowing 
Heyward to reach second with one out. Javier Baez then singled up the middle 
to complete the comeback and give the Cubs the 6–5 lead. Aroldis Chapman 
struck out the side in the bottom of the ninth to end the game and series 
as the Cubs eliminated the Giants and moved on to the NLCS. His 3 saves 
and 4 save opportunities tied and set Division Series records respectively. 
The Cubs' comeback marked the biggest comeback in postseason-clinching 
history[24] as well as the fourth team to come back from 3 runs down in 
the ninth to win a postseason game.[citation needed] 2016 NLDS (3–1): Chicago 
Cubs beat San Francisco Giants Plans called for retired pitcher and former 
National Liván Hernández to throw out the ceremonial first pitch, but after 
Hurricane Matthew′s effects on Florida made it impossible for Hernández 
to fly to Washington, the Nationals surprised the fans at Nationals Park 
by having Nationals starting catcher Wilson Ramos, whose season had ended 
with a knee injury on September 26, throw it instead, to a huge roar from 
the crowd.[25] The game provided an historic first: When Dusty Baker and 
Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts exchanged line-up cards before 
the game, it became the first postseason game in the Major League Baseball 
history in which two African-American managers faced one another.[26] The 
game was billed as a marquee match-up between two of the best starting 
pitchers in Major League Baseball, Clayton Kershaw for the Dodgers and 
Max Scherzer for the Nationals, but neither starter was particularly sharp. 
Pitching to rookie Nationals catcher Pedro Severino, Scherzer gave up a 
solo home run to the second batter he faced, Dodgers rookie shortstop Corey 
Seager, on his sixth pitch of the game. In the third inning, after Dodgers 
second baseman Chase Utley drove in left fielder Andrew Toles with an RBI 
single, Scherzer gave up a two-run home run to Dodgers third baseman Justin 
Turner, giving Los Angeles a 4–0 lead. The Dodgers did not score again; 
Scherzer did not allow another run before left the game after six innings, 
and the Nationals bullpen also held them scoreless.[27] Kershaw pitched 
five innings and held on to the lead, but the Nationals repeatedly pushed 
him to the brink, and his frequent discussions on the mound with Dodgers 
catcher Yasmani Grandal incited a chorus of boos from the crowd.[28] In 
the second inning, with two Nationals on base after Daniel Murphy and Ryan 
Zimmerman singled and Anthony Rendon reached first on a fielder's choice, 
Danny Espinosa, batting seventh instead of a probable eighth due to Ramos′s 
unavailability, struck out for the second out. A Dodgers error then allowed 
Severino to reach first base and load the bases, but Scherzer popped out 
to end the inning without the Nationals scoring a run. In the third inning, 
Rendon singled to drive in two runs as part of what promised to be a big 
inning, cutting the Dodgers′ lead to 4–2, but Espinosa struck out to end 
the inning with two men on base. Severino doubled in the fourth and scored 
on a sacrifice fly by Trea Turner to reduce the Dodgers′ lead to 4–3, but 
in the fifth, with Jayson Werth and Rendon on base, Espinosa again struck 
out to end the inning. Although he provided his typically reliable defense 
in the field during the game, Espinosa′s strikeouts had left six men on 
base and brought three rallies to an end.[27] Kershaw left the game after 
five innings and 101 pitches,[28] having given up three runs, all earned, 
on eight hits and a walk with seven strikeouts. The Los Angeles bullpen 
followed with four innings of shut-out ball, but the Nationals had ample 
opportunities to tie the game. Trea Turner, a prolific base-stealer, walked 
in the sixth inning but was stranded at first. In the seventh inning, Murphy 
walked with one out, but then got a poor jump in an attempt to steal second 
and was thrown out. In the eighth, Clint Robinson doubled in the first 
postseason plate appearance of his career and speedy Michael A. Taylor 
entered the game to pinch-run for him, but Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen 
struck out pinch-hitter Chris Heisey on a called third strike to end the 
inning. It was the Nationals' last scoring threat; they had the tying run 
on base in four of the game′s last five innings without being able to score 
a single run, and left a total of nine men on base during the game. The 
Dodgers won 4–3 to take a 1–0 lead in the series.[27] Originally scheduled 
to begin at 4:08 p.m. EDT on October 8, Game 2 was postponed due to rain 
and rescheduled for 1:08 p.m. EDT on October 9.[29] Retired first baseman 
and former National Adam LaRoche threw out the ceremonial first pitch, 
tossing it to his son Drake, who spent a great deal of time with the Nationals 
during his father′s years on the team.[30][31] Game 2 began much as Game 
1 had: Washington′s starting pitcher Tanner Roark, starting Game 2 because 
Stephen Strasburg remained sidelined with an injury, struggled; for the 
second game in a row, Los Angeles shortstop Corey Seager hit a first-inning 
solo home run in the Dodgers′ second at-bat of the game; and the Dodgers′ 
starter, Rich Hill, struck out the side in the bottom of the first, as 
Clayton Kershaw had in Game 1.[32] The Nationals, meanwhile, again missed 
a chance at a big inning when reserve catcher José Lobatón, starting in 
the postseason due to the unavailability of the injured Wilson Ramos, hit 
into a double play with the bases loaded to end the second inning.[33] 
The Dodgers added another run in the third inning on an RBI single by right 
fielder Josh Reddick; Bryce Harper made a good throw to the plate from 
right field, but Lobatón was unable to tag Dodgers third baseman Justin 
Turner out at home.[32] Dodgers starter Rich Hill used his curveball very 
effectively for 3⅔ innings, and Los Angeles held a 2–0 lead in the bottom 
of the third when Lobatón came to bat again with two outs and Daniel Murphy 
and Danny Espinosa on base. Lobatón hit only the second postseason home 
run of his career,[33][34] and only the second postseason homer by a catcher 
in the history of the Montreal-Washington franchise,[31][35] driving in 
Murphy and Espinosa to give the Nationals a 3–2 lead, the first time they 
had taken the lead in the series.[33] Although Roark had an uncharacteristically 
unsteady outing, the Dodgers were 0-for-6 with runners in scoring position 
during the first five innings even though they had the bases loaded with 
one out three times,[31] at least in part thanks to good Nationals defensive 
plays, notably by left fielder Jayson Werth.[33] A tiring Roark left the 
game in the fifth inning, after 4⅓ innings pitched and 85 pitches, with 
two Dodgers on base and Washington still holding a 3–2 lead. After that, 
Washington′s bullpen, a postseason weakness for the 2012 and 2014 teams, 
held the Dodgers scoreless; Marc Rzepczynski, Sammy Solis, Blake Treinen, 
Óliver Pérez, and Mark Melancon combined to give up only three walks (all 
by Rzepczynski) and one hit (a single yielded by Melancon) in the game′s 
remaining 4⅔ innings, striking out five Dodgers.[31][33] The Dodgers were 
1-for-9 with runners in scoring position during the game,[31] and by the 
end of the game, the Nationals′ bullpen had pitched 7⅔ innings in the series 
without giving up a run.[36] Meanwhile, Murphy, who went 3-for-3 and scored 
a run, pushing his offensive output for the series′ first two games to 
4-for-6 with two walks,[37] drove in runs with singles in the fifth and 
seventh innings as Nationals fans in the crowd chanted ""MVP! MVP!"[37] 
The Nationals went 4-for-8 with runners in scoring position, a turnaround 
from their previous postseason performance: From Game 5 of the 2012 National 
League Division Series until Lobatón′s homer in the third inning, they 
had gone only 3-for-35 in the postseason with runners in scoring position.[33] 
Washington won 5–2 to even the series at one.[33] It was the first come-from-behind 
postseason win for a Washington, D.C., Major League Baseball team since 
the Washington Senators came from behind to beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 
4–3 in Game 3 of the 1925 World Series 91 years earlier on October 10, 
1925.[31] It also was the Nationals′ first postseason victory at home since 
a 2–1 win over the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 4 of the 2012 National League 
Division Series on October 11, 2012. The Nationals put pressure on Dodgers 
starter Kenta Maeda from the outset, loading the bases in the first inning 
on a single and two walks; although they did not score, they forced him 
to throw 28 pitches. In the Dodgers′ half of the first, Nationals starter 
Gio Gonzalez walked Los Angeles third baseman Justin Turner; Dodgers shortstop 
Corey Seager then staked the Dodgers to a 1–0 lead in the first inning, 
as he had in both previous games of the series, this time with an RBI double 
that drove in Turner.[38] The Nationals' offense erupted in the third inning. 
Trea Turner singled, then scored to tie the game at one when Jayson Werth 
doubled. Bryce Harper then singled, scoring Werth to give the Nats a 2–1 
lead, and Anthony Rendon followed that with a 432-foot (132-meter), two-run 
home run into the left field seats, putting Washington ahead 4–1. Maeda 
left the game after the inning, having thrown 68 pitches.[38] After the 
Dodgers scored their first-inning run, Gio Gonzalez retired 11 of the next 
12 batters he faced. However, with one out in the fifth inning, on his 
83rd pitch, he gave up a two-run homer to Dodgers pinch-hitter Carlos Ruiz 
that narrowed the Nationals′ lead to 4–3. Nationals manager Dusty Baker 
immediately took Gonzalez out of the game, and, for the second consecutive 
game, Nationals relievers had to pitch the final 4 2⁄3 innings. Sammy Solis 
relieved Gonzalez and pitched 1⅔ innings, followed by Óliver Pérez for 
a third-of-an-inning and Shawn Kelley for 1⅔ innings, all scoreless; Kelley 
retired all five Dodgers he faced, striking out three of them. The Dodgers′ 
bullpen also shut the Nationals out through the eighth inning, and Washington 
still clung to a 4–3 lead going into the ninth.[38] Los Angeles closer 
Kenley Jansen came in to pitch the ninth inning, hoping to hold the score 
at 4–3 and give the Dodgers a chance to tie or win the game in the bottom 
of the inning. But Jayson Werth led off with a 450-foot (137-meter) home 
run into the left-field stands that quieted the crowd and gave the Nationals 
an important insurance run. Jansen then walked second baseman Daniel Murphy 
and hit Harper with a pitch and, after Rendon popped out, first baseman 
Ryan Zimmerman doubled off the right field wall, scoring both Murphy and 
Harper and knocking Jansen out of the game. By the time Washington pinch 
hitter Chris Heisey came to bat with a 7–3 lead, many Dodger fans were 
leaving the stadium; Heisey capped the inning by scoring Zimmerman with 
a sacrifice fly to make the score 8–3. Nationals closer Mark Melancon then 
pitched a perfect ninth to seal the victory, completing 4⅔ scoreless innings 
by the Nationals′ bullpen; in the series thus far, Nationals relievers 
had pitched 12⅓ innings without yielding a single run, striking out 14 
Dodgers.[38][39] By the end of the game, Zimmerman was hitting .455 in 
the series, while Werth was hitting .417 and Murphy .400.[39] The win gave 
the Nationals a 2–1 lead in the series, their first lead in a post-season 
series since the first game of the 2012 National League Division Series.[38] 
Facing elimination, the Dodgers opted to have their ace starter Clayton 
Kershaw pitch again on only three days rest. In the top of the first inning, 
the Nationals pressed him, with Trea Turner leading off with a walk and 
Bryce Harper following with a single, after which Daniel Murphy drove in 
Turner with an RBI single to give the Nationals a run in the first inning 
for the first time in the series. Nationals starter Joe Ross, however, 
had a rough first inning himself, hitting Justin Turner with a pitch and 
giving up a two-run homer to Adrian Gonzalez.[40] With a 2–1 lead, Kershaw 
then settled down, allowing Washington to tie the game at two in the top 
of the third with singles by Trea Turner and Jayson Werth and a sacrifice 
fly by Murphy that drove in Turner, but otherwise keeping the Nationals 
scoreless until the seventh inning. Ross, meanwhile, struggled. In the 
bottom of the third inning, he gave up a lead-off double to Kershaw; after 
keeping Kershaw at second and recording two outs, he allowed a single by 
Justin Turner that scored Kershaw, walked Adrian Gonzalez and Josh Reddick 
to load the bases, and then hit Joc Pederson with a pitch, forcing Justin 
Turner home from third. Ross left the game with the Dodgers leading 4–2, 
having thrown 55 pitches in 2⅔ innings, giving up four runs, all earned, 
on three hits and two walks, and striking out three.[40] The Nationals 
bullpen faced another long outing. They stretched their streak of scoreless 
innings in the series to 14⅓, but with two outs in the bottom of the fifth 
inning, Reynaldo López became the first Washington reliever to give up 
a run in the series when Reddick singled and Pederson drove him in with 
an RBI double, giving Los Angeles a 5–2 lead.[40] The Nationals′ offense, 
meanwhile, finally got to Kershaw, staging a comeback in the top of the 
seventh inning. Danny Espinosa, who had gone 0-for-10 with nine strikeouts 
in the series, singled for his first hit of the 2016 postseason. He was 
still on first with two outs when Trea Turner singled and Harper walked 
to load the bases, driving Kershaw out of the game after throwing 110 pitches. 
Dodgers reliever Pedro Baez then hit Werth with a pitch to force Espinosa 
home, and reliever Luis Avilán gave up a single to Murphy that scored Turner 
and Harper, tying the game at five, with all five Nationals runs charged 
to Kershaw.[40] Pitching the bottom of the eighth for Washington, Blake 
Treinen got the first two outs, but then hit Andrew Toles with a pitch 
and gave up a single to pinch-hitter Andre Ethier, followed by a single 
by Chase Utley that drove in Toles to give the Dodgers a 6–5 lead. Dodgers 
closer Kenley Jansen secured the Dodgers′ victory with a perfect ninth 
in which he struck out two Nats, and Los Angeles tied the series at two.[40] 
Daniel Murphy′s 2-for-3 performance in the game pushed his postseason average 
for 2016 to .462, and his four RBIs set a new Montreal-Washington franchise 
record for RBIs by a single player in a postseason game.[40][41] At the 
end of the game, the Nationals′ bullpen ERA for the series stood at 1.02, 
with only two runs given up in 17⅔ innings of work.[40] Washington′s starters, 
in contrast, had pitched only 16⅓ innings and given up 13 runs, with a 
7.16 ERA for the series.[40] When Blake Treinen hit Andrew Toles with a 
pitch in the bottom of the eighth inning, it set two new Major League Baseball 
records: It was the first time in history that one team′s pitchers hit 
four batters with pitches in a single postseason game,[42] and it was also 
the first time that two teams had combined to hit 11 batters with pitches 
in the course of a single postseason series.[42] In the fifth and final 
game of the series, at Nationals Park, Rich Hill on short rest struggled 
and didn't make it out of the third inning, but only gave up one run. Max 
Scherzer pitched well for the Nationals, holding the Dodgers scoreless 
for the first six innings. Joc Pederson hit a solo homer to lead off the 
seventh inning and tie the game. A two-out pinch-hit single by Carlos Ruiz 
off of Sammy Solis put the Dodgers ahead and Justin Turner's two-run triple 
extended it to 4–1. A two-run homer by pinch hitter Chris Heisey off Grant 
Dayton in the bottom of the inning made it 4–3 and the Dodgers brought 
in closer Kenley Jansen to get out of the inning. Jansen threw a career 
high 50 pitches in the game, working into the ninth inning. Clayton Kershaw 
came into the game in relief with one out in the ninth, two days after 
throwing 110 pitches in game four. He induced a pop up by Daniel Murphy 
and struck out Wilmer Difo swinging to end the game and series. It was 
Kershaw's first save in the majors and the only save he had in the minors 
was in his first professional season, for the 2006 Gulf Coast Dodgers, 
a game in which Jansen was his catcher.[43] At four hours, 32 minutes, 
this set the record for the longest nine-inning postseason game in Major 
League history. The seventh inning alone lasted one hour, six minutes, 
which featured seven pitching changes, six runs, four pinch hitters, two 
pinch runners, and a double switch. [44] For the third time in franchise 
history, the Expos/Nationals blew a 2–1 lead in the postseason, both times 
in 1981. The 1981 National League Division Series, which the then Expos 
took a 2-0 lead against the Philadelphia Phillies lost game 3 and 4 but 
won game 5 in Philadelphia. In the ensuing NLCS against the Dodgers, the 
Expos also blew a 2-1 lead to lose the pennant. With the win, the Dodgers 
advanced to the NLCS for the first time since 2013, with this being their 
fourth appearance in nine seasons. 2016 NLDS (3–2): Los Angeles Dodgers 
