Mike Hazen The 2016 Boston Red Sox season was the 116th season in the team's 
history, and their 105th season at Fenway Park. The Red Sox clinched their 
first playoff berth and first AL East division title in three years. David 
Ortiz retired after the season. 2016 was the sixth straight season for 
the Red Sox to play opening day on the road, opening up the season against 
their 2015 season closing opponent, Cleveland Indians. The Sox wrapped 
up the season at home for the second time in the last three years. It was 
the first time since 2009 that they finished the season at home against 
a team other than their rival, the New York Yankees. On August 1, 2015, 
NESN announced that long time play-by-play announcer Don Orsillo would 
not be returning for the 2016 season. He was replaced by Dave O'Brien (Boston 
Red Sox Radio Network), who was replaced in turn by Tim Neverett (Root 
Sports Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Pirates Radio Network).[1] NESN also announced 
that the color analyst position would be filled with a three-man rotation 
of Jerry Remy, Dennis Eckersley and Steve Lyons and that they would employ 
a three-man booth with different combinations of the three for selected 
games.[2] The Red Sox's season ended by a sweep from the eventual American 
League Champion Cleveland Indians in the Division Series.[3] The opening 
day game, scheduled for April 4, was postponed to April 5, due to cold 
weather. The game was called two hours prior to game time.[10] On April 
5, in his Red Sox debut, David Price struck out ten Indians batters and 
earned the win. He became the fifth Red Sox pitcher to win an opening day 
game in his debut for the ball club and the first since Pedro Martínez 
did it in 1998. Mookie Betts went deep in the third innings, scoring Jackie 
Bradley, Jr. and gave Boston an early 2–0 lead. In a four-hit inning, Cleveland 
brought two runners home and the game was tied at two in the bottom of 
the fourth. In the sixth, on a Travis Shaw single, Hanley Ramírez took 
third base from first, and scored on a Brock Holt blooper to left field. 
Travis Shaw took third on a Blake Swihart ground out and scored on a wild 
pitch by Corey Kluber. Junichi Tazawa and Koji Uehara retired all batters 
they faced in the seventh and eighth respectively and with Craig Kimbrel 
warming in the bullpen and Dustin Pedroia on first, David Ortiz hit his 
fifth opening day home run of his career, extending the lead to 6–2. Although 
not a save situation, Kimbrel made his Red Sox debut in the ninth and shut 
the door, allowing a walk and striking out two. April 6–7, in Cleveland 
The series in Cleveland ended on a sour note after Red Sox reliever Junichi 
Tazawa let up a game-winning home run to former Red Sox first baseman Mike 
Napoli, who was influential in the Sox's 2013 World Series run. Red Sox 
split the series 1–1 (12–9 runs) April 8–10, in Toronto In the series opener, 
Joe Kelly was rocked for 7 earned runs in 3 innings, leaving the Red Sox 
in a big hole due to Josh Donaldson's grand slam, but Brock Holt would 
hit a grand slam of his own and the Sox would win the game after a furious 
comeback effort. The next day, the Red Sox tagged knuckleballer R. A. Dickey 
for 7 runs to improve to 3-1. However, the Sox lost the third game of the 
series as two runs given up by Steven Wright in the first inning proved 
to make all the difference as the Red Sox failed to score 6+ runs in a 
game for the first time this season. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (16–14 
runs) April 11–13, vs. Baltimore The Red Sox then came home to face the 
undefeated Orioles. David Price underperformed in his Boston home opener, 
giving up 5 runs in the third after the Sox jumped out to an early 3-0 
lead, but it was Craig Kimbrel who took the loss after giving up a 3-run 
homer to Chris Davis to break a 6-6 tie in the top of the 9th. On the 12th, 
the Orioles' bats outperformed Boston's as Mike Wright and Clay Buchholz 
both failed to pitch 6 innings. In the series finale, the Red Sox finally 
gave Baltimore its first loss on the season as the bullpen proved to be 
strong, holding a 2-run lead for four innings. Red Sox lost the series 
1–2 (16–20 runs) April 15–18, vs. Toronto Catcher Christian Vazquez returned 
to the Red Sox lineup for the first time since 2014 after undergoing Tommy 
John surgery, going 2-for-4 and making some great defensive plays. Travis 
Shaw's 2 2-out RBI made the difference as the Sox backed Porcello for a 
win. David Price earned his first home win the next day after his solid 
pitching was supported by Xander Bogaerts's 3-run home run. But much like 
the previous weekend, the Sox dropped the third game of the series after 
the offense went cold to give Steven Wright another loss despite only giving 
up 2 runs in 6 innings. On Patriots' Day, Clay Buchholz had one of his 
best career outings, but it was spoiled after Koji Uehara and the bullpen 
combined to give up 4 runs in the eighth. Red Sox split the series 2–2 
(15–14 runs) April 19–21, vs. Tampa Bay Drew Smyly held the Red Sox to 
1 hit, getting out of a bases-loaded, no-out jam in the third inning, which 
would prove to be important as the Rays won, 3-0, in 10 innings after neither 
team scored through 9. But the Sox would rebound by scoring 6 runs off 
of Tampa Bay ace Chris Archer, who was struggling mightily to open the 
season. David Price pitched poorly in the rubber match; after the Red Sox 
jumped out to a 5-1 lead in the first inning, Price gave up 7 runs and 
the offense was unable to keep up with the bullpen's poor work in a Red 
Sox loss that had many fans[who?] questioning John Farrell's decision-making 
skills as a manager.[according to whom?] Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (15–18 
runs) April 22–24, in Houston The Red Sox were finally able to give Steven 
Wright run support as Mookie Betts finished a homer shy of the cycle in 
the Red Sox's 6-2 win. The next day, Clay Buchholz's instability was exposed 
as he gave up a game-winning grand slam to Colby Rasmus in the 6th inning 
of the Red Sox's loss. The Red Sox would win the rubber match in 12 innings. 
Craig Kimbrel blew the save opportunity as Colby Rasmus hit another home 
run against the Red Sox to tie the game, but Heath Hembree pitched 3 scoreless 
innings and Jackie Bradley, Jr. drove in 2 runs in the 12th to seal the 
series victory for the Red Sox. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (16–15 runs) 
April 25–28, in/vs. Atlanta Coming in late to a home-and-home 4 game series 
against the league's worst team, the Red Sox bats were unable to score 
against Braves ace Julio Teherán. Jackie Bradley, Jr.'s home run was the 
only run scored by either team in the game as Rick Porcello fired 6.1 scoreless 
innings. But the bats would reawaken the next day as the Red Sox scored 
11 runs. David Price excelled in the Red Sox's win, giving up 2 runs over 
8 innings. The teams returned to Boston and Dustin Pedroia's grand slam 
aided Steven Wright, who finished the day with the third best ERA in the 
American League (after Jordan Zimmermann and Mat Latos), in the Red Sox's 
9-4 win. However, Clay Buchholz could not keep the strong pitching going 
as he gave up 5 runs in a 5-3 loss. Red Sox won the series 3–1 (24–13 runs) 
April 29–30, vs. New York The Red Sox entered their first of 6 series against 
their arch-rivals as Henry Owens started against Yankees ace Masahiro Tanaka. 
Owens struggled with command throughout the game, but he only gave up 2 
runs. The Red Sox offense remained scoreless until the 7th inning, when 
Jackie Bradley, Jr. continued his week of clutch hitting with a first-pitch 
2 RBI double off the Green Monster. But the offense continued to perform 
well when David Ortiz hit a towering 2-run home run to center off of elite 
setup man Dellin Betances, who had an sub-1.00 ERA and a 20 K/9 rate entering 
the game. Koji Uehara and Craig Kimbrel retired the last 6 batters to preserve 
Boston's 4-2 win. Rick Porcello went 7 shutout innings to improve to 5–0 
and Robbie Ross, Jr. & Junichi Tazawa held New York scoreless in an 8–0 
win to wrap up the month of April. Composite line score April *Extra innings 
without runs are not displayed May 1, vs. New York (cont.) The Red Sox 
completed the three-game sweep with the help of a Christian Vázquez home 
run in the seventh off of Dellin Betances, who posted an 0.9 ERA and 0.8 
WHIP before the series. David Price gave up six earned runs but improved 
to 4–0 on the season with a 6.14 ERA and a 2.88 FIP. Red Sox won the series 
3–0 (20–9 runs) May 3–5, in Chicago Coming into the series, the White Sox 
had the best record and the best pitching staff in the AL. That good pitching 
showed up in the first game, with Quintana only giving up one run in eight 
innings of work, wasting another good start of Steven Wright, who gave 
up two runs in six innings. Boston took a five inning lead in the second 
game, off of a David Ortiz home run, earning the first win for Clay Buchholz. 
Craig Kimbrel preserved the 5–2 win with his ninth save. In game three, 
the Red Sox scored in each of the first three innings and never looked 
back, taking the rubber match 7–3. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (13–9 runs) 
May 6–8, in the Bronx With the bases loaded and one out in a one-run game, 
David Ortiz was called out on strikes on a 3–2 pitch below the knees in 
the top of the ninth. Ortiz and John Farrell were both ejected, arguing 
the calls made by home plate umpire Ron Kulpa. Rick Porcello was charged 
with his first loss of the season. The following day, David Price gave 
up six runs and also lost his first game in a 1–8 effort. Steven Wright 
pitched a complete three-hit, one-run game to avoid the sweep. All six 
runs of the game were scored on the long ball, with David Ortiz going deep 
twice. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (9–12 runs) May 9–11, vs. Oakland Down 
1–4 after three innings, the Red Sox put up a six-spot in the fourth, chasing 
Oakland's ace Sonny Gray from the game, and continued to score in the next 
three innings for another seven runs. Jackie Bradley, Jr. hit his first 
career grand slam and earned six RBI. In game two, Sean O'Sullivan made 
his first start for Boston. Despite giving up 12 hits, he made it through 
the sixth and earned the win. Boston gave him 13 runs of support, 11 in 
the first five innings. Hanley Ramírez hit the second longest home run 
of the season thus far, estimated at 468 feet, over the far end of the 
green monster. Travis Shaw drove in five runs. Rick Porcello continued 
his strong season with another good outing, going 6 2⁄3 innings with six 
hits and 3 runs allowed. The bats stayed hot, scoring eleven runs from 
the second through the sixth inning. Jackie Bradley, Jr. hit two long balls 
and drove in another six runs. The Red Sox and Athletics combined for 82 
hits in the series, with Boston out-hitting the A's 48–34. With three games 
with 13+ runs scored, the Red Sox became the seventh team in Major League 
history to do so and the first since the 1999 Cleveland Indians. Red Sox 
won the series 3–0 (40–15 runs) May 12–15, vs. Houston The Red Sox continued 
their hot offense, scoring in each inning except the fourth and fifth. 
They extended their streak of 11+ runs scored to four, the first time since 
the Braves did it in 2007. David Price bounced back, allowing one run in 
6 2⁄3 innings and striking out twelve. David Wright gave up the most runs 
this season in game two of the series, five in 4 1⁄3 innings of work, giving 
up the 5–1 lead in the fifth. In the sixth Houston scored two runs and 
the offense could only get back one. In game three, the Astros held their 
one run lead until the ninth, but David Ortiz batted home both the game-tying 
run in the ninth inning and the game-winning run in extra innings at Fenway 
Park as he doubled, tripled and homered against the Houston Astros. The 
double was the walk-off hit to lift the Red Sox to a 6–5 win in the 11th 
inning,[11] his 20th career walk-off hit.[12] The triple had tied the score 
in the ninth inning, and, in a career where he averaged approximately one 
triple per season, this game marked the first time he had at least one 
of each type of extra base hit in the same game. Further, the double was 
the 600th of Ortiz' career, making him the 15th player all time to reach 
the milestone. He also joined Hank Aaron and Barry Bonds as the third player 
with 500 career home runs and 600 career doubles.[13] One day later, the 
Astros again had a one-run lead in late innings, but Boston came back in 
the seventh with the help of the sun, which continued the inning with two 
outs and consequently the tying and winning run scored, the latter on a 
Mookie Betts triple. Craig Kimbrel recorded his tenth save. The Red Sox 
finished their homestand with a 6–1 record and 73 runs scored. Red Sox 
won the series 3–1 (33–22 runs) May 17–18, in Kansas City The May 16 game 
was rained out and rescheduled as part of a day-night-doubleheader on May 
18. In game 1, the Royals took an early 5–1 lead in the fourth. Boston's 
rally fell one run short and in the eighth Kansas City added three more 
to put the game virtually out of reach. Game 2 saw another good start of 
Steven Wright got wasted. He pitched a complete game, giving up three runs 
on three hits but the offense could only give him two runs of support. 
Chris Young hit his first home run in a Red Sox uniform but Royals pitching 
struck out 13 Red Sox batters. This was the fourth time in eight starts, 
Wright has gotten three runs or less in support. Jackie Bradley, Jr. extended 
his hitting streak to 23 games, with a one-out single in the ninth. David 
Price continued his good work in game 3 of the series, giving up 2 runs 
in 7 1⁄3 innings. The Red Sox extended their home run streak to 19 games 
on a Jackie Bradley, Jr. solo shot in the second inning and never looked 
back to avoid the sweep. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (11–13 runs) May 20–22, 
vs. Cleveland Cleveland pitching held the Red Sox to two runs, with one 
run in each of the first two innings. The Indians scored four runs in the 
third and that was all of the runs scored in the game. In game two, after 
returning from the DL with a right shoulder impingement, starting pitcher 
Joe Kelly took a no-hitter through 6 2⁄3 IP against the Cleveland Indians 
until Juan Uribe broke it up with a double. Boston won, 9–1.[14] In the 
rubber match, David Ortiz, would extended the team home run streak to 22 
games in the fifth, made a bid for the cycle, but a fly ball to the deepest 
part of Fenway Park bounced into the stands for an automatic double instead 
of the needed triple. Jackie Bradley, Jr. extended his league best hitting 
streak to 27. Rick Porcello gave up two runs in 5 2⁄3 innings and earned 
his seventh win in the 5–2 contest. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (16–7 runs) 
May 24–26, vs. Colorado Colorado's starter Jorge de la Rosa was chased 
after 3 1⁄3 innings, allowing seven runs on nine hits. David Price gave 
up five hits and three runs in seven innings of work. In game two, the 
offense scored seven times of Chad Bettis, who was pulled after 4 2⁄3 innings. 
Steven Wright had another good outing, allowing three runs, two of them 
earned, in his seven innings. Jackie Bradley, Jr. snapped his hitting streak 
of 29 consecutive games in game three. The offense could only get two runs 
and Clay Buchholz, who gave up six runs in five innings, lost his place 
in the rotation after the game. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (20–14 runs) 
May 27–29, in Toronto Down 2–5 after six innings, Boston tied the game 
in the eighth but Josh Donaldson gave Toronto the win with his second home 
run of the night. Joe Kelly went only 4 2⁄3 innings. Tommy Layne and Junichi 
Tazawa could not protect a four-run lead after seven innings. Craig Kimbrel 
was summoned from the bullpen for the five out save which he eventually 
blew, with the tying run on third base with only one out. The Red Sox retook 
the lead in the ninth on a David Ortiz home run. After two quick outs in 
the bottom of the inning and two times down to their last strike, Kimbrel 
gave up three consecutive hits and the Blue Jays walked off. Game three 
went into extra innings and Gavin Floyd walked Swihart & Betts in the eleventh 
inning and both eventually scored. With his career-high 39 pitch outing 
the day before, Kimbrel was unavailable and Koji Uehara earned his first 
save since August 5, 2015. Clay Buchholz was credited with the win, with 
his first relief appearance since August 17, 2008, also against the Blue 
Jays. Xander Bogaerts extended his MLB-best hitting streak to 22 games. 
Dustin Pedroia kept his hitting streak against the Blue Jays alive, now 
sitting at 23 games. With the win the Red Sox are the first team in the 
American League to 30 wins. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (19–20 runs) May 
30–31, in Baltimore Steven Wright pitched a four-hit, two-run complete 
game in Camden Yards and received seven runs of support, including the 
first career-home run by Marco Hernández, a three-run shot in the eighth. 
That was Wright's third complete game of the season. Mookie Betts exploded 
in the second game of the series, with three home runs and he drove in 
five runs. That was presumably the first three-home run-game by a Red Sox 
leadoff hitter in the history of the franchise. Eduardo Rodríguez returned 
from the disabled list, went six innings and gave up two runs on six hits. 
Composite line score May *Extra innings without runs are not displayed 
June 1–2, in Baltimore (cont.) The bats stayed hot, with another multi-home 
run night by Mookie Betts, hitting two of the Red Sox five home runs in 
game three. But the pitching fell apart with all four pitchers used in 
the game allowing at least one run. Seven of the 13 runs allowed were charged 
to starter Joe Kelly, who didn't make it through the third inning and was 
demoted to Triple-A Pawtucket shortly after the game. Clay Buchholz surrendered 
the loss in his second outing from the bullpen. In game four, pitching 
couldn't keep up with hitting again. All four pitchers allowed two or more 
runs each. This was the first time since August 2006, that the Red Sox 
gave up 12 or more runs in back-to-back games and the first time since 
May/June 2003, that the Red Sox lost consecutive games in which they scored 
seven or more runs each. Xander Bogaerts extended his hitting streak to 
26 games during the series. Red Sox split the series 2–2 (29–29 runs) June 
3–5, vs. Toronto Representing the tying run at the plate, Xander Bogaerts 
struck out in the bottom of the ninth, which ended his hitting streak and 
the game. Steven Wright had another good outing, allowing three runs, all 
unearned, in the second game but could only go five innings, due to a high 
pitch count. The Red Sox offense scored six time off of Marcus Stroman, 
which was enough to preserve the win. In the rubber match, the Blue Jays 
took Eduardo Rodríguez deep four times, for five runs total. Marco Estrada 
carried a no-hitter into the eighth, but gave up a long ball to Chris Young. 
To this point all hits in the game were home runs. The Red Sox rallied 
in the bottom of the ninth, accumulated five hits, three of them doubles, 
but fell one run short. Dustin Pedroia tied Jerry Remy's franchise hit 
streak record against Toronto at 26. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (12–14 
runs) June 7–8, in San Francisco Boston took an early 2–0 lead against 
the NL West leading Giants but surrendered three runs in the fourth and 
fifth inning. In the seventh inning, the Red Sox tied the game and it went 
into extra innings. With the bases loaded and one out, two runs scored 
on a Xander Bogaerts bloop single in the top of the tenth which was the 
difference in the game. In game two, David Price pitched a complete game, 
allowing two runs on three hits. The only run for the Red Sox came off 
the bat of Chris Young with a solo shot in the fourth. Boston lost or split 
four series in a row for the first time since July/August 2014, when they 
dropped five consecutive series against the Blue Jays twice, Rays, Yankees 
and Cardinals. Red Sox split the series 1–1 (6–5 runs) June 10–12, in Minneapolis 
Steven Wright went 7 1⁄3 innings, allowing only one unearned run, which 
put him on top of the AL leader board in ERA with 2.09. Xander Bogaerts 
went 4–5 with a home run and four runs driven in. In game two, after a 
quick 4–0 lead in the first, the Twins rallied for four runs of their own, 
chasing Eduardo Rodríguez after 4 2⁄3 innings from the game and the game 
was tied going into the sixth. Thanks to heads-up base running by Xander 
Bogaerts, he ended up at third from first base on a David Ortiz ground 
out and Hanley Ramírez drove him in on a sacrifice fly. The Red Sox put 
a five spot on the board in the eighth and ninth inning, to put the game 
virtually out of reach and gave them a season high fifteen runs. Xander 
Bogaerts had another 4–5 game including a home run, which makes him the 
first Red Sox player ever with at least four hits and at least one home 
run in consecutive games. The Twins avoided the sweep in game three. Boston 
rallied for three runs in the eighth, which tied the game at four. Three 
of the four Twins' runs were unearned for Rick Porcello. In extra innings, 
Minnesota had the winning run at third with one out and manager John Farrell 
put Mookie Betts in the infield as the fifth infielder. But it was for 
naught, when Max Kepler belted a 0–2 fastball by Matt Barnes over the wall 
in right center field for his first career-home run and the Twins walked 
off as winners. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (27–12 runs) June 14–16, vs. 
Baltimore David Price went 8 innings in back-to-back outings for the first 
time since June 2015, as a member of the Detroit Tigers. He allowed three 
runs but only received two runs in support in the loss. In game two, the 
Red Sox chased Gausman after three innings, when they tagged him for six 
runs. The Orioles rallied in the seventh and eighth inning but fell two 
runs short. In the rubber match of the series, Ortiz produced the only 
run for Boston with a single home run in the ninth. In his third start, 
Eduardo Rodríguez went only 4 1⁄3 innings and gave up five runs. Red Sox 
lost the series 1–2 (9–12 runs) June 17–19, vs. Seattle Roenis Elías made 
his first start for the Red Sox, against his former team. He went only 
4 innings and gave up seven runs. Hembree and Layne saved the bullpen by 
going 3 and 2 innings respectively. Seattle took an early 2–0 off of Rick 
Porcello in game two but the hurler settled down after that and Boston 
could score six unanswered runs. In game three, David Price held the Mariners 
to just one run over 8 innings, his first time going 8 or more innings 
in three consecutive outings since July 2014 when he was with the Rays, 
but Boston could not score against Taijuan Walker despite two golden opportunities 
with a runner on third and only one out in the second and third inning. 
Walker left after five innings and the Red Sox scored twice with Craig 
Kimbrel striking out the side in the ninth. After receiving nearly seven 
runs (6.81) on average in support in his first 11 starts with an ERA of 
5.11, David Price only received 1.75 runs on an ERA of 2.32 in his last 
four starts. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (12–11 runs) June 20–23, vs. Chicago 
In a 1–1 game the Red Sox had the bases loaded with nobody out in the bottom 
of the ninth but could not score. The White Sox scored twice off of Craig 
Krimbrel in extra innings and took game one of the series. Steven Wright 
pitched another 9 inning game, the only run was unearned to reclaim the 
American League lead in ERA. Chris Sale of the White Sox earned the MLB 
best 12th win of the season in game two. Clay Buchholz, who returned to 
the rotation, pitched 5 frames and gave up three runs. Eduardo Rodríguez 
handed the bullpen a two-run lead in game three after six innings, but 
Koji Uehara gave up two home runs in the eighth and Boston dropped three 
games in a row. In game four the June misfortunes continued. Against a 
struggling James Shields, who only pitched 11 2⁄3 innings in his last four 
starts with a 24.62 ERA and 3.97 WHIP, Boston could only score once off 
of him in the first five innings and lost Chris Young in the second inning, 
who pulled his hamstring circling the bases and was put on the 15-day disabled 
list. The Red Sox down 1–4 coming into the sixth, the game turned into 
wild roller coaster ride. Shields was pulled after allowing back-to-back 
walks with 0 outs, both runners eventually scored and Boston subsequently 
put a four spot on the board. Chicago re-took the lead in the seventh on 
a José Abreu three-run home run off of Junichi Tazawa and had the bases 
loaded with nobody out in the top of the eighth. Heath Hembree escaped 
the jam himself unscathed and with Boston scoring in the seventh and eighth, 
the game was tied going into the ninth. Despite a lead-off double by David 
Ortiz the game went into extra innings. In the top of the tenth, the White 
Sox again had the bases loaded with nobody out, and again the Boston pitcher 
responsible for his own mess, Craig Kimbrel, escaped unscathed. In the 
bottom of the tenth, two batters walked with a ground-out in-between, and 
Xander Bogaerts, leading the MLB in batting average, came through with 
a walk-off single, avoiding a rare four-game sweep. Red Sox lost the series 
1–3 (16–21 runs) June 20–23, in Arlington David Price gave up six runs 
against the AL leading Rangers, and was pulled after only 2 1⁄3 innings. 
Matt Barnes gave up another run and the Rangers took a 7–2 lead into the 
sixth. Jackie Bradley, Jr. closed the gap to three runs on a two-run shot 
in the sixth. Down to the last strike, Sandy León doubled after an eleven-pitch 
at bat to drive in Jackie Bradley, Jr. Mookie Betts went deep and the game 
was tied. After Dustin Pedroia drew a walk, and Xander Bogaerts advanced 
him to third on a single, he eventually scored the winning run on a wild 
pitch. Kojie Uehara earned the save, striking out the side. Steven Wright 
allowed eight runs in his 4 2⁄3 innings of work, but only three of them 
were earned, due to errors by Xander Bogaerts and Hanley Ramírez, and a 
passed ball by catcher Christian Vázquez. The Red Sox could only score 
three runs and Wright was charged with a loss for the first time since 
May 18 in Kansas City. In game three Clay Buchholz struggled right out 
of the gates, allowing the first six batters to reach base but he stranded 
the bases loaded with three runs scored. After that he settled down but 
gave up another two runs in the sixth, before being pulled from the game. 
Boston's bats were cold again, scoring only two times. With a four-game 
sweep over the Rays, the Orioles are now four games ahead of the Red Sox 
in the AL East. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (13–23 runs) June 20–23, in 
St. Petersburg Coming into the series, the Rays were on an 11-game losing 
streak and had the 5th lowest run producing offense in the majors. They 
snapped their losing streak in the first game of the series, scoring nine 
times in the first three innings and never looked back. Eduardo Rodríguez 
was charged with all of the nine runs and was pulled after 2 2⁄3 innings. 
The Red Sox could only put seven runs on the board while the Rays added 
another four. A strong outing by Rick Porcello, allowing only one run in 
six innings, was backed by eight runs of support. Matt Moore held Boston 
hitless through five innings in the rubber match. In the sixth, the Red 
Sox could load the bases on three hits with only one out, but David Ortiz 
and Hanley Ramírez could not drive them in. David Price allowed four runs 
in the first three innings, but that was all the Rays needed in the shutout 
win. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (15–19 runs) The Red Sox started the month 
of June three games ahead of the Orioles and with the best record in the 
AL, but were struggling throughout the whole month and finished 5 games 
behind Baltimore and 1⁄2 game ahead of the Blue Jays in second place. Composite 
line score June July 1–3, vs. Los Angeles (AL) Steven Wright gave up 4 
earned runs in the sixth, the most since May 13 in Houston, but was backed 
with 5 runs from the offense for the win. In game 2, Boston pitching gave 
up 21 runs, including an eleven run seventh inning, the most since August 
2012 in Oakland, and the most at home since August 2009 against the Yankees. 
Mookie Betts scored the only two runs for the Red Sox, on an error and 
a home run. The Red Sox bounced back in game three of the series, scoring 
seven times in the fifth and three times in the seventh, after the Angels 
scored five unanswered runs in the sixth and seventh. Sean O'Sullivan went 
5+ innings in his third start of the season, with two runs allowed on four 
hits. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (17–30 runs) July 4–6, vs. Texas The Rangers 
got early to Rick Porcello and scored four times in the first. Porcello 
settled down and pitched five scoreless innings afterwards, despite giving 
up 12 hits. The Red Sox loaded the bases in the bottom of the first but 
could only score one run, on a Jackie Bradley Jr. walk. Boston put a four 
spot on the board in the third and then scored at least one run in each 
inning from the fifth on forwards. Both teams combined for 37 hits, with 
the Red Sox out-hitting the Rangers 21–16. The first inning struggles for 
Boston pitching continued in game 2, with a first pitch home run by Shin-Soo 
Choo off of David Price and the first four batters to reach base safely. 
Price got out of the bases loaded, nobody out jam, with giving up only 
one more run. Boston missed golden opportunities to score; no runs scored 
with runners on first and third and nobody out in the first and first and 
third and one out in the second. In the fourth, down 1–2, Brock Holt and 
Travis Shaw opened the frame with a double and a single, but Shaw was thrown 
out at second. Holt would eventually score on back-to-back-to-back walks 
with two outs. The Red Sox ultimately stranded 14 runners and lost the 
game. Kimbrel imploded in the ninth, trying to keep it a one run game, 
giving up four runs and no outs recorded. In game three, Boston scored 
eleven times in the first four innings. Steven Wright went through five 
innings, with only one run allowed, but was tagged for five more in the 
sixth and seventh. Wright gave up four or more earned runs in back-to-back 
outings for the first time this season. The series saw 43 runs scored on 
79 hits. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (25–18 runs) On the off-day, the Red 
Sox traded INF Aaron Hill from the Brewers for prospects INF Wendell Rijo 
and RHP Aaron Wilkerson.[15] One day later, before the series with the 
Rays, Boston acquired UTIL Michael Martínez from the Indians for cash.[16] 
July 8–10, vs. Tampa Bay Sean O'Sullivan went 5 innings, allowing 4 runs 
but the Red Sox tagged Tampa Bay's ace Chris Archer for five runs over 
six frames. In the bottom of the eighth, Jackie Bradley Jr. scored on back-to-back-to-back 
two out singles, which proved to be the difference. With Craig Krimbrel 
heading to the disabled list, Koji Uehara earned the save. On July 9, with 
their third trade in three days, the Red Sox traded RHP Brad Ziegler from 
the Diamondbacks for prospects INF Luis Alejandro Basabe and RHP Jose Almonte.[17] 
Aaron Hill went 2–4 with two runs driven in, in his Red Sox debut. In game 
two, Rick Porcello gave up a first inning run, but then continued to pitch 
six scoreless innings and improved to 11–2. Xander Bogaerts went deep in 
the fourth with one on, and two more runs scored in the fifth, with the 
help of a fielding error. Uehara pitched a scoreless ninth with a hit and 
two strike outs. David Price went eight innings of shutout ball in the 
final game of the first half of the season, striking out 10 and allowing 
only 4 hits and a walk. The offense provided him with three runs in the 
first and an additional run in the second and that's all that they needed. 
Brad Ziegler made his Red Sox debut with a perfect ninth inning, striking 
out two, to complete the sweep. Red Sox won the series 3–0 (14–6 runs) 
Well before the non-waiver trade deadline, on July 14, Boston traded for 
starting pitcher LHP Drew Pomeranz from the Padres for top-prospect RHP 
Anderson Espinoza.[18] July 15–17, in the Bronx Steven Wright pitched five 
scoreless frames, but gave up three runs in the sixth. Nonetheless, he 
earned the win with the offense tagging Michael Pineda for five runs, all 
via the long ball, in the first six innings. In game two, the Red Sox again 
scored five times off of New York's starter, including a three-run shot 
by Sandy León, and were backed by a stellar outing of Eduardo Rodríguez, 
allowing only one run on four hits in seven innings. Price could not repeat 
his last outing, allowing three runs in 5 2⁄3 innings and that's all the 
Yankees needed. The Red Sox could only score one run on a Dustin Pedroia 
home run in the first. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (11–8 runs) July 19–20, 
vs. San Francisco Rick Porcello dealt 6 1⁄3 scoreless innings, against 
the majors leading Giants. All four Red Sox runs were driven in with home 
runs by Brock Holt and a three-run shot by David Ortiz, all charged to 
former Red Sox pitcher Jake Peavy. Koji Uehara removed himself from the 
game after seven pitches and was later placed on the disabled list with 
pectoral strain. Drew Pomeranz made his Red Sox debut, but lasted only 
three innings, facing seven batters and giving up five runs in the fourth 
without recording an out. The bullpen took over, with Matt Barnes tossing 
three scoreless innings to record the win. The offense tagged Giants' starter 
Matt Cain for five runs in 2 1⁄3 innings, and reliever Albert Suárez for 
another five runs in 3 innings. Hanley Ramírez contributed heavily with 
three home runs and six runs driven in. Boston moved to sole possession 
of first place in the AL East for the first time since June 4. Red Sox 
won the series 2–0 (15–7 runs) July 21–24, vs. Minnesota Steven Wright 
pitched another excellent game, allowing only two runs, one earned, in 
8 innings of work. Dustin Pedroia went 5-for-5, David Ortiz drove in four 
and Jackie Bradley Jr. three runs in the 13–2 blowout. Mookie Betts hit 
the first first pitch home run since Nomar Garciaparra did so in 1997. 
In game 2, Eduardo Rodríguez also allowed only two runs, but the Red Sox 
could only score once, on another lead-off home run by Mookie Betts, this 
time on the second pitch of the game. Minnesota's starter Kyle Gibson went 
8 innings, allowing only two hits. Boston rallied against closer Brandon 
Kintzler with back-to-back hits and a walk in the bottom of the ninth, 
but could not plate the tying run with 0 outs, when David Ortiz grounded 
in a double play and Hanley Ramírez lined out. The Red Sox chased Ricky 
Nolasco after two innings from the game, scoring six times, but David Price 
allowed the Twins to stay in the game, giving up four runs in the first 
two innings. Price left the game after 5 2⁄3 innings, handing the bullpen 
a 7–5 lead. Boston extended the lead to 8–5 but Clay Buchholz and Tommy 
Layne allowed five runs in the top of the seventh and ultimately lost 9–11. 
In the final game of the season series, the Twins struck first in the second 
inning but the Red Sox could take the lead on a Hanley Ramírez three-run 
shot, making his last five hits all longballs. Minnesota tied the game 
in the fourth but Boston put up a five-spot in the fifth, including a solo 
home run by Duston Pedroia and a three-run home run by Travis Shaw. Rick 
Porcello, who advanced to 10–0 at home, the first Red Sox pitcher to do 
so to start the season since Don Schwall in 1961, and Matt Barnes each 
allowed two runs, to make it a one run game but Junichi Tazawa and Brad 
Ziegler both pitched a scoreless inning each to split the series. Red Sox 
split the series 2–2 (31–22 runs) July 25–27, vs. Detroit In his second 
Red Sox start, Drew Pomeranz gave up only two runs on four hits in six 
innings of work. Former starters Clay Buchholz and Joe Kelly both gave 
up one run and Pomeranz was charged with the loss. Steven Wright gave up 
a career-high eight earned runs. The loss was charged to Robbie Ross Jr. 
however, who allowed the winning run in an 8–8 tie. In the final game of 
the series, the Red Sox tied the game in the eighth at three, but Brad 
Ziegler gave up the winning run to Miguel Cabrera in the ninth and the 
Tigers handed Boston the first sweep of the season. Red Sox lost the series 
0–3 (13–17 runs) July 28–31, in Anaheim David Price pitched eight scoreless 
innings but Brad Ziegler could not protect the one-run lead, his second 
loss in two days, when Hanley Ramírez airmailed a throw the plate with 
the bases loaded and one out, which allowed the winning run to score from 
second base. Porcello pitched a complete game and earned the win, allowing 
two runs on five hits. In game three, Drew Pomeranz gave up five runs. 
The Red Sox could only score in the first inning, despite six walks in 
five innings by Angels' starter Hector Santiago. In game four of the series, 
the Red Sox rallied for five runs to take a two-run lead in the ninth, 
including back-to-back home runs by Dustin Pedroia and Xander Bogaerts. 
Brad Ziegler earned the save. Red Sox split the series 2–2 (14–12 runs) 
Composite line score July On the day of the trade deadline, the Red Sox 
acquired LHP Fernando Abad from the Twins for minor leaguer RHP Pat Light.[19] 
August 1–4, in Seattle Neither team scored until the Mariners took a 1–0 
lead in the seventh inning. Aaron Hill and Mookie Betts turned the game 
around with solo shots in the eighth and ninth, respectively. Craig Kimbrel, 
who just returned from the DL walked one batter but earned the save. In 
game 2, David Price took a 4–0 lead in the eighth but allowed the first 
four batters to reach on just nine pitches and was pulled from the game. 
Matt Barnes struck out the only batter he faced and newly acquired Fernando 
Abad was summoned from the bullpen to face Robinson Canó, but he homered 
to take the 5–4 lead which was the difference in the game. Rick Porcello 
pitched an eight inning complete game and took the loss with just one run 
in support. He gave up three runs on just four hits, three of them solo 
home runs. Andrew Benintendi collected his first hit in the majors and 
added a second Game four was tied at 2 from the fifth inning on. Travis 
Shaw scored the go ahead run in the eleventh inning on a Brock Holt RBI 
single. Craig Krimbrel, who was put in the game with two outs in the ninth, 
earned the win, Brad Ziegler recorded the save. Red Sox split the series 
2–2 (10–11 runs) August 5–7, in Los Angeles Steven Wright pitched his first 
career complete game shutout on 119 pitches with a game score of 95. The 
offense provided him with nine runs, including a five run eighth. Eduardo 
Rodríguez did not make it through the fifth inning in game two, allowing 
three runs. The bats were silenced by Dodgers' pitching, scoring no runs. 
In the rubber match, David Price allowed six runs, three of them earned, 
in the loss. He is currently posting a 4.34 ERA, his worst since his 2009 
rookie season. Andrew Benintendi had his first three-hit game, going 3-for-4 
with two runs batted in, his first RBIs. He also stole his first base. 
After winning five series in a row, the Red Sox did not win a series in 
five straight for the first time since July/August 2014. Red Sox lost the 
series 1–2 (14–11 runs) August 9–11, vs. New York Rick Porcello earned 
his 100th career win in his third straight start with 8 innings or more 
of work. Andrew Benintendi, who went three-for-three, hit his first double, 
which was initially ruled a double, but was overturned to a home run on 
the field. After an umpire review, the call was reverted to a double. Dustin 
Pedroia drove in three runs. Craig Kimbrel walked four batters, three in 
a row with two outs, forcing in a run in the ninth. He was replaced by 
Matt Barnes, who recorded the one-out save. Drew Pomeranz allowed one run 
in 5 1⁄3 innings. Matt Barnes took over in the top of the seventh with 
a 4–1 lead, but he and Fernando Abad allowed a combined five runs. In the 
top of the eighth, New York added another three runs off of Junichi Tazawa 
and Robbie Ross Jr. to put the game out of reach. In the rubber match, 
Eduardo Rodríguez allowed just one run in 7 innings, but a shaky performance 
by Brad Ziegler gave New York the lead and ultimately the series win. Red 
Sox lost the series 1–2 (11–16 runs) August 12–14, vs. Arizona The Red 
Sox took an early 6-run lead, scoring four runs in each of the first two 
innings. Hanley Ramírez drove in six with two three-run long balls. David 
Price went 8 innings, allowing three runs, two of them in the first inning. 
In game two, Boston was down 1–4 after the top of the fifth inning but 
came from behind in the fifth and sixth and ultimately won the game. With 
Steven Wright not available to start, and later put on the disabled list, 
Clay Buchholz made his first start since July 4. He went 4 1⁄3 innings, 
allowing three runs. Brad Ziegler was summoned after Matt Barnes allowed 
three walks to load the bases with nobody out in the eighth and struck 
out the side on just 10 pitches. With 2015 Cy Young runner-up Zack Greinke 
on the mound for Arizona, the Diamondbacks tried to avoid the sweep but 
Boston's offense chased him from the game after just 1 2⁄3 innings, allowing 
nine runs on ten hits. The bats stayed hot and after a seven-run second 
inning, the Red Sox put a six spot on the board in the fifth and scored 
a season-high 16 runs in the game. Mookie Betts drove in eight runs and 
became only the second Red Sox player with two three-home run games in 
a season, after Ted Williams in 1957. Dustin Pedroia, with his second five-hit 
performance in under a month, became the first Red Sox player with five 
five-hit games in his career. Rick Porcello stayed perfect at home, improving 
to 12–0, in his seven innings of work, where he allowed just one run. Red 
Sox won the series 3–0 (31–9 runs) August 15, in Cleveland In the makeup 
game from the third game of the season opening series, Drew Pomeranz pitched 
into the eighth for the first time in his career. He gave up two runs on 
five hits in 7 2⁄3 innings. Fernando Abad got the crucial final out in 
the eighth with Rajai Davis on third base. Craig Kimbrel gave up a lead-off 
double to Francisco Lindor and walked Mike Napoli but then struck out Carlos 
Santana and Jason Kipnis and popped out Almonte to earn his 20th save of 
the season. Pomeranz was credited with his first win for the Red Sox thanks 
to a two-run shot by David Ortiz and a solo home run by Jackie Bradley 
Jr. in the sixth inning. Red Sox won the series 1–0 (3–2 runs) August 16–17, 
in Baltimore Eduardo Rodríguez tossed 4 hitless innings before he was pulled 
with left hamstring tightness. Matt Barnes took over and carried the combined 
no-hitter into seventh, which was broken up by Steve Pearce. The Orioles 
eventually tied the game at three in that inning. With his second home 
run of the night, the first giving Boston a 3–0 lead in the fifth, Mookie 
Betts put the Red Sox up in front for good, scoring David Ortiz and driving 
in all five runs for his team. Betts became the 13th Red Sox player with 
back-to-back multiple home run games and the first after David Ortiz in 
2014 against the Twins in Minneapolis. In a rain-shortened six inning affair, 
David Price pitched his second complete game of the season, allowing one 
run on four hits. Jackie Bradley Jr. drove in four of Boston's eight runs, 
including his 20th home run of the season. Sandy León also went deep with 
a blast onto Eutaw Street. With the win, the Red Sox put the Orioles to 
third place in the AL East for the first this season and are one game behind 
the division leading Blue Jays. Red Sox won the series 2–0 (13–4 runs) 
August 18–21, in Detroit Clay Buchholz went 6 innings, giving up only one 
run. Junichi Tazawa was handed a 3–1 lead in the eighth, but he could not 
record an out, allowing three consecutive hits and was ultimately charged 
with the loss. Brad Ziegler was summoned in a tough spot again, but could 
not repeat his gem against the Diamondbacks. Boston bounced back, with 
a stellar 7-innings outing by Rick Porcello, who improved to an AL leading 
17 wins, tied with Toronto's J.A. Happ. Hanley Ramírez drove in four of 
the 10 runs for the Red Sox. Drew Pomeranz earned his second win in the 
Red Sox uniform, but could only go 5 innings because of a rain delay. David 
Ortiz drove in the go-ahed and winning run, with a two-run shot in the 
fifth. Henry Owens made his fourth start of the season and struck out five 
batters in the first two innings. The Tigers eventually got to him for 
five runs in the third inning and three runs in the fifth. Justin Verlander 
held the offense to just one run on three hits. The run scored in the sixth 
after a lead-off triple by Andrew Benintendi, his first three-bagger of 
his career, and a sacrifice fly by Dustin Pedroia. One innings later, Andrew 
Benintendi capped a Boston four-run inning with his first career home run 
and shortened the Tigers lead to five runs in the seventh, but neither 
team could score again. Red Sox split the series 2–2 (21–18 runs) August 
22–25, in St. Petersburg David Price pitched a 2-hit gem in 8 scoreless 
innings. Up by six runs, three of them in the top of the ninth, Matt Barnes 
allowed two runs in the bottom of the inning but eventually secured the 
win. Clay Buchholz went 6 1⁄3 innings, allowing one run and striking out 
nine. The bullpen held the Rays to just one hit for the remainder of the 
game and Boston took game two of the series. Rick Porcello left game three 
with a no decision and the game went into extra innings. With two outs 
in the bottom of the eleventh, Heat Hembree missed a catch at first base 
and his quick throw to the plate could not be scooped up by catcher Sandy 
León, allowing the walk-off run to score. David Ortiz hit his 30th home 
run of the season, for his tenth 30+ home runs, 100+ RBI season. In a low-scoring 
game four, the Red Sox could only plate one runner. Tampa Bay scored twice 
to split the series. Red Sox split the series 2–2 (12–9 runs) August 26–28, 
vs. Kansas City The Royals came to Boston with a 10–1 record in their last 
11 games. They quickly scored five runs in the first inning off Steven 
Wright, who went five additional scoreless innings, and never looked back. 
In game two, the Red Sox scored seven times off of Danny Duffy and handed 
David Price his 13th win of the season. He lowered his ERA to under 4 for 
the first time since opening day. In the rubber match, Eduardo Rodríguez 
and Matt Barnes allowed eight runs ins the sixth inning, blowing a 4–2 
lead. The Royals sent 13 hitters to the plate. Red Sox lost the series 
1–2 (15–19 runs) August 29–31, vs. Tampa Bay Rick Porcello remained perfect 
at home and earned his major league leading 18th win. In another late inning 
meltdown, the Rays scored three times in the seventh and eighth inning 
to take game two of the series. In game three, Tampa Bay took a quick 4–1 
after four frames. In the bottom of the fifth, Hanley Ramírez elevated 
a ball over the Green Monster for his first grand slam of the season. Jackie 
Bradley Jr. extended the lead with a solo shot. All six Red Sox runs to 
this point came by the long ball. After striking out the final batter in 
the seventh, Fernando Abad handed Junichi Tazawa a bases loaded situation 
with two outs. The Rays tied the game on a single. With a second late inning 
meltdown in a row looming, the bats stepped up with three consecutive, 
one-out hits to score Hanley Ramírez and Brock Holt. Craig Kimbrel earned 
the save on ten pitches. Red Sox won the series 2–1 (20–14 runs) Composite 
line score August *Extra innings without runs are not displayed September 
2–4, in Oakland Boston opened the scoring with a run in the first and third 
inning, but Oakland tied the game in the fourth. The Red Sox offense exploded, 
scoring four runs in the fifth and six runs in the sixth, and eventually 
scored a season-high 16 runs. Yoan Moncada made his major league debut 
with a walk, a run and a strike out. Athletics starter Andrew Triggs had 
to leave the game after the first inning due to an injury. After two runs 
in the first, Boston put a seven-spot on the board in the third, chasing 
Daniel Mengden from the game after 2 2⁄3 innings. Rick Porcello dealt another 
strong outing, with two runs allowed over seven frames. Mookie Betts joined 
Ted Williams to become only the second player in the franchise with a 30 
home run, 100 RBI season before the age of 25. Yoan Moncada went 2–5, with 
his first hit and RBI in the majors. The Red Sox moved into a split first 
place in the AL East for the first time since August 25. Eduardo Rodríguez 
had his no-hitter broken up with two outs in the 8th inning. He received 
no run support and Craig Kimbrel was charged with the loss after he allowed 
a lead-off walk and a mishandled base hit by Brock Holt into left field. 
Boston allowed a season-low five runs in a three-game series. Red Sox won 
the series 2–1 (27–5 runs) September 5–7, in San Diego Drew Pomeranz returned 
to his former team and went 5 2⁄3 innings, allowing two runs. Padres pitching 
struck out 14 Red Sox batters and held them two just one run, a Chris Young 
solo shot. Five of the last seven losses by Boston were decided by just 
one run. Clay Buchholz allowed just one run over 6 2⁄3 innings, despite 
giving up 8 hits. Chris Young homered in back-to-back games and went back-to-back 
in this game with Jackie Bradley, Jr. to secure the win. In the final interleague 
game of the season, David Price fanned 8 San Diego batters in 7 innings 
of work. Boston took a fourth inning 5–2 lead and never looked back. The 
Red Sox took sole possession of first place in the highly contested AL 
East for the first time since July 21. The first four teams are all within 
4 games, while all other division leaders enjoy at least a five-game lead 
over their respective second place contender. Boston allowed a season-low 
five runs in a three-game series in back-to-back series. Red Sox won the 
series 2–1 (13–5 runs) September 9–11, in Toronto Rick Porcello pitched 
seven innings, struck out seven, and was aided by 13 runs as he cruised 
to his twentieth win of the season in the Friday opener, the first 20-game 
winner for the Red Sox since Josh Beckett in 2007. The hot bats did not 
carry over to game two and Boston lost another one-run game. Eduardo Rodríguez 
went six innings and allowed three runs, two earned, on four hits. Game 
three saw eighteen pitchers used by both teams. The respective starters 
did not make it through the fourth inning, each allowing six runs. Toronto 
put a five-spot on the board in the third inning, to take a two-run lead, 
only to give it right away in the fourth and reclaiming it in the bottom 
of the inning. Hanley Ramírez made it a one-run game in the fifth on a 
solo shot and with runners on first and second in the sixth, John Gibbons 
summoned Joaquín Benoit from the bullpen to face David Ortiz, the same 
pitcher he hit a grand slam off in game two of the 2013 ALCS, which was 
the turning point of the series. Ortiz hammered the second pitch into the 
right field stands to put the Red Sox up for good in this game. He passed 
Jimmie Foxx in the all-time home run list with 535. Red Sox won the series 
2–1 (26–14 runs) September 12–14, vs. Baltimore Boston scored four times 
after only 11 pitches by former teammate Wade Miley. The Red Sox put on 
runs on the board in each of the first seven innings. David Price remained 
sharp and went 8 innings of two-run, two-hit ball. Price won his last seven 
outings, in which he went a combined 50 innings, with a 2.16 ERA and a 
0.82 WHIP along with 51 strikeouts. David Ortiz tied Mickey Mantle in the 
all-time home run list with 536. Drew Pomeranz dug a five-run hole in the 
second inning, too big to overcome in game 2 of the series. With bases 
loaded and one out, the Red Sox only scored on two one-out walks to continue 
their bases loaded struggles, hitting just .217 and slugging .364 in those 
spots, below the major league average of .267 and .421 respectively. The 
bullpen remained sharp with a league leading .94 ERA over 28 2⁄3 frames 
in September, allowing just one run in seven innings of relief. Rick Porcello's 
win streak at home ended at 13. He allowed just one run in eight innings 
of work but Kevin Gausman kept the Red Sox hitters guessing all night long. 
Boston could not capitalize on the Blue Jays series loss against the Rays 
and are, with 17 games remaining, just one game ahead of the Orioles. Red 
Sox lost the series 1–2 (19–9 runs) September 15–18, vs. New York The Red 
Sox rallied for one run in the eighth inning and exploded for five in the 
ninth in the opener of this four-game series, destroying a 5–1 New York 
lead to win 7–5. Hanley Ramírez sent the Fenway faithful home happy with 
a walk-off three-run home run to complete the comeback. With an early two-run 
cushion, Clay Buchholz went six innings and allowed two runs. The offense 
added another five runs. After giving up a one out-two run-home run, Joseph 
Abad was relieved by Craig Kimbrel who got the two-out save. Down 2–5 after 
four frames, the Red Sox rallied for two in the fifth, and two in the seventh 
to take the lead. Craig Kimbrel was summoned for a four-out save and struck 
out all batters he faced. In game four, New York again took an early lead, 
4–0 in the fourth. Led by a Hanley Ramírez two-home run performance, the 
Red Sox came from behind again to complete the four-game sweep. The first 
four-game sweep over their rival since 1990. Boston became the first team 
since the Orioles in 2010, to overcome three deficits of three or more 
runs in a single series. Red Sox won the series 4–0 (25–18 runs) September 
19–22, in Baltimore Rick Porcello pitched his third complete game of the 
season for his 21st win on just 89 pitches. He allowed two runs on four 
hits and struck out seven. Mookie Betts went deep for the eighth time this 
season in Camden Yards to give the Red Sox a third inning 2–0 lead. Dustin 
Pedroia plated Andrew Benintendi and David Ortiz homered for the 35th time 
to pad the lead to 5–1 in the fifth. In game two, Mookie Betts became the 
first major league player with 200 hits, 100 RBI and 100 runs scored since 
Miguel Cabrera won the triple crown in 2012. David Ortiz opened the one-run 
game wide open with a three-run shot in the seventh. Eduardo Rodríguez 
bounced back from his performance against the Yankees, and went 6 1⁄3 innings, 
allowing two runs on 4 hits. The Orioles took a 1–0 lead in game three 
into the sixth, avoiding two bases loaded situations in the first and fourth 
inning. In the sixth, Jackie Bradley Jr. struck out with the bases loaded 
and one out. Sandy León hit a ground ball to Chris Davis at first, but 
he threw it past the pitcher Brad Brach and two runs scored. On the very 
next pitch Andrew Benintendi drove the ball out of Camden Yards for his 
second career-home run. Clay Buchholz just allowed the one run on three 
hits in seven innings and Boston won the season series against Baltimore 
for the first time since 2011. In the last game of the series, Buck Showalter 
pulled his ace Chris Tillman after 1 2⁄3 innings. He allowed three runs, 
including a bases loaded walk to David Ortiz. The O's came back on a three-run 
shot off of David Price by rookie Trey Mancini in the third. Andrew Benintendi 
drove in Travis Shaw in the fifth, which was the difference in this game. 
Hanley Ramírez continued his hot September, with his 29th home run of the 
season and his 10th in the month, to give the Red Sox some insurance. Price 
went seven innings and was backed up by Koji Uehara and Craig Kimbrel, 
who struck out a combined four batters. The Red Sox swept back-to-back 
four-game series for the first time since July 1 through 7 in 1968, against 
the Athletics and Twins. Boston went from 2 games back, to start the month, 
to a 5 1⁄2 game lead over the Blue Jays in the AL East, with only nine 
games left on the season. They lowered the magic number to clinch the division 
from 17 to 5 over the past two series. Red Sox won the series 4–0 (20–8 
runs) September 23–25, in St. Petersburg David Ortiz hammered an absolute 
moonshot in the first inning, driving in Xander Bogaerts, which proved 
to be the difference in the low-scoring game. Mikie Mahtook scored the 
only run for the Rays in the second inning. Rick Porcello earned his 22nd 
win in game two of the series. Down by one run coming into the seventh, 
the Red Sox loaded the bases and Dustin Pedroia went deep for his 4th career 
grand slam. With the win, Boston clinched the first postseason berth since 
2013. In game three, Boston pitching struck out 23 batters, 11 in a row 
at one point, a new major league record. Striking out 21 batters in nine 
innings, would have also been a new record, but the game went into extra 
innings tied at 2. In the top of the tenth, Dustin Pedroia hustled from 
first on a David Ortiz double. The throw beat him, but he evaded the tag 
by Rays rookie catcher Luke Maile multiple times. Pedroia was eventually 
tagged before he could touch home plate, but the ball came loose on the 
tag and he was ruled safe. The Red Sox tied the Rangers for the best record 
in the American League and lowered their magic number to 2 with six games 
left to play. Boston swept three consecutive series for the first time 
since June 2011, when they won nine in a row against the Athletics, Yankees 
and Blue Jays. Red Sox won the series 3–0 (11–7 runs) September 27–29, 
in the Bronx The Red Sox tied the game at four in the top of the seventh 
inning. John Farrell let David Price pitch into the seventh inning and 
gave up three hits, including a two-run home run, before recording one 
out and he was done for the night. The bullpen held the Yankees scoreless 
but the offense couldn't score either. In game two, Boston came into the 
ninth with a 3–0 lead, but Craig Kimbrel could not record an out. He walked 
three and gave up a hit. Joe Kelly recorded two outs, before he gave up 
the game winning grand slam. Despite the loss, the Red Sox clinched the 
division with the help of the orioles, who beat the Blue Jays. Xander Bogaerts 
went deep to score the only run in the 1–5 loss. In his final series in 
the Bronx, David Ortiz went 0–10. Red Sox lost the series 0–3 (8–16 runs) 
September 30–October 2, vs. Toronto Xander Bogaerts tripled for the first 
time this season and David Ortiz drove in three runs to propel the Red 
Sox past the Blue Jays in the series opener. In game two, the Red Sox tied 
the game in the eighth inning, but Craig Kimbrel walked the lead-off batter 
in the ninth who came around to score on a sacrifice bunt, a wild pitch 
and a sacrifice fly. This was the difference in the game. In a low-scoring 
final game of the regular season, Boston lost home field advantage in the 
ALDS to the Indians. Drew Pomeranz pitched 1 1⁄3 perfect innings out of 
the bullpen, his expected role in the coming postseason. Hanley Ramírez 
joined David Ortiz and Mookie Betts to drive in 100 runs and hit 30 home 
runs. Red Sox lost the series 1–2 (9–9 runs) Composite line score September/October 
The Red Sox opened the season with an 8–9 record but turned it around against 
the Braves and a sweep against the Yankees. After a strong May, where they 
played .643, Boston fell into a slump in June. They headed into the month 
with a three-game lead over the Orioles; by June 29 they were 5 1⁄2 games 
behind Baltimore. The Red Sox only lost three games in the first 15 games 
in July, and took sole possession of the division on July 20, with a 1⁄2 
game lead, but finished the month 1 1⁄2 games back, on place three behind 
the Orioles and Blue Jays. During the month of August, Boston took advantage 
of an Orioles slump but lost 1⁄2 a game to the Blue Jays. Playing meaningful 
games in September for the first time since 2013, Boston took the lead 
in the AL East on September 7 and never looked back. On September 26, after 
an 11-game winning streak, they widened the lead to six games and finished 
with fours game over the Orioles. Boston lost home field advantage to the 
Rangers and Indians after winning only one game in their last six. Composite 
line score Total 8:08 p.m. (EDT) at Progressive Field in Cleveland, Ohio 
The Red Sox jumped out to a first inning 1–0 lead, but Rick Porcello's 
22–4 regular season record would prove irrelevant as he couldn't contain 
the Tribe offense. Cleveland tagged the Boston starter for three home runs 
in the third inning, two of them back-to-back. The Sox bullpen was decent 
in keeping additional runs off the board and giving Boston's hitters a 
chance to respond, but a brief rally in the eighth fell just short. The 
Indians' early offensive explosion had created a jubilant atmosphere at 
Progressive Field that would rattle the Red Sox offense for the remainder 
for the game. 4:38 p.m. (EDT) at Progressive Field in Cleveland, Ohio Ater 
a quick 8-pitch first inning, the Indians tagged David Price for four runs 
in the second inning. He was eventually pulled in the fourth inning, to 
finish his worst postseason start of his career. The Red Sox were held 
scoreless by Indians pitching and face elimination for the remainder of 
the ALDS. 6:08 p.m. (EDT) at Fenway Park in Boston, Massachusetts Infielders 
Coaches Reference:[20] Top 10 hitters determined by fWAR:[53] Top 10 pitchers 
