The 2016 Cleveland Indians season was the 116th season for the franchise 
and the 23rd season at Progressive Field. The Indians won the American 
League Central Division for the first time since 2007 and also beat the 
Boston Red Sox in the Division Series for their first playoff win in nine 
years. They defeated the Toronto Blue Jays in five games in the American 
League Championship Series before losing to the Chicago Cubs in seven games 
in the 2016 World Series. This was their first appearance in the World 
Series since 1997. Tuesday, April 5, 2016 vs Boston Red Sox Starting Pitcher: 
Corey Kluber The Cleveland Indians opened up their 2016 season with a three-game 
series against the Boston Red Sox at Progressive Field. Opening Day was 
scheduled for April 4, but was postponed due to a mixture of rain and snow 
until April 5. The Indians lost the opener 6-2. They would get their first 
win a day later, as newly acquired 1B Mike Napoli hit the go-ahead home 
run in a 7-6 victory over his former team. The Indians struggled during 
the month of April, going just 10-11 during the month. On April 24, SP 
Carlos Carrasco left a game with a hamstring injury. He would miss the 
next six weeks. Trevor Bauer, who started the year in the bullpen, would 
take Carrasco's spot in the rotation. SP Josh Tomlin was a bright spot 
for April, as he went 3-0 throughout the month. Outfielder Michael Brantley 
came back from a shoulder injury he suffered late in 2015. He would only 
play 11 games before re-aggravating his shoulder. He would not return the 
rest of the season. The Indians won 12 of 17 games between May 2–20, to 
close to within two games of the division leading Chicago White Sox. The 
Indians would take three of four in Chicago later in the month to take 
the division lead. The team finished the month 16-3. The Indians continued 
their success into June, as they would win their first six games of the 
month. Later in the month, the Indians would win a franchise record 14 
straight games from June 17 through July 1. The Indians were a perfect 
11-0 at home in June. They spent the month battling with the Detroit Tigers, 
Kansas City Royals, and fading Chicago White Sox atop the AL Central. The 
Indians finished the months two games ahead of Kansas City. SP Danny Salazar, 
who went 5-0 with a 1.91 ERA and a .177 opponent's batting average, was 
named the American League Pitcher of the Month for June. OF Tyler Naquin 
was named the AL Rookie of the Month after batting .338 with an AL-best 
1.219 OPS. The Indians won their game on July 1, 2-1 over the Toronto Blue 
Jays, in 19 innings - the longest game of the 2016 season - to extend their 
winning streak to 14 games, but it would end the next day with a 9-6 loss 
to the Blue Jays. The Indians would maintain a 5-7 game lead over the Detroit 
Tigers throughout much of July. However the team struggled near the end 
of the month and the lead slipped down to 4 games. Adding to the struggle 
was an injury to C Yan Gomes, who would not return until the final game 
of the season. The Indians were active at the trade deadline. On July 31, 
they acquired RP Andrew Miller from the New York Yankees for four prospects 
including OF Clint Frazier and P Justus Sheffield, widely considered two 
of the top four prospects in the Indians' farm system. The Indians also 
had a deal on the table for Milwaukee Brewers C Jonathan Lucroy, but Lucroy 
exercised his no-trade clause and vetoed the trade to Cleveland. He would 
later be traded to the Texas Rangers. On July 5, SP Danny Salazar and SS 
Francisco Lindor were named to the All Star team. On July 8, SP Corey Kluber 
was also named to the team as an injury replacement. OF Tyler Naquin was 
named the AL Rookie of the Month for the second straight month. The Indians 
struggled in early August, going just 3-6 in their first nine games. Their 
lead over the Tigers decreased to just 2 games. However, On August 11, 
the team opened an 11-game home stand - its longest of the season - that 
would put them on the winning track. The Indians swept a four-game series 
from the Anaheim Angels to open up the home stand and took two out of three 
games from the Toronto Blue Jays to end the home stand. The Blue Jays series, 
which was believed to be a potential playoff preview, featured three one-run 
games including a walk-off inside-the-park home run by OF Tyler Naquin. 
The Indians' lead over Detroit was back to 7 1⁄2 games by August 22. The 
Indians would then go on a west-coast trip that saw them go 2-5, and score 
one run or less in six of the seven games. However, the team returned home 
to sweep the Minnesota Twins to end the month. On August 31, the team acquired 
OF Coco Crisp from the Oakland Athletics for cash considerations. The acquisition 
of Crisp added outfield depth for the pennant race and postseason run. 
The Indians won six of their first eight games in September to maintain 
a sizable lead over the Detroit Tigers. However, the team's rotation, widely 
believed to be their biggest strength, suffered two major injuries during 
the month. All-Star SP Danny Salazar left the game on September 9 with 
a strained elbow, resulting in a 3-4 week recovery time. He may be able 
to return during the playoffs. On September 17, SP Carlos Carrasco left 
the game with a broken hand as the result of a line-drive. This injury 
ended Carrasco's season. The Indians would put the Tigers away in September 
by winning two of three September 16–18. On September 26, the Indians clinched 
the division title - the team's first since 2007 - with a win over the 
Tigers. The Indians would end the season with a record of 94-67, earning 
the #2 seed in the American League. Pitchers Starting rotation Bullpen 
Closer Catchers Infielders Outfielders Pitchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches Restricted list 25 active, 15 inactive 7- or 15-day disabled 
list Suspended list # Personal leave Roster and coaches updated April 4, 
2016 Transactions • Depth chart → All MLB rosters Pitchers Starting rotation 
Bullpen Closer Catchers Infielders Outfielders Pitchers Infielders Manager 
Coaches 60-day disabled list Restricted list 37 active, 3 inactive 7- or 
15-day disabled list Suspended list # Personal leave Roster and coaches 
updated October 2, 2016 Transactions • Depth chart → All MLB rosters By 
virtue of winning the AL Central, the Indians were placed in the American 
League Division Series against the AL East champion Boston Red Sox. Because 
the Indians had the better regular season record, they had home field advantage 
in the best-of-five series. The Indians won Game 1, 5-4, thanks in part 
to a three-run 3rd inning that featured home runs by Roberto Perez, Jason 
Kipnis, and Francisco Lindor, the first postseason home run in each of 
their careers. The Indians' pitching was led by starter Trevor Bauer and 
relievers Andrew Miller and Cody Allen, who each threw over 40 pitches, 
to clinch the victory. Indians' ace Corey Kluber went seven shutout innings 
in Game 2, a 6-0 Indians' win. The big blow for the Indians was a Lonnie 
Chisenhall 3-run home run. The Indians and Red Sox then had two days off 
- a regularly scheduled travel day and rainout as the remnants of Hurricane 
Matthew affected Boston. When the teams got back to baseball on October 
10, Josh Tomlin and the Indians' bullpen would lead the team to a 4-3 victory 
and a sweep of the division series. The Red Sox mounted a rally in the 
bottom of the 9th, but Cody Allen was able to close out the game. The Indians 
would advance to the American League Championship Series for the first 
time since 2007. The Indians would face the Toronto Blue Jays in the American 
League Championship Series, again having home-field advantage. The Indians 
would win a pair of pitchers' duels in Games 1 and 2, 2-0 and 2-1. In Game 
1, the Indians scored their only runs on a Francisco Lindor home run in 
the sixth inning. Indians' starter Corey Kluber went six shutout innings 
and relievers Andrew Miller and Cody Allen completed the shutout. In Game 
2, Carlos Santana's leadoff home run in the second off of Toronto pitcher 
J. A. Happ gave the Indians a 1−0 lead, but the Blue Jays tied it in the 
third with a Josh Donaldson RBI double. CLeveland responded with a Lindor 
RBI single in the third. Starter Josh Tomlin, along with Bryan Shaw, Miller, 
and ALlen, would make that 2-1 lead stand up the rest of the game. The 
series shifted to Toronto for Game 3. Indians' starter Trevor Bauer left 
the game in the bottom of the inning due to a bloody finger as a result 
of being cut from a drone before the series started. The bullpen answered 
the call and gave up two runs in more than 8 innings of work. Led by Mike 
Napoli and Jason Kipnis home runs, the Indians won this game 4-2, to take 
a 3-0 series lead. Box Box Box Box Box Box Box Box Box Box Box Box Pitchers 
Starting rotation Bullpen Closer Catchers Infielders Outfielders Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 60-day disabled list Restricted 
list 25 active, 15 inactive 7- or 15-day disabled list Suspended list # 
Personal leave Roster and coaches updated October 25, 2016 Transactions 
