The 2016 Major League Baseball All-Star Game was the 87th edition of the 
Major League Baseball All-Star Game. The game was hosted by the San Diego 
Padres and was played at Petco Park on July 12, 2016. It was televised 
nationally on Fox. The American League All-Stars defeated the National 
League All-Stars by a score of 4–2 to win home field advantage for the 
2016 World Series. The host city was announced on January 15, 2015 by then-Major 
League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig. This was the third time the city 
of San Diego hosted the All-Star Game and the first time since 1992.[1] 
Eric Hosmer, an infielder for the Kansas City Royals, was named the 2016 
All-Star Game Most Valuable Player.[2] The Baltimore Orioles were also 
in line for hosting the game. Former Commissioner Bud Selig said that Baltimore 
was a prime candidate to host the event, but the Padres ended up with the 
game.[3] Petco Park opened in 2004 and hosted the 2006 World Baseball Classic 
championship round. Because National League parks had been selected to 
host four straight games from 2015–2018, skipping an American League park 
in 2016 & 2018 in the traditional alternating system,[4] the AL team was 
designated as the home team. Balloting for the 2016 All-Star Game starters 
began online April 24 and ended on June 30. The top vote-getters at each 
position (including the designated hitter for the American League) and 
the top three among outfielders, were named the starters for their respective 
leagues. The results were announced on July 5. Salvador Pérez was the leading 
vote-getter with 4,965,838 votes.[5] After the rosters are finalized, a 
second ballot of five players per league was created for the All-Star Final 
Vote to determine the 34th and final player of each roster. The online 
balloting was conducted from July 5 through July 8. The winners of the 
All-Star Final Vote were Michael Saunders of the American League's Toronto 
Blue Jays and Brandon Belt of the National League's San Francisco Giants.[6] 
The NL got off to a quick start against Chris Sale when Kris Bryant homered 
in the top of the first to give the NL a 1–0 lead. In the bottom of the 
second inning, the AL got to Johnny Cueto when Eric Hosmer homered to left 
to tie the game. Two batters later, Salvador Pérez hit a two-run shot to 
give the AL a 3–1 lead. In the bottom of the third, after walking, David 
Ortiz was replaced by Edwin Encarnación and left the field to a standing 
ovation in his final all-star game. The AL would tack on another run in 
this inning when Hosmer hit an RBI single off José Fernández, driving in 
Encarnacion to give the AL a 4–1 lead. The NL shrunk the lead with an RBI 
single by Marcell Ozuna in the top of the fourth off Aaron Sanchez. However, 
this would be all the runs scored in the game, as the National League stranded 
10 baserunners throughout the game. In the top of the eighth, the NL loaded 
the bases, but could not capitalize when Aledmys Díaz struck out looking 
against Will Harris to end the frame. In the ninth, Zach Britton got Nolan 
Arenado to ground into a double play to secure the 4–2 victory for the 
American League.[7][8] Umpires: Home Plate – Mike Winters; First Base – 
Kerwin Danley; Second Base – Marty Foster; Third Base – Bill Welke; Left 
Field – Adrian Johnson; Right Field – Dan Bellino; Replay Official – Sam 
Holbrook [10] Weather: Temperature: 72 °F (22 °C), clear; Wind: 9 mph from 
left to right Time of Game: 3:05 Attendance: 42,386 Prior to the game, 
The Tenors performed the Canadian national anthem, "O Canada". As in many 
previous years, the performance of the Canadian anthem was scheduled for 
a commercial break of the Fox broadcast in the U.S. prior to the singing 
of "The Star-Spangled Banner", but it was carried in Canada on Sportsnet. 
During a solo, group member Remigio Pereira altered the lyrics to "O Canada", 
singing "We're all brothers and sisters, all lives matter to the great". 
The English lyric normally sung at that point is "With glowing hearts we 
see thee rise, the True North strong and free;" however the remainder of 
the lyrics sung were in keeping with the official bilingual (English-French) 
version. Later that evening, Pereira, a co-founder of the group, was denounced 
by the group as a "lone wolf", leading to an announcement that he would 
