The 2016 American League Division Series (ALDS) were two best-of-five game 
series to determine the participating teams in the 2016 American League 
Championship Series of Major League Baseball. The three divisional winners 
(seeded 1-3) and the winner of a one-game Wild Card playoff played in two 
series. The divisional winners were the Texas Rangers in the American League 
West with the first seed by virtue of having the best record in the American 
League, the Cleveland Indians in the American League Central with the second 
seed, and the Boston Red Sox in the American League East with the third 
seed. The Toronto Blue Jays beat the Baltimore Orioles in the Wild Card 
Game, earning the fourth seed. The top two seeds had home-field advantage, 
and the top seed was matched against the lowest seed. The matchups were: 
The Blue Jays and Indians both swept their opponents (the Rangers and Red 
Sox, respectively) and met each other in the ALCS. The Indians would defeat 
the Blue Jays 4-1 to claim the American League pennant, only to lose the 
World Series to the eventual champion Chicago Cubs in seven games, despite 
leading the series 3-1. TBS televised all the games in the United States, 
with Sportsnet, a property of Toronto Blue Jays owner Rogers Communications, 
airing the games in Canada using the TBS feeds.[2][3] Toronto won the series, 
3–0. Cleveland won the series, 3–0. This was the second meeting between 
the Blue Jays and the Rangers in the postseason, the first being the 2015 
American League Division Series in which the Blue Jays defeated the Rangers 
after losing the first two games at home, which was marked by a controversy-laden 
deciding Game 5 defined by José Bautista's bat flip.[10][11] It was also 
the first series between the two teams since May 15, a game which featured 
multiple bench clearing skirmishes and the infamous Rougned Odor punch 
of Bautista.[12] The Blue Jays opened the scoring in the third inning with 
five runs, highlighted by a bases clearing triple by Troy Tulowitzki. Rangers' 
starter Cole Hamels ended the third inning throwing 42 pitches, the most 
pitches in an inning he had ever thrown.[13] Hamels would only last 3 1⁄3 
innings having given up seven runs. After Hamels exit, the Rangers bullpen 
tossed 4 2⁄3 scoreless innings. Bautista would hit a three-run home run 
in the ninth amid boos from the Rangers crowd, giving the Blue Jays a 10–0 
lead. Blue Jays' starter Marco Estrada went a strong 8 1⁄3 innings having 
given up only four hits and one earned run on 98 pitches.[14] In Game 2, 
Texas sent out Yu Darvish, who was unable to participate in Texas's 2015 
playoff run due to recovery from Tommy John surgery. In return, the Jays 
responded with 20-game winner J. A. Happ. The Rangers offense (which had 
mustered only four hits in Game 1) erupted for 13 hits in Game 2. However, 
three runs was all that Texas could get on the day, as their dismal hitting 
with runners in scoring position failed to bring home any more baserunners 
(the Rangers went 2-for-18 in RISP situations, and left 13 men on base). 
Meanwhile, Darvish gave up only five hits through five innings; however, 
four of those hits were home runs (which tied the MLB playoff record for 
most home runs given up by a pitcher in a single game). After Francisco 
Liriano was removed from the game in the bottom of the eighth inning due 
to taking a line-drive off his head (Liriano would later be diagnosed with 
a concussion), Toronto manager John Gibbons called upon his closer Roberto 
Osuna to get a five-out save. Osuna would allow a leadoff double to Adrián 
Beltré in the bottom of the ninth to bring the tying run to the plate with 
no outs. The next three Rangers batters went down in order without being 
able to advance Beltre, giving the Jays a 2–0 series lead heading to Toronto 
for Game 3.[15] With the loss the Rangers dropped to 1-11 in Division Series 
home games. Looking to eliminate the Rangers from the playoffs for the 
second consecutive year, the Blue Jays sent American League ERA leader 
Aaron Sanchez to the mound in Game 3. The Rangers countered with starter 
Colby Lewis. The Rangers took their first lead of the series with a walk 
to Carlos Gómez, a stolen base and back-to-back groundouts. The Blue Jays 
responded with a two-run home run by Edwin Encarnación and a solo shot 
by Russell Martin to take a 3–1 lead. The Rangers tried to claw back in 
the third with a solo shot by Elvis Andrus to cut the score 3–2. The Blue 
Jays pulled ahead on an RBI double by Josh Donaldson that just stayed fair 
down the right field line and knocked Lewis out of the game and an RBI 
single by Encarnación to make it 5–2. The Rangers made it a one run game 
again with a two-run home run to dead center by Rougned Odor. Sanchez would 
pitch into the sixth inning, leaving with two runners on and a 5–4 lead. 
Joe Biagini would allow a double to Mitch Moreland that just got out of 
the reach of Kevin Pillar that scored two runs and gave the Rangers a 6–5 
lead. In the bottom of the sixth, a passed ball by Jonathan Lucroy allowed 
Troy Tulowitzki to score the tying run. The game would go into the tenth 
inning tied at six. Rangers pitcher Matt Bush, pitching his third inning 
of relief, gave up a leadoff double to Josh Donaldson. After intentionally 
walking Encarnación and striking out José Bautista, Russell Martin hit 
a groundball to shortstop Elvis Andrus. Andrus flipped the ball to Odor, 
who recorded the out at second and then threw on to first base. The throw 
went wide of first, drawing Moreland off the base and allowing both Martin 
to reach safely and Donaldson to score the winning run.[16] Rangers manager 
Jeff Banister called for a video review to see if Encarnación interfered 
with the throw to second but the call was upheld to end the game and series. 
Odor's error was first time in MLB history that any postseason series ended 
on an error. 2016 ALDS (3–0): Toronto Blue Jays beat Texas Rangers The 
Red Sox–Indians series marked the fifth postseason meeting between the 
two teams, with each team winning two series. Their most recent meeting 
was in the 2007 American League Championship Series, in which the Red Sox 
overcame a 3–1 deficit to win the American League pennant. Dustin Pedroia 
led off Game 1 with a double to right field off of Trevor Bauer, then moved 
to third on Brock Holt's single and scored two outs later on Hanley Ramirez's 
double, but Holt was thrown out trying to score too to end the inning. 
Jose Ramírez led off the bottom of the second with a double off of Rick 
Porcello and scored on Lonnie Chisenhall's single to tie the game. Andrew 
Benintendi's lead off home run in the third put the Red Sox back up 2−1, 
but in the bottom of the inning, solo home runs by Roberto Perez, Jason 
Kipnis, and Francisco Lindor gave the Indians a 4−2 lead. The Red Sox cut 
the lead to one on Sandy Leon's lead off home run in the fifth off of Bauer, 
who was replaced by Andrew Miller with two outs in the inning. In the bottom 
half, Perez hit a leadoff double, moved to second on a sacrifice fly, and 
scored on Kipnis's single off of reliever Drew Pomeranz. Holt's leadoff 
home run in the eighth off of Bryan Shaw made it 5−4 Indians, but Cody 
Allen pitched 1 1/3 shutout innings for the save. Corey Kluber pitched 
seven shutout innings in Game 2, allowing three hits and three walks while 
Dan Otero and Bryan Shaw pitched a perfect eighth and ninth, respectively. 
Red Sox's David Price, after a perfect first, allowed three straight one-out 
singles in the second, the last of which to Brandon Guyer scoring Carlos 
Santana, before Lonnie Chisenhall's three-run home run put the Indians 
up 4−0. In the fourth, Price allowed a leadoff single to Guyer, then walked 
Rafael Pérez with one out before being relieved by Matt Barnes. Rajai Davis 
hit into a forceout at third before Jason Kipnis's single scored Perez. 
Guyer hit a leadoff single off of Barnes in the sixth, then moved to third 
one out later on Dustin Pedroia's fielding error before scoring on Davis's 
sacrifice fly off of Brad Ziegler to make it 6−0 Indians, who went up two 
games to none in the series heading to Boston. The Indians struck first 
in Game 3 off of Clay Buchholz when with runners on second and third in 
the fourth with one out, Tyler Naquin scores them both with a single to 
right field. In the fifth, Xander Bogaerts singled with one out off of 
Josh Tomlin and scored on Andrew Benintendi's double to make it 2−1 Indians, 
but in the sixth, Jose Ramirez draws a leadoff walk off of Drew Pomeranz 
then Coco Crisp homered one out later to put the Indians up 4−1. Dustin 
Pedroia singled to lead off the bottom of the inning off of Tomlin, who 
is relieved by Andrew Miller. Pedroia moved to third on Mookie Betts's 
double and scored on David Ortiz's sacrifice fly. In the eighth, pinch 
hitter Travis Shaw singled with one out off of Bryan Shaw. After Betts 
hit into a force out, Cody Allen relieves Shaw and walks Ortiz before Hanley 
Ramirez's RBI single made it 4−3 Indians, but Allen pitched a scoreless 
ninth despite allowing a single and walk as the Indians completed a sweep 
of the Red Sox. 2016 ALDS (3–0): Cleveland Indians beat Boston Red Sox[17] 
