The 2016 American League Wild Card Game was a play-in game during Major 
League Baseball's (MLB) 2016 postseason played between the American League's 
(AL) two wild card teams, the Toronto Blue Jays and the Baltimore Orioles. 
As both teams finished with identical 89–73 records, a tiebreaker was used 
to determine the host team. In accordance with MLB tiebreaking rules, the 
Blue Jays earned the right to host the game by winning their season series 
against the Orioles 10–9. The Blue Jays beat the Orioles, 5–2, in extra 
innings. This was Toronto's first appearance in the Wild Card Game and 
their first overall appearance as a wild card (when it was first introduced 
in 1995), and their second consecutive postseason appearance after winning 
the AL East Division the previous season. It was the second appearance 
in a Wild Card Game both for Baltimore and its manager Buck Showalter. 
Showalter's Orioles defeated the Texas Rangers in the inaugural AL Wild 
Card Game in 2012. This was the first postseason meeting between the two 
teams. The game was played at 8:00 pm EDT on October 4, 2016 at Rogers 
Centre in Toronto, with the winner advancing to play the first-seeded Texas 
Rangers in the Division Series.[2][3] It was televised in the United States 
on TBS, while Sportsnet, a property of Blue Jays owner Rogers Communications, 
simulcast the TBS production in Canada. The retractable dome at Rogers 
Centre was open for the game, the first time this was done for a postseason 
contest at the venue.[4] Toronto and Baltimore turned to their Opening 
Day starters, as Marcus Stroman and Chris Tillman took the mound for their 
respective teams. The Blue Jays scored first with a home run by José Bautista 
leading off the second inning.[6] The Orioles responded two innings later 
with a go-ahead two-run homer from Mark Trumbo.[7] The Blue Jays recorded 
three hits in the fifth on their way to scoring the tying run.[8] In the 
seventh inning, Orioles left fielder Hyun-soo Kim was nearly hit in the 
head by a beer can allegedly thrown by Kenneth Pagan, a 41-year-old copy 
editor for Postmedia Network from Hamilton, Ontario.[9] Pagan was later 
charged with mischief after surrendering himself to Toronto police amid 
the publication of his face from Rogers Centre security footage.[10] Roberto 
Osuna left the game in the 10th inning with what was later revealed to 
be shoulder soreness.[11] The Toronto Blue Jays won the game with a score 
of 5–2 at the bottom of the 11th inning when Edwin Encarnación hit a walk-off 
three-run homer off Ubaldo Jiménez.[12] Zach Britton, the Orioles' closer 
and 2016 American League Reliever of the Year, controversially did not 
appear in the game.[13] The Blue Jays advanced to the American League Division 
Series to face the Rangers for the second consecutive time in the postseason; 
their first meeting was in the previous year's American League Division 
Series. Encarnación became only the fourth player to end a winner-take-all 
postseason game (that is, a game in which one team or the other was sure 
to be eliminated) with a walk-off home run, joining Bill Mazeroski (1960 
World Series), Chris Chambliss (1976 ALCS) and Aaron Boone (2003 ALCS).[14] 
