The 2016 Toronto Blue Jays season was the 40th season of the franchise 
in the American League East division of Major League Baseball, and the 
27th full season of play (28th overall) at Rogers Centre. They advanced 
to the playoffs where they defeated the Baltimore Orioles in the Wild Card 
Game and the Texas Rangers in the Division Series, before losing to the 
Cleveland Indians in five games in the American League Championship Series. 
General manager Alex Anthopoulos rejected a five-year contract extension 
on October 29, 2015,[1] and team president Paul Beeston retired on October 
31.[2] New Blue Jays president and CEO Mark Shapiro, who assumed the roles 
on November 2, 2015,[3] announced that Tony LaCava was assigned as the 
interim general manager[4] and that John Gibbons would remain as the manager.[4] 
On November 6, 2015, a $15.8 million qualifying offer was extended to Marco 
Estrada.[5] David Price was not eligible for a qualifying offer, as he 
was acquired mid-season.[5] Estrada signed a two-year, $26 million contract 
on November 13.[6] On November 20, the Blue Jays signed Humberto Quintero 
to a minor league contract,[7] and acquired Jesse Chavez from the Oakland 
Athletics for Liam Hendriks.[8] 3 days later, the team signed Casey Kotchman, 
Jiovanni Mier, and David Adams to minor league contracts that included 
invitations to spring training.[9] On November 24, Scott Diamond was signed 
to a minor league contract and invited to spring training.[10] J. A. Happ, 
who was traded by the Blue Jays to the Seattle Mariners for Michael Saunders 
before the 2015 season, was signed to a three-year, $36 million contract 
on November 27.[11] David Price agreed to a seven-year, $217 million contract 
with the Boston Red Sox on December 1.[12] Justin Smoak, who was eligible 
for salary arbitration, was signed to a one-year, $3.9 million contract 
on December 2.[13] Third baseman Josh Donaldson, outfielders Ben Revere 
and Michael Saunders, and pitchers Jesse Chavez, Drew Hutchison, Steve 
Delabar, Brett Cecil, and Aaron Loup were also tendered contracts.[14] 
Catcher Josh Thole was not tendered a contract by the December 2 deadline, 
and became a free agent.[14] On December 3, Ross Atkins was named the new 
general manager replacing LaCava.[15] Thole signed a one-year, $800,000 
contract with the Blue Jays on December 4.[16] Mark Lowe signed a two-year 
contract with the Detroit Tigers on December 8, for $11 million.[17] In 
the Rule 5 draft on December 10, the Blue Jays selected pitcher Joe Biagini 
from the San Francisco Giants organization.[18] Darwin Barney officially 
re-signed with the team on December 11.[19] Wade LeBlanc was signed to 
a minor league contract on December 17.[20] On December 18, Junior Lake 
was claimed off waivers,[21] and signed Scott Copeland, Roberto Hernández, 
Pat McCoy, and Brad Penny to minor league contracts with invitations to 
spring training.[22] Brandon Bixler and Gabe Noyalis were signed to minor-league 
contracts on December 29.[23] On January 5, 2016, Arnold León was acquired 
from the Oakland Athletics for cash or a player to be named later.[24] 
Three days later, outfielder Ben Revere and a player to be named later 
were traded to the Washington Nationals for reliever Drew Storen.[25] On 
January 12, pitchers Brett Cecil, Jesse Chavez, Steve Delabar, Drew Hutchison, 
Aaron Loup, and Drew Storen filed for salary arbitration, along with position 
players Josh Donaldson and Michael Saunders.[26] Cecil, Delabar, Loup, 
Hutchison, and Storen agreed to a one-year contracts worth $3.8 million, 
$835,000, $1.05 million, $2.2 million, and $8.375 million respectively 
on January 15. Saunders agreed to a $2.9 million contract. Chavez and Donaldson 
did not come to an agreement before the deadline. Chavez had requested 
$4 million, while the Blue Jays offered $3.6 million. Donaldson filed for 
$11.8 million, and the Blue Jays offered $11.35 million.[27] On January 
18, Daniel Schlereth was signed to a minor league contract.[28] Maicer 
Izturis, who was under contract with the Blue Jays for the 2015 season 
but did not play for the team due to various injuries, was signed to a 
minor league contract on January 29.[29] On February 2, outfielder Darrell 
Ceciliani was acquired from the New York Mets for a player to be named 
later.[30] David Aardsma was added to the list of non-roster invitees on 
February 5.[31] On February 6, it was announced that Chavez had won his 
arbitration case, and will receive a $4 million salary for the season.[32] 
In addition, Gavin Floyd signed a one-year, $1 million contract with the 
Blue Jays, and Chad Jenkins was designated for assignment.[33] On February 
10, Donaldson avoided arbitration by signing a two-year, $28.65 million 
extension that will pay him $11.65 million in 2016, and $17 million in 
2017.[34] Colt Hynes, who spent most of the 2015 season with the Buffalo 
Bisons, was signed to a minor league contract on February 12.[35] Three 
days before pitchers and catchers were scheduled to report to Dunedin, 
catcher Tony Sanchez was signed to a minor league contract with an invitation 
to spring training.[36] Outfielder Domonic Brown and reliever Rafael Soriano 
were also added to the organization, each receiving a minor league contract 
and an invitation to spring training in late February.[37][38] Shortly 
after pitchers and catchers reported to Dunedin for the start of spring 
training on February 22, José Bautista addressed the media regarding his 
contract situation. Bautista, in the final year of a five-year, $65 million 
contract, stated that he had told the Blue Jays the length of contract 
he was seeking as well as the compensation of said contract, and that he 
would not negotiate or agree to a "hometown discount".[45] The following 
day, TSN's Rick Westhead reported that Bautista had requested a five-year, 
$150 million contract.[46] The report was later refuted by Bautista.[47] 
While Bautista's contract situation was unfolding, the Blue Jays, Los Angeles 
Angels of Anaheim, and Cincinnati Reds were reported to be in agreement 
on a trade that would have sent Michael Saunders to the Angels, Jay Bruce 
to the Blue Jays, and unnamed prospects from the Angels and Blue Jays to 
the Reds. Hours after the trade was made public, reports surfaced that 
the deal was on hold due to issues with an unknown player's physical.[48] 
On March 4, Maicer Izturis unexpectedly announced his retirement, stating 
"I put my heart, my soul and my body into it this year to see how I was 
going to feel, but my body couldn't handle it anymore. So I decided this 
is the last time I'm going to be playing baseball."[49] He had appeared 
in one game for the Blue Jays to that point, going hitless in two at-bats.[50] 
On March 18, Brad Penny, who had joined the Blue Jays on a minor league 
contract, announced his retirement.[51] Two days later, Rafael Soriano 
announced his retirement as well.[52] Soriano signed a minor league contract 
with the Blue Jays in late February, but did not appear in any spring training 
games due to unspecified visa issues.[53] On March 23, Marcus Stroman was 
named the Opening Day starter for the Blue Jays.[54] The competition for 
fifth starter ended on March 28, when John Gibbons announced that Aaron 
Sanchez had earned the final rotation spot.[55] Steve Delabar, who had 
been an All-Star for the Blue Jays in 2013, was released on March 29, along 
with Randy Choate.[56] The final roles left to be determined were the fourth 
outfielder, closer, and remainder of the bullpen pitchers. On March 30, 
John Gibbons announced that Ezequiel Carrera would be the fourth outfielder, 
Roberto Osuna would begin the season in the closer's role, and Arnold León, 
Joe Biagini, and Ryan Tepera would round out the bullpen positions. Gibbons 
also announced that Marco Estrada and Aaron Loup would open the season 
on the disabled list.[57] To close spring training, the Blue Jays returned 
to Montreal's Olympic Stadium for a two-game series against the Red Sox. 
The 2016 Major League Baseball draft was held on June 9–11.[58][59][60] 
The Blue Jays opened the 2016 season in Tampa Bay for a four-game series 
against the Rays. Marcus Stroman pitched into the ninth on Opening Day, 
and held the Rays to three runs in a 5–3 victory, closed out by Roberto 
Osuna.[64] Osuna would earn the save in the second game of the series as 
well, finishing another 5–3 win over Tampa Bay. Jesse Chavez and Drew Storen 
made their debuts for the Blue Jays, each pitching one inning in the win.[65] 
Brett Cecil also pitched a scoreless inning in the game, his 38th consecutive 
game played without allowing an earned run, which tied the MLB record set 
by Craig Kimbrel in 2011.[66] Cecil's streak would end the following night, 
as he yielded a two-run home run to Logan Forsythe to give the Rays a 3–2 
lead that they would not relinquish. In the ninth inning, the Blue Jays 
loaded the bases with one out for Edwin Encarnación, who hit a ground ball 
to Evan Longoria, who threw to Forsythe at second to begin a double play. 
José Bautista slid into second and Forsythe threw wide of first, allowing 
two runs to score and giving the Blue Jays a 4–3 lead, however Rays manager 
Kevin Cash challenged that Bautista had violated the league's new "Chase 
Utley Rule" with his slide, by attempting to break-up the double play. 
After a short review, the umpires reversed their decision, and called both 
Bautista and Encarnación out, ending the game.[67] Tampa Bay would split 
the series in the finale, defeating the Blue Jays 5–3. Reigning American 
League MVP Josh Donaldson left mid-game after injuring his right calf.[68] 
After an off-day, the Blue Jays began a three-game series against the Boston 
Red Sox, with Marcus Stroman taking the mound in the home opener. The Blue 
Jays led the game 7–2 following Josh Donaldson's second-career grand slam 
in the fourth inning, but in the sixth, Brock Holt hit a grand slam for 
the Red Sox, and the Blue Jays bullpen would blow their third lead in as 
many games to take the loss, 8–7.[69] In the second game, R.A. Dickey would 
yield seven runs in an 8–4 loss, while José Bautista hit two home runs 
to record his 29th career multi-home run game.[70] Marco Estrada, who began 
the season on the disabled list with a back injury, made the start in the 
final game of the series looking to avoid a sweep. Estrada would pitch 
seven shutout innings in his season debut, earning the win over the Red 
Sox, 3–0.[71] The Blue Jays then battled the New York Yankees for the first 
time in 2016. The first game of the series went to the Yankees, who took 
advantage of Brett Cecil's early season struggles to win 3–2.[72] J. A. 
Happ would earn the win the following night, 7–2, holding the opposition 
to fewer than two runs for the 11th time in his last 12 games. José Bautista 
also recorded his 800th career RBI in the game.[73] Toronto would also 
take the rubber match, 4–2, led by 8 strong innings and 17 groundball outs 
from Marcus Stroman.[74] After travelling to Boston, the Blue Jays took 
on the Red Sox at Fenway Park. Edwin Encarnación hit his first two home 
runs of the season but the Red Sox would prevail, taking the opener 5–3.[75] 
David Price made the start in the second game of the series, his first 
start against the Blue Jays since signing with Boston in the offseason. 
He would hold the Jays to two runs over seven innings and earn the win, 
4–2.[76] Aaron Sanchez recorded his third consecutive quality start of 
the season by holding the Sox to two hits and one run over seven innings 
in the third game of the series, and took a no-hitter into the fifth inning. 
The Blue Jays would win the game, 5–3.[77] The final game of the series, 
played on Patriots' Day, saw the Blue Jays hang on to win, 4–3. Drew Storen 
recorded his first save with Toronto, as Roberto Osuna was unavailable 
for the game.[78] Nearing the end of 17 consecutive games against AL East 
opponents to open the season, the Blue Jays travelled to Baltimore to play 
the first-place Orioles. The first game of the series saw Marcus Stroman 
earn his third win of the season, as Toronto gave the Orioles their first 
loss at home in 2016.[79] The second game of the series went into extra 
innings tied 3–3. Rookie Joe Biagini loaded the bases in the tenth inning, 
and allowed the Orioles to score the winning run on a wild pitch.[80] In 
the rubber match, the Orioles would beat the Blue Jays 3–2, after Toronto 
was unable to score after plating two runs in the first inning.[81] Returning 
home with an 8–9 record, the Blue Jays would battle the Oakland Athletics, 
who entered the series undefeated on the road in 2016. Hours prior to the 
game, MLB announced that Chris Colabello had been suspended for 80 games, 
after testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs in March.[82] Aaron 
Sanchez struggled through the worst start of his young career, allowing 
six earned runs in 4 1⁄3 innings pitched, as the Blue Jays lost 8–5.[83] 
The Blue Jays offence, which lead all of MLB in 2015, appeared to get back 
on track in the second game, as Troy Tulowitzki recorded his 12th career 
multi-home run game and Josh Donaldson also homered and drove in four runs 
in a 9–3 victory.[84] In the final game of the series, Drew Hutchison was 
recalled from Triple-A Buffalo to make a spot start for the Jays. He held 
the Athletics to 2 runs over 5 2⁄3 innings as the Blue Jays won the series, 
6–3.[85] Toronto then battled the first-place Chicago White Sox in a three-game 
series. The Jays held a four run lead in the first game, only to have their 
bullpen yield the lead in the seventh inning, and take a 7–5 loss.[86] 
In the second game, White Sox ace Chris Sale earned his league-leading 
fifth win of the season, beating the Blue Jays 10–1.[87] Chicago would 
complete the sweep of the Blue Jays with a 4–0 win in the third game of 
the series.[88] After a day off, the Blue Jays closed out April in Tampa 
Bay, where their season began. Michael Saunders recorded his first two 
home run game as a Blue Jay, and Aaron Sanchez rebounded from his previous 
start, throwing seven shutout innings to lead the Blue Jays to a 6–1 victory.[89] 
Brett Cecil took his fifth loss of the season in the final game of April, 
4–3, by allowing the winning run to score in the bottom of the ninth inning 
without recording an out.[90] In taking the loss, Cecil became the first 
relief pitcher since at least the 1913 season to earn five losses in April.[91] 
In the rubber match against Tampa, Marcus Stroman earned his team-leading 
fourth win of the season, defeating the Rays 5–1. The Blue Jays were held 
to just 15 hits in the three-game series, but hit 8 home runs.[93] The 
Blue Jays then returned to Toronto to face the Texas Rangers for the first 
time since defeating them in the 2015 American League Division Series. 
The Rangers would win the first game of the series, 2–1, and give the Jays 
their fourth loss in a row at home.[94] In the second game of the series, 
Justin Smoak hit his first home run of the season to tie the game in the 
ninth inning, and in the tenth, hit a walk-off two-run home run to give 
the Blue Jays a 3–1 victory.[95] Russell Martin gave the Blue Jays their 
second-consecutive walk-off win the following night, 4–3, after knocking 
in the winning run with a single to right field in the ninth inning.[96] 
Toronto would take the series finale, tagging Rangers starter Derek Holland 
for 11 earned runs in a 12–2 win. The Blue Jays scored double-digit runs 
for the first time in 2016, and Edwin Encarnación hit his 202nd home run 
with the Blue Jays, tying George Bell for fifth all-time.[97] The Jays 
then battled the Los Angeles Dodgers at home for three games. The first 
game was taken by the Blue Jays, 5–2, aided by Kevin Pillar's tie-breaking 
three-run home run in the eighth inning.[98] In the second game, the Blue 
Jays were held in check by Clayton Kershaw, who earned the win over Toronto, 
6–2.[99] The Blue Jays fell in the rubber match, 4–2, with Drew Storen 
taking the loss after another poor performance in relief of Marco Estrada's 
seven strong innings.[100] Continuing their interleague play, the Blue 
Jays travelled to San Francisco to battle the Giants in a three-game series. 
In the first of two favourable pitching matches, the Blue Jays sent Aaron 
Sanchez to the mound to face Jake Peavy, who entered with a 9.00 earned 
run average. Toronto would take the first game of the series, 3–1.[101] 
J. A. Happ started the second game for the Blue Jays, taking on Matt Cain, 
who owned an ERA over 7 at the start of play. Happ earned his team-leading 
fifth win, lowered his ERA to 2.08, and came within one out of a complete 
game shutout as the Blue Jays won by a score of 4–0.[102] The Blue Jays 
were denied their first sweep of the 2016 season, losing the finale 5–4 
in the 13th inning.[103] The team ended their six-game road trip in Arlington, 
Texas, to take on the Rangers. The Blue Jays won the first game of the 
series, shutting out the Rangers 5–0 in R.A. Dickey's best start of the 
season to that point.[104] In the second game, Justin Smoak and Troy Tulowitzki 
hit back-to-back home runs to tie the game 5–5 in the ninth inning. However, 
Drew Stubbs would hit a walk-off home run in the tenth to even the series.[105] 
The final game of the series, a 7–6 loss for the Blue Jays, was filled 
with controversy. In the eighth inning, José Bautista, who had given the 
Blue Jays a 5–2 lead earlier in the game with a bases-clearing double, 
was hit by a pitch from Rangers reliever Matt Bush. The move was largely 
considered as retaliation for Bautista flipping his bat after hitting a 
go-ahead three-run home run in the 2015 American League Division Series, 
and resulted in both benches being warned by the home plate umpire, Dan 
Iassogna. Justin Smoak later grounded into a would-be double play, however 
Bautista slid hard into second base, taking out Rougned Odor and preventing 
the double play from being completed. Odor took exception to Bautista's 
slide, and retaliated by punching Bautista in the face, which resulted 
in a bench-clearing brawl. Bautista was called for an illegal slide, which 
ended the inning. Bautista, Odor, and Josh Donaldson were ejected in the 
brawl. In the bottom half of the inning, Jesse Chavez hit Prince Fielder 
with his first pitch, which resulted in the ejections of Chavez, Blue Jays 
bench coach DeMarlo Hale, and Rangers bench coach Steve Buechele. Blue 
Jays manager John Gibbons and first base coach Tim Leiper were also ejected 
earlier in the game. Leiper was ejected for arguing with first base umpire 
Dale Scott, and Gibbons was ejected by Iassogna for arguing balls and strikes.[106][107] 
Following their brawl with the Rangers, the Blue Jays went home for a short, 
three-game home stand against Tampa Bay. The Rays took the first game of 
the series, 13–2, giving J. A. Happ his first loss of the season.[108] 
Prior to the second game, punishments for the Blue Jays and Rangers were 
handed down by Joe Torre, MLB's chief baseball officer. John Gibbons and 
Jesse Chavez were each suspended three games (Gibbons for coming back onto 
the field after being ejected), while José Bautista and Tim Leiper were 
suspended for one game. Both Bautista and Chavez appealed their suspensions. 
Gibbons was also fined $5,000, and Josh Donaldson and Kevin Pillar were 
fined an undisclosed amount. For the Rangers, Rougned Odor was fined and 
suspended for eight games (reduced to 7 games on appeal), and Elvis Andrus 
was suspended one game. Matt Bush, Sam Dyson, A. J. Griffin, and Robinson 
Chirinos were each fined an undisclosed amount.[109] The Rays would again 
win by blow-out, defeating the Blue Jays 12–2 that night.[110] Tampa Bay 
would complete the sweep with a 6–3 win in the finale, giving the Blue 
Jays their first five-game losing streak of the 2016 season.[111] Looking 
to end the streak, the Blue Jays took on the last-place Minnesota Twins 
in Minneapolis. The first game would go into extra innings before Troy 
Tulowitzki drove in the go-ahead run in the eleventh. Joe Biagini would 
earn his first career save in the game, closing out the 3–2 win.[112] An 
offensive outburst would power the Jays to victory in the second game of 
the series, 9–3, lead by home runs from José Bautista, Josh Donaldson, 
Michael Saunders, and Darwin Barney.[113] J. A. Happ would pitch seven 
scoreless innings against the Twins the following day, however Minnesota 
would score five runs in the eighth inning to take a 5–3 lead that they 
would not relinquish.[114] The Blue Jays ended the four-game series on 
a high note, winning the finale 3–1 thanks to another strong pitching performance 
from staff ace Marcus Stroman.[115] The Jays ended their road trip playing 
the Yankees for three games. In 2015, Toronto played to an 8–2 record in 
New York. Their first game did not go as planned, as the Yankees handed 
the Jays their second shutout of the season, 6–0.[116] Russell Martin hit 
his first two home runs of the 2016 season in the second game, leading 
the Blue Jays to an 8–4 victory, their first of the season when allowing 
4 or more runs.[117] The game also saw the return of Devon Travis, who 
went 1–4 at the plate and scored a run.[118] In their final road game of 
May, the Blue Jays held New York to a single run, taking the series with 
a 3–1 win.[119] Returning home after a 5–2 road trip, the Blue Jays clashed 
with the first-place Red Sox for three games. Prior to the start of the 
first game, Major League Baseball announced that José Bautista's suspension 
had been upheld, and he was subsequently removed from the starting line-up. 
Josh Donaldson led the Jays to a 7–5 victory that night, hitting 2 home 
runs and knocking in 5 runs.[120] With the Red Sox leading 8–4 in the second 
game, the Jays battled back to tie the game in the bottom of the eighth 
inning. In the top of the ninth, David Ortiz hit his 40th career home run 
at the Rogers Centre, giving Boston a 9–8 lead. With Craig Kimbrel on to 
preserve the lead, Justin Smoak hit a two-out single to put the tying run 
on base. After pinch runner Ezequiel Carrera advanced to third base on 
an error, Russell Martin drilled an RBI double to tie the game. Martin 
advanced to third base on a passed ball, before Devon Travis hit a walk-off 
single to complete the comeback, 10–9.[121] David Price got the start in 
the final game of the series, making his first appearance in Toronto since 
signing a seven-year, $217 million contract with the Red Sox. Boston would 
take the game, 5–3, after scoring two runs in the eleventh inning to take 
the lead.[122] The Jays closed out May with a home series against the Yankees. 
Marco Estrada pitched eight scoreless innings in the first game, leading 
Toronto to a 4–2 win.[123] The second game of the series went into the 
seventh inning tied 1–1, before hits from Kevin Pillar and Darwin Barney 
drove in three runs to seal a 4–1 win for the Jays.[124] The Blue Jays 
would complete their first sweep of the season with a 7–0 victory over 
the Yankees on June 1, with the Jays scoring five runs off Kirby Yates 
and Nick Goody in the seventh inning.[125] After a day off, Toronto began 
a six-game road trip with three games against the Red Sox. R.A. Dickey 
took a no-hitter into the sixth inning in the first game of the series, 
and the Blue Jays offence got the better of David Price in a 5–2 victory. 
The Blue Jays also ended a 26-game hitting streak by Xander Bogaerts in 
the game.[126] In the second game, Marcus Stroman was hit hard by the Red 
Sox offence. He allowed six earned runs for the third time in his last 
four games and took the loss, 6–4.[127] In the rubber match, Marco Estrada 
took a no-hitter into the eighth inning before yielding a solo home run 
to Chris Young. Roberto Osuna would close out the 5–4 win with a rocky 
ninth inning, in which he surrendered two runs on four hits. The series 
victory gave the Blue Jays a 9–3 record over their run of 12 straight games 
against Boston and New York.[128] The Blue Jays concluded their road trip 
with three games in Detroit. The Tigers' rookie pitcher Michael Fulmer 
held Toronto off the board in the first game, winning 11–0.[129] Aaron 
Sanchez pitched a gem in the second game of the series, shutting out the 
Tigers over eight innings. In the ninth frame, Sanchez allowed two hits 
and one run, before turning the game over to the bullpen, who were unable 
to hold the lead. The Tigers would win the game in the tenth inning, 3–2.[130] 
Toronto avoided the sweep with a 7–2 victory, led by Josh Donaldson, who 
finished a double shy of the cycle.[131] Returning home, the Blue Jays 
squared-off against the first-place Orioles. Baltimore would come out on 
top of the first game, 6–5, taking advantage of a struggling Marcus Stroman.[132] 
Game two went into extra innings, tied 3–3, before Edwin Encarnación hit 
a walk-off solo home run in the tenth inning.[133] Encarnación drove in 
five runs the following day, leading the Jays to an 11–6 victory.[134] 
In the fourth and final game of the series, the Blue Jays beat up on Ubaldo 
Jiménez, knocking him out of the game in the first inning after scoring 
five runs. Baltimore would claw back to within a run in the ninth inning, 
before Jason Grilli was able to end the game, 10–9, and earn his first 
save with Toronto.[135] Following the series with Baltimore, the Philadelphia 
Phillies would come to Toronto for a home-and-home series against the Jays. 
The potent Toronto offence was stymied by Phillies starter Jerad Eickhoff, 
losing the first game 7–0.[136] They would get back on track in the second 
game, knocking around Zach Eflin in his Major League debut. Josh Donaldson 
would hit a grand slam, and Ezequiel Carrera, Kevin Pillar, and Edwin Encarnación 
also hit home runs in an 11–3 trouncing.[137] After travelling to Philadelphia 
for the second half of the series, Marco Estrada lead the Jays to a 7–2 
win with his tenth consecutive start allowing five or fewer hits, which 
extended his franchise record.[138] The Blue Jays offence would again prove 
to be too much for Phillies pitching to handle, as a five home run game 
led Toronto to a 13–2 win in the series finale.[139] The win came at a 
price, as José Bautista left the game with a left foot injury. The following 
day, he was placed on the 15-day disabled list.[140] In the first game 
of the Blue Jays road series against Baltimore, Michael Saunders became 
the fourth Canadian player in MLB history to hit three home runs in a game, 
and led the Toronto offence to their fifth game with double-digit runs 
scored in their last seven games played.[141] Baltimore would end the Jays 
four-game winning streak the following day, winning 4–2.[142] The Orioles 
would take the series with an 11–6 win in the final game of the series, 
driving Marcus Stroman's ERA to a career-high 5.23.[143] The Blue Jays 
opened a brief two-game homestand against the Arizona Diamondbacks after 
an off-day. Marco Estrada and the Toronto bullpen held the Diamondbacks 
to just three hits in the first game, but Arizona would win 4–2.[144] The 
Jays would split the series, taking the final game 5–2 thanks to home runs 
from Russell Martin, Troy Tulowitzki, and Edwin Encarnación.[145] Toronto 
would fall to 0–4 against the Chicago White Sox in 2016, losing the first 
game of their six-game road trip by a score of 3–2.[146] In the second 
game, the Toronto pitching staff would yield seven home runs to the White 
Sox, however the Blue Jays would hold on to win 10–8.[147] The White Sox 
would take the series with a 5–2 win in the third and final game, with 
ace Chris Sale earning his league-leading thirteenth win.[148] The Blue 
Jays would then travel to Colorado to take on the Rockies. In 15 games 
between Toronto and Colorado, the road team had never defeated the home 
team. The Rockies would keep that streak alive in the first game, defeating 
the Jays 9–5 after scoring six runs in the seventh inning.[149] Toronto 
would end the streak in the second game of the series, 14–9, with J. A. 
Happ earning his tenth win of the season in a game that was delayed for 
almost three hours due to a hail storm.[150] The Blue Jays would take the 
series with a 5–3 win in the finale, led by another strong pitching performance 
by Aaron Sanchez.[151] To close June, the Blue Jays returned home to take 
on the red-hot Cleveland Indians, who entered the series on a 12-game winning 
streak. They would continue to roll in the first game of the four-game 
series, winning 4–1.[152] The second game against Cleveland on Canada Day 
turned into a marathon match, stretching into the nineteenth inning tied 
1–1. While the Indians used Trevor Bauer, who had been scheduled to start 
the third game of the series, the Blue Jays eventually turned to position 
players Ryan Goins and Darwin Barney to pitch late in the game. Barney 
would yield the go-ahead run in the top of the nineteenth, leading to a 
2–1 win for Cleveland. The game was not without controversy, as Edwin Encarnación, 
John Gibbons, and Russell Martin were all ejected by home-plate umpire 
Vic Carapazza for arguing about the strike zone.[153] Toronto would end 
Cleveland's 14-game winning streak with a 9–6 win the following day.[154] 
Prior to the series finale, Edwin Encarnación was suspended for one game 
after bumping into umpire Vic Carapazza on Canada Day. Encarnación appealed 
the suspension, and was allowed to play.[155] In the game, the high-octane 
Toronto offence would crush Corey Kluber and the Indians by a score of 
17–1. J. A. Happ became the Blue Jays' first pitcher with eleven wins prior 
to the All-Star break since Roy Halladay in 2008.[156] The Blue Jays then 
battled the Kansas City Royals in a rematch of the 2015 ALCS. Aaron Sanchez 
earned his ninth win of the season in the first game of the three-game 
series, holding the Royals to one run over his eight innings pitched.[157] 
The Blue Jays would prevail in the second game, 8–3, led by a two-home 
run game from Josh Donaldson. During the game, the starting and reserve 
rosters for the 2016 All-Star Game were announced. Donaldson, Edwin Encarnación, 
and Marco Estrada were all named as All-Star reserves.[158] In addition, 
Michael Saunders was named as one of five American League Final Vote candidates.[159] 
Marcus Stroman would lead the Jays to a sweep of the Royals with a 4–2 
victory in the final game.[160] To close out the unofficial first half 
of the season, Toronto took on the Detroit Tigers for four games. The Blue 
Jays would come from behind in the first game of the series, with Troy 
Tulowitzki driving in the tying and go-ahead runs in the bottom of the 
eighth inning. Roberto Osuna would close out the 5–4 victory.[161] Prior 
to the second game, Saunders was announced as the Final Vote winner, and 
became the fourth Toronto representative for the All-Star game.[162] J. 
A. Happ would lead the Blue Jays to a 6–0 victory that night, earning his 
twelfth win of the season and tying his career-high in wins.[163] The Tigers 
would end Toronto's seven-game winning streak the following day, winning 
3–2.[164] After the game, Aaron Sanchez was named as Craig Kimbrel's replacement 
to the All-Star Game.[165] In the final game before the All-Star break, 
R.A. Dickey would hold the Tigers offence to a single run in a 6–1 Blue 
Jays victory. Edwin Encarnación sat out of this game after choosing to 
drop his appeal of the one-game suspension he received earlier in the month.[166] 
Following the All-Star break, the Blue Jays visited Oakland to play three 
games against the Athletics. The Blue Jays lost the very back-and-forth 
first game 8–7, despite leading 7–3 earlier on.[167] They also lost the 
second game, 5–4; as R.A. Dickey allowed all of Oakland's runs on three 
home runs.[168] The Jays avoided getting swept, winning the finale 5–3 
after Josh Donaldson doubled in the ninth inning to take the lead.[169] 
Following an off day, the Blue Jays played a two-game series in Arizona 
against the Diamondbacks. In the first game, Aaron Sanchez pitched seven 
innings and only surrendered one run, while Edwin Encarnación, who has 
a history of hitting well in Arizona, hit a three-run home run, helping 
Toronto win 5–1.[170] The Jays completed the sweep the next day, this time 
winning 10–4, backed by eight strong innings from Marcus Stroman, who only 
allowed one run.[171] The Blue Jays returned home for a nine-game homestand 
to close out the month of July. Facing the Seattle Mariners for the first 
time in 2016, the Toronto offence was stymied by James Paxton and the Seattle 
bullpen, losing the first game 2–1.[172] R.A. Dickey had the shortest outing 
of his Blue Jays career in the second game, going only three innings and 
allowing six earned runs, including a grand slam to Nelson Cruz. Seattle 
would score five more runs off Jesse Chavez and three off Drew Storen to 
take the second game of the series, 14–5.[173] The Blue Jays would avoid 
being swept, winning the final game of the series 2–0. J. A. Happ earned 
his thirteenth win of the season, establishing a new career-high in wins.[174] 
Shortly before the start of the third game against Seattle, Drew Storen 
was designated for assignment.[175] With trade rumours swirling, the Blue 
Jays took on the San Diego Padres for three games, which were the first 
games for the Padres in Toronto in franchise history. Aaron Sanchez earned 
his tenth consecutive winning decision, leading Toronto to a 4–2 victory 
with seven strong innings.[176] Before the start of the second game, the 
Blue Jays and San Diego made a trade, with the Padres sending Melvin Upton 
Jr. and cash considerations to the Blue Jays for minor league pitcher Hansel 
Rodriguez.[177] Upton would make his debut with the Jays in the seventh 
inning of the game, pinch-hitting and grounding into a fielder's choice. 
Tied 4–4, the game went into the twelfth inning, where Matt Kemp hit a 
two-run home run to give the Padres a 6–4 lead. However, the Blue Jays 
would battle back, scoring on a bases-loaded walk by José Bautista and 
a fielder's choice groundout by Josh Donaldson, before Devon Travis would 
score the winning run on a wild pitch to take the game, 7–6.[178] Immediately 
following the game, the Blue Jays announced another trade. Drew Storen 
was sent to the Seattle Mariners in exchange for Joaquín Benoit.[179] The 
Padres would come out on top in the final game of the series, hitting two 
home runs off starter R.A. Dickey to win 8–4. The two home runs increased 
Dickey's total to 26 on the season, which tied him for the league-lead 
in home runs allowed.[180] The Blue Jays wrapped July by hosting the Baltimore 
Orioles, whom they trailed by 1 1⁄2 games for the AL East lead, for a critical 
three-game series. The Blue Jays won the first game 6–5, aided by three 
solo home runs in the first inning and cutting the Orioles' division lead 
to half a game.[181] The next day, the Toronto defeated Baltimore 9–1, 
after scoring seven runs in the fifth inning and took a half-game lead 
in the division.[182] The Blue Jays would not complete the sweep and would 
lose their division lead in the final match of the series, giving up a 
2–0 lead and eventually losing 6–2 in the twelfth inning. Troy Tulowitzki 
suffered a chip-fracture in his right thumb after being hit by a pitch, 
and left the game.[183] The Blue Jays opened August with a four-game series 
in Houston. Prior to the game, the Blue Jays made three trades before the 
4 p.m. ET trade deadline. The first trade sent Jesse Chavez and cash considerations 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers for pitcher Mike Bolsinger.[184] Shortly after, 
the Jays made a trade with the Astros, sending minor league pitcher Guadalupe 
Chavez to Houston for Scott Feldman.[185] With one minute remaining before 
the deadline, the Blue Jays traded Drew Hutchison to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
for Francisco Liriano, Reese McGuire, and Harold Ramírez.[186] The game 
against the Astros that night went tied 1–1 into extra innings. Scott Feldman 
ended up taking the loss for Toronto, yielding a lead-off single to José 
Altuve before Carlos Correa knocked him in with a walk-off double in the 
fourteenth inning. Marcus Stroman set a new career-high with 13 strikeouts 
in the game.[187] José Bautista hit his 300th career home run in the second 
game of the series as Toronto won 2–1, aided by a strong pitching performance 
from R.A. Dickey.[188] Marco Estrada would hold Houston to a single run 
in the third game of the series, and the offence would hit three solo home 
runs to win 3–1.[189] The Blue Jays would capture the series in the final 
game, winning 4–1. Edwin Encarnación hit his 30th home run of the season, 
and J. A. Happ earned his 15th win, tying Stephen Strasburg for the MLB 
lead.[190] To close their road trip, the Blue Jays played three games in 
Kauffman Stadium against the Royals in Kansas City, Missouri. Devon Travis 
hit a leadoff home run in the first game to give the Jays an early lead, 
and in the ninth inning, he would hit a go-ahead home run to lead Toronto 
to a 4–3 win.[191] Aaron Sanchez had his ten-game winning streak spanned 
by the Royals in the second game, losing 4–2.[192] The Royals would take 
the series with a 7–1 win over the Blue Jays in the finale.[193] Returning 
home from a road trip that saw just 17 total runs of offence, the Blue 
Jays battled the Rays for three games. Devon Travis led the way in the 
first game, recording four hits for the first time in his career as the 
Blue Jays topped the Rays, 7–5.[194] The Rays would get the better of Marco 
Estrada and the Toronto bullpen in the second game, handing the Jays a 
9–2 loss.[195] In the series finale, J. A. Happ became the season's first 
16-game winner, shutting out Tampa over six innings in a 7–0 win. As the 
Orioles lost their game to Oakland later that night, the victory put Toronto 
alone in first place by a full game for the first time in the 2016 season.[196] 
Looking to expand their division lead, the Jays took on the Astros once 
again. Former Blue Jays draftee Joe Musgrove made the start in the first 
game for Houston and pitched seven innings to lead the Astros to a 5–3 
win over Toronto.[197] Aaron Sanchez put the Blue Jays in a 2–0 hole to 
begin the second game, but regrouped and pitched seven strong innings. 
Russell Martin would hit a three-run home run late in the game to lift 
the Blue Jays to a 4–2 victory. Roberto Osuna earned his 46th career save 
in the win, tying Terry Forster's record for saves prior to a pitcher's 
22nd birthday.[198] The Jays would take the series with a 9–2 win in the 
finale, led by a strong pitching performance by Marcus Stroman and home 
runs from Edwin Encarnación, Troy Tulowitzki, and Russell Martin.[199] 
Embarking on their second road trip of August, the Blue Jays went to New 
York to take on the Yankees. Entering the series, the Jays had won four 
consecutive series at Yankee Stadium. Rookie Chad Green started the first 
game of the series for New York and dominated the Blue Jays, pitching six 
shutout innings and striking out eleven in a 1–0 win.[200] In the second 
game, the Yankees took a 5–0 lead into a 45-minute rain delay. After the 
rain, Scott Feldman would give up another run to New York before the Toronto 
offence would score 12 unanswered runs to win 12–6. Russell Martin hit 
two home runs and Troy Tulowitzki had four hits in a game for the first 
time as a Blue Jay.[201] Toronto would take the third and final game of 
the series by a score of 7–4, giving J. A. Happ his 17th win, which broke 
a tie with Rick Porcello for the league-lead. The Blue Jays became the 
sixth team in MLB history to win five consecutive road series against the 
Yankees, and the first since the Cleveland Indians in 1969.[202] Coincidentally, 
the Blue Jays then travelled to Cleveland to play the Indians for three 
games in what some considered to be a playoff preview.[203] Toronto took 
a 2–1 lead into the ninth inning of the first game, before Roberto Osuna 
allowed back-to-back solo home runs to give Cleveland the 3–2 victory.[204] 
In the second game, the Blue Jays again took a one run lead into the ninth 
inning, however this time Osuna would close the game without issue, leading 
the Jays to a 6–5 win.[205] Prior to the series finale, the Blue Jays optioned 
Aaron Sanchez to the Advanced-A Dunedin Blue Jays to skip his next start, 
limit his innings, and allow his roster space to be used by Aaron Loup.[206] 
Brett Cecil would be called upon to pitch the eighth inning of the finale, 
and protect a 2–1 lead. Cecil would allow a two-run home run to José Ramírez 
that gave the Indians a 3–2 lead they would not relinquish.[207] Coming 
back to Toronto with a 3–3 record over their road trip, the Blue Jays battled 
the last-place Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim for the first time in 2016. 
R.A. Dickey held the Angels to a single run over 6 2⁄3 innings, leading 
Toronto to a 7–2 win.[208] The Angels offence got to Marco Estrada early 
and often in the second game of the series, tagging him for a season-high 
ten hits and six runs and defeating the Jays 8–2.[209] In the rubber match, 
the Angels handed J. A. Happ his first loss since June, taking the game 
and the series, 6–3.[210] Hoping to bounce back from a disappointing series 
against one last-place team, Toronto then took on another last-place team 
in the Minnesota Twins. The first game would see a resurgence for the Blue 
Jays offence, as Justin Smoak and Russell Martin each recorded 5 RBI to 
lead the Jays to a 15–8 victory.[211] The Blue Jays trailed the Twins 5–1 
in the next match of the series, before working their way back into the 
game. Down 7–6 in the bottom of the eighth inning, Melvin Upton Jr. hit 
a triple and came in to score on an error by Max Kepler on the play, giving 
Toronto an 8–7 lead that they would successfully hold.[212] The Blue Jays 
would complete the sweep with another come-from-behind victory, winning 
9–6, and taking a two-game lead over the Red Sox for the division lead. 
Josh Donaldson hit three home runs for the first time in his career, and 
was showered with baseball caps from the fans after completing the hat-trick.[213] 
Bringing August to a close, the Blue Jays embarked upon a crucial nine-game 
road trip against three AL East teams, beginning with the Baltimore Orioles. 
Marco Estrada would yield just a single run to the Baltimore offence, and 
Josh Donaldson would homer for the fourth time in two games to lead Toronto 
to a 5–1 win in the series opener. Dioner Navarro reported to the team 
before the game, and Josh Thole was designated for assignment to make room 
on the roster.[214] The Orioles would take the second game, 5–3, with Matt 
Wieters hitting a go-ahead, two-run home run off Jason Grilli in the eighth 
inning.[215] Aaron Sanchez was recalled from Advanced-A Dunedin to make 
the start in the series finale, and held the Orioles to a single unearned 
run through six innings of work. Sanchez would earn his 13th win of the 
season, as the Blue jays took the series, 5–3.[216] Shortly before the 
end of the month, Josh Thole was re-signed by the Blue Jays, allowing him 
to maintain his postseason roster eligibility. To make room on the roster, 
Devon Travis was optioned to the Rookie-Advanced Bluefield Blue Jays.[217] 
After an off-day to begin September, the Blue Jays battled the Rays at 
Tropicana Field. As the Bluefield season ended on September 1, Devon Travis 
was able to be recalled without waiting ten days. In addition, the Blue 
Jays recalled Danny Barnes, Darrell Ceciliani, Dalton Pompey, and Ryan 
Tepera due to the September roster expansion, and added Matt Dermody to 
the roster.[218] In the game against Tampa that night, the Rays took advantage 
of a shaky night for the Toronto pitching staff, taking the opener 8–3.[219] 
Blake Snell held the Jays offence to a single run in the second game of 
the three-game series. The Blue Jays mounted a late-game comeback, scoring 
four runs in the ninth but fell short, losing 7–5. The loss moved Toronto 
into a tie with the Boston Red Sox, who defeated Oakland later that day, 
for the lead in the AL East.[220] Toronto would avoid being swept by taking 
the third game by a score of 5–3, thanks in large part to 6 1⁄3 scoreless 
innings from the bullpen.[221] Looking to rebound from another disappointing 
series in St. Petersburg, the Blue Jays took on the Yankees to close their 
road trip. R.A. Dickey allowed five runs in four innings pitched in the 
first game, giving the Yankees a 5–3 victory.[222] Toronto held a 4–3 lead 
in the eighth inning before Jason Grilli yielded four runs to put the Jays 
down 7–4. The Blue Jays would battle back in the ninth, scoring two runs 
off Yankees closer Dellin Betances and loading the bases against his replacement, 
Blake Parker. Parker would end the game, getting Justin Smoak to flyout 
to the left field warning track and giving the Yankees a 7–6 win, which 
would be credited to relief pitcher Chasen Shreve.[223] The Blue Jays would 
be swept for the first time on the road this season, losing the finale 
by a 2–0 score.[224] Coming home after a disappointing 3–6 road trip, the 
Blue Jays set their sights on the division-leading Red Sox. Marco Estrada 
continued to struggle, pitching just 2 2⁄3 innings and allowing four runs. 
The bullpen fared much worse, as Boston starter Rick Porcello became MLB's 
first 20-game winner of the 2016 season in a 13–3 Red Sox win.[225] J. 
A. Happ held the high-powered Boston offence to two runs in six innings 
pitched in the second game, while Melvin Upton Jr. and José Bautista provided 
all the offence Toronto would need in a 3–2 win to break a four game losing 
streak.[226] Boston would take the final game of the three-game series, 
11–8, giving Toronto three consecutive series losses.[227] To end their 
six-game homestand, the Blue Jays took on Tampa for the last time in 2016. 
Ezequiel Carrera would hit a go-ahead, pinch hit solo home run in the eighth 
inning to give Toronto a 3–2 lead that they would not relinquish.[228] 
The Rays pitching, as they had done several times in 2016, shut down the 
Blue Jays offence in the second game of the series, pitching to a 6–2 victory.[229] 
In their final game against the Rays, the Blue Jays managed just two hits 
in an 8–1 loss that dropped their September record to a dismal 3–9. Josh 
Donaldson missed the entire series with a hip injury, and had an MRI during 
the final game.[230] In desperate need of wins, the Blue Jays began a west-coast 
road trip against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Josh Donaldson returned 
to the lineup and led the Jays to a 7–2 victory, with J. A. Happ picking 
up his 19th win of the season.[231] R.A. Dickey, making possibly his final 
start as a Blue Jay, held the Angels scoreless over his five innings in 
Toronto's 5–0 win.[232] The Angels would hold the Blue Jays to a single 
run in the third game, winning 6–1 and dropping the Jays to three games 
back of the division-leading Red Sox.[233] Los Angeles would split the 
series, taking the fourth and final game 4–0. With the loss, Toronto fell 
four games back to Boston in the AL East.[234] To close their road play 
on the west coast, the Blue Jays played a crucial series against the Seattle 
Mariners. Entering play, Toronto held the second wild-card spot, while 
the Mariners were two games back. With thousands of western Canadians making 
the trip to Seattle given Seattle's proximity to the Canadian border, Marco 
Estrada led the Jays to a 3–2 win in the first game.[235] J. A. Happ became 
the sixth 20-game winner in Blue Jays franchise history in the second game 
of the series, winning 10–2. Russell Martin and Michael Saunders each hit 
home runs in the fourth inning to become the first Canadian teammates in 
MLB history to have 20 or more home runs in a season.[236] The Mariners 
would avoid the sweep, taking the final game 2–1 in the twelfth inning. 
With the Orioles being swept by the Red Sox on Toronto's off day, the Jays 
moved into the first wild card position.[237] The Blue Jays returned to 
the Rogers Centre for their final homestand of the 2016 regular season; 
first by taking on the Yankees. The Toronto offence exploded in the first 
game, and Francisco Liriano had his best start as a Blue Jay, shutting 
out New York through his six innings in a 9–0 victory.[238] The second 
game went tied 0–0 into the eighth inning, before José Bautista launched 
a three-run home run off Yankees reliever Tyler Clippard to lift Toronto 
to a 3–0 win.[239] In the third game, Bautista hit a tie-breaking solo 
home run in the bottom of the eighth inning, giving the Blue Jays a 2–1 
lead. In the ninth, the Yankees would score two runs off closer Roberto 
Osuna to take a 3–2 lead. With Tyler Clippard pitching for the second consecutive 
day, Ezequiel Carrera would tie the game with a perfectly executed safety 
squeeze before Edwin Encarnación hit a walk-off single to win 4–3.[240] 
The final game was marred by two bench-clearing brawls in the second inning. 
Yankees starter Luis Severino hit Josh Donaldson on the elbow in the first 
inning, and J. A. Happ retaliated in the top of the second, first throwing 
behind Chase Headley and then hitting him on the hip. Home plate umpire 
Todd Tichenor issued a warning to both teams, and after the first uneventful 
brawl, Yankees manager Joe Girardi was ejected for arguing the warning. 
In the bottom half of the second, Severino threw behind Justin Smoak and 
then hit him, leading to the second brawl. Severino was immediately ejected, 
and after order had been restored Yankees pitching coach Larry Rothschild 
and bench coach Rob Thomson were also ejected. Toronto led 3–2 heading 
into the ninth inning, but New York would score five runs to take the lead. 
The Jays rally would fall short, as the Yankees avoided the sweep, 7–5.[241] 
Holding the first wild-card position, the Blue Jays played their final 
regular season home series against Baltimore, who held the second wild-card 
spot entering play. Aaron Sanchez held the high-powered Orioles offence 
to a single run in the first game, striking out ten in a 5–1 victory.[242] 
The Blue Jays would drop the second game, 3–2, despite taking a 2–1 lead 
into the ninth inning. With the Blue Jays loss, the Boston Red Sox clinched 
the division.[243] Toronto was shut out in their final regular season home 
game, 4–0, and moved into a tie with Baltimore for the top wild-card position 
heading into the final weekend of the season.[244] Looking to ensure a 
postseason berth, the Blue Jays closed out the season by visiting the division-winning 
Boston Red Sox. Toronto lost the first game, 5–3, after Brett Cecil surrendered 
what would be David Ortiz's final regular-season home run. Baltimore also 
defeated New York, causing the Blue Jays to fall a game behind the Orioles 
for the top wild-card spot.[245] The next day, Toronto defeated Boston, 
4–3, thanks to a three-RBI night from Kevin Pillar. They also pulled back 
into a tie with Baltimore for the top wild-card after Baltimore lost to 
New York, enabling them to clinch the top wild-card spot with a win in 
the season finale.[246] In the season finale, Aaron Sanchez carried a no-hitter 
into the seventh inning, and both Devon Travis and Troy Tulowitzki contributed 
with two-out hits, helping the Blue Jays win, 2–1. With Baltimore's win 
over New York, Toronto and Baltimore finished the season with identical 
89–73 records; however, Toronto clinched the top wild-card spot due to 
a 10–9 head-to-head record against Baltimore in 2016.[247] On October 4, 
the Toronto Blue Jays hosted the Baltimore Orioles at the Rogers Centre 
in the American League Wild Card Game. The starters, Marcus Stroman for 
the Blue Jays and Chris Tillman for the Orioles, were announced on October 
3.[248] In the bottom of the second inning, José Bautista hit a solo home 
run to give Toronto a 1–0 lead. American League home run leader Mark Trumbo 
hit a two-run home run in the top of the fourth inning to give Baltimore 
a 2–1 lead. Ezequiel Carrera singled in a run in the fifth inning to tie 
the game at 2–2. In the seventh inning, Melvin Upton Jr. pinch-hit for 
Michael Saunders and flew out to Hyun-soo Kim in left field. A person in 
the outfield seats, later identified by Toronto police as Kenneth Pagan, 
threw a beer can in the direction of Kim, landing several feet away and 
causing the game to be briefly delayed while police searched for the perpetrator. 
Pagan, a 41-year-old copy editor for Postmedia Network from Hamilton, Ontario, 
was later charged with mischief after surrendering himself to Toronto police 
amid the publication of his face from Rogers Centre security footage.[249] 
With the game still tied, Roberto Osuna came in to pitch the ninth and 
tenth innings, but left after recording an out in the tenth with minor 
shoulder tightness. With one out in the bottom of the eleventh, Orioles 
manager Buck Showalter elected to use Ubaldo Jiménez in relief, still having 
Cy Young Award candidate Zach Britton available. Jiménez allowed a single 
to Devon Travis, followed by a single by Josh Donaldson which was misplayed 
by outfielder Nolan Reimold, allowing Travis to advance to third base. 
With the winning run 90 feet away, Edwin Encarnación hit a walk-off, three-run 
home run on the first pitch to give the Blue Jays a 5–2 victory and send 
them to the American League Division Series.[250] Encarnación became only 
the fourth player to end a winner-take-all postseason game with a walk-off 
home run, joining Bill Mazeroski (1960 World Series), Chris Chambliss (1976 
ALCS) and Aaron Boone (2003 ALCS).[251] In a rematch of last year's Division 
Series, the Blue Jays took on the Texas Rangers in the 2016 ALDS. The Blue 
Jays took an early 5–0 lead in the third inning of the first game, thanks 
to RBI hits from Josh Donaldson and José Bautista and a three-run triple 
by Troy Tulowitzki. In the fourth, Toronto added two runs on a solo home 
run by Melvin Upton Jr. and a Donaldson single to take a 7–0 lead. Bautista 
hit a three-run home run in the ninth inning to give the Jays a 10–0 lead. 
Marco Estrada pitched a gem, going 8 1⁄3 innings and allowing just four 
hits and one run in the bottom of the ninth to take the win, 10–1.[252] 
J. A. Happ got the start for the Blue Jays in game two, while Yu Darvish 
started for the Rangers. Each starter went five innings, with Happ allowing 
just a single run on nine hits and Darvish allowing five runs on home runs 
by Troy Tulowitzki, Kevin Pillar, Ezequiel Carrera, and Edwin Encarnación. 
In the eighth inning, Carlos Gómez hit an RBI single that struck Francisco 
Liriano near the back of the head. Roberto Osuna came on and closed out 
the game, 5–3, with a five-out save. The Blue Jays took a 2–0 series lead 
with the win, heading back to Toronto.[253] With the series moving to the 
Rogers Centre, the Blue Jays sought to eliminate the Rangers from the postseason 
for the second consecutive season. Aaron Sanchez got the start for the 
Jays, while the Rangers started Colby Lewis. Lewis lasted only two innings, 
yielding five earned runs on five hits including home runs by Edwin Encarnación 
and Russell Martin. Sanchez would go 5 2⁄3 innings, but was responsible 
for six earned runs after Joe Biagini allowed a two-run double by Mitch 
Moreland. The Blue Jays would tie the game in the bottom of the sixth inning, 
after a passed ball scored Troy Tulowitzki. With the game tied 6–6 in the 
tenth inning, Russell Martin hit a ground ball to shortstop Elvis Andrus. 
Rougned Odor was unable to turn the double play, throwing wide of first 
base. Moreland bobbled the ball, which allowed Josh Donaldson to score 
the winning run and sweep Texas out of the playoffs, 7–6.[254][255] Toronto 
advanced to the ALCS for the second consecutive year, and took on the Cleveland 
Indians, who swept the Boston Red Sox in the other half of the ALDS.[256] 
On October 11, the Blue Jays named Marco Estrada their starter for the 
first game of the best-of-seven series.[257] The following day, the Indians 
announced that Corey Kluber would start Game 1.[258] Kluber and the Indians' 
bullpen would combine to shutout the Blue Jays, winning 2–0.[259] Losing 
2–1 in the second game of the series, the Blue Jays bats were silenced 
once again by reliever Andrew Miller, who struck out another five batters 
in two innings. Cody Allen closed the game and gave the Indians a 2–0 series 
lead heading to Toronto.[260] Trevor Bauer, who had to be scratched from 
his scheduled Game 2 start due to a finger injury suffered while repairing 
a toy drone, started for Cleveland in Game 3. The Blue Jays turned to Marcus 
Stroman, who had not pitched since the Wild Card Game. Bauer was forced 
to leave in the first inning after the cut on his little finger opened 
and bled profusely.[261] While Stroman would allow four runs in 5 1⁄3 innings, 
the Cleveland bullpen would combine to pitch 8 1⁄3 and allow just two runs 
to take the third game of the series, 4–2, and a commanding 3–0 series 
lead.[262] The Blue Jays would avoid being swept out of the ALCS, with 
Aaron Sanchez allowing one run on two hits over six innings pitched in 
a 5–1 victory.[263] The playoffs would end for Toronto in Game 5, as the 
Indians advanced to the World Series with a 3–0 win.[264] Infielders Coaches 
