The 2016 Chicago Cubs season was the 145th season of the Chicago Cubs franchise, 
the 141st in the National League and the Cubs' 101st season at Wrigley 
Field. To celebrate their 100 years at Wrigley, the Cubs wore a patch on 
their home uniforms and wore 1916 throwback uniforms on July 6.[1] They 
began the season on April 4, 2016 at the Los Angeles Angels and finished 
the regular season on October 2, 2016 at the Cincinnati Reds. They finished 
with the best record in Major League Baseball and won their first National 
League Central title since the 2008 season, winning by 17½ games. The team 
also reached the 100 win mark for the first time since 1935 and won 103 
total games, the most wins for the franchise since 1910. The Cubs defeated 
the San Francisco Giants in the National League Division Series and returned 
to the National League Championship Series for the second year in a row, 
where they defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games. The Cubs defeated 
the Cleveland Indians in seven games in the 2016 World Series, their first 
appearance since the 1945 World Series and first win since the 1908 World 
Series. In the World Series, they came back from a three games to one deficit, 
winning the final three games, the first team to come back from a three 
games to one deficit since the Kansas City Royals in 1985. The World Series 
victory put an end to the so-called Curse of the Billy Goat. After just 
one year broadcasting on WBBM (780-AM), the Cubs announced that the radio 
broadcast of their games will move to WSCR (670-AM) for the 2016 season.[16] 
Monday, April 4, 2016 at Los Angeles Angels Starting Pitcher: Jake Arrieta 
The Cubs won their first three games and eight of their first nine to begin 
the season 8–1, their best start since 1969.[67] Infielders Coaches The 
Cubs began postseason play with starter Jon Lester on the mound facing 
Johnny Cueto for the Wild Card Game-winning Giants. In the pitching duel, 
Lester scattered five hits in eight innings of work, shutting out the Giants.[147] 
Cueto also blanked the Cubs allowing only two hits prior to the eighth 
inning. In the eighth, Javier Baez hit a solo home run into the left field 
basket to put the Cubs up 1–0. Aroldis Chapman appeared for the save in 
the ninth and gave up a double to Buster Posey, but shut the Giants down 
as the Cubs took a 1–0 series lead. In game two of the series, the Cubs 
scored a run in the first inning on a Ben Zobrist single off former Cub 
Jeff Samardzija.[148] Starting pitcher Kyle Hendricks had the key hit in 
the second inning, driving in two runs on a single up the middle. Kris 
Bryant drove in the Cubs' fourth run of the game two batters later and 
the Cubs led 4–0, forcing Samardzija from the game. In the top of the third, 
the Giants answered, scoring two runs on back-to-back doubles by Joe Panik 
and pinch-hitter Gregor Blanco and a sacrifice fly by Brandon Belt. Hendricks 
was hit in the arm by an Ángel Pagán line drive, forcing him to leave the 
game. Reliever Travis Wood ended the Giants' rally and, in the bottom half 
of the inning, hit a solo home run to put the Cubs up 5–2. The home run 
was the first by a relief pitcher in a postseason game since 1924.[148] 
The Cub bullpen of Carl Edwards Jr., Mike Montgomery, and Héctor Rondón 
shut down the Giants for the remainder of the game with Chapman getting 
the save. The Cubs looked to finish the series sweep with Jake Arrieta 
facing the Giants' Madison Bumgarner in game three. The Giants looked to 
extend their streak to 10–0 in their last 10 elimination games.[149] Arrieta 
hit a three-run homer in the top of the second, putting the Cubs up 3–0. 
The Cubs threatened to chase Bumgarner from the game in the third inning 
putting runners on first and second with only one out following singles 
by Ben Zobrist and Addison Russell. However, the Cubs failed to score and 
the Giants scored a run in the third following a Denard Span double and 
added a second run in the fifth following Span's triple.[150] In the eighth 
inning, Travis Wood gave up a single and Héctor Rondón walked a batter. 
Closer Aroldis Chapman came in early to get a six-out save, but Chapman 
gave up a two-run triple to Conor Gillaspie to give the Giants' their first 
lead of the series. Chapman was lifted shortly thereafter, getting only 
one out. The Giants added another run on a single by Brandon Crawford. 
In the ninth, trailing 5–3, Dexter Fowler led off with a walk and Kris 
Bryant hit a two-run home run off Giants' closer Sergio Romo.[151] Mike 
Montgomery, took over in the ninth for the Cubs and held the Giants scoreless 
for four innings. In the 13th inning, the Giants' Brandon Crawford doubled 
to lead off the inning and Joe Panik doubled him home to send the series 
to a game four. The Giants looked to continue their streak of wins in elimination 
games to 11 as the Cubs sent John Lackey to the mound against the Giants' 
Matt Moore. Lackey started off slow, allowing a leadoff double to Denard 
Span and a sacrifice fly by Buster Posey to give the Giants an early 1–0 
lead. David Ross answered for the Cubs in the third with a solo home run 
to tie the game. The home run made Ross the oldest catcher ever to homer 
in a postseason game.[152] However, Lackey got in trouble again in the 
fourth, giving up a run-scoring to single to Moore with the bases loaded 
and a force-out grounder by Span to put the Giants up 3–1.[153] The Cubs 
bounced back with a run in the top of the fifth on a sacrifice fly by Ross.[152] 
Justin Grimm relieved Lackey in the bottom of the fifth and surrendered 
a single to Posey and double that just missed being a home run by Brandon 
Crawford. Travis Wood entered and gave up a single to Conor Gillaspie and 
sacrifice fly to Joe Panik as the Giants surged to a 5–2 lead. Moore cruised 
through the next three innings, retiring the Cubs in order in the eighth 
before being lifted for the Giants' bullpen to start the ninth as it appeared 
a Game Five was inevitable. However, the Giants ended up using five pitchers 
in the inning as Kris Bryant singled, Anthony Rizzo walked, and Ben Zobrist 
doubled to score Bryant and tighten the game at 5–3. Cubs manager Joe Maddon 
decided to pinch hit for Addison Russell and his 95 RBIs with Chris Coghlan. 
Giants manager Bruce Bochy countered with lefty reliever Will Smith and 
Maddon used rookie catcher Willson Contreras instead. Contreras promptly 
singled up the middle to tie the game at five.[154] Jason Heyward's attempted 
sacrifice bunt was too hard and Contreras was forced out at second, but 
gold-glove winner Crawford's throw to first ended up in the dugout allowing 
Heyward to reach second with one out. Javier Baez then singled up the middle 
to complete the comeback and give the Cubs the 6–5 lead. Aroldis Chapman 
struck out the side in the bottom of the ninth as the Cubs eliminated the 
Giants and moved on to the NLCS. The Cubs' comeback marked the biggest 
comeback in postseason-clinching history.[154] 2016 NLDS (3–1): Chicago 
Cubs defeated San Francisco Giants. Infielders Coaches The NLCS opened 
at Wrigley Field with the Cubs' Jon Lester facing Kenta Maeda for the Dodgers. 
The Cubs moved on top early, scoring in the first on a lead-off single 
by Dexter Fowler and a Kris Bryant double to score him.[155] The Cubs added 
to their lead in the second when Jason Heyward tripled to start the inning 
and Javier Báez doubled him home, putting the lead at 2–0. Báez advanced 
to third on a wild pitch by Maeda and stole home on a late throw by Dodgers 
catcher Carlos Ruiz.[156] Lester cruised until the fifth inning when he 
allowed a pinch-hit home run by Andre Ethier, batting for Maeda, pulling 
the Dodgers within two at 3–1. Lester was lifted for a pinch hitter in 
the bottom of the sixth with a runner on second and two out, but the Cubs 
could not cash in on the scoring opportunity. In the top of the eighth, 
the Dodgers loaded the bases off Cubs relievers Mike Montgomery and Pedro 
Strop, bringing Aroldis Chapman into the game with no outs. Chapman struck 
out the first two batters he faced and appeared to be on the verge of escaping 
the inning, but Adrian Gonzalez singled up the middle scoring two runs 
and tying the game at three. The Dodgers brought in reliever Joe Blanton 
in the bottom of the eighth to try to keep the game tied. However, Ben 
Zobrist doubled to lead off the inning. Blanton struck out Addison Russell 
and the Dodgers chose to walk the left hand-hitting Heyward to face Báez. 
Báez could not come through, flying out softly to right field. Left hander 
Chris Coghlan pinch hit for David Ross and was also intentionally walked 
to load the bases. Batting for the pitcher, Miguel Montero, also a left 
hander, forced the Dodgers to choose to bring in a lefty reliever to face 
him and possibly see Willson Contreras instead or face Montero. The Dodgers 
chose to face Montero and on an 0–2 pitch, Montero hit a grand slam, putting 
the Cubs up 7–3. Fowler followed with a solo home run and Héctor Rondón 
gave up a run in the ninth as the Cubs won 8–4 and took the series lead 
1–0. Game 2 of the series featured the Dodgers' Clayton Kershaw off of 
his division series heroics and the Cubs' Kyle Hendricks. Kershaw was dominant 
from the start, pitching a perfect four innings before giving up a single 
by Javier Báez. However, the Cubs could get no further. Hendricks also 
pitched well, allowing a solo home run to Adrian Gonzalez in the top of 
the second inning. That would be all Kershaw needed as he pitched seven 
scoreless innings, scattering two hits. Dodgers' closer Kenley Jansen came 
in in the eighth to attempt a six out save. Jansen shut down the Cubs and 
the Dodgers tied the series at one game apiece heading back to Los Angeles. 
Cubs batters Addison Russell and Anthony Rizzo continued their struggles, 
each going 0–3 in the game. Combined, Ben Zobrist, Rizzo, and Russell are 
6–60 in the playoffs.[157] The game also marked the Cubs first 1–0 game 
in the postseason since Babe Ruth and the Boston Red Sox blanked them in 
the 1918 World Series opener at Comiskey Park (borrowed by the Cubs because 
of its larger seating capacity).[158] As the series shifted to Los Angeles, 
the Cubs looked to break out of their hitting slump and sent Jake Arrieta 
to the mound, the Dodgers countered with Rich Hill. However, the Cubs' 
hitting problems continued as Hill shut them down, allowing only two hits 
in six innings of work. The Dodgers scored first in the third with a run-scoring 
single by Corey Seager. The Dodger offense also homered twice off of Arrieta: 
a two run homer by Yasmani Grandal in the fourth and a solo homer by Justin 
Turner in the sixth. The Dodger bullpen continued where Hill left off and 
the Dodger offense added two more runs in the bottom of the eighth to take 
a 6–0 lead. Kenley Jansen pitched four outs to earn his second consecutive 
save. The back-to-back shutouts were the Dodgers first ever consecutive 
shutouts in postseason history.[159] The back-to-back shutouts marked the 
first time the Cubs had been shutout in back-to-back games since May 27–28, 
2014.[160] The Cubs hitting slump continued as the 2-3-4-5 hitters went 
3–27 in the two shutouts.[159] The win gave the Dodgers a 2–1 series lead. 
As the Cubs entered Game 4, they looked to break their two-game scoring 
drought. Playoff veteran John Lackey took the mound for the Cubs as the 
Dodgers sent Julio Urías, the youngest pitcher to start a game in postseason 
history.[161] The Cubs struggles continued as Urías held the Cubs without 
a hit through three innings. In the bottom of the second, the Dodgers had 
a scoring chance denied as Adrian Gonzalez was thrown out at the plate 
by Jason Heyward after an Andrew Toles single. In the fourth, the Cubs 
bats began to awaken. Ben Zobrist notched the first Cub hit of the game 
as he bunted to lead off. Javier Báez and Willson Contreras followed with 
singles to score Zobrist. The run marked the first scored by the Cubs in 
21 innings.[162] A Heyward groundout pushed home another run and left Contreras 
at third for Addison Russell. On an 0–2 pitch, Russell broke out of his 
slump with a two-run homer to put the Cubs up 4–0. Urías was lifted one 
batter later. In the top of the fifth, the Cubs breakout continued with 
Anthony Rizzo hitting a home run on a full count and pushing the lead to 
5–0. Back-to-back walks to lead off the bottom of the fourth forced Lackey 
from the game. Reliever Mike Montgomery gave up a single to load the bases 
before striking out Corey Seager. A single off of Montgomery's glove by 
Justin Turner brought in two runs and the Dodgers closed the lead to 5–2. 
Montgomery retired the next two batters to end the threat. In the top of 
the sixth, the Cubs blew the game open. Russell singled and reached second 
on a throwing error. Montgomery singled, moving Russell to third. Dexter 
Fowler singled to score Russell. Following a Kris Bryant walk, Rizzo notched 
his second hit of the game as he singled to score two runs and up the lead 
to 8–2. Following a single by Zobrist to load the bases, Báez hit a sacrifice 
fly to center fielder Joc Pedersen. Pedersen's throw to home got by the 
catcher as Bryant scored and Rizzo came home on the wild throw as well 
ballooning the lead to 10–2.[163] The Cub bullpen shutdown the Dodgers 
for the remainder of the game as the series was tied at two games apiece. 
With the series tied at two games apiece, the Cubs looked to Jon Lester 
to keep up his strong playoff performance. The Dodgers also went with their 
Game 1 starter, Kenta Maeda. The Cubs started the scoring in the first 
inning on a single by Dexter Fowler and an RBI double by Anthony Rizzo, 
but could muster nothing further in the first. The Cubs left runners on 
base in the first, second, fourth, and fifth innings, but could not get 
another run in. The Dodgers tied the game in the bottom of the fourth following 
a Howie Kendrick double and steal of third. Adrian Gonzalez hit the ball 
to Rizzo who could not field it cleanly and the run scored as a result. 
The Dodgers lifted Maeda from the game in the fourth and turned it over 
to the bullpen. In the sixth, Javier Báez continued his strong postseason 
play by singling to start the inning. Following a strikeout of Jason Heyward, 
Addison Russell homered to center field to break the deadlock and put the 
Cubs up 3–1.[164] After stranding two more runners in the seventh, the 
Cubs offense broke the game open in the eighth. Russell reached on error 
and pinch hitter Willson Contreras singled to put runners at first and 
second. Pinch hitter Albert Almora, Jr. bunted the runners over and Dexter 
Fowler following with an infield singled to score the Cubs' fourth run 
of the game. An infield single by Kris Bryant scored Contreras and walk 
by Ben Zobrist loaded the bases for Baez. Baez, as he had done all postseason, 
came through with a bases-clearing double to put the Cubs up 8–1. The Dodgers 
added a run in the bottom of the eighth off of Pedro Strop on a double 
Carlos Ruiz. Cub closer Aroldis Chapman pitched the ninth and allowed a 
run-scoring single by Josh Reddick and a sacrifice fly by Andrew Toles 
to make the score 8–4. Chapman induced Justin Turner to ground out to end 
the game. The win put the Cubs on the brink of the World Series with a 
three games to two lead as the series moved back to Wrigley Field. The 
Cubs took advantage of the Dodgers bullpen in the series, scoring 26 runs 
in 26.2 inning pitched by Maeda and the Dodger bullpen.[165] As the series 
returned to Wrigley Field, the Cubs looked to earn a trip to the World 
Series for the first time since 1945. The Cubs sent ERA-leader Kyle Hendricks 
to the mound while the Dodgers countered with Clayton Kershaw. On the first 
pitch of the game, Andrew Toles singled for the Dodgers and the game appeared 
to be off to a good start for the Dodgers. However, Corey Seager swung 
at the next pitch and grounded to Javier Báez who tagged Toles and threw 
to first to complete the double play. In the bottom of the first, the Cubs 
jumped out quickly on Kershaw who had blanked them in Game 2. Dexter Fowler 
doubled and Kris Bryant singled him home to give the Cubs a 1–0 lead. Anthony 
Rizzo reached on an error by Toles and with runners at second and third, 
Ben Zobrist hit a sacrifice fly to extend the lead to 2–0. In the top of 
the second, Josh Reddick reached on an error by Báez, but Hendricks picked 
him off of first to end the inning. The Cubs added another run in the bottom 
of the second when Addison Russell doubled to left and scored on Fowler's 
single. In the bottom of the fourth, Willson Contreras led off the inning 
by homering on a line drive to left field to extend the lead to 4–0. In 
the fifth, Rizzo continued his hot hitting by homering to right center 
field and putting the Cubs up 5–0. Kershaw was lifted after that inning, 
but Hendricks continued his gem on the mound, retiring the side and facing 
the minimum batters through seven innings. In the eighth, after a flyout 
by Adrian Gonzalez, Reddick singled, only the second hit allowed by Hendricks. 
That ended the night for Hendricks as Cub manager Joe Maddon went to the 
bullpen and brought in closer Aroldis Chapman. Chapman induced Howie Kendrick 
into an inning-ending double play. In the top of the ninth, Chapman walked 
the second batter, but Yasiel Puig grounded into a game-ending double play 
as Wrigley Field erupted in celebration. The Cubs advanced to their first 
World Series since 1945 with the 5–0 win and the four games to two series 
win. In the game, the Cubs faced the minimum amount of batters, 27, in 
a game.[166] The only other time that had occurred in a postseason game 
was Don Larsen's 1956 perfect game for the Yankees.[167] Jon Lester and 
Javier Báez were named co-MVPs of the NLCS.[168][169] 2016 NLCS (4–2): 
Chicago Cubs defeated Los Angeles Dodgers. Infielders Coaches To begin 
the historic World Series, the teams sent their number one starters to 
the mound in Cleveland: Corey Kluber for the Indians and Jon Lester for 
the Cubs. The Cubs altered their lineup a bit, batting Kyle Schwarber, 
making his first appearance in six months, as their DH.[170] Things started 
well for Lester as he retired the first two batters he faced. However, 
Francisco Lindor singled and stole second with two outs. Lester then walked 
Mike Napoli and Carlos Santana. With the bases loaded, José Ramírez hit 
an infield single to drive in a run and Lester hit the next batter, Brandon 
Guyer, to give the Indians a 2–0 lead.[171] Kluber started hot as well, 
striking out eight of the first nine batters he faced, a World Series record.[172] 
In the bottom of the fourth, Roberto Pérez homered to left off of Lester 
increasing the lead. Kluber continued his excellent performance, striking 
out nine before giving up a double to Ben Zobrist in the top of the seventh 
which ended Kluber's night and brought Andrew Miller to the mound. Schwarber 
walked and Javier Baéz singled to load the bases. However, Miller induced 
a shallow fly ball by pinch hitter Willson Contreras and struck out Addison 
Russell and David Ross to end the Cub threat. With Justin Grimm pitching 
for the Cubs in the bottom of the eighth, the Indians put runners on first 
and second and Héctor Rondón gave up another home run to Pérez to put the 
game out of reach 6–0.[173] The win put the Indians up one game. Dexter 
Fowler, Addison Russell, Jason Heyward, and Carl Edwards Jr. became the 
first African-Americans on a Cubs roster in a World Series. Additionally, 
Fowler (batting as the lead-off hitter) was the first African-American 
to appear and to bat for the Cubs in a World Series game. Both Fowler and 
Russell were the first African-Americans to start for the Cubs in a World 
Series.[144][145][146] Looking to tie the series at one game apiece, the 
Cubs sent Jake Arrieta to the mound against the Indians' Trevor Bauer. 
The Cubs also featured six players age 24 or younger in the starting lineup, 
a postseason record.[174] The Cubs started things off early as Kris Bryant 
singled in the first inning and Anthony Rizzo doubled to score Bryant and 
give the Cubs an early 1–0 lead.[175] Arrieta started well too, retiring 
the first two batters before walking back-to-back batters in the bottom 
of the first. However, Arrieta got a strikeout to end the inning. The Cubs 
struck again in the third following a two-out walk by Rizzo and a single 
by Ben Zobrist. A single by Kyle Schwarber scored Rizzo from second and 
pushed the Cub lead to 2–0. Bauer was forced from the game in the fourth 
and the Cubs struck again in the fifith. Rizzo walked again and Zobrist 
tripled to plate Rizzo.[176] Another run-scoring single by Schwarber and 
a bases loaded walk by Addison Russell pushed the lead to 5–0.[177] Arrieta 
continued to cruise, walking three batters but holding the Indians without 
a hit into the sixth inning.[178] In the sixth, a double by Jason Kipnis 
ended the no-hitter and a wild pitch by Arrieta two batters later scored 
the first Indians run.[179] Arrieta allowed another single and was lifted 
for reliever Mike Montgomery. Both teams threatened in the seventh but 
could not score and, following a single by Mike Napoli in the bottom of 
the eighth, Aroldis Chapman entered to finish the game for the Cubs. The 
win marked the Cubs first World Series win since 1945 as they evened up 
the series at one game apiece.[180] The series shifted to Wrigley Field 
for the first World Series game at Wrigley since 1945.[181] Josh Tomlin 
went to the mound for Cleveland and Kyle Hendricks for Chicago. Both pitchers 
pitched well, but Hendricks was in and out of trouble frequently giving 
up six hits, and walking two in just four and a third innings. Following 
a single by Tyler Naquin, a bunt by Tomlin, a walk to Carlos Santana, Hendricks 
hit Jason Kipnis with a pitch to load the bases in the fifth.[182] Justin 
Grimm relieved Hendricks and got Francsico Lindor to hit into an inning-ending 
double play escaping with the score still 0–0. The Cubs chased Tomlin from 
the game in the bottom of the fifth, but Andrew Miller replaced him and 
retired pinch-hitter Miguel Montero.[183] Leading off the seventh, Roberto 
Perez singled to right off reliever Carl Edwards Jr. Pinch runner Michael 
Martinez replaced him at first. Naquin advanced Martinez to second with 
a bunt and Martinez moved to third on a wild pitch by Edwards. After Rajai 
Davis walked, pinch-hitter Coco Crisp hit a broken bat single to right 
to score Martinez. Mike Montgomery replaced Edwards and escaped the inning 
without any further damage. In the bottom of the seventh, the Cubs threatened 
to tie it with a two-out triple by Jorge Soler, but Javier Báez grounded 
out to end the inning. In the ninth, the Cubs again threatened to tie it, 
putting runners on second and third following singles by Anthony Rizzo 
and Jason Heyward. However, with two outs, Báez struck out swinging to 
end the game.[184] The win gave the Indians a 2–1 lead in the series. With 
the series lead, the Indians sent Corey Kluber to the mound on short rest 
against John Lackey to try to extend the series lead to three games to 
one. The Cubs opened the scoring in the first inning with a double by lead-off 
man Dexter Fowler and a run-scoring single by Anthony Rizzo.[185] However, 
the Indians quickly answered in the top of the second as Carlos Santanta 
homered to tie it. Following an error by Kris Bryant and an intentional 
walk of Tyler Naquin, Kluber singled home the go-ahead run giving the Indians 
the 2–1 lead. The Indians added another run in the third when Francisco 
Lindor singled home Jason Kipnis to increase the lead to 3–1. Kluber continued 
to shut down the Cubs as he did in game one. Lackey was lifted after five 
innings, but reliever Mike Montgomery gave up another run in the sixth 
as the Indians lead moved to 4–1.[186] Cleveland put the game away in the 
seventh on a three-run homer by Jason Kipnis off of Travis Wood, pushing 
the lead to 7–1.[187] Fowler hit a consolation eighth inning solo home 
run off of reliever Andrew Miller, but that was it as the Cubs lost 7–2 
and fell behind in the series three games to one. Facing elimination and 
the last game at Wrigley Field for the season, the Cubs sent ace Jon Lester 
to the mound while the Indians countered with Trevor Bauer. Lester surrendered 
a second inning homer to Jose Ramirez as the Cubs fell behind 1–0.[188] 
However, Kris Bryant answered in the fourth homering to left to lead off 
the inning. Anthony Rizzo doubled following Bryant's homer and Ben Zobrist 
singled. Addison Russell followed with an infield single to score Rizzo 
and put the Cubs up 2–1. Following a Jason Heyward strikeout, Javier Báez 
singled on a bunt to load the bases with one out. David Ross hit a sacrifice 
fly to score Zobrist, but Lester struck out to end the inning. Bauer was 
removed from the game after pitching four innings, but the Cubs could do 
no further damage.[189] Leading 3–1, Lester allowed a run in the sixth 
following a single and stolen base by Rajai Davis and a Francisco Lindor 
single. Lester was lifted with the 3–2 lead after six innings. Carl Edwards 
Jr. replaced Lester in the seventh and gave up a single. Following a flyout, 
Cub manager Joe Maddon went to closer Aroldis Chapman for an eight-out 
save.[190] Chapman closed out the seventh and gave up a single to Davis 
in the eighth. Davis stole second and third, but Chapman stranded him there. 
In the ninth, Chapman retired the side, striking out José Ramírez to end 
the game and extend the series to a game six in Cleveland. The series returned 
to Cleveland with the Cubs looking to force a seventh game while the Indians 
looked to win the series. Cubs starter Jake Arrieta took the mound for 
the Cubs while Josh Tomlin took the hill for the Indians. The game started 
well for the Indians as Tomlin retired the first two batters easily and 
moved to and moved to an 0–2 count on Kris Bryant. However, Bryant drove 
Tomlin's next pitch over the left field wall to give the Cubs an early 
1–0 lead. Anthony Rizzo followed the homer with a single and Ben Zobrist 
singled to move Rizzo to third. Addison Russell hit a fly ball to right 
center that ended up falling between the Indians outfielders scoring Rizzo. 
Zobrist also scored on the play knocking over Indians catcher Roberto Pérez 
to give the Cubs an early 3–0 lead. Arrieta cruised through the first two 
innings for the Cubs. In the third, Kyle Schwarber led off the inning with 
a walk. Bryant flied out and Rizzo singled. Zobrist singled again to load 
the bases and chase Tomlin from the game.[191] Dan Otero, replacing Tomlin, 
pushed Russell to an 0–2 count before Russell belted a homer to deep left 
center field for a grand slam. The Cubs lead ballooned to 7–0 and a seventh 
game seemed likely. In the fifth, Arrieta allowed a double to Jason Kipnis 
and he scored on a Mike Napoli single to reduce the lead by one. In the 
fifth, Kipnis further reduced the lead with a solo home run to left putting 
the Cubs up 7–2. Following a walk by Arrieta in the sixth, Mike Montgomery 
replaced him on the mound to induce a groundout to end the inning. In the 
seventh, Montgomery walked Pérez and gave up a Kipnis single with two outs. 
Cubs manager Joe Maddon again called on Cub closer Aroldis Chapman and 
he induced a groundout by Francisco Lindor to end the inning. Chapman gave 
up a single in the eighth, but got a double play to end the inning. In 
the ninth, with two outs, Bryant singled for his fourth hit of the game. 
Rizzo homered to push the Cub lead back to seven at 9–2. On the verge of 
pushing the series to a seventh game, Chapman walked the first batter and 
was replaced by Pedro Strop.[192] After giving up a run-scoring single 
to Pérez and walking Carlos Santana, Travis Wood entered to get the final 
out and force a game seven in the series.[193] With the series tied at 
three games apiece, the Cubs sent regular season ERA leader Kyle Hendricks 
to the mound. The Indians countered with Corey Kluber, winner of games 
one and four. Things started well for the Cubs as Dexter Fowler led off 
the game with a home run to straight away center to give the Cubs an early 
1–0 lead. Hendricks held the Indians scoreless until the third when Coco 
Crisp doubled, was moved to third on a sacrifice bunt by Roberto Pérez, 
and scored on a single by Carlos Santana. The Cubs jumped back out in front 
in the fourth when Kris Bryant singled, Anthony Rizzo was hit by a pitch, 
and Ben Zobrist forced Rizzo at second. Addison Russell hit a shallow fly 
ball to left field which allowed Bryant to tag and score to put the Cubs 
up 2–1. Willson Contreras followed the sacrifice fly with a double to right 
center field to score Zobrist and the Cubs were up 3–1. The lead increased 
in the fifth when Javier Báez homered on the first pitch of the inning 
to drive Kluber from the game. Andrew Miller, who had dominated the postseason, 
entered the game. Following a single by Fowler, Kyle Schwarber grounded 
in to a double play and Miller looked to have escaped the inning. But, 
Bryant coaxed a walk on a nine-pitch at bat and scored from first on a 
single to right by Rizzo to make the lead 5–1. Hendricks, who had seemingly 
settled down, got the first two outs in the bottom of the fifth, but walked 
Santana. Cub manager Joe Maddon pulled Hendricks to be replaced by game 
one and five starter, Jon Lester. Lester allowed a dribbler in front of 
the plate by Jason Kipnis, but David Ross, who had entered the game with 
Lester and was playing in his final major league game, threw wildly to 
first allowing runners to advance to second and third. Lester uncorked 
a wild pitch that bounced off Ross's mask and scored both runners, tightening 
the lead to 5–3. Ross partially atoned for the error in the sixth with 
a homer to center field to bring the lead to 6–3. Lester allowed runners 
in the sixth and the seventh, but held the Indians without a run. In the 
eighth, after retiring the first two batters, Lester allowed a single up 
the middle to José Ramírez.[194] Maddon had seen enough and brought Aroldis 
Chapman, pitching in his third straight game, into the contest. Brandon 
Guyer promptly doubled to score Ramirez and reduce the lead to two. Rajai 
Davis then stunned the Cubs by homering to left to tie the game at six.[195] 
In the ninth, Ross walked and was pinch run for by Chris Coghlan. Jason 
Heyward grounded into a force play, but then stole second and advanced 
on a bad throw by Yan Gomes. With two strikes, Báez attempted to bunt, 
but fouled out. Fowler grounded out to end the threat. Surprisingly, Chapman 
returned to the mound in the ninth and retired the Indians in order to 
force extra innings. However, before the tenth inning could start, a 17 
minute rain delay occurred.[196] Schwarber singled upon resumption of play 
and was pinch run for by Albert Almora Jr.[197] Almora advanced to second 
on a sacrifice fly by Bryant and the Indians chose to walk Rizzo to face 
Zobrist. Zobrist doubled down the left field line off Bryan Shaw to score 
Almora. Shaw then intentionally walked Russell to load the bases. Miguel 
Montero, in the game after Ross was lifted for a pinch runner, scored Rizzo 
on a single up the middle to move the lead to 8–6. Game two and five starter 
Trevor Bauer then retired Heyward and Báez to end the inning. Carl Edwards, 
Jr. was called on by Maddon to end the Cubs World Series drought. Edwards 
retired the first two batters, but walked Guyer. Davis followed up his 
game-tying homer by singling to score Guyer and reduce the lead to one. 
With the Indians out of position players, Michael Martínez, who had entered 
the game as a defensive replacement, strode to the plate with two outs. 
Maddon countered with Mike Montgomery. On the second pitch by Montgomery, 
Martínez hit a soft grounder to Bryant who threw to first to end the Cubs 
108-year World Series drought.[198] Zobrist, who batted .357 in the series 
and led all players with 10 hits, was named World Series MVP.[199][200] 
Many baseball sources have called this game "one of the greatest Game 7's 
ever played."[201] Infielders Coaches N.B.: Tommy La Stella had been on 
the roster for the 2016 National League Division Series, but was replaced 
by Rob Zastryzny for the 2016 National League Championship Series.[202] 
Zastryzny was replaced by Kyle Schwarber on the roster for the 2016 World 
Series.[203] (final regular season stats) Note: G = Games played; AB = 
At bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; 
RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Walks; SO = Strikeouts; Avg. = Batting average; 
OBP = On Base Percentage; SLG = Slugging Percentage; SB = Stolen bases 
(final regular season stats) Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; ERA = Earned run 
average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; IP = Innings 
pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; 
K = Strikeouts Buchanan, JakeJake Buchanan (final postseason statistics) 
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R = Runs; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 
3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; BB = Walks; SO = Strikeouts; 
Avg. = Batting average; OBP = On Base Percentage; SLG = Slugging Percentage; 
SB = Stolen bases (final postseason statistics) Note: W = Wins; L = Losses; 
ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; SV = Saves; 
IP = Innings pitched; R = Runs allowed; ER = Earned runs allowed; BB = 
Walks allowed; K = Strikeouts Rawlings Gold Glove Award[204] Silver Slugger 
