The 2016 National League Championship Series was a best-of-seven playoff 
in which the Chicago Cubs defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers for the National 
League (NL) pennant and the right to play in the 2016 World Series against 
the Cleveland Indians. As winners of one of the Division Series and the 
team with the best regular season record in the National League, the Cubs 
earned home-field advantage regardless of opponent. The series was the 
47th in league history. FS1 televised all of the games in the United States.[1][2] 
The 2016 NLCS was the Cubs' second consecutive NLCS appearance and fifth 
overall. Chicago lost its first four NLCS appearances, in 1984, 1989 and 
2003, and most recently were swept in the 2015 National League Championship 
Series by the New York Mets. This was the first time the Cubs have made 
back-to-back NLCS appearances. The Cubs had not won a World Series championship 
since 1908 or played in the World Series since 1945. This was the Dodgers' 
11th overall appearance in the NLCS. Los Angeles was in the NLCS for the 
first time since losing the 2013 National League Championship Series to 
the St. Louis Cardinals. The Dodgers split their previous ten NLCS appearances, 
with their most recent victory in 1988, the same year they last appeared 
in and won the World Series. This was the second postseason meeting between 
the Cubs and the Dodgers. Their only other postseason series was the 2008 
National League Division Series, in which the Dodgers swept the Cubs in 
three games. The Cubs won the regular season series 4 games to 3. Chicago 
won three of the four games played at Wrigley Field from May 30 to June 
2, while Los Angeles took two out of three games played at Dodger Stadium 
from August 26 to 28. With the Cubs' and Dodgers' appearances, the winning 
team was guaranteed to end a pennant drought of at least 28 years. The 
last time a NLCS had two teams that had pennant droughts of more than 25 
years was 1989, when the Giants had a 27-year drought and the Cubs a 44-year 
drought. Chicago won the series, 4–2. With Clayton Kershaw having to unexpectedly 
close out the 2016 National League Division Series against the Nationals 
and Rich Hill having to start that game on three days' rest, the Dodgers 
turned to Kenta Maeda to open the series. Opposing him was Cubs' ace Jon 
Lester. The Cubs got to Maeda early, scoring three runs in the first two 
innings to take a 3–0 lead, highlighted by a steal of home by Javier Báez. 
The steal of home by Baez was the first Cubs player to do so in the postseason 
since 1907.[9] Jon Lester pitched well, allowing only one run (a pinch 
hit home run by Andre Ethier) in his six innings. A bases loaded single 
by Adrian Gonzalez off Cubs closer Aroldis Chapman tied the game in the 
top of the eighth inning but the Cubs came back in the bottom of the inning.[10] 
Miguel Montero hit a pinch hit grand slam off of Joe Blanton and Dexter 
Fowler followed it up with a solo homer of his own on the very next pitch.[11] 
The Dodgers would add a run off of Héctor Rondón in the ninth, but Montero's 
game-winning slam proved too big of a deficit to overcome. Game 1 marked 
the Cubs' first NLCS win since Game 4 in 2003. They had previously lost 
seven straight National League Championship Series games. Game 2 featured 
a match-up between two of the stingiest pitchers in the National League 
in 2016, in terms of earned run average. Clayton Kershaw and Kyle Hendricks 
were the top two in earned run average in baseball, although the former 
didn't have enough innings to qualify.[12] The start marked the fourth 
appearance in ten games for Kershaw in the 2016 playoffs. For Hendricks, 
this was his first appearance since being hit in the forearm on a line 
drive by Ángel Pagán in the Game 2 of the National League Division Series. 
The game lived up to the billing of a pitcher's duel. Kershaw pitched seven 
shutout innings and the Dodgers edged the Cubs, 1–0, to even up the series 
at one. The only run of the game scored in the second inning on a homerun 
by Adrian Gonzalez. Hendricks pitched 5⅓ innings of one-run ball, while 
the four different Cubs relievers allowed three baserunners over 3⅔ innings. 
Kenley Jansen, whose previous outing in the NLDS was a seven-out, 51-pitch 
outing, saved his first game of his career requiring six-outs. It was the 
Dodgers first six-out save in the postseason since Jay Howell in Game 4 
of the 1988 World Series.[13] Jansen needed just 18 pitches to earn the 
save and tie the series at a game apiece. Game 2 was the Cubs' second 1–0 
game of the postseason and first loss since Babe Ruth and the Boston Red 
Sox blanked them in the 1918 World Series opener at Comiskey Park.[14] 
This was also the first time the Dodgers had won a Championship Series 
game on the road since game five of the 1988 NLCS against the Mets. This 
was Jake Arrieta's first start at Dodger Stadium since his no-hitter on 
August 30, 2015. Opposing him was journeyman and former Cub, Rich Hill. 
The Dodgers opened the scoring in the bottom of the third inning. Andrew 
Toles led off with a single to left, advanced to second base on a ground 
out by Hill, then scored with two outs on a Corey Seager single to left 
field. Yasmani Grandal added two runs in the fourth with a two-run homer 
to right field.[15] The Dodgers tacked on another in the fourth as Justin 
Turner drilled a solo homer to center field, chasing Arrieta from the game.[16] 
Hill, meanwhile, pitched six shutout innings, limiting the Cubs to two 
hits and two walks with six strikeouts on 93 pitches. Joe Blanton threw 
a scoreless inning in the seventh and Grant Dayton and Kenley Jansen combined 
to do so in the eighth. In the bottom of the eighth, against reliever Mike 
Montgomery, Yasiel Puig singled with one out and came around to score on 
a double down the left field line by Joc Pederson, improving the Dodgers’ 
lead to 5–0. Pederson would steal third base and score on a Grandal ground 
out, making it 6–0. Jansen pitched a scoreless ninth to end the game. This 
was the first time the Dodgers shut out a team back-to-back in the postseason 
in their history. It was just the fourth time in LCS history a team posted 
consecutive shutout wins.[17] The back-to-back shutouts marked the first 
time the Cubs had been shutout in back-to-back games since May 27–28, 2014.[18] 
The Cubs hitting slump continued as the 2-3-4-5 hitters went 3–27 in the 
two shutouts.[19] The win gave the Dodgers a 2–1 series lead. As the Cubs 
entered Game 4, they looked to break their two-game scoring drought. Playoff 
veteran John Lackey took the mound for the Cubs, as the Dodgers started 
Julio Urías, the youngest pitcher to start a game in postseason history.[20] 
The Cubs' struggles continued as Urías held them without a hit through 
three innings. In the bottom of the second, the Dodgers had a scoring chance 
denied as Adrian Gonzalez was thrown out at the plate by Jason Heyward 
after an Andrew Toles single. Dave Roberts called a video review but the 
call stood and it ended the inning. In the fourth, the Cubs bats began 
to awaken. Ben Zobrist notched the first Cub hit of the game as he bunted 
to lead off. Javier Báez and Willson Contreras followed with singles to 
score Zobrist. The run marked the first scored by the Cubs in 21 innings.[21] 
A Heyward groundout pushed home another run and left Contreras at third 
for Addison Russell. On an 0–2 pitch, Russell broke out of his slump with 
a two-run homer to put the Cubs up 4–0. Urías was lifted one batter later. 
In the top of the fifth, the Cubs breakout continued with Anthony Rizzo 
hitting a home run on a full count and pushing the lead to 5–0. Back-to-back 
walks to lead off the bottom of the fourth forced Lackey from the game. 
Reliever Mike Montgomery gave up a single to load the bases before striking 
out Corey Seager. A single off of Montgomery's glove by Justin Turner brought 
in two runs, and the Dodgers reduced the lead to 5–2. Montgomery retired 
the next two batters to end the threat. In the top of the sixth, the Cubs 
blew the game open. Russell singled and reached second on a throwing error. 
Montgomery singled, moving Russell to third. Dexter Fowler singled to score 
Russell. Following a Kris Bryant walk, Rizzo notched his second hit of 
the game as he singled to score two runs and increase the lead to 8–2. 
Following a single by Zobrist to load the bases, Báez hit a sacrifice fly 
to center fielder Joc Pedersen. Pedersen's throw to home got by the catcher 
as Bryant scored, and Rizzo came home on the wild throw as well, ballooning 
the lead to 10–2.[22] The Cub bullpen shut down the Dodgers for the remainder 
of the game, and the series was tied at two games apiece. With the series 
tied at two games apiece, the Cubs looked to Jon Lester to keep up his 
strong playoff performance. The Dodgers also went with their Game 1 starter, 
Kenta Maeda. The Cubs started the scoring in the first inning on a single 
by Dexter Fowler and an RBI double by Anthony Rizzo, but could muster nothing 
further in the first. The Cubs left runners on base in the first, second, 
fourth, and fifth innings, but could not get another run in. The Dodgers 
tied the game in the bottom of the fourth following a Howie Kendrick double 
and steal of third. Adrian Gonzalez hit the ball to Rizzo, who could not 
field it cleanly, and the run scored as a result. The Dodgers lifted Maeda 
in the fourth inning. In the sixth, Javier Báez continued his strong post-season 
play by singling to start the inning. Following a strikeout of Jason Heyward, 
Addison Russell homered to center field to break the deadlock and put the 
Cubs up 3–1.[23] After stranding two more runners in the seventh, the Cubs 
offense broke the game open in the eighth. Russell reached on an error 
and pinch hitter Willson Contreras singled to put runners at first and 
second. Pinch hitter Albert Almora, Jr. bunted the runners over, and Dexter 
Fowler following with an infield single to score the Cubs' fourth run of 
the game. An infield single by Kris Bryant scored Contreras, and a walk 
by Ben Zobrist loaded the bases for Báez. Báez, as he had done all postseason, 
came through with a bases-clearing double to put the Cubs up 8–1. The Dodgers 
scored a run in the bottom of the eighth off Pedro Strop on a double by 
Carlos Ruiz. Cub closer Aroldis Chapman pitched the ninth inning and allowed 
a run-scoring single by Josh Reddick and a sacrifice fly by Andrew Toles 
to make the score 8–4. Chapman induced Justin Turner to ground out to end 
the game. The win put the Cubs on the brink of the World Series with a 
three games to two lead as the series moved back to Wrigley Field. The 
Cubs performed well against the Dodgers' bullpen in the series, scoring 
26 runs in 26⅔ innings pitched by Maeda and the Dodger bullpen.[24] Cubs 
pitchers Kyle Hendricks and Aroldis Chapman combined to allow only two 
hits, one walk, and face the minimum 27 batters, the first time this had 
occurred in postseason play since Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 
World Series. The Cubs won the series four games to two and won the pennant 
for the first time since 1945,[25] and the first time to win the pennant 
at home since 1932.[26] Hendricks pitched 7⅓ shutout innings, allowing 
just two hits and walking no one. After he allowed a single in the eighth, 
Chapman entered and forced a double play to end the eighth and a double 
play grounder to end the game, series, and the Cubs' 71-year pennant drought.[27] 
Anthony Rizzo and Willson Contreras each hit solo home runs and Kris Bryant, 
Ben Zobrist, and Dexter Fowler each drove in a run as the Cubs jumped up 
to a 5–0 lead in the fifth inning. Of the four Dodgers batters to reach 
first base, none reached second: Andrew Toles (single, first inning), Josh 
Reddick (single, eighth inning), and Carlos Ruiz (Walk, ninth inning) were 
all out on double plays. Reddick reached on a fielding error in the second 
inning but was picked off at first by Hendricks. As a result, the Cubs 
faced the minimum numbers of batters - 27 - to complete a nine-inning major 
league baseball game; this was only the second time a team faced the minimum 
in a postseason contest (Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series 
was the only other occurrence). The Dodgers' World Series drought reached 
28 years with the loss. Dodger starter Clayton Kershaw could not repeat 
his Game 2 magic as he gave up five runs, two home runs, and was replaced 
in the sixth inning. Relief pitcher Kenley Jansen shut the Cubs out for 
three innings, but it was too little too late.[28] Javier Báez & Jon Lester 
won NLCS co-MVP honors.[29] 2016 NLCS (4–2): Chicago Cubs beat Los Angeles 
