The 2016 San Francisco Giants season was the Giants' 134th year in Major 
League Baseball, their 59th year in San Francisco since their move from 
New York following the 1957 season, and their 17th at AT&T Park. They advanced 
to the postseason as the second National League Wild Card, and defeated 
the New York Mets in the Wild Card Game. They were defeated in four games 
by the Chicago Cubs in the Division Series. All schedule and scores taken 
from MLB.com.[18] Infielders Outfielders Coaches Despite having claimed 
the Wild Card spot on the final day of the regular season, the Giants were 
able to tab ace Madison Bumgarner for the Wild Card game start. Bumgarner 
had an excellent regular season for the Giants, finishing with a career-low 
in ERA and a career-high in strikeouts, finishing fourth in the National 
League in both categories. On the hill for the New York Mets was Noah Syndergaard, 
who himself finished 3rd in the NL in ERA and 9th in strikeouts. The pitching 
matchup didn't disappoint, it took until the bottom of the third inning 
for the game's first hit and baserunner, with Syndergaard striking out 
four straight batters on two occasions. The closest either side came to 
scoring was in the top of the 6th when, after Denard Span singled and stole 
second base with two outs, Brandon Belt hit a long fly ball to center field 
which was caught on the dead run by Curtis Granderson, smashing into the 
wall and holding on. Syndergaard exited after 7 innings, having struck 
out 10. Crucially as it turned out, the Giants had forced Syndergaard out 
of the game with Bumgarner still going strong. Another golden opportunity 
was squandered by the Giants in the top of the 8th inning, when Addison 
Reed struck out Hunter Pence to end the inning with the bases loaded. After 
Bumgarner left a runner in scoring position in the bottom of the 8th, the 
game moved to the 9th with the Mets bringing in closer Jeurys Familia. 
Brandon Crawford led the inning off with a double to left-center, but Ángel 
Pagán couldn't lay down the sacrifice bunt and then struck out. Joe Panik 
worked a walk and Conor Gillaspie stepped up to the plate to launch a three-run 
home run to right field. Gillaspie had only started the game because Eduardo 
Núñez was still dealing with a hamstring injury and had to be left off 
the roster. Bumgarner then got the final three outs, completing the shutout 
just as he had done in the 2014 Wild Card Game. Bumgarner made 119 pitches, 
allowed just 6 total baserunners, striking out 6 and setting an MLB record 
of 23 consecutive scoreless innings pitched in postseason elimination games.[19] 
With the win, the Giants equalled the Major League record for consecutive 
postseason series wins with 11, also extending their streak of postseason 
elimination game wins to 9.[20] Wednesday, October 5, 2016 – 8:07 p.m. 
(EDT) at Citi Field in New York City The Giants started 18-game winner 
Johnny Cueto in Game 1 of the NLDS, while the Cubs countered with 19-game 
winner Jon Lester. Just as in the Wild Card game, both starting pitchers 
lived up to the billing, and dominated the opposing team's lineup. Also 
as in that game, the Giants had slightly more opportunities to score in 
the early innings, but were unable to take advantage of them. The Giants 
had the leadoff man on base in each of the first three innings, but the 
Cubs, with the help of a caught stealing and a successful pickoff play 
at first base were able to wipe the runners off base quickly. Lester seemed 
to improve as the game went on, and the Giants found it difficult to have 
extended at bats against him. After 8 dominant innings in which he made 
just 86 pitches, Lester looked set to come out of the game, as his spot 
in the lineup along with the spot of his catcher David Ross were due up, 
and it looked as though Cubs manager Joe Maddon would decide to pinch-hit 
for them both. In the end before the game reached that point, Javier Báez 
cranked a home run to left-field off Cueto which would ultimately seal 
the game. Cueto nonetheless pitched superbly, striking out 10 in his 8 
innings of work and allowing just three hits in total. Neither starter 
walked a batter. Though Buster Posey doubled with two outs off Cubs closer 
Aroldis Chapman to give the Giants a faint hope, Hunter Pence grounded 
out to end the game and give the Cubs the lead in the series. The Giants 
started former Cub, Jeff Samardzija in Game 2. Samardzija had pitched well 
for the Giants down the stretch, but only lasted four innings in his last 
appearance at Wrigley Field. Unfortunately for the Giants, Samardzija produced 
a similar effort this time. Dexter Fowler led off the bottom of the 1st 
inning with a double and was eventually brought in to score on a two-out 
base hit by Ben Zobrist. The second inning proved Samardzija's undoing 
as he loaded the bases with nobody out on the way to giving up three more 
runs in the frame. A 4-run deficit to the Major League leader in ERA Kyle 
Hendricks appeared to be a large one already, but the Giants did bring 
themselves briefly back into the game. Joe Panik produced a leadoff double 
and that was followed by another from pinch-hitter Gregor Blanco spelling 
the end of the night for Samardzija. Blanco was brought in to score on 
a sacrifice fly from Brandon Belt and the Giants had halved the deficit. 
However, those were to be the only runs they would score. In the 4th inning, 
Hendricks took a line drive off the bat of Ángel Pagán off his arm and 
eventually decided to leave the game. This proved not to help the Giants 
as, not only did the Cubs bullpen shut them down the rest of the way, but 
also Travis Wood, brought on to relieve Hendricks, launched a solo home-run 
off George Kontos to pad the Cubs lead in the bottom half of the 4th. This 
was just the second time a relief pitcher has homered in a postseason game, 
the last time being in 1924.[21] Aroldis Chapman locked down the save again, 
and the Giants were faced with elimination in Game 3. Facing a possible 
sweep, the Giants were able to call on Madison Bumgarner to take the mound 
and try to extend their streak of elimination game wins. As a mark of the 
strength of the Cubs rotation, they were able to start an 18-game winner 
and the reigning Cy Young Award winner Jake Arrieta. Bumgarner wasn't especially 
sharp and he struggled to put away hitters in the second inning, culminating 
in a three-run home run with two strikes to Arrieta. The Giants were staring 
down the barrel with a 3–0 deficit. Buster Posey singled home Denard Span 
in the third and the Giants narrowed the gap to one in the 5th inning, 
with Span again the catalyst, tripling and scoring on Brandon Belt's sacrifice 
fly. Bumgarner left the game after five innings and the bullpen managed 
to keep the Cubs in check. There looked to be a major turning point in 
the bottom of the 6th inning, when a play at first was reviewed. After 
a spectacular sliding save from Javier Báez at one end, it appeared from 
multiple angles that first baseman Anthony Rizzo may have taken his foot 
off the base, but much to the consternation of the crowd, the call stood 
as called, wiping out a lead-off runner as the Giants were running out 
of time. In the bottom of the 8th inning, Belt singled to lead off the 
inning off Travis Wood, and Héctor Rondón walked Posey. With two on and 
nobody out, Joe Maddon called on Aroldis Chapman for a six out save. After 
Hunter Pence struck out, Wild Card hero Conor Gillaspie lined a two-run 
triple to the gap in right-center to turn the tables and give the Giants 
the one-run lead. Brandon Crawford then singled through the drawn-in infield 
and the Giants had an insurance run to lead 5–3. Crawford then stole second 
base, and advanced to third on an errant throw but the Giants weren't able 
to cash him in. Sergio Romo came in to try to close out the game, but Dexter 
Fowler drew a walk on 8 pitches and Kris Bryant sent a deep fly ball to 
left field that hit the top of the wall and bounced over for a game-tying 
two-run home run. The 9th inning had been a huge problem for the Giants 
all season, and that problem had surfaced again at a crucial time. Romo 
did manage to pitch through the inning without surrendering the lead, and 
the game went to extra innings. In the end, it was a battle of two left-handed 
long relievers to see who would crack first, Ty Blach for the Giants and 
Mike Montgomery for the Cubs. Crawford led off the bottom of the 13th inning 
with a double, and that was followed by a walk-off double off the high 
wall in right field by Joe Panik, and the Giants ensured there would be 
a Game 4 in the series. The Giants turned to trade deadline acquisition 
Matt Moore to keep them in the series. Moore, who had pitched in the Game 
162 win to see the Giants into the postseason would be opposed by John 
Lackey for the Cubs. The early going was good for the Giants as Denard 
Span doubled to lead off the Giants half of the 1st, and came into score 
on a sacrifice fly from Buster Posey. Though David Ross would homer to 
lead off the 3rd inning, the Giants would soon be back on top. With the 
bases loaded and 1 out in the bottom of the 4th, Moore singled home the 
go-ahead run, and another would come into score as Lackey couldn't maintain 
contact with first base as the Cubs attempted to double up Span. A throwing 
error from Brandon Crawford that allowed Javier Báez to reach third led 
to a Ross sacrifice fly that immediately cut the Giants lead to 1 in the 
5th. The Giants were to hit right back as, after Hunter Pence singled with 
one out in the bottom half of the inning, Crawford made amends by launching 
a double that would have been a home run were it not for a short section 
of railing on the top of the wall of Levi's Landing. Both runners would 
come into score anyway as Conor Gillaspie came through again with an RBI 
base hit (one of four hits in the game for him), and Joe Panik hit a sacrifice 
fly to give the Giants a 5–2 lead. The Cubs bullpen again shut the Giants 
down the rest of the way, but Moore was gradually becoming the story in 
the game. After 8 innings, Moore had delivered 120 pitches, surrendering 
just 2 hits, 2 walks and 2 runs (one unearned) whilst striking out 10. 
However in a stunning turn of events, five Giants relief pitchers combined 
to blow the game and the season in the 9th inning. Derek Law allowed a 
leadoff hit to Kris Bryant, Javier López walked Anthony Rizzo and Sergio 
Romo gave up an RBI double to Ben Zobrist setting up the tying runs in 
scoring position. Will Smith then entered to allow the tying hit to pinch-hitter 
Willson Contreras. Finally an out was recorded as Jason Heyward's sacrifice 
bunt ended up in a force play at second, but another Crawford error allowed 
Heyward to reach second base. Baez then came through for the Cubs again 
to bring in Heyward for the go-ahead run off Hunter Strickland. The Giants 
had blown another 9th inning lead, and didn't have a win in the 9th inning 
when trailing all season. Aroldis Chapman promptly struck out the side 
to eliminate the Giants. With the loss several streaks ended, the Giants 
equal MLB record 11 straight postseason series win streak, their MLB record 
10 game elimination game win streak, and also their even-year World Series 
win streak dating back to 2010. Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; R 
= Runs scored; H = Hits; 2B = Doubles; 3B = Triples; HR = Home runs; RBI 
= Runs batted in; BB = Base on balls; SO = Strikeouts; AVG = Batting average; 
OPS = On base plus slugging percentage; SB = Stolen bases Note: W = Wins; 
L = Losses; ERA = Earned run average; G = Games pitched; GS = Games started; 
SV = Saves; IP = Innings pitched; H = Hits allowed; R = Runs allowed; ER 
= Earned runs allowed; HR = Home runs allowed; BB = Walks allowed; K = 
