The 2016 World Series was the 112th edition of Major League Baseball's 
championship series, a best-of-seven playoff between the National League 
(NL) champion Chicago Cubs and the American League (AL) champion Cleveland 
Indians, the first meeting of those franchises in postseason history. The 
Indians had home-field advantage because the AL had won the 2016 All-Star 
Game.[2][3][4] The Cubs defeated the Indians in seven games, their first 
World Series victory in 108 years. They clinched the Series in Game 7 with 
an 8–7 win in extra innings, marking the fifth time that a Game 7 had gone 
past nine innings, and the first one to have a rain delay, which happened 
just as the tenth inning was about to start. It was only the sixth time 
in World Series history that a team came back from a deficit of three games 
to one to win a championship. This was the third consecutive year that 
the visiting team won the deciding game of the World Series. The Cubs were 
playing in their eleventh World Series and their first since 1945, and 
won their first championship since 1908. It was the Indians' sixth appearance 
in the World Series and their first since 1997, with their last Series 
win in 1948. The two teams entered their matchup as the two franchises 
with the longest World Series title droughts, a combined 176 years without 
a championship. Cleveland manager Terry Francona, who had previously won 
Series titles with the Boston Red Sox in 2004 and 2007, fell short in his 
bid to become the third manager, after Casey Stengel and Joe Torre, to 
win his first three trips to the Series. The Cubs were the sixth team to 
come back from a three games to one deficit to win a best-of-seven World 
Series, following the 1925 Pittsburgh Pirates, the 1958 New York Yankees, 
the 1968 Detroit Tigers, the 1979 Pirates, and the 1985 Kansas City Royals. 
The 2016 Cubs won Game 7 on the road like the 1958 Yankees, 1968 Tigers 
and 1979 Pirates. Also like the '68 Tigers and '79 Pirates, the Cubs had 
lost Games 1, 3 and 4. The Cubs made their eleventh appearance in the World 
Series; their only previous two championships were in 1907 and 1908, both 
against the Detroit Tigers. They lost their eight other appearances, in 
1906 against the Chicago White Sox, in 1910 against the Philadelphia Athletics, 
in 1918 against the Boston Red Sox, in 1929 against the Athletics, in 1932 
against the New York Yankees, in 1935 against the Tigers, in 1938 against 
the Yankees, and in 1945 against the Tigers.[5] The Cubs qualified for 
the postseason by winning the National League Central, ending the regular 
season with the best record in the major leagues (103–58) for the first 
time since 1945; they also posted their highest winning percentage since 
1935, and won their most games since 1910. The division title was their 
sixth since division play began in 1969, and their first since 2008.[6] 
They defeated the San Francisco Giants in four games of the NL Division 
Series before clinching their first NL pennant since 1945 with a sixth-game 
victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NL Championship Series.[7][8][9] 
For Cubs manager Joe Maddon, it was his second appearance in the World 
Series as manager – in 2008, he managed the Tampa Bay Rays when they beat 
the Boston Red Sox in seven games to win the AL pennant, then were defeated 
in five games by the Philadelphia Phillies in the World Series. It was 
also Maddon's third World Series appearance overall – in 2002, he was bench 
coach with the Anaheim Angels when they won the World Series in seven games. 
The Indians made their sixth appearance in the World Series. They won their 
first two championships in 1920 against the Brooklyn Robins and in 1948 
against the Boston Braves. They lost their three most recent appearances 
in the Fall Classic, losing to the New York Giants in 1954, the Atlanta 
Braves in 1995, and the Florida Marlins in 1997.[10] The Indians qualified 
for the postseason by winning the American League Central, their eighth 
division title and their first since 2007.[11] They defeated the Boston 
Red Sox in three games of the AL Division Series before clinching the pennant 
with a five-game victory over the Toronto Blue Jays in the AL Championship 
Series.[7] For Indians manager Terry Francona, it was his third appearance 
in the World Series, which he entered carrying an unbeaten 8–0 record from 
past games in the Fall Classic. Francona has won two World Series championships, 
in 2004 and 2007, both with the Red Sox.[12] Chicago won the series, 4–3. 
Former Indian and Cub Kenny Lofton threw the ceremonial first pitch before 
Game 1.[21] Corey Kluber started for the Indians, and Jon Lester started 
for the Cubs.[22] Kyle Schwarber, who had missed nearly all of the 2016 
season after tearing ligaments in his leg in the season's fourth game, 
was added to the Cubs' Series roster and started as their designated hitter.[23][24] 
Schwarber struck out twice, but also doubled and drew a walk.[25] The double 
made Schwarber the first non-pitcher to get his first hit of the season 
in the World Series.[26] Kluber made World Series history by striking out 
eight hitters in the first three innings.[27] Roberto Pérez hit two home 
runs and became the first ever ninth-place hitter with two homers in a 
Series game, the first Indians player to hit two homers in a Series game, 
and the first Puerto Rican-born player to hit two homers in a Series game.[28] 
Lester gave up three runs, one by hitting a batter with the bases loaded, 
and the Cub bullpen gave up a three-run home run by Pérez in the eighth. 
Andrew Miller and Cody Allen finished the victory for the Indians despite 
Miller having to pitch out of a bases-loaded jam in the seventh, and the 
Indians took Game 1 of the series 6–0.[29] Francona's World Series winning 
streak reached nine with this victory. Former Indian Carlos Baerga threw 
the ceremonial first pitch before Game 2.[21] The start time for the game 
was moved up an hour, because of the possibility of heavy rain in the forecast.[30] 
Looking to tie the series at one game apiece, the Cubs sent Jake Arrieta 
to the mound against the Indians' Trevor Bauer. The Cubs also featured 
six players under age 25 in the starting lineup, a postseason record.[31] 
The Cubs started things off early as Kris Bryant singled in the first inning 
and Anthony Rizzo doubled to score Bryant and give the Cubs an early 1–0 
lead.[32] Arrieta started well too, retiring the first two batters before 
walking back-to-back batters in the bottom of the first. However, Arrieta 
got a strikeout to end the inning. The Cubs struck again in the third following 
a two-out walk by Rizzo and a single by Ben Zobrist. A single by Kyle Schwarber 
scored Rizzo from second and pushed the Cub lead to 2–0. Bauer was forced 
from the game in the fourth, and the Cubs struck again in the fifth. Rizzo 
walked again, and Zobrist tripled to plate Rizzo.[33] Another run-scoring 
single by Schwarber and a bases-loaded walk by Addison Russell pushed the 
lead to 5–0.[34] Arrieta continued to pitch well, walking three batters 
but holding the Indians without a hit into the sixth inning.[35] In the 
sixth, a double by Jason Kipnis ended the no-hitter, and a wild pitch by 
Arrieta two batters later scored the first Indians run.[36] Arrieta allowed 
another single and was lifted for reliever Mike Montgomery. Both teams 
threatened in the seventh but could not score and, following a single by 
Mike Napoli in the bottom of the eighth, Aroldis Chapman entered to finish 
the game for the Cubs. The win marked the Cubs' first World Series win 
since 1945 and tied up the series at one game all.[37] The game marked 
Indians manager Terry Francona's first loss in ten World Series games. 
For Game 3, former Cub Billy Williams threw the ceremonial first pitch 
before the start of the game, and Bill Murray sang "Take Me Out to the 
Ball Game" during the seventh-inning stretch, to mark the Cubs' first World 
Series night game at home.[38] Chicago pitcher Kyle Hendricks started against 
Cleveland pitcher Josh Tomlin. The game's only run came off a Coco Crisp 
single that scored Michael Martínez from third in the seventh inning. Josh 
Tomlin, Andrew Miller, Bryan Shaw, and Cody Allen combined to shut out 
the Cubs.[39][40] Allen earned his sixth postseason save as Javier Báez 
struck out swinging to end the game, leaving the tying and winning runs 
in scoring position. It was the fourth time in which the Cubs had lost 
in a shutout during the 2016 postseason.[41] For Game 4, former Cub pitchers 
Greg Maddux and Ferguson Jenkins threw the ceremonial first pitches before 
the start of the game,[42] and Vince Vaughn sang "Take Me Out to the Ball 
Game" during the seventh-inning stretch.[43] Although the Cubs scored first 
in the first inning, Kluber held them to that one run through six innings 
before Francona turned it over to the bullpen. Lackey gave up three runs, 
two of them earned, one in the second and a home run to Carlos Santana 
in the third. Kris Bryant committed two errors in the second inning. Kipnis 
put the Indians ahead 7–1 with a three-run home run in the seventh, although 
the Cubs got one run back in the eighth, on a Dexter Fowler home run off 
Andrew Miller, the first run he gave up in this post-season.[44][45] For 
Game 5, former Cubs star and Hall of Fame member Ryne Sandberg threw the 
ceremonial first pitch before the start of the game, and Eddie Vedder sang 
"Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during the seventh-inning stretch.[46] José 
Ramírez hit a home run for Cleveland in the second inning,[47] but the 
Cubs scored three runs in the fourth inning, including a solo home run 
by Kris Bryant.[48] With the tying run on second base in the seventh inning, 
Maddon brought in Aroldis Chapman, who threw 2 2⁄3 scoreless innings, earning 
his first save of the series and fourth overall this postseason.[49] The 
last living member of Cleveland's 1948 World Series championship team, 
Eddie Robinson, attended Game 6 at Progressive Field.[52][53] Former Indians 
pitcher Dennis Martínez threw out the ceremonial first pitch before the 
game.[54] The Cubs scored three runs in the first inning on a Kris Bryant 
solo home run and a two-run double by Addison Russell.[55] In the third 
inning, Russell hit a grand slam to extend the Cubs lead to 7–0.[56] It 
was the first grand slam hit in a World Series since Paul Konerko of the 
crosstown Chicago White Sox in Game 2 of the 2005 World Series. In the 
bottom of the fourth, Mike Napoli drove in Jason Kipnis with an RBI single 
to cut the deficit to 7–1. In the bottom of the fifth, Kipnis drove a ball 
over the left field wall for a solo home run to make it a 7–2 game. In 
the top of the ninth with a runner on and two outs, Anthony Rizzo drove 
a ball to right field for a two-run home run to make it 9–2.[57] Russell's 
six RBIs tied a World Series single-game record.[50][51] Arrieta became 
the first NL starting pitcher to notch two road wins in a single World 
Series since the St. Louis Cardinals' Bob Gibson in 1967.[58] Former Indians 
player Jim Thome threw the ceremonial first pitch before the game.[59] 
Dexter Fowler led off the game with a home run for Chicago, becoming the 
first player ever to hit a lead-off home run in a World Series Game 7.[60] 
The Indians tied the game in the bottom of the third inning with an RBI 
single by Santana, but the Cubs scored two runs in the fourth inning with 
a sacrifice fly by Russell and a double by Willson Contreras. To start 
the fifth inning, Báez hit a home run on the first pitch he saw to center 
to knock Corey Kluber out of the game;[61] Andrew Miller came on in relief 
and gave up a walk to Kris Bryant and RBI single to Anthony Rizzo to push 
the lead to 5–1. A two out walk to Carlos Santana was more than enough 
for Joe Maddon to relieve Kyle Hendricks. Jon Lester came on in relief 
but David Ross committed a throwing error that allowed Jason Kipnis to 
reach base and put runners on second and third. A wild pitch that ricocheted 
off Ross' helmet allowed Santana and Kipnis to score, narrowing the Cubs' 
lead to 5–3.[62] Ross hit another home run at the top of the sixth to make 
it a three run game, becoming the oldest player to homer in a World Series 
Game 7.[63] The Indians tied the game in the eighth inning with an RBI 
double by Brandon Guyer and a two-run home run inside the left-field foul 
pole by Rajai Davis off Cubs closer Aroldis Chapman.[64] Here's the 0–1. 
This is gonna be a tough play. Bryant...The Cubs...win the World Series! 
Bryant makes the play! It's over! And the Cubs have finally won it all! 
8–7 in 10! With the game tied at six after nine innings, heavy rain rapidly 
approached the area, and the game went into a 17-minute rain delay.[66] 
Going into extra innings, the Cubs scored two runs in the top of the tenth 
inning on a double by Ben Zobrist and a single by Miguel Montero.[67] The 
Indians scored a run on a single by Davis in the bottom of the tenth inning, 
but Mike Montgomery finished the game for Chicago, retiring Martínez with 
an infield grounder fielded by Bryant near the mound, to end the game, 
series, baseball season and their 108-year "curse".[68][69] Zobrist won 
the World Series MVP award.[70][71] The Cubs became the first team to come 
back from a 3–1 deficit to win the Series since the 1985 Kansas City Royals. 
They were also the first since the 1979 Pittsburgh Pirates to do so while 
winning Games 6 and 7 on the road. 2016 World Series (4–3): Chicago Cubs 
beat Cleveland Indians. Fox televised the series in the United States, 
under contract with Major League Baseball giving it exclusive rights to 
the World Series through 2021. Joe Buck was the network's play-by-play 
announcer, with John Smoltz as color commentator and Ken Rosenthal and 
Tom Verducci as field reporters.[72] Fox Deportes also aired the Series 
and provided a Spanish-language simulcast over-the-air via Fox's SAP audio, 
with Carlos Álvarez and Duaner Sánchez announcing.[73] Sportsnet in English 
and RDS in French televised the series in Canada. Sportsnet used the MLB 
International feed produced by the MLB Network; Matt Vasgersian was MLB 
International's play-by-play announcer with the Toronto Blue Jays' play-by-play 
announcer Buck Martinez as their color analyst and MLB Network correspondent 
Lauren Shehadi and analyst Mark DeRosa as field reporters.[citation needed] 
Alain Usereau and former Montreal Expos player Marc Griffin handled the 
French-language telecast for RDS.[74] BT Sport televised the series live 
in the United Kingdom and Ireland.[75] WAPA-TV transmitted the series to 
Puerto Rico, with Rafael Bracero at the helm of the station's sports commentary 
of the series.[76] Initial reports often utilize "fast national" ratings, 
which are subject to revision.[77] Game 7 had over 40 million viewers, 
the largest audience for a baseball game since Game 7 of the 1991 World 
Series, while the series as a whole was the first to average double-digit 
ratings nationally since 2009.[78][79] ESPN Radio's national network covered 
the World Series through affiliated stations, with Dan Shulman providing 
the play-by-play and Aaron Boone serving as color analyst.[72] Tampa Bay 
Rays pitcher Chris Archer appeared as a guest analyst for select innings 
of Games 1 and 2.[87] Locally, the teams' flagship stations broadcast the 
series with their regular announcers. In Cleveland, WTAM (1100) and WMMS 
(100.7) carried the Indians' play-by-play with Tom Hamilton and Jim Rosenhaus, 
while in Chicago, WSCR (670) carried the Cubs' play-by-play with Pat Hughes, 
Ron Coomer, and Len Kasper.[88] The affiliate stations of the teams' regional 
radio networks, however, were contractually obligated to carry the national 
ESPN Radio feed.[89] Following the team's win in game 7, Cubs fans congregated 
at Wrigley Field to celebrate the title.[90] On November 4, the team's 
victory parade began at Wrigley Field and headed down Lake Shore Drive 
toward downtown for a noon rally at Grant Park.[91] Country singer Brett 
Eldredge sang a cover of "Go, Cubs, Go" during the rally.[92] The city 
estimated that over five million people attended the World Series celebration 
[93] which would make it one of the largest human gatherings in history. 
