The 2016 Summer Olympics (Portuguese: Jogos Olímpicos de Verão de 2016),[a] 
officially known as the Games of the XXXI Olympiad and commonly known as 
Rio 2016, was a major international multi-sport event held in Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil, from 5 August to 21 August 2016. More than 11,000 athletes from 
207 National Olympic Committees, including first time entrants Kosovo, 
South Sudan, and the Refugee Olympic Team, took part.[1][2] With 306 sets 
of medals, the games featured 28 Olympic sports, including rugby sevens 
and golf, which were added to the Olympic program in 2009. These sporting 
events took place at 33 venues in the host city, and at five in São Paulo, 
Belo Horizonte, Salvador, Brasília, and Manaus. These were the first Summer 
Olympic Games under the International Olympic Committee (IOC) presidency 
of Thomas Bach.[2] The host city Rio de Janeiro was announced at the 121st 
IOC Session in Copenhagen, Denmark, on 2 October 2009. Rio became the first 
South American city to host the Summer Olympics. These were the first games 
to be held in a Portuguese-speaking country, the first to be held entirely 
in the host country's winter, the first since 1968 to be held in Latin 
America, and the first since 2000 to be held in the Southern Hemisphere.[3] 
The lead-up to these Games was marked by controversies, including the instability 
of the country's federal government; health and safety concerns surrounding 
the Zika virus and significant pollution in the Guanabara Bay; and a doping 
scandal involving Russia, which has affected the participation of its athletes 
in the Games. The United States topped the medal table for the fifth time 
in the past six Summer Olympics, winning the most golds (46) and most medals 
overall (121), as well as its 1,000th Olympic gold medal overall. Great 
Britain finished second and became the first country in the history of 
the modern Olympics to increase its tally of medals in the subsequent games 
after being the host nation. China finished third. Host country Brazil 
won seven gold medals, its most at any single Summer Olympics, finishing 
in thirteenth place. Fiji, Jordan, Kosovo, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Tajikistan, 
Ivory Coast and Vietnam each won their first gold medals, as did the group 
of Independent Olympic Athletes (from Kuwait). The bidding process for 
the 2016 Olympic Games was officially launched on 16 May 2007.[4] The first 
step for each city was to submit an initial application to the International 
Olympic Committee (IOC) by 13 September 2007, confirming their intention 
to bid. Completed official bid files, containing answers to a 25-question 
IOC form, were to be submitted by each applicant city by 14 January 2008. 
Four candidate cities were chosen for the shortlist on 4 June 2008: Chicago, 
Madrid, Rio de Janeiro and Tokyo, which hosted the 1964 Summer Olympics 
and will host again in 2020. The IOC did not promote Doha to the candidature 
phase, despite scoring higher than selected candidate city Rio de Janeiro, 
because of their intent of hosting the Olympics in October, outside of 
the IOC's sporting calendar. Prague and Baku also failed to make the cut.[5] 
Nawal El Moutawakel of Morocco headed the 10-member Evaluation Commission, 
having also chaired the evaluation commission for the 2012 Summer Olympics 
bids. The commission made on-site inspections in the second quarter of 
2009. They issued a comprehensive technical appraisal for IOC members on 
2 September, one month before elections.[6] Many restrictions are in place 
designed to prevent bidding cities from communicating with or influencing 
directly the 115 voting members. Cities may not invite any IOC member to 
visit nor may they send anything that could be construed as a gift. Nonetheless, 
bidding cities invest large sums in their PR and media programs in an attempt 
to indirectly influence the IOC members by garnering domestic support, 
support from sports media and general international media. The final voting 
was held on 2 October 2009, in Copenhagen with Madrid and Rio de Janeiro 
perceived as favourites to land the games. Chicago and Tokyo were eliminated 
after the first and second rounds of voting, respectively, while Rio de 
Janeiro took a significant lead over Madrid heading into the final round. 
The lead held and Rio de Janeiro was announced as host of 2016 Summer Olympics. 
On 26 June 2011, it was reported on AroundTheRings.com that Roderlei Generali, 
the COO of the Rio de Janeiro Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games, 
resigned just one year after taking the job at ROOC. This comes just five 
months after CCO Flávio Pestana quit for personal reasons.[9] Pestana withdrew 
later during the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Renato Ciuchin was then appointed 
as COO.[10] Events took place at eighteen existing venues, nine new venues 
constructed specifically for the Games, and seven temporary venues.[11] 
Each event was held in one of four geographically segregated Olympic clusters: 
Barra, Copacabana, Deodoro, and Maracanã. The same was done for the 2007 
Pan American Games.[12][13] Several of the venues were located at the Barra 
Cluster Olympic Park.[11] Athletes could access their venues in shorter 
than 10 minutes and about 75 percent could do so in less than 25 minutes. 
Of the 34 competition locales, eight have undergone permanent works, seven 
are limited, and nine are perpetual legacy venues.[14] The largest venue 
at the games in terms of seating capacity was the 74,738-seat Maracanã 
Stadium, which served as the ceremonies venue and site of the football 
finals.[11] The second largest stadium was the 60,000-seat Estádio Olímpico 
João Havelange, which hosted track and field events.[11] The athletes' 
village was said to be the largest in Olympic history. Fittings included 
about 80,000 chairs, 70,000 tables, 29,000 mattresses, 60,000 clothes hangers, 
6,000 television sets and 10,000 smartphones.[15] The Barra Olympic Park 
is a cluster of nine sporting venues in Barra da Tijuca, in the west zone 
of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The site of the Olympic Park was formerly occupied 
by the Autódromo Internacional Nelson Piquet, also known as Jacarepaguá.[16] 
The nine venues within the Olympic Park are:[17][18] Carioca Arena 1: basketball 
(capacity: 16,000); Carioca Arena 2: wrestling, judo (capacity: 10,000); 
Carioca Arena 3: fencing, taekwondo (capacity: 10,000); Future Arena: handball 
(capacity: 12,000); Maria Lenk Aquatics Centre: diving, synchronised swimming, 
water polo (capacity: 5,000); Olympic Aquatics Stadium: swimming, water 
polo play-offs (capacity: 15,000); Olympic Tennis Centre: tennis (capacity: 
10,000 Main Court); Rio Olympic Arena: gymnastics (capacity: 12,000); and 
Rio Olympic Velodrome: track cycling (capacity: 5,000). As well as the 
Estádio Olímpico João Havelange and Maracanã and in Rio de Janeiro, football 
matches took place at 5 venues in the cities of São Paulo, Belo Horizonte, 
Salvador, Brasília and Manaus. Maracanã Stadium Rio de Janeiro Arena Amazônia 
Manaus Arena Corinthians São Paulo Arena Fonte Nova Salvador Estádio Nacional 
Brasília Mineirão Belo Horizonte Rio's historical downtown is undergoing 
a large-scale urban waterfront revitalization project called Porto Maravilha.[19] 
It covers 5 km2 (1.9 sq mi) in area. The project aims to redevelop the 
port area, increasing the city center's attractiveness and enhancing Rio's 
competitive position in the global economy. The urban renovation involves: 
700 km (430 mi) of public networks for water supply, sanitation, drainage, 
electricity, gas and telecom; 4 km (2.5 mi) of tunnels; 70 km (43 mi) of 
roads; 650 km2 (250 sq mi) of sidewalks; 17 km (11 mi) of bike path; 15,000 trees; 
three sanitation treatment plants. As part of this renovation, a new tram 
was built from the Santos Dumont Airport to Rodoviária Novo Rio. It was 
due to open in April 2016.[20] The Games required more than 200 kilometres 
of security fencing. A 15,000 square metre warehouse in Barra da Tijuca 
in western Rio was used to assemble and supply the furniture and fittings 
for the Olympic Village. A second warehouse of 90,000 square metres, located 
in Duque de Caxias near the roads that provide access to the venues, contained 
all the equipment needed for the sporting events.[15] The medal design 
was unveiled on 15 June 2016; they were produced by the Casa da Moeda do 
Brasil. The bronze and silver medals contained 30% recycled materials, 
while the gold medals were produced using gold that had been mined and 
extracted using means that met a series of sustainability criteria, such 
as being extracted without the use of mercury. The medals feature a wreath 
design, while the obverse, as is traditional, features Nike, the Greek 
goddess of victory. They were accompanied by a wooden carrying box, while 
medallists also received a trophy of the Games' emblem.[21][22] As an aspect 
of its bid, Rio's organizing committee committed to a focus on sustainability 
and environmental protection as a theme of these Games, going on to dub 
them a "Green Games for a Blue Planet".[23] Organizers intended to, as 
legacy projects, introduce a wider array of public transport options, upgrade 
the infrastructure of the favelas to provide improved transport and access 
to utilities, upgrade Rio's sewer system in order to remediate the level 
of pollution in the Guanabara Bay.[23][24] and plant 24 million seedlings 
to offset the expected carbon emissions of the Games. However, some of 
these projects were met with delays or faced with economic shortfalls, 
which led some critics to believe that Rio would not be able to accomplish 
them.[23][25] The focus on environmental protection also influenced the 
implementation of certain Olympic protocols: the Olympic cauldron was designed 
to be smaller than previous iterations in order to reduce emissions, and 
utilizes a kinetic sculpture to enhance its appearance in lieu of a larger 
body of flames.[26] The bronze and silver medals, as well as ribbons on 
all medals, incorporate recycled materials,[21][22] and athletes were not 
presented with flowers during medal ceremonies, as had been traditionally 
done at prior Olympics (although flowers were still used as part of the 
staging of medal presentations). Organizers considered the practice to 
be wasteful since they were often thrown away, and "would struggle to survive 
in the tropical Brazilian climate" if kept. The podiums were also designed 
so that their materials could be recycled to make furniture.[22][27] The 
Future Arena, host of handball competitions, was designed as a modular 
temporary venue whose components can be reconstructed to build schools.[28] 
Portions of the opening ceremony were also dedicated to the issue of climate 
change.[29] The Olympic flame was lit at the temple of Hera in Olympia 
on 21 April 2016, the traditional start of the Greek phase of the torch 
relay. On 27 April the flame was handed over to the Brazilian organizers 
at a ceremony at the Panathenaic Stadium in Athens. A brief stop was made 
in Switzerland to visit the IOC headquarters and the Olympic Museum in 
Lausanne as well as the United Nations Office at Geneva.[30] The torch 
relay began its Brazilian journey on 3 May at the capital Brasília. The 
torch relay visited more than 300 Brazilian cities (including all the 26 
states capitals and the Brazilian Federal District), with the last part 
held in the city of Rio de Janeiro,[31] lighting the cauldron during the 
2016 Summer Olympics opening ceremony on 5 August. The ticket prices were 
announced on 16 September 2014, all of which were sold in Brazilian reais 
(BRL). A total of 7.5 million tickets were to be sold in total, with ticket 
prices ranging from BRL 40 for many events to BRL 4,600 for the most expensive 
seats at the opening ceremony. About 3.8 million of these tickets were 
available for BRL 70 or less.[32][33] The opening ceremony took place in 
the Maracanã Stadium on 5 August 2016, and was directed by Fernando Meirelles, 
Daniela Thomas and Andrucha Waddington.[34] The ceremony highlighted aspects 
of Brazilian history and culture, and featured a segment narrated by Fernanda 
Montenegro and Judi Dench with an appeal to environmental conservation 
and preventing global warming.[29][35] The ceremony also featured the inaugural 
presentation of the Olympic Laurel, an honour bestowed by the IOC to those 
that have made "significant achievements in education, culture, development 
and peace through sport", to Kipchoge "Kip" Keino.[36] The Games were officially 
opened by Acting President of Brazil Michel Temer.[37] The Olympic cauldron 
was lit by Vanderlei Cordeiro de Lima, the men's marathon bronze medallist 
at the 2004 Summer Olympics who was also awarded the Pierre de Coubertin 
medal for sportsmanship by the IOC after being attacked by a spectator 
and losing his lead. The cauldron was originally expected to be lit by 
Brazilian footballer Pelé, but he declined to participate due to health 
problems.[35][38][39] A public cauldron was lit in front of the Candelária 
Church by a 14-year-old participant in Rio's Vila Olimpica program—which 
provides access to training facilities to disadvantaged youth.[40][41] 
The 2016 Summer Olympic programme featured 28 sports encompassing 306 events. 
The number of events in each discipline is noted in parentheses. In April 
2008, the IOC began accepting applications for two new sports to be introduced 
to the Olympic programme, which included baseball and softball (which were 
dropped in 2005), karate, squash, golf, roller sports, and rugby union 
all applied to be included. Formal presentations were held for the IOC 
executive board in June 2009.[42] In August, the executive board initially 
gave its approval to rugby sevens—a seven-player version of rugby union—by 
a majority vote, thus removing baseball, roller sports, and squash from 
contention. Among the remaining three—golf, karate, and softball—the board 
approved golf as a result of consultation. The final decision regarding 
the remaining two sports was made on 9 October 2009, the final day of the 
121st IOC Session. A new system was in place at this session; a sport now 
needed only a simple majority from the full IOC committee for approval 
rather than the two-thirds majority previously required.[43][44] The International 
Sailing Federation announced in May 2012 that windsurfing would be replaced 
at the 2016 Olympics by kitesurfing,[45] but this decision was reversed 
in November.[46] The IOC announced in January 2013 that it would review 
the status of cycling events, following Lance Armstrong's admission of 
using performance-enhancing drugs and accusations that cycling's governing 
body had covered up doping.[47] All 206 National Olympic Committees have 
qualified at least one athlete.[citation needed] The first three nations 
to qualify athletes for the Games were Germany, Great Britain, and the 
Netherlands who each qualified four athletes for the team dressage by winning 
medals in the team event at the 2014 FEI World Equestrian Games.[48] As 
host nation, Brazil has received automatic entry for some sports including 
in all cycling disciplines and six places for weightlifting events.[49][50] 
The 2016 Summer Olympics are the first games in which Kosovo and South 
Sudan are eligible to participate. Bulgarian and Russian weightlifters 
were banned from Rio Olympics for numerous anti-doping violations.[51][52] 
Kuwait was banned in October 2015 for the second time in five years over 
government interference in the country's Olympic committee.[53] Due to 
the European migrant crisis and other reasons, the International Olympic 
Committee (IOC) allowed athletes to compete as Independent Olympians under 
the Olympic Flag. In the previous Olympic Games, refugees were ineligible 
to compete because of their inability to represent their home NOCs.[54] 
On 2 March 2016, the IOC finalized plans for a specific Refugee Olympic 
Team (ROT); out of 43 refugee athletes deemed potentially eligible, 10 
were chosen to form the team.[55] Due to the suspension of the National 
Olympic Committee of Kuwait, participants from Kuwait were allowed to participate 
under the Olympic Flag as Independent Olympic Athletes. In November 2015, 
Russia was provisionally suspended from all international athletic competitions 
by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) following 
a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report into a doping program in the country.[56] 
The IAAF announced that it would allow individual Russian athletes to apply 
for "exceptional eligibility" to participate in the Games as "neutral" 
athletes, if it were independently verified that they had not engaged in 
doping nor in the Russian doping program.[57] On 24 July 2016, the IOC 
rejected the IAAF and WADA's recommendations to allow clean athletes to 
compete neutrally, stating that the Olympic Charter "does not foresee such 
'neutral athletes'" and that it was up to each country's National Olympic 
Committee to decide which athletes would be competing.[58] During the Games 
some countries and continents had a national house. These temporary meeting 
places for supporters, athletes and other followers were located throughout 
Rio de Janeiro.[59] Source[59] This is currently based on the schedule 
released on the same day as ticket sales began, 31 March 2015.[60] Twenty-seven 
world records and ninety-one Olympic records were set during the 2016 Summer 
Olympics. The records were set in archery, athletics, canoeing, cycling 
track, modern pentathlon, rowing, shooting, swimming and weightlifting. 
The top ten listed NOCs by number of gold medals are listed below. Host 
nation Brazil finished in 13th place with a total of 19 medals (7 gold, 
6 silver, and 6 bronze). To sort this table by nation, total medal count, 
or any other column, click on the icon next to the column title. * Host 
nation (Brazil) (Brazil is ranked at #13. See the complete medals table 
at 2016 Summer Olympics medal table.) A number of events, most notably 
in aquatics, beach volleyball, and track and field, were scheduled with 
sessions and matches occurring as late as 22:00 to 00:00 BRT. These scheduling 
practices were influenced primarily by United States broadcast rightsholder 
NBC (due to the substantial fees NBC has paid for rights to the Olympics, 
the IOC has sometimes allowed NBC to have influence on event scheduling 
to maximize U.S. television ratings when possible), as well as the main 
Brazilian rightsholder Rede Globo. As Brasília time is only one hour ahead 
of the U.S. Eastern Time Zone, certain marquee events were scheduled so 
they could occur during the lucrative U.S. primetime hours (traditionally 
20:00 to 23:00 ET, or 21:00 to 00:00 BRT), allowing them to be broadcast 
live on the U.S. east coast as opposed to being delayed. This practice 
was also to the benefit of domestic broadcaster Rede Globo, which elected 
to not preempt its widely viewed lineup of primetime telenovelas for the 
Games. However, Globo did preempt its telenovelas for the opening ceremony; 
a Brazilian television critic noted that Globo very rarely preempts its 
telenovelas.[61][62][63][64] The closing ceremony of the 2016 Summer Olympics 
was held on 21 August 2016 from 20:00 to 22:50 BRT at the Maracanã Stadium.[65] 
As per traditional Olympic protocol, the ceremony featured cultural presentations 
from both the current (Brazil) and following (Japan) host countries, as 
well as closing remarks by International Olympic Committee (IOC) president 
Thomas Bach and the leader of the Games' organizing committee Carlos Arthur 
Nuzman, the official handover of the Olympic flag from Rio de Janeiro mayor 
Eduardo Paes to Tokyo governor Yuriko Koike, whose city will host the 2020 
Summer Olympics, and the extinguishing of the Olympic flame.[66] The creative 
director for the ceremony was Rosa Magalhães.[67] Amid heavy rainfall, 
the ceremony began with interpretive dancers representing various landmarks 
in the host city. Martinho da Vila then performed a rendition of the classic 
song "Carinhoso (pt)" by Pixinguinha. In another segment, introducing the 
athletes, pop singer Roberta Sá channeled Carmen Miranda, the fruit-headdress-wearing, 
midcentury Hollywood diva who endures as a beloved camp figure. The Parade 
of Flags followed shortly after a choir of 27 children, representing the 
states of Brazil, sang the Brazilian national anthem. Olympic Broadcasting 
Services served as the host broadcaster for these Games; produced from 
a total of 52 mobile units, OBS distributed 40,000 hours of television 
footage and 60,000 hours of digital footage of the Games to its international 
rightsholders; for the first time in Olympic history, digital-oriented 
footage exceeded the amount of television-oriented footage. The International 
Broadcast Centre was constructed in the Barra da Tijuca cluster.[68] NHK 
and OBS once again filmed portions of the Games, including the opening 
ceremony and selected events, in 8K resolution video. Additionally, expanding 
upon a 180-degree trial at the 2016 Winter Youth Olympics, 85 hours of 
video content were originated in 360-degree virtual reality formats.[69] 
In the United States, NBC offered 4K content, downconverted from the 8K 
footage and with HDR and Dolby Atmos support, to participating television 
providers.[70] Owing to their expertise in domestic broadcasts of the new 
sports introduced in Rio, NBC and Sky New Zealand staff handled the production 
of the golf and rugby sevens events on behalf of OBS.[68] In August 2009, 
the IOC reached a deal to sell domestic broadcast rights to the 2016 Summer 
Olympics to Grupo Globo. Replacing Rede Record, the deal covers free-to-air 
coverage on Rede Globo, pay TV, and digital rights to the Games. In turn, 
Globo sub-licensed partial free-to-air rights to Rede Record, along with 
Rede Bandeirantes. IOC board member Richard Carrión described the agreement 
as "unprecedented", touting that "by working with Brazil's leading media 
organizations, we are confident that this represents a great deal for Olympic 
fans in the region. There will be a huge increase in the amount of Olympic 
action broadcast, both during and outside Games time, and Brazilians will 
have more choice of how, when and where they follow their Olympic Games."[71] 
The official mascots of the 2016 Summer Olympics and Paralympics were unveiled 
on 24 November 2014. They were created by Sao Paulo-based animation company 
Birdo.[72] The Olympic mascot Vinicius, named after musician Vinicius de 
Moraes, represents Brazilian wildlife and carries design traits of cats, 
monkeys, and birds.[72] According to their fictional backgrounds, the mascots 
"were both born from the joy of Brazilians after it was announced that 
Rio would host the Games."[73] Brand director Beth Lula stated that the 
mascots are intended to reflect the diversity of Brazil's culture and people.[74] 
The names of the mascots were determined by a public vote whose results 
were announced on 14 December 2014; the names, which reference the co-writers 
of the song "The Girl from Ipanema", won over two other sets of names, 
tallying 44 percent of 323,327 votes.[75] At the Olympic wrestling events, 
coaches were given plush dolls of Vinicius to throw into the ring when 
they wished to challenge a referee's call.[76] The official emblem for 
the 2016 Summer Olympics was designed by the Brazilian agency Tatíl Design 
and unveiled on 31 December 2010, winning in a competition against 139 
agencies.[77] The logo represents three figures joined at their arms and 
feet, with the overall shape reflecting that of Sugarloaf Mountain. The 
emblem was also designed to have a three-dimensional form, which designer 
Fred Gelli claimed made it the "first 3D logo in the history of the Olympics."[78] 
The logo has been noted as evoking Henri Matisse's painting Dance. There 
were also allegations by the Colorado-based Telluride Foundation that the 
logo had been plagiarized from its own. While also consisting of several 
figures linked in motion, the Telluride Foundation logo contains four figures. 
This is not the first time that the foundation had alleged plagiarism of 
its logo by a Brazilian event; in 2004, the linked figures element had 
been copied for the logo of Carnival celebrations in Salvador. Gelli defended 
the allegations, stating that the concept of figures linked in embrace 
was not inherently original as it was "an ancient reference" and "in the 
collective unconscious". Gelli cited Dance as an influence of the logo's 
concept, and stated that the designers had intentionally aimed to make 
the interpretation of the concept as dissimilar to others as possible.[79] 
An ongoing outbreak of the mosquito-borne Zika virus in Brazil has raised 
fears regarding its potential impact on athletes and visitors. Organizers 
plan to perform daily inspections of Olympic venues to prevent puddles 
of stagnant water that allow mosquitoes to breed.[80] Zika virus transmission 
was also attributed to inefficient sewage treatment in the area, and sewage 
treatment was being improved in preparation for the Games.[81] In May 2016, 
a group of 150 physicians and scientists sent an open letter to the World 
Health Organization, calling upon them to, according to co-author Arthur 
Caplan, have "an open, transparent discussion of the risks of holding the 
Olympics as planned in Brazil". The WHO dismissed the request, stating 
that "cancelling or changing the location of the 2016 Olympics will not 
significantly alter the international spread of Zika virus", and that there 
was "no public health justification" for postponing them.[82][83][84] Some 
athletes did not attend the Games because of the epidemic.[85][86] On 2 
September 2016, the World Health Organization reported that there were 
no confirmed cases of Zika among athletes or visitors during the Olympics.[87] 
The Guanabara Bay, whose waters were used for sailing and windsurfing competitions, 
is heavily polluted. Among the chief causes of the pollution are uncollected 
trash fed into the bay via polluted rivers and slums along the coast. Pollution 
of the Guanabara has been a long-term issue. Officials promised at the 
Earth Summit in 1992 that they would begin to address the pollution but 
previous attempts to do so have been insufficient. As an aspect of their 
bid for the Games, Rio once again committed to making efforts towards cleaning 
the bay.[88][89] However, some of these proposed initiatives have faced 
budgetary issues.[24] Prior to these efforts, only 17% of Rio's sewage 
was treated;[90] this raw sewage also leaked into the bay. Although Mayor 
of Rio Eduardo Paes stated that the city may not be able to reach its goal 
of having 80% of sewage treated,[91] at least 60% of sewage was treated 
by March 2016, with a projected goal of 65% of sewage being treated by 
the time the Olympics started.[92] In 2014, Operation Car Wash, an investigation 
by the Federal Police of Brazil, uncovered unprecedented money laundering 
and corruption at the state-controlled oil company Petrobras. In early 
2015, a series of protests against alleged corruption by the government 
of President Dilma Rousseff began in Brazil, triggered by revelations that 
numerous politicians were involved in the Petrobras affair. By early 2016, 
the scandal had escalated into a full-blown political crisis affecting 
not only President Rousseff, but also former President Luiz Inácio Lula 
da Silva, resulting in massive demonstrations all over the country involving 
millions of protesters,[93] both anti and pro-Rousseff.[94][95] At the 
same time, Brazil faced its worst economic recession since the 1990s, raising 
questions about whether the country was adequately prepared for the Games 
against a volatile political and economic backdrop. On 12 May, President 
Rousseff was stripped of her powers and duties for 180 days, after an impeachment 
vote in the Federal Senate, thus Vice President Michel Temer acted as acting 
president during the Games.[96] Since the award of the 2016 Olympics to 
Rio de Janeiro, the city's crime problems received more attention. Rio's 
mayor said that there are "big issues" facing the city in securing the 
Games from violence. However, he also said that such concerns and issues 
were presented to the IOC throughout the bidding process.[97] The governor 
of the state of Rio de Janeiro also highlighted the fact that London faced 
security problems, with a terrorist attack occurring on the day following 
the IOC session that chose the city to host the 2012 Olympic Games. The 
estimate was that 5,000 men of the National Public Security Force and 22,000 
military officers (14,800 Army; 5,900 Navy and 1,300 of the Brazilian Air 
Force), in addition to the fixed quota of Rio January, would act during 
the Olympic Games.[98] On 21 July 2016, two weeks before the scheduled 
start of the Games, Brazilian Federal Police broke up an Islamic jihadist 
terrorist ring, with 10 ISIS associates arrested and two more on the run.[99] 
While the whole city underwent major infrastructure improvements, there 
were concerns that some of the projects would never materialise.[100] On 
21 April—the day that the Olympic torch was lit—a 50 metres (164 ft) section 
of the Tim Maia bike path, crossing the Oscar Niemeyer Avenue in São Conrado 
neighborhood and a part of the legacy of the games, was hit by a giant 
wave and collapsed, causing the death of two pedestrians and injuries to 
three more.[101][102] The athlete's village has been described as the largest 
in Olympic history, but two weeks before the Olympics opened, officials 
also described it as "unliveable" and unsafe because of major plumbing 
and electrical hazards, blocked toilets, leaking pipes, exposed wiring, 
darkened stairwells where no lighting has been installed, and dirty floors. 
More than 500 employees of the local Olympic committee worked to fix the 
problems reported by the delegations.[103] In November 2015, Russia's track 
and field team was provisionally suspended from all international athletic 
competitions by the International Association of Athletics Federations 
(IAAF) following a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report into a doping 
program in the country.[56] On 18 July 2016, an independent investigation 
commissioned by WADA reported that Russia's Ministry of Sport and Federal 
Security Service had operated a "state-dictated" system to implement an 
extensive doping program and to cover up positive samples. Based on the 
finding the International Olympic Committee called for an emergency meeting 
to consider banning Russia from the Summer Olympics.[104] The IOC decided 
against completely banning Russian participation and instead decided to 
set additional, stricter requirements for all Russian participants entered 
into the Olympic Games.[105] Originally Russia submitted a list of 389 
athletes for competition. On 7 August 2016, the IOC cleared 278 athletes, 
while 111 were removed because of the scandal.[106][107] Notes Citations 
