Mark Teixeira's final season The 2016 New York Yankees season was the 114th 
season in New York City for the Yankees, and the 116th season overall for 
the franchise. Throughout the season, the Yankees wore a #8 patch in memory 
of Hall of Famer Yogi Berra.[2] It was the final season for Alex Rodriguez 
and Mark Teixeira. On October 18, 2015 the Yankees fired their hitting 
coach, after just one season, Jeff Pentland.[3] On November 2, it was announced 
that Alan Cockrell who was hired as the assistant the season before; will 
assume the role as hitting coach, with Marcus Thames as his assistant.[4] 
On November 11, the Yankees traded John Ryan Murphy for Aaron Hicks.[5] 
On December 9, the Yankees traded Adam Warren and Brendan Ryan to the Chicago 
Cubs in exchange for Starlin Castro.[6] Also on December 9, the Yankees 
traded Justin Wilson to the Detroit Tigers for pitching prospects Luis 
Cessa and Chad Green.[7] On December 28, the Yankees traded Eric Jagielo, 
Rookie Davis, Tony Renda, and Caleb Cotham for Aroldis Chapman from the 
Cincinnati Reds.[8] On January 8, 2016, the Yankees purchased Kirby Yates 
from the Cleveland Indians.[9] On January 17, the Yankees claimed Lane 
Adams off waivers, from the Kansas City Royals.[10] On February 21, the 
Yankees signed free agent Chris Parmelee.[11] On April 4, the Yankees traded 
Carlos Corporán to the Tampa Bay Rays for cash considerations.[12] Infielders 
Coaches After the Yankees opening day was rained out, the Yankees played 
it a day later on April 5, losing 3–5 to the Houston Astros.[13] The Yankees 
would go on to win their opening series two games to one against Houston. 
The next series, the Yankees went to Detroit to face the Detroit Tigers, 
taking one game and losing one game before having the final game postponed 
for an eventual make-up. The Yankees would go on to lose their next three 
series against the Blue Jays, Mariners, and the Oakland Athletics (a series 
in which they were swept). The Yankees would take two games in a three-game 
series against the Tampa Bay Rays at home. They finished April poorly with 
four game losing streak against the Texas Rangers and rival Red Sox. The 
Yankees finished April with a record of 8–14. On April 12, Starlin Castro 
recorded his 1000th career hit.[14] On April 20, Aaron Hicks recorded the 
fastest recorded throw tracked by Statcast in a 2–5 loss to Oakland, throwing 
out runner Danny Valencia at home plate. The throw was recorded at 105.5 
miles per hour (169.8 km/h).[15] May saw a better overall month for the 
New York ball club. Despite opening with a loss to the Red Sox and a losing 
series against the Baltimore Orioles, the Yankees would host Boston at 
home and win the series before winning a four-game series against the Kansas 
City Royals at home in a series where they won three of the four games. 
To extend on that homestead, the Yankees took a series against the Chicago 
White Sox where they won two of three games. They traveled to the west 
in interleague play where they lost a series against the Arizona Diamondbacks, 
but returned home after sweeping a four games series against the Athletics. 
The Yankees lost another series to Toronto before winning a series against 
Tampa Bay. They lost their last two games of May against Toronto. The Yankees 
finished May with a record of 16–13. On May 16, Carlos Beltrán recorded 
his 400th career home run.[16] June saw similar results to May, as the 
Yankees finished with one less win for the month than they achieved in 
May. The Yankees finished June with an impressive home record standing 
at 10 wins and 6 losses combated by a subpar away record of 5 wins and 
6 losses. On June 17, Alex Rodriguez achieved his 3100th hit. The Yankees 
finished July with 13 wins and 13 losses. The Yankees sent three players 
to the 2016 Major League Baseball All-Star Game: Dellin Betances, Andrew 
Miller, and Carlos Beltran. Mark Teixeira recorded his 400th career home 
run away against the San Diego Padres on July 5, becoming just the fifth 
switch hitter to do so in Major League history.[17] Carlos Beltrán recorded 
his 1500th career run batted in on July 16. The Yankees became sellers 
towards the trade deadline, cutting a massive amount of salary shipping 
away various players. The Yankees dealt closer Aroldis Chapman to the Chicago 
Cubs in return for shortstop prospect Gleyber Torres, minor league outfielders 
Rashad Crawford and Billy McKinney, as well as right-handed pitcher Adam 
Warren who previously played for the Yankees the season before.[18] The 
Yankees traded lefty pitcher Andrew Miller to the Cleveland Indians for 
minor league outfielder Clint Frazier, minor league left-handed pitcher 
Justus Sheffield, and minor league right-handed pitchers J. P. Feyereisen 
and Ben Heller.[19] Pitcher Iván Nova was traded to the Pittsburgh Pirates 
for two players to be named later.[20] The Yankees also traded veteran 
outfielder Carlos Beltrán to the Texas Rangers for pitchers Dillon Tate, 
Erik Swanson, and Nick Green.[21] In early August, both Mark Teixeira and 
Alex Rodriguez announced their retirement from the team. Mark Teixeira 
announced on August 5 that he would retire following the conclusion of 
the season.[22] Alex Rodriguez days later announced he would play his final 
game August 12, four homers short of 700. He would become an assistant 
to the team following his final game.[23] The Yankees acquired Blake Parker 
in early August as well. After Alex Rodriguez's release by the organization, 
Tyler Austin and Aaron Judge were called up and made their debuts, hitting 
back-to-back homers in their first big league at-bats.[24] Young Yankees 
catcher Gary Sánchez became the fastest player to record 11 home runs, 
accomplishing so in just twenty-three days.[25] They finished August 17–10. 
The Yankees started September off to a hot start, after dropping the first 
