The 2016 Pittsburgh Pirates season was the franchise's 135th season overall, 
the 130th season as a member of National League, and 16th season at PNC 
Park. The regular season started with a win at home against the St. Louis 
Cardinals on April 3 and ended with a loss to the Cardinals at Busch Stadium 
on October 2. The Pirates finished the regular season third in the National 
League Central Division with 78 wins, 83 losses, and 1 tie. For the first 
time since the 2012 season, the Pirates finished with a losing record and 
did not qualify for the postseason. Two members of the 2016 Pirates were 
selected to represent the National League in the All-Star Game: pitcher 
Mark Melancon and outfielder Starling Marte. In addition, two players were 
named NL Player of the Week: infielder Jung-ho Kang and utility player 
Sean Rodriguez, both in September. Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 
Rawlings Gold Glove Award 2016 Major League Baseball All-Star Game National 
League Player of the Week Award Sporting News NL All-Star Team[15] Updated 
as of games on September 25, 2016 – Stats reflect time with the Pirates 
only. † – Denotes player was acquired during season. ‡ – Denotes player 
was relinquished during season. – Injured reserve.  Bold  – Qualified for 
batting title (3.1 plate appearances per team game) or ERA title (1 inning 
pitched per team game) The Pirates were involved in the following transactions 
during the 2016 season: Cash Considerations Allen Webster Neil Walker Jon 
Niese Charlie Morton David Whitehead Keon Broxton Trey Supak Jason Rogers 
Cash Considerations Kyle Lobstein Eric O'Flaherty Cash Considerations Cash 
Considerations Erik Kratz Mark Melancon Felipe Rivero Taylor Hearn Two 
Players To Be Named Later (8/30/16) Tito Polo Stephen Tarpley Iván Nova 
Francisco Liriano Harold Ramirez Reese McGuire Drew Hutchison Jon Niese 
Antonio Bastardo Arquimedes Caminero Player To Be Named Later and Future 
Considerations (9/1/16) Jake Brentz Pedro Vasquez Kyle Lobstein Zach Phillips 
Player To Be Named Later or Cash Considerations Wade LeBlanc Cash Considerations 
Phil Coke Taylor Gushue and Cash Considerations Chris Bostick Cash Considerations 
