The 2016 American League Championship Series (ALCS) was a best-of-seven 
playoff pitting the Toronto Blue Jays against the Cleveland Indians for 
the American League (AL) pennant and the right to play in the 2016 World 
Series against the Chicago Cubs. As division champions, the Indians had 
home-field advantage for the series over the Blue Jays, who were a wild-card 
team. The Indians defeated the Blue Jays four games to one. The series 
was the 47th in league history. TBS televised all games in the United States, 
with Sportsnet, a property of Toronto Blue Jays owner Rogers Communications, 
airing all games in Canada using the TBS feed.[1][2] This was Toronto's 
second consecutive ALCS appearance and seventh overall. The team lost the 
2015 American League Championship Series to the eventual World Series champion 
Kansas City Royals. The Blue Jays had previously made consecutive ALCS 
appearances in 1991, 1992 and 1993, losing in the former but winning both 
the 1992 and 1993 World Series. This was Cleveland's fifth appearance in 
the ALCS. The Indians won the ALCS in 1995 and 1997, but went on to lose 
the World Series both times. In their other two ALCS appearances, the Indians 
were defeated in 1998 and 2007. This was the first postseason meeting between 
the Blue Jays and the Indians. The Indians won the regular season series, 
4–3. The two teams split a four-game series in Toronto in early July, and 
the Indians won two of three games in Cleveland in mid-August. Six of the 
seven games were decided by three runs or less, including four decided 
by one run. The July 1 game between the two teams at the Rogers Centre 
lasted 19 innings with the Indians winning that game. Cleveland won the 
series, 4–1. The Indians middle reliever Andrew Miller was voted the MVP 
of the series. The Indians also set an MLB record with the lowest batting 
average by a winning team in a postseason series, hitting just .168 against 
the Blue Jays. Cleveland became the first club to lock up the AL pennant 
on the road since the Chicago White Sox did so at Angel Stadium of Anaheim 
in 2005. Corey Kluber pitched 6⅓ shutout innings, allowing six hits while 
Andrew Miller struck out five batters in 1⅔ innings. Toronto's Marco Estrada 
pitched a complete game, but took the loss when Francisco Lindor's two-run 
home run in the sixth after Jason Kipnis walked provided the only runs 
of the game. Cody Allen pitched a perfect ninth for the save. Carlos Santana's 
leadoff home run in the second off of J. A. Happ gave the Indians a 1−0 
lead, but the Blue Jays tied it in the third off of Josh Tomlin when Darwin 
Barney singled with one out, moved to second on a groundout and scored 
on Josh Donaldson's double. In the bottom of the inning, Rajai Davis reached 
first on a force-out, stole second, moved to third on a wild pitch, and 
scored on Francisco Lindor's two-out single. Neither team scored for the 
rest of the game with Andrew Miller striking out five batters in two innings 
pitched and Cody Allen pitching a perfect ninth for his second consecutive 
save. The Indians went up 2−0 in the series heading to Toronto. The Indians 
struck first off of Marcus Stroman when Carlos Santana drew a leadoff walk 
in the first and scored on Mike Napoli's two out double, but their starter, 
Trevor Bauer had to leave the game in the bottom of the inning after allowing 
two walks and throwing 21 pitches due to a bloody pinkie finger as a result 
of being cut from a drone a few days earlier. Dan Otero in relief allowed 
a game-tying home run to Michael Saunders in the second. Napoli's home 
run in the fourth put the Indians back on top 2−1, but the Blue Jays tied 
it in the fifth off of Zach McAllister when Ezequiel Carrera hit a leadoff 
triple and scored on Ryan Goins's groundout. Jason Kipnis's leadoff home 
run in the sixth gave the Indians a 3−2 lead. Stroman was taken out after 
walking Napoli with one out. Napoli moved to second on a wild pitch by 
reliever Joe Biagini and scored on José Ramírez's single to make it 4−2 
Indians. Cody Allen and Andrew Miller combined to pitch three shutout innings, 
striking out five batters as the Indians took a 3–0 series lead. Josh Donaldson's 
two-out home run in the third off of Corey Kluber gave the Blue Jays their 
first lead in the series. Kluber walked two straight to lead off the fourth 
before Ezequiel Carrera's one-out RBI single made it 2−0 Blue Jays. The 
Indians cut it to 2−1 in the fifth off of Aaron Sanchez when Coco Crisp 
walked with one out, moved to second on a wild pitch, and scored on Roberto 
Perez's double. Their only other hit in the game came on Tyler Naquin's 
leadoff double in the third. In the seventh, the Blue Jays loaded the bases 
with no outs off of reliever Bryan Shaw on a single, Shaw's fielding error, 
and intentional walk when Edwin Encarnacion's single scored two with Josh 
Donaldson being thrown out at third. Next inning, Carrera tripped with 
one out off of Mike Clevinger and scored on Kevin Pillar's groundout to 
make it 5−1 Blue Jays. Roberto Osuna retired the Indians in order in the 
ninth, forcing a Game 5. The Indians went up 1−0 in the first when Francisco 
Lindor singled with two outs off of Marco Estrada and scored on Mike Napoli's 
double. They added to their lead with home runs by Carlos Santana in the 
third and Coco Crisp in the fourth. Ryan Merritt, Bryan Shaw, Andrew Miller, 
and Cody Allen shutout the Blue Jays as the Indians' 3−0 win gave them 
their first trip to the World Series since 1997. Allen earned his fifth 
save of the postseason as Troy Tulowitzki foul popped to Santana to end 
the game and series. 2016 ALCS (4–1): Cleveland Indians beat Toronto Blue 
