The 2017 Major League Baseball season will be the 117th season of Major 
League Baseball in the modern era. The schedule was released on September 
14, 2016.[1] The 2017 season will begin with three games on April 2, and 
end on October 1.[1] The postseason will begin on October 3. The 88th Major 
League Baseball All-Star Game will be held on July 11 at Marlins Park, 
home of the Miami Marlins. The winning league will receive home field advantage 
for the 2017 World Series, which is scheduled to begin on October 24. A 
potential Game 7 would be scheduled for November 1. The 2017 Major League 
Baseball draft will begin on June 12. As has been the case since 2013, 
all teams will play their four division opponents 19 times each for a total 
of 76 games. They will play six or seven games against each of the other 
ten same-league opponents, for a total of 66 games, and 20 interleague 
games. The primary interleague matchups are AL East vs. NL Central, AL 
Central vs. NL West, and AL West vs. NL East. Teams will also play four 
games against a designated interleague rival. The following teams will 
wear commemorative patches for special occasions This will be the Atlanta 
Braves first season at SunTrust Park in Cumberland, Georgia. It succeeds 
Turner Field as the Braves home ballpark. The first game at SunTrust Park 
will be on April 14, 2017 against the San Diego Padres. There were plans 
to host some games at Olympic Stadium in London, England during the season 
but the plans were dropped after a lack of time for negotiations.[11] This 
will be the fourth year of the current eight-year deals with Fox Sports, 
and ESPN and TBS. Fox will air eight weeks of baseball on Saturday Night 
leading up to the 2017 Major League Baseball All-Star Game which will also 
air on Fox. Fox will then televise Saturday afternoon games for the last 
four weeks of the regular season. Fox Sports 1 will televise games on Tuesday 
Nights And Saturdays, both during the afternoon and night. ESPN will televise 
games on its flagship telecast Sunday Night Baseball, as well as Monday 
and Wednesday nights. TBS will televise Sunday Afternoon Games for the 
last 13 weeks of the Regular Season. Fox and ESPN Sunday Night Baseball 
telecasts will be exclusive; all other national telecasts will be subject 
to local blackout. TBS will televise the National League Wild Card Game, 
Division Series, and Championship Series. ESPN will televise the American 
League Wild Card, Fox Sports 1 and MLB Network will televise the American 
League Division Series, and Fox and Fox Sports 1 will televise the American 
League Championship Series. The World Series will air exclusively on Fox 
for the 18th consecutive year. ESPN Radio will air its 20th season of national 
coverage, including Sunday Night Games, Saturday games, Opening Day and 
holiday games, the All–Star Game, and Home Run Derby, and the entire postseason. 
