23 skidoo (sometimes 23 skiddoo) is an American slang phrase popularized 
during the early 20th century. It generally refers to leaving quickly, 
being forced to leave quickly by someone else, or taking advantage of a 
propitious opportunity to leave, that is, "getting [out] while the getting's 
good." The exact origin of the phrase is uncertain. 23 skidoo has been 
described as "perhaps the first truly national fad expression and one of 
the most popular fad expressions to appear in the U.S," to the extent that 
"Pennants and arm-bands at shore resorts, parks, and county fairs bore 
either [23] or the word 'Skiddoo'."[1] "23 skidoo," first attested in 1906, 
combines two earlier expressions, "twenty-three" (1899)[2] and "skidoo" 
(1901), both of which, independently and separately, referred to leaving, 
being kicked out, or the end of something. "23 skidoo" quickly became a 
popular catch-phrase after its first appearance in early 1906.[3] Although 
there are a number of stories suggesting the possible origin of the phrase, 
none has been universally accepted.[citation needed] The word skidoo, used 
by itself as a noun denoting a supposed bringer of bad luck, is attested 
in the early 1910s, in P.G. Wodehouse's Psmith, Journalist.[4] It appeared 
in newspapers as early as 1906.[5] Perhaps the most widely known story 
of the origin of the expression concerns the area around the triangular-shaped 
Flatiron Building at Madison Square in New York City. The building is located 
on 23rd Street at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and Broadway, the latter 
two of which intersect at an acute angle. Because of the shape of the building, 
winds swirl around it. During the early 1900s, groups of men reportedly 
gathered to watch women walking by have their skirts blown up, revealing 
legs, which were seldom seen publicly at that time. Local constables, when 
sometimes telling such groups of men to leave the area, were said to be 
"giving them the 23 Skidoo".[6] An early nickelodeon movie, What Happened 
on Twenty-third Street, which dates from 1901, shows a woman's skirt being 
lifted by the updraft from a ventilation grate, exposing her knees.[7] 
Some consider the Flatiron Building origin claim dubious because the slang 
expressions "23" and "skidoo" were already in use before 1902,[8] the year 
in which the Flatiron Building was built. Webster's New World Dictionary 
derives skiddoo (with two d's) as probably from skedaddle, meaning "to 
leave", with an imperative sense. The earliest-known reference to the slang 
expression "23" (or "twenty-three") is from early 1899: For some time past 
there has been going the rounds of the men about town the slang phrase 
"Twenty-three." The meaning attached to it is to "move on," "get out," 
"good-bye, glad you are gone," "your move" and so on. To the initiated 
it is used with effect in a jocular manner. It has only a significance 
to local men and is not in vogue elsewhere. Such expressions often obtain 
a national use, as instanced by "rats!" "cheese it," etc., which were once 
in use throughout the length and breadth of the land. Such phrases originated, 
no one can say when. It is ventured that this expression originated with 
Charles Dickens in the Tale of Two Cities. Though the significance is distorted 
from its first use, it may be traced. The phrase "Twenty-three" is in a 
sentence in the close of that powerful novel. Sidney Carton, the hero of 
the novel, goes to the guillotine in place of Charles Darnay, the husband 
of the woman he loves. The time is during the French Revolution, when prisoners 
were guillotined by the hundred. The prisoners are beheaded according to 
their number. Twenty-two has gone and Sidney Carton answers to – Twenty-three. 
His career is ended and he passes from view.[9][10] At the time, a stage 
version of A Tale of Two Cities, The Only Way, was playing in London. The 
production moved to New York City later that year; it opened at the Herald 
Square Theatre on September 16, 1899. Less than two months later, popular 
slang author George Ade described having heard a new slang expression, 
"twenty-three": By the way, I have come upon a new piece of slang within 
the past two months and it has puzzled me. I just heard it from a big newsboy 
who had a ‘stand’ on a corner. A small boy with several papers under his 
arm had edged up until he was trespassing on the territory of the other. 
When the big boy saw the small one he went at him in a threatening manner 
and said: ‘Here! Here! Twenty-three! Twenty-three!’ The small boy scowled 
and talked under his breath, but he moved away. A few days after that I 
saw a street beggar approach a well-dressed man, who might have been a 
bookmaker or horseman, and try for the usual ‘touch’. The man looked at 
the beggar in cold disgust and said: ‘Aw, twenty-three!’ I could see that 
the beggar didn’t understand it any better than I did. I happened to meet 
a man who tries to ‘keep up’ on slang and I asked the meaning of ‘Twenty-three!’ 
He said it was a signal to clear out, run, get away.[11] In the same interview, 
Ade described two purported origin stories he had heard: that it was, "from 
the English race tracks, twenty-three being the limit on the number of 
horses allowed to start in one race" or that it had been a signal used 
in a plot to free a Mexican embezzler from custody in New Orleans. The 
word, Skidoo, was the name of a Lark-class racing sailboat that competed 
in races on Long Island Sound during the 1901 racing season.[12] The Skidoo 
competed every summer through at least 1904.[8] Skidoo is attested, in 
its conventional, slang sense, by 1904.[13] Skidoo-wagon (as well as "skidoodle 
wagon" and "skedaddle wagon") was a short-lived euphemism for automobiles 
during 1904–1905.[3] The word skidoo, used by itself as a noun denoting 
a supposed bringer of bad luck, is attested in the early 1910s, in P.G. 
Wodehouse's Psmith, Journalist.[4] Both of the slang expressions, 23 and 
skidoo, were used in George M. Cohan's 1904 musical play, Little Johnny 
Jones.[14] Numerous news items from the period credited either Cohan or 
Tom Lewis (the actor performing the role that spoke those lines in the 
play) with creating or popularizing one or both of the expressions.[15][16] 
Even before the expression, "23, skidoo!," became popular in its own right, 
23 (or twenty-three) and skidoo were frequently used in conjunction with, 
or near one another, in the same sentence or paragraph; 23 often as part 
of the phrase, "23 for you (or yours)."[3] For example, "Skiddoo! Git! 
Twenty-three for yours!,"[17] or "Twenty-three for his! Skidoo."[18] The 
earliest known use of the expression, in the familiar, "23," skidoo!, form, 
is an advertisement for Billy B. Van's show, The Errand Boy: Billy B. Van's 
Great Hit, in "The Errand Boy." 23--Skiddoo!! by Miller and Boecher. The 
phrase quickly became a ubiquitous catch-phrase. A True McGlook once handed 
this to me: When little Bright Eyes cuts the cake for you Count twenty 
ere you eat the honey-goo Which leads to love and matrimony – see? A small-change 
bunk what's bats on spending free Can't four-flush when he's paying rent 
for two. The pin to flash on Cupid is 'Skidoo!' The call for Sweet Sixteen 
is 23." "Just back up along the beach, and if you make the first move to 
do anything I'm going to shoot. Now, twenty-three for yours, mister, skidoo! 
We don't want your company; not today," said Thad. He dispersed the crowd 
very simply by telling them he'd send for the pie wagon and take them all 
down to the station house if they didn't twenty-three skidoo. He took Mother 
for a ride in his first automobile.... As Dad and Mother, dressed in dusters 
and wearing goggles, went scorching through the streets of Boston, bystanders 
tossed insults and ridicule in their direction.... "Get a horse. Twenty-three 
skidoo." 6341. Then was it that watertight door, which you see on the plan 
is in the alleyway, which is in front of your room?  - I am not sure, but 
I think it is No. 23 door. 6342. I do not know their numbers, but was it 
the one just forward of your room?  - Yes, in the alleyway. 6343. And you 
actually saw them doing that?  - Yes, they were working on it. 6344. You 
are quite right; it is No. 23 door?  - We used to call it the skidoo door, 
on account of the number. That is how I remember the number. 6345. (The 
Commissioner.) I do not understand that?  - It is an American joke. 6346. 
Will you explain it?  - I could not explain it, my Lord. 6347. (The Solicitor-General.) 
At any rate it connects No. 23 with something about skidoo?  - Yes.[31] 
And Charley bought some popcorn, Billy bought a car Someone almost bought 
the farm but they didn't go that far And things shut down at midnight, 
at least 'round here they do 'Cause we all reside down the block inside 
23 Skidoo Kept all his earnings in the bank and his shoe Spat what he knew, 
