42 is a 2013 American biographical sports film written and directed by 
Brian Helgeland about the racial integration of American professional baseball 
by player Jackie Robinson, who wore jersey number 42 through his Major 
League career. The film stars Chadwick Boseman as Robinson, and Harrison 
Ford as Branch Rickey,[3] with Alan Tudyk, Nicole Beharie, Christopher 
Meloni, Andre Holland, Lucas Black, Hamish Linklater and Ryan Merriman 
appear in supporting roles. The film received generally positive reviews 
and grossed over $97 million on a $40 million budget.[4][5] 42 was released 
in North America on April 12, 2013.[6] The film tells the story of Jackie 
Robinson and, under the guidance of team executive Branch Rickey, Robinson's 
signing with the Brooklyn Dodgers to become the first African-American 
player to break the baseball color barrier. The story focuses mostly on 
the 1947 Brooklyn Dodgers season and somewhat on Robinson's 1946 season 
with the Montreal Royals, which emphasize his battles with racism. In 1945, 
after sportswriter Wendell Smith suggests that Rickey consider Robinson 
as the black ballplayer Rickey is looking for, Robinson and his team, the 
Kansas City Monarchs, stop by a gas station. When the attendant refuses 
Robinson entry to the washroom, Robinson says they will find another station 
at which to fill up the team bus, and the attendant relents. As Robinson 
steps out, a scout for the Dodgers sent by Rickey approaches him and invites 
him to Brooklyn. He is offered a $600 per month contract and a $3,500 signing 
bonus, which Robinson accepts after being warned by Rickey that he must 
control his temper if he wants to play. Robinson proposes to his girlfriend, 
Rachel, by phone and she accepts. During spring training, Robinson makes 
it to the franchise farm team in Montreal. After a great season there and 
spring training in Panama, he advances to the Dodgers. Most of the team 
soon signs a petition, stating they refuse to play with Robinson, but manager 
Leo Durocher insists Robinson will play with the main team. When Durocher 
is suspended for actions in his personal life, leaving the Dodgers without 
a manager to start the regular season, Burt Shotton agrees to manage the 
team. In a game against the Philadelphia Phillies, manager Ben Chapman 
taunts Robinson, causing him to go back to the dugout and smash his bat 
out of frustration. With encouragement from Rickey, Robinson then returns 
to the field and hits a single, steals second base and advances to third 
on a throwing error, and scores the winning run. When Chapman's behavior 
toward Robinson generates bad press for the team, the Phillies' owner requires 
him to pose with Robinson for newspapers and magazine photos. Later, Robinson's 
teammate Pee Wee Reese comes to understand what kind of pressure Robinson 
is facing, and makes a public show of solidarity, standing with his arm 
around Robinson's shoulders before a hostile crowd at Crosley Field in 
Cincinnati, silencing them. In a game against the St. Louis Cardinals, 
Enos Slaughter "accidentally" spikes Robinson on the back of the leg with 
his cleats while running the bases. Robinson's home run against Pittsburgh 
Pirates pitcher Fritz Ostermueller, who had earlier hit him in the head, 
helps clinch the National League pennant for the Dodgers, sending them 
to the World Series, which they would lose to the New York Yankees. A concluding 
postscript describes how Rickey, Robinson, and many of his teammates went 
on to have distinguished careers, including inductions into the Baseball 
Hall of Fame, besides Chapman, who was fired and forbidden to join an MLB 
team forever due to his racism. The notes also describe the entrance of 
other African Americans into the Major Leagues, beginning with the season 
after Robinson's debut. Former minor league player Jasha Balcom served 
as a stuntman for Boseman in some of the film's scenes.[7] Spike Lee planned 
to write and direct a film based on the life of Jackie Robinson and had 
it set up at Turner Pictures under his 40 Acres and a Mule Filmworks in 
1995. The studio wanted to release it in 1997 to coincide with the 50th 
anniversary of Robinson's breaking of the color barrier, and courted Denzel 
Washington to star,[8] but the project fell apart in 1996 over creative 
differences. In March 1997 Lee found favor with Columbia Pictures, who 
signed him to a three-year first-look deal. Columbia President Amy Pascal 
reflected that it would bring "enormous potential for Spike to reach audiences 
that are not traditionally associated with Spike Lee movies."[9] The project 
eventually fell apart, but in 2004 Robert Redford set up a Jackie Robinson 
biopic as producer with Deep River Productions, as well as his own production 
company, Wildwood Productions. Redford also intended to co-star as Branch 
Rickey,[10] and Howard Baldwin joined as producer the following year.[11] 
In June 2011 it was announced the Legendary Pictures would develop and 
produce a Jackie Robinson biopic with Brian Helgeland on board to write 
and direct, under a distribution deal with Warner Bros. Legendary collaborated 
with Robinson’s widow, Rachel Robinson, to ensure the authenticity of her 
husband’s story. She had previously been involved with Redford's project.[12] 
42 was filmed primarily in Macon, Georgia, Birmingham, Alabama, and Chattanooga, 
Tennessee. Some interior scenes were shot at Atlanta Film Studios Paulding 
County in Hiram, Georgia.[13] Most of the interior stadium shots were filmed 
at Engel Stadium in Chattanooga, Tennessee. Utilizing old photographs and 
stadium blueprints, Ebbets Field, Shibe Park, The Polo Grounds, Crosley 
Field, and Forbes Field were recreated for the film using digital imagery.[14] 
42 received generally positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, 
the film has a rating of 79%, based on 178 reviews, with an average rating 
of 6.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "42 is an earnest, inspirational, 
and respectfully told biography of an influential American sports icon, 
though it might be a little too safe and old-fashioned for some." On Metacritic, 
the film holds a score of 62 out of 100, based on 39 critics, indicating 
"generally favorable reviews". Richard Roeper stated, "This is a competent 
but mostly unexceptional film about a most extraordinary man."[15] Lisa 
Kennedy, of the Denver Post, lauded the film, saying "This story inspires 
and entertains with a vital chapter in this nation's history."[16][17] 
Conversely, Peter Rainer, of The Christian Science Monitor, criticized 
the film as "TV-movie-of-the-week dull and Robinson's ordeal is hammered 
home to the exclusion of virtually everything else in his life."[18] The 
film's actors were generally praised, with Owen Gleiberman saying of Ford, 
"He gives an ingeniously stylized cartoon performance, his eyes atwinkle, 
his mouth a rubbery grin, his voice all wily Southern music, though with 
that growl of Fordian anger just beneath it."[19] The Hollywood Reporter 
commented that Boseman "has the necessary appeal, proves convincing as 
an athlete and is expressive in spite of the fact that the man he's playing 
must mostly keep his true feelings bottled up."[20] Jackie Robinson's widow, 
Rachel Robinson, was involved in the production of the film and has praised 
the end result, saying, "It was important to me because I wanted it to 
be an authentic piece. I wanted to get it right. I didn’t want them to 
make him an angry black man or some stereotype, so it was important for 
me to be in there . . . I love the movie. I’m pleased with it. It’s authentic 
and it’s also very powerful."[21] The film earned $27.3 million for its 
opening weekend, the best premiere for a baseball-themed film in Hollywood 
history. Only released in the US and Canada, the film went on to gross 
a total of $95,020,213.[22] 42 was released on DVD and Blu-ray on July 
16, 2013 in America, and on Feb. 3rd, 2014 in the U.K.[23] The scene of 
Robinson breaking his bat in the dugout tunnel is not based in fact. Both 
Rachel Robinson and Ralph Branca, film consultant and Dodger pitcher in 
the dugout that day, say it did not happen. Director Helgeland concurs, 
explaining that his justification for including the scene was that he felt 
"there was no way Robinson could have withstood all that abuse without 
cracking at least once, even if it was in private."[24] Red Barber would 
not have broadcast Dodger away games from the opposing team's ballpark 
in Philadelphia and Cincinnati, as shown in the film. Radio broadcasts 
of away games in this era were recreated back at the studio from a pitch 
by pitch summary transmitted over telegraph wire from the stadium where 
the game was being played.[25][26] Wendell Smith is said to have been the 
first black member of the Baseball Writers Association of America; Sam 
Lacy was the first, having joined in 1948.[27] Pirates pitcher Fritz Ostermueller 
threw left-handed, not right-handed as in the film. His first inning pitch 
hit Robinson on the left wrist, not his head, and he claimed it was a routine 
brushback pitch without racist intent. There was no fight on the mound 
afterwards.[28] The climactic scene in which Robinson hit a home run to 
clinch the National League pennant for the Dodgers came in the top of the 
fourth inning of the game, did not clinch the victory (it made the score 
1–0, and the Dodgers eventually won 4–2), and did not clinch the pennant; 
the Dodgers clinched at least a tie for the pennant on that day before 
