World War II The 761st Tank Battalion was an independent tank battalion 
of the United States Army during World War II. The 761st was made up primarily 
of African-American soldiers, who by federal law were not permitted to 
serve alongside white troops; the military did not officially desegregate 
until after World War II. They were known as the "Black Panthers" after 
their unit's distinctive insignia; their motto was "Come out fighting". 
The battalion received a Presidential Unit Citation for its actions. In 
addition, a large number of individual members also earned awards, including 
one Medal of Honor and 11 Silver Stars. Before and during World War II, 
American military leaders had reservations about using African American 
soldiers in combat.[1] General Lesley J. McNair, the commander of Army 
Ground Forces, successfully argued that "colored" units should be employed 
in combat. At McNair's suggestion, the US Army began to experiment with 
segregated combat units in 1941; the program was supported by, and given 
national exposure in, Life magazine.[2] The 761st was constituted on 15 
March 1942, and activated 1 April 1942, at Camp Claiborne, Louisiana. The 
battalion began training in M5 Stuart light tanks. They learned how to 
maneuver, mount, dismount, and maintain the vehicle's 37 mm main gun and 
.30 caliber machine guns. Final training was at Fort Hood, Texas, where 
they were upgraded to the M4 Sherman medium tank, which had a 75 mm main 
gun, two .30 caliber machine guns, a .50 caliber machine gun, and a two-inch 
smoke mortar. Most of the black tankers had to train in installations located 
in deep Southern states such as Kentucky, Louisiana, and Texas. In the 
days before the civil rights advances made in the 1960s, black people were 
still treated harshly in the South and often considered an inferior race.[3] 
[4][5][6][7] The men of the 761st trained for almost two years, conscious 
of the fact that white units were being sent overseas after as little as 
two or three months.[citation needed] There were many acts of racism, including 
murder, against the black battalion troops by soldiers, including a riot 
in Alexandria on January 10th, 1942 two months prior to the battalion's 
activation which resulted in many people being beaten, teargassed, and 
fired upon by pistols and shotguns, resulting in numerous casualties. [8] 
Several members of the 761st vowed to retaliate. They commandeered six 
tanks and a half-track but were persuaded by Lieutenant Colonel Bates who 
promised to straighten the situation out.[9] The most famous member of 
the 761st was First Lieutenant Jack Robinson. During the 761st's training, 
a white bus driver told Robinson to move to the back of the bus: Robinson 
refused.[10][11][12] Battalion commander, Lieutenant Colonel Paul L. Bates, 
refused to consider the court-martial charges put forward by the arresting 
military policemen, the post commander transferred Robinson to the 758th 
Tank Battalion, whose commander was willing to sign the insubordination 
court-martial order.[13] Robinson was acquitted of all charges. After the 
war, he was instrumental in desegregating professional baseball. General 
Ben Lear, commander of the U.S. Second Army, rated the unit "superior"[citation 
needed] after a special review and deemed the unit "combat ready." After 
a brief deployment to England, the 761st landed in France via Omaha Beach 
on 10 October 1944. The unit arrived (with six white officers, thirty black 
officers, and 676 black enlisted men) and was assigned to General George 
Patton's US Third Army at his request, attached to the 26th Infantry Division. 
The unit traveled from Northern France in October 1944, to see action in 
the Rhineland, in the Battle of the Bulge, and in the final months of the 
war on German soil. As the 761st was about to enter combat, Patton reviewed 
the battalion and made a speech to the men which offered a guarded vote 
of confidence in their abilities: Men, you're the first Negro tankers to 
ever fight in the American Army. I would never have asked for you if you 
weren't good. I have nothing but the best in my Army. I don't care what 
color you are as long as you go up there and kill those Kraut sonsofbitches. 
Everyone has their eyes on you and is expecting great things from you. 
Most of all your race is looking forward to your success. Don't let them 
down and damn you, don't let me down! They say it is patriotic to die for 
your country. Well, let’s see how many patriots we can make out of those 
German sonsofbitches.[14] However, like most American military officers 
of the era[citation needed] , Patton expressed his doubts about using black 
men in combat. On returning to headquarters following the review, he remarked, 
"They gave a good first impression, but I have no faith in the inherent 
fighting ability of the race."[citation needed] He only put this sentiment 
aside and accepted the 761st when he desperately needed all the ground 
power he could get. Even after the war, Patton was not inclined to reform 
his perception of black soldiers. In War As I Knew It, he relates the interaction 
described above, and comments, "Individually they were good soldiers, but 
I expressed my belief at the time, and have never found the necessity of 
changing it, that a colored soldier cannot think fast enough to fight in 
armor."[15] Patton biographer Carlo D'Este explained that "on the one hand 
he could and did admire the toughness and courage" of some black soldiers, 
but his writings can also be frequently read as "disdaining them and their 
officers because they were not part of his social order."[16] Historian 
Hugh Cole pointed out that Patton was also the first American military 
leader to integrate rifle companies "when manpower got tight."[17] Retired 
NBA Hall-of-Famer Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, author of Brothers In Arms: The 
Epic Story of the 761st Tank Battalion, WWII's Forgotten Heroes, agreed 
that although Patton was a bigot like most, the fact remains that he did 
lend his name to the advancement of blacks in the military at the time, 
unlike most other military officers (Patton did prevent a black soldier 
from being lynched while serving as commander of a fort in El Paso before 
the war). Most of the veterans of the 761st that Abdul-Jabbar interviewed 
stated they were proud to have served under a general widely considered 
one of the most brilliant and feared Allied military leaders of World War 
II.[18] During the Battle of the Bulge, German soldiers who had raided 
American warehouses were reported to have disguised themselves as Americans 
guarding checkpoints in order to ambush American soldiers. Patton solved 
this problem by ordering black soldiers, including the 761st, to guard 
the checkpoints, and gave the order to shoot any white soldiers at the 
checkpoints who acted suspiciously.[19] The battalion first saw combat 
on 7 November 1944, fighting through towns such as Moyenvic, Vic-sur-Seille 
and Morville-lès-Vic, often at the leading edge of the advance. [20] The 
unit endured 183 days of continuous operational employment. In November 
1944 the unit had suffered 156 casualties; 24 men killed, 81 wounded, and 
44 non-battle. The unit also lost 14 tanks and another 20 damaged in combat. 
In December, the battalion was rushed to the aid of the 101st Airborne 
Division at Bastogne.[21] After the Battle of the Bulge, the unit opened 
the way for the U.S. 4th Armored Division into Germany during an action 
that breached the Siegfried Line. In the final days of the war in Europe, 
the 761st was one of the first American units to reach the Steyr in Austria, 
at the Enns River, where they met with 1st Ukrainian Front of the Soviet 
Army.[citation needed] The 761st was deactivated 1 June 1946 in Germany. 
For unusual heroism in serving with Company A of the 761st, the Medal of 
Honor was awarded posthumously to Staff Sergeant Ruben Rivers in 1997. 
Official Citation: For extraordinary heroism in action during the 15–19 November 1944, 
toward Guebling, France. Though severely wounded in the leg, Sergeant Rivers 
refused medical treatment and evacuation, took command of another tank, 
and advanced with his company in Guebling the next day. Repeatedly refusing 
evacuation, Sergeant Rivers continued to direct his tank's fire at enemy 
positions through the morning of 19 November 1944. At dawn, Company A's 
tanks began to advance towards Bougaktroff [sic, correct name is Bourgaltroff], 
but were stopped by enemy fire. Sergeant Rivers, joined by another tank, 
opened fire on the enemy tanks, covering company A as they withdrew. While 
doing so, Sergeant River's tank was hit, killing him and wounding the crew. 
Staff Sergeant Rivers' fighting spirit and daring leadership were an inspiration 
to his unit and exemplify the highest traditions of military service. Tank 
commander Sergeant Warren G. H. Crecy came to the aid of his men on 10 
November 1944, and fought through enemy positions until his tank was destroyed. 
He eliminated an enemy position that had knocked out his tank by commandeering 
a vehicle armed with only a .30-caliber machine gun. He then eliminated 
the German forward observers who were directing artillery fire on the US 
positions. After manning a replacement tank, Crecy's new vehicle lost traction 
in heavy mud and he was forced to exit the tank under fierce machine gun, 
antitank, and artillery fire to free the tracks. When attacked by German 
infantry, he had to abandon his salvage efforts to man the .50-caliber 
machine gun, effectively holding off the advancing enemy, then forcing 
them to withdraw. Described as a baby-faced, "quiet, easy-going, meek-looking 
fellow", Crecy had destroyed an antitank position and a number of German 
machine gun positions armed only with a machine gun and without regard 
for his personal safety, under heavy fire. His men reportedly experienced 
difficulty getting the machine gun away from him after the action. Crecy 
was nominated for the Medal of Honor and received a battlefield commission, 
eventually retiring with the rank of major.[22] His heroic actions earned 
him the title "Baddest Man in the 761st" from his comrades. After decades 
of racial tensions in the United States began to ease, the battalion was 
belatedly awarded the Presidential Unit Citation by President Jimmy Carter 
on 24 January 1978, for their World War II service. The 761st Tank Battalion's 
award became official on 10 April 1978 by the Department of the Army under 
General Orders Number 5. Returning soldiers of African-American units (the 
761st had been the first of many segregated combat units, including the 
92nd Infantry Division and the famous Tuskegee Airmen) often did not receive 
a warm welcome home as most white units did.[citation needed] Their unequal 
treatment was a source of much disappointment and discouragement.[citation 
needed] However, the distinguished service of many black combat units helped 
convince the government, now under President Harry S. Truman, to finally 
desegregate the US Armed Forces soon after the war ended.[citation needed] 
On 24 November 1947, the 761st was reactivated (as an integrated unit) 
at Fort Knox, Kentucky, and assigned to the Regular Army, where it served 
until again inactivated on 15 March 1955. A monument dedicated to the 761st 
Tank Battalion was unveiled at Fort Hood, Texas during a ceremony attended 
by surviving veterans on 10 November 2005, as a permanent tribute to soldiers 
who have served and continue to serve throughout the world for liberty, 
honor and democracy. The monument features four black granite tablets surrounding 
a life-size marble sculpture of a 761st Tank Battalion fighter kneeling 
atop a black granite pedestal engraved with a tank on the front and a panther 
on the back. The monument is located on 761st Tank Battalion Drive. Countries: 
France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, and Austria. Trezzvant 
Anderson's book, Come Out Fighting: The Epic Tale of the 761st Tank Battalion, 
1942-1945, was published in 1945.[23] In 1992, a documentary titled Liberators: 
Fighting on Two Fronts in World War II was produced. The documentary depicted 
the battalion's liberation of concentration camps during 1945, but was 
criticized for misidentifying the precise units and camps involved.[24] 
There was speculation[who?] that the movie was intended to reduce tensions 
between the Jewish and African-American communities.[citation needed] Most 
recently, Steven A. White executive produced an independent, feature length, 
high definition documentary on the 761st Tank Battalion. The film, entitled 
761st is written, produced, and directed by Pete Chatmon and produced by 
761st Tank Battalion unit historian, Wayne Robinson. It features interviews 
with eleven combat veterans of the 761st and is narrated by Andre Braugher.[25] 
Several of the later episodes of The History Channel series Patton 360 
featured 761st veteran William McBurney who related his experiences with 
the battalion in the Lorraine Campaign, the Battle of the Bulge, and in 
the ultimate conquest of the German homeland. A 1993 episode of Law & Order 
titled "Profile" featured a 72-year-old assault victim played by Joe Seneca 
who credited his experiences with the 761st for saving his life. In an 
episode of The Cosby Show, Cliff Huxtable and some male friends are discussing 
their military experiences and one of them describes in detail his World 
War II exploits as a member of the 761st Tank Battalion. Actor Morgan Freeman 
and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar are co-producing a new movie about the 761st, based 
on Jabbar’s and co-writer Anthony Walton's 2004 book, Brothers in Arms. 
On 15 December 2006, Freeman discussed the film and working with Will Smith, 
and possibly Denzel Washington, on it in the near future.[26] The 1991 
novel Seven Six One by "G.F. Borden" was based on the experiences of the 
761st Tank Battalion in Europe. In the science-fiction novel, The Light 
of Men (2008) by Andrew Salmon, the 761st liberate the fictional concentration 
camp of Gutundbose in which the story is set. In the 1981 police mystery 
Chiefs, written by Stuart Woods, and the CBS mini-series of the same name, 
the 761st is mentioned as the unit of the ill-fated black mechanic Marshall 
Parker, killed after being arrested on false pretenses by Sonny Butts and 
Charley Ward, beaten and shot. Later, it is revealed as having been the 
unit of the new black police chief of Delano, GA, Tucker Watts, who was 
once, much earlier, known as Willie Cole, whose father had murdered Delano's 
