Home Away The Águilas del Zulia (English: Zulia Eagles) is a Venezuelan 
professional baseball team based in Maracaibo which plays in the Venezuelan 
Professional Baseball League. The team was founded in 1969 and debuted 
in the 1969–70 season. The franchise began in 1946 as Sabios de Vargas, 
then was renamed Santa Marta BBC in 1954, before moving to Valencia and 
plays as the Industriales de Valencia from 1955–56 through 1967-68. The 
Industriales later moved to Acarigua and were renamed Llaneros de Acarigua 
for the 1968-69 season. After the collapse of the Liga Occidental de Béisbol 
Profesional in 1963, the Zulia state was left without a professional baseball 
team. In the following years there were many efforts to bring baseball 
back to the state, but the efforts were not realized until 1969, when the 
Águilas del Zulia joined the Venezuelan Professional Baseball League. Two 
baseball people were behind the formation of the team, Luis Rodolfo Machado 
B., main shareholder of the extinct Centauros de Maracaibo club, and Juan 
Antonio Yanes, former Patriotas de Venezuela owner. Machado found a group 
of local investors to buy the aforementioned Llaneros de Acarigua when 
the team folded after their only season in the VPBL. By then the Acarigua 
team was put up for sale by its owners after losing money for numerous 
years, including the hazardous Valencia Industriales experience. Among 
the investors were Simón Bromberg, Rubén Darío Barboza, Gabriel Fernández, 
Edgardo Fuenmayor Arrieta, Guillermo Echeto La Roche, Sixto Márquez, José 
Trinidad Martínez, Douglas Mavárez Granadillo, Ernesto Montiel, Fernando 
Pérez Amado, Vinicio Pineda Gil, Alberto Plumacher, Antonio Quintero Parra, 
Lucas Rincón Colmenares, Heberto Rutilio Ríos, and Hugo Suárez Romero. 
After receiving the approval of the VPBL President Franklin White and from 
the five other teams, the franchise was formally acquired by Machado's 
group. The team was bought for a sum of 400,000 million bolivars. The news 
of the return of professional baseball to the state was celebrated in Zulia. 
The team made its official debut on October 14, 1969 at Estadio Antonio 
Herrera Gutiérrez against the Cardenales de Lara. The Águilas lost the 
game, 3–2, with Juan Quiroz pitching a complete game loss, while Pablo 
Torrealba was credited with the win and Ken Sanders earned the save. On 
the following day the team played and won its first game at Estadio Luis 
Aparicio El Grande. The Aguilas' first years were troubled while posting 
losing records in most seasons. Nevertheless, the team survived these leaning 
years to become one of the most successful VPBL teams in the early 1980s, 
winning five championship titles spanning 1984–2000. The team's name of 
the Águilas (Eagles) is associated with the Zuliano region. It is said 
to be attributied to the Father Jose Manuel Ríos. In 1968, during a baseball 
game at Estadio Alejandro Borges in Maracaibo, Machado had asked Ríos if 
he had any suggestions for a baseball team's name, as he had just bought 
the Llaneros de Portuguesa. According to Machado, Ríos saw the label of 
the then popular Cerveza Zulia (Zulia beer) – whose bottle's label carried 
a blue eagle on a yellow background – and said that the Águilas would be 
a good name for the team. In addition, Ríos explained the Governmental 
Palace in Maracaibo is called El de las Águilas (The Place of the Eagles), 
and that many national flags and coats of arms have eagles on them. Thus, 
the team's name became the Águilas. For the first time in five seasons 
the team qualified to the post-season, managed by former major league catcher 
John Russell. The performances of the rookie sensation and Arizona Diamondbacks 
outfield prospect Carlos González, led this team filled with rookies to 
a successful year, finishing second in the western division and third in 
the playoff race to the finals. Foreign pitchers Chris Begg, Heath Totten 
and Jeremy Cummings were the heads of the pitching rotation, while the 
offensive was commanded by an MVP season by González, solid catching work 
of Humberto Quintero, and the performances of Juan Pablo Camacho, Orlando 
Muñoz and Luis Bolívar, who was named Rookie of the Year. Reliever Richard 
Garcés reached his 100th save in the league, which inspired teammates rookie 
pitchers, while another Aguilas' legend, former pitcher Wilson Álvarez, 
