Éric Serge Gagné (French pronunciation: ​[ɡɑɲe]) (born January 7, 1976) 
is a Canadian former professional baseball pitcher. Signing with the Los 
Angeles Dodgers of Major League Baseball as a free agent in 1995, Gagné 
began his career as a starting pitcher. After he struggled in that role, 
the Dodgers converted Gagné from a starter to a reliever, where for three 
years (2002–2004) he was statistically the most outstanding closer in the 
game, winning the Cy Young Award in 2003. During that period, he set a 
major league record by converting 84 consecutive save opportunities. The 
phrase "Game Over" was heavily used by the Dodgers and the media in connection 
with his appearances to finish close games. Gagné played sparingly in 2005 
and 2006 due to injury, undergoing elbow surgery in 2005 and back surgery 
in 2006. The Dodgers did not re-sign him after 2006, and Gagné started 
the 2007 season with the Texas Rangers, where he briefly enjoyed success 
again as a closer. However, he was less successful in stints with the Boston 
Red Sox and Milwaukee Brewers, and was finally released after the 2008 
season. In December 2007, days after signing a contract for 2008 with the 
Milwaukee Brewers, he was linked to baseball's steroids scandal after he 
was named in the Mitchell Report. Gagné, from a Québécois family, grew 
up in the small town of Mascouche, near Montreal, Quebec.[1] As a boy, 
he played baseball and ice hockey[2] at Montreal's Polyvalente Édouard-Montpetit 
High School, the same high school that Russell Martin attended. His Little 
League teams were coached by his father, Richard.[1] He eventually became 
a star with Canada's Junior World Championship teams.[3] He was a fan of 
the Montreal Expos and Montreal Canadiens throughout his childhood.[4] 
Gagné, who spoke only French, went to Seminole Junior College in Seminole, 
Oklahoma.[2][5] He taught himself English by watching the sitcom Kenan 
and Kel.[6] He eventually became the star pitcher for Seminole's baseball 
team.[2] He was a 30th-round draft choice of the Chicago White Sox in 1994 
(845th overall), but the following year he signed with the Los Angeles 
Dodgers as an amateur free agent. He then went on to pitch in the minor 
leagues but missed the entire 1997 season due to Tommy John surgery.[5] 
He made his Major League debut on September 7, when he started a game for 
the Dodgers against the Florida Marlins, working six shutout innings and 
striking out eight. In his first year in the major leagues, he appeared 
in only five games as a starting pitcher, with a 1–1 record and 2.10 ERA. 
Over his first three seasons he won eleven games while losing fourteen 
in 48 games, 38 of them starts.[7] At the start of the 2002 season, following 
the retirement of Dodgers closer Jeff Shaw, he was converted from a starting 
pitcher to a relief pitcher. He picked up his first career save on April 
7 against the Colorado Rockies and soon became the National League's leading 
reliever. He saved 10 consecutive games before he suffered his first blown 
save on May 7 against the Atlanta Braves. Overall, he earned 52 saves for 
the season. In 2003, as a closer, Gagné was called upon 55 times to save 
a baseball game and converted every one of them en route to becoming both 
the first pitcher to record 50 saves in more than one season and also the 
fastest pitcher to ever reach the 100-save plateau. His 55 saves in 2003 
also equalled the National League record set the previous season by John 
Smoltz. Between August 26, 2002 and July 5, 2004, he converted 84 consecutive 
save chances, a major league record.[8] More than half (55%) of the batters 
he retired during the 2003 season came by strikeout. When Gagné entered 
a game at Dodger Stadium, usually in the eighth or ninth inning with the 
Dodgers in the lead, the words "Game Over" would flash across the scoreboard 
and the PA system would play the song "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns N' 
Roses. In addition to his 55 saves, Gagné finished the 2003 season with 
a 1.20 earned run average and had 137 strikeouts and 20 walks in 82⅓ innings 
pitched. This translated into 1.66 strikeouts per inning pitched. For his 
performance, he won the Rolaids Relief Man of the Year Award and became 
the first relief pitcher in 11 years to win the Cy Young Award. He and 
Ferguson Jenkins are the only two Canadian pitchers to win the most prestigious 
pitching award in baseball. He is the only pitcher to win the award while 
having a losing season (his record was 2–3).[9] Despite this, he lost his 
arbitration case over the winter; he had asked for a 14-fold raise from 
$550,000 to $8 million but had to settle for $5 million.[10] On July 15, 
2004—just ten days after his saves streak ended—Gagné collected his 130th 
save as a Dodger in a 5–2 win over the Arizona Diamondbacks at Bank One 
Ballpark in Phoenix, Arizona, surpassing Jeff Shaw for the most career 
saves in team history. Gagné threw three shutout innings during his first 
appearance in the playoffs that year, but the Dodgers lost the division 
series 3–1 to the St. Louis Cardinals. Prior to the 2007 season, Gagné 
had converted 161 saves out of 168 save opportunities for a conversion 
rate of 95.8%.[7] Gagné battled several injuries in early 2005. Although 
he was still an effective pitcher, 2.70 ERA and 8 for 8 in save opportunities, 
Gagné was only able to appear in 14 games that season. On June 21, 2005, 
it was announced that Gagné would undergo season-ending Tommy John surgery 
to repair a sprained ligament in his right elbow. Recovery would take a 
year or more; furthermore, a return to major league pitching after a second 
Tommy John operation (Gagné's first was in 1997) is nearly unheard of, 
having since been achieved by another Dodger reliever, the Taiwanese left-hander 
Hong-Chih Kuo. However, as surgeons began to perform the operation, they 
discovered instead a nerve entrapped by scar tissue and were able to release 
it with a less invasive procedure. Gagné was still unable to play for the 
remainder of the 2005 season. Gagné expressed hope that an accelerated 
recovery would allow him to pitch for Canada in the World Baseball Classic 
in March 2006, but he eventually decided that it was not worth the risk, 
and to focus on preparing to pitch in the regular season. After some encouraging 
outings in early spring training, pain in Gagné's pitching elbow forced 
him to undergo a second surgery, this time to remove entirely the nerve 
that doctors had previously attempted to stabilize. More recovery time 
ensued, but Gagné finally pitched in his first regular-season game of 2006 
on June 3. He made two appearances for the Dodgers, pitching two scoreless 
innings and earning one save, but pain from the nerve in his elbow recurred, 
and he returned to the disabled list on June 12. A further (and apparently 
unrelated) setback occurred on July 4, when Gagné awoke with intense pain 
in his back. An examination revealed two herniated discs, and Gagné underwent 
a season-ending back surgery on July 8.[11] The Dodgers declined to extend 
Gagné's $12 million contract after the season, making him a free agent.[12] 
On December 12, 2006 Gagné signed a one-year deal with the Texas Rangers 
worth $6 million, with a possible $5 million in performance bonuses. Gagné 
had a poor spring training, allowing five earned runs in only three innings 
of work. For the third consecutive year, Gagné was placed on the disabled 
list to start the season to let him recover from his injuries.[13] Gagné 
started to make his recovery by tossing in three minor league games, two 
of them on consecutive days, allowing a home run and having one loss.[14] 
In his last minor league game, Gagné retired all three of the batters he 
faced, and he was activated on April 13.[15] In his first week back, Gagné 
pitched three innings, earning one save. But in the middle of his second 
save situation, Gagné left the game after complaining of leg pain. He said 
that it would take about a week to recover from the injury, but the Rangers, 
not taking the risk, placed Gagné on the disabled list with a hip injury.[16] 
He was reactivated on May 8 and returned to the closer role.[17] During 
his time with Texas, he was 2–0 with 16 saves and an ERA of 2.16; opposing 
hitters batted only .192 against him. On July 31, 2007, Gagné was traded 
to the Boston Red Sox for pitcher Kason Gabbard and minor league outfielders 
David Murphy and Engel Beltré.[12] Gagné was expected to serve as a setup 
man for closer Jonathan Papelbon. Theo Epstein was quoted as saying that 
"I think the bullpen is already a strength of the club, but acquiring a 
pitcher the caliber of Éric Gagné only makes it stronger and helps give 
us what we hope will be a truly dominant bullpen for the remainder of the 
year."[18] However, Gagné struggled in his new role with the Red Sox. In 
his first 15 appearances, Gagné allowed 14 earned runs in 14 innings (a 
9.00 ERA) with three blown saves and an opponent batting average of over 
.350.[18] Gagné seemed to improve down the stretch and was eventually added 
to the playoff roster. In the playoffs, he was most often used in games 
in which the Red Sox were winning by a wide margin, including his only 
World Series appearance in which he pitched a perfect ninth inning in a 
13–1 Game 1 victory. The only exception to this was his appearance in Game 
2 of the American League Championship Series against the Cleveland Indians. 
Brought into a tie game in the top of the 11th inning, Gagné took the loss 
after allowing the first two runs of a 7-run 11th inning. In Boston, Gagné 
wore the number 83, as starting pitcher Curt Schilling already wore Gagné's 
usual number 38. On December 9, 2007, Gagné reached a preliminary agreement 
with the Milwaukee Brewers. On December 10, he inked the one-year deal 
to become their new closer. The one-year deal had a base salary of $10 million, 
with incentives worth up to an extra $1 million.[19] On May 11, Brewers 
manager Ned Yost announced Gagné would be removed from the closer's role 
for a while, after 3 blown saves in 6 attempts. But after a couple days 
Gagné said he was ready to go, and a couple days later got his 10th save. 
However, Gagné continued to struggle as the team's closer and ultimately 
became the set-up man after losing his closer job to the veteran Salomón 
Torres. Gagné's struggles continued out of the bullpen, however. He eventually 
lost his set-up job to Guillermo Mota, and he finished the season as a 
middle relief pitcher, a role in which he still struggled. He finished 
2008 with his worst full season in the major leagues: 10 saves in 17 opportunities, 
an ERA of 5.41, and only 38 strikeouts in 46 innings of work. He did not 
convert a save after losing the closer job to Torres. His poor performance 
on the field coupled with the very high salary he was paid by a small market 
team led to him being considered a "ten million dollar mistake" by many 
Brewers fans.[citation needed] Gagné went back to wearing the number 38 
after wearing 83 in Boston. Gagné became a free agent following the 2008 
season and re-signed with the Brewers to a minor league deal. However, 
he was released midway through spring training in part due to a shoulder 
injury. On May 26, 2009, Gagné announced that he had signed with the Quebec 
Capitales of the independent Can-Am League as a starting pitcher/coach. 
Gagné began playing with the team on June 9, 2009.[20] He had been highly 
praised by Capitales manager Michel Laplante for his hard work and mentorship 
of other pitchers and hitters on the team.[4] Gagné helped the team win 
the League Championship in September 2009. On July 26, 2009, in a game 
versus the New Jersey Jackals, he recorded 6 no hit innings in a 7 inning 
game. He would surrender two straight hits. However, the team would end 
the game on a triple play. On February 18, 2010, Gagné agreed to a minor 
league contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers with an invite to spring training. 
Dodgers reliever Ramón Troncoso, remembering Gagné's mentorship of young 
pitchers such as himself during Gagné's earlier stint with the Dodgers, 
"had no problem" releasing to Gagné his old uniform number 38.[21] Gagné 
made three Spring training appearances with the Dodgers, allowing six runs 
on eight hits in 2⅔ innings for a 20.25 ERA. On March 15, he was reassigned 
to minor league camp, acknowledging that he needed more work to bring his 
game back to the Major League level.[22] However, after appearing in just 
one Minor League intrasquad game after his demotion, Gagné asked and was 
granted his release, on March 21, from the Dodgers, with the hope that 
he could find another opportunity with another team.[23] However, he announced 
his retirement on April 18.[24] Gagné, who is Canadian and whose native 
language is French, served as the pitching coach for the France national 
baseball team during the 2013 World Baseball Classic qualifiers in September 
2012.[25] France failed to win a game and did not qualify for the main 
tournament. In the fall of 2013, Gagné was named the head coach of the 
French national baseball team.[citation needed] The team finished in sixth 
place in the 2014 European Championships under Gagne. France will compete 
in the 2016 World Baseball Classic Qualifiers in Panama. On August 28, 
2015, six years after his last presence in professional baseball, Gagné 
participated in a game with the Trois-Rivières Aigles of the independent 
Can-Am League as a starting pitcher. Gagné recorded 2 strikeouts in 4-1/3 
innings, allowing only 1 run and two hits but gave up 5 walks to the opposite 
team, the Quebec Capitales, in a 5-3 win for the Aigles. On September 5, 
2016, Gagné pitched for the Ottawa Champions of the Can-Am League,[26] 
attracting nearly 8,000 fans.[27] On December 13, 2007, Gagné was listed 
in the Mitchell Report—former Senator George Mitchell's report on the use 
of performance-enhancing drugs in baseball. Gagné was identified as a user 
of HGH (Human Growth Hormone).[28] Allegedly, Gagné received the drugs 
from steroids dealer Kirk Radomski. At first, Radomski said that Gagné 
obtained them from Dodgers teammate Paul Lo Duca, but then Radomski said 
in the report that he mailed two shipments of HGH directly to Gagné in 
2004. Receipts of FedEx and USPS shipments indicate that Radomski received 
at least one payment from Gagné and two from Dodgers teammate Lo Duca on 
behalf of Gagné. Gagné declined to meet with Senator Mitchell to respond 
to the charges before the report was released. In a 2009 interview with 
the Los Angeles Times, Gagné expressed remorse not only for what he had 
done, but also for the fact that he could not speak openly about it, likely 
(according to the Times) due to reluctance to implicate others.[4] I'm 
not denying it. I'm not saying I did it. I just can't talk about it. It's 
a touchy subject. It doesn't just involve me. I've been straightforward 
about everything. It [stinks] that I can't be about this. I'm not looking 
for sympathy anyway. I have to live with this the rest of my life. I'm 
going to have to explain this to my kids. It's going to be on my resume 
the rest of my life. Gagné acknowledged that he has been looked to as a 
role model, and called himself an example of what one should not do. On 
the other hand, when asked whether he had given an honest performance to 
Dodgers fans, he maintained that he had always worked hard to do so.[4] 
In a February 2010 interview with the Los Angeles Times, Gagné admitted 
that he had used HGH, saying that it was to recover from a knee injury.[29] 
Gagné had an assortment of pitches he used as a reliever but his most commonly 
used were a four-seam fastball in the mid-to-upper 90s and a Vulcan changeup 
in the mid 80s.[5][30] Gagné also featured a two-seam fastball, a slow 
curveball, and a rarely used slider.[30][31] Although he was also praised 
for his "Bugs Bunny curveball,"[32] Gagné's changeup was considered his 
best pitch. Sportswriter Dan Habib wrote: Most closers depend on one pitch 
that becomes synonymous with their success: Trevor Hoffman's changeup, 
Mariano Rivera's cut fastball. Gagné thrives on the dizzying oscillation 
between his changeup and his fastball. They have the same release point 
and the same arm speed. The fastball is straight gas ... but the changeup 
is a devious thing, a bowling ball rolled off a picnic table. It travels 
some 10 mph slower than his fast-ball, anywhere from 83 to 88 mph, and 
like a splitter it breaks late and sharp.[5] Gagné used this deadly combination 
of pitches to rack up strikeouts at a very high rate. In his Cy Young-winning 
season of 2003, he had 100 more strikeouts (137) than hits he allowed (37). 
This produced a strikeout-to-hit ratio of 3.7, a single-season record for 
relief pitchers with 50 innings.[33] He also has the highest percentage 
of swinging strikes as a percent of his total pitches (18.5%) among all 
pitchers since the 2002 season.[34] He also owns the highest percentage 
of swinging strikes on pitches inside the strike zone.[35] Gagné exhibited 
an emotional presence on the mound: "I like to show my emotion, be real 
aggressive and give everything I've got for one half inning."[5] Gagné 
and his ex-wife Valerie (née Hervieux) have four children, two daughters, 
Faye (born 2000) and Bluu (born 2005), and two sons, Maddox (born 2004) 
and Harley (born 2008).[36] His father's cousin, Paul Gagné, played several 
