Angelo Bartlett "Bart" Giamatti (/dʒiːəˈmɑːti/; April 4, 1938 – September 
1, 1989) was an American professor of English Renaissance literature, the 
president of Yale University, and the seventh Commissioner of Major League 
Baseball. Giamatti served as Commissioner for only five months before dying 
suddenly of a heart attack. He is the shortest-tenured baseball commissioner 
in the sport's history and the only holder of the office not to preside 
over a full Major League Baseball season. Giamatti is best remembered today 
for negotiating the agreement resolving the Pete Rose betting scandal by 
permitting Rose to voluntarily withdraw from the sport to avoid further 
punishment. Giamatti was born in Boston and grew up in South Hadley, Massachusetts, 
the son of Mary Claybaugh Walton (Smith College '35) and Valentine John 
Giamatti. His father was professor and chairman of the Department of Italian 
Language and Literature at Mount Holyoke College.[1] Giamatti's paternal 
grandparents were Italian immigrants Angelo Giammattei (Italian pronunciation: [dʒammaˈttɛi]) 
and Maria Lavorgna (Italian pronunciation: [laˈvɔrɲa]): his grandfather 
Angelo emigrated to the United States from Telese, near Benevento, Italy, 
around 1900.[2] Giamatti's maternal grandparents, from Wakefield, Massachusetts, 
were Helen Buffum (Davidson) and Bartlett Walton, who graduated from Phillips 
Academy Andover and Harvard College. Giamatti attended South Hadley High 
School, spent his junior year at the American Overseas School of Rome, 
and graduated from Phillips Academy in 1956. At Yale College, he was a 
member of Delta Kappa Epsilon (Phi chapter) and as a junior in 1960 was 
tapped by Scroll and Key,[3] a senior secret society. He graduated magna 
cum laude in 1960. That same year, he married Toni Marilyn Smith, who taught 
English for more than 20 years at the Hopkins School in New Haven, Connecticut, 
until her death in 2004.[4] Together the couple had three children: Hollywood 
actors Paul and Marcus and jewelry designer Elena. In the film Sideways, 
a photograph of the character Miles Raymond (portrayed by Giamatti's son 
Paul) with his late father is really a picture of Paul and Bart Giamatti. 
Giamatti's friend and successor as baseball commissioner, Fay Vincent, 
wrote in The Last Commissioner that Giamatti's official religious view 
was agnosticism. Giamatti stayed in New Haven to receive his doctorate 
in 1964, when he also published a volume of essays by Thomas G. Bergin 
he had coedited with a philosophy graduate student, T. K. Seung. He became 
a professor of comparative literature at Yale University, an author, and 
master of Ezra Stiles College at Yale, a post to which he was appointed 
by his predecessor as Yale president, Kingman Brewster, Jr.. Giamatti taught 
briefly at Princeton but spent most of his academic life at Yale. Giamatti's 
scholarly work focused on English Renaissance literature, particularly 
Edmund Spenser, and relationships between English and Italian Renaissance 
poets. His writings on the pastoral influence in literature and the effect 
of Ludovico Ariosto on English literature remain influential. As a teacher 
of undergraduates, he was well known, and rejected the conventional wisdom 
that the Renaissance represented an abrupt cultural change, stressing the 
continuities between the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. He sometimes 
referred to the Protestant Reformation as the "Protestant Deformation." 
When Giamatti's tenure as Stiles master ended in 1972, he was so popular 
that his students wanted to honor him with a present. Giamatti told them 
he wanted a joke gift and they got him a moosehead (from a yard sale), 
which was ceremoniously hung in the dining hall. Giamatti served as president 
of Yale University from 1978 to 1986. He was the youngest president of 
the university in its history and presided over the university during a 
bitter strike by its clerical and technical workers in 1984-85. As university 
president, he refused student, faculty, and community demands to divest 
from apartheid South Africa. He also served on the board of trustees of 
Mount Holyoke College for many years, participating fully despite his Yale 
and baseball commitments. Giamatti was elected a fellow of the American 
Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1980.[5] Giamatti had a lifelong interest 
in baseball (he was a die-hard Boston Red Sox fan). In 1978, when he was 
first rumored to be a candidate for the presidency of Yale, he had deflected 
questions by observing that "The only thing I ever wanted to be president 
of was the American League." His article "Tom Seaver's Farewell", published 
in Harper's Magazine in September 1977 and "Baseball and the American Character" 
published in that magazine in October 1986 are but two of many of his baseball 
publications. Giamatti became president of the National League in 1986, 
and later commissioner of baseball in 1989. During his stint as National 
League president, Giamatti placed an emphasis on the need to improve the 
environment for the fan in the ballparks. He also decided to make umpires 
strictly enforce the balk rule and supported "social justice" as the only 
remedy for the lack of presence of minority managers, coaches, or executives 
at any level in Major League Baseball. While still serving as National 
League president, Giamatti suspended Pete Rose for 30 games after Rose 
shoved umpire Dave Pallone on April 30, 1988. Later that year, Giamatti 
also suspended Los Angeles Dodgers pitcher Jay Howell for three days, who 
was caught using pine tar during the National League Championship Series. 
Giamatti, whose tough dealing with Yale's union favorably impressed Major 
League Baseball owners, was unanimously elected to succeed Peter Ueberroth 
as commissioner on September 8, 1988.[7] Determined to maintain the integrity 
of the game, on August 24, 1989, Giamatti (who took office on April 1, 
1989) prevailed upon Pete Rose to agree voluntarily to remain permanently 
ineligible to play baseball.[8] While at his vacation home on Martha's 
Vineyard, Giamatti, a heavy smoker for many years, died suddenly of a heart 
attack at the age of 51, just eight days after banishing Pete Rose and 
154 days into his tenure as commissioner.[9] He became the second baseball 
commissioner to die in office, the first being Kenesaw Mountain Landis. 
Baseball's owners soon selected Fay Vincent, Giamatti's close friend and 
baseball's first-ever deputy commissioner, as the new commissioner. On 
October 14, 1989, before Game 1 at the World Series, Giamatti—to whom this 
World Series was dedicated—was memorialized with a moment of silence. Son 
Marcus Giamatti threw out the first pitch before the game. Also before 
Game One, the Yale Whiffenpoofs sang the national anthem, a blend of "The 
Star-Spangled Banner" with "America the Beautiful" that has been since 
repeated by other a cappella groups. Prior to the first game of the 1990 
Major League Baseball season, played at Fenway Park, Toni Giamatti threw 
out the ceremonial first pitch. She would perform the honors again prior 
to Game 7 of the 1997 World Series. The Little League Eastern Regional 
Headquarters in Bristol, Connecticut is named after Giamatti.[10] One of 
the three awards given annually by Major League Baseball's Baseball Assistance 
Program is named the "Bart Giamatti Award." Giamatti was inducted into 
the National Italian American Sports Hall of Fame in 1992.[11] James Reston, 
Jr. notes in his book Collision at Home Plate: The Lives of Pete Rose and 
Bart Giamatti that Giamatti suffered from Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, 
