A. J. Preller is the general manager of the San Diego Padres Major League 
Baseball club. He was hired by the Padres on August 5, 2014 while serving 
as assistant GM for the Texas Rangers. Preller grew up on Long Island, 
New York, and went to school in South Huntington, New York, where in 1995 
he graduated from Walt Whitman High School.[1] He attended Cornell University, 
where he met Jon Daniels,[2][3] and graduated summa cum laude with a B.S. 
degree in 1999.[4] After graduation, he served as an intern with the Philadelphia 
Phillies before joining the front office of the Los Angeles Dodgers, and 
also worked for Major League Baseball.[5] In 2004, Preller was hired as 
Director of International and Professional Scouting by the Texas Rangers. 
While at Cornell, he was a fraternity brother of Texas Rangers General 
Manager Jon Daniels.[6] Preller reached the position of Assistant GM, before 
being hired by the San Diego Padres. On August 6, 2014, the Padres announced 
the hiring of Preller as their new general manager. His hiring concluded 
a six-week process that commenced on June 22 after San Diego dismissed 
Josh Byrnes following a two and a half years tenure. The Padres also interviewed 
Kim Ng, Billy Eppler, and Mike Hazen. His official title is the Executive 
Vice-President and the General Manager of the Padres. Preller reportedly 
agreed to a five-year deal upon joining the Padres organization.[7] He 
made numerous transactions over the 2014-2015 offseason in what came to 
be known as "Prellerpalooza." He traded Yasmani Grandal to the Los Angeles 
Dodgers for Matt Kemp and Tim Federowicz. He partook in a three team trade 
for Wil Myers and Ryan Hanigan. He traded prospects to the Braves for Justin 
Upton. He signed James Shields to a 4-year contract. He made several smaller 
moves as well, as he launched the Padres into playoff talks before the 
season began. He concluded the offseason by trading for Braves closer Craig 
Kimbrel just hours before the season opened on April 5th. Despite his off-season 
trades, the Padres in June 2015 were still under performing. This has partially 
led to the firing of manager, Bud Black, on June 15th, 2015. On September 
15, 2016, Preller was suspended for 30 days for failing to disclose medical 
information regarding the trade that sent Drew Pomeranz to the Red Sox.[8] 
