Asa Philip Randolph[1] (April 15, 1889 – May 16, 1979) was a leader in 
the African-American Civil Rights Movement, the American labor movement, 
and socialist political parties. He organized and led the Brotherhood of 
Sleeping Car Porters, the first predominantly African American labor union. 
In the early Civil Rights Movement, Randolph led the March on Washington 
Movement, which convinced President Franklin D. Roosevelt to issue Executive 
Order 8802 in 1941, banning discrimination in the defense industries during 
World War II. The group then successfully pressured President Harry S. 
Truman to issue Executive Order 9981 in 1948, ending segregation in the 
armed services. In 1963, Randolph was the head of the March on Washington, 
which was organized by Bayard Rustin, at which Reverend Martin Luther King, 
Jr. delivered his "I Have A Dream" speech. Randolph inspired the "Freedom 
Budget", sometimes called the "Randolph Freedom budget", which aimed to 
deal with the economic problems facing the black community, it was published 
by the Randolph Institute in January 1967 as "A Freedom Budget for All 
Americans".[2] Randolph was born April 15, 1889, in Crescent City, Florida,[3] 
the second son of the Rev. James William Randolph, a tailor and minister[3] 
in an African Methodist Episcopal Church, and Elizabeth Robinson Randolph, 
a skilled seamstress. In 1891 the family moved to Jacksonville, Florida, 
which had a thriving, well-established African-American community.[4] From 
his father, Randolph learned that color was less important than a person's 
character and conduct. From his mother, he learned the importance of education 
and of defending oneself physically against those who would seek to hurt 
one or one's family, if necessary. Randolph remembered vividly the night 
his mother sat in the front room of their house with a loaded shotgun across 
her lap, while his father tucked a pistol under his coat and went off to 
prevent a mob from lynching a man at the local county jail. Asa and his 
brother, James, were superior students. They attended the Cookman Institute 
in East Jacksonville, the only academic high school in Florida for African 
Americans.[5] Asa excelled in literature, drama, and public speaking; he 
also starred on the school's baseball team, sang solos with the school 
choir, and was valedictorian of the 1907 graduating class. After graduation, 
Randolph worked odd jobs and devoted his time to singing, acting, and reading. 
Reading W. E. B. Du Bois' The Souls of Black Folk convinced him that the 
fight for social equality was most important. Barred by discrimination 
from all but manual jobs in the South, Randolph moved to New York City 
in 1911, where he worked at odd jobs and took social sciences courses at 
City College.[4] In 1913 Randolph courted and married Mrs. Lucille Campbell 
Green, a widow, Howard University graduate, and entrepreneur who shared 
his socialist politics. She earned enough money to support them both. The 
couple had no children.[4] Progressive Era Repression and persecution Civil 
Rights / anti-War movements Shortly after Randolph's marriage, he helped 
organize the Shakespearean Society in Harlem. With them he played the roles 
of Hamlet, Othello, and Romeo, among others. Randolph aimed to become an 
actor but gave up after failing to win his parents' approval. In New York, 
Randolph became familiar with socialism and the ideologies espoused by 
the Industrial Workers of the World. He met Columbia University Law student 
Chandler Owen, and the two developed a synthesis of Marxist economics and 
the sociological ideas of Lester Frank Ward, arguing that people could 
only be free if not subject to economic deprivation.[4] At this point, 
Randolph developed what would become his distinctive form of civil rights 
activism, which emphasized the importance of collective action as a way 
for black people to gain legal and economic equality. To this end, he and 
Owen opened an employment office in Harlem to provide job training for 
southern migrants and encourage them to join trade unions.[4] Like others 
in the labor movement, Randolph favored immigration restriction. He opposed 
African Americans' having to compete with people willing to work for low 
wages. Unlike other immigration restrictionists, however, he rejected the 
notions of racial hierarchy that became popular in the 1920s.[6] In 1917, 
Randolph and Chandler Owen founded the Messenger[7] with the help of the 
Socialist Party of America. It was a radical monthly magazine, which campaigned 
against lynching, opposed U.S. participation in World War I, urged African 
Americans to resist being drafted, to fight for an integrated society, 
and urged them to join radical unions. The Department of Justice called 
the Messenger "the most able and the most dangerous of all the Negro publications." 
When the Messenger began publishing the work of black poets and authors, 
a critic called it "one of the most brilliantly edited magazines in the 
history of Negro journalism." [4] Soon thereafter, however, the editorial 
staff of the Messenger became divided by three issues – the growing rift 
between West Indian and African Americans, support for the Bolshevik revolution, 
and support for Marcus Garvey's Back-to-Africa movement. In 1919, most 
West Indian radicals joined the new Communist Party, while African-American 
leftists – Randolph included – mostly supported the Socialist Party. The 
infighting left the Messenger short of financial support, and it went into 
decline.[4] Randolph ran on the Socialist Party ticket for New York State 
Comptroller in 1920, and for Secretary of State of New York in 1922, unsuccessfully.[7] 
Randolph’s first experience with labor organization came in 1917, when 
he organized a union of elevator operators in New York City.[7] In 1919 
he became president of the National Brotherhood of Workers of America,[8] 
a union which organised amongst African-American shipyard and dock workers 
in the Tidewater region of Virginia.[9] The union dissolved in 1921, under 
pressure from the American Federation of Labor. His greatest success came 
with the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, who elected him President 
in 1925.[7] This was the first serious effort to form a labor institution 
for employees of the Pullman Company, which was a major employer of African 
Americans. The railroads had expanded dramatically in the early 20th century, 
and the jobs offered relatively good employment at a time of widespread 
racial discrimination. Because porters were not unionized, however, most 
suffered poor working conditions and were underpaid.[4][10] Under Randolph's 
direction, the BSCP managed to enroll 51 percent of porters within a year, 
to which Pullman responded with violence and firings. In 1928, after failing 
to win mediation under the Watson-Parker Railway Labor Act, Randolph planned 
a strike. This was postponed after rumors circulated that Pullman had 5,000 
replacement workers ready to take the place of BSCP members. As a result 
of its perceived ineffectiveness membership of the union declined;[4] by 
1933 it had only 658 members and electricity and telephone service at headquarters 
had been disconnected because of nonpayment of bills.[11] Fortunes of the 
BSCP changed with the election of President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932. 
With amendments to the Railway Labor Act in 1934, porters were granted 
rights under federal law. Membership in the Brotherhood jumped to more 
than 7,000. After years of bitter struggle, the Pullman Company finally 
began to negotiate with the Brotherhood in 1935, and agreed to a contract 
with them in 1937. Employees gained $2,000,000 in pay increases, a shorter 
workweek, and overtime pay.[12] Randolph maintained the Brotherhood's affiliation 
with the American Federation of Labor through the 1955 AFL-CIO merger.[13] 
Through his success with the BSCP, Randolph emerged as one of the most 
visible spokespeople for African-American civil rights. In 1941, he, Bayard 
Rustin, and A. J. Muste proposed a march on Washington[7] to protest racial 
discrimination in war industries, an end to segregation, access to defense 
employment, the proposal of an anti-lynching law and of the desegregation 
of the American Armed forces.[14] Randolph's belief in the power of peaceful 
direct action was inspired partly by Mahatma Gandhi's success in using 
such tactics against British occupation in India.[15] Randolph threatened 
to have 50,000 blacks march on the city;[11] it was cancelled after President 
of the United States Franklin D. Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8802, 
or the Fair Employment Act.[7] Some activists, including Rustin,[16] felt 
betrayed because Roosevelt's order applied only to banning discrimination 
within war industries and not the armed forces. Nonetheless, the Fair Employment 
Act is generally considered an important early civil rights victory. And 
the movement continued to gain momentum. In 1942, an estimated 18,000 blacks 
gathered at Madison Square Garden to hear Randolph kick off a campaign 
against discrimination in the military, in war industries, in government 
agencies, and in labor unions.[17] Following passage of the Act, during 
the Philadelphia transit strike of 1944, the government backed African-American 
workers' striking to gain positions formerly limited to white employees.[18] 
Buoyed by these successes, Randolph and other activists continued to press 
for the rights of African Americans. In 1947, Randolph, along with colleague 
Grant Reynolds, renewed efforts to end discrimination in the armed services, 
forming the Committee Against Jim Crow in Military Service, later renamed 
the League for Non-Violent Civil disobedience. When President Truman asked 
Congress for a peacetime draft law, Randolph urged young black men to refuse 
to register. Since Truman was vulnerable to defeat in 1948 and needed the 
support of the growing black population in northern states, he eventually 
capitulated.[4] On July 26, 1948, President Harry S. Truman abolished racial 
segregation in the armed forces through Executive Order 9981.[19] In 1950, 
along with Roy Wilkins, Executive Secretary of the NAACP, and, Arnold Aronson,[20] 
a leader of the National Jewish Community Relations Advisory Council, Randolph 
founded the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights (LCCR). LCCR has been 
a major civil rights coalition. It coordinated a national legislative campaign 
on behalf of every major civil rights law since 1957. Randolph and Rustin 
also formed an important alliance with Martin Luther King, Jr. In 1957, 
when schools in the south resisted school integration following Brown v. 
Board of Education, Randolph organized the Prayer Pilgrimage for Freedom 
with Martin Luther King, Jr. In 1958 and 1959, Randolph organized Youth 
Marches for Integrated Schools in Washington, DC.[4] At the same time, 
he arranged for Rustin to teach King how to organize peaceful demonstrations 
in Alabama and to form alliances with progressive whites.[16] The protests 
directed by James Bevel in cities such as Birmingham and Montgomery provoked 
a violent backlash by police and the local Ku Klux Klan throughout the 
summer of 1963, which was captured on television and broadcast throughout 
the nation and the world. Rustin later remarked that Birmingham "was one 
of television's finest hours. Evening after evening, television brought 
into the living-rooms of America the violence, brutality, stupidity, and 
ugliness of {police commissioner} Eugene "Bull" Connor's effort to maintain 
racial segregation."[21] Partly as a result of the violent spectacle in 
Birmingham, which was becoming an international embarrassment, the Kennedy 
administration drafted civil rights legislation aimed at ending Jim Crow 
once and for all.[21] Randolph finally realized his vision for a March 
on Washington for Jobs and Freedom on August 28, 1963, which attracted 
between 200,000–300,000 to the nation's capital. The rally is often remembered 
as the high-point of the Civil Rights Movement, and it did help keep the 
issue in the public consciousness. However, when President Kennedy was 
assassinated three months later, Civil Rights legislation was stalled in 
the Senate. It was not until the following year, under President Lyndon 
B. Johnson, that the Civil Rights Act was finally passed. In 1965, the 
Voting Rights Act was passed. Although King and Bevel rightly deserve great 
credit for these legislative victories, the importance of Randolph's contributions 
to the Civil Rights Movement is large. Randolph avoided speaking publicly 
about his religious beliefs to avoid alienating his diverse constituencies.[23] 
Though he is sometimes identified as an atheist,[4] particularly by his 
detractors,[23] Randolph identified with the African Methodist Episcopal 
Church he was raised in.[23] He pioneered the use of prayer protests, which 
became a key tactic of the civil rights movement.[23] In 1973, he signed 
the Humanist Manifesto II.[24] Randolph had a significant impact on the 
Civil Rights Movement from the 1930s onward. The Montgomery Bus Boycott 
in Alabama was directed by E.D. Nixon, who had been a member of the BSCP 
and was influenced by Randolph’s methods of nonviolent confrontation.[4] 
Nationwide, the Civil Rights Movement in the 1950s and 1960s used tactics 
pioneered by Randolph, such as encouraging African-Americans to vote as 
a bloc, mass voter registration, and training activists for nonviolent 
direct action.[26] + 1994 Documentary A. Philip Randolph: For Jobs and 
