A League of Their Own is a 1992 American sports comedy-drama film that 
tells a fictionalized account of the real-life All-American Girls Professional 
Baseball League (AAGPBL). Directed by Penny Marshall, the film stars Geena 
Davis, Tom Hanks, Madonna, and Lori Petty. The screenplay was written by 
Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel from a story by Kelly Candaele and Kim Wilson. 
In 2012, A League of Their Own was selected for preservation in the United 
States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, 
historically, or aesthetically significant".[2] In 1988, Dottie Hinson 
(Geena Davis) attends the opening of the new All-American Girls Professional 
Baseball League (AAGPBL) exhibit at the Baseball Hall of Fame. She sees 
many of her former teammates and friends, prompting a flashback to 1943. 
When World War II threatens to shut down Major League Baseball, candy magnate 
and Cubs owner Walter Harvey (Garry Marshall) persuades his fellow owners 
to bankroll a women's league. Ira Lowenstein (David Strathairn) is put 
in charge, and Ernie Capadino (Jon Lovitz) is sent out to recruit players. 
Capadino attends an industrial-league softball game in rural Oregon and 
likes what he sees in Dottie, the catcher for a local dairy's team. Dottie 
turns down Capadino's offer, happy with her simple farm life while waiting 
for her husband Bob (Bill Pullman) to come back from the war. Her sister 
(and teammate) Kit (Lori Petty), however, is desperate to get away and 
make something of herself. Capadino is not impressed by Kit's hitting performance, 
but agrees to take her along if she can change Dottie's mind. Dottie agrees, 
but only for her sister's sake. Dottie and Kit head out to Harvey Field 
in Chicago for the tryout. There they meet a pair of New Yorkers, taxi 
dancer "All the Way" Mae Mordabito (Madonna) and her best friend, bouncer 
Doris Murphy (Rosie O'Donnell), along with soft-spoken right fielder Evelyn 
Gardner (Bitty Schram), illiterate, shy left fielder Shirley Baker (Ann 
Cusack), pitcher/shortstop and former Miss Georgia beauty queen Ellen Sue 
Gotlander (Freddie Simpson), gentle left field/relief pitcher Betty "Spaghetti" 
Horn (Tracy Reiner), homely second baseman Marla Hooch (Megan Cavanagh), 
who was scouted by Ernie, Dottie and Kit in Fort Collins, Colorado, and 
first baseman Helen Haley (Anne Ramsay), a native of Saskatchewan. They 
and eight others are selected to form the Rockford Peaches, while 48 others 
are split among the Racine Belles, Kenosha Comets, and South Bend Blue 
Sox. The Peaches are managed by Jimmy Dugan (Tom Hanks), a former marquee 
Cubs slugger who initially treats the whole thing as a joke. The league 
attracts little interest at first. With a Life magazine photographer in 
the stands, Lowenstein begs the players to do something spectacular. Dottie 
obliges when a ball is popped up behind home plate, catching it while doing 
a split. The resulting photograph makes the magazine cover. A publicity 
campaign draws more people to the ballgames, but the owners remain unconvinced. 
Due to Kit's sibling rivalry with her sister, she is traded to the Peaches' 
rival, the Racine Belles. The Peaches end the season qualifying for the 
league's World Series. In the locker room, Jimmy gives Betty a telegram 
that informs her her husband was killed in action in the Pacific Theater. 
The grief-stricken Betty leaves the team. Later that evening, Dottie receives 
a surprise when Bob, who was serving in Italy, shows up. He has been discharged 
from the Army. The following morning, Jimmy discovers that Dottie is going 
home with Bob. He is unable to persuade her to at least play in the World 
Series; he tells her she will regret her decision. The Peaches and Belles 
meet in the World Series, which reaches a seventh and deciding game. Dottie, 
having reconsidered on the drive back to Oregon, is the catcher for the 
Peaches, while Kit is the starting pitcher for the Belles. With the Belles 
leading by a run in the top of the ninth, Dottie drives in the go-ahead 
run. Kit is the final batter. Under immense pressure, she gets a hit and, 
ignoring the third base coach's sign to stop, scores the winning run by 
knocking her sister over at the plate and dislodging the ball from Dottie's 
hand. The sellout crowd convinces Harvey to give Lowenstein the owners' 
support. After the game, the sisters reconcile before Dottie leaves. Back 
in the present, Dottie is reunited with several other players, including 
Kit, whom she has not seen in several years. The fates of several of the 
characters are revealed: Jimmy, Bob, and Evelyn have died, while Marla 
has been married to Nelson, a man she met in a bar, for over 40 years. 
The original Peaches sing a team song composed by Evelyn and pose for a 
group photo. On MLB Network's Costas at the Movies in 2013, director Penny 
Marshall talked about her initial interest in Demi Moore for the part of 
Dottie Hinson, saying: "Demi Moore, I liked, but by the time we came around, 
she was pregnant."[3] Discussing the skirts they wore playing baseball 
in the film, Geena Davis said on MLB Network's Costas at the Movies in 
2013, "Some of our real cast, from sliding into home, had ripped the skin 
off their legs. It was nutty."[4] The film was released on July 1, 1992 
and was #1 by its second weekend (July 10–12).[5] It was a commercial success, 
making $107 million in the United States (and an additional $25 million 
worldwide) on a $40 million budget, and was well received by critics.[6][7][8][9][10] 
The film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists: On December 
19, 2012, it was announced that the film would be preserved as part of 
the United States National Film Registry.[14] A League of Their Own soundtrack 
was released on CD and cassette tape by Columbia Records on June 30, 1992. 
The album peaked at #159 on the US Billboard 200 albums chart on July 25, 
1992.[15] Although Madonna contributed "This Used to Be My Playground" 
to the film, featured over the closing credits, her recording was not included 
on the soundtrack album for contractual reasons.[16] With 2012 marking 
the 20th year since the film's release, A League of Their Own was released 
as a 20th Anniversary Edition Blu-ray on October 16, 2012.[17] Forty-seven 
former players of the AAGPBL reunited in New York to celebrate the film 
and the real women who inspired it. Events included a trip to Cooperstown 
for a special program at the National Baseball Hall of Fame, reminiscent 
of the film's final scene depicting members of the AAGPBL and family coming 
together to witness the honoring of the Women's Professional Baseball League. 
The reunion wrapped up with a game of softball held at Alliance Bank Stadium 
in nearby Syracuse.[18] Former players also made an appearance at Bosse 
Field in Evansville, Indiana on June 6, 2012, where many of the film's 
game scenes were filmed. The event included an outdoor screening of the 
film as well as a scene-setting display of cars featured in the film.[19] 
In addition to Bosse Field, the production used Huntingburg, Indiana's 
League Stadium, another Southwestern Indiana field older than Bosse that 
was renovated for the film.[20][21] A short-lived series of the same title 
based on the film aired on CBS in April 1993, with Garry Marshall, Megan 
Cavanagh, Tracy Reiner, and Jon Lovitz reprising their roles. Only five 
