Aaron John Boone (born March 9, 1973)[1] is an American former Major League 
Baseball infielder. During his career Boone played for the Cincinnati Reds, 
New York Yankees, Cleveland Indians, Florida Marlins, Washington Nationals, 
and Houston Astros. He is currently employed by ESPN as a game analyst 
and is a color commentator for ESPN's Sunday Night Baseball coverage, as 
well as a contributor to Baseball Tonight. He is a member of the prominent 
Boone baseball family. Boone played baseball for the University of Southern 
California. In 1993, he won a Cape Cod Baseball League championship with 
the Orleans Cardinals and hit 15 doubles that summer (still a club record). 
On the last day of the 1998 season, the Reds helped him make baseball trivia 
history by starting the only infield ever composed of two sets of brothers: 
first baseman Stephen Larkin, second baseman Bret Boone, shortstop Barry 
Larkin, and third baseman Aaron Boone. On September 22, 2002, he hit the 
last home run in Riverfront Stadium in the eighth inning. It was a solo 
home run off Dan Plesac. For much of Boone's career, he was welcomed to 
the plate by his own fans with a loud "Booooooone." Although it sounded 
like fans were booing him, this was a play on his last name and was a positive 
cheer. The New York Yankees acquired Boone from the Reds for Brandon Claussen, 
Charlie Manning and cash on July 31, 2003.[2] In 54 games after the trade, 
he hit .254 with a .720 OPS, six home runs and 31 RBI. Boone hit a walk-off 
home run in the 11th inning, off of Tim Wakefield during Game 7 of the 
2003 ALCS which gave the New York Yankees a 6–5 victory over the Boston 
Red Sox. The Yankees won the game and the series on the home run, thus 
prolonging the Sox' Curse of the Bambino for one more year. The New York 
Daily News dubbed the play the "Curse of the Boonebino".[3] This home run 
was rated the ninth-best home run of all time on Baseball Tonight.[4] On 
February 27, 2004, Boone was cut from the Yankee roster after tearing a 
knee ligament during a pick-up basketball game played in violation of his 
contract with the Yankees. He was replaced at third base by former Texas 
Rangers shortstop Alex Rodriguez. Since the Yankees would most likely not 
have tried to obtain Rodriguez if Boone had not been injured, it has been 
jokingly dubbed by some as the most important basketball injury in the 
history of baseball. During the 2004 season, the Yankees expressed an interest 
in re-signing Boone to play second base in 2005, replacing Enrique Wilson 
and Miguel Cairo, but Boone instead signed a two-year contract with the 
Cleveland Indians. On December 29, 2006, Boone signed a one-year contract 
with the Florida Marlins.[5] On December 6, 2007, Boone signed a one-year, 
$1,000,000 contract with the Washington Nationals.[6] On December 18, 2008, 
Boone signed a one-year $750,000, plus incentives, deal with the Houston 
Astros.[7] In March 2009, Boone announced that he would undergo open-heart 
surgery to replace a bicuspid aortic valve, a condition that he has been 
aware of since childhood but which routine tests indicated had recently 
worsened. Boone stated that doctors told him he could play baseball when 
he recovers, but he was not sure if he would choose to do so.[8][9] The 
surgery took place on March 26, 2009; his recovery time was expected to 
be at least several months. It was initially unclear if Boone would ever 
be able to play again;[10] however, Boone returned to baseball on August 
10, 2009, when he began his rehabilitation with the Corpus Christi Hooks, 
the Astros' Double-A minor league affiliate. He played five innings and 
was hitless in two plate appearances. Boone stated after the game that 
his goal was to return to the major leagues by September 1, the date that 
major league rosters expand.[11] Boone was activated on September 1, 2009 
and added to the Astros' expanded roster. "He can pinch-hit, play tomorrow, 
there are a lot of options. I want to do it as soon as I can. I don't want 
to wait too long, cut the suspense. I know he's pretty anxious and everyone 
wants to see him out there", Astros manager Cecil Cooper said.[12] On September 
2, Boone made his season debut, playing at first base and going 0 for 3.[13] 
On September 16, 2009 Boone stated that he was leaning towards retirement. 
Boone served as a guest analyst for the MLB Network coverage of the 2009 
ALCS between the New York Yankees and Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. On 
February 23, 2010 Boone announced his retirement and that he would become 
an analyst for ESPN.[14] He is the son of former catcher and manager Bob 
Boone, the brother of All Star and winner of four gold gloves, Bret Boone, 
the brother of former Cincinnati Reds minor leaguer, Matt Boone and the 
grandson of former major leaguer Ray Boone. He is a descendant of pioneer 
Daniel Boone. As a child, Boone hung out in the Phillies clubhouse with 
fellow major league offspring Pete Rose Jr., his brother Bret Boone, Ryan 
Luzinski, Mark McGraw, and Mark Slawson.[15] He lives in Scottsdale, Arizona 
with his wife Playboy Playmate Laura Cover (Miss October 1998),[16][17] 
and two children; a son, Brandon, and a daughter, Bella. Boone's on-field 
characteristics and looks are said to be similar to that of Morgan Ensberg. 
