Abbott and Costello were a comedy double act during the early Classical 
Hollywood era of American cinema. The team was composed of William "Bud" 
Abbott and Lou Costello whose work in vaudeville and on stage, radio, film 
and television made them the most popular comedy team during the 1940s 
and early 1950s. Their patter routine "Who's on First?" is one of the best-known 
comedy routines of all time and set the framework for many of their best-known 
comedy bits. Bud Abbott (1897–1974) was a veteran burlesque entertainer 
from a show business family. He worked at Coney Island and ran his own 
burlesque touring companies. He first worked as a straight man with his 
wife Betty, then with veteran burlesque comedians like Harry Steppe and 
Harry Evanson. When he met his future partner in comedy, Abbott was performing 
in Minsky's Burlesque shows, and had been working at least a decade before 
meeting Lou Costello.[1] Lou Costello (1906–1959) had been a burlesque 
comic since 1930, after failing to break into movie acting and working 
as a stunt double and film extra. He appears briefly in the 1927 Laurel 
and Hardy silent two-reeler, The Battle of the Century, seated at ringside 
during Stan Laurel's ill-fated boxing match. (As a teenager, Costello had 
been an amateur boxer in his hometown of Paterson, New Jersey.) Costello 
was introduced to burlesque through the "Ann Corio Show", in which he performed 
as a "dancing juvenile," who came out before the top banana and warmed 
up the audience - only he would get the laughs.[1] The two men first worked 
together in 1935, at the Eltinge Burlesque Theater on 42nd Street[2]—now 
the lobby of the AMC Empire movie complex in New York City. This first 
performance together occurred due to Costello's regular partner being ill.[3] 
When AMC moved the old theater 168 ft (51 m) further west on 42nd Street 
to its current location, giant balloons of Abbott and Costello were rigged 
to appear to pull it.[4] Other performers in the show, including Abbott's 
wife Betty, advised a permanent pairing. The duo built an act by refining 
and reworking numerous burlesque sketches into the long-familiar presence 
of Abbott as the devious straight man, and Costello as the stumbling, dimwitted 
laugh-getter. The team's first known radio appearance was on The Kate Smith 
Hour in February 1938.[3] The similarities between their voices made it 
difficult for radio listeners (as opposed to stage audiences) to tell them 
apart during their rapid-fire repartee. To solve the problem, Costello 
began affecting a high-pitched, childish voice. "Who's on First?" was first 
performed for a national radio audience the following month.[2] They performed 
on the program as regulars for two years, while also landing roles in a 
Broadway revue, The Streets of Paris, in 1939.[3] In 1940, Universal Studios 
signed them for the film One Night in the Tropics. Cast in supporting roles, 
they stole the show with several classic routines, including the "Who's 
on First?" routine. The same year they were a summer replacement on radio 
for Fred Allen. Two years later, they had their own NBC program, The Abbott 
and Costello Show. Universal then signed them to a long-term contract, 
and their second film, Buck Privates, in 1941[3] made them box-office stars 
and saved Universal from imminent bankruptcy. In most of their films, the 
plot consisted of a framework for the two comics to reintroduce comedy 
routines they first performed on stage. Universal also added glitzy production 
numbers to capitalize on the popular musical-comedy film genre of the day, 
which featured such acts as Ted Lewis and his Orchestra, Ella Fitzgerald, 
Martha Raye, The Merry Macs, and Dick Foran, singing "I'll Remember April" 
in Ride 'Em Cowboy. The most popular singing act in their films was that 
of The Andrews Sisters, and several of their films featured some of the 
Andrews Sisters' most popular hits of World War Two, the Oscar-nominated 
"Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy", as well as "I'll Be With You In Apple Blossom 
Time", both from Buck Privates. Bud & Lou's sequel, In The Navy, featured 
crooner Dick Powell along with the Andrews Sisters, and initially out-grossed 
Buck Privates, with the management at Loew's Criterion in Manhattan keeping 
theater doors open until 5 a.m. to oblige over 49,000 attendees during 
the film's first week premiere. Hold That Ghost (which had been completed 
before production of In the Navy began) when first shown to preview audiences, 
received complaints from film-goers on feedback cards that they were disappointed 
not to see The Andrews Sisters, so the trio was hired and musical numbers 
were added to a re-edited version as a prologue and epilogue. The singing 
sisters became good friends with Costello during this period, enjoying 
many barbecues and film showings with their parents at Lou's home throughout 
the early 1940s. In 1945, the two acts traded guest appearances on each 
other's top-rated radio shows.[5] Bud and Lou made 36 films together between 
1940 and 1956. They were among the most popular and highest-paid entertainers 
in the world during World War II. (In 1942 their earnings for the financial 
year were put at $789,026.[6]) Other film successes included Keep 'Em Flying, 
Who Done It?, Pardon My Sarong, The Time of Their Lives, Buck Privates 
Come Home, Abbott and Costello Meet the Invisible Man, and Abbott and Costello 
Meet Frankenstein. In the latter film, Bela Lugosi reprised his famous 
role as Dracula for the final time, with Lon Chaney Jr. reprising his role 
as the Wolf Man. The film ended with a voice cameo by Vincent Price as 
the Invisible Man. On December 8, 1941, a day after the attack on Pearl 
Harbor, Abbott and Costello had their prints set in concrete at what was 
then "Grauman's Chinese Theatre". In 1942, they were the top box office 
draw with four films, earning a total of $10 million, and remained a top 
ten box office attraction until 1952. After working as Allen's summer replacement, 
Abbott and Costello joined Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy on The Chase 
and Sanborn Hour in 1941, while two of their films (Buck Privates and Hold 
That Ghost) were adapted for Lux Radio Theater. They launched their own 
weekly show October 8, 1942, sponsored by Camel cigarettes. The Abbott 
and Costello Show mixed comedy with musical interludes (by vocalists such 
as Connie Haines, Ashley Eustis, the Delta Rhythm Boys, Skinnay Ennis, 
Marilyn Maxwell, and the Les Baxter Singers). Regulars and semi-regulars 
on the show included Artie Auerbach ("Mr. Kitzel"), Elvia Allman, Iris 
Adrian, Mel Blanc, Wally Brown, Sharon Douglas, Verna Felton, Sidney Fields, 
Frank Nelson, Martha Wentworth, and Benay Venuta. Ken Niles was the show's 
longtime announcer, doubling as an exasperated foil to Abbott and Costello's 
mishaps (and often fuming in character as Costello routinely insulted his 
on-air wife). Niles was succeeded by Michael Roy, with announcing chores 
also handled over the years by Frank Bingman and Jim Doyle. The show went 
through several orchestras during its radio life, including those of Ennis, 
Charles Hoff, Matty Matlock, Matty Malneck, Jack Meakin, Will Osborne, 
Fred Rich, Leith Stevens, and Peter van Steeden. The show's writers included 
Howard Harris, Hal Fimberg, Parke Levy, Don Prindle, Eddie Cherkose (later 
known as Eddie Maxwell), Leonard B. Stern, Martin Ragaway, Paul Conlan, 
and Eddie Forman, as well as producer Martin Gosch. Sound effects were 
handled primarily by Floyd Caton. Guest stars were plentiful, including 
Frank Sinatra, The Andrews Sisters, and Lucille Ball.[5] In 1947 Abbott 
and Costello moved the show to ABC (the former NBC Blue Network). During 
their time on ABC, the duo also hosted a 30-minute children's radio program 
(The Abbott and Costello Children's Show),[7] which aired Saturday mornings, 
featuring child vocalist Anna Mae Slaughter and child announcer Johnny 
McGovern. In 1951, they moved to television as rotating hosts of The Colgate 
Comedy Hour. (Eddie Cantor and Martin and Lewis were among the others.) 
Each show was a live hour of vaudeville in front of an audience, revitalizing 
the comedians' performances and giving their old routines a new sparkle. 
For two seasons from late 1952 to early 1954, a filmed half-hour series, 
The Abbott and Costello Show, appeared in syndication on local stations 
across the United States. Loosely based on their radio series, the show 
cast the duo as unemployed wastrels. One of the show's running gags involved 
Abbott perpetually nagging Costello to get a job to pay their rent, while 
Abbott barely lifted a finger in that direction. The show featured Sidney 
Fields as the landlord of the rooming house in which they lived, and Hillary 
Brooke as a friendly neighbor who sometimes got involved in the pair's 
schemes. Other regulars were future Stooge Joe Besser as Stinky, a whiny 
child in a Little Lord Fauntleroy suit played by the clearly adult Besser, 
Gordon Jones as Mike the cop, who always lost patience with Lou, Joe Kirk 
(Costello's brother-in-law) as Mr. Bacciagalupe, an Italian immigrant caricature 
whose role varied with the requirements of the script, and Bobby Barber, 
who played many "extra" parts. The simple plot lines were often merely 
an excuse to recreate old comedy routines including "Who's on First?" and 
other familiar set pieces from their films and burlesque days. Since Lou 
owned the series, this allowed them to own these versions of their classic 
routines as well. Although The Abbott and Costello Show originally ran 
for only two seasons, it found a larger viewership in reruns for decades, 
from the late 1960s to the 1990s. The shows have also been released in 
three different DVD sets over the years. "Who's on First?" is Abbott and 
Costello's signature routine. (They, however, usually referred to it as 
"Baseball.") The sketch was based on other burlesque routines with similar 
wordplay. Depending upon the version, Abbott has either organized a new 
baseball team and the players have nicknames, or he points out the proliferation 
of nicknames in baseball (citing St. Louis Cardinals sibling pitchers Dizzy 
and Daffy Dean) before launching the routine. The infielders' nicknames 
are Who (first base), What (second base) and I Don't Know (third base). 
The key to the routine is Costello's persistent confusion over pronouns, 
and Abbott's unwavering nonchalance. Audio recordings are readily available 
on the Internet.[8] Abbott and Costello began honing the routine shortly 
after teaming up in 1936 and performed it in vaudeville in 1937 and 1938. 
It was first heard by a national radio audience in March 1938, when the 
team were regulars on the Kate Smith radio show. By then, John Grant had 
been writing or adapting other sketches for the team, and he may have helped 
expand "Who's On First?" prior to its radio debut. Grant stayed on as a 
writer for Abbott and Costello into the 1950s. One notable appearance of 
the sketch is from a 1951 broadcast.[9] "Who's on First?" is believed to 
be available in as many as 20 versions, ranging from one minute to about 
10 minutes. The team could time the routine at will, adding or deleting 
portions as needed for films, radio, or television. If they needed to fill 
four minutes, for example, Abbott and Costello would do four minutes' worth 
of the baseball bit. The longest version is seen in "The Actors' Home," 
an episode of their filmed TV series, in which "Who's on First?" constitutes 
the second half of the program. A live performance commemorating the opening 
day of the Lou Costello, Jr. Youth Foundation, in 1947 was recorded, and 
has appeared on numerous comedy albums. The team's final performance of 
"Who's on First?" was seen on Steve Allen's TV variety show, in 1957. In 
the full-length version of "Who's on First?", all of the positions are 
mentioned except right field. Abbott and Costello performed a special "Who's 
on First?" for a USO Command Performance. This is the only known recording 
that Costello says "I don't give a damn" at the end.[10] For a radio performance 
on June 20, 1945, Abbott was ill and was unable to perform on the Walgreens 
44th anniversary special. Sidney Fields, in his role as Professor Mellonhead, 
was the "fill-in" manager in the absence of Abbott and performed the straight 
man role with Costello.[11] Both Abbott and Costello met and married women 
they knew in burlesque. Abbott married Betty Smith in 1918, and Costello 
married Anne Battler in 1934. The Costellos had four children; the Abbotts 
adopted two. Abbott and Costello faced personal demons at times. Both were 
inveterate gamblers and had serious health problems. Abbott suffered from 
epilepsy and turned to alcohol for pain management. Costello had occasional, 
near-fatal bouts with rheumatic fever. On November 4, 1943, the same day 
that Costello returned to radio after a one-year layoff due to his illness, 
his infant son Lou Jr. (nicknamed "Butch" and born November 6, 1942) died 
in an accidental drowning in the family's swimming pool.[12] Maxene Andrews 
remembers visiting Costello with sisters Patty and LaVerne during his illness, 
and remembered how Costello's demeanor changed after the tragic loss of 
his son, saying, "He didn't seem as fun-loving and as warm...He seemed 
to anger easily...there was a difference in his attitude."[5] During 1945, 
a rift developed between the two when Abbott hired a domestic servant who 
had been fired by Costello. Angered by Abbott's decision, Costello refused 
to speak to his partner except when performing. The following year, they 
made two films in which they appeared as separate characters rather than 
as a team (Little Giant and The Time of Their Lives). This may have been 
a result of the tensions between them, plus the fact that their most recent 
films had not done well at the box office and Lou wanted to change the 
formula. Abbott allegedly resolved the rift when he volunteered to help 
with Costello's pet charity, a foundation for underprivileged children, 
and suggested naming it the "Lou Costello Jr. Youth Foundation". The facility 
opened in 1947, and still serves the Boyle Heights district of Los Angeles. 
In the 1950s Abbott and Costello's popularity waned as their place as filmdom's 
hottest comedy team was taken by Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis. Another reason 
for the decline was overexposure. Abbott and Costello's routines, already 
familiar, were now glutting the movie and television markets. Each year 
they made two new films, while Realart Pictures also re-released most of 
their older hits; their filmed television series was widely syndicated, 
and the same routines appeared frequently on the Colgate program. (Writer 
Parke Levy told Jordan R. Young, in The Laugh Crafters: Comedy Writing 
in Radio and TV's Golden Age, that he was stunned to learn that Bud and 
Lou were afraid to perform new material.) They were forced to withdraw 
from Fireman Save My Child in 1954 due to Costello's health, and were replaced 
by Hugh O'Brian and Buddy Hackett. Universal dropped the comedy team in 
1955 after they could not agree on contract terms. In the early 1950s, 
the Internal Revenue Service charged them for back taxes, forcing them 
to sell their homes and most of their assets, including the rights to most 
of their films.[citation needed] In 1956 they made one independent film, 
Dance with Me, Henry, and Lou was the subject of the television program 
This Is Your Life,[13] then formally dissolved their partnership in 1957.[14] 
In his posthumously-published 1959 autobiography, My Wicked, Wicked Ways,[15] 
Errol Flynn claims that he triggered the breakup. Flynn, an inveterate 
practical joker, invited them, along with their wives and children, to 
his house for dinner, and afterwards, he commenced to show a home movie 
that "accidentally" turned out to be hard-core pornography. While Flynn 
pretended to be baffled and consternated, Costello and Abbott each blamed 
the other for the film's substitution. In his last years, Costello made 
about ten solo appearances on The Steve Allen Show and headlined in Las 
Vegas. He also appeared in episodes of GE Theater and Wagon Train. On March 
3, 1959, not long after completing his lone solo film, The 30 Foot Bride 
of Candy Rock, he died of a heart attack, just days short of his 53rd birthday. 
Abbott attempted a comeback in 1960, teaming with Candy Candido. Although 
the new act received good reviews, Bud quit, saying, "No one could ever 
live up to Lou." Abbott made a solo, dramatic appearance on an episode 
of General Electric Theater in 1961. In 1966, Abbott voiced his character 
in a series of 156 five-minute Abbott and Costello cartoons made by Hanna-Barbera.[16] 
Lou's character was voiced by Stan Irwin. Bud Abbott died of cancer on 
April 24, 1974.[17] For a number of years Abbott and Costello were ranked 
among the most popular stars in the US according to the Quigley Publishers 
Poll of Exhibitors: The cartoon series was not the first time Abbott and 
Costello were in animation. During the height of their popularity in the 
1940s, Warner Bros.'s Looney Tunes/Merrie Melodies animation unit produced 
3 cartoons featuring the pair as cats or mice named "Babbit and Catstello". 
One of the cartoons, Bob Clampett's A Tale of Two Kitties (1941), introduced 
Tweety. The other cartoons are A Tale of Two Mice and Mouse-Merized Cat. 
In all three cartoons, Tedd Pierce (normally a storyman/writer for the 
cartoons) and Mel Blanc, respectively, provide voice impressions of the 
comedy duo. The revival of their former television series in syndicated 
reruns in the late 1960s and early 1970s helped spark renewed interest 
in the duo, as did the televising of many of their old film hits. In 1994, 
comedian Jerry Seinfeld—who says Abbott and Costello were strong influences 
on his work—hosted a television special Abbott and Costello Meet Jerry 
Seinfeld (the title refers to the duo's popular film series in which they 
met some of Universal's famed horror picture characters), on NBC; the special 
was said to have been seen in 20 million homes. Abbott and Costello are 
among the few non-baseball personnel to be memorialized in the Baseball 
Hall of Fame, although they are not inductees of the Hall itself. A plaque 
and a gold record of the "Who's On First?" sketch have been on permanent 
display there since 1956, and the routine runs on an endless video loop 
in the exhibit area.[22] The comedy group The Credibility Gap performed 
a rock and roll update of "Who's on First?" using the names of rock groups 
The Who, The Guess Who, and Yes, recorded and released on their first album, 
The Bronze Age of Radio. In the 1988 movie Rain Man, Dustin Hoffman's autistic 
character Raymond Babbitt recites an affectless "Who's on First?" as a 
defense mechanism. NBC's Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip (2006), a drama 
about life backstage at a television comedy series, used "Who's on First?" 
as a plot device. On the January 13, 2001 episode of Saturday Night Live 
host Charlie Sheen and SNL cast-member Rachel Dratch performed a modified 
version of "Who's On First?" in a sketch. Jerry Seinfeld is an avid fan 
and "The Old Man (Seinfeld)" (Season 4, Episode 18, aired February 18, 
1993) featured a cantankerous old man named "Sid Fields," played by veteran 
actor Bill Erwin, as a tribute to Sidney Fields, the landlord from the 
Abbott and Costello TV show. The influence of Abbott and Costello on Seinfeld 
was discussed in a 1994 NBC program Abbott and Costello Meet Jerry Seinfeld. 
In Episode 30, Kramer hears the famous Abbott and Costello line "His father 
was a mudder. His mother was a mudder." In 2003 Montclair State University 
dedicated a student residential complex aptly named The Abbott and Costello 
Center on Clove Road in the Little Falls portion of the university's campus.[23] 
In Robin Hood: Men in Tights, a 1993 spoof comedy directed by Mel Brooks, 
Dick Van Patten played the part of the Abbot. At one point, a man who looked 
and sounded like Lou Costello (played by Chuck McCann) yelled "Hey, Abbott!", 
in exactly the same way Lou did in the Abbott and Costello movies, repeating 
a joke from Brooks' Robin Hood sitcom When Things Were Rotten in which 
Van Patten shouted the line. In the 1999 episode of The Simpsons, "Marge 
Simpson in: 'Screaming Yellow Honkers'", Superintendent Chalmers and Principal 
Skinner try their hand at being Abbott and Costello. In the VeggieTales 
show, "Duke and the Great Pie War", the Scallion plays a character referred 
by Novak (Mr. Nezzer) as the Abbott Costello. Abbott and Costello were 
inducted into the New Jersey Hall of Fame in 2009. A TV movie called Bud 
and Lou, based on a book by Hollywood correspondent Bob Thomas, was broadcast 
in 1978. Starring Harvey Korman as Bud Abbott and Buddy Hackett as Lou 
Costello, the film told the duo's life story, focusing on Costello and 
portraying him as volatile and petty.[5] In 2015 a non profit fan film 
was produced titled Abbott & Costello Meet Superman. The film was screened 
at the Superman Celebration Film Festival in Metropolis Illinois. And is 
currently streaming on YouTube. Abbott and Costello are played by two actors 
