Elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1971 Abraham 
("Abe") Michael Saperstein (July 4, 1902 – March 15, 1966) was the founder, 
owner and earliest coach of the Harlem Globetrotters. He was born in the 
East End of London, England, to a Jewish family originally from Lomza, 
Poland. Saperstein was a leading figure in black basketball and baseball 
in the 1920s, 30s, 40s and 50s, primarily before those sports were racially 
integrated.[1][2] Saperstein revolutionized the game of basketball and 
took the Globetrotters from an unknown team touring small farm towns in 
the Midwest during the height of the Depression to a powerhouse that went 
on to beat the best team in the all-white National Basketball Association.[3] 
Saperstein also introduced the three-point shot, which went on to become 
a mainstay of modern basketball.[4] Saperstein was elected to the Basketball 
Hall of Fame in 1971 and, at 5 ft. 3 in (1.65 m), is its shortest male 
member.[5] In 1979, Saperstein was inducted into the International Jewish 
Sports Hall of Fame.[6] In 2005, Saperstein was inducted into the National 
Jewish Sports Hall of Fame. Saperstein’s family moved from London to Chicago 
in 1907, when Abe was five years old. They settled just north of the city’s 
Jewish area, often called the “Poor Jews’ quarter” because of the many 
struggling immigrants living there. Saperstein’s father, Louis, who had 
been an apprentice tailor in Poland, saw an ad for a tailor on Chicago’s 
North Side in a predominantly German, Irish, and Swedish neighborhood. 
The ad warned, “No Jews allowed,” so Louis Saperstein changed his surname 
to the more German-sounding Schneider, which is German for 'tailor'. After 
buying the business from the owner several years later, Louis Saperstein 
dropped the facade and changed the name of the store to Louis Saperstein’s 
Tailor Shop.[1] At age 10, Abe Saperstein discovered a lifelong love of 
sports, playing basketball at the Wilson Avenue YMCA and second base for 
a parochial school team, though he attended the public Ravenswood Elementary 
School. At Lake View High School, he played nine different sports, including 
baseball, basketball, football and boxing. He also ran track. Saperstein 
attended the University of Illinois, but dropped out to help support his 
family. He decided not to follow his father into tailoring. Instead, his 
dream was to pursue a career in sports, though he realized that his athletic 
abilities and height were not going to take him far.[1] Saperstein eventually 
landed a position working for the Chicago District Park as a playground 
supervisor at Welles Park, on Chicago’s North Side.[7] There, after hours 
of watching kids play basketball, he decided to create his own team. The 
Chicago Reds were a semi-pro lightweight (135 lb limit) basketball team, 
and Saperstein played point guard. As player, manager and coach of the 
Chicago Reds, Saperstein met Walter Thomas Ball, a legendary baseball player 
in the Negro leagues, who had a black baseball team he wanted to send on 
tour in Illinois and southern Wisconsin. He hired Saperstein as his booking 
agent.[1] Saperstein went on to become booking agent for several basketball 
teams as well, until branching out in the late 1920s to form his own team 
with some of the members of the Savoy Big Five.[1][8] He called the team 
the New York Harlem Globetrotters. Although Saperstein’s team had nothing 
to do with Harlem (they wouldn’t play there until the 1960s), he chose 
the name to indicate that the players were black, as Harlem was the epicenter 
of African-American culture. Many of the towns where the Globetrotters 
played in their first few years were all white, and Saperstein didn’t want 
other teams or spectators to be surprised that his team was black.[1] The 
Globetrotters played their first game in Hinkley, Illinois. The team netted 
a grand total of $8, which was split evenly between the six members of 
the team, including Saperstein. Over the next several years, in the midst 
of the Great Depression, Saperstein served as the team’s manager, driver, 
booking agent, PR director, and occasional substitute player. When a player 
was injured in a 1926 game, for example, Saperstein substituted into the 
game, prompting the Winona (Minnesota) News to report: "Four clean-limbed 
young colored men and a squat bandy-legged chap of Jewish extraction ... 
styled the Harlem Globetrotters, beat the Arcadia Military police...29 
to 18.”[9] His teenage brother Harry worked as a typist and secretary, 
sending out press releases and game schedules. Saperstein was relentless 
in booking games; in the team’s first seven years, the Globetrotters played 
more than 1,000 games, with Saperstein driving the players to tiny towns 
throughout the Midwest in his unheated Ford Model T. During some seasons, 
the Globetrotters needed to play every night just to make ends meet, because 
the team often netted less than $50 a night. Accommodations on the road 
were sparse and hotels often wouldn’t allow blacks. On one occasion, when 
the players couldn’t find a hotel in Des Moines, Iowa, they snuck up the 
fire escape and slept in Saperstein’s room.[1] From early on, the Globetrotters 
blended basketball with showmanship and ball-handling wizardry. But they 
were also extremely talented basketball players, winning most of their 
games. In 1940, the Globetrotters beat the legendary black basketball team, 
the New York Renaissance.[1] An even bigger achievement came in 1948 when 
the Globetrotters defeated the Minneapolis Lakers, the best team in the 
all-white NBA, a league that had been formed two years earlier. The star 
of the Lakers was six-foot-ten George Mikan, nicknamed “Mr. Basketball.” 
Despite the Lakers’ significant height advantage and the team’s billing 
as the best basketball team in the country, the underdog Globetrotters 
won the game 61-59, thanks to a dramatic long shot at the buzzer by Globetrotter 
Ermer Robinson. Afterward in the locker room, the players hoisted Saperstein 
triumphantly on their shoulders. The Globetrotters-Lakers game had taken 
place amid a sharp racial divide in sports. Many fans and team owners believed 
that black athletes weren’t coachable or smart enough to learn complicated 
plays, and lacked the competitive fire necessary for premier athletes.[10] 
The victory, which was just shy of the Globetrotters’ 3000th victory in 
21 seasons, proved that none of this was true and that African-American 
players had the skill and ability to play in the professional leagues.[3][10] 
In 1950, within two years of the Globetrotters-Lakers’ game, the NBA integrated. 
Chuck Cooper, who had been a Globetrotter briefly, became the first black 
player to sign a contract with the NBA. Another two of the first black 
NBA players also were Globetrotters – Nat "Sweetwater" Clifton and Hank 
DeZonie.[11] Also in 1950, the Globetrotters played their first game in 
Madison Square Garden, marking the first time the venue sold out for a 
basketball game.[1] Following these successes, interest in the Globetrotters 
grew and Saperstein created two more teams in the United States, as well 
as an international squad. The Globetrotters have now played in more than 
118 countries.[12] Even after the NBA integrated, top black players continued 
to play for the Globetrotters. In 1958, Wilt Chamberlain joined the Globetrotters 
for a year before going into the NBA and becoming its most dominant player.[13] 
Two feature-length movies have been made about the Globetrotters, The Harlem 
Globetrotters (1951) and Go, Man, Go (1954), the latter starring Dane Clark 
and Sidney Poitier. Several documentaries have also told the Globetrotters’ 
story, including The Harlem Globetrotters: The Team That Changed the World 
(2005), which featured Geese Ausbie, Larry Brown and Bill Bradley. Saperstein 
was a leading figure in the black baseball leagues as well. At various 
times, he owned the Chicago Brown Bombers, the Birmingham Black Barons, 
and the Cincinnati Crescents baseball teams.[14][15] He also created several 
new leagues, including the Negro Midwest League and, in partnership with 
Olympic track and field star Jesse Owens, the West Coast Negro Baseball 
League.[2] When Saperstein’s friend Bill Veeck took ownership of the Cleveland 
Indians in the late 40s, he hired Saperstein as his chief scout for African-American 
players. At Saperstein’s suggestion, Veeck eventually signed Luke Easter, 
Larry Doby, Minnie Minoso, Suitcase Simpson and Satchel Paige, the American 
Leagues's first black player.[16] [17] Saperstein also founded the white 
New York Nationals baseball team and the Boston Brownskins, a basketball 
team that served as a minor league club for the Globetrotters.[18] He also 
booked games for the Hong Wah Kues, a basketball team of Chinese Americans 
from San Francisco. Started in 1939 with six players, the Hong Wah Kues 
became known for their speed and quick passing. They played the Harlem 
Globetrotters once, and lost.[19] He had ambitions of owning a team in 
the National Basketball Association and hoped to start a team in California. 
That hope was dashed when the NBA approved the move of the Lakers from 
Minneapolis to L.A. The NBA also did not award the Warriors to Saperstein 
when the team moved from Philadelphia to San Francisco.[20] Instead of 
sitting on the sidelines, Saperstein started the American Basketball League 
in 1961 and served as its commissioner, as well as owner of the league’s 
Chicago Majors team. To differentiate the ABL from the NBA – and to promote 
the new league – Saperstein introduced a widened free throw lane and the 
three-point shot, both of which endured, although the ABL lasted only a 
season and a half.[21] The NBA adopted the three-point shot in 1979. In 
a time of racial segregation and bigotry in professional sports, Saperstein 
proudly showcased the talents of the nation’s best black basketball players.[9] 
Four years after the all-white National Basketball Association (originally 
called the Basketball Association of America) was formed, black players 
were finally allowed into the league. As the integrated NBA became recognized 
as the country’s highest level of basketball, Saperstein focused the Globetrotters 
on entertainment, creating a popular act that played to audiences worldwide. 
In the years following World War II, the Globetrotters embarked on a “goodwill 
tour.” Among the more memorable of those games took place in Berlin’s Olympic 
stadium and featured Jesse Owens, who was traveling with the team. Owens 
returned to the stadium where he had won four gold medals 15 years earlier, 
after which Hitler famously refused to shake his hand. Although Saperstein 
worried about bringing the team into the racially charged atmosphere of 
Berlin, Owens and the Globetrotters were greeted by 75,000 cheering fans.[1] 
The mayor of Berlin greeted Owens and famously said, "In 1936, Hitler refused 
to shake your hand. Today, I give you both of mine." As the movement for 
civil rights progressed, some alleged that Saperstein did not do enough 
to advance the equality of his black players. In the 50s and 60s, some 
players resented that, due to the prejudice of hotel owners, they continued 
to be housed in “colored” hotels in black neighborhoods, while players 
on Saperstein’s white teams supposedly stayed in first-class hotels. There 
was also discontent among some Globetrotters that Saperstein reportedly 
paid white players on his other teams higher salaries.[1][22] Others criticized 
the Globetrotters for their on-court antics, saying they played into racial 
stereotypes.[23] In 1978, however, Jesse Jackson said: “They did not show 
blacks as stupid. On the contrary, they were shown as superior…they were 
able to turn science into an art form.”[1] In a 1999 interview, Wilt Chamberlain 
said, “The fraternity of the Globetrotters was one of the most rewarding 
times of my life. I almost did not go into the NBA.”[24] Saperstein was 
the eldest of nine children, several of whom were involved with the Globetrotters. 
His sister Fay, the youngest, helped Abe with paperwork for years and ran 
the New York office in the 1950s. After Abe’s death in March 1966, his 
brother Morry Saperstein assisted in running the business before it was 
sold to a group of Chicago businessmen for $3.7 million and eventually 
moved from Chicago to New York City.[1] On May 6, 1934, Saperstein married 
Sylvia Franklin from Wisconsin. They had two children, Jerry and Eloise. 
Jerry ran the international unit of the Globetrotters in the 1960s, founded 
the New York Sets, a charter franchise of World Team Tennis, and owned 
the San Francisco Shamrocks of the Pacific Hockey League.[25][26] He then 
served as the first vice president at Madison Square Garden Corporation, 
reporting directly to the then-Chairman Sonny Werblin. Jerry has two sons, 
Adam and Lanier Saperstein, who live in the New York area. Eloise, a retired 
basketball agent, has three children, Lonni, Avi and Abra, who live in 
the Chicago area. Saperstein was a tireless worker, taking off just one 
day a year, Yom Kippur. He continued to work right up until his death from 
a heart attack in March 1966. “He had more energy than the Grand Coulee 
Dam,” wrote Chuck Menville in The Harlem Globetrotters: An Illustrated 
History. The news of Saperstein’s death came as a shock to the Globetrotters. 
The team’s star, Meadowlark Lemon, was on the road in Charlotte, North 
Carolina at the time. “My mouth went dry,” Lemon said. “The boys cried. 
I had to force myself to be funny. I did it only because Abe would have 
wanted the show to go on.”[16] Saperstein is buried in the Westlawn Cemetery 
