Abraham Washington "Abe" Attell (February 22, 1883 – February 7, 1970), 
often referred to by newspapers as "The Little Hebrew", was a boxer who 
became known for his record-setting, six year consecutive reign as World 
Featherweight Champion from 1906-1912, and his nearly consecutive ten-year 
reign starting in 1902. Said to be a friend of the gangster Arnold Rothstein, 
Attell was charged with game fixing in the Black Sox Scandal in 1919, but 
the charges were dismissed before trial. He also was suspected of other 
infractions including fixing fights, and using drugs during a fight.[1] 
Attell was born in San Francisco, California, the son of Jewish parents. 
Many sources give his year of birth as 1884, but in an article published 
in the October 1961 issue of Cavalier magazine, he stated that he had turned 
78 that year. A copy of his passport also gives his birth year as 1883, 
and the 1900 U.S. Census gives his age as 17. Growing up in a mostly Irish 
neighborhood, he was often involved in fights with neighborhood boys. He 
said as a kid, he sometimes had up to 10 bouts each day. After his father 
abandoned the family when Attell was 13, he sold newspapers to earn money. 
Selling at the corner of 8th and Market, near the Mechanics Pavilion, a 
frequent venue for important boxing matches, Attell watched the fight between 
Solly Smith and George Dixon for the world's Featherweight championship. 
With that, Attell and his brothers Caesar and Monte became convinced they 
might have futures in boxing. Attell's first fight was at age 17 on August 
19, 1900, when he knocked out Kid Lennett in two rounds at the San Francisco 
Athletic Club.[2] His mother, who strongly opposed his boxing, later became 
one of his staunchest supporters, betting on him to win. After winning 
10 fights in a row by knockout, Attell moved to Denver, Colorado. At the 
age of 18, he fought George Dixon for the World Featherweight championship 
and beat him in a 15 round decision. In 1904 he beat Johnny Reagan in 20 
rounds. One year later, he lost the crown to Tony Sullivan but regained 
it in February 1906 with a decision over Jimmy Walsh. Attell successfully 
defended his title eighteen times between 1906–1912. This was a long-standing 
division record until Eusebio Pedroza surpassed it in 1985. Among other 
opponents, Attell beat Battling Nelson and Johnny Kilbane during this period. 
He was often called "The Little Champ" or "The Little Hebrew" by newspapers. 
From 1909–1910, his brother Monte Attell, called the "Nob Hill Terror", 
held the Bantamweight Championship, making them the first brothers to hold 
world titles simultaneously. Caesar Attell also fought and was called "Two 
and a Half," for always giving that amount whenever the hat was passed 
for charity at a boxing event, which he attended faithfully. During his 
time as world featherweight champion, Attell was allegedly involved with 
gambler/gangster Arnold Rothstein. According to some accounts, they became 
good friends during this period. Attell defeated American 1905 World Bantamweight 
Champion Jimmy Walsh three times in title matches; on September 12, 1907 
for a ten round decision in Indianapolis, on December 7, 1906 in a ten 
round TKO in Los Angeles, and on February 22, 1906 for a fifteen round 
decision in Chelsea, Massachusetts, in which Attell "badly punished" Walsh. 
Not surprisingly, Attell was the odds on favorite for the December 1906 
fight. He met Attell twice in non-title matches on April 3, 1913 in New 
York in a ten round loss by decision and on October 24, 1912, in a twelve 
round draw in Boston. After the April 3, 1913, New York bout, Walsh's manager 
Eddie Keevin filed charges against Attell with the New York boxing commission 
stating that Attell had used eye gouging against Walsh during the fight.[3][4][5] 
Attell lost his world Featherweight title to Johnny Kilbane in 1912, in 
a 20-round decision. Kilbane claimed that Attell's handlers put chloroform 
on the fighter's glove to blind him. Other witnesses claimed other illegal 
tactics were used in the fight.[6] On July 4, 1913, Attell accidentally 
hit a referee during a win against Willie Beecher. He finally retired in 
1917. Attell managed one boxer, Marty Goldman. He coached him to a 33 Win 
(10 ko's), 11 Loss, 3 Draw record in 47 career fights.[7] After his professional 
boxing career ended Attell operated a shoe store in New York City, doing 
a good business selling to customers, fans and sporting people who came 
in to see him. He gave up the shoe business around June 1916 to go into 
vaudeville. His name was linked to the infamous Black Sox baseball scandal 
of 1919. He was alleged to have been the bag man for gambler Arnold Rothstein 
and to have given $10,000 to several Chicago White Sox players. They had 
in return agreed to throw the World Series with Cincinnati. When the scandal 
broke in 1920, Attell went to Canada for a year to avoid being subpoenaed. 
Rothstein was never convicted of the crime. In 1920 Attell was accused 
of being the messenger between the gangster Rothstein and players of the 
Chicago White Sox baseball organization, during the planning stages of 
the fix of the 1919 World Series. Prior to the series, Attell had been 
approached by former fighter Billy Maharg and former Major League Baseball 
pitcher "Sleepy" Bill Burns in their bid to get Rothstein to financially 
back the fix. The Black Sox scandal was considered a major outrage in sports 
and Attell's name appeared in newspaper headlines related to the scandal. 
He and many White Sox players were formally charged with several counts, 
including fixing the event, however Rothstein was never charged. All were 
eventually acquitted at trial, but Major League Baseball banned them from 
participating in baseball activities at any level. Attell denied having 
been involved in any talks about fixing the series and convinced the jury 
that the wrong Abe Attell was accused. Attell died in New Paltz, New York 
on February 7, 1970.[7] Attell was inducted posthumously as a member of 
