Adam Alexander Loewen (born April 9, 1984) is a Canadian professional baseball 
pitcher who is a free agent. He previously pitched in MLB for the Baltimore 
Orioles from 2006 to 2008, before converting to a position player and playing 
with the Toronto Blue Jays in 2011. After spending the next two seasons 
in the minors as a position player, Loewen then converted back to being 
a pitcher, and was called up to the Philadelphia Phillies in August 2015. 
Though there have been full-time pitchers who have converted to full-time 
position players, and vice versa, Loewen's three stage career (converting 
from full-time pitcher to full-time position player and back to full-time 
pitcher) is unique in major league history. Loewen grew up in Surrey, British 
Columbia, and was both a starting pitcher and first baseman for the team 
that represented Canada at the 1996 Little League World Series in Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania.[1] He would go on to attend Fraser Valley Christian High 
School and play baseball for the Whalley Chiefs of the British Columbia 
Premier Baseball League. While playing for the Chiefs, Loewen was selected 
as the fourth pick in the 2002 Major League Baseball draft by the Baltimore 
Orioles. This was the highest a Canadian player had ever been drafted until 
righthander Jameson Taillon was drafted second overall by the Pittsburgh 
Pirates (though he remains the highest Canadian-born player ever picked, 
as Taillon was born the child of Canadian nationals in Florida). Loewen 
went on to play one season with Chipola College, but signed a Major League 
Baseball contract with Baltimore worth $4.02 million shortly thereafter. 
In 2004, he was named their top prospect by Baseball America. However, 
by early 2006, he had been downgraded to the team's second best prospect. 
Loewen garnered international attention on March 8, 2006, when he started 
for Canada against the star-studded United States team in the first round 
of the World Baseball Classic. In 3 2⁄3 shutout innings, Loewen held veterans 
Chipper Jones, Mark Teixeira, Vernon Wells, and Derrek Lee hitless. He 
ended up earning the win as Canada won the game 8–6. During the 2006 season, 
Loewen was called up by the Orioles. In his first four Major League starts, 
he faced three former Cy Young Award winners: Randy Johnson, Tom Glavine 
and Roy Halladay, whom he faced twice. This made Loewen the first pitcher 
in Major League Baseball history to face Cy Young winners in his first 
four starts.[2] He was injured early in the 2007 season, suffering a stress 
fracture to his pitching elbow and was later placed on the 15-day disabled 
list. Loewen began to develop control problems during spring training, 
where he led the Majors in walks, with 19 in just over 16 innings.[3] His 
lack of control did not cease during the early stages of the regular season, 
and after experiencing soreness in his left arm throughout April, Loewen 
was placed on the disabled list and missed the next two months of the season. 
Although he was subsequently converted into a relief pitcher when he returned 
in July, he experienced a sharp pain in his surgically repaired elbow. 
This injury, diagnosed as a stress fracture, eventually caused him to prematurely 
end his season. Loewen announced on July 19 that he would no longer be 
a pitcher due to his chronic injuries, and that he would convert to an 
outfielder/first baseman.[4] He ended his pitching career with a lifetime 
8–8 record, with an earned run average of 5.38 and 134 strikeouts. Due 
to the nature of his injury and his inability to remain as a pitcher, Loewen 
had the Orioles' support when he made the decision to transition to a position 
player. His contract stipulated that he was required to remain with the 
big league club on its active roster at this stage in his career. As Loewen 
would need time in the minors to learn a new position and pick up batting 
experience, both sides agreed on October 20, 2008 that Loewen would be 
released from his contract. Both sides had talked about re-signing him 
to a minor league contract though no formal agreement was ever reached. 
The Orioles had hoped to develop Loewen to play at first base but were 
also actively in the market to sign free agent first basemen. Loewen reportedly 
received several offers from other teams, and signed a minor-league contract 
with the Toronto Blue Jays.[5][6] After attending minor-league spring training 
with the Jays, Loewen was assigned to the Dunedin Blue Jays on April 9, 
2009.[7] During 2011 with Triple-A Las Vegas, Loewen batted .306 with 17 
home runs and 85 RBI in 134 games, which also saw him play all three outfield 
positions as well as first base. Loewen was called up to the Blue Jays 
on September 6, 2011, marking his first trip back to the majors since becoming 
a position player.[8][9] Loewen made his position player debut on Wednesday, 
September 7, against the Boston Red Sox. He recorded his first career hit 
in the 8th inning, against reliever Daniel Bard.[10] In a game against 
his former team, the Baltimore Orioles, on September 11, Loewen hit his 
first career home run, a solo shot over the centre field wall off starter 
Tommy Hunter.[11] On November 22, 2011, he signed a minor league contract 
with the New York Mets.[12] He spent the 2012 season with the Buffalo Bisons. 
The Toronto Blue Jays announced on January 12, 2013 that Loewen had been 
signed to a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training.[13] 
Initially, Loewen was to start the 2013 season with the Double-A New Hampshire 
Fisher Cats; however, on April 2, Loewen was promoted to the Triple-A Buffalo 
Bisons, where he played during 2012 in the Mets farm system.[14] On April 
11, Loewen was sent down to Double-A New Hampshire.[15] In 115 games with 
New Hampshire, he hit .269 with 15 home runs and 60 RBI.[16] On April 16, 
2014, Loewen signed a 2-year minor league contract with the Philadelphia 
Phillies as a pitcher. The team sent him to extended spring training.[17] 
He made two starts in May for the High-A Clearwater Threshers before being 
promoted to the Double-A Reading Fightin Phils.[18] On August 7, 2015, 
Loewen was called up by the Phillies from the Triple-A Lehigh Valley Iron 
Pigs.[19] On October 30, 2015, Loewen signed a minor league deal with the 
Arizona Diamondbacks. On July 30, 2016, the Diamondbacks brought Loewen 
up from the Triple-A Reno Aces as a pitcher.[20] He was designated for 
