The administrative divisions of New York are the various units of government 
that provide local government services in the state of New York. The state 
is divided into counties, cities, towns, and villages, which are all municipal 
corporations with their own governments that provide most local government 
services.[1] Whether a municipality is defined as a city, town, or village 
is dependent not on population or land area, but rather on the form of 
government selected by the residents and approved by the state legislature.[2][3][4] 
Each such government is granted varying home rule powers as provided by 
the New York Constitution.[5] New York has various corporate entities that 
serve single purposes that are also local governments, such as school and 
fire districts.[5] New York has 62 counties,[6][7] which are subdivided 
into 932 towns[4] and 62 cities;[3] it also has 10 Indian reservations.[8] 
In total, the state has more than 3,400 active local governments and more 
than 4,200 taxing jurisdictions.[9][10] Incorporated municipal governments 
(also known as "general purpose units of local government"; i.e., counties, 
cities, towns and villages) in New York State have been granted broad home 
rule powers enabling them to provide services to their residents and to 
regulate the quality of life within their jurisdictions. They do so while 
adhering to the United States Constitution and the Constitution of the 
State of New York. Articles VIII (titled "Local Finances") and IX (titled 
"Local Government", but commonly referred to as the "Home Rule" article) 
of the state constitution establish the rights and responsibilities of 
the municipal governments.[5] The New York State Constitution provides 
for democratically elected legislative bodies for counties, cities, towns 
and villages. These legislative bodies are granted the power to enact local 
laws as needed in order to provide services to their citizens and fulfill 
their various obligations.[5] The county is the primary administrative 
division of New York. There are sixty-two counties in the state. Five of 
the counties are boroughs of the city of New York and do not have functioning 
county governments.[7] While originally created as subdivisions of the 
state meant to carry out state functions, counties are now considered municipal 
corporations with the power and fiscal capacity to provide an array of 
local government services.[6] Such services generally include law enforcement 
and public safety, social and health services (such as Medicaid), and education 
(special needs and community colleges).[11] Every county outside of New 
York City has a county seat,[12] which is the location of county government.[13] 
However, the 4 outer-boroughs of New York City (The Bronx, Brooklyn, Staten 
Island and Queens) all have county clerks offices, located in Melrose, 
Downtown Brooklyn, St.George and Jamaica, respectively. These county clerk's 
offices are typically nearby or directly adjacent to the 'Borough Halls' 
of these boroughs, with the exception of Queens, whose Borough Hall is 
the nearby neighborhood of Kew Gardens, though county functions, such as 
the issuance of marriage licenses, are still performed there. Nineteen 
counties operate under county charters, while 38 operate under the general 
provisions of the County Law. Although all counties have a certain latitude 
to govern themselves, "charter counties" are afforded greater home rule 
powers. The charter counties are Albany, Broome, Chautauqua, Chemung, Dutchess, 
Erie, Herkimer, Monroe, Nassau, Oneida, Onondaga, Orange, Putnam, Rensselaer, 
Rockland, Schenectady, Suffolk, Tompkins, Ulster, and Westchester.[14] 
Sixteen counties are governed by a Board of Supervisors, composed of the 
supervisors of its constituent towns and cities. In most of these counties, 
each supervisor's vote is weighted in accordance with the town's population 
in order to abide by the U.S. Supreme Court mandate of "one person, one 
vote". Other counties have legislative districts of equal population, which 
may cross municipal borders; these counties may also have an elected County 
Executive. Most counties in New York do not use the term "Board of Supervisors." 
34 counties have a County Legislature, six counties have a Board of Legislators, 
and one county has a Board of Representatives. The five counties, or boroughs, 
of New York City are governed by a 51-member City Council.[citation needed] 
In non-charter counties, the legislative body exercises executive power 
as well. Although the legislature can delegate certain functions and duties 
to a county administrator, who acts on behalf of the legislature, the legislature 
must maintain ultimate control over the actions of the administrator. Many, 
but not all, charter counties have an elected executive who is independent 
of the legislature; the exact form of government is defined in the County 
Charter[citation needed]. In New York, each city is a highly autonomous 
incorporated area[3] that, with the exceptions of New York City[7] and 
Geneva,[15] is contained within one county. Cities in New York are classified 
by the U.S. Census Bureau as incorporated places.[16] They provide almost 
all services to their residents and have the highest degree of home rule 
and taxing jurisdiction over their residents.[citation needed] The main 
difference between a city and a village is that cities are organized and 
governed according to their charters, which can differ widely among cities,[17] 
while most villages are subject to a uniform statewide Village Law (twelve 
villages still operate under charters issued by the state legislature prior 
to a revision of the State Constitution in 1874 that forbade chartering 
villages).[18] Also, villages are part of a town (or towns; some villages 
cross town borders), with residents who pay taxes to and receive services 
from the town.[17] Cities are neither part of nor subordinate to towns[17] 
except for the city of Sherrill, which for some purposes is treated as 
if it were a village of the town of Vernon.[19] Some cities are completely 
surrounded by a town, typically of the same name. There are sixty-two cities 
in the state.[3] As of 2000, 54.1% of state residents were living in a 
city; 42.2% were living in New York City; 11.9% were living in one of the 
other 61 cities.[20] In 1686, the English colonial governor granted the 
cities of New York and Albany city charters, which were recognized by the 
first State Constitution in 1777. All other cities have been established 
by act of the state legislature and have been granted a charter. Cities 
have been granted the power to revise their charters or adopt new ones. 
There are no minimum population or area requirements in order to become 
a city. While there is no defined process for how and when a village becomes 
a city, the Legislature requires clear evidence, usually in the form of 
a locally drafted charter, that the community in question seeks to incorporate 
as a city.[3] The forms of government cities can have are council–manager, 
strong mayor–council, weak mayor–council or commission. Forty-six cities, 
the majority, use the mayor–council form.[21] The city of New York is a 
special case. The state legislature reorganized government in the area 
in the 1890s in an effort to consolidate. Other cities, villages, and towns 
were annexed[7] to become the "City of Greater New York",[22] (an unofficial 
term, the new city retained the name of New York), a process basically 
completed in 1898.[7] At the time of consolidation, Queens County was split. 
Its western towns joined the city, leaving three towns that were never 
part of the consolidation plan as part of Queens County but not part of 
the new Borough of Queens. (A small portion of the Town of Hempstead was 
itself annexed, also.) The next year (1899), the three eastern towns of 
Queens County separated to become Nassau County.[22] The city today consists 
of the entire area of five counties (named New York, Kings, Queens, Bronx, 
and Richmond).[23] While these counties have no county government, boroughs 
— with boundaries coterminous with the county boundaries — each have a 
Borough Board made up of the Borough President, the borough's district 
council members, and the chairpersons of the borough's community boards. 
A mayor serves as the city's chief executive officer.[7] The most populous 
and largest city in the state is New York City, with a population of over 
8.2 million inhabitants and comprising just over 300 sq mi (777.00 km2) 
of land (468.87 sq mi (1,214.368 km2) total area, which includes water). 
The least populous city is Sherrill, New York, with just 3,071 inhabitants 
in 2010. The smallest city by area is Mechanicville, New York, which covers 
0.91 sq mi (2.4 km2) (of which 0.08 sq mi (0.2 km2) is water).[24] Some 
places containing the word "city" in their name are not cities. Examples 
include Johnson City, Garden City, and New City.[25] In New York, a town 
is a municipal corporation,[26] which is the major division of each county 
(excluding the five counties that comprise New York City), very similar 
to townships in other states such as Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Indiana. Towns 
in New York are classified by the U.S. Census Bureau as minor civil divisions.[27] 
All residents of New York who do not live in a city or on an Indian reservation 
live in a town. Towns provide or arrange for the primary functions of local 
government. While some provide most municipal services for all town residents 
and selected services for residents of villages, some provide little more 
than road maintenance.[28] There are 932 towns in New York.[4] As of 2000, 
45.8% of state residents were living in a town; 35.9% were living in a 
town but outside of a village.[20] Whereas cities and villages can cross 
county boundaries, all towns in New York are within a single county. New 
York towns are classified by statute as being a town of the first class 
or a town of the second class. Additionally, a town of the first class 
can further be classified as a suburban town upon meeting certain criteria. 
Originally, towns of different classes possessed different powers. Since 
1964, all towns, regardless of classification, have had the same legal 
powers as were once available only to suburban towns. Even so, towns of 
different classifications continue to have organizational differences and 
certain conditions that must be met before a town's classification changes.[29] 
The town board serves as the legislative branch.[30] The board is composed 
of one elected supervisor (or chief executive officer in suburban towns) 
and a specific number of elected council persons; towns of the second class 
generally have two but may have four council persons, whereas towns of 
the first class generally have four but can have two or six.[29] The supervisor 
presides over the board, voting on all matters but not possessing veto 
or tie-breaking power. Certain towns operate under a town manager form 
of government, as permitted by legislation enacted in 1976.[31] All town 
justices were originally part of a town's board. Today, justices belong 
to a separate judicial branch[31] known as Town Court or Justice Court, 
part of New York's Justice Court system.[citation needed] A town may contain 
one or more villages.[32] Five towns are coterminous with their single 
village: Green Island in Albany County; East Rochester in Monroe County; 
and Scarsdale, Harrison and Mount Kisco in Westchester County. When such 
an entity is formed, officials from either unit of government may serve 
in both village and town governments simultaneously.[18] A referendum is 
held to decide whether residents prefer a village-style or town-style government, 
which will then function primarily as a village or town but will perform 
some of the functions of the other form.[33] Towns can contain several 
hamlets and communities. If the United States Postal Service (USPS) has 
a post office in a hamlet it often will use the name of that hamlet, as 
will the local fire department or elementary school. Businesses may also 
use the name of a hamlet as part of their name. The United States Census 
Bureau will, with consideration from the town, designate a census-designated 
place (CDP) that may use the name of one or more hamlets, though boundaries 
may differ from what is used by the ZIP code, local fire department, etc. 
Towns in New York may be further subdivided into wards, although as of 
2013, only eleven of the state's 932 towns used this system.[34] In towns 
operating under the ward system, citizens vote for councilmen who represent 
a specific area (ward) of the town, as opposed to the at-large councilmen 
elected in the majority of the state's towns. Towns vary in size and population. 
The largest town by area is Brookhaven (Suffolk County), which covers 531.5 sq mi 
(1,377 km2), but more than half of that is water. The town of Webb (Herkimer 
County) has the greatest land area, at 451 sq mi (1,170 km2). The smallest 
town, Green Island (Albany County), covers 0.7 sq mi (1.8 km2). The town 
of Hempstead (Nassau County) has about 760,000 people (2010 census), making 
it more populous than any city in the state except New York City. Red House 
(Cattaraugus County), the least populous, has 38 permanent residents (2010 
census).[24] The use of "town" in a community's name is irrespective of 
municipal status. Elizabethtown, Germantown and Stephentown are towns. 
Cooperstown, home of the Baseball Hall of Fame, is a village, Jamestown 
is a city, and Levittown is an unincorporated hamlet.[24] A census-designated 
place (CDP) is defined by the United States Census Bureau as "a statistical 
entity defined for each decennial census according to Census Bureau guidelines, 
comprising a densely settled concentration of population..."[35] that is 
not part of a city or a village[36] "...but is locally identified by a 
name."[35] CDPs may cross town and county borders.[37] CDPs are defined 
collaboratively by state and local officials and the Census Bureau.[35] 
They are defined for each census, and it is commonplace to change boundaries 
and define new CDPs for each census.[38] The Census Bureau formerly referred 
to CDPs as "unincorporated places" from 1950 through the 1970 decennial 
censuses.[39][40] The term CDP was first used for the 1980 census, and 
minimum population criteria for CDPs were dropped with the 2000 Census.[39] 
Though the term "hamlet" is not defined under New York law, many people 
in the state use the term hamlet to refer to a community within a town 
that is not incorporated as a village but is identified by a name, i.e. 
an unincorporated community. Hamlets often have names corresponding to 
the names of a local school district, post office, or fire district.[41] 
Because a hamlet has no government of its own, it depends upon the town 
or towns that contain it for municipal services and government.[2] Suffolk 
County publishes maps that give hamlet boundaries,[41] but towns within 
the county also publish maps that conflict both in the number of hamlets 
and their boundaries.[42] Nevertheless, all land not within a village is 
administered by the town. Most of the rest of New York's hamlets, however, 
have less defined boundaries, and most towns have areas that are not considered 
to be a part of any hamlet. The New York State Department of Transportation 
(NYSDOT) puts hamlet names on rectangular green signs with white lettering 
at roadside locations of its choosing.[43] The NYSDOT and local governments 
also provide community identification signs on some scenic byways to be 
placed at the roadside boundaries of hamlets, as decided by the sign provider.[44] 
Many towns have special zoning or planning districts and planning strategies 
for their hamlets,[45][46] and many place welcome signs at the gateways 
to the hamlets.[47] Some hamlets are former villages that have dissolved 
their incorporation (Old Forge in Herkimer County; Rosendale, in Ulster 
County; and Andes in Delaware County, for example).[48] The New York State 
Gazetteer, published by the New York State Department of Health in 1995, 
includes a list of hamlets in the state.[49] The criteria used for inclusion 
in the Gazetteer are not stated. The Adirondack Park Agency also uses the 
term "hamlet", though as a land-use classification for private land under 
its Adirondack Park Land Use and Development Plan (APLUDP). The APLUDP 
extends the boundaries for its classification of hamlets "well beyond established 
settlements" to allow for growth.[50] In New York, a village is an incorporated 
area.[5] About 85% of villages fall within a single town.[18] Villages 
in New York State are classified by the Census Bureau as incorporated places.[16] 
Like all municipal corporations, villages have clearly defined legal boundaries. 
A village is a municipality that provides services to the residents, services 
that may or may not include garbage collection, management of cemeteries, 
street and highway maintenance, street lighting, and building codes.[citation 
needed] Some villages provide their own police and other municipal services. 
Villages have less autonomy than cities.[citation needed] Those services 
not provided by the village are provided by the town or towns containing 
the village.[citation needed] As of the 2000 census, 9.9% of the state's 
population was living in one of the 556 villages in New York.[20] The legislature 
of a village is the board of trustees,[citation needed] composed of a mayor 
and (usually) four trustees.[citation needed] The board is responsible 
for approving mayoral appointments, managing village finances and property, 
and approving a budget.[51] The mayor, who is generally the chief executive 
of the village, may vote in all business before the board and must vote 
to break a tie.[51] The mayor generally does not possess veto power, unless 
this is provided for by local law.[citation needed] Administrative duties 
of the mayor include enforcing laws and supervising employees.[51] A village 
may also have a full-time village manager who performs these administrative 
duties instead of the mayor. In 2007, sixty-seven villages had such a manager.[52] 
Some villages have their own village justice, while others utilize the 
justice of the town or towns in which they are located.[53] While most 
villages are subject to a uniform statewide Village Law, twelve villages 
operate under charters issued by the state legislature prior to 1874. Before 
a revision to the State Constitution in that year, villages were formed 
by the state legislature through granting of charters. Many villages reincorporated, 
dumping their charters in favor of the Village Law. The villages that retain 
their charters are Alexander, Carthage, Catskill, Cooperstown, Deposit, 
Fredonia, Ilion, Mohawk, Ossining, Owego, Port Chester, and Waterford. 
These villages must still comply with those aspects of Village Law that 
are not inconsistent with their charters.[18] To be incorporated, the area 
of the proposed village must have at least 500 inhabitants[54] and not 
be part of an existing city or village. Additionally, the proposed village 
can be no more than 5 square miles (13 km²) in area unless its boundaries 
are to be coterminous with a school, fire, improvement or other district, 
or the entire town.[54] The process of incorporation begins with a petition 
by either 20% of residents or owners of 50% of assessed real property. 
If deemed legally sufficient, incorporation is then voted upon by the qualified 
voters living in the proposed village only.[7] Some villages have fewer 
than 500 residents, having incorporated before the present population requirement 
of 500 or fallen below the 500-resident threshold after incorporation.[55][original 
research?] A village may also be dissolved, returning all government control 
to the town level. The process of dissolution can be initiated by the village 
board itself, or upon the submission of a proper petition to the board. 
The village board must produce a "dissolution plan" that settles specific 
matters, such as the village's debts, its employees and property, and the 
financial impact dissolution would have on village and non-village town 
residents. This plan is voted upon by village voters only.[48] About 15% 
of villages cross other municipal boundaries. More than 70 villages are 
located in two or more towns. Seven villages are in two counties. The village 
of Saranac Lake is in three towns and two counties.[18] Five towns are 
coterminous with their single village. See consolidated city-townships. 
Some places containing "Village" or the suffix "-ville" in their name are 
not villages. Examples include Greenwich Village, Smithville, and Mechanicville.[24] 
A borough is only a division of the city of New York, and neither of the 
state nor of any other city in the state. Each of the five boroughs of 
the city is coextensive with one of the city's five counties.[7] Under 
the New York State General Municipal Law, a borough results when the towns, 
villages and cities in a county merge with the county itself.[citation 
needed] The boroughs were originally intended to retain some local governance 
in the consolidated city that was formed in 1898. Each borough individually 
elects a borough president. The borough presidents once wielded considerable 
power as members of the New York City Board of Estimate, but the position 
is now largely ceremonial and advisory. Likewise, the boroughs and their 
residents have little distinct power within the city. "The five boroughs 
of the City of New York function as counties for certain purposes, although 
they are not organized as such nor do they operate as county governments."[6] 
A distinctive feature of a typical county retained by New York boroughs 
is the election of a separate district attorney for each borough. Each 
of the five New York City district attorneys prosecutes crimes in the name 
of the county rather than the name of the borough (for example, the district 
attorney for the borough of Brooklyn is called the Kings County District 
Attorney). The fifty-nine community districts in New York City, each represented 
by an appointed advisory group called a community board. Each board consists 
of fifty unpaid members appointed by the borough president. Half of the 
members are nominated by the City Council members who represent the area. 
The power of the community boards is very limited. They serve in an advisory 
capacity regarding land use and zoning, budget and various concerns of 
the community. The boards can recommend action on the part of the city 
government, but they cannot enforce it. Each is identified by borough name 
and a number (e.g. Manhattan Community Board 3). In New York, special purpose 
units of government provide specialized services only to those who live 
in the district, and are empowered to tax residents of the district for 
the services provided in common. Special districts often cross the lines 
of towns, villages, and hamlets, and occasionally cities or counties. School 
districts are the most common kind of special district in New York. They 
provide, arrange, or contract for all public education services, including 
special education and school transportation, the latter also for non-public 
schools.[citation needed] School districts are rarely precisely coextensive 
with the cities, towns, villages, or hamlets that bear the same name, meaning 
that a person living in one hamlet or village might send their children 
to a school associated with a different hamlet or village. Residents pay 
school taxes to the same school district in which they live and any children 
living with them attend school.[56] All tax-paying residents are eligible 
for the STAR Program tax rebate, which in effect lessens the value of an 
individual's primary residence to lessen the tax burden on the residence.[citation 
needed] All but five school districts are separate from municipal governments. 
The exceptions are the five cities whose populations exceed 125,000 (Buffalo, 
New York, Rochester, Syracuse and Yonkers), in which education is part 
of the municipal budget.[56] Schools in the city of New York are controlled 
by the New York City Department of Education, and the city is divided by 
the department into 11 "school regions" (10 geographic regions and a "District 
75" for students with disabilities)[57] There are five types of school 
districts in the state,[56] each with slightly different laws. Common school 
districts, established in 1812, were the first type of school district 
in the state. In July 2004, there were only 11 such districts remaining. 
They are not authorized to provide secondary education. They must, therefore, 
contract with neighboring school districts to provide high school education 
for pupils in the district. Typically one trustee or a three-person board 
of trustees will govern the district.[56] In 1853, the legislature established 
union free school districts, which are districts resulting from a "union" 
of two or more common school districts, "free" from the restrictions that 
previously barred them from operating high schools. In July 2004, there 
were 163 school districts of this type. Despite being able to operate high 
schools, thirty-one of these districts provided only elementary education. 
Those districts that are not components of central school districts provide 
secondary education either by contracting with other districts or being 
located in one of the three central high school districts. Each union free 
school district is governed by a three- to nine-member board of education.[58] 
Not to be confused with central high school districts, central school districts 
are the most prevalent type of school district in New York. In July 2004, 
there were 460 such districts. They began as a result of legislation in 
1914. Central school districts may form from any number (including one) 
of common, union free, and/or central school districts. Central school 
districts are permitted to provide secondary education. Its board of education 
must consist of five, seven, or nine members and length of service must 
be three, four, or five years, each decided upon by the voters in the district.[59] 
There are only three central high school districts in New York state, all 
in Nassau County[60] (Bellmore-Merrick Central High School District,[61] 
Sewanhaka Central High School District,[62] and Valley Stream Central High 
School District).[63] Central high school districts provide secondary education 
to students in two or more common or union free districts. With creation 
authorized by the legislature in 1917 and repealed in 1944, creation was 
reauthorized exclusively for Suffolk County in 1981. Such districts already 
established were not affected by the repeal.[60] In those cities with populations 
exceeding 125,000 (New York City, Buffalo, Yonkers, Rochester, and Syracuse), 
the city school districts are coterminous with the city limits, and education 
is part of the municipal budget. These districts cannot incur debts or 
levy taxes. The governmental structure in all of these except for New York 
is that of an elected or appointed board of education. New York's public 
education is headed by a chancellor and has a 13-member all-appointed Department 
of Education Panel for Education Policy.[59] The city school districts 
for the 57 cities having fewer than 125,000 people are separate from the 
municipal government and are authorized to levy taxes and incur debt. Each 
of them is governed by an elected board of education with five, seven, 
or nine members. Districts for smaller cities often extend beyond the city 
borders and are referred to as "enlarged city school districts", seven 
of which have reorganized as "central city school districts".[59] Owing 
to the extremely large number (730)[64] of school districts, many of which 
are quite small, most of them are organized into 37[65] supervisory districts. 
Each of these has a Board of Cooperative Educational Services (BOCES). 
Each BOCES provides services that are considered difficult for the member 
school districts to provide on their own, often including special classes 
for students with disabilities. Fire districts are public corporations 
that generally provide fire protection and other emergency response in 
towns outside villages.[66] A fire district can levy taxes and incur debt 
just like other general purpose municipal corporations,[66] although fire 
districts do not have home rule powers[67] and the taxes are generally 
collected by the town or towns that the district serves.[66] Fire districts 
depend on their towns for initial establishment, expansion of district 
territory, and dissolution, but are otherwise thereafter autonomous political 
entities[66] able to exercise only those specific powers granted to them 
by statute.[67] The district is governed by a board of elected commissioners.[citation 
needed] Villages generally provide their own fire protection, but joint 
town-village fire districts are permitted. A Joint Fire District is a fire 
district that encompasses more than one town, wholly or in part, and may 
also include a village. This is some times done to reduce duplication of 
services in a small area or to help spread the tax burden when there is 
a large difference in tax base between neighboring towns. A joint fire 
district may also be formed when a fire department in a village that has 
fire protection districts in the surrounding towns separates itself from 
the village government to obtain greater self-governance. This was seen 
in 2003 when the fire department in the village of Baldwinsville formed 
a joint fire district consisting of the village of Baldwinsville and parts 
of the towns of Lysander and Van Buren in Onondaga County.[citation needed] 
There were 868 fire districts in New York at the end of 2003.[66] A fire 
protection district is established by a town board in order to contract 
fire protection services with any city, village, fire district or incorporated 
fire company. Unlike fire districts, fire protection districts are not 
authorized to levy property taxes and do not have an independently elected 
board of commissioners. The levy to support fire protection districts is 
part of the town levy and the oversight of the district is via the town 
board.[68] Public benefit corporations in New York operate like quasi-private 
corporations, generally with boards appointed by elected officials. They 
are a form of government bureaucracy in one sense but, unlike government 
agencies, public benefit corporations are exempt from some regulations. 
Of particular importance, they can take out their own debt, allowing them 
to bypass legal limits on state debt. This allows them to make potentially 
risky capital and infrastructure investments without putting so much of 
the credit of New York on the line. However, it also allows them to avoid 
many of the oversight and reporting regulations that apply to state government. 
Public benefit corporations get charters from New York and are usually 
designed to perform a specific, narrow function in the public interest. 
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority manages public transportation 
in the New York Metropolitan Area (this includes the New York subway and 
public bus systems, as well as Metro-North Railroad and the Long Island 
Rail Road, and the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority). The New York 
State Thruway Authority originally only maintained the New York State Thruway 
from New York City to the Pennsylvania border southwest of Buffalo, but 
due to budgetary maneuvering, now maintains the toll-free Interstate 287 
corridor, and the New York State Barge Canal. Many regions also have authorities 
to manage their local public transportation such as the Central New York 
Regional Transportation Authority, which manages much of the public transportation 
in and around Syracuse; and the Capital District Transportation Authority 
for the Capital District area around Albany, Schenectady, Troy, and Saratoga 
Springs. At the end of 2005, there were 866 public benefit corporations,[69] 
of which 266 were public authorities.[70] Library districts are usually 
coextensive with the same school district but raise taxes separately and 
serve all the residents of the library district. They often form cooperative 
associations with other library districts for shared services, purchasing 
and cross-library lending. Other special districts may include emergency 
rescue squads (also known as Consolidated Health Districts), sanitation, 
police, water, sewer, park, and parking. General local government information 
New York State Constitution The articles of the New York State Constitution 
(external link) that most closely affect local government are: New York 
State Consolidated Laws The New York State Consolidated Laws [1] that most 
