Atlanta has long been known as a center of black wealth, political power 
and culture; a cradle of the Civil Rights Movement[1] and home to Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. It has often been called a "black mecca".[2] The 2010 
and 2000 black population of the city of Atlanta was:[3][4][5][6] From 
2000 to 2010 Atlanta saw significant shifts in the racial composition of 
its neighborhoods. (See: Demographics of Atlanta: Race and ethnicity by 
neighborhood) There was a decrease in the black population in the following 
areas: While there was an increasing black population in these areas: In 
Metro Atlanta, Black Americans are the largest racial minority at 32.4% 
of the population, up from 28.9% in 2000. From 2000-2010, the geographic 
disbursement of blacks in Metro Atlanta changed significantly. Long concentrated 
in the city of Atlanta and DeKalb County, the black population there dropped 
while over half a million African Americans settled across other parts 
of the metro area, including approximately 112,000 in Gwinnett County, 
71,000 in Fulton outside Atlanta, 58,000 in Cobb, 50,000 in Clayton, 34,000 
in Douglas, and 27,000 each in Newton and Rockdale Counties.[7] Since 1973, 
Atlanta has consistently elected black mayors, and two in particular have 
been prominent on the national stage, Andrew Young and Maynard Jackson. 
Jackson was elected with the support of the predominantly white business 
community, including the chairmen of Coca-Cola, Citizens & Southern National 
Bank, the Trust Company of Georgia, and architect and Peachtree Center 
developer John Portman. They were hopeful that a new progressive coalition 
would be forged between downtown and City Hall; but they were not prepared 
for the level of support for the goals of the black community that the 
mayor provided through support for minority-based businesses and for neighborhood-based 
organizations.[8] Since then, there has been "a sometimes uneasy partnership 
between black political clout and white financial power that has helped 
Atlanta move closer to its goal of becoming a world-class city."[9] Atlanta 
is home to the Atlanta University Center (AUC), the largest contiguous 
consortium of historically-black colleges, comprising Clark Atlanta University, 
Morehouse College, Spelman College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Interdenominational 
Theological Center. The first of these colleges were established shortly 
after the Civil War and have made Atlanta one of the historic centers of 
black education and empowerment. Many of the nation's most successful African 
Americans matriculated through the AUC. See: List of Morehouse College 
alumni; List of alumni from Clark Atlanta University; Spelman College alumnae 
As of the early 2010s, Georgia State University in Atlanta has become a 
majority black university and annually awards one of the highest numbers 
of bachelor's degrees to blacks in the nation.[10][11] Atlanta has a well-organized 
black upper class which exerts its power in politics, business and academia, 
and historically, in the religious arena. Mayors Maynard Jackson and Andrew 
Young were representative of the upper, not working class, and rose to 
national standing. The black academic community is the largest of any US 
city's because of the presence of the Atlanta University Center (AUC), 
a consortium of six historically black colleges (HBCUs). In business, Atlanta 
is home to the nation's largest black-owned insurance company (Atlanta 
Life), real-estate development firm (H.J. Russell) as well as some of the 
country's top black-owned investment and law firms, car dealerships, and 
food service companies. An old-guard black elite, graduated from AUC schools 
and whose status dates back to the glory days of Sweet Auburn or before, 
guards its social circles from "new" black money—families such as Herndon, 
Yates, Bond, Milton, Yancey, Blayton, Rucker, Aikens, Harper, Cooper, Dobbs 
and Scott. The First Congregational Church is their church of choice.[12] 
The concentration of a black elite in Atlanta can be explained by: In the 
1920s, Hunter Street (now Martin Luther King Drive) and Collier Heights 
became the black elite neighborhoods of choice, while today areas in far 
southwest of the city around Camp Creek Marketplace, neighborhoods such 
as Niskey Lake, are also popular.[12] A black mecca is a city to which 
African Americans, particularly professionals,[13] are drawn to live, due 
to some or all of the following factors: Atlanta has been referred to as 
a black mecca since the 1970s. Atlanta is a major center for black music, 
film, theater, and visual arts. The National Black Arts Festival has been 
based in Atlanta since the late 1980s. Throughout the year, the festival 
feature performing arts, literature and visual arts produced by creative 
artists of African descent.[14] In 2009 the New York Times noted that after 
2000, Atlanta moved "from the margins to becoming hip-hop's center of gravity, 
part of a larger shift in hip-hop innovation to the South." Producer Drumma 
Boy called Atlanta "the melting pot of the South". Producer Fatboi called 
the Roland TR-808 ("808") synthesizer "central" to Atlanta music's versatility, 
used for snap, crunk, trap, and pop rap styles.[15] The same article named 
Drumma Boy, Fatboi, Shawty Redd and Zaytoven the four "hottest producers 
driving the city".[15] Atlanta is the setting for several movies and popular 
TV shows such as the Real Housewives of Atlanta, Tyler Perry's series, 
Single Ladies, and several other reality shows. Due to Perry, the Housewives, 
and others, Atlanta is also known as a center of black entertainment in 
the U.S.[16] Black theater companies include True Colors, Jomandi Productions 
and Atlanta Black Theatre Festival. The Atlanta Black Pride celebration 
is the largest in the world for black gay and lesbian people. The event 
attracts over 100,000 participants and has a major economic impact on the 
city. The Celebration Bowl is the only HBCU football bowl game in the nation. 
The bowl game provides a match-up between the champions of the Mideastern 
Athletic Conference and the Southwestern Athletic Conference in the Georgia 
Dome. The annual Black College Football Hall of Fame ceremony is held in 
Atlanta. The event founded by Grambling State University alumnni and NFL 
greats Doug Williams and James Harris, honors extraordinary football players 
who played at historically black institutions.[17] The annual Bronner Bros. 
International Beauty Show is the largest in the world that primarily focuses 
on black women beauty.[18] Atlanta is the host city for the annual Honda 
Battle of the Bands. The event showcases several HBCU marching bands and 
celebrity guests in front of 50,000+ spectators and fans. There is a plethora 
of black record labels and black music artists from or based in Atlanta. 
Atlanta has one of the highest numbers of independent black owned bookstores 
and is listed as one of the top destinations for readers of African-American 
literature.[19] Atlanta has a popular black nightlife scene.[20] Only New 
York City rivals Atlanta in the number of museums about black history, 
art and cultural heritage. The King Historic Site and APEX Museum are in 
the Sweet Auburn area just east of Downtown: John Wesley Dobbs called "Sweet" 
Auburn Avenue "the richest Negro street in the world" in the early 20th 
century.[21] Most other African American museums are within walking distance 
of each other on the Atlanta University Center campus or in nearby West 
End, a neighborhood of Victorian houses which has become the center of 
the Afrocentric movement in Atlanta. Slavery in the state of Georgia mostly 
constituted the main reason for early African American residency in the 
Atlanta area. The area that included Decatur was opened to settlement in 
1823 following the forced abandonment of the area by the Cherokee Nation; 
with the ceding of the area under the Treaty of New Echota in 1835, plantations 
of rice and, later, cotton were installed in the area. Most slaves were 
brought from major ports such as Savannah and Charleston. In 1850, the 
area which would become Atlanta, previously known as Terminus and Marthasville, 
had a population which included 493 African slaves, 18 free blacks, and 
2,058 whites. The general population of the area had only recently skyrocketed 
from a mere total of 30 residents in 1842 due to the building of two Georgia 
Railroad freight and passenger trains (1845) and the Macon & Western (1846, 
a third railroad) which connected the little settlement with Macon and 
Savannah. African American slaves in the Atlanta area became divided in 
their loyalties to the then-current status quo as the American Civil War 
took place between the Confederacy, of which Georgia, was a constituent 
member, and the Union states; the slavery regime also became harsher against 
both slave and free African Americans, who were severely restricted in 
their movements by both local and state government in order to prevent 
desertion of the African Americans to the Union side. However, many slaves 
from Atlanta took the chance to escape with Union soldiers under William 
Tecumseh Sherman in his March to the Sea following the razing of Atlanta 
to the ground; they followed his men to the Atlantic coast of Georgia, 
where they were granted land under Sherman's Special Field Orders, No. 
15 (later rescinded under president Andrew Johnson). In 1865, the Atlanta 
City Council vowed equal protection for whites and blacks, and a school 
for black children, the first in the city, opened in an old church building 
on Armstrong Street. The Methodist Episcopal Church's Freedman Aid Society 
founded a coeducational school for African American legislators that would 
later become Clark College (now Clark Atlanta University) in Atlanta. In 
1870, following the ratification of the 15th Amendment by the state legislature, 
the first two African American members were elected to the City Council, 
while Radical Republican Dennis Hammond sat as mayor. According to the 
US Census and Slave Schedules, from 1860 to 1870 Fulton County more than 
doubled in population, from 14,427 to 33,336. The effects of African-American 
migration can be seen by the increase in Fulton County from 20.5% enslaved 
African Americans in 1860 to 45.7% colored (African-American) residents 
in 1870. [1] In a pattern seen across the South after the Civil War, freedmen 
often moved from plantations to towns or cities for work. They also gathered 
in their own communities where they could live more freely from white control. 
Even if they continued to work as farm laborers, freedmen often migrated 
after the war. Fulton was one of several counties in Georgia where African 
American population increased significantly in those years. [2] In the 
aftermath of Reconstruction, which mostly ended in 1877, African Americans 
in Atlanta were left to the mercies of the predominantly white state legislature 
and city council, and were politically disenfranchized during the Jim Crow 
era; whites had used a variety of tactics, including militias and legislation, 
to re-establish political and social supremacy throughout the South. By 
the turn of the century, Georgia passed legislation that completed the 
disfranchisement of African Americans. Not even college-educated men could 
vote. However, while most black Atlantans were poor and disenfranchized 
by Jim Crow, the gradual nationwide rise of the black urban middle class 
became apparent in Atlanta, with the establishment of African American 
businesses, media and educational institutions. Booker T. Washington, principal 
of the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, delivered a speech to the 1895 Cotton 
States and International Exposition which urged African Americans to focus 
more upon economic empowerment instead of immediate socio-political empowerment 
and rights, much to the anger of other civil rights leaders, including 
W. E. B. Du Bois, a graduate of Fisk University and Harvard, who would 
become one of the major civil rights activists of the first half of the 
20th century. Competition for jobs and housing gave rise to fears and tensions. 
These catalyzed in 1906 in the Atlanta Race Riot. This left at least 27 
dead, 25 of them African American,[22] and over seventy people injured. 
Neighborhoods became more segregated as Blacks sought safety in majority-Black 
areas such as Sweet Auburn and areas west of Downtown. As racial tensions 
rose, particularly resentment from working-class whites against better-off 
Blacks, segregation was introduced into more areas of public life. For 
example, Atlanta's streetcars were officially segregated in 1910, with 
Blacks forced to sit at the rear. In 1928, the Atlanta Daily World began 
publication, and continues as the oldest African American newspaper in 
circulation. From the 1920s to the 1940s, the Atlanta Black Crackers, a 
baseball team in the Negro Southern League, and later on, in the Negro 
American League, entertained sports fans at Ponce de Leon Park; some of 
the members of the Black Crackers would become players in Major League 
Baseball following the integration of the Negro Leagues into the larger 
leagues. Sweet Auburn would become one of the premier predominantly African 
American urban settlements to the current day. Since the rise of the Civil 
rights movement, African Americans have wielded an increasingly potent 
degree of political power, most resultant in the currently unbroken string 
of African American mayors of the City of Atlanta since the election of 
Maynard Jackson in 1973; the current mayor of Atlanta is Kasim Reed. All 
elected mayors of Atlanta are and have been members of the Democratic Party. 
Most recently, Atlanta resident Vernon Jones ran unsuccessfully in 2008 
to become the first African American to win the Democratic primary for 
