African Americans in Omaha, Nebraska are central to the development and 
growth of the 43rd largest city in the United States.[citation needed] 
The first free black settler in the city arrived in 1854, the year the 
city was incorporated.[1] In 1894 black residents of Omaha organized the 
first fair in the United States for African-American exhibitors and attendees.[2] 
The 2000 US Census recorded 51,910 African Americans as living in Omaha 
(over 13% of the city's population). In the 19th century, the growing city 
of Omaha attracted ambitious people making new lives, such as Dr. Matthew 
Ricketts was the first African American to graduate from a Nebraska college 
or university, and Silas Robbins was the first African American to be admitted 
to the bar in Nebraska. In 1892 Dr. Ricketts was also the first African 
American to be elected to the Nebraska State Legislature.[3] Ernie Chambers, 
an African-American barber from North Omaha's 11th District, became the 
longest serving state senator in Nebraska history in 2005 after serving 
in the unicameral for more than 35 years.[4] Because of its industrial 
jobs with the railroads and meatpacking industries, Omaha was the city 
on the Plains that attracted the most African-American migrants from the 
South in the Great Migration of the early 20th century. By 1910 it had 
the third largest black population among western cities after Los Angeles 
and Denver. From 1910 to 1920, the African-American population in Omaha 
doubled to more than 10,000, as new migrants were attracted by jobs in 
the expanding meatpacking industry. More than 70 percent were from the 
South.[5] Of western cities, in 1920 only Los Angeles had a greater population 
of blacks than Omaha, with nearly 16,000.[6] Reflecting the concentration 
of people and vital community, in 1915 the Lincoln Motion Picture Company 
was founded in Omaha. It was the first film company owned by African Americans.[7] 
Like several other major industrial cities during the "Red Summer of 1919", 
Omaha suffered a race riot. It was marked by the lynching of Will Brown, 
a black worker, and deaths of two white men. The violence erupted out of 
job competition and postwar social tensions among working class groups, 
aggravated by sensational journalism in the city. In the aftermath of the 
riot, the city's residential patterns became more segregated. By the 1920s, 
a vibrant African-American musical and entertainment culture had developed 
in the city. While African Americans were already concentrated in North 
Omaha, in the 1930s redlining and race restrictive covenants reinforced 
their staying there without options for years to move to newer housing. 
In the 1930s and 1940s African Americans were part of successful interracial 
organizing teams in the meatpacking industry. They succeeded in creating 
the integrated United Meatpacking Workers of America union and gained an 
end to segregated jobs in the industry. The union helped support integration 
of public facilities in the 1950s and the civil rights movement in the 
1960s. During this period, activists worked both for local and national 
changes; they contributed to improving conditions for African Americans 
in Omaha. Mid-century massive restructuring in railroads and the meatpacking 
industry cost the city more than 10,000 jobs. African Americans were particularly 
affected by the loss of industrial jobs. Those who could migrated for work 
in other areas and problems increased among the remaining population in 
North Omaha. Omaha has the fifth-highest African-American poverty rate 
among the nation's 100 largest cities, with more than one in three black 
residents in Omaha living below the poverty line.[8] The percentage of 
black children in Omaha who live in poverty rank ranks number one in the 
United States, with nearly six of 10 black kids living below the poverty 
line. Only one other metropolitan area in the U.S., Minneapolis, has a 
wider economic disparity between blacks and whites.[9] The first recorded 
instance of a black person in the Omaha area occurred in 1804. "York" was 
a slave belonging to William Clark of the Lewis and Clark expedition.[10] 
The presence of several black people, probably slaves, was recorded in 
the area comprising North Omaha today when Major Stephen H. Long's expedition 
arrived at Fort Lisa in September 1819. They reportedly lived at the post 
and in neighboring farmsteads.[11] After a short history of slavery in 
Nebraska, the first free black person to live in Omaha was Sally Bayne, 
who moved to Omaha in 1854.[1] A clause in the original proposed Nebraska 
State Constitution from 1854 limited voting rights in the state to "free 
white males", which kept Nebraska from entering the Union for almost a 
year. In the 1860s, the U.S. Census showed 81 "Negroes" in Nebraska, ten 
of whom were accounted for as slaves.[12] At that time, the majority of 
the population lived in Omaha and Nebraska City. Some of the earliest African-American 
residents of the city may have arrived by the Underground Railroad via 
a small log cabin outside of Nebraska City built by Allen Mayhew in 1855. 
It is honored today as the Mayhew Cabin Museum. One report says, "Henry 
Daniel Smith, born in Maryland in 1835, still living in Omaha in 1913 and 
working at his trade of broom-maker, was one escaped slave who entered 
Nebraska via the Underground Railroad."[13] By 1867 enough blacks gathered 
in community to found St. John's African Methodist Episcopal Church in 
the Near North Side neighborhood. It was the first church for African Americans 
in Nebraska.[14] The first recorded birth of an African American in Omaha 
occurred in 1872, when William Leper was born.[15] Before Omaha's African-American 
residents gathered in North Omaha, they lived dispersed throughout the 
city. By 1880 there were nearly 800 black residents, many recruited by 
Union Pacific Railroad as strikebreakers. By 1884 there three black churches 
had been founded. By 1900 there were 3,443 black residents, in a total 
city population of 102,555.[16] Black men and women quickly formed social 
and community organizations, such as the Women's Club in 1895, devoted 
to education, respectability and reform. In addition, the community began 
to create its own newspapers, such as the Progress, the Afro-American Sentinel 
and The Enterprise in the 1880s and 1890s. Blacks also quickly distinguished 
themselves in public life: in 1892 Dr. Matthew Ricketts was the first black 
person elected to serve in the Nebraska Legislature and in 1895 Silas Robbins 
was the first black lawyer admitted to the Nebraska State Bar Association. 
At the turn of the 20th century, two African-American physicians, doctors 
Riddle and Madison, opened a hospital for African Americans. Citizens could 
not afford the facility and it failed financially.[17] Reared in Omaha, 
Clarence W. Wigington was the first black architect to design a home in 
Nebraska as a student of the noted Thomas Rogers Kimball. He also designed 
churches in Omaha. Wigington gained a national reputation after moving 
to St. Paul, Minnesota, in 1914, where he soon became the senior architectural 
designer for the city. His legacy includes 60 surviving buildings, among 
which four are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. John 
Grant Pegg was the Leading Colored Republican of the Western States Meet 
in Conference. In 1906, he was appointment as the City Weights and Measures 
Inspector by J.C. Dalhman, Mayor of Omaha 1910. Pegg held the post for 
10 years until his death in 1916. Encouraged and Sponsored many of the 
black settlers who went by wagon out to Cherry County, Nebraska to homestead 
benefiting from The Kincaid Homestead Act of 1904[18] In 1912 the Omaha 
chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People 
was founded, the first NAACP chapter west of the Mississippi.[19] George 
Wells Parker, a founder of the Afrocentric Hamitic League of the World, 
was instrumental in recruiting African Americans from the Deep South to 
Omaha during the 1910s.[20] Railroads and the meatpacking industry recruited 
African American workers from the South. From 1910 to 1920, the African-American 
population of Omaha doubled from 4,426 to 10,315, making up five percent 
of Omaha's population. Of the western cities which were new destinations 
for blacks of the Great Migration, in 1920 Omaha had the second largest 
black population, after Los Angeles. The rapid pace of growth alarmed some 
people in the city, which was also absorbing thousands of new eastern and 
southern European immigrants. People were concerned about social problems: 
labor unrest following strikes in 1917, and the return of veterans looking 
for work after World War I. During the first week of August 1919, the Omaha 
Bee newspaper reported that as many as 500 "Negro" workers, mostly from 
Chicago and East St. Louis, arrived in Omaha to seek employment in the 
packinghouses. The Bee tended to sensational journalism, adding to tensions 
in the city as it highlighted alleged crimes committed by blacks. The migration 
of African Americans to Omaha and the hiring of black workers created a 
source of friction in the local labor market. Blacks had been hired as 
strikebreakers in 1917, and there was a major strike among white workers 
in 1919. The immigrant workers in the meatpacking industry resented the 
strikebreakers. Economic pressure exacerbated hostilities. From 1910 to 
the 1950s, Omaha was a destination for African Americans during the Great 
Migration from the American South. An African-American cultural expansion 
flourished beginning in the 1920s, part of a larger boom time in the Prohibition 
era. A late 20th-century documentary reported about the 1940s, "On the 
surface the black community appeared quite stable. Its center was a several-block 
district north of the downtown. There were over a hundred black-owned businesses, 
and there were a number of black physicians, dentists, and attorneys. Over 
twenty fraternal organizations and clubs flourished. Church life was diverse. 
Of more than forty denominations, Methodists and Baptists predominated."[21] 
Early African American neighborhoods in Omaha included Casey's Row, a community 
of housing for African-American families, most of whose men worked as railroad 
porters at the nearby Union Pacific Railroad. The steady jobs on the railroads 
were considered good work, even if some men had greater ambitions.[22] 
In the 1880s, Omaha's original "Negro district" was located at Twentieth 
and Harney Streets.[23] The Near North Side, located immediately north 
of Downtown Omaha, is where the majority of African Americans have lived 
in Omaha for almost 100 years. Originally the community had mostly European 
immigrants: Germans, Italians and Jews and gradually drew more African 
Americans. In pre-1900 Omaha, the city's cemetery was always integrated.[22] 
The community became more racially segregated soon after the Omaha Race 
Riot of 1919. During that event an African-American worker named Will Brown 
was lynched by a white mob outside the Douglas County Courthouse. After 
the mob finished with Brown, they turned against the entire population 
of African Americans in the Near North Side; however, their efforts were 
thwarted by soldiers from Fort Omaha. In the following years the city began 
enforcing race-restrictive covenants. Properties for rent and sale were 
restricted on the basis of race, with the primary intent of keeping the 
Near North Side "black" and the rest of the city "white". These agreements 
were held in place with redlining, a system of segregated insuring and 
lending reinforced by the federal government. These restrictions were ruled 
illegal in 1940.[24] During the 1930s, the Federal government built housing 
projects for working families: the Logan Fontenelle Housing Projects in 
North Omaha and a similar project in South Omaha. Both were intended to 
improve housing for the large working-class community, whose majority then 
were immigrants from Eastern and Southern Europe and their descendants. 
With job losses and demographic changes accelerating in the late 1950s 
and 1960s, the project residents in North Omaha became nearly all poor 
and low-income African Americans. By the early first decade of the 21st 
century, each of these facilities was torn down and replaced with public 
housing schemes featuring mixed-income and supporting uses. African-American 
neighborhoods in Omaha have been studied extensively; the most notable 
reports include Lois Mark Stalvey's Three to Get Ready: The Education of 
a White Family in Inner City Schools,[25] and the 1966 documentary film 
A Time for Burning. This movie featured the opinions of the young Ernie 
Chambers. A barber, Chambers went on to law school and has been repeatedly 
elected to represent North Omaha in the Nebraska State Legislature for 
more than 35 years.[26] The Union Pacific Railroad first introduced large 
numbers of African American strikebreakers to Omaha during a strike in 
1877. Black barbers organized the first labor union in Omaha, and went 
on strike in Omaha in 1887 after they deemed it "unprofessional to work 
beside white competitors."[27] Arriving in 1890, Dr. Stephenson was the 
first African-American physician in Omaha and the start of a substantial 
professional class. Matthew Ricketts was the first African-American medical 
student to graduate from the University of Nebraska Medical College and 
settled in North Omaha to set up his practice. In 1892, Dr. Ricketts was 
the first African American elected to a seat in the Nebraska State Legislature.[28] 
According to the Works Progress Administration, the first African-American 
fair held in the United States took place in Omaha, July 3–4, 1894. Their 
study reports: "Only Negro-owned horses were entered in the races, and 
all exhibits were restricted to articles made or owned by Negroes."[2] 
African Americans also built a "Colored Old Folks Home" in North Omaha 
in the 1910s and sustained it for a long period of time.[23] Clarence W. 
Wigington was a renowned African-American architect from Omaha. He designed 
St. John's A.M.E. and the Broomfield Rowhouse, among many others in the 
city, but built most of his career after 1914 in St. Paul, Minnesota. Miss 
Lucy Gamble, later known as Mrs. John Albert Williams, was the first African-American 
teacher in the Omaha Public Schools, teaching there for six years from 
1899 through 1905.[29] The first film company controlled by Black filmmakers 
was founded in Omaha in the summer of 1915.[7] George and Noble Johnson 
founded the Lincoln Motion Picture Company to produce films for African-American 
audiences. Noble was a small-time actor; George worked for the post office. 
Noble Johnson was president of the company; Clarence A. Brooks, secretary; 
Dr. James T. Smith, treasurer; and Dudley A. Brooks was assistant secretary. 
Lincoln Films quickly built a reputation for making films that showcased 
African-American talent in the full sphere of cinema. In less than a year 
the company relocated to Los Angeles, where the major film industry was 
located.[30] Today African Americans own fifty percent of all minority-owned 
businesses in Omaha.[10] From a slow start in the late 19th century, in 
the mid-20th century on, African Americans began to win more seats and 
appointments in politics, with their participation steadily growing. More 
people obtained higher education and entered professional middle classes. 
In 1892, Dr. Matthew Ricketts became the first African American elected 
to the Nebraska State Legislature, and was the acknowledged leader of the 
African-American community in Omaha. After he left Omaha in 1903, Jack 
Broomfield, proprietor of a notorious bar in downtown Omaha, became the 
leader of the community. He is criticized for having allowed the community 
to fall apart under the influence of Tom Dennison. No African Americans 
served on the Omaha City Council or Douglas County Board of Commissioners 
until district elections became law. In 1893 Edwin R. Overall, a mail carrier, 
ran as a Populist for the City Council. He finished 18th in a field of 
23 candidates running at-large for nine of 18 council seats. In 1973 and 
1977, Fred Conley ran for the Omaha City Council in the at-large format 
and each time finished 18th – just as Overall did some 70 years earlier. 
At-large elections were won by candidates who represented the majority 
population of the city, which was white. In 1981, after City Council elections 
were changed to be based on district representation, Conley became the 
first African American elected. He served until 1989. In 1992, Carol Woods 
Harris became the first African American elected to the Douglas County 
Board and served until 2004. African Americans have been represented on 
the Omaha School Board since 1950 when attorney Elizabeth Davis Pittman 
was elected. De facto school segregation, however, persisted in Omaha long 
after that date with school boundaries tailored to match residential areas, 
which had de facto segregation. Brenda Warren Council, a former member 
of the Omaha School Board and the City Council, narrowly lost the 1997 
mayoral election, losing by 700 votes to Mayor Hal Daub. In 2003 Thomas 
Warren, Brenda Council's brother, was appointed by Mayor Mike Fahey as 
the city’s first African-American Chief of Police for the Omaha Police 
Department. In 2005, Marlon Polk was appointed by Governor Dave Heineman 
to serve as a District Court Judge, the first African American to do so 
in Nebraska. He was assigned to serve in Douglas County.[31] In 1970 Ernie 
Chambers became the city's second African American elected to the state 
legislature. Chambers has won every election since then, and in 2007 became 
the longest-serving Nebraska Senator in history.[32] In 2005 the Nebraska 
State Legislature approved a term limit law limiting legislators to two 
terms, forcing Chambers from office in 2008. Hose Company #12, and later 
Hose Company #11, hired the first African-American firefighters in the 
city. One of these two stations was located at 20th and Lake Streets. One 
of the first African-American fireFighters in Omaha, was James C. Greer, 
Sr. who was a member of the Omaha Fire Department from 5/5/1906 to 8/1/1933 
and was a captain in the department for many years. Horse-drawn wagons 
were in use when he was assigned to the old No. 11 Station at Thirtieth 
and Spaulding Streets. He later served at the No. 4 Station at Sixteenth 
and Izard Streets. He retired as senior captain from the Omaha, NE. Fire 
Department in 1933. His son Richard N. Greer (known as Dick) served as 
a volunteer for Fire Department in the 1950s. The first step towards integration 
in Omaha's Fire Department came in 1940, when an African-American firefighter 
was assigned to the city's Bureau of Fire Prevention and Inspection. By 
the 1950s, the city had two companies of African-American firefighters. 
Omaha's Fire Department was integrated in 1957.[33] The first step towards 
integration in Omaha's Fire Department came in 1940, when an African-American 
firefighter was assigned to the city's Bureau of Fire Prevention and Inspection. 
By the 1950s, the city had two companies of African-American firefighters. 
Omaha's Fire Department was integrated in 1957.[34] The earliest African-American 
churches in Omaha were St. John's African Methodist Episcopal Church, organized 
in 1867; St. Phillip the Deacon Episcopal Church, organized in 1878, and; 
Zion Baptist Church, organized in 1884. The second St. John's building 
and Zion's current building were notable for being designed by future master 
architect Clarence Wigington.[35] St. John's current building is lauded 
for being a notable example of the Prairie School architectural style.[36] 
In 1921, the Omaha and Council Bluffs Colored Ministerial Alliance demanded 
that Tom Dennison's cabarets in the Sporting District "wherein there is 
unwarranted mingling of the races" be closed indefinitely. It is unknown 
what their objectives were.[37] Other influential churches included Calvin 
Memorial Presbyterian Church, which opened in 1954 as an integrated congregation. 
Omaha had several interesting examples of integration in its churches, 
including those featured the documentary film A Time for Burning and Pearl 
Memorial United Methodist Church, which began integration efforts in the 
1970s. Sacred Heart Catholic Church has operated since the late 19th century 
and has evolved numerous times as different ethnic groups succeeded each 
other in the neighborhood. North Omaha's Lizzie Robinson founded the first 
Church of God in Christ congregation in Nebraska in the 1920s. Salem Baptist 
Church has been particularly important in the city's African-American community, 
hosting Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in a major speaking event in Omaha 
in 1957. The African-American community in North Omaha was anchored with 
numerous important social clubs. According to one report from the 1930s, 
"There are today in Omaha alone some twenty-five clubs and societies with 
a total membership of over two thousand."[2] These groups included the 
Pleasant Hour Club (which was estimated to be 50 years old in the late 
1930s), Aloha Club, Entre Nous Club, the Beau Brummels Club, the Dames 
Club, the Jolly Twenty Club, the Trojan Club, and the Quack Club.[2] Important 
locations included the North Side YWCA. This influential organization, 
starting in 1920, was located in a house at 2306 N. 22nd Street[31] The 
African-American community in Omaha also supported the Old Colored Folks' 
Home, which was organized in 1913. In 1923 they received funds from the 
city's "Community Chest" fund, with which they purchased a building.[23] 
The Royal Circle was a premier African-American social organization. The 
Royal Circle held annual cotillions for young African-American women through 
the early 1960s, at which they were "introduced" to adult society. Formed 
in 1918, the War Camp Community Service became the local American Legion 
the following year. The Centralized Commonwealth Civic Club, formed in 
1937, promoted community business. Two local Boy Scout troops (Troop 23, 
Troop 79) were founded for African-American youth. The community also boasted 
halls for the Odd Fellows, the Masons, (which had about 550 members in 
North Omaha in 1936), and the Elks, (with about 250 members in the community 
in 1936).[2] Perhaps the most elusive organization in North Omaha was the 
Knights and Daughters of Tabor, also known as the "Knights of Liberty". 
This was a secret African-American organization whose goal was "nothing 
less than the destruction of slavery."[38] From the 1920s through to the 
early 1960s, North Omaha boasted a vibrant African-American entertainment 
district, featuring both local and nationally known musicians. The most 
important venue in the area was the Dreamland Ballroom, opened in 1923 
in the Jewell Building at 24th and Grant Streets. Dreamland hosted some 
of the greatest jazz, blues, and swing performers, including Duke Ellington, 
Count Basie, Louis Armstrong, Lionel Hampton, and the original Nat King 
Cole Trio. Whitney Young spoke there as well.[39] Other venues included 
Jim Bell's Harlem, opened in 1935 on Lake Street, west of 24th; McGill's 
Blue Room, located at 24th and Lake, and; Allen's Showcase Lounge, which 
was located at 24th and Lake. The Ritz Theater was opened in the mid-1930s 
at 2041 North 24th Street, near Patrick Avenue. It was specifically designated 
an "African-American theater" with seating for 548 people.[40] It was closed 
in the 1950s and has since been demolished. During this period, North Omaha 
and its main artery of North 24th Street were the heart of the city's African-American 
cultural and business community, with a thriving jazz and rhythm & blues 
scene that attracted top-flight swing, blues and jazz bands from across 
the country. Due to racial segregation, musicians such as Cab Calloway 
stayed at Myrtle Washington's at 22nd and Willis, while others stayed at 
Charlie Trimble's at 22nd and Seward. Early North Omaha bands included 
Lewis' Excelsior Brass Band, Dan Desdunes Band, Simon Harrold's Melody 
Boys, the Sam Turner Orchestra, the Ted Adams Orchestra, the Omaha Night 
Owls, Red Perkins and his Original Dixie Ramblers, and the Lloyd Hunter 
Band who, in 1931, became the first Omaha band to record. A Lloyd Hunter 
concert poster can be seen on display at the Community Center in nearby 
Mineola, Iowa.[41] The intersection of 24th and Lake was the setting of 
the Big Joe Williams song "Omaha Blues". Omaha-born Wynonie Harris, one 
of the founders of rock and roll, got his start at the North Omaha clubs, 
and for a time lived in the now-demolished Logan Fontenelle Housing Project.[31] 
There were innumerable African-American churches, social and civic clubs, 
formal dances for young people, and many other cultural activities. Several 
accounts attribute the decline of the African-American cultural scene in 
North Omaha to the riots of the 1960s and '70s.[24] Television also took 
away from local entertainment. Since the turn of the 21st century, there 
has been a resurgence in interest in this vibrant period, with cultural 
and historical institutions created to honor it, such as Love's Jazz & 
Art Center,[42] the Dreamland Project,[43] and the Omaha Black Music Hall 
of Fame. Preston Love, who left Omaha to tour nationally, said, The history 
of African Americans and music in Omaha is long and varied. The black music 
community was first organized in the early 20th century by Josiah Waddle, 
one of Omaha's first barbers. After teaching himself to play a number of 
brass instruments, Waddle pulled together Omaha's first African American 
band in 1902. In 1917 he brought together the first women's band in Omaha. 
One of his most famous students was Lloyd Hunter, who ran one of the most 
popular orchestras' in the United States Midwest.[45] Anna Mae Winburn 
was a student of Waddle's as well. After leading the Cotton Club Boys and 
several smaller outfits, Winburn led the International Sweethearts of Rhythm 
to fame during World War II. The Sweethearts were the first integrated 
all women's band in the United States.[46] Nat Towles also led an important 
territory band out of Omaha during the swing era, and most of these bands 
were represented by the National Orchestra Service, which was also based 
out of Omaha. It was a nationally regarded company which acted as agent 
for dozens of bands. International Jazz legend Preston Love was an important 
figure in Omaha's African-American community. After playing in Towles' 
and Hunter's bands, Love joined Count Basie as a saxophonist. After traveling 
the world, Love came back to North Omaha and founded his own band. He also 
joined the staff of the Omaha Star newspaper. Love toured the U.S. and 
Europe into the late 1990s and died in 2004.[47] North Omaha's musical 
culture gave rise to several influential African-American musicians. Rhythm 
& Blues singer Wynonie Harris and influential drummer Buddy Miles, who 
played with guitarist Jimi Hendrix, were friends while they grew up and 
played together. They collaborated throughout their lives, and while they 
were playing with the greatest names in Rock and Roll, Jazz, R&B and Funk. 
Big Joe Williams and funk band leader Lester Abrams are also from North 
Omaha. There have been numerous African-American newspapers in Omaha. The 
first was the Progress, established in 1889 by Ferdinand L. Barnett. Cyrus 
D. Bell, an ex-slave, established the Afro-American Sentinel in 1892. In 
1893 George F. Franklin started publishing the Enterprise, later published 
by Thomas P. Mahammitt and edited by his wife, Ella Mahammitt. It was the 
longest lived of any of the early African-American newspapers published 
in Omaha. The best known and most widely read of all African-American newspapers 
in the city was the Omaha Monitor, established in 1915, edited and published 
by Reverend John Albert Williams. It stopped publishing in 1929. George 
Wells Parker, co-founder of the Hamitic League of the World, founded the 
New Era in Omaha from 1920 through until 1926. The Omaha Guide was established 
by B.V. and C.C. Galloway in 1927. The Guide, with a circulation of over 
25,000 and an advertisers' list including business firms from coast to 
coast, was the largest African-American newspaper west of the Missouri 
River through the 1930s.[48][49] Today, African-American culture in Omaha 
is regarded as being anchored, in large part, by The Omaha Star, founded 
by the late Mildred D. Brown and her husband S. E. Gilbert in 1938. Brown 
is believed to be the first female, certainly the first African-American 
woman, to have founded a newspaper in the nation's history. She managed 
the paper for the rest of her life. Since 1945 the paper was the only one 
representing the black community in Omaha and the only black paper being 
printed in the state. Today the paper has a circulation of more than 30,000; 
distribution to the 48 continental states, and is being managed by her 
niece.[50][51] The Fair Deal Cafe, located on North 24th Street, was called 
the "Black City Hall" during its existence from 1954 to 2003.[52] Today, 
Omaha's African-American community celebrates its heritage in numerous 
ways. The biennial Native Omahans Days is a week-long celebration including 
picnics, family reunions and a large parade. Also held on a biennial calendar 
is the induction ceremony for the Omaha Black Music Hall of Fame, or OBMHoF. 
Their inductees include African American contributors to rock and roll, 
swing, jazz and R&B, as well as other cultural contributions. Formed by 
Bertha Calloway in the 1960s, the Negro Historical Society opened the Great 
Plains Black Museum in North Omaha in 1974. Located at 2213 Lake Street, 
the museum is home to Omaha's only African-American history collection. 
The annual Omaha Jazz and Blues Festival also promotes African-American 
culture throughout the city. North Omaha has a contentious history between 
whites and African Americans that is predicated on racism. In 1891 an African 
American George Smith was lynched at the Douglas County Courthouse, accused 
as a suspect for allegedly attacking a young girl. While little is known 
about Smith, reports of the incident described a mob dragging Smith from 
his cell, before any court trial, and hanging him from a nearby street 
post.[53] In July 1910 racial tension flared towards the African-American 
community after a tremendous upset victory by African-American boxer Jack 
Johnson in Reno, Nevada. Mobs of whites roamed throughout Omaha rioting, 
as they did in cities across the U.S.. The mobs wounded several black men 
in the city, killing one.[54] The Red Summer of 1919 caused one Omaha newspaper 
to run a front page declaration that 21 Omaha women reported that they 
were assaulted from early June to late September 1919. In an example of 
yellow journalism, 20 of the victims were white and 16 of the assailants 
were identified as black, while only one of the victims was black. A separate 
newspaper warned that vigilante committees would be formed if the "respectable 
colored population could not purge those from the Negro community who were 
assaulting white girls."[55] During the ensuing Omaha Race Riot of 1919 
in September, a white ethnic mob from South Omaha took over the Douglas 
County Courthouse. The white rioters lynched Willy Brown, an accused packinghouse 
worker. They then tried to attack blacks on the street and move against 
the community in North Omaha. Soldiers from Fort Omaha put down the riot. 
They reestablished control and were stationed in South Omaha, to prevent 
any more mobs from forming, and in North Omaha at 24th and Lake streets 
"to prevent any further murders of black citizens. Orders were issued that 
any citizen with a gun faced immediate arrest. All blacks were ordered 
to remain indoors."[56] A legacy of this terrible summer was the de facto 
racial segregation of many of Omaha's neighborhoods.[24] Introduced in 
the 1930s, the practices of redlining by banks and racially restrictive 
housing covenants effectively ended for decades the ability of African 
Americans to buy or rent outside North Omaha.[57] Originally built in the 
1930s, Omaha housing projects were intended for occupancy without reference 
to race. A 1937 report from the Omaha Housing Authority reported that residents 
included "both black and white occupants and there are 284 units. There 
is no distinct segregation of the whites from the blacks but individual 
buildings will be confined to either Negro or white."[58] The Logan Fontenelle 
Housing Project, built during the Depression, with an addition completed 
in 1941, to improve working class housing in North Omaha, was closed to 
African Americans through the 1950s. Even in the 1940s, housing was so 
overcrowded in the area that some families stayed at the projects although 
their income exceeded the limits, because they couldn't find housing elsewhere.[59][60] 
With civil rights challenges, the segregation policy that kept African 
Americans out of public housing changed in the 1960s. The massive loss 
of industrial jobs changed the nature of families and the issues in public 
housing. Although the Logan Fontenelle projects were first built for working 
families, they came to be dominated by the unemployed. Other public housing 
projects also reflected later de facto segregation. A concentration of 
problems here and in other cities led the City of Omaha, along with the 
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, to radically rethink 
public housing in the 1990s. The Logan Fontenelle Housing Project was torn 
down in 1996. Today public housing is scattered throughout Omaha and often 
combined with market rate housing and community amenities.[61] The lynching 
of Willy Brown has been credited for radicalizing Omaha's African-American 
community. In the 1920s the Omaha chapter of Marcus Garvey's Universal 
Negro Improvement Association was founded by Earl Little, a Baptist minister 
and the father of Malcolm X. Malcolm X was born in Omaha in 1925. Malcolm X's 
mother reported a 1924 incident where her family was warned to leave Omaha 
by Ku Klux Klansmen. She was told that her husband, Earl Little, was "stirring 
up trouble" through his involvement with Universal Negro Improvement Association.[62] 
The family moved shortly thereafter.[63] Another radical leader, Communist 
spokesman and one-time leader of American forces in the Spanish Civil War 
Harry Haywood, was born in 1898 in South Omaha as Haywood Hall to parents 
who were former slaves. In 1913 his father was beaten by a white gang at 
the South Omaha meatpacking plant where he worked, forcing the family to 
move from the city.[64] The African Blood Brotherhood, started in Omaha, 
contributed to radicalizing Haywood when he joined it the group in Chicago, 
where his family had moved in 1915.[65] Starting in 1920, the Colored Commercial 
Club organized to help blacks in Omaha secure employment and to encourage 
business enterprises among African Americans. The National Federation of 
Colored Women had five chapters in Omaha.[2] In 1928 the first Urban League 
chapter in the American West was founded in city.[30] Whitney Young led 
the chapter in 1950 and tripled its membership. After a few years he left 
Omaha, taking over the national leadership of the Urban League by 1961. 
The Industrial Workers of the World organized African-American workers 
in the South Omaha Stockyards in the 1920s. Along with the rest of the 
working class, they suffered setbacks during layoffs in the Great Depression.[66] 
In the 1930s, however, an interracial committee succeeded in organizing 
the United Meatpacking Workers of America, one of the Congress of Industrial 
Organizations (CIO) unions. They worked to end segregation of job positions 
in meatpacking in the 1940s. Community leader Rowena Moore attacked gender 
restrictions and organized to expand opportunities in industry for black 
women. UMPWA helped African Americans extended their political power and 
gain an end to segregation in retail places in the 1950s. After all this 
progress, however, the loss of more than 10,000 jobs due to structural 
changes in the railroad and meatpacking industries in the 1960s sharply 
reduced opportunities for the working class communities. In 1952, Arthur 
B. McCaw became the first African American to be appointed to a cabinet 
level position in the Nebraska governor's office, budget director of the 
state of Nebraska in 1952. Prior to that he had been active in Omaha civil 
rights and was an assessor and on the tax appraisal board of Douglas County.[67] 
In 1955 he was Nebraska state chairman of the NAACP and helped form a Lincoln 
chapter of the organization.[68] As a major western city, Omaha was visited 
by Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1958 and Robert Kennedy in 1968, 
who helped galvanize the civil rights movement in North Omaha. Local leaders 
continued to struggle against racism.[69] North Omaha was marred by race-related 
violence and de facto segregation throughout the 20th century. When the 
Black Panthers were implicated in a police killing in North Omaha in 1970, 
the trial highlighted political tensions. The Rice/Poindexter Case continues 
to highlight Omaha's contentious legacy of racism. A majority of Omaha's 
African-American population still lives in North Omaha. Studies have shown 
starting in the 1950s Omaha's white middle class moved from North Omaha 
to the suburbs of West Omaha in the phenomenon called "white flight."[70] 
The inability of government money to solve the problems of Omaha's African 
American community was accented by white flight. The city's schools were 
greatly affected by racial unrest. Consequential to the 1971 Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
Board of Education ruling enforcing desegregation busing in the United 
States, Omaha was reputed to have adapted well to integrated busing.[71] 
However, an analysis of white flight found that public schools in Omaha 
had enhanced racial discrimination despite their integration attempts. 
Optional attendance zones, the location of new schools, and feeder patterns 
were found to enhance segregation. This study found that mandatory busing 
was required to attain racial balance in every school.[70] Enrollment of 
white students in the Omaha Public Schools plummeted in the 1970s, while 
the enrollment of black students during the same period rose from 21% to 
30%, primarily due to the loss of white students. In the 1990s the Omaha 
Housing Authority adopted a scattered site housing plan, eventually destroying 
several of the housing projects in the city, including the Logan Fontenelle 
Housing Project.[72] The civil rights movement brought calls for black 
power and against racism to Omaha. While youth throughout the city were 
being drafted to fight in the Vietnam War, funding for education and youth 
programs were being cut, and policing tactics were targeting African-American 
youth. This led to a series of protests and riots, the repercussions of 
which are still felt today in some communities.[73] On July 4, 1966, the 
temperature soared to 103 degrees. A crowd of African Americans gathered 
at the intersection of North 24th and Lake Streets in the evening. When 
police requested their dispersal they responded violently. After demolishing 
police cars, the mob roamed the North 24th Street business corridor for 
hours, throwing firebombs and demolishing storefronts. After three days 
of rioting[74] millions of dollars of damage was reported by affected businesses.[75] 
Riots erupted again on August 1, 1966 after a 19-year-old was shot by a 
white, off-duty policeman during a burglary. The Omaha World-Herald and 
local television stations blamed African Americans for the conditions they 
faced in their deteriorating neighborhoods during this period. Three buildings 
were firebombed, and 180 riot police were required to quell the crowds.[76] 
On March 4, 1968 a crowd of high school and university students were gathered 
at the Omaha Civic Auditorium to protest the presidential campaign of George 
Wallace, the segregationist governor of Alabama. After counter-protesters 
began acting violently toward the youth activists, police brutality led 
to the injury of dozens of protesters. An African-American youth was shot 
and killed by a police officer during the melee, and fleeing students caused 
thousands of dollars of damage to businesses and cars.[77] The following 
day a local barber named Ernie Chambers helped calm a disturbance and prevent 
a riot by students at Horace Mann Junior High School. Chambers was already 
recognized as a community leader. After finishing his law degree, Chambers 
was elected to the Nebraska State Legislature, and served a total of 38 
years, longer than any of his predecessors.[76] African-American teenager 
Vivian Strong was shot and killed by police officers in an incident at 
the Logan Fontenelle Housing Projects on June 24, 1969. Young African Americans 
in the area rioted in response to the teenager's death, with looting along 
the North 24th Street business corridor. During this initial surge, eight 
businesses were destroyed by firebombing or looting.[78] Rioting went on 
for several more days.[79] This is the last noted riot in Omaha. The effects 
of these riots is still evident in the North 24th Street district, with 
high numbers of vacant lots and general economic depression still prevalent. 
There have been several different organizations formed to commemorate the 
history of Omaha's African Americans. In the 1960s Bertha Calloway founded 
the Nebraska Negro Historical Society, and in 1974 the Society opened the 
Great Plains Black History Museum. It includes material related to the 
history of black homesteaders on the plains, as well as the more numerous 
urbanites based chiefly in Omaha, the major city of the state. In 1976 
the community began Native Omaha Days, devised as a series of activities 
to celebrate black history in the city. In addition to being a labor organizer 
in meatpacking in the 1940s, Rowena Moore led an effort to recognize the 
Malcolm X House Site in the 1970s. A monument to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. was placed along North 24th Street in the late 1990s. The Omaha 
Black Music Hall of Fame was founded in 2005 to celebrate the city's musical 
history. The director of a statewide poverty advocacy group was quoted 
as saying in 2007: "In Omaha, you start talking about low-income issues, 
people assume you’re talking about minority issues..."[80] As of October 
2007, the city of Omaha, the 42nd largest in the country, has the fifth 
highest percentage of low-income African Americans in the country.[8] Census 
data from 2000 in Douglas County show more than 7,800 families live below 
the poverty line, about 6.7 percent of families. The percentage of black 
children in Omaha who live in poverty rank ranks number one in the United 
States, with nearly six of 10 black kids living below the poverty line. 
Only one other metropolitan area in the U.S., Minneapolis, has a wider 
