The term Afro-Cuban refers to Cubans who mostly have West African ancestry, 
and to historical or cultural elements in Cuba thought to emanate from 
this community. The term can refer to the combining of African and other 
cultural elements found in Cuban society such as race, religion, music, 
language, the arts, and class culture.[1] According to a 2002 national 
census which surveyed 11.2 million Cubans, 1.1 million Cubans described 
themselves as Black, while 2.8 million considered themselves to be "mulatto" 
or "mestizo".[2] Thus a significant proportion of those living on the island 
affirm some African ancestry. The matter is further complicated by the 
fact that a fair number of people still locate their origins in specific 
African ethnic groups or regions, particularly the Yoruba (or Lucumí), 
Akan, Arará, and Congo, but also Igbo, Carabalí, Mandingo, Fula, Makua, 
and others. A study from 2014 estimated the genetic admixture of the population 
of Cuba to be 72% European, 20% African, and 8% Native American.[3] Although 
Afro-Cubans can be found throughout Cuba, Eastern Cuba has a higher concentration 
of blacks than other parts of the island, and Havana has the largest population 
of blacks of any city in Cuba.[4] Recently, many African immigrants have 
been coming to Cuba, especially from Angola. Also, immigrants from Jamaica 
and Haiti have been settling in Cuba, most of whom settle in the eastern 
part of the island, due to its proximity to their home countries, further 
contributing to the already high percentage of blacks on that side of the 
island.[4] The percentage of Afro-Cubans on the island increased after 
the 1959 Cuban revolution led by Fidel Castro due to mass migration from 
the island of the largely white Cuban professional class.[5] A small percentage 
of Afro-Cubans left Cuba, mostly for the United States, (particularly Florida), 
where they and their U.S.-born children are called Cuban Americans, Hispanic-Americans, 
and African Americans. Only a few of them resided in nearby Spanish-speaking 
country of Dominican Republic and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. The 
Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies at the University of Miami 
says 62% are black.[6] The Minority Rights Group International says that 
"An objective assessment of the situation of Afro-Cubans remains problematic 
due to scant records and a paucity of systematic studies both pre- and 
post-revolution".[7] Caribbean Historian Frank Andre Guridy, Associate 
Professor of History and African and African Diaspora Studies at the University 
of Texas at Austin.[8] He is the author of Forging Diaspora: Afro-Cubans 
and African Americans in a World of Empire and Jim Crow (Chapel Hill: University 
of North Carolina Press, 2010). A monograph that demonstrates the transnational 
relationships nurtured by Afro-Cubans and black Americans helped to shape 
the political strategies of both groups as they attempted to overcome a 
shared history of racial oppression and enslavement. His book was awarded 
the Elsa Goveia Book Prize by the Association of Caribbean Historians, 
the leading association in the field of Caribbean history. He documents 
the institutional relationships and cultural interactions between Afro-Cubans 
and African Americans from the U.S intervention of 1898 until the eve of 
the outbreak of the Cuban Revolution.[9] By excavating these hidden narratives 
of cultural and political interaction between these communities in various 
contexts, from Booker T. Washington's Tuskegee Institute, to social and 
cultural movements such as Garveyism and the black transnational cultural 
renaissance of the 1920s and 1930s, to the black travel networks created 
during the Good Neighbor and early Cold War eras, Guridy highlights the 
centrality of transnational linkages to the ways both of these Black communities 
negotiated their entangled processes of imperialism and racial discrimination. 
Countries such as Nigeria, the home of the Yoruba and Igbo cultures, and 
Equatorial Guinea experienced an influx of ex-slaves from Cuba brought 
there as indentured servants during the 17th century, and again during 
the 19th century. In Equatorial Guinea, they became part of the Emancipados; 
in Nigeria, they were called Amaros. Despite being free to return to Cuba 
when their tenure was over, they remained in these countries marrying into 
the local indigenous population. The former slaves were brought to Africa 
by the Royal Orders of September 13, 1845 (by way of voluntary arrangement) 
and a June 20, 1861 deportation from Cuba, due to the lack of volunteers. 
Similar circumstances previously occurred during the 17th century where 
ex-slaves from both Cuba and Brazil were offered the same opportunity. 
Angola also has communities of Afro-Cubans, Amparos. They are descendants 
of Afro-Cuban soldiers brought to the country in 1975 as a result of the 
Cuban involvement in the Cold War. Fidel Castro deployed thousands of troops 
to the country during the Angolan Civil War. As a result of this era, there 
exists a small Spanish-speaking community in Angola of Afro-Cubans numbering 
about 100,000. Haitian Creole and culture first entered Cuba with the arrival 
of Haitian immigrants at the start of the 19th century. Haiti was a French 
colony, and the final years of the 1791–1804 Haitian Revolution brought 
a wave of French settlers fleeing with their Haitian slaves to Cuba. They 
came mainly to the east, and especially Guantánamo, where the French later 
introduced sugar cultivation, constructed sugar refineries and developed 
coffee plantations. By 1804, some 30,000 French were living in Baracoa 
and Maisí, the furthest eastern municipalities of the province. Later, 
Haitians continued to come to Cuba to work as braceros (hand workers, from 
the Spanish word brazo, meaning "arm") in the fields cutting cane. Their 
living and working conditions were not much better than slavery. Although 
they planned to return to Haiti, most stayed on in Cuba. For years, many 
Haitians and their descendants in Cuba did not identify themselves as such 
or speak Creole. In the eastern part of the island, many Haitians suffered 
discrimination. But according to the Castro regime, since 1959, when he 
took over, this discrimination has stopped. After Spanish, Creole is the 
second most-spoken language in Cuba. In addition to the eastern provinces, 
there are also communities in Ciego de Ávila and Camagüey provinces where 
the population still maintains Creole, their mother tongue. Classes in 
Creole are offered in Guantanamo, Matanzas and the City of Havana. There 
is a Creole-language radio program. Afro-Cuban religion can be broken down 
into three main currents: Santería, Palo Monte, and Abakuá, and include 
individuals of all origins. Santería is syncretized with Roman Catholicism. 
The Abakuá religion is a secret society for men, similar to the freemason 
orders of Europe. It has not been syncretized with Roman Catholicism and 
remains close to its origins in southeastern Nigeria and southwestern Cameroon, 
from the Ekpe society of the Efik people of Cross River State and nearby 
areas. Afro-Cuban music involves two main categories of music, religious 
and profane. Religious music includes the chants, rhythms and instruments 
used in rituals of the above-mentioned religious currents, while profane 
music focuses largely on rumba, guaguancó and comparsa (carnival music) 
as well as several lesser styles such as the tumba francesa. Virtually 
all Cuban music has been influenced by African rhythms. Cuban popular music, 
and quite a lot of the art music, has strands from both Spain and Africa, 
woven into a unique Cuban cloth. The son is a typical example of this. 
While much of the music is often performed in cut-time, artists typically 
use an array of time signatures like 6/8 for drumming beats. Clave, on 
the other hand, uses a polymetric 7/8 + 5/8 time signature [10] Other cultural 
elements considered to be Afro-Cuban can be found in language (including 
syntax, vocabulary, and style of speech). The Afro-Cuban religions all 
maintain some degree of use of African languages. Santería and Abakuá both 
have large parts of their liturgy in African languages (Lucumí, Igbo and 
Ñañigo, respectively) while Palo uses a mixture of Spanish and Kikongo, 
known as Habla Congo. The term Afro-Cuban is rarely taken into the economic 
sphere, despite the fact that, as in most of the Americas, black Cubans 
are generally poorer than whites, which translates into class phenomenon 
along racial lines. The political situation, however, forbids public acknowledgement 
of the existence of social classes and of racial problems of any kind. 
According to anthropologists dispatched by the European Union, racism is 
entrenched in Cuba.[11] Black people are systematically excluded from positions 
in tourism-related jobs, where they could earn tips in hard currencies.[11] 
According to the EU study, black people are relegated to poor housing, 
and black Cubans are excluded from managerial positions.[11] Enrique Patterson 
describes race as a "social bomb" and says that "If the Cuban government 
were to permit black Cubans to organize and raise their problems before 
[authorities] ... totalitarianism would fall".[6] Esteban Morales Domínguez, 
a professor at the University of Havana, says that "The absence of the 
debate on the racial problem already threatens ... the revolution's social 
project".[6] Carlos Moore, who has written extensively on the issue, says 
that "There is an unstated threat, blacks in Cuba know that whenever you 
raise race in Cuba, you go to jail. Therefore the struggle in Cuba is different. 
There cannot be a civil rights movement. You will have instantly 10,000 
black people dead. [...] The government is frightened to the extent to 
which it does not understand black Cubans today. You have a new generation 
of black Cubans who are looking at politics in another way."[6] Barack 
Obama's victory has raised disturbing questions about the institutional 
racism in Cuba.[11] The Economist noted "The danger starts with his example: 
after all, a young, black, progressive politician has no chance of reaching 
the highest office in Cuba, although a majority of the island's people 
are black"[12] In the years between the triumph of the revolution and the 
victory at Playa Girón the Cuban government was one of the world's most 
proactive regimes in the fight against discrimination. It achieved significant 
gains in racial equality through a series of egalitarian reforms early 
in the 1960s. Fidel Castro's first public address on racism after his rise 
to power was on March 23, 1959 at a labor rally in Havana, less than three 
months after he defeated Fulgencio Batista. He is quoted as saying: "One 
of the most just battles that must be fought, a battle that must be emphasized 
more and more, which I might call the fourth battle--the battle to end 
racial discrimination at work centers. I repeat: the battle to end racial 
discrimination at work centers. Of all the forms of racial discrimination 
the worst is the one that limits the colored Cuban's access to jobs. "[13] 
Castro pointed to the distinction between social segregation and employment, 
while placing great emphasis on correcting the latter. In response to the 
large amount of racism that existed in the job market, Castro issued anti-discrimination 
laws. In addition, he attempted to close the class gap between wealthy 
white Cubans and Afro-Cubans with a massive literacy campaign among other 
egalitarian reforms in the early and mid-1960s.[14] Two years after his 
1959 speech at the Havana Labor Rally, Castro declared that the age of 
racism and discrimination was over. In a speech given at the Confederation 
of Cuban Workers in observance of May Day, Castro declared that the "just 
laws of the revolution ended unemployment, put an end to villages without 
hospitals and schools, enacted laws which ended discrimination, control 
by monopolies, humiliation, and the suffering of the people."[15] Although 
inspiring, many would consider the claim to be premature."[16] Research 
conducted by PH.D researchers Yesilernis Peña, Jim Sidanius and Mark Sawyer 
in 2003, suggest that social discrimination is still prevalent, despite 
the low levels of economic discrimination.[17] After considering the issue 
solved, the Cuban government moved beyond the issue of racism. His message 
marked a shift in Cuban society's perception of racism that was triggered 
by the change in government focus."[16] The government's announcement easily 
allowed the Cuban public to deny discrimination without first correcting 
the stereotypes that remained in the minds of those who grew up in a Cuba 
that was racially and economically divided. Many who argue that racism 
does not exist in Cuba base their claims on the idea of Latin American 
Exceptionalism. According to the argument of Latin American Exceptionality, 
a social history of intermarriage and mixing of the races is unique to 
Latina America. The large mestizo populations that result from high levels 
of interracial union common to Latin America are often linked to racial 
democracy. For many Cubans this translates into an argument of "racial 
harmony", often referred to as racial democracy. In the case of Cuba, ideas 
of Latin American Exceptionalism have delayed the progress of true racial 
harmony.[18] Most of the Latin population of Tampa in the 1950s was working 
class and lived in restricted areas, ethnic enclaves in the vicinity of 
Tampa's hundreds of cigar factories. Black Cubans were tolerated to an 
extent in the Latin quarter (where most neighborhoods and cigar factories 
were integrated). Ybor City and its counterpart, West Tampa, were areas 
that bordered on other restricted sections-areas for U.S. blacks or whites 
only. In this Latin quarter, there existed racial discrimination despite 
its subtleness.[19] During the 1920s and 1930s Cuba experienced a movement 
geared towards Afro-Cuban culture called Afrocubanismo.[20] The movement 
had a large impact on Cuban literature, poetry, painting, music, and sculpture. 
It was the first artistic campaign in Cuba that focused on one particular 
theme: black culture. Specifically it highlighted the struggle for independence 
from Spain, black slavery, and building a purely Cuban national identity. 
Its goal was to incorporate African folklore and rhythm into traditional 
modes of art. The movement evolved from an interest in the rediscovery 
of African heritage. It developed in two very different and parallel stages. 
One stage stemmed from European artists and intellectuals who were interested 
in African art and musical folk forms.[21] This stage paralleled the Harlem 
Renaissance in New York, Négritude in the French Caribbean, and coincided 
with stylistic European Vanguard (like Cubism and its representation of 
African masks). It was characterized by the participation of white intellectuals 
such as Cubans Alejo Carpentier, Fortunato Vizcarrondo, Fernando Ortiz, 
and Lydia Cabrera, Puerto Rican Luis Palés Matos, and Spaniards Pablo Picasso 
and Roger de Lauria. The African-inspired art tended to represent Afro-Cubans 
with cliché images such as a black man sitting beneath a palm tree with 
a cigar. Poems and essays by black writers began to be published in the 
1930s in newspapers, magazines and books, where they discussed their own 
personal heritage. Afro-Cuban and Afro-Cuban heritage artists such as Nicolás 
Guillén, Alberto Arredondo and Emilio Ballagas brought light to the once-marginalized 
black race and culture. It became a symbol of empowerment and individuality 
for Afro-Cubans within the established Western culture of the Americas 
and Europe.[22] This empowerment became a catalyst for the second stage 
to be characterized by Afro-Cuban artists making art that truly reflected 
what it meant to be Afro-Cuban. Beginning in the 1930s this stage depicted 
a more serious view of black culture like African religions and the struggles 
associated with slavery. The main protagonist during this stage of the 
movement was Nicolás Guillén.[23] The lasting reputation of the Afrocubanismo 
movement was the establishment of a New World art form that used aesthetics 
from both European and African culture.[24] Although the actual movement 
of Afrocubanismo faded by the early 1940s, Afro-Cuban culture continues 
to play a vital role in the identity of Cuba. It has been the Cuban Revolution 
that opened up a space for extended research of African ethnic roots in 
Cuba.[25] The rhetoric of the Revolution incorporates black history and 
its contribution as an important stratum of Cuban identity. The Revolution 
has funded many projects that restore the work of Afro-Cubans in an effort 
to accommodate an African-driven identity within the new anti-racist Cuban 
