Aguadilla (Spanish pronunciation: [aɣwaˈðiʝa], Watered Smalls), founded 
in 1775 by Luis de Córdova, is a city and municipality located in the northwestern 
tip of Puerto Rico bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the north and west, 
north of Aguada, and Moca and west of Isabela. Aguadilla is spread over 
15 wards and Aguadilla Pueblo, the administrative center of the city. It 
is a principal city of the Aguadilla-Isabela-San Sebastián Metropolitan 
Statistical Area. According to sources, a Taíno settlement called Amamón 
was located close to the Culebrinas River.[2] The present territory of 
Aguadilla was originally part of the territory of Aguada. In 1775, the 
foundation of Aguadilla by Don Luis de Córdova was approved.[3] But it 
wasn't until 1780 that the territory was properly segregated, making the 
founding of the town official. Originally, Aguadilla was constituted by 
the Victoria and Higüey wards.[4] This region was already inhabited and 
known as Aguadilla before 1770. In 1776, Fray Íñigo Abbad y Lasierra in 
his description of the towns of the island, mentioned it as the "new Town 
of San Carlos of the Aguadilla." Nevertheless, according to Dr. Agustín 
Stahl in his Foundation of Aguadilla, it was not until 1780 that the town 
was officially founded. The construction of a new church and the proceedings 
to become an independent village began in the 1775.[citation needed] The 
population in the Village of Aguadilla continued to increase constantly 
mainly due to its excellent port and strategic location in the route of 
the boats. In 1776, when Santo Domingo became independent for the first 
time, the Spanish descended loyals emigrated to Puerto Rico, mainly to 
Aguadilla, which caused the population to continue increasing significantly. 
In 1831, according to Don Pedro Tomás de Córdova, the party of Aguadilla 
belonged to Aguada. At this time, the territorial organization of Aguadilla 
was as follows: Pueblo Norte (North Town), Pueblo Sur (South Town), Ceiba 
Alta, Ceiba Baja, Montaña, Malezas, Aguacate, Dos Palmas, Camaseyes, Plainela, 
Borinquen, Arenales, Higüey, Corrales, Victoria, and Mangual.[citation 
needed] Don Pedro Tomás de Córdova mentions the road of Aguadilla formed 
by Punta Borinquen and San Francisco, as the "fordeadero of the ships that 
travel from Europe to Havana and Mexico". He adds that its "port is the 
most frequented in the Island due to the proportions that it offers to 
refresh all class of ship."[citation needed] In 1860, Aguadilla was officially 
declared a village.[4] Several years later, when the island was territorially 
organized into seven departments, Aguadilla became the head of the third 
department that included the municipalities of Aguada, Isabela, Lares, 
Moca, Rincon, and San Sebastián. In January 1841 a Royal Order transferred 
the judicial party from Aguada to Aguadilla. In 1878, according to Don 
Manuel Ebeda y Delgado, the territorial organization of Aguadilla had varied 
a little. At this time Plainela, Higüey, and Mangual wards are not mentioned. 
The Dos Palmas ward appears as Palmar. Also at this time, three new wards 
are mentioned: Guerrero, Caimital Alto, and Caimital Bajo. In 1898, even 
with the change of sovereignty in the island, the territorial organization 
of Aguadilla is the same to that of 1878. Nevertheless, in the Census of 
1899, downtown Aguadilla appears constituted by Higüey, Iglesia, Nueva, 
Santa Barbara, and Tamarindo wards. Malezas ward appears subdivided into 
Maleza Alta and Maleza Baja. From that time, the territorial organization 
of Aguadilla did not change, until 1948, when the Puerto Rico Department 
of Planning prepared the map of the city and its wards, and following instructions 
of city authorities, Higüey and parts of Caimital Alto wards are annexed 
to Downtown Aguadilla.[citation needed] Aguadilla was the site of the U.S. 
military's Ramey Air Force Base for almost five decades. During this period, 
Aguadilla was home to the Strategic Air Command 72d Bombardment Wing, Heavy 
equipped with B-52s, a very strategic facility during the Cold War. During 
the early years of the base and throughout World War II, Puerto Ricans 
in the area became more Americanized than in remote locations, and the 
after effects are still apparent in Aguadilla, and other towns like Aguada, 
Moca and Isabela. The military and Puerto Ricans from the surrounding communities 
generally had good formal relations, but the undercurrent of resentment 
in many aspects of the relationship was always just below the surface. 
Many Americans stationed in the area did not even realize that the people 
all around them were even American citizens. Though the infrastructure 
still exists, it was handed over to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico in 
1973. The aerial facilities are now civilian controlled by the Puerto Rico 
Ports Authority. The facilities now make up the Rafael Hernandez International 
Airport. The barracks now host the Faro Inn Suites, a 79-room hotel. The 
Officer's Club now hosts the Faro Conference Center, a 22,000-square-foot 
(2,000 m2) meeting facility. The hospital is now the Courtyard by Marriott 
Punta Borinquen Resort & Casino,[5] a 150-room hotel with a casino and 
the first Marriott in Puerto Rico out of the San Juan Metropolitan Area. 
Ramey also hosts the University of Puerto Rico - Aguadilla Campus and the 
Friedrich Froebel Bilingual School[6] (K-9). The High School became Ramey 
Job Corps[7] Campus and the elementary school became the Esther Feliciano 
Mendoza Middle School. Centro de Adiestramiento y Bellas Artes (CABA) since 
1979 has been the only public school of arts in Puerto Rico (7-12). Ramey 
is also the site of the new Ramey Skating Park and a new "mariposario" 
(butterfly farm). There is still an active part of the base that hosts 
the Coast Guard Borinquen Air Station. There are also other government 
agencies based at Ramey. They include the United States Department of Homeland 
Security, U.S. Customs & Border Protection's Office of Air and Marine and 
Office of Border Patrol, the Fuerzas Unidas de Rápida Acción (United Forces 
for Rapid Action) of the Puerto Rico Police Department and the Puerto Rico 
National Guard. There is also a post office, the Centro de Servicios al 
Conductor (Driver's Services Center), a bakery, and a Banco Popular de 
Puerto Rico location. The beginning of San Antonio Village was back in 
the mid-19th century. It was composed by 60 families. Originally the place 
where these families were located was known as Bajura de Vadi, place later 
to be known as San Antonio. In 1918, as a consequence of the 1918 San Fermín 
earthquake, the village was totally destroyed by a tsunami. The families 
suffered the struggles cause by this natural disaster, due by the proximity 
of the village to the shore. The residents of the village decided re-localize 
the village in a higher area further from shore. The new location was what 
today is known as Ramey. At this new location prosperity was not to be 
delayed. Various leaders and commercial owners of the time, took a step 
to carry the village forward. Most of the poor houses disappeared. The 
village's infrastructure started its evolution. Luis R. Esteves and Juan 
Garcia established the first two theaters in the area. A new was social 
club form, known as "Luz del Porvenir" (Light of the Future). A new school 
system was the pride of the village because it offered them the opportunity 
to give their children an education without having to go 9 miles (14 km) 
south downtown. There was also a new bakery and a post office, among other 
facilities. At this time, the village also began its Patron Festival. The 
clothing industry was a major source of employment. Prosperity and happiness 
came to an end, when the news that the Federal Government needed the land 
to build an air base that came to be known as Ramey Air Force Base. In 
September 1939, some 3,796 acres (15.4 km2) covered by sugar cane, was 
expropriated for the military at the cost of $1,215,000. Since the foundation, 
the village has suffered three expropriations as a result of expansions 
to Ramey Air Force Base. This expropriations delayed and ended the plans 
to turn San Antonio into a town. Today, the population of San Antonio consists 
of approximately 10 thousand people. It has a modern square, a Puerto Rico 
State Police Station, a coliseum, an industrial park, public housing, a 
baseball park, a public school system, shops, and many other, charasteristics 
of a small town. Also, as a characteristic of a town, has a flag and an 
emblem. The creation of the flag and emblem was done by Roberto Román Acevedo. 
On the early morning hours of November 7, 1944, Puerto Rico suffered the 
most violent railroad accident in its history in Aguadilla.[8] Train No. 
3 was traveling from San Juan to Ponce carrying passengers to their different 
hometowns for the island general elections to be held that same day. It 
stopped at the Jimenez Station in Aguadilla for a routine engineer and 
boilerman exchange with Train No. 4 which was heading towards San Juan. 
The engineer assigned to Train No. 3's ride from Jimenez Station to Ponce 
was Jose Antonio Roman, an experienced freight train engineer, but who 
had never worked in passenger travel.[8] When the train left the station 
at 2:00 am, it was hauling 6 passenger cars with hundreds of commuters 
and two freight cars. At 2:20 a.m. the train started to descend a hill 
section known as Cuesta Vieja (Old Hill) in Aguadilla at what some witnesses 
described as an exaggerated speed. When the train reached the leveling-off 
point at the bottom of the hill it derailed. The steam locomotive crashed 
into a ditch where it exploded and one of the freight cars crashed into 
one of the passenger cars, killing many inside. Witnesses described the 
scene as horrendous, with some accounts stating that parents were throwing 
their children out the windows to save them from the wreckage.[8] Chief 
of Police Guillermo Arroyo stated that the locomotive (No. 72), the express 
car, and three second class passenger cars were completely destroyed. Oscar 
Valle, an Aguadilla correspondent to the local El Mundo newspaper, summarized 
the scene in a more dramatic way: "The locomotive suffered a terrible explosion 
as it derailed, and the impact was so strong that 3 passenger cars were 
converted into a fantastic mound of wreckage.[8] In the end, 16 passengers 
lost their lives, including the engineer and the boilerman, and 50 were 
injured in the crash. Aguadilla is located in the northwest coast of the 
island of Puerto Rico, in the Western Coastal Plains. It is bordered by 
the Atlantic Ocean in the north, the municipalities of Isabela on the east, 
and Moca and Aguada in the south. The area of the municipality is 35.5 
square miles. It is mostly plain, with some notable hills being Jiménez 
(728 feet) and Viñet (689 feet). It has only one river, the Culebrinas, 
which separates Aguadilla from Aguada. Also Cedro Creek which separates 
Aguadilla from Isabela in the north. Aguadilla is part of the Porta del 
Sol touristic region in Puerto Rico. The Porta del Sol website highlights 
Aguadilla's beaches for surfing.[11] According to the Department of Natural 
Resources, Aguadilla has the most beaches in the island, with nineteen.[12] 
Some of the beaches are considered among the best for surfing, like Surfer's 
Beach, Gas Chambers, Crash Boat, Wilderness, among others.[13][14] Because 
of this, Aguadilla has served as host to surfing competitions, like the 
ISA World Championship in 1988.[15] Other attractions of the town are Las 
Cascadas Water Park and the Aguadilla Ice Skating Arena, which is the only 
ice skating complex in the Caribbean. Aguadilla City Hall Banyan Treehouse 
Campanitas de Cristal Fountain Roman Catholic Parish Church San Carlos 
Borromeo Columbus Cross El Merendero El Parterre Fisherman's Monument Jardin 
del Atlántico Sq. Paseo Miguel Garcia Mendez Punta Borinquen Golf Course 
Punta Borinquen Lighthouse Punta Borinquen Lighthouse Ruins Rafael Hernández 
Monument Old Courthouse Board Walk Crash Boat Beach Aguadilla Ice Skating 
Arena Aguadilla is the site of several yearly celebrations and festivals. 
The most notable are: Aguadilla is home to several professional and amateur 
sports teams. The most notable are the Aguadilla Divas of the Female Superior 
Volleyball League, and the Aguadilla Sharks of the Superior Baseball League 
(Double-A). The Divas play their home games in the Luis T. Diaz Coliseum 
in Downtown Aguadilla from January to March, while the Sharks play their 
home games at Luis A. Canera Marquez Stadium from February to May. Aguadilla 
also had a professional basketball team called the Aguadilla Sharks, that 
played for the BSN league. This team was merged into the Cangrejeros de 
Santurce in 1998. Aguadilla is also a place where many famous baseball 
players originate from. There are plans for a future ECHL Minor League 
Hockey franchise for the city. In the past, Aguadilla's economy relied 
mostly on commercial fishing.[citation needed] On a 2012 article by El 
Nuevo Día, several fishermen criticized the way the mayor Carlos Méndez 
Martínez has handled the business, and commented that he wanted to "bury 
the fishing business". Other fishermen said that the mayor had "abandoned" 
them.[19] Although there is still commercial fishing in Aguadilla, the 
economy has now shifted towards the industrial sector. The city is currently 
home to a variety of industrial and pharmaceutical plants like LifeScan, 
Symmetricom, Honeywell, and Hewlett Packard. Most of them are located at 
San Antonio Technological Park, while others like Suiza Dairy, Micron Technology 
and Productos La Aguadillana are located in Camaseyes Industrial Park. 
Other industries that are based in Aguadilla are rubber, plastics, leather, 
textiles, steel, wood, machinery, and food processing.[20] The retail sector 
is also another source of economy in Aguadilla. Shopping malls like Aguadilla 
Mall, Aguadilla Shopping Center, Aguadilla Town Center, and others are 
some of the main commercial and retail centers of the city.[citation needed] 
In the fiscal year of 2010-2011, the city had an operational surplus of 
$346,176. This represented a dramatic decrease from the surplus the city 
had in 2009-2010 ($1,227,036) Also, from 2008 to 2009, there have been 
decreases in the city budget, federal funds, tax income, among others. 
Also, the public debt of the city is $74,368,454, which represents an increase 
from the past years.[19] According to the 2010 Census, population in Aguadilla 
is at 60,949. This represents a decrease of more than 3,000 from the 2000 
Census.[21][22] As a whole, Puerto Rico is populated mainly by people from 
a Creole (born on the Island of European descent) or Spanish and European 
descent, with small groups of African and Asian people. Statistics taken 
from the 2000 census shows that 83.6% of Aguadillanos have Spanish or white 
origin, 5.0% are black, 0.2% are Amerindian, 0.2% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian/Pacific 
Islander, 8.2% were Some other race, 2.8% Two or more races. On March 2012, 
unemployment was at 16.2%, which is the same percent it was in November 
2010.[19] All municipalities in Puerto Rico are administered by a mayor, 
elected every four years. The current mayor of Aguadilla is Carlos Méndez 
Martínez, of the New Progressive Party (PNP). He was elected at the 1996 
general elections. Aguadilla City Government is based at the city hall 
in downtown Aguadilla. Most state agencies are based at the Government 
Center Building with the exception of the Corporación del Seguro del Estado 
(State Insurance Agency) and the Centro de Servicios al Conductor (Driver's 
Services Center). Most state agencies left their offices after the Senatorial 
District was taken away from Aguadilla. Aguadilla has its own police department, 
Policía Municipal Aguadilla (Aguadilla City Police Department), located 
in Aguadilla Pueblo. The A.C.P.D. only has jurisdiction in the municipality 
of Aguadilla and provide service and protection to local citizens and travelers 
alike. Aguadilla also hosts the Puerto Rico Police Department Command for 
its Region. This region covers Aguada, Aguadilla, Isabela, Moca, Rincón 
and San Sebastián. It also hosts the PRPD Highway Patrol Division for its 
region, the FURA Division of the PRPD, the US Army Reserve Center, PR National 
Guard, and the Border Patrol. It is also served by another PRPD station 
in San Antonio Village (Precinct 203 Ramey-San Antonio). The city has a 
single correctional facility, Guerrero Correctional Institution, operated 
by the Puerto Rico Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. In recent 
years, Aguadilla has seen an increase in Type I crimes, which include murder, 
burglary, and theft.[19] The city belongs to the Puerto Rico Senatorial 
district IV, which is represented by two Senators. In 2012, María Teresa 
González and Gilberto Rodríguez were elected as District Senators.[23] 
Aguadilla is home to 16 elementary schools, 5 middle schools, and 3 high 
schools. Mostly owned and operated by the Puerto Rico Department of Education. 
It also hosts the Head Start Program for Aguadilla, Aguada, Moca, Rincón, 
and San Sebastián and a number of private institutions. Aguadilla hosts 
the following universities: There is an existent library in San Antonio 
Village and another one Downtown Aguadilla. There are two major medical 
facilities in Aguadilla. There are also a number of private doctor's offices. 
Rafael Hernández Airport is located in the city of Aguadilla. In recent 
years, it has seen a resurgence as an international airport in the island, 
with several airlines planning flights to the US from Aguadilla. Interstate 
PR-2 (Rafael Henández Highway). Plans are underway for a new expressway, 
an expansion to existing Puerto Rico Highway 22 (José de Diego Expressway) 
from Hatillo and it will probably end at Puerto Rico Highway 111. King 
Face Public Transportation Terminal Due to space limitations it is almost 
impossible to list all of the people of Aguadilla who have distinguished 
