Aichi Prefecture (愛知県, Aichi-ken?) is a prefecture of Japan located in 
the Chūbu region.[1] The region of Aichi is also known as the Tōkai region. 
The capital is Nagoya. It is the focus of the Chūkyō Metropolitan Area.[2] 
Originally, the region was divided into the two provinces of Owari and 
Mikawa.[3] After the Meiji Restoration, Owari and Mikawa were united into 
a single entity. In 1871, after the abolition of the han system, Owari, 
with the exception of the Chita Peninsula, was established as Nagoya Prefecture, 
while Mikawa combined with the Chita Peninsula and formed Nukata Prefecture. 
Nagoya Prefecture was renamed to Aichi Prefecture in April 1872, and was 
united with Nukata Prefecture on November 27 of the same year. The government 
of Aichi Prefecture is located in the Aichi Prefectural Government Office 
in Nagoya, which is the old capital of Owari. The Expo 2005 World Exposition 
was held in Seto and Nagakute. In the third volume of the Man'yōshū there 
is a poem by Takechi Kurohito that reads: "The cry of the crane, calling 
to Sakurada; it sounds like the tide, draining from Ayuchi flats, hearing 
the crane cry". Ayuchi is the original form of the name Aichi, and the 
Fujimae tidal flat is all that remains of the earlier Ayuchi-gata. It is 
now a protected area.[4][5] For a time, an Aichi Station existed on the 
Kansai Line (at the time the Kansai Railway) between Nagoya and Hatta stations, 
but its role was overtaken by Sasashima-Live Station on the Aonami Line 
and Komeno Station on the Kintetsu Nagoya Line. Located near the center 
of the Japanese main island of Honshu, Aichi Prefecture faces the Ise and 
Mikawa Bays to the south and borders Shizuoka Prefecture to the east, Nagano 
Prefecture to the northeast, Gifu Prefecture to the north, and Mie Prefecture 
to the west. It measures 106 km east to west and 94 km south to north and 
forms a major portion of the Nōbi Plain. With an area of 5,153.81 km2 it 
accounts for approximately 1.36% of the total surface area of Japan. The 
highest spot is Chausuyama at 1,415 m above sea level. The western part 
of the prefecture is dominated by Nagoya, Japan's third largest city, and 
its suburbs, while the eastern part is less densely populated but still 
contains several major industrial centers. Due to its robust economy, for 
the period from October 2005 to October 2006, Aichi was the fastest growing 
prefecture in terms of population, beating Tokyo, at 7.4 per cent. As of 
April 1, 2012, 17% of the total land area of the prefecture was designated 
as Natural Parks, namely the Aichi Kōgen, Hida-Kisogawa, Mikawa Wan, and 
Tenryū-Okumikawa Quasi-National Parks along with seven Prefectural Natural 
Parks.[6] Thirty-eight cities are located in Aichi Prefecture. These are 
the towns and villages in each district: Companies headquartered in Aichi 
include the following. Companies such as Fuji Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi 
Motors, Pfizer, Sony, Suzuki, Bodycote, and Volkswagen Group also operate 
plants and/or branch offices in Aichi. As of 2001, Aichi Prefecture's population 
was 50.03% male and 49.97% female. 139,540 residents (nearly 2% of the 
population) are of foreign nationality. The sports teams listed below are 
based in Aichi. Notable sites in Aichi include the Meiji Mura open-air 
architectural museum in Inuyama, which preserves historic buildings from 
Japan's Meiji and Taishō periods, including the reconstructed lobby of 
Frank Lloyd Wright's old Imperial Hotel (which originally stood in Tokyo 
from 1923 to 1967). Other popular sites in Aichi include the tour of the 
Toyota car factory in the city by the same name, the monkey park in Inuyama, 
and the castles in Nagoya, Okazaki, Toyohashi, and Inuyama. Because of 
Aichi's location along the Eastern seacoast, there are some scenic spots, 
but other than the Atsumi Peninsula surf beaches there are no significant 
beach destinations when compared to neighboring Shizuoka Prefecture. Most 
attractions are man-made destinations, dealing with the region's history 
or modern marvels. Atsuta Shrine Toyokawa Inari Kiyosu Castle and Kiyosu 
Castle Park in Kiyosu Okazaki Castle Tokugawa Art Museum Meiji-mura Toyota 
Automobile Museum Tokoname pottery footpath Laguna Ten Bosch Himakajima 
Site of Expo 2005 Field Mustard, Tahara Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens 
Sakurabuchi Park Kisogawazutsumi Owari Tsushima Tennōsai(eve) Inuyama Festival 
Kamezaki Shiohi Festival Chiryu Festival Nagoya Festival Tsutsui-chō/Dekimachi 
