Alexander Sebastian Campanis (born Alessandro Campani, November 2, 1916 – 
June 21, 1998) was an American executive in Major League Baseball. He had 
a brief Major League career as a second baseman, playing for both the Brooklyn 
Dodgers and the Montreal Royals, the Dodgers' minor-league team. Campanis 
is most famous for his position as general manager of the Los Angeles Dodgers 
from 1968 to 1987, from which he was fired on April 8, 1987 as a result 
of controversial remarks regarding blacks in baseball made during an interview 
on Nightline two days earlier. He was the first Greek player in MLB history 
Al Campanis was born to Greek-speaking parents in Kos, a small island within 
the Dodecanese Islands, on November 2, 1916.[1] Kos has been part of Greece 
since 1947, although, at the time of Campanis' birth, it belonged to Italy. 
He moved with his family to New York City at age 6. He attended New York 
University, graduating in 1940.[2] After graduating, Campanis became a 
professional baseball player, signing with the Brooklyn Dodgers. He was 
then sent to play with several minor-league teams, including the Macon 
Peaches. He eventually played for the Brooklyn Dodgers as a second baseman 
for seven games in 1943. He then served in the U.S. Navy in World War II, 
reaching the rank of Chief Petty Officer.[3] After returning from the war, 
he played for the Montreal Royals, the Dodgers' minor-league team, with 
Jackie Robinson as one of his teammates. Campanis soon afterward became 
a scout for the Dodgers, then eventually their scouting director. While 
a scout, he notably discovered future pitching great and Hall of Famer 
Sandy Koufax. Campanis moved with the team to Los Angeles when they became 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1958. He then became the Dodgers' general manager 
in 1968.[2] In one of Campanis' first trades as general manager of the 
Dodgers, Campanis traded his own son Jim, to the Kansas City Royals for 
two minor leaguers.[4] Under Campanis the Dodgers reached the World Series 
four times, in 1974, 1977, 1978 and 1981. They lost the first three of 
these, but finally won in 1981.[2] Campanis' remarks took place on the 
late-night ABC News program Nightline, during the run-up to the 40th anniversary 
of Jackie Robinson's Major League Baseball debut (April 15, 1947). Campanis, 
who had played alongside Robinson and was known for being close to him, 
was being interviewed about the subject. Nightline anchorman Ted Koppel 
asked him why, at the time, there had been few black managers and no black 
general managers in Major League Baseball. Campanis' reply was that blacks 
"may not have some of the necessities to be, let's say, a field manager, 
or, perhaps, a general manager" for these positions. Elsewhere in the interview 
he said that blacks are often poor swimmers "because they don't have the 
buoyancy." Koppel says he gave Campanis several opportunities to clarify, 
("Do you really believe that?") or back down from his remarks, but Campanis 
confirmed his views with his replies. Campanis resigned less than 48 hours 
later.[5] The controversy was especially heated when it was pointed out 
that Campanis had participated in the decision over who would replace Walter 
Alston as the manager of the Dodgers. It had been a choice between the 
two coaches at the time, Tommy Lasorda and Jim Gilliam, and it raised the 
question of whether Gilliam had been passed over because he was black.[citation 
needed][2] In an interview the next year, Campanis attempted to clarify 
that he was referring to the lack of African-Americans with experience 
in these areas, rather than their innate abilities. He also said that he 
was "wiped out" when the interview took place and therefore not entirely 
himself. Many other figures in baseball, such as Lasorda and African-American 
and Latin players who played for the Dodgers, have also spoken in Campanis' 
defense.[6] In 1988, Campanis also said that "Time has diffused the immediate 
hurt of April 6", and that "It has turned out to be a plus for baseball 
and myself." Campanis had two sons, baseball player Jim and George.[2] 
On June 21, 1998, Al Campanis died at his Fullerton, California home of 
coronary artery disease, aged 81. Campanis was survived by his sons, George 
and Jim, five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. He was interred 
in the Mausoleum crypt at Loma Vista Memorial Park in Fullerton. 6. Murray 
Polner. "Will Ozzie Guillen Go the Same Way as Al Campanis?" History News 
