Alan Thomas Hrabosky (/rəˈbɒski/; born July 21, 1949) is a former Major 
League Baseball player from 1970–1982 for the St. Louis Cardinals, Kansas 
City Royals and Atlanta Braves and is currently the color commentator on 
Cardinals regular season broadcasts on FSN Midwest. He also owns Al Hrabosky's 
Ballpark Saloon, which is located right across the street from Busch Stadium. 
Hrabosky's nickname is The Mad Hungarian because of his unusual last name 
and colorful character.[1] Hrabosky played at Savanna High School[2] in 
Anaheim, California and was originally drafted by the Minnesota Twins in 
the 11th round of the 1967 amateur draft, but did not sign with the club. 
Two years later the Cardinals made him their first round choice. Within 
a year, at the age of 20, he made his major league debut, pitching a scoreless 
inning against the San Diego Padres. During his time with the Cardinals, 
Hrabosky became a fan favorite for his antics on the mound. Between each 
pitch he would turn his back to the batter, walk towards second base, vigorously 
rub the ball between his palms several times, take a deep breath, and pound 
the ball into his mitt. He would then storm back to the mound, staring 
down the batter. Although the crowd would roar in delight, most batters 
were not fond of the pitcher's routine. Arguably, Hrabosky's best year 
was 1975 when he led the National League in saves with 22 (a career best) 
en route to winning the Sporting News "NL Fireman of the Year" award. After 
eight seasons in St. Louis, the Cardinals traded Hrabosky to the Kansas 
City Royals in a swap of closers for Mark Littell. Following just two years 
with the Royals, he was released and signed with the Atlanta Braves. During 
his time with the Braves he saw diminished playing time and recorded just 
seven saves over three seasons. Hrabosky signed with the Chicago White 
Sox during Spring training in 1983 but retired before the season began. 
In 13 seasons he recorded 64 wins, 35 losses, and 97 saves with an ERA 
of 3.10. Early in his career with the Cardinals, Hrabosky enhanced his 
menacing appearance with long hair, and a handlebar moustache. However, 
when Vern Rapp became the Cardinals manager in 1977, Hrabosky had to cut 
his hair and shave the moustache. Perhaps Hrabosky's most memorable performance 
came during an ABC Monday Night Baseball game on May 9, 1977, against the 
Cincinnati Reds. In the top of the ninth with the game tied at 5-5, Hrabosky 
allowed the first three hitters (all left-handed), Ken Griffey, Joe Morgan, 
and Dan Driessen to reach base and load the bases. As the Cardinals' home 
crowd roared, Hrabosky went into his "Mad Hungarian" routine described 
above and proceeded to strike out right-handed power hitters George Foster, 
Johnny Bench, and Bob Bailey. The Cardinals went on to win 6-5 on a Ted 
Simmons home run in the 10th inning.[3] Following his playing career, he 
has provided color commentary for Cardinals games since 1985 and has been 
with Fox Sports Midwest since 1997. Hrabosky also hosted his own radio 
show on KFNS 590AM in St. Louis. He also serves as an occasional fill-in 
