Left - 340 ft. Center - 400 ft. Al Lopez Field was a spring training and 
Minor League baseball park in West Tampa, Tampa, Florida, United States. 
It was named for Al Lopez, who was the first Tampa native to play Major 
League Baseball (MLB), manage a MLB team, and be enshrined in the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. Al Lopez Field was built in 1954 and hosted its first spring 
training in 1955, when the Chicago White Sox moved their training site 
to Tampa from California. Al Lopez became the White Sox's manager in 1957, 
and for the next three springs, he was the home manager in a ballpark named 
after himself. The Cincinnati Reds replaced the White Sox as Al Lopez Field's 
primary tenant in 1960 and would return every spring for almost 30 years. 
The Tampa Tarpons, the Reds' Class-A minor league affiliate in the Florida 
State League, played at the ballpark every summer. In 1988, the Reds moved 
their spring training home to a new facility in nearby Plant City, Florida. 
The Tarpons became an affiliate of the White Sox and played one more season 
at Al Lopez Field before moving to Sarasota. The empty ballpark was razed 
in 1989 in the hope of building a larger stadium for a potential major 
league team at the site, but those plans never came to fruition. Raymond 
James Stadium was built at the former location of Al Lopez Field in 1998. 
Tampa was one of the first spring training locations in Florida. Beginning 
with the Chicago Cubs in 1913, a series of major league teams trained at 
Plant Field, a multipurpose facility near downtown Tampa. Plant Field was 
also the home ballpark of the minor league Tampa Smokers, who were a charter 
member of the Florida State League. While the Cincinnati Reds were still 
training at Plant Field into the 1950s, the facility was old (it was built 
in 1898) and had to be shared among many different teams and events. City 
leaders decided that a new baseball-only facility would insure that Tampa 
would continue to be an attractive spring training location. In 1949, the 
city of Tampa bought 720 acres (2.9 km2) of open land near West Tampa from 
the federal government. The large, grassy parcel had once been the perimeter 
of Drew Field, a World War II-era airfield which was the precursor to Tampa 
International Airport. While Tampa's municipal airport grew to the west, 
the land to the east was purchased with the idea of building a community 
sports complex.[1][2] The construction of Al Lopez Field in 1954 was the 
first phase of this project. It was located east of Dale Mabry Highway 
(Highway US-92) and north of Tampa Bay Boulevard, near the center of the 
land purchased in 1949. Tampa Stadium, a much larger football stadium, 
was constructed in 1967 just to the north, beyond the baseball park's left 
field wall. Much like Tampa Stadium, the design of Al Lopez Field was functional 
and minimalist. The grandstand was primarily constructed from concrete 
and featured a high, curved aluminum overhang with no obstructing columns, 
a design similar to that of Miami Stadium. Construction on Al Lopez Field 
was not quite complete on October 6, 1954 when it was officially dedicated 
as part of "Al Lopez Day" in Tampa.[3] It was, however, ready for spring 
training in March 1955, when the Chicago White Sox opened camp at the new 
stadium. After the White Sox went north for the beginning of the regular 
season, their new Florida State League Class-A team, the Tampa Tarpons, 
took the field.[4] Al Lopez became the White Sox manager in 1957, putting 
him in the unusual position of managing in his hometown in a stadium that 
bore his name. During one ballgame, Lopez got into an argument with umpire 
John Stevens and was ejected. As Lopez said later, "The umpire threw me 
out of my own ballpark!"[5] The White Sox moved their spring training home 
to Payne Park in Sarasota, Florida in 1960, and the Cincinnati Reds (who 
had continued to train at Plant Field) moved their spring operations across 
town to became Al Lopez Field's new tenants. The Reds would become the 
major league club most associated with the ballpark, as they used the stadium 
and the adjacent training facilities (nicknamed "Redsland") as their spring 
home for almost 30 years. As part of the agreement, the Tampa Tarpons became 
the Reds' Florida State League affiliate in 1960 and would remain in their 
minor league system until 1987. Consequently, several members of Cincinnati's 
championship-winning "Big Red Machine" of the 1970s, including Pete Rose. 
Johnny Bench, and Dave Concepción, played some of their first professional 
baseball in Tampa with the Tarpons and later returned for spring training 
with the big league club.[6] The Reds hosted the New York Yankees at the 
park on March 17, 1978. In honor of Saint Patrick's Day, Reds general manager 
Dick Wagner had green versions of the Reds' uniforms made. This was the 
first time a major league team wore green trimmed uniforms on March 17, 
a practice adopted in subsequent years by multiple major league teams on 
St. Patrick's Day.[7] Besides professional baseball, Al Lopez Field regularly 
hosted amateur and semi-pro baseball games, including many Florida high 
school baseball championships, and occasionally hosted boxing and wrestling 
matches.[8] Al Lopez Field was the site of several large civic events, 
particularly before Curtis Hixon Hall was built downtown in 1965. During 
a visit to Tampa in November 1963, President John F. Kennedy delivered 
his last major speech to an overflow crowd of 10,000 people at the ballpark 
only days before being assassinated during his next stop in Dallas, Texas.[9] 
By the 1980s, the Tampa Bay area was widely discussed as a possible home 
for either a major league expansion team or a relocated existing team, 
and Al Lopez Field was considered a prime location for a new major league 
ballpark if Tampa received a team.[10] Unhappy with the series of short-term 
leases offered by the Tampa Sports Authority and concerned that they would 
soon lose their spring training home field, the Reds abandoned Tampa after 
the 1987 season for a new facility in nearby Plant City, Florida. The Tampa 
Tarpons reached an affiliation agreement with the Chicago White Sox for 
1988. However, various local groups continued to pursue a major league 
team and announced various plans for large stadiums at the Al Lopez Field 
site,[11][12] leading the Tarpons' local owners to sell the minor league 
team to the White Sox in November 1988. The Tarpons moved to Sarasota in 
1989 and were rechristened the Sarasota White Sox, leaving Tampa without 
professional baseball for the first time in over 70 years.[13][14] With 
no tenants and with a sense that the city would have to move quickly to 
build a major league stadium, the Tampa Sports Authority decided to demolish 
AL Lopez Field in early 1989. Al Lopez himself had retired to Tampa and 
lived only a few miles from the ballpark that bore his name. In a 1992 
interview, Lopez said that the razing of the stadium "wasn't very disappointing. 
I saw a diagram of the new stadium, and I didn't feel bad because I thought 
they were going to build a bigger one and a better one. After that, something 
happened, and they never built the ballpark. Then it was a disappointment."[15] 
Horizon Park, a public park just north of Tampa Stadium, was renamed Al 
Lopez Park in his honor in 1992. While Tampa waited to build a new ballpark 
until it was guaranteed a major league team, St. Petersburg went ahead 
with construction on the domed stadium that is now known as Tropicana Field. 
It was completed in 1990, and St. Pete was awarded the expansion Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays in 1995.[16] Meanwhile, Tampa resumed its long affiliation 
with professional baseball in 1994, when the New York Yankees agreed to 
move their spring training home and Florida State League affiliate (the 
Tampa Yankees) to town if the city provided a new stadium. The city built 
(Legends Field) across Dale Mabry Highway from Tampa Stadium and upgraded 
the training facilities formerly known as Redsland for use by the Yankees. 
The former site of Al Lopez Field continued to be used as additional parking 
for Tampa Stadium until 1998, when Raymond James Stadium was built on its 
