Al Lang Stadium[4] is a 7,500-seat sports stadium in downtown St. Petersburg, 
Florida that is the current home pitch of the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the 
North American Soccer League (NASL). It was built in 1947 and was used 
almost exclusively as a baseball park for over 60 years. Al Lang Stadium 
was reconstructed in 1976, and was renovated again before the Tampa Bay 
Devil Rays began using it as their first spring training venue in 1998. 
The Devil Rays / Rays were the last of a long series of Major League Baseball 
clubs to conduct spring training and host an affiliated minor league team 
at Al Lang Stadium. Before the Rays, tenants included the New York Yankees, 
St. Louis Cardinals, New York Mets, and the Baltimore Orioles, amongst 
others. The stadium hosted its last spring training game in 2008 and was 
the site of occasional amateur and exhibition baseball for the next several 
years. Since the Tampa Bay Rowdies became the primary tenant in 2011, Al 
Lang Stadium has been incrementally modified for use as a soccer venue. 
Since October 2014, an agreement between the club and the city of St. Petersburg 
has made the stadium a soccer-only facility, and the Rowdies' ownership 
conducted an extensive renovation in early 2015. The stadium is named in 
honor of Al Lang, a former mayor of St. Petersburg who was instrumental 
in bringing minor league and spring training baseball to the city in the 
early 20th century.[5] Professional baseball grew throughout the United 
States at the beginning of the twentieth century, and clubs sought additional 
facilities to accommodate their spring training. Al Lang, a businessman 
in St. Petersburg, Florida, saw a huge potential to attract northeastern 
teams to his city to take advantage of the warm weather during the early 
months of the year. Lang and city officials created an incentives package 
that covered teams' travel expenses and other amenities, which drew in 
the city's first spring training tenant, the St. Louis Browns, in 1914. 
The club trained at Coffee Pot Park, a small ballpark located beside Coffee 
Pot bayou about a mile north of the current site of Al Lang Stadium. Subsequently, 
other Major League Baseball clubs such as the Philadelphia Phillies and 
the New York Yankees came to St. Petersburg for spring training, and Lang 
continued promoting the city when he was elected Mayor of St. Petersburg 
in 1916. After his term, Lang devoted his life to building a successful 
connection between Florida and baseball, and was instrumental in marketing 
St. Petersburg as a desirable sports site.[5][6] With Al Lang's support, 
the city replaced Coffee Pot Park with St. Petersburg Athletic Park (also 
known as Waterfront Park) on the present site of Al Lang Stadium in 1923. 
It served as the spring training home for Major League Baseball teams the 
Boston Braves and the New York Yankees until after World War II, hosting 
baseball greats such as Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, and Stan Musial.[7] 
In 1947, the city of St. Petersburg demolished Waterfront Park and constructed 
a modern baseball park on the same site. It was named Al Lang Stadium in 
honor of his many years of service to the city and his continual promotion 
of baseball in the area. The St. Louis Cardinals and New York Yankees shared 
the new ballpark in its first spring training season. The stadium underwent 
a major reconstruction in 1976, expanding its capacity to 7,227.[8] It 
was renovated again in 1996; the project cost $640,117 and included disability 
accommodations.[9] When the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using 
the park for spring training in 1998, local utility Florida Power purchased 
the park's naming rights for $150,000 per year, and the city rechristened 
it Florida Power Park at Al Lang Field.[10] When Florida Power was acquired 
by Progress Energy in 2003, the stadium's name was changed to Progress 
Energy Park.[11][12] The naming rights agreement expired in 2011, and the 
facility's name reverted to Al Lang Stadium. Al Lang Stadium's grandstand 
faces the southeast, giving almost every seat a view of the St. Petersburg 
harbor and Tampa Bay beyond the left field wall. The stadium is constructed 
primarily of reinforced concrete, and the public portions of the facility 
include very few enclosed and air conditioned areas. A unique concrete 
cantilevered overhang shades many of the grandstand seats from the afternoon 
sun, and the stadium's waterfront location is often cooled by a sea breeze. 
During the 2015 renovation, the Rowdies replaced all of the seats in the 
grandstand, refreshed fan areas under the grandstand, and extensively updated 
many of the club and gameday operation areas.[13] In addition, a portion 
of the outfield wall was removed and two banks of uncovered bleachers installed 
in its place, adding several hundred seats on the sideline of the soccer 
pitch opposite the grandstand. Al Lang stadium has hosted may thousand 
major league spring training, minor league, college, high school, international. 
and exhibition baseball games over the decades. Al Lang Stadium was originally 
built as a spring training and minor league venue and served that purpose 
from 1947 until 2008. Spring training tenants included the New York Yankees, 
St. Louis Cardinals, New York Giants, New York Mets, and Baltimore Orioles. 
Minor league tenants included the St. Petersburg Saints of the Florida 
International League and the St. Petersburg Cardinals of the Florida State 
League. Al Lang Stadium's final minor league tenant was the Class A St. 
Petersburg Devil Rays, who last played at the stadium in 2000.[14] In 1998, 
the expansion Tampa Bay Devil Rays began using the stadium for spring training. 
Their regular season home at Tropicana Field is approximately one mile 
west, making the Devil Rays the first major league team to train and play 
regular season games in the same city in almost 90 years. In 2006, the 
Rays, seeking to expand their fan base across the Tampa Bay area, decided 
to move their spring training operations to Charlotte Sports Park in Port 
Charlotte, Florida, about 80 miles south of St. Petersburg.[15] They played 
their last spring training ballgame at Al Lang Stadium on March 28, 2008.[16] 
Baseball in the Tampa Bay area has a long history, and amateur baseball 
has long been played in Al Lang Stadium and its predecessors in downtown 
St. Petersburg. Many different tournament, exhibition, practice, and regular 
season games have been held there, with the University of South Florida 
St. Petersburg club baseball program the last amateur team to call Al Lang 
Stadium home during their inaugural season of 2014. The 1997 and 2002 Atlantic 
Coast Conference Baseball Tournaments were played at the venue,[17] as 
was the 2000 Conference USA Baseball Tournament.[18] From 2010 to 2014, 
Al Lang Stadium hosted the St. Petersburg International Baseball Series, 
which involved international teams, national teams, and local college and 
high school teams along with minor league squads from various major league 
organizations that were already in the area for spring training.[19] The 
event moved to other local venues in 2015. After the Tampa Bay Rowdies 
moved to Al Lang Stadium in 2011, the playing surface and seating arrangement 
had to be constantly alternated between baseball and soccer configurations, 
especially in the spring. The resulting poor condition of the turf led 
to complaints by Rowdies management and, in October 2014, an agreement 
that baseball would not be played at the facility.[20] In 2011, the soccer 
team FC Tampa Bay of the North American Soccer League announced it would 
move to Al Lang Stadium from George M. Steinbrenner Field in Tampa.[21] 
This ended three years in which the stadium had no long-term tenant. Al 
Lang Stadium subsequently underwent minor renovations to convert it into 
a soccer facility, with temporary seats added on the grass along the sidelines 
to increase capacity.[22][23] The team played its first game at Al Lang 
on April 9, 2011, and later changed its name to the Tampa Bay Rowdies, 
after the historical team that had played from 1975 to 1993.[24][25] On 
October 27, 2012, the Tampa Bay Rowdies became the 2012 NASL Champions 
by winning the two-leg Soccer Bowl against the Minnesota Stars at Al Lang 
Stadium. It was the first time that a major championship was held at the 
site.[26] In 2013, the Rowdies signed a lease extension keeping the team 
at Al Lang Stadium through the 2016 season.[27] In 2014, Rowdies majority 
owner Bill Edwards publicly complained that the city of St. Petersburg 
and the St. Petersburg Baseball Commission, which managed Al Lang Stadium, 
had not kept up with maintenance on the grandstand, the locker rooms, or 
the playing field. This was partially due to the fact that although the 
Rowdies have been the only regular tenant of Al Lang Stadium since 2011, 
it was regularly used for exhibition and amateur baseball during the spring, 
necessitating that the playing surface be converted for soccer use by removing 
the pitcher's mound and replacing the infield dirt with grass.[20][28][29] 
The dispute resulted in the Rowdies filing a lawsuit against the St. Petersburg 
Baseball Commission in July 2014 claiming that the commission was not properly 
maintaining the "dilapidated" facility.[30] The issues were finally resolved 
in October 2014 when Edwards and the city of St. Petersburg brokered a 
deal that gave Edwards' Big 3 Entertainment company management control 
of Al Lang Stadium for the next four years. As part of the arrangement, 
the facility would no longer be used for baseball events, and Edwards agreed 
to complete $1.5 million in renovations as he sought to make Al Lang Stadium 
more soccer friendly.[31] On January 29, 2013 Major League Lacrosse announced 
that the 2012 MLL champions the Rochester Rattlers would face the Chesapeake 
Bayhawks for their season opener at Al Lang stadium. It would be the first 
time that the league would play there. Part of this game is an effort to 
evaluate the Tampa Bay Area, and the state of Florida in general, for an 
expansion team, after MLL held the All-Star game at FIU Stadium the previous 
year. It was supported by the St. Petersburg/Clearwater Sports Commission 
who want to affirm the city's brand as a world-class destination for sports 
tourism.[32][33] The game was played on Saturday, April 27, 2013 in front 
of 3,940 people (an attendance higher than half the league's average attendance).[34] 
The Chesapeake Bayhawks won against the Rochester Rattlers 17-14.[35] In 
2015, Al Lang Stadium hosted the Halloween Rugby 7s, a rugby sevens tournament 
featuring eight teams: USA Falcons, USA Hawks, Canada, Argentina, Denver, 
New York City, Ohio and Utah.[36] In 2006, the Tampa Bay Rays announced 
plans to move their spring training home to Port Charlotte, about 80 minutes 
south of St. Petersburg, for the 2009 season. In November 2007, Rays President 
Matt Silverman introduced a plan to build a $450 million new Rays Ballpark 
at the Al Lang Stadium site that was to be ready for the 2012 baseball 
season. The plan failed to garner enough political support to move forward, 
and it was shelved in June 2008.[37] Subsequently, the Rays began looking 
at other potential locations, and in May 2009, they announced that they 
would not seek to build a new facility in downtown St. Petersburg.[38] 
In 2013, the city of St. Petersburg began the process of creating a master 
plan for the waterfront area that includes Al Lang Stadium. Some of the 
proposals suggest replacing the entire stadium and surrounding parking 
areas with a soccer park complex with a new soccer-specific stadium.[39] 
Rowdies owner Bill Edwards has stated that "in a perfect world", Al Lang 
Stadium would be replaced by an 18,000-seat publicly financed soccer stadium.[20] 
In March 2016, St. Petersburg mayor Rick Kriseman announced plans to hold 
a public referendum on extending the Rowdies' lease at Al Lang Stadium 
and to use tax dollars to help the club transform the facility into a "city 
showpiece". However, these plans were shelved in May 2016, possibly because 
it became known that Orlando City SC, the closest Major League Soccer (MLS) 
franchise, has territorial rights for the Tampa/St. Petersburg market, 
clouding the prospects for potentially bringing the Rowdies to MLS and 
