Alan Richard "Al" Michaels (born November 12, 1944) is an American television 
sportscaster. Now employed by NBC Sports after nearly three decades (1977–2006) 
with ABC Sports, Michaels is perhaps best known for his many years calling 
play-by-play of National Football League games, including nearly two decades 
with Monday Night Football. He is also known for famous calls in other 
sports, including the Miracle on Ice at the 1980 Winter Olympics and the 
earthquake-interrupted Game 3 of the 1989 World Series. Michaels was born 
to a Jewish[1] family in Brooklyn, New York, to James Samuel Michaels and 
Lila Roginsky/Ross. He grew up as a Brooklyn Dodgers fan. Coincidentally, 
at the time the Dodgers left Brooklyn, Michaels's family also moved to 
Los Angeles in 1958.[2][3] Michaels attended Alexander Hamilton High School 
in L.A., with Joel Siegel, Michele Lee and Michelle Phillips,[citation 
needed] and was a baseball player. He graduated in 1962 and later attended 
Arizona State University, where he majored in radio and television and 
minored in journalism. He worked as a sports writer for ASU's independent 
student newspaper, The State Press. He also is a member of Sigma Nu Fraternity. 
Michaels's first job in television was with Chuck Barris Productions, choosing 
women to appear on The Dating Game. His first sportscasting job came in 
1964, when he was hired to do public relations for the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Later, he was hired by the team to serve eight games as a color commentator 
but fired after the first four, after Laker play-by-play announcer Chick 
Hearn disapproved of him.[4] Michaels, who had worked on the team's media 
guide, was also considered to be the first color commentator of the Los 
Angeles Kings, where he would have been with Jiggs McDonald. That assignment 
went to Ed Fitkin instead.[5] Michaels resumed his professional broadcasting 
career in 1968, calling the games of the Hawaii Islanders baseball team 
in the Pacific Coast League. He also called play-by-play for the University 
of Hawaii's football and basketball teams as well as high school football 
games, and was named Hawaii's "Sportscaster of the Year" in 1969. In 1970, 
Michaels appeared as attorney Dave Bronstein in an episode of Hawaii Five-O 
called "Run, Johnny, Run" (Air date: January 14, 1970); the episode also 
featured a young Christopher Walken. In 1971, Michaels moved to Cincinnati, 
Ohio, where he became the lead announcer for the Cincinnati Reds of Major 
League Baseball. In 1972, the Reds won the National League Championship 
Series and advanced to the World Series. Michaels helped cover the Fall 
Classic for NBC Sports, and also was the network's play-by-play man for 
the hockey coverage at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, Japan. In 1973, 
two days before he was assigned to call the regular-season NFL finale between 
the Houston Oilers and Cincinnati Bengals, Bill Enis died from a heart 
attack at the age of 39. NBC proceeded to bring Michaels in to replace 
Enis in the booth with Dave Kocourek. In 1974, Michaels left the Reds for 
a similar position with the San Francisco Giants, and also covered basketball 
for UCLA, replacing Dick Enberg on the Bruins' tape-delayed telecasts of 
their home games, during a period when UCLA was in the midst of an 88-game 
winning streak. He left NBC that year and announced regional NFL games 
for CBS Sports in 1975. He called the no-hitter by John Candelaria on August 
9, 1976. He signed with ABC Sports in January 1977. Michaels initially 
joined ABC as the back-up announcer on Monday Night Baseball in 1977. The 
following year, he was promoted to the network on a full-time basis.[4] 
He became the lead announcer replacing Keith Jackson in 1982. Over the 
next three decades, Michaels covered a wide variety of sports for ABC, 
including Major League Baseball, college football, college basketball, 
ice hockey, track and field events, horse racing, golf, boxing (such as 
the 1985 Marvin Hagler/Thomas Hearns fight), figure skating, road cycling, 
and many events of the Olympic Games as well as the Olympic trials.[6] 
Episodes of Wide World of Sports featuring Michaels early in his ABC career 
have been featured at least two occasions on the ESPN Classic comedy series 
Cheap Seats. At one point on Cheap Seats, Michaels's then dark, curly hairstyle 
drew sarcastic comparisons to Quiet Riot lead singer Kevin DuBrow. While 
at ABC, he aired many prominent events including serving as the studio 
host for the Stanley Cup Finals. Also, he served as host for the yearly 
Tiger Woods Monday night specials that aired in July or August. Two of 
Michaels's more famous broadcasts were of the 1980 Winter Olympics ice 
hockey medal round match between the United States and the Soviet Union, 
and the attempted third game of the 1989 World Series. In 1980, an unheralded 
group of college ice hockey players from the United States won the Gold 
Medal at the Olympic Winter Games. The medal round match on February 22—which, 
contrary to popular belief, did not yet assure the team of the gold medal—was 
of particular interest, as it was played against a heavily favored squad 
from the Soviet Union, and was in front of an incredibly excited pro-American 
crowd in Lake Placid, New York. Michaels's memorable broadcast of this 
game, including his interjection—"Do you believe in miracles? YES!"—as 
time expired on the 4–3 U.S. victory, earned the game the media nickname 
of The Miracle on Ice. Most assume that the game was broadcast live (indeed, 
CTV, which held Canadian rights to the game, aired it live); but in reality, 
the game started at 5:05 pm Eastern Standard Time and ABC decided against 
pre-empting local and network news (on the East Coast) to carry the game 
live. Instead, most of it—including the entire third period—was broadcast 
within the regularly scheduled, prime-time telecast from 8:30 to 11 pm 
Eastern time (and on a six-and-a-half-hour delay on the West Coast from 
8:30 to 11 pm Pacific Standard Time). Despite being on tape, the game was 
one of the highest-rated programs of the 1979–80 television season and 
remains the most-watched ice hockey game in the history of American television.[7] 
Michaels, along with broadcasting partner Ken Dryden, recreated their Olympic 
commentary in the 2004 movie Miracle. Although Michaels and Dryden recreated 
the bulk of their commentary for the film, the closing seconds of the game 
against the Soviet Union used the original ABC Sports commentary from 1980. 
Gavin O'Connor, the director of Miracle, decided to use the last 10 seconds 
of Michaels's original "Do you believe in miracles? YES!" call in the film 
because he felt he couldn't ask him to recreate the emotion he experienced 
at that moment. Thus they cleaned up the recording to make the transition 
to the authentic call as seamless as possible. He later recalled, "When 
I look back, obviously Lake Placid would be the highlight of my career. 
I can't think of anything that would ever top it. I can't dream up a scenario." 
Ironically, Michaels was only on this particular assignment because he 
had done one hockey game, eight years prior. The game in question was the 
gold medal game (the Soviet Union vs. Czechoslovakia) of the 1972 Winter 
Olympics (on NBC) in Sapporo, Japan. Other announcers on the ABC Sports 
roster such as Keith Jackson, Frank Gifford, and Howard Cosell had never 
done a hockey game before. Michaels recalled this during a Real Sports 
interview in January 2009. Michaels also apparently beat out WABC-AM and 
New York Islanders commentator George Michael for the assignment.[8][9] 
Even though the events of October 17, 1989 in San Francisco are widely 
considered to be the most dramatic baseball-related moment of Michaels's 
career, he had several others that were memorable. In the 1972 National 
League Championship Series, the defending World Series Champion Pittsburgh 
Pirates faced the Cincinnati Reds. In Game 5, with both teams tied at two 
games apiece, the Pirates led 3–2 in the bottom of the ninth inning and 
were three outs away from advancing to the World Series. But Pirates closer 
Dave Giusti unraveled. He surrendered a game-tying home run to Johnny Bench 
before allowing back-to-back singles to Tony Pérez and Denis Menke before 
being relieved by Bob Moose, who almost worked out of the jam by recording 
two outs. But with pinch-hitter Hal McRae at the plate, Moose lost his 
footing and uncorked a wild pitch sending George Foster, who was pinch 
running for Pérez, home with the pennant-clinching run and setting off 
a massive celebration at Riverfront Stadium. Perhaps Michaels's first historic 
call with ABC Sports while covering Major League Baseball occurred in what 
is now known by many as the Don Denkinger game. The Kansas City Royals 
trailed the St. Louis Cardinals 3–1 in a series that was panned for being 
low-scoring and dull. After a Royals win in St. Louis forced the action 
back to Kansas City, the sixth game was also low scoring. However, this 
contest grew into a tense pitcher's duel. In the bottom of the 9th, pinch 
hitter Jorge Orta led off for the Royals against Cardinals pitcher Todd 
Worrell with Kansas City trailing 1–0 and hit a ground ball to first baseman 
Jack Clark. Clark threw over to pitcher Worrell, who was running over to 
cover first base in time to beat the speedy Orta and did. Yet first base 
umpire Don Denkinger still called Orta safe at first. Steve Balboni then 
hit a pop-up to first which Jack Clark missed for an error, keeping Balboni's 
at-bat alive, and he promptly singled to put men on first and second. The 
infamous and controversial leadoff single by Orta and the Jack Clark error 
eventually led to the Royals loading the bases and putting the tying run 
on third base and the winning run on second with one out for Dane Iorg. 
Iorg hit a 2-run single and the Royals came back to win 2–1. The Royals 
went on to win Game 7 11–0 and complete the comeback after being down 3 games 
to 1. However, it was Denkinger's dubious 'safe' call, and not Iorg's hit, 
Clark's error, Jim Sundberg's heroics (for his difficult slide past catcher 
Darrell Porter for the winning run) or the Game 7 blowout that were most 
remembered in years to come. In 1986, Michaels was also on hand for what 
he says was "the greatest of all the thousands of games I've done." On 
October 12 at Anaheim Stadium, Michaels along with Jim Palmer called Game 
5 of the American League Championship Series. The California Angels held 
a 3 games to 1 lead of a best-of-seven against the Boston Red Sox. In the 
game, the Angels held a 5–2 lead going into the ninth inning. Boston scored 
two runs on a home run by Don Baylor, closing the gap to 5–4. When Donnie 
Moore came in to shut down the rally, there were two outs, and a runner 
on first base, Rich Gedman, who had been hit by a pitch. The Angels were 
one out from their first-ever trip to the World Series. But Dave Henderson 
hit a 2–2 pitch off Moore for a home run, giving the Red Sox a 6–5 lead. 
The Angels were able to score a run in the bottom of the ninth, pushing 
the game into extra innings. Moore continued to pitch for the Angels. He 
was able to stifle a 10th inning Red Sox rally by getting Jim Rice to ground 
into a double play. Nevertheless, the Red Sox were able to score off Moore 
in the 11th-inning via a sacrifice fly by Henderson. The Angels could not 
score in the bottom of the 11th, and lost the game 7–6. The defeat still 
left the Angels in a 3 games to 2 advantage, with two more games to play 
at Fenway Park. The Angels were not able to recover, losing both games 
by wide margins, 10–4 and 8–1. Game 7 of the 1986 ALCS ended with Calvin 
Schiraldi striking out Jerry Narron. Despite the fact that ABC Sports and 
ESPN had been under the same corporate umbrella (the Walt Disney Company) 
since 1996, Michaels never served as a regular commentator for ESPN Major 
League Baseball. The only time that Michaels appeared in an ESPN booth 
of any kind was as a guest commentator on Wednesday Night Baseball in 2003 
as part of ESPN's Living Legends Series. Michaels joined Gary Thorne and 
Joe Morgan, whom he worked with on ABC's 1989 World Series coverage and 
served as ABC's #2 baseball team behind Michaels, Jim Palmer and Tim McCarver 
in 1989, for a game at Dodgers Stadium between the Los Angeles Dodgers 
and Cincinnati Reds. On October 17, 1989, Michaels was in San Francisco, 
preparing to cover the third game of the 1989 World Series[10] between 
the home team, the Giants, and the visiting Oakland Athletics. ABC's network 
telecast began with a recap of the first two games, both won by Oakland. 
Soon after Michaels handed off to his broadcast partner, Tim McCarver, 
who started assessing the Giants' chances for victory in the game, the 
Loma Prieta earthquake struck (at approximately 5:04 pm local time). Michaels 
exclaimed "I'll tell you what—we're having an earth—" as the network feed 
cut out.[11][12] When ABC restored audio via telephone 15 minutes later,[citation 
needed] Michaels quipped, "Well folks, that's the greatest open in the 
history of television, bar none!"[13] Michaels then reported from the ABC 
Sports production truck outside Candlestick Park on the earthquake, for 
which he later was nominated for an Emmy Award for news broadcasting. Michaels 
relayed his reports to Ted Koppel, who was stationed at the ABC News bureau 
in Washington, D.C. According to Tim McCarver, when the earthquake hit, 
he, Michaels and Jim Palmer immediately grabbed a hold of what they perceived 
to be the armrests. In reality, the announcers were clutching on each other's 
thighs and they were each left with bruises the next day. Years later (on 
a 1999 SportsCenter retrospective about the 1989 World Series earthquake), 
Al Michaels would boldly admit his strong belief that had the earthquake 
lasted much longer than 15 seconds, he would have been killed. Michaels 
added that the only time that he really had been scared during the earthquake 
was when he moved in a position which he perceived to be backward. The 
three announcers were sitting on a ledge[14] with their backs turned and 
no bracing behind them. At this very moment ten days ago, we began our 
telecast with an aerial view of San Francisco; always a spectacular sight, 
and particularly so on that day because the cloudless sky of October 17 
was ice blue, and the late-day sun sparkled like a thousand jewels. That 
picture was very much a mirror of the feel and the mood that had enveloped 
the Bay Area...and most of Northern California. Their baseball teams, the 
Giants and A's, had won pennants, and the people of this region were still 
basking in the afterglow of each team's success. And this great American 
sporting classic, the World Series, was, for the time being, exclusively 
theirs. Then of course the feeling of pure radiance was transformed into 
horror and grief and despair- in just fifteen seconds.[15] And now on October 
27, like a fighter who's taken a vicious blow to the stomach and has groggily 
arisen, this region moves on and moves ahead. And one part of that scenario 
is the resumption of the World Series. No one in this ballpark tonight- 
no player, no vendor, no fan, no writer, no announcer, in fact, no one 
in this area period- can forget the images. The column of smoke in the 
Marina. The severed bridge. The grotesque tangle of concrete in Oakland. 
The pictures are embedded in our minds. And while the mourning and the 
suffering and the aftereffects will continue, in about thirty minutes the 
plate umpire, Vic Voltaggio will say 'Play Ball', and the players will 
play, the vendors will sell, the announcers will announce, the crowd will 
exhort. And for many of the six million people in this region, it will 
be like revisiting Fantasyland. Michaels's longest-running assignment was 
that of the lead play-by-play announcer on ABC's Monday Night Football 
telecasts, a position he held for 20 seasons beginning in 1986. Before 
that, his most notable NFL assignment for ABC was hosting (along with Jim 
Lampley) the pre-game coverage of Super Bowl XIX. In 1988, Michaels called 
his first Super Bowl. Three years later, Michaels was on hand to call the 
thrilling Super Bowl between the New York Giants and Buffalo Bills. Bills 
kicker Scott Norwood missed a potentially game-winning field goal, and 
thus, ensured the Giants victory. The trio of Michaels, Dan Dierdorf (who 
joined MNF the year after Michaels's first), and Frank Gifford lasted until 
the 1997 season, when Gifford was replaced following disclosure of an extramarital 
affair. During the 1980s, Gifford would fill-in for Michaels on play-by-play 
whenever Michaels went on baseball assignments for the League Championship 
Series (1986 and 1988) or World Series (1987 and 1989). Former Cincinnati 
Bengals quarterback Boomer Esiason (who had personal conflicts with Michaels 
and therefore, left after the 1999 season) replaced Gifford in 1998, and 
Dierdorf was dropped after that season. Unexpectedly, comedian Dennis Miller 
joined the cast in 2000 along with Dan Fouts. In 2002, following Miller 
and Fouts' departure, John Madden joined Michaels in a well-received pairing. 
After disastrous ratings in the 2003 NBA Finals, ABC decided to revamp 
their lead NBA broadcast team. Brad Nessler was reassigned to the second 
broadcast team, where he was joined by Sean Elliott and Dan Majerle. Michaels[17] 
was hired to replace Nessler as lead broadcaster of the NBA. For the first 
several weeks of the 2003–2004 season, Michaels had no partner. However, 
Doc Rivers, a critically acclaimed analyst when he worked with Turner Sports, 
became available after a 1–19 start by his Orlando Magic. Rivers was hired 
weeks before ABC's Christmas Day season opener. He and Michaels worked 
that game together, one of only six they did together during the regular 
season (all other games Rivers worked were with Brad Nessler). During the 
playoffs, the team worked every single telecast, including the 2004 NBA 
Finals, which saw great improvement in television ratings. During the 2004 
NBA Playoffs, Doc Rivers was hired by the Boston Celtics. Though Rivers 
continued to work games with Michaels throughout the rest of the playoffs, 
ABC would have to find a new lead analyst for the 2004–2005 season. Early 
in the 2004–2005 season, ABC found a new partner for Al Michaels. Memphis 
Grizzlies coach Hubie Brown, a broadcasting legend with CBS, TBS, and TNT, 
was forced into retirement due to health reasons and was soon after hired 
to replace Doc Rivers. Michaels and Brown began their partnership on Christmas 
Day 2004, working the highly anticipated Shaquille O'Neal-Kobe Bryant game. 
After that game, the two did not do a game together again until March 2005. 
Michaels became sporadic in NBA coverage,[18] doing two games in early 
March, and then three more games in April. Brown worked every week of ABC's 
coverage, broadcasting some games with veteran broadcaster Mike Breen. 
For the 2005–2006 season, Al Michaels and Hubie Brown were slated to remain 
as ABC's number one broadcast team. The duo worked that year's Christmas 
Day game between the Los Angeles Lakers and Miami Heat and were expected 
to work the NBA Finals together as well. However, due to Michaels's impending 
departure to NBC, that plan did not come to fruition. Replacing Michaels 
on The NBA on ABC was Mike Breen, who became the lead broadcaster for an 
over-the-air NBA package for the first time in his career. Breen worked 
2006 NBA Finals with Hubie Brown, as well as all the main games ABC broadcast 
that year. This gave ABC its first consistent lead broadcaster since Brad 
Nessler, as Breen (unlike Michaels) did games every week. Besides his inconsistent 
work, Michaels (despite being initially seen as adding credibility to ABC's 
NBA broadcasts in contrast to his predecessor, Brad Nessler) was criticized 
for apparently lacking the kind of enthusiasm and confidence (for instance, 
Michaels initially reacted to Amar'e Stoudemire's block of Tim Duncan's 
shot during the 2005 playoffs by calling it a "great, great contested shot") 
expected of a No. 1 play-by-play voice. Barry Horn of the Dallas Morning 
News said that Michaels was simply "not a basketball guy". Meanwhile, Bill 
Simmons said during the 2005 Finals that Michaels "shows up for these games, 
does his job, then drives home thinking, "'Only five weeks to the [NFL] 
Hall of Fame Game, I'm almost there!'" In 2003, he was quoted as saying, 
"ABC Sports has been my professional home for the last 26 years, and I 
am delighted that will continue to be for several more..." after signing 
a long-term contract extension.[19] In 2005, it was announced that Monday 
Night Football would be moving from ABC to ESPN beginning with the 2006 
season, and partner John Madden announced he would be joining NBC Sports, 
which had acquired the rights to Sunday Night Football games. Despite speculation 
that Michaels might be joining NBC as well, Michaels stated that he would 
continue as the MNF play-by-play announcer, stating, "I feel like I'm a 
creature of Monday night. I'm home and I'm staying home." Plans were for 
Michaels to be teamed with Joe Theismann (who would be coming over from 
Sunday Night Football) on the Monday night telecasts.[20] At the time, 
then-ABC Television President Alex Wallau said, "For 26 years Al has played 
a pivotal role here at ABC Sports, and for 17 of those years he's been 
the face and voice synonymous with television's most successful sports 
franchise, Monday Night Football... It's Al's outstanding play-by-play 
coverage, coupled with his breadth of knowledge, experience and enthusiasm, 
that keep MNF fans invigorated, excited and coming back for more." Also, 
then-ABC Sports President Howard Katz said, "Al Michaels has been invaluable 
to the Network and we are thrilled to have him remain in our family. [...] 
Al is the consummate professional and makes everyone around him better." 
However, in the weeks leading up to Super Bowl XL, it was widely speculated 
that Michaels was attempting to get out of his contract with ESPN to join 
Madden at NBC. By this time, it was clear that NBC's Sunday Night Football 
would be the NFL's premier prime-time package, with ESPN's Monday Night 
Football relegated to secondary match-ups similar to that network's previous 
Sunday night telecasts. Michaels added fuel to the fire by refusing to 
state his future plans, and he couldn't "respond to rumors ... because 
that would become a distraction."[21] On February 8, 2006, ESPN announced 
that its Monday Night Football team would consist of Mike Tirico on play-by-play, 
with Theismann and Tony Kornheiser as analysts.[22] ESPN explicitly stated 
that Michaels would not return to either Monday Night Football broadcasts 
or ABC's NBA broadcasts (on which Michaels had been lead NBA play-by-play 
man). On February 9, 2006, NBC confirmed that Michaels would be joining 
Madden at the network to broadcast football on Sunday nights, thus ending 
Michaels's 20-year run on Monday Night Football and almost 30 years of 
service with ABC.[23] In exchange for letting Michaels out of his contract 
with ABC and ESPN, NBC Universal sold ESPN cable rights to Friday coverage 
of the next four Ryder Cups, granted ESPN increased usage of Olympic highlights, 
and sold to parent company Disney the rights to Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, 
a cartoon character developed by Walt Disney himself (which he lost in 
1928) but previously owned by Universal Pictures (now NBC Universal). NBC 
Sports chairman Dick Ebersol explained, "We earn nothing from those rights; 
they've had no value in the United States." Michaels had a bemused take 
on the "trade." After it was noted to Michaels that the Kansas City Chiefs 
gave the New York Jets a draft pick as compensation for releasing coach 
Herman Edwards from his contract, Michaels stated, "Oswald is definitely 
worth more than a fourth-round draft choice. I'm going to be a trivia answer 
someday." However, in an article with the magazine Game Informer, Warren 
Spector, a designer on the game Epic Mickey, stated that Disney CEO Bob 
Iger wanted Oswald to be in the game so badly, he made this trade to get 
the rights of the character back.[24] Michaels and Madden began their new 
NBC tenure on August 6, 2006, with the network's telecast of the preseason 
Pro Football Hall of Fame Game, with their regular-season debut on September 
7. On February 1, 2009, Michaels called Super Bowl XLIII, his first Super 
Bowl telecast for NBC and seventh overall as a play-by-play announcer. 
Michaels is the third man to ever do play-by-play for an NBC broadcast 
of a Super Bowl, following the footsteps of Curt Gowdy and Dick Enberg. 
Michaels also called Super Bowl XLIX on February 1, 2015. In March 2009, 
it was announced that Michaels would be serving as the daytime host for 
NBC's coverage of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia.[25] 
It was Michaels's first involvement in an Olympic telecast since he called 
ice hockey at the 1988 Calgary Games for ABC, as well as his first non-NFL 
event for NBC. NBC Sports chairman Dick Ebersol said that Michaels had 
previously expressed an interest in contributing to the network's Olympics 
coverage.[8] Michaels also co-hosted NBC's coverage of the Closing Ceremony 
(with Bob Costas). Michaels also served as daytime co-host (with Dan Patrick) 
for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, and co-hosted the Closing Ceremony 
(with Costas and Ryan Seacrest). For the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, 
Michaels served as weekday host on NBCSN and weekend daytime host on NBC. 
He returned to host daytime coverage for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio 
de Janeiro.[26] In January 2015, NBC announced that Michaels would be at 
ringside along with Marv Albert[27] and Sugar Ray Leonard for the PBC on 
NBC Saturday night bouts.[28] In partnership with Haymon Boxing,[29] NBC 
would televise 20 PBC on NBC events[30] (beginning on March 7), including 
five to be shown in prime time on Saturday nights. On July 8, 2011, Michaels 
teamed up with Bob Costas (with the two announcers alternating between 
play-by-play and color commentary) to call a game between the New York 
Mets and San Francisco Giants on MLB Network.[31] It was Michaels's first 
appearance on a baseball telecast since August 6, 2003 (when he served 
as a guest commentator on an ESPN game, as previously mentioned) and his 
first as a primary announcer since Game 5 of the 1995 World Series on ABC. 
(Michaels had called Games 1, 4 and 5 of that series with Jim Palmer and 
Tim McCarver, while Costas called Games 2, 3 and 6 with Joe Morgan and 
Bob Uecker for NBC.) Michaels and Costas also made appearances on SportsNet 
New York and Comcast SportsNet Bay Area during the game's middle innings, 
since the MLB Network broadcast was blacked out in the Mets' and Giants' 
respective home markets. Michaels is the eldest child of Jay and Lila Michaels. 
Michaels has a younger brother, David and a younger sister, Susan.[3] Michaels 
currently resides in Los Angeles. Al Michaels married his wife Linda (Née 
Stamaton) on August 27, 1966. Al and Linda have two children together, 
Jennifer and Steven. Steven Michaels serves as President and CEO of independent 
film company Asylum Entertainment in Los Angeles. Michaels is also a Los 
Angeles Kings season ticket holder.[34][35] Al's younger brother, David, 
is a television producer. David Michaels has produced such programs as 
NBC's coverage of the Olympic Games, Triple Crown and Fox Sports Net's 
Beyond the Glory series. In March 2011, Michaels accompanied New England 
Patriots owner Robert Kraft and his wife, Myra, to Israel to visit Kraft 
Family Stadium in Jerusalem, an American football venue and home to three 
teams in the Israeli Football League, which is sponsored by the Kraft family.[36] 
It was one of Myra Kraft's last trips before becoming sick with the cancer 
that would ultimately take her life July 20, 2011. Michaels was arrested 
and charged for driving under the influence on April 21, 2013. He was released 
after about five hours.[37] He eventually pleaded no contest to a reduced 
charge of reckless driving and was sentenced to 80 hours of community service 
plus probation.[38] In 2014, Michaels released an autobiography titled 
You Can't Make This Up: Memories and the Perfect Marriage of Sports and 
Television, which reached the New York Times bestseller list for nonfiction.[39] 
In a February 2015 interview, Michaels alleged that artificial crowd noise 
was pumped into the 1987 World Series in the Minnesota Twins' home stadium 
the Metrodome.[40] It was Michaels who explained to Peter Jennings that 
Jennings had been the victim of a prank call in the final hour of O. J. 
Simpson's Bronco chase, after the Bronco had pulled into Simpson's driveway 
and parked. The prankster, claiming to be watching Simpson inside the van, 
described what he said to be the scene in perfect Stepin Fetchit dialect, 
then signed off with "...and Baba Booey to y'all."[41] Michaels, unlike 
Jennings, understood the prankster's use of the term as an association 
of being a Howard Stern fan. Michaels himself is a Howard Stern fan, and 
has discussed that prank call as a guest on Stern's show. As previously 
mentioned, Michaels had an acting role in a 1970 episode of Hawaii Five-O, 
and has appeared as himself in the films Jerry Maguire and BASEketball, 
as well as on several TV shows including Coach and Spin City. Also as previously 
mentioned, his call of the U.S. hockey team's victory in the 1980 Olympics 
can be heard in the 2004 film Miracle. Michaels re-recorded all his original 
play-by-play coverage for the film, except for the immortal line. Brian 
d'Arcy James portrayed Michaels in the 2002 television movie Monday Night 
Mayhem. Michaels has also been lampooned on several occasions by noted 
impressionists, Frank Caliendo and Billy West. Michaels was also the featured 
voice in Hardball 3, a popular computer baseball game for PC. He was also 
featured, along with John Madden, in the Madden NFL series from Madden 
NFL 2003 to Madden NFL 09. Unless otherwise noted, Michaels was the play 
