Albert Lewis Orth (September 5, 1872 – October 8, 1948) was an American 
right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. He later served as a major 
league umpire and college baseball coach. Orth was born in Tipton, Indiana 
and attended DePauw University. As a young pitcher with the Lynchburg minor 
league team in the Virginia League in 1895, Orth won 28 games.[1] He was 
called up to the Philadelphia Phillies and won his first eight starts for 
them.[2] Before the 1902 season, Orth and several other Phillies left for 
the American League; Orth joined the Washington Senators. When Orth was 
traded to the New York Highlanders in 1904 after struggling the year before, 
he picked up the spitball from Jack Chesbro and had his best year in 1906, 
going 27–17 and leading the American League in wins. During that season, 
Orth threw 36 complete games in 39 starts. Known as The Curveless Wonder, 
Orth never relied on the breaking ball. Instead, his pitching success centered 
on his control and his ability to change pitch speeds. Orth twice finished 
with the fewest walks in his league. He is one of a handful of pitchers 
to earn 100 wins in both the National League and the American League.[3] 
After Orth earned his 199th win in 1907, it took nine attempts to earn 
number 200; this still represents the greatest difficulty any pitcher has 
had in reaching the milestone.[4] Orth was also known for his hitting skills, 
finishing seventh all-time among pitchers in hits, with 389. Orth would 
frequently hit above .300. The left-handed hitter was used as a pinch hitter 
78 times and even played the field on a few occasions, including fifty-five 
games as an outfielder and eight at shortstop during his time with the 
Washington Senators. After knee injuries and a sore arm ended his career,[1] 
he managed for Lynchburg in the Virginia League. He debuted as a National 
League umpire in the summer of 1912.[5] He was the umpire on May 2, 1917 
when Fred Toney and Hippo Vaughn each pitched 9 innings of no-hit baseball, 
the only time in regulation when neither team got a hit.[6] After umpiring 
for several seasons, knee problems forced him to stop. He later coached 
at Washington and Lee University as well as the Virginia Military Institute.[1] 
In the years before the National League provided for two umpires per game, 
it was not unusual for both teams in a baseball game to choose one of their 
players to alternate umpiring duties if the regular umpire failed to appear 
for the game, and Orth sometimes served that role. On August 20, 1901, 
Orth had the distinction of playing and umpiring in the same game, when 
manager Bill Shettsline sent him in as a pinch hitter in the ninth inning. 
[7] Orth hit a single in the Phillies' 3-2 loss to the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
[8] Orth died at age 76 at his Lynchburg, Virginia home on October 8, 1948. 
