Alvin John "Al" Stump (October 20, 1916 – December 14, 1995), was an American 
author and sports writer. Stump spent time with Detroit Tigers' Hall Of 
Fame baseball player Ty Cobb in 1960 and 1961 collaborating on Cobb's autobiography. 
My Life In Baseball: A True Record was released shortly after Cobb's death. 
From this research, Stump later went on to write at least two books and 
at least one magazine article on Cobb. Cobb: The Life and Times of the 
Meanest Man Who Ever Played Baseball and Cobb: A Biography were follow-up 
pieces written over thirty years after Cobb died. Both books, represented 
by Stump as a reflection on his time with Cobb, have now been discredited 
as sensationalized and, in large part, fictional.[1][2] Stump was born 
in Colorado Springs, Colorado. He began his sports writing career while 
attending the University of Wisconsin. Stump became a war correspondent 
during World War II, after which he wrote about sports for True and Esquire 
magazines and worked as reporter for the Los Angeles Herald-Examiner and 
The Los Angeles Times.[3] Stump spent approximately three weeks with Ty 
Cobb over eleven months researching the ball player's life. Cobb's autobiography 
that Stump co-authored, My Life in Baseball, came out a few months after 
Cobb's July 17, 1961 death and painted the former Tiger in a sympathetic 
light. Stump said afterward that he found Cobb rather difficult to work 
with most of the time. Long after the publication of Cobb's autobiography, 
he claimed that Cobb's editorial control over the autobiography resulted 
in the book not telling the truth about Cobb as Stump saw it. During a 
visit to the Cobb family mausoleum in December 1960, Stump alleged that 
Cobb told him about the murder of his father, and pointed the finger at 
his mother.[4] Thirty years later, however, Stump published a new book 
(Cobb: The Life and Times of the Meanest Man in Baseball), which offered 
a very negative portrait of Cobb. In 1994, this book was used as the basis 
for Cobb, a film starring Tommy Lee Jones as Cobb and Robert Wuhl as Stump. 
The film was a box office flop, with especially negative reviews for the 
almost 50-year-old Jones sometimes unbelievable portrayal of Cobb in flashbacks 
of his playing career, and earned less than a million dollars before being 
pulled from theaters. Stump's 1996 book on Cobb, Cobb: A Biography, was 
a reworked and expanded version of the 1994 book published after Stump's 
death. In 2010, an article by William R. Cobb (no relation to Ty) in the 
peer-reviewed The National Pastime, the official publication of the Society 
for American Baseball Research, accused Al Stump of extensive forgeries 
of Cobb-related baseball and personal memorabilia, including personal documents 
and diaries. Stump even falsely claimed to possess a shotgun used by Cobb's 
mother to kill his father (in a well-known 1905 incident officially ascribed 
to Mrs Cobb having mistaken her husband for an intruder). The shotgun later 
came into the hands of noted memorabilia collector Barry Halper. Despite 
the shotgun's notoriety, official newspaper and court documents of the 
time clearly show Cobb's father had been killed by a pistol. The article, 
and later expanded book,[5] further accused Stump of numerous false statements 
about Cobb, not only during and immediately after their 1961 collaboration 
but also in Stump's later years, most of which were sensationalistic in 
nature and intended to cast Cobb in an unflattering light.[1] Cobb's peer-reviewed 
research indicates that all of Stump's works (print and memorabilia) surrounding 
Ty Cobb are at the very best called into question and at worst "should 
be dismiss(ed) out of hand as untrue".[1] On an episode of Freakonomics 
Radio in 2012, sportswriter Charlie Leerhsen, who was working on a new 
biography of Cobb, agreed that Stump inserted sensational misconduct into 
Cobb's life story to generate good copy.[6] In a written response, Stump's 
son John argued that his father was accomplished and respected, and Cobb 
could be both offensive and admirable. He also couldn't see a motive or 
ability for Stump to commit the alleged forgeries.[7] When Leerhsen published 
his biography of Cobb in 2015, however, he concluded that Stump concocted 
stories about Cobb in order to boost sales. The autobiography of Cobb had 
failed to sell. Leehrsen concluded that Stump invented stories about Cobb 
for his subsequent articles and books in order to make money. Because Stump's 
forgeries had not yet become public his stories were accepted by a public 
enamored of the fictional Cobb created by Stump.[8] Stump had in the past, 
however, been banned from publication in multiple newspapers and magazines 
for making things up.[9] On December 14, 1995, Stump died of congestive 
heart failure at Hoag Memorial Hospital in Newport Beach, California at 
the age of 79. He was survived by his wife Jo Mosher, with whom he had 
