As player As coach Atlee Alan Cockrell (born December 5, 1962) is the current 
hitting coach for the New York Yankees of Major League Baseball. Twice 
named first-team all state, Cockrell led Joplin, Missouri's Parkwood High 
School Bears to a 31–3 record during his three years as starting quarterback. 
An outstanding athlete, Cockrell's could pass (3,499 yds, 44 TDs), run 
(1,541 yds, 36 TDs) and even kick (154 PATs, 8 FGs). Cockrell led the Bears' 
offensive attack to an undefeated season (14–0 - outscoring opponents 653-33) 
and the Missouri State Class 4A High School Championship in 1980, despite 
being one of the smallest schools in Class 4A. That team has recently been 
inducted into the Joplin Area Sports Hall of Fame, alongside the likes 
of NASCAR's Jamie McMurray.[1] Heavily recruited by several schools, he 
chose to attend the University of Tennessee. Cockrell became the first 
true freshman ever to start at quarterback for the Volunteers in 1981. 
Fifth game into the season he suffered a major knee injury vs Auburn and 
his future became uncertain. One of the first football players to come 
back from such major knee damage, he led the Vols for the 1982 (6-5-1) 
and 1983 (9-3) seasons,[2] culminating in a 30-23 victory over the Maryland 
Terrapins (led by future NFL standout Boomer Esiason) in the inaugural 
Florida Citrus Bowl (now Capital One Bowl).[3] The victory was a great 
ending for Cockrell, as it would be his last game at UT. He was soon to 
be a first round draft pick by The San Francisco Giants. Cockrell's first 
love had always been baseball and he was an even better outfielder than 
he was a quarterback. An All-American, he was named to the University of 
Tennessee All-Century Baseball Team in 2009. The San Francisco Giants made 
Cockrell the ninth pick overall in the 1984 MLB draft so he chose to forgo 
his senior year in college and play pro baseball. He played in the minor 
leagues for nine years (five different organizations), including a five-year 
stint with the Colorado Springs Sky Sox. He is a member of the Sky Sox 
Hall of Fame. On September 7, 1996, Cockrell made his Major League Baseball 
debut with the Colorado Rockies, a pinch hit appearance in which he struck 
out against All-Star closer Billy Wagner. His first major league hit came 
three days later in the form of a pinch hit double off Tom Glavine vs. 
Atlanta at Coors Field. Cockrell appeared in his final game on September 
29, 1996. Cockrell was notable for his role as a replacement player during 
Spring Training prior to the 1995 season. Replacement players took over 
for professional baseball players when the Major League Baseball Players 
Association went on strike. The strike was resolved at the end of Spring 
Training. Cockrell would return to Major League Baseball with the Colorado 
Rockies in 1996, however, was blacklisted and not permitted to join the 
Major League Baseball Players Association. "We had a pretty good ball club," 
Cockrell told the Joplin Globe newspaper in April 1995, referring to the 
Rockies' replacement roster. "Some other clubs initially weren't so good, 
but as this thing started progressing, the teams were able to build their 
lineup a little bit. Toward the end, the caliber of the starting lineups 
was close to that of AAA. I didn't see the teams in Florida, but the clubs 
I saw in Arizona -- the Padres, the Mariners, Brewers, Giants, A's -- they 
weren't bad ball clubs." Cockrell added that it was an easy call for him 
to decide to become a replacement player. "It was a no-brainer," he told 
the Joplin Globe. "To play in those games, in front of the major league 
staff, there was no question that I could do something like that. And, 
the union had never done anything for me. They made a few snide comments 
here and there, but that is to be expected. If any of them put themselves 
in our shoes, they would do the same thing."[4] His leadership skills and 
teaching ability, though, shone through and Cockrell spent the next few 
years working as a manager and hitting coach in various parts of the Colorado 
Rockies' development system.[5][6] He returned to MLB when he was named 
hitting coach for the Rockies November 7, 2006 – his second stint, having 
previously served as hitting instructor the last five months of the 2002 
season when Clint Hurdle was promoted to manager. Under Cockrell's guidance 
in 2007, the Rockies slugged their way to a National League Championship, 
leading the circuit in batting, on-base percentage, and total hits. Cockrell 
was one of four coaches let go by the Rockies after a disappointing 2008 
season in which the team won only 74 games. On December 7, 2008, Cockrell 
was named hitting coach for the Seattle Mariners.[7] On May 9, 2010, Cockrell 
the first of four coaches who were relieved of their duties alongside manager 
Don Wakamatsu. He was replaced by Alonzo Powell.[8] On January 11, 2015, 
the New York Yankees hired Cockrell to be one of the two hitting coaches 
employed by them in 2015 along with Jeff Pentland.[9] On November 2, 2015, 
Cockrell was named the hitting coach of the Yankees after the firing of 
Jeff Pentland. Marcus Thames was hired as assistant hitting coach.[10] 
Cockrell and his wife Polly Dunaway Cockrell reside in Cliffside, NJ during 
the season but also maintain a home in Beaufort, SC during the off season. 
Having met and dated in High School, he reunited with his first love in 
2013 and they were married in St. Lucia. He is a born again Christian and 
has often been a Featured Guest Speaker concerning his faith and his sports 
career. As a 31-year Veteran in the industry, Cockrell is also the developer 
of a training device called the SwingPath Coach. Simple in design it creates 
"feel' for the hitter by giving immediate visual feedback which allows 
them to recreate the proper swing path. SwingPath Coach is marketing and 
