Albert Davis Lasker (May 1, 1880 – May 30, 1952) was an American businessman 
who played a major role in shaping modern advertising. He was raised in 
Galveston, Texas, where his father was the president of several banks. 
Moving to Chicago, he became a partner in the advertising firm of Lord 
& Thomas. He purchased and led many successful ad campaigns. He made new 
use of radio, changing popular culture and appealing to consumers' psychology. 
A Republican, he designed new ways to advertise election campaigns, especially 
the Warren Harding campaign of 1920, and became a philanthropist. Lasker 
was born to Morris and Nettie Lasker in Freiburg, Prussia in 1880. Morris 
had emigrated from Prussia in 1840, while Lasker's mother was an American 
citizen. They lived in Galveston, Texas, but Morris had moved Nettie to 
Germany during her pregnancy for better medical care. The family returned 
to Galveston within six months, and Lasker spent the rest of his childhood 
in Texas.[1] Lasker started working as a newspaper reporter while a teenager. 
He assisted the successful Congressional campaign of the Republican Robert 
Hawley in 1896.[2] Although Texas politics had been dominated by the Democratic 
Party since shortly after Reconstruction, in this election, many voters 
split between the Democrats and the Populist Party, and Hawley won with 
less than 50% of the votes. In 1898 his father, who disapproved of journalism,[1] 
persuaded Lasker to move to Chicago to try an advertising position at Lord 
& Thomas.[2] After he worked as an office boy for a year, one of the agency's 
salesmen left, and Lasker acquired his territory. During this time, Lasker 
created his first campaign. He hired a friend, Eugene Katz, to write the 
copy for a series of Wilson Ear Drum Company ads. They featured a photograph 
of a man cupping his ear. George Wilson, president of the Ear Drum company, 
adopted the ads and his sales increased. When Lord retired in 1903, Lasker 
purchased his share and became a partner.[2] He purchased the firm in 1912 
at the age of 32. Chicago, along with New York, was the center of the nation's 
advertising industry. Lasker, known as the "father of modern advertising," 
made Chicago his base 1898–1942. As head of the Lord and Thomas agency, 
Lasker devised a copywriting technique that appealed directly to the psychology 
of the consumer. Women seldom smoked cigarettes; he told them if they smoked 
Lucky Strikes they could stay slender. Lasker's use of radio, particularly 
with his campaigns for Palmolive soap, Pepsodent toothpaste, Kotex products, 
and Lucky Strike cigarettes, not only revolutionized the advertising industry 
but also significantly changed popular culture.[3] Lasker had an inquiring 
mind about what advertising was and how it worked. In 1904 he met John 
E. Kennedy, a former Canadian mounted policeman who had entered advertising. 
Lasker believed that advertising was news, but Kennedy said, "[N]ews is 
a technique of presentation, but advertising is a very simple thing. I 
can give it to you in three words, it is 'salesmanship in print'".[4] The 
pair used this concept with the 1900 Washer Co. (later Whirlpool). Their 
campaign was so successful that, within four months of running the first 
ad, they attracted additional clients and their "advertising spend" went 
from $15,000 a year to $30,000 a month. Within six months, their firm was 
one of the three or four largest advertising agencies in the nation. In 
1908 Lasker recruited Claude C. Hopkins to the firm, specifically to work 
on the Van Camp Packaging Company (Van Camp's) account. The relationship 
lasted for 17 years. Lasker helped create America's infatuation with orange 
juice. Lord & Thomas acquired the Sunkist Growers, Incorporated account 
in 1908, when Lasker was 28. The citrus industry was in a slump, and California 
growers were producing so many oranges that they were cutting down trees 
in order to limit supply. Lasker created campaigns that not only encouraged 
consumers to eat oranges, but also to drink orange juice. He was able to 
increase consumption enough so that the growers stopped chopping down their 
groves.[5] Among Lasker's pioneering contributions was the introduction 
into public schools of classes that explained to young girls about puberty 
and menstruation (done to promote Kotex tampons). He is also credited as 
the creator of the soap opera genre, and using radio and television as 
media driven by advertising.[6][7] Lasker was an early owner of the Chicago 
Cubs baseball team. He acquired an interest in the team in 1916 and soon 
purchased majority control. He originated the Lasker Plan, a report that 
recommended baseball's governing authority be reformed. This led to the 
creation of the office of the Commissioner of Baseball. Lasker, along with 
his business partner Charles Weeghman, are credited with moving the Cubs 
into the club's current home, Wrigley Field. In 1925, he sold the team 
to one of his minor partners, William Wrigley Jr. Lasker became the second-largest 
shareholder in the Pepsodent company,[8] which had become an L&T client 
in 1916. It was sold to Lever Brothers in 1944.[9] After developing a private 
estate, Mill Road Farm, in Lake Forest, Illinois, Lasker had a golf course 
built on it. The National Golf Review in 1939 rated the Lasker Golf Course 
as No. 23 on its list of "Top 100 Courses in the World." Following the 
Great Depression, Lasker donated the entire property to the University 
of Chicago.[10] Lasker continued to be active in the Republican Party, 
and showed the party how to use modern advertising techniques to sell their 
candidates. He was a key advisor in the 1920 Harding campaign, which resulted 
in one of the largest landslides in history, as Warren G. Harding appealed 
for votes in newsreels, billboards and newspaper ads.[11] On June 9, 1921 
President Harding's appointment of Lasker as chairman of the United States 
Shipping Board was confirmed by the US Senate. Lasker took the job on the 
condition that he would serve no more than two years. At the time, he was 
only the third man of Jewish descent to have been appointed to such a high 
post in the federal government.[12] Lasker inherited a large mess, with 
over 2,300 ships under Shipping Board control losing money every day. A 
full quarter of the fleet were wooden hulled, and by this time were obsolete.[12] 
He disposed of useless ships at an average price of $30 a ton, incurring 
criticism from Congress for "throwing our ships away". His accomplishments 
included the refitting of the SS Leviathan for passenger service, as well 
as originating ship-to-shore telephone services.[13] Lasker, who had no 
previous experience in the shipping business before his appointment, true 
to his word, ended his service in office on July 1, 1923.[14] After 30 
years as its chief executive, Lasker sold the firm to three senior executives. 
It became Foote, Cone & Belding in 1942.[2] Lasker—and especially his third 
wife Mary Lasker—were nationally prominent philanthropists. They played 
major roles in promoting and expanding the National Institutes of Health, 
helping its budget expand by a factor of 2000 times from $2.4 million in 
1945 to $5.5 billion in 1985.[15] They founded and endowed the Lasker Award, 
which has recognized the work of many leading scientists and researchers.[16] 
On May 30, 1952, Lasker died in New York at the age of 72.[2] He was interred 
in a private mausoleum at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow. The 
book "The Man Who Sold America" posits that Lasker had Bipolar II disorder, 
which affected his personal and work life. Lasker operated at a high energy 
level. He was frequently expansive, irritable, highly verbal, intensely 
creative, and insomniac—all symptoms of a condition that today would be 
called hypomania. He never ascended to the level of mania that is generally 
associated with manic depression, or—again in today’s vocabulary—a bipolar 
I disorder, although he sometimes behaved erratically, especially under 
the influence of alcohol. Most likely, he was afflicted by a bipolar II 
disorder. Recent research suggests that there is an increased risk of bipolar 
II disorder among people whose family members suffer from the disorder. 
Eduard Lasker, Albert’s uncle, seems to have had depressive episodes. Morris, 
too, may have experienced depressions: his rollercoaster financial affairs 
may have had their root, in part, in some sort of affective illness. Finally, 
the diagnosis is supported by Lasker’s age when the apparent ailment overtook 
him. Bipolar I—the affective state that is accompanied by wild, manic excess—usually 
first manifests itself in the teenage years, while the more subtle, hypomanic 
form of the illness often stays masked until the mid- or late twenties. 
