Alejandro Eloy Carrasquel Aparicio [car-ras-KAEL] (July 24, 1912 – August 
19, 1969), was a Venezuelan professional baseball player. He played in 
Major League Baseball as a pitcher for the Washington Senators and the 
Chicago White Sox. Carrasquel became the first Venezuelan to play in Major 
League Baseball when he joined the Senators in 1939. Born in Caracas, Carrasquel 
had a fine fastball, which he complemented with an effective knuckleball 
and a decent curve. He started his major league career with the Washington 
Senators in the American League on April 23, 1939. In his major league 
debut as a reliever against the New York Yankees, Carrasquel retired the 
side in order, striking out Joe DiMaggio, retiring Lou Gehrig on a ground 
ball, and Bill Dickey on a pop fly.[citation needed] Although World War 
II was officially over and baseball's finest players were back in their 
familiar ranks, tranquility no longer had a place in the majors. The new 
Mexican League, headed by millionaire Jorge Pasquel, had lured a cluster 
of bigleaguers. On January 2, 1946, the Chicago White Sox bought Carrasquel's 
contract from the Senators. He rejected the deal and fled to play in Mexico, 
signing a three-year contract – the first shot in the cross-border disputes 
that would dominate baseball even more than the return of the war veterans.[citation 
needed] There were several other players who fled to Mexico, including 
outfielder Danny Gardella, pitchers Sal Maglie and Max Lanier and catcher 
Mickey Owen. Commissioner of Baseball Happy Chandler sought a lifetime 
suspension for them, but his penalty was later reduced. In 1949, Carrasquel 
returned to the majors with three appearances for the White Sox before 
being farmed out. When Chicago acquired his nephew Chico Carrasquel in 
that season, GM Frank Lane swapped Alex for reliever Witto Aloma, who acted 
strictly as an interpreter for the young Venezuelan shortstop. In an eight-season 
major league career, Carrasquel posted a 50–39 record with 252 strikeouts, 
a 3.73 ERA, 30 complete games, four shutouts, 16 saves, and 861 innings 
pitched in 258 games (64 as a starter). Carrasquel was married to Virginia 
Johnson. They had two sons, Thomas and William. He died in Caracas, Venezuela 
at age 57. In his native country, Carrasquel was affectionately nicknamed 
