Alexander Johnson (December 7, 1942—February 28, 2015) was a professional 
baseball outfielder. Between 1964 and 1976, he played in Major League Baseball 
for the Philadelphia Phillies, St. Louis Cardinals, Cincinnati Reds, California 
Angels, Cleveland Indians, Texas Rangers, New York Yankees, and Detroit 
Tigers. He was the National League Comeback Player of the Year in 1968 
and an American League All-Star and batting champion in 1970. His brother, 
Ron, was an NFL running back, notably for the New York Giants. Johnson 
was born in Helena, Arkansas, but grew up in Detroit, Michigan with his 
two brothers and sisters. One brother Ron Johnson, was an NFL running back 
from 1969-76. Alex played sandlot ball with Bill Freehan, Willie Horton, 
and Dennis Ribant.[1] Johnson attended Northwestern High School, where 
he excelled as an offensive lineman for the school's football team. He 
received a scholarship offer to attend Michigan State University to play 
football for the Michigan State Spartans, but opted to sign with the Philadelphia 
Phillies instead.[2] Johnson worked his way up the ranks quickly in the 
Phillies' farm system, batting .322 with forty home runs and 187 runs batted 
in (RBIs) across two seasons to earn a spot on the Phillies' bench for 
the start of the 1964 season. However, he was optioned back to the Arkansas 
Travelers of the Pacific Coast League without having logged a major league 
at-bat in order to make room on the major league roster for relief pitcher 
Ed Roebuck, who was acquired from the Washington Senators shortly after 
the season started.[3] Johnson soon earned a call back up to the majors 
as he batted .316 with 21 home runs and 71 RBIs in just over half a season 
with Arkansas. In his Major League Baseball debut, Johnson went three-for-four 
with a walk, two RBIs and a run scored.[4] He remained hot for his first 
month in the majors, batting .400 with one home run and nine RBIs through 
August. He eventually settled into a lefty-righty platoon with Wes Covington 
in left field, which he would do through the 1965 season. That October, 
the Phillies traded Johnson, Pat Corrales and Art Mahaffey to the St. Louis 
Cardinals for Bill White, Dick Groat and Bob Uecker.[5] To make room for 
Johnson in left field, St. Louis shifted Hall of Famer Lou Brock to right 
field. Along with Curt Flood in center, the Cardinals boasted one of the 
top young outfields in the National League heading into the 1966 season.[6] 
However, as Johnson batted just .186 with two home runs and six RBIs through 
May 17 when he was sent down to the Tulsa Oilers of the Triple-A Pacific 
Coast League (PCL). That year, he was named the "Most Dangerous Hitter" 
in the PCL.[7] Johnson returned to the Cardinals in 1967, batting .223 
with one home run and twelve RBIs mostly as a pinch hitter and back up 
for Roger Maris in right field. The Cardinals defeated the Boston Red Sox 
in the World Series that year, though Johnson did not appear in the post-season. 
Just before spring training 1968, he was traded to the Cincinnati Reds 
for Dick Simpson.[8] Pete Rose, the left fielder in Cincinnati in 1967, 
was shifted to right field for 1968. Mack Jones, a left-handed hitter acquired 
from the Atlanta Braves shortly before Johnson, was the early favorite 
to inherit the left field job.[9] While Johnson was labelled as "moody" 
and "uncoachable" during his days with the Phillies and Cardinals, he impressed 
Reds manager Dave Bristol that Spring and was given the starting job in 
left field even though a lefthanded bat would have been more suitable for 
the Reds' line-up.[10] By the time Johnson joined the Reds, he had a reputation 
as a notoriously slow starter. After batting .259 with four RBIs through 
April, Johnson got hot in May, batting .366 to move into the National League 
batting race. He finished the season at .312, fourth in the league behind 
Rose and two of the Alou brothers (Matty and Felipe), to be named the Sporting 
News' National League Comeback Player of the Year.[11] Though his potential 
to hit for power was recognized throughout his early career, he entered 
the 1969 season having hit just 17 career home runs. He matched that total 
in 1969, while also driving in a career high 88 runs and scoring a career 
high 86 runs. He also finished sixth in the N.L. with a .315 batting average.[1] 
Despite his hitting prowess, Johnson was a defensive liability as he led 
National League outfielders in errors both seasons in Cincinnati. In need 
of pitching, and with outfield prospect Bernie Carbo ready to jump to the 
majors, the Reds dealt Johnson and utility infielder Chico Ruiz to the 
California Angels for Pedro Borbón, Jim McGlothlin, and Vern Geishert.[12] 
Johnson hit the ground running in California, leading the league with a 
.366 batting average through May. He cooled off as the 1970 season progressed, 
but still went into the All-star break at .328 to earn selection to the 
A.L. squad.[13] He remained in the batting title race throughout the season, 
and went into the final game of the season with batting average which was 
.002 behind Boston's Carl Yastrzemski. Johnson went two-for-three to win 
the A.L. batting title by 0.0004 over Yastrzemski. He was removed from 
the game after his third at-bat, to insure the title.[14] Johnson became 
the subject of some controversy toward the end of his first season in California 
when he was fined by Angels manager Lefty Phillips for not running out 
a grounder. This continued into the following spring, when Phillips fined 
Johnson $100 for loafing in an exhibition game. The following day, Phillips 
removed Johnson from a second exhibition after he failed to run out a first-inning 
grounder.[15] Things deteriorated during the 1971 regular season as Johnson 
was benched three times in May for indifferent play. On June 4, he was 
pulled in the first inning of a 10–1 loss to the Red Sox when he failed 
to run all the way to first base on a routine ground ball.[16] After being 
replaced by Tony González in left field, Johnson intimated that some of 
his battles with teammates and management were racially motivated.[17] 
Following a June 13 loss to the Washington Senators, Johnson claimed that 
Chico Ruiz, who had been a close friend and was the godfather of Johnson's 
adopted daughter, pointed a gun at him while the two were in the clubhouse. 
Ruiz denied the claim.[18] Johnson, limited as a fielder, stopped taking 
outfield practice before games. In June, after a potential trade deadline 
deal with the Milwaukee Brewers for Tommy Harper fell through, Johnson 
told reporters that he needed to get out of California, and that "playing 
in hell" would be an improvement.[19] Johnson was benched after he loafed 
on two balls hit to him in left field against Milwaukee, which resulted 
in a five-run fourth inning for the Brewers, and failed to run out a ground 
ball in his final at-bat in the ninth inning.[20] Phillips put it simply, 
"If you had seen him play lately, you'd know why he isn't in the line-up."[21] 
By the end of June, Johnson had been benched five times and fined 29 times.[22] 
On June 26, Angels GM Dick Walsh suspended him without pay indefinitely 
for "not using his best efforts."[23] Marvin Miller, executive director 
of the Major League Baseball Players Association, immediately filed a grievance 
against the Angels on Johnson's behalf claiming that Walsh failed to properly 
outline the basis for the suspension in specific terms. His case, however, 
was weakened when Johnson defended his actions rather than deny the claims 
made against him by his ballclub. He admitted to not being in the spirit 
to play properly as the whole team was indifferent toward playing together.[24] 
Miller eventually ended up filing a grievance on Johnson's behalf suggesting 
that Johnson was emotionally disabled.[1] Regardless of the grievance, 
Phillips remained defiant that Johnson would not be returning to his ballclub[25] 
(Phillips' stance was perhaps, in part, due to the fact that his fourth 
place team was suddenly playing better – 17–11 in the month of July.) When 
a meeting between Miller and the Owners' Players' Relations committee on 
July 21 failed to resolve the grievance, it went to an independent arbitrator.[26] 
After a 30-day suspension, the longest the Angels could give, Commissioner 
of Baseball Bowie Kuhn placed Johnson on the restricted list, allowing 
the Angels to continue the suspension.[27] On August 10, Phillips, the 
Angels' coaches and six players (including team captain Jim Fregosi) met 
with Kuhn's labor advisor John Gaherin,[28] who was part of the three-man 
arbitration panel attempting to resolve the case along with Miller and 
professional Arbitrator Lewis Gill of the National Labor Relations Board. 
On August 31, the panel indefinitely postponed a decision on Johnson's 
appeal, and indicated that they were unlikely to come to an agreement before 
the end of the regular season.[29] The Angels' case against Johnson hit 
a snag on September 7, when the Chicago Sun-Times reported that Walsh had 
lied about the gun incident with Ruiz, and ordered that the weapon be concealed.[30] 
Based on the findings of two psychiatrists, Gill found in favor of Johnson, 
determining that an emotional disturbance was no worse than a physical 
ailment, and that the Angels should not have suspended him, but rather 
should have placed Johnson on the disabled list. Johnson was awarded $29,970 
in back pay (as players on the disabled list still receive full pay); however, 
Gill upheld the $3,750 in fines he received from the team.[31] After the 
season, the Angels cleaned house. Phillips and Walsh were both fired,[32] 
Ruiz was released, and Johnson was traded to the Cleveland Indians with 
Jerry Moses for Vada Pinson, Alan Foster, and Frank Baker.[33] While more 
"emotional disturbance" followed Johnson to his new club when Ruiz was 
killed in an auto accident on February 9, 1972 (Johnson attended the funeral),[34] 
Johnson got off to a fast start for the Indians, as his batting average 
reached .328 on May 6. But a 6-for-66 slump brought his average down to 
.208 by June. Johnson appeared to be rebounding when he learned that Phillips, 
who had been rehired by the Angels as a scout, suffered a fatal asthma 
attack on June 12.[35] He then went into a 5-for-37 slump that dropped 
his season average to .219. Johnson's hitting problems were blamed on a 
heel injury, which limited him to pinch hitting during the first half of 
August.[36] He resumed his role of everyday left fielder on August 19, 
and batted .351 over the rest of the season. Johnson held out for a new 
contract with the Indians the following spring. Unable to reach an agreement, 
they traded him to the Texas Rangers for pitchers Rich Hinton and Vince 
Colbert. Rangers manager Whitey Herzog made it clear upon his team's acquisition 
of Johnson that he would release Johnson immediately if he turned out to 
be a discipline problem with his club.[37] However, with the American League's 
institution of the designated hitter rule in 1973, Johnson was able to 
provide strong offensive production for the Rangers without hindering his 
team defensively, and soon won over his new manager.[38] He appeared in 
116 games at DH while spelling an occasional day off for Rico Carty in 
left in an additional forty games, and batted .287 with eight home runs 
and 68 RBIs. His 179 hits were the fifth most in the AL, and he held the 
Senators/Rangers franchise record in that category until 1979.[1] Johnson 
became an everyday outfielder again when Billy Martin took over as Rangers 
manager toward the end of the 1973 season. At first, Johnson and Martin 
got along,[39] but by the time the Rangers sold Johnson's contract to the 
New York Yankees on September 9, 1974, Martin had also gotten fed up with 
him.[40] Johnson joined a Yankees club that was in first place by one game 
over the Baltimore Orioles in the American League East. In his first game 
as a Yankee, he hit an extra innings home run to defeat the Boston Red 
Sox.[41] It was, however, his only highlight with the Yankees as he batted 
just .214 in ten games with his new club, and the Orioles won the division 
by two games. He started the 1975 season as the Yankees' regular DH, but 
a knee injury limited his role.[42] After Billy Martin was named Yankees 
manager on August 2, Johnson logged just nine more at-bats before he was 
released on September 2. Johnson signed with his hometown Detroit Tigers 
for the 1976 season,[43] and enjoyed something of a resurgent year as he 
batted .268 with six home runs and 45 RBIs as his team's everyday left 
fielder. Regardless, he was released at the end of the season.[44] He played 
briefly with the Mexican League's Diablos Rojos del México before retiring.[45] 
Johnson married Julia Augusta in 1963, and they adopted daughter Jennifer 
in 1969 and had son Alex Jr. in 1972. Alex and Julia divorced after his 
baseball career ended.[46] After Johnson retired, he returned to Detroit 
and in 1985, after his father's death, took over Johnson Trucking Service,[47] 
which was founded by his father, Arthur Johnson, in the 1940s.[7] The company 
rents dump trucks to construction companies.[48] In 1998, he told Sports 
Illustrated "Do I enjoy my life?" Johnson asks rhetorically. "I enjoy not 
being on an airplane all the time. I enjoy not having to face everything 
I did. I just want to help people with their vehicles. It's a nice, normal 
life — the thing I've always wanted."[49] Johnson died on February 28, 
