Alfred Traber Goshorn (July 15, 1833 – 1902) was a Cincinnati, Ohio businessman 
and booster who served as Director-General of the 1876 Centennial Exposition 
in Philadelphia. That was the first world's fair in the United States and 
so resounding a success that Queen Victoria knighted Goshorn and the leaders 
of Europe presented him with numerous accolades. Goshorn was born circa 
1833 on the family homestead in Cincinnati. He graduated from Marietta 
College in 1854 and earned a law degree three years later. During the Civil 
War he enlisted in Company F, 137th Ohio Infantry, a 100 days service regiment, 
serving as captain. He never saw combat, having served as an officer at 
a Union prisoner of war camp, near Baltimore, Maryland. After the Civil 
War, he owned a paint company and led the Cincinnati City Council for two 
years. "New York style" baseball boomed in the United States after the 
end of the Civil War. Scattered clubs from as far away as Fort Leavenworth, 
Kansas sent delegates to the meeting of the game's national association 
in December 1865, roughly tripling membership from 30 to 90. The "Queen 
City of the West," Cincinnati was not represented, but at least two baseball 
clubs were formally constituted that season and one established ballclub 
officially adopted the New York game. Alfred Goshorn was the first president 
of the Cincinnati Base Ball Club, established July 23, 1866. The Cincinnati 
club would rise to the pinnacle as parent of the first professional baseball 
team, the 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings. Goshorn served until that April, 
just before the opening of the famous season, presiding over three years 
of evolution from strictly amateur local membership and noncommercial play, 
ending in full professionalism. Affiliating with the Union Cricket Club 
before its second season, the club thereby arranged to share playing grounds 
and the services of "club pro" Harry Wright. The two built a grandstand 
and modern enclosure, putting competitive matches on a commercial basis 
and making Union Grounds the physical center of cricket and baseball in 
Cincinnati (Ellard [1908]). For two decades beginning in 1870, Goshorn 
organized the Cincinnati Industrial Expositions, public exhibitions of 
the arts and industry of Cincinnati people and companies. These local exhibitions 
grew to regional and occasionally national scope. "Goshorn became world 
famous for the expositions" according to the Ohio Historical Society (2005). 
When planning for the Centennial Exposition began in 1873, Goshorn was 
appointed delegate from Ohio. Recognizing his achievement with the Cincinnati 
expos, the other delegates elected him Director-General. The World's Fair 
was a great success, attracting ten million visitors including thousands 
from Europe. Dignitaries celebrated the Director-General and Philadelphia 
presented him with hundreds of books, pamphlets, and photographs that had 
been on display, which now compose Goshorn's Centennial Collection at the 
Cincinnati Historical Society (Tolzmann n.d.). "General Goshorn" returned 
to Cincinnati life as a civic leader, thereafter organizing the Cincinnati 
Art Museum as well as continuing the Cincinnati Expositions. He died in 
1902 and his bequest to Marietta College financed A. T. Goshorn Gymnasium, 
