As player As coach Alfredo Claudino Baptist Read Griffin[1] (born October 
6, 1957) is a former Major League Baseball (MLB) player, who played shortstop 
for four teams from 1976 to 1993. He is currently the first base coach 
for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Alfredo began his career as a member 
of the Cleveland Indians, who signed him as an amateur free agent in 1973. 
On December 5, 1978, before having played a full season in the majors, 
he was traded, along with Phil Lansford (minors), to the Toronto Blue Jays 
for Víctor Cruz. Alfredo made an immediate impact, sharing the American 
League Rookie of the Year Award in 1979 with John Castino. In 1980, Griffin 
led the Major Leagues in Triples, tying Willie Wilson of the Royals with 
15 ...... in fact, both Griffin and Wilson set an AL record for most triples 
in a single season by a switch-hitter. Five years later, Wilson himself 
shattered the record that he shared with Griffin by tallying 21 triples 
in 1985. In 1984, he was named to the All-Star team. This was explained 
by John Feinstein of the Washington Post as: "Making the All-Star team 
the hard way: Major league baseball pays the expenses for each player here 
and for one guest. In most cases, players bring wives or girlfriends. Damaso 
Garcia, the Toronto Blue Jays' second baseman, brought his shortstop, Alfredo 
Griffin. When the Tigers' Alan Trammell hurt his arm and could not play 
tonight, Manager Joe Altobelli named Griffin to the team, partly because 
he's a fine player, but mostly because he was here."[2] All the same, Griffin 
was valued far more for his glove than his bat. Mike Scioscia called him 
"the Ozzie Smith of the American League." A steady, everyday shortstop, 
he spent six years with the Blue Jays, playing in 392 consecutive games. 
He was traded after the 1984 season to Oakland, where, despite his reluctance 
to draw walks and a tendency to be overaggressive on the basepaths, he 
began to harness the offensive promise that he showed in 1980 when he set 
an AL record for most triples by a switch-hitter with a league-leading 
15. He also had some very bad seasons: in 1990 when he became the last 
player to finish last in the National League, of those who qualified for 
the batting title, in batting average, on-base percentage, and slugging 
average. Griffin won the American League Gold Glove award in 1985. After 
establishing personal bests in most offensive categories with the Athletics, 
Griffin was traded to the Dodgers for Bob Welch prior to the 1988 season 
in a move that helped both teams to league championships. A Dwight Gooden 
fastball broke his hand in May 1988, and he was disabled for much of 1988 
and part of 1989. Griffin returned to Toronto in 1992 and was a key contributor 
as the Jays took the first of two consecutive championships. On October 
23, 1993, he stood on deck as Joe Carter faced Mitch Williams in the ninth 
inning of Game Six. His career came to an end moments later when Carter 
homered to win the World Series for Toronto. Alfredo Griffin holds the 
unfortunate record for having been the first player in major league history 
to have started three times for the opposing line-ups in a perfect game: 
against Len Barker in 1981 as a Toronto Blue Jay, then against both Tom 
Browning in 1988 and against Dennis Martínez in 1991 as a Los Angeles Dodger. 
Four Tampa Bay Rays have since joined him: Evan Longoria, Carlos Peña, 
B. J. Upton and Ben Zobrist all played on the losing end of Mark Buehrle's 
perfect game in 2009, Dallas Braden's perfect game in 2010 and Félix Hernández's 
perfect game in 2012. He is currently the first-base coach for the Los 
Angeles Angels of Anaheim in MLB, and also for the Estrellas Orientales 
(Eastern Stars) in his native Dominican Republic's Winter League. On April 
15, 2013, Griffin was out for a game to apply for United States citizenship. 
