An all-star game is an exhibition game that purports to showcase the best 
players (the "stars") of a sports league. The exhibition is between two 
teams organized solely for the event, usually representing the league's 
teams based on region or division, but sometimes dividing the players by 
an attribute such as nationality. Selection of the players may be done 
by a vote of the coaches and/or news media; in professional leagues, fans 
may vote on some or all of the roster. An all-star game usually occurs 
at the midpoint of the regular season. An exception is American football's 
Pro Bowl, which occurs at the end of the season. All-star games are organized 
like regular games, but are often played with less emphasis on victory. 
Competing goals are to give many players time in the game and to avoid 
injury. In hockey, for example, there is no serious checking, while in 
football no blitzing is allowed. In basketball, there is virtually no defense 
played until the final quarter. However, the Australian State of Origin 
series does involve physicality that often leads to on-field scuffles. 
The term "all-star" is mainly used in North America. All-star games are 
rare in international sports (such as association football) where games 
between national teams are more popular than all-star games would be. In 
the United Kingdom, all-star teams are usually denoted with the Roman numeral 
corresponding to the number of players allowed on the field - for example, 
a soccer or cricket XI, a rugby league XIII and a rugby union XV.[citation 
needed] Major League Baseball organized the first professional league all-star 
game as part of the 1933 World's Fair in Chicago. It was the brainchild 
of Arch Ward, then sports editor for The Chicago Tribune.[1] Initially 
intended to be a one-time event, its great success resulted in playing 
the game annually. Ward's contribution was recognized by Major League Baseball 
in 1962 with the creation of the "Arch Ward Trophy," given to the All-Star 
Game's most valuable player each year.[2] Former events College football 
Other college sports High school basketball High school football (Longest 
running football all star game in the country. EST. 1935) High school lacrosse 
