The All-America Football Conference (AAFC) was a professional American 
football league that challenged the established National Football League 
(NFL) from 1946–1949. One of the NFL's most formidable challengers, the 
AAFC attracted many of the nation's best players, and introduced many lasting 
innovations to the game[citation needed]. However, the AAFC was ultimately 
unable to sustain itself in competition with the NFL. Three of its teams 
were admitted to the NFL: the San Francisco 49ers, the Cleveland Browns 
and the Baltimore Colts (not directly antecedent to the later second Colts 
team that would play in Baltimore in the NFL from 1953 through 1983, now 
the Indianapolis Colts). The AAFC was the second American professional 
sports league (the first being the third American Football League of 1940–1941) 
to have its teams play in a double round robin format in the regular season: 
each team had a home game and an away game with each of its AAFC fellow 
foes. The Cleveland Browns were the AAFC's most successful club, having 
won every annual championship in the league's four years of operation. 
The AAFC was founded by Chicago Tribune sports editor Arch Ward on June 
4, 1944. Ward was also the originator of baseball's All-Star Game and football's 
College All-Star Game. Ward brought together a number of wealthy pro football 
enthusiasts, some of whom had previously attempted to purchase NFL franchises. 
Ward had previously encouraged the NFL to expand, but now he hoped to bring 
about a permanent second league and a championship game with the NFL, similar 
to baseball's World Series. On November 21, 1944, the AAFC chose Jim Crowley, 
one of the "Four Horsemen of Notre Dame", as its commissioner. Not coincidentally, 
the NFL commissioner at this time was Elmer Layden, another of Knute Rockne's 
legendary 1924 backfield. During the next months, the AAFC's plans solidified. 
The league initially issued franchises for Buffalo, Chicago, Cleveland, 
Los Angeles, New York, and San Francisco. Brooklyn and Miami were later 
added. A group representing Baltimore was considered for admission, but 
could not secure a stadium. The league planned to begin play in 1945, but 
postponed its opening for a year as World War II continued. As the eight 
franchises built their teams, no move was more far-reaching than Cleveland's 
choice of Paul Brown as its head coach. Brown had won six Ohio state championships 
in nine years at Massillon High School and the 1942 national championship 
at Ohio State, and had also coached successfully at the military's Great 
Lakes Naval Station. As coach of the Cleveland franchise, Brown would become 
one of American football's greatest innovators. As might be expected, the 
NFL did not welcome its new rival. In 1945, Layden remarked that the AAFC, 
still a year from its first game, should "first get a ball, then make a 
schedule, and then play a game."[1] This insult, often paraphrased as "Tell 
them to get a ball first", would be long remembered. Washington Redskins 
owner George Preston Marshall was perhaps the NFL's hardest-liner regarding 
the AAFC. In 1945, he commented "I did not realize there was another league, 
although I did receive some literature telling about a WPA project".[2] 
Later he declared, "The worst team in our league could beat the best team 
in theirs."[3] After the AAFC put a team in Baltimore, Marshall's opposition 
to it would be a major obstacle to interleague peace. Not coincidentally, 
his team was badly hurt by the AAFC. A top team from 1936–1945, the Redskins 
began a decades-long title drought after coach Ray Flaherty and many key 
players defected in 1946. Layden's successor, Bert Bell, pursued a policy 
of official non-recognition, generally answering "no comment" to queries 
about the other league. In 1947, Pro Football Illustrated previewed both 
leagues in its annual publication and was banned from NFL stadiums.[4] 
The AAFC posed a formidable challenge. In most interleague sports wars, 
the established league has major advantages over the challenger in prestige, 
finance, size, and public awareness. The NFL-AAFC war differed in several 
respects. The NFL was just emerging from its wartime retrenchment. The 
Cleveland Rams had suspended operations for 1943, and on three occasions 
teams merged for a season.[5] The Boston Yanks had played only one season 
as an independent entity. Meanwhile, the AAFC had advantages not enjoyed 
by many challengers: Yet it remained to be seen if there was a market for 
this much pro football. Since achieving stability in the early 1930s, the 
NFL had never fielded more than 10 teams.[8] No competitor had endured 
for more than two years. In 1946, there would be 18 teams, including three 
in Chicago, three in New York, and two in Los Angeles. Baseball and college 
football were substantially more popular. Longtime NFL president Joe Carr 
had said, "No owner has made money from pro football, but a lot have gone 
broke thinking they could."[9] At a time when the World Series had long 
been a national institution, and the Rose Bowl drew crowds of 90,000, the 
NFL's title game typically drew about 35,000 fans. Most pro teams shared 
stadiums (and sometimes names) with the local baseball team, and both leagues 
saw fit to choose college football legends as their commissioners. There 
was even a sense that collegians could defeat pros. 1946 saw the famous 
Army–Notre Dame scoreless tie in Yankee Stadium. At season's end, Arch 
Ward (the AAFC founder) opined that both teams were superior to either 
pro champion.[10] It was in this landscape that the AAFC prepared to compete 
with the NFL. Dan Topping, owner of the NFL's Brooklyn Tigers,[11] wished 
to move his team from Ebbets Field to the much larger Yankee Stadium. New 
York Giants owner Tim Mara used his territorial rights to block the move. 
He had good reason: the Yankees had displaced the Giants as New York's 
premier baseball team after moving into The House That Ruth Built, three 
rival football leagues had planted teams there hoping to duplicate that 
feat, and Topping (of Anaconda Copper) was significantly wealthier than 
Mara. Topping responded by buying into the baseball Yankees and transferring 
his club to the AAFC. Most of his players followed. His renamed New York 
Yankees were rewarded with $100,000 from each of the other seven AAFC teams 
while the AAFC's initial New York investor withdrew.[1] (Note that the 
AAFC Brooklyn Dodgers were a separate entity never associated with Topping's 
team.) Shortly after Topping defected, the NFL owners fired Commissioner 
Layden, replacing him with Pittsburgh Steelers co-owner Bert Bell. Bell 
had already made a major contribution to the league: the NFL draft, begun 
in 1935, was his idea. Meanwhile, Dan Reeves' Cleveland Rams had consistently 
lost money, despite winning the 1945 NFL title. Compounding his problems, 
the local AAFC competition already looked strong: Arthur McBride was aggressively 
marketing the Browns, and coach Paul Brown was an Ohio icon. Accordingly, 
Reeves proposed to move the Rams to Los Angeles. With two teams planned 
for California, the AAFC had national aspirations. The NFL's thinking was 
more modest: it rejected Reeves' move because of travel expenses. After 
the NFL refused to consider his second choice (Dallas), Reeves threatened 
to move his team to the AAFC. Having already lost Topping, the NFL reconsidered 
and approved the Los Angeles move.[12] It was unprecedented for the NFL 
champion to move at all, let alone partly to avoid an unproven rival. On 
the other hand, the NFL would now face the AAFC as a national rather than 
regional league, and the AAFC would not have a West Coast monopoly. Rather 
than hold a collegiate draft, Crowley encouraged his owners to sign as 
many good players as possible to compete with the NFL. However, this open 
market favored Paul Brown, who had built the most extensive recruitment 
network in all of football. He thus had a head start in signing top players 
coming out of the colleges and military. Years later, Crowley acknowledged 
this was a fatal mistake, as it planted the seeds for the Browns' near-total 
dominance of the league.[13] For 1946, the AAFC began play with 8 teams 
playing a record 14 games (a double round-robin). The NFL's 10 teams played 
11 games, its standard since 1937.[14] Again acting ambitiously, the AAFC 
chose stadiums larger than the NFL's in Chicago, New York, and Cleveland.[15] 
The two leagues’ franchises and home fields for 1946 were: NFL AAFC (*) 
Later known as Tiger Stadium. (**) Better remembered as War Memorial Stadium, 
the original home of the modern Buffalo Bills. (***) Later known as the 
Miami Orange Bowl. In the AAFC's first game, on September 6, 1946, the 
Cleveland Browns hosted the Miami Seahawks, winning 44–0 before a pro record 
crowd of more than 60,000 fans. This historic game would prove a microcosm 
of much about the league: Other than New York, all of the quality teams 
were in the Western Division. In the West, Cleveland led with a 12–2 record, 
three games ahead of San Francisco, followed by Los Angeles and Chicago. 
In the East, New York was the only team to win more than three games, finishing 
10–3–1. Brooklyn and Buffalo were seven games behind, followed by Miami. 
Despite Brooklyn's record, its tailback Glenn Dobbs led the league in passing 
and was named the MVP. The title game was a tight affair, with the Browns 
coming from behind late in the fourth quarter to defeat the Yankees 14–9. 
Despite the fiasco in Miami, the AAFC had enjoyed a successful debut, establishing 
a high level of play and doing well at the gate. The NFL likewise set attendance 
highs for both its season and title game. However, salaries shot up with 
two leagues competing for players, so the only teams to make a profit were 
the two champions, the Browns and the NFL Bears.[4] The Chicago Rockets 
had experienced some disorganization in 1946. In a remarkable move, Commissioner 
Crowley (a successful former college coach) gave up a five-year contract 
to become their part-owner and coach. Admiral Jonas H. Ingram was named 
to replace him as commissioner. To replace the Seahawks, the Baltimore 
group turned down in 1945 was issued a franchise. The new Baltimore Colts 
would play in Municipal Stadium. Meanwhile, the Bisons were renamed the 
Bills and the NFL added a 12th game to its schedule. The AAFC enjoyed its 
most successful season in 1947. Some notable guests watched the Browns' 
opening game: the entire coaching staff of the 1946 NFL champion Chicago 
Bears.[1] The 49ers obtained the rights to Army's legendary Heisman Trophy 
winners Felix Blanchard ("Mr. Inside") and Glenn Davis ("Mr. Outside"), 
and amid great publicity unsuccessfully attempted to get the military to 
permit them to play during their post-graduation furloughs. In other highlights, 
a Yankees–Dons game in the Los Angeles Coliseum drew a pro record of more 
than 82,000, and division leaders New York and Cleveland locked horns on 
November 23 in the most famous game in AAFC history.[1] Before more than 
70,000 fans at Yankee Stadium, the Browns rallied from a 28–0 deficit to 
tie 28–28. New York won the East with an 11–2–1 record, 2½ games ahead 
of Buffalo, with Brooklyn and Baltimore far back. Cleveland, led by MVP 
quarterback Otto Graham, won the West with a 12–1–1 record, 3½ games ahead 
of San Francisco. Los Angeles followed, and Chicago was last at 1–13. Former 
Commissioner Crowley would not return either as coach or owner. The title 
game was a defensive struggle, with the Browns again defeating the Yankees, 
14–3. By this time a pattern had emerged among the franchises. The Browns, 
Yankees, 49ers, Dons, and Bills all had stable ownership and at least one 
winning season. The Browns led both leagues in attendance by a wide margin, 
the Yankees and Dons outpaced their crosstown NFL rivals on the field and 
at the gate, and the 49ers and Bills (despite a small stadium) also enjoyed 
good attendance. However, the Dodgers, Rockets, and to a lesser extent 
the Colts were having serious problems. Playing near the Yankees and the 
NFL Giants, the Dodgers drew fewer than 12,000 fans per game, least in 
both leagues. The Rockets faced the NFL's flagship Bears and a Cardinals 
team enjoying rare success. After a decent start in 1946, the Rockets collapsed 
on the field and found themselves playing before tens of thousands of empty 
seats in huge Soldier Field. The first-year Colts did reasonably well at 
the gate but finished last. All of these teams were at the bottom of the 
standings and all were sold after the 1947 season, the Rockets for the 
second time. Although 1947 had been a successful season for the AAFC in 
many respects, the league still lost money. In 1948, attendance in both 
leagues declined, and negotiations to end the war became serious. One factor 
affecting AAFC attendance was the gap between the league's best and worst 
teams. To counter this, Commissioner Ingram attempted to get the strongest 
teams to distribute some players to the weakest. He was modestly successful: 
the Browns sent rookie quarterback Y. A. Tittle to the Colts, who enjoyed 
their first good season, and the Yankees were generous enough to fall into 
mediocrity. However, 1948 featured extremes despite Ingram's efforts. For 
the first time, the division races were close. One featured excellence, 
the other mediocrity. In the West, San Francisco and Cleveland both remained 
undefeated far into the season. On November 14, nearly 83,000 (a record) 
in Cleveland Municipal Stadium watched the 9–0 Browns win a 14–7 defensive 
struggle over the 10–0 49ers. They met again two weeks later in San Francisco, 
with the Browns now 12–0 and the 49ers 11–1. The Browns again won narrowly, 
this time 31–28, clinching first place. The rematch concluded an AAFC Thanksgiving 
week promotion: the Browns played three games in eight days. New Dodgers' 
part-owner Branch Rickey (of baseball fame) suggested this experiment, 
and the Browns were chosen as the guinea pigs.[18] They survived unscathed, 
and went on to complete an unprecedented 14–0 regular season. The 49ers 
finished a heartbreaking second (and out of the postseason) at 12–2. Los 
Angeles followed at 7–7, and Chicago again finished 1–13 and last. The 
quarterbacks of the two outstanding teams, Cleveland's Otto Graham and 
San Francisco's Frankie Albert, shared the MVP. In the East, Buffalo and 
Baltimore tied at a mediocre 7–7, just ahead of 6–8 New York. Brooklyn 
was last at 2–12. Buffalo won a playoff and the dubious privilege of meeting 
Cleveland for the title. Cleveland won the title in a predictable rout, 
49–7. With pro football's second perfect season (after the 1937 Los Angeles 
Bulldogs of the second American Football League) and an 18-game winning 
streak and a 29-game unbeaten streak in progress, the Browns were making 
history. Since then, only the 1972 Miami Dolphins team managed to win its 
league championship with an unblemished record. The Pro Football Hall of 
Fame recognizes the Browns' latter streak as the longest in the history 
of professional football.[19] The NFL had also had a problem with imbalance. 
Nearly every title game from 1933–1946 featured either the Giants or Redskins 
from the East against either the Bears or Packers from the West. But in 
the late 1940s new powers rose in the NFL, as the Cardinals, Eagles, and 
Rams all won titles, and the Steelers reached a playoff. All these teams 
had long histories of futility and had merged or suspended operations during 
the war. (In fact, the Cardinals were winless from mid-1942 to mid-1945, 
including an 0–10 merged season with the Steelers.) Adding to the drama, 
the division races were often tight. Decades before Pete Rozelle, Bert 
Bell promoted parity by purposely matching strong teams early in the season, 
keeping them from getting far ahead in the standings.[20] All this contrasted 
sharply with the AAFC. The war was getting increasingly costly thanks to 
rising salaries and dropping attendance. Nearly every team in both leagues 
lost money – enough that in December, the NFL officially acknowledged the 
AAFC as peace talks almost succeeded in ending the war. However, the AAFC 
wanted the NFL to admit four of its teams, while the NFL was willing to 
admit only the Browns and 49ers.[21] Although the survival of its Brooklyn 
and Chicago teams was now in doubt,[22] the AAFC decided to continue the 
fight. Commissioner Ingram stepped down, and another admiral, Oliver O. 
Kessing, was named to head the league. As the war entered its fourth season, 
financial problems forced reorganization in both leagues. The Dodgers, 
the AAFC's least-drawing team, merged with the Yankees. The Rockets (renamed 
the Hornets) and Colts continued their streaks of annual ownership changes. 
In the NFL, the champion Philadelphia Eagles lost money and were sold. 
Plagued by league-low attendance, the Boston Yanks moved to New York in 
a curious move. Yanks owner Ted Collins had long desired a franchise in 
Yankee Stadium (thus his team's name), and expected the AAFC and its Yankees 
to be gone in 1949. Instead, with Yankee Stadium and the Yanks name unavailable, 
Collins' renamed Bulldogs had to share the Polo Grounds with the Giants 
on unfavorable terms and compete with two superior rivals.[23] With the 
AAFC now down to 7 teams, it realigned into one division, reduced its schedule 
to 12 games (still a double round-robin), and changed its postseason to 
a Shaughnessy playoff. In 1948, the 12–2 49ers had stayed home while the 
7–7 Bills played for the title. This would not recur, as now the top four 
teams would qualify for the playoffs. Also, for the first time in pro football, 
playoff home-field advantage would be based on win-loss record rather than 
rotating between divisions. The lineup of the rival leagues was now: NFL 
AAFC Since 1934, the College All-Star Game had matched the defending NFL 
champions against an all-star team of recent college graduates. The game 
was a major event, as Rose Bowl-sized crowds (more than 105,000 in 1947)[24] 
watched college football's best often hold their own with the pros. Held 
in late August at Soldier Field, the game was sponsored by the Chicago 
Tribune—whose sports editor, Ward, had founded the AAFC. After the game's 
contract with the NFL expired with the 1948 game, Ward refused to renew 
it. He attempted to help the AAFC by putting its champion into the prestigious 
game. However, the NFL was able to convince the Tribune's board to override 
Ward and force him to re-sign with the NFL, handing the AAFC an embarrassing 
defeat.[1] Red ink on both sides continued to flow. The Colts and Hornets 
were only kept afloat when Dons owner Ben Lindheimer subsidized them.[25] 
The Green Bay Packers, then as now owned by a local civic group, had to 
issue new stock to remain solvent.[26] Now facing two cross-town rivals, 
the Bulldogs predictably had even lower attendance in New York than in 
Boston. The Pittsburgh Steelers and Detroit Lions were also having serious 
financial problems.[6] On the field, Cleveland finally showed some vulnerability. 
An opening day tie with the Bills ended their winning streak, and on October 
9 the 49ers ended their unbeaten streak in a 56–28 upset to move into first 
place. Things soon reverted to form, however. The Browns won the rematch 
with the 49ers, 30–28, and Cleveland (9–1–2) and San Francisco (9–3) finished 
one-two for the fourth consecutive year. Brooklyn-New York and Buffalo 
were the other playoff qualifiers, followed by Chicago and Los Angeles. 
Baltimore finished far behind at 1–11. In playoff action, Cleveland defeated 
Buffalo 31–21 and San Francisco defeated Brooklyn–New York 17–7. The two 
best teams in AAFC history met at last with the title at stake, with the 
Browns winning the final title, 21–7. No MVP was named for this season. 
The Browns now owned a 52–4–3 record and all four AAFC titles. On December 
9, 1949, two days before the AAFC title game, the two leagues made peace. 
Three AAFC teams were admitted to the NFL: the Browns, 49ers, and Colts. 
The Dons merged with the Rams,[27] while the Bills, Yankees and Hornets 
folded. The enlarged league was renamed the National–American Football 
League. The Browns and 49ers, as the AAFC's two strongest teams, were obvious 
choices. (San Francisco was also a natural fit as a geographic rival to 
the Rams, who were alone on the West Coast at the time.) The third choice 
was the subject of some debate. There was some sentiment to admit the Bills 
rather than the Colts. The Bills had better attendance despite only making 
the playoffs twice, and had much wealthier ownership. However, Buffalo's 
size (only Green Bay was smaller) and climate were seen as problems.[28] 
While Redskins owner George Preston Marshall had long objected to the Colts' 
proximity to Washington, he ultimately decided that the Colts would be 
a natural rival to the Redskins. He agreed to accept a $150,000 fee to 
waive his territorial rights.[1] Buffalo fans petitioned the NFL to admit 
the Bills as well.[29][30] The league, realizing the pitfalls of having 
an uneven 13-team league, held a vote on admitting the Bills. While a majority 
of owners (including the Browns, 49ers and Colts) were willing to take 
the Bills, the final vote was only 9–4 in favor. League rules of the time 
required a unanimous vote to admit a new team. Buffalo owner Jim Breuil 
was content to accept a minority share of the Browns. Breuil even rebuffed 
an offer from the next-best pro league in the nation at the time, the minor-league 
American Football League of the late 1940s, to join their league. The Yankees' 
players were divided between the Giants (who chose six players) and Bulldogs 
(who received the rest). Three Bills players were awarded to the Browns. 
The remaining Bills, Dons, and Hornets entered a dispersal draft. With 
the AAFC Yankees gone, Bulldogs owner Ted Collins was free to rename his 
team "Yanks" and move into Yankee Stadium. He continued to lose money, 
however, and sold the team to Dallas interests after two seasons.[31] The 
word "American" did not remain in the enlarged league's name for long; 
it was dropped in March 1950. Although "National" and "American" became 
the names of the league's new conferences, within three years the conferences 
were renamed Eastern and Western. It was not until the AFL–NFL merger twenty 
years later that the "American" and "National" conference names were restored. 
The enlarged NFL was aligned as follows: With two exceptions,[32] this 
was the NFL's alignment for the rest of the 1950s. Admitting Baltimore 
over Buffalo proved to be a mistake, as the AAFC's Colts folded after one 
season in the NFL, bringing the league back to an even 12 teams. A replacement 
team, also named the Colts, joined the league as an expansion team in 1953. 
Meanwhile, the popularity of the original Bills franchise prompted former 
Detroit Lions minority owner Ralph Wilson to adopt the name "Buffalo Bills" 
for his American Football League franchise ten years after the AAFC dissolved. 
Both the replacement Colts (now based in Indianapolis) and the replacement 
Bills are still playing in the NFL to this day, though neither maintains 
official ties to their namesakes (coincidentally, the Colts and Bills were 
division rivals in the AFC East from 1970 through 2001, after which the 
Colts moved to the AFC South). Remarkably, although the NFL absorbed the 
AAFC, the AAFC actually had better average attendance.[1] After winning 
each of their titles, the Browns challenged the NFL champion to an interleague 
championship. Each year the NFL refused.[33] (Of course, by playing such 
a game the NFL would legitimize the AAFC and risk more prestige.) In December 
1949, with both leagues financially exhausted but now at peace, a profitable 
interleague playoff was now both possible and desirable. Although Pittsburgh's 
Art Rooney, whose Steelers were among the shakiest NFL franchises, publicly 
advocated such a game, most of the NFL was unwilling to risk defeat at 
the hands of their vanquished, supposedly inferior rival.[34] Officially, 
however, commissioner Bert Bell maintained that the NFL constitution barred 
such a game.[25] The football world would have to wait to see how the Browns 
matched up against the NFL's best. All would not be lost for fans, however. 
Bell appreciated that the Browns were now an important asset to the NFL, 
and scheduled a special Saturday night game between them and the NFL's 
two-time champion Philadelphia Eagles to open the 1950 season. While not 
quite an unofficial interleague playoff, what took place on September 16, 
1950, was no ordinary regular season game. The defending champions of two 
leagues that had never met on the field were about to play, foreshadowing 
tensions present in the early Super Bowls of the 1960s. At last the Browns 
would have the chance to prove themselves, and by extension the AAFC, against 
the NFL. There was tremendous anticipation from fans and the press, which 
called the game "The World Series of Pro Football".[3] Although the game 
was played in the Eagles’ city, it was not played on their field: because 
of the huge crowd expected, the game was moved from Shibe Park to Philadelphia 
Municipal Stadium,[35] site of the Army–Navy Game. Attendance was more 
than 71,000: more than any previous NFL or AAFC championship game and one 
of the largest pro football crowds to that date. (This figure also surpasses 
Super Bowl I and nearly matches Super Bowls II and III.) There was even 
a most valuable player award, unheard of for a regular-season game. As 
it turned out, "The World Series of Pro Football" resembled Super Bowl 
III nearly two decades later. As with the 1968 Baltimore Colts and New 
York Jets, the Eagles were widely considered one of the NFL's strongest-ever 
champions, while many discounted the Browns’ success in their "inferior" 
league. The result was just as shocking: the Eagles underestimated the 
highly motivated Browns (coach Greasy Neale did not even scout the Browns’ 
preseason games),[36] while Paul Brown found some previously unknown weaknesses 
in the widely imitated "Eagle Defense". The Browns led 14–3 at halftime 
and dominated the rest of the game to win decisively, 35–10. Quarterback 
Otto Graham was named the game's MVP. Eerily enough, that final score was 
the same as the one in Super Bowl I between the Green Bay Packers and the 
Kansas City Chiefs, more than sixteen years later in another battle of 
"first encounters" between established NFL teams and "upstart" newcomer 
leagues. The Browns went 10–2 to finish in a first-place tie with the New 
York Giants, then won a playoff 8–3 to qualify for the 1950 NFL championship 
game. Their opponent was a formidable Los Angeles Rams team that averaged 
nearly 39 points per game, a record that still stands. (Ironically, this 
was the Rams’ first game in Cleveland since winning the 1945 title as the 
Cleveland Rams.) In a classic seesaw game, the Browns prevailed on a last-minute 
field goal, 30–28, to win their fifth consecutive league title. The Browns’ 
1950 season confirmed the quality of their AAFC achievements as nothing 
else could. After the title game, Commissioner Bell called the Browns "the 
greatest team to ever play football."[37] Cleveland remained near the top 
of the NFL for years, although in 1951 they were finally denied a league 
title (by the Rams). The Browns played in every NFL title game from 1950–1955, 
winning three of them, for a grand total of seven league titles in ten 
years. The other ex-AAFC teams did not fare nearly as well. The 49ers, 
the AAFC's second-best team, struggled in 1950 and finished 3–9. However, 
starting the next year they emerged as one of the better teams in the NFL's 
Western Conference, reaching the postseason in 1957 after some near-misses. 
The Colts' prospects were not promising: they had finished 1–11 and last 
in the AAFC in 1949 and also faced the handicap of playing near the Washington 
Redskins. In 1950, the Colts went 1–11 again and disbanded. Their legacy 
lived on, however: three years later, a new Baltimore Colts franchise (descended 
from the Boston Yanks/New York Bulldogs/Yankees team after a year in Dallas, 
though those teams are officially considered separate from the modern Colts 
franchise from 1953 on) was established and became one of the NFL's storied 
teams. Although the Colts would controversially move to Indianapolis, on 
March 29, 1984, the NFL would return to Baltimore for the 1996 NFL season 
in the form of the Baltimore Ravens—ironically, descended from the original 
Browns franchise that played in the AAFC after their own controversial 
move. Officially, the NFL considers the "expansion" Browns (1999 on) to 
be one continuous entity from the original 1946 AAFC team, with it having 
suspended operations from 1996–1998, while the Ravens unofficially consider 
the pre-1984 history of the Colts as their own. See Cleveland Browns, San 
Francisco 49ers, Baltimore Colts (1947–50), and Indianapolis Colts for 
further details of these teams' subsequent histories. One notable difference 
between the All-America Football Conference and the American Football League 
(AFL), which merged with the NFL two decades later, is that the records 
and statistics of AAFC players and teams are not included in the NFL record 
book, while those of their AFL counterparts are. For example, Joe Namath's 
pre-1970 statistics with the AFL New York Jets are considered official 
NFL statistics, while Y.A. Tittle's pre-1950 statistics with the AAFC Baltimore 
Colts are not. According to the NFL, this is because official scoresheets 
of AAFC games were not made available to the NFL after the merger. Without 
these, the NFL could not verify the authenticity of any AAFC statistics 
or records and so chose to ignore them. However, in the case of the NFL-AFL 
merger completed in 1970, the AFL gave all of its official scoresheets 
to the NFL making it possible for the NFL to accept the AFL's statistics 
and records. Another explanation is that unlike the NFL-AFL agreement, 
the NFL-AAFC agreement was not a merger between equals. Only three of the 
seven AAFC teams were admitted to the NFL. There was no interleague playoff 
in December 1949. "American" swiftly disappeared from the enlarged league's 
name. The AFL, on the other hand, was able to force the NFL to admit all 
of its teams and to play an interleague championship game on a neutral 
field. The Pro Football Hall of Fame does recognize AAFC statistics.[38] 
Although the AAFC played only four years, it had a major, lasting impact 
on pro football. Of all the leagues that challenged the NFL, only the American 
Football League of the 1960s influenced the NFL more than the AAFC. The 
Cleveland Browns, San Francisco 49ers, and original Baltimore Colts began 
in the AAFC. Fifteen AAFC alumni are enshrined in pro football's Hall of 
Fame. The AAFC played a 14-game schedule more than a decade before the 
NFL, and played a major role in popularizing zone defenses in pro football.[1] 
The AAFC put the first pro football teams in Baltimore, Los Angeles, San 
Francisco, and Miami. Indeed, the AAFC was a coast-to-coast league more 
than a decade before Major League Baseball. This brought about another 
innovation: AAFC teams traveled by air while NFL teams still traveled by 
train. Black players were excluded from the NFL from 1934–1945. The AAFC 
helped reintegrate professional American football in 1946 when Cleveland 
signed Marion Motley and Bill Willis. The NFL Rams, having been driven 
out of Cleveland by the AAFC Browns, signed Kenny Washington and Woody 
Strode only after the venue they sought to play in, the Los Angeles Coliseum, 
enforced its policy of integration. The AAFC's Paul Brown produced numerous 
innovations to the game on and off the field. Among them were year-round 
coaching staffs, precision pass patterns, the face mask, and the practice 
of coaches’ calling plays via "messenger guards". He also was the first 
coach to have his staff film the opposition and have his team break down 
those game films in a classroom setting. In fact, the classroom setting 
and chalkboard analysis can also be attributed to him. His success with 
the Browns forced the rest of both leagues to adopt his methods. Many of 
his players and assistants eventually coached champions. Brown declined 
efforts to draft him to succeed Bert Bell as NFL commissioner,[39] later 
founded the American Football League's Cincinnati Bengals, and later served 
on the NFL's key Competition Committee until his death in 1991. These and 
other AAFC innovations and personalities helped lay the groundwork for 
Professional Football's great success. Finally, the Browns' NFL Championship 
in their first year in the NFL and their domination of that league for 
the next decade, in retrospect, seem to have been harbingers of another 
upstart league that like the AAFC was ridiculed and reviled by the NFL 
and its supporters, but would eventually be recognized as the genesis of 
modern Professional Football: the American Football League of 1960–1969. 
(*): Team now in NFL. (**): Team in NFL with that name, but unrelated to 
the AAFC team. W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties AAFC Championship: Cleveland 
14, New York 9 (December 22 @ Cleveland) AAFC Championship: Cleveland 14, 
New York 3 (December 14 @ New York) Eastern Division playoff: Buffalo 28, 
Baltimore 17 (December 12 @ Baltimore) AAFC Championship: Cleveland 49, 
Buffalo 7 (December 19 @ Cleveland) Semifinal #1: Cleveland 31, Buffalo 
21 (December 4 @ Cleveland) Semifinal #2: San Francisco 17, Brooklyn/New 
York 7 (December 4 @ San Francisco) AAFC Championship: Cleveland 21, San 
Francisco 7 (December 11 @ Cleveland) Franchises are ranked by win percentage. 
As was the custom for professional football leagues in the 1940s, ties 
were not considered for the purpose of standings. From 1946–1948 the champions 
of each division met in the AAFC championship game. In 1949, there was 
only one seven-team division, so the championship game was the final round 
of a four team tournament. In 1948, there was a tie for first place in 
the Eastern Division. In 1949, there was only one seven-team division, 
so the playoffs were a four team tournament. See All-America Football Conference 
playoffs for box scores. The AAFC played an all-star game only once, following 
the 1949 season. This game, played in Houston and known as the "Shamrock 
Bowl", was the league's last game before the merger with the NFL. The champion 
Browns faced a team of All-Stars from the other six teams. There was no 
official award issued by the league. However, starting in 1947, the Sporting 
News named a Coach of the Year for all of pro football. In 1947 and 1948, 
the choice was from the NFL. In 1949, this award went to Paul Brown of 
the Cleveland Browns. The following AAFC players and coaches are enshrined 
in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio: (Note: Graham and Motley 
