All-star (also stylized as All-Star) is a term designating an individual 
as having a high level of performance in their field. Originating in sports, 
it has since drifted into vernacular and been borrowed heavily by the entertainment 
industry. It can also be used for a group of individuals who are popular 
in certain areas. "All-star" as a sports term refers to individual players 
named to an "all-star" roster or team representing the top performers during 
and before the end of a season in a given sport, or to a list of top participants 
who played in individual sports such as golf and bowling. Events limited 
to such honorees are referred to as "all-star games" or events. In American 
team sports the premier all-star games are the Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game, NBA All-Star Game, Pro Bowl, NHL All-Star Game, and the MLS All-Star 
Game. Many all-star teams, such as collegiate "all-conference" and All-America 
squads, are recognitions of performance only, without the connotation of 
those selected ever being teammates in a game. In gaelic games, the term 
"all-stars" refers to the GAA GPA All Stars Awards. These awards involve 
picking a fantasy team consisting of the top players in each position in 
the various sports (Gaelic football, Ladies' Gaelic football, hurling, 
rounders and camogie). The term all-star also used in films,[1] often used 
as a form of publicity gimmick to promote the cast of a movie in which 
a number of high-profile actors appear, sometimes merely in cameo roles. 
In television, there are a number of groups who could be considered All-Stars. 
Many reality competition shows produce All-Star editions, which feature 
notable and particularly talented contestants of past regular seasons. 
The reality game show Survivor, has had several editions where the some 
of or all of the cast that is featured are "All Stars". The Amazing Race 
has had 3 all-stars editions. Other all star editions include Bad Girls 
All-Star Battle and America's Next Top Model (cycle 17), Charm School. 
RuPaul's Drag Race has 2 seasons of an All Stars spin off. Another use 
for "All Star" contestants is to appear on other reality competition programs 
(especially if the shows are on the same network). This is especially prevalent 
on CBS's three reality competition programs, The Amazing Race, Survivor 
