The Allegheny Arsenal, established in 1814, was an important supply and 
manufacturing center for the Union Army during the American Civil War, 
and the site of the single largest civilian disaster during the war.[1] 
Today, the site is the location of the nine-acre[2] Arsenal Park in the 
Central Lawrenceville neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 2012, 
officials from the Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation began drawing 
attention to the deteriorating arsenal structures.[3] The Arsenal was established 
by the U.S. Army Ordnance Department near Pittsburgh in 1814. It was situated 
on 30 acres (12 ha) of land bordering the Allegheny River in the community 
of Lawrenceville. The arsenal served as a supply and manufacturing center 
for the troops in the west. Its peak years came during the Civil War, especially 
when the manufacture of cartridges, became a high priority. Civilian employment 
at the arsenal increased from a pre-war total of 308 to over 1100 workers. 
One of the busiest facilities was the main lab, which employed 158 workers, 
the majority of whom were women engaged in the making of cartridges. On 
Wednesday, September 17, 1862, around 2 pm, the arsenal exploded. The explosion 
shattered windows in the surrounding community and was heard in Pittsburgh, 
over two miles (3 km) away. At the sound of the first explosion, Col. John 
Symington, Commander of the Arsenal, rushed from his quarters and made 
his way up the hillside to the lab. As he approached, he heard the sound 
of a second explosion, followed by a third. Fire fighting equipment as 
well as a bucket brigade tried to douse the flames with water. The volunteer 
fire company from Pittsburgh arrived and assisted in bringing the fire 
under control. [4] By the time the fire was put out, the lab had been reduced 
to a pile of smoldering rubble. 78 workers, mostly young women, were killed. 
54 bodies were unidentified, and were buried in a mass grave in the nearby 
Allegheny Cemetery. Among those killed were 15-year-old munitions assembler 
Catherine Burkhart, who lived at 184 38th Street.[5] The most commonly 
held view of the cause of the explosion was that the metal shoe of a horse 
had struck a spark which touched off loose powder in the roadway near the 
lab, which then traveled up onto the porch where it set off several barrels 
of gunpowder. A coroner's jury held that the accident had been the result 
of the negligent conduct of Col. John Symington and his subordinates in 
allowing loose powder to accumulate on the roadway and elsewhere. However, 
during a subsequent military inquiry into the conduct of Col. Symington, 
many of the same witnesses who had appeared before the coroner changed 
their testimony. There were so many discrepancies between the two hearings 
that most of the commonly held views of the explosion have been shown to 
be thoroughly discredited. In the end Col. Symington was found innocent 
of any wrongdoing by the army, and the court concluded that "the cause 
of the explosion could not be satisfactorily ascertained...." Col. Symington, 
in a letter to the Ordnance Department two days after the explosion, speculated 
that it had been caused "by the leaking out of powder when one of the barrels 
was being placed on the platform." In fact the problem of leaking barrels 
seemed to be the one point of agreement among all the witnesses. Alexander 
McBride, the Superintendent of the Lab, had repeatedly complained that 
the powder shipped by Dupont and Company was delivered in defective barrels 
with loose covers. Symington was suspicious that the "parties shipping 
powder may have used barrels more than once for the shipment of powder, 
as the barrels have been returned to them at their request." But in the 
end, the final word still belongs to the Army inquiry and the exact cause 
remains unknown. Symington himself was sent on retirement the next year. 
The explosion at the Arsenal was overshadowed by the Battle of Antietam, 
which occurred on the same day near the town of Sharpsburg, Maryland. Work 
at the Arsenal continued, and a new lab was constructed by the following 
year. After the war, the Allegheny Arsenal served primarily as a storage 
facility for the Ordnance Department and Quartermaster Corps. In the 1900s 
most of the land was sold off. Today the site of the explosion is in a 
ballfield in Arsenal Park. Nearby is the powder magazine, now a maintenance 
