Allegheny City (1788–1907) was a Pennsylvania municipality located on the 
north side of the confluence of the Allegheny River with the Monongahela, 
where they form the Ohio River. Allegheny City was west across the Allegheny 
River from downtown Pittsburgh, with its southwest border formed by the 
Ohio River. It was annexed by Pittsburgh in 1907. The former area of Allegheny 
City is known today as the North Side of Pittsburgh, and its waterfront 
district, along the Allegheny and Ohio rivers, is known as the North Shore. 
The area of Allegheny City included the present Pittsburgh neighborhoods 
of Allegheny Center, Allegheny West, Brighton Heights, California-Kirkbride, 
Central Northside, Chateau, East Allegheny, Fineview, Manchester, Marshall-Shadeland, 
North Shore, Northview Heights, Perry North, Perry South, Spring Garden, 
Spring Hill–City View, Summer Hill, and Troy Hill. The City of Allegheny 
was laid out in 1788 according to a plan by John Redick. The lots were 
sold in Philadelphia by the State government or given as payment to Revolutionary 
War veterans. It was incorporated as a borough in 1828 and as a city in 
1840. Prior to the 1850s, most of the area was still largely farmland, 
but was subdivided into residential lots, first for the growing German 
population and later for Croat immigrants. It was commonly referred to 
as "Deutschtown," derived from the German word Deutsch, referring to the 
language and ethnicity. The annexation of Allegheny City by Pittsburgh 
began in 1906 and was effected in 1907, authorized by the U.S. Supreme 
Court in a landmark decision Hunter v. City of Pittsburgh that year.[1] 
It was approved by the United States Government in 1911. The annexation 
was controversial at the time, as an overwhelming majority of Allegheny 
City residents were opposed to the merger. Previous Pennsylvania law had 
directed that a majority of the voters in each merging municipality had 
to approve an annexation agreement. In 1906, the State Assembly passed 
a new law that authorized annexations if a majority of the total voters 
in both combined municipalities approved the merger. The annexation was 
rejected by the residents of Allegheny City by a 2:1 margin, but was approved 
by much more populous Pittsburgh residents, and the annexation bill passed 
into law. Allegheny City residents tried unsuccessfully for years to have 
the annexation overturned in court. The population of Pittsburgh rose from 
321,616 in 1900 to 533,905 in 1910, which included the 132,283 who lived 
in Allegheny in 1910, when the last separate census of Allegheny was taken. 
When the two cities were joined, both of the old ward systems were discarded. 
A new ward system was established made up of 27 wards. In the new ward 
system, Allegheny was divided into wards 21 to 27. Its past territory is 
easily seen by viewing a map of the city wards. In the 1960s Pittsburgh 
undertook a massive urban redevelopment project that demolished the historic 
core of Allegheny City, leaving only the Commons of Allegheny Center and 
its surrounding neighborhoods. The Carnegie Library, the Old Post Office 
Building, and the Buhl Planetarium buildings were not demolished. Major 
portions of the neighborhoods of Allegheny West, Manchester, Central Northside, 
California-Kirkbride (Old Allegheny Rows), and East Allegheny are listed 
on the National Register of Historic Places, including the Mexican War 
Streets in Central Northside. Allegheny was an industrial city and had 
numerous commercial areas, churches, and social organizations, packing 
houses, tanneries, soap factories and glue factories that provided opportunities 
for employment to the primarily German immigrants who settled there. The 
H.J. Heinz Company built its factory in Allegheny City, close to the Chestnut 
Street bridge (this has been replaced by the 16th Street Bridge). Heyl 
& Patterson Inc., a manufacturer of railcar dumpers and ship unloaders, 
also established a factory in Allegheny City. The surviving structures 
are now occupied by a furniture warehouse and a bus garage. By the middle 
of the nineteenth century, the "Made in Allegheny" label could be found 
not only on basic iron but on rope, plows, cotton cloth, wool, food, paper, 
paint, steam engines, wagons and carts, meat, soap, candles, lumber, linseed 
oil, furniture and a host of other diversified products.[2] Railroad lines 
were built along the north side of the Allegheny for the Pittsburgh, Fort 
Wayne and Chicago and the Pittsburgh, Cincinnati & St. Louis railroads 
in Allegheny City. When workers in Pittsburgh struck against the Pennsylvania 
Railroad after wage cuts in July 1877, railroad workers on these lines 
also went on strike.[3][4] Teutonia Männerchor The Teutonia Männerchor 
Hall in the East Allegheny (Deutschtown) neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
is a building constructed in 1888. It was listed on the National Register 
of Historic Places in 2004. The Teutonia Männerchor is a private membership 
club with the purpose of furthering choral singing, German cultural traditions 
and good fellowship. The club features a number of heritage activities 
and celebrations, including choral singing in German and folk dancing. 
The Priory The Priory is really two historic landmarks - the 1852 St. Mary's 
German Catholic Church and the adjacent 1888 home for Bavarian Benedictine 
priests and brothers. Once a largely German parish, the church later merged 
with nearby Italian and Polish congregations. The church and rectory have 
since closed. The buildings are operated as a banquet hall and a bed-and-breakfast. 
Penn Brewery Although Penn Brewery began in 1987, it is housed in the old 
Eberhardt & Ober Brewery (1882-1906) buildings. Penn Brewery makes the 
award-winning Penn Pilsner and a number of other specialty beers. The "tied 
house" (brewery owned restaurant) features a full German menu and live 
music. Saint Nicholas Church Saint Nicholas Croatian Catholic Church, nestled 
in the hillside above the Allegheny River, was the first Croatian Church 
built in the United States. The structure was razed in January 2013. Ridge 
Avenue Neighborhood Ridge Avenue, in its heyday between 1890 and 1910, 
was known as "Millionaires' Row". After 20 years, the area began to decline 
as some residents moved further out. The entire North Side community began 
to fray after having been annexed by Pittsburgh in 1907. Mexican War Streets 
In the late 19th century, Allegheny became known for its stately homes, 
occupied by some of the area's wealthy families. One such area became known 
as The Mexican War Streets. The Mexican War Streets were laid out in 1848 
by General William Robinson, Jr., who later was elected as mayor of the 
city of Allegheny. Just returned from service in the Mexican War, he subdivided 
his land and named the new streets after the battles and generals (Buena 
Vista Street, Filson Way, Monterey Street, Palo Alto Street, Resaca Place, 
Sherman Avenue, Taylor Avenue) of that war.[5] Carnegie Free Public Libraries 
Through his foundation matching fund, Andrew Carnegie contributed to the 
financing and construction of a Carnegie Free Public Library in Allegheny 
City. Ball Parks Allegheny was the location of Exposition Park, the home 
field of the professional baseball team named the Pittsburgh Pirates (originally 
called the Pittsburgh Alleghenies and Pittsburgh Innocents). Today, the 
North Side of Pittsburgh houses PNC Park, home of the Pittsburgh Pirates, 
and Heinz Field, home of the Pittsburgh Steelers. These facilities replaced 
Three Rivers Stadium, which was the shared home of both teams. Felix Brunot 
Mansion The Felix Brunot mansion on Stockton Avenue was once used as a 
station on the Underground Railroad.[6] Fugitive slaves from the South 
stopped here for food and shelter. While Pennsylvania was a free state, 
many slaves continued to Canada to gain more distance from slavecatchers. 
Allegheny Observatory The original Allegheny Observatory was built in 1859 
near Perrysville Avenue, by prominent Allegheny citizens who formed the 
Allegheny Telescope Association. The association donated the observatory 
to the Western University of Pennsylvania (now the University of Pittsburgh) 
in 1867, after which it was used for astrophysical, solar, and planetary 
studies. The observatory maintained a successful subscription time service 
to railroads via telegraph for many years. A new Allegheny Observatory 
was built between 1900-1912 in today's Riverview Park. It is owned and 
operated by the University of Pittsburgh for education, astronomical research, 
