Allen Kenneth Watson (born November 18, 1970) is a high school baseball 
coach and former left-handed starting pitcher in professional baseball. 
Allen Watson was born in Jamaica, New York on November 18, 1970. He is 
a graduate of Christ The King Regional High School in Middle Village, New 
York and attended New York Institute of Technology. Watson was picked by 
the St. Louis Cardinals in the first round of the 1991 amateur entry draft 
after completing his junior year at NYIT. He was selected as a Div 1 All 
American by the ABCA in the DH role. He spent the next two years in the 
Cardinals' minor league system, making his Major League debut on July 8, 
1993. In 1995, he was traded, along with Doug Creek and Rich DeLucia, to 
the San Francisco Giants for Chris Wimmer and Royce Clayton. At the end 
of the 1996 season, he and Fausto Macey were traded by the Giants to the 
Anaheim Angels for J. T. Snow. He pitched with the Angels in 1997-1998, 
obtaining a career-high twelve wins as a starting pitcher in 1997. On June 
14, 1997, Watson gave up the first-ever grand slam in interleague play 
to Rich Aurilia of the San Francisco Giants Over the next three years, 
he played for the Seattle Mariners, New York Mets and New York Yankees, 
mostly in a relief role or as a spot starter. On July 3, 1999 Watson signed 
with the New York Yankees. Watson was used as a reliever during his time 
with the Yankees, and had his best tenure with them, going 4–0 with a 2.10 
ERA to finish the 1999 season. His play earned him a spot on the postseason 
roster, where he pitched one inning in the 1999 American League Championship 
Series against the Red Sox. Watson gave up two hits, two walks, and one 
strikeout as the Yankees defeated Boston.[1] Watson did not pitch in the 
1999 World Series, but earned a ring regardless. On November 5, 1999, he 
was granted free agency, but he re-signed with the Yankees on December 
7. In 2000, Watson's ERA ballooned to 10.23 and he appeared in only 17 
games.[1] During which he pitched 22 innings and did not record a win or 
loss, while finishing only 9 games for the team. Despite his dismal performance 
during the season, he was placed on the Yankees postseason roster, but 
did not appear in any games. He earned his second World Series ring when 
the Yankees defeated the Mets in five games. Watson later had surgery to 
repair his shoulder, which caused him to miss the entire 2001 season. Watson 
returned to the Yankees during spring training in 2002, but made only one 
start. He retired after spring training.[2] Watson is currently working 
as a personal pitching coach for prospective athletes in Queens and Long 
Island. He works primarily out of The Cage located on Metropolitan Avenue 
in Ridgewood. Watson also runs baseball clinics for all ages in Oceanside, 
New York at South Shore Sports Complex and at East Coast Sports Academy.[citation 
needed] On December 20, 2007, Watson was named in Jason Grimsley's affidavit 
as having used performance-enhancing drugs.[3] Watson and Grimsley were 
teammates on the 1999-2000 New York Yankees. In a statement released by 
his agent, Watson denied these accusations by stating: I at no time over 
my professional baseball career used steroids or any performance-enhancing 
drugs. Not then, not now, not ever.[4] In their baseball memoir The Yankee 
Years, Joe Torre and Tom Verducci recount an incident where Watson was 
horsing around in the Yankee clubhouse and threw a bagel towards a clubhouse 
attendant, just as Yankee owner George Steinbrenner walked in. When the 
bagel hit Steinbrenner, he demanded to know who threw it. When Watson confessed, 
Steinbrenner remarked "I figured it was you, Watson. That's why it didn't 
