Alphen aan den Rijn (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈɑlfə(n) aːn də ˈrɛi̯n] ( listen), 
English: Alphen on the Rhine) is a town and municipality in the western 
Netherlands, in the province of South Holland, between Leiden and Utrecht. 
The town is situated on the banks of the river Oude Rijn (Old Rhine), where 
the river Gouwe branches off. The municipality had a population of 107,117 
in 2014, and covers an area of 132.49 km2 (51.15 sq mi) of which 5.91 km2 
(2.28 sq mi) is water. The municipality of Alphen aan den Rijn also includes 
the communities of Aarlanderveen, Zwammerdam and Boskoop. The town is located 
in what is called the 'Green Heart' of the Netherlands, which is a somewhat 
less densely populated centre area of the Randstad. The name "Alphen" is 
probably derived from the name of the Roman fort Albaniana, meaning "settlement 
at the white water". Its remains still lie underneath the city centre today. 
The area around Alphen aan den Rijn has been inhabited for 2000 years. 
In the Roman era, the Oude Rijn was the main branch of the Rhine River 
and formed the north border of the Roman Empire. Since the rule of Emperor 
Claudius (41–54 AD), divisions of the Roman army were stationed here. Consequently, 
several Roman fortifications were located along the Oude Rijn, including 
castellum Albanianae in the centre of Alphen. The Romans had also built 
the first bridge over the Oude Rijn. Alphen was therefore an important 
commercial site in the area until Germanic raids ended that in 240 AD. 
After recurring problems with flooding, especially in Utrecht and Leiden, 
the Oude Rijn was dammed at Wijk bij Duurstede in 1122, thereby making 
the Lek River the main branch of the Rhine. The Oude Rijn has not flooded 
since. During the Middle Ages, Alphen was a fiefdom called Alphen en Rietveld. 
In the 17th century, Alphen became prominent again as a hub for commerce. 
The Oude Rijn was used for boat traffic; there are still portions along 
the river where the towpath is present. The current municipality was formed 
in 1918 through the amalgamation of the smaller municipalities of Alphen, 
Aarlanderveen, and Oudshoorn. In 1964, the municipality of Zwammerdam was 
added as well. In 2014 the municipalities of Boskoop and Rijnwoude were 
amalgamated as well, doubling the land area and increasing the population 
to over 100,000. During the Second World War, the majority of Jews from 
Alphen were deported and subsequently murdered; only a few survived. After 
the war, the Jewish congregation was disbanded and merged with the one 
in Leiden. A Jewish cemetery on the Aarkade was founded in 1802, but it 
was abandoned and razed in the 1960s, with the remains re-interred in Katwijk;[7] 
in 2012, after fifteen years of community activism by local historian Anke 
Bakker and CDA council member Alice Besseling, a monument was installed 
and the area turned into a city park.[8] Since 1950, the city began to 
grow rapidly. A large new neighbourhood was built on the north side. And 
since the 1990s, a similar new development was built at the city's south 
side. Now Alphen aan den Rijn is mostly a commuter city. In recent years, 
a large part of the town centre has undergone a full urban renewal. Many 
older buildings built in the 1950s and earlier have been demolished to 
make place for modern architecture. This "masterplan" included the addition 
of a new public square next to the riverbank, the construction of a performing 
arts theatre/cinema, an upgrade of local shops and the creation of pedestrian 
streets. As of 2006, all of these projects have been finished. On 9 April 
2011, a gunman opened fire at a shopping centre in Alphen aan den Rijn, 
killing six people and subsequently taking his own life.[9] On 3 August 
2015, the city made international headlines when a section of the under-renovation 
Juliana Bridge hoisted by two cranes, floating on a pontoon on the Oude 
Rijn (a former bend in the river Rhine) fell and collapsed onto buildings. 
After initial fears of mass injuries and fatalities, it was established 
that there were none, except that of a Dog from Düsseldorf, although 51 
properties were damaged.[10][11] Alphen aan den Rijn has the following 
attractions: The town is served by Alphen aan den Rijn railway station. 
It is just south east of the town centre. The bus station is located near 
the railway station. In total, there are 11 parties in the city council 
that consists of 35 councillors. Liesbeth Spies of the CDA is the current 
acting mayor. The council of mayor and alderman run the city on a day-to-day 
basis and report to the city council. Current (2016) aldermen in Alphen 
aan den Rijn are: The information and publishing company Wolters Kluwer 
