The Altoona Curve is a minor league baseball team based in Altoona, Pennsylvania, 
named after nearby Horseshoe Curve (but also alluding to the curveball, 
a kind of pitch). The team, which plays in the Eastern League, is the Double-A 
affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates major-league club. The Curve plays 
in Peoples Natural Gas Field, located in Altoona; it was opened in 1999 
and seats 7,210 fans. The Altoona Curve hosted the Eastern League All-Star 
Game at Blair County Ballpark on July 12, 2006, before a standing-room-only 
crowd of 9,308. The Altoona Curve franchise began when Arizona and Tampa 
Bay were both awarded major-league franchises in which were to start playing 
in the 1998-season. The addition of these two teams had a domino effect 
through baseball with the expansion of not only the major leagues, but 
throughout minor-league baseball as well. With this expansion, AA baseball 
received two new teams to begin play in the 1999 season. The Erie SeaWolves 
were already an established minor-league team with outstanding short-season 
attendance, and were quickly awarded one of the new franchises. The second 
spot in the new, larger Eastern League looked to be headed to Springfield, 
Massachusetts, but city native Bob Lozinak, developer Tate DeWeese, businessman 
Mark Thomas and a group of Pennsylvania lawmakers rallied to get the final 
spot, making a formal presentation to league officials on October 5, 1997. 
The proposal received unanimous support and Altoona won the other franchise. 
Groundbreaking on Blair County Ballpark took place on March 7, 1998, and 
the franchise was formally awarded in April. In June of that year, the 
"Curve" nickname was selected over several other proposals, including Lake 
Monsters, Ridge Runners, and the Altoona Fish. The next step for the start 
of the Altoona Curve was to find a major league affiliate. The Erie SeaWolves 
had already had several successful seasons in the Pirates' organization, 
as a short-season single-A affiliate. In the end, however, the Pirates 
chose Altoona for their AA affiliate. The Altoona Curve began their first 
season on the road at the Reading Phillies on April 9, 1999. Their first 
game was suspended by rain and completed the next day as part of a doubleheader. 
That first game was a 6–2 loss, but the Curve scored their first-ever victory 
in the second game, beating Reading 6–4. A few days later, on April 15, 
the Curve christened Blair County Ballpark by defeating the Bowie Baysox 
6–1 in front of a crowd of 6,171. On April 2, 2002, Lozinak and DeWeese 
sold the franchise to a collective headed by Pittsburgh attorney Chuck 
Greenberg. Among the partners in the collective are Pittsburgh Steelers 
running back Jerome Bettis and NHL star Mario Lemieux. The first season 
under new ownership was the most successful to date, performance-wise as 
well as economically. During August of that year, the Pirates signed on 
for another four-year development agreement through the 2006 season. During 
the 2003 season, the Curve made the Eastern League playoffs for the first 
time, and followed that up with two more appearances in 2004 and 2005. 
Their performance on the field has led to increased numbers in the stands, 
and the Curve increased attendance for five consecutive years before dipping 
by just a few thousand in 2005. Following the 2004 season, General Manager 
Todd Parnell was honored as the Eastern League Executive of the Year, and 
the franchise won the Larry MacPhail Award for the best promotional effort 
(on and off the field) in all of Minor League Baseball. On April 2, 2006, 
their fourth anniversary as owners, Greenberg and his group announced an 
additional four-year extension on the development agreement with the Pirates, 
keeping the Curve's affiliation intact through at least the 2010 season. 
On December 2, 2008, Chuck Greenberg sold the Altoona Curve back to original 
owner and Altoona native Bob Lozinak. On May 23, 2009, the Altoona Curve 
and Pittsburgh Pirates renewed their development agreement, which now runs 
through the 2014 season. On September 18, 2010, the Curve defeated the 
Trenton Thunder to clinch the franchise's first ever Eastern League Championship. 
The Curve won the series three games to one. On September 29, 2010, just 
11 days after winning the franchise's first Eastern League Championship, 
Pittsburgh Pirates General Manager Neal Huntington decided to not re-sign 
Walbeck.[1] In 2016, four Curve players were picked for the Eastern League 
All-Star Game -- Tyler Eppler, Edwin Espinal, Jared Lakind, and Harold 
Ramirez.[2] On April 23, 2002, Adrian Burnside, Neal McDade and Chris Spurling 
combined for the first no-hitter in Altoona Curve history. Burnside pitched 
the first five innings, McDade pitched the next three and Spurling pitched 
the ninth inning to complete the no-hitter.[3] On July 25, 2013, Ethan 
Hollingsworth, Jason Townsend, Jhonathan Ramos and Ryan Beckman combined 
for the second no-hitter in Altoona Curve history. Hollingsworth pitched 
the first four innings, Townsend pitched the next three, Ramos pitched 
the eighth inning and Beckman pitched the ninth to complete the no-hitter.[4] 
On "Awful Night", the first 1,000 fans received a photo of general manager 
Todd Parnell's gall bladder, and one fan even won Parnell's actual gall 
bladder. (Place listed is finish in Southern Division from 1999–2009 and 
finish in Western Division from 2010–present) {{MiLB roster | TeamName 
= Altoona Curve | TemplateName = Altoona Curve roster | Pitchers = | Catchers 
