As player As manager Alvin Ralph Dark (January 7, 1922 – November 13, 2014), 
nicknamed "Blackie" and "The Swamp Fox", was an American Major League Baseball 
(MLB) shortstop and manager. He played fourteen years for five National 
League teams from 1946 through 1960. Dark was named the major leagues' 
1948 Rookie of the Year after batting .322 for the Boston Braves. Dark 
was an All-Star for three seasons. He hit .300 or more three times while 
playing for the New York Giants, and became the first NL shortstop to hit 
20 home runs more than once. His .411 career slugging average was the seventh 
highest by an NL shortstop at his retirement, and his 126 home runs placed 
him behind only Ernie Banks and Travis Jackson. After leading the NL in 
putouts and double plays three times each, he ended his career with the 
seventh most double plays (933) and tenth highest fielding percentage (.960) 
in league history. He went on to become the third manager to win pennant 
championships managing both National and American League (AL) teams. Dark 
was born in Comanche, Oklahoma. He was raised in Louisiana.[1] Dark studied 
at Louisiana State University where he was a brother of Phi Delta Theta 
and at the Southwestern Louisiana Institute, now named the University of 
Louisiana at Lafayette, where he completed his bachelor's degree in 1947.[1] 
Dark attended LSU in 1942 and was a football standout there as well as 
a baseball player. During World War II, he transferred through the V-12 
program to the University of Louisiana at Lafayette (then Southwestern 
Louisiana Institute) in Lafayette, Louisiana, where he again showed his 
baseball skills, batting .461 in 1944. His football skills were evident 
there as well as he quarterbacked SLI to an undefeated season in 1943 and 
a New Year's Day victory in the Oil Bowl. This led to his getting drafted 
by the Philadelphia Eagles in the 1945 NFL Draft. After serving in Asia 
during the war, however, he came home and chose baseball. He was named 
the MLB Rookie of the Year and finished third in the MVP voting in 1948 
after playing a vital part of the Boston Braves' unlikely run to the pennant, 
their first since 1914, though he hit only .167 in the World Series loss 
to the Cleveland Indians. He was traded after the 1949 season, which turned 
out to be a boon for the Giants. Dark was immediately named team captain 
by manager Leo Durocher, and had several great seasons in New York. In 
1951 he batted .303 with 114 runs and a league-leading 41 doubles as the 
Giants won their first pennant since 1937; he hit .417 in the World Series 
against the New York Yankees, including a three-run home run in Game 1, 
though the Giants lost in six games. He followed up with seasons hitting 
.301 and .300 in 1952-53, scoring 126 runs with 23 home runs and 41 doubles 
in the latter season. In 1954 he batted .293 with 20 home runs and was 
fifth in the MVP voting as the Giants won another pennant; in the World 
Series against the heavily favored Indians, he batted .412 with a hit in 
every game, and the Giants pulled off an astonishing sweep to win their 
first championship since 1933. He was the NL's starting shortstop for the 
All-Star game in 1951, 1952 and 1954. In 1955 he was awarded the first 
Lou Gehrig Memorial Award, given to the player who best exemplified Gehrig's 
character and integrity both on and off the field. In June 1956 he was 
traded to the St. Louis Cardinals in a nine-player deal; he continued to 
hit well, and led the NL in putouts and double plays for the third time 
in 1957. He was traded to the Chicago Cubs in May 1958, batting .295 over 
the remainder of the season and .264 in 1959; with Ernie Banks at shortstop, 
the Cubs shifted Dark to third base, where he remained in his last seasons. 
Dark had a role in one of baseball history's weirdest plays. It took place 
during a game played on June 30, 1959, between the St. Louis Cardinals 
and Chicago Cubs. Stan Musial was at the plate, with a count of 3-1. Bob 
Anderson's next pitch was errant, evading catcher Sammy Taylor and rolling 
all the way to the backstop. Umpire Vic Delmore called ball four, but Anderson 
and Taylor contended that Musial foul tipped the ball. Because the ball 
was still in play, and because Delmore was embroiled in an argument with 
the catcher and pitcher, Musial took it upon himself to try for second 
base. Seeing that Musial was trying for second, Dark ran to the backstop 
to retrieve the ball. The ball wound up in the hands of field announcer 
Pat Pieper, but Dark ended up getting it back anyway. Absentmindedly, however, 
Delmore pulled out a new ball and gave it to Taylor. Anderson finally noticed 
that Musial was trying for second, took the new ball, and threw it to second 
baseman Tony Taylor. Anderson's throw flew over Tony Taylor's head into 
the outfield. Dark, at the same time that Anderson threw the new ball, 
threw the original ball to shortstop Ernie Banks. Musial, though, did not 
see Dark's throw and only noticed Anderson's ball fly over the second baseman's 
head, so he tried to go to third base. On his way there, he was tagged 
by Banks, and after a delay he was ruled out.[2] In January 1960 he was 
traded with two other players to the Philadelphia Phillies in exchange 
for Richie Ashburn; after hitting .242 in 55 games, he was traded back 
to the Braves (now in Milwaukee) in June, and hit .298 in his final 50 
games. On October 31 of that year, he was traded back to the Giants (who 
had moved to San Francisco two years earlier), who wanted him as their 
new manager rather than as a player. Dark retired with a .289 career batting 
average, 2089 hits, 1064 runs and 757 runs batted in over 1,828 games played. 
According to baseball writer Bill James, he may have lost a Hall of Fame 
career due to his debut being delayed by his military service during World 
War II. In a 1969 poll, Giants fans selected Dark as the greatest shortstop 
in team history.[3] Dark quickly became a successful manager, winning a 
pennant with the Giants in 1962, but losing the 1962 World Series in seven 
games to the Yankees. In 1964 he became embroiled in controversy when he 
was quoted in Newsday as complaining about the number of black and Hispanic 
players on the team and saying, "They are just not able to perform up to 
the white player when it comes to mental alertness." He responded that 
he had been severely misquoted; Willie Mays, whom he had named as team 
captain, came to his defense and calmed the team, and Jackie Robinson further 
noted, "I have found Dark to be a gentleman and, above all, unbiased. Our 
relationship has not only been on the ballfield but off it." Dark weathered 
the imbroglio, but Giants owner Horace Stoneham fired him during the sixth 
inning of the last game of the season, with the team about to finish in 
fourth place.[4] After serving one year (1965) as a coach for the Cubs, 
Dark was hired as an assistant to Kansas City Athletics owner Charlie Finley 
at season's end. During the winter, Dark moved up to manager of the last-place 
Athletics, and he led a youthful 1966 team to a 15-game improvement and 
a sixth-place finish in the ten-team American League. But he was dismissed 
in August 1967 in a disagreement over player discipline after Finley fined 
and suspended pitcher Lew Krausse, Jr. for his behavior on a team flight. 
(Finley also released first baseman Ken Harrelson, who had been quoted 
as saying that Finley was a menace to the sport.) Dark was hired to manage 
the Cleveland Indians in 1968 by Vernon Stouffer; after an initial third-place 
season, he was given the additional duties of general manager, but having 
the field manager negotiate the players' contracts proved an untenable 
situation. The Indians returned to their losing ways and Dark was fired 
in mid-1971 with the team in last place.[5] In the meantime, the Athletics 
had moved to Oakland, and after manager Dick Williams resigned following 
consecutive World Series triumphs in 1972-73, Finley rehired Dark. He guided 
the A's to a third straight championship in 1974, joining managers Joe 
McCarthy and Yogi Berra by winning pennants in both leagues, but was again 
fired after losing the 1975 American League Championship Series. He was 
hired by the San Diego Padres in mid-1977, after another brief term as 
a Cubs' coach, but left the team after that season following a fifth-place 
finish. He ended his career with a 994-954 record.[6] Dark was married 
twice. His first marriage to Adrienne Managan, ended in divorce. He later 
married Jocelyn Troy Dark of Easley, South Carolina. Dark had four children 
from his first marriage and two adopted children from his second marriage.[citation 
needed] He was known as a devout Christian, often quoting scripture during 
press conferences. A's owner Charlie O. Finley once instructed Dark to 
"lay off the Bible."[7] In 1980, Dark penned an autobiography (with John 
Underwood) entitled When in Doubt, Fire the Manager, published by E. P. 
Dutton, the back cover of which included endorsements by Ted Williams and 
Gene Mauch. In it, Dark focused mostly on his career as manager, especially 
of the Oakland A's under Charlie Finley, and how his conversion to Christianity 
affected how he chose to manage his teams. In 1981, Dark was inducted into 
the LSU Athletics Hall of Fame.[8] Five years earlier, he had been elected 
to the Louisiana Sports Hall of Fame.[7] Dark died at his home in Easley, 
South Carolina, from Alzheimer's disease, at the age of 92.[1][9] At his 
death he was survived by his second wife, his children, 20 grandchildren, 
