AM broadcasting is the process of radio broadcasting using amplitude modulation 
(AM). AM was the first method of impressing sound on a radio signal and 
is still widely used today. Commercial and public AM broadcasting is authorized 
in the medium wave band worldwide, and also in parts of the longwave and 
shortwave bands. Radio broadcasting was made possible by the invention 
of the amplifying vacuum tube, the Audion (triode), by Lee de Forest in 
1906, which led to the development of inexpensive vacuum tube AM radio 
receivers and transmitters during World War I. Commercial AM broadcasting 
developed from amateur broadcasts around 1920, and was the only commercially 
important form of radio broadcasting until FM broadcasting began after 
World War II. This period is known as the "Golden Age of Radio". Today, 
AM competes with FM, as well as with various digital radio broadcasting 
services distributed from terrestrial and satellite transmitters. In many 
countries the narrow audio bandwidth (lower audio fidelity) and higher 
levels of interference experienced with AM transmission have led AM broadcasters 
to specialise in spoken-word programming such as news, sports and talk 
radio, leaving transmission of music mainly to FM and digital broadcasters. 
The technology of amplitude modulation (AM) radio transmission (then called 
radiotelephony) was developed between 1900 and 1920. Before AM came into 
wide use around 1920, the first radios transmitted information by wireless 
telegraphy (radiotelegraphy), in which the radio signal did not carry audio 
(sound) but was switched on and off to create pulses that carried text 
messages in Morse code. This was used for private person-to-person communication 
and message traffic, such as telegrams. The entrepreneurs who developed 
AM "radiotelephone" transmission did not anticipate broadcasting voice 
and music into people's homes.[2] The term "broadcasting", borrowed from 
agriculture, was applied to this new activity (by either Frank Conrad or 
RCA historian George Clark[2]) around 1920.[2] Prior to 1920 there was 
no concept of "broadcasting", or that radio listeners could be a mass market 
for entertainment.[2] Promoters saw the practical application for AM as 
similar to the existing communication technologies of wireless telegraphy, 
telephone, and telegraph: two-way person-to-person commercial voice service, 
a wireless version of the telephone.[3] Although there were a number of 
experimental broadcasts during this period, these were mostly to provide 
publicity for the inventor's products. True radio broadcasting didn't begin 
until around 1920, when it sprang up spontaneously among amateur stations. 
AM remained the dominant method of broadcasting for the next 30 years, 
a period called the "Golden Age of Radio", until FM broadcasting started 
to become widespread in the 1950s. AM remains a popular, profitable entertainment 
medium today and the dominant form of broadcasting in some countries such 
as Australia and Japan. The first AM voice transmission was made by Canadian 
researcher Reginald Fessenden on 23 December 1900, using a specially designed 
spark gap transmitter.[4][5] Fessenden is a significant figure in the development 
of AM radio. He realized that the damped waves produced by the existing 
spark transmitters, which transmitted text data by wireless telegraphy, 
could not be used to transmit sound, but rather continuous wave transmitters 
were needed.[6] He helped develop one of the first – the Alexanderson alternator.[4]:373–4[5]:400[6][7][8] 
He also discovered the principle on which AM modulation is based,[9][10][11][12][13] 
heterodyning,[6] and invented one of the first detectors able to rectify 
and receive AM, the electrolytic detector or "liquid baretter", in 1902.[6] 
The early experiments in AM transmission, conducted by Fessenden, Valdemar 
Poulsen, Ernst Ruhmer, Quirino Majorana, Charles Herrold, and Lee de Forest, 
were hampered by the lack of a technology for amplification. The first 
practical continuous wave AM transmitters were based on versions of the 
Poulsen arc transmitter invented in 1903,[3] and the huge, expensive Alexanderson 
alternator, developed 1906-1910. The modifications necessary to transmit 
AM were clumsy and resulted in very low audio quality. Modulation was usually 
accomplished by a carbon microphone inserted directly in the antenna wire. 
The limited power handling ability of the microphone severely limited the 
power of the first radiotelephones; in powerful transmitters water-cooled 
microphones had to be used. At the receiving end, the unamplified crystal 
radio receivers then in use could not drive loudspeakers, only earphones, 
so only one member of a family could listen at a time. The discovery in 
1912 of the amplifying ability of the Audion (triode) vacuum tube, invented 
in 1906 by Lee De Forest, solved the above problems. The vacuum tube feedback 
oscillator invented in 1912 by Alexander Meissner and Edwin Armstrong, 
was a cheap source of continuous waves and could be easily modulated to 
make an AM transmitter. Nongovernmental radio transmission was prohibited 
in many countries during World War 1, but AM radiotelephony technology 
advanced greatly due to wartime research, and after the war the availability 
of cheap tubes sparked a great increase in the number of amateur radio 
stations experimenting with AM transmission of news or music, giving people 
more to listen to. New vacuum tube receivers coming on the market could 
power loudspeakers, so the entire family could sit and listen together, 
and people could dance to broadcast music. Vacuum tubes remained the central 
technology of radio for 50 years, until transistors replaced them in the 
1960s, and they are still used in broadcast transmitters. These changes 
caused radio listening to evolve explosively around 1919-1922 from a high-tech 
hobby to a hugely popular social and family pastime, the first electronic 
mass entertainment medium. In the US, the first broadcast stations were 
hobby and voluntary efforts without explicit advertising, started by a 
variety of local organizations: amateurs, local businesses looking for 
promotion, newspapers, schools, clubs, political parties, and churches. 
Some naval radio stations broadcast programs of music to the public at 
certain hours. Later businesses learned to use this new medium to sell 
products, paying for on-air commercial advertising. US radio broadcasting 
developed into a private, profitmaking business, with minimal government 
control on content. In Europe, broadcasting took a different course. Radio 
transmission had always been more tightly controlled by government in this 
region, partly because countries were smaller and closer together; for 
example, in the UK receiving equipment as well as transmitters had to be 
licensed. There was a feeling in countries like the UK and France that 
the radio spectrum was a national resource which should not be surrendered 
to private interests, motivated by profit, who would pander solely to the 
desire for entertainment. Radio should serve higher purposes of public 
information and education. In addition, totalitarian countries for political 
reasons kept mass communications media under government control. So in 
much of Europe, broadcasting developed as a government-owned or government-supervised 
monopoly. It was largely funded not by on-air commercial advertising as 
in the US, but by taxes on sales of radios, and user fees in the form of 
an annual "receiver license" that anyone owning a radio had to buy. Who 
made the "first" radio broadcast is a contentious issue. In the chaotic, 
freewheeling, experimental atmosphere of early AM wireless, it is difficult 
to draw a distinction between "private" and "public" transmissions. In 
many cases, radio listeners tuned into experimental transmissions by the 
first stations developing AM modulation, and the stations began to cater 
to their unexpected audience with news and music.[2] Some of the early 
milestones: World War I brought home to nations the strategic importance 
of long-distance radio; in addition to its military uses in keeping contact 
with its fleets and overseas forces, a country that didn't have radio could 
be isolated by an enemy cutting its submarine telegraph cables. In the 
US, before the war, the radio industry was fragmented by patent monopolies 
held by competing giant firms, so the best long-range radio technology 
was owned by two European firms: the British Marconi Co. and the German 
Telefunken. At its entry into the war in 1917, the US government temporarily 
took control of the entire US radio industry for the war effort, including 
the transatlantic wireless stations of these foreign firms. After the war, 
due to fear of foreign ownership of the US radio industry, there was an 
abortive effort to create a federal radio monopoly. Instead, in 1919 the 
US government brokered a patent cross-licensing and market-sharing agreement 
between the competing US corporate giants AT&T, Westinghouse, United Fruit, 
and General Electric. Foreign firms were forbidden to own US radio stations, 
and US assets of Marconi and Telefunken were sold to a newly created firm, 
the Radio Corporation of America, RCA. AT&T, Westinghouse, and GE would 
manufacture radio equipment, and RCA would be the marketing and transmitting 
arm. This "radio group" oligopoly controlled the US radio industry into 
the 1940s. As the US audience for "broadcasting" grew in 1919-22, it caught 
the interest of the big radio corporations, and they began buying stations. 
They established "flagship" stations in major cities to promote their corporate 
image, which during this period broadcast top-quality entertainment and 
news without advertising. Since longwave radio frequencies were used for 
international wireless telegraphy, broadcasting was mostly limited to the 
medium waves, whose limited range restricted them to local audiences. Corporations 
around 1922 realized that long distance telephone lines, another innovation 
made possible around 1915 by the vacuum tube, could be used to link local 
radio stations into networks (the word "chains" was used until the 1930s) 
broadcasting common content, giving corporations a nationwide audience.[25] 
In the US, the nationwide telephone carrier AT&T was the first to create 
a network and take the radical step of commercial advertising. It developed 
a broadcasting model based on its telephony business: "toll" broadcasting. 
Its flagship station, WEAF in New York, in August 1922 was first to air 
commercial advertising, selling half-hour and hour blocks of airtime to 
commercial "sponsors" that developed entertainment shows containing commercial 
messages. It had a monopoly on quality telephone lines, and by 1924 had 
linked 12 stations in Eastern cities into a "chain". RCA and Westinghouse 
attempted to organize their own network around their flagship WJZ, but 
were hampered by AT&T's refusal to lease them lines. In 1925 court decisions 
stripped AT&T of its monopoly over broadcasting, and it decided to get 
out of radio. AT&T sold WEAF to RCA, which formed the nucleus of the new 
NBC network. In 1927, to reduce the "chaos" on the airwaves, the government 
came down on the side of the advertising model, establishing two classes 
of broadcast licenses: the "A" or "general public interest" stations which 
sold time impartially to anyone, received favorable frequency assignments 
and flourished, and the "B" or nonprofit "propaganda" stations, mainly 
special-interest, political or religious stations which represented a point 
of view, were phased out. The adoption of the commercial sponsorship model 
made radio broadcasting profitable, bringing in a lucrative stream of income 
that could be used to buy top-quality talent. The new business of advertising 
agencies acted as middlemen, and by the late 1920s modern radio advertisements 
were developed. Networks began to see their true product as their audience, 
and began to tailor shows to bring in specific demographics desired by 
their advertisers. By the 1930s, most of the radio stations in the country 
were affiliated with networks owned by two companies, NBC and CBS. In 1934, 
a third, the Mutual Radio Network was formed as a cooperative owned by 
its stations. The other country which pioneered broadcasting, the UK, and 
its national network the BBC, became the prototype for state-managed monopoly 
broadcasting.[26] The abrupt shutdown of the 1920 UK experimental Marconi 
broadcasts had caused increasing pressure on the Post Office to allow broadcasting.[27] 
The government wanted to avoid the "chaotic" US experience, but also feared 
a monopoly by the giant Marconi.[27] On 18 October 1922 it allowed 6 large 
radio manufacturers to form a consortium, the British Broadcasting Company, 
which was given a monopoly on broadcasting, supported by a tax on radio 
sets and a license fee on receivers collected by the Post Office.[27] Initially 
its 8 stations were allowed regional autonomy, but its visionary general 
manager, John Reith, centralized production in London and lobbied for the 
removal of advertising and commercial interests. During Britain's General 
Strike of 1926, when the newspapers were shut down, the BBC was first allowed 
to broadcast daytime news, and the country was impressed by its impartial 
reporting.[28] In late 1926 Reith's proposals were adopted, the BBC was 
nationalised, and an independent nonprofit chartered corporation was formed, 
the British Broadcasting Corporation supported solely by a 10 shilling 
receiver license fee.[28] Under Reith, the BBC enforced strict broadcast 
standards on its channels. Both the National and Regional programmes were 
required to carry a mixture of populist and high brow programmes. During 
the 1920s AM broadcasting extended to the rest of the world. In general, 
the Middle East, Asian, and African countries adopted the European model 
of centralized government-run radio networks, while Latin America adopted 
the US model of private commercial broadcasting.[26] The discovery in the 
1920s of the "skip" or "skywave" propagation mechanism, in which high frequency 
radio waves are reflected back to Earth beyond the horizon by the ionosphere, 
made the shortwave frequencies above 1 MHz, previously considered useless, 
a useful band for long distance broadcasting. During the 1920s, 1930s, 
and 1940s, a period called the "Golden Age of Radio", AM radio was the 
main source of home entertainment, filling a role similar to the one television 
played until the Internet started to replace it in the 2010s. This was 
a big change in people's lives; for the first time people were getting 
entertainment from outside the home. Instead of having to settle for more 
traditional forms of entertainment such as oral storytelling and music 
from family members, they could listen to Bing Crosby's crooning, a BBC 
Shakespeare play, or a baseball game at New York's Ebbets Field. New forms 
of entertainment were created for the new medium, many of which later migrated 
to television: radio plays, mystery serials, soap operas, quiz shows, variety 
hours, situation comedies, children's shows. Radio news kept people up-to-date, 
and remote reporting allowed them to be vicariously "present" at notable 
events, such as the famous 1937 Hindenburg disaster. In the 1920s the home 
radio receiver evolved from a forbidding technological device which was 
esthetically unattractive and difficult to operate, to a consumer item, 
a piece of furniture, housed in an attractive wooden cabinet, with simple 
controls designed for anyone to operate, which occupied a place of honor 
in the living room. The dynamic cone loudspeaker invented in 1924 greatly 
improved audio frequency response over the previous horn speakers, allowing 
music to be reproduced with good fidelity.[29] Prior to the introduction 
of the high-fidelity, long-playing record in the late 1940s, AM radio offered 
the highest sound quality available in a home audio device. Luxury models 
offered large speakers, "electric eye" tuning (a special type of vacuum 
tube, which provided a visual aid in tuning), mechanical push-button "memory" 
of favorite stations, sometimes with booklets of adhesive labels for the 
buttons with station call letters, and—an inexpensive but impressive feature—shortwave 
bands that allowed access to distant, often foreign, stations. Accessory, 
then factory-installed radios became available for cars. Radio eased the 
isolation of rural life, and allowed people on farms and in towns to keep 
up with what was happening in the cities. Politicians could speak to millions 
of citizens at a time; during the Depression Americans gathered around 
their radios to listen to Franklin Roosevelt's "fireside chats". This period 
saw the rise of radio propaganda as a powerful tool of governments, contributing 
to the rise of fascist and communist ideologies. AM radio is often noisy. 
There is no protection from static created by lightning, electrical equipment, 
and other sources of signal pollution. Especially at night, conflict between 
nearby and distant stations using a single frequency is common, and requires 
many smaller stations to operate at much reduced power after sundown. Finally, 
the 10 kilohertz minimum separation between stations in the United States 
limits fidelity to sounds much lower than the upper limit of human hearing, 
and the advent of high-fidelity recording equipment has created a demand 
for high-fidelity radio.[citation needed] As a result of these shortcomings, 
especially the noise issue, RCA in 1934 hired Edwin Howard Armstrong to 
test his FM broadcasting system, which started to be deployed in the 1940s, 
but because of a frequency band change in 1946 would not achieve dominance 
over AM until the end of the 1970s.[30] In the 1940s two new broadcast 
media evolved in the US which competed with AM: FM radio and television. 
By the 1950s, the dominance of AM radio over home entertainment ended. 
Television replaced AM radio as an evening family pastime; instead of sitting 
and listening to the radio, families would watch television. By the 1970s 
FM radio, due to its superior audio quality, attracted serious audiophiles. 
The AM radio industry suffered a serious loss of audience and advertising 
revenue during this time, and the value of an AM broadcast license was 
eventually to decline substantially. The industry coped with this by developing 
new "narrowcasting" strategies. Network broadcasting gave way to format 
broadcasting; instead of broadcasting the same programs all over the country, 
AM stations specialized in different "formats" which appealed to different 
audience segments: regional and local news, sports, "talk" programs, programs 
targeted at minorities. "Talk radio", which avoided the need for the broadcaster 
to pay music royalties, appeared during this period as a consequence of 
the less expensive "air time", and the need to develop alternative programming, 
at reasonable cost, to replace the lost network programming. Rather than 
live music, stations played cheaper recorded music, and developed the "Top 
40" format, which capitalized on (and created) the popularity of new rhythm 
and blues and rock music. Listening habits changed in the 1960s due to 
the introduction of the revolutionary transistor radio, made possible by 
the invention of the transistor in 1946, which greatly reduced power requirements 
and allowed people to listen to radio anywhere using only small batteries. 
A transistor radio was smaller, lighter, and cooler. Radio became a ubiquitous 
"companion medium" which people could take with them in their pocket, and 
listen to while at work, gardening, or at the beach. In the late 1970s, 
in an unsuccessful effort to stem the exodus of the music audience to FM, 
the US AM radio industry developed technology for broadcasting in stereo. 
Stereo is the standard in the music recording industry, and FM broadcasting 
had adopted a stereo standard early, in 1961. The technology was challenging 
because of the narrow 20 kHz bandwidth of the AM channel, and the need 
for backward compatibility with non-stereo AM receivers. In 1975 the US 
Federal Communications Commission requested proposals for AM stereo standards, 
and four competing standards were submitted: Harris Corporation's V-CPM 
(Variable angle Compatible Phase Multiplex), Magnavox's PMX, Motorola's 
C-QUAM (Compatible Quadrature Amplitude Modulation), and Kahn-Hazeltine 
independent sideband system. All except the Kahn-Hazeltine system used 
variations on the same idea: the mono (Left + Right) signal was transmitted 
in the amplitude modulation as before, while the stereo (Left − Right) 
information was transmitted by phase modulation. In 1980 the FCC chose 
the Magnavox PMX system as the US standard. The FCC was savagely criticized 
by the other contenders, and lawsuits erupted. In 1982, the FCC reversed 
its decision and decided not to enforce a standard but allow multiple systems, 
to "let the marketplace decide". Meanwhile, other nations adopted AM stereo, 
many choosing Motorola's C-QUAM. Their choice of a single standard rather 
than allowing competing standards as the US, resulted in greater acceptance 
of AM stereo in these markets. In 1993, the FCC made C-QUAM system the 
US standard. Globally, the adoption of stereo broadcasting was never great, 
and declined after 1990. With the continued migration of AM stations away 
from music to news, sports, and talk formats, receiver manufacturers saw 
little reason to adopt the more expensive stereo tuners, and thus radio 
stations have little incentive to upgrade to stereo transmission. AM radio 
technology is simpler than frequency modulated (FM) radio, Digital Audio 
Broadcasting (DAB), satellite radio or HD (digital) radio. An AM receiver 
detects amplitude variations in the radio waves at a particular frequency. 
It then amplifies changes in the signal voltage to drive a loudspeaker 
or earphones. The earliest crystal radio receivers used a crystal diode 
detector with no amplification, and required no power source other than 
the radio signal itself. In North American broadcasting practice, transmitter 
power input to the antenna for commercial AM stations ranges from about 
250 to 50,000 watts. Experimental licenses were issued for up to 500,000 
watts radiated power, for stations intended for wide-area communication 
during disasters. One such superstation was Cincinnati station WLW, which 
used such power on occasion before World War II. WLW's superpower transmitter 
still exists at the station's suburban transmitter site, but it was decommissioned 
in the early 1940s and no current commercial broadcaster in the U.S. or 
Canada is authorized for such power levels. Some other countries do authorize 
higher power operation (for example the Mexican station XERF formerly operated 
at 250,000 watts). Antenna design must consider the coverage desired and 
stations may be required, based on the terms of their license, to directionalize 
their transmitted signal to avoid interfering with other stations operating 
on the same frequency. Medium-wave (medium frequency, MF) and short-wave 
(high frequency, HF) radio signals act differently during daytime and nighttime. 
During the day, MF signals travel by groundwave, diffracting around the 
curve of the earth over a distance up to a few hundred kilometers from 
the signal transmitter. However, after sunset, changes in the ionosphere 
cause MF signals to travel by skywave, enabling radio stations to be heard 
much farther from their point of origin than is normal during the day. 
This phenomenon can be easily observed by scanning the medium wave radio 
dial at night. As a result, many broadcast stations are required as a condition 
of license to reduce their broadcasting power significantly (or use directional 
antennas) after sunset, or even to suspend broadcasting entirely during 
nighttime hours. Such stations are commonly referred to as daytimers. In 
Australia medium wave stations are not required to reduce their power at 
night and consequently stations such as the 50,000-watt 774 ABC Melbourne 
can be heard in some parts of New Zealand at night. From 1941 to 1983, 
the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement allowed clear channel 
status to some stations, meaning that few if any other stations were granted 
permission to broadcast on or near their frequency. This allowed an extended 
coverage area when skywave propagation takes over at night, starting at 
or near local sunset. Relatively few stations enjoy clear-channel status; 
most local MW stations rely on ground-wave coverage only, limiting their 
target market to their own local area. Non-clear channel stations typically 
have reduced coverage at night, due to noise and the interference caused 
by other stations propagating in via skywave after dark. The area covered 
by a local station at night without significant skywave interference is 
known as the nighttime interference-free (NIF) contour, and is typically 
specified in mV/m (signal strength). The higher the NIF value, the stronger 
the local signal must be to override nighttime interference, resulting 
in a smaller coverage area and fewer listeners able to hear the station 
without interference. The hobby of listening to long distance signals is 
known as DX'ing, from an old telegraph abbreviation for "distance". Several 
nonprofit hobbyist clubs are devoted to DXing the AM broadcast band, including 
the National Radio Club and International Radio Club of America. Similarly, 
people listening to short wave transmissions are SWLing. AM radio is broadcast 
on several frequency bands. The allocation of these bands is governed by 
the ITU's Radio Regulations and, on the national level, by each country's 
telecommunications administration (the FCC in the U.S., for example) subject 
to international agreements. The frequency ranges given here are those 
that are allocated to stations. Because of the bandwidth taken up by the 
sidebands, the range allocated for the band as a whole is usually about 
5 kHz wider on either side. Frequencies between the broadcast bands are 
used for other forms of radio communication, and are not broadcast services 
intended for reception by the general public. Because of its relatively 
low audio quality due to audio bandwidth limitations, and its susceptibility 
to atmospheric and electrical interference, AM broadcasting now attracts 
mainly talk radio and news programming, while music radio and public radio 
mostly shifted to FM broadcasting in the late 1970s in the developed countries. 
However, in the late 1960s and 1970s, top 40 rock and roll stations in 
the U.S. and Canada such as WABC and CHUM transmitted highly processed 
and extended audio to 11 kHz, successfully attracting huge audiences. In 
the UK during the 1980s, the national speech station, BBC Radio 4, had 
an FM location, whereas BBC Radio 1, a music station, was confined to AM 
broadcasts. Frequency response is typically 40 Hz–5 kHz with a 50 dB signal 
to noise (S/N) ratio.[citation needed] The limitation on AM fidelity comes 
partly from current receiver design, and efforts have been made to improve 
this, notably the AMAX standards. Moreover, to fit more transmitters on 
the MW broadcast band in the United States, maximum transmitted audio bandwidth 
is limited to 10.2 kHz by a National Radio Systems Committee (NRSC) standard 
adopted by the FCC in June 1989, resulting in a channel occupied bandwidth 
of 20.4 kHz. The former audio limitation was 15 kHz resulting in a channel 
occupied bandwidth of 30 kHz. Modern domestic radio receivers with digital 
tuning are usually incapable of fine-tuning in 1 kHz steps. On radios with 
analog dial tuning (or 1 kHz step capable digital tuning), slight detuning 
of an AM station could often improve listenability, where for instance 
interference is present to one side only of the RF channel. AM radio signals 
can be severely disrupted in large urban centres by metal structures, tall 
buildings and sources of radio frequency interference (RFI) and electrical 
noise, such as electrical motors, fluorescent lights, or lightning. As 
a result, AM radio in many countries has lost its dominance as a music 
broadcasting service, and in many cities is now relegated to news, sports, 
religious and talk radio stations. Some musical genres – particularly country, 
oldies, nostalgia and ethnic music – survive on AM, especially in areas 
where FM frequencies are in short supply or in thinly populated or mountainous 
areas where FM coverage is poor. Beginning in the 1950s, carrier current 
distribution was used. In this modality the AM broadcast signal is not 
transmitted via antenna, but via electric power cables, which radiate a 
signal receivable at a short distance from wherever the cables run. The 
signal is normally blocked by power transformers, so the range depends 
on the distance before a transformer is encountered. The only surviving 
use of this technology in the U.S. is in college and high school radio, 
and for highway emergency warnings, for which limited range is adequate, 
and whose signs direct drivers to an AM frequency – e.g., "Tune to 1680 
AM when flashing" – to receive an emergency message. While uncommon, AM 
stereo transmissions are possible using a variety of means. In addition, 
hybrid digital broadcast systems, which combine (mono analog) AM and digital 
broadcasting technology, are now being used around the world. In the United 
States, iBiquity's proprietary HD Radio has been adopted and approved by 
the FCC for medium wave transmissions, while Digital Radio Mondiale is 
a more open effort often used on the shortwave bands, and can be used alongside 
many AM broadcasts. Both of these standards are capable of broadcasting 
audio of significantly greater fidelity than that of standard AM with current 
bandwidth limitations, and a theoretical frequency response of 0–16 kHz, 
in addition to stereo sound and text data. While FM radio can also be received 
by cable, AM radio generally is not available, although AM stations are 
sometimes converted into FM cable signals. In Canada, cable operators that 
offer FM cable services are required by the CRTC to distribute all locally 
available AM stations in this manner. In Switzerland a system known as 
"wire broadcasting" (Telefonrundspruch in German) transmitted AM signals 
over telephone lines in the longwave band until 1998, when it was shut 
down.[31] In the UK, Rediffusion was an early pioneer of AM radio cable 
distribution. Some microbroadcasters and pirate radio broadcasters, especially 
those in the United States under the FCC's Part 15 rules, broadcast on 
AM to achieve greater range than is possible on the FM band. On mediumwave 
(AM), such radio stations are often found between 1610 kHz and 1710 kHz. 
Hobbyists also use low-power AM (LPAM) transmitters to provide programming 
for vintage radio equipment in areas where AM programming is not widely 
available or does not carry programming the listener desires; in such cases 
the transmitter, which is designed to cover only the immediate property 
and perhaps nearby areas, is connected to a computer, an FM radio or an 
MP3 player. Microbroadcasting and pirate radio have been greatly supplemented 
by streaming audio on the Internet, but some schools or hobbyists still 
use LPAM as a means of broadcasting as each are distinctly different technologies. 
