The Amateur Softball Association (ASA) is a volunteer, non-profit organization 
based in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. It was founded in 1933 with a tournament 
held in Chicago that was organized by Leo Fischer and Michael J. Pauley.[1] 
The following year the 1934 National Recreation Congress recognized the 
ASA.[1] Shortly afterward the ASA was located in Newark, New Jersey. A 
world amateur softball tournament was held by the ASA at Chicago's Soldier 
Field that started on September 7, 1939.[2] The ASA moved to Oklahoma City 
on January 1, 1966.[3] The National Softball Hall of Fame and Museum is 
operated by the ASA and is located at 2801 NE 50th Street in Oklahoma City. 
Since 2005, they have run the World Cup of Softball. ASA Hall of Fame Stadium 
also hosts the NCAA Women's College World Series and the Big 12 Conference 
softball championship. ASA now runs competitions in every state through 
a network of 76 state and metro associations. It has a membership of over 
230,000 teams, with more than 3 million players and 35,000 umpires. In 
1978, the United States Olympic Committee named ASA the national governing 
body of softball. Due to this designation ASA is responsible for training, 
equipping and promoting Men’s, Women’s, Junior Boys’ and Junior Girls’ 
National Softball Teams in order to compete in international and domestic 
competitions. in 1996 The Women's Fast Pitch National Team became The first 
Team to compete in the Olympics. The ASA National Team program is also 
known as USA Softball. The ASA youth program, also known as the Junior 
Olympic program, is among the nation's largest youth sports organization. 
Over 80,000 teams, 1.3 million players and 300,000 coaches participate 
in ASA youth softball on an annual basis. It is the single fastest growing 
program in the ASA, and has had membership growth every year since its 
inception in 1974. The ASA adult program has served as the backbone of 
the association since its beginning in 1934. With over 170,000 teams, 2.5 
millions players and 500,000 coaches involved on an annual basis, the adult 
program is the largest program within the Amateur Softball Association. 
The ASA provides varied programs of competition for adults including fast 
pitch, slow pitch and modified pitch for men and women. The ASA also offers 
programs in modified pitch and 16-inch slow pitch. The ASA uses its network 
of 76 local associations covering all 50 states to register its players, 
coaches, umpires, volunteers and other administrative members. An online 
application is available to teams and leagues to register their members. 
Annually the ASA conducts over 90 National Championships in each of its 
major disciplines of the sport - slow, fast and modified pitch. Since each 
competitor must earn their berth into an ASA national through a network 
of qualifying tournaments conducted throughout the season, the champion 
goes home as the unchallenged best team in the nation for their respected 
division each year. Qualifying for ASA National Championships begin at 
the local level with league championships, state championships and eventually 
national qualifiers. Each year over 30,000 players qualify to compete in 
an ASA National Championship. Cities from across America annually bid for 
these celebrated events, largely because of the economic impact they will 
make on their communities. The ASA umpire program is among the nation's 
largest officiating organizations with over 30,000 officials actively involved 
each year. ASA officials are nationally recognized as some of the best 
trained and proficient in the sport, and are involved in competitions which 
include league play, city, state and national championships. Ultimately, 
ASA umpires could officiate events such as world championship, Pan American 
and Olympic competitions. In some areas, select ASA umpires also umpire 
in little league baseball games. The Amateur Softball Association (ASA) 
has taken great strides to protect the integrity of the sport. Each year, 
the ASA's equipment testing and specifications committee examines the current 
rules and specifications governing various items of equipment. This committee 
makes recommendations to the ASA's council composed of ASA commissioners, 
select youth and player representatives, umpire-in-chiefs, elite athletes 
and other affiliated members. The council is the ultimate decision maker 
of ASA rules and regulations regarding equipment. The ASA Softball official 
website features a complete listing of ASA certified equipment which most 
municipal park district and corporate leagues follow, to varying extents, 
as to what rules are adhered to and what equipment is allowed in play, 
especially bats. The National Softball Hall of Fame was officially dedicated 
May 26, 1973 in Oklahoma City. The building was opened to the public July 
1, 1973. The first of two additions to the ASA Hall of Fame/ASA Headquarters 
was started July 5, 1976 and completed July 13, 1977 for an additional 
4,350 square feet (404 m2) of space. Dedication ceremonies for the expansion 
were held July 23, 1977. Counting the Hall of Fame/ASA Headquarters and 
the ASA Hall of Fame, there is 28,406 square feet (2,639.0 m2) of space. 
The second expansion was added July 1980 for an additional 5,182 square 
feet (481.4 m2) of space, with total footage 18,140 square feet (1,685 m2) 
of space. Plans are currently in the works for future expansion and the 
existing museum is currently undergoing renovations. The ASA National Softball 
Hall of Fame and Museum has 337 members with 125 deceased. There are two 
categories of membership: Players and non-players. A nominee needs 75 percent 
(nine votes) of the votes cast by the 12 member Hall of Fame Committee 
to be elected. Annual inductions are held at the ASA Annual Meeting. The 
members include 182 players and one non player (50 deceased) in the following 
divisions: men's fast pitch (84); women's fast pitch (54); men's slow pitch 
(31); women's slow pitch (11); and modified pitch (2). The Hall of Fame 
has 154 members in non-playing categories including commissioner (39); 
umpire (36), meritorious service (38), managers (25) and sponsors (14). 
Seventy-Five are deceased. The Clearwater, FL Bombers, 10 time ASA national 
fast pitch champion, has the most members in the players category of the 
ASA National Softball Hall of Fame with 22. The ASA publishes an updated 
rulebook for Softball each year, which is widely used by many adult and 
recreational leagues in the U.S, while also being used by many foreign 
softball organisations. The ASA rules were also used for the softball competition 
