Amateur baseball is a form of baseball in which the players either are 
not paid for playing, or (as in Town Team Baseball) receive only a modest 
stipend or employment arranged by the team's boosters. Amateur baseball 
is played in the United States by players of all ages, from young children 
to adults. Leagues for various skill levels and age groups exist throughout 
the US. In ascending order of age participation, here are a few examples: 
Youth baseball is played by elementary-school-age and high-school-age children 
of both genders. Of the various leagues listed below, Little League baseball 
is the most widespread and the Little League World Series in Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania, draws participants from around the world and is televised 
in the US on ESPN. The first annual National Youth Baseball Championships 
(NYBC) tournament was held in August 2008 for players in two divisions: 
10U and 12U.[7][8] The purpose of the tournament is to recognize one team 
as the "National Youth Baseball Champion."[7][8] The tournament organizer 
is the Major Youth Baseball Alliance, LLC, which was formed by eight major 
national youth baseball organizations, whose programs have more than eight 
million participants.[7][8] The eight organizations are: AABC (American 
Amateur Baseball Congress), AAU (Amateur Athletic Union of the United States), 
Babe Ruth Baseball, Dixie Youth Baseball, NABF (National Amateur Baseball 
Federation), Pony Baseball, Super Series Baseball of America, and USSSA 
(United States Specialty Sports Association).[7][8] From 1998 (or earlier) 
through 2010 (or later), there has been an annual, national all-stars tournament 
each June — the USA Baseball Tournament of Stars; its predecessor was the 
National Amateur All-Star Baseball Tournament (NAABT). The tournament features 
the top 16- to 18-year-old players from various baseball organizations, 
including the American Amateur Baseball Congress (AABC), American Legion, 
Babe Ruth Baseball, Dixie Baseball, National Amateur Baseball Federation 
(NABF), PONY baseball, Major League Baseball's Reviving Baseball in Inner 
Cities (RBI), and at-large teams from USA Baseball (the governing body 
of amateur baseball).[22] School baseball is played all over the United 
States. High schools often have freshman, junior-varsity and varsity teams. 
Some middle schools offer baseball programs. American Legion Baseball is 
popular with junior-high- and senior-high-school students from ages 13 
to 19. American Legion also provides regional, state, and national playoffs. 
College baseball players, especially professional prospects, often play 
in "collegiate summer baseball leagues", where their lodging and meals 
