United States American Legion Baseball is a variety of amateur baseball 
played by 13-19 year olds in fifty states in the USA and Canada. More than 
3,500 teams participate each year. The American Legion Department of South 
Dakota established the program in 1925 at Milbank, South Dakota. According 
to the American Legion, the purpose of American Legion Baseball is to give 
players "an opportunity to develop their skills, personal fitness, leadership 
qualities, and to have fun." [1] The league still stands behind the traditional 
values upon which it was founded in 1925. American Legion Baseball has 
taught hundreds of thousands of young Americans the importance of sportsmanship, 
good health and active citizenship. The program is also a promoter of equality, 
making teammates out of young athletes regardless of their income levels 
or social standings. Community service has always been a core value of 
The American Legion. In 1925, this commitment was furthered to include 
a baseball program. The first American Legion Baseball World Series was 
held in Philadelphia in 1926. Yonkers, N.Y, Post 321 beat a team from Pocatello, 
Idaho, capping off what appeared to be a successful first season. The league, 
however, hit a few growing pains in its second year. In 1927, the Legion's 
national convention convened in Paris. With the organization's financial 
coffers stretched thin from the trip's expenses, the Legion couldn't fund 
a World Series. No champion was named and the future of American Legion 
Baseball looked bleak, as the inaugural season wound up costing more than 
originally planned. But the Legion's Americanism director, Dan Sowers, 
worked to keep the league afloat. The tournament format needed $50,000, 
and Sowers was determined to raise it. Early in 1928, he went to an executive 
meeting for professional baseball, hoping to reach a sympathetic ear. He 
found one in Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis, who pledged a $50,000 
annual donation from Major League Baseball. Legion Baseball resumed in 
1928, and by 1929 participants were coming from every state and the District 
of Columbia. Major League Baseball and American Legion Baseball don't have 
a formal partnership, but the two owe each other a tremendous debt of gratitude. 
MLB has sponsored Legion Baseball almost since its inception, and Legion 
Baseball has returned the favor, churning out major league prospects since 
the alumni base has been old enough to be scouted.[2][3] American Legion 
Baseball has had 68 graduates go on to reach the National Baseball Hall 
of Fame.[4][5][6] In 2011, Shelby, North Carolina was named the permanent 
home of the American Legion World Series after decades of rotating venues 
for the event. The format of the tournament for the eight teams involves 
separating into two pools and playing round robin within that pool from 
Thursday to Sunday. The top seed in each pool plays the runner-up in the 
other pool in the semifinals on Monday, with the two teams advancing to 
a one-game championship on Tuesday. With games set at Keeter Stadium on 
the campus of Shelby High School, the local community has rallied around 
the event, turning it into a lengthy celebration including the Seventh 
Inning Stretch festival in Uptown Shelby the Saturday prior to the World 
Series, a Commander's Reception the Tuesday before the event and a Parade 
of Champions the night prior to the first game. Attendance has swelled 
over the length of the tenure in Shelby, setting event records every year. 
In addition to attendance in Shelby, all games are streamed online on ESPN3, 
with games Sunday, Monday and Tuesday broadcast nationally on ESPNU.[7][8] 
[9] [19][20] American Legion Code of Sportsmanship I Will Keep The Rules. 
I Will Keep Faith with my Teammates. I Will Keep my Temper. I Will Keep 
myself Fit. I Will Keep a Stout Heart in Defeat. I Will Keep my Pride under 
in Victory. I Will Keep a Sound Soul, a Clean Mind, & a Healthy Body. [22] 
