The American Royal in Kansas City, Missouri, is a livestock show, horse 
show and rodeo held each year in October and November at Kemper Arena. 
The Future Farmers of America (now the National FFA Organization) was founded 
during the annual Royal. The Kansas City Royals professional baseball team 
derive their name in part from the Royal.[1] The American Royal began as 
a cattle show in 1899 in the Kansas City Stockyards. The name "American 
Royal" was inspired by a 1901 editorial in beef industry publication Kansas 
City Drovers Telegram entitled "Call It The American Royal." The editorial 
noted the Royal Agricultural Society in England has a similar event called 
the Royal Show. The first American Royal horse show was added in 1907, 
and has grown to include five shows (Quarter Horse Show, Hunter-Jumper 
Horse Show, Arabian Horse Show, American Saddlebred, Youth Horse Show and 
a Cutting Horse show). In 1926, the American Royal invited vocational agriculture 
students to judge livestock. During the 1928 American Royal, 33 of the 
students meeting at the Baltimore Hotel in downtown Kansas City formed 
the Future Farmers of America. Now, the National FFA Organization has 579,678 
members. The group proceeded to hold a convention every year during the 
Royal in Kansas City until 1998. The original home of the American Royal 
was destroyed by fire in 1925 during an Automobile Show. The structure 
was rebuilt in time for the event that year and served as the center for 
events until the American Royal complex was built across from Kemper Arena 
in 1992. During World War II, the Royal complex was converted into a glider 
factory.[citation needed] The new American Royal Complex was constructed 
in 1992 to replace the outdated facility constructed in 1926. The complex 
was designed by the architecture firm Black and Veatch and constructed 
by Walton Construction.[2] The new complex consists of a museum and visitor 
center, three exhibition halls, Hale Arena, a theatre, a full-service restaurant 
and concession stand, as well as the administrative offices. In 1993, the 
new facilities were flooded but was restored in time for the American Royal 
livestock shows to continue that autumn. Hale Arena has since replaced 
Kemper Arena and the Sprint Center as arenas where the livestock and rodeo 
shows are held each autumn. The barbecue competition had been held on the 
complex grounds, but was moved to the Arrowhead Stadium parking lots in 
2015. The American Royal Museum is open by appointment and for extended 
hours during the American Royal season. Exhibits include horses, veterinary 
medicine, the history of the American Royal, agriculture in Kansas City, 
and horse, rodeo and livestock show clothing, saddles and memorabilia.[3] 
The American Royal is an annual eight-week season of barbecue competition, 
rodeos, livestock shows, equestrian events and agricultural activities 
benefiting youth and education. One of Kansas City's premier fall events 
with annual economic impact of more than $62 million, the Royal hosts the 
world's largest barbecue contest, one of the Midwest's largest livestock 
exhibitions, one of the top five ranked rodeos in the nation, and is home 
of the national championship horse competition.[citation needed] The barbecue 
contest is divided into several categories: brisket, pork ribs, pork shoulder, 
chicken, sausage, side dishes and dessert. The American Royal is a not-for-profit, 
community volunteer-based service organization which raises funds to fulfill 
its vision & mission through endowments contributions, sponsorships and 
event revenues. In 2005, the organization contributed more than $1.3 million 
in financial support in the form of scholarships, educational awards, educational 
programs, community donations, competitive awards and prize monies and 
