The American Association (AA) was a minor league baseball league at the 
Triple-A level of baseball in the United States from 1902 to 1962 and 1969 
to 1997. In both incarnations, it comprised teams primarily from Midwestern 
and South Central United States. Together with the International League, 
the American Association contested the Junior World Series which determined 
the championship team in minor league baseball, at least for the eastern 
half of the United States. Later, its teams would also compete in the Triple-A 
World Series, and its players in the Triple-A All-Star Game. The league's 
attendance base began to be eroded significantly in the 1950s and early 
1960s due to expansion and westward migration of major league teams into 
several of the AA's larger member cities: Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Kansas 
City, Missouri; and Minneapolis-Saint Paul, Minnesota. By 1961, the league 
was down to six clubs. After the 1962 season, the American Association 
disbanded, and some of its member teams were distributed between the Pacific 
Coast League and the International League, while others (the Louisville 
Colonels and Omaha Dodgers) folded. The Indianapolis Indians were first 
assigned to the IL but then, in a geographic oddity, they were switched 
to the PCL. The Dallas Rangers, the Denver Bears, and the Oklahoma City 
89ers also went to the PCL. With major league expansion in 1969, and the 
need for four new Triple-A farm teams, the time seemed right for reviving 
the league, which re-acquired its old Indianapolis territory from the PCL, 
along with several cities that were new to the Association. After the 1997 
season, the American Association disbanded for the second time, and its 
teams were again distributed to the remaining Triple-A leagues. The Iowa 
Cubs, Nashville Sounds, New Orleans Zephyrs, Oklahoma City 89ers (now the 
Oklahoma City Dodgers), and Omaha Royals joined the West Coast Pacific 
Coast League starting with the 1998 season. The Buffalo Bisons, Indianapolis 
Indians, and Louisville Redbirds became part of the International League, 
also starting in 1998. The Buffalo Bisons were the last league champions 
in 1997, and the trophy is still in their possession. On and off, from 
1905 to 1975, the American Association champion played against the champion 
from the International League in the Junior World Series. The champions 
from these two leagues and the Pacific Coast League also met during 1983 
at the Triple-A World Series. From 1988 to 1992, the AA and IL voted to 
play interleague games during the season. From 1988 until the league's 
demise in 1997, players from all three Triple-A leagues were selected to 
play in the mid-season Triple-A All-Star Game. One team was made up of 
All-Stars from American League affiliates and the other of National League 
