The American League East is one of Major League Baseball (MLB)'s six divisions 
(An East, Central, and West division for each of the two leagues). This 
division was created before the start of the 1969 season along with the 
American League West division. Before that time the American League (AL) 
had existed as a single league of 10 teams. Four of its five teams are 
located in the Eastern United States, with the other in Central Canada. 
At the end of the MLB season, the team with the best record in the division 
earns one of the American League's five playoff spots. The most recent 
team to win this division was the Boston Red Sox in 2016. Writers have 
posited that the American League East is the toughest division in MLB;[1][2] 
during its 46-year existence, an East division team has gone on to play 
in the World Series 25 times, and 14 of those teams have been crowned World 
Series champions. Since the 1995 season when the wild-card playoff berth 
was introduced, the AL East has produced the wild-card team for the American 
League in 13 out of the 17 years (the West division three, and the Central 
division just one). When the Major Leagues split into divisions for the 
1969 season, the American League, unlike the National League, split its 
12 teams strictly on geography. The six teams located in the Eastern Time 
Zone were placed in the East division, and the other six were placed in 
the West division. In September 1971, American League owners approved the 
move of the second Washington Senators franchise to Arlington, Texas to 
become the Texas Rangers. The owners then debated whether the Chicago White 
Sox or Milwaukee Brewers should move to the East division for 1972, with 
the Rangers moving to the West. The White Sox requested they be moved to 
the East, stating they were an original American League franchise and wanted 
to play more games against other old-line A.L. teams, five of which were 
in the East. The Oakland Athletics objected to moving the White Sox to 
the East; owner Charlie Finley was a Chicago native who wanted to continue 
to make three trips per season with his club to the Windy City. The Minnesota 
Twins went a step farther and objected to switching either the White Sox 
or Brewers. The Twins wanted to keep nearby Chicago and Milwaukee as division 
rivals, citing the National League's lack of geographic accuracy in forming 
its divisions as a reason why the Rangers should not have been shifted 
out of the East. The Twins also noted the National Football League's Dallas 
Cowboys played in the NFC East. The White Sox' pleas fell on deaf ears, 
and the Brewers, who began life as the Seattle Pilots in 1969, were moved 
to the East. ‡ – In 1978, the New York Yankees ended up in a tie with the 
Boston Red Sox for the division championship, and won a 1-game playoff 
against Boston. * – Due to the players' strike, the season was split. New 
York won the first half and defeated second-half champion Milwaukee (62–45) 
in the postseason. § – Due to the 1994 baseball strike starting August 
12, no official winner was awarded. New York was leading at the strike. 
†† – The Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees finished the 2005 season tied 
for first place with identical records. New York won the season series 
against Boston and was awarded the tie-breaker; Boston was awarded the 
wild card berth. Had a team from another division won the wild card, a 
one-game playoff would have decided the division champion. The Cleveland 
Indians were the only team to not win the AL East before the 1994 division 
realignment. Since the advent of the Wild Card, AL East teams have faced 
each other in the ALCS 5 times and the ALDS twice. * – Starting with the 
2012 season, there will be two Wild Card winners in each league. The qualifiers 
will play a single-game playoff to determine who will face the top-seeded 
team in the American League Division Series. ** In 2013, the Texas Rangers 
and the Tampa Bay Rays finished the season with the identical records of 
91–71. A one-game playoff was held and the Rays won it 5–2 over the Rangers 
