American English (variously abbreviated AmE, AE, AmEng, USEng, en-US[2]), 
also called United States English or U.S. English, is the set of varieties 
of the English language native to the United States.[3] English is the 
most widely spoken language in the United States and is the common language 
used by the federal government, considered the de facto language of the 
country because of its widespread use. English has been given official 
status by 32 of the 50 state governments.[4][5] As an example, while both 
Spanish and English have equivalent status in the local courts of Puerto 
Rico, under federal law, English is the official language for any matters 
being referred to the United States district court for the territory.[6] 
The use of English in the United States is a result of British colonization 
of the Americas. The first wave of English-speaking settlers arrived in 
North America during the 17th century, followed by further migrations in 
the 18th and 19th centuries. Since then, American English has been influenced 
by the languages of West Africa, the Native American population, German, 
Dutch, Irish, Spanish, and other languages of successive waves of immigrants 
to the United States. Any American English accent perceived as free of 
noticeably local, ethnic, or cultural markers is popularly called "General 
American", described by sociolinguist William Labov as "a fairly uniform 
broadcast standard in the mass media", but otherwise there is not a mainstream 
standard English of the country, according to historical and present linguistic 
evidence.[7][8] According to Labov, with the major exception of Southern 
American English, regional accents throughout the country are not yielding 
to this broadcast standard.[9] On the contrary, the sound of American English 
continues to evolve, with some local accents disappearing, but several 
larger regional accents emerging and advancing.[10] While written American 
English is (in general) standardized across the country, there are several 
recognizable variations in the spoken language, both in pronunciation and 
in vernacular vocabulary. The regional sounds of present-day American English 
are reportedly engaged in a complex phenomenon of "both convergence and 
divergence": some accents are homogenizing and levelling, while others 
are diversifying and deviating further away from one another.[11] In 2010, 
William Labov summarized the current state of regional American accents 
as follows:[12] Some regional American English has undergone "vigorous 
new sound changes" since the mid-nineteenth century onwards, spawning relatively 
recent Mid-Atlantic (centered on Philadelphia and Baltimore), Western Pennsylvania 
(centered on Pittsburgh), Inland Northern (centered on Chicago, Detroit, 
and the Great Lakes region), Midland (centered on Indianapolis, Columbus, 
and Kansas City) and Western accents, all of which "are now more different 
from each other than they were fifty or a hundred years ago." Meanwhile, 
the unique features of the Eastern New England (centered on Boston) and 
New York City accents appear to be stable. "On the other hand, dialects 
of many smaller cities have receded in favor of the new regional patterns";[12] 
for example, the traditional accents of Charleston and of Cincinnati have 
given way to the general Midland accent, and of St. Louis now approaches 
the sounds of the Inland Northern accent. At the same time, the Southern 
accent, despite its huge geographic coverage,[10] "is on the whole slowly 
receding: younger speakers everywhere in the South are shifting away from 
the marked features of Southern speech." Finally, the "Hoi Toider" dialect 
shows the paradox of receding among younger speakers in North Carolina's 
Outer Banks islands, yet strengthening in the islands of the Chesapeake 
Bay. Below, eleven major American English accents are defined by their 
particular combinations of certain characteristics: Traditionally, the 
"East Coast" comprises three or four major linguistically distinct regions, 
each of which possesses English varieties both distinct from each other 
as well as quite internally diverse: New England, the New York metropolitan 
area, the Mid-Atlantic states (centering on Philadelphia and Baltimore), 
and the Southern United States. The only r-dropping (or non-rhotic) regional 
accents of American English are all spoken along the East Coast, because 
these areas were in close historical contact with England and imitated 
prestigious varieties of English at a time when these were undergoing changes;[29] 
in particular, the London prestige of non-rhoticity (or dropping the ⟨r⟩ 
sound, except before vowels) from the 17th century onwards, which is now 
widespread throughout most of England. Today, non-rhoticity is confined 
in the United States to the accents of eastern New England, the former 
plantation South, New York City, and African American Vernacular English 
(though the vowel-consonant cluster found in "bird", "work", "hurt", "learn", 
etc. usually retains its r pronunciation today, even in these non-rhotic 
accents). Other than these varieties, American accents are rhotic, pronouncing 
every instance of the ⟨r⟩ sound. After the Civil War, the settlement of 
the western territories by migrants away from the Eastern U.S. led to dialect 
levelling and mixing (koineization), so that regional dialects are most 
strongly differentiated along the Eastern seaboard. The Connecticut River 
is usually regarded as the western extent and Long Island Sound as the 
southern extent of marked New England speech: Eastern New England English—today 
marked by occasional or systematic r-dropping (or non-rhoticity),[25] as 
well as the back tongue positioning of the /uː/ vowel (to [u]) and the 
/aʊ/ vowel (to [ɑʊ~äʊ]).[26] The dialect has its roots in Puritans from 
East Anglia who settled in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, . The Potomac 
River generally divides the Northern and Midland coastal dialects from 
the geographic beginning of the Southern dialect areas; in between these 
two rivers several regional variations exist, chief among them being New 
York City English, whichprevails in and around New York City (including 
Long Island and northeastern New Jersey), defined by variable non-rhoticity 
and a locally unique short-a vowel pronunciation split. The main features 
of Southern American English can be traced to the speech of the English 
from the West Country and Southern England who settled in Virginia after 
leaving England at the time of the English Civil War. Most older Southern 
speech along the Eastern seaboard was non-rhotic, though, today, all local 
Southern dialects are strongly rhotic, defined most recognizably by the 
/aɪ/ vowel losing its gliding quality and approaching [aː~äː], the initiating 
event for the Southern Vowel Shift, which includes a "Southern drawl" that 
makes short front vowels into gliding vowels.[21] A distinctive speech 
pattern also appears near the border between Canada and the United States, 
centered on the Great Lakes region (but only on the American side). Linguists 
call this region the "Inland North", as defined by its local vowel shift—occurring 
in the same region whose "standard Midwestern" speech was the basis for 
General American in the mid-20th century (though prior to this recent vowel 
shift). Those not from this area frequently confuse it with the North Midland 
dialect treated below, referring to both, plus areas to the immediate west 
of the Great Lakes region, all collectively as "the Midwest": a common 
but vaguely delineated term for what is now the central or north-central 
United States. The so-called '"Minnesotan" dialect is also prevalent in 
the cultural Upper Midwest, and is characterized by influences from the 
German and Scandinavian settlers of the region (like "yah" for yes, pronounced 
similarly to "ja" in German, Norwegian and Swedish). In parts of Pennsylvania 
and Ohio, another dialect known as Pennsylvania Dutch English is also spoken. 
Between the traditional American "North" and "South" is what linguists 
have long called the "Midland." This geographically overlaps with some 
states situated in the lower Midwest. West of the Appalachian Mountains 
begins the broad zone of modern-day "Midland" speech. This has often been 
divided into two discrete subdivisions, the "North Midland" that begins 
north of the Ohio River valley area, and the "South Midland" speech, which 
to the American ear has a slight trace of the "Southern accent" (especially 
due to some degree of /aɪ/ glide weakening). Sometimes the former region 
is designated simply "Midland" and the latter is labelled as "Highland 
Southern". The South Midland or Highland Southern dialect follows the Ohio 
River in a generally southwesterly direction, moves across Arkansas and 
Oklahoma west of the Mississippi, and peters out in West Texas. It is a 
version of the Midland speech that has assimilated some coastal Southern 
forms. Modern Midland speech also has no obvious presence or absence of 
the cot–caught merger. Historically, Pennsylvania was the home of the Midland 
dialect, however, this state of early English-speaking settlers has now 
largely split off into new dialect regions, with distinct Philadelphia 
and Pittsburgh dialects documented since the latter half of the twentieth 
century. A generalized Midland speech continues westward until becoming 
a somewhat internally diverse Western American English that unites the 
entire western half of the country. This Western dialect is mostly unified 
by the cot–caught merger and a conservatively backed pronunciation of the 
long oh sound in goat, toe, show, etc., but a fronted pronunciation of 
the long oo sound in goose, lose, tune, etc. Western speech itself contains 
such advanced sub-types as Pacific Northwest English and California English 
(with the Chicano English accent also being a sub-type primarily of the 
Western accent), although, in the immediate San Francisco area, some older 
speakers do not possess the normal Californian cot–caught merger, which 
reflects a historical Mid-Atlantic heritage.[citation needed] The island 
state of Hawaii, though primarily English-speaking, is also home to a creole 
language known commonly as Hawaiian Pidgin, and native Hawaiians may even 
speak English with a Pidgin accent. Although no longer region-specific,[30] 
African American Vernacular English, which remains prevalent particularly 
among working- and middle-class African Americans, has a close relationship 
to Southern varieties of American English and has greatly influenced everyday 
speech of many Americans, including in areas such as hip hop culture. The 
same aforementioned socioeconomic groups, but among Hispanic and Latino 
Americans, have also developed native-speaker varieties of English. The 
best-studied Latino Englishes are Chicano English, spoken in the West and 
Midwest, and New York Latino English, spoken in the New York metropolitan 
area. Additionally, ethnic varieties such as Yeshiva English and "Yinglish" 
are spoken by some American Jews, and Cajun Vernacular English by some 
Cajuns in southern Louisiana. Compared with English as spoken in England, 
North American English[31] is more homogeneous, and any North American 
accent that exhibits a majority of the most common phonological features 
is known as "General American." This section mostly refers to such widespread 
or mainstream pronunciation features that characterize American English. 
Studies on historical usage of English in both the United States and the 
United Kingdom suggest that spoken American English did not simply deviate 
away from period British English, but retained certain now-archaic features 
contemporary British English has since lost.[32] One of these is the rhoticity 
common in most American accents, because in the 17th century, when English 
was brought to the Americas, most English in England was also rhotic. The 
preservation of rhoticity has been further supported by the influences 
of Hiberno-English, West Country English and Scottish English.[33] In most 
varieties of North American English, the sound corresponding to the letter 
⟨r⟩ is a postalveolar approximant [ɹ̠] or retroflex approximant [ɻ] rather 
than a trill or tap (as often heard, for example, in the English accents 
of Scotland or India). A unique "bunched tongue" variant of the approximant 
r sound is also associated with the United States, and seems particularly 
noticeable in the Midwest and South.[34] Many British accents have evolved 
in other ways compared to which General American English has remained relatively 
more conservative, for example, regarding the typical southern British 
features of a trap–bath split, fronting of /oʊ/, and H-dropping. The innovation 
of /t/ glottaling, which does occur before a consonant (including a syllabic 
coronal nasal consonant, like in the words button or satin) and word-finally 
in General American, additionally occurs variably between vowels in British 
English. On the other hand, General American is more innovative than the 
dialects of England, or English elsewhere in the world, in a number of 
its own ways: Some mergers found in most varieties of both American and 
British English include: North America has given the English lexicon many 
thousands of words, meanings, and phrases. Several thousand are now used 
in English as spoken internationally. The process of coining new lexical 
items started as soon as the colonists began borrowing names for unfamiliar 
flora, fauna, and topography from the Native American languages.[50] Examples 
of such names are opossum, raccoon, squash and moose (from Algonquian).[51] 
Other Native American loanwords, such as wigwam or moccasin, describe articles 
in common use among Native Americans. The languages of the other colonizing 
nations also added to the American vocabulary; for instance, cookie, cruller, 
stoop, and pit (of a fruit) from Dutch; angst, kindergarten, sauerkraut 
from German,[52] levee, portage ("carrying of boats or goods") and (probably) 
gopher from French; barbecue[dubious – discuss], stevedore, and rodeo from 
Spanish.[53][54][55][56] Among the earliest and most notable regular "English" 
additions to the American vocabulary, dating from the early days of colonization 
through the early 19th century, are terms describing the features of the 
North American landscape; for instance, run, branch, fork, snag, bluff, 
gulch, neck (of the woods), barrens, bottomland, notch, knob, riffle, rapids, 
watergap, cutoff, trail, timberline and divide.[citation needed] Already 
existing words such as creek, slough, sleet and (in later use) watershed 
received new meanings that were unknown in England.[citation needed] Other 
noteworthy American toponyms are found among loanwords; for example, prairie, 
butte (French); bayou (Choctaw via Louisiana French); coulee (Canadian 
French, but used also in Louisiana with a different meaning); canyon, mesa, 
arroyo (Spanish); vlei, skate, kill (Dutch, Hudson Valley). The word corn, 
used in England to refer to wheat (or any cereal), came to denote the plant 
Zea mays, the most important crop in the U.S., originally named Indian 
corn by the earliest settlers; wheat, rye, barley, oats, etc. came to be 
collectively referred to as grain. Other notable farm related vocabulary 
additions were the new meanings assumed by barn (not only a building for 
hay and grain storage, but also for housing livestock) and team (not just 
the horses, but also the vehicle along with them), as well as, in various 
periods, the terms range, (corn) crib, truck, elevator, sharecropping and 
feedlot.[citation needed] Ranch, later applied to a house style, derives 
from Mexican Spanish; most Spanish contributions came after the War of 
1812, with the opening of the West. Among these are, other than toponyms, 
chaps (from chaparreras), plaza, lasso, bronco, buckaroo, rodeo; examples 
of "English" additions from the cowboy era are bad man,[clarification needed] 
maverick, chuck ("food") and Boot Hill; from the California Gold Rush came 
such idioms as hit pay dirt or strike it rich. The word blizzard probably 
originated in the West. A couple of notable late 18th century additions 
are the verb belittle and the noun bid, both first used in writing by Thomas 
Jefferson.[citation needed] With the new continent developed new forms 
of dwelling, and hence a large inventory of words designating real estate 
concepts (land office, lot, outlands, waterfront, the verbs locate and 
relocate, betterment, addition, subdivision), types of property (log cabin, 
adobe in the 18th century; frame house, apartment, tenement house, shack, 
shanty in the 19th century; project, condominium, townhouse, split-level, 
mobile home, multi-family in the 20th century), and parts thereof (driveway, 
breezeway, backyard, dooryard; clapboard, siding, trim, baseboard; stoop 
(from Dutch), family room, den; and, in recent years, HVAC, central air, 
walkout basement).[citation needed] Ever since the American Revolution, 
a great number of terms connected with the U.S. political institutions 
have entered the language; examples are run (i.e, for office), gubernatorial, 
primary election, carpetbagger (after the Civil War), repeater, lame duck 
(a British term used originally in Banking)[57] and pork barrel. Some of 
these are internationally used (for example, caucus, gerrymander, filibuster, 
exit poll). The development of industry and material innovations throughout 
the 19th and 20th centuries were the source of a massive stock of distinctive 
new words, phrases and idioms. Typical examples are the vocabulary of railroading 
(see further at rail terminology) and transportation terminology, ranging 
from names of roads (from dirt roads and back roads to freeways and parkways) 
to road infrastructure (parking lot, overpass, rest area), and from automotive 
terminology to public transit (for example, in the sentence "riding the 
subway downtown"); such American introductions as commuter (from commutation 
ticket), concourse, to board (a vehicle), to park, double-park and parallel 
park (a car), double decker or the noun terminal have long been used in 
all dialects of English.[58] Trades of various kinds have endowed (American) 
English with household words describing jobs and occupations (bartender, 
longshoreman, patrolman, hobo, bouncer, bellhop, roustabout, white collar, 
blue collar, employee, boss [from Dutch], intern, busboy, mortician, senior 
citizen), businesses and workplaces (department store, supermarket, thrift 
store, gift shop, drugstore, motel, main street, gas station, hardware 
store, savings and loan, hock [also from Dutch]), as well as general concepts 
and innovations (automated teller machine, smart card, cash register, dishwasher, 
reservation [as at hotels], pay envelope, movie, mileage, shortage, outage, 
blood bank).[citation needed] Already existing English words—such as store, 
shop, dry goods, haberdashery, lumber—underwent shifts in meaning; some—such 
as mason, student, clerk, the verbs can (as in "canned goods"), ship, fix, 
carry, enroll (as in school), run (as in "run a business"), release and 
haul—were given new significations, while others (such as tradesman) have 
retained meanings that disappeared in England. From the world of business 
and finance came break-even, merger, delisting, downsize, disintermediation, 
bottom line; from sports terminology came, jargon aside, Monday-morning 
quarterback, cheap shot, game plan (football); in the ballpark, out of 
left field, off base, hit and run, and many other idioms from baseball; 
gamblers coined bluff, blue chip, ante, bottom dollar, raw deal, pass the 
buck, ace in the hole, freeze-out, showdown; miners coined bedrock, bonanza, 
peter out, pan out and the verb prospect from the noun; and railroadmen 
are to be credited with make the grade, sidetrack, head-on, and the verb 
railroad. A number of Americanisms describing material innovations remained 
largely confined to North America: elevator, ground, gasoline; many automotive 
terms fall in this category, although many do not (hatchback, sport utility 
vehicle, station wagon, tailgate, motorhome, truck, pickup truck, to exhaust).[citation 
needed] In addition to the above-mentioned loans from French, Spanish, 
Mexican Spanish, Dutch, and Native American languages, other accretions 
from foreign languages came with 19th and early 20th century immigration; 
notably, from Yiddish (chutzpah, schmooze, tush) and German—hamburger and 
culinary terms like frankfurter/franks, liverwurst, sauerkraut, wiener, 
deli(catessen); scram, kindergarten, gesundheit;[59] musical terminology 
(whole note, half note, etc.); and apparently cookbook, fresh ("impudent") 
and what gives? Such constructions as Are you coming with? and I like to 
dance (for "I like dancing") may also be the result of German or Yiddish 
influence.[60] Finally, a large number of English colloquialisms from various 
periods are American in origin; some have lost their American flavor (from 
OK and cool to nerd and 24/7), while others have not (have a nice day, 
for sure);[61][62] many are now distinctly old-fashioned (swell, groovy). 
Some English words now in general use, such as hijacking, disc jockey, 
boost, bulldoze and jazz, originated as American slang. Among the many 
English idioms of U.S. origin are get the hang of, bark up the wrong tree, 
keep tabs, run scared, take a backseat, have an edge over, stake a claim, 
take a shine to, in on the ground floor, bite off more than one can chew, 
off/on the wagon, stay put, inside track, stiff upper lip, bad hair day, 
throw a monkey wrench/monkeywrenching, under the weather, jump bail, come 
clean, come again?, it ain't over till it's over, and what goes around 
comes around.[citation needed] American English has always shown a marked 
tendency to use nouns as verbs.[63] Examples of verbed nouns are interview, 
advocate, vacuum, lobby, pressure, rear-end, transition, feature, profile, 
spearhead, skyrocket, showcase, service (as a car), corner, torch, exit 
(as in "exit the lobby"), factor (in mathematics), gun ("shoot"), author 
(which disappeared in English around 1630 and was revived in the U.S. three 
centuries later) and, out of American material, proposition, graft (bribery), 
bad-mouth, vacation, major, backpack, backtrack, intern, ticket (traffic 
violations), hassle, blacktop, peer-review, dope and OD, and, of course 
verbed as used at the start of this sentence. Compounds coined in the U.S. 
are for instance foothill, flatlands, badlands, landslide (in all senses), 
overview (the noun), backdrop, teenager, brainstorm, bandwagon, hitchhike, 
smalltime, deadbeat, frontman, lowbrow and highbrow, hell-bent, foolproof, 
nitpick, about-face (later verbed), upfront (in all senses), fixer-upper, 
no-show; many of these are phrases used as adverbs or (often) hyphenated 
attributive adjectives: non-profit, for-profit, free-for-all, ready-to-wear, 
catchall, low-down, down-and-out, down and dirty, in-your-face, nip and 
tuck; many compound nouns and adjectives are open: happy hour, fall guy, 
capital gain, road trip, wheat pit, head start, plea bargain; some of these 
are colorful (empty nester, loan shark, ambulance chaser, buzz saw, ghetto 
blaster, dust bunny), others are euphemistic (differently abled (physically 
challenged), human resources, affirmative action, correctional facility). 
Many compound nouns have the form verb plus preposition: add-on, stopover, 
lineup, shakedown, tryout, spin-off, rundown ("summary"), shootout, holdup, 
hideout, comeback, cookout, kickback, makeover, takeover, rollback ("decrease"), 
rip-off, come-on, shoo-in, fix-up, tie-in, tie-up ("stoppage"), stand-in. 
These essentially are nouned phrasal verbs; some prepositional and phrasal 
verbs are in fact of American origin (spell out, figure out, hold up, brace 
up, size up, rope in, back up/off/down/out, step down, miss out, kick around, 
cash in, rain out, check in and check out (in all senses), fill in ("inform"), 
kick in or throw in ("contribute"), square off, sock in, sock away, factor 
in/out, come down with, give up on, lay off (from employment), run into 
and across ("meet"), stop by, pass up, put up (money), set up ("frame"), 
trade in, pick up on, pick up after, lose out).[citation needed][64] Noun 
endings such as -ee (retiree), -ery (bakery), -ster (gangster) and -cian 
(beautician) are also particularly productive.[63] Some verbs ending in 
-ize are of U.S. origin; for example, fetishize, prioritize, burglarize, 
accessorize, itemize, editorialize, customize, notarize, weatherize, winterize, 
Mirandize; and so are some back-formations (locate, fine-tune, evolute, 
curate, donate, emote, upholster, peeve and enthuse). Among syntactical 
constructions that arose in the U.S. are as of (with dates and times), 
outside of, headed for, meet up with, back of, convince someone to, not 
about to and lack for. Americanisms formed by alteration of some existing 
words include notably pesky, phony, rambunctious, pry (as in "pry open", 
from prize), putter (verb), buddy, sundae, skeeter, sashay and kitty-corner. 
Adjectives that arose in the U.S. are for example, lengthy, bossy, cute 
and cutesy, grounded (of a child), punk (in all senses), sticky (of the 
weather), through (as in "through train", or meaning "finished"), and many 
colloquial forms such as peppy or wacky. American blends include motel, 
guesstimate, infomercial and televangelist. A number of words and meanings 
that originated in Middle English or Early Modern English and that have 
been in everyday use in the United States dropped out in most varieties 
of British English; some of these have cognates in Lowland Scots. Terms 
such as fall ("autumn"), faucet ("tap"), diaper ("nappy"), candy ("sweets"), 
skillet, eyeglasses and obligate are often regarded as Americanisms. Fall 
for example came to denote the season in 16th century England, a contraction 
of Middle English expressions like "fall of the leaf" and "fall of the 
year".[65] During the 17th century, English immigration to the British 
colonies in North America was at its peak and the new settlers took the 
English language with them. While the term fall gradually became obsolete 
in Britain, it became the more common term in North America. Gotten (past 
participle of get) is often considered to be an Americanism, although there 
are some areas of Britain, such as Lancashire and North East England, that 
still continue to use it and sometimes also use putten as the past participle 
for put (which is not done by most speakers of American English).[66] Other 
words and meanings, to various extents, were brought back to Britain, especially 
in the second half of the 20th century; these include hire ("to employ"), 
quit ("to stop", which spawned quitter in the U.S.), I guess (famously 
criticized by H. W. Fowler), baggage, hit (a place), and the adverbs overly 
and presently ("currently"). Some of these, for example monkey wrench and 
wastebasket, originated in 19th century Britain. The mandative subjunctive 
(as in "the City Attorney suggested that the case not be closed") is livelier 
in American English than it is in British English. It appears in some areas 
as a spoken usage and is considered obligatory in contexts that are more 
formal. The adjectives mad meaning "angry", smart meaning "intelligent", 
and sick meaning "ill" are also more frequent in American (these meanings 
are also frequent in Hiberno-English) than British English.[67][68][69] 
Linguist Bert Vaux created a survey, completed in 2003, polling English 
speakers across the United States about the specific words they would use 
in everyday speech for various concepts.[70] This 2003 study concluded 
that: American English and British English (BrE) often differ at the levels 
of phonology, phonetics, vocabulary, and, to a much lesser extent, grammar 
and orthography. The first large American dictionary, An American Dictionary 
of the English Language, known as Webster's Dictionary, was written by 
Noah Webster in 1828, codifying several of these spellings. Differences 
in grammar are relatively minor, and do not normally affect mutual intelligibility; 
these include: different use of some auxiliary verbs; formal (rather than 
notional) agreement with collective nouns; different preferences for the 
past forms of a few verbs (for example, AmE/BrE: learned/learnt, burned/burnt, 
snuck/sneaked, dove/dived) although the purportedly "British" forms can 
occasionally be seen in American English writing as well; different prepositions 
and adverbs in certain contexts (for example, AmE in school, BrE at school); 
and whether or not a definite article is used, in very few cases (AmE to 
the hospital, BrE to hospital; contrast, however, AmE actress Elizabeth 
Taylor, BrE the actress Elizabeth Taylor). Often, these differences are 
a matter of relative preferences rather than absolute rules; and most are 
not stable, since the two varieties are constantly influencing each other,[72] 
and American English is not a standardized set of dialects. Differences 
in orthography are also minor. The main differences are that American English 
usually uses spellings such as flavor for British flavour, fiber for fibre, 
defense for defence, analyze for analyse, license for licence, catalog 
for catalogue and traveling for travelling. Noah Webster popularized such 
spellings in America, but he did not invent most of them. Rather, "he chose 
already existing options [...] on such grounds as simplicity, analogy or 
etymology".[73] Other differences are due to the francophile tastes of 
the 19th century Victorian era Britain (for example they preferred programme 
for program, manoeuvre for maneuver, cheque for check, etc.).[74] AmE almost 
always uses -ize in words like realize. BrE prefers -ise, but also uses 
-ize on occasion (see Oxford spelling). There are a few differences in 
punctuation rules. British English is more tolerant of run-on sentences, 
called "comma splices" in American English, and American English requires 
that periods and commas be placed inside closing quotation marks even in 
cases in which British rules would place them outside. American English 
also favors the double quotation mark over single.[75] AmE sometimes favors 
words that are morphologically more complex, whereas BrE uses clipped forms, 
such as AmE transportation and BrE transport or where the British form 
is a back-formation, such as AmE burglarize and BrE burgle (from burglar). 
However, while individuals usually use one or the other, both forms will 
be widely understood and mostly used alongside each other within the two 
systems. British English also differs from American English in that some 
British words are pronounced with silent letters that are normally heard 
in AmE, such as the "c" in "schedule." Click on a coloured area to see 
