The American League Championship Series (ALCS) is a best-of-seven series 
played in October in the Major League Baseball postseason that determines 
the winner of the American League (AL) pennant. The winner of the series 
advances to play the winner of the National League (NL) Championship Series 
(NLCS) in the World Series, Major League Baseball's championship series. 
It started in 1969, when the AL reorganized into two divisions, East and 
West. The winners of each division played each other in a best-of-five 
series to determine who would advance to the World Series. In 1985, the 
format changed to best-of-seven. In 1994, the league was restructured into 
three divisions, with the three division winners and a wild-card team advancing 
to a best-of-five postseason round, known as the American League Division 
Series (ALDS). The winners of that round then advanced to the best-of-seven 
ALCS. In 2012, the playoffs were expanded again so that two wild card teams 
face off in a one-game wild card round to determine which team advances 
to the division series, with the playoffs then continuing as it had before 
2012 (though with the possibility of a fifth seed being in the playoffs 
and a fourth seed being out) after the end of the wild card round. This 
is the system currently in use. The ALCS and NLCS, since the expansion 
to best-of-seven, are always played in a 2–3–2 format: Games 1, 2, 6, and 
7 are played in the stadium of the team that has home field advantage, 
and Games 3, 4, and 5 are played in the stadium of the team that does not. 
The series concludes when one team records its fourth win. Since 1998, 
home field advantage has been given to the team that has the better regular 
season record, unless that team happens to be the Wild Card team. In that 
case, the other team gets home field advantage, because by rule the Wild 
Card team is never allowed home field advantage in a Division Series or 
LCS. In the event that both teams have identical records in the regular 
season, home field advantage goes to the team that has the winning head-to-head 
record. From 1969 to 1993, home field advantage alternated between the 
two divisions, and from 1995 to 1997 home field advantage was determined 
before the season. Every current American League team except for the Houston 
Astros has played in the ALCS at least once. The Milwaukee Brewers, an 
American League team between 1969 and 1997, is the only franchise to play 
in the ALCS (1982) and NLCS (2011). No franchise has won both the National 
League and American League Championship Series. The William Harridge Trophy 
is awarded to the ALCS champion. The trophy's namesake comes from the American 
League president from 1931 to 1959.[1] The Lee MacPhail Most Valuable Player 
(MVP) award is given to the outstanding player in the ALCS. No MVP award 
is given for Division Series play. Although the National League began its 
LCS MVP award in 1977, the American League did not begin its LCS MVP award 
till 1980. The winners are listed (1) below in the section on "ALCS results 
(1969–present)", in the "Series MVP" column, (2) at League Championship 
Series Most Valuable Player Award, and (3) on the MLB website.[2] Click 
