American football in the United States is the most popular sport in the 
country.[1][2][3][4][5][6][7] The National Football League has the highest 
average attendance of any sports league in the world. In the United States 
the game is most often referred to as simply "football". There is no single 
national governing body for American football in the United States or a 
continental governing body for North America. There is an international 
governing body, the International Federation of American Football, or IFAF. 
Befitting its status as a popular sport, football is played in leagues 
of different size, age and quality, in all regions of the country. Organized 
football is played almost exclusively by men and boys, although a few amateur 
and semi-professional women's leagues have begun play in recent years. 
A team / academy may be referred to as a 'football program' [8] - not to 
be confused with football program. The governing body for American football 
in the United States is USA Football. The 32-team National Football League 
(NFL) is currently the only major or borderline-major professional American 
football league in the United States. There have been numerous attempts 
over the past several decades to create a second major or high-level professional 
league, most of which failed within a few years or, in the cases of the 
All-America Football Conference and 1960s American Football League, merged 
with the NFL. The NFL has not operated any developmental leagues since 
the folding of the NFL Europe League in 2007, and as of 2015, one independent 
minor professional league, the four-team Fall Experimental Football League, 
operates. From the time of NFL Europe's exit from the U.S. market in 1992 
until the founding of the Stars Football League in 2011, there were no 
minor American football leagues anywhere in the country (the SFL ceased 
operations after its 2013 season). There are, however, several professional 
indoor football leagues, played at basketball-sized arenas. The oldest 
one is the Arena Football League, which had several teams co-owned by several 
NFL owners but is officially independent from the NFL. Indoor football 
leagues play by significantly different rules that encourage higher scoring 
and accommodate a smaller field of play. Some players that do not make 
the NFL play in indoor leagues or go to Canada and play in the Canadian 
Football League, which operates professionally on a somewhat older rule 
system with a number of differences from the American game but still recognizable 
as "football" to the casual American football observer. The CFL allocates 
half of its teams' rosters for players born and raised in Canada but allows 
the rest of the players to be foreign born (in practice, these spots are 
almost always filled by Americans); the CFL also has television presence 
in the United States and as recently as 1995 played games in the U.S. College 
football is also popular throughout North America.[9] Most of college football 
in the United States is governed by the NCAA. Most colleges and universities 
have football teams, often with dedicated football stadiums. These teams 
mostly play other similarly sized schools, through the NCAA's divisional 
system, which divides collegiate sports teams into four divisions (I-FBS, 
I-FCS, II and III). The largest, most popular collegiate teams routinely 
fill stadiums larger than 75,000.[10] Four college football stadiums, The 
University of Michigan's Michigan Stadium, Penn State's Beaver Stadium, 
The University of Tennessee's Neyland Stadium and Ohio State's Ohio Stadium, 
seat more than 100,000 fans and usually sell out. The weekly autumn ritual 
of college football includes marching bands, cheerleaders, homecoming, 
parties, the tailgate party; it forms an important part of the culture 
in much of small-town America.[11][12] Football is a major source of revenue 
to the athletic programs of schools, public and private, in the United 
States.[13] The top college football players enter the NFL Draft after 
their college careers are over, in hopes of signing with an NFL team. "FBS" 
and "FCS" are abbreviations for the Football Bowl Subdivision and Football 
Championship Subdivision, two sections of Division I that exist only in 
football. These two subdivisions were formerly known as Divisions I-A and 
I-AA respectively. The Championship Subdivision, consisting mostly of smaller 
schools than the FBS but larger than D-II, has a multiple-round playoff 
system just like Divisions II and III, while the Bowl Subdivision has only 
a limited, and unofficial, four-team playoff and has historically only 
featured division championships and bowl games. Unofficially, the Bowl 
Subdivision is divided into two further subdivisions, "major conferences" 
(also known as "Power Five Conferences") and "mid-majors" (known in modern 
parlance as the "Group of Five"). In practice, only major conference teams 
are eligible to compete for the national championship and receive significant 
favor in the opinion polling over mid-majors, and it was not until the 
addition of the BCS National Championship Game that mid-majors had a realistic 
chance at appearing in one of the major bowls. Although the FCS has a playoff, 
three conferences do not participate (the Ivy League does not allow its 
teams to play in the postseason, and the historically black SWAC and MEAC 
instead play each other in a bowl of their own). Division III teams do 
not offer scholarships to their players; there is at least one Division 
I conference, the Pioneer Football League, that also does not offer scholarships. 
With the exception of the annual Army–Navy Game, only Power Five conference 
teams air on broadcast television, although mid-majors, FCS teams, D-II 
and D-III games can see more limited coverage on cable television. Though 
the NCAA is the most publicized college athletic organization, the NAIA 
(which houses mostly smaller private colleges in the midwest) and NJCAA 
(an association for community colleges) also sanction football games; there 
also exists a club football circuit for student-run teams and colleges 
that choose not to compete at the varsity level. In addition to this, nine 
colleges field teams in the Collegiate Sprint Football League, a league 
in which all players must weigh less than 172 pounds in order to be eligible 
to play; five of those teams are long-established sprint teams that co-exist 
alongside their NCAA counterparts (three from the Ivy League and two military 
academies), while four recent additions either never had a varsity squad 
(the most recent, Chestnut Hill College, was an all-women's school that 
did not even admit men until 2003) or downgraded from an NCAA team to a 
sprint team. Most American high schools field football teams. High school 
football is popular; top schools regularly fill stadiums holding over 10,000 
fans, and can afford artificial playing surfaces.[14][15] High school teams 
generally play only against other teams from their state (notable exceptions 
include matchups between nearby schools located on opposite sides of a 
state line and occasional matchups between two nationally ranked teams 
for television purposes). Still, some private Christian high schools play 
for national championships through organizations like the Federated Christian 
Athletic Association. The National Federation of State High School Associations 
is the sanctioning body for most public high school football in the United 
States. Adult amateur football, also known as semi-pro football, is a level 
of American football. It's commonly known as "working man's" football, 
meaning the players have regular jobs and play football on the weekends. 
Though the players don't get paid, the leagues and the games are run in 
a somewhat professional manner. For most leagues, it's against the rules 
to pay its players to play. The rules of the game are usually a hybrid 
of NFL and NCAA rules. There are several different leagues playing in the 
United States: The North American Football League (NAFL) is an adult amateur 
American football league. Its teams are located mainly in the Eastern, 
Midwestern and Southern United States. The teams mostly play regionally 
in the regular season to keep travel short. In the playoffs, winners of 
regional play will meet each other for the league championship. The New 
England Football League (NEFL) has over 30 teams, with at least one in 
each of the six New England states. The league has three skill levels (A 
being more for recreational play; AAA being the most comptetitive; AA is 
somewhat in between). The Eastern Football League, based in New England, 
but at times teams from New York state have competed, is one of the country's 
oldest semi-pro leagues. It started play in 1961. The Mid Continental Football 
League began play in 1991 and by the 1990s had expanded through much of 
the midwest and mid-Atlantic United States before the league split apart 
and contracted into a four-state area in the midwest. Upstate New York 
also houses the oldest surviving professional football club in the United 
States, the Watertown Red & Black, founded in 1896. The Pacific Northwest 
Football League (PNFL) started in 2016 and currently has 6 teams, 4 in 
Portland, Oregon and 2 in Vancouver, Washington. An unusual semi-pro league 
is the National Public Safety Football League. It includes teams in most 
major markets in the United States; all of its players come from the ranks 
of public employees, generally firefighters and police officers. Several 
leagues supporting women's semi-professional football play have existed. 
The two current major leagues are the Independent Women's Football League 
(IWFL) and the Women's Football Alliance (WFA). The WFA plans to begin 
play in 2009 stocked with teams from two recently dissolved leagues, the 
National Women's Football Association and Women's Professional Football 
League (NWFA and WPFL respectively). Football is played recreationally 
by amateur and youth teams (e.g., American Youth Football and Pop Warner 
little-league programs). There are also many "semi-pro" teams in leagues 
where the players are paid to play but at a small enough salary that they 
generally must also hold a full-time job.[citation needed] Due to the speed 
and violence of the sport, many non-organized football games involve variations 
of the rules to minimize contact and risk of injury.[citation needed] These 
include touch football and flag football. Another variation, backyard football, 
features the full tackling of its organized counterparts but far less equipment 
and simplified rules. USA Football assembles a national football team for 
competition in the IFAF World Championship every four years. Because of 
concerns over competitive balance, USA Football did not field teams for 
the first two events in 1999 and 2003. The 2007 team consisted solely of 
amateur players who had graduated from college that spring, from a diverse 
mix of smaller and larger colleges and universities. The 2011 squad's criteria 
were looser, allowing some professional players to play (mostly unemployed, 
lower-end and minor league players; no NFL or NCAA stars participated). 
Both the 2007 and 2011 incarnations of the team won their year's respective 
world championship. The IFAF also fields an U-19 team composed of high 
school football players that has participated in the 2009, 2012, 2014 and 
2016 junior world championships. The national U-19 team won the 2009 and 
