The American Series (Spanish: La Temporada Americana) was a set of baseball 
games played between Cuban and American teams in Cuba. An American team 
would travel to Cuba and play various professional, all-star and/or amateur 
Cuban teams throughout the country.[1][2] The series usually took place 
either in the fall, after the end of the American season, or during spring 
training before the season began. The first American Series took place 
in 1879, with then minor league Worcester team going 2–0 against its Cuban 
opponents. Various major, minor and Negro league teams took part in the 
American Series, including the Cincinnati Reds, Lincoln Giants and Boston 
Red Sox. In 1900, the Brooklyn Superbas and the New York Giants became 
the first major league teams to play in the series, with the two teams 
facing off against each other and with Brooklyn also playing four games 
against local Cuban League teams and generally overwhelming them.[3] Eight 
years later, the Cincinnati Reds came to Cuba and found stronger competition 
there, as they went 6–6 against the Cuban League teams and 0–1 against 
the Negro league Brooklyn Royal Giants.[4] Series against major league 
opponents continued every year from 1908 to 1913, and then occasionally 
until 1953.[5][6] The final American Series games before the Cuban League 
disbanded were played from March 20 to 21, 1959, when the Los Angeles Dodgers, 
featuring Sandy Koufax and Don Drysdale, faced the Cincinnati Reds in spring 
training games played in Havana.[7] After a 40-year hiatus, a Major League 
Baseball team returned to Cuba in 1999, when the Baltimore Orioles played 
a two-game series (one game in Havana, the other in Baltimore) against 
the Cuban national baseball team. Many well-known names played in American 
Series, including Babe Ruth, Ty Cobb, Josh Gibson, Sam Crawford, Jackie 
Robinson, Ted Williams and Christy Mathewson.[8] In December 1879, the 
Worcester team of the National Association became the first professional 
baseball team to visit Cuba. The team was promoted in Cuba as the "Hop 
Bitters", which was actually the name of the Rochester franchise. The trip 
was a financial failure, as they were only able to play two games against 
Cuban teams. The following season, Worcester achieved major league status 
when it was admitted to the National League.[9] A team known as the "All-Americans", 
which included John McGraw playing shortstop, played a series of five games 
against Cuban League teams, winning all of them by lopsided scores.[10] 
The major league Brooklyn Superbas played four games in Havana against 
Cuban teams from November 5 through 25, winning all four games by lopsided 
scores. Brooklyn beat Cubano 12–2 and 10–2, Habana 13–1, and San Francisco 
14–6.[3] The 1908 series saw two Cuban League teams, one Negro league team, 
and one Major League team compete. The Cincinnati Reds played 14 games, 
playing seven against Almendares, six against Habana, and one against the 
Brooklyn Royal Giants. The Almendares won five games and lost only one, 
with one tie; Cincinnati won six and lost seven, also with a tie; Habana 
won one and lost five, and Brooklyn won its only game.[4][11] The series 
is best known for the pitching performance of José Méndez of Almendares, 
who had just gone 9–0 in his rookie Cuban League season. In three appearances, 
Méndez held the Reds scoreless for 25 consecutive innings. In his first 
start, he pitched a one-hitter and struck out nine. His next appearance 
came in relief, where he held the Reds to two hits in seven innings. He 
concluded the series with another shutout.[12] Overall, he struck out 24, 
walked three, and gave up eight hits in 25 scoreless innings.[13] In the 
1909 series, Habana went 6-3 in nine games to finish with the best winning 
percentage. Almendares went 5–3, and Detroit, the American League pennant 
winner, went 4–8.[14] Detroit star Ty Cobb did not participate in the series.[15] 
A major league all-star team, featuring Addie Joss, Mordecai Brown, Sherry 
Magee, and Fred Merkle played five games against the Cuban teams and went 
2–3.[16] The series featured an 11-inning no-hitter pitched by Eustaquio 
Pedroso of Almendares against Bill Lelivelt of the Tigers. The game went 
to extra innings with the score tied 1–1, as Almendares had allowed an 
unearned run in the seventh inning on a throwing error. In the eleventh 
inning, a well-executed squeeze bunt by Armando Cabañas gave Almendares 
a 2–1 victory.[17] After two consecutive series in which Cuban teams had 
best winning percentage, in 1910 the American team finished with the best 
winning percentage, as the Detroit Tigers went 7-4 in 12 games.[18] The 
New York Giants, featuring Baseball Hall of Famer Christy Mathewson, won 
9 of their 12 games. The Phillies went 5-4, Almendares went 4-6, and the 
Havana Park club finished 3-8.[19] Only three teams competed in the 1912 
Cuban-American series, with the Philadelphia Athletics winning 10 of their 
12 games. Philadelphia's Eddie Collins batted .417, and pitcher Jack Coombs 
won all five of his games.[20] Habana went winless in six games.[21] The 
Brooklyn Dodgers went 10-5. Habana won three of their 7 games, and Almendares 
finished the series 2-6.[22] The St. Louis Terriers, featuring pitcher 
Eddie Plank and Cuban center fielder Armando Marsans, went 7–2.[23] A record 
crowd of 10,619 turned out to see the first game of the series, a pitching 
duel between Pittsburgh's Hal Carlson and Habana's Oscar Tuero that Pittsburgh 
won 1–0. The Pirates went 10–6, while Habana was 4–4 and Almendares was 
2–6.[24] Babe Ruth was reportedly paid between $1,000 and $2,000 per game 
to join the Giants in the last half of the series. By the time he hit his 
first home run in his fifth game, Cuban slugger Cristóbal Torriente had 
already stolen his thunder by hitting three home runs in one game (one 
of them off Ruth, who briefly pitched in the game). Almendares beat the 
Giants 4–2 (with two tied games), while the Giants won the series against 
Habana 6–1 (with one tie). A game against a Cuban all-star team also ended 
in a tie.[25] In games against Habana and Almendares, the Dodgers went 
10–5. Those series were followed by a five-game series between the Dodgers 
and a Cuban all-star team; the Cubans won 3–2.[26] As part of their spring 
training, the St. Louis Cardinals played four games in Havana against Habana 
and Almendares. Habana won both of their matches against the Cardinals, 
while the Cardinals swept both games from Almendares.[27] Almendares beat 
the Giants in both games they played, 6–1 and 4–0, and Habana won their 
game 9–1. The Giants managed a 1–1 tie in a game against a Cuban all-star 
team, and beat Fortuna, an amateur team, 7–2. An armed forces team also 
won a game against the Giants, 7–4. The St. Louis Cardinals also came to 
Havana to play two games against the Giants, which they split.[28] During 
their 1940 spring training, the National League champion Cincinnati Reds 
played three games in Havana against a Cuban League all-star team. The 
Cubans won the first game 11–7, while the Reds won the second 6–1 behind 
the pitching of Bucky Walters. The third game ended in a 4–4 tie.[29] The 
Brooklyn Dodgers conducted their spring training in Havana. That spring 
the Dodgers played a five-game series against a Cuban League all-star team, 
going 2–2 with one tied game. The Dodgers also played series in Havana 
against the New York Giants and the Cleveland Indians. Another series was 
played in Havana between the Cincinnati Reds and the Boston Red Sox. The 
Red Sox also agreed to play one game against a Cuban amateur all-star team. 
The Cuban amateurs won, 2–1.[30] The Dodgers again used Havana as their 
spring training site and played series there against a Cuban all-star team 
and against the New York Giants. The Dodgers lost the series with the Cubans 
three games to two.[31] The Washington Senators opened their spring training 
in Havana. They swept all five games that they played against a Cuban all-star 
team. They also played a series against the Boston Red Sox in Havana. In 
October, a National League "all-star" team managed by Chuck Dressen played 
against a Cuban all-star team. The major league team won the series 5–4.[32] 
In 1947, the Brooklyn Dodgers were preparing to promote Jackie Robinson 
and integrate the major leagues. Brooklyn team president, Branch Rickey, 
decided to hold their spring training to avoid southern segregation.[33] 
In Havana, the Dodgers played series against the Boston Braves and the 
New York Yankees. While the Yankees were visiting, they played a game against 
a Cuban all-star team. The Cubans won behind the pitching of Connie Marrero, 
who held the Yankees to one run on four hits. A week later, the Dodgers 
faced the Havana Cubans, a minor league affiliate of the Washington Senators 
that was composed of Cuban players. Marrero again pitched as a member of 
the Cubans, struck out eight, and allowed four hits and one run, but the 
Dodgers held the Cubans scoreless to win the game 1–0.[34] Robinson was 
still assigned to the Montreal Royals, the Dodgers' Class AAA affiliate, 
which also trained in Havana. Two other black players, Roy Campanella and 
Don Newcombe, were also assigned to the Royals. Montreal played five games 
against the two Cuban teams, winning three, losing one, and tying one game. 
In those five games, Robinson went 8 for 19, a .421 average.[34] The Athletics 
won the three-game series 2–1, with the Cubans winning the second game 
6–4.[35] Branch Rickey had the Pittsburgh Pirates conduct their spring 
training in Havana, where they played 10 games against the Cubans, a Cuban 
all-star team managed by Rodolfo Fernández. The Pirates went 6–4 against 
the Cubans, with Felipe Montemayor of the Pirates hitting five home runs.[36] 
After an exhibition series played between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the 
Cincinnati Reds on March 20–21, 1959, less than three months after the 
Cuban Revolution, no Major League Baseball team played in Cuba for 40 years. 
In 1999, the Baltimore Orioles arranged to play a two-game series against 
the Cuban national baseball team, with the first game played in Havana 
on March 28, and the second game played in Baltimore on May 3. The Orioles 
won the first game, 3–2, and the Cuban national team won the second, 12–6.[37][38] 
Series were played between teams in the Cuban League and in the Negro leagues.[39] 
The first series played in Cuba by a Negro league baseball team was by 
the Cuban X-Giants, a team of American players that was managed by E. B. 
Lamar and included Frank Grant and Clarence Williams. They played at least 
17 games in Cuba; accounts are available for 15 games. Of these recorded 
games, the Cuban X-Giants won 12 and lost 3. Among their Cuban opponents, 
Criollos won two and lost one, and Habana split their two games. The other 
Cuban teams were swept, with "Cuba" losing three, Almendares losing two, 
and Indepencia, Libertad, and "10 de Octubre" losing one game apiece.[40][41] 
The Cuban X-Giants, an American Negro league team featuring Rube Foster, 
Pete Hill, Home Run Johnson, and Clarence Williams, played nine games in 
Cuba from December 1 through December 9, 1903, winning only two. The Cuban 
X-Giants lost games to Colombia 6–3 and 2–1, lost two games and tied one 
against Criollo, 4–0, 3–2, and 2–2, lost one game against Maine, 10–3, 
and won two games against Nuevo Azul, 4–0 and 3–1, while losing one, 4–3.[42] 
The Cuban X-Giants, featuring Home Run Johnson, Harry Buckner, Dan McClellan, 
and Clarence Williams, won six of eight against Cuban teams. The X-Giants 
went 2–0 against both the Azul club and the Carmelita club, won one game 
against Nuevo Criollo, and went 1–2 against Habana.[43] The Cuban X-Giants 
again visited Cuba and won five of nine games. They went 1–2 against the 
All Cubans, 2–1 against Club Fé, and 2–1 against Habana.[44] In their fourth 
visit to Cuba, the Cuban X-Giants, featuring Pete Hill, Harry Buckner, 
Bill Gatewood, and Bruce Petway, went 6–5. They went 4–1 against Habana, 
but went 2–4 against Almendares.[45] The Philadelphia Giants, featuring 
John Henry Lloyd, Home Run Johnson, Dan McClellan, and Bill Gatewood, went 
10–12 in their visit to Cuba. They lost series to Almendares and to Habana, 
both by 5–6.[46] The Brooklyn Royal Giants, featuring Bill Monroe, Home 
Run Johnson, Pete Hill, and Judy Gans, played sixteen games against Cuban 
League teams in Havana in late October and early November. Almendares won 
five and lost four; Brooklyn split their games, winning eight and losing 
eight, and Habana won three and lost four.[47][48][49] The Chicago Leland 
Giants, featuring Home Run Johnson, Pete Hill, John Henry Lloyd, and Rube 
Foster, played a series against Cuban League teams in Havana in late October 
and early November.[50] Detailed statistics are available for 13 games, 
though there was at least one additional game—a 3–1 victory by Almendares 
over the Leland Giants—for which statistics are not available.[51] Of the 
13 games for which statistics are available, Almendares beat the Leland 
Giants five times and lost twice, with one tie, and Habana lost all five 
games they played against the Chicago team.[52] The Lincoln Giants of New 
York City, featuring John Henry Lloyd, Dick Redding, Louis Santop, and 
Cyclone Joe Williams, played a series against Cuban League teams in Havana 
in December.[53] Almendares won four games and lost two, and Habana won 
four games and lost three, while the Lincoln Giants won five and lost eight.[54][55] 
The Lincoln Stars of New York City, featuring Dizzy Dismukes, Spottswood 
Poles, Dick Redding, and Louis Santop, played a 14-game series against 
Cuban League teams in Havana from October 9 through November 2. Almendares 
won six games and lost one, and Habana won three games, lost three, and 
tied one, while the Lincoln Giants won four, lost nine, and tied one. Statistics 
were not available for the last game of the series.[56][57] The Indianapolis 
ABCs, featuring Oscar Charleston, Bingo DeMoss, Dick Redding, and Ben Taylor, 
played a 20-game series against Cuban League teams in Havana during October 
and November. Habana won six games and lost three; Almendares won five 
games and lost four; San Francisco won one and lost one; and Indianapolis 
