American football, referred to as football in the United States and Canada, 
and also known as gridiron, is a sport played by two teams of eleven players 
on a rectangular field with goalposts at each end. The offense, the team 
with control of the oval-shaped football, attempts to advance down the 
field by running with or passing the ball, while the team without control 
of the ball, the defense, aims to stop their advance and take control of 
the ball for themselves. The offense must advance at least ten yards in 
four downs, or plays, or else they turn over the football to the opposing 
team; if they succeed, they are given a new set of four downs. Points are 
primarily scored by advancing the ball into the opposing team's end zone 
for a touchdown or kicking the ball through the opponent's goalposts for 
a field goal. The team with the most points at the end of a game wins. 
American football evolved in the United States, originating from the sports 
of association football and rugby football. The first game of American 
football was played on November 6, 1869, between two college teams, Rutgers 
and Princeton, under rules based on the association football rules of the 
time.[2] During the latter half of the 1870s, colleges playing association 
football switched to the Rugby Union code, which allowed carrying the ball. 
A set of rule changes drawn up from 1880 onward by Walter Camp, the "Father 
of American Football", established the snap, eleven-player teams, and the 
concept of downs; later rule changes legalized the forward pass, created 
the neutral zone, and specified the size and shape of the football. American 
football as a whole is the most popular sport in the United States. Professional 
football and college football are the most popular forms of the game, with 
the other major levels being high school and youth football. As of 2012[update], 
nearly 1.1 million high school athletes and 70,000 college athletes play 
the sport in the United States annually. The National Football League, 
the most popular American football league, has the highest average attendance 
of any sports league in the world; its championship game, the Super Bowl, 
ranks among the most-watched club sporting events in the world, and the 
league has an annual revenue of around US$10 billion. In the United States, 
American football is referred to as "football."[3] The term "football" 
was officially established in the rulebook for the 1876 college football 
season, when the sport first shifted from soccer-style rules to rugby-style 
rules. Harvard was one of the primary proponents of the rugby-style game, 
and it could easily have been called "rugby" at this point; however, Harvard 
compromised and did not request that the name be changed to "rugby".[4] 
The terms "gridiron" or "American football" are favored in English-speaking 
countries where other codes of football are popular, such as the United 
Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia.[5][6] • Origins of 
American football • Close relations: • Black players in American professional 
football • Homosexuality in American football • Concussions in American 
football • Rugby union comparison • Rugby league comparison • Canadian 
football comparison • Pro Football Hall of Fame • College Football Hall 
of Fame • Years in American football American football evolved from the 
sports of association football (soccer) and rugby football.[7] Rugby football, 
like American football, is a sport where two competing teams vie for control 
of a ball, which can be kicked through a set of goalposts or run into the 
opponent's goal area to score points.[8] What is considered to be the first 
American football game was played on November 6, 1869 between Rutgers and 
Princeton, two college teams. The game was played between two teams of 
25 players each and used a round ball that could not be picked up or carried. 
It could, however, be kicked or batted with the feet, hands, head or sides, 
with the ultimate goal being to advance it into the opponent's goal. Rutgers 
won the game 6 goals to 4.[9][10] Collegiate play continued for several 
years in which matches were played using the rules of the host school. 
Representatives of Yale, Columbia, Princeton and Rutgers met on October 
19, 1873 to create a standard set of rules for all schools to adhere to. 
Teams were set at 20 players each, and fields of 400 by 250 feet (122 m 
× 76 m) were specified. Harvard abstained from the conference, as they 
favored a rugby-style game that allowed running with the ball.[10] An 1875 
Harvard-Yale game played under rugby-style rules was observed by two impressed 
Princeton athletes. These players introduced the sport to Princeton, a 
feat the Professional Football Researchers Association compared to "selling 
refrigerators to Eskimos."[10] Princeton, Harvard, Yale and Columbia then 
agreed to intercollegiate play using a form of rugby union rules with a 
modified scoring system.[11] These schools formed the Intercollegiate Football 
Association, although Yale did not join until 1879. Yale player Walter 
Camp, now regarded as the "Father of American Football,"[11][12] secured 
rule changes in 1880 that reduced the size of each team from 15 to 11 players 
and instituted the snap to replace the chaotic and inconsistent scrum.[11] 
The introduction of the snap resulted in unexpected consequences. Prior 
to the snap, the strategy had been to punt if a scrum resulted in bad field 
position. However, a group of Princeton players realized that, as the snap 
was uncontested, they now could hold the ball indefinitely to prevent their 
opponent from scoring. In 1881, both teams in a game between Yale-Princeton 
used this strategy to maintain their undefeated records. Each team held 
the ball, gaining no ground, for an entire half, resulting in a 0-0 tie. 
This "block game" proved extremely unpopular with the spectators and fans 
of both teams.[11] A rule change was necessary to prevent this strategy 
from taking hold, and a reversion to the scrum was considered. However, 
Camp successfully proposed a rule in 1882 that limited each team to three 
downs, or tackles, to advance the ball five yards. Failure to advance the 
ball the required distance within those three downs would result in control 
of the ball being forfeited to the other team. This change effectively 
made American football a separate sport from rugby, and the resulting five-yard 
lines added to the field to measure distances made it resemble a gridiron 
in appearance. Other major rule changes included a reduction of the field 
size to 110 by 53.333 yards (100.584 m × 48.768 m), and the adoption of 
a scoring system that awarded four points for a touchdown, two for a safety 
and a goal following a touchdown, and five for a goal from field; additionally, 
tackling below the waist was legalized.[11] The last, and arguably most 
important innovation, which would at last make American football uniquely 
"American", was the legalization of interference, or blocking, a tactic 
which was highly illegal under the rugby-style rules. Despite these new 
rules, football remained a violent sport. Dangerous mass-formations, which 
involved interlocking interference, like the flying wedge resulted in serious 
injuries and deaths.[13] A 1905 peak of 19 fatalities nationwide resulted 
in a threat by President Theodore Roosevelt to abolish the game unless 
major changes were made.[14] In response, sixty-two colleges and universities 
met in New York City to discuss rule changes on December 28, 1905, and 
these proceedings resulted in the formation of the Intercollegiate Athletic 
Association of the United States, later named the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association (NCAA).[15] The legal forward pass was introduced in 1906, 
although its impact was initially limited due to the restrictions placed 
on its use. Other rule changes introduced that year included the reduction 
of the time of play from 70 to 60 minutes and the increase of the distance 
required for a first down from 5–10 yards (4.6–9.1 m). To reduce infighting 
and dirty play between teams, the neutral zone was created along the width 
of the football.[16] Scoring was also adjusted: field goals were lowered 
to three points in 1909[12] and touchdowns were raised to six points in 
1912.[17] The field was also reduced to 100 yards (91 m) long, but two 
10-yard-long end zones were created, and teams were given four downs instead 
of three to advance the ball 10 yards (9.1 m).[18] The roughing-the-passer 
penalty was implemented in 1914, and eligible players were first allowed 
to catch the ball anywhere on the field in 1918.[19] On November 12, 1892, 
when William "Pudge" Heffelfinger was paid $500 to play a game for the 
Allegheny Athletic Association in a match against the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Club. This is the first recorded instance of a player being paid to participate 
in a game of American football, although many athletic clubs in the 1880s 
offered indirect benefits, such as helping players attain employment, giving 
out trophies or watches that players could pawn for money, or paying double 
in expense money. Despite these extra benefits, the game had a strict sense 
of amateurism at the time, and direct payment to players was frowned upon, 
if not outright prohibited.[20] Over time, professional play became increasingly 
common, and with it came rising salaries and unpredictable player movement, 
as well as the illegal payment of college players who were still in school. 
The National Football League (NFL), a group of professional teams that 
was originally established in 1920 as the American Professional Football 
Association, aimed to solve these problems. This new league's stated goals 
included an end to bidding wars over players, prevention of the use of 
college players, and abolition of the practice of paying players to leave 
another team.[21] By 1922, the NFL had established itself as the premier 
professional football league.[22] The dominant form of football at the 
time was played at the collegiate level, but the upstart NFL received a 
boost to its legitimacy in 1925 when an NFL team, the Pottsville Maroons, 
defeated a team of Notre Dame all-stars in an exhibition game.[23] A greater 
emphasis on the passing game helped professional football to further distinguish 
itself from the college game during the late 1930s.[21] Football in general 
became increasingly popular following the 1958 NFL Championship game, a 
match between the Baltimore Colts and the New York Giants that is still 
referred to as the "Greatest Game Ever Played". The game, a 23–17 overtime 
victory by the Colts, was seen by millions of television viewers and had 
a major impact on the popularity of the sport. This, along with the innovations 
introduced by the new American Football League (AFL) in the early 1960s, 
helped football to become the most popular sport in the United States by 
the mid-1960s.[24] The rival American Football League arose in 1960 and 
challenged the NFL's dominance. The AFL began in relative obscurity but 
eventually thrived, with an initial television contract with the ABC network. 
The AFL's existence forced the conservative NFL to expand to Dallas and 
Minnesota in an attempt to destroy the new league. Meanwhile, the AFL introduced 
many new features to Professional Football in the United States: official 
time on the scoreboard clock, rather than on a watch in the referee's pocket, 
as the NFL did; optional two-point conversions by pass or run after touchdowns; 
names on the jerseys of players; and several others, including expansion 
of the role of minority players, actively recruited by the league in contrast 
to the NFL. The AFL also signed several star college players that had also 
been drafted by NFL teams. Competition for players heated up in 1965, when 
the AFL New York Jets signed rookie Joe Namath to a then-record US $437,000 
contract. A five-year, $40 million NBC television contract followed, which 
helped to sustain the young league. The bidding war for players ended in 
1966, when NFL owners approached the AFL regarding a merger, and the two 
leagues agreed on one that would take full effect in 1970. This agreement 
provided for a common draft that would take place each year, and it instituted 
an annual World Championship game to be played between the champions of 
each league. That game began play at the end of the 1966 season. Once the 
merger was completed, it was no longer a championship game between two 
leagues, and reverted to the NFL championship game, which came to be known 
as the Super Bowl.[25] College football maintained a tradition of postseason 
bowl games. Each bowl game would be associated with a particular conference, 
and earning a spot in a bowl game was the reward for winning a conference. 
This arrangement was profitable, but it tended to prevent the two top-ranked 
teams from meeting in a true national championship game, as they would 
normally be committed to the bowl games of their respective conferences. 
Several systems have been used since 1992 to determine a national champion 
of college football. The first was the Bowl Coalition, in place from 1992 
to 1994. This was replaced in 1995 by the Bowl Alliance, which gave way 
in 1997 to the Bowl Championship Series (BCS).[26] The BCS arrangement 
proved to be controversial, and was replaced in 2014 by the College Football 
Playoff (CFP).[27][28] A football game is played between two teams of 11 
players each.[29][30][31] Playing with more on the field is punishable 
by a penalty.[29][32][33] Teams may substitute any number of their players 
between downs;[34][35][36] this "platoon" system replaced the original 
system, which featured limited substitution rules, and has resulted in 
teams utilizing specialized offensive, defensive and special teams squads.[37] 
Individual players in a football game must be designated with a uniform 
number between 1 and 99. NFL teams are required to number their players 
by a league-approved numbering system, and any exceptions must be approved 
by the Commissioner.[29] NCAA and NFHS teams are "strongly advised" to 
number their offensive players according to a league-suggested numbering 
scheme.[38][39] The role of the offensive unit is to advance the football 
down the field with the ultimate goal of scoring a touchdown.[40] The offensive 
team must line up in a legal formation before they can snap the ball. An 
offensive formation is considered illegal if there are more than four players 
in the backfield or fewer than five players numbered 50-79 on the offensive 
line.[30][41][42] Players can temporarily line up in a position whose eligibility 
is different from what their number permits as long as they immediately 
report the change to the referee, who then informs the defensive team of 
the change.[43] Neither team's players, with the exception of the snapper, 
are allowed to line up in or cross the neutral zone until the ball is snapped. 
Interior offensive linemen are not allowed to move until the snap of the 
ball.[44] The main backfield positions are the quarterback (QB), halfback/tailback 
(HB/TB) and fullback (FB). The quarterback is the leader of the offense. 
Either he or a coach calls the plays. Quarterbacks typically inform the 
rest of the offense of the play in the huddle before the team lines up. 
The quarterback lines up behind the center to take the snap and then hands 
the ball off, throws it or runs with it.[40] The primary role of the halfback, 
also known as the tailback, is to carry the ball on running plays. Halfbacks 
may also serve as receivers. Fullbacks tend to be larger than halfbacks 
and function primarily as blockers, but they are sometimes used as runners 
in short-yardage situations[45] and often are not used in passing situations.[46] 
The offensive line (OL) consists of several players whose primary function 
is to block members of the defensive line from tackling the ball carrier 
on running plays or sacking the quarterback on passing plays.[45] The leader 
of the offensive line is the center (C), who is responsible for snapping 
the ball to the quarterback, blocking,[45] and for making sure that the 
other linemen do their jobs during the play.[47] On either side of the 
center are the guards (G), while tackles (T) line up outside of the guards. 
The principal receivers are the wide receivers (WR) and the tight ends 
(TE).[48] Wide receivers line up on or near the line of scrimmage, split 
outside of the line. The main goal of the wide receiver is to catch passes 
thrown by the quarterback,[45] but they may also function as decoys or 
as blockers during running plays. Tight ends line up outside of the tackles 
and function both as receivers and as blockers.[45] The role of the defense 
is to prevent the offense from scoring by tackling the ball carrier or 
by forcing turnovers (interceptions or fumbles).[40] The defensive line 
(DL) consists of defensive ends (DE) and defensive tackles (DT). Defensive 
ends line up on the ends of the line, while defensive tackles line up inside, 
between the defensive ends. The primary responsibilities of defensive ends 
and defensive tackles is to stop running plays on the outside and inside, 
respectively, to pressure the quarterback on passing plays, and to occupy 
the line so that the linebackers can break through.[45] Linebackers line 
up behind the defensive line but in front of the defensive backfield. They 
are divided into two types: middle linebackers (MLB) and outside linebackers 
(OLB). Linebackers are the defensive leaders and call the defensive plays. 
Their diverse roles include defending the run, pressuring the quarterback, 
and guarding backs, wide receivers and tight ends in the passing game.[49] 
The defensive backfield, often called the secondary, consists of cornerbacks 
(CB) and safeties (S). Safeties are themselves divided into free safeties 
(FS) and strong safeties (SS).[45] Cornerbacks line up outside the defensive 
formation, typically opposite of a receiver so as to be able to cover him, 
while safeties line up between the cornerbacks but farther back in the 
secondary. Safeties are the last line of defense, and are responsible for 
stopping deep passing plays as well as running plays.[45] The special teams 
unit is responsible for all kicking plays. The special teams unit of the 
team in control of the ball will try and execute field goal (FG) attempts, 
punts and kickoffs, while the opposing team's unit will aim to block or 
return them.[40] Three positions are specific to the field goal and PAT 
(point-after-touchdown) unit: the placekicker (K or PK), holder (H) and 
long snapper (LS). The long snapper's job is to snap the football to the 
holder, who will catch and position it for the placekicker. There is not 
usually a holder on kickoffs, because the ball is kicked off of a tee; 
however, a holder may be used in certain situations, such as if wind is 
preventing the ball from remaining upright on the tee. The player on the 
receiving team who catches the ball is known as the kickoff returner (KR).[50] 
The positions specific to punt plays are the punter (P), long snapper, 
and gunner. The long snapper snaps the football directly to the punter, 
who then drops and kicks it before it hits the ground. Gunners line up 
split outside of the line and race down the field, aiming to tackle the 
punt returner (PR) – the player that catches the punt.[51] In American 
football, the winner is the team that has scored the most points at the 
end of the game. There are multiple ways to score in a football game. The 
touchdown (TD), worth six points, is the most valuable scoring play in 
American football. A touchdown is scored when a live ball is advanced into, 
caught in, or recovered in the end zone of the opposing team.[40] The scoring 
team then attempts a try or conversion, more commonly known as the point(s)-after-touchdown 
(PAT), which is a single scoring opportunity. A PAT is most commonly attempted 
from the two- or three-yard line, depending on the level of play. If scored 
by a placekick or dropkick through the goal posts, it is worth one point, 
and is typically called the extra point.[52] If it is scored by what would 
normally be a touchdown, it is called the two-point conversion[52] and 
is worth two points. For the 2015 season, the NFL adopted a rule on extra 
points that stated the placekick must be kicked at the 15 yard line, however 
for a two-point conversion teams were still eligible to scrimmage from 
the two-yard line. No points are awarded on a failed extra point or two-point 
conversion attempt.[53][54][55] In general, the extra point is almost always 
successful in professional play and is only slightly less successful at 
amateur levels, while the two-point conversion is a much riskier play with 
a higher probability of failure; accordingly, extra point attempts are 
far more common than two-point conversion attempts.[52] A field goal (FG), 
worth three points, is scored when the ball is placekicked or dropkicked 
through the uprights and over the crossbars of the defense's goalposts.[56][57][58] 
After a PAT attempt or successful field goal the scoring team must kick 
the ball off to the other team.[59] A safety is scored when the ball carrier 
is tackled in his own end zone. Safeties are worth two points, which are 
awarded to the defense.[40] In addition, the team that conceded the safety 
must kick the ball to the scoring team via a free kick.[60] Football games 
are played on a rectangular field that measures 120 yards (110 m) long 
and 53.33 yards (48.76 m) wide. Lines marked along the ends and sides of 
the field are known respectively as the end lines and sidelines, and goal 
lines are marked 10 yards (9.1 m) inward from each end line. Weighted pylons 
are placed on the inside corner of the intersections of the goal lines 
and end lines. White markings on the field identify the distance from the 
end zone. Inbound lines, or hash marks, are short parallel lines that mark 
off 1 yard (0.91 m) increments. Yard lines, which can run the width of 
the field, are marked every 5 yards (4.6 m). A one yard wide is placed 
at each end of the field; this line is marked at the center of the two-yard 
line in professional play and at the three-yard line in college play. Numerals 
that display the distance from the closest goal line in multiples of ten 
are placed on both sides of the field every ten yards.[61][62][63] Goalposts 
are located at the center of the plane of each of the two end lines. The 
crossbar of these posts is ten feet (3 meters) above the ground, with vertical 
uprights at the end of the crossbar 18 feet 6 inches (5.64 m) apart for 
professional and collegiate play and 23 feet 4 inches (7.11 m) apart for 
high school play.[64][65][66] The uprights extend vertically 35 feet on 
professional fields, a minimum of 10 yards on college fields, and a minimum 
of ten feet on high school fields. Goal posts are padded at the base, and 
orange ribbons are normally placed at the tip of each upright.[64][65][66] 
The football itself is an oval ball, similar to the balls used in rugby 
or Australian rules football.[67] At all levels of play, the football is 
inflated to 12 1⁄2 to 13 1⁄2 pounds per square inch (psi) and weighs 14 
to 15 ounces (397 to 425 grams);[66][68][69] beyond that, the exact dimensions 
vary slightly. In professional play the ball has a long axis of 11 to 11 1⁄4 
inches, a long circumference of 28 to 28 1⁄2 inches, and a short circumference 
of 21 to 21 1⁄4 inches,[70] while in college and high school play the ball 
has a long axis of 10 7⁄8 to 11 7⁄16 inches, a long circumference of 27 3⁄4 
to 28 1⁄2 inches, and a short circumference of 20 3⁄4 to 21 1⁄4 inches.[66][68] 
Football games last for a total of 60 minutes in professional and college 
play and are divided into two halves of 30 minutes and four quarters of 
15 minutes.[71][72] High school football games are 48 minutes in length 
with two halves of 24 minutes and four quarters of 12 minutes.[73] The 
two halves are separated by a halftime period, and the first and third 
quarters are also followed by a short break.[71][72][74] Prior to the start 
of the game, the referee and team captains for each team meet at midfield 
for a coin toss. The visiting team is allowed to call 'heads' or 'tails'; 
the winner of the toss is allowed to decide from between choosing whether 
to receive or kick off the ball or choosing which goal they want to defend, 
but they can also defer their choice until the second half. The losing 
team, unless the winning team decides to defer, is allowed to choose the 
option the winning team did not select, and receives the option to receive, 
kick, or select a goal to defend to begin the second half. Most teams choose 
to receive or defer, because choosing to kick the ball to start the game 
would allow the other team to choose which goal to defend.[75] Teams switch 
goals following the first and third quarters.[76] If a down is in progress 
when a quarter ends, play continues until the down is completed.[77][78][79] 
Games last longer than their defined length due to play stoppages – the 
average NFL game lasts slightly over three hours.[80] Time in a football 
game is measured by the game clock. An operator is responsible for starting, 
stopping and operating the game clock based on the direction of the appropriate 
official.[71][81] A separate clock, the play clock, is used to determine 
if a delay of game infraction has been committed. If the play clock expires 
before the ball has been snapped or free-kicked, a delay of game foul is 
called on the offense. The play clock is set to 40 seconds in professional 
and college football and to 25 seconds in high school play or following 
certain administrative stoppages in the former levels of play.[77][82][83] 
There are two main ways that the offense can advance the ball: running 
and passing. In a typical play, the quarterback calls the play, and the 
center passes the ball backwards and under his legs to the quarterback 
in a process known as the snap. The quarterback then either hands the ball 
off to a back, throws the ball or runs with it himself. The play ends when 
the player with the ball is tackled or goes out of bounds, or a pass hits 
the ground without a player having caught it. A forward pass can only be 
legally attempted if the passer is behind the line of scrimmage.[59] In 
the NFL, a down also ends if the runner's helmet comes off.[84] The offense 
is given a series of four plays, known as downs. If the offense advances 
ten or more yards in the four downs, they are awarded a new set of four 
downs. If they fail to advance ten yards, possession of the football is 
turned over to the defense. In most situations, if the offense reaches 
their fourth down they will punt the ball to the other team, which forces 
them to begin their drive from further down the field; if they are in field 
goal range, they might also attempt to score a field goal.[59] A group 
of officials, the chain crew, keeps track of both the downs and the distance 
measurements.[85] On television, a yellow line is electronically superimposed 
on the field to show the first down line to the viewing audience.[86] There 
are two categories of kicks in football: scrimmage kicks, which can be 
executed by the offensive team on any down from behind or on the line of 
scrimmage,[89][90][91] and free kicks.[92][93][94] The free kicks are the 
kickoff, which starts the first and third quarters and overtime and follows 
a try attempt or a successful field goal, and the safety kick, which follows 
a safety.[90][95][96] On a kickoff, the ball is placed at the 35-yard line 
of the kicking team in professional and college play and at the 40-yard 
line in high school play. The ball may be drop-kicked or place-kicked. 
If a place kick is chosen, the ball can be placed on the ground or on a 
tee, and a holder may be used in either case. On a safety kick, the kicking 
team kicks the ball from their own 20-yard line. They can punt, drop-kick 
or place-kick the ball, but a tee may not be used in professional play. 
Any member of the receiving team may catch or advance the ball, and the 
ball may be recovered by the kicking team once it has gone at least ten 
yards and has touched the ground or has been touched by any member of the 
receiving team.[97][98][99] The three types of scrimmage kicks are place 
kicks, drop kicks, and punts. Only place kicks and drop kicks can score 
points.[56][57][58] The place kick is the standard method used to score 
points,[87] because the pointy shape of the football makes it difficult 
to reliably drop kick.[87][88] Once the ball has been kicked from a scrimmage 
kick, it can be advanced by the kicking team only if it is caught or recovered 
behind the line of scrimmage. If it is touched or recovered by the kicking 
team beyond this line, it becomes dead at the spot where it was touched.[100][101][102] 
The kicking team is prohibited from interfering with the receiver's opportunity 
to catch the ball, and the receiving team has the option of signaling for 
a fair catch. This prohibits the defense from blocking into or tackling 
the receiver, but the play ends as soon as the ball is caught and the ball 
may not be advanced.[103][104][105] Officials are responsible for enforcing 
game rules and monitoring the clock. All officials carry a whistle and 
wear black-and-white striped shirts and black hats except for the referee, 
whose hat is white. Each carries a weighted yellow flag that is thrown 
to the ground to signal that a foul has been called. An official who spots 
multiple fouls will throw his hat as a secondary signal.[106] The seven 
officials on the field are each tasked with a different set of responsibilities:[106] 
Another set of officials, the chain crew, are responsible for moving the 
chains. The chains, consisting of two large sticks with a 10-yard-long 
chain between them, are used to measure for a first down. The chain crew 
stays on the sidelines during the game, but if requested by the officials 
they will briefly bring the chains on to the field to measure. A typical 
chain crew will have at least three people – two members of the chain crew 
will hold either of the two sticks, while a third will hold the down marker. 
The down marker, a large stick with a dial on it, is flipped after each 
play to indicate the current down, and is typically moved to the approximate 
spot of the ball. The chain crew system has been used for over 100 years 
and is considered to be an accurate measure of distance, rarely subject 
to criticism from either side.[85] Football is a full-contact sport, and 
injuries are relatively common. Most injuries occur during training sessions, 
particularly ones that involve contact between players.[107] To try to 
prevent injuries, players are required to wear a set of equipment. At a 
minimum players must wear a football helmet and a set of shoulder pads, 
but individual leagues may require additional padding such as thigh pads 
and guards, knee pads, chest protectors, and mouthguards.[108][109][110] 
Most injuries occur in the lower extremities, particularly in the knee, 
but a significant number also affect the upper extremities. The most common 
types of injuries are strains, sprains, bruises, fractures, dislocations, 
and concussions.[107] Repeated concussions can increase a person's risk 
in later life for chronic traumatic encephalopathy and mental health issues 
such as dementia, Parkinson's disease, and depression.[111] Concussions 
are often caused by helmet-to-helmet or upper-body contact between opposing 
players, although helmets have prevented more serious injuries such as 
skull fractures.[112] Various programs are aiming to reduce concussions 
by reducing the frequency of helmet-to-helmet hits; USA Football's "Heads 
Up Football" program is aiming to reduce concussions in youth football 
by teaching coaches and players about the signs of a concussion, the proper 
way to wear football equipment and ensure it fits, and proper tackling 
methods that avoid helmet-to-helmet contact.[113] However, a study in the 
Orthopaedic Journal of Sports Medicine found that Heads Up Football was 
ineffective.[114] The National Football League (NFL) and the National Collegiate 
Athletic Association (NCAA) are the most popular football leagues in the 
United States.[115] The National Football League was founded in 1920[116] 
and has since become the largest and most popular sport in the United States.[117] 
The NFL has the highest average attendance of any sporting league in the 
world, with an average attendance of 66,960 during the 2011 NFL Season.[118] 
The NFL championship game is called the Super Bowl, and is among the biggest 
events in club sports worldwide.[119] It is played between the champions 
of the National Football Conference (NFC) and the American Football Conference 
(AFC), and its winner is awarded the Vince Lombardi Trophy.[120] College 
football is the third-most popular sport in the United States, behind professional 
baseball and professional football.[121] The NCAA, the largest collegiate 
organization, is divided into three Divisions: Division I, Division II 
and Division III.[122] Division I football is further divided into two 
subdivisions: the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) and the Football Championship 
Subdivision (FCS).[123] The champions of each level of play are determined 
through NCAA-sanctioned playoff systems; while the champion of Division 
I-FBS was historically determined by various polls and ranking systems, 
the subdivision adopted a four-team playoff system in 2014.[124] High school 
football is the most popular sport in the United States played by boys; 
over 1.1 million boys participated in the sport from 2007 to 2008 according 
to a survey by the National Federation of State High School Associations 
(NFHS). The NFHS is the largest organization for high school football, 
with member associations in all 50 states as well as the District of Columbia. 
USA Football is the governing body for youth and amateur football,[125] 
and Pop Warner Little Scholars is the largest organization for youth football.[126] 
Several professional football leagues have been formed as rival leagues 
to the NFL. The most successful rival league was the American Football 
League (AFL), which existed from 1960 to 1969. The AFL became a significant 
rival in 1964 before signing a five-year, US$36 million television deal 
with NBC. AFL teams began to sign NFL players to contracts, and the league's 
popularity grew to challenge that of the NFL. The two leagues merged in 
the 1970 season, and all AFL teams joined the NFL. An earlier league, the 
All-America Football Conference, was in play from 1946 to 1949. After the 
league dissolved, two AAFC teams, the Cleveland Browns and the San Francisco 
49ers, became members of the NFL; another member, the Baltimore Colts joined 
the league, but folded after just a year in the NFL.[127] Other attempts 
to start rival leagues have been far less successful. The World Football 
League (WFL) played for two seasons, in 1974 and 1975, but faced monetary 
issues so severe that the league could not pay its players. In its second 
and final season the WFL attempted to establish a stable credit rating, 
but the league disbanded before its second season could be completed.[128] 
The United States Football League (USFL) operated for three seasons from 
1983 to 1985 but collapsed due to poor business decisions and monetary 
problems. A subsequent USD $1.5 billion antitrust lawsuit against the NFL 
was successful in court, but the league was awarded only three dollars 
in damages.[129] The XFL was created in 2001 by Vince McMahon and lasted 
for only one season. Despite television contracts with NBC and UPN and 
high expectations, the XFL suffered from poor television ratings and a 
low quality of play.[130] The United Football League (UFL) began in 2009, 
but folded after suspending its 2012 season, due to financial issues.[131] 
American football leagues exist throughout the world, but the game has 
yet to achieve the international success and popularity of baseball and 
basketball.[132] NFL Europa, the developmental league of the NFL, operated 
from 1991 to 1992 and then from 1995 to 2007. At the time of its closure, 
NFL Europa had five teams based in Germany and one in the Netherlands.[133] 
The European Football League (EFL), run by the European Federation of American 
Football (EFAF), is an annual invitational tournament between the champions 
or co-champions of competitions run by EFAF members. The league's championship 
game is the Eurobowl.[134] Other EFAF tournaments include the EFAF Cup, 
played between the top teams from national leagues in a similar manner 
to the UEFA Cup,[135] the Atlantic Cup, played between teams from the Atlantic 
region of Europe,[136] and the Challenge Cup, played between teams from 
newer federations that are not eligible to play in the EFL or EFAF Cup.[137] 
American football federations are also present in Asia, Oceania, and Pan 
America, and a total of 64 national football federations exist as of July 
2012.[138] The International Federation of American Football (IFAF), an 
international body composed of American football federations, runs tournaments 
such as the IFAF World Championship, which is held every four years since 
1999, the IFAF Women's World Championship, the IFAF U-19 World Championship 
and the Flag Football World Championship. The IFAF also organizes the annual 
International Bowl game.[139] At the international level, Canada, Mexico, 
and Japan are considered to be second-tier, while Austria, Germany, and 
France would rank among a third tier. All of these countries rank far below 
the United States, which is dominant at the international level.[138] Football 
is not an Olympic sport, but it was a demonstration sport at the 1932 Summer 
Olympics.[1] The IFAF has received provisional recognition from the International 
Olympic Committee (IOC), and a vote on making it an Olympic sport could 
be held as early as 2017.[140] Several major obstacles hinder the IFAF 
goal of achieving status as an Olympic sport, such as the predominant participation 
of men in international play and the short three-week Olympic schedule. 
Large team sizes are an additional difficulty, due to the Olympics' set 
limit of 10,500 athletes and coaches. American football also has the issue 
of global visibility. Nigel Melville, the CEO of USA Rugby, noted that 
"American football is recognized globally as a sport, but it's not played 
globally". In order to solve these concerns, major effort has been put 
into promoting flag football, a modified version of American football, 
at the international level.[138] "Baseball is still called the national 
pastime, but football is by far the more popular sport in American society", 
according to ESPN.com's Sean McAdam.[141] In a 2014 poll conducted by Harris 
Interactive, professional football ranked as the most popular sport, and 
college football ranked third behind only professional football and baseball; 
46% of participants ranked some form of the game as their favorite sport. 
Professional football has ranked as the most popular sport in the poll 
since 1985, when it surpassed baseball for the first time.[142] Professional 
football is most popular among those who live in the eastern United States 
and rural areas, while college football is most popular in the southern 
United States and among people with graduate and post-graduate degrees.[143] 
Football is also the most-played sport by high school and college athletes 
in the United States. In a 2012 study, the NCAA estimated there were around 
1.1 million high school football players and nearly 70,000 college football 
players in the United States; in comparison, the second-most played sport, 
basketball, had around 1 million participants in high school and 34,000 
in college.[144] The Super Bowl is the most popular single-day sporting 
event in the United States,[25] and is among the biggest club sporting 
events in the world in terms of TV viewership.[119] The NFL makes approximately 
$10 billion annually.[145] Super Bowl games account for seven of the top 
eight most-watched broadcasts in American history; the most recent Super 
Bowl, Super Bowl XLIX, was watched by a record 114.4 million Americans.[146] 
American football also plays a significant role in American culture. The 
Super Bowl is considered a de facto national holiday,[147] and in parts 
of the country like Texas, the sport has been compared to a religion.[148][149] 
Football is also linked to other holidays; New Year's Day is traditionally 
the date for several college football bowl games, including the Rose Bowl. 
However, if New Year's Day is on a Sunday, the bowl games are moved to 
another date to not conflict with the typical NFL Sunday schedule.[150] 
Thanksgiving football is an American tradition,[151] hosting many high 
school, college, and professional games.[152] Steve Deace of USA Today 
wrote that Americans are passionate about football "because it embodies 
everything we love about American exceptionalism. Merit is rewarded, not 
punished. Masculinity is celebrated, not feminized. People of various beliefs 
and backgrounds — a melting pot, if you will — must unify for a common 
goal for the team to be successful".[153] Implicit rules such as playing 
through pain and sacrificing for the better of the team are promoted in 
football culture.[154] In Canada, the game has a significant following 
— according to a 2013 poll, 21% of respondents said they followed the NFL 
"very closely" or "fairly closely", making it the third-most followed league 
behind the National Hockey League (NHL) and Canadian Football League (CFL).[155] 
American football also has a long history in Mexico, which was introduced 
to the sport in 1896. American football was the second-most popular sport 
in Mexico in the 1950s, with the game being particularly popular in colleges.[156] 
The Los Angeles Times notes that the NFL claims over 16 million fans in 
Mexico, which places the country third behind the US and Canada.[157] American 
football is played in Mexico both professionally and as part of the college 
sports system.[158] Japan was introduced to the sport in 1934 by Paul Rusch, 
a teacher and Christian missionary who helped establish football teams 
at three universities in Tokyo. Play was halted during World War II, but 
began to grow in popularity again after the war. As of 2010[update], there 
are more than 400 high school football teams in Japan, with over 15,000 
participants, and over 100 teams play in the Kantoh Collegiate Football 
Association (KCFA).[159] The college champion plays the champion of the 
X-League (a semi-pro league where teams are financed by corporations) in 
the Rice Bowl to determine Japan's national champion.[160] Europe is a 
major target for expansion of the game by football organizers. In the United 
Kingdom in the 1980s, the sport was fairly popular, with the 1986 Super 
Bowl being watched by over 4 million people (about 1 out of every 14 Britons). 
The sport's popularity faded over the 1990s, coinciding with the establishment 
of the Premier League. According to BBC America, there is a "social stigma" 
surrounding American football in the UK, with many Brits feeling the sport 
has no right to call itself 'football' due to the small emphasis on kicking.[161] 
Nonetheless, the sport has retained a following in the United Kingdom; 
the NFL operates a media network in the country, and since 2007 has hosted 
the NFL International Series in London. Super Bowl viewership has also 
rebounded, with over 4.4 million Britons watching Super Bowl XLVI.[162] 
The sport is played in European countries such as Switzerland, which has 
American football clubs in every major city,[163] and Germany, where the 
sport has around 45,000 registered amateur players.[158] Canadian football, 
the predominant form of football in Canada, is closely related to American 
football – both sports developed from rugby, and the two sports are considered 
to be the chief variants of gridiron football.[164] Although the two games 
share a similar set of rules, there are several key rule differences: for 
example, in Canadian football the field measures 150 by 65 yards (137 by 
59 m), including two 20-yard end zones (for a distance between goal lines 
of 110 yards),[165] teams have three downs instead of four, there are twelve 
players on each side instead of eleven,[166] fair catches are not allowed, 
and a rouge, worth a single point is scored if the offensive team kicks 
the ball out of the defense's end zone.[167] The Canadian Football League 
(CFL) is the major Canadian league and is the second-most popular sporting 
league in Canada, behind only the National Hockey League.[167] A major 
variant of football is arena football, played by the Arena Football League 
(AFL).[168] Arena football has eight-player teams and uses an indoor field 
50 yards (46 m) in length, excluding end zones, and 28.3 yards (25.9 m) 
wide. Punting is illegal, and kickoffs are attempted from the goal line. 
Large overhead nets deflect forward passes and kicks that hit them, and 
deflected kicks are live balls that may be recovered by either team.[169] 
Below the Arena Football League are what New York Times writer Mike Tanier 
described as the "most minor of minor leagues:" indoor football leagues. 
Like in arena football, teams in indoor football leagues play in arenas, 
but games are only attended by a small number of fans, and most players 
are semi-professional athletes. Indoor football leagues are unstable, with 
franchises regularly moving from one league to another or merging with 
other teams, and teams or entire leagues dissolving entirely. The Indoor 
Football League, Southern Indoor Football League, Ultimate Indoor Football 
League, Continental Indoor Football League and American Professional Football 
League are examples of prominent indoor leagues.[170] There are several 
non-contact variants of American football, such as flag football.[171] 
In flag football the ballcarrier is not tackled; instead, defenders aim 
to pull a flag tied around his waist.[172] Another variant, touch football, 
simply requires the ballcarrier to be touched to be considered downed. 
A game of touch football may require that the player be touched with either 
one or two hands to be considered down, depending on the rules used.[173] 
