The American Express Company, also known as Amex, is an American multinational 
financial services corporation headquartered in Manhattan's Three World 
Financial Center in New York City, United States. Founded in 1850, it is 
one of the 30 components of the Dow Jones Industrial Average.[6] The company 
is best known for its credit card, charge card, and traveler's cheque businesses. 
Amex cards account for approximately 24% of the total dollar volume of 
credit card transactions in the US.[7][8] BusinessWeek and Interbrand ranked 
American Express as the 22nd most valuable brand in the world, estimating 
the brand to be worth US$14.97 billion.[9] Fortune listed Amex as one of 
the top 20 Most Admired Companies in the World.[10] The company's logo, 
adopted in 1958, is a Centurion[11] whose image appears on the company's 
traveler's cheques, charge cards and credit cards. In 1850, American Express 
was started as an express mail business in Buffalo, New York.[12] It was 
founded as a joint stock corporation by the merger of the express companies 
owned by Henry Wells (Wells & Company), William G. Fargo (Livingston, Fargo 
& Company), and John Warren Butterfield (Wells, Butterfield & Company, 
the successor earlier in 1850 of Butterfield, Wasson & Company).[2][3] 
Wells and Fargo also started Wells Fargo & Co. in 1852 when Butterfield 
and other directors objected to the proposal that American Express extend 
its operations to California. American Express initially established its 
headquarters in a building at the intersection of Jay Street and Hudson 
Street in what was later called the Tribeca section of Manhattan. For years 
it enjoyed a virtual monopoly on the movement of express shipments (goods, 
securities, currency, etc.) throughout New York State. In 1874, American 
Express moved its headquarters to 65 Broadway in what was becoming the 
Financial District of Manhattan, a location it was to retain through two 
buildings.[13] In 1854, the American Express Co. purchased a lot on Vesey 
Street in New York City as the site for its stables. The company's first 
New York headquarters was an 1858 marble Italianate palazzo at 55–61 Hudson 
Street, which had a busy freight depot on the ground story with a spur 
line from the Hudson River Railroad. A stable was constructed in 1867, 
five blocks north at 4–8 Hubert Street. The company prospered sufficiently 
that headquarters were moved in 1874 from the wholesale shipping district 
to the budding Financial District, and into rented offices in two five-story 
brownstone commercial buildings at 63 and 65 Broadway that were owned by 
the Harmony family.[14] In 1880, American Express built a new warehouse 
behind the Broadway Building at 46 Trinity Place. The designer is unknown, 
but it has a façade of brick arches that are redolent of pre-skyscraper 
New York. American Express has long been out of this building, but it still 
bears a terracotta seal with the American Express Eagle.[15] In 1890–91 
the company constructed a new ten-story building by Edward H. Kendall on 
the site of its former headquarters on Hudson Street. By 1903, the company 
had assets of some $28 million, second only to the National City Bank of 
New York among financial institutions in the city. To reflect this, the 
company purchased the Broadway buildings and site.[14] At the end of the 
Wells-Fargo reign in 1914, an aggressive new president, George Chadbourne 
Taylor (1868–1923), who had worked his way up through the company over 
the previous thirty years, decided to build a new headquarters. The old 
buildings, dubbed by the New York Times as "among the ancient landmarks" 
of lower Broadway, were inadequate for such a rapidly expanding concern. 
After some delays due to the war in Europe, the 21-story neo-classical 
American Express Co. Building was constructed in 1916–17 to the design 
of James L. Aspinwall, of the firm of Renwick, Aspinwall & Tucker, the 
successor to the architectural practice of the eminent James Renwick, Jr.. 
The building consolidated the two lots of the former buildings with a single 
address: 65 Broadway. This building was part of the "Express Row" section 
of lower Broadway at the time. The building completed the continuous masonry 
wall of its block-front and assisted in transforming Broadway into the 
"canyon" of neo-classical masonry office towers familiar to this day[16] 
American Express sold this building in 1975, but retained travel services 
there. The building was also the headquarters over the years of other prominent 
firms, including investment bankers J.& W. Seligman & Co. (1940–74), the 
American Bureau of Shipping, a maritime concern (1977–86), and currently 
J.J. Kenny, and Standard & Poor's, who has renamed the building for itself.[14][16] 
American Express extended its reach nationwide by arranging affiliations 
with other express companies (including Wells Fargo – the replacement for 
the two former companies that merged to form American Express), railroads, 
and steamship companies.[13] In 1882, American Express started its expansion 
in the area of financial services by launching a money order business[13] 
to compete with the United States Post Office's money orders. Sometime 
between 1888 and 1890, J. C. Fargo took a trip to Europe and returned frustrated 
and infuriated. Despite the fact that he was president of American Express 
and that he carried with him traditional letters of credit, he found it 
difficult to obtain cash anywhere except in major cities. Fargo went to 
Marcellus Flemming Berry and asked him to create a better solution than 
the letter of credit. Berry introduced the American Express Traveler's 
Cheque which was launched in 1891 in denominations of $10, $20, $50, and 
$100.[17] Traveler's cheques established American Express as a truly international 
company. In 1914, at the onset of World War I, American Express in Europe 
was among the few companies to honor the letters of credit (issued by various 
banks) held by Americans in Europe, because other financial institutions 
refused to assist these stranded travelers. The British government appointed 
American Express its official agent at the beginning of World War I. They 
were to deliver letters, money and relief parcels to British prisoners 
of war. Their employees went into camps to cash drafts for both British 
and French prisoners and arranged for them to receive money from home. 
By the end of the war they were delivering 150 tonnes of parcels per day 
to prisoners in six countries.[18] American Express became one of the monopolies 
that President Theodore Roosevelt had the Interstate Commerce Commission 
(ICC) investigate during his administration. The interest of the ICC was 
drawn to its strict control of the railroad express business. However, 
the solution did not come immediately to hand.[13] The solution to this 
problem came as a coincidence to other problems during World War I. During 
the winter of 1917, the United States suffered a severe coal shortage and 
on December 26 President Woodrow Wilson commandeered the railroads on behalf 
of the United States government to move federal troops, their supplies, 
and coal. Treasury Secretary William Gibbs McAdoo was assigned the task 
of consolidating the railway lines for the war effort. All contracts between 
express companies and railroads were nullified and McAdoo proposed that 
all existing express companies be consolidated into a single company to 
serve the country's needs. This ended American Express's express business, 
and removed them from the ICC’s interest. The result was that a new company 
called the American Railway Express Agency formed in July 1918. The new 
entity took custody of all the pooled equipment and property of existing 
express companies (the largest share of which, 40%, came from American 
Express, who had owned the rights to the express business over 71,280 miles 
(114,710 km) of railroad lines, and had 10,000 offices, with over 30,000 
employees). During the 1980s, American Express embarked on an effort to 
become a financial services supercompany and made a number of acquisitions 
to create an investment banking arm. In mid-1981 it purchased Sanford I. 
Weill's Shearson Loeb Rhoades, the second largest securities firm in the 
United States to form Shearson/American Express. After the purchase of 
Shearson, Weill was given the position of president of American Express 
in 1983. Weill grew increasingly unhappy with responsibilities within American 
Express and his conflicts with American Express' CEO James D. Robinson 
III. Weill soon realized that he was not positioned to be named CEO and 
left in August 1985. In 1984, American Express acquired the investment 
banking and trading firm, Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb, and added it to the 
Shearson family, creating Shearson Lehman/American Express. It was Lehman's 
CEO and former trader Lewis Glucksman who would next lead Shearson Lehman/American 
Express. In 1984, Shearson/American Express purchased the 90-year-old Investors 
Diversified Services, bringing with it a fleet of financial advisors and 
investment products. In 1988, Shearson Lehman acquired E.F. Hutton & Co., 
a brokerage firm founded in 1904, this was merged with the investment banking 
business and the investment banking arm was renamed Shearson Lehman Hutton, 
Inc.[19] However, when Harvey Golub became CEO of American Express in 1993, 
American Express decided to get out of the investment banking business 
and negotiated the sale of Shearson's retail brokerage and asset management 
business to Primerica. The Shearson business was merged with Primerica's 
Smith Barney to create Smith Barney Shearson. Ultimately, the Shearson 
name was dropped in 1994.[20] In 1994, American Express spun off of the 
remaining investment banking and institutional businesses as Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. After almost fifteen years of independence, Lehman Brothers 
filed for bankruptcy protection in 2008 as part of the late–2000s financial 
crisis. Current CEO Ken I. Chenault took over leadership of American Express 
in 2001 from Harvey Golub, CEO from 1993 to 2001. Prior to that, the company 
was headed by James D. Robinson III from 1977 to 1993. American Express 
executives discussed the possibility of launching a travel charge card 
as early as 1946, but it was not until Diners Club launched their card 
in March 1950 that American Express began seriously to consider the possibility. 
At the end of 1957, American Express CEO Ralph Reed decided to get into 
the card business, and by the launch date of October 1, 1958, public interest 
had become so significant that they issued 250,000 cards prior to the official 
launch date. The card was launched with an annual fee of $6, $1 higher 
than Diners Club, to be seen as a premium product. The first cards were 
paper, with the account number and cardmember's name typed. It was not 
until 1959 that American Express began issuing embossed ISO/IEC 7810 plastic 
cards, an industry first.[21] In 1966, American Express introduced the 
Gold Card and in 1984 the Platinum Card, clearly defining different market 
segments within its own business, a practice that has proliferated across 
a broad array of industries. The Platinum Card was billed as super-exclusive 
and had a $250 annual fee (it is currently $450). It was offered by invitation 
only to American Express customers with at least 2 years of tenure, significant 
spending, and excellent payment history; it is now open to applications 
on request. In 1987, American Express introduced the Optima card, their 
first credit card product. Previously, all American Express cards had to 
be paid in full each month, but Optima allowed customers to carry a balance 
(the charge cards also now allow extended payment options on qualifying 
charges based on credit availability). Although American Express no longer 
accepts applications for the Optima brand of cards, since July 13, 2009, 
Optima cards are still listed on the American Express website, as a reference 
to existing members only. According to American Express, Optima accounts 
were not converted or closed. However, Blue from American Express has prevailed 
as the replacement for the original Optima style of credit card. Blue includes 
multiple benefits free of charge, unlike Optima, including the Membership 
Rewards program. In October 2012, The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
(CFPB) announced an enforcement action with orders requiring three American 
Express subsidiaries to refund an estimated $85 million to approximately 
250,000 customers for illegal card practices. This action was the result 
of a multi-part federal investigation which found that at every stage of 
the consumer experience, from marketing to enrollment to payment to debt 
collection, American Express violated consumer protection laws. American 
Express sent letters to some previous customers: "We invite you to apply 
for the Optima Card from American Express. This opportunity is in connection 
with a settlement solicitation, which did not clearly disclose that a settlement 
could prevent you from being approved for a new account with us in the 
future. This is in response to an enforcement action by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regarding 
this issue. Your attached application will be approved unless we determine 
that you do not have the financial capacity to make the minimum payment 
on this new Optima Card account, or we receive the application after 04/25/2013." 
In April 1992, American Express spun off its subsidiary, First Data Corp., 
in an IPO. Then, in October 1996, the company distributed the remaining 
majority of its holdings in First Data Corp., reducing its ownership to 
less than 5%. In 1994, the Optima True Grace card was introduced. The card 
was unique in that it offered a grace period on all purchases whether a 
balance was carried on the card or not (as opposed to traditional revolving 
credit cards which charge interest on new purchases if so much as $1 was 
carried over). The card was discontinued a few years later; the now discontinued 
One from American Express card offered a similar feature called "Interest 
Protection." From early 1980s until the early 1990s, American Express was 
known for cutting its merchant fees (also known as a "discount rate") to 
merchants and restaurants if they accepted only American Express and no 
other credit or charge cards. This prompted competitors such as Visa and 
MasterCard to cry foul for a while as the tactics "locked" restaurants 
into American Express. Capitalizing on this elitist image, American Express 
frequently mentioned such exclusive partnerships in advertising of the 
era.[22] Aside from some holdouts like Neiman Marcus (which continued exclusivity 
until 2011), the practice largely ended later in 1991. A group of restaurants 
in Boston stopped accepting American Express while accepting and encouraging 
the use of Visa and MasterCard, including some that were exclusive to American 
Express. The rationale was due to far lower fees as compared to American 
Express' fees at the time (which were about 4% for each transaction versus 
around 1.2% at the time for Visa and MasterCard). The revolt, known as 
the "Boston Fee Party" (alluding to the Boston Tea Party), spread to over 
250 restaurants across the United States, including restaurants in other 
cities such as New York City, Chicago, and Los Angeles. Visa offered to 
pay the Fee Party's legal bills, and Discover Card was able to increase 
their acceptance among Boston restaurants by 375%. Kenneth Chenault, then 
head of Travel Related Services and now American Express CEO, cut fees 
to bring these restaurants back into the fold.[23] American Express then 
shifted their focus from exclusivity to broadening acceptance, adding mainstream 
merchants like Walmart to the American Express network. American Express 
formed a venture with Warner Communications in 1979 called Warner-Amex 
Satellite Entertainment, which created MTV, Nickelodeon, and The Movie 
Channel. The partnership lasted only until 1984. The properties were sold 
to Viacom soon after. On November 10, 2008, during the financial crisis 
of 2008, the company won Federal Reserve System approval to convert to 
a bank holding company, making it eligible for government help under the 
Troubled Asset Relief Program.[1][24] At that time, American Express had 
total consolidated assets of about $127 billion.[24] In June 2009, $3.39 billion 
in TARP funds were repaid plus $74.4 million in dividend payments. In July 
2009, they ended their obligations under TARP by buying back $340 million 
in Treasury warrants.[25][26][27] In November 2010, the UK division of 
American Express was cautioned by the Office of Fair Trading for the use 
of controversial charging orders against those in debt.[28] The regulator 
said that the company was one of four companies who were encouraging customers 
to turn their unsecured credit card debts into a form of secured debt. 
In March 2011, American Express completed the $685 million acquisition 
of Munich-based Loyalty Partner, operator of the Payback loyalty program 
in Germany and Poland and the i-Mint loyalty program in India.[29] The 
TrueEarnings Costco-American Express card and Costco-American Express business 
card, promoted in Costco stores, was issued between 2004 and 2016. The 
cards did not have annual fees and offered cash back on certain tiers of 
purchases. The TrueEarnings card was an extension of an exclusive credit 
card network deal between Costco and American Express dating to 1999. On 
February 12, 2015, it was announced that the partnership between American 
Express and Costco would dissolve March 31, 2016, which was later extended 
to June 19, 2016. American Express and Costco failed to reach an agreement 
that would have continued their partnership. By March 2, 2015, Costco announced 
that Citigroup would become the exclusive issuer of Costco's credit cards 
and that Visa Inc. would replace American Express as the exclusive credit 
card network accepted at Costco’s stores. The Costco deal with Visa began 
on June 20, 2016, and in addition to the new Citi card, Costco accepted 
all other Visa cards.[30][31] All TrueEarnings card accounts and balances 
held by American Express were sold to Citigroup, and new Costco Anywhere 
Visa cards were sent to Costco members prior to the switch date. Concurrent 
with the switch to Visa in their stores, Costco no longer accepted American 
Express in their US stores, at Costco.com, or through Costco Travel. Costco 
was the last major US merchant that exclusively accepted American Express 
for general-purpose credit cards. In November 2011, Neiman Marcus, which 
gave similar general-purpose card exclusivity to American Express since 
1987, began accepting Visa and Mastercard. Costco's Canadian stores had 
ended their exclusive deal with American Express in 2014 in favor of one 
with Capital One and Mastercard. However, the deal with Capital One was 
different from the Citi deal because Capital One did not buy accounts and 
balances from American Express. This required Costco Canada members to 
obtain new cards. The Costco partnership represented 8%, or $80 billion, 
of AmEx's billed business and about 20%, or about $14 billion, of its interest-bearing 
credit portfolio, according to Richard Shane of JPMorgan Chase & Co.[31] 
When a consumer makes a purchase using a credit or charge card, a small 
portion of the price is paid as a fee (known as the merchant discount), 
with the merchant keeping the remainder. There are typically three parties 
who split this fee amongst themselves: The average merchant discount in 
the United States is 1.9%. Of this, approximately 0.1% goes to the acquirer, 
1.7% to the issuer, and 0.09% to the network.[32] Most Prime and Superprime 
card issuers use the majority of their interchange revenue to fund loyalty 
programs like frequent flyer points and cash back, and hence their profit 
from card spending is small relative to the interest they earn from card 
lending. American Express currently has over 109.9 million cards[33] running 
on its proprietary network, these include consumer, small business and 
corporate cards issued by American Express themselves and cards issued 
by its Global Service Network partners that run on its network (such as 
Commonwealth Bank, Westpac and NAB in Australia and Lloyds Bank and Barclays 
Bank in the UK). American Express is also the largest card issuer in the 
world based on purchase volume.[34] It is the 4th largest card network 
in the world, based on the number of cards it has in circulation.[35] American 
Express is best known for its iconic Green, Gold, and Platinum charge cards, 
and offers credit cards of similar color levels in most countries. In the 
1950s, American Express issued its first charge card, which caught on quickly 
in the booming postwar economy and signaled the company's transition to 
a wider consumer base. In 1966, the company issued its first gold card, 
in an effort to cater to the upper echelon of business travel. Its platinum 
card debuted in 1984 and continues to be immensely popular as it is second 
in exclusivity only to the Centurion Card. In 1999, American Express introduced 
the Centurion Card, often referred to as the "black card," which caters 
to an even more affluent and elite customer segment. The card was initially 
available only to select users of the Platinum card. The annual fee for 
the card is $2,500 (up from $1,000 at introduction) with an additional 
one-time initiation fee of $7,500. American Express created the card line 
amid rumors and urban legends in the 1980s that it produced an ultra-exclusive 
black card for elite users who could purchase anything with it.[36] American 
Express cards range between no annual fee (for Blue and many other consumer 
and business cards) and a $450 annual fee (for the Platinum card). Annual 
fees for the Green card start at $95 (first year free), while Gold card 
annual fees start at $125. American Express has several co-branded credit 
cards, with most falling into one of three categories: Their card aimed 
at young adults is called Blue from American Express. A television media 
campaign for Blue adopted the 1979 UK Synthpop hit "Cars" by Gary Numan 
as its theme song. Based on a successful product for the European market, 
Blue had no annual fee, a rewards program, and a multi-functional onboard 
smart chip. A cashback version, "Blue Cash", quickly followed. Amex also 
targeted young adults with City Reward Cards that earn INSIDE Rewards points 
to eat, drink, and play at New York, Chicago and LA hot spots. American 
Express began phasing out the INSIDE cards in mid-2008, with no new applications 
being taken as of July 2008. In 2005, American Express introduced Clear, 
advertised as the first credit card with no fees of any kind. Other cards 
introduced in 2005 included "The Knot" and "The Nest" Credit Cards from 
American Express, co-branded cards developed with the wedding planning 
website theknot.com. In 2006, the UK division of American Express joined 
the Product Red coalition and began to issue a Red Card.[citation needed] 
With each card member purchase the company contributes to causes through 
The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to help African 
women and children suffering from HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases.[citation 
needed] As of 2016, this card appears to be discontinued. In 2009, American 
Express introduced the ZYNC charge card. White in color, this card was 
created for people in their 20s and 30s. American Express is no longer 
taking applications for the ZYNC charge card. In late 2012, American Express 
and Walmart announced the launch of Bluebird, a prepaid debit card similar 
to that of Green Dot.[37] Bluebird is being touted as having some of the 
benefits of traditional American Express cards, such as roadside assistance 
and identity theft protection. The card can also be used as a substitute 
to a traditional checking account. Unlike other such cards, Bluebird is 
FDIC-insured.[38] Bluebird accounts have standard FDIC deposit insurance 
and check writing capabilities, and customers can now have Social Security 
payments, military pay, Tax Return, paycheck and other government benefits 
deposited directly into their accounts. American Express credit cards are 
noted by travel guides, including Rough Guides and Lonely Planet, as being 
less commonly accepted in Europe than Visa or MasterCard.[39][40][41][42] 
In an interview with an American Express spokesman in 2010 about card acceptance 
in the UK, the Daily Mail's financial website ThisIsMoney noted that "The 
list of places that are taking Amex appears to be growing, rather than 
slowing, but it seems to be a little hit-and-miss. It's not a good feeling 
to enter a shop, not knowing whether or not they accept the card."[43] 
As of February 2016 American Express is one of the partner banks to both 
Google and Apple's mobile wallet systems (Android Pay and Apple Pay, respectively) 
meaning that cardholders can use their American Express-issued cards to 
pay at establishments where NFC payments are accepted.[44] The company 
mascot, the Roman Gladiator or Centurion, appears at the center of the 
iconic Zync, Green, Gold, Platinum, and Centurion cards. The figure and 
his pose evoke classical antiquity. These cards also feature intricate 
border and background designs that read "American Express." The designs 
on these cards, especially the Green card, bear resemblance to those on 
United States Federal Reserve Notes. In 2005, American Express introduced 
ExpressPay, similar to MasterCard PayPass and Visa payWave, all of which 
use the symbol appearing on the right. It is a contactless payment system 
based on wireless RFID, where transactions are completed by holding the 
credit card near a receiver at which point the debt is immediately added 
to the account. All three contactless systems use the same logo. The card 
is not swiped or inserted into a smart card reader and no PIN is entered. 
Many U.S. merchant and restaurant partners now offer ExpressPay, including 
Meijer, CVS/Pharmacy, Best Buy, Chevron Corporation, Noah's Bagels, and 
some McDonald's locations. Office Depot has implemented ExpressPay in all 
1200 of its stores.[45] American Express also issue EMV compatible ExpressPay 
cards in many countries.[46] Some notable users of contactless payment 
include Australia and the UK where contactless (tap and go) is used almost 
10 times as often in Australia and almost 5 times more often in the United 
Kingdom on a per capita basis compared to the United States.[47] American 
Express offers various types of charge cards for small businesses to manage 
their expenses, and the company is also the largest provider of corporate 
cards.[citation needed] In late 2007, the company announced the new Plum 
Card as the latest addition to their card line for small business owners.[48] 
The card provides a 1.5% early pay discount or up to two months to defer 
payment on purchases. The 1.5% discount is available for billing periods 
where the cardmember spends at least $5,000. The first 10,000 cards were 
issued to members on December 16, 2007.[49] In 2008, American Express made 
a decision to close all Business Line of Credit accounts. This decision 
was reached in tandem with the Federal Reserve's approval of American Express's 
request to become a Commercial Bank. As of July 2016, American Express 
has several credit cards designed for small business.[50] These include 
SimplyCash® Plus Business Credit Card. Cash back earned is automatically 
credited to the cardholder's statement and other benefits are included.[50] 
Other cards include the Business Platinum Card from American Express OPEN, 
the Business Gold Rewards Card from American Express OPEN, the Blue for 
Business Credit Card from American Express, Business Green Rewards Card 
from American Express OPEN, the Business Green Rewards Card from American 
Express OPEN and the Plum Card from American Express OPEN.[50] These cards 
have return protection, year-end summaries and other tools to help with 
the business accounting and control.[50] In 2008, American Express acquired 
the Corporate Payment Services business of GE, which primarily focused 
on providing Purchasing Card solutions for large global clients.[51] As 
part of the $1b+ transaction, American Express also added a new product, 
called V-Payment, to its product portfolio. V-Payment is unique in that 
it enables a tightly controlled, single-use card number for increased control. 
As of July 2016, American Express offered several business, corporate and 
travel credit and charge cards and services and data and information services 
related to their use in the competitive markets for these cards.[52] The 
online “American Express @ Work” function gives corporations a site on 
which to apply for, cancel or suspend cards, monitor policy compliance 
and track expenses. The cardholder company can create and generate reports 
for a corporate expense account program, including analytics and data consolidation 
or integration.[53][54] Reports can be tailored for various sized companies. 
Through a Standard Expense Reporting feature in its "Manage Your Card Account 
site", American Express corporate cards provide cardholders access to pre-populated 
expense reports. The cardholder needs to annotate expenses and add out-of-pocket 
charges upon completion of which the report can be downloaded in electronic 
or paper format.[53] American Express Corporate Card program can be used 
with a third-party on-demand expense management tool by Concur, a provider 
of integrated travel and expense management services.[53] This tool simplifies 
the creation of expense account reports and the corporate approval process.[53] 
Corporate card activity, including viewing statements, making payments, 
setting up alerts and making inquiries and disputing charges, can be managed 
through an account online or via mobile device through this service.[53] 
The corporate cards have benefits including discounts and rebates for travel 
and transportation, travel and emergency help, travel insurance and baggage 
protection.[53] Upgrades from the Corporate "Green" Card to the Corporate 
Gold Card or Corporate Platinum Card, although subject to fees and terms 
and conditions, have several additional benefits at each card level, such 
as free breakfast or late checkout at many hotels.[53] The American Express/Business 
Extra Corporate Credit Card is affiliated with American Airlines and provides 
a 4% rebate on eligible American Airlines travel purchased with the card.[53] 
American Express has a specialized corporate meeting credit card.[55] Another 
specialized American Express business card is the American Express Corporate 
Purchasing Card, which can be assigned to individual employees or departments. 
Reconciliation and accounting services are available to make these functions 
easier for the corporation.[56] In December 2000, American Express agreed 
to acquire the US$226 million credit card portfolio of Bank of Hawaii, 
then a division of Pacific Century Financial Corp.[57] In January 2006, 
American Express sold its Bank of Hawaii card portfolio to Bank of America 
(MBNA). Bank of America will issue Visa and American Express cards under 
the Bank of Hawaii name. Until 2004, Visa and MasterCard rules prohibited 
issuers of their cards from issuing American Express cards in the United 
States. This meant, as a practical matter, that U.S. banks could not issue 
American Express cards. These rules were struck down as a result of antitrust 
litigation brought by the U.S. Department of Justice, and are no longer 
in effect.[58] In January 2004, American Express reached a deal to have 
its cards issued by a U.S. bank, MBNA America.[59] Initially decried by 
MasterCard executives as nothing but an "experiment", these cards were 
released in October 2004.[60] Some said that the relationship was going 
to be threatened by MBNA's merger with Bank of America, a major Visa issuer 
and original developer of Visa (and its predecessor, BankAmericard). However, 
an agreement was reached between American Express and Bank of America on 
December 21, 2005.[61] Under the terms of the agreement, Bank of America 
will own the customer loans and American Express will process the transactions. 
Also, American Express will dismiss Bank of America from its antitrust 
litigation against Visa, MasterCard, and a number of U.S. banks. Finally, 
both Bank of America and American Express also said an existing card-issuing 
partnership between MBNA and American Express will continue after the Bank 
of America-MBNA merger. The first card from the partnership, the no-annual-fee 
Bank of America Rewards American Express card, was released on June 30, 
2006. Since then, Citibank, Wells Fargo, First National Bank of Omaha, 
USAA, Synchrony Financial, and US Bancorp have started issuing American 
Express cards. Citi issues the Macy's and Bloomingdale's American Express 
cards along with Citi-branded cards. Wells Fargo issues American Express 
cards under their own brand and for Dillard's. US Bancorp issues American 
Express-branded cards for US Bank along with Elan Card Services, a subsidiary 
that issues credit cards on behalf of small to midsize banks. Some credit 
unions, including PenFed, also issue American Express cards. JPMorgan Chase 
is the largest bank and the only Big Four bank in the US that does not 
partner with American Express. Instead, JPMorgan made the decision in 2013 
to partner with Visa on the ChaseNet closed-loop network that is similar 
in terms of functionality to the American Express network. Many retailers 
do not accept American Express cards.[62] American Express charges merchants 
significantly higher fees[63] than other credit card providers. In a court 
case United States v. American Express Co., merchants filed a class action 
lawsuit against American Express[64] and claimed that charging high fees 
is a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act.[65] According to the lawsuit, 
accepting American Express cards costs merchants the most.[66] Amex is 
the largest provider of traveler's checks in the world.[citation needed] 
In 2005, American Express released the American Express Travelers Check 
Card, a stored-value card that serves the same purposes as a traveler's 
check, but can be used in stores like a credit card. The card has since 
been discontinued as of October 31, 2007, due to "changing market conditions". 
All cardholders were issued refund checks for the remaining balances. During 
the 1980s, American Express began purchasing stock brokerage firms as part 
of an expansion. In mid-1981 it purchased Sanford I. Weill's Shearson Loeb 
Rhoades, the second largest securities firm in the United States to form 
Shearson/American Express. Shearson Loeb Rhoades, itself was the culmination 
of several mergers in the 1970s as Weill's Hayden, Stone & Co. merged with 
Shearson, Hammill & Co. in 1974 to form Shearson Hayden Stone. Shearson 
Hayden Stone then merged with Loeb, Rhoades, Hornblower & Co. (formerly 
Loeb, Rhoades & Co. to form Shearson Loeb Rhoades in 1979. With capital 
totalling $250 million at the time of its acquisition, Shearson Loeb Rhoades 
trailed only Merrill Lynch as the securities industry's largest brokerage 
firm. After its acquisition by American Express, the firm was renamed Shearson/American 
Express. In 1984, Shearson/American Express purchased the 90-year-old Investors 
Diversified Services, bringing with it a fleet of financial advisors and 
investment products. Also in 1984, American Express acquired the investment 
banking and trading firm, Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb, and added it to the 
Shearson family, creating Shearson Lehman/American Express. In 1988, the 
firm acquired E. F. Hutton & Co., forming Shearson Lehman Hutton until 
1990, when the firm's name became Shearson Lehman Brothers. When Harvey 
Golub took the reins in 1993 he negotiated the sale of Shearson's retail 
brokerage and asset management business to Primerica and in following year, 
spun off of the remaining investment banking and institutional businesses 
as Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. On September 30, 2005, American Express 
spun off its American Express Financial Advisors unit as a publicly traded 
company, Ameriprise Financial, Inc..[67] Due to this, American Express 
revenues for 2005 are down around $5 billion, however, like-for-like they 
are up 10.5% in 2005. Also, on September 30, 2005, RSM McGladrey acquired 
American Express Tax & Business Services (TBS).[67] On September 18, 2007, 
Standard Chartered Bank agreed to acquire American Express Bank Ltd, a 
commercial bank, from American Express Co,[68] for an estimated US$823 
million, through a friendly divestiture process.[69][70][71][72][73] American 
Express established a Travel Division in 1915 that tied together all of 
the earlier efforts at making travel easier, and soon established its first 
travel agencies. In the 1930s, the Travel Division had grown widely. Albert 
K. Dawson was instrumental in expanding business operations overseas, even 
investing in tourist relations with the Soviet Union. Dawson during World 
War I had been a photographer and film correspondent with the German army. 
Today the focus of the Travel Division is on business customers and business 
travel, that is, corporate travel management. The American Express Publishing 
Corporation published the Travel + Leisure, Food & Wine, Executive Travel, 
Black Ink, and Departures magazines until October 1, 2013, when it sold 
those titles to Time Inc.[74] It publishes American Express Skyguide and 
is based in New York City.[75] As of February 2014, Time Inc. is restructuring 
the portfolio of publications.[76] American Express FSB (federal savings 
bank) is a direct bank offering a standard savings account to individuals. 
Checking account services are not provided. In 1975, David Ogilvy of Ogilvy 
& Mather developed the highly successful Don't Leave Home Without Them 
ad campaign for American Express Traveler's Cheques, featuring Oscar-award-winning 
actor Karl Malden. Karl Malden served as the public face of American Express 
Travelers Cheques for 25 years. In the UK the spokesman was the television 
personality Alan Whicker. After Malden's departure, and as the card assumed 
importance over the traveler's cheques, American Express continued to use 
celebrities, such as Mel Blanc and ballerina Cynthia Gregory. A typical 
ad for the American Express Card began with a celebrity asking viewers: 
"Do you know me?" Although he/she gave hints to his/her identity, the star's 
name was never mentioned except as imprinted on an American Express Card, 
after which announcer Peter Thomas told viewers how to apply for it. Each 
ad concluded with the celebrity reminding viewers: "Don't Leave Home Without 
It." The "Don't Leave Home Without It" slogan was revived in 2005 for the 
prepaid American Express Travelers Cheque Card.[citation needed] American 
Express continues to use celebrities in their ads. Some notable examples 
include a late 1990s ad campaign with comedian Jerry Seinfeld, including 
the two 2004 webisodes in a series entitled "The Adventures of Seinfeld 
& Superman." In late 2004, American Express launched the "My life. My card." 
brand campaign (also by Ogilvy & Mather) featuring famous American Express 
cardmembers talking about their lives. The ads have featured actors Kate 
Winslet, Robert De Niro, Ken Watanabe, and Tina Fey; Duke University basketball 
coach Mike Krzyzewski; fashion designers Collette Dinnigan and Diane von 
Fürstenberg; comedian and talk show hostess Ellen DeGeneres; golfer Tiger 
Woods; professional snowboarder Shaun White; tennis pros Venus Williams 
and Andy Roddick; Real Madrid manager José Mourinho; film directors Martin 
Scorsese, Wes Anderson, and M. Night Shyamalan; and most recently, singer 
Beyoncé.[citation needed] Many American Express credit card ads feature 
a sample American Express Card with the name "C. F. Frost" on the front. 
This is not a fabricated name; Charles F. Frost was an advertising executive 
at Ogilvy & Mather.[77] American Express was one of the earliest users 
of cause marketing, to great success.[78] A 1983 promotion advertised that 
for each purchase made with an American Express Card, American Express 
would contribute one penny to the renovation of the Statue of Liberty. 
The campaign generated contributions of $1.7 million to the Statue of Liberty 
restoration project. What would soon capture the attention of marketing 
departments of major corporations was that the promotion generated approximately 
a 28% increase in American Express card usage by consumers. Building on 
its earlier promotion, American Express later conducted a four-year Charge 
Against Hunger program, which generated approximately $22 million for a 
charity[which?] addressing poverty and hunger relief.[citation needed] 
In 2006, as part of Bono's Product Red, American Express launched the American 
Express Red Card with a campaign starred by supermodel Gisele Bündchen. 
The card, currently available only in the United Kingdom, makes a donation 
to fight AIDS with every purchase made using the card.[which?] In May 2007, 
American Express launched an initiative called the Members Project.[79][80] 
Cardholders were invited to submit ideas for projects, and were told American 
Express was funding the winning project. The winner, a provide clean drinking 
water project, received $2 million.[which?] In 2007, a two-minute black-and-white 
ad, entitled "Animals" and starring Ellen DeGeneres, won the Emmy Award 
for Outstanding Commercial.[81][82] In April 1986, American Express moved 
its headquarters to the 51-story Three World Financial Center in New York 
City. After the events of September 11, 2001, American Express had to leave 
its headquarters temporarily as it was located directly opposite to the 
World Trade Center and was damaged during the fall of the towers. The company 
began gradually moving back into its rehabilitated building in 2002. The 
company also has major offices in Fort Lauderdale, FL, Salt Lake City, 
UT, and Phoenix, AZ. It has a technology center in Weston, FL. The main 
data center is located in North Carolina. AMEX Bank of Canada was founded 
in 1853 in Toronto, however it currently has its headquarters of 3,000 
employees in Markham, Ontario (a northern suburb of Toronto), as well as 
an office in Hamilton, Ontario. The company began operations as a bank 
on July 1, 1990, following an order-in-council made by the Brian Mulroney 
government on November 21, 1988. This decision was not without controversy 
as federal banking policy at the time would not ordinarily have permitted 
American Express to operate as a bank.[83] It is also a member of the Canadian 
Bankers Association (CBA) and is a registered member of the Canada Deposit 
Insurance Corporation (CDIC), a federal agency insuring deposits at all 
of Canada's chartered banks. American Express has several offices in the 
UK, including a 9-story European Service Center, known as Amex House, in 
the Carlton Hill area of Brighton, England. It is a large white tower block, 
built in 1977[84] and surrounded by several other smaller offices around 
the city. Amex House deals with card servicing, sales, fraud and merchant 
servicing. The official Europe, Middle East, and Africa HQ is located in 
the Belgravia district of Westminster, in central London, at Belgrave House 
on Buckingham Palace Road, SW1; other UK offices are based in Sussex at 
Burgess Hill. In November 2009, Brighton and Hove City Council granted 
planning permission for American Express to redevelop the Amex House site. 
The Japan, Asia-Pacific, and Australian Headquarters is co-located in Singapore, 
at 16 Collyer Quay, and in Sydney's King Street Wharf area, with the new 
state-of-the-art building receiving greenhouse status due to the environmentally 
friendly workspace that it provides. The headquarters of the Latin America 
and Caribbean division is in Fort Lauderdale, FL. American Express also 
has a significant presence in India. Its two centres are located at Gurgaon, 
Haryana and one at Mathura Road, New Delhi. The Indian operations of American 
Express revolves around the back office customer services operations apart 
from the credit card business for the domestic Indian Economy, arguably 
the American Express campus in Gurgaon is the largest employee location 
by head count for Amex and supports business continuity objectives of Amex 
including during Hurricane Sandy, the center works 24/7 and includes a 
co-located second building which was recently transferred to a third party 
service provider but does much work for Amex. For 2008, American Express 
was named the 62nd best company to work for in the United States by Fortune, 
ranking it number one for bank card companies.[85] In October 2008, Amex 
Canada Inc. was named one of Greater Toronto's Top Employers by Mediacorp 
Canada Inc., which was announced by the Toronto Star newspaper.[86] The 
officers of the company are listed on the company's website as follows:[87] 
The members of the company's board of directors are listed on the company's 
website as follows:[87] These slogans have been parodied numerous times: 
