The American Association (AA) was a professional baseball major league 
that existed for 10 seasons from 1882 to 1891. During that time, it challenged 
the National League (NL) for dominance of professional baseball. Together 
with the NL, the AA participated in an early version of the World Series 
seven times. At the end of its run, several franchises of the AA joined 
the NL. During its existence, the AA was often simply referred to as "the 
Association" in the media, in contrast to the NL which was called "the 
League." The American Association distinguished itself in several ways 
from what it considered to be the puritanical National League. The new 
league established teams in what the NL leaders pejoratively called "river 
cities", including Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville and St. Louis, with 
the inherent implication of lower morality or social standards in those 
cities. In contrast to the NL, the AA offered cheaper ticket prices, Sunday 
games and alcoholic beverages to its patrons.[1]:p.55 As such, the American 
Association was the world's first professional sports league designed to 
out-compete another by better accommodating blue-collar tendencies and 
attitudes toward spectator sport.[citation needed] On November 8, 1881, 
at the Gibson House in Cincinnati, it was decided that individual teams 
in the league-to-be would operate their own affairs and set their own admission 
prices,[2] under an agreement called the "guarantee system". The NL at 
that time prohibited the sale of alcohol on its grounds, while the AA had 
no such restrictions, especially as several of its teams were backed by 
breweries and distilleries. The AA became known as "The Beer and Whiskey 
League", another pejorative term applied by NL owners, and which did not 
seem to bother the fans of the Association's clubs. Beginning in 1884 and 
continuing through 1890, the champion of the AA met the champion of the 
NL in an early version of the World Series. These early Series were less 
organized than the modern version, with as few as three games played and 
as many as fifteen, and the contests of 1885 and 1890 ending in disputed 
ties. The NL won four of these Series, while the AA won only one, in 1886 
when the St. Louis Browns (now Cardinals) defeated the Chicago White Stockings 
(now Cubs). Over its lifetime, the AA was weakened by several factors. 
One was the tendency of some of its teams to jump to the NL. The consistently 
stronger NL was in better position to survive adverse conditions. Some 
owners of AA teams also owned a NL team.[1]:p.58 The most significant blow 
to the AA was dealt by the Players' League, a third major league formed 
in 1890, which siphoned off talent and gate receipts. In a rare historical 
oddity, the Brooklyn Bridegrooms (now the Los Angeles Dodgers) won the 
league's championship and represented the AA in the 1889 World's Series, 
switched to the NL during the off-season, and then repeated the same feat. 
No player who spent the majority of his career in the AA is in the baseball 
Hall of Fame. The living legacy of the old Association is the group of 
teams that came over to the National League to stay. The Pirates moved 
to the NL after the 1886 season, the Bridegrooms/Dodgers and the Cincinnati 
Reds after the 1889 season, and the Browns/Cardinals after the American 
Association folded following the 1891 season. Following the reorganization 
and contraction of the NL from 12 teams down to 8 in 1900, half of the 
eight surviving teams were former members of the AA. Several of the AA's 
home-field venues survived into the 1960s: The ballpark used by the 1891 
Washington club evolved into Griffith Stadium; the home of the St. Louis 
Browns, Sportsman's Park; and the city block occupied by the Reds, which 
evolved into Crosley Field. Crosley was the last physical remnant of the 
AA to go, other than the clubs themselves, when it was replaced by Riverfront 
Stadium in mid-1970. During the AA's existence, several teams defected 
over to the NL, and at the AA's demise in 1891 four additional clubs joined 
the NL. Three former AA clubs, the Cincinnati Reds (defected to the NL 
in 1889), the Los Angeles Dodgers (defected in 1890) and the St. Louis 
Cardinals (joined the NL after the AA demise in 1891), have posted more 
