The American Association of Independent Professional Baseball is an independent 
professional baseball league founded in 2005. It operates in the states 
of Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, 
South Dakota, and Texas, along with the Canadian province of Manitoba, 
mostly in cities not served by MLB teams or their minor league affiliates. 
Miles Wolff is the league commissioner. League offices are located in Durham, 
North Carolina. The American Association was founded in October 2005 when 
the St. Paul Saints, Lincoln Saltdogs, Sioux City Explorers, and Sioux 
Falls Canaries announced they were leaving the Northern League. Around 
the same time, the Central Baseball League announced it was disbanding 
after four seasons. The Fort Worth Cats, Shreveport-Bossier Sports, Pensacola 
Pelicans, Coastal Bend Aviators, and El Paso Diablos joined the four former 
Northern League teams and the expansion St. Joe Blacksnakes to form the 
American Association as a ten-team league. The new league began play in 
2006, with a 96-game schedule, which has since expanded to 100 games. 2008 
saw the league lose the Blacksnakes and Aviators, with the Grand Prairie 
AirHogs and Wichita Wingnuts joining in their place. In 2011 and 2012 the 
league went through a significant shift. Fort Worth left the league to 
join United League Baseball, while Shreveport and Pensacola both relocated. 
The Pelicans moved to Amarillo, Texas and became the Amarillo Sox (later 
the Amarillo Thunderheads) while Shreveport, who had changed their name 
to the Shreveport-Bossier Captains, moved to Laredo, Texas and became the 
Laredo Lemurs. In addition, four more Northern League franchises (Fargo-Moorhead 
Redhawks, Gary SouthShore RailCats, Kansas City T-Bones, and Winnipeg Goldeyes) 
joined the American Association as that league's stability came into question. 
For the 2012 season, the American Association began interleague play with 
the Can-Am League.[1] The two leagues are both headquartered in Durham, 
North Carolina, and both have Miles Wolff as their commissioner. This was 
similar to interleague play in Major League Baseball, but American Association 
and Can-Am League are separate legal entities and have separate playoffs/championships. 
At the end of the 2013 season, due to the Tucson Padres relocating to their 
city, the El Paso Diablos suspended operations. The team was eventually 
revived and relocated, currently operating as the Joplin Blasters. On November 
19, 2015, Miles Wolff announced that there would no longer be interleague 
play. It also was announced that for the Amarillo Thunderheads and Grand 
Prairie AirHogs would operate as a joint team (Texas AirHogs) playing 25 
games in Amarillo and 25 games in Grand Prairie to make up a 12-team league.[2][3] 
Typically the American Association recruits college, ex-major and ex-minor 
players. Former affiliated-league players that get injured or have other 
circumstances join the AA as an opportunity to get resigned by major league 
organizations. Other players consist of college players that were not drafted 
into MiLB, but seek the opportunity to be seen by major league scouts and 
possibly get signed by major league organizations. Other former MLB players 
join the AA as a way to stay involved in baseball after their career as 
a major league player, often as coaches and managers. As of 2008, the salary 
cap for each league was $100,000, with a minimum salary of $800 per month.[4] 
The price of an expansion team is also about $750,000.[4] This is in stark 
contrast with the minor and major leagues. Commissioner Miles Wolff stated 
in an interview that “We have to pay the salaries of the players, which 
they don't in an affiliated [league]. It's a much riskier business. Just 
because of the longevity and tradition, we usually don't get the best cities, 
either, so some of the markets we're in are not great markets. But as I 
say, I think it's a better product.”[4] League members Former Team The 
American Association hosted an annual All-Star Game from 2006 to 2010. 
The league's first All-Star game was played in El Paso, Texas, on July 
18, 2006, which pit a team of American Association All-Stars against an 
All-Star team from the Can-Am League. Its current format pits the all-stars 
from each division against each other. There was no All-Star game in 2011, 
