The American League Central is one of six divisions in Major League Baseball. 
This division was formed in the realignment in 1994, and its teams are 
all located in the Midwestern United States. The Central is currently the 
only division in the Major Leagues in which all of its members have won 
a World Series title. In fact, each team has captured at least two World 
Series championships. Place cursor over year for division champ or World 
Series team. The Chicago White Sox and Kansas City Royals are the only 
teams from the AL Central division to have won the World Series since the 
league realignment in 1994. * Due to the 1994 Major League Baseball strike 
starting August 12, no official winner became victorious. The Chicago White 
Sox were leading at the time that the strike began. ** In 2008, the Minnesota 
Twins and Chicago White Sox finished the season with the identical records 
of 88–74. The White Sox won the one-game playoff 1–0. # In 2009, the Minnesota 
Twins and Detroit Tigers finished the season with identical records of 
86–76. The Twins won the one-game playoff 6–5 in 12 innings. In 1994, the 
Cleveland Indians were sitting atop the wild-card standings and would have 
qualified for the postseason as the AL's first wild card but on August 
12 of that year, the season came to an early end due to a players strike, 
cancelling the remainder of the regular season and postseason. The 2006 
Detroit Tigers were the first team from the Central to qualify as the wild 
card, making the AL Central the last division to produce a wild card team. 
MLB revamped the postseason starting in 2012, creating a new single-game 
playoff where two wildcards competed against each other while the division 
winners each received a bye. The winner of the American League wild card 
game moves on to face the top-seeded team of the AL in the American League 
Division Series. In 2013, the Indians became the first team from the AL 
Central to qualify as a wild card under the new postseason format. In 2014, 
the Kansas City Royals ended a 29-year postseason drought returning to 
the playoffs for the first time since winning the World Series in 1985. 
