The American League of Professional Baseball Clubs, or simply the American 
League (AL), is one of two leagues that make up Major League Baseball (MLB) 
in the United States and Canada. It developed from the Western League, 
a minor league based in the Great Lakes states, which eventually aspired 
to major league status. It is sometimes called the Junior Circuit because 
it claimed Major League status for the 1901 season, 25 years after the 
formation of the National League (the "Senior Circuit"). At the end of 
every season, the American League champion plays in the World Series against 
the National League champion; two seasons did not end in playing a World 
Series. Through 2016, American League teams have won 64 of the 112 World 
Series played since 1903, with 27 of those coming from the New York Yankees 
alone. The 2016 American League champions are the Cleveland Indians. The 
New York Yankees have won 40 American League titles, the most in the league's 
history, followed by the Philadelphia/Kansas City/Oakland Athletics (15) 
and the Boston Red Sox (13). Originally a minor league known as the Western 
League, the American League later developed into a major league after the 
American Association disbanded. In its early history, the Western League 
struggled until 1894, when Ban Johnson became the president of the league. 
Johnson led the Western League into major league status and soon became 
the president of the newly renamed American League. Babe Ruth, noted as 
one of the most prolific hitters in Major League Baseball history, spent 
the majority of his career in the American League. The American League 
has one notable difference versus the National League, in that since 1973 
it has had the designated hitter rule. Under the rule, a team may use a 
batter in its lineup who is not in the field defensively, replacing any 
player (usually the pitcher) in the batting order, compared to the old 
rule that made it mandatory for the pitcher to bat.[3] The original eight 
American League teams are: Boston Americans, Chicago White Stockings, Cleveland 
Bluebirds, Detroit Tigers, Baltimore Orioles, Philadelphia Athletics, Milwaukee 
Brewers, and Washington Senators. In 1902, the Milwaukee Brewers moved 
to St. Louis and were renamed the St. Louis Browns. In 1902, The Cleveland 
Bluebirds were also renamed the Cleveland Broncos. In 1903, the Broncos 
were renamed the Cleveland Naps. In 1915, the Naps were renamed the Cleveland 
Indians. In 1903, the Baltimore Orioles moved to New York and were renamed 
the New York Highlanders. In 1913, the Highlanders were renamed the New 
York Yankees. In 1904, the Chicago White Stockings were renamed the Chicago 
White Sox. In 1908, the Boston Americans were renamed the Boston Red Sox. 
In 1954, the St. Louis Browns moved to Baltimore and were renamed as the 
Baltimore Orioles. In 1955, the Philadelphia Athletics moved to Kansas 
City and were renamed as the Kansas City Athletics, and in 1968 the franchise 
was moved to Oakland and was renamed as the Oakland Athletics. In 1961, 
the league expanded and added two teams as the Los Angeles Angels and the 
Washington Senators, expanding the league to 10 teams. The original Senators 
team moved to Minneapolis/St. Paul in 1961 and were renamed as the Minnesota 
Twins. The Angels' team name changed to the California Angels in 1966, 
then to the Anaheim Angels in 1997, and finally to its current iteration 
as the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim in 2005. In 1969, the league reorganized 
into two divisions (American League East and American League West), as 
did the National League, and added another round to the playoffs in the 
form of the American League Championship Series, with the first place team 
in each division advancing to the playoffs. The Kansas City Royals and 
the Seattle Pilots were added to the American League, expanding the league 
to 12 teams. In 1970, the Seattle Pilots moved to Milwaukee and were renamed 
the Milwaukee Brewers. In 1972, the Washington Senators relocated to the 
Dallas/Fort Worth area and were renamed the Texas Rangers. In 1977, the 
league expanded to fourteen teams, when the Seattle Mariners and Toronto 
Blue Jays were enfranchised. Granting a team to Toronto marked the AL's 
expansion to Canada, following the National League's expansion to Montreal, 
and the Mariners were added in an attempt to settle a pending $90 million 
lawsuit against the league by the city of Seattle over the quick departure 
of the Seattle Pilots in 1970. In 1998, the Tampa Bay Rays was added to 
the American League and at the same time, the Milwaukee Brewers were switched 
to the National League, leaving the American League with 14 teams. In 2013, 
the Houston Astros switched to the American League after spending 51 seasons 
in the National League, expanding the league to 15 teams. Until the late 
1970s, league umpires working behind home plate wore large, balloon-style 
chest protectors worn outside the shirt or coat, while their brethren in 
the National League wore chest protectors inside the shirt or coat. In 
1977, new umpires (including Steve Palermo) had to wear the inside chest 
protector, although those on staff wearing the outside protector could 
continue to do so. Most umpires made the switch to the inside protector, 
led by Don Denkinger in 1975 and Jim Evans the next year, although several 
did not, including Bill Haller, Lou DiMuro, George Maloney, and Jerry Neudecker, 
who became the last MLB umpire to use the outside protector in 1985. In 
1994, the league, along with the National League, reorganized again, into 
three divisions (East, West, and Central) and added a third round to the 
playoffs in the form of the American League Division Series, with the best 
second-place team advancing to the playoffs as a wild-card team, in addition 
to the three divisional champions. In 1998, the newly franchised Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays joined the league, and the Arizona Diamondbacks joined the 
National League: i.e., each league each added a fifteenth team. An odd 
number of teams per league meant that at least one team in each league 
would have to be idle on any given day, or alternatively that odd team 
out would have had to play an interleague game against its counterpart 
in the other league. The initial plan was to have three five-team divisions 
per league with inter league play year-round—possibly as many as 30 interleague 
games per team each year. For various reasons, it soon seemed more practical 
to have an even number of teams in both leagues. The Milwaukee Brewers 
agreed to change leagues, moving from the AL Central to the NL Central. 
At the same time, the Detroit Tigers were moved from the AL East to the 
AL Central, making room for the Devil Rays in the East. Following the move 
of the Houston Astros to the American League in 2013, both leagues now 
consist of 15 teams. For the first 96 years, American League teams faced 
their National League counterparts only in exhibition games or in the World 
Series. Beginning in 1997, interleague games have been played during the 
regular season and count in the standings. As part of the agreement instituting 
interleague play, the designated-hitter rule is used only in games where 
the American League team is the home team. There were eight charter teams 
in 1901, the league's first year as a major league, and the next year the 
original Milwaukee Brewers moved to St. Louis to become the St. Louis Browns. 
These franchises constituted the league for 52 seasons, until the Browns 
moved to Baltimore and took up the name Baltimore Orioles. All eight original 
franchises remain in the American League, although only four remain in 
the original cities (Detroit, Chicago, Boston, and Cleveland). The eight 
original teams and their counterparts in the "Classic Eight" were: (*)See 
commentary on Western League page. The Indianapolis and Minneapolis teams 
were replaced by teams in Baltimore and Philadelphia in 1901, but it is 
