Amesbury is a city in Essex County, Massachusetts, located on the left 
bank of the Merrimack River near its mouth, upstream from Salisbury and 
across the river from Newburyport and West Newbury. The population was 
16,283 at the 2010 census.[3] A former farming and mill town, Amesbury 
is today largely residential. It is one of the two northernmost towns in 
Massachusetts (the other being neighboring Salisbury). In 1637 the first 
English settler in the Salisbury-Amesbury region, John Bayly, crossed the 
Merrimack River from the new settlement at Newbury, built a log cabin, 
and began to clear the land for cultivation. He intended to send to England 
for his wife and children, but they never did rejoin him.[4] He and his 
hired man, William Schooler, were arrested shortly for a murder Schooler 
had committed. The latter was hanged for it. Bayly was acquitted. Given 
the fishing rights on the river by the subsequent settlement, provided 
he would sell only to it, he abandoned agriculture for fishing.[5] On September 
6, 1638, the General Court of Massachusetts created a plantation on behalf 
of several petitioners from Newbury, on the left bank of the Merrimack, 
as far north as Hampton, to be called Merrimac. They were given permission 
to associate together as a township. Middens of shells and arrowheads marked 
the former locations of native villages. They had fallen victim to smallpox. 
The area remained in possession of the tribes along the Merrimack, who 
hunted and fished there. The settlers formed a militia to counteract the 
possible threat of conflict. One especially abundant site of middens at 
the top of a hill, from which a river cascaded, was called by the settlers 
Powawus (Pow-wow), from the native congress believed to have been held 
there, and the river, the Powawus River.[6] The hill is part of the left 
bank of the Merrimack and the river originates in New Hampshire. Today 
this cascade, sometimes called falls, remains sunken in an urban environment, 
from which it tends to collect debris. The settlers of the plantation, 
who entered Massachusetts Bay Colony through Newbury, were rebels in a 
cause shortly to be settled by the English Civil War (1642-1651). Although 
nominally subjects of the crown, they did not in any way obey it. They 
did maintain close ties with the Parliamentary cause in Britain. The supreme 
government of the colony was the General Court, which functioned autonomously, 
passing its own laws, establishing courts, incorporating townships, assuming 
the power of life and death over its colonists and providing for the overall 
defense of the colony. They established a Puritan church rather than the 
Church of England, enforcing this establishment with severe penalties. 
In the early spring of 1639 about 60 planters took up residence on land 
cleared by the natives. In May an elected planning committee of five laid 
out the green, the initial streets, the burial ground, and especially the 
first division into lots, apportioning the size of a lot to the wealth 
of the settler.[7] On September 4 the General Court named the town Colchester, 
but in October changed the name to Salisbury, probably at the instigation 
of Christopher Batt, from Salisbury, England. A soldier, he trained the 
first militia. In November the General Court appointed a government of 
six, which required that every lot owner take up residence on his lot. 
They began to assign lots west of the Pow-wow river. On October 7, 1640, 
the General Court incorporated Salisbury; that is, it granted legal recognition 
by the colony to a township of that name, with its own government, empowered 
by citizens populating a territory of legally defined boundaries. The original 
Salisbury was many times larger than the present. From it several townships 
were later separated.[8] On January 12, 1641, a town meeting ordered the 
first roads north and west of the Pow-wow to be laid out. On April 21 another 
meeting granted to William Osgood 50 acres of "upland" and 10 of "meadow" 
along the Pow-wow provided he build the town's first sawmill. It utilized 
a water wheel driven by the Pow-wow.[9] The mill produced lumber for local 
use, but also pipe-staves for export. In these times before the separation 
of Newburyport and the opening of Newburyport Harbor by dredging a new 
channel, the export route ran down the Pow-Pow, across the Merrimack on 
a ferry where the public landing now is, over Ferry Road, partly abandoned 
as Old Ferry Road, and along what is now High Street, Newburyport, to the 
docks of the Parker River near Lower Green, Newbury. A gristmill was added 
to the Pow-wow river location in 1642. The 90-foot (27 m) drop of the Powwow 
River provided water power for a subsequent mill complex. In 1642 also 
the town ordered 30 families to take up residence west of the Pow-wow and 
form a "New Town." No volunteers responded.[10] However, this date, the 
first legal recognition of a municipal entity on the site of Amesbury, 
is termed its "settlement" by many sources. On May 10, 1643, the General 
Court divided Massachusetts Bay Colony into four shires: Essex, Norfolk, 
Middlesex and Suffolk. The choice of these names was etymologic relative 
to Boston (Norfolk is "North Folk," etc.). Norfolk contained Salisbury, 
Hampton, Haverhill, Exeter, Dover, and Strawberry Bank (Portsmouth), none 
of which had exactly the borders they have now. This division was a legal 
convenience based on the distribution of courts. Since the first establishment 
of four courts on March 3, 1635, the General Court had found it necessary 
to multiply and distribute courts, so that the magistrates would not spend 
time in travel that they needed for settling case loads. The main requirement 
for membership in a shire was incorporation.[11] Private occupation of 
the west bank of the Pow-wow went on as East Salisbury citizens sold their 
property and moved to New Town.[12] However, New Town remained a paper 
construct without enforcement. On January 14, 1654, articles of agreement 
adopted at town meeting divided Salisbury into Old Town and New Town, each 
to conduct its own affairs. The border was the Pow-wow. The agreement went 
into effect on January 19, 1655. In New Town a new government was voted 
in, which claimed authority over "all matters of publicke concernment."[13] 
They still paid taxes to Old Town and expected services from it. The board 
of Old Town contained some members from New Town for fair representation.[14] 
This agreement also was known as a "settlement", but not in the sense of 
occupying land, which was already occupied. On May 26, 1658, New Town petitioned 
the General Court for independent town status. However, Old Town reneged 
on the settlement. The petition was denied. The issue focused on religion. 
The law established the Congregational Church, which meant attendance was 
mandatory, on penalty of a fine for each missed meeting, and the church 
and preacher must be maintained from taxes. Old Town simply could not afford 
to lose the taxes to a new church. Minister Joseph Peasley of New Town 
and his congregation attempting to defy the General Court were summoned 
into District Court at Ipswich "to answer for their disobedience" and were 
fined there. Peasly was enjoined from preaching.[15] The issue dragged 
on. Another petition was denied in 1660. The burden of attending church 
several miles away became so great that New Town built a new meeting house 
and requested the General Court to find a preacher. The court yielded to 
the petition of 1666, granting the "liberty of a township" to New Town. 
The town was unofficially incorporated; that is, a government was constituted 
and officers elected, on June 15. It was named New Salisbury, but in 1667 
the name was changed to Amesbury on the analogy of Amesbury, England, which 
was next to Salisbury, England.[16] This basis is unrelated to any etymology 
of the two names. Amesbury was officially granted incorporation under that 
name on April 29, 1668. By then the days of unquestioned Puritan power 
were over. The English king had been restored in 1660, followed by the 
execution of the leading Puritans as regicides and an attempt to bring 
the Puritan colony under control of the crown. Charles II attempted to 
take more of a role in colonial affairs, generally without success. The 
long struggle between the royalist governor and the General Court began, 
that court losing much of its power. They were preoccupied for a time by 
King Phillips War (1675–78), the last maximum effort by the natives to 
rid themselves of the Yankees. At the end of it the creation of the Royal 
Province of New Hampshire took away several towns in northern Norfolk shire, 
brooking the power of the General Court. Massachusetts was reduced in size 
from most of New England to roughly its current borders. The Court now 
dissolved Norfolk Shire, transferring Salisbury and Amesbury to Essex County. 
The issue was by no means settled; the previous northern Norfolk Shire 
changed colonies a few more times before finally voting to stay in New 
Hampshire. In 1876 Merrimac was created out of West Amesbury. In 1886 West 
Salisbury was annexed to Amesbury, unifying the mill areas on both banks 
of the Pow-wow River. Beginning as a modest farming community, it developed 
an aggressive maritime and industrial economy. Shipbuilding, shipping and 
fishing were also important. The ferry across the Merrimack River to Newburyport 
was a lively business until the construction of bridges to Deer Island. 
Newton, New Hampshire, was set off from Amesbury in 1741, when the border 
between the two colonies was adjusted. In the 19th century, textile mills 
were built at the falls, as was a mechanized nail-making factory, believed 
to be the nation's first. The Merrimac Hat Company produced more hats than 
any of its competitors. Beginning in 1853, Amesbury became famous for building 
carriages, a trade which evolved into the manufacture of automobile bodies. 
The industry ended with the Great Depression. Amesbury also produced Hoyt's 
Buffalo Brand Peanut Butter Kisses. Newspapers in the 19th century included 
the Amesbury Daily News, Merrimac Journal, Morning Courier, Evening Courier, 
New England Chronicle, Transcript, and the Villager. Newspapers in the 
20th century included the Amesbury Advocate, Amesbury News, Amesbury Times, 
and Leader.[17][18] In 1876, the town of Merrimac was set off from Amesbury. 
In 1996, the town changed its status to a city, and adopted the mayor and 
municipal council form of government, although it retained the title "Town 
of Amesbury", as voters "thought Amesbury was too small and quaint to be 
a city".[19] Voters approved a charter amendment in November 2011 changing 
the city's official name to the "City of Amesbury" and removing references 
to the old "Town of Amesbury" name.[20] The city's seal still bears the 
name "Town of Amesbury", although the City has put forth a bill to correct 
the seal with the new name.[19] The community has an impressive collection 
of early architecture, particularly in the Federal and Victorian styles. 
Following a recent restoration of the historic downtown, many new restaurants 
opened. The "Doughboy", a memorial sculpture by Leonard Craske, stands 
on the front lawn of the Amesbury Middle School. It was dedicated November 
11, 1929. Craske is best known as sculptor for the "Fishermens' Memorial" 
in Gloucester. There is here a monument erected to Josiah Bartlett, who 
was born in Amesbury. Thomas Macy House c. 1905 Mills in 1914 Bartlett's 
statue c. 1910 Whittier's home in 1909 Amesbury is located at 42°51′29″N 
70°55′50″W﻿ / ﻿42.85806°N 70.93056°W﻿ / 42.85806; -70.93056.[21] According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 13.7 square 
miles (35.5 km2), of which 12.3 square miles (31.8 km2) is land and 1.5 
square miles (3.8 km2), or 10.65%, is water.[22] Amesbury is drained by 
the Powwow River. Powwow Hill, elevation 331 feet (101 m), is the highest 
point in town. Once the site of Indian gatherings, or "powwows", it has 
views to Maine and Cape Ann. Amesbury is the second northernmost town in 
Massachusetts, its northernmost point coming just south of the northernmost 
point of the state, in Salisbury. Amesbury lies along the northern banks 
of the Merrimack River and is bordered by Salisbury to the east, Newburyport 
to the southeast, West Newbury to the southwest, Merrimac to the west, 
and South Hampton, New Hampshire, to the north. The Powwow River bisects 
the town, joined by the Back River near the town center. The river flows 
through Lake Gardner and Tuxbury Pond, which are two of several inland 
bodies of water in town, including Lake Attitash (which is partially in 
Merrimac), Meadowbrook Pond, and Pattens Pond. Several brooks also flow 
through the town. Amesbury has a town forest, which is connected to Woodsom 
Farm, as well as Powwow Conservation Area, Victoria Batchelder Park and 
Amesbury Golf & Country Club. Amesbury is served by two interstate highways. 
Interstate 495 runs from west to east through town, ending at Interstate 
95 just over the Salisbury town line. It has two exits in town, Exit 54 
at Massachusetts Route 150 (which lies entirely within Amesbury, and leads 
to New Hampshire Route 150) and Exit 55 at Massachusetts Route 110, which 
also provides the town's only direct access to Interstate 95 at Exit 58. 
I-95 crosses the southeast corner of town, entering along the John Greenleaf 
Whittier Memorial Bridge, a steel through-truss bridge crossing the Merrimack 
River. The Whittier Memorial Bridge lies just west of the town's only other 
bridges across the Merrimack, the Derek S. Hines Memorial Bridge, which 
connects Amesbury to Deer Island (which is still part of Amesbury), and 
the Chain Bridge, the only suspension bridge in Massachusetts, which spans 
from Deer Island to Newburyport. The current version was built in 1909, 
but was predated by the 1810 suspension bridge, one of the oldest suspension 
bridges in the country. The Chain Bridge and its counterparts over the 
years have been the main entryways into town across the Merrimack, and 
until the building of the Newburyport Turnpike Bridge, it was the easternmost 
bridge on the Merrimack River. MVRTA provides bus service in Amesbury. 
Route 51 connects to the Haverhill train station. Route 54 connects to 
Newburyport train station. As of the census of 2000, there were 16,450 
people, 6,380 households, and 4,229 families residing in the city.[33] 
The population density was 1,326.3 people per square mile (512.2/km²). 
There were 6,623 housing units at an average density of 206.2 persons/km² 
(534.0 persons/sq mi). The racial makeup of the city was 97.2% White, 0.6% 
African American, 0.22% Native American, 0.9% of the population were Hispanic 
or Latino of any race. There were 6,380 households out of which 34.5% had 
children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.2% were married couples 
living together, 11.3% have a woman whose husband does not live with her, 
and 33.7% were non-families. 26.8% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 8.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.52 and the average family size was 3.09. In 
the city the population was spread out with 26.1% under the age of 18, 
6.1% from 18 to 24, 33.8% from 25 to 44, 22.0% from 45 to 64, and 12.0% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 
100 females there were 93.1 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 89.7 males. The median income for a household in the city was 
$34,906, and the median income for a family was $62,875. Males had a median 
income of $25,489 versus $31,968 for females. The per capita income for 
the city was $23,103. 5.9% of the population and 3.9% of families were 
below the poverty line. The major educational institutions are: Amesbury's 
high school football rival is Newburyport; the two teams play against each 
other every Thanksgiving Day. As of 2012, the Amesbury Public Library pays 
for access to information resources produced by Brainfuse, Cengage Learning, 
EBSCO Industries, LearningExpress, Library Ideas, Mango Languages, NewsBank, 
Online Computer Library Center (OCLC), ProQuest, TumbleBook Library, World 
Book of Berkshire Hathaway, and World Trade Press.[34] The Public Library 
houses an extensive Local History and genealogy collection which is open 
and available for research. [35] New England Sports Park, formerly Amesbury 
Sports Park, is a recreational facility located in Amesbury. The first 
known reference was as a ski area called Lone Tree Hill in 1949. Lone Tree 
Hill featured a wide slope serviced by a 1,000-foot (300 m) rope tow. It 
is unknown when the ski area closed.[36] It was later opened on this same 
hill. The snow tubing facility features snowmaking and night lighting. 
Multiple fields at the base of the hill allow for off-season activities 
such as soccer, rugby, extreme obstacle races such as the Spartan Race, 
