Andrea Joyce (born August 17, 1954) is an American sportscaster who works 
for NBC Sports after working 10 years with CBS Sports. Joyce attended the 
University of Michigan. Her work in local television included a stint as 
the weekend sports anchor for WFAA-TV in Dallas in 1987 and as a news anchor 
and field reporter for KMGH-TV in Denver. She also worked as a news anchor 
for KTVH-TV in Wichita, Kansas. She also worked a stint at Detroit's NBC 
affiliate WDIV channel 4 Joyce debuted as a reporter for ESPN at the 1988 
Summer Olympics in Seoul. She also covered for ESPN, the NFL Draft, and 
the French Open Tennis Championships. Prior to joining CBS Sports, Joyce 
hosted MSG SportsBreak on the Madison Square Garden Network (1988). Joyce 
joined CBS Sports in August 1989. She made her on-air debut at the 1989 
U.S. Open Tennis Championships. She worked three Winter Games for CBS Sports, 
serving as co-host of the weekend and Opening and Closing Ceremony coverage 
at the 1994 Lillehammer Games and the 1998 Nagano Games. Joyce served as 
co-host of the CBS' weekend coverage during the 1992 Albertville Games. 
While interviewing USA's Donna Weinbrecht, after winning a freestyle skiing-moguls 
gold medal in 1992, Weinbrecht's mother rushed up (midway through the interview) 
to her daughter and literally knocked Joyce off the air. Andrea Joyce replaced 
Greg Gumbel (who in return, replaced Dick Stockton as the #2 play-by-play 
man) as studio host for the Major League Baseball games. Joyce would be 
joined at the anchor desk by Pat O'Brien. She also served as field reporter 
for the 1991 National League Championship Series and 1991 World Series, 
and at the 1993 World Series, she became the first woman to co-host the 
network television coverage for a World Series. Joyce also hosted CBS' 
early-round coverage of the 1991 NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship; 
College Football Today (CBS' college football studio show); the NCAA Division 
I Women's Basketball Championship Final Four and title-game broadcasts 
from 1991–94; and the 1990 Heisman Trophy Award show. During her ten years 
at CBS she covered events ranging from the Final Four to the US Open Tennis 
Championships. She also covered the 1990 NBA Playoffs and figure skating. 
Joyce joined NBC Sports in 2000 and has served as a reporter on a number 
of events for NBC, including figure skating and short track speed skating 
from Torino in 2006; gymnastics and diving from Athens in 2004; speed skating 
in Salt Lake City at the 2002 Winter Olympics Games; and diving and swimming 
in Sydney in 2000. She was the only woman to do play-by-play during the 
2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. During that Olympics, she served as the 
play-by-play woman for rhythmic gymnastics and served as a reporter for 
gymnastics. She also served as the play-by-play commentator for rhythmic 
gymnastics in Athens. In Sydney, Joyce also covered women's soccer and 
women’s water polo, in addition to contributing to the Sports Desk. She 
served as a reporter during NBC's coverage of the 2000 Olympic Diving Trials 
and the 2000 Olympic Swimming Trials. She also served as a reporter for 
NBA on NBC and WNBA on NBC broadcasts. Joyce currently covers gymnastics 
and figure skating for NBC Sports as well as anchoring the NBC Sports Update. 
In 2010, she served as the reporter for short track and figure skating 
during the 2010 Winter Olympics on NBC. A member of the Women's Sports 
Foundation, Joyce has covered a wide variety of sports, including figure 
skating, boxing and even dog shows. Joyce is married to Harry Smith, and 
