Andrew Friedman (born November 13, 1976 in Houston, Texas)[1] is the President 
of Baseball Operations of the Los Angeles Dodgers of Major League Baseball 
(MLB). He previously served as the general manager for the Tampa Bay Rays, 
where Sporting News named him Executive of the Year in 2008. That year, 
for the first time in franchise history, the Rays both qualified for the 
playoffs and played in the World Series. Friedman, who is Jewish, was born 
in Houston, Texas.[2] He attended Episcopal High School in Houston, and 
subsequently Tulane University on a baseball scholarship, where he earned 
a B.S. in management with a concentration in finance at Tulane's Freeman 
School of Business. Like his father Kenneth, Andrew Friedman played baseball 
for Tulane.[3] Friedman was then an analyst with Bear Stearns from 1999–2002, 
and then was an associate at MidMark Capital, a private equity firm, from 
2002-04. In 2003, Friedman met Stuart Sternberg, the new owner of the Tampa 
Bay Rays. They realized they had similar ideas about the game and wanted 
to work together.[4] From 2004 to 2005, Friedman served as the Director 
of Baseball Development for the Rays. He was promoted to the position of 
Executive Vice President of Baseball Operations and General Manager after 
the 2005 season, at the age of 28, replacing the club's first general manager, 
Chuck LaMar, who was fired following the club's eighth losing season in 
its eight years of existence.[5] Friedman gradually rebuilt the team, and 
it paid off in 2008 when the Rays made the postseason for the first time 
in franchise history, and advanced all the way to the World Series. For 
his efforts, he was named as Baseball Executive of the Year by Sporting 
News.[6] They also made the playoffs in 2010, 2011 and 2013 under his tenure. 
On October 14, 2014, it was announced that Friedman had left the Rays to 
become the President of Baseball Operations for the Los Angeles Dodgers.[7] 
His contract with the Dodgers was reported at $35 million for five years, 
making him the highest-paid front-office executive in baseball.[8] Friedman 
hired former Oakland Athletics executive Farhan Zaidi as the Dodgers' new 
general manager and brought in former Padres general manager Josh Byrnes 
as Vice President of Baseball Operations.[9] All former GMs, Friedman, 
Zaidi, and Byrnes augmented an already highly accomplished front office 
consisting of Stan Kasten and Ned Colletti. In his first offseason with 
the Dodgers, Friedman and the new front office made a huge splash. Through 
free agency or trades, the Dodgers parted ways with shortstop Hanley Ramirez, 
outfielder Matt Kemp,[10] second baseman Dee Gordon, and pitchers Brian 
Wilson and Dan Haren. However, they bolstered their farm system and added 
key players such as catcher Yasmani Grandal, infielders Howie Kendrick 
and Jimmy Rollins, and pitchers Brett Anderson & Mike Bolsinger. Friedman 
helped lead the Dodgers to their third straight National League West division 
title in 2015, his first season, but the team fell to the New York Mets 
in the National League Division Series (NLDS), 3–2. After the 2015 season, 
MLB penalized the Dodgers with a record $43 million luxury tax after determining 
their payroll was nearly $300 million, also an all-time record.[11] The 
Dodgers mutually parted ways with manager Don Mattingly following the 2015 
season, and Friedman hired former Dodgers outfielder Dave Roberts to succeed 
Mattingly as manager. Starting pitcher Zack Greinke left the Dodgers for 
the Arizona Diamondbacks in free agency, and Friedman responded by signing 
pitchers Scott Kazmir and Kenta Maeda. The Dodgers, Reds, and White Sox 
completed a three-team trade, that netted the Dodgers outfielder Trayce 
Thompson, among others. Friedman hired former MLB players Raúl Ibañez and 
Greg Maddux to be special assistants on February 2, 2016.[12] For the first 
time since 2014, Friedman returned to Tropicana Field on May 3, 2016, when 
