Andy the Clown was the performing name of Andrew Rozdilsky, Jr. (December 
6, 1917 – September 21, 1995), a lifelong Chicago resident who performed, 
unofficially, as a clown at Chicago White Sox games at Comiskey Park for 
30 years from 1960 to 1990. The youngest of five sons and one daughter, 
Andy Rozdilsky first began performing as a clown when he was 10 years old. 
After serving in the Army during World War II, he began working as a research 
clerk for International Harvester, while continuing to perform as a clown 
at family and neighborhood events. In 1960, during the period that the 
Sox were owned by Bill Veeck, Rozdilsky was invited to a White Sox game 
by several friends, and decided to wear his clown costume to the game; 
the crowd responded with strong encouragement, and after he won a pair 
of season tickets in a local Knights of Columbus raffle, he began performing 
at all home games beginning with the 1961 season. Andy was always prominent 
at Comiskey Park, easily spotted in his bowler hat, black-rimmed glasses 
and polka-dotted costume with a ruffled collar, and easily heard crying 
out his trademark cheer, an elongated "Gooooo yooooouuuu Whiiiiite Sooooox!" 
But his most distinctive and well-known feature was his large red nose, 
which lit up whenever he shook hands with a child. Over the years, Andy 
became a beloved fixture at White Sox games, continuing to perform after 
Veeck sold the team in 1961 to brothers Arthur and John Allyn, and also 
after Veeck re-purchased the team in 1975; the team never made Andy an 
official employee, but did provide him with free admission. He also made 
unofficial appearances at hospitals and charity events.[citation needed] 
Andy could display an impish sense of humor, as at the exhibition game 
in August 1981 against the Cubs; he sat down in Mayor Jane Byrne's lap, 
lit up his nose, turned to her husband and said, "Jay, your wife is turning 
me on."[citation needed] He also overcame illnesses to make it to games, 
as in 1983 when he was at the park just one hour after being released from 
a four-day hospital stay for a bleeding ulcer. Andy was a transitional 
figure between eras in entertainment at major league ballparks,[citation 
needed] being the last in a generation of clowns who appeared regularly 
in the majors; Al Schacht was retired, Max Patkin was by now performing 
primarily in the minor leagues, and legendary Ringling Bros. clown Emmett 
Kelly, who often performed at Brooklyn Dodgers games in the 1940s and 1950s, 
died in 1979. In the 1970s, the trend toward costumed team mascots began, 
primarily with the first appearances of The San Diego Chicken in 1974 and 
the Phillie Phanatic in 1978.[citation needed] In 1981, the White Sox were 
sold to an ownership group headed by Jerry Reinsdorf and Eddie Einhorn, 
and the new owners were eager to bring in a new mascot, seeking to improve 
what they perceived to be a more downscale feature of White Sox home games. 
They hired the design firm responsible for creating the Phillie Phanatic 
to create a new mascot for the Sox, and in August 1981 informed Andy that 
he could no longer appear at games in costume. The response from the fans 
and local media was immediate and solidly opposed to this decision, and 
a telephone campaign insisting on Andy's reinstatement succeeded in getting 
the team to rescind its decision just one day after it was announced. A 
compromise was reached in which Andy would continue to be allowed in the 
ballpark in costume, but he would not be permitted to go into the lower 
grandstand, staying only in the upper deck and concourse areas of the park.[citation 
needed] Days later, the Sox debuted the pair of furry mascots created for 
them, Ribbie and Roobarb; but the fans never accepted the two, ridiculing 
them throughout their tenure with the team – both because of their ludicrous 
appearance, which had no apparent connection with the team, and also because 
they were seen as an attempt by the team to eliminate Andy. Fans openly 
mocked Ribbie and Roobarb, with even children gleefully attacking them, 
while the fans in the box seats found ways of getting around the restrictions 
on Andy by constantly bringing him into the lower grandstand and seeking 
him out elsewhere in the park. The team stopped using Ribbie and Roobarb 
after the 1988 season.[citation needed] But in 1991, the White Sox moved 
into New Comiskey Park, and the team used the move as an opportunity to 
finally end Andy's performances, informing him that he would not be permitted 
to appear in costume at the new stadium. The decision brought to a close 
an era in Chicago sports. Upon retiring him, the team presented Andy with 
a commemorative plaque – though he remarked in a radio interview the next 
morning that he wished they had given him something more memorable, "like 
a Zenith TV or something."[citation needed]Listeners were so grateful for 
his years at the ballpark that they donated gifts of two televisions, a 
reclining chair, free repair services and gifts for his family. Once the 
new ballpark opened, Andy attended occasional games out of costume (but 
with his hat), cheering as always; but team management was upset that he 
would accept tips from fans when posing for photos, and told him that he 
couldn't do so anymore. He rarely attended games afterward, but still made 
other unofficial appearances. In his 30 years of performing at White Sox 
games, Andy only missed one home opener – that of April 14, 1989, which 
occurred one day after the death of his wife, the former Helen Novak. Rozdilsky 
died at age 77 after suffering a heart attack at his Southwest Side home, 
and was buried in Evergreen Cemetery in Evergreen Park.[citation needed] 
