Andrew Jackson Leonard (June 1, 1846 – August 21, 1903) played left field 
for the original Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first fully professional 
baseball team. He was one of five men to play regularly for both the Cincinnati 
and the Boston Red Stockings, the latter winning six championships during 
his seven seasons. He played several infield positions on lesser teams 
in his early twenties but left field was his regular professional position. 
Born 1846 in County Cavan and raised in Newark, New Jersey, Leonard is 
commonly recognized as the first native of Ireland to play in the major 
leagues. He was one of four who played during the first National Association 
season, so he owes the distinction partly to fortunate scheduling in the 
spring of 1871, partly to our counting the NA as a major league. (But it 
seems likely that Leonard and Fergy Malone both played in the first National 
League game, 22 April 1876.) Leonard played five seasons in the amateur 
era of the National Association of Base Ball Players (NABBP), beginning 
in 1864 with the Hudson River club of Newburgh, New York, not far North 
of the metropolis. Early in the 1866 season he moved to the Irvington club 
of Irvington, New Jersey, several miles inland from Newark and from the 
Elysian Fields, Hoboken, where many New York city teams played home matches. 
(At least two teammates, Hugh and Matt Campbell, were natives of Ireland.) 
At that time, in his early twenties, the right-handed Leonard played mainly 
in the infield. In 1868 "Andy" and teammate Charlie Sweasy moved to Cincinnati, 
Ohio, and joined the Buckeyes, the chief local rival of the Red Stockings; 
the move suggests that he was somehow compensated by club members if not 
by the club.[1] When the NABBP permitted professionalism for 1869, Leonard 
was one of five new men hired by Harry Wright of the Cincinnati Red Stockings 
to complete the first fully professional team. He was paid $800 for the 
eight months from March 15 to November 15, the standard rate, while four 
men earned more. All of the Red Stockings had previously played in the 
infield; Wright put Leonard in left, then the most active outfield position. 
He played nine of the next ten seasons as Harry Wright's regular left fielder, 
although as a right-handed thrower with early infield experience he filled 
in at second, third, and shortstop, too. Years later, the son of officer 
George Ellard recalled the skills of each player in words of praise. Ellard 
(1908: 101) called the "jolly, good-natured fellow ... of Irvington-Buckeye 
fame" a brilliant left fielder but noted that "he ranked the best as a 
batsman." The limited statistical record shows that he was one of the strong 
supporting players during the Red Stockings innings, perhaps third behind 
George Wright and Waterman over the two seasons, but that may be said of 
a few others. In two years he played 128 of 131 games in the record books, 
one of six who played essentially without interruption. More important, 
he filled in at shortstop for about 15 games that Wright did not play in 
1870. Cincinnati toured the continent undefeated in 1869 and may have been 
the strongest team in 1870, but the club dropped professional base ball 
after the second season. Wright was hired to organize a new team in Boston, 
where he signed three teammates for 1871. The other five regulars including 
Andy Leonard signed with Nick Young's Washington Olympics, an established 
club that also joined the new, entirely professional National Association 
(NA). Wright did sign Leonard one year later and he remained in place for 
the Boston Red Stockings' run of six pennants in seven seasons. Andy Leonard 
lost his major league job in 1879 but returned to the infield in Rochester 
as a shortstop, in some ways the most demanding position, one always filled 
by George Wright on brother Harry's professional teams. In 1880 he returned 
to Cincinnati and the major leagues but "failing vision forced his retirement 
from the game. In his final game, on July 3, 1880, his errors allowed Providence 
four runs in a 6-4 Cincinnati loss" (Richardson and Sumner 1989). Leonard 
worked for Wright & Ditson, George Wright's sporting goods firm, for several 
years before his 1903 death in Boston at age 57. He is buried in New Calvary 
Cemetery, Boston. In the Irish Baseball League, the annual most valuable 
