John Alexander "Andy" Messersmith (born August 6, 1945 in Toms River, New 
Jersey) is a former Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher. He was 
the 12th overall pick of the 1966 amateur draft by the California Angels. 
During a 12-year baseball career, Messersmith pitched for the California 
Angels (1968–72), Los Angeles Dodgers (1973–75 and 1979), Atlanta Braves 
(1976–77) and the New York Yankees (1978). Messersmith is most famous for 
his role in the historic 1975 Seitz decision which led to the downfall 
of Major League Baseball's reserve clause and ushered in the current era 
of free agency. It began when Messersmith went to spring training in 1975 
and began negotiating his 1975 contract. He asked for a no-trade clause 
which the Dodgers refused. According to author John Helyar, in The Lords 
of the Realm, Messersmith was also deeply offended by general manager Al 
Campanis "inject(ing) a personal issue" into the talks (it "cut so deeply 
with him", Helyar has written, that Messersmith since has never disclosed 
it), and the pitcher refused to deal with anyone lower than team president 
Peter O'Malley. He also pitched 1975 without a contract, leading the National 
League in complete games and shutouts and finishing second in earned run 
average with 2.29, not to mention winning a Gold Glove (his second) as 
the league's best-fielding pitcher. Messersmith and Dave McNally were the 
only two players in 1975 playing on the one year reserve clause in effect 
at the time, technically; McNally's season ended early due to injuries 
and he returned home, intending to retire, but agreeing to players' union 
director Marvin Miller's request that he sign onto the Messersmith grievance 
in case Messersmith ended up signing a new deal with the Dodgers before 
the season ended. "It was less of an economic issue at the time than a 
fight for the right to have control over your own destiny", Messersmith 
told The Sporting News, looking back on his decision a decade later. "It 
was a matter of being tired of going in to negotiate a contract and hearing 
the owners say, 'OK, here's what you're getting. Tough luck'." Messersmith 
and McNally won their case before arbitrator Peter Seitz, who was fired 
by the owners the day afterward. McNally followed through on his intention 
to retire but Messersmith signed a three-year, $1 million deal with the 
Atlanta Braves. Among other things, then-Braves owner Ted Turner suggested 
the nickname "Channel" for Messersmith and jersey number 17, in order to 
promote the television station that aired Braves games. Major League Baseball 
quickly nixed the idea. Messersmith struggled trying to live up to his 
new contract and was sold to the New York Yankees after the 1977 season, 
having gone 16-15 in two seasons with the Braves, the second marred by 
injuries. The Yankees released him after an injury plagued 1978 season 
and he signed, ironically, with the Dodgers. Ironically again, when the 
Dodgers signed him for that final go-round, they gave him the very thing 
their first refusal drove him toward testing and defeating the old reserve 
system: a no-trade clause. But the injuries and stress as the reserve clause's 
conqueror had taken too much toll; Messersmith pitched in only 11 games 
for the 1979 Dodgers, going 2-4 with a 4.90 ERA, and retired after the 
Dodgers released him. He currently coaches baseball at Cabrillo College. 
Messersmith's earned run average of 2.861 is the fifth lowest among starting 
pitchers whose careers began after the advent of the live-ball era in 1920, 
behind only Hoyt Wilhelm (2.52), Whitey Ford (2.75), Sandy Koufax (2.76), 
