Melton Andrew "Andy" Hawkins (born January 21, 1960) is a former Major 
League Baseball pitcher. A right-handed starter, Hawkins spent most of 
his career with the San Diego Padres, and also played for the New York 
Yankees and briefly for the Oakland Athletics. He is known for being the 
first (and thus far, the only) San Diego Padres pitcher to win a World 
Series game. Hawkins earned a victory pitching in relief in Game 2 of the 
1984 World Series, which the Padres lost to Detroit in five games. His 
best season was 1985, when he threw a career-high 228 2⁄3 innings, compiled 
an 18–8 record, (winning his first 11 starts) and finished with a 3.15 
ERA. Hawkins is the first pitcher to win his first 10 starts since the 
advent of divisional play in Major League Baseball which started in 1969. 
In 3 career starts at Fenway Park, Hawkins managed a total of just one 
inning, giving up 18 earned runs in those starts. On July 1, 1990, Hawkins 
pitched a game for the Yankees against the Chicago White Sox at Comiskey 
Park in which he allowed no hits, but lost the game having dominated the 
White Sox into the eighth inning, but after retiring the first two batters, 
Sammy Sosa reached on a fielding error by Yankees third baseman Mike Blowers. 
After Hawkins loaded the bases by walking the next two batters, Robin Ventura 
lofted a fly ball to left field. Rookie Jim Leyritz, fighting a blustery 
wind, had the ball glance off his glove for an error, allowing all three 
baserunners to score. The next batter, Ivan Calderón, hit a high fly ball 
to right field, which Jesse Barfield lost in the sun, dropping it for another 
error, allowing Ventura to score. The Yankees could not score in the ninth, 
giving Hawkins the loss despite not allowing a hit. Major League Baseball 
does not consider this effort an official no-hitter, listing Hawkins as 
having only completed 8 innings pitched.[1] On September 4, 1991 the Committee 
for Statistical Accuracy, appointed by Commissioner Fay Vincent, changed 
the definition of a no-hitter to require that a pitcher must throw at least 
nine full innings and a complete game for the no-hitter to be official. 
Since Hawkins played for the visiting team, the White Sox never batted 
in the ninth inning, meaning Hawkins lost credit for a no-hitter. The game 
was also notable for being a double no-hitter into the sixth inning (and 
a double perfect game into the fifth), as White Sox starter Greg Hibbard 
also pitched very well. A high-priced free agent in the second year of 
a three-year deal, Hawkins struggled for a very poor Yankees team in 1990. 
On May 8, with just one win and an ERA of 8.56, Hawkins was offered his 
outright release, which he accepted, although an injury that night to pitcher 
Mike Witt changed his mind. Hawkins pitched much better in his next three 
starts, although he still had only a 1–4 record prior to the no-hit game. 
In his next appearance, he faced the Minnesota Twins at Yankee Stadium 
in the opening game of a doubleheader. Hawkins pitched a shutout into the 
twelfth inning but wound up losing 2–0 – the last time a starting pitcher 
has pitched in an MLB game into the twelfth inning or later. In his following 
appearance, the Yankees lost a six-inning no-hitter to Mélido Pérez and 
the White Sox. Likewise, that game is not considered an official no-hitter, 
as the game was shortened to seven innings due to rain; Hawkins was still 
on the mound when the game was delayed, and then called off. Hawkins was 
the bullpen coach of the Texas Rangers, having served as the interim pitching 
coach following the firing of previous pitching coach Mark Connor during 
the 2008 season.[2] Before being promoted as the interim coach, Hawkins 
was the pitching coach for the Oklahoma RedHawks. At the end of the 2015 
season Hawkins left the Rangers. In 2016 Hawkins was hired on as the pitching 
