Angels in the Outfield is a 1951 American comedy film produced and directed 
by Clarence Brown and starring Paul Douglas and Janet Leigh. Based on a 
story by Richard Conlin, the film is about a young woman reporter who blames 
the Pittsburgh Pirates' losing streak on their abusive manager, who begins 
hearing the voice of an angel promising to help the team if he changes 
his ways. The film was released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer on October 19, 1951. 
With baseball's Pittsburgh Pirates in last place, their combative, foul-mouthed 
manager Guffy McGovern has plenty to complain about. All this changes when, 
while wandering through Forbes Field in search of his good luck charm one 
night, Guffy is accosted by the voice of an angel (voice of James Whitmore), 
who hints at having been a ballplayer during his earthly life. As the spokes-angel 
for the Heavenly Choir Nine, a celestial team of deceased ballplayers, 
he begins bestowing "miracles" upon the Pirates—but only on the condition 
that McGovern put a moratorium on swearing and fighting. With the help 
of the invisible ghosts of past baseball greats, the Pirates make it into 
the pennant race. During a game, 8-year-old orphan Bridget White insists 
that she can see the angels helping out the "live" ballplayers—understandably 
so, since it was Bridget's prayers to the Archangel Gabriel that prompted 
the angel to visit McGovern in the first place. Local newspaper reporter 
and former "household hints" writer Jennifer Paige inadvertently transforms 
Bridget's angelic visions into a nationwide news story, causing McGovern 
no end of trouble. After Guffy is beaned during a game and himself confirms 
Bridget's claims, he falls into the hands of vengeful sportscaster Fred 
Bayles, who has been scheming to have McGovern thrown out of baseball and 
persuades the Commissioner of Baseball to investigate McGovern's fitness 
as a manager. Complication piles upon complication until the pennant-deciding 
game, wherein Guffy is forced to rely exclusively upon the talents of his 
ballplayers—notably "over the hill" pitcher Saul Hellman (who, the angel 
has told Guffy, will be "signed up" by the Heavenly Choir team shortly). 
Guffy also wins over Jennifer, and they plan to adopt young Bridget. The 
angels themselves are never actually seen by the viewing audience, just 
the effects of their presence—a feather dropping, or someone being jostled 
from time to time. The angel who talks to Guffy never reveals who he was 
in life. It being a time when profanity was never used in films, the "swearing" 
uttered by Guffy is audio gibberish, scrambled recordings of his own voice. 
Corcoran and Salata are the last surviving cast members. The film contains 
extensive baseball action shots, most of which were filmed at Forbes Field,[2] 
the former home of the Pittsburgh Pirates and Steelers, demolished in 1971, 
the year after the Pirates and Steelers moved to Three Rivers Stadium. 
The opening credits acknowledge "the kind cooperation of the Pittsburgh 
'Pirates' for the use of the team and its ballpark," while reminding the 
viewer that the story is fictional and "could be any baseball team, in 
any league, in any town in America." Historians may note several distinguishing 
features of Forbes Field at the time. One is the "Kiner's Korner" inner 
fence in left field, with the 365-feet left field foul line marker observable 
on the outer wall, and the 335-feet sign on the inner fence. The other 
distance markers (376-457-436-375-300) are visible in some scenes. Other 
objects on the field of play at Forbes are visible from time to time, including 
the flagpole and batting cage near the 457 foot marker in deep left center 
field, and the Barney Dreyfuss monument in straightaway center field. The 
University of Pittsburgh's Cathedral of Learning is prominent in many shots 
filmed in Forbes Field. A few scenes were shot on location at Wrigley Field, 
conveniently sited in South Los Angeles. Well-used by film-makers of the 
era, the ballpark—home to the minor league Angels from 1925 to 1957—was 
named for team owner William Wrigley, Jr. when the landmark Chicago stadium 
was still known as Cubs Park. While Wrigley's ivy-covered outfield wall 
stands in nicely for that of Forbes Field, "Kiner's Korner" is conspicuous 
in its absence, and visible distance markers (412 feet in centre field; 
345 feet in left) are inconsistent with Forbes Field's grander dimensions. 
Some stock footage alleged to be the Polo Grounds in New York City was 
actually Comiskey Park in Chicago, as evidenced by a quick glimpse of an 
auxiliary scoreboard reading "Visitors" and "White Sox". Star Paul Douglas 
two years earlier had played a catcher in another baseball comedy film, 
It Happens Every Spring. Although he had no background in baseball, Bruce 
Bennett, who portrays a veteran Pittsburgh pitcher, in real life had played 
football in the 1926 Rose Bowl and won a silver medal in the shot put at 
the 1928 Summer Olympics. Rothberg, one of the Pirate players, is played 
by Jeff Richards, who had been a minor-league baseball player before becoming 
an actor. Fred Graham, who appears as "Chunk," had been a semi-pro ballplayer, 
while another member of the cast, Paul Salata, who has the role of Tony 
Minelli, played professional football from 1949-53. According to MGM records 
the film made $1,466,000 in the US and Canada and $200,000 elsewhere. Once 
studio overhead was added, the film recorded a net loss of $171,000.[1] 
