Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc. /ˈænhaɪzər ˈbʊʃ/ is an American brewing 
company founded and based in St. Louis, Missouri. Since 2008, it has been 
a wholly owned subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch InBev (AB InBev).[5] The company 
operates 12 breweries in the United States.[2] Until December 2009, it 
also was one of the largest theme park operators in the United States, 
operating ten theme parks through the company's family entertainment division, 
Busch Entertainment Corporation.[6] St. Louis, Missouri is also the headquarters 
for the AB InBev North America unit.[5][7] It is the largest beer producer 
in the world.[8] In 1852, German American brewer and saloon operator George 
Schneider opened the Bavarian Brewery on Carondelet Avenue (later known 
as South Broadway) between Dorcas and Lynch streets in South St. Louis.[9] 
Schneider's brewery expanded in 1856 to a new brewhouse near Eighth and 
Crittenden streets; however, the following year financial problems forced 
the sale of the brewery to various owners during the late 1850s.[9] In 
1860, the brewery was purchased on the brink of bankruptcy by William D'Oench, 
a local pharmacist, and Eberhard Anheuser, a prosperous German-born soap 
manufacturer.[9][10] D'Oench was the silent partner in the business until 
1869, when he sold his half-interest in the company.[9] From 1860 to 1875, 
the brewery was known as E. Anheuser & Co., and from 1875 to 1879 as the 
E. Anheuser Company's Brewing Association.[9] Adolphus Busch, a wholesaler 
who had immigrated to St. Louis from Germany in 1857, married Eberhard 
Anheuser's daughter, Lilly, in 1861. Following his service in the American 
Civil War, Busch began working as a salesman for the Anheuser brewery.[11] 
Busch purchased D'Oench's share of the company in 1869, and he assumed 
the role of company secretary from that time until the death of his father-in-law.[11] 
Adolphus Busch was the first American brewer to use pasteurization to keep 
beer fresh; the first to use mechanical refrigeration and refrigerated 
railroad cars, which he introduced in 1876; and the first to bottle beer 
extensively.[1][12][13] By 1877, the company owned a fleet of 40 refrigerated 
railroad cars to transport beer.[13] Expanding the company's distribution 
range led to increased demand for Anheuser products, and the company substantially 
expanded its facilities in St. Louis during the 1870s.[14] The expansions 
led production to increase from 31,500 barrels in 1875 to more than 200,000 
in 1881.[14] To streamline the company's refrigerator car operations and 
achieve vertical integration, Busch established the St. Louis Refrigerator 
Car Company in 1878, which was charged with building, selling, and leasing 
refrigerator cars; by 1883, the company owned 200 cars, and by 1888 it 
owned 850.[15] To serve these cars and switch them in and out of their 
St. Louis brewery, Anheuser-Busch founded the Manufacturers Railway Company 
in 1887. The shortline operated until 2011 when Anheuser-Busch sought to 
shut down operations.[16] During the 1870s, Adolphus Busch toured Europe 
and studied the changes in brewing methods which were taking place at the 
time, particularly the success of pilsner beer, which included a locally 
popular example brewed in Budweis.[10] In 1876, Busch introduced Budweiser, 
with the ambition of transcending regional tastes.[10] His company's ability 
to transport bottled beer made Budweiser the first national beer brand 
in the United States, and it was marketed as a "premium" beer.[10] The 
company was renamed Anheuser-Busch Brewing Association in 1879; in 1880, 
Adolphus Busch became company president upon Anheuser's death.[15][17] 
The Busch family fully controlled the company through the generations until 
Anheuser-Busch's sale to InBev in 2008.[18] During the 1880s and 1890s, 
Busch introduced a series of advertisements and marketing giveaways for 
the company, including bottle openers, calendars, corkscrews, pocketknives, 
postcards, and prints.[19] Among the most well-known of these giveaways 
was Custer's Last Fight, a lithograph print of a painting by St. Louis 
artist Cassilly Adams.[19] As a marketing tactic, Busch distributed thousands 
of copies of the print to bars in 1896,[19] the same year Anheuser-Busch 
introduced its new "super-premium" brand, Michelob.[20] Eventually more 
than one million copies of the print were produced, and it became "one 
of the most popular pieces of artwork in American history."[19] At the 
turn of the 20th century, Anheuser-Busch continued to expand its production 
facilities to keep up with demand.[21] In 1905, the company built a new 
stockhouse in St. Louis, and by 1907 it produced nearly 1.6 million barrels 
of beer.[21] As demands for the prohibition of alcohol in the United States 
grew, Anheuser-Busch began producing non-alcoholic and low-alcoholic beverages 
(known as near beer); the most successful of these was Bevo, a malt beverage 
introduced in 1908.[21] After the death of Adolphus Busch in 1913, control 
of the company passed to his son, August Anheuser Busch, Sr., who continued 
to combat the rise of prohibitionists.[21] As part of an effort to improve 
the respectability of drinking, August Busch built three upscale restaurants 
in St. Louis during the 1910s: the Stork Inn, the Gretchen Inn (now known 
as the Feasting Fox), and the Bevo Mill.[21] As with all breweries in the 
country, the Temperance movement and eventual Prohibition in the United 
States dealt a major blow to the company in the 1910s through the 1930s. 
Some of the products sold by Anheuser-Busch to survive during Prohibition 
included brewer's yeast, malt extract, ice cream, and Bevo, a nonalcoholic 
malt beverage.[17][22] In 1957, Anheuser-Busch became the largest brewer 
in the United States. In 1981, Anheuser-Busch International, Inc., was 
established as a subsidiary responsible for the company's international 
operations and equity investments. Prior to its 2008 acquisition, Anheuser-Busch 
operated 15 breweries internationally: 14 in China and one in the United 
Kingdom. In 1997, Chinese production of Anheuser-Busch products began after 
the company's purchase of a local brewery; later, the company operated 
both Budweiser Wuhan International Brewing Company and Harbin Brewery, 
which Anheuser-Busch fully acquired in 2004. In the United Kingdom, the 
Budweiser Stag Brewing Company produced and packaged Budweiser at the Stag 
Brewery in Mortlake. At one time, Anheuser-Busch International also held 
investments in Grupo Modelo in Mexico[23] Tsingtao Brewery in China;[23] 
Anheuser-Busch also held investments in Redhook Ale Brewery of Seattle, 
Washington[24] and Widmer Brothers Brewery of Portland, Oregon.[24] After 
the 2008 acquisition, most international operations were transferred to 
AB InBev zones where the interests are located. On June 12, 2008, Belgian-Brazilian 
brewing company InBev announced that it had made a US$46 billion offer 
for the company,[25] which if it was accepted would join two of the world's 
four largest brewing companies (based on revenue) and create a company 
brewing three of the highest-grossing beers in the world, namely Bud Light, 
Budweiser, and Skol. InBev also stated that the merger would not result 
in any U.S. brewery closures and they would attempt to retain management 
and board members from both companies.[26] On June 25, 2008, Anheuser-Busch 
officially announced that they would reject InBev's offer and provide a 
restructuring of the company to maintain shareholders and United States 
World Headquarters in St. Louis.[27] On July 1, 2008, InBev urged Anheuser-Busch 
shareholders to vote in favor of the buyout as InBev felt the offer of 
$65 per share should be considered a reasonable offer in view of the falling 
stock market. The company had previously filed suit in Delaware, after 
the rejection of their offer, to ensure that the stockholders could oust 
Anheuser-Busch's 13 board members.[28] On July 7, 2008, Anheuser-Busch 
filed a lawsuit against InBev to stop them from soliciting support of shareholders, 
stating that the company's offer is an illegal scheme. InBev was also accused 
of concealing that they do business in Cuba, which might have created additional 
obstacles to their efforts to operate in the United States.[29] On July 
13, 2008, Anheuser-Busch and InBev said they had agreed to a deal, pending 
shareholder and regulatory approval,[30] for InBev to purchase the American 
icon at $70 per share, creating a new company to be named Anheuser-Busch 
InBev. Anheuser-Busch would get two seats on the combined board of directors. 
The all-cash agreement, almost $52 billion in total equity, created the 
world's largest brewer, uniting the maker of Budweiser and Michelob with 
the producer of Beck's, Stella Artois, Hoegaarden, Leffe, Bass, Labatt 
and Brahma. The two companies had combined yearly sales of more than $36.4 
billion, surpassing the current No. 1 brewer, London-based SABMiller.[31][32] 
Grupo Modelo took inBev to arbitration for more than a year and a half 
after the deal was completed over whether they could block the deal. On 
7 October 2009, parent company Anheuser-Busch InBev announced plans to 
sell the theme parks division to The Blackstone Group for up to $2.7 Billion 
USD.[33] In July 2010, a panel decided that the takeover did not violate 
Anheuser-Busch agreement with Modelo.[34] On November 18, 2008, the acquisition 
was completed, and the parent corporation was renamed Anheuser-Busch InBev; 
Anheuser-Busch became a wholly owned subsidiary of the new corporation, 
controlled within the North America zone unit of AB InBev. By early 2009, 
AB InBev "turned a family-led company that spared little expense into one 
that is focused intently on cost-cutting and profit margins, while rethinking 
the way it sells beer."[35] AB InBev focused on reducing costs in the Anheuser-Busch 
Companies subsidiary and implemented performance-related pay,[35] along 
with several other changes. They immediately laid off 1,400 employees and 
415 contractors,[36] sold Busch Entertainment Corporation and company-owned 
aircraft, lengthened accounts payable terms, and introduced zero-based 
budgeting. For employees, AB InBev ended perquisites such as executive 
assistants for senior management, company contributions to the salaried 
employee pension plan, and company-provided life insurance to retirees; 
it also reduced the number of company-provided cell phones, taking back 
1200 Blackberries;[37] and ended tuition reimbursement, and severance packages. 
These internal changes accompanied changes in its advertising. These cost-cutting 
measures rapidly reduced AB InBev's debt from $56.6 billion in 2008 to 
$30.1 billion at the end of 2012. When the restructuring was complete, 
only three senior-level Anheuser-Busch managers remained.[37] InBev auctioned 
off several large assets in an effort to pay off debt to the banks that 
financed the merger.[38] It sold Anheuser's 27% stake in China's Tsingtao, 
sold a few beverage can and lid-making plants to Ball Corporation, and 
sold its own South Korean beer business for $1.8 billion to private equity 
firm Kohlberg Kravis and Roberts & Co.[39] It put the 10 theme parks in 
Anheuser's Busch Entertainment Unit, which included its three SeaWorlds 
locations, up for sale.[38] The new company caused concern from its suppliers 
when it announced it would take 120 days to pay its bills rather than 30 
days, taking time to use that money for other purposes.[38] The new payment 
policy often results in longer periods than 120 days, since the 120 days 
starts from the end of the month in which the invoice is 'approved' internally, 
which can be many days/months after an invoice is submitted. Following 
the merger, perks like free tickets to St. Louis Cardinals baseball games 
and for Busch Gardens were taken away from employees. Anheuser-Busch stopped 
providing free beer to its employees and visitors to its theme parks.[38] 
InBev signed a 10-year lease on 31,500 square feet of office space on Park 
Avenue in New York, which led to speculation that they would move Anheuser-Busch 
InBev North American headquarters from St Louis.[40] In February 2013 a 
widely publicized lawsuit against AB InBev[41] misrepresented its use of 
standard industrial brewing techniques as "watering down" products including 
Budweiser and Michelob. Such beers are intentionally brewed over-strength 
and then "watered down" to the intended level, creating a product of equal 
or greater quality.[42][43] The lawsuit was dismissed.[44] Of Anheuser's 
top executives, only three remained in their jobs following the acquisition: 
Dave Peacock as president of the merged company's US division; Gary Rutledge 
as general counsel for the company's North American business; and Bob Golden, 
Anheuser's former acquisitions head, as global head of the merged company's 
mergers and acquisitions effort.[45] Anheuser-Busch Companies operates 
as one of several subsidiaries in the North America zone unit of AB InBev, 
and it produces and distributes hundreds of products from the AB InBev 
portfolio. Since January 2012, Luiz Fernando Edmond has been the president 
of Anheuser-Busch Companies, and he concurrently is the AB InBev North 
America zone unit president (a position which he has separately held since 
the acquisition of Anheuser-Busch in 2008).[46] Previous corporate leaders 
of Anheuser-Busch include: After Anheuser-Busch's acquisition by InBev, 
August A. Busch IV was replaced as the subsidiary president by Dave Peacock. 
Anheuser-Busch Companies operates 12 breweries, all located in the United 
States: The St. Louis brewery, which opened in 1852, is a National Historic 
Landmark District, and includes three buildings listed as National Historic 
Landmarks. Free public tours of the brewery are given. The tour takes visitors 
through the complex where they can see beer being made and packaged (not 
a part of the free tour, but is a part of the $10 Day Fresh Tour) in a 
working part of the brewery. The company keeps a rotation of its famous 
Budweiser Clydesdales at its headquarters, and visitors to the brewery 
can observe the clydesdales in their exercise field and see their places 
in the carriage house. The brewery was designated a National Historic Landmark 
in 1966.[47][48] The landmarked area includes 189 structures spread over 
142 acres (57 ha), including many red brick Romanesque ones "with square 
crenelated towers and elaborate details."[47] The Brew House, built in 
1891–1892, is particularly notable for its "multi-storied hop chandeliers, 
intricate iron-work, and utilization of natural light".[47] Aside from 
supply operations like brewing and packaging, Anheuser-Busch Companies 
includes Anheuser-Busch Wholesale Operations Divisions (WOD), Anheuser-Busch 
Agricultural Operations, Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corporation, Eagle Packaging, 
and Busch Properties, which manages subsidiary-owned property. Suppliers 
to Anheuser-Busch Companies include Owens-Illinois, which provides glass 
bottles to several Anheuser-Busch breweries. Anheuser-Busch also owns glass 
production facilities, such as the former Longhorn Glass, which provides 
glass for the Houston brewery. Anheuser-Busch Companies delivers its products 
to retailers through a network of more than 500 independent wholesalers 
and 13 wholly owned distributors.[49] From 20 February 1953, the St. Louis 
Cardinals major league baseball club was owned by Anheuser-Busch. On 21 
March 1996, the club was sold to a group of private investors. In 1966, 
Busch Memorial Stadium was paid for and built by the brewery and opened 
for business. The stadium was demolished in late 2005 and replaced by a 
new ballpark in 2006. Anheuser-Busch signed an agreement to retain the 
"Busch Stadium" name on the new building through 2025. Up until 2009, Anheuser-Busch 
was also one of the largest theme park owners/operators in the United States, 
with ten parks throughout the country through its entertainment division, 
Busch Entertainment Corporation, including its 3 SeaWorld locations. Anheuser-Busch 
Companies is responsible for the production, importation and distribution 
of several AB InBev products, including three company-designated global 
brands, Budweiser, Stella Artois, and Beck's.[2] Other multi-country brands 
distributed or produced by Anheuser-Busch Companies include Leffe and Hoegaarden, 
while local brands produced by the company include Bass Pale Ale, Bud Light, 
Busch Beer, Landshark Lager, Michelob, Natural Light, and Shock Top.[2] 
The company also produces nonalcoholic beverages, malt liquors (such as 
King Cobra and Hurricane), and flavored malt beverages (e.g. the Bacardi 
Silver family and Tequiza).[citation needed] On 12-22-2015, it was announced 
that Anheuser-Busch would purchase up Breckenridge Brewery for an undisclosed 
sum.[50] Prior to its acquisition by InBev, the company was known in the 
United States for its advertising presence, including a sports marketing 
division which created advertising material for the Super Bowl and many 
other sporting events. Budweiser has sponsored horse racing events and 
motor sports including NASCAR, the "Miss Budweiser" racing hydroplane, 
and the "Budweiser King" championship top fuel dragster of Kenny Bernstein. 
Since the acquisition by InBev, significant cuts in advertising plans have 
been rolled out, predicated on the belief that "changing demographics and 
media habits no longer require spending as much on mainstream sports events".[35] 
In 2007, the company introduced a flavored 12% abv malt liquor under the 
name Spykes. It was sold in colorful, 2-ounce bottles. Available flavors 
included mango, lime, melon and chocolate.[51] It was withdrawn in the 
same year after criticism from alcohol industry watchdog groups that it 
was being marketed to underage customers, and the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax 
and Trade Bureau found that the labeling of Spykes was illegal.[52][53][54] 
In 2002, the Political Economy Research Institute ranked Anheuser–Busch 
40th among the "Toxic 100", a list of U.S. corporations most responsible 
for air pollution. The study found that Anheuser–Busch released 1,002,786 kg 
(2,213,657 lbs) of toxic pollutants annually into the air.[55] This is 
mainly because large amounts of CO2 are released during the process of 
fermentation. Anheuser-Busch has received numerous awards for its efforts 
to reduce its impact on the environment.[56] In 1995 Anheuser-Busch's Baldwinsville 
brewery won an award for pollution prevention from the New York Governor 
for its use of a "comprehensive, energy-producing pollution-prevention 
system – bioenergy recovery – to treat wastewater from the brewing process." 
The brewery also reduced solid waste by nearly 70 percent from 1990 to 
1994. In addition, the Baldwinsville brewery found markets for previous 
"waste" materials used in the fermentation of Anheuser-Busch beers.[57] 
The Anheuser-Busch Recycling Corp. recycled more than 27 billion cans in 
2006, a number far greater than what was used in its own packaging. Similarly, 
Anheuser-Busch has set short-term goals to reduce energy consumption 5% 
and increasing use of renewable fuel from 8 to 15% by 2010. Along with 
these goals, Anheuser-Busch has succeeded in cutting down its water use 
by 3% since 2002.[58] Anheuser-Busch is investigating several other renewable 
energy possibilities such as biomass, wind, solar, and landfill gas as 
a fuel to reduce the company's environmental impact. The Corporation has 
also made commitments to decrease its greenhouse gas emissions "by 5 percent 
from its 2005 baseline by 2010 as part of its membership in the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency's Climate Leaders program."[59] The brewery also operates 
an environmental outreach program to encourage recycling, energy conservation, 
and habitat preservation, as well as to prevent littering and water pollution.[60] 
For past 18 years Anheuser-Busch employees have participated in "Green 
Week", which focuses on environmental conservation education for employees 
and their families.[59] Anheuser-Busch states they do not use animal derived 
products, artificial ingredients, additives or preservatives at any stage 
of the brewing process or as part of the packaging in any of their range, 
with the exception of three Michelob products and two Bud Light products, 
which contain honey and shellfish respectively, and are marketed as such.[61] 
All other Anheuser-Busch beers are brewed using water, yeast, barley malt, 
hops, and additional cereal grains. Anheuser-Busch eliminates the need 
for isinglass finings by settling and removing particles before fermentation. 
The beechwood aging process also helps to attract and remove yeast from 
the brew before the lagering process has ended.[62][63] This only applies 
to the beers the company brews itself. In 2003, after numerous deaths in 
football stadiums, Brazil passed a law outlawing alcohol sales in stadiums. 
FIFA demanded that Brazil allow alcohol sales at the 2014 FIFA World Cup 
because Budweiser, a major World Cup sponsor is the "Official Beer of the 
FIFA World Cup", a role it has played since 1986. In response, Brazil passed 
a law paving the way for alcohol sales in the World Cup, nicknamed the 
"Budweiser Bill".[64][65] In April 2015, Anheuser-Busch, in an effort to 
target new, younger consumers to buy its products, the company printed 
a slogan on Bud Light bottles that said "The perfect beer for removing 
'no' from your vocabulary for the night. #UpForWhatever."[66] The label 
triggered a backlash, and the company was immediately criticized by people 
who charged that it could be interpreted as promoting rape.[67] Alexander 
Lambrecht, Vice President of Anheuser-Busch, later apologized in a statement 
for the bottle tagline, saying that the message "missed the mark" and that 
they would never "condone disrespectful or irresponsible behavior."[68] 
The Washington State Liquor and Cannabis (WSLCB) board issued a $150,000 
violation to Anheuser-Busch in May, 2016. Investigators determined that 
Anheuser-Busch entered into an illegal agreement of exclusivity with two 
