Antonio de Padua María Severino López de Santa Anna y Pérez de Lebrón (Spanish 
pronunciation: [anˈtonjo ˈlopes ðe sant(a)ˈana]; 21 February 1794 – 21 
June 1876),[1] often known as Santa Anna[2] or López de Santa Anna and 
sometimes called "the Napoleon of the West", was an American-born Spaniard 
(creole) who fought to defend royalist New Spain and then for Mexican independence. 
He served as a Mexican politician and general. He greatly influenced early 
Mexican politics and government, a skilled soldier and cunning politician, 
who dominated Mexican history in the first half of the nineteenth century 
to such an extent that historians often refer to it as the "Age of Santa 
Anna".[3] He was called "the Man of Destiny", who "loomed over his time 
like a melodramatic colossus, the uncrowned monarch."[4] Santa Anna first 
opposed the movement for Mexican independence from Spain, but then fought 
in support of it. Though not the first caudillo (military leader) of modern 
Mexico, he "represents the stereotypical caudillo in Mexican history," 
and among the earliest.[5][6] Conservative historian, intellectual, and 
politician Lucas Alamán wrote that "The history of Mexico since 1822 might 
accurately be called the history of Santa Anna's revolutions.... His name 
plays the major role in all the political events of the country and its 
destiny has become intertwined with his."[7] He was a valiant defender 
of Mexico against foreign invaders, becoming a hero of the nation. Santa 
Anna had great power in the independent country; he served as general at 
crucial points and president eleven times during a turbulent 40-year career, 
including eleven non-consecutive presidential terms over a period of 22 
years. A wealthy landowner, he built a firm political base in the major 
port city of Veracruz. He was perceived as a hero by his troops; he sought 
glory for himself and his army, and independent Mexico. He repeatedly rebuilt 
his reputation after major losses. Historians and many Mexicans also rank 
him as perhaps the principal inhabitant even today of Mexico's pantheon 
of "those who failed the nation."[8] His centralist rhetoric and military 
failures resulted in Mexico losing just over half its territory, beginning 
with the Texas Revolution of 1836, and culminating with the Mexican Cession 
of 1848 following its defeat by the United States in the Mexican–American 
War. His political positions changed frequently in his lifetime; "his opportunistic 
politics made him a Liberal, Conservative, and uncrowned king."[9] He was 
overthrown in the liberal Revolution of Ayutla in 1854 and lived most of 
his later years in exile. Antonio de Padua María Severino López de Santa 
Anna y Pérez de Lebrón was born in Xalapa, Veracruz, Nueva España (New 
Spain), on 21 February 1794. He was from a respected Spanish colonial family; 
he and his parents, Antonio López de Santa Anna and Manuela Pérez de Lebrón, 
belonged to the elite criollo racial group of American-born Spaniards. 
His father was a royal army officer perpetually in debt.[10] His father 
served for a time as a sub-delegate for the Gulf Coast Spanish province 
of Veracruz. Santa Anna's parents were wealthy enough to send their son 
to school. In June 1810, the 16-year-old Santa Anna joined the Fijo de 
Veracruz infantry regiment[11] a cadet against the wishes of his parents, 
who wanted him to pursue a career in commerce.[12] In September 1810, secular 
cleric Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla rebelled against Spanish rule, sparking 
a spontaneous mass movement in Mexico's rich agricultural area, the Bajío. 
The Mexican War of Independence was to last until 1821, and Santa Anna, 
like most creole military men, fought for the crown against the mixed-raced 
insurgents for independence. Santa Anna's commanding officer was José Joaquín 
de Arredondo, who taught him much about dealing with Mexican rebels. In 
1811, Santa Anna was wounded in the left hand by an arrow[13] during the 
campaign under Col. Arredondo in the town of Amoladeras, in the state of 
San Luis Potosí. In 1813, Santa Anna served in Texas against the Gutiérrez–Magee 
Expedition, and at the Battle of Medina, in which he was cited for bravery. 
He was promoted quickly; he became a second lieutenant in February 1812 
and first lieutenant before the end of that year. In the aftermath of the 
rebellion, the young officer witnessed Arredondo's fierce counter-insurgency 
policy of mass executions. During the next few years, in which the war 
for independence reached a stalemate, Santa Anna erected villages for displaced 
citizens near the city of Veracruz. He also pursued gambling, a habit that 
would follow him all through his life. In 1816, Santa Anna was promoted 
to captain. He conducted occasional campaigns to suppress Native Americans 
or to restore order after a tumult had begun. When royalist officer Agustín 
de Iturbide changed sides in 1821 and allied with insurgent Vicente Guerrero, 
fighting for independence under the Plan of Iguala, Santa Anna joined also 
the fight for independence.[14] The changed circumstances in Spain, where 
liberals had ousted Ferdinand VII and began implementing the Spanish liberal 
constitution of 1812, made many elites in Mexico reconsider their options. 
The clergy in New Spain would have lost power under the Spanish liberal 
regime and new Mexican clerics saw independence as a way to maintain their 
position in an autonomous Mexico. Santa Anna rose to prominence fighting 
for independence by quickly driving Spanish forces out of the vital port 
city of Veracruz and Iturbide rewarded him with the rank of general. Iturbide 
rewarded Santa Anna with command of the vital port of Veracruz, the gateway 
from the Gulf of Mexico to the rest of the nation and site of the customs 
house. However, Iturbide subsequently removed Santa Anna from the post, 
prompting Santa Anna to rise in rebellion in December 1822 against Iturbide. 
Santa Anna already had significant power in his home region of Veracruz, 
and "he was well along the path to becoming the regional caudillo."[15] 
Santa Anna claimed in his Plan of Veracruz that he rebelled because Iturbide 
had dissolved the Constituent Congress. He also promised to support free 
trade with Spain, an important principle for his home region of Veracruz.[16][17] 
Although Santa Anna's initial rebellion was important, Iturbide had loyal 
military men who were able to hold their own against the rebels in Veracruz. 
However, former insurgent leaders Vicente Guerrero and Nicolás Bravo, who 
had supported Iturbide's Plan de Iguala, now returned to their southern 
Mexico base and raised rebellion against Iturbide. Then the commander of 
imperial forces in Veracruz, who had fought against the rebels, changed 
sides and joined the rebels. The new coalition proclaimed the Plan of Casa 
Mata, which called for the end of the monarchy, restoration of the Constituent 
Congress, and creation of a republic and a federal system.[18] Santa Anna 
was no longer the main player in the movement against Iturbide and the 
creation of new political arrangements. He sought to regain his position 
as leader and marched forces from Veracruz to Tampico, then to San Luis 
Potosí, proclaiming his role as the "protector of the federation". San 
Luis Potosí, and other north-central regions, Michoacán, Querétaro, and 
Guanajuato met to decide their own position about federation. Santa Anna 
pledged his military forces to the protection of these key areas. "He attempted, 
in other words, to co-opt the movement, the first of many examples in his 
long career where he placed himself as the head of a generalized movement 
so it would become an instrument of his advancement."[19] In May 1823, 
following Iturbide's March resignation, Santa Anna was sent into a kind 
of military exile with his appointment to command in Yucatán. At the time, 
Yucatán's capital of Mérida and the port city of Campeche were in conflict. 
Yucatán's closest trade partner was Cuba, still a Spanish colony. Santa 
Anna took it upon himself to plan a landing force from Yucatán in Cuba, 
which he envisioned would result in Cuban colonists welcoming their liberators 
and most especially Santa Anna. A thousand Mexicans were already on ships 
to sail to Cuba when word came that the Spanish were reinforcing their 
colony, so the invasion was called off.[20] Guadalupe Victoria became the 
first president of the Mexican republic in 1824, following the creation 
of the federalist Mexican Constitution of 1824. Guadalupe Victoria came 
to the presidency with little factional conflict and he served out his 
entire four-year term. However, the election of 1828 was quite different, 
with considerable political conflict in which Santa Anna became involved. 
Even before the election, there was unrest in Mexico, with some conservatives 
affiliated with the Scottish Rite Masons plotting rebellion. The so-called 
Montaño rebellion in December 1827 called for the prohibition of secret 
societies, implicitly meaning liberal York Rite Masons, and the expulsion 
of the U.S. minister in Mexico, Joel Roberts Poinsett, a promoter of federal 
republicanism in Mexico. Although Santa Anna was believed to be a supporter 
of the Scottish Rite conservatives, in the Montaño rebellion eventually 
he threw his support to the liberals. In his home state of Veracruz, the 
governor had thrown his support to the rebels, and in the aftermath of 
the rebellion's failure, Santa Anna as vice-governor stepped into the governorship.[21] 
In 1828, Santa Anna supported mixed-race hero of the insurgency, Vicente 
Guerrero, who was a candidate for the presidency. Another important liberal, 
Lorenzo de Zavala, also supported Guerrero. Manuel Gómez Pedraza won the 
indirect elections for the presidency, with Guerrero coming in second. 
Even before all the votes had been counted in September 1828, Santa Anna 
rebelled against the election results in support of Guerrero. Santa Anna 
issued a plan at Perote that called for the nullification of the election 
results, as well for a new law expelling Spanish nationals from Mexico, 
believed to be in league with Mexican conservatives. Santa Anna's rebellion 
initially had few supporters, southern Mexican leader Juan Álvarez joined 
Santa Anna's rebellion, and Lorenzo de Zavala, governor of the state of 
Mexico, under threat of arrest by the conservative Senate, fled to the 
mountains and organized his own rebellion against the federal government. 
Zavala brought the fighting to into the capital, with his supporters seizing 
an armory, the Acordada. In these circumstances, president-elect Gómez 
Pedraza resigned and soon after left the country. This cleared the way 
for Guerrero to become president of Mexico. Santa Anna gained prominence 
as a national leader in his role to oust Gómez Pedraza and as a defender 
of federalism and democracy.[22] An explanation for Santa Anna's support 
of Guerrero is that Gómez Pedraza had been in favor of Santa Anna's proposed 
invasion of Cuba, if successful, and if not, "Mexico might rid himself 
of an undesirable pest, namely Santa Anna."[23] In 1829, Santa Anna made 
his mark on the early republic by leading forces that defeated a Spanish 
invasion to reconquer Mexico. Spain made a final attempt to retake Mexico, 
invading Tampico with a force of 2,600 soldiers. Santa Anna marched against 
the Barradas Expedition with a much smaller force and defeated the Spaniards, 
many of whom were suffering from yellow fever. The defeat of the Spanish 
army not only increased Santa Anna's popularity, but also consolidated 
the independence of the new Mexican republic. Santa Anna was declared a 
hero. From then on, he styled himself "The Victor of Tampico" and "The 
Savior of the Motherland". His main act of self-promotion was to call himself 
"The Napoleon of the West". In a December 1829 coup, Vice-President Anastasio 
Bustamante rebelled against President Guerrero, who left the capital to 
lead a rebellion in southern Mexico. On 1 January 1830, Bustamante took 
over the presidency. In 1832, a rebellion started against Bustamante, which 
was intended to install Manuel Gómez Pedraza (who had been elected in 1828 
and unseated in a coup that year). The rebels offered the command to Gen. 
Santa Anna. The capture of Guerrero and his summary trial and execution 
in 1831 was a shocking event to the nation. The conservatives in power 
were tainted by the execution. In August 1832, Bustamante temporarily appointed 
Melchor Múzquiz to the post of president. He moved against the rebels and 
defeated them at Gallinero. Forces from Dolores Hidalgo, Guanajuato, and 
Puebla marched to meet the forces of Santa Anna, who were approaching the 
town of Puebla. After two more battles, Bustamante, Gómez Pedraza, and 
Santa Anna signed the Agreement of Zavaleta (21–23 December 1832) to install 
Gómez Pedraza as president. Bustamante went into exile. Santa Anna accompanied 
the new president on 3 January 1833 and joined him in the capital. Santa 
Anna was elected president on 1 April 1833, but while he desired the title, 
governing was not. "It annoyed him and bored him, and perhaps frightened 
him."[24] Santa Anna's vice president, liberal Dr. Valentín Gómez Farías 
took over the responsibility of the governing of the nation. Santa Anna 
retired to his Veracruz hacienda, Manga de Clavo. Gómez Farías began to 
implement radical liberal reforms, chiefly directed at the power of the 
army and the Roman Catholic Church. Such reforms as abolishing tithing 
as a legal obligation, and the seizure of church property and finances, 
caused concern among Mexican conservatives.[25] Gómez Farías also sought 
to extend these reforms to the frontier province of Alta California, promoting 
legislation to secularize the Franciscan missions there. In 1833 he organized 
the Híjar-Padrés colony to bolster non-mission civilian settlement. A secondary 
goal of the colony was to help defend Alta California against perceived 
Russian colonial ambitions from the trading post at Fort Ross.[26] For 
conservatives, the liberal reform of Gómez Farías was radical and undermined 
elites' power. Many historians consider Santa Anna's actions in allowing 
this first reform (followed by a more sweeping one in 1855 with the ouster 
of Santa Anna) a test case. Santa Anna could be watchful and wait to see 
the reaction to a comprehensive attack on the special privileges of the 
army and the Roman Catholic Church (fueros), as well as confiscation of 
church wealth. Conservatives sought to reassert power. In May 1834, Santa 
Anna ordered disarmament of the civic militia. He suggested to Congress 
that they should abolish the controversial Ley del Caso, under which the 
liberals' opponents had been sent into exile.[27] The Plan of Cuernavaca, 
published on 25 May 1834, called for repeal of the liberal reforms.[28] 
On 12 June, Santa Anna dissolved Congress and announced his decision to 
adopt the Plan of Cuernavaca.[29] Santa Anna formed a new Catholic, centralist, 
conservative government. In 1835, it replaced the 1824 constitution with 
the new constitutional document known as the "Siete Leyes" ("The Seven 
Laws"). Santa Anna dissolved the Congress and began centralizing power. 
His regime became a dictatorship backed by the military. Several states 
openly rebelled against the changes: Coahuila y Tejas (the northern part 
of which would become the Republic of Texas), San Luis Potosí, Querétaro, 
Durango, Guanajuato, Michoacán, Yucatán, Jalisco, Nuevo León, Tamaulipas, 
and Zacatecas. Several of these states formed their own governments: the 
Republic of the Rio Grande, the Republic of Yucatán, and the Republic of 
Texas. Only the Texans defeated Santa Anna and retained their independence. 
Their fierce resistance was possibly fueled by reprisals Santa Anna committed 
against his defeated enemies.[30] The New York Post editorialized that 
"had [Santa Anna] treated the vanquished with moderation and generosity, 
it would have been difficult if not impossible to awaken that general sympathy 
for the people of Texas which now impels so many adventurous and ardent 
spirits to throng to the aid of their brethren."[31] The Zacatecan militia, 
the largest and best supplied of the Mexican states, led by Francisco García, 
was well armed with .753 caliber British 'Brown Bess' muskets and Baker 
.61 rifles. But, after two hours of combat on 12 May 1835, Santa Anna's 
"Army of Operations" defeated the Zacatecan militia and took almost 3,000 
prisoners. Santa Anna allowed his army to loot Zacatecas for forty-eight 
hours. After defeating Zacatecas, he planned to move on to Coahuila y Tejas 
to quell the rebellion there, which was being supported by settlers from 
the United States (aka Texians). Like other states discontented with the 
central Mexican authorities, the Texas department of the Mexican state 
of Coahuila y Tejas rebelled in late 1835 and declared itself independent 
on 2 March 1836. The northeastern part of the state had been settled by 
numerous Anglo-American immigrants, many of whom were southern slave owners. 
Stephen Austin and his party had been welcomed by earlier Mexican governments. 
Santa Anna marched north to bring Texas back under Mexican control by a 
show of brute merciless force. His expedition posed challenges of manpower, 
logistics, supply, and strategy far beyond what he was prepared for, and 
it ended in disaster. To fund, organize, and equip his army he relied, 
as he often did, on forcing wealthy men to provide loans. He recruited 
hastily, sweeping up many derelicts and ex-convicts, as well as Indians 
who could not understand Spanish commands. His army expected tropical weather 
and suffered from the cold as well as shortages of traditional foods. Stretching 
a supply line far longer than ever before, he lacked horses, mules, cattle, 
and wagons, and thus had too little food and feed. The medical facilities 
were minimal. Morale sank as soldiers realized there were not enough chaplains 
to properly bury their bodies. Regional Indians attacked military stragglers; 
water sources were polluted and many men were sick. Because of his weak 
staff system, Santa Anna was oblivious to the challenges, and was totally 
confident that a show of force and a few massacres (as at the Alamo and 
Goliad) would have the rebels begging for mercy.[32] On 6 March 1836, at 
the Battle of the Alamo, Santa Anna's forces killed 189 Texian defenders 
and later executed more than 342 Texian prisoners, including James Fannin 
at the Goliad Massacre (27 March 1836). These executions were conducted 
in a manner similar to the executions he witnessed of Mexican rebels in 
the 1810s as a young soldier. However, the defeat at the Alamo bought time 
for General Sam Houston and his Texas forces. During the siege of the Alamo, 
the Texas Navy had more time to plunder ports along the Gulf of Mexico 
and the Texian Army gained more weapons and ammunition. Despite Sam Houston's 
lack of ability to maintain strict control of the Texian Army, they defeated 
Santa Anna's much larger army at the Battle of San Jacinto on 21 April 
1836. The Texans shouted, "Remember Goliad, Remember the Alamo!" The day 
after the battle, a small Texan force led by James Austin Sylvester captured 
Santa Anna. They found the general dressed in a dragoon private's uniform 
and hiding in a marsh. López de Santa Anna rode double into Sam Houston's 
camp on the horse of Joel Walter Robison, a soldier in most of the revolutionary 
battles and later a member of the Texas House of Representatives from Fayette 
County.[33] Acting Texas president David G. Burnet and López de Santa Anna 
signed the Treaties of Velasco, stating that "in his official character 
as chief of the Mexican nation, he acknowledged the full, entire, and perfect 
Independence of the Republic of Texas." In exchange, Burnet and the Texas 
government guaranteed Santa Anna's safety and transport to Veracruz. During 
this weeks-long journey Santa Anna passed through Washington D.C. where 
he met briefly with president Andrew Jackson. Meanwhile, in Mexico City 
a new government declared that Santa Anna was no longer president and that 
the treaty he had made with Texas was null and void. While Santa Anna was 
captive in Texas, Joel Roberts Poinsett — U.S. minister to Mexico in 1824 — 
offered a harsh assessment of General Santa Anna's situation: Santa Anna 
replied: After some time in exile in the U.S., and after meeting with U.S. 
president Andrew Jackson in 1837, Santa Anna was allowed to return to Mexico. 
He was transported aboard the USS Pioneer to retire to his hacienda in 
Veracruz, called Manga de Clavo. In 1838, Santa Anna had a chance for redemption 
from the loss of Texas. After Mexico rejected French demands for financial 
compensation for losses suffered by French citizens, France sent forces 
that landed in Veracruz in the Pastry War. The Mexican government gave 
Santa Anna control of the army and ordered him to defend the nation by 
any means necessary. He engaged the French at Veracruz. During the Mexican 
retreat after a failed assault, Santa Anna was hit in the left leg and 
hand by cannon fire. His shattered ankle required amputation of much of 
his leg, which he ordered buried with full military honors. Despite Mexico's 
final capitulation to French demands, Santa Anna used his war service to 
re-enter Mexican politics as a hero. He never allowed Mexico to forget 
him and his sacrifice in defending the fatherland. Santa Anna used a prosthetic 
cork leg; during the later Mexican-American War, it was captured and kept 
by American troops from the 4th Illinois Infantry. The cork leg is displayed 
at the Illinois State Military Museum in Springfield[35] Santa Anna had 
a replacement leg made which is displayed at the Museo Nacional de Historia 
in Mexico City.[36] A second leg, a peg, was also captured by the 4th Illinois, 
and was reportedly used by the soldiers as a baseball bat; it is displayed 
at the home of Illinois Governor Richard J. Oglesby (who served in the 
regiment) in Decatur.[37] Soon after, as Anastasio Bustamante's presidency 
turned chaotic, supporters asked Santa Anna to take control of the provisional 
government. Santa Anna was made president for the fifth time, taking over 
a nation with an empty treasury. The war with France had weakened Mexico, 
and the people were discontented. Also, a rebel army led by Generals José 
Urrea and José Antonio Mexía was marching towards the capital in opposition 
to Santa Anna. Commanding the army, Santa Anna crushed the rebellion in 
Puebla. Santa Anna ruled in a more dictatorial way than during his first 
administration. His government banned anti-Santanista newspapers and jailed 
dissidents to suppress opposition. In 1842, he directed a military expedition 
into Texas. It committed numerous casualties with no political gain; but 
Texans began to be persuaded of the potential benefits of annexation by 
the more powerful U.S. Santa Anna was unable to control the Mexican congressional 
elections of 1842. The new congress was composed of men of principles who 
vigorously opposed the autocratic leader.[38] Trying to restore the treasury, 
Santa Anna raised taxes, but this aroused resistance. Several Mexican states 
stopped dealing with the central government, and Yucatán and Laredo declared 
themselves independent republics. With resentment growing, Santa Anna stepped 
down from power. Fearing for his life, he tried to elude capture, but in 
January 1845 he was apprehended by a group of Indians near Xico, Veracruz. 
They turned him over to authorities, and Santa Anna was imprisoned. His 
life was spared, but he was exiled to Cuba, still a Spanish colony. In 
1846, Mexican troops crossed the Rio Grande into the disputed Nueces Strip, 
hoping to regain Texas; the United States then declared war on Mexico. 
Santa Anna wrote to Mexico City saying he had no aspirations to the presidency, 
but would eagerly use his military experience to fight off the foreign 
invasion of Mexico as he had in the past. President Valentín Gómez Farías 
was desperate enough to accept the offer and allowed Santa Anna to return. 
Meanwhile, Santa Anna had secretly been dealing with representatives of 
the U.S., pledging that if he were allowed back in Mexico through the U.S. 
naval blockades, he would work to sell all contested territory to the U.S. 
at a reasonable price. Once back in Mexico at the head of an army, Santa 
Anna reneged on both of these agreements. Santa Anna declared himself president 
again and unsuccessfully tried to fight off the U.S. invasion. (His leadership 
was said to inspire the sea shanty "Santianna".) Following defeat in the 
Mexican-American War in 1848, Santa Anna went into exile in Kingston, Jamaica. 
Two years later, he moved to Turbaco, Colombia. In April 1853, he was invited 
back by conservatives who had overthrown a weak liberal government, initiated 
under the Plan de Hospicio in 1852, drawn up by the clerics in the cathedral 
chapter of Guadalajara. Usually revolts were fomented by military officers; 
this one was created by churchmen. Santa Anna had been in correspondence 
with the leader of the conservatives, Lucas Alamán, who agreed to throw 
the support of conservatives to Santa Anna if he would agree "to a program 
of cessation of political activity against the Church and security of the 
holders of large propertied interests."[39] Santa Anna was elected president 
on March 17, 1853; Alamán became his Minister of Foreign Relations, but 
died a short time later in June 1853. Santa Anna honored his promises to 
the Church, revoking a decree denying protection for the fulfillment of 
monastic vows, promulgated twenty years early during the era of Valentín 
Gómez Farías reform of 1833. President Santa Anna had left running the 
government in 1833 to his liberal vice president.[40] The Jesuits, which 
had been expelled from Spanish realms by the crown in 1767, were allowed 
to return to Mexico ostensibly to educate poorer classes, and much of their 
property, which the crown had confiscated and sold, was restored to them.[40] 
This administration was no more successful than his earlier ones. He funneled 
government funds to his own pockets, sold more territory to the U.S. with 
the Gadsden Purchase, and declared himself dictator-for-life with the title 
"Most Serene Highness". Santa Anna's full title in this final period of 
power was "Hero [benemérito] of the nation, General of the Division, Grand 
Master of the National and Distinguished Order of Guadalupe, Grand Cross 
of the Royal and Distinguished Spanish Order of Carlos III, and President 
of the Mexican Republic."[41] The Plan of Ayutla of 1854 removed Santa 
Anna from office and he was exiled yet again. Despite his generous payoffs 
to the military for loyalty, by 1855 even conservative allies had seen 
enough of Santa Anna. That year a group of liberals led by Benito Juárez 
and Ignacio Comonfort overthrew Santa Anna, and he fled back to Cuba. As 
the extent of his corruption became known, he was tried in absentia for 
treason; all his estates were confiscated by the government. Santa Anna 
married twice, both to wealthy young women under the age of 15. At neither 
wedding ceremony did he appear, legally empowering his future father in 
law to serve as proxy at his first wedding and a friend at his second.[42] 
One assessment of the two marriages is that they were arranged marriages 
of convenience, bringing considerable wealth to Santa Anna, and that his 
lack of attendance at the wedding ceremonies "appears to confirm that he 
was purely interested in the financial aspect on the alliance."[43] In 
1825, he married María Inés García, the daughter of wealthy Spanish parents 
in Veracruz, and the couple had four children: María de Guadalupe, María 
del Carmen, Manuel, and Antonio López de Santa Anna y García.[44] By 1825, 
Santa Anna had distinguished himself as a military man, joining the movement 
for independence when other creoles were also seeing Mexican autonomy as 
the way forward under royalist turned insurgent Agustín de Iturbide and 
the Army of Three Guarantees. When Iturbide as Mexican emperor lost support, 
Santa Anna had been in the forefront of leaders seeking to oust him. Although 
Santa Anna's family was of modest means, he was of good creole lineage; 
the García family may well have seen a match between their young daughter 
and the up-and-coming Santa Anna as advantageous. María Inés's dowry allowed 
Santa Anna to purchase the first of his haciendas, Manga de Clavo, in Veracruz 
state.[43][45] The wife of the first Spanish Ambassador to Mexico, Fanny 
Calderón de la Barca and her husband visited with Santa Anna's first wife 
Inés at Manga de Clavo, where they were well-received with a breakfast 
banquet. Mme. Calderón de la Barca observed that "After breakfast, the 
Señora having dispatched an officer for her cigar-case, which was gold 
with a diamond latch, offered me a cigar, which I having declined, she 
lighted her own, a little paper 'cigarito', and the gentlemen followed 
her good example."[46] Two months after the death of his wife Inés García's 
in 1844, the 50-year-old Santa Anna married 16-year-old María de los Dolores 
de Tosta. The couple rarely lived together; de Tosta resided primarily 
in Mexico City and Santa Anna's political and military activities took 
him around the country.[47] They had no children, leading biographer Will 
Fowler to speculate that the marriage was either primarily platonic or 
that de Tosta was infertile.[47] Several women claimed to have borne Santa 
Anna natural children. In his will, Santa Anna acknowledged and made provisions 
for four: Paula, María de la Merced, Petra, and José López de Santa Anna. 
Biographers have identified three more: Pedro López de Santa Anna, and 
Ángel and Augustina Rosa López de Santa Anna.[44] Santa Anna was a devoted 
collector of Napoleonic artifacts, and took to calling himself the "Napoleon 
of the West" after the Telegraph and Texas Register referred to him as 
such. His other nickname was "The Eagle". From 1855 to 1874, Santa Anna 
lived in exile in Cuba, the United States, Colombia, and the then Danish 
island of Saint Thomas. In 1865, he attempted to return and offer his services 
during the French Invasion posing once again as the country's defender 
and savior, only to be refused by Juárez who was well aware of Santa Anna's 
character. In 1869, the 74-year-old Santa Anna was living in exile in Staten 
Island, New York and was trying to raise money for an army to return and 
take over Mexico City. During his time living in New York City, he is credited 
with bringing in the first shipments of chicle, the base of chewing gum. 
He failed to profit from this, since his plan was to use the chicle to 
replace rubber in carriage tires, which was tried without success.[48] 
Thomas Adams, the American assigned to aid Santa Anna while he was in the 
U.S., experimented with chicle in an attempt to use it as a substitute 
for rubber. He bought one ton of the substance from Santa Anna, but his 
experiments proved unsuccessful. Instead, Adams helped to found the chewing 
gum industry with a product that he called "chiclets".[48] During his many 
years in exile, Santa Anna was a passionate fan of the sport of cockfighting. 
He would invite breeders from all over the world for matches and is known 
to have spent tens of thousands of dollars on prize roosters.[citation 
needed] In 1874, he took advantage of a general amnesty and returned to 
Mexico. Crippled and almost blind from cataracts, he was ignored by the 
Mexican government that same year at the anniversary of the Battle of Churubusco. 
Two years later, Santa Anna died at his home in Mexico City on 21 June 
1876 at age 82. He was buried with full military honors in a glass coffin 
