In the sport of cricket, an appeal is the act of a player on the fielding 
team asking an umpire for a decision regarding whether a batsman is out 
or not. According to the Laws of Cricket, an umpire may not rule a batsman 
out unless the fielding side appeals. There have been occasions when a 
batsman has otherwise technically been out, but the fielding team neglected 
to appeal so the umpire did not declare him out. An appeal may be made 
at any point before the bowler starts his run-up for the next ball. According 
to the Laws of Cricket, an appeal is a verbal query, usually in the form 
of, "How's that?" to an umpire. Since the taking of a wicket is an important 
event in the game, members of the fielding team often shout this phrase 
with great enthusiasm, and it has transmuted into the slightly abbreviated 
form, "Howzat?", often with a greatly extended final syllable. Sometimes 
the second syllable is omitted entirely, the player emitting an elongated 
cry of simply "How?" Most players also raise their arms or point at the 
umpire as part of the appeal. Some players have established their own trademark 
appeals as well. Although technically an appeal is required for the umpire 
to make a decision, in practice it is often obvious to all that a batsman 
is out, and the batsman may walk off the field without waiting for the 
decision of the umpire. This is invariably the case when a batsman is out 
bowled or to an obvious catch. However, the batsman is always entitled 
to stand his ground and wait for a decision from the umpire. In cases where 
he considers he might not be out, such as a catch taken low near the grass 
or where it is not clear whether the ball hit the bat, batsmen will not 
take the walking option. It is then up to the fielding team to appeal for 
a decision. Sometimes a batsman will walk even when it is not clear to 
others that he is out, if in his own mind he is certain he was out; this 
is considered to be the epitome of sportsmanlike behaviour. Some decisions, 
such as leg before wicket, always require an appeal and the umpire's decision, 
as no batsman will preempt the umpire on what requires fine judgment of 
several factors. Run-outs and stumpings are usually appealed and decided 
by an umpire, unless the batsman is clearly out of his ground and obviously 
out. Appealing differs vastly from sledging in the context that appealing 
is not supposed to be offensive or directly taunting to the other team, 
and more of a celebration to the appealing team. However, excessive appealing 
is against ICC's Code of Conduct: Under the ICC Cricket Code of Conduct, 
it is considered unsportsmanlike to: Any instances of such behaviour are 
punishable by fines or match bans, as adjudicated and imposed by the match 
referee. The Indian fast bowler Sreesanth has been fined for over-appealing 
on multiple occasions, in particular for drawing breath and appealing for 
a second time after the umpire had already shaken his head. In 2001, Mike 
Denness banned Virender Sehwag for one Test and fined a number of other 
Indian players for charging at the umpire (intimidation) and overappealing 
in a test against South Africa, sparking a diplomatic incident, after the 
Indian board then had Denness locked out of the stadium for the next match 
and replaced. The match was subsequently stripped of Test status by the 
