In baseball, an appeal play occurs when a member of the defensive team 
calls the attention of an umpire to an infraction which he would otherwise 
ignore. A runner shall be called out, after a successful live ball appeal, 
if he: To properly execute a live ball appeal, a fielder must, with a live 
ball, tag the runner or base in question and communicate to the umpire 
what the infraction was and which runner committed the infraction. Such 
communication may be non-verbal, implicit, or assumed—so long as the intent 
of the fielder is clear to the umpire. Contrary to popular belief, an appeal 
out is not a force out unless it is regarding a missed force base. For 
example, if a runner from third base tags up and scores, but a runner from 
second base leaves too early, failing to tag up, and then is put out on 
the appeal, the run counts if it was scored before the appeal by the fielders. 
Rare situations with a viable appeal on a runner who misses his force base 
require the umpire to recognize an apparent fourth out. Fielders have the 
right to appeal any runner at any base he has reached or passed, at any 
time while the ball is alive, subject to the following restrictions: An 
appeal is legal if the fielder Umpires will only rule on legal appeals. 
A potential appeal is viable if the appeal is legal and the umpire knows 
that the runner has indeed committed an infraction and will be called out 
if the appeal is executed by a fielder. Suppose that runners are on first 
and third base, and the batter hits a fly ball. The runner on third tags 
up, leaving third base immediately after the outfielder touches the ball. 
The runner seems to score, beating the throw home, but failing to touch 
home plate. He proceeds into his dugout without again attempting to touch 
home base. The runner on first base stays at first base, and action becomes 
relaxed while the ball is in the infield. The fielders now suspect that 
the runner left third base too early and also missed the plate. Suppose 
that a fielder, with the live ball, touches third base and tells the nearest 
umpire, "I think he left too early." This is a proper legal appeal, and 
the umpire should rule with a safe signal, perhaps saying, "No, he was 
fine." Now no legal appeal may again occur on that runner at third base. 
Suppose then that a fielder, with the live ball, touches home base and 
says to the nearest umpire, "I think he never touched home." This is a 
legal and viable appeal, and so the umpire should call the runner out and 
direct that his run shall not count. Since the ball was live (and indeed 
must be for appeals to be legal), the runner from first could have attempted 
to advance at any time during the appeals. If the defense attempts to play 
on that runner, their opportunity to appeal the runner from third base 
is lost, and the run would count regardless of any subsequent attempt to 
appeal. A member of the defensive team may appeal to the umpire when a 
batter bats out of turn. The umpire then enforces the penalty for batting 
out of turn, if any. The ball must be live for this as for any appeal. 
After the appeal is made, the umpire will usually signal "Time" and figure 
out whether the appeal is successful. When a batter appears to have swung 
at a pitch, but the plate umpire calls it a ball, a member of the defensive 
team (by rule the manager or catcher, though the pitcher often appeals 
and is usually recognized) may appeal for information from a base umpire 
with a better view of the pitch on whether the batter swung. The field 
umpire then signals whether the batter swung, and such a judgment must, 
by rule, prevail. The umpire asked is usually the first-base umpire (or 
third-base, if the batter is left-handed). The plate umpire is not required 
to ask for assistance if he believes the request is making a farce of the 
game. If the bat barely left the shoulder of the batter and the catcher 
appeals the "no-swing" call, the umpire will probably deny the appeal. 
This procedure was introduced because it is commonplace for a plate umpire 
to be unable to see some swings. A manager may ask an umpire to request 
assistance on other plays where another umpire had a better view, but the 
umpire is not required to do so. Such requests are common when a close 
home run or foul ball call is disputed, or when determining the accuracy 
of a close catch or no catch call. An appeal may be executed if a fair 
ball becomes dead by leaving the playing field or becoming unplayable (home 
run, ground rule double, wild throw into stands/dugout, stuck in fence) 
if the defense believes a baserunner failed to touch a base before touching 
the next base to which he is entitled. For example, if the batter hits 
a ball which goes over the outfield fence in fair territory (whether a 
home run or ground rule double) but fails to touch first base before touching 
second base, he may not return to first base to correct his mistake once 
he has touched second, and he is out at first base if the defensive team 
appeals. In such a case, the plate umpire would put a new ball in play, 
and after the ball became live by rule, the defense could appeal the missed 
base. Again, the ball must be live.[1] In U.S. high school games or other 
games governed by NFHS rules, the defense may execute any of the live ball 
appeals above during a dead ball by simply communicating the infraction 
to the umpire, so it is never necessary to attempt a live ball appeal; 
it is always safer for the defense to ask for time to make the ball dead, 
