Archibald "Archie" Bunker is a fictional character from the 1970s American 
television sitcom All in the Family and its spin-off Archie Bunker's Place, 
played by Carroll O'Connor. Bunker, a main character of the series, is 
a World War II veteran, reactionary conservative, blue-collar worker, and 
family man. Described as a "lovable bigot", he was first seen by the American 
public when All in the Family premiered on January 12, 1971, where he was 
depicted as the head of a family. In 1979, the show was retooled and renamed 
Archie Bunker's Place; it finally went off the air in 1983. Bunker lived 
at the fictional address of 704 Hauser Street in the borough of Queens, 
in New York City. All in the Family got many of its laughs by playing on 
Archie's bigotry, although the dynamic tension between Archie and his liberal 
son-in-law, Mike, provided an ongoing political and social sounding board 
for a variety of topics. Archie appears in all but seven episodes of the 
series (three were missed because of a contract dispute between Carroll 
O'Connor and Norman Lear in Season 5). In 1999, TV Guide ranked Archie 
Bunker number 5 on its 50 Greatest TV Characters of All Time list.[1] In 
2005, Archie Bunker was listed as number 1 on Bravo's 100 Greatest TV Characters,[2] 
defeating runners-up such as Ralph Kramden, Lucy Ricardo, Fonzie, and Homer 
Simpson. Archie's chair is in the permanent collection of the National 
Museum of American History. Archie has a gruff, overbearing demeanor, largely 
defined by his bigotry towards a diverse group of individuals-- blacks, 
Hispanics, "Commies", gays, hippies, Jews, Catholics, "women's libbers", 
and Polish-Americans are frequent targets of his barbs. As the show progresses, 
it becomes apparent that Archie's prejudice is not motivated by malice, 
but is rather a combination of the era and environment in which he was 
raised and a generalized misanthropy. Archie himself is depicted as a hard 
worker, loving father, and basically decent man; nevertheless, he is bad-tempered 
and frequently tells his long-suffering wife Edith to "stifle yourself" 
and "dummy up". Series creator Norman Lear admitted that this is how his 
father treated Lear's mother.[3] As the series progressed, Archie mellows 
somewhat, albeit often out of necessity. In one episode, he expresses revulsion 
for a Ku Klux Klan-like organization which he accidentally joins.[4] On 
another occasion, when asked to speak at the funeral of his friend Stretch 
Cunningham, Archie—surprised to learn that his friend was Jewish—overcomes 
his initial discomfort and delivers a moving eulogy, closing with a heartfelt 
"Shalom". In 1978, the character became the guardian of Edith's step-cousin 
Floyd's nine-year-old daughter, Stephanie (Danielle Brisebois) and came 
to accept her Jewish faith, even buying her a Star of David pendant.[5] 
Archie was also known for his frequent malapropisms and spoonerisms. For 
example, he refers to Edith's gynecologist as a "groinacologist" and to 
Catholic priests who go around sprinkling "incest" (incense) on their congregation. 
By the show's second season, these had become dubbed "Bunkerisms", "Archie 
Bunkerisms", or simply "Archie-isms".[6][7] Bunker's own ethnicity is never 
explicitly stated, other than the fact that he is a WASP; over the course 
of the series, he mocks or belittles not just most minorities (including 
blacks, Hispanics, Latinos, Jews, and Asians), but also most white ethnic 
groups as well, including the English, Germans, Irish, and Polish. Archie 
often misquotes the Bible. He is Protestant, though his specific denomination 
is never stated. He takes pride in being religious, although he rarely 
attends church services and constantly mispronounces the name of his minister, 
Reverend Felcher, as "Reverend Fletcher". (When Edith inevitably corrects 
him, he dismisses the error with "Whatever".) The inspiration for Archie 
Bunker was Alf Garnett, the character from the BBC1 sitcom Till Death Us 
Do Part, on which All in the Family was based.[8] When first introduced 
on All in the Family in 1971, Archie is the head of a family consisting 
of his wife Edith (Jean Stapleton), his adult daughter Gloria (Sally Struthers), 
and his liberal son-in-law, college student Michael "Mike" Stivic (Rob 
Reiner), with whom Archie disagrees on virtually everything; Archie frequently 
characterizes Mike as a "dumb Polack" and usually addresses him as "Meathead" 
because, in Archie's words, he is "dead from the neck up". During the show's 
first five seasons, Mike and Gloria are living with Archie and Edith, so 
that Mike could put himself through college. Upon Mike's graduation, he 
and Gloria move into their own home next door, allowing Archie and Mike 
to interact nearly as much as they had when they were living in the same 
house. Archie was born on May 20, 1924[9] to parents David and Sarah.[10] 
Information on his siblings is inconsistent, as three are mentioned, and 
Archie is seen talking on the phone to his younger brother Fred in "Cousin 
Oscar" (as well as Fred's daughter Debbie Marie), but during season 6 episode 
"Archie Finds a Friend", he states that he is an only child. Two later 
episodes (one during season 8 and another during season 9) feature Fred 
(played by Richard McKenzie) and it is now suggested that Fred is Archie's 
only sibling. Another of Fred's daughters, Linda, visited during the third 
season (she briefly dated the Bunkers' neighbor Lionel in "Lionel Steps 
Out"). Two of Archie's cousins are depicted: Oscar, who dies off-camera 
in the Bunker house during a visit, and cousin Bertha (played by Peggy 
Rea, who appears in the same episode), apparently a somewhat distant cousin, 
as Archie does not recognize her.[citation needed] Archie celebrates his 
50th birthday in a 1974 episode and the character is last seen on the final 
episode of Archie Bunker's Place, on April 4, 1983.[which?] He is a Taurus.[11] 
In Season 5, during a three-episode stretch where Archie's whereabouts 
are unknown, it is revealed that he graduated from Flushing High School 
and lettered in baseball. While locked in the storeroom of Archie's Place 
with Mike, in the season 8 All in the Family episode "Two's a Crowd", a 
drunk Archie confides that as a child, his family was desperately poor, 
and he was teased in school because he wore one shoe on one foot and a 
boot on the other, so kids nicknamed him "Shoe-Booty". In the same episode, 
Mike learns that Archie was mentally and physically abused by his father, 
who was the source of his bigoted views. Yet, Archie then goes on to vehemently 
defend his father, who he claims loved him and taught him "right from wrong". 
The only clue to his father's occupation is a railroad watch that Archie 
receives from his formerly long-estranged brother, Alfred ("Fred"), who 
later appeared in two All in the Family episodes, "Archie's Brother" and 
"The Return of Archie's Brother", and the Archie Bunker's Place episode 
"Father Christmas". Fred and Archie, as it is learned when Fred visits 
Archie in the "Archie's Brother" episode, had not seen each other in the 
29 years since Archie and Edith's wedding, although they apparently had 
communicated over the years via phone (two early episodes -- "Cousin Oscar" 
and "Lionel Steps Out" -- depict phone conversations between Archie and 
Fred), their long estrangement fueled because of a petty argument, apparently 
out of a sibling rivalry of sorts going back to their childhood. Fred visits 
Archie for support, because he is about to go into the hospital for a major 
operation, and the two apparently seem to patch things up between them. 
However, in Fred's return trip to visit Archie and Edith, he arrives with 
a beautiful 18-year-old wife named Katherine. This leads to a heated discussion, 
which erupts into argument between Archie and Fred over May–September romances 
and places another strain on the relationship between Archie and Fred, 
who storms angrily out of the Bunker home with his teen bride. Archie and 
Fred apparently are estranged for the next three-plus years. Putting a 
further strain on the relationship was the 1981 arrival of Fred's 18-year-old 
daughter, Barbara ("Billie") Denise Miller, who is also upset over her 
father's marriage to someone not even three years older than she is (although 
in Archie Bunker's Place, Billie begins dating someone 15 years her senior). 
Fred visits again for Christmas in 1982, finally revealing to everyone 
why he left his first wife and found love with Katherine. Archie is a World 
War II veteran who had been based in Foggia, Italy for 22 months. During 
a doctor's appointment it is stated that Archie had an undistinguished 
military record for his non-combat ground role in the Air Corps, later 
called the Army Air Forces, which at the time was a branch of the United 
States Army. Archie often insisted that he was a member of the Air Corps. 
He received the Good Conduct Medal,[12] and in the All in the Family episode 
"Archie's Civil Rights", it is disclosed he also received the Purple Heart 
for being hit in his buttocks by shrapnel. He married Edith Bunker 22 years 
before the first season. Later recollections of their mid-1940s courtship 
do not result in a consistent timeline. On the flashback episode showing 
Mike and Gloria's wedding, Archie indicates to Mike that his courtship 
of Edith lasted two years and hints that their relationship was not consummated 
until a month after their wedding night. Edith elsewhere recollects that 
Archie fell asleep on their wedding night and blurts out that their sex 
life has not been very active in recent years. On another occasion, Edith 
reveals Archie's history of gambling addiction, which caused problems in 
the early years of their marriage. Archie also reveals that when Edith 
was in labor with Gloria, he took her to Bayside Hospital on the Q5 bus 
because "the subway don't run to Bayside". According to Edith, Archie's 
resentment of Mike stemmed primarily from the fact that Mike was attending 
college, while Archie had been forced to drop out of high school during 
the Great Depression to help support his family. Archie does not take advantage 
of the GI Bill to further his education, although he does attend night 
school to earn a high school diploma in 1973.[citation needed] Archie is 
also revealed to have been an outstanding baseball player in his youth: 
his dream was to pitch for the New York Yankees. He had to give up this 
dream when he left high school to enter the workforce. His uncle got him 
a job on a loading dock after World War II, and by the 1970s he was a foreman.[citation 
needed] A Protestant, Archie seldom attends church, despite professing 
strong Christian views. The original pilot mentions that in the 22 years 
Archie and Edith were married, Archie had only attended church seven times 
(including their wedding day) and that Archie had walked out of the sermon 
the most recent time, disgusted with the preacher's message (which he perceived 
as leftist).[citation needed] Archie's religiosity often translates into 
knee-jerk opposition to atheism or agnosticism (which Mike and Gloria variously 
espoused), Catholicism (Despite Carroll O'Connor being a devout Catholic), 
and, until late in the series, Judaism. Archie is a Republican[13] and 
an outspoken supporter of Richard Nixon, as well as an early (1976) supporter 
of Ronald Reagan, who correctly predicted Reagan's election in 1980. During 
the Vietnam War, Archie dismisses peace protesters as unpatriotic and has 
little good to say about the Civil Rights Movement. Despite having an adversarial 
relationship with his black neighbors, the Jeffersons, he forms an unlikely 
friendship with their son Lionel, who performs various odd jobs for the 
Bunkers and tolerates Archie's patronizing racial views. The later spinoff 
series 704 Hauser features a new, black family moving into Bunker's old 
home. The series is set in 1994 but does not indicate whether Bunker, who 
would have been 70 by this time, is still alive. His now-adult grandson, 
Joey Stivic, appears briefly in the first episode of the series and references 
his grandfather, but doesn't state whether he's still alive at this point. 
Such was the name recognition and societal influence of the Bunker character 
that by 1972, commentators were discussing the "Archie Bunker vote" (i.e., 
the voting bloc comprising urban, white, working-class men) in that year's 
presidential election. In the same year, there was a parody election campaign, 
complete with T-shirts, campaign buttons, and bumper stickers, advocating 
"Archie Bunker for President".[14][15] The character's imprint on American 
culture is such that Archie Bunker's name was still being used in the media 
in 2008, to describe a certain group of voters who voted in that year's 
U.S. presidential election.[14][15] Norman Lear originally intended that 
Bunker be strongly disliked by audiences. Lear was shocked when Bunker 
quietly became a beloved figure to much of middle America. Lear thought 
that Bunker's opinions on race, sex, marriage, and religion were so wrong 
as to represent a parody of right wing bigotry. Sammy Davis, Jr., who was 
both black and Jewish, genuinely liked the character. He felt that Bunker's 
bigotry was based on his rough, working-class life experiences and that 
Bunker was honest and forthright in his opinions, showing an openness to 
changing his views if an individual treated him right. In 1972, Davis appeared 
in episode 21 of season 2 of All in the Family, and later appeared in episode 
19 of season 1 of spin-off Archie Bunker's Place. Bunker's racist and misogynistic 
views were the template for the creation of the character Eric Cartman, 
considered by some to be the most famous character in the adult animated 
sitcom, South Park.[16] Commentating on BBC Newsnight political commentator 
Conrad Black referred to Donald Trump as having secured the Archie Bunker 
