The Arizona Fall League is an off-season league owned and operated by Major 
League Baseball[1] which operates during the autumn in Arizona, United 
States, at six different baseball complexes.[1] The Arizona Fall League 
attracts many of the top prospects in minor league baseball. Each August, 
Major League Baseball clubs hold a position draft to determine the players 
who will go to Arizona.[1] Most are Double-A and Triple-A Minor League 
players.[1] Each club can opt to send two players below Double-A. Foreign 
players are allowed, as long as the player is not on his native country's 
primary protected player list. The league is designed for these prospects 
to refine their skills and perform in game settings in front of major and 
minor league baseball scouts and team executives, who are in attendance 
at almost every game. Play begins shortly after the end of MLB's regular 
season in early October and ends in mid-November with a championship game 
between the winners of the East and West divisions. The Arizona Fall League 
teams are each affiliated with five separate Major League teams; each affiliated 
Major League team provides seven players who team up to fill the 35-man 
roster of each team.[1] Additionally, teams may elect to send Taxi Squad 
players who are only eligible on Wednesdays and Saturdays. MLB teams also 
provide managers, coaches, and trainers.[1] A number of famous ballplayers 
have had stints in the Arizona Fall League. In 2016, former NFL quarterback 
Tim Tebow played. In 1994, the league got worldwide attention as Michael 
Jordan's second professional baseball league, when he played for the Scottsdale 
Scorpions. Other notable ballplayers who have played in the Arizona Fall 
League include Derek Jeter, Dustin Pedroia, Mike Piazza, Albert Pujols, 
Jimmy Rollins, Bryce Harper, David Wright and Tyler Naquin. First presented 
in 2002 and named for Joe Black of the Brooklyn Dodgers, the award honors 
the 1952 National League Rookie of the Year.[2] The Dernell Stenson Sportsmanship 
Award was created in 2004, in memory of Dernell Stenson,[5] an outfielder 
for the Scottsdale Scorpions (Cincinnati Reds), who was killed in a carjacking 
on November 5, 2003. The award is voted on by the managers and coaches 
of the six Arizona Fall League teams.[6] The Arizona Fall League Hall of 
Fame was created in 2001. The AFL has had over 1,200 players who came through 
the league reach Major League Baseball. Additionally, 18 former AFL||Managers/players 
have gone on to manage a Major League club after managing in the league. 
To be considered by the selection committee, a player must be recognized 
at Major League Baseball level as a Rookie of the Year, a Most Valuable 
