The Arkansas Travelers, also known informally as The Travs, are a Minor 
League Baseball team based in North Little Rock, Arkansas. The team, which 
plays in the Texas League, is the Double-A affiliate of the Seattle Mariners.[1] 
The team succeeded the Little Rock Travelers, which appellation became 
defunct in 1961. The Travelers were the first professional sports team 
to claim an entire state in 1957 when they became the Arkansas Travelers. 
Both versions of the name derive from the old folk song, The Arkansas Traveler. 
From 1932 to 2006, the Travelers played at Ray Winder Field. Bill Valentine, 
a former American League umpire and chosen as general manager for the Travelers 
from 1976 to 2007, began to promote the historic nature of Ray Winder Field. 
The ballpark gained recognition as one of the oldest still active parks 
in minor league baseball, and fans traveled to Little Rock to experience 
the nostalgia and sample the baseball history represented by Ray Winder 
Field. However, after nearly three-quarters of a century, the field was 
showing signs of age and after a successful special election in 2005, the 
team moved to a new stadium at the start of the 2007 season and the field 
was demolished in 2012. Dickey-Stephens Park, the new stadium in North 
Little Rock, Arkansas, hosted the first Travelers game against the Frisco 
RoughRiders on April 12, 2007. It is primarily used for baseball and is 
the home field of the Arkansas Travelers minor league baseball team. It 
holds at least 7,000 people. It was built through a partnership between 
the Travs, Little Rock financier Warren Stephens and the city of North 
Little Rock. After donating an 11-acre (45,000 m2) plot of land east of 
the Broadway Bridge, Mr. Stephens named the ballpark in honor of two pairs 
of baseball-loving brothers; Stephens Inc. Founders Jack and Witt Stephens, 
and Hall of Fame Catcher Bill Dickey and his brother Skeeter, also a former 
Major League ballplayer. Both Dickey brothers worked for Stephens Inc. 
following their baseball careers. Bill, who caught for the 1925 Little 
Rock Travelers, also managed the club for one season following a 17-year 
Hall-of-Fame career with the New York Yankees that included seven World 
Series titles. In 2004 the team introduced new road jerseys and alternate 
caps that paid homage to the Travs’ home city. The jerseys had “Little 
Rock” written across the chest. Travelers’ jerseys have either featured 
“Arkansas” or “Travelers” ever since the 1950s. Nostalgia is in these days 
and the retro look has become stylish, We were the Little Rock Travelers 
for years and after all this time we thought we lost the identification 
with Little Rock. Some people actually didn’t know we’re from Little Rock. 
The LR logo has had success on our replica caps and we thought that the 
time to make this change was right now.” Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On Seattle Mariners 40-man roster 
# Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † 
Temporary inactive list Roster updated April 24, 2016 Transactions → More 
MiLB rosters → Seattle Mariners minor league players In Ray Winder, was 
the general manager for Little Rock Travelers when it became defunct in 
1961, but continued as general manager for the Arkansas Travelers until 
1976. Winder had worked as a ticket taker in 1915 before rising to general 
manager. More than once, he almost single-handedly kept baseball in Little 
Rock. In 1960, at the last minute, he used his relationships with major 
league teams to sign enough players for the Travelers to field a team—it 
had looked as if the team would not make or would have to move to another 
town. During his 50-plus years with the team, he saw the Travelers sink 
to the bottom of the league only to rise three times to the league championship. 
In 1976, Bill Valentine, a former American League umpire, was chosen as 
general manager for the Travelers.[2] Valentine would remain general manager 
until in 2007 after 31 years and would remain executive vice president 
for two more seasons, before retiring in March 2009.[2] Valentine worked 
as an announcer for the Arkansas Travelers for eight years.[2] In his first 
season as general manager, the team saw a 34% increase in attendance, due 
in part to Valentine's stunts including giving away tens of thousands of 
tickets to kids, hoping they would bring their parents to the game with 
them, and holding midget wrestling and amateur boxing at the stadium.[2][3] 
The Travelers' attendance continued to increase over the years, and also 
saw on-field success, winning five league titles while Valentine was GM. 
Valentine has been inducted into the Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame, the 
Arkansas Officials Association Hall of Fame, the Texas League Hall of Fame, 
