Arkansas (i/ˈɑːrkənsɔː/) is a state located in the southeastern region 
of the United States.[7][8] Its name is of Siouan derivation from the language 
of the Osage denoting their related kin, the Quapaw Indians.[9] The state's 
diverse geography ranges from the mountainous regions of the Ozark and 
the Ouachita Mountains, which make up the U.S. Interior Highlands, to the 
densely forested land in the south known as the Arkansas Timberlands, to 
the eastern lowlands along the Mississippi River and the Arkansas Delta. 
Arkansas is the 29th largest by area and the 33rd most populous of the 
50 United States. The capital and most populous city is Little Rock, located 
in the central portion of the state, a hub for transportation, business, 
culture, and government. The northwestern corner of the state, such as 
the Fayetteville–Springdale–Rogers Metropolitan Area and Fort Smith metropolitan 
area, is a population, education, and economic center. The largest city 
in the eastern part of the state is Jonesboro. The largest city in the 
southeastern part of the state is Pine Bluff. The Territory of Arkansas 
was admitted to the Union as the 25th state on June 15, 1836.[10] Arkansas 
withdrew from the United States and joined the Confederate States of America 
during the Civil War. Upon returning to the Union, the state would continue 
to suffer due to its earlier reliance on slavery and the plantation economy, 
causing the state to fall behind economically and socially. White rural 
interests continued to dominate the state's politics until the Civil Rights 
movement in the mid-20th century. Arkansas began to diversify its economy 
following World War II and relies on its service industry, aircraft, poultry, 
steel, tourism, cotton, and rice. The culture of Arkansas is observable 
in museums, theaters, novels, television shows, restaurants and athletic 
venues across the state. Arkansas's enduring image has earned the state 
"a special place in the American consciousness",[11] people such as politician 
and educational advocate William Fulbright, former President Bill Clinton, 
former NATO Supreme Allied Commander General Wesley Clark, Walmart magnate 
Sam Walton,[12] singer-songwriters Johnny Cash and Glen Campbell, the poet 
C.D. Wright, and physicist William L. McMillan, who was a pioneer in superconductor 
research; have lived in Arkansas. The name Arkansas derives from the same 
root as the name for the state of Kansas. The Kansa tribe of Native Americans 
are closely associated with the Sioux tribes of the Great Plains. The word 
"Arkansas" itself is a French pronunciation ("Arcansas") of a Quapaw (a 
related "Kaw" tribe) word, akakaze, meaning "land of downriver people" 
or the Sioux word akakaze meaning "people of the south wind". In 1881, 
the pronunciation of Arkansas with the final "s" being silent was made 
official by an act of the state legislature after a dispute arose between 
Arkansas's two U.S. senators as one favored the pronunciation as /ˈɑːrkənsɔː/ 
AR-kən-saw while the other favored /ɑːrˈkænzəs/ ar-KAN-zəs.[c] In 2007, 
the state legislature passed a non-binding resolution declaring the possessive 
form of the state's name to be Arkansas's which has been followed increasingly 
by the state government.[14] Arkansas borders Louisiana to the south, Texas 
to the southwest, Oklahoma to the west, Missouri to the north, as well 
as Tennessee and Mississippi on the east. The United States Census Bureau 
classifies Arkansas as a southern state, sub-categorized among the West 
South Central States.[8] The Mississippi River forms most of Arkansas's 
eastern border, except in Clay and Greene, counties where the St. Francis 
River forms the western boundary of the Missouri Bootheel, and in many 
places where the channel of the Mississippi has meandered (or been straightened 
by man) from the location of its original legal designation. The state 
line along the Mississippi River is indeterminate along much of the eastern 
border with Mississippi due to these changes.[15] Arkansas can generally 
be split into two halves, the highlands in the northwest half and the lowlands 
of the southeastern half.[16] The highlands are part of the Southern Interior 
Highlands, including The Ozarks and the Ouachita Mountains. The southern 
lowlands include the Gulf Coastal Plain and the Arkansas Delta.[17] This 
dual split can yield to general regions named northwest, southwest, northeast, 
southeast, or central Arkansas. These directionally named regions are broad 
and not defined along county lines. Arkansas has seven distinct natural 
regions: the Ozark Mountains, Ouachita Mountains, Arkansas River Valley, 
Gulf Coastal Plain, Crowley's Ridge, and the Arkansas Delta, with Central 
Arkansas sometimes included as a blend of multiple regions.[18] The southeastern 
part of Arkansas along the Mississippi Alluvial Plain is sometimes called 
the Arkansas Delta. This region is a flat landscape of rich alluvial soils 
formed by repeated flooding of the adjacent Mississippi. Farther away from 
the river, in the southeast portion of the state, the Grand Prairie consists 
of a more undulating landscape. Both are fertile agricultural areas. The 
Delta region is bisected by a geological formation known as Crowley's Ridge. 
A narrow band of rolling hills, Crowley's Ridge rises from 250 to 500 feet 
(76 to 152 m) above the surrounding alluvial plain and underlies many of 
the major towns of eastern Arkansas.[19] Northwest Arkansas is part of 
the Ozark Plateau including the Ozark Mountains, to the south are the Ouachita 
Mountains, and these regions are divided by the Arkansas River; the southern 
and eastern parts of Arkansas are called the Lowlands.[20] These mountain 
ranges are part of the U.S. Interior Highlands region, the only major mountainous 
region between the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachian Mountains.[21] The 
highest point in the state is Mount Magazine in the Ouachita Mountains,[22] 
which rises to 2,753 feet (839 m) above sea level.[6] Arkansas has many 
rivers, lakes, and reservoirs within or along its borders. Major tributaries 
of the Mississippi River include the Arkansas River, the White River, and 
the St. Francis River.[23] The Arkansas is fed by the Mulberry River and 
the Fourche LaFave River in the Arkansas River Valley, which is also home 
to Lake Dardanelle. The Buffalo River, Little Red River, Black River and 
Cache River all serve as tributaries to the White River, which also empties 
into the Mississippi. The Saline River, Little Missouri River, Bayou Bartholomew, 
and the Caddo River all serve as tributaries to the Ouachita River in south 
Arkansas, which eventually empties into the Mississippi in Louisiana. The 
Red River briefly serves as the state's boundary with Texas.[24] Arkansas 
has few natural lakes and many reservoirs,[quantify] such as Bull Shoals 
Lake, Lake Ouachita, Greers Ferry Lake, Millwood Lake, Beaver Lake, Norfork 
Lake, DeGray Lake, and Lake Conway.[25] Arkansas is home to many caves, 
such as Blanchard Springs Caverns. More than 43,000 Native American living, 
hunting and tool making sites, many of them Pre-Columbian burial mounds 
and rock shelters, have been cataloged by the State Archeologist. Crater 
of Diamonds State Park near Murfreesboro is the world's only diamond-bearing 
site accessible to the public for digging.[26][27] Arkansas is home to 
a dozen Wilderness Areas totaling 158,444 acres (641.20 km2).[28] These 
areas are set aside for outdoor recreation and are open to hunting, fishing, 
hiking, and primitive camping. No mechanized vehicles nor developed campgrounds 
are allowed in these areas.[29] Arkansas is divided into three broad ecoregions, 
the Ozark, Ouachita-Appalachian Forests, Mississippi Alluvial and Southeast 
USA Coastal Plains, and the Southeastern USA Plainsand two biomes, the 
subtropical coniferous forest and the temperate deciduous forest.[30] The 
state is further divided into seven subregions: the Arkansas Valley, Boston 
Mountains, Mississippi Alluvial Plain, Mississippi Valley Loess Plain, 
Ozark Highlands, Ouachita Mountains, and the South Central Plains.[31] 
A 2010 United States Forest Service survey determined 18,720,000 acres 
(7,580,000 ha) of Arkansas's land is forestland, or 56% of the state's 
total area.[32] Dominant species in Arkansas's forests include Quercus 
(oak), Carya (hickory), Pinus echinata (shortleaf pine) and Pinus taeda 
(loblolly pine).[33][34] Arkansas's plant life varies with its climate 
and elevation. The pine belt stretching from the Arkansas delta to Texas 
consists of dense oak-hickory-pine growth. Lumbering and paper milling 
activity is active throughout the region.[35] In eastern Arkansas, one 
can find Taxodium (cypress), Quercus nigra (water oaks), and hickories 
with their roots submerged in the Mississippi Valley bayous indicative 
of the deep south.[36] Nearby Crowley's Ridge is only home of the tulip 
tree in the state, and generally hosts more northeastern plant life such 
as the beech tree.[37] The northwestern highlands are covered in an oak-hickory 
mixture, with Ozark white cedars, cornus (dogwoods), and Cercis canadensis 
(redbuds) also present. The higher peaks in the Arkansas River Valley play 
host to scores of ferns, including the Woodsia scopulina and Adiantum (maidenhair 
fern) on Mount Magazine.[38] Arkansas generally has a humid subtropical 
climate. While not bordering the Gulf of Mexico, Arkansas is still close 
enough to this warm, large body of water for it to influence the weather 
in the state. Generally, Arkansas has hot, humid summers and slightly drier, 
mild to cool winters. In Little Rock, the daily high temperatures average 
around 93 °F (34 °C) with lows around 73 °F (23 °C) in July. In January 
highs average around 51 °F (11 °C) and lows around 32 °F (0 °C). In Siloam 
Springs in the northwest part of the state, the average high and low temperatures 
in July are 89 and 67 °F (32 and 19 °C) and in January the average high 
and lows are 44 and 23 °F (7 and −5 °C). Annual precipitation throughout 
the state averages between about 40 and 60 inches (1,000 and 1,500 mm); 
somewhat wetter in the south and drier in the northern part of the state.[39] 
Snowfall is infrequent but most common in the northern half of the state.[23] 
The half of the state south of Little Rock is more apt to see ice storms. 
Arkansas' all-time record high is 120 °F (49 °C) at Ozark on August 10, 
1936; the all-time record low is −29 °F (−34 °C) at Gravette, on February 
13, 1905.[40] Arkansas is known for extreme weather and many storms. A 
typical year will see thunderstorms, tornadoes, hail, snow and ice storms. 
Between both the Great Plains and the Gulf States, Arkansas receives around 
60 days of thunderstorms. Arkansas is located in Tornado Alley, and as 
a result, a few of the most destructive tornadoes in U.S. history have 
struck the state. While being sufficiently away from the coast to be safe 
from a direct hit from a hurricane, Arkansas can often get the remnants 
of a tropical system which dumps tremendous amounts of rain in a short 
time and often spawns smaller tornadoes. Before European settlement of 
North America, Arkansas was inhabited by indigenous peoples for thousands 
of years. The Caddo, Osage, and Quapaw peoples encountered European explorers. 
The first of these Europeans was Spanish explorer Hernando de Soto in 1541, 
who crossed the Mississippi and marched across central Arkansas, the Ozark 
Mountains, and all the way to Texas. Around McArthur, Arkansas, he led 
a Spanish raid against the Quigualtam tribe, slaying men, women and children 
without mercy. De Soto died there the next day, in May 1542, opting for 
a watery burial in order to hide from the Natives that he was not a deity, 
and was a mortal. While he was dumped into the Mississippi River, the once 
rich De Soto's will read: "four Indian slaves, three horses and 700 hogs".[47] 
Later explorers included the French Jacques Marquette and Louis Jolliet 
in 1673, and Frenchmen Robert La Salle and Henri de Tonti in 1681.[48][49] 
De Tonti established Arkansas Post at a Quapaw village in 1686, making 
it the first European settlement in the territory.[50] The early Spanish 
or French explorers of the state gave it its name, which is probably a 
phonetic spelling of the Illinois tribe's name for the Quapaw people, who 
lived downriver from them.[51][c] The name Arkansas has been pronounced 
and spelled in a variety of fashions. The region was organized as the Territory 
of Arkansaw on July 4, 1819, with the territory admitted to the United 
States as the state of Arkansas on June 15, 1836. The name was historically 
/ˈɑːrkənsɔː/, /ɑːrˈkænzəs/, and several other variants. Historically and 
modernly, the people of Arkansas call themselves either "Arkansans" or 
"Arkansawyers". In 1881, the Arkansas General Assembly passed Arkansas 
Code 1-4-105 (official text): Whereas, confusion of practice has arisen 
in the pronunciation of the name of our state and it is deemed important 
that the true pronunciation should be determined for use in oral official 
proceedings. And, whereas, the matter has been thoroughly investigated 
by the State Historical Society and the Eclectic Society of Little Rock, 
which have agreed upon the correct pronunciation as derived from history, 
and the early usage of the American immigrants. Be it therefore resolved 
by both houses of the General Assembly, that the only true pronunciation 
of the name of the state, in the opinion of this body, is that received 
by the French from the native Indians and committed to writing in the French 
word representing the sound. It should be pronounced in three (3) syllables, 
with the final "s" silent, the "a" in each syllable with the Italian sound, 
and the accent on the first and last syllables. The pronunciation with 
the accent on the second syllable with the sound of "a" in "man" and the 
sounding of the terminal "s" is an innovation to be discouraged. Citizens 
of the state of Kansas often pronounce the Arkansas River as /ɑːrˈkænzəs 
ˈrɪvər/, in a manner similar to the common pronunciation of the name of 
their state. Settlers, such as fur trappers, moved to Arkansas in the early 
18th century. These people used Arkansas Post as a home base and entrepôt.[50] 
During the colonial period, Arkansas changed hands between France and Spain 
following the Seven Years' War, although neither showed interest in the 
remote settlement of Arkansas Post.[52] In April 1783, Arkansas saw its 
only battle of the American Revolutionary War, a brief siege of the post 
by British Captain James Colbert with the assistance of the Choctaw and 
Chickasaw.[53] Napoleon Bonaparte sold French Louisiana to the United States 
in 1803, including all of Arkansas, in a transaction known today as the 
Louisiana Purchase. French soldiers remained as a garrison at Arkansas 
Post. Following the purchase, the balanced give-and-take relationship between 
settlers and Native Americans began to change all along the frontier, including 
in Arkansas.[54] Following a controversy over allowing slavery in the territory, 
the Territory of Arkansas was organized on July 4, 1819.[c] Gradual emancipation 
in Arkansas was struck down by one vote, the Speaker of the House Henry 
Clay, allowing Arkansas to organize as a slave territory.[55] Slavery became 
a wedge issue in Arkansas, forming a geographic divide that remained for 
decades. The owners and operators of the cotton plantation economy in southeast 
Arkansas firmly supported slavery, as slave labor was perceived by them 
to be the best or "only" economically viable method of harvesting their 
cotton commodity crops.[56] The "hill country" of northwest Arkansas was 
unable to grow cotton and relied on a cash-scarce, subsistence farming 
economy.[57] As European Americans settled throughout the East Coast and 
into the Midwest, in the 1830s the United States government forced the 
removal of many Native American tribes to Arkansas and Indian Territory 
west of the Mississippi River. Additional Native American removals began 
in earnest during the territorial period, with final Quapaw removal complete 
by 1833 as they were pushed into Indian Territory.[58] The capital was 
relocated from Arkansas Post to Little Rock in 1821, during the territorial 
period.[59] When Arkansas applied for statehood, the slavery issue was 
again raised in Washington DC. Congress eventually approved the Arkansas 
Constitution after a 25-hour session, admitting Arkansas on June 15, 1836 
as the 25th state and the 13th slave state, having a population of about 
60,000.[60] Arkansas struggled with taxation to support its new state government, 
a problem made worse by a state banking scandal and worse yet by the Panic 
of 1837. In early antebellum Arkansas, the southeast Arkansas economy developed 
rapidly on slavery. On the eve of the Civil War in 1860, enslaved African 
Americans numbered 111,115 people, just over 25% of the state's population.[61] 
Plantation agriculture would set the state and region behind the nation 
for decades.[62] The wealth developed among planters of southeast Arkansas 
caused a political rift to form between the northwest and southeast.[63] 
Many politicians were elected to office from the Family, the Southern rights 
political force in antebellum Arkansas. Residents generally wanted to avoid 
a civil war. When the Gulf states seceded in early 1861, Arkansas voted 
to remain in the Union.[63] Arkansas did not secede until Abraham Lincoln 
demanded Arkansas troops be sent to Fort Sumter to quell the rebellion 
there. The following month a state convention voted to terminate Arkansas's 
membership in the Union and join the Confederate States of America.[63] 
Arkansas held a very important position for the Rebels, maintaining control 
of the Mississippi River and surrounding Southern states. The bloody Battle 
of Wilson's Creek just across the border in Missouri shocked many Arkansans 
who thought the war would be a quick and decisive Southern victory. Battles 
early in the war took place in northwest Arkansas, including the Battle 
of Cane Hill, Battle of Pea Ridge, and Battle of Prairie Grove. Union General 
Samuel Curtis swept across the state to Helena in the Delta in 1862. Little 
Rock was captured the following year. The government shifted the state 
Confederate capital to Hot Springs, and then again to Washington from 1863-1865, 
for the remainder of the war. Throughout the state, guerrilla warfare ravaged 
the countryside and destroyed cities.[64] Passion for the Confederate cause 
waned after implementation of programs such as the draft, high taxes, and 
martial law. Under the Military Reconstruction Act, Congress declared Arkansas 
restored to the Union in June 1868. The Republican-controlled reconstruction 
legislature established universal male suffrage (though temporarily disfranchising 
all former Confederates, who were mostly Democrats), a public education 
system, and passed general issues to improve the state and help more of 
the population. The state soon came under almost exclusive control of the 
Radical Republicans, (those who moved from the North being derided as "carpetbaggers" 
based on allegations of corruption), and led by Governor Powell Clayton, 
they presided over a time of great upheaval and racial violence in the 
state between Republican state militia and the Ku Klux Klan. In 1874, the 
Brooks-Baxter War, a political struggle between factions of the Republican 
Party shook Little Rock and the state governorship. It was settled only 
when President Ulysses S. Grant ordered Joseph Brooks to disperse his militant 
supporters.[65] Following the Brooks-Baxter War, a new state constitution 
was ratified, re-enfranchising former Confederates. In 1881, the Arkansas 
state legislature enacted a bill that adopted an official pronunciation 
of the state's name, to combat a controversy then simmering. (See Law and 
Government below.) After Reconstruction, the state began to receive more 
immigrants and migrants. Chinese, Italian, and Syrian men were recruited 
for farm labor in the developing Delta region. None of these nationalities 
stayed long at farm labor; the Chinese especially quickly became small 
merchants in towns around the Delta. Many Chinese became such successful 
merchants in small towns that they were able to educate their children 
at college.[66] Some early 20th-century immigration included people from 
eastern Europe. Together, these immigrants made the Delta more diverse 
than the rest of the state. In the same years, some black migrants moved 
into the area because of opportunities to develop the bottomlands and own 
their own property. Construction of railroads enabled more farmers to get 
their products to market. It also brought new development into different 
parts of the state, including the Ozarks, where some areas were developed 
as resorts. In a few years at the end of the 19th century, for instance, 
Eureka Springs in Carroll County grew to 10,000 people, rapidly becoming 
a tourist destination and the fourth-largest city of the state. It featured 
newly constructed, elegant resort hotels and spas planned around its natural 
springs, considered to have healthful properties. The town's attractions 
included horse racing and other entertainment. It appealed to a wide variety 
of classes, becoming almost as popular as Hot Springs. In the late 1880s, 
the worsening agricultural depression catalyzed Populist and third party 
movements, leading to interracial coalitions. Struggling to stay in power, 
in the 1890s the Democrats in Arkansas followed other Southern states in 
passing legislation and constitutional amendments that disfranchised blacks 
and poor whites. Democrats wanted to prevent their alliance.[citation needed] 
In 1891 state legislators passed a requirement for a literacy test, knowing 
that many blacks and whites would be excluded, at a time when more than 
25% of the population could neither read nor write. In 1892 they amended 
the state constitution to require a poll tax and more complex residency 
requirements, both of which adversely affected poor people and sharecroppers, 
forcing most blacks and many poor whites from voter rolls. By 1900 the 
Democratic Party expanded use of the white primary in county and state 
elections, further denying blacks a part in the political process. Only 
in the primary was there any competition among candidates, as Democrats 
held all the power. The state was a Democratic one-party state for decades, 
until after passage of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Voting 
Rights Act of 1965 to enforce constitutional rights.[67] Between 1905 and 
1911, Arkansas began to receive a small immigration of German, Slovak, 
and Scots-Irish from Europe. The German and Slovak peoples settled in the 
eastern part of the state known as the Prairie, and the Irish founded small 
communities in the southeast part of the state. The Germans were mostly 
Lutheran and the Slovaks were primarily Catholic. The Irish were mostly 
Protestant from Ulster, of Scots and Northern Borders descent. After the 
Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas 
in 1954 that segregation in public schools was unconstitutional, some students 
worked to integrate schools in the state. The Little Rock Nine brought 
Arkansas to national attention in 1957 when the Federal government had 
to intervene to protect African-American students trying to integrate a 
high school in the Arkansas capital. Governor Orval Faubus had ordered 
the Arkansas National Guard to aid segregationists in preventing nine African-American 
students from enrolling at Little Rock's Central High School. After attempting 
three times to contact Faubus, President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent 1000 
troops from the active-duty 101st Airborne Division to escort and protect 
the African-American students as they entered school on September 25, 1957. 
In defiance of federal court orders to integrate, the governor and city 
of Little Rock decided to close the high schools for the remainder of the 
school year. By the fall of 1959, the Little Rock high schools were completely 
integrated.[68] Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States, 
was born in Hope, Arkansas. Before his presidency, Clinton served as the 
40th and 42nd Governor of Arkansas, a total of nearly 12 years. Little 
Rock has been Arkansas's capital city since 1821 when it replaced Arkansas 
Post as the capital of the Territory of Arkansas.[69] The state capitol 
was moved to Hot Springs and later Washington during the Civil War when 
the Union armies threatened the city in 1862, and state government did 
not return to Little Rock until after the war ended. Today, the Little 
Rock–North Little Rock–Conway metropolitan area is the largest in the state, 
with a population of 724,385 in 2013.[70] The Fayetteville–Springdale–Rogers 
Metropolitan Area is the second-largest metropolitan area in Arkansas, 
growing at the fastest rate due to the influx of businesses and the growth 
of the University of Arkansas and Walmart.[71] The state has eight cities 
with populations above 50,000 (based on 2010 census). In descending order 
of size, they are: Little Rock, Fort Smith, Fayetteville, Springdale, Jonesboro, 
North Little Rock, Conway, and Rogers. Of these, only Fort Smith and Jonesboro 
are outside the two largest metropolitan areas. Other cities are located 
in Arkansas such as Pine Bluff, Crossett, Bryant, Lake Village, Hot Springs, 
Bentonville, Texarkana, Sherwood, Jacksonville, Russellville, Bella Vista, 
West Memphis, Paragould, Cabot, Searcy, Van Buren, El Dorado, Blytheville, 
Harrison, Dumas, Rison, Warren, and Mountain Home. The United States Census 
Bureau estimates that the population of Arkansas was 2,978,204 on July 
1, 2015, a 2.14% increase since the 2010 United States Census.[2] As of 
2015, Arkansas has an estimated population of 2,978,204.[2] From fewer 
than 15,000 in 1820, Arkansas's population grew to 52,240 during a special 
census in 1835, far exceeding the 40,000 required to apply for statehood.[72] 
Following statehood in 1836, the population doubled each decade until the 
1870 Census conducted following the Civil War. The state recorded growth 
in each successive decade, although it gradually slowed in the 20th century. 
It recorded population losses in the 1950 and 1960 Censuses. This outmigration 
was a result of multiple factors, including farm mechanization, decreasing 
labor demand, and young educated people leaving the state due to a lack 
of non-farming industry in the state.[73] Arkansas again began to grow, 
recording positive growth rates ever since and exceeding the 2 million 
mark during the 1980 Census.[74] Arkansas's rate of change, age distributions, 
and gender distributions mirror national averages. Minority group data 
also approximates national averages. There are fewer people in Arkansas 
of Hispanic or Latino origin than the national average.[75] The center 
of population of Arkansas for 2000 was located in Perry County, near Nogal.[76] 
In terms of race and ethnicity, the state was 80.1% white (74.2% non-Hispanic 
white), 15.6% black or African American, 0.9% American Indian and Alaska 
Native, 1.3% Asian, and 1.8% from two or more races. Hispanics or Latinos 
of any race made up 6.6% of the population.[78] As of 2011, 39.0% of Arkansas's 
population younger than age 1 were minorities.[79] European Americans have 
a strong presence in the northwestern Ozarks and the central part of the 
state. African Americans live mainly in the southern and eastern parts 
of the state. Arkansans of Irish, English and German ancestry are mostly 
found in the far northwestern Ozarks near the Missouri border. Ancestors 
of the Irish in the Ozarks were chiefly Scots-Irish, Protestants from Northern 
Ireland, the Scottish lowlands and northern England part of the largest 
group of immigrants from Great Britain and Ireland before the American 
Revolution. English and Scots-Irish immigrants settled throughout the backcountry 
of the South and in the more mountainous areas. Americans of English stock 
are found throughout the state.[83] The principal ancestries of Arkansas's 
residents in 2010 were surveyed to be the following:[84] Most of the people 
identifying as American are of English descent and/or Scots-Irish descent. 
Their families have been in the state so long, in many cases since before 
statehood, that they choose to identify simply as having American ancestry 
or do not in fact know their own ancestry. Their ancestry primarily goes 
back to the original 13 colonies and for this reason many of them today 
simply claim American ancestry. Many people who identify themselves as 
Irish descent are in fact of Scots-Irish descent.[85][86][87][88] According 
to the 2006–2008 American Community Survey, 93.8% of Arkansas' population 
(over the age of five) spoke only English at home. About 4.5% of the state's 
population spoke Spanish at home. About 0.7% of the state's population 
spoke any other Indo-European languages. About 0.8% of the state's population 
spoke an Asian language, and 0.2% spoke other languages. Arkansas, like 
most other Southern states, is part of the Bible Belt and is predominantly 
Protestant. The largest denominations by number of adherents in 2010 were 
the Southern Baptist Convention with 661,382; the United Methodist Church 
with 158,574; non-denominational Evangelical Protestants with 129,638; 
and the Catholic Church with 122,662. There are some residents of the state 
who live by other religions such as Wiccan, Pagan, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism 
or who prefer no religious denomination.[89] Once a state with a cashless 
society in the uplands and plantation agriculture in the lowlands, Arkansas's 
economy has evolved and diversified. The state's gross domestic product 
(GDP) was $105 billion in 2010.[90] Six Fortune 500 companies are based 
in Arkansas, including the world's #1 retailer, Walmart.[91] The per capita 
personal income in 2010 was $36,027, ranking forty-fifth in the nation.[92] 
The three-year median household income from 2009-11 was $39,806, ranking 
forty-ninth in the nation.[93] The state's agriculture outputs are poultry 
and eggs, soybeans, sorghum, cattle, cotton, rice, hogs, and milk. Its 
industrial outputs are food processing, electric equipment, fabricated 
metal products, machinery, and paper products. Mines in Arkansas produce 
natural gas, oil, crushed stone, bromine, and vanadium.[94] According to 
CNBC, Arkansas ranks as the 20th best state for business, with the 2nd-lowest 
cost of doing business, 5th-lowest cost of living, 11th best workforce, 
20th-best economic climate, 28th-best educated workforce, 31st-best infrastructure 
and the 32nd-friendliest regulatory environment.[citation needed] Arkansas 
gained twelve spots in the best state for business rankings since 2011.[95] 
As of 2014, Arkansas was found to be the most affordable US state to live 
in.[96] As of April 2013 the state's unemployment rate is 7.5%[97] Arkansas's 
earliest industries were fur trading and agriculture, with development 
of cotton plantations in the areas near the Mississippi River. They were 
dependent on slave labor through the American Civil War. Today only approximately 
3% of the population is employed in the agricultural sector,[98] it remains 
a major part of the state's economy, ranking 13th in the nation in the 
value of products sold.[99] The state is the U.S.'s largest producer of 
rice, broilers, and turkeys,[100] and ranks in the top three for cotton, 
pullets, and aquaculture (catfish).[99] Forestry remains strong in the 
Arkansas Timberlands, and the state ranks fourth nationally and first in 
the South in softwood lumber production.[101] Automobile parts manufacturers 
have opened factories in eastern Arkansas to support auto plants in other 
states. Bauxite was formerly a large part of the state's economy, mined 
mostly around Saline County.[102] Tourism is also very important to the 
Arkansas economy; the official state nickname "The Natural State" was created 
for state tourism advertising in the 1970s, and is still used to this day. 
The state maintains 52 state parks and the National Park Service maintains 
seven properties in Arkansas. The completion of the William Jefferson Clinton 
Presidential Library in Little Rock has drawn many visitors to the city 
and revitalized the nearby River Market District. Many cities also hold 
festivals which draw tourists to the culture of Arkansas, such as The Bradley 
County Pink Tomato Festival in Warren, King Biscuit Blues Festival, Ozark 
Folk Festival, Toad Suck Daze, and Tontitown Grape Festival. The culture 
of Arkansas is available to all in various forms, whether it be architecture, 
literature, or fine and performing arts. The state's culture also includes 
distinct cuisine, dialect, and traditional festivals. Sports are also very 
important to the culture of Arkansas, ranging from football, baseball, 
and basketball to hunting and fishing. Perhaps the best-known piece of 
Arkansas's culture is the stereotype of its citizens as shiftless hillbillies.[103] 
The reputation began when the state was characterized by early explorers 
as a savage wilderness full of outlaws and thieves.[104] The most enduring 
icon of Arkansas's hillbilly reputation is The Arkansas Traveller, a painted 
depiction of a folk tale from the 1840s.[105] Although intended to represent 
the divide between rich southeastern plantation Arkansas planters and the 
poor northwestern hill country, the meaning was twisted to represent a 
Northerner lost in the Ozarks on a white horse asking a backwoods Arkansan 
for directions.[106] The state also suffers from the racial stigma common 
to former Confederate states, with historical events such as the Little 
Rock Nine adding to Arkansas's enduring image.[107] Art and history museums 
display pieces of cultural value for Arkansans and tourists to enjoy. Crystal 
Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville was visited by 604,000 people 
in 2012, its first year.[108] The museum includes walking trails and educational 
opportunities in addition to displaying over 450 works covering five centuries 
of American art.[109] Several historic town sites have been restored as 
Arkansas state parks, including Historic Washington State Park, Powhatan 
Historic State Park, and Davidsonville Historic State Park. Arkansas features 
a variety of native music across the state, ranging from the blues heritage 
of West Memphis, Pine Bluff, Helena-West Helena to rockabilly, bluegrass, 
and folk music from the Ozarks. Festivals such as the King Biscuit Blues 
Festival and Bikes, Blues, and BBQ pay homage to the history of blues in 
the state. The Ozark Folk Festival in Mountain View is a celebration of 
Ozark culture and often features folk and bluegrass musicians. Literature 
set in Arkansas such as I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings by Maya Angelou 
and A Painted House by John Grisham describe the culture at various time 
periods. Sports have become an integral part of the culture of Arkansas, 
and her residents enjoy participating in and spectating various events 
throughout the year. Team sports and especially collegiate football have 
been important to Arkansans. College football in Arkansas began from humble 
beginnings. The University of Arkansas first fielded a team in 1894 when 
football was a very dangerous game. Recent studies of the damage to team 
members from the concussions common in football make it clear that the 
danger persists. "Calling the Hogs" is a cheer that shows support for the 
Razorbacks, one of the two NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) 
teams in the state. High school football also began to grow in Arkansas 
in the early 20th century. Over the years, many Arkansans have looked to 
the Razorbacks football team as the public image of the state. Following 
the Little Rock Nine integration crisis at Little Rock Central High School, 
Arkansans looked to the successful Razorback teams in the following years 
to repair the state's reputation. Although the University of Arkansas is 
based in Fayetteville, the Razorbacks have always played at least one game 
per season at War Memorial Stadium in Little Rock in an effort to keep 
fan support in central and south Arkansas. Arkansas State University joined 
the University of Arkansas in FBS (then known as Division I-A) in 1992 
after playing in lower divisions for nearly two decades. The two schools 
have never played each other, due to the University of Arkansas' policy 
of not playing intrastate games.[110] Two other campuses of the University 
of Arkansas System are Division I members. The University of Arkansas at 
Pine Bluff is a member of the Southwestern Athletic Conference, a league 
whose members all play football in the second-level Football Championship 
Subdivision (FCS). The University of Arkansas at Little Rock, which brands 
its athletic program as "Little Rock", is a member of the FBS Sun Belt 
Conference, but is one of two conference schools that has no football program. 
The state's other Division I member is the University of Central Arkansas, 
which is a full member (including football) of the FCS Southland Conference. 
Seven of Arkansas' smaller colleges play in NCAA Division II, with six 
in the Great American Conference and one in the Heartland Conference. Two 
other small Arkansas colleges compete in NCAA Division III, in which athletic 
scholarships are prohibited. Baseball runs deep in Arkansas and has been 
popular before the state hosted Major League Baseball (MLB) spring training 
in Hot Springs from 1886-1920s. Two minor league teams are based in the 
state. The Arkansas Travelers play at Dickey-Stephens Park in North Little 
Rock, and the Northwest Arkansas Naturals play in Arvest Ballpark in Springdale. 
Both teams compete in the Texas League. Related to the state's frontier 
past, hunting continues in the state. The state created the Arkansas Game 
and Fish Commission in 1915 to regulate hunting and enforce those regulations.[111] 
Today a significant portion of Arkansas's population participates in hunting 
duck in the Mississippi flyway and deer across the state.[112] Millions 
of acres of public land are available for both bow and modern gun hunters.[112] 
Fishing has always been popular in Arkansas, and the sport and the state 
have benefited from the creation of reservoirs across the state. Following 
the completion of Norfork Dam, the Norfork Tailwater and the White River 
have become a destination for trout fishers. Several smaller retirement 
communities such as Bull Shoals, Hot Springs Village, and Fairfield Bay 
have flourished due to their position on a fishing lake. The Buffalo National 
River has been preserved in its natural state by the National Park Service 
and is frequented by fly fishers annually. Arkansans, as with many Southern 
states, have a high incidence of premature death, infant mortality, cardiovascular 
deaths, and occupational fatalities compared to the rest of the United 
States.[113] The state is tied for 43rd with New York in percentage of 
adults who regularly exercise.[114] Arkansas is usually ranked as one of 
the least healthy states due to high obesity, smoking, and sedentary lifestyle 
rates.[113] In contrast though a Gallup poll demonstrates that Arkansas 
made the most immediate progress in reducing its number of uninsured residents 
following the passage of the Affordable Care Act. The percentage of uninsured 
in Arkansas dropped from 22.5 percent in 2013 to 12.4 percent in August 
2014.[115] The Arkansas Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect in 2006, 
a statewide smoking ban excluding bars and some restaurants.[116] Healthcare 
in Arkansas is provided by a network of hospitals as members of the Arkansas 
Hospital Association. Major institutions with multiple branches include 
Baptist Health, Community Health Systems, and HealthSouth. The University 
of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS) in Little Rock operates the UAMS 
Medical Center, a teaching hospital ranked as high performing nationally 
in cancer and nephrology.[117] The pediatric division of UAMS Medical Center 
is known as Arkansas Children's Hospital, nationally ranked in pediatric 
cardiology and heart surgery.[118] Together, these two institutions are 
the state's only Level I trauma centers.[119] Arkansas ranks as the 32nd 
smartest state on the Morgan Quitno Smartest State Award, 44th in percentage 
of residents with at least a high school diploma, and 48th in percentage 
of bachelor's degree attainment.[120][121] Arkansas has been making strides 
in education reform. Education Week has praised the state, ranking Arkansas 
in the top 10 of their Quality Counts Education Rankings every year since 
2009 while scoring it in the top 5 during 2012 and 2013.[122][123][124] 
Arkansas specifically received an A in Transition and Policy Making for 
progress in this area consisting of early-childhood education, college 
readiness, and career readiness.[125] Governor Mike Beebe has made improving 
education a major issue through his attempts to spend more on education.[126] 
Through reforms, the state is a leader in requiring curricula designed 
to prepare students for postsecondary education, rewarding teachers for 
student achievement, and providing incentives for principals who work in 
lower-tier schools.[127] In 2010 Arkansas students earned an average score 
of 20.3 on the ACT exam, just below the national average of 21. These results 
were expected due to the large increase in the number of students taking 
the exam since the establishment of the Academic Challenge Scholarship.[128] 
Top high schools receiving recognition from the U.S. News & World Report 
are spread across the state, including Haas Hall Academy in Fayetteville, 
KIPP Delta Collegiate in Helena-West Helena, Bentonville, Rogers, Rogers 
Heritage, Valley Springs, Searcy, and McCrory.[129] A total of 81 Arkansas 
high schools were ranked by the U.S. News & World Report in 2012.[130] 
The state supports a network of public universities and colleges, including 
two major university systems: Arkansas State University System and University 
of Arkansas System. The University of Arkansas, flagship campus of the 
University of Arkansas System in Fayetteville was ranked #63 among public 
schools in the nation by U.S. News & World Report.[131] Other public institutions 
include University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff, Arkansas Tech University, 
Henderson State University, Southern Arkansas University, and University 
of Central Arkansas across the state. It is also home to 11 private colleges 
and universities including Hendrix College, one of the nation's top 100 
liberal arts colleges, according to U.S. News & World Report.[132] Transportation 
in Arkansas is overseen by the Arkansas State Highway and Transportation 
Department (AHTD), headquartered in Little Rock. Several main corridors 
pass through Little Rock, including Interstate 30 (I-30) and I-40 (the 
nation's 3rd-busiest trucking corridor).[133] In northeast Arkansas, I-55 
travels north from Memphis to Missouri, with a new spur to Jonesboro (I-555). 
Northwest Arkansas is served by I-540 from Fort Smith to Bella Vista, which 
is a segment of future I-49. The state also has the 13th largest state 
highway system in the nation.[134] Arkansas is served by 2,750 miles (4,430 km) 
of railroad track divided among twenty-six railroad companies including 
three Class I railroads.[135] Freight railroads are concentrated in southeast 
Arkansas to serve the industries in the region. The Texas Eagle, an Amtrak 
passenger train, serves five stations in the state Walnut Ridge, Little 
Rock, Malvern, Arkadelphia, and Texarkana. Arkansas also benefits from 
the use of its rivers for commerce. The Mississippi River and Arkansas 
River are both major rivers. The United States Army Corps of Engineers 
maintains the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation System, allowing 
barge traffic up the Arkansas River to the Port of Catoosa in Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
There are four airports with commercial service: Clinton National Airport, 
Northwest Arkansas Regional Airport, Fort Smith Regional Airport, and Texarkana 
Regional Airport, with dozens of smaller airports in the state. Public 
transit and community transport services for the elderly or those with 
developmental disabilities are provided by agencies such as the Central 
Arkansas Transit Authority and the Ozark Regional Transit, organizations 
that are part of the Arkansas Transit Association. As with the federal 
government of the United States, political power in Arkansas is divided 
into three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. Each officer's 
term is four years long. Office holders are term-limited to two full terms 
plus any partial terms before the first full term.[136] The Governor of 
Arkansas is Asa Hutchinson, a Republican, who was inaugurated on January 
13, 2015.[137][138] The six other elected executive positions in Arkansas 
are lieutenant governor, secretary of state, attorney general, treasurer, 
auditor, and land commissioner.[139] The governor also appoints qualified 
individuals to lead various state boards, committees, and departments. 
Arkansas governors served two-year terms until a referendum lengthened 
the term to four years, effective with the 1986 general election. In Arkansas, 
the lieutenant governor is elected separately from the governor and thus 
can be from a different political party.[140] The Arkansas General Assembly 
is the state's bicameral bodies of legislators, composed of the Senate 
and House of Representatives. The Senate contains 35 members from districts 
of approximately equal population. These districts are redrawn decennially 
with each US census, and in election years ending in "2", the entire body 
is put up for reelection. Following the election, half of the seats are 
designated as two-year seats and will be up for reelection again in two 
years, these "half-terms" do not count against a legislator's term limits. 
The remaining half serve a full four-year term. This staggers elections 
such that half the body is up for re-election every two years and allows 
for complete body turnover following redistricting.[141] Arkansas voters 
selected a 21-14 Republican majority in the Senate in 2012. Arkansas House 
members can serve a maximum of three two-year terms. House districts are 
redistricted by the Arkansas Board of Apportionment. Following the 2012 
elections, Republicans gained a 51-49 majority in the House of Representatives.[142] 
The Republican Party majority status in the Arkansas State House of Representatives 
following the 2012 elections is the party's first since 1874. Arkansas 
was the last state of the old Confederacy to never have Republicans control 
either chamber of its house since the Civil War.[143] Following the term 
limits changes, studies have shown that lobbyists have become less influential 
in state politics. Legislative staff, not subject to term limits, have 
acquired additional power and influence due to the high rate of elected 
official turnover.[144] Arkansas's judicial branch has five court systems: 
Arkansas Supreme Court, Arkansas Court of Appeals, Circuit Courts, District 
Courts and City Courts. Most cases begin in district court, which is subdivided 
into state district court and local district court. State district courts 
exercise district-wide jurisdiction over the districts created by the General 
Assembly, and local district courts are presided over by part-time judges 
who may privately practice law. There are 25 state district court judges 
presiding over 15 districts, with more districts to be created in 2013 
and 2017. There are 28 judicial circuits of Circuit Court, with each contains 
five subdivisions: criminal, civil, probate, domestic relations, and juvenile 
court. The jurisdiction of the Arkansas Court of Appeals is determined 
by the Arkansas Supreme Court, and there is no right of appeal from the 
Court of Appeals to the high court. The Arkansas Supreme Court can review 
Court of Appeals cases upon application by either a party to the litigation, 
upon request by the Court of Appeals, or if the Arkansas Supreme Court 
feels the case should have been initially assigned to it. The twelve judges 
of the Arkansas Court of Appeals are elected from judicial districts to 
renewable six-year terms. The Arkansas Supreme Court is the court of last 
resort in the state, composed of seven justices elected to eight-year terms. 
Established by the Arkansas Constitution in 1836, the court's decisions 
can be appealed to only the Supreme Court of the United States. Both of 
Arkansas's U.S. Senators, John Boozman and Tom Cotton, are Republicans. 
The state has four seats in U.S. House of Representatives. All four seats 
are held by Republicans: Rick Crawford (1st district), French Hill (2nd 
district), Steve Womack (3rd district), and Bruce Westerman (4th district).[145] 
Arkansas Governor Bill Clinton brought national attention to the state 
with a long speech at the 1988 Democratic National Convention endorsing 
Michael Dukakis. Some journalist suggested the speech was a threat to his 
ambitions, Clinton defined it «a comedy of error, just one of those fluky 
things».[146] Clinton won the Democratic nomination for President the following 
cycle.[when?] Presenting himself as a "New Democrat" and using incumbent 
George H. W. Bush's broken promise against him, Clinton won the 1992 presidential 
election (43.0% of the vote) against Republican Bush (37.4% of the vote) 
and billionaire populist Ross Perot, who ran as an independent (18.9% of 
the vote). Most Republican strength traditionally lied mainly in the northwestern 
part of the state, particularly Fort Smith and Bentonville, as well as 
North Central Arkansas around the Mountain Home area. In the latter area, 
Republicans have been known to get 90 percent or more of the vote, while 
the rest of the state was more Democratic. After 2010, Republican strength 
expanded further to the Northeast and Southwest and into the Little Rock 
suburbs. The Democrats are mostly concentrated to central Little Rock, 
the Mississippi Delta, the Pine Bluff area, and the areas around the southern 
border with Louisiana. Arkansas has only elected three Republicans to the 
U.S. Senate since Reconstruction, Tim Hutchinson, who was defeated after 
one term by Mark Pryor; John Boozman, who defeated incumbent Blanche Lincoln; 
and Tom Cotton, who defeated Mark Pryor in the 2014 elections. Before 2013, 
the General Assembly had not been controlled by the Republican Party since 
Reconstruction, with the GOP holding a 51-seat majority in the state House 
and a 21-seat (of 35) in the state Senate following victories in 2012. 
Arkansas was one of just three states among the states of the former Confederacy 
that sent two Democrats to the U.S. Senate (the others being Florida and 
Virginia) for any period during the first decade of the 21st century. In 
2010, Republicans captured three of the state's four seats in the U.S. 
House of Representatives. In 2012, Republicans won election for all four 
House seats. Arkansas held the distinction of having a U.S. House delegation 
composed entirely of military veterans (Rick Crawford - Army; Tim Griffin 
- Army Reserve; Steve Womack - Army National Guard, Tom Cotton- Army). 
In 2014, the last Democrat in Arkansas' Congressional Delegation, Mark 
Pryor, was defeated in campaign to win a third term in the U.S. Senate, 
leaving the entire congressional delegation in GOP hands for the first 
time since Reconstruction. Reflecting the state's large evangelical population, 
the state has a strong social conservative bent. Under the Arkansas Constitution 
Arkansas is a right to work state, its voters passed a ban on same-sex 
marriage with 75% voting yes,[147] and the state is one of a handful with 
legislation on its books banning abortion in the event Roe v. Wade is ever 
overturned. Arkansas is home to many areas protected by the National Park 
System. These include:[148] Whereas, confusion of practice has arisen in 
the pronunciation of the name of our state and it is deemed important that 
the true pronunciation should be determined for use in oral official proceedings. 
And, whereas, the matter has been thoroughly investigated by the State 
Historical Society and the Eclectic Society of Little Rock, which have 
agreed upon the correct pronunciation as derived from history, and the 
early usage of the American immigrants. Be it therefore resolved by both 
houses of the General Assembly, that the only true pronunciation of the 
name of the state, in the opinion of this body, is that received by the 
French from the native Indians and committed to writing in the French word 
representing the sound. It should be pronounced in three (3) syllables, 
with the final "s" silent, the "a" in each syllable with the Italian sound, 
and the accent on the first and last syllables. The pronunciation with 
the accent on the second syllable with the sound of "a" in "man" and the 
sounding of the terminal "s" is discouraged by Arkansans. Citizens of the 
state of Kansas often pronounce the Arkansas River as /ɑːrˈkænzəs ˈrɪvər/, 
in a manner similar to the common pronunciation of the name of their state. 
