In a Major League Baseball game played on June 2, 2010, at Comerica Park 
in Detroit, Michigan, Detroit Tigers pitcher Armando Galarraga nearly became 
the 21st pitcher in Major League history to throw a perfect game. Facing 
the Cleveland Indians, Galarraga retired the first 26 batters he faced, 
but his bid for a perfect game was ruined one out short when first base 
umpire Jim Joyce incorrectly ruled that Indians batter Jason Donald reached 
first base safely on a ground ball. Galarraga instead finished with a one-hit 
shutout in a 3–0 victory. He faced 28 batters and threw 88 pitches (67 
strikes and 21 balls), striking out three. The game is sometimes referred 
to as the "28-out perfect game",[1] the "Imperfect Game",[2] or simply 
the "Galarraga game".[3] Joyce was tearful and apologetic to Galarraga 
after the game upon realizing he had made the incorrect call. Galarraga 
was forgiving and understanding of the mistake. Without irony, he told 
reporters after the game, "Nobody's perfect."[4] Galarraga was the most 
prominent of the many people throughout Major League Baseball who subsequently 
voiced their support for Joyce. Unusually, the umpire met with both the 
pitcher and the media after the game to apologize for his error. The sportsmanship 
demonstrated by Galarraga and Joyce earned them both widespread praise 
for their handling of the incident. Detroit scored a run on a second-inning 
solo home run by Miguel Cabrera. Two more runs scored in the eighth inning 
when Austin Jackson singled, then advanced on an infield hit by Johnny 
Damon. Jackson and Damon both then scored on a single by Magglio Ordóñez 
and a throwing error by Shin-Soo Choo.[5] In the top of the ninth inning, 
Tigers' center fielder Austin Jackson executed an over-the-shoulder catch 
on the run to retire Cleveland's Mark Grudzielanek for the first out and 
preserve the perfect game, a play that has been compared to DeWayne Wise's 
leaping catch at the wall in the ninth-inning that preserved Mark Buehrle's 
perfect game in 2009.[6] Mike Redmond grounded out to make the second out 
of the inning. Jason Donald then hit a soft ground ball that first baseman 
Miguel Cabrera had to range far to his right to retrieve. Donald was ruled 
safe, giving him an infield single, but video replay showed that Cabrera's 
throw to Galarraga, who was covering first base, beat Donald to the bag. 
Donald advanced to second and third base on defensive indifference during 
Trevor Crowe's at-bat, until Crowe grounded out to Brandon Inge, ending 
the game in a 3–0 victory for the Tigers.[5] Source: MLB.com[7] Only four 
days before Galarraga's near-perfect outing, Roy Halladay pitched a perfect 
game for the Philadelphia Phillies, and just twenty days prior to that, 
Dallas Braden threw a perfect game for the Oakland Athletics.[8] Halladay's 
and Braden's perfect games had been the first pair of such games to occur 
in the same season during the modern era, let alone the same month. Joyce 
served as the second base umpire for Braden's perfect game. The twenty 
days between Braden's perfect game and Halladay's was the shortest span 
between two perfect games since 1880 and there was a chance that for the 
first time in MLB history there would be three perfect games in such short 
succession. Had Galarraga's game been correctly called, the four-day span 
since Halladay's perfect game would have broken that 130-year-old record,[9] 
and marked the only time that three consecutive no-hitters had been perfect 
games, the only time that three perfect games had occurred in one season 
(since done in 2012 by Philip Humber, Matt Cain and Félix Hernández), the 
only time that three perfect games had occurred in a span shorter than 
a month, the only time four perfect games had occurred in a span shorter 
than a year (as Mark Buehrle of the Chicago White Sox threw a perfect game 
in July 2009), and the only time that four perfect games had occurred within 
a stretch of five no-hitters.[8] This would have also marked the first 
perfect game in the Tigers' 110-year history. The 83 pitches thrown before 
the blown call would have been the fewest pitches in a perfect game since 
1908. Galarraga's near-perfect game was the first such game since Mike 
Mussina's bid for a perfect game on September 2, 2001, which was broken 
up by 27th batter Carl Everett.[10] It was also the third time for a Tigers 
pitcher to come so close to a perfect game, as Milt Wilcox also missed 
getting the 27th straight batter out on April 15, 1983,[11] and Tommy Bridges 
missed the 27th batter on August 5, 1932.[12] Galarraga's near-perfect 
game was the tenth time in major league history that the 27th batter in 
a game broke up what was (to that point) a perfect game. One other instance 
of this occurrence also involved a missed call by an umpire, who later 
admitted to his mistake. On July 4, 1908, Hooks Wiltse of the New York 
Giants, perfect through 26 batters, hit Philadelphia Phillies pitcher George 
McQuillan on a 2–2 count in a scoreless game. Umpire Cy Rigler later admitted 
that he should have called the previous pitch strike three, which would 
have ended the inning. Wiltse pitched on, winning 1–0 in ten innings, with 
the hit-batsman the only lapse separating him from a perfect game.[13] 
On May 19, 1981, Jim Bibby allowed a leadoff hit and then retired the next 
twenty-seven batters.. On tagging first base after Cabrera's relay, Galarraga 
began celebrating his accomplishment. His immediate reaction to Joyce's 
on-field ruling was a momentary pause followed by a wry smile at the umpire 
before returning to the mound.[14][15] Galarraga told reporters after the 
game that the outing "was my best game, so far", and said that Joyce "probably 
feels more bad than me. Nobody's perfect. Everybody's human. I understand. 
I give the guy a lot of credit for saying, 'I need to talk to you.' You 
don't see an umpire tell you that after a game. I gave him a hug."[4] He 
also told reporters, "I know that I pitched a perfect game, I believe I 
got it. I said before, I got a perfect game. I'm going to show my son. 
Maybe it's not in the book, but I'm going to tell my son, 'One time I got 
a perfect game.' I'll show him the CD,"[16] further calling his effort 
"the first 28-out perfect game".[17] Tigers' manager Jim Leyland added, 
"It's a crying shame. Jim [Joyce] is a class guy. This sounds crazy, but 
after looking at the play, nobody is going to feel worse than he does. 
I yelled a bit after the game because emotions are high. You just want 
it so bad for the kid. I don't think you're as mad at the umpire as mad 
the kid didn't get it—and he did deserve it." Leyland also said that Joyce's 
call was part of the "human element of the game".[4] Joyce, a 22-year veteran, 
tearfully admitted after reviewing video of the play after the game that 
"I did not get the call correct", insisting that he "took a perfect game 
away from that kid over there that worked his ass off all night". Joyce 
called the Donald ruling "the biggest call of my career", claiming that 
"I thought [Donald] beat the throw. I was convinced he beat the throw, 
until I saw the replay".[18] The umpire later said, "I didn't want this 
to be my 15 minutes of fame. I would have liked my 15 minutes to be a great 
call in the World Series. Hopefully, my 15 minutes are over now".[17] Just 
prior to the next day's game, a tearful Joyce met Galarraga at home plate 
to receive the Tigers' lineup card. The two shook hands and Joyce gave 
the pitcher a pat on the shoulder, with a warm reception from the audience.[19] 
Joyce's accountability and regret, and Galarraga's sportsmanship were widely 
praised for turning the unfortunate situation into a positive.[15][20] 
Many people within Major League Baseball spoke out in support of Joyce, 
offering their sympathies and noting his exceptional reputation.[20] New 
York Yankees pitcher Mariano Rivera said, "It happened to the best umpire 
we have in our game. The best. And a perfect gentleman. ... It's a shame 
for both of them, for the pitcher and for the umpire. But I'm telling you 
he is the best baseball has, and a great guy. It's just a shame."[21] Former 
Chicago Cubs pitcher Milt Pappas said, "I would tell [Galarraga], 'I feel 
for you. There have been only 20 perfect games in the history of baseball. 
The umpire situation was the same one I had—they blew it. At least I had 
the satisfaction of getting the no-hitter. You don't. I feel for you. You 
pitched a tremendous game. At least you have the satisfaction of the umpire 
saying he was sorry. But that doesn't help your situation as far as a perfect 
game."[22] Pappas' own bid for a perfect game on September 2, 1972, was 
spoiled when umpire Bruce Froemming called a borderline 3-and-2 pitch to 
27th-batter Larry Stahl a ball, issuing a walk to the pinch-hitter. Former 
Yankees pitcher Don Larsen—who threw the fourth perfect game of the modern 
era and the only one in World Series history on October 8, 1956—said, "I 
feel sorry for the umpire, and I just feel real badly for the kid. He's 
probably wondering right now whose side God is on."[19] The incorrect call 
led many baseball writers to call for the increased use of instant replay 
in baseball, which was used only to review disputed boundaries on home 
runs during the 2010 season.[23][24][25] Many journalists also advocated 
for MLB commissioner Bud Selig to overturn Joyce's call and award a perfect 
game to Galarraga.[14][19] On June 3, Selig announced that Major League 
Baseball would look at expanded replay and umpiring, but he did not specifically 
address Joyce's call. A baseball official familiar with the decision confirmed 
to The Associated Press that the call was not being reversed.[26] For his 
efforts in this game, Galarraga was named the American League Player of 
the Week on June 7.[27] Also, first base, a ball used in the game, and 
Galarraga's spikes were sent to the Baseball Hall of Fame.[28] Less than 
two weeks after the controversial game, ESPN The Magazine released an anonymous 
poll of 100 current MLB players that named Joyce as the best umpire in 
Major League Baseball. Joyce was named on 53% of ballots, 19 ballots ahead 
of second-place Tim McClelland. One player was quoted as saying, "The sad 
thing about the Galarraga game is, Jim Joyce is seriously one of the best 
umpires around... He always calls it fair, so players love him. Everyone 
makes mistakes, and it's terrible that this happened to him." Furthermore, 
the players in this poll overwhelmingly endorsed (86%) Selig's decision 
not to overturn the call, and were overwhelmingly against (77%) instituting 
replay for calls on the bases.[29] On June 3, White House Press Secretary 
Robert Gibbs said during his morning press briefing, "I hope that baseball 
awards a perfect game to that pitcher", joking that the White House was 
"going to work on an executive order" to that effect. He elaborated, "To 
watch an umpire take responsibility and to watch a pitcher do what he did, 
the type of sportsmanship that was exhibited there—I think that gives a 
lot of heart (...) I think it's tremendously heartening to see somebody 
understand that they made a mistake and somebody accept the apology from 
somebody who made that mistake. I think that's a good lesson in baseball."[30] 
Michigan state Governor Jennifer Granholm also issued a gubernatorial proclamation 
stating, in part, "I, Jennifer M. Granholm, governor of the state of Michigan, 
do hereby declare Armando Galarraga to have pitched a perfect game."[31] 
Former SportsCenter co-host Keith Olbermann dedicated a special edition 
of the "Worst Person in the World" segment of his political commentary 
show Countdown to lambasting Bud Selig's refusal to reverse Joyce's call. 
While Olbermann ordinarily lists three "Worsts", Selig alone was awarded 
the title because "there can only be one Worst Person tonight". Olbermann 
went on to cite Lee MacPhail's handling of George Brett's 1983 Pine Tar 
Incident as an example of a commissioner overruling an umpire's call, and 
discussed the matter with both Governor Granholm and documentarian Ken 
Burns.[3] The day after the botched call, in a ceremony before the Tigers 
game, General Motors presented Galarraga with a red 2010 Chevy Corvette 
Grand-Sport convertible, recognizing his outstanding performance on and 
off the field. GM North American President Mark Reuss said the way the 
pitcher had handled the situation deserved to be recognized.[32] Galarraga 
was presented with a "Medal of Reasonableness" by Jon Stewart at the Rally 
to Restore Sanity and/or Fear for his measured response.[33] On July 14, 
2010, Joyce and Galarraga together presented the ESPY Award for Best Moment 
at the Nokia Theatre in Los Angeles. The winner was the stoppage-time goal 
scored by Landon Donovan for the US National Team versus Algeria at the 
2010 World Cup.[34] Armando Galarraga and Jim Joyce, along with Daniel 
Paisner, released a book titled Nobody's Perfect, chronicling their experiences 
during and after the game.[35] In June 2011, one year after the near-perfect 
game, Major League Baseball put a rule into effect that Joyce cannot umpire 
any games in which Galarraga's team plays. Due to the book release, the 
two are now business partners, and this relationship could affect Joyce's 
impartiality while umpiring Galarraga's team.[36] It is similar to the 
policy that prevented umpire Jim Wolf from being the plate umpire in games 
that his younger brother Randy pitched in.[35] Singer-songwriter Dan Bern 
composed and recorded a song, "Joyce and Galarraga", about the game. It 
