Armando Benítez (born November 3, 1972) is a retired relief pitcher. Benítez 
debuted with the Baltimore Orioles in 1994 and within a few years became 
their closer. He was a reliever for several other organizations after Baltimore 
in 1999 and last played in Major League Baseball in 2008. His 289 saves 
rank 25th all time. After 2008, he played in minor league and independent 
league baseball. Armando Germán Benítez was born in San Pedro de Macorís, 
in the Dominican Republic. His parents, father Francisco and mother Constancia,[1] 
separated when he was young, so Armando was raised by his mother. She made 
a living by hand-washing clothes.[2] Armando has two brothers, Francisco, 
Jr. and Osiri, as well as a sister, Senovia.[1] Benítez learned to play 
baseball when he was 14, when his stature was a lanky 6'2", 140 pounds.[2] 
He began to play baseball at a local academy and was originally an outfielder 
and third baseman.[1] Benítez was signed in 1990 by the Baltimore Orioles 
as a free agent. Coming up through the Orioles' farm system, he made his 
debut in 1994. While with the Orioles, he initially struggled, collecting 
a 5.66 ERA in 1995 and faltering in the postseason frequently.[3] In the 
1996 ALCS he yielded the infamous Jeffrey Maier home run, sprinting all 
the way to right field to confront the umpire, Rich Garcia, who made the 
call. In 1997 Benítez had a breakout year, as he excelled in the set up 
role for Orioles' closer Randy Myers, forming a lethal 1–2 punch at the 
back end of the Orioles bullpen and propelling them to the AL East pennant. 
By 1998 he started to show some of his future potential earning a 3.82 
ERA and 22 saves in 71 games. However, during a game against the New York 
Yankees on May 19, 1998, Benítez was ejected for hitting Tino Martinez 
with a pitch that led to a huge brawl between the two teams. Although Benítez 
denied hitting Martinez intentionally, few Orioles defended his actions 
and he was assessed an eight-game suspension by American League President 
Gene Budig, and his own manager even apologized to the Yankees for Benitez's 
behavior.[4] Interestingly enough, it was the second time he had drilled 
Martinez, which caused Martinez's incensed reaction. He had done exactly 
the same thing three years before when Martinez was playing for the Seattle 
Mariners after surrendering an Edgar Martínez grand slam, which had led 
to his demotion to the minors at that time.[5] Before the 1999 season, 
Benítez was traded to the New York Mets in a three-team deal, in which 
catcher Charles Johnson joined the Orioles while Todd Hundley was sent 
to the Los Angeles Dodgers, with Roger Cedeño also joining Benitez in New 
York. Benitez initially served as the setup man for longtime Mets closer 
John Franco; however, when Franco went down with an injury mid-way through 
the 1999 season, Benitez assumed the job and was named the full-time Mets 
closer even after Franco's return. However, he continued his late season 
and postseason struggles. In Game 4 of the 1999 NL Division Series, after 
notoriously arriving late to the ballpark in Game 4, he was called upon 
to protect a 2-1 lead in the 8th inning against the expansion Arizona Diamondbacks, 
but allowed a two-run double as the Diamondbacks went ahead. He also blew 
a three run lead in Game 2 of the 2000 NL Division Series against the San 
Francisco Giants, surrendering a game tying three run homer to JT Snow. 
He would also surrender the lead in Game 1 of the 2000 World Series to 
the New York Yankees, as the Yankees would eventually prevail in a marathon 
extra-inning game, ultimately winning the series in 5 games. Despite these 
struggles during his four seasons in New York, he managed to establish 
himself as one of the Major Leagues' better closers,[citation needed] saving 
139 games. But it was also a painful time for Benítez, who battled gout 
during the 2000 season, due to overindulging in shellfish.[6] However, 
as Benítez still struggled to hold leads when it seemed to matter most, 
to many fans his failures in clutch situations overshadowed most of the 
success he had in his career in New York. Regardless, several playoff contenders 
were interested in his services. Midway through 2003, as Benítez labored 
trying to convert saves through the year, he was traded to the New York 
Yankees, who intended to use him as a setup man for Mariano Rivera. Benítez 
had a 1.93 ERA, but allowed 14 baserunners in 9.1 innings over nine games 
with the Yankees before being traded in a post-deadline waiver deal[7] 
to the Seattle Mariners for Jeff Nelson. Benitez finished the 2003 season 
in Seattle. In 2004, Benítez once again became a closer, taking a pay cut 
to join the Florida Marlins for one year. His season with the Marlins ended 
up being his best season to date; he saved 47 games in 51 chances and compiled 
a 1.29 ERA. In fact, after giving up a solo home run in his first game 
of the season, he did not allow another earned run until June 5, an impressive 
streak of 30 scoreless innings.[8] After the season, Benítez elected to 
become a free agent, signing a three-year contract with the San Francisco 
Giants that was worth a reported US$21 million. His tenure with the Giants 
was mired by injuries and a high percentage of blown saves, never recapturing 
the form he showed in 2004 with the Marlins. His first season with the 
Giants started badly when Benítez tore a pair of tendons in his right hamstring 
while running to cover first in late April. The injury had him sidelined 
until August, when he returned to the mound after a difficult rehab.[citation 
needed] Benítez struggled for much of the 2006 season, at one point blowing 
three consecutive save opportunities. Benítez's season ended prematurely 
after being placed on the 60-day disabled list with arthritis in both knees.[9] 
He ended the season with 17 saves in 25 opportunities. Benítez started 
2007 well, converting all of his first seven save opportunities.[10] However, 
in May, Benítez picked up two blown saves and three losses, including a 
blown save and a loss against his former team, the Mets, where he committed 
two balks.[11] This game immediately brought back memories of his various 
meltdowns on the mound as a Met, and the media pounced on it.[12] After 
the game Benítez commented, "I didn't do my job", contrasting with his 
previous game where he picked up the loss yet claimed, "I did my job." 
MLB.com writer Chris Haft reported that this added "little to the family 
atmosphere" at the Giants ballclub.[13] Benítez had once before said, "I 
did my job", even when tallying a blown save, during a Giants loss to the 
Nationals in 2006.[14] On May 31, 2007, he was traded back to the Florida 
Marlins in exchange for Randy Messenger. Giants general manager Brian Sabean 
acknowledged that Benítez was not liked by the Giants fanbase, saying he 
had become a "whipping boy", adding "the fans, the press and maybe some 
people in the clubhouse felt he needed to go".[15] Chris Haft noted that 
Benítez had "incurred the wrath of San Francisco fans with his perceived 
attitude as well as his performance", further writing "he maintained his 
tendency to shrug off accountability for poor performances, prompting the 
crowds at AT&T Park to boo him after the slightest lapse."[15] Benítez's 
first return to AT&T Park after being traded to the Marlins came on July 
29, 2007. He was greeted with "thunderous boos" from the Giants fans.[16] 
On October 29, 2007, Benítez officially filed for free agency, ending his 
second tenure with the Marlins following a disappointing campaign where 
he posted a 5.36 ERA between the two teams and did not record a save following 
the trade.[17] On March 11, 2008, Benítez agreed to a minor league deal 
with the Toronto Blue Jays and was given chance to compete for a bullpen 
job in spring training.[18] After starting the season in the minors, he 
was eventually added to the active roster in May. However, after posting 
a 5.68 ERA, he was designated for assignment on June 7, and released. Benitez 
started the 2009 season with the Newark Bears, an Independent League team 
in the Atlantic League, before signing a minor league contract with the 
Houston Astros. On August 22, 2009 Benitez was signed to a minor league 
deal by the Houston Astros and assigned to their triple-A affiliate the 
Round Rock Express. On his minor league return, Benitez gave up back-to-back-to-back-to-back 
home runs against Memphis Redbirds hitters.[citation needed] On June 24, 
2010 Benitez signed a minor league deal with the Florida Marlins and was 
assigned to their triple-A affiliate, New Orleans Zephyrs. Benitez was 
released on July 15 and immediately signed to play his 2nd stint with the 
Newark Bears. Following the season, he became a free agent. In May 2011 
Armando signed to play for the Bridgeport Bluefish of the Atlantic League 
Of Independent Baseball On May 24, 2012 Benitez signed with the Atlantic 
League's Long Island Ducks.[19] They are not affiliated with Major League 
