Armour Square is a Chicago neighborhood on the city's South Side, as well 
as a larger, officially defined community area which also includes Chinatown 
and the CHA Wentworth Gardens housing project. Armour Square is bordered 
by Bridgeport to the west and Bronzeville to the east, with Pilsen and 
the near South Side bordering the area to the north and Fuller Park bordering 
its southernmost boundary along Pershing Road. Bounded by 18th Street to 
the north, Pershing Road to the south, the Union Pacific railroad tracks 
on the west and the Dan Ryan Expressway to the east, Armour Square has 
historically been a predominantly white, working-class neighborhood with 
a particularly significant population of both Italian-Americans and Croatian-Americans.[3] 
With its location being immediately south of Chinatown, today the neighborhood 
also has a large Asian population as well.[4] Armour Square's most recognizable 
landmarks are the historic Armour Square Park and nearby US Cellular Field, 
which sits at the southeast corner of W.35th and Shields Avenue, on the 
neighborhood's southernmost end. US Cellular is home to the Major League 
Baseball franchise, the Chicago White Sox. There are three Catholic parishes 
in Armour Square: Santa Lucia, St. Therese Catholic Community at 218 W 
Alexander St., and St. Jerome Croatian Catholic Church. The southernmost 
census tract in the area (3406) is 99% black or African American.[5] Historical 
images of Armour Square can be found in Explore Chicago Collections, a 
digital repository made available by Chicago Collections archives, libraries 
and other cultural institutions in the city.[6] In 1900, Charles Comiskey 
moved his St. Paul Saints to Chicago, where they became the team now known 
as the Chicago White Sox. They began play at the South Side Park on 39th 
Street in Armour Square, and have remained in the neighborhood ever since. 
No other major professional sports franchise has played in the same neighborhood 
longer than the White Sox.[7] In 1910, Comiskey Park opened just 4 blocks 
north of South Side Park on a site that was formerly a junkyard.[8] The 
Park remained the home of the Sox until 1990, when it was the oldest park 
in Major League Baseball.[9] The new Comiskey Park, currently known as 
U.S. Cellular Field, opened in 1991 across 35th Street from the old ballpark.[10] 
Comiskey Park was then demolished in 1991 and converted into a parking 
lot. A plaque embedded in the asphalt marks the spot where home plate was 
on the original field.[11] Chinatown is in the near South Side (located 
in the Armour Square community area), centered on and around Cermak and 
Wentworth Avenues, and is an example of an American Chinatown, or ethnic-Chinese 
neighborhood. It is not to be confused with an area sometimes called "New 
Chinatown", which is on the North Side around Argyle Street, and which 
has a larger number of Southeast Asians. Armour Square is served by the 
Dan Ryan branch of the Chicago Transit Authority's Red Line, with stops 
at Cermak-Chinatown and Sox-35th. It is also served by Metra's Rock Island 
