The Army Black Knights,[2] commonly known as Army, is the name of the athletics 
teams of the United States Military Academy. They participate in NCAA Division 
I-A as a non-football member of the Patriot League, a Division I Football 
Bowl Subdivision independent school and a member of Atlantic Hockey, the 
Collegiate Sprint Football League (men), the Eastern Intercollegiate Gymnastics 
League (men), the Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association, the Great 
America Rifle Conference, the National Collegiate Boxing Association, the 
National Collegiate Paintball Association[3] and the National Intercollegiate 
Women's Fencing Association. Army is also one of approximately 300 members 
of the Eastern College Athletic Conference (ECAC). The three major service 
academies (Army, Air Force, and Navy) compete for the Commander-in-Chief's 
Trophy, which is awarded to the academy that defeats the others in football 
that year (or retained by the previous winner in the event of a three-way 
tie). Men's: Women's: Since 1899, Army's mascot has officially been a mule 
because of the animal's historical importance in military operations.[4][5] 
For many years, Army's teams were known as the "Cadets." The academy's 
football team was nicknamed "The Black Knights of the Hudson" due to the 
black color of its uniforms.[6][7] In 1999, Army adopted "Black Knights" 
as its official nickname in all sports.[8] They may also use "Cadets" in 
certain circumstances.[9] U.S. sports media use "Army" as a synonym for 
the academy, while in 2015, the academy declared their name to be "Army 
West Point."[9] "On Brave Old Army Team", by Philip Egner, is the school's 
fight song.[10] Army's chief sports rival is the Naval Academy, due to 
its long-standing football rivalry and the inter-service rivalry with the 
Navy in general. Fourth class cadets verbally greet upper-class cadets 
and faculty with "Beat Navy", while the tunnel that runs under Washington 
Road is named the "Beat Navy" tunnel. In the first half of the 20th century, 
Army and Notre Dame were football rivals, but that rivalry has since died 
out.[11][12] The Army Black Knights football program are one of the few 
NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision independent schools (not in a 
conference). Army was recognized as the national champions in 1944, 1945 
and 1946. The annual Army-Navy Game between the Black Knights of Army and 
the Midshipmen of the Naval Academy at Annapolis (Navy) is among the most 
storied rivalries in all of college sports. The men's golf team has won 
20 conference championships: Every year, Army faces the Royal Military 
College of Canada (RMC) Paladins in the annual West Point Weekend hockey 
game.[15] This series, conceived in 1923, is the longest-running annual 
international sporting event in the world.[16] Army rugby plays college 
rugby in the Division 1–A Eastern Conference.[17] The Black Knights play 
their home games at the Anderson Rugby Complex on the campus of West Point. 
Rugby is a relatively popular sport at Army; for example, the 2012 game 
against Air Force was attended by 2,000 fans.[18] Army is led by Director 
of Rugby Matt Sherman. Army has one of the most successful college rugby 
teams in the country. Army played in three consecutive national championship 
games from 1990–1992, and reached the national semi-finals four consecutive 
years from 2000–2003, and twice in a row in 2009 and 2010.[19] More recently, 
Army reached the quarterfinals in 2013. Army also plays in the Collegiate 
Rugby Championship, the highest profile college rugby tournament in the 
U.S., reaching the finals in 2011. The Collegiate Rugby Championship is 
played every year in early June at PPL Park in Philadelphia, and is broadcast 
live on NBC. The Army Black Knights Wrestling team host home dual meets, 
tournaments, workout, and practice in the state of the art facility Arvin 
Gymnasium on campus. The team currently competes in the Eastern Intercollegiate 
Wrestling Association (EIWA) since Army is a member of the non-wrestling 
Patriot League. In 2014, Kevin Ward, a former Oklahoma State All-American, 
took over the program. Ward is best known for starting the Ouachita Baptist 
University wrestling program in 2010, the first NCAA wrestling program 
in Arkansas. The Army Sports Hall of Fame consists of displays in the Kenna 
Hall of Army Sports, which is located within the Kimsey Athletic Center.[30] 
