Arnold Rothstein (January 17, 1882 – November 6, 1928),[2][3] nicknamed 
"the Brain", was an American racketeer, businessman and gambler who became 
a kingpin of the Jewish mob in New York City. Rothstein was widely reputed 
to have organized corruption in professional athletics, including conspiring 
to fix the 1919 World Series. According to crime writer Leo Katcher, Rothstein 
"transformed organized crime from a thuggish activity by hoodlums into 
a big business, run like a corporation, with himself at the top".[4] According 
to Rich Cohen, Rothstein was the person who first realized that Prohibition 
was a business opportunity, a means to enormous wealth, who "understood 
the truths of early century capitalism (giving people what they want) and 
came to dominate them".[5] His notoriety inspired several fictional characters 
based on his life, portrayed in contemporary and later short stories, novels, 
musicals and films. Rothstein refused to pay a large debt resulting from 
a fixed poker game and was murdered in 1928. His illegal empire was broken 
up and distributed among a number of other underworld organizations and 
led in part to the downfall of Tammany Hall and the rise of reformer Fiorello 
La Guardia. Ten years after his death, his brother declared Rothstein's 
estate was bankrupt. Arnold Rothstein was born into a comfortable life 
in Manhattan, the son of a well-off Jewish businessman, Abraham Rothstein, 
and his wife Esther. His father was a man of upright character who acquired 
the nickname "Abe the Just".[6] Arnold was highly skilled at mathematics 
but was otherwise uninterested in school.[7] His older brother, on the 
other hand, studied to become a rabbi.[8] Rothstein was known to be a difficult 
child and harboured a deep jealousy over his older brother Harry. Rothstein's 
father believed that his son always craved to be the center of attention 
would often get frustrated when he was not. His father pointed to an event 
in 1890 (when Rothstein was eight) to prove this. Rothstein's mother had 
gone to visit her mother across state, she took her eldest son Harry and 
her newborn daughter with her, leaving Rothstein. The night she left, Rothstein's 
father found him crying in the bottom of a closet, Rothstein reportedly 
said, "She hates me and you hate me, but you all love Harry. Nobody loves 
me."[9] While still a child, Rothstein began to indulge in gambling, but 
no matter how often his father scolded him for shooting dice, Rothstein 
would not stop. In 1921, Rothstein was asked how he became a gambler, "I 
always gambled. I can't remember when I didn't. Maybe I gambled just to 
show my father he couldn't tell me what to do, but I don't think so. I 
think I gambled because I loved the excitement. When I gambled, nothing 
else mattered."[10] By 1910, Rothstein at age 28 had moved to the Tenderloin 
section of Manhattan, where he established an important gambling casino. 
He also invested in a horse racing track at Havre de Grace, Maryland, where 
he was reputed to have fixed many of the races that he won. Rothstein had 
a wide network of informants, very deep pockets from amongst his father's 
banking community, and the willingness to pay a premium for good information, 
regardless of the source. His successes made him a millionaire by age 30. 
There is a great deal of evidence for and against Rothstein being involved 
in the 1919 World Series fix.[11] In 1919, Rothstein's agents allegedly 
paid members of the Chicago White Sox to "throw", or deliberately lose, 
the World Series to the Cincinnati Reds. He bet against them and made a 
significant profit in what was called the "Black Sox Scandal".[12] He was 
summoned to Chicago to testify before a grand jury investigation of the 
incident; Rothstein said that he was an innocent businessman, intent on 
clearing his name and his reputation. Prosecutors could find no evidence 
linking Rothstein to the affair, and he was never indicted. Rothstein testified: 
"The whole thing started when [Abe] Attell and some other cheap gamblers 
decided to frame the Series and make a killing. The world knows I was asked 
in on the deal and my friends know how I turned it down flat. I don't doubt 
that Attell used my name to put it over. That's been done by smarter men 
than Abe. But I was not in on it, would not have gone into it under any 
circumstances and did not bet a cent on the Series after I found out what 
was under way."[13] In another version of the story, Rothstein was first 
approached by Joseph "Sport" Sullivan, a gambler, who suggested Rothstein 
help fix the World Series. Rothstein supposedly turned down Sullivan's 
proposal but when he received Attell's offer, Rothstein reconsidered Sullivan's 
first offer. He figured that the competition to fix the game made it worth 
the risk to get involved and still be able to cover his involvement. David 
Pietrusza's biography of Rothstein suggested that the gangster worked both 
ends of the fix with Sullivan and Attell.[14] Michael Alexander concluded 
that Attell fixed the Series "probably without Arnold Rothstein's approval", 
which "did not prevent Rothstein from betting on the Series with inside 
knowledge".[15] Leo Katcher said that "all the records and minutes of the 
Grand Jury disappeared. So, too, did the signed confessions of Cicotte, 
Williams and Jackson.... The state, virtually all of its evidence gone, 
sought to get the players to repeat their confession on the stand. This 
they refused to do, citing the Fifth Amendment." Eventually, the judge 
had no choice but to dismiss the case. Katcher went on, "Thus, on the official 
record and on the basis of [State Attorney Maclay] Hoyne's statement, Rothstein 
was never involved in the fixing of the Series. Also, on the official record, 
it was never proved that the Series had been fixed." All eight White Sox 
players were forever banned from the game of baseball. Despite all his 
denials, though, Katcher notes that "while Rothstein won the Series, he 
won a small sum. He always maintained it was less than $100,000. It actually 
was about $350,000. It could have been much – very much – more. It wasn't 
because Rothstein chickened [sic] out. A World Series fix was too good 
to be true – even if it was true."[11] Under the pseudonym "Redstone Stable", 
Rothstein owned a racehorse named Sporting Blood, which won the 1921 Travers 
Stakes under suspicious circumstances. Rothstein allegedly conspired with 
a leading trainer, Sam Hildreth, to drive up the odds on Sporting Blood. 
Hildreth entered an outstanding three-year-old, Grey Lag, on the morning 
of the race, causing the odds on Sporting Blood, to rise to 3–1. Rothstein 
bet $150,000 through bookmakers, allegedly having been informed that the 
second favorite, Prudery, was off her feed. Just before post time and without 
explanation, Hildreth scratched Grey Lag from the starting list. Rothstein 
collected over $500,000 in bets plus the purse, but a conspiracy was never 
proven.[16] With the advent of Prohibition, Rothstein saw the opportunities 
for business; he diversified into bootlegging and narcotics. Liquor was 
brought in by smuggling along the Hudson River, as well as from Canada 
across the Great Lakes and into upstate New York. Rothstein also purchased 
holdings in a number of speakeasies. With his banking support, and high-level 
political connections, Rothstein soon managed to end-run Tammany Hall to 
the street gangs. Subsequently, his criminal organization included such 
underworld notables as Meyer Lansky, Jack "Legs" Diamond, Charles "Lucky" 
Luciano, and Dutch Schultz, whose combined gangs and double-dealing with 
their own respective bosses subverted the entire late 19th century form 
of political gangsterism. Rothstein's various nicknames were Mr. Big, The 
Fixer, The Man Uptown, The Big Bankroll and The Brain. Rothstein frequently 
mediated differences between the New York gangs and reportedly charged 
a hefty fee for his services. His favorite "office" was Lindy's, at Broadway 
and 49th Street in Manhattan. He often stood on the corner surrounded by 
his bodyguards and did business on the street. Rothstein made bets and 
collected debts from those who had lost the previous day.[citation needed] 
Meanwhile, he exploited his role as mediator with the city's legitimate 
business world and soon forced Tammany Hall to recognize him as a necessary 
ally in its running of the city. Many historians credit him as the first 
successful modern drug dealer.[17][18][19] By 1925, Rothstein was one of 
the most powerful criminals in the country, and had forged a large criminal 
empire. For a time he was the largest bootlegger in the nation, until the 
rise of George Remus. With a reported wealth of over $10 million (of which 
is worth some $125,145,502 [20]) Rothstein was one of the wealthiest gangsters 
in US history, and is widely considered to be one of, or the, founding 
father(s) of organised crime in the United States.[21] On November 4, 1928, 
Arnold Rothstein was shot and mortally wounded during a business meeting 
at Manhattan's Park Central Hotel at Seventh Avenue near 55th Street.[22][23] 
He died the next day at the Stuyvesant Polyclinic Hospital in Manhattan.[2] 
The shooting was reportedly linked to debts owed from a 3-day long, high-stakes 
poker game in October. Rothstein hit a cold streak and ended up owing $320,000 
($4.5 million in 2016 dollars). He claimed the game was fixed and refused 
to pay his debt. The hit was intended to punish Rothstein for failing to 
pay his debt.[24] The gambler George "Hump" McManus was arrested for the 
murder, but later acquitted for lack of evidence.[24] According to Kevin 
Cook in the book Titanic Thompson (2010), the poker game was fixed by gambler 
Titanic Thompson (real name Alvin Clarence Thomas) and his associate, Nate 
Raymond. Due to some complicated side bets, by the end Rothstein owed $319,000 
to Raymond (much of which Raymond was due, by secret agreement, to pass 
on to Thompson); $30,000 to Thompson; and approximately $200,000 to the 
other gamblers present. McManus owed Rothstein $51,000. Rothstein stalled 
for time, saying that he would not be able to pay until after the elections 
of November 1928, when he expected to win $550,000 for successfully backing 
Herbert Hoover for President and Franklin D. Roosevelt for Governor. Thompson 
testified at McManus's trial, describing him as "a swell loser" who would 
never have shot Rothstein.[25] According to Cook, Thompson later told some 
of his acquaintances that the killer had not been McManus, but his "bag-man", 
Hyman Biller, who fled to Cuba shortly afterwards.[25] In his Kill the 
Dutchman! (1971), a biography of Dutch Schultz, the crime reporter Paul 
Sann suggests that Schultz murdered Rothstein. He says this was in retaliation 
for the murder of Schultz's friend and associate, Joey Noel, by Rothstein's 
protégé, Jack "Legs" Diamond. On his deathbed, Rothstein refused to identify 
his killer, answering police inquiries with "You stick to your trade. I'll 
stick to mine."[26] and "Me mudder (my mother) did it."[27] Rothstein was 
buried at Ridgewood's Union Field Cemetery. At his death, Prohibition was 
in full swing, various street gangs were battling for control of the liquor 
distribution, and the carefully constructed political boss structure of 
the late 19th century was in total collapse. Frank Erickson, Meyer Lansky, 
Bugsy Siegel, and other former associates split up Rothstein's various 
"enterprises" after his death. With Rothstein's death, the corrupt and 
already-weakened Tammany Hall was critically wounded, because it relied 
on Rothstein to control the street gangs.[28] With Tammany Hall's fall, 
reformer Fiorello La Guardia rose in prominence and was elected Mayor of 
New York City in 1933. Ten years after his death, Harry Rothstein, Rothstein's 
brother declared Rothstein's estate bankrupt and Arnold's wealth disappeared.[2] 
