Arnold M. Johnson (Jan. 11, 1906 in Chicago, Illinois – March 3, 1960 in 
West Palm Beach, Florida) was an American industrialist, businessman and 
sportsman, who purchased the Philadelphia Athletics baseball club and moved 
it to Kansas City, Missouri in the autumn of 1954. He had a son, Jeffery 
and a daughter, Wendy. A native of Chicago and graduate of the University 
of Chicago, Johnson enjoyed a highly successful business career. He was 
a stockbroker and banker, served on the board of directors of a number 
of corporations, and invested in the Chicago Black Hawks of the National 
Hockey League. In December 1953, Johnson entered baseball through a real 
estate transaction by purchasing the top two playing venues of the perennial 
champion New York Yankees — Yankee Stadium in the Bronx, and Blues Stadium 
in Kansas City, home of the Yanks' top farm club, the Kansas City Blues. 
Concurrently, struggling major league baseball teams—especially "second" 
teams in two-team cities—were abandoning their old homes. Spurred by Kansas 
City officials, Johnson decided to bring a major league team to town, and 
found a target in the Philadelphia Athletics. The Athletics of Connie Mack 
had once been one of the pillars of the American League, with nine pennants 
and five World Series wins to their credit; however, the team's chronic 
failures on the field since the early 1930s and its lack of resources undermined 
it. In the 1940s, two fatal blows were struck. First, in 1942, the Phillies 
of the National League were bought by lumber baron William D. Cox. The 
Phillies had long been the definition of baseball futility (they had only 
one winning season from 1918 to 1948), in part because their owners either 
did not or could not spend the money it took to build a winner. They had 
played at Shibe Park as tenants of the A's since 1938. When Cox bought 
the Phillies, he proceeded to spend lavishly on young players, while the 
A's had no farm system. Cox was forced out after one year for betting on 
his own team, but ultimately sold the team to DuPont heir Bob Carpenter, 
Jr., who also spent lavishly on young prospects. Many of these young players 
helped the once-moribund Phillies win their second-ever National League 
pennant in 1950. For most of the first half of the 20th century, Philadelphia 
had been an "A's town", even though the A's had fielded teams as bad or 
worse than the Phillies for a decade. However, the Phillies soon began 
outdrawing the A's and soon surpassed them as Philadelphia's favorite team. 
Second, a power struggle between two branches of the Mack family—essentially, 
Roy and Earle, Mack's two sons from his first marriage, were ranged against 
Connie's second wife and their son from that union, Connie Jr.--resulted 
in a dangerous depletion of capital. Roy and Earle eventually won the struggle 
and bought Connie, Jr. out. To do it, however, they mortgaged the team 
to Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (now part of CIGNA). As the 
A's languished at the bottom of the standings, attendance dwindled, depriving 
the team of badly needed revenue that could have serviced the debt. Earlier 
in the 1950 season, the three brothers persuaded their father to retire 
as manager at the end of the 1950 season, while remaining team president.[1] 
However, the mortgage and a series of other bad business decisions soon 
caught up with them, and by 1954 the once-proud team was close to bankruptcy. 
The Macks were all but forced to put the team up for sale. Johnson formally 
made an offer to buy the A's in August 1954, with the strong support of 
the Yankees. Under pressure from the other owners, on October 8 Roy Mack, 
who was now operating head of the team (Connie, Sr. had largely withdrawn 
from day-to-day control, while Earle was largely indifferent) agreed to 
sell the team to Johnson no later than October 18. A day before the deadline, 
however, Roy agreed to an eleventh-hour "save the A's" deal from a group 
of Philadelphia businessmen. That deal, however, imploded due to rumors 
(reportedly planted by the Yankees) that it was underfinanced. At the same 
time, Johnson persuaded Roy Mack that his deal was better in the long run. 
Finally, he persuaded the Macks to sell him the A's for $3.5 million--$1.5 
million for the Macks' stock and $2 million in debt. The deal was approved 
by American League owners on November 28.[1] In part to resolve the ensuing 
conflict of interest, he sold Yankee Stadium back to the Yankees as soon 
as the deal closed. He then sold Blues Stadium to the city, who renamed 
it Municipal Stadium and almost completely rebuilt it to bring it up to 
major league standards. Johnson signed a lease with the city which contained 
a three-year escape clause. It allowed the A's to break the terms of the 
lease if attendance dropped below one million. Rumors swirled that Johnson 
intended to keep the team in Kansas City for only a few years before moving 
it to Los Angeles. However, those were mooted when the Brooklyn Dodgers 
moved there. The team drew 1,393,054 fans in 1955, its first year in Kansas 
City—the third-highest figure in baseball (behind only the Yankees and 
Milwaukee Braves) even as they finished in sixth place with a record of 
63-91.[2] The A's would never approach their 1955 attendance figures again, 
in large part due to a team that was barely competitive and never finished 
with a winning record over thirteen seasons in Kansas City. During Johnson's 
five years as owner, the Athletics' best record was in 1958, when they 
finished 73-81, 19 games out of first. Rumors abounded almost as soon as 
the ink dried on the purchase that there had been massive collusion between 
Johnson and the Yankees, especially when the Yankees opted not to force 
Johnson to pay them an indemnity for moving the Athletics. Under major-league 
rules of the time, the Yankees held the major-league rights to Kansas City.[1] 
In March 1960, Johnson was returning from watching the Athletics in spring 
training when he was fatally stricken with a cerebral hemorrhage. He died 
at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Florida on March 3 at the 
age of 53.[3] Later that season, his estate would sell its controlling 
interest in the team to Charles O. Finley, who would put an end to the 
A's being effectively a "farm club" of the Yankees, and would eventually 
move the A's to Oakland and assemble a dynasty there in the early 1970s. 
