Arturo "Arte" Moreno (born August 14, 1946) is an American businessman. 
On May 15, 2003, he became the first Mexican-American to own a major sports 
team in the United States when he purchased the Anaheim Angels baseball 
team from the Walt Disney Company. Moreno was born to a Mexican-American 
family in Tucson, Arizona, the oldest of 11 children of Mary and Arturo 
Ricardo Moreno.[2] His father ran a small print shop; his grandfather owned 
Tucson's first Spanish-language newspaper.[2] In 1965, graduated from high 
school and in 1966, he was drafted into the United States Army and fought 
in the Vietnam War. After returning to civilian life in 1968, he enrolled 
at the University of Arizona where he graduated in 1973 with a degree in 
marketing. After school, he was hired to work at the Eller Outdoor advertising 
company. He traveled across the country for the next seven years, relocating 
several times and in 1984, he moved back to Arizona, settling in Phoenix, 
where he was hired by billboard company Outdoor Systems. In 1996, Moreno 
took Outdoor Systems public. The company's stock soared, and in 1998 Moreno 
sold the company to Infinity Broadcasting for $8 billion. With baseball 
being Moreno's favorite pastime, he applied his business acumen in that 
arena, as well, purchasing the Salt Lake Trappers minor league team alongside 
17 other investors in 1986. The group owned the team until 1992, and the 
venture proved to be a resounding financial success. By 2001, Moreno was 
hungry to own a Major League Baseball (MLB) team. He attempted to buy controlling 
interest in his homestate's Arizona Diamondbacks, however no deal could 
be reached. He nonetheless remained determined to own a Major League team, 
and soon set his sights on the 2002 World Series champion Anaheim Angels. 
In April 2003, it was announced that Moreno had reached a deal with The 
Walt Disney Company to purchase the team for $180 million. On May 15, 2003, 
MLB commissioner Bud Selig announced that the sale of the Angels to Moreno 
had been approved.[3] One of the first people to congratulate Moreno after 
the news was Diamondbacks' owner Jerry Colangelo, a personal friend who 
declared it a good opportunity for Moreno. Upon assuming control of the 
Angels, Moreno cut ticket and beer prices at the stadium, and soon demonstrated 
a willingness to spend the money necessary to sign premium players, including 
star outfielder Vladimir Guerrero, to improve the team. He also took a 
hands-on approach, becoming a regular attendee of the team's home games 
and periodically leaving his owner's box during games to mingle with fans 
in the regular stadium seating areas and concourses. All of these moves 
proved very popular with fans. In the first year of his ownership, the 
Angels drew more than three million fans, 750,000 more than their championship 
season.[4] However, Moreno encountered a substantial backlash from fans 
of the team, and in particular, from the city leadership of Anaheim, California, 
over his decision in 2005 to change the name of the team from the Anaheim 
Angels to the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. Moreno saw the change as part 
of an overall strategy to increase the team's revenue by actively marketing 
it to, and associating it with, the entire Los Angeles metropolitan area, 
rather than restricting the team's identity to the city of Anaheim and 
to Orange County. In recent years, the San Diego Zoo and Los Angeles Times 
have been notable club sponsors, while all baseball TV rightsholders also 
use some variation of the team's new name, indicating the effect of Moreno's 
plan. But the move outraged Anaheim city officials, who responded by suing 
the team. It also angered a substantial segment of the Angels' fan base 
in Orange County, who took pride in the team's identity being distinct 
from Los Angeles. The awkwardness of the of Anaheim suffix, appended to 
satisfy a contractual requirement for Anaheim to be included in the team's 
name, also caused the new name to become the subject of national ridicule.[5][6][7] 
Eventually, the team won the lawsuit filed by the city. Whatever displeasure 
fans felt over the name change has not translated into diminished support 
for the team, as attendance levels have remained well above 2002 numbers. 
Aside from the name controversy, Moreno's first few seasons as owner of 
the Angels have been largely successful. The team posted three consecutive 
winning seasons for the first time in club history (2007–2009),[8] including 
winning the American League Western Division championship in 2004, 2005, 
2007, 2008, 2009, and 2014 when they finished with a league leading 99 
regular season wins. Just prior to the start of the 2006 Major League season, 
Moreno scored another success in signing a lucrative contract with Fox 
Sports Net for the television broadcast rights for the Angels' regular 
season games. The ten-year deal significantly increased the team's television 
revenue. In April 2006, Forbes magazine estimated the team to be worth 
$368 million—twice the amount Moreno paid for the club only three years 
earlier; in April 2008, Forbes estimated the franchise value at $500 million, 
a 16% change in value over one year.[9][10] [Moreno] has really done an 
amazing job with the franchise. To double the value in three years without 
getting a new stadium is an incredible feat. On February 26, 2006, Moreno 
led a partnership of buyers to purchase Radio 830 KMXE, the nation's largest 
Spanish-language AM radio station. For the 2006 and 2007 seasons Radio 
830 KMXE served as the Spanish-language radio broadcast outlet for the 
Angels. On July 17, 2007 the station began broadcasting from new studios 
located in Angel Stadium. Just before the 2008 season the station became 
AM830 KLAA (AM) and went all English language, including the Angels game 
broadcasts. The station has since added morning and afternoon sports talk 
shows to its lineup. While it seems a new trend for sports teams to buy 
their own radio stations (see St. Louis Cardinals baseball and Washington 
Redskins football teams), for the Angels it is a tradition started by team 
founder Gene Autry, who owned 710 KMPC and broadcast the games for years.[12] 
Moreno has been married twice. He has three children.[13] In 1997, Moreno 
and his wife established the Moreno Family Foundation, which supports non-profit 
organizations focusing on youth and education. It also has provided support 
to the athletic programs at the University of Arizona. Aside from this, 
Moreno is vigilant about maintaining his privacy. He refuses most interview 
requests, and does not discuss his personal life publicly. His family and 
friends also avoid commenting on his personal life publicly, though off 
the record, those who know him describe him as "unabashed in his support 
of Republican politics"[14] and as particularly dedicated to his family. 
Reaves, Joseph A., Craig Harris and Jonathan J. Higurea. (2003, April 23). 
