Arthur H. Soden (April 23, 1843 – August 15, 1925) was an American executive 
in Major League Baseball who was the president/owner of the Boston Base 
Ball Club of the National League and a Civil War veteran. Soden was born 
on April 23, 1843 in Framingham, Massachusetts.[1] Soden served as a Hospital 
Steward with the 22nd Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry during the Civil 
War. After the war, Soden was an amateur ball player of note. In 1874 he 
was part of the Boston club during their tour of England. He played center 
field in a game at the Kennington Oval.[2] In 1876 Soden bought into the 
Boston Base Ball Club. He and J .B. Billings later purchased controlling 
interest in the club and Soden became the team's president in 1877.[2] 
Soden is credited with inventing the baseball reserve clause – in 1880, 
standard player contracts began including a clause stating that the club 
could reserve the player for the following season; teams could reserve 
up to 5 players. In 1883, the number was increased to 11, which was a typical 
roster size in that era, and soon teams were allowed unlimited reserves. 
In 1882, Soden served briefly as president of the National League following 
the death of William Hulbert. When the rival American Association was preparing 
to expand to 8 teams for the 1883 season, Soden acted to add NL teams in 
New York City and Philadelphia (both cities had been kicked out of the 
league by Hulbert after the inaugural 1876 season), replacing the Troy 
Trojans and Worcester Ruby Legs, the bottom two teams in the league. Although 
Troy and Worcester objected to their removal, their attendance problems 
– drawing only 6 and 18 spectators in their final two games against one 
another – sealed their fate. Soden played a major role in the war between 
the NL and the Players' League in 1890, bankrolling several teams in the 
league as attendance dropped; by the time the NL emerged triumphant, Soden 
owned a majority of the New York Giants in addition to his control of the 
Boston franchise. Boston won 5 pennants between 1891 and 1898. After losing 
the pennant to Baltimore in 1894 and 1895, a struggling start in 1896 led 
Soden to observe that his players' on-field arguments were having a negative 
effect, and stated that any players fined for abusing umpires would now 
pay their own fines rather than have the team cover the cost secretly; 
Boston went on a 22-2 run over the next few weeks, and briefly took over 
first place, but finished behind Baltimore (for the last time) that season. 
Soden was known for being stingy, and catcher Boileryard Clarke observed 
after coming to the Beaneaters from Baltimore in 1899 that the team owner 
was also amazingly distant. Clarke later insisted that although he played 
for Boston for two years, Soden never knew he was on the team. After the 
American League emerged as a rival in the 20th century, many players began 
deserting the NL for the new league, and Boston suffered the heaviest casualties. 
Outside of baseball, Soden ran a successful roofing business with his son, 
Charles. He resided in West Newton, Massachusetts.[2] Soden died in Sunapee, 
