Arthur Robert Ashe, Jr. (July 10, 1943 – February 6, 1993) was an American 
World No. 1 professional tennis player. He won three Grand Slam titles. 
Ashe was the first black player selected to the United States Davis Cup 
team and the only black man ever to win the singles title at Wimbledon, 
the US Open, and the Australian Open. He retired in 1980. He was ranked 
World No. 1 by Harry Hopman in 1968 and by Lance Tingay of The Daily Telegraph 
and World Tennis Magazine in 1975.[2][3] In the ATP computer rankings, 
he peaked at No. 2 in May 1976.[4] In the early 1980s, Ashe is believed 
to have contracted HIV from a blood transfusion he received during heart 
bypass surgery. Ashe publicly announced his illness in April 1992 and began 
working to educate others about HIV and AIDS. He founded the Arthur Ashe 
Foundation for the Defeat of AIDS and the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban 
Health before his death from AIDS-related pneumonia on February 6, 1993. 
On June 20, 1993, Ashe was posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal 
of Freedom by then United States President Bill Clinton. Arthur Ashe was 
born in Richmond, Virginia, to Arthur Ashe Sr. and Mattie Cordell Cunningham 
Ashe on July 10, 1943. He had a brother, Johnnie, who was five years younger.[5] 
In March 1950, Ashe's mother Mattie died from complications related to 
a toxemic pregnancy (now known as pre-eclampsia) at the age of 27.[6] Ashe 
and his brother were raised by their father who worked as a handyman and 
salaried caretaker-Special Policeman for Richmond's recreation department.[5] 
Ashe Sr. was a caring father and strict disciplinarian who encouraged Arthur 
to excel in both school and in sports, but forbade him to play American 
football, a popular game for many black children, due to his son's slight 
build, something that meant Arthur's childhood nicknames were "Skinny" 
or "Bones". The Ashes lived in the caretaker's cottage in the grounds of 
18-acre Brookfield park, Richmond's largest blacks-only public playground, 
which had basketball courts, four tennis courts, a pool and three baseball 
diamonds. Ashe started playing tennis at 7 years of age and began practicing 
on the courts where his natural talent was spotted by Virginia Union University 
student and part-time Brookfield tennis instructor, Ron Charity, who as 
the best black tennis player in Richmond at the time, began to teach Ashe 
the basic strokes and encouraged him to enter local tournaments. Ashe attended 
Maggie L. Walker High School where he continued to practice tennis. Ron 
Charity brought him to the attention of Robert Walter Johnson, a physician, 
and coach of Althea Gibson, who founded and funded the Junior Development 
Program of the American Tennis Association (ATA). Ashe was coached and 
mentored by Johnson at his tennis summer camp home in Lynchburg, Virginia 
from 1953 when Ashe was age 10, until 1960. Johnson helped fine-tune Ashe's 
game and taught him the importance of racial socialization through sportsmanship, 
etiquette and the composure that would later become an Ashe hallmark. He 
was told to return every ball that landed within two inches of a line and 
never to argue with an umpire's decision. In 1958, Ashe became the first 
African-American to play in the Maryland boys' championships. It was also 
his first integrated tennis competition. In 1960, precluded from playing 
Caucasian youths in segregated Richmond during the school year and unable 
to use the city's indoor courts which were closed to black players, Ashe 
accepted an offer from Richard Hudlin, a 62-year-old St. Louis teacher, 
tennis coach and friend of Dr. Johnson, to move to St. Louis and spend 
his senior year attending Sumner High School[7] where he could compete 
more freely. Ashe lived with Hudlin and his family for the year, during 
which time Hudlin coached and encouraged him to develop the serve-and-volley 
game that Ashe's, now stronger, physique allowed. Ashe was able to practice 
at the National Guard Armory indoor courts and in 1961, after lobbying 
by Dr. Johnson, he was granted permission to compete in the previously 
segregated U.S. Interscholastic tournament and won it for the school. In 
December 1960 and again in 1963, Ashe featured in Sports Illustrated, appearing 
in their Faces in the Crowd segment.[8] He became the first African-American 
to win the National Junior Indoor tennis title and was awarded a tennis 
scholarship to the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1963. 
During his time at UCLA, he was coached by J.D. Morgan and practiced regularly 
with his sporting idol, Pancho Gonzales, who lived nearby and helped hone 
his game. Ashe was also a member of the ROTC which required him to join 
active military service after graduation in exchange for money for tuition. 
He was active in other things, joining the Upsilon chapter of the Kappa 
Alpha Psi fraternity on campus. After graduating with a bachelor's degree 
in business administration, Ashe joined the United States Army on August 
4, 1966. Ashe completed his basic training in Washington and was later 
commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Adjutant General Corps. He was 
assigned to the United States Military Academy at West Point where he worked 
as a data processor. During his time at West Point, Ashe headed the academy's 
tennis program. He was promoted to 1st lieutenant on February 23, 1968 
and was discharged from the Army in 1969.[9][10] In 1963 Ashe became the 
first black player ever selected for the United States Davis Cup team. 
In 1965, ranked the number 3 player in the United States, Ashe won both 
the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) singles title and the 
doubles title (with Ian Crookenden of New Zealand), helping UCLA win the 
team NCAA tennis championship. In 1966 and 1967, Ashe reached the final 
of the Australian Championship but lost on both occasions to Roy Emerson. 
1968 was another groundbreaking year for Ashe. He won the United States 
Amateur Championships against Davis Cup Teammate Bob Lutz, and the first 
US Open of the open era, becoming the first black male to capture the title 
and the only player to have won both the amateur and open national championships 
in the same year.[11] In order to maintain Davis Cup eligibility and have 
time away from army duty for important tournaments, Ashe was required to 
maintain his amateur status. Because of this, he could not accept the $14,000 
first-prize money, which was instead given to runner-up Tom Okker,[12] 
while Ashe received just $20 daily expenses for his historic triumph. His 
ability to compete in the championship (and avoid the Vietnam war) arose 
from his brother Johnnie's decision to serve an additional tour in Vietnam 
in Arthur's place.[13] In December 1968, Ashe helped the U.S team become 
Davis Cup champions after victory in the final in Adelaide against defending 
champions, Australia. His only loss in the 12 Davis Cup tournament singles 
matches he played that year, was in the last dead rubber game after the 
U.S team had already clinched victory. The season closed with Ashe the 
winner of 10 of 22 tournaments with a 72-10 win-loss match record. In September 
1969, the U.S Davis Cup team retained the cup, beating Romania in the final 
challenge round, with Ashe winning both his singles matches. The same year, 
Ashe applied for a visa to play in the South African Open but was denied 
the visa by the South African government who enforced a strict apartheid 
policy of racial segregation. He continued to apply for visas in the following 
years and the country continued to deny him one. In protest, he used this 
example of discrimination to campaign for U.S. sanctions against South 
Africa and the expulsion of the nation from the International Lawn Tennis 
Federation (ILTF) but, in defense of the individual South African players, 
refused the call from activists to forfeit matches against them. In January 
1970, Ashe won his second Grand Slam singles title at the Australian Open. 
With the competition somewhat depleted by the absence of some world-class 
National Tennis League (NTL) professional players barred by their league 
from entering because the financial guarantees were deemed too low, Ashe 
defeated Dick Crealy in straight sets in the final to become the first 
non-Australian to win the title since 1959. In September 1970, shortly 
after helping the U.S Davis cup team defeat West Germany in the challenge 
round to win their third consecutive Davis Cup, Ashe signed a five-year 
contract with Lamar Hunt's World Championship Tennis.[14] In March 1971, 
Ashe reached the final of the Australian Open again but lost in straight 
sets to Ken Rosewall. In June that year, Ashe won the French Open men's 
doubles with partner Marty Riessen. In 1972, due to a dispute between the 
ILTF and the WCT, Ashe, as one of the 32 contracted WCT players, was barred 
from taking part in any ILTF Grand Prix tennis circuit tournaments from 
January to July. This ban meant Ashe was unable to play at the French Open 
and Wimbledon Grand Slam tournaments. In September, Ashe reached the final 
of the US Open for the second time. After leading his opponent, Ilie Năstase 
by 2 sets to 1 and with a break point to take a 4-1 lead in the fourth 
set, he eventually lost in five sets. The loss from such a winning position 
was the biggest disappointment of Ashe's professional tennis career. At 
the post-match award ceremony, irritated by some of Năstase's on-court 
antics during the game, Ashe praised Năstase as a tough opponent and 'colourful' 
player, then suggested, "...and when he brushes up on some of his court 
manners, he is going to be even better". At this tournament, concerned 
that men's tennis professionals were not receiving winnings commensurate 
with the sport's growing popularity and to protect players from promoters 
and associations, Ashe supported the founding of the Association of Tennis 
Professionals. He went on to become its elected president in 1974. In June 
1973, as a result of an ATP boycott, Ashe was one of 13 seeded players 
and 81 players in total who withdrew from the Wimbledon tournament to much 
public criticism. The catalyst for the boycott was that Yugoslavian ATP 
member Niki Pilić had been suspended for nine months by his tennis federation 
after allegedly refusing to represent them in a Davis Cup tie against New 
Zealand in May, something Pilić denied. The ban was upheld by the ILTF 
though they reduced it to just one month. The ATP contested the ban but 
lost a lawsuit to force Pilić's participation at Wimbledon during the ban 
period. As a member of the ATP board, Ashe voted to boycott the tournament, 
a vote that was only narrowly passed when ATP chairman, Cliff Drysdale 
abstained. The reason for the boycott was to support Pilić as an ATP member, 
but the importance was that it proved the solidarity of the fledgling ATP, 
and showed the tennis associations that professional players could no longer 
be dictated to.[15] In November 1973, with the South African government 
seeking to end their Olympic ban and re-join the Olympic movement, Ashe 
was finally granted a visa to enter the country for the first time to play 
in the South African Open. He lost in the final to Jimmy Connors, but won 
the doubles with partner Tom Okker. Despite boycotts against South African 
sport, Ashe believed that his presence could help break down stereotypes 
and that by competing and winning the tournament, it would stand as an 
example of the result of integration, and help bring about change in apartheid 
South Africa. He reached the singles final again in 1974, losing in straight 
sets to Connors for the second consecutive year. Later, in 1977, Ashe addressed 
a small crowd of boycott supporters at the U.S Open and admitted that he 
had been wrong to participate in South Africa and once again supported 
the boycott of South African players after he had tried to purchase tickets 
for some young Africans for a tennis match in South Africa, and was told 
to use an "Africans only" counter.[16] In the media, Ashe called for South 
Africa to be expelled from the professional tennis circuit and Davis Cup 
competition. In May 1975, Ashe beat Bjorn Borg to win the season-ending 
championship WCT Finals in Dallas, Texas. On July 5, 1975 in the first 
all-American Wimbledon final since 1947, Ashe, seeded sixth and just a 
few days short of his 32nd birthday, won Wimbledon at his ninth attempt, 
defeating the strong favourite and defending champion, Jimmy Connors. Ashe 
had never beaten Connors in any of their previous encounters and Connors 
had not dropped a set in any of the six earlier rounds, but Ashe played 
an almost perfect game of tactical tennis to win in four sets.[17][18] 
In the lead-up to the final, the two players' relationship was already 
strained. Connors was suing the ATP, with Ashe as its president, for alleged 
restraint of trade after opposition from the ATP and French officials meant 
he was refused entry to the 1974 French Open as a contracted member of 
World Team Tennis (WTT). Just two days before the start of the Wimbledon 
tournament, it had been announced that Connors was now suing Ashe for $5 
million for comments in a letter Ashe had written to ATP members in his 
role as president, criticizing Connors' insistence that Davis Cup captain 
Dennis Ralston should be fired and Connors' "unpatriotic" boycott of the 
competition which had started after Ralston left him out of the team against 
the West Indies in Jamaica in March 1972. On final day, Ashe pointedly 
and symbolically wore red, white and blue wristbands throughout the match 
and wore his U.S.A. emblazoned Davis Cup warm-up jacket when walking out 
onto Centre Court and during the award ceremony while receiving the trophy 
and winner's cheque for GBP £10,000 (1975 equivalent USD $23,000). Soon 
after the final, Connors dropped the libel suit. Ashe played for a few 
more years and won the Australian Open doubles with Tony Roche in January 
1977, but a left foot heel injury requiring surgery a month later and subsequent 
long-term rehabilitation saw his world ranking drop to a lowly 257th before 
a remarkable comeback saw him rise back to 14th in the world again at the 
age of 35. However, after undergoing heart surgery in December 1979, Ashe 
officially retired in April 1980, at age 36. His career record was 818 
wins, 260 losses and 51 titles. Ashe remains the only black man to win 
the singles title at Wimbledon, the US Open, or Australian Open. He is 
one of only two men of black African ancestry to win any Grand Slam singles 
title, the other being France's Yannick Noah, who won the French Open in 
1983. He also led the United States to victory for three consecutive years 
(1968–70) in the Davis Cup. In his 1979 autobiography, Jack Kramer, the 
long-time tennis promoter and a world no. 1 player himself in the 1940s, 
ranked Ashe as one of the 21 best players of all time.[19] After his retirement, 
Ashe took on many roles, including writing for Time magazine and The Washington 
Post, commentating for ABC Sports, founding the National Junior Tennis 
League, and serving as captain of the U.S. Davis Cup team from 1981-1985. 
He was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1985.[20] In 
1988, Ashe published a three-volume book titled A Hard Road to Glory: A 
History of the African-American Athlete,[21] after working with a team 
of researchers for nearly six years.[22] Ashe stated that the book was 
more important than any tennis titles.[23] Ashe was also an active civil 
rights supporter. He was a member of a delegation of 31 prominent African-Americans 
who visited South Africa to observe political change in the country as 
it approached racial integration. He was arrested on January 11, 1985, 
for protesting outside the Embassy of South Africa, Washington, D.C. during 
an anti-apartheid rally. He was arrested again on September 9, 1992, outside 
the White House for protesting on the recent crackdown on Haitian refugees. 
On February 20, 1977, Ashe married Jeanne Moutoussamy, a photographer he 
met in October 1976 at a United Negro College Fund benefit. Andrew Young, 
the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, performed the wedding 
ceremony in the United Nations chapel, New York City.[24] During the ceremony 
Ashe wore a cast on his left foot having had an operation on an injured 
heel ten days earlier. In December 1986, Ashe and Moutoussamy adopted a 
daughter. She was named Camera after her mother's profession.[25] In March 
1989 Ashe's father died of a stroke at age 68. In July 1979, Ashe suffered 
a heart attack while holding a tennis clinic in New York. In view of his 
high level of fitness as an athlete, his condition drew attention to the 
hereditary aspect of heart disease; Ashe's mother already had cardiovascular 
disease at the time of her death, aged 27, and his father had suffered 
a first heart attack, aged 55, and a second, aged 59, just a week before 
Ashe's own attack. Cardiac catheterization revealed one of Ashe's arteries 
was completely closed, another was 95 percent closed, and a third was closed 
50 percent in two places. Ashe underwent a quadruple bypass operation, 
performed by Dr. John Hutchinson on December 13, 1979.[26] A few months 
after the operation, Ashe was on the verge of making his return to professional 
tennis. However, during a family trip in Cairo, Egypt, he developed chest 
pains while running. Ashe stopped running and returned to see a physician 
and was accompanied by his close friend Douglas Stein. Stein urged Ashe 
to return to New York City so he could be close to his cardiologist, his 
surgeon and top-class medical facilities.[26] In 1983, Ashe underwent a 
second round of heart surgery to correct the previous bypass surgery. After 
the surgery, Ashe became national campaign chairman for the American Heart 
Association. In September 1988, Ashe was hospitalized after experiencing 
paralysis in his right arm. After undergoing exploratory brain surgery 
and a number of tests, doctors discovered that Ashe had toxoplasmosis, 
a parasitic disease that is commonly found in people infected with HIV. 
A subsequent test later revealed that Ashe was HIV positive. Ashe and his 
doctors believed he contracted the virus from blood transfusions he received 
during his second heart surgery.[27][28] He and his wife decided to keep 
his illness private for the sake of their daughter, who was then two years 
old. In 1992, a friend of Ashe who worked for USA Today heard that he was 
ill and called Ashe to confirm the story. Ashe decided to preempt USA Today's 
plans to publish the story about his illness and, on April 8, 1992, publicly 
announced he had contracted HIV. Ashe blamed USA Today for forcing him 
to go public with the news but also stated that he was relieved that he 
no longer had to lie about his illness. After the announcement, hundreds 
of readers called or wrote letters to USA Today criticizing their choice 
to run the story about Ashe's illness which subsequently forced Ashe to 
publicize his illness.[29] After Ashe went public with his illness, he 
founded the Arthur Ashe Foundation for the Defeat of AIDS, working to raise 
awareness about the virus and advocated teaching sex education and safe 
sex. He also fielded questions about his own diagnosis and attempted to 
clear up the misconception that only homosexuals or IV drug users were 
at risk for contracting AIDS.[27] In September 1992, Ashe suffered a mild 
heart attack. In a speech to the United Nations General Assembly on World 
AIDS Day, December 1, 1992, he addressed the growing need for AIDS awareness 
and increased research funding saying "We want to be able to look back 
and say to all concerned that we did what we had to do, when we had to 
do it, and with all the resources required." Two months before his death, 
he founded the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health to help address issues 
of inadequate health care delivery and was named Sports Illustrated magazine's 
Sportsman of the Year. He also spent much of the last years of his life 
writing his memoir Days of Grace, finishing the manuscript less than a 
week before his death. On February 6, 1993, Ashe died from AIDS-related 
pneumonia at New York Hospital. His funeral was held at the Arthur Ashe 
Athletic Center in Richmond, Virginia, on February 10.[28] Then-governor 
Douglas Wilder, who was a friend of Ashe, allowed his body to lie in state 
at the Governor's Mansion in Richmond. More than 5,000 people lined up 
to walk past the casket. Andrew Young, who had performed the service for 
Ashe's wedding in 1977, officiated at his funeral. Over 6,000 mourners 
attended.[30] Ashe requested that he be buried alongside his mother, Mattie, 
who died in 1950, in Woodland Cemetery in Richmond, Virginia.[31] On February 
12, 1993, a memorial service for Ashe was held at the Cathedral of Saint 
John the Divine in Manhattan.[32] 1The Australian Open was held twice in 
1977, in January and December. A = did not participate in the tournament 
SR = the ratio of the number of Grand Slam singles tournaments won to the 
