Artificial turf is a surface of synthetic fibers made to look like natural 
grass. It is most often used in arenas for sports that were originally 
or are normally played on grass. However, it is now being used on residential 
lawns and commercial applications as well. The main reason is maintenance—artificial 
turf stands up to heavy use, such as in sports, and requires no irrigation 
or trimming. Domed, covered, and partially covered stadiums may require 
artificial turf because of the difficulty of getting grass enough sunlight 
to stay healthy. But artificial turf does have its downside: limited life, 
periodic cleaning requirements, petroleum use, toxic chemicals from infill, 
and heightened health and safety concerns. Artificial turf first gained 
substantial attention in the 1960s, when it was used in the newly constructed 
Astrodome. The specific product used was developed by Monsanto and called 
AstroTurf; this term since then became a generic trademark for any artificial 
turf throughout the late 20th century. AstroTurf remains a registered trademark, 
but is no longer owned by Monsanto. The first generation turf systems (i.e., 
short-pile fibers without infill) of the 1960s have been largely replaced 
by the second generation and third generation turf systems. Second generation 
synthetic turf systems feature longer fibers and sand infills, and third 
generation systems, which are most widely used today, offer infills that 
are mixtures of sand and granules of recycled rubber. David Chany – who 
moved to Raleigh, North Carolina, in 1960 and later served as Dean of the 
North Carolina State University College of Textiles – headed the team of 
Research Triangle Park researchers who created the first notable artificial 
turf. That accomplishment led Sports Illustrated to declare Chaney as the 
man "responsible for indoor major league baseball and millions of welcome 
mats." Artificial turf was first installed in 1964 on a prep school recreation 
area in Rhode Island.[1] The material came to public prominence in 1966, 
when AstroTurf was installed in the Astrodome in Houston, Texas.[1] The 
state-of-the-art indoor stadium had attempted to use natural grass during 
its initial season in 1965, but this failed miserably and the field conditions 
were grossly inadequate during the second half of the season, with the 
dead grass painted green. Due to a limited supply of the new artificial 
grass, only the infield was installed before the Houston Astros' home opener 
in April 1966, the outfield was installed in early summer during an extended 
Astros road trip and first used after the All-Star Break in July. The use 
of AstroTurf and similar surfaces became widespread in the U.S. and Canada 
in the early 1970s, installed in both indoor and outdoor stadiums used 
for baseball and football. More than 11,000 artificial turf playing fields 
have been installed nationally.[2] More than 1,200 were installed in the 
U.S. in 2013 alone, according to the industry group the Synthetic Turf 
Council.[2] Maintaining a grass playing surface indoors, while technically 
possible, is prohibitively expensive. Teams who chose to play on artificial 
surfaces outdoors did so because of the reduced maintenance cost, especially 
in colder climates with urban multi-purpose "cookie cutter" stadiums such 
as Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium, Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Stadium and 
Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium. Artificial turf was first used in Major 
League Baseball in the Houston Astrodome in 1966, replacing the grass field 
used when the stadium opened a year earlier. Even though the grass was 
specifically bred for indoor use, the dome's semi-transparent Lucite ceiling 
panels, which had been painted white to cut down on glare which bothered 
the players, did not pass enough sunlight to support the grass. For most 
of the 1965 season, the Astros played on green-painted dirt and dead grass. 
The solution was to install a new type of artificial grass on the field, 
ChemGrass, which became known as AstroTurf. Because the supply of AstroTurf 
was still low, only a limited amount was available for the first home game. 
There was not enough for the entire outfield, but there was enough to cover 
the traditional grass portion of the infield. The outfield remained painted 
dirt until after the All-Star Break. The team was sent on an extended road 
trip before the break, and on 19 July 1966, the installation of the outfield 
portion of AstroTurf was completed. The Chicago White Sox became the first 
team to install artificial turf in an outdoor stadium, as they used it 
in the infield and adjacent foul territory at Comiskey Park from 1969 through 
1975.[3] Artificial turf was later installed in other new multi-purpose 
stadiums such as Pittsburgh's Three Rivers Stadium, Philadelphia's Veterans 
Stadium, and Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium. Early AstroTurf baseball 
fields used the traditional all-dirt path, but in the early 1970s, teams 
began using the "base cutout" layout on the diamond, with the only dirt 
being on the pitcher's mound, batter's circle, and in a "sliding box" around 
each base. With this layout, a painted arc would indicate where the edge 
of the outfield grass would normally be, to assist fielders in positioning 
themselves properly. The biggest difference in play on artificial turf 
was that the ball bounced higher than on real grass, and also travelled 
faster, causing infielders to play farther back than they would normally, 
so that they would have sufficient time to react. The ball also had a truer 
bounce than on grass, so that on long throws fielders could deliberately 
bounce the ball in front of the player they were throwing to, with the 
certainty that it would travel in a straight line and not be deflected 
to the right or left. However, the biggest impact on the game of "turf", 
as it came to be called, was on the bodies of the players. The artificial 
surface, which was generally placed over a concrete base, had much less 
give to it than a traditional dirt and grass field did, which caused more 
wear-and-tear on knees, ankles, feet and the lower back, possibly even 
shortening the careers of those players who played a significant portion 
of their games on artificial surfaces. Players also complained that the 
turf was much hotter than grass, sometimes causing the metal spikes to 
burn their feet, or plastic ones to melt. These factors eventually provoked 
a number of stadiums, such as Kauffman Stadium in Kansas City, Missouri, 
to switch from artificial turf back to natural grass. In 2000, St. Petersburg's 
Tropicana Field became the first MLB field to use a softer artificial surface, 
FieldTurf. All other remaining artificial turf stadiums were either converted 
to FieldTurf or were replaced entirely by new natural grass stadiums. In 
just 13 years, between 1992 and 2005, the National League went from having 
half of its teams using artificial turf to all of them playing on natural 
grass. With the replacement of Minneapolis's Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
by Target Field in 2010, only two MLB stadiums, both in the American League 
East, are still using artificial turf: Tropicana Field and Toronto's Rogers 
Centre, which converted to a next generation AstroTurf in 2010 and is scheduled 
to convert to natural grass by 2018. The first professional American football 
team to play on artificial turf was the then-Houston Oilers (now the Tennessee 
Titans), at the time part of the American Football League, who moved into 
the Astrodome in 1968 which had installed AstroTurf two years prior. In 
1969, Franklin Field, the stadium of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, switched from grass to artificial turf. Also home of the 
Philadelphia Eagles, it was the first National Football League stadium 
to use artificial turf. In 2002, CenturyLink Field, originally planned 
to have a natural grass field, was instead surfaced with FieldTurf upon 
positive reaction from the Seattle Seahawks when they played on the surface 
at their temporary home, Husky Stadium during the 2000 and 2001 seasons. 
In 2006, Gillette Stadium, the football stadium of the New England Patriots 
and the New England Revolution, switched from grass to FieldTurf due to 
the conflict of poor weather and hosting many sporting and musical events 
at the stadium. It is one of 13 National Football League stadiums that 
have artificial turf instead of grass fields; the Giants and Jets (who 
share a stadium) and Bengals actually switched from AstroTurf to natural 
grass before reverting to a next-generation artificial surface.[4] Eight 
stadiums in the Canadian Football League currently use artificial turf; 
the only stadium with a natural turf surface is BMO Field, home of the 
Toronto Argonauts. The XFL, in its short life, required all of its teams 
to play in stadiums with natural grass surfaces. The move, made in part 
to reduce injuries, was also a ploy to give the league a more authentic, 
"smash-mouth" appeal. The league also scheduled all of its games, however, 
in the winter, when grass does not typically grow as well in the northern 
United States; the New York/New Jersey Hitmen and Chicago Enforcers' home 
fields were visibly damaged with heavy bare spots by the end of the league's 
lone 2001 season. NFL players overwhelmingly prefer natural grass over 
synthetic surfaces, according to a league survey conducted in 2010. When 
asked, "Which surface do you think is more likely to shorten your career?", 
90% responded artificial turf.[5] The introduction of synthetic surfaces 
has significantly changed the sport of field hockey. Since being introduced 
in the 1970s, competitions in western countries are now mostly played on 
artificial surfaces. This has increased the speed of the game considerably, 
and changed the shape of hockey sticks to allow for different techniques, 
such as reverse stick trapping and hitting. Field hockey artificial turf 
differs from artificial turf for other sports, in that it does not try 
to reproduce a grass 'feel', being made of shorter fibers. This shorter 
fiber structure allows the improvement in speed brought by earlier artificial 
turfs to be retained. This development in the game is however problematic 
for many local communities who often cannot afford to build two artificial 
fields: one for field hockey and one for other sports. The International 
Hockey Federation and manufacturers are driving research in order to produce 
new fields that will be suitable for a variety of sports. The use of artificial 
turf in conjunction with changes in the game's rules (e.g. the removal 
of offside, introduction of rolling substitutes and the self-pass, as well 
changes to the interpretation of obstruction) have contributed significantly 
to change the nature of the game, greatly increasing the speed and intensity 
of play, as well as placing far greater demands on the conditioning of 
the players. Some football clubs in Europe installed synthetic surfaces 
in the 1980s, which were called "plastic pitches" (often derisively) in 
countries such as England. There, several professional club venues had 
adopted them; QPR's Loftus Road, Luton Town's Kenilworth Road, Oldham Athletic's 
Boundary Park and Preston's Deepdale. QPR had been the first team to install 
an artificial pitch at their stadium in 1981, but were the first to remove 
it when they did so in 1988. The last Football League team to have an artificial 
pitch in England was Preston North End, who removed their pitch in 1994 
after eight years in use. Turf gained a bad reputation on both sides of 
the Atlantic with fans and especially with players. The first AstroTurfs 
were a far harder surface than grass, and soon became known as an unforgiving 
playing surface which was prone to cause more injuries, and in particular, 
more serious joint injuries, than would comparatively be suffered on a 
grass surface. This turf was also regarded as aesthetically unappealing 
to many fans. In 1981, London football club Queens Park Rangers dug up 
its grass pitch and installed an artificial one. Others followed, and by 
the mid-1980s there were four artificial surfaces in operation in the English 
league. They soon became a national joke: the ball pinged round like it 
was made of rubber, the players kept losing their footing, and anyone who 
fell over risked carpet burns. Unsurprisingly, fans complained that the 
football was awful to watch and, one by one, the clubs returned to natural 
grass.[6] In the 1990s many North American soccer clubs also removed their 
artificial surfaces and re-installed grass, while others moved to new stadiums 
with state-of-the-art grass surfaces that were designed to withstand cold 
temperatures where the climate demanded it. The use of artificial turf 
was later banned by FIFA, UEFA and by many domestic football associations, 
though, in recent years, both governing bodies have expressed resurrected 
interest in the use of artificial surfaces in competition, provided that 
they are FIFA Recommended. UEFA has now been heavily involved in programs 
to test artificial turf, with tests made in several grounds meeting with 
FIFA approval. A team of UEFA, FIFA and German company Polytan conducted 
tests in the Stadion Salzburg Wals-Siezenheim in Salzburg, Austria which 
had matches played on it in UEFA Euro 2008. It is the second FIFA 2 Star 
approved artificial turf in a European domestic top flight, after Dutch 
club Heracles Almelo received the FIFA certificate in August 2005.[7] The 
tests were approved.[8] FIFA originally launched its FIFA Quality Concept 
in February 2001. UEFA announced that starting from the 2005–06 season, 
approved artificial surfaces were to be permitted in their competitions. 
Regardless of the views of the governing bodies, criticism of artificial 
surfaces in soccer continues. Current and former players have recently 
criticised the surface, expressing concerns that, among other things, it 
may exacerbate injuries. A full international fixture for the 2008 European 
Championships was played on 17 October 2007 between England and Russia 
on an artificial surface, which was installed to counteract adverse weather 
conditions, at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow.[9][10] It was one of the 
first full international games to be played on such a surface approved 
by both FIFA and UEFA. However UEFA ordered that the 2008 European Champions 
League final hosted in the same stadium in May 2008 must take place on 
grass, so a temporary natural grass field was installed just for the final. 
UEFA stressed that artificial turf should only be considered an option 
where climatic conditions necessitate.[11] One Desso "hybrid grass" product 
incorporates both natural grass and artificial elements.[12] In June 2009, 
following a match played at Estadio Ricardo Saprissa in Costa Rica, American 
national team manager Bob Bradley called on FIFA to "have some courage" 
and ban artificial surfaces.[citation needed] FIFA designated a star system 
for artificial turf fields that have undergone a series of tests that examine 
quality and performance based on a two star system.[13] Recommended two-star 
fields may be used for FIFA Final Round Competitions as well as for UEFA 
Europa League and Champions League matches.[14] There are currently 130 
FIFA Recommended 2-Star installations in the world.[15] In 2009, FIFA launched 
the Preferred Producer Initiative to improve the quality of artificial 
football turf at each stage of the life cycle (manufacturing, installation 
and maintenance).[16] Currently, there are five manufacturers that were 
selected by FIFA: Act Global, Limonta, Desso, GreenFields and Edel Grass. 
These firms have made quality guarantees directly to FIFA and have agreed 
to increased research and development. In 2010, Estadio Omnilife with an 
artificial turf opened in Guadalajara to be the new home of Chivas, one 
of the most popular teams in Mexico. The owner of Chivas, Jorge Vergara 
defended the reasoning behind using artificial turf because the stadium 
was designed to be 'environment friendly and as such, having grass would 
result on using too much water.[17] However players harshly criticized 
the field saying it caused many injuries as a result of the harder surface. 
When Johan Cruyff became the adviser of the team, he recommended the switch 
to natural grass, which the team did in 2012.[18] In November 2011, it 
was reported that a number of English football clubs were interested in 
using artificial pitches again on economic grounds.[19] As of October 2016, 
artificial 3G pitches are not permitted in the Premier League or Football 
League but are permitted in the National League and lower divisions. The 
two most prominent English football clubs to currently use artificial 3G 
pitches are Sutton United, whose FIFA 2-Star quality pitch was installed 
at Gander Green Lane in August 2015, and Maidstone United, whose 2-Star 
pitch was built along with the new Gallagher Stadium in July 2012.[20] 
Matches between the two clubs have been named by fans El Plastico (a reference 
to El Clásico).[21] Artificial pitches are also permitted in all rounds 
of The FA Cup competition. In February 2015 Arsenal F.C. ordered 1,400 
m2 of artificial grass from the Swiss company called Tisca Tiara for their 
training pitch at the Arsenal Training Centre.[22] The 2015 Women's World 
Cup took place entirely on artificial surfaces, as the event was played 
in Canada, where almost all of the country's stadiums use artificial turf 
due to climate issues. This plan garnered criticism from players and fans, 
some believing the artificial surfaces make players more susceptible to 
injuries. Over fifty of the female athletes protested against the use of 
artificial turf on the basis of gender discrimination.[23][24] However 
Australia women's national soccer team winger Caitlin Foord said that after 
playing 90 minutes there was no difference to her post-match recovery – 
a view shared by the rest of the squad. The squad spent much time preparing 
on the surface and had no problems with its use in Winnipeg. "We've been 
training on [artificial] turf pretty much all year so I think we're kind 
of used to it in that way ... I think grass or turf you can still pull 
up sore after a game so it's definitely about getting the recovery in and 
getting it right", Foord said.[25] The 2012 Women's World Player of the 
Year, Abby Wambach noted "The men would strike, playing on artificial turf."[26] 
The controversial issue of gender equality and an equal playing field for 
all has sparked debate in many countries around the world.[citation needed] 
A lawsuit was filed on 1 October 2014 in an Ontario tribunal court by a 
group of women's international soccer players against FIFA and the Canadian 
Soccer Association and specifically points out that in 1994 FIFA spent 
$2 million to plant natural grass over artificial turf in New Jersey and 
Detroit.[27] Various celebrities showed their support for the women soccer 
players in defence of their lawsuit, including actor Tom Hanks, NBA player 
Kobe Bryant and U.S. men's soccer team keeper Tim Howard. Even with the 
possibility of boycotts, FIFA's head of women's competitions, Tatjana Haenni, 
made it clear that "we play on artificial turf and there's no Plan B."[28][29] 
Rugby also uses artificial surfaces at a professional level. Infill fields 
are used by English Aviva Premiership teams Saracens F.C., Newcastle Falcons 
and Worcester Warriors, as well as Pro12 teams Cardiff Blues and Glasgow 
Warriors. Some fields, including Twickenham Stadium, have incorporated 
a hybrid field, with grass and synthetic fibers used on the surface. This 
allows for the field to be much more hard wearing, making it less susceptible 
to weather conditions and frequent use. Carpet has been used as a surface 
for indoor tennis courts for decades, though these originally was more 
similar to home carpets than a synthetic grass. After the introduction 
of artificial turf, it came to be used for tennis courts, both indoor and 
outdoor, though only a small minority of courts use the surface.[30][31] 
Both infill and non-infill versions are used, and are typically considered 
medium-fast to fast surfaces under the International Tennis Federation's 
classification scheme.[30] A distinct form found in tennis is an "artificial 
clay" surface,[30] which seeks to simulate a clay court by using a very 
short pile carpet with an infill of the same loose aggregate used for clay 
courts that rises above the carpet fibers.[30] Synthetic turf can also 
be used in the golf industry, such as on golf ranges, putting greens and 
even in some circumstances tee boxes. Because of the vast areas of golf 
courses and the damage from clubs during shots, it is not feasible to surface 
fairways with artificial turf. Since the early 1990s, the use of synthetic 
grass in the more arid western states of the United States has moved beyond 
athletic fields to residential and commercial landscaping.[32] Similar 
usage has increased in Australia, because of similar climatic conditions. 
Artificial turf has been used at airports.[33] Some artificial turf systems 
allow for the integration of fiber-optic fibers into the turf. This would 
allow for lighting or advertisements to be directly embedded in a playing 
surface, or runway lighting to be embedded in artificial landing surfaces 
for aircraft.[34] A number of health and safety concerns have been raised 
about artificial turf.[2] Friction between skin and older generations of 
artificial turf can cause abrasions and/or burns to a much greater extent 
than natural grass.[35] Artificial turf tends to retain heat from the sun 
and can be much hotter than natural grass with prolonged exposure to the 
sun.[36] There is some evidence that periodic disinfection of artificial 
turf is required as pathogens are not broken down by natural processes 
in the same manner as natural grass. Despite this, a 2006 study suggests 
certain microbial life is less active in artificial turf.[35] There is 
evidence showing higher rates of player injury on artificial turf. In a 
study performed by the National Football League Injury and Safety Panel, 
published in the October 2012 issue of the American Journal of Sports Medicine, 
Elliott B. Hershman et al. reviewed injury data from NFL games played between 
2000 and 2009. "...the injury rate of knee sprains as a whole was 22% higher 
on FieldTurf than on natural grass. While MCL sprains did not occur at 
a rate significantly higher than on grass, rates of ACL sprains were 67% 
higher on FieldTurf."[37] Metatarsophalangeal joint sprain, known as "turf 
toe" when the big toe is involved, is named from the injury being associated 
with playing sports on rigid surfaces such as artificial turf and is a 
fairly common injury among professional American football players.[38] 
Artificial turf is a harder surface than grass and does not have much "give" 
when forces are placed on it.[39] There is also significant concern regarding 
a plausible link between artificial turf and cancer.[40] Some artificial 
turf uses infill such as silicon sand and/or granulated rubber, referred 
to as "crumb rubber". Some granulated rubber is made from recycled car 
tires and may carry heavy metals which can leach into the water table. 
As early as 2007, a moratorium on the use of ground-up rubber tires in 
fields and playgrounds was recommended based on health concerns.[41] In 
women's soccer, concerns have been raised about cancer incidence in players, 
particularly goalkeepers, who are in more frequent direct contact with 
artificial turf. University of Washington goalkeeper coach Amy Griffin 
has collected data about athletes with cancer who have played on turf containing 
"crumb rubber".[2][42] As of 2015, her list of 200 athletes with cancer 
contained 150 soccer players, 95 of whom were goalkeepers.[43] Concerns 
have also been raised about baseball players. The following Major League 
Baseball players and/or managers had prolonged tenure with teams that played 
on artificial turf, and subsequently were diagnosed with brain cancer: 
Darren Daulton, Ken Brett, Johnny Oates, Tug McGraw, John Vukovich, Gary 
Carter, Dan Quisenberry, and Dick Howser.[44][45] As of 2013, the EPA called 
for further studies to monitor the impact of particulate matter from fields 
