Asahel "Asa" Brainard (1841 – December 29, 1888), nicknamed "Count", was 
the ace[1] pitcher of the original Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first 
fully professional baseball team, after having pitched for the Excelsior 
club of Brooklyn, New York. Born 1841 in Albany, New York, Brainard played 
outfield and second base for the mighty Excelsiors of Brooklyn in 1860. 
Led by the sensational teenage fast pitcher, Jim Creighton, the team toured 
New York state from Albany to Buffalo, a major event in the base ball boom. 
The Civil War curtailed that; after playing 21 matches in 1860, the Excelsiors 
played none in 1861 and only a few in 1862. Following Creighton's premature 
death, Brainard succeeded him as the regular pitcher and remained in that 
role for four seasons. The Excelsiors played a heavy schedule again in 
1866, the first full peacetime season, winning 13 of 20 games—a strong 
team but no longer a threat to the strongest. Young Candy Cummings, one 
inventor of the curveball, evidently won the pitcher's job by the end of 
the season. In 1867 the National club of Washington completed the first 
western tour, playing ten games from Ohio to Missouri during three weeks 
in July. Brainard probably joined the team in the fall, in time for a shorter 
tour from Troy, New York to Philadelphia, where the strongest teams were 
based.[2] At 27 years old, he moved to Cincinnati for the 1868 season where 
he shared second base and pitcher with manager Harry Wright. Open professionalism 
was one year away but the long move suggests that Brainard was somehow 
compensated by club members if not by the club.[3] Cincinnati fielded a 
strong team that year, with five of the famous team already in place. When 
the NABBP permitted professionalism, the Red Stockings hired five incumbents 
including Brainard and five new men to complete its famous Nine, the first 
team on salary for a season. In their 1869 campaign, Asa Brainard pitched 
more than 70% of the innings, Harry Wright more than 25%, as the team toured 
the continent undefeated, vanquishing all of the plausible challengers. 
With Charlie Sweasy ensconced at second, the two pitchers now shared center 
field.[4] The Red Stockings toured again in 1870, with Brainard pitching 
almost 70% of the innings in 74 games. Occasionally beaten this year, the 
team may have been the strongest again, but the club dropped professional 
base ball in the fall. Harry Wright was hired to organize a new team in 
Boston, where he signed three teammates for 1871. The other five regulars 
including Asa Brainard and catcher Doug Allison signed with Nick Young's 
Washington Olympics, an established club that also joined the new, entirely 
professional National Association (NA). The five former Red Stockings led 
the Olympics to a respectable finish in the inaugural NA season. Brainard's 
published "career statistics" begin with this year. Later, Brainard played 
from 1871 to 1874 for the Washington Olympics, Middletown Mansfields, and 
Baltimore Canaries, all teams in the National Association. Brainard died 
of pneumonia in Denver, Colorado at age 47, only a few months after John 
Bass at age 40, the first major league ballplayer to die in that city. 
Owing to its dry climate and relative convenience, Denver had become a 
destination for people suffering from tuberculosis.[5] He is buried in 
