Ashbourne, historically called Killeglan or Kildeglan [2] (Irish: Cill 
Dhéagláin, meaning "Déaglán's church"), is a town in County Meath, Ireland. 
It is about 20 km north of Dublin city centre and is bypassed by the M2 
motorway. Recent archaeological excavations in the area around Ashbourne 
have revealed evidence of settlement back to neolithic times. In the townland 
of Rath, to the north of the town centre, a Bronze Age settlement was found 
during the construction of the M2 motorway. Excavations in the vicinity 
of the cemetery Killegland revealed the extent of the early Christian settlement, 
with souterrains, house sites and a large enclosure centred around the 
remains of the church that is visible in the cemetery. This would link 
the townland name of Killegland - meaning Declan's Church - to pre-Patrician 
settlement in the area. Archaeological excavations on the site of Lidl 
supermarket revealed the original medieval town, with several house remains, 
associated field systems, fish traps and mill races. Hugh de Lacy, Lord 
of Meath, set about building fortified houses, called mottes and baileys, 
in case the native Irish would regroup and attack. The remains of a motte 
and bailey can be found in Ratoath 5 km from Ashbourne. Once settled, Hugh 
de Lacy divided the land among his army. A large portion at Killeglan was 
given to a family called Wafre in 1220. This family lived there until 1420, 
the last member of this family having built a tower house (a fortified 
house often called a castle). The castle and lands became the property 
of the Segrave family, who remained owners until 1649. The first of the 
family recorded in Meath, Richard Sydgrave, was Chief Baron of the Irish 
Exchequer 1423-5. They became one of the most influential and wealthy non-aristocratic 
families in Ireland during the 16th century, with two gaining the high 
political office of Chancellor of the Exchequer, while another became High 
Sheriff of Meath; Richard Segrave ( died 1598) and his son Patrick Segrave 
were both judges of the Court of Exchequer (Ireland). However, their political 
power and possessions were removed during the religious wars of 1641 to 
1650. Indeed, during the Cromwellian period, Oliver Cromwell's son, Henry, 
stayed for a time in Killeglan Castle. With the final subjugation of the 
native Irish after 1690, and the imposition of religious persecution in 
the Penal Laws, a new land-owner named Thomas Carter gained possession 
of the Killeglan lands. He did not live there, and the castle fell into 
dis-repair and eventually into ruin. The Carter family held high office 
in Irish politics during the 18th century but their fortunes waned in the 
early 19th century. When the Carter estates were sold in the 1840s, the 
Killegland lands were bought by Frederick Bourne. Frederick Bourne was 
a rich entrepreneur who made his fortune from roads and transport. Before 
1820 in Ireland roads were almost non-existent. Government regulations 
allowed for considerable spending on roads, and the subsequent improvements 
ensured greater post-coach services. Bourne owned a coach company and financed 
road-building, collecting revenue from tolls. He financed a ten-mile (old 
Irish miles) section of road from Dublin to Killegland. He decided to build 
a small town with an inn, a hotel and other small businesses to make money 
from travellers. He built this village near his ten-mile tollbooth and 
named the place after his favourite tree, and himself, i.e. Ash and Bourne. 
This began in 1820. Bourne's idea was a great success. However, by 1850 
rail was taking business from the roadways, and the Bourne family fortune 
declined. In 1821 the population was 133, by 1841 it was 411. Unfortunately 
the Irish famine took its toll from 1845 to 1851, and the population declined. 
Frederick Bourne left his land at Killegland, and his village of Ashbourne, 
to his son Richard in 1844. Richard lived in the village, and his first 
home is now the Ashbourne House Hotel on Frederick Street. Later he built 
a modest house down Castle Street near where the last remains of the Wafre 
and Segrave tower house were. Richard married the daughter of a wealthy 
local family, Elizabeth Mangan, and had several children. The eldest, Thomas, 
became his father's heir and the last landlord of Ashbourne. He left Ireland 
and went to live in Northfleet, Kent, England, in 1899. The land was sold 
to the local tenants. Ashbourne was a small village with a population under 
400 until 1970. Then, in response to the growing population of nearby Dublin, 
a new scheme of houses was built in Ashbourne, based on the American open 
plan scheme rather than with fenced-off gardens. This was new in Ireland. 
The population of the town was 8,528 as of the 2006 census, a 34% increase 
on the previous census in 2002,The population in the year 2013 was recorded 
at 14,000 people approximately, making it Meath's second largest town after 
Navan and the largest town in the new Meath East Dáil constituency, which 
elects 3 TDs to the Dáil. This growth has largely been the result of the 
rapid construction of several new housing schemes - most notably several 
apartment blocks scattered throughout the town and a number of new housing 
estates. It's also led to Ashbourne becoming a cosmopolitan town, the 2006 
census showed[3] that over 12% of Ashbourne's population was born outside 
Ireland. The Lithuanian community is the second largest minority in Ashbourne 
after people from the United Kingdom. Almost one fifth of all non-Irish 
born in the town are from Lithuania. Lithuanian language services are held 
in the Church of the Immaculate Conception. The Polish community in Ashbourne 
is the second-largest in Meath after Navan. The growth in Ashbourne's population 
has spurred expansion of local enterprise and retail to cater for the growing 
populations needs. Many new retail units have been opened in recent years. 
Ashbourne is served by two public transport companies. Ashbourne Connect 
link the town with an express coach service direct to the City Centre and 
Southside of the city. The service is listed as 193 on the national journey 
planner. Bus Éireann who provide a regular service (Route 103) from Beresford 
Place, Dublin, every 20 minutes. Some of these services continue on to 
Ratoath, Kilmoon Cross and Duleek. At the beginning of March 2010, a regular 
service to and from Navan via Dunshaughlin and Ratoath to Dublin Airport 
that had previously not passed through Ashbourne was rerouted to serve 
the Marriott Hotel at the northern end of the town, and to then go through 
the town to the airport and Dublin City University. The service (route 
109A) runs every hour from early morning to late evening. The 104 service 
that ran from Ashbourne to Blanchardstown Shopping centre was discontinued 
at the same time, and replaced by some of the 105 service being extended 
from Ratoath to also serve Ashbourne. Route 177, with a low frequency, 
also served Ashbourne from Dublin, and went on to Slane, Ardee and Monaghan, 
with extensions to Clones but was withdrawn in November 2013. There is 
also a very limited service (Route 107) from Kingscourt to Dublin via Ashbourne. 
In November 2013 routes 189 & 189A were introduced linking Ashbourne to 
Drogheda and Clogherhead. There is an 18-hole golf course on the outskirts 
of the town and several sports clubs in the town, including a Gaelic Athletic 
Association club, Donaghmore-Ashbourne who have recently built a new clubhouse, 
with an indoor astro turf and two full-size Gaelic pitches. There is also 
a rugby union team who play their matches at the Ashbourne rugby club which 
has also undergone some development with the creation of a new rugby pitch 
and a small astro pitch which can also be used for 5 a side soccer. There 
is also a soccer team Ashbourne United, a cricket club, and a judo club, 
as well as other sporting organisations. There is a community centre which 
has a big hall and some squash courts. The community centre is used by 
many of the sporting organisations such as the St Andrews athletics club 
(who also have facilities in the Arkle Pavilion in Greenogue on the outskirts 
of Ashbourne), Ashbourne Archers, set up in June 2014 run archery training 
courses and weekly (Tuesday evenings) shoots in indoor hall in Donaghmore 
Ashbourne GAA. Fairyhouse Racecourse is located 10 km from Ashbourne. Fairyhouse 
attracts leading horses both on the flat and over jumps. Tayto Park has 
been opened since 2010 and offers over 50 acres of activities for children, 
all themed around Mr. Tayto and his crisps; the park is now open to one 
of Europe's largest wooden roller coasters, which opened in June 2015. 
An international standard sized baseball field opened in August 2015 and 
is home to Ashbourne Giants baseball club and Baseball Ireland . A series 
of shopping streets are have been built as part of a scheme to give Ashbourne 
the type of retail centre more in keeping with other towns, these shopping 
facilities are in Ashbourne High Street and the crescent . Up until recently 
commercial development in the town was stifled given the fact that the 
town was bisected by a busy national primary route, the N2, on to which 
all commercial development was focused. This restricted the town's potential 
to attract high street retailers due to the a lack of suitable sites and 
the associated traffic hazards of the N2. In 2002, a local area plan for 
the town was completed which provides for the future development of Ashbourne. 
The plan provided for a major expansion of Ashbourne westward into the 
townland of Killegland adjoining the new N2 Ashbourne bypass. It led to 
the introduction of residential units, a retail park, community facilities 
and industrial units. The town is being planned westward, further into 
County Meath, as the Fingal County boundary is only 1.5 kilometres (0.9 mi) 
from the east side of the town, which decreases to approximately 600 metres (2,000 ft) 
at the north end of the town, in the townland of Rath. Of the streets developed 
in Ashbourne's "new" town centre, Killegland Street, has become a new commercial 
street containing a number of varied retail units along with a new library 
and council offices. Car parking in the town has been expanded thanks to 
both a large underground car park beneath Killegland Street (extending 
from Tesco to the Civic Offices) and a multi-storey car park above the 
retail units on the south end of the street. Bridge Street is an existing 
street between the Broadmeadow River and the Ashbourne House Hotel which 
contained just three dwellings and no retail outlets eight years ago now 
has five shops, a large hotel, dozens of apartments and a supermarket there. 
This is typical of the high pace of development in Ashbourne in the past 
decade. A large supermarket has opened a large store on the former Dardis 
& Dunns seed merchant site on the northern end of Frederick/Main Street 
as part of the Ashbourne Town Centre development and is accessible from 
both Frederick Street, across from Ashbourne's original town centre and 
Killegland Square, linking the new retail area to the established centre 
in the town. Development is now being concentrated on the area west of 
Castle Street (known locally as Ned Nulty's Lane), a route which was completely 
realigned and widened in 2006 to allow motorists to avoid the new centre 
and reduce congestion, as well as providing a direct route from Garden 
City to Cluain Rí and areas like Brindley Park and Johnswood. However, 
in the medium to long-term, this route will lead to the new housing developments 
to the west of the town centre/Crestwood/Bourne View areas. It's expected 
that this end of town, which is now home to Donaghmore-Ashbourne GAA's 
new playing pitches, will eventually stretch to the N2 bypass to the west 
and join with Brindley Park to the north. 2007 also saw the opening of 
two new commercial ventures in the Rath, north of the town. 4Home Superstores 
opened in February 2007, (and closed in late 2009) at the new Ashbourne 
Retail Park and catalogue store Argos opened an Argos Extra outlet in the 
park in August 2007. County Meath's second Marriott hotel opened in April 
2007 as the 148-room Ashbourne Marriott.It is now known as the Pillo hotel. 
Ashbourne Retail Park Ltd. applied for planning permission[4] on 9 March 
2007 for an extension to the park, consisting of 4 additional double-height 
retail warehouse units, with a 1,000 seater cinema overhead as well as 
food and beverage outlets. Car parking was also to increase by another 
210 spaces, with the entire extension containing almost 7,500 sq. m of 
floor area. The town's first cinema opened in Ashbourne Retail Park on 
19 June 2009. The Sunday Tribune reported that the six-screen, 1,000-seat 
facility, which is Showtime Cinemas' first opening, has wall-to-wall screens, 
rocker seats, full digital projection and 3D capability. Ashbourne is linked 
to the M50 and Dublin City by 17 kilometres of motorway/high quality dual 
carriageway on the N2/M2 national primary route, which commences at junction 
5 of the M50 motorway (13.5 km from Ashbourne). The road is a six-lane 
dual-carriageway from the M50 until exit 2, Cherryhound in Co. Dublin, 
where it becomes a motorway from there to the Rath roundabout, 1.5 km north 
of Ashbourne. The M2 incorporates a bypass of Ashbourne. The N2 dual-carriageway, 
on its opening in 2006, was unique in Ireland as it was the first non-motorway 
road in the state to officially be granted national motorway speed limits 
of 120 km/h without any motorway restrictions. As a de facto motorway, 
many referred to this route as the M2 but this situation was regularised 
on 28 August 2009, when the section between exit 2 and the Rath roundabout 
north of Ashbourne will be redesignated as a motorway. The old N2, now 
re-designated the R135, had its speed limit reduced to 80 km/h in Co. Meath 
and 60 km/h in adjoining Fingal, much to the consternation of local motorists. 
The N2/M2, which the Government announced in March 2005 would not be tolled, 
allows thousands of commuters and hauliers to avoid the town, which has 
become a major bottleneck for traffic heading south from County Donegal, 
County Londonderry, County Tyrone, County Monaghan, County Louth and the 
rest of County Meath. The South Ashbourne Interchange, a large junction 
taking traffic on and off the N2 near the Nine Mile Stone, allows non-stop 
transferral of traffic to and from Ashbourne and its new by-pass. Phase 
II of the M50 upgrade, opened in 2010, links the N2 to the M50 at exit 
5 with a partial freeflow junction, meaning most traffic transferring from 
the M50 to the N2 and vice versa does not have to stop (traffic lights 
remain where traffic from the M50 southbound meets traffic from the N2 
southbound). Bus Éireann has not offered any express services using the 
new road, as expected when it first opened, and continue to use the old 
(R135) road for most services until Kilshane, where the R135 has an exit 
to the Dublin Airport Logistics Park and the N2. There is an informal, 
non-timetable Bus Éireann 103 service that occasionally runs via the M2 
from Dublin to Ashbourne and the 107 Dublin-Navan-Kingscourt service also 
uses the M2 for an evening coach service at 5.40pm, leaving the M2 at Ashbourne 
South (exit 3) before continuing via the R135 and N2 north of Ashbourne 
towards Kentstown and Navan. Dublin Bus use the N2 as far as Cherryhound 
(exit 2) for their 88N Nitelink service to Ashbourne According to Ríocht 
na Mídhe, the journal of the Meath Archaeological and Historical Society, 
on 28 April 1916 a group of Fingal Volunteers estimated to number 45 men, 
under the command of Thomas Ashe, a national school teacher in Lusk, and 
second in command Richard Mulcahy, attacked the Royal Irish Constabulary 
barracks at Ashbourne. The barracks was usually manned by a sergeant and 
four constables but given the level of fighting in the Capital, reinforcements 
had been called in from surrounding barracks and so on the day of the attack 
there were 10 RIC men stationed there. The rebels advanced on the barracks 
disarming two RIC men who were setting up a barricade outside the barracks. 
With these two men disarmed and captured, Ashe called on the remaining 
officers to surrender and immediately a siege situation turned into a shoot 
out. With little sign of capitulation on the RIC's part it is believed 
the use of a home-made grenade resulted in them offering to surrender by 
waving a white handkerchief. However, before they could emerge the hoot 
of a car horn was heard to the north west. County Inspector Alexander Grey 
must have received word of the siege as he assembled between 54 and 67 
men at Slane in 17 motorcars which were rushed to Ashbourne to put down 
the uprising. The rebels spread out and rushed along the Slane road to 
stop the convoy reaching Rath Cross and spreading out. The RIC reinforcements 
took heavy fire from the rebels from all sides. The firefight lasted many 
hours before volunteer reinforcements arrived from Boranstown. The RIC 
eventually surrendered to the volunteers. However given that the uprising 
in Dublin had been put down the Fingal volunteers eventually gave themselves 
up two days later. Thomas Ashe and his men were sentenced to death for 
their part in the attack, but this was later commuted to penal servitude 
for life. The uprising at Ashbourne was not seen favourably at the time 
with the Meath Chronicle calling it a "tragic blunder". Navan Urban District 
Council passed resolutions of sympathy. A number of local catholic priests 
(Curragha & Ratoath) also spoke out against the attack. However condemnation 
turned into sympathy with the execution of the a number of prominent 1916 
rebels who had fought in Dublin. President of Ireland, Sean T. O'Kelly 
unveiled a memorial at Rath Cross Roads, Ashbourne,on Easter Sunday, 26 
April 1959 which commemorates the Battle of Ashbourne. The story was covered 
on the front page of the Irish Times the next day. The memorial designed 
by Con O'Reilly and Peter Grant commemorates the Battle and John Crenigan 
and Thomas Rafferty who were killed. The monument has two images on one 
side the figure is in the form of Christ on the other side is a rebel. 
This monument is known locally as The Rath Cross. It bears the following 
inscription; ERECTED BY THE MEMBERS OF THE FINGAL BRIGADE OLD IRA TO COMMEMORATE 
THE VICTORIOUS BATTLE WHICH TOOK PLACE NEAR ASHBOURNE 28 APRIL 1916 WHERE 
VOLUNTEERS JOHN CRENIGAN & THOMAS RAFFERTY GAVE THEIR LIVES DESIGNED FROM 
THE POEM "LET ME CARRY YOUR CROSS FOR IRELAND LORD" COMPOSED BY THEIR LEADER 
COMMANDANT THOMAS ASHE On Easter Monday 2016 the State staged a number 
of national commemoration events. Rath Cross was one of only four such 
venues outside of Dublin City to be so honoured. On the 25th September 
2016 the monument was completed by the addition of two side figures. One 
representing the Volunteers (full uniform, the other a family) The Roman 
Catholic parish of Ashbourne extends south to Newtown Commons, east to 
Greenoge, north to Rath and west to Harlockstown. The Church of the Immaculate 
Conception is located in the centre of the town. In 1981, the parish was 
joined to Donaghmore, which has its own church 2 km (1 mi) to the south-east 
of Ashbourne. The parish currently has two priests. The Parish priest is 
Fr. Derek Darby. Fr. Michael Hinds came in September 2013 replacing Fr. 
Jim Lynch who moved to Kentstown Parish. Fr. Hinds was moved to Dunboyne 
Parish and in place of him Fr. Ciaran Clarke. The Parish has a very strong 
