18,205,898[1][2] Asian Americans are Americans of Asian descent. The term 
refers to a panethnic group that includes diverse populations who have 
ancestral origins in East Asia, Southeast Asia, or South Asia, as defined 
by the U.S. Census Bureau.[4] This includes people who indicate their race(s) 
on the census as "Asian" or reported entries such as "Asian Indian", "Chinese", 
"Filipino", "Korean", "Japanese", "Sri Lankan", "Thai", "Vietnamese", or 
other Asian-origin groups. Asian Americans with no other ancestry comprise 
4.8% of the U.S. population, while people who are Asian alone or combined 
with at least one other race make up 5.6%.[4] Although migrants from Asia 
have been in parts of the contemporary United States since the 17th century, 
large-scale immigration did not begin until the mid-18th century. Nativist 
immigration laws during the 1880s-1920s excluded various Asian groups, 
eventually prohibiting almost all Asian immigration to the continental 
United States. After immigration laws were reformed during the 1940s-60s, 
abolishing national origins quotas, Asian immigration increased rapidly. 
Analyses of the 2010 census have shown that Asian Americans are the fastest 
growing racial or ethnic minority in the United States.[5] Starting in 
the first few years of the 2000 decade, Asian-American earnings began exceeding 
all other racial groups for both men and women.[6] For example, in 2008 
Asian Americans had the highest median household income overall of any 
racial demographic.[7][8] In 2012, Asian Americans had the highest educational 
attainment level and median household income of any racial demographic 
in the country.[9][10] In 2015, Asian American men were the highest earning 
racial group as they earned 117% as much as white American men and Asian 
American women earned 106% as much as white American women.[6] Despite 
this, a 2014 report from the Census Bureau reported that 12% of Asian Americans 
were living below the poverty line, while only 10.1% of non-Hispanic white 
Americans live below the poverty line.[11] Once country of birth and other 
demographic factors are taken into account, Asian Americans are no more 
likely than non-Hispanic whites to live in poverty.[12] As with other racial 
and ethnicity based terms, formal and common usage have changed markedly 
through the short history of this term. Prior to the late 1960s, people 
of Asian ancestry were usually referred to as Oriental, Asiatic, and Mongoloid.[13][14] 
Additionally, the American definition of 'Asian' originally included West 
Asian ethnic groups, particularly Afghan Americans, Jewish Americans, Armenian 
Americans, Assyrian Americans, and Arab Americans, although these groups 
are now considered Middle Eastern American.[15][16] The term Asian American 
was coined by historian Yuji Ichioka, who is credited with popularizing 
the term, to frame a new "inter-ethnic-pan-Asian American self-defining 
political group" in the late 1960s.[13] Changing patterns of immigration, 
and an extensive period of exclusion of Asian immigrants, have resulted 
in demographic changes that have in turn affected the formal and common 
understandings of what defines Asian American. For example, since the removal 
of restrictive "national origins" quotas in 1965, the Asian American population 
has diversified greatly to include more of the peoples with ancestry from 
various parts of Asia.[17] Today, Asian American is the accepted term for 
most formal purposes, such as government and academic research, although 
it is often shortened to Asian in common usage.[citation needed] The most 
commonly used definition of Asian American is the US Census Bureau definition, 
which includes all people with origins in the Far East, Southeast Asia, 
and the Indian Subcontinent.[18] This is chiefly because the census definitions 
determine many government classifications, notably for equal opportunity 
programs and measurements. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, 
"Asian person" in the United States is sometimes thought of as a person 
of East Asian descent.[19][20] In vernacular usage, "Asian" is often used 
to refer to those of East Asian descent or anyone else of Asian descent 
with epicanthic eyefolds.[21][22] This differs from the U.S. Census definition[18][23] 
and the Asian American Studies departments in many universities consider 
all those of East, South or Southeast Asian descent to be "Asian".[24] 
In the US Census, people with origins or ancestry in the Far East, Southeast 
Asia, and the Indian subcontinent are classified as part of the Asian race;[25] 
while those with origins or ancestry in North Asia (Russians, Siberians), 
Central Asia (Kazakhs, Uzbeks, Turkmens, etc.), the Western Asia (diaspora 
Jews, Turks, Persians, West Asian Arabs, etc.), and the Caucasus (Georgians, 
Armenians, Azeris) are classified as "white" or "Middle Eastern".[26][27][28][29] 
Before 1980, Census forms listed particular Asian ancestries as separate 
groups, along with white and black or negro.[30] Asian Americans had also 
been classified as "other".[31] In 1977, the federal Office of Management 
and Budget issued a directive requiring government agencies to maintain 
statistics on racial groups, including on "Asian or Pacific Islander".[32] 
The 1980 census marked the first classification of Asians as a large group, 
combining several individual ancestry groups into "Asian or Pacific Islander." 
By the 1990 census, "Asian or Pacific Islander (API)" was included as an 
explicit category, although respondents had to select one particular ancestry 
as a subcategory.[33][34] The 2000 census onwards separated the category 
into two separate ones, "Asian American" and "Native Hawaiian and Other 
Pacific Islander."[35] The definition of Asian American has variations 
that derive from the use of the word American in different contexts. Immigration 
status, citizenship (by birthright and by naturalization), acculturation, 
and language ability are some variables that are used to define American 
for various purposes and may vary in formal and everyday usage.[36] For 
example, restricting American to include only U.S. citizens conflicts with 
discussions of Asian American businesses, which generally refer both to 
citizen and non-citizen owners.[37] In a PBS interview from 2004, a panel 
of Asian American writers discussed how some groups include people of Middle 
Eastern descent in the Asian American category.[38] Asian American author 
Stewart Ikeda has noted, "The definition of 'Asian American' also frequently 
depends on who's asking, who's defining, in what context, and why... the 
possible definitions of 'Asian-Pacific American' are many, complex, and 
shifting... some scholars in Asian American Studies conferences suggest 
that Russians, Iranians, and Israelis all might fit the field's subject 
of study."[39] Jeff Yang, of the Wall Street Journal, writes that the pan-ethnic 
definition of Asian American is a unique American construct, and as an 
identity is "in beta".[40] Scholars have grappled with the accuracy, correctness, 
and usefulness of the term Asian American. The term "Asian" in Asian American 
most often comes under fire for encompassing a huge number of people with 
ancestry from (or who have immigrated from) a wide range of culturally 
diverse countries and traditions. In contrast, leading social sciences 
and humanities scholars of race and Asian American identity point out that 
because of the racial constructions in the United States, including the 
social attitudes toward race and those of Asian ancestry, Asian Americans 
have a "shared racial experience."[41] Because of this shared experience, 
the term Asian American is still a useful panethnic category because of 
the similarity of some experiences among Asian Americans, including stereotypes 
specific to people in this category.[41][42][43] The demographics of Asian 
Americans describe a heterogeneous group of people in the United States 
who can trace their ancestry to one or more countries in Asia.[44][45] 
Because Asian Americans comprise 5% of the entire U.S. population, the 
diversity of the group is often disregarded in media and news discussions 
of "Asians" or of "Asian Americans." While there are some commonalities 
across ethnic sub-groups, there are significant differences among different 
Asian ethnicities that are related to each group's history.[46][47] The 
demographics of Asian Americans can further be subdivided into: Asian Americans 
include multiracial or mixed race persons with origins or ancestry in both 
the above groups and another race, or multiple of the above groups. A 2012 
Pew Research Center study found the follow breakdown of religious identity 
among Asian Americans:[48] Christianity among Asian Americans has seen 
a sharp decline since the 1990s. In 1990, 63% of the Asian Americans identified 
as Christians, while in 2001 only 43% still did.[49] This decline of Christianity 
has been accompanied by a rise in traditional Asian religions, with the 
people identifying with them doubling during the same decade.[50] As Asian 
Americans originate from many different countries, each population has 
its own unique immigration history.[9] Romani people began emigrating to 
North America in colonial times, with small groups recorded in Virginia 
and French Louisiana. Larger-scale Roma emigration to the United States 
would follow subsequently.[citation needed] Filipinos have been in the 
territories that would become the United States since the 16th century.[51] 
The earliest known arrival is that of "Luzonians" in Morro Bay, California 
on board the Manila-built galleon ship Nuestra Senora de Esperanza in 1587, 
when both the Philippines and California were colonies of the Spanish Empire.[52][53] 
In 1635, an "East Indian" is listed in Jamestown, Virginia;[54] preceding 
wider settlement of Indian immigrants on the East Coast in the 1790s and 
the West Coast in the 1800s.[55] In 1763, Filipinos established the small 
settlement of Saint Malo, Louisiana, after fleeing mistreatment aboard 
Spanish ships.[56] Since there were no Filipino women with them, these 
Manilamen, as they were known, married Cajun and Native American women.[57] 
The first Japanese person to come to the United States, and stay any significant 
period of time was Nakahama Manjirō who reached the East Coast in 1841, 
and Joseph Heco became the first Japanese American naturalized US citizen 
in 1858.[58][59] Chinese sailors first came to Hawaii in 1789,[60][61] 
a few years after Captain James Cook came upon the island. Many settled 
and married Hawaiian women. Most Chinese, Korean and Japanese immigrants 
in Hawaii arrived in the 19th century as laborers to work on sugar plantations.[62] 
There were thousands of Asians in Hawaii when it was annexed to the United 
States in 1898.[63] Later, Filipinos also came to work as laborers, attracted 
by the job opportunities, although they were limited.[64][65] Large-scale 
migration from Asia to the United States began when Chinese immigrants 
arrived on the West Coast in the mid-19th century.[66] Forming part of 
the California gold rush, these early Chinese immigrants participated intensively 
in the mining business and later in the construction of the transcontinental 
railroad.[67] By 1852, the number of Chinese immigrants in San Francisco 
had jumped to more than 20,000. A wave of Japanese immigration to the United 
States began after the Meiji Restoration in 1868.[68] In 1898, all Filipinos 
in the Philippine Islands became American nationals when the United States 
took over colonial rule of the islands from Spain following the latter's 
defeat in the Spanish–American War.[69] Under United States law during 
this period, particularly the Naturalization Act of 1790, only "free white 
persons" were eligible to naturalize as American citizens. Ineligibility 
for citizenship prevented Asian immigrants from accessing a variety of 
rights such as voting.[70] In a pair of cases, Ozawa v. United States (1922) 
and United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind (1923), the Supreme Court upheld 
the racial qualification for citizenship and ruled that Asians were not 
"white persons." Second-generation Asian Americans, however, could become 
US citizens due to the birthright citizenship clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment; this guarantee was confirmed as applying regardless of race 
or ancestry by the Supreme Court in United States v. Wong Kim Ark (1898).[71] 
From the 1880s to the 1920s, the United States passed laws inaugurating 
an era of exclusion of Asian immigrants. Although the absolute numbers 
of Asian immigrants were small compared to that of immigrants from other 
regions, much of it was concentrated in the West, and the increase caused 
some nativist sentiment known as the "yellow peril". Congress passed restrictive 
legislation prohibiting nearly all Chinese immigration in the 1880s.[72] 
Japanese immigration was sharply curtailed by a diplomatic agreement in 
1907. The Asiatic Barred Zone Act in 1917 further barred immigration from 
South Asia (then-British India), Southeast Asia, and the Middle East. The 
Immigration Act of 1924 provided that no "alien ineligible for citizenship" 
could be admitted as an immigrant to the United States, consolidating the 
prohibition of Asian immigration.[73] World War II-era legislation and 
judicial rulings gradually increased the ability of Asian Americans to 
immigrate and become naturalized citizens. Immigration rapidly increased 
following the enactment of the Immigration and Nationality Act Amendments 
of 1965 as well as the influx of refugees from conflicts occurring in Southeast 
Asia such as the Vietnam War. Asian American immigrants have a significant 
percentage of individuals who have already achieved professional status, 
a first among immigration groups.[74] In 2009, Asian Americans surpassed 
Hispanic Americans as the largest plurality of immigrants to the United 
States.[75] Additionally, from 2000 to 2010, the Asian American population 
was the fastest growing group according to the 2010 U.S. Census.[9][76][77] 
The Asian American movement refers to a pan-Asian movement in the United 
States in which Americans of Asian descent came together to fight against 
their shared oppression and to organize for recognition and advancement 
of their shared cause during the 1960s to the early 1980s. According to 
William Wei, the movement was "rooted in a past history of oppression and 
a present struggle for liberation."[78] This occurred around the same time 
as the Chicano movement, Civil Rights movement, American Indian Movement 
and the gay liberation movement. Asian Americans have been involved in 
the entertainment industry since the first half of the 19th century, when 
Chang and Eng Bunker (the original "Siamese Twins") became naturalized 
citizens.[79] Acting roles in television, film, and theater were relatively 
few, and many available roles were for narrow, stereotypical characters. 
More recently, young Asian American comedians and film-makers have found 
an outlet on YouTube allowing them to gain a strong and loyal fanbase among 
their fellow Asian Americans.[80] There have been several Asian American-centric 
television shows in American media, beginning with Mr. T and Tina in 1976, 
and as recent as Fresh Off the Boat in 2015.[81] Throughout the 1990s there 
was a growing amount of Asian American queer writings[82] and today the 
list of contributing writers is long. To name a few: Merle Woo (1941), 
Willyce Kim (1946), Russel Leong (1950), Kitty Tsui (1952), Dwight Okita 
(1958), Norman Wong (1963), Tim Liu (1965), Chay Yew (1965) and Justin 
Chin (1969). When Asian Americans were largely excluded from labor markets 
in the 19th century, they started their own businesses. They have started 
convenience and grocery stores, professional offices such as medical and 
law practices, laundries, restaurants, beauty-related ventures, hi-tech 
companies, and many other kinds of enterprises, becoming very successful 
and influential in American society. They have dramatically expanded their 
involvement across the American economy. Asian Americans have been disproportionately 
successful in the hi-tech sectors of California's Silicon Valley, as evidenced 
by the Goldsea 100 Compilation of America's Most Successful Asian Entrepreneurs.[83] 
Compared to their population base, Asian Americans today are well represented 
in the professional sector and tend to earn higher wages.[84] The Goldsea 
compilation of Notable Asian American Professionals show that many have 
come to occupy high positions at leading U.S. corporations, including a 
surprising number as Chief Marketing Officers.[85] Asian Americans have 
made major contributions to the American economy. In 2012, Asian Americans 
own 1.5 million businesses, employ around 3 million people who earn an 
annual total payroll of around $80 billion.[76] Fashion designer and mogul 
Vera Wang, who is famous for designing dresses for high-profile celebrities, 
started a clothing company, named after herself, which now offers a broad 
range of luxury fashion products. An Wang founded Wang Laboratories in 
June 1951. Amar Bose founded the Bose Corporation in 1964. Charles Wang 
founded Computer Associates, later became its CEO and chairman. David Khym 
founded hip-hop fashion giant Southpole (clothing) in 1991. Jen-Hsun Huang 
co-founded the NVIDIA corporation in 1993. Jerry Yang co-founded Yahoo! 
Inc. in 1994 and became its CEO later. Andrea Jung serves as Chairman and 
CEO of Avon Products. Vinod Khosla was a founding CEO of Sun Microsystems 
and is a general partner of the prominent venture capital firm Kleiner 
Perkins Caufield & Byers. Steve Chen and Jawed Karim were co-creators of 
YouTube, and were beneficiaries of Google's $1.65 billion acquisition of 
that company in 2006. In addition to contributing greatly to other fields, 
Asian Americans have made considerable contributions in science and technology 
in the United States, in such prominent innovative R&D regions as Silicon 
Valley and The Triangle. Asian Americans have a high level of political 
incorporation in terms of their actual voting population. Since 1907, Asian 
Americans have been active at the national level and have had multiple 
officeholders at local, state, and national levels. The highest ranked 
Asian American was Senator and President pro tempore Daniel Inouye, who 
died in office in 2012. There are several active Asian Americans in the 
United States Congress. With higher proportions and densities of Asian 
American populations, Hawaii has most consistently sent Asian Americans 
to the Senate, and Hawaii and California have most consistently sent Asian 
Americans to the House of Representatives. Connie Chung was one of the 
first Asian American national correspondents for a major TV news network, 
reporting for CBS in 1971. She later co-anchored the CBS Evening News from 
1993 to 1995, becoming the first Asian American national news anchor.[86] 
At ABC, Ken Kashiwahara began reporting nationally in 1974. In 1989, Emil 
Guillermo, a Filipino American born reporter from San Francisco, became 
the first Asian American male to co-host a national news show when he was 
senior host at National Public Radio's "All Things Considered." In 1990, 
Sheryl WuDunn, a foreign correspondent in the Beijing Bureau of The New 
York Times, became the first Asian American to win a Pulitzer Prize. Ann 
Curry joined NBC News as a reporter in 1990, later becoming prominently 
associated with The Today Show in 1997. Carol Lin is perhaps best known 
for being the first to break the news of 9-11 on CNN. Dr. Sanjay Gupta 
is currently CNN's chief health correspondent. Lisa Ling, a former co-host 
on The View, now provides special reports for CNN and The Oprah Winfrey 
Show, as well as hosting National Geographic Channel's Explorer. Fareed 
Zakaria, a naturalised Indian-born immigrant, is a prominent journalist, 
and author specialising in international affairs. He is the editor-at-large 
of Time magazine, and the host of Fareed Zakaria GPS on CNN. Juju Chang, 
James Hatori, John Yang, Veronica De La Cruz, Michelle Malkin, Betty Nguyen, 
and Julie Chen have become familiar faces on television news. John Yang 
won a Peabody Award. Alex Tizon, a Seattle Times staff writer, won a Pulitzer 
Prize in 1997. Since the War of 1812 Asian Americans have served and fought 
on behalf of the United States. Serving in both segregated and non-segregated 
units until the desegregation of the US Military in 1948, 31 have been 
awarded the nation's highest award for combat valor, the Medal of Honor. 
Twenty-one of these were conferred upon members of the mostly Japanese 
American 100th Infantry Battalion of the 442nd Regimental Combat Team of 
World War II, the most highly decorated unit of its size in the history 
of the United States Armed Forces.[87] Asian Americans have made many prominent 
and notable contributions to Science and Technology. Chien-Shiung Wu was 
known to many scientists as the "First Lady of Physics" and played a pivotal 
role in experimentally demonstrating the violation of the law of conservation 
of parity in the field of particle physics. Fazlur Rahman Khan, also known 
as named as "The Father of tubular designs for high-rises",[88] was highlighted 
by President Barack Obama in a 2009 speech in Cairo, Egypt,[89] and has 
been called "Einstein of Structural engineering".[90] Min Chueh Chang was 
the co-inventor of the combined oral contraceptive pill and contributed 
significantly to the development of in vitro fertilisation at the Worcester 
Foundation for Experimental Biology. David T. Wong was one of the scientists 
credited with the discovery of ground-breaking drug Fluoxetine as well 
as the discovery of atomoxetine, duloxetine and dapoxetine with colleagues.[91][92][93] 
Michio Kaku has popularized science and has appeared on multiple programs 
on television and radio. Tsung-Dao Lee and Chen Ning Yang received the 
1957 Nobel Prize in Physics for theoretical work demonstrating that the 
conservation of parity did not always hold and later became American citizens. 
Har Gobind Khorana shared the 1968 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 
for his work in genetics and protein synthesis. Samuel Chao Chung Ting 
received the 1976 Nobel Prize in physics for discovery of the subatomic 
particle J/ψ. The mathematician Shing-Tung Yau won the Fields Medal in 
1982 and Terence Tao won the Fields Medal in 2006. The geometer Shiing-Shen 
Chern received the Wolf Prize in Mathematics in 1983. Andrew Yao was awarded 
the Turing Award in 2000. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar shared the 1983 Nobel 
Prize in Physics and had the Chandra X-ray Observatory named after him. 
In 1984, Dr. David D. Ho first reported the "healthy carrier state" of 
HIV infection, which identified HIV-positive individuals who showed no 
physical signs of AIDS. Charles J. Pedersen shared the 1987 Nobel Prize 
in chemistry for his methods of synthesizing crown ethers. Steven Chu shared 
the 1997 Nobel Prize in Physics for his research in cooling and trapping 
atoms using laser light. Daniel Tsui shared the 1998 Nobel Prize in Physics 
in 1998 for helping discover the fractional Quantum Hall effect. In 2008, 
biochemist Roger Tsien won the Nobel in Chemistry for his work on engineering 
and improving the green fluorescent protein (GFP) that has become a standard 
tool of modern molecular biology and biochemistry. Yoichiro Nambu received 
the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on the consequences of spontaneously 
broken symmetries in field theories. In 2009, Charles K. Kao was awarded 
Nobel Prize in Physics "for groundbreaking achievements concerning the 
transmission of light in fibres for optical communication" and Venkatraman 
Ramakrishnan won the prize in Chemistry "for studies of the structure and 
function of the ribosome". Ching W. Tang was the inventor of the Organic 
light-emitting diode and Organic solar cell and was awarded the 2011 Wolf 
Prize in Chemistry for this achievement. Manjul Bhargava, an American Canadian 
of Indian origins won the Fields Medal in mathematics in 2014. Shuji Nakamura 
won the 2014 Nobel Prize in Physics for the invention of efficient blue 
light-emitting diodes. Yitang Zhang is a Chinese-born American mathematician 
working in the area of number theory. While working for the University 
of New Hampshire as a lecturer, Zhang submitted an article to the Annals 
of Mathematics in 2013 which established the first finite bound on gaps 
between prime numbers, which lead to a 2014 MacArthur award. LTC Ellison 
Onizuka became the first Asian American (and third person of East Asian 
descent) when he made his first space flight aboard STS-51-C in 1985. Onizuka 
later died aboard the Space Shuttle Challenger in 1986. Taylor Gun-Jin 
Wang became the first person of Chinese ethnicity and first Chinese American, 
in space in 1985; he has since been followed by Leroy Chiao in 1994, and 
Ed Lu in 1997. In 1986, Franklin Chang-Diaz became the first Asian Latin 
American in space. Eugene H. Trinh became the first Vietnamese American 
in space in 1992. In 2001, Mark L. Polansky, a Jewish Korean American, 
made his first of three flights into space. In 2003, Kalpana Chawla became 
the first Indian American in space, but died aboard the ill fated Space 
Shuttle Columbia. She has since been followed by CDR Sunita Williams in 
2006. Wataru Misaka broke the NBA color barrier when he played for the 
New York Knicks in the 1947–48 season.[94] The next Asian American NBA 
player was Raymond Townsend, who played for the Golden State Warriors and 
Indiana Pacers from 1978 to 1982.[94] Rex Walters, played from 1993 to 
2000 with the Nets, Philadelphia 76ers and Miami Heat;[94] he is presently 
the head coach for the University of San Francisco basketball team.[95] 
After playing basketball at Harvard University, point guard Jeremy Lin 
signed with the NBA's Golden State Warriors in 2010[94] and now plays for 
the Brooklyn Nets. Current Kansas Jayhawks assistant coach Kurtis Townsend 
is Raymond Townsend's brother.[96] Erik Spoelstra became the youngest coach 
ever in NBA history. He is currently the head coach of the Miami Heat.[97] 
In football, Wally Yonamine played professionally for the San Francisco 
49ers in 1947.[98] Norm Chow is currently the head coach for the University 
of Hawaii and former offensive coordinator for UCLA after a short stint 
with the Tennessee Titans of the NFL, after 23 years of coaching other 
college teams, including four years as offensive coordinator at USC. In 
1962, half Filipino Roman Gabriel was the first Asian American to start 
as an NFL quarterback. Dat Nguyen was an NFL middle linebacker who was 
an all-pro selection in 2003 for the Dallas Cowboys. In 1998, he was named 
an All-American and won the Bednarik Award as well as the Lombardi Award, 
while playing for Texas A&M University. Hines Ward who was born to a Korean 
mother and an African American father, is a former NFL wide receiver who 
was the MVP of Super Bowl XL and Ward also won the 12th season of the Dancing 
with the Stars television series. Former Patriot's linebacker Tedy Bruschi 
is of Filipino and Italian descent. While playing for the Patriots, Bruschi 
won three Super Bowl rings and was a two-time All-Pro selection. Bruschi 
is currently a NFL analyst at ESPN. There are several top ranked Asian 
American mixed martial artists. BJ Penn is a former UFC lightweight and 
welterweight champion. Cung Le is a former Strikeforce middleweight champion. 
Benson Henderson is the former WEC lightweight champion and a former UFC 
lightweight champion. Nam Phan is UFC featherweight fighter. Asian Americans 
first made an impact in Olympic sports in the late 1940s and in the 1950s. 
Sammy Lee became the first Asian American to earn an Olympic Gold Medal, 
winning in platform diving in both 1948 and 1952. Victoria Manalo Draves 
won both gold in platform and springboard diving in the 1948. Harold Sakata 
won a weightlifting silver medal in the 1948 Olympics, while Tommy Kono 
(weightlifting), Yoshinobu Oyakawa (100-meter backstroke), and Ford Konno 
(1500-meter freestyle) each won gold and set Olympic records in the 1952 
Olympics. Konno won another gold and silver swimming medal at the same 
Olympics and added a silver medal in 1956, while Kono set another Olympic 
weightlifting record in 1956. Also at the 1952 Olympics, Evelyn Kawamoto 
won two bronze medals in swimming. Amy Chow was a member of the gold medal 
women's gymnastics team at the 1996 Olympics; she also won an individual 
silver medal on the uneven bars. Gymnast Mohini Bhardwaj won a team silver 
medal in the 2004 Olympics. Bryan Clay who is of Half-Japanese descent[99] 
won the decathlon gold medal in the 2008 Olympics, the silver medal in 
the 2004 Olympics, and was the sport's 2005 world champion. Since Tiffany 
Chin won the women's US Figure Skating Championship in 1985, Asian Americans 
have been prominent in that sport. Kristi Yamaguchi won three national 
championships, two world titles, and the 1992 Olympic Gold medal. Michelle 
Kwan has won nine national championships and five world titles, as well 
as two Olympic medals (silver in 1998, bronze in 2002). Apolo Ohno, who 
is of half-Japanese descent,[100] is a short track speed skater and an 
eight-time Olympic medalist as well as the most decorated American Winter 
Olympic athlete of all time. He became the youngest U.S. national champion 
in 1997 and was the reigning champion from 2001 to 2009, winning the title 
a total of 12 times. In 1999, he became the youngest skater to win a World 
Cup event title, and became the first American to win a World Cup overall 
title in 2001, which he won again in 2003 and 2005. He won his first overall 
World Championship title at the 2008 championships. Nathan Adrian, who 
is a hapa of half-Chinese descent,[101] is a professional American swimmer 
and three-time Olympic gold medalist who currently holds the American record 
in the 50 and 100-yard freestyle (short course) events. He has won a total 
of fifteen medals in major international competitions, twelve gold, two 
silver, and one bronze spanning the Olympics, the World, and the Pan Pacific 
Championships. Michael Chang was a top-ranked tennis player for most of 
his career, and the youngest ever winner of a Grand Slam tennis tournament 
in men's singles. He won the French Open in 1989. Tiger Woods, who is partially 
of Asian descent, is the most successful golfer of his generation and one 
of the most famous athletes in the world. Eric Koston is one of the top 
street skateboarders and placed first in the 2003 X-Games street competition. 
Richard Park is a Korean American ice hockey player who currently plays 
for the Swiss team HC Ambri-Piotta. Brian Ching, whose father was Chinese, 
represented the United States Men's National Soccer Team, scoring 11 goals 
in 45 caps. He participated in the 2006 World Cup and won the 2007 Gold 
Cup.[102] Julie Chu, who is three-quarter Chinese and one-quarter Puerto 
Rican,[103] is an American Olympic ice hockey player who played for the 
United States women's ice hockey team. She was also US Olympic Team Flag 
Bearer for the 2014 Winter Olympic Closing Ceremonies.[104] In recognition 
of the unique culture, traditions, and history of Asian Americans and Pacific 
Islanders, the United States government has permanently designated the 
month of May to be Asian Pacific American Heritage Month.[105][106] Asian 
immigrants are also changing the American medical landscape through increasing 
number of Asian medical practitioners in the United States. Beginning in 
the 1960s and 1970s, the US government invited a number of foreign physicians 
particularly from India and the Philippines to address the acute shortage 
of physicians in rural and medically underserved urban areas. The trend 
in importing foreign medical practitioners, however, became a long-term, 
chronic solution as US medical schools failed to produce enough physicians 
to match the increasing American population. Amid decreasing interest in 
medicine among American college students due to high educational costs 
and high rates of job dissatisfaction, loss of morale, stress, and lawsuits, 
Asian American immigrants maintained a supply of healthcare practitioners 
for millions of Americans. It is well documented that Asian American international 
medical graduates including highly skilled guest workers using the J1 Visa 
program for medical workers, tend to serve in health professions shortage 
areas (HPSA) and specialties that are not filled by US medical graduates 
especially primary care and rural medicine.[107][108] Thus, Asian American 
immigrants play a key role in averting a medical crisis in the US. A lasting 
legacy of Asian American involvement in medicine is the forcing of US medical 
establishment to accept minority medical practitioners. One could speculate 
that the introduction of Asian physicians and dentists to the American 
society could have triggered an acceptance of other minority groups by 
breaking down stereotypes and encouraging trust.[109] Traditional Asian 
concepts and practices in health and medicine have attracted greater acceptance 
and are more widely adopted by American doctors. India's Ayurveda and traditional 
Chinese medicine (which also includes acupuncture) are two alternative 
therapy systems that have been studied and adopted to a great extent. For 
instance, in the early 1970s the US medical establishment did not believe 
in the usefulness of acupuncture. Since then studies have proven the efficacy 
of acupuncture for different applications, especially for treatment of 
chronic pain.[110] It is now covered by many health insurance plans. Herbalism 
and massage therapy (from Ayurveda) are sweeping the spas across America. 
Meditation and yoga (from India) have also been widely adopted by health 
spas, and spiritual retreats of many religious bases. They are also part 
of the spiritual practice of the many Americans who are not affiliated 
with a mainline religious group.[citation needed] Among America's major 
racial categories, Asian Americans have the highest educational qualifications. 
This varies, however, for individual ethnic groups. Dr. C.N. Le, Director 
of the Asian & Asian American Studies Certificate Program at the University 
of Massachusetts, writes that although 42% of all Asian American adults 
have at least a college degree, Vietnamese Americans have a degree attainment 
rate of only 16% while Laotians and Cambodians only have rates around 5%.[118] 
It has been noted, however, that 2008 US Census statistics put the bachelor's 
degree attainment rate of Vietnamese Americans at 26%, which is not very 
different from the rate of 27% for all Americans.[119] According to the 
US Census Bureau in 2010, while the high school graduation rate for Asian 
Americans is on par with those of other ethnic groups, 50% of Asian Americans 
have attained at least a bachelor's degree as compared with the national 
average of 28%,[120] and 34% for non-Hispanic whites.[121] Indian Americans 
have some of the highest education rates, with nearly 71% having attained 
at least a bachelor's degree in 2010.[117] According to Carolyn Chen, director 
of the Asian American Studies Program at Northwestern University, as of 
December 2012[update] Asian Americans made up twelve to eighteen percent 
of the student population at Ivy League schools, larger than their share 
of the population.[122] For example, the Harvard Class of 2016 is 21% Asian 
American.[123] In the years immediately preceding 2012, 61% of Asian American 
adult immigrants have a bachelor or higher level college education.[9] 
In 2012, there are 1.3 million alien Asian Americans; and for those awaiting 
visas, there are lengthy backlogs with over 450 thousand Filipinos, over 
325 thousand Indians, over 250 thousand Vietnamese, and over 225 thousand 
Chinese are awaiting visas.[124][125] As of 2009, Filipinos and Indians 
accounted for the highest number of alien immigrants for "Asian Americans" 
with an estimated illegal population of 270,000 and 200,000 respectively. 
Indian Americans are also the fastest growing alien immigrant group in 
the United States, an increase in illegal immigration of 125% since 2000.[126][127] 
This is followed by Koreans (200,000) and Chinese (120,000).[128] Due to 
the stereotype of Asian Americans being successful as a group and having 
the lowest crime rates in the United States, illegal immigration is mostly 
focused on those from Mexico and Latin America while leaving out Asians.[129] 
Asians are the second largest racial/ethnic alien immigrant group in the 
U.S. behind Hispanics and Latinos.[130][131] While the majority of Asian 
immigrants to the United States immigrate legally,[132] up to 15% of Asian 
immigrants immigrate without legal documents.[133] Deportation of Cambodians 
from the United States typically refers to the forced repatriation of Cambodians 
who are convicted criminals in the United States and lack United States 
citizenship. Asian Americans have been the target of violence based on 
their race and or ethnicity. This includes, but are not limited to, such 
events as the Rock Springs massacre,[134] Watsonville Riots,[135][136] 
attacks upon Japanese Americans following the attack on Pearl Harbor,[137] 
and Korean American businesses targeted during the 1992 Los Angeles riots.[138] 
According to historian Arif Dirlik: "Indian massacres of Chinese was a 
commonplace experience on the frontier, the most notable being the 'legendary 
slaughter by Paiute Indians of forty to sixty Chinese miners in 1866.'"[139] 
In the late 1980s, South Asians in New Jersey faced assault and other hate 
crimes by a group known as the Dotbusters. After the September 11 attacks, 
Sikh Americans were targeted, being the recipient of numerous hate crimes 
including murder.[140][141][142][143] Other Asian Americans have also been 
the victim of race based violence in Brooklyn,[144] Philadelphia,[145][146] 
San Francisco,[147] and Bloomington, Indiana.[148] Furthermore, it has 
been reported that young Asian Americans are more likely to be a target 
of violence than their peers.[144][149][150] Racism and discrimination 
still persists against Asian Americans, occurring not only to recent immigrants 
but also towards well-educated and highly trained professionals.[151] Recent 
waves of immigration of Asian Americans to largely African American neighborhoods 
have led to cases of severe racial tensions.[152] Acts of large-scale violence 
against Asian American students by their black classmates have been reported 
in multiple cities.[153][154][155] In October 2008, 30 black students chased 
and attacked 5 Asian students at South Philadelphia High School,[156] and 
a similar attack on Asian students occurred at the same school one year 
later, prompting a protest by Asian students in response.[157] Asian-owned 
businesses have been a frequent target of tensions between black and Asian 
Americans. During the 1992 Los Angeles riots, more than 2000 Korean-owned 
businesses were looted or burned by groups of African Americans.[158][159][160] 
From 1990 to 1991, a high-profile, racially-motivated boycott of an Asian-owned 
shop in Brooklyn was organized by a local black nationalist activist, eventually 
resulting in the owner being forced to sell his business.[161] Another 
racially-motivated boycott against an Asian-owned business occurred in 
Dallas in 2012, after an Asian American clerk fatally shot an African American 
who had robbed his store.[162][163] Until the late 20th century, the term 
"Asian American" was adopted mostly by activists, while the average person 
of Asian ancestries identified with their specific ethnicity.[164] The 
murder of Vincent Chin in 1982 was a pivotal civil rights case, and it 
marked the emergence of Asian Americans as a distinct group in United States.[164][165] 
Stereotypes of Asians have been largely collectively internalized by society 
and these stereotypes have mainly negative repercussions for Asian Americans 
and Asian immigrants in daily interactions, current events, and governmental 
legislation. In many instances, media portrayals of East Asians often reflect 
a dominant Americentric perception rather than realistic and authentic 
depictions of true cultures, customs and behaviors.[166] Asians have experienced 
discrimination and have been victims of hate crimes related to their ethnic 
stereotypes.[167] Study has indicated that most non-Asian Americans do 
not generally differentiate between Asian Americans of different ethnicities.[168] 
Stereotypes of Chinese Americans and Asian Americans are nearly identical.[169] 
A 2002 survey of Americans' attitudes toward Asian Americans and Chinese 
Americans indicated that 24% of the respondents disapprove of intermarriage 
with an Asian American, second only to African Americans; 23% would be 
uncomfortable supporting an Asian American presidential candidate, compared 
to 15% for an African American, 14% for a woman and 11% for a Jew; 17% 
would be upset if a substantial number of Asian Americans moved into their 
neighborhood; 25% had somewhat or very negative attitude toward Chinese 
Americans in general.[170] The study did find several positive perceptions 
of Chinese Americans: strong family values (91%); honesty as business people 
(77%); high value on education (67%).[169] There is a widespread perception 
that Asian Americans are not "American" but are instead "perpetual foreigners".[170][171][172] 
Asian Americans often report being asked the question, "Where are you really 
from?" by other Americans, regardless of how long they or their ancestors 
have lived in United States and been a part of its society.[173] Many Asian 
Americans are themselves not immigrants but rather born in the United States. 
Many East Asian Americans are asked if they are Chinese or Japanese, an 
assumption based on major groups of past immigrants.[171][174] Asian Americans 
are sometimes characterized as a model minority in the United States because 
many of their cultures encourage a strong work ethic, a respect for elders, 
a high degree of professional and academic success, a high valuation of 
family, education and religion.[175][176] Statistics such as high household 
income and low incarceration rate,[177] low rates of many diseases and 
higher than average life expectancy[178] are also discussed as positive 
aspects of Asian Americans. The implicit advice is that the other minorities 
should stop protesting and emulate the Asian American work ethic and devotion 
to higher education. Some critics say the depiction replaces biological 
racism with cultural racism, and should be dropped.[179] According to the 
Washington Post, "the idea that Asian Americans are distinct among minority 
groups and immune to the challenges faced by other people of color is a 
particularly sensitive issue for the community, which has recently fought 
to reclaim its place in social justice conversations with movements like 
#ModelMinorityMutiny."[180] The model minority concept can also affect 
Asians' public education.[181] By comparison with other minorities, Asians 
often achieve higher test scores and grades compared to other Americans.[182] 
Stereotyping Asian American as over-achievers can lead to harm if school 
officials or peers expect all to perform higher than average.[183] The 
very high educational attainments of Asian Americans has often been noted; 
in 1980, for example, 74% of Chinese Americans, 62% of Japanese Americans, 
and 55% of Korean Americans aged 20–21 were in college, compared to only 
a third of the whites. The disparity at postgraduate levels is even greater, 
and the differential is especially notable in fields making heavy use of 
mathematics. By 2000, a plurality of undergraduates at such elite public 
California schools as UC Berkeley and UCLA, which are obligated by law 
to not consider race as a factor in admission, were Asian American. The 
pattern is rooted in the pre-World War II era. Native-born Chinese and 
Japanese Americans reached educational parity with majority whites in the 
early decades of the 20th century.[184] The "model minority" stereotype 
fails to distinguish between different ethnic groups with different histories. 
When divided up by ethnicity, it can be seen that the economic and academic 
successes supposedly enjoyed by Asian Americans are concentrated into a 
few ethnic groups. Cambodians, Hmong, and Laotians (and to a lesser extent, 
Vietnamese), all of whose relatively low achievement rates are possibly 
due to their refugee status, and that they are non-voluntary immigrants;[185] 
additionally, one in five Hmong and Bangladeshi people live in poverty.[76] 
Furthermore, the model minority concept can be emotionally damaging to 
some Asian Americans, particularly since they are expected to live up to 
those peers who fit the stereotype.[186] Studies have shown that some Asian 
Americans suffer from higher rates of stress, depression, mental illnesses, 
and suicides in comparison to other races,[187] indicating that the pressures 
to achieve and live up to the model minority image may take a mental and 
psychological toll on some Asian Americans.[188] This concept appears to 
elevate Asian Americans by portraying them as an elite group of successful, 
highly educated, intelligent, and wealthy individuals, but it can also 
be considered an overly narrow and overly one-dimensional portrayal of 
Asian Americans, leaving out other human qualities such as vocal leadership, 
negative emotions, risk taking, ability to learn from mistakes, and desire 
for creative expression.[189] Furthermore, Asian Americans who do not fit 
into the model minority mold can face challenges when people's expectations 
based on the model minority myth do not match with reality. Traits outside 
of the model minority mold can be seen as negative character flaws for 
Asian Americans despite those very same traits being positive for the general 
American majority (e.g., risk taking, confidence, empowered). For this 
reason, Asian Americans encounter a "bamboo ceiling", the Asian American 
equivalent of the glass ceiling in the workplace, with only 1.5% of Fortune 
500 CEOs being Asians, a percentage smaller than their percentage of the 
total United States population.[190] The bamboo ceiling is defined as a 
combination of individual, cultural, and organisational factors that impede 
Asian Americans' career progress inside organizations. Since then, a variety 
of sectors (including nonprofits, universities, the government) have discussed 
the impact of the ceiling as it relates to Asians and the challenges they 
face. As described by Anne Fisher,the "bamboo ceiling" refers to the processes 
and barriers that serve to exclude Asians and American people of Asian 
descent from executive positions on the basis of subjective factors such 
as "lack of leadership potential" and "lack of communication skills" that 
cannot actually be explained by job performance or qualifications.[191] 
Articles regarding the subject have been published in Crains, Fortune magazine, 
and The Atlantic.[192][193][194] Asian Americans have been making progress 
in American society. A key indicator is the salary of Asian Americans compared 
to other racial groups. In 2015, the racial group with the highest earnings 
was Asian American men at $24/hour. Asian American men earned 117% as much 
as the reference group in the study (white American men at $21/hour) and 
have been the highest earning racial group since about 2000. Similarly, 
in 2015 Asian American women ($18/hour) was the highest earning female 
racial group and earned 106% as much as white American women ($17/hour). 
Asian American women have been the highest earning female group for more 
than 10 years in a row.[6] For 2005, income statistics from US Census data 
are shown in the corresponding histogram figures. Journals 1 The U.S. Census 
Bureau definition of Asians refers to a person having origins in any of 
the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, or the Indian subcontinent. 
[2][3] 2 The United States Government classified Kalmyks as Asian until 
1951, when Kalmyk Americans were reclassified as White Americans.[4] 3 
The U.S. Census Bureau considers Mongolians and Uzbeks as Central Asians,[5] 
but a specific Central Asian American group similar to Middle Eastern American 
does not yet exist.[6] 4 The U.S. Census Bureau reclassifies anyone identifying 
