The Asia Series is an annual international club baseball competition, contested 
by the champions of all four of the professional leagues in Asia that are 
associated with the World Baseball Softball Confederation (WBSC) — Australian 
Baseball League (ABL), Chinese Professional Baseball League (CPBL), Korea 
Baseball Organization League (KBO League), and Nippon Professional Baseball 
(NPB) — along with the CEB European Champion Cup holder and the host city,[1] 
to bring the number of teams up to six. The competition was co-sponsored 
by NPB Association and Konami from 2005 to 2007 and was therefore known 
as the Konami Cup. Furthermore, the participation was limited to the East 
Asian countries (Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and China). The tournament 
was stopped between 2009 and 2010 due to the withdrawal of Konami and the 
related financing issues. It was re-introduced in 2011 and has been hosted 
by Taiwan and South Korea, unlike the Konami Cup, which was held in Japan. 
The Asia Series began in 2005 as a tournament among the champions of NPB, 
KBO League and CPBL and an All-Star team from China Baseball League (CBL), 
which was called China Stars. Konami co-sponsored the competition until 
2007, why the 2008 season became the first Asia Series. Additionally, it 
was the first time, that the champion of CBL was appointed for the tournament, 
instead of an All-Star line-up. The withdrawal of Konami raised in the 
following years financing issues. The 2009 season was reduced to a single-game 
championship between the champions of NPB and KBO League and held at the 
Nagasaki Stadium. The Yomiuri Giants won against the Kia Tigers by 9–4.[2] 
A potential 2010 season was then cancelled due to a conflict with the 2010 
Asian Games[3] and replaced by another sets of Club Championship. The KBO 
League champion SK Wyverns first split the two-game championship with CPBL 
champion Brother Elephants at the Taichung Stadium, before being defeated 
in a single-game championship by the NPB champion Chiba Lotte Marines at 
the Tokyo Dome with 3–0.[4] The subject of re-introducing the event for 
2011 was discussed in a November 2010 meeting between the heads of the 
NPB, KBO, CPBL, and ABL. The CPBL offered to host the event in November 
2011. The ABL, whose season runs from November through February, added 
a bye week in its schedule to allow the champion of the season before to 
participate in the Asia Series. In 2013, Fortitudo Baseball Bologna of 
the Italian Baseball League competed as the first representative of Europe 
to participate in the tournament, qualifying as the 2013 CEB European Cup 
champion. Due to the CBL's hiatus that year, the tournament remained at 
six teams. The 2014 and 2015 seasons were cancelled due to scheduling issues.[5] 
Each of the teams participated in a round-robin series, playing each other 
team once. The two teams with the best win-loss percentage faced each other 
in the final, with the team finishing higher considered the "home team", 
meaning that they had the advantage of batting last. If teams were tied 
a series of tiebreakers were used to decide which teams qualified for the 
final and in what order, firstly using the head-to-head win-loss records 
amongst tied teams, and if necessary the ranking based on the lowest team 
run average.[6] All games have the designated hitter rule in effect, though 
