The Asian Games, also known as Asiad,[1] is a Pancontinental multi-sport 
event held every four years among athletes from all over Asia. The Games 
were regulated by the Asian Games Federation (AGF) from the first Games 
in New Delhi, India, until the 1978 Games. Since the 1982 Games they have 
been organized by the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA), after the breakup 
of the Asian Games Federation.[2] The Games are recognized by the International 
Olympic Committee (IOC) and are described as the second largest multi-sport 
event after the Olympic Games.[3][4] In its history, nine nations have 
hosted the Asian Games. Forty-six nations have participated in the Games, 
including Israel, which was excluded from the Games after their last participation 
in 1974. The last Games was held in Incheon, South Korea from 19 September 
to 4 October 2014, while the next games will be held in Jakarta and Palembang, 
Indonesia from 18 August to 2 September 2018. Before the Asian Games were 
held, a gathering known as the Far Eastern Championship Games existed which 
was first mooted in 1912 at a location set between the Empire of Japan, 
the Philippine Islands, and China. The Far Eastern Games were first held 
in Manila in 1913 with 6 participating nations. Ten more Far Eastern Games 
were held until 1934. Against the backdrop of the second Sino-Japanese 
War in 1934, in the face of Japan's insistence on including Manchu Empire 
as a competitor nation in the Games, China announced its withdrawal from 
participation. Consequently, the Far Eastern Games scheduled for 1938 were 
cancelled. The organization was ultimately discontinued. After World War 
II, a number of Asian countries became independent. Many of the newly independent 
Asian countries desired the formation of a new type of competition whereby 
Asian dominance was not expressed through violence, but instead strengthened 
through mutual understanding. During the 1948 Summer Olympics in London, 
a conversation between sportsmen from China and the Philippines raised 
the idea of restoring the Far Eastern Games. However, Guru Dutt Sondhi, 
the Indian International Olympic Committee representative, did not believe 
that restoration of the Far Eastern Games would sufficiently display the 
spirit of unity and level of achievement taking place in Asian sports. 
As a result, he proposed to sports leaders the idea of having a wholly 
new competition  – which came to be the Asian Games. This led to an agreement 
to form the Asian Athletic Federation. A preparatory committee was then 
set up to draft the charter for this new body. On 13 February 1949, the 
Asian Athletic Federation was formally inaugurated in New Delhi, alongside 
the name Asian Games Federation, with New Delhi announced as the first 
host city of the Asian Games which were scheduled to be held in 1950.[5][6] 
Starting in 1962, the Games were hit by several crises. First, the host 
country Indonesia, refused to permit the participation of Israel and Taiwan 
due to political and religious issues. As a result, the IOC removed its 
sponsorship of the Games and terminated Indonesia as one of the IOC members.[7] 
The Asian Football Confederation (AFC),[8] International Amateur Athletics 
Federation (IAAF) and International Weightlifting Federation (IWF), also 
removed their recognition of the Games.[9][10] In 1970, South Korea dropped 
its plan to host the Games allegedly due to national security crisis, however 
the main reason was due to financial crisis, forcing the previous host 
Thailand to administer the Games again in Bangkok using funds transferred 
from South Korea.[11] Prior to the Games, Japan was asked to host the Games, 
but declined due to Expo '70 in Osaka.[12] This edition also marked the 
first time the Games have a television broadcasting throughout the world.[13] 
In Tehran, in 1974, the Games formally recognized the participation of 
China, North Korea and Mongolia. Israel was allowed to participate despite 
the opposition from Arab world, while Taiwan was permitted to continue 
taking part (as "Chinese Taipei") even though its status was abolished 
in general meeting on 16 November 1973 by Games Federation.[14] The last 
is 1978, Pakistan dropped its plan to host the Games in 1975 due to financial 
crisis and political issues.[15] Thailand offered to help and the Games 
were once again held in Bangkok. However, once again, like in 1962, Taiwan 
and Israel were refused the participation by Games Federation, amid political 
issues and security fears.[16] Several governing bodies protested against 
the ban, like IAAF, threatened to bar the participating players from 1980 
Summer Olympics,[17] this caused several teams to withdraw prior to the 
Games.[18] Following this series of crises, the National Olympic Committee 
in Asia decided to revise the constitution of the Asian Games Federation. 
A new association, named the Olympic Council of Asia, was created in November 
1981 with the exclusion of Israel.[19] India was already scheduled to host 
the 1982 Games and the OCA decided not to drop the old AGF timetable. The 
OCA formally supervised the Games starting with the 1986 Asian Games in 
South Korea.[20] In the succeeding Games, Taiwan (Republic of China) was 
re-admitted, but was forced by the China to compete under the name Chinese 
Taipei.[21] In 1994, the Games included the former republics of the Soviet 
Union: Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan 
for the first time. It was also the first time that the Games had been 
held outside the capital city of the host country.[22] However, Iraq was 
suspended from the Games due to the Persian Gulf War in 1990, while North 
Korea boycotted the Games due to political issues. It was also marred by 
the death of Nepalese delegation Nareshkumar Adhikari during the Games' 
opening ceremony.[23] The 1998 Games marked the fourth time the Games had 
been held in Bangkok, Thailand. The fourth opening ceremony occurred on 
6 December, compared to 9 December for the previous 3. All four games were 
opened by H.M.King Bhumibol Adulyadej. The date of the closing ceremony 
remained as 20 December for all 4 games hosted by Thailand. All 45 members 
affiliated to the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) are eligible to take part 
in the Games. According to membership in the OCA, transcontinental Kazakhstan 
participates in the Asian Games but Egypt does not, participating in the 
All-Africa Games instead. Various countries participating in the European 
Games rather than the Asian Games are partially or fully in Asia: Turkey, 
Russia (major parts in Asia); Azerbaijan, Georgia (almost completely in 
Asia); Cyprus, Armenia, Israel (fully in Asia). In history, 46 National 
Olympic Committees (NOCs) have sent competitors to the Games. Israel has 
been excluded from the Games since 1976, the reason cited as being due 
to security reasons.[24] Israel requested to participate in the 1982 Games, 
but the request was rejected by the organizers due to the Munich massacre.[25] 
Israel is now a member of the European Olympic Committees (EOC). Taiwan, 
Palestine, Hong Kong, and Macau participate in the Asian Games according 
to membership in OCA. Due to its continuing ambiguous political status, 
Taiwan participates in the Games under the flag of Chinese Taipei since 
1990. Macau NOC is allowed to compete as one of the NOCs in Asian Games, 
despite not being recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) 
for participation in the Olympic Games. In 2007, the President of OCA, 
Sheikh Ahmed Al-Fahad Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah, rejected proposal to allow Australia 
to participate in the Games. He stated that while Australia would add good 
value to the Asian Games, it would be unfair to the Oceania National Olympic 
Committees (ONOC).[26] Being members of ONOC, Australia and New Zealand 
participates in Pacific Games since 2015. Only seven countries, namely 
India, Indonesia, Japan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Singapore and Thailand 
have competed in all editions of the games. Forty-four sports were presented 
in Asian Games history, including 2014 Games in Incheon. Of the 45 National 
Olympic Committees participating throughout the history of the Games, 43 
nations have won at least a single medal in the competition, leaving three 
nations: Bhutan, Maldives and Timor-Leste yet to win a single medal. 37 
nations have won at least one gold medal (only Japan and India have done 
so at every Asian Games), while Japan and China became the only two nations 
in history to emerge as overall champions. Samsung introduced the Most 
Valuable Player (MVP) award in Asian Games beginning in the 1998 Games 
in Bangkok, Thailand. Below is the list of winners: On 8 November 2012, 
the OCA decided at its 31st General Assembly in Macau to create a special 
multi-sport event called Asian Games Centennial Festival in celebration 
of the 100th anniversary of the Oriental Games (later became Far Eastern 
Championship Games).[48] OCA awarded the Philippines the hosting rights 
as it was the same host 100 years ago. The event was originally scheduled 
to be held in Boracay Island, Malay, Aklan on 27 to 29 November 2013 but 
due to the events surrounding Typhoon Haiyan, it was moved to January 2014.[49] 
