In baseball, an assist (denoted by A) is a defensive statistic, baseball 
being one of the few sports in which the defensive team controls the ball. 
An assist is credited to every defensive player who fields or touches the 
ball (after it has been hit by the batter) prior to the recording of a 
putout, even if the contact was unintentional. For example, if a ball strikes 
a player's leg and bounces off him to another fielder, who tags the baserunner, 
the first player is credited with an assist. A fielder can receive a maximum 
of one assist per out recorded. An assist is also credited if a putout 
would have occurred, had another fielder not committed an error. For example, 
a shortstop might field a ground ball cleanly, but the first baseman might 
drop his throw. In this case, an error would be charged to the first baseman, 
and the shortstop would be credited with an assist. If a pitcher records 
a strikeout where the third strike is caught by the catcher, the pitcher 
is not credited with an assist. However, if the batter becomes a baserunner 
on a dropped third strike and the pitcher is involved in recording a putout 
by fielding the ball and either tagging the runner out or throwing to first 
base for the out, the pitcher is credited with an assist just as any other 
fielder would be. Assists are an important statistic for outfielders, as 
a play often occurs when a baserunner on the opposing team attempts to 
advance on the basepaths when the ball is hit to the outfield (even on 
a caught fly ball that results in an out; see tag up). It is the outfielder's 
job to field the ball and make an accurate throw to another fielder who 
is covering the base before the runner reaches it. The fielder then attempts 
to tag the runner out. This is especially important if the runner was trying 
to reach home plate, as the assist and tag prevent the baserunner from 
scoring a run. Assists are much rarer for outfielders than infielders (with 
the exception of first basemen) because the play is harder to make, and 
also because outfielder assist situations occur less often than the traditional 
ground-ball assist for a shortstop, second baseman, or third baseman. However, 
as a result, outfield assists are worth far more than infield assists, 
and tell more about an outfielder's throwing arm than infielder assists 
do. In recent years, some sabermetricians have begun referring to assists 
by outfielders as baserunner kills. Some sabermetricians are also using 
baserunner holds as a statistic to measure outfield arms. [1] A baserunner 
hold occurs when the baserunner does not attempt to advance an extra base 
on an outfielder out of concern of being thrown out by a strong, accurate 
throw. This can be combined with baserunner kills for better accuracy, 
as runners often do not try for an extra base when an outfielder with an 
