The Associated Press (AP) is an American multinational nonprofit news agency 
headquartered in New York City that operates as a cooperative, unincorporated 
association. The AP is owned by its contributing newspapers and radio and 
television stations in the United States, all of which contribute stories 
to the AP and use material written by its staff journalists. Most of the 
AP staff are union members and are represented by the Newspaper Guild, 
which operates under the Communications Workers of America, which operates 
under the AFL–CIO. As of 2007, news collected by the AP was published and 
republished by more than 1,700 newspapers, in addition to more than 5,000 
television and radio broadcasters. The photograph library of the AP consists 
of over 10 million images. The AP operates 243 news bureaus in 120 countries. 
It also operates the AP Radio Network, which provides newscasts twice hourly 
for broadcast and satellite radio and television stations. Many newspapers 
and broadcasters outside the United States are AP subscribers, paying a 
fee to use AP material without being contributing members of the cooperative. 
As part of their cooperative agreement with the AP, most member news organizations 
grant automatic permission for the AP to distribute their local news reports. 
The AP employs the "inverted pyramid" formula for writing that enables 
the news outlets to edit a story to fit its available publication area 
without losing the story's essentials. Cutbacks at rival United Press International 
in 1993 left the AP as the United States' primary news service, although 
UPI still produces and distributes stories and photos daily. Other English-language 
news services, such as the British Broadcasting Corporation, Reuters and 
the English-language service of Agence France-Presse, are based outside 
the United States. Associated Press is a not-for-profit news cooperative 
formed in May 1846[3] by five daily newspapers in New York City to share 
the cost of transmitting news of the Mexican–American War by boat, horse 
express and telegraph. The venture was organized by Moses Yale Beach (1800–68), 
second publisher of the The Sun, joined by the New York Herald, the New 
York Courier and Enquirer, The Journal of Commerce, and the New York Evening 
Express. Some historians[who?] believe that the Tribune joined at this 
time; documents show it was a member in 1849. The New York Times became 
a member shortly after its founding in September 1851. Initially known 
as the New York Associated Press (NYAP), the organization faced competition 
from the Western Associated Press (1862), which criticized its monopolistic 
news gathering and price setting practices. An investigation completed 
in 1892 by Victor Lawson, editor and publisher of the Chicago Daily News, 
revealed that several principals of the NYAP had entered into a secret 
agreement with United Press, a rival organization, to share NYAP news and 
the profits of reselling it. The revelations led to the demise of the NYAP 
and in December 1892, the Western Associated Press was incorporated in 
Illinois as the Associated Press. A 1900 Illinois Supreme Court decision 
(Inter Ocean Publishing Co. v. Associated Press)—that the AP was a public 
utility and operating in restraint of trade—resulted in AP's move from 
Chicago to New York City, where corporation laws were more favorable to 
cooperatives.[citation needed] When the AP was founded, news became a salable 
commodity. The invention of the rotary press allowed the New York Tribune 
in the 1870s to print 18,000 papers per hour. During the Civil War and 
Spanish–American War, there was a new incentive to print vivid, on-the-spot 
reporting. Melville Stone, who had founded the Chicago Daily News in 1875, 
served as AP General Manager from 1893 to 1921. He embraced the standards 
of accuracy, impartiality, and integrity. The cooperative grew rapidly 
under the leadership of Kent Cooper (served 1925–48), who built up bureau 
staff in South America, Europe and (after World War II), the Middle East. 
He introduced the "telegraph typewriter" or teletypewriter into newsrooms 
in 1914. In 1935, AP launched the Wirephoto network, which allowed transmission 
of news photographs over leased private telephone lines on the day they 
were taken. This gave AP a major advantage over other news media outlets. 
While the first network was only between New York, Chicago, and San Francisco, 
eventually AP had its network across the whole United States.[4] In 1945, 
the Supreme Court of the United States held in Associated Press v. United 
States that AP had been violating the Sherman Antitrust Act by prohibiting 
member newspapers from selling or providing news to nonmember organizations 
as well as making it very difficult for nonmember newspapers to join the 
AP. The decision facilitated the growth of its main rival United Press 
International, headed by Hugh Baillie from 1935 to 1955. AP entered the 
broadcast field in 1941 when it began distributing news to radio stations; 
it created its own radio network in 1974. In 1994, it established APTV, 
a global video newsgathering agency. APTV merged with WorldWide Television 
News in 1998 to form APTN, which provides video to international broadcasters 
and websites. In 2004, AP moved its world headquarters from its longtime 
home at 50 Rockefeller Plaza to a huge building at 450 West 33rd Street 
in Manhattan—which also houses the New York Daily News and the studios 
of New York's public television station, WNET. In 2009, AP had more than 
240 bureaus globally. Its mission—"to gather with economy and efficiency 
an accurate and impartial report of the news"—has not changed since its 
founding, but digital technology has made the distribution of the AP news 
report an interactive endeavor between AP and its 1,400 U.S. newspaper 
members as well as broadcasters, international subscribers, and online 
customers. The AP began diversifying its news gathering capabilities and 
by 2007 AP was generating only about 30% of its revenue from United States 
newspapers. 37% came from the global broadcast customers, 15% from online 
ventures and 18% came from international newspapers and from photography.[5] 
The AP's multi-topic structure has resulted in web portals such as Yahoo! 
and MSN posting its articles, often relying on AP as their first source 
for news coverage of breaking news items. This and the constant updating 
evolving stories require has had a major impact on the AP's public image 
and role, giving new credence to the AP's ongoing mission of having staff 
for covering every area of news fully and promptly. The AP is also the 
news service used on the Wii's News Channel.[6] In 2007, Google announced 
that it was paying to receive Associated Press content, to be displayed 
in Google News,[7] though this was interrupted from late 2009 to mid-2010, 
due to a licensing dispute.[8][9] The AP is known for its polls on numerous 
college sports in the United States. The AP polls ranking the top 25 NCAA 
Division I (Football Bowl Subdivision and Football Championship Subdivision) 
college football and NCAA Division I men's and women's college basketball 
teams are the most well known. The AP composes the polls by collecting 
and compiling the top-25 votes of numerous designated sports journalists. 
The AP poll of college football was particularly notable for many years 
because it helped determine the ranking of teams at the end of the regular 
season for the collegiate Bowl Championship Series until the AP, citing 
conflict of interest, asked for the poll to be removed from the bowl series. 
Beginning in the 2005 season, the Harris Interactive College Football Poll 
took the AP's place in the bowl series formula. The AP poll is the longest 
serving national poll in college football having begun in 1936. But with 
the creation of the BCS in 2006 and the College Football Playoffs in 2014, 
the AP no longer plays a part in selection of a National Champion. The 
AP began its Major League Baseball Manager of the Year Award in 1959, for 
a manager in each league.[15] From 1984 to 2000, the award was given to 
one manager in all of MLB.[16] The winners were chosen by a national panel 
of AP baseball writers and radio men. The award was discontinued in 2001.[15] 
Every year, the AP releases the names of the winners of its AP College 
Basketball Player of the Year and AP College Basketball Coach of the Year 
awards. It also honors a group of All-American players. In 1994, London-based 
Associated Press Television (APTV) was founded to provide agency news material 
to television broadcasters. Other existing providers of such material at 
the time were Reuters Television and Worldwide Television News (WTN). In 
1998, AP purchased WTN and APTV left the Associated Press building in Central 
London and merged with WTN to create Associated Press Television News (APTN) 
in the WTN building, now the APTN building in Camden Town. In November 
2010 the Associated Press was sued by iCopyright for breach of contract 
and unfair competition. It accused the AP of launching a copyright-tracking 
registry built upon information and business intelligence that it had misappropriated 
from iCopyright.[17] Washington, D.C. bureau reporter Christopher Newton, 
an AP reporter since 1994, was fired by AP in September 2002 after he was 
accused of fabricating sources since 2000, including at least 40 people 
and organizations. Prior to his firing, Newton had been focused on writing 
about federal law-enforcement while based at the Justice Department. Some 
of the nonexistent agencies quoted in his stories included "Education Alliance", 
the "Institute for Crime and Punishment in Chicago", "Voice for the Disabled", 
and "People for Civil Rights".[18] In June 2008, the AP sent numerous DMCA 
take down demands and threatened legal action against several blogs. The 
AP contended that the internet blogs were violating AP's copyright by linking 
to AP material and using headlines and short summaries in those links. 
Many bloggers and experts noted that the use of the AP news fell squarely 
under commonly accepted internet practices and within fair use standards.[19] 
Others noted and demonstrated that AP routinely takes similar excerpts 
from other sources, often without attribution or licenses. AP responded 
that it was defining standards regarding citations of AP news.[20] In August 
2005, Ken Knight, a Louisiana photographer, sued the AP claiming that it 
had willfully and negligently violated Knight's copyright by distributing 
a photograph of celebrity Britney Spears to various media outlets including, 
but not limited to: truTV (formerly CourtTV), America Online and Fox News.[21] 
According to court documents the AP did not have a license to publish, 
display or relicense the photographs. The case was settled in November 
2006. In a case filed February 2005, McClatchey v. The Associated Press, 
a Pennsylvania photographer sued the AP for cropping a picture to remove 
the plaintiff's embedded title and copyright notice and later distributed 
it to news organizations without the plaintiff's permission or credit. 
The parties settled.[22] In April 2011, Patricia Ann Lopez, a New Mexico 
courtroom sketch artist, sued the Associated Press claiming that the AP 
had violated her copyrights by reselling her images without a license and 
had deceptively, fraudulently and wrongfully passed off the artist's work 
as its own.[23] According to court documents the AP did not have a license 
to resell or relicense the images. In March 2009, the Associated Press 
counter-sued artist Shepard Fairey over his famous image of Barack Obama, 
saying the uncredited, uncompensated use of an AP photo violated copyright 
laws and signaled a threat to journalism. Fairey had sued the AP the previous 
month over his artwork, titled "Obama Hope" and "Obama Progress", arguing 
that he did not violate copyright law because he dramatically changed the 
image. The artwork, based on an April 2006 picture taken for the AP by 
Mannie Garcia, was a popular image during the 2008 presidential election 
and now hangs in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. According 
to the AP lawsuit filed in federal court in Manhattan, Fairey knowingly 
"misappropriated The AP's rights in that image". The suit asked the court 
to award AP profits made off the image and damages. Fairey said he looked 
forward to "upholding the free expression rights at stake here" and disproving 
the AP's accusations.[citation needed] In January 2011 this suit was settled 
with neither side admitting their position was wrong but agreeing to share 
reproduction rights and profits from Fairey's work.[24] In January 2008, 
the Associated Press sued competitor All Headline News (AHN) claiming that 
AHN allegedly infringed on its copyrights and a contentious "quasi-property" 
right to facts.[25][26] The AP complaint asserted that AHN reporters had 
copied facts from AP news reports without permission and without paying 
a syndication fee. After AHN moved to dismiss all but the copyright claims 
set forth by AP, a majority of the lawsuit was dismissed.[27] The case 
has been dismissed and both parties settled.[28] In June 2010 the Associated 
Press was accused[29] of having unfair and hypocritical policies after 
it was demonstrated that AP reporters had copied original reporting from 
the "Search Engine Land" website without permission, attribution, or credit.[30] 
In April 2013, the Associated Press stated that it had dropped the term 
"illegal immigrant" from its stylebook. The blog stated that the term was 
dropped due to the term dehumanizing individuals. The Associated Press 
follows ABC, NBC, and CNN in not using the term. Jose Antonio Vargas commended 
the Associated Press for its decision.[31] Syndicated writer Ruben Navarrette 
criticized the decision, stating the reasoning behind the decision was 
political correctness and called the blog "incomprehensible".[32] Secretary 
of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano said of the decision, that she doesn't 
get involved in "vocabulary wars" and then stated "They are immigrants 
who are here illegally, that's an illegal immigrant".[33] On April 23, 
2013, the AP's Twitter account was hacked to release a hoax tweet about 
fictional attacks in the White House that left President Obama injured.[34] 
This erroneous tweet resulted in a brief plunge of 130 points from the 
Dow Jones Industrial Average, removal of $136 billion from S&P 500 index,[35] 
and the temporary suspension of their Twitter account. Although all executed 
trades were considered final, the Dow Jones later restored its session 
gains. On May 13, 2013, the Associated Press announced telephone records 
for 20 of their reporters during a two-month period in 2012, had been subpoenaed 
by the U.S. Justice Department and described these acts as a "massive and 
unprecedented intrusion" into news-gathering operations.[36][37] The AP 
reported that the Justice Department would not say why it sought the records, 
but sources stated that the United States Attorney for the District of 
Columbia's office was conducting a criminal investigation into a May 7, 
2012 AP story about a CIA operation that prevented a terrorist plot to 
detonate an explosive device on a commercial flight.[38] The DOJ did not 
direct subpoenas to the AP, instead going to their phone providers, including 
Verizon Wireless.[39] U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder testified under 
oath in front of the House Judiciary Committee that he recused himself 
from the leak investigations to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest. 
Holder said his Deputy Attorney General, James M. Cole, was in charge of 
the AP investigation and would have ordered the subpoenas.[40] The AP has 
been accused by its own journalists in the region of biased reporting on 
the Middle East. In his book Broken Spring: An American-Israeli Reporter's 
Close-up View of How Egyptians Lost Their Struggle for Freedom, former 
AP correspondent Mark Lavie claims that the AP upheld a narrative line 
in which Arabs and Palestinians were entirely without blame in a conflict 
where all guilt lay with Israel, even going so far as to refuse to print 
a 2008 Israeli peace proposal.[41][42][43] Israeli journalist Matti Friedman 
noted the enormous influence of Human Rights Watch, which he described 
as having "written far more condemnations of Israel for violations of international 
law than of any other country in the region". Moreover, Friedman accuses 
AP of killing a story he wrote about the "war of words", "between Israel 
and its critics in human rights organizations", in the aftermath of the 
Israel/Gaza conflict of 2008–09.[41] Both Lavie and Friedman specifically 
accuse the AP of forbidding their reporters to interview Gerald M. Steinberg 
of NGO Monitor (an NGO that reports on the work of NGOs, described by Friedman 
as "a pro-Israel outfit and by no means an objective observer",[41] which 
has been characterized as being pro-Israel[44][45] and is often described 
as right-wing);[46] Friedman writes that in a job where he interviewed 
radicals of all kinds, "this professor" was "the only person I ever saw 
subjected to an interview ban".[41][47] The AP immediately denied the accusation.[48][49][50] 
In October 10 2016 the Associated Press released a "fact check" of comments 
made by presidential candidates during the second US presidential debate, 
where Republican candidate Donald Trump stated that he didn't “like Assad 
at all. But Assad is killing ISIS. Russia is killing ISIS”. The US National 
security reporter for AP, Robert Burns wrote in his fact check assessment 
that the statement was completely false and a lie, as although Syria’s 
President Bashar Assad considers ISIS to be terrorists, Burns claimed that 
Assad's "military is not fighting them" and is only "focused on combatting 
Syrian opposition groups, some of which are supported by the United States".[51] 
Online commenters[who?] countered that this was inaccurate and that the 
AP had previously covered news of the Syrian government's 2016 military 
campaigns against ISIS such as in Palmyra, Deir ez-Zor, Al-Dumayr, Southwestern 
Ar-Raqqah and in Southeastern Ar-Raqqah. The Associated Press rewrote the 
item a few hours later to remove the initial "Not true" assessment to "Only 
partially true" and deleted their social media posts which mentioned their 
original assessment without an explanation.[52] The AP released a series 
of articles[53] in 2015 covering the topic of forced labour in Thailand 
on fishing boats. The acclaimed series won a George Polk Award, but their 
coverage was not without controversy for claiming to directly take credit 
for freeing thousands of slaves and solely triggering litigation and legal 
changes.[54] Even with this controversy, the Associated Press earned a 
Pulitzer Prize for their actions and the effect of their investigative 
piece on forced labor in Thailand. According to an Associated Press article, 
this was the 52nd Pulitzer Prize earned by the AP. The reporters were lauded 
for their work in dangerous situations to bring this issue to light. [55] 
Associated Press entered in formal cooperation with Hitler's Nazi Germany 
in the 1930s, supplying American newspapers with material selected and 
produced by the Nazi party propaganda ministry. It was able to retain its 
access by entering into a mutually beneficial two-way cooperation with 
the Nazi regime. It ceded control of its output by signing up to the Schriftleitergesetz (de) 
(editor's law), promising not to publish any material 'calculated to weaken 
the strength of the Reich abroad or at home'. Schriftleitergesetz required 
Associated Press to employ reporters who worked for the Nazi party's propaganda 
division. One photographer, Franz Roth, was a member of the SS propaganda 
division, whose photographs were personally chosen by Hitler. Associated 
Press was the only western news agency able to stay open in Nazi Germany; 
they continued operating until Germany declared war on the USA in 1941. 
Associated Press also allowed the Nazi regime to use its photo archives 
for its virulently anti-semitic propaganda literature, such as 'The Sub-Human' 
and 'The Jews in the USA' booklets. This arrangement also enabled the Nazis 
to cover up some of its crimes, allowing the Nazis to portray a war of 
extermination as a conventional war; which events were made visible and 
which remained invisible in AP's supply of pictures followed German interests 
and the German narrative of the war.[56][57] The Associated Press is governed 
by an elected board of directors.[58] Since January 26, 2012, the Chairman 
is Mary Junck, President, CEO and Chairman of Lee Enterprises.[59] 1 2 
3 4 5 6 7 NBC News Wall Street Journal Agence France-Presse Foreign Pool 
Bloomberg BNA Washington Examiner Talk Radio News Service Fox News CBS 
Radio News USA Today MSNBC Time Yahoo! News Dallas Morning News CBS News 
Bloomberg McClatchy Washington Times NY Daily News Salem Radio Roll Call 
AP NPR AURN The Hill Hearst/SF Chron/Balt. Sun Media News/Daily Beast CBN 
ABC News Washington Post Politico Fox News Radio NY Post Christian Sci. 
Monitor BBC/Boston Globe Reuters NY Times Tribune VOA RealClearPolitics 
SiriusXM Scripps/BuzzFeed CNN AP Radio ABC News Radio National Journal 
