Astoria is a middle-class and commercial neighborhood with a population 
of 78,793[1] in the northwestern corner of the New York City borough of 
Queens. Located in Community Board 1, Astoria is bounded by the East River 
and is adjacent to three other Queens neighborhoods: Long Island City, 
Sunnyside (bordering at Northern Boulevard), and Woodside (bordering at 
50th Street). Astoria is patrolled by the New York City Police Department's 
114th Precinct.[3] The area now known as Astoria was originally called 
Hallett's Cove, after its first landowner William Hallett, who settled 
there in 1652 with his wife, Elizabeth Fones. Beginning in the early 19th 
century, affluent New Yorkers constructed large residences around 12th 
and 14th streets, an area that later became known as Astoria Village (now 
Old Astoria). Hallett's Cove, incorporated on April 12, 1839[4] and previously 
founded by fur merchant Stephen A. Halsey, was a noted recreational destination 
and resort for Manhattan's wealthy.[5][6] The area was renamed for John 
Jacob Astor, then the wealthiest man in America with a net worth of over 
$40 million, in order to persuade him to invest in the neighborhood. He 
only invested $500, but the name stayed nonetheless, as a bitter battle 
over naming the village finally was won by Astor's supporters and friends. 
From Astor's summer home in Hell Gate, Manhattan—on what is now East 87th 
Street near York Avenue—he could see across the East River the new Long 
Island village named in his honor. Astor, however, never actually set foot 
in Astoria. During the second half of the 19th century, economic and commercial 
growth brought increased immigration from German settlers, mostly furniture 
and cabinet makers. One such settler was Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg, patriarch 
of the Steinway family who founded the piano company Steinway & Sons in 
1853, which today is a worldwide piano company. Later on the Steinways 
built a sawmill and foundry, as well as a streetcar line. The family eventually 
established Steinway Village for their workers, a company town that provided 
school instruction in German as well as English.[7] Part of the motivation 
for locating the Steinway factory in Queens was to keep the workers isolated 
from the ferment of labor organizing and radicalism occurring in other 
parts of New York, notably the Lower East Side.[8] Astoria and several 
other surrounding villages, including Steinway, were incorporated into 
Long Island City in 1870. Long Island City remained an independent municipality 
until it was incorporated into New York City in 1898. The area's farms 
were turned into housing tracts and street grids to accommodate the growing 
number of residents.[5] Astoria also figured prominently in early American 
filmmaking as one of its initial centers. That heritage is preserved today 
by the Museum of the Moving Image and Kaufman Astoria Studios. Today, much 
of the Astoria waterfront is being redeveloped and underutilized industrial 
sites in forgotten historic neighborhoods are being revived. Hallets Point 
is one of five former industrial sites on the waterfront being transformed, 
and will bring seven new mixed-use residential towers, including 2,000 
market-rate units and 500 affordable units, into the neighborhood.[9] The 
development will also include new waterfront parks, a supermarket, retail 
shops and restaurants, and two new schools. These waterfront projects were 
designed by a New York architectural firm, in conjunction with private 
developers, city agencies and landscape architects.[10][11] Based on data 
from the 2010 United States Census, the population of Astoria was 78,793, 
a decrease of 10,329 (11.6%) from the 89,122 counted in 2000. Covering 
an area of 902.94 acres (365.41 ha), the neighborhood had a population 
density of 87.3 inhabitants per acre (55,900/sq mi; 21,600/km2).[1] The 
racial makeup of the neighborhood was 49.2% (38,749) White, 4.5% (3,553) 
African American, 0.2% (137) Native American, 16.2% (12,759) Asian, 0.0% 
(30) Pacific Islander, 1.2% (936) from other races, and 2.2% (1,714) from 
two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 26.5% (20,915) of 
the population.[2] Astoria was first settled by the Dutch and Germans in 
the 17th century. Many Irish settled in the area during the waves of Irish 
immigration into New York City during the 19th and early 20th centuries. 
Italians were the next significant immigrants in Astoria, and numerous 
Italian restaurants, delis, bakeries, and pizza shops are found throughout 
Astoria, particularly in the Ditmars Boulevard area. Jews were also a significant 
ethnic and religious group. The Astoria Center of Israel, which is listed 
on the National Register of Historic Places, was built in 1925 after outgrowing 
the former Congregation Mishkan Israel, which was built in 1904.[12] The 
1960s saw a large increase of Greek population from mainland Greece, and 
after 1974, there was an influx of Greeks from Cyprus. This cultural imprint 
can be seen in the numerous Greek restaurants, bakeries, tavernas and cafes, 
as well as several Greek Orthodox churches. While the population of Greeks 
in Astoria was 22,579 in 1980, it dropped to 18,127 by 1990 due to decreased 
immigration and lower birth rates. Greek organizations in the area include 
the Hellenic American Action Committee (HANAC) and the Federation of Hellenic 
Societies of Greater New York.[13] Recent economic issues in Greece have 
seen an insurgence of thousands of Greek immigrants.[14] Many Maltese also 
live in Astoria, around 20,000, and although this population has steadily 
been emigrating from the area, there are still many Maltese, supported 
by the Maltese Center of New York.[citation needed] Beginning in the mid-1970s, 
the neighborhood's Arab population grew from earlier immigrants from Lebanon 
to also include people from Egypt, Syria, Yemen, Tunisia, Morocco and Algeria. 
In the 1990s, Steinway Street between 28th Avenue and Astoria Boulevard 
saw the establishment of many Arabic shops, restaurants and cafes, which 
is unofficially called "Little Egypt". Astoria's South American and European 
population has seen significant growth since the early 1990s, including 
a large population of Brazilians, who reside in the 36th Avenue area. Albanians, 
Bulgarians, and Bosnians have also shown a rise in numbers. Many Spanish 
Americans live in Astoria, with most of them being of Galician heritage 
from Northwestern Spain; this community being supported by the Casa Galicia, 
or Galicia House and the Circulo Español or Spanish Circle. At one time, 
many Bangladeshi Americans settled in Astoria, but by 2001, many of the 
Bangladeshi American people in Astoria had moved to Metro Detroit. A survey 
of an Astoria-area Bengali language newspaper estimated that, in an 18-month 
period until March 2001, 8,000 Bangladeshi people moved to the Detroit 
area. However, as of 2010, the Bangladeshi American community in Astoria 
has been increasing, as Bangladeshi immigrants are increasingly settling 
in Astoria.[15] Population losses in Queens were particularly high in immigrant 
neighborhoods such as Astoria, which suffered the greatest population loss 
in the city—it lost over 10,000 residents between the years 2000 and 2010.[16][why?] 
There is some debate as to what constitutes the geographic boundaries of 
Astoria. The neighborhood was part of Long Island City prior to the latter's 
incorporation into the City of New York in 1898, and much of it is still 
classified as LIC by the USPS. The area south of Astoria was called Ravenswood, 
and traditionally, Broadway was considered the border between the two. 
Today, however, many residents and businesses south of Broadway identify 
themselves as Astorians for convenience or status, since Long Island City 
has historically been considered an industrial area, and Ravenswood is 
now mostly a low-income neighborhood. Some of the thoroughfares have lent 
their names to unofficial terms for the areas they serve. For instance, 
the eastern end of Astoria, with Steinway Street as its main thoroughfare, 
is sometimes referred to simply as "Steinway", and the northern end around 
Ditmars Boulevard is sometimes referred to as "Ditmars", with their convergence 
point bearing the neighborhood name "Ditmars-Steinway".[17] Banners displayed 
on lamp posts along 30th Avenue refer to it as "the Heart of Astoria".[18] 
Ravenswood is the name for the strip of land bordering the East River in 
Long Island City, and is part of Astoria.[19] The land was acquired in 
1814 by Col. George Gibbs, a businessman from New York City who developed 
it. Gibbs died in 1833, and the land was divided into nine parcels by three 
developers. From 1848, there were several mansions built on this land, 
but the high class housing did not survive. The spring of 1853 brought 
the opening of a post office of its own and country store "run by Messrs. 
Moore & Luyster, and Mr. Samuel H. Moore of that firm received the appointment 
of postmaster, handling the mails in a corner of the store."[20] Ravenswood, 
unlike Astoria, never became a village; there was no disposition at any 
time to become independent as there was insufficient population or commercial 
activity to justify such a move. Ravenswood remained an exclusive hamlet 
within the Town of Newtown until its absorption with the Village of Astoria 
and the hamlets of Hunters Point, Blissville, Sunnyside, Dutch Kills, Steinway, 
Bowery Bay and Middleton in Newtown Township into Long Island City in 1870.[21] 
In 1870, Ravenswood, along with several other hamlets and the Village of 
Astoria, merged to form Long Island City.[20] In 1875, the first commercial 
buildings were erected, and the mansions were converted into offices and 
boarding houses. In 1879, the Long Island Terra Cotta Company was established 
in Ravenswood, by Rudolph Franke. By 1900, Ravenswood was heavily commercial, 
and remains so to this day. However, the name has retained its residential 
character through the New York City Housing Authority project that was 
built in 1949 to 1951 with this name between 34th and 36th Avenues, and 
12th and 24th Streets. The name also identifies the large electric power 
station established along the shore of the East River, just south of the 
Roosevelt Island Bridge. The Ravenswood No. 3 Generating Station was built 
by Con Edison in 1963-65 but, due to deregulation, has subsequently been 
owned by KeySpan, National Grid, and TransCanada. The power plant can generate 
approximately 2,500 megawatts of power, which is about 20 percent of New 
York City's electricity demand.[22] Ditmars is a middle class section of 
Astoria bounded by Bowery Bay to the north, 31st Street to the east (boundary 
with the adjacent neighborhood of Steinway, with which Ditmars is sometimes 
confused), 23rd Avenue to the south and the East River on the west. The 
adjacent Steinway neighborhood was largely developed as a company town 
by the Steinway & Sons piano company, and included houses and public facilities 
that were also available to non-employees.[23] However, the Ditmars neighborhood 
was not included in the Steinway & Sons company housing and related facilities 
project. Ditmars is considered to be a popular neighborhood among young 
professionals and in some real estate references the adjacent neighborhoods 
of Ditmars and Steinway are joined as a single "Ditmars-Steinway" reference. 
The neighborhood takes its name from Ditmars Boulevard which was named 
in honor of Raymond Lee Ditmars, (1876-1942) famed American herpetologist 
and curator of Reptiles of the New York Zoological Society at the Bronx 
Zoo.[24] Astoria Heights, or Upper Ditmars, is bounded by Hazen Street 
to the west, La Guardia Airport to the east, Bowery Bay to the north, and 
Astoria Boulevard and the Grand Central Parkway to the south. It is mostly 
a quiet middle class neighborhood of 1 and 2 family private homes. The 
Riker-Lent Homestead is near the north end of Astoria Heights at 78-03 
19th Road. Built around 1655 by Abraham Riker under a patent from Nieuw 
Nederland's last governor, Peter Stuyvesant, it is believed to be the oldest 
remaining dwelling in New York City still used as a residence.[25] There 
is an adjacent family cemetery. The Smiths, who bought the house in 1975, 
have been restoring it for many years. The annual public tour was given 
usually in mid-September by the owners for the benefit of a local historical 
society, but has since ceased to occur.[26] Before Prohibition, there were 
dance halls, picnic areas and amusement park rides at North Beach. Ragtime 
composer Scott Joplin is buried across the Grand Central Parkway at St. 
Michael's Cemetery which occasionally holds ragtime concerts. The Rikers 
Island Bridge to New York City's main prison, Rikers Island, runs from 
the north end of Hazen Street. Technically, Rikers Island is in the Bronx 
since New York City took it over from Long Island City in 1884, after it 
had annexed the South Bronx but before it consolidated Queens. However, 
like Astoria Heights, Rikers Island gets its mail from the East Elmhurst 
(Zip code 11370) station of the Flushing Post Office. Astoria is served 
by the local E M R trains of the New York City Subway, which stop at the 
Steinway Street and 46th Street stations on the underground IND Queens 
Boulevard Line, as well as the N W trains, which run along the elevated 
BMT Astoria Line above 31st Street.[34] The primary streets running north-south 
are Vernon Boulevard along the East River; 21st Street, a major traffic 
artery with a mix of residential, commercial and industrial areas; 31st 
Street; and Steinway Street (named for Heinrich Engelhard Steinweg (later 
Henry E. Steinway), founder of the piano company Steinway & Sons),[35] 
a major commercial street with many retail stores, and a very prominent 
Middle Eastern section between Astoria Boulevard and 28th Avenue, the area 
is full of Middle Eastern food restaurants which present some local types 
of food from Lebanon, Egypt and Morocco, most food in these restaurants 
is Halal to suit the Muslim residents who are main customers in this neighborhood. 
The 21st Street – Queensbridge subway station (F train) also serves the 
area at Queensbridge Houses. Astoria is expected to be served by the Citywide 
Ferry Service[36] starting in 2017.[37][38] Because of its location, Astoria 
is conveniently served by several nearby New York City hospitals and medical 
centers, as well as FDNY EMS service. As of 2014, there are 5 FDNY firehouses 
in Astoria. Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens is the only true hospital medical 
center in the neighborhood. It operates 24/7 and is part of the Mount Sinai 
Health System network. Other nearby hospitals include Elmhurst Hospital 
Center in nearby Elmhurst, as well as Forest Hills Hospital (part of the 
North Shore LIJ Health System) in Forest Hills. The New York City Department 
of Education operates Astoria's public schools.[39] Astoria also has several 
private schools, many of which offer parochial education: Queens Borough 
Public Library operates three branches within Astoria's ZIP codes:[40] 
Additionally, Astoria is the final resting place of New York City mobster 
Frank Costello as well as ragtime composer and musician Scott Joplin. Both 
Costello and Joplin are interred at St. Michael's Cemetery. The cemetery 
hosts annual public events and concerts to celebrate Joplin's musical legacy, 
including a Joplin retrospective.[75] The neighborhood has often been featured 
in various media; in film and television, the area is either featured as 
Astoria or as a setting for another location in New York City. Film Gaming 
