Baseball: 1,500 standing room capacity NCAA Football: Soccer: AT&T Park 
is a baseball park located in the South Beach neighborhood of San Francisco, 
California. Since 2000, it has served as the home of the San Francisco 
Giants, the city's Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise. Originally named 
Pacific Bell Park, then SBC Park in 2003 after SBC Communications acquired 
Pacific Bell, the stadium was ultimately christened AT&T Park in 2006 following 
SBC's buyout of AT&T. The park stands along the San Francisco Bay, a segment 
of which is named McCovey Cove in honor of former Giants player Willie 
McCovey. AT&T Park has also played host to both professional and collegiate 
American football games. The stadium was the home of the Foster Farms Bowl, 
an annual college postseason bowl game, from its inaugural playing in 2002 
until 2013 and also served as the temporary home for the University of 
California's football team in 2011. Professionally, AT&T Park was the home 
of the San Francisco Demons of the XFL and the California Redwoods of the 
United Football League. The stadium can be reached via San Francisco's 
Muni Metro; the 2nd and King Station is directly outside the ballpark. 
Originally designed to be a 42,000-seat stadium, there were slight modifications 
before the final design was complete. When the ballpark was brought to 
the ballot box in the fall of 1996 for voter approval, the stadium was 
15° clockwise from its current position. Also the center-field scoreboard 
was atop the right-field wall and the Giants Pavilion Building were two 
separate buildings.[10] Groundbreaking on the ballpark began on December 
11, 1997, in the industrial waterfront area of San Francisco known as China 
Basin in the up-and-coming neighborhoods of South Beach and Mission Bay. 
The stadium cost $357 million to build and supplanted the Giants' former 
home, Candlestick Park, a multi-use stadium in southeastern San Francisco. 
A team of engineers from UC Davis was consulted in the design process of 
the park resulting in wind levels that are approximately half those at 
Candlestick. Fans had shivered through 40 seasons at "The 'Stick" and looked 
forward to warmer temperatures at the new ballpark.[11] But because AT&T 
Park, like its predecessor, is built right on San Francisco Bay, cold summer 
fog and winter jackets in July are still not unusual at Giants games, despite 
the higher average temperature. When it opened on March 31, 2000, the ballpark 
was the first Major League ballpark built without public funds since the 
completion of Dodger Stadium in 1962.[12] However, the Giants did receive 
a $10 million tax abatement from the city and $80 million for upgrades 
to the local infrastructure (including a connection to the Muni Metro).[13] 
The Giants have a 66-year lease on the 12.5-acre (51,000 m2) ballpark site, 
paying $1.2 million in rent annually to the San Francisco Port Commission.[12] 
The park opened with a seating capacity of 40,800, but this has increased 
over time as seats have been added. In April 2010, the stadium became the 
first MLB ballpark to receive LEED Silver Certification for Existing Buildings, 
Operations and Maintenance.[14] The opening series took place April 11–13, 
2000 against the Los Angeles Dodgers (the team the Giants faced in their 
final series at Candlestick Park), and the Giants were swept in three games. 
In the first game of that series, the Giants lost 6–5, highlighted by three 
home runs from the Dodgers' Kevin Elster. On May 1, 2000, Barry Bonds became 
the first player to hit a "splash hit" home run into McCovey Cove. In just 
its first few years of existence, the ballpark saw its share of historic 
events primarily due to veteran Giants outfielder Barry Bonds. On April 
17, 2001, Bonds hit his 500th career home run at then-Pacific Bell Park. 
Later that year, he set the single season home run record when he hit home 
runs number 71, 72, and 73 over the weekend of October 5 to close the season. 
On August 9, 2002, Bonds hit his 600th career home run at the park. On 
April 12, 2004, Bonds hit career home run 660 at SBC Park to tie Willie 
Mays for third on the all-time list and on the next night, he hit number 
661 to move into sole possession of third place. On September 17, 2004, 
Bonds hit his 700th career home run at the park to become just the third 
member of baseball's 700 club. On May 28, 2006, Bonds hit his 715th home 
run at the park to pass Babe Ruth for second place on the all-time list. 
On August 7, 2007, Bonds hit his 756th home run, breaking Hank Aaron's 
record. The park hosted games three through five of the 2002 World Series 
against the Anaheim Angels, which the Giants lost four games to three. 
It also hosted the 2007 MLB All-Star Game, which the American League won 
5–4 over the National League. On July 10, 2009, the Giants' Jonathan Sánchez 
pitched the first no-hitter at AT&T Park. Also, the stadium hosted an AMA 
Supercross Championship round from 2003 to 2010.[15] On October 27 & 28, 
2010, the Giants hosted the first two games of the World Series, beating 
the Texas Rangers in both games. They ultimately went on to win the series, 
their first championship since the team moved to San Francisco in 1958, 
though the clinching game was played at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington rather 
than at AT&T Park. On June 13, 2012, Matt Cain threw the 22nd perfect game 
in MLB history — and first in Giants history — against the Houston Astros. 
AT&T Park hosted Games 1 and 2 of the 2012 World Series on October 24 and 
25. The Giants beat the Detroit Tigers twice, 8–3 and 2–0 respectively. 
The Giants would go on to win the 2012 World Series in a four-game sweep 
at Comerica Park. The stadium hosted of the semifinal and final rounds 
of the 2013 World Baseball Classic on March 17–19. On July 23, 2013, due 
to a previous rain-out in Cincinnati, AT&T Park served as the "home" venue 
of the Cincinnati Reds for the second game of a doubleheader against the 
Giants.[16] Giants manager Bruce Bochy won his 1,500th career game. On 
June 25, 2014 Tim Lincecum pitched the 3rd no hitter at AT&T Park against 
the San Diego Padres in a 4-0 win. It was his 2nd no hitter of his career, 
with both of them coming against the Padres. His first one was in San Diego 
on July 13, 2013. AT&T Park hosted Games 3, 4, and 5 of the 2014 World 
Series on October 24, 25, and 26. The Giants beat the Kansas City Royals 
2 out of the 3 games played at AT&T Park, losing Game 3, 3–2, before winning 
Games 4 and 5, 11–4 and 5–0 respectively. They ultimately went on to win 
the series in seven games, with the clinching game played at Kauffman Stadium 
rather than at AT&T Park. On June 15, 2015 the Giants set a record for 
most consecutive home losses at AT&T Park at nine straight games with a 
5-1 loss to the Seattle Mariners. This losing streak was the Giants' longest 
since an 11-game home loss streak at the Polo Grounds in New York in 1940.[17] 
The Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company, a local telephone company in 
the San Francisco Bay Area, purchased the naming rights for the park for 
$50 million over 24 years in the Winter of 1996.[18] Pacific Bell had been 
recently purchased by SBC Communications when the naming rights deal was 
agreed upon. SBC eventually dropped the Pacific Bell name and reached an 
agreement with the Giants to change the stadium's name to "SBC Park" on 
January 1, 2004.[18] After SBC bought AT&T Corporation on November 18, 
2005, the name of the merged company became AT&T Inc. As a result, the 
stadium was given its third name in six years: "AT&T Park".[18] A few fans 
still refer to the stadium as "Pac Bell Park", as it was the first name 
given to the stadium. Others have named the stadium "The Phone Booth" or 
"Telephone Park", for the constant name changes, while some referred to 
the stadium as "Some Big Corporation Park" due to the SBC years. Others 
yet refer to it as "Mays Field" in honor of Giants great Willie Mays or 
simply "The Bell".[19] Many also refer to the stadium as "China Basin" 
or "McCovey Cove" after its location, which would be immune to changes 
in sponsorship naming.[citation needed] Giants Enterprises, a wholly owned 
subsidiary of the San Francisco Giants created and headed by longtime team 
executive Pat Gallagher, brings non-baseball events to AT&T Park on days 
when the Giants do not play. Prominent among these has been the usage of 
the stadium for football. For example, the park was home to the XFL's San 
Francisco Demons in 2001, was the home of the East-West Shrine Game (until 
2006), and was the former home stadium of the California Redwoods of the 
UFL in 2009. From 2002 to 2013, it has also been home to college football's 
Fight Hunger Bowl, previously the San Francisco Bowl and most recently 
the Emerald Bowl. In 2011, AT&T Park became the temporary home football 
stadium for the California Golden Bears while Cal's on-campus stadium, 
California Memorial Stadium, underwent renovation.[20] AT&T Park also hosted 
its first high school football game in 2011, the Central Coast Section 
Division III football championship game between long-time San Francisco 
rivals St. Ignatius College Preparatory and Sacred Heart Cathedral Preparatory.[21] 
AT&T Park has also hosted a range of other sporting and musical events. 
On February 10, 2006, the U.S. men's soccer team defeated Japan 3–2 at 
AT&T in a friendly. A match of the 2011 World Football Challenge between 
Manchester City and Club America was held at AT&T, drawing a crowd of 11,250. 
The Mavericks big-wave surfing contest is broadcast live on the giant video 
display at AT&T Park when the event is held. In 2006, the park hosted ICER 
AIR the first stadium big-air ski and snowboard competition to be held 
in the United States. A virtual recreation of the park was created as a 
gig venue for Guitar Hero World Tour. In summer 2010, the park hosted an 
audition stop for the 2011 (10th) season of American Idol. San Francisco 
Opera partnered with Giants Enterprises to do three broadcasts, most recently 
Tosca, in June and September 2009. In October 2013, rapper Kanye West rented 
out the stadium and the scoreboard for a private event, which turned out 
to be an elaborate marriage proposal to his girlfriend, reality personality 
Kim Kardashian.[22] The stadium contains 68 luxury suites, 5,200 club seats 
on the club level and an additional 1,500 club seats at the field level 
behind home plate. On the facing of the upper deck along the left field 
line are the retired numbers of Bill Terry, Mel Ott, Carl Hubbell, Monte 
Irvin, Willie Mays, Juan Marichal, Orlando Cepeda, Jackie Robinson, Willie 
McCovey, and Gaylord Perry as well as the retired uniforms, denoted "NY", 
of Christy Mathewson and John McGraw who played or managed in the pre-number 
era. These two pre-number era retired uniforms are among only six such 
retired uniforms in all of the Major Leagues. AT&T Park has a reputation 
of being a pitcher's park and the most pitcher-friendly ballpark in the 
National League due to the depth of the outfield limiting home runs, according 
to ESPN.[23] In 2014, PETA declared the park to be the Most Vegetarian-Friendly 
MLB ballpark in the country. It held the top spot on the same list in 2011, 
2006 and 2005.[24] The most prominent feature of the ballpark is the right 
field wall, which is 24 feet (7.3 m) high in honor of former Giant Willie 
Mays, who wore number 24. Because of the proximity to the San Francisco 
Bay, the right field foul pole is only 309 feet (94 m) from home plate. 
The wall is made of brick, with fenced off archways opening to the Cove 
beyond, above which are several rows of arcade seating. The fence angles 
quickly away from home plate; right-center field extends out to 421 feet 
(128 m) from home plate. Atop the fence are four pillars with fountains 
atop. These four pillars will burst jets of water when the Giants hit a 
home run, win a game, and at the end of the National Anthem. In the past, 
rubber chickens put up by fans whenever a Giants player (especially Barry 
Bonds) was intentionally walked, would line the foul portion of the wall. 
The fans would do this to show that the opposing team is "chicken" for 
not pitching right to the Giants players. In recent seasons, as the team's 
strength has shifted from hitting to pitching, fans will line up "K" signs 
with each strikeout by a Giants pitcher. To some seniors, the right field 
area vaguely suggests the layout at the Polo Grounds. This deep corner 
of the ballpark has been dubbed "Death Valley" and "Triples' Alley." Like 
its Polo Grounds counterpart, it is very difficult to hit a home run to 
this area, and a batted ball that finds its way into this corner often 
results in a triple. Triples' Alley is also infamous for bad bounces, most 
notably when Ichiro Suzuki hit the first-ever inside-the-park home run 
in an All-Star Game by lining the ball off one of the archways and sideways 
past the outfielders. Nate Schierholtz performed the same feat in the 2009 
season as a pinch hitter. Aubrey Huff did it again in the 2010 season, 
as did Conor Gillaspie in 2011. Ángel Pagán ended a game in May 2013 with 
a two-run walk-off inside-the-park home run, the first of its kind at AT&T 
Park. Beyond right field is China Basin, a section of San Francisco Bay, 
which is dubbed McCovey Cove after famed Giants first baseman and left-handed 
slugger Willie McCovey, and into which a number of home runs have been 
hit on the fly. As of June 17 2016, 70 "splash hits" have been knocked 
into the Cove by Giants players since the park opened; 35 of those were 
by Barry Bonds, and the most recent being Denard Span hitting one off Chase 
Anderson of the Milwaukee Brewers on June 13, 2016. These hits are tallied 
on an electronic counter on the right field wall. Opponents have hit the 
water on the fly 42 times; Todd Hundley of the Los Angeles Dodgers was 
the first visitor to do so on June 30, 2000. Curtis Granderson of the New 
York Mets, Luis Gonzalez of the Arizona Diamondbacks and Cliff Floyd of 
the Chicago Cubs are the only visiting players to do so twice, while Carlos 
Delgado of the New York Mets has performed the feat three times. Adam LaRoche 
has also hit three splash hits, twice with the Arizona Diamondbacks and 
once with the Pittsburgh Pirates. Cody Asche of the Philadelphia Phillies 
most recently hit one into the water - part of a 2 home-run effort in a 
game the Giants still managed to win 8-4, in a game on July 12, 2015.[25] 
On June 27, 2010, David Ortiz of the Boston Red Sox became the first American 
League player to hit a splash hit. The only other AL player who has done 
it is Mitch Moreland of the Texas Rangers. Barry Bonds is the Giant who 
has hit the most home runs into "The Cove" as Giants fans call it and is 
the only one to have had hit 2 splash hits in one game (a feat he accomplished 
twice).[26] Behind the scoreboard in center field there is a pier where 
ferries can tie up and let off fans right at the park. On game days, fans 
take to the water of McCovey Cove in boats and even in kayaks, often with 
fishing nets in the hope of collecting a home run ball. (This echoes what 
used to happen during McCovey's playing days. Before Candlestick Park's 
upper deck was extended, the area behind right field was occupied by three 
small bleacher sections and a lot of open space. Kids in those bleachers 
would gather behind the right field fence when "Stretch" would come to 
the plate.) Just beyond the wall is a public waterfront promenade, where 
fans can watch three innings of a game through the wall's archways, free 
of charge, albeit with a somewhat obstructed view. Across the cove from 
the ballpark is McCovey Point and China Basin Park, featuring monuments 
to past Giants legends. When the park opened in 2000, taking residence 
on the right field wall was Rusty, the Mechanical Man based on a theme 
of Old Navy since the wall was sponsored by the company. Rusty was a two-dimensional 
robotic ballplayer that stood 14 feet (4.3 m) tall and weighed 5½ tons. 
The Valencia, California firm, Technifex, engineered, fabricated and programmed 
Rusty to appear after major plays, during games, as a fully animated giant 
1920's era tin "toy". After technical problems arose with Rusty, it was 
removed from the Old Navy Splash Landing, though the enclosure that housed 
him remained for years. In 2006 the Old Navy sponsorship of the wall was 
terminated and renamed "Levi's Landing". In 2008, the enclosure was removed 
as that area near the right field foul pole was renovated for a new luxury 
party suite called the "McCovey Cove Loft".[27] Behind the left field bleachers 
is "The Coca-Cola Fan Lot". The ballpark features an 80-foot (24 m) long 
Coca-Cola bottle with playground slides that lights up with every Giants 
home run, and a miniature version of the stadium. "The Coca-Cola Superslide" 
is popular with children as is with adults, and the terraced levels of 
the slides are a fun way to catch the game. Bubbles originally accompanied 
the bottle, but never worked as intended and were removed. If one were 
viewing the outfield promenade from home plate, directly to the bottle's 
right is another oversized representation of a ballpark stalwart, the "Giant 
1927 Old-Time Four-Fingered Baseball Glove" — this particular one is made 
of steel and fiberglass. Behind and farther to the left is "The Little 
Giants Park" – a miniature baseball diamond — sort of a minor league tryout 
for Pee-Wee Ball.[28] To the right of the glove sculpture is the elevator 
and large plaza area for functions and parties to be held during games. 
It's also the site of "Orlando's", the concessions stand of Giants great 
Orlando Cepeda. The signature fare at the stand is the "Caribbean Cha Cha 
Bowl". Right-center field features a real San Francisco cable car (retired 
cable car #4, formerly #504), with a label that states "No Dodgers Fans 
Allowed". The fog horn — a feature introduced at Candlestick Park by the 
current Giants ownership group – was transferred to AT&T and hung underneath 
the scoreboard. It blows when a Giants player hits a home run or at the 
conclusion of a Giants win. Continuing right takes one to the promenade 
above the Cove, so that one can make a completely uninterrupted circuit 
of the park at that concourse level. Both levels of the concourse, inside 
the stadium, feature not only concession stands of all sorts, but other 
attractions as well. Located behind the centerfield bleachers, the ballpark 
features the @Café,[29] a social media café, which opened in the 2013 season. 
The cafe serves Peet's Coffee and features large screens that show off 
fans' social media posts from Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, which are 
curated by the Giants organization. The cafe replaced a team-themed Build-A-Bear 
Workshop store, where fans could build their own stuffed Giants' mascot, 
Lou Seal, or create other Giants-themed stuffed animals. In addition to 
the automated scoreboards, which now include a new high-definition video 
board by Mitsubishi, the park has enormous, manually operated boards on 
the right field wall, which display the scores of Major League games played 
elsewhere. These manual scoreboards are operated by three employees, whose 
work on game days starts at least two hours before the first pitch. Starting 
in 2004, the Giants installed 122 wireless internet access points, covering 
all concourses and seating areas, creating one of the largest public hotspots 
in the world[30] at the time. On September 23, 2008, the Giants Wall of 
Fame was unveiled on the King Street side of the ballpark,[31] as part 
of the 50th-anniversary celebration of the Giants' move to San Francisco. 
43 retired players were inducted, based on longevity and achievement.[32] 
Eligibility requirements for players to be on the Wall are either five 
years as a San Francisco Giant with an All-Star Game appearance or nine 
years as a Giant.[33] Rich Aurilia and Shawn Estes were added in 2010.[34] 
Jason Schmidt and Marvin Benard were added in 2011. Outside the ballpark 
are six statues, five of which are dedicated to San Francisco Giants all-time 
greats. The Willie Mays Statue is located in front of the ballpark entrance 
at 24 Willie Mays Plaza and is surrounded with 24 palm trees, in honor 
of his number 24 uniform, retired by the Giants. It was dedicated at noon 
on March 31, 2000, prior to the opening of the ballpark and was commissioned 
by Giants Managing Partner Peter Magowan and his wife Debby.[36] Another 
statue is located at McCovey Point across McCovey Cove, and is dedicated 
to Willie McCovey. Around the Willie McCovey Statue are a number of plaques 
that celebrate the winners of the Willie Mac Award. The statue is located 
at China Basin Park next to The Barry Bonds Junior Giants Field, a T-ball 
park. Also located on the sea wall promenade are plaques showing the Opening 
Day roster of every Giants team from 1958 through 1999. Giants fans who 
contributed funds to China Basin Park, had their own tiles with their own 
inscriptions set into the wall.[37] A third statue, dedicated in 2005, 
honors former Giants pitcher Juan Marichal, and is located outside the 
ballpark at the Lefty O'Doul Gate entrance. The fourth statue is located 
at the park's ferry plaza behind center field, also known as Seals Plaza; 
a statue of a seal bobbing a baseball on its nose honors the memory of 
the San Francisco Seals, the minor league baseball club that played before 
the arrival of the Giants in 1958. On September 6, 2008, during a series 
against the Pittsburgh Pirates, a fifth statue depicting former Giants 
great Orlando Cepeda was dedicated at the corner of 2nd and King Streets 
next to the ballpark. A sixth statue, dedicated on August 13, 2016, honors 
former Giants pitcher Gaylord Perry and is also located at the corner of 
2nd and King Streets next to the ballpark. All five statues of the Giants 
Hall of Fame players were created by sculptor William Behrends of North 
