Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium, often referred to as Fulton County Stadium 
and originally named Atlanta Stadium, was a multi-purpose stadium in Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States. The stadium was built to attract a Major League 
Baseball team and in 1966 succeeded when the Milwaukee Braves relocated 
from Wisconsin. The Braves and Atlanta Falcons of the National Football 
League shared the venue from 1966 until 1991, when the Falcons moved into 
the newly completed Georgia Dome. The Braves continued to play at Fulton 
County Stadium until the end of the 1996 season, when they moved into Turner 
Field, the converted Centennial Olympic Stadium which had been built for 
the 1996 Summer Olympics. During his 1961 campaign for mayor of Atlanta, 
Ivan Allen, Jr. promised to build a sports facility to attract a Major 
League Baseball team. After winning office, Allen chose a 47-acre plot 
in the Washington–Rawson neighborhood for the building site, citing its 
proximity to the Georgia State Capitol, downtown businesses and major highways. 
Allen and The Atlanta Journal sports editor Furman Bisher attempted to 
persuade Charlie Finley, owner of the Kansas City Athletics, to move his 
team to Atlanta. Finley was receptive and began discussing stadium design 
plans with Allen. However, the deal ended in July 1963 when the American 
League did not approve the move.[2] In 1964, Mayor Allen announced that 
an unidentified team had given him a verbal commitment to move to Atlanta, 
provided a stadium was in place by 1966. Soon afterward, the prospective 
team was revealed to be the Milwaukee Braves, who announced in October 
that they intended to move to Atlanta for the 1965 season. However, court 
battles kept the Braves in Milwaukee for one last season.[5] The new stadium 
was built on the site of the cleared Washington–Rawson neighborhood, which 
50 year before had been a wealthy neighborhood home to Georgia's governor, 
among others, but which by the 1960s had fallen on hard times. 47 dignitaries 
took part in a groundbreaking ceremony on April 15, 1964. Almost a year 
later, construction was completed on April 9, 1965 for $18 million, and 
on the same night the Milwaukee Braves and Detroit Tigers played an exhibition 
game in the stadium.[2] During that year the International League's Atlanta 
Crackers, whose previous home had been Ponce de Leon Park, played their 
final season in Atlanta Stadium. In 1966, both the National League's transplanted 
Braves and the National Football League's Atlanta Falcons, an expansion 
team, began to use the facilities. In 1967, the Atlanta Chiefs of the National 
Professional Soccer League (re-formed as the North American Soccer League 
in 1968) began the first of five seasons played at the stadium.[6] After 
Ted Turner purchased the Braves in 1976, the stadium's name was changed 
to the compound Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium.[7] The Falcons moved to 
the Georgia Dome in 1992, while the Braves had to wait until the Olympic 
Stadium from the 1996 Summer Olympics was transformed into Turner Field 
to move out at the beginning of the 1997 season. The stadium sat 60,606 
for football and 52,007 for baseball. The baseball competition for the 
1996 Summer Olympics was held at Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium. Following 
the Olympics, Fulton County commissioner, Marvin S. Arrington, Sr., had 
a plan to save the stadium and use it as a professional soccer arena and 
share the parking facilities between it and Turner Field but he was unable 
to push it through.[13] Between 1996 and 1997, the inside of the stadium 
was demolished. The stadium was imploded on August 2, 1997; the remains 
were later removed and demolished. A parking lot for Turner Field now stands 
on the site, with an outline of the old stadium built in. The monument 
that marked the landing point of Hank Aaron's historic 715th home run stands 
in the same place it did when the stadium was on the site. The stadium 
site and the adjacent Turner Field were purchased by Georgia State University 
in 2016, with final approval from the Board of Regents of the University 
System of Georgia on November 9 of that year. Georgia State will build 
a new park for its baseball team within the footprint of Atlanta–Fulton 
County Stadium, while Turner Field will be renovated into Georgia State's 
new football stadium.[14] The stadium was relatively nondescript, one of 
the many saucer-shaped multi-purpose stadia built during the 1960s and 
1970s, similar to Veterans Stadium, RFK Stadium, Shea Stadium, the Astrodome, 
Three Rivers Stadium, Busch Memorial Stadium and Riverfront Stadium. As 
was the case for every stadium that used this design concept, the fundamentally 
different sizes and shapes of baseball and football fields made it inadequate 
for both sports. In the baseball configuration, 70% of the seats were in 
foul territory.[5] In the football configuration, seats on the 50-yard-line—normally 
prime seats for football—were more than 50 yards away from the sidelines.[15] 
One unusual feature of this stadium is the fact that, unlike most multi-purpose 
stadiums – where the football field was laid either parallel to one of 
the foul lines or running from home plate to center field – the football 
field here was laid along a line running between first and third base. 
Oakland Coliseum has a similar configuration.[16] Thus, a seat behind home 
plate for baseball would also be on the 50-yard line for football. The 
stadium was refurbished for the 1996 season prior to hosting the Olympic 
baseball competition.[17][18] Unlike similarly designed outdoor stadiums—such 
as Riverfront Stadium and Busch Memorial Stadium—Fulton County Stadium 
always had a natural grass surface. However, for many years it was notorious 
for its poor field conditions.[19] Until 1989, it didn't have full-time 
groundskeepers. Instead, it was tended by a municipal street-maintenance 
crew.[20] Due to the relatively high elevation of the Atlanta area (situated 
at the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains), the stadium boasted the 
highest elevation in baseball when it opened, at 1,050 feet above sea level. 
It retained this distinction until the Colorado Rockies were born in 1993. 
The high elevation made it favorable to home run hitters, resulting in 
the nickname "The Launching Pad."[19] Fulton County Stadium was designed 
by a joint-venture team of FABRAP (Finch Alexander Barnes Rothschild & 
