The Atlanta Black Crackers (originally known as the Atlanta Cubs) were 
a professional Negro league baseball team which played during the early-to-mid-20th 
century. They were primarily a minor Negro league team; however in the 
brief period they played as a major Negro league team, they won the second 
half of the 1938 split-season but lost the play-off for the Pennant. The 
Atlanta Black Crackers were founded as the Atlanta Cubs following the start 
of the 20th century with a semiprofessional team of black college students. 
They began to play independently in 1919 and changed their name to the 
Black Crackers because fans had already begun to call them by that name.[1] 
The Black Crackers joined the minor league Negro Southern League in March 
1920. Their uniforms, bats, baseballs, and other supplies were donated 
by their white Southern Association counterpart, the Atlanta Crackers. 
The team played their home games at Ponce de Leon Park, along with the 
white Atlanta Crackers. However, the Black Crackers were not allowed to 
play at Ponce de Leon Park when the Crackers had a home game. The Black 
Crackers were then forced to play at either Morehouse College or Morris 
Brown College. In 1938, the Black Crackers were purchased and invited to 
play in a newly formed major Negro league, the Negro American League. The 
team went on to win the second half pennant in 1938, but scheduling problems 
and umpire controversies caused their series with the Memphis Red Sox to 
be canceled. The team was moved to Indianapolis following the 1938 season, 
and played as the Indianapolis ABCs. The team returned to Atlanta in 1940 
and rejoined the Negro Southern league. Following Jackie Robinson's breaking 
of Major League Baseball's color barrier in 1947, the Negro League as well 
as the Black Crackers continued to exist for only a short time thereafter, 
finally disbanding around 1952. On June 28, 1997, the Atlanta Braves wore 
1938 Black Crackers home uniforms and the visiting Philadelphia Phillies 
wore 1938 Philadelphia Stars road uniforms.[2] The teams wore these same 
uniforms again for their matchup on May 14, 2011.[3] On April 27, 2013, 
the Braves sported Black Crackers throwbacks in a game against the Detroit 
Tigers. On May 3, 2014, the Braves wore the Black Crackers jerseys in a 
game against the San Francisco Giants. On June 20, 2015, the Braves again 
wore the Black Crackers uniform in a game against the New York Mets, who 
wore the uniform of the Brooklyn Royal Giants to honor the Negro League. 
On May 15, 2016, the Braves wore Black Crackers away jerseys while playing 
against the Kansas City Royals, who wore Kansas City Monarchs jerseys. 
All game-worn gear from this game was auctioned off as a fundraiser for 
