The Atlanta Crackers were minor league baseball teams based in Atlanta, 
between 1901 and 1965. The Crackers were Atlanta's home team until the 
Atlanta Braves moved from Milwaukee in 1966. For 60 years (until 1961), 
the Crackers were part of the Class AA Southern Association, a period during 
which they won more games than any other Association team, earning the 
nickname the "Yankees of the Minors". In 1962, the Association disbanded.[1] 
Then, the former Miami Marlins, a Class AAA International League team that 
had spent 1961 playing in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Charleston, West Virginia, 
moved to Atlanta and adopted the name "Crackers." A team in the Sunbelt 
Baseball League, a summer collegiate league, has adopted the team name 
for one of their teams. The Crackers played in Ponce de Leon Park from 
1907 until a fire on September 9, 1923, destroyed the all-wood stadium.[2] 
Spiller Field (a stadium later also called Ponce de Leon Park), became 
their home starting in the 1924 season; it was named in honor of a wealthy 
businessman who paid for the new concrete-and-steel stadium.[3] That new 
park was unusual because it was constructed around a magnolia tree that 
became part of the outfield. Balls landing in the tree remained in play, 
until Earl Mann took over the team in 1947 and had the outfield wall moved 
in about fifty feet.[4] The Crackers played their last season in the newly 
built Atlanta Stadium (later known as Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium).[1] 
The Crackers were independent of major league farm systems until 1950. 
They then became a AA affiliate of the Boston Braves/Milwaukee Braves (1950–58) 
and Los Angeles Dodgers (1959–61) during the last decade of the Southern 
Association's existence. As an International League team, they were the 
top affiliate of the St. Louis Cardinals (1962–63), Minnesota Twins (1964) 
and the Braves again (1965). The team then played in Richmond, Virginia, 
in the International League as the Braves' Class AAA farm team, the Richmond 
Braves, through the 2008 season. The team moved to newly built Coolray 
Field in Lawrenceville, Georgia, in Gwinnett County, Georgia, northeast 
of Atlanta, in 2009 and now plays as the Gwinnett Braves, thus marking 
a homecoming of sorts. The close proximity of the Class AAA and MLB clubs 
makes for a near zero delay when players are called up or sent down. According 
to Tim Darnell, who wrote The Crackers: Early Days of Atlanta Baseball, 
the origins of the team name is unknown.[5] Darnell cites several possibilities 
as to why this name was chosen: However, this list does not represent the 
most likely origins of the name. The term cracker is derived from the Gaelic 
craic, meaning entertaining conversation or boasting, with the latter sense 
still attested in the idiom "not all [subject]'s cracked up to be."[6] 
It was used in the 18th century to denote Irish and Scottish colonists 
of the Deep South backcountry. The Earl of Dartmouth had this to say in 
a 1766 correspondence: "I should explain to your Lordship what is meant 
by Crackers; a name they have got from being great boasters; they are a 
lawless set of rascalls on the frontiers of Virginia, Maryland, the Carolinas, 
and Georgia, who often change their places of abode."[6] During the period 
of Reconstruction following the American Civil War, there was also a political 
party of the same name. Organized in Augusta, Georgia, this party's platform 
was one of "opposition to Catholics and segregation of blacks".[7] While 
now sometimes used as a derogatory term for a white southerner that promotes 
racism, it is also used as a term of pride by some white southerners to 
indicate one that is descended from those original settlers of the area.[6] 
Play-by-play announcer Ernie Harwell called Cracker games on the radio 
from 1943 to 1949 before being traded to Brooklyn Dodgers for catcher Cliff 
Dapper,[citation needed] the only time an announcer has been traded for 
