Charlton Atlee Hammaker (born January 24, 1958) is a former Major League 
Baseball left-handed pitcher who played the majority of his career for 
the San Francisco Giants, from 1982 to 1990. He also played for the Kansas 
City Royals, San Diego Padres, and Chicago White Sox. During his twelve-year 
career, he won 59 games, lost 67 games, and netted five saves. Hammaker 
was born in Carmel, California, on January 24, 1958, the son of Charles 
and Miyake Hammaker. Hammaker is a middle child; he has one older brother, 
Aldine, and one younger sister, Charlene. He is half Japanese and half 
German. Hammaker grew up living in many different locations due to his 
father's career in the United States Army. He attended Mount Vernon High 
School in Fairfax County, Virginia, where he played basketball, football, 
and baseball. After suffering a knee injury in football his sophomore year, 
Hammaker began focusing on basketball. He received a full basketball scholarship 
to East Tennessee State University (ETSU). After being talked to and convinced 
by the coaches at ETSU, Hammaker decided to change his focus to baseball. 
He attended a summer league in Alaska. From there, he was chosen as the 
number one draft pick to pitch for the Kansas City Royals. In 1983, Hammaker's 
best season, he led the National League with an ERA of 2.25, a WHIP of 
1.039, BB/9IP of 1.67, and strikeout to walk ratio of 3.97. That year Hammaker 
won 10, lost 9, and made the National League All-Star team. Hammaker made 
the National League All-Star team in 1983, but did not fare well, surrendering 
seven earned runs in 0.2 inning pitched; and he gave up the only grand 
slam in All-Star Game history, to Fred Lynn. In Game 7 of the 1987 NLCS, 
Hammaker, pitching for San Francisco, gave up a 3-run homer to José Oquendo, 
a utility infielder who had hit only one previous homer that season. The 
Cardinals went on to win that game 6-0 to advance to the World Series. 
Hammaker is married and lives in Knoxville, Tennessee,[1] with his wife. 
He is the father of five daughters. His second daughter, Jenna, is married 
