Atsuya Furuta (古田 敦也, b. August 6, 1965 in Kawanishi, Hyōgo) is a Japanese 
former baseball player and player-manager for the Tokyo Yakult Swallows 
professional baseball club in the Nippon Professional Baseball's Central 
League. Drafted in the 2nd round in 1990, Furuta became a leader for the 
Swallows as a catcher and became the first player-manager in Japanese baseball 
in 29 years, since Katsuya Nomura in 1977. In addition to his skills on 
the field, he is also known for leading a successful two-day strike in 
2004 as the head of the Japanese baseball players union.[2] He remains 
one of the most prominent figures in Japanese baseball because of his leadership 
both on and off the field. In June 2007, Furuta removed himself from the 
active roster so he could focus on managing the floundering Swallows. He 
retired as player and manager in the same season. Furuta graduated from 
Kawanishi Meihou High School and Ritsumeikan University before entering 
the Toyota company baseball team in 1988. He was chosen as part of the 
Japanese Olympic team in 1988 for the Seoul Olympics, and won a silver 
medal. The Yakult Swallows drafted Furuta in the second round of the 1990 
draft. He became the team's starting catcher in his first season. In the 
1991 all star game, he threw out three runners attempting to steal in one 
inning, receiving the all star MVP award. He has appeared in the all star 
game every single year of his career. The same year, he also beat Hiromitsu 
Ochiai to win the batting title (.340 batting average). He also hit a cycle 
in the 1992 all star game, receiving the all star MVP award again. In the 
1995 Japanese championship series, he outsmarted batting champion Ichiro 
Suzuki, leading his team to victory. In 1997, he won the season MVP award 
for leading his team to another championship. On June 28, 2003, Furuta 
hit home runs in 4 consecutive at bats, tying the Japanese record. He got 
his 2000th hit on April 24, 2005, which is the 32nd Japanese player, the 
second catcher (after Katsuya Nomura), and the first-ever player drafted 
from university/company team to reach such achievement. In 2004, he led 
the first player strike in Japanese baseball history, in opposition to 
the elimination of the Kintetsu Buffaloes team. In 2006, he agreed to become 
a player-manager for the Tokyo Yakult Swallows, the first in 29 years, 
after his mentor, Katsuya Nomura. His team had a record of 70-73-3 in 2006, 
placing in third, but Furuta's own statistics were easily his career worst. 
He was given the largest salary decrease in Japanese baseball history after 
the season (his player contract and manager contract are separate, where 
the player contract is shorter), but he remained a player-manager for the 
2007 season. He retired from baseball both as a player and as a manager 
at the end of 2007. Though his hitting and defensive skills eroded over 
the years due to age and many injuries, Furuta was by far the best catcher 
in Japan during his prime, tirelessly analyzing opposing batters, and throwing 
out many base stealers during his career. His percentage of base stealers 
thrown out was above .600 in 1993 and 2000, a phenomenal percentage. He 
also contributed significantly with the bat, winning a batting title, and 
having eight seasons with a batting average over .300 (the most among Japanese 
catchers). He has also caught two no-hit games: Terry Bross in 1995, and 
Kazuhisa Ishii in 1997. Furuta developed many of his skills under the tutelage 
of legendary catcher Katsuya Nomura, who was also his manager in the 1990s 
when the Swallows were one of the most feared teams in Japan, winning three 
Japan Series championships in that decade. Something else the two had in 
common was that both were player-managers: Nomura for the then-Nankai Hawks, 
and Furuta for Yakult. The two would face off as managers during the 2006 
interleague tournament, and Furuta got the better of his mentor, winning 
five out of the six games between Yakult and the 2nd-year Tohoku Rakuten 
Golden Eagles. The strike took place over two days, from September 18 to 
September 19, 2004. It was the first strike in the history of Japanese 
professional baseball. The strike arose from a dispute that took place 
between the owners of the 12 professional Japanese baseball teams and the 
players union (which Furuta was the union's leader on that time), concerning 
the merging of the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes and the Orix Blue Wave. The 
owners wanted to get rid of the financially defunct Buffaloes, and merge 
the two baseball leagues which had been placed in Japan since 1958, since 
teams in the Central League saw much higher profits than the Pacific League, 
having popular teams such as the Yomiuri Giants and Hanshin Tigers. A battle 
escalated between the players union and the owners, and reached its height 
when Yomiuri Giants owner Tsuneo Watanabe controversially remarked that 
Furuta was "a mere player,"[3] implying that players had no say in what 
league would look like the next year. The strike was originally planned 
in all Saturday and Sunday games on that month, starting from September 
11, 2004, but was pushed back due to the agreement of another meeting between 
the union and the owners on September 10, 2004. The players went on strike 
the following week when no progress was made in the negotiations. The strike 
immediately led to a compromise between the two groups. Although the Buffaloes 
were merged with the Blue Wave (and formed into Orix Buffaloes) after the 
incident, the Rakuten Eagles were newly created to keep the former six 
team league structure. The dispute received huge press coverage (which 
mostly favored Furuta and the players union) and was dubbed one of the 
biggest events in the history of Japanese baseball. Proposals and amendments 
concerning inter-league games, player drafting, and management were also 
discussed between the players union and the owners during this period. 
The dispute officially ended after the two groups reached on consensus 
on September 23, 2004. Furuta has made a huge impact in the Japanese Baseball 
Players Union, increasing the rights of players, and mending relationships 
between the professional leagues and the amateur baseball association in 
Japan. The baseball strike in 2004 became a nationwide event, and fans 
of all teams cheered for Furuta when he appeared following the strike. 
Furuta was the leader of the players union from 1998 to 2005, stepping 
