The Augusta GreenJackets are a minor league baseball team that plays in 
Augusta, Georgia, as a Class A affiliate of the San Francisco Giants. Lake 
Olmstead Stadium has been the home of the GreenJackets since the 1995 season, 
although Augusta has fielded a team in the South Atlantic League since 
1988. The team is named in honor of The Masters golf tournament held in 
Augusta, where the winner receives a green jacket. Before the Giants took 
over the club's affiliation after the 2004 season, the GreenJackets were 
a part of the Boston Red Sox organization. Prior to that the Red Sox replaced 
the Pittsburgh Pirates in Augusta. The GreenJackets boast third baseman 
Kevin Youkilis and Dustin Pedroia as the only prospects to make the Red 
Sox roster, although knuckle baller Tim Wakefield pitched there in 1989 
with the Pirates organization. The Red Sox' relationship with Augusta met 
with immediate success when the GreenJackets won the South Atlantic League 
championship in their first year as an affiliate team. Built primarily 
as a baseball facility between 1994 and 1995, Lake Olmstead Stadium was 
transformed by the GreenJackets into a versatile entertainment center for 
Augusta and the surrounding communities. The stadium seats 4,400 with nearly 
1,000 box seats, 830 reserved seats, over 2,000 general admission seats, 
and also offers a large 500 person picnic area down the left field line 
and a Grill and Bar area down the right field line. Lake Olmstead Stadium 
has been the site of events associated with The Masters golf tournament, 
many concerts, the Annual Masters Beach Blast Concert, and other special 
events as well. Despite holding the best overall record in their division, 
the GreenJackets missed the playoffs in 2009 and 2010. Only the winners 
of the first- and second-half advance due to the playoff format of the 
South Atlantic League, something Augusta failed to do in either season. 
In 2008, the team was voted by fans as the best minor-league team in the 
Minor League Baseball Yearly (MiLBY) Awards.[1] Besides Wakefield, Youkilis, 
and Pedroia other Major League Baseball players that performed at Lake 
Olmstead Stadium include Moisés Alou, Emmanuel Burriss, Carlos García, 
Brian Horwitz, Jason Kendall, Orlando Merced, Hanley Ramírez, Brandon Moss, 
Luis Mendoza, Pablo Sandoval, Eugenio Vélez, Brian Wilson, Madison Bumgarner, 
and Tony Womack. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 
7-day disabled list * On San Francisco Giants 40-man roster # Rehab assignment 
∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive 
list Roster updated April 8, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → San 
