The Australia national baseball team has participated in nine of the International 
Baseball Federation World Cup tournaments. Australia has made it to the 
quarter finals of a tournament three times—1998, 2007 and 2009— and its 
best result was in the most recent tournament held in 2009, in which Australia 
placed 5th. The 2005 tournament was hosted by the Netherlands. It consisted 
of a round-robin series conducted in two pools from which the top four 
teams in each pool qualified for the quarter-finals. Australia finished 
5th in its pool, failing to qualify after finishing with a 4–4 record. 
Australia's performance in the 2007 World Cup was their best ever. They 
finished 6th and outscored their opponents 61–29 while accumulating a 7–3 
record over the course of the tournament, held in Taiwan. Trent Oeltjen 
was the tournament leader in runs scored (12), stolen bases (7) and batting 
average (.523), earning him a spot on the All Star team named at the end 
of the tournament.[1] Despite the game being shortened to seven innings 
by the mercy rule, Australia broke the World Cup record for runs scored 
when they beat Thailand 26–1. The game was also significant in that two 
position players combined to pitch the final four innings: third baseman 
Gavin Fingleson threw three innings to record the win, while first baseman 
Brett Roneberg threw the final inning. Finishing 6th for the tournament 
earned Australia an automatic berth in the 2009 World Cup. In September, 
Australia was one of 22 nations that sent a team to the 2009 World Cup, 
which was held in seven different countries across Europe.[2] For the first 
round they were drawn in Pool A, held in Prague, Czech Republic, and competed 
against Chinese Taipei, Mexico and the hosts Czech Republic.[3] Only a 
few days after selecting their 24 player squad, Australia was forced to 
find a replacement for Justin Huber—one of the two players selected with 
Major League experience—as he was called up from AAA Rochester Red Wings 
to MLB Minnesota Twins. James Linger was selected as his replacement, making 
his Australian senior team debut.[4] Australia started its campaign with 
a win in the opening game of the tournament against their first round hosts, 
Czech Republic.[5] Winning 17–4, one of the highlights was Timothy Kennelly 
hitting a home run and then a 3-run home run in his first two at bats.[6] 
Both he and his brother Matthew Kennelly made their national team debut 
in the game.[7] Following a rest day, Australia faced Chinese Taipei and 
won 7–5.[8] Australia's hitting was led by Timothy Kennelly another 3-run 
home run in the third inning to make the score 4–0 (in addition to an outfield 
assist from right field to save a run in the sixth inning), and James Beresford 
hitting a 2-run shot in the eighth inning to break the tie and score what 
would turn out to be the winning runs.[9] This win, combined with Mexico's 
defeat of Czech Republic assured Australia's progression through to the 
second round, and determining that their second round play (as well as 
any further play beyond the second round that they were to qualify for) 
would be in Italy.[10][11] In their final game of the first round Australia 
lost to Mexico 10–9.[12] Given that both teams had already qualified not 
only for the second round, but would both be playing in the same pool for 
the round, only momentum into the next round—and their next match in a 
potentially deciding final game of the pool—was on the line. Pool A Finishing 
second in their first round pool, Australia qualified for the second round 
to play in Pool G. Apart from their hosts Italy, the other teams to qualify 
for Pool G were Canada, Chinese Taipei, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands Antilles 
and defending champions United States. Despite being ranked behind five 
of the teams in its pool on the IBAF World Rankings at the time,[13] Australia 
finished the round with a 5–2. This tied with Canada and Chinese Taipei, 
and with the tiebreakers used in the tournament, meant Australia was second, 
behind only the United States.[14] The Australians compiled a mercy rule 
victory over the Netherlands Antilles,[15] victories over world No. 3 Japan,[16] 
world No. 7 Mexico,[17] world No. 8 Canada,[18] and hosts and world No. 
15 Italy,[19] while their only defeats were by one run each at the hands 
of world No. 4 United States[20] and world No. 5 Chinese Taipei.[21] Australia 
is scheduled to participate in the 2011 tournament in Panama, to be held 
in October 2011. They will in the same pool for the first round of as Cuba, 
Dominican Republic, Germany, Italy, Nicaragua, South Korea, and Venezuela.[27] 
