Austus is a variation of Australian rules football which was played in 
Australia during World War II between Australians and visiting soldiers 
from the United States. The name comes from the first four letters of Australia 
(AUST) and the initials of the United States (US). Sports exhibitions by 
servicemen from both the Australian and visiting American services were 
commonplace during World War II as fundraisers, including American football.[1] 
However, it was not possible for teams from Australia and America to play 
against each other in either of their national football codes due to the 
differences in skills: Australians were not adept at long throws of the 
ball, as was common in American football, and Americans were not adept 
at kicking, particularly on the run, as was required to play Australian 
rules football. To enable football competitions between Australians and 
Americans, a modified code was proposed. Although sometimes described as 
a hybrid between the Australian and American codes, creator Ern Cowley 
described it as "99% Australian rules with the addition of gridiron highlights".[2] 
The only significant rule change was that the American football-style forward 
pass was allowed and afforded the same benefits as an Australian rules 
football kick. Therefore, a ball thrown over a distance of at least ten 
yards could be marked if caught on the full; and goals could be scored 
from throws, with the exception that a thrown goal must have been from 
a distance greater than twenty yards – an arc twenty yards from the goal 
line was painted on the field to enable this to be judged by umpires.[3] 
The game was played with an American football rather than an Australian 
football, because the pointed design of the American ball meant that it 
could be both thrown and kicked.[4] These rules enabled Americans to participate 
against Australians at Australian rules football using the ball skills 
they already possessed from playing American football. The first game of 
Austus was played on 18 July 1943 at Punt Road Oval between a team of US 
Servicemen and an Australian Explosives Factory team over two 25-minute 
halves. The Americans won 8.4 (52) to 5.8 (38).[5] Two weeks later, an 
Australian team comprising around twelve VFL players comfortably defeated 
the Americans 17.23 (125) d. 8.1 (49) in a full-length game.[6] Several 
more games were played as exhibitions in 1943 and 1944. By the end of 1943, 
both countries' armed forces endorsed the game as a suitable activity for 
their troops, with the rules later published in official army publications. 
The US Army noted that the game was more suited to warmer climates than 
the American game, and was more convenient as it could be played without 
protective equipment.[2] The rules are credited to The Sporting Globe sportswriter 
and former Carlton player Ern Cowley. Cowley and leading American player 
Private Bill Jost, who was a prodigious throw and captained the American 
teams, were both presented medals by the Helms Athletic Foundation in 1944 
for their services to the short-lived code.[7] The game all but disappeared 
after the departure of American soldiers from Australia.[8] Some consideration 
was given after the war to sending Australian teams to America to demonstrate 
the sport, but an absence of willing financial backers meant that the idea 
quickly fell through.[9] The game has rarely if ever been played since. 
