The Australia national baseball team was the third nation, after the United 
States and Sweden,[1] to participate in baseball at the Summer Olympics, 
making their first appearance at the 1956 Games in Melbourne, and again 
as part of its demonstration at the 1988 Games in Seoul. Since baseball 
was first included as a medal sport at the 1992 Games in Barcelona,[2] 
Australia has participated in three of the five tournaments. The best result 
achieved was in the 2004 Games in Athens, where Australia lost the gold 
medal match to Cuba to receive silver.[3] Their medal tally puts them at 
5th, equal to Chinese Taipei.[NB 2] Australia is the only country to have 
hosted an Olympic baseball tournament as a medal sport, won an Olympic 
medal, and done so in separate years: hosted in 2000, won silver in 2004. 
Australia is also one of only two countries—the other being the United 
States—to have hosted baseball events as both a non-medal and medal sport. 
In 1956, two demonstration sports were allowed: a sport from the host nation 
and a foreign sport—Australian rules football and baseball respectively.[5] 
Rather than the tournaments that would be played at future Games while 
still a demonstration sport, a single match was played against a team representing 
the United States selected from the U.S. Far East Command, on 1 December 
1956, at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Though many of the 114,000 people 
who attended were believed to be attending in anticipation of the athletics 
events to be held that afternoon,[1] until an exhibition game played at 
the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 2008 between the Los Angeles Dodgers 
and the Boston Red Sox, it had the largest attendance for a baseball game 
ever.[6] Even with this distinctive home-ground advantage, the Australians 
were unable to win, losing 11–5 in six innings. 1988 was the last time 
that baseball was included as an Olympic sport without medal status, and 
was the second time that Australia participated at the Olympic level. Though 
not originally included in the eight team tournament, Australia joined 
Canada, Chinese Taipei, Japan, the Netherlands, Puerto Rico, South Korea 
and the United States after Cuba chose to boycott the Games.[1] Australia 
was pooled with Canada, South Korea and the United States, but failed to 
qualify for the finals.[7] Prior to the Games proper, Australia had to 
qualify to compete in the baseball tournament. After the host nation automatically 
qualifying, two spots were available each to European, American and Asian 
teams, while the final spot was available to the winner of a playoff between 
the Oceania Champions and the African Champions. Australia won this contest, 
depriving South Africa of its first opportunity to compete in Olympic baseball. 
Australia became the tenth nation to compete for an Olympic medal in baseball, 
when they played Cuba in the opening game of their 1996 campaign. This 
game set the record for the most runs scored in an Olympic baseball match—a 
record that stood through to the final Olympic tournament in 2008 Beijing 
Games in Beijing—with the two teams combining to score 27 runs, Cuba winning 
19–8.[8] The previous record was set at the 1992 Barcelona Games, when 
Chinese Taipei defeated hosts Spain 20–0.[9] After losing their first two 
mercy rule shortened games to Cuba and the Netherlands, Australia recorded 
their first victory against defending bronze-medalists Japan. Australia 
won only one of their remaining four games (against South Korea), which 
included two more mercy-rule losses to the United States and Nicaragua. 
They finished the preliminary stage seventh, ahead of South Korea. Though 
it has been equaled since, the loss to Cuba in the first game remains the 
largest defeat Australia has suffered in Olympic baseball. Having hosted 
and won gold in the 1999 Intercontinental Cup ten months prior, with only 
one loss in the whole competition—including two victories over powerhouse 
Cuba—there were great expectations for Australia to perform in front of 
home crowds again in the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Despite virtually the same 
line-up of teams (South Africa qualified for the Games while Chinese Taipei 
did not) Australia could only manage two victories during the round-robin 
phase against South Korea and South Africa. The loss to the United States 
in Australia's final game of the tournament equalled the largest loss they'd 
suffered in Olympic competition four years previously at the hands of Cuba. 
As had been the case in the previous Olympics, Oceania and Africa teams 
first had to become champions of their respective continents before facing 
in a deciding series to determine the last of eight spots available. For 
the third successive Olympic Games, South Africa represented Africa, having 
won the gold medal at the 2003 All-Africa Games.[10] Australia was scheduled 
to compete against Guam in the 2004 Oceania Baseball Championship, with 
the winner advancing to the playoff against South Africa. Three days before 
the best-of-five game series was due to start, Guam withdrew from the tournament, 
resulting in Australia's win by default.[11] Australia hosted the best-of-five game 
series against South Africa at Blacktown Olympic Park, one of two venues 
for the 2000 Games. Australia swept the series 3–0 to advance to the main 
Olympic tournament in Athens.[12] Australian short stop Glenn Williams 
was named the series Most Valuable Player.[13] Despite losing the first 
two games against Cuba and South Korea, Australia won their next four games 
to secure a position in the semi finals, including a record setting 22–2 
demolition of Netherlands. No other team before or since has scored more 
than 20 runs in an Olympic baseball game, and only one other time has a 
team won by a margin of 20. (Chinese Taipei in 1992 beat Spain 20–0, and 
Cuba in 1996 beat Italy 20–6.) Olympic baseball operated with a mercy rule 
that would stop a game after seven (or eight) innings if one team was leading 
by ten or more runs, making it more difficult to post such large victories. 
Canada defeated Australia in their final round-robin game 11–0, making 
it the third time Australia had been beaten by a margin of 11 runs in as 
many tournaments. In the semis, Australia faced Japan. In pool play Australia 
had won relatively comfortably 9–4, though it took a much more hard-fought 
effort to clinch their first medal: they won 1–0. This set up a rematch 
of the very first match of the tournament to decide the gold medal, between 
Australia and Cuba. As in their previous three encounters, Cuba won to 
take gold, leaving Australia to claim silver in their best Olympic result, 
and their best result to date in a major international tournament. (The 
IBAF includes the Baseball World Cup, World Baseball Classic and Olympic 
Games as major world championships, while the Intercontinental Cup is considered 
a minor world championship.[14]) The 2008 Olympic Games baseball tournament 
saw the introduction of an expanded qualification phase. At prior Games, 
the host nation automatically qualified along with the top two teams from 
the Americas, Europe and Asia, and the eighth team being determined by 
a playoff between the best team from Oceania and from Africa. In an attempt 
to make the qualification a fairer representation of the top baseball nations, 
this was adjusted to include: Despite the change to the qualification structure, 
there were concerns raised by Australia and Canada about the timing of 
the tournament.[15] As the tournament was scheduled for March, many of 
the players who would have otherwise been selected for the Australian, 
Canadian, and Mexican teams were unavailable due to commitments in the 
American Major League system. Though the Minor League players were eligible 
to play both in the qualifying tournament and the main Olympic competition, 
many were unavailable either due to the Major League clubs denying individuals 
permission, or players on the cusp of promotion to Major League teams choosing 
to remain in spring training camp. When New Zealand withdrew from the 2007 
Oceania Baseball Championship—intended to be a five-game series between 
the two nations—Australia was automatically awarded the Oceania berth in 
the Final Olympic Qualifying Tournament.[16] A series of exhibition games 
were scheduled, both to give match practice to the players, and also to 
serve as selection trials for the tournament itself. Two games were played 
against the New South Wales Patriots—a state side—in Sydney. As some of 
the players in the Australian team would likely come from the Patriots, 
New South Wales selected its team first for the two games. Given the lack 
of match practice at the international level, an additional series was 
organised, with Australia hosting Canada in what was originally going to 
be a four-game series.[17] However five games were held, two in Brisbane 
and three on the Gold Coast. The Patriots won their series 1–0, and Canada 
won theirs 3–1, with one game drawn after 9 innings in each series. Four 
days after the exhibition series on home soil, Australia competed in a 
round-robin format against Canada, Chinese Taipei, Germany, Mexico, South 
Africa, South Korea and Spain.[18] Australia failed to qualify for the 
Olympic Games, finishing the tournament in 5th position. Their largest 
defeat in the tournament proved to be the decisive game for them, despite 
being only their second: had Australia beaten South Korea, rather than 
losing to them 16–2 in a mercy rule shortened game, Australia would have 
finished the tournament in 3rd, South Korea in 4th and Mexico 5th. This 
is particularly interesting, given that South Korea went on to win gold 
