The Australian national baseball team represents Australia in international 
baseball tournaments and competitions. They are ranked as the top team 
in Oceania, and are the Oceanian Champions, having been awarded the title 
in 2007 when New Zealand withdrew from the Oceania Baseball Championship. 
After achieving a last (16th) place in the 2013 World Baseball Classic, 
their ranked dropped to 13, which is the lowest rank Australia ever got. 
The highest rank they have achieved was 9th.[1] The Australian team participated 
in the Summer Olympic Games in 1996, 2000 and 2004, but failed to qualify 
for 2008. The team has also participated in both of the other major international 
baseball tournaments recognised by the International Baseball Federation 
(IBAF): the Baseball World Cup and most recently the World Baseball Classic 
(WBC).[2] The team is controlled by the Australian Baseball Federation, 
which is represented in the Baseball Confederation of Oceania (BCO). Prior 
to the BCO's formation, Australia competed in the Asian Baseball Championship 
under the Baseball Federation of Asia (BFA). Australia continues to have 
a relationship with the BFA; the 2011 resumption of the Asia Series includes 
the Australian Baseball League's champion team.[3] Infielders Outfielders 
In January 2009 the International Baseball Federation created a ranking 
system so that the nations involved in international competition could 
be compared independently. Teams receive points based on the position they 
finish at the end of tournaments. The system takes into account results 
not only of the senior men's teams but also of junior teams. Weightings 
that emphasise the importance of certain tournaments are based on the number 
of teams competing, the number of continents represented (or eligible to 
be represented), and in the case of continental tournaments such as the 
Oceania Baseball Championship the relative strength of teams eligible. 
Only results within the previous four years are used, so points are added 
and removed over time.[2] Since the system began, the rankings have been 
adjusted after the completion of tournaments qualifying for the ranking 
process; the most recent was the 2009 Baseball World Cup. When the rankings 
were first introduced, Australia was listed at 10th position.[4] The high-water 
mark was after the 2009 World Baseball Classic when they were in 9th.[1] 
The lowest position they have been in the ranking since its inception is 
11th.[5][6][7] At the end of 2010, Australia had returned to their original 
position of 10th.[8] In January 2009 the IBAF, in releasing the first edition 
of the world rankings, announced the classifications of various tournaments 
that contributed to the rankings themselves. In doing so, they identified 
that of the "world" tournaments, there were different levels with differing 
levels of weighting towards the ranks: major world championships, minor 
world championships, world qualifying tournaments and continental championships/qualifying 
tournaments.[2] There are currently three recognised tournaments that are 
considered "major" by the IBAF: the World Baseball Classic, the Summer 
Olympic Games and the Baseball World Cup.[2] Of those, the Summer Olympics 
will be phased out of the rankings structure, as baseball will no longer 
be contested as an Olympic event.[9] Australia has competed in all three 
editions of the World Baseball Classic. All sixteen teams that played in 
the 2006 edition were invited to compete in the second in 2009.[10] By 
virtue of their third-place finish in their first-round pool, Australia 
qualified compete at the 2013 edition of the WBC.;[11] however, they were 
eliminated with an 0–3 record and finished in last place overall. Australia, 
which has not progressed beyond the first round of competition, achieved 
its highest finish, 12th, in the 2009 tournament. Unusual for international 
competition in baseball, the squads selected in the World Baseball Classic 
tournaments featured players active in Major League Baseball in addition 
to Minor League, Nippon Professional Baseball and local players. Generally 
players in the Major Leagues are unavailable for international representative 
teams due to their contracts with the respective clubs.[12] Prior to formally 
starting their campaign, Australia played an exhibition game, which they 
lost, against a Boston Red Sox squad at City of Palms Park in Fort Myers, 
Florida.[13] This was also the site of their training camp.[14] Australia 
competed in Pool D—along with Dominican Republic, Italy and Venezuela—in 
the first round at Cracker Jack Stadium in Orlando, Florida. The other 
three teams were able to field a large number of Major League players. 
Of players born outside the United States on 2006 Major League Opening 
Day rosters, the Dominican Republic (85) and Venezuela (43) had more than 
all other countries and between them accounted for more than 57% of foreign-born 
players in the leagues.[15] Italy is among the top nations in Europe and 
had access to Italian-American players under the eligibility rules for 
the tournament. Thus, Australia was considered the underdog in the pool.[16] 
Having failed to win any of their round-robin pool games, they finished 
last in their pool, and were eliminated with Canada, China, Chinese Taipei, 
Italy, Netherlands, Panama and South Africa. The eventual champions were 
Japan.[17] Australia was based in Peoria, Arizona—the site of the Seattle 
Mariners spring training camp—for their preparation for the formal start 
of their 2009 campaign. Unlike 2006, in which they had one exhibition game, 
they competed against three different Major League clubs: the Seattle Mariners, 
the Milwaukee Brewers and the Chicago White Sox.[18] Their game against 
Seattle was Ken Griffey, Jr.'s first game playing for the Mariners since 
October 1999,[19] and was also their first victory as part of a World Baseball 
Classic tour. Australia was drawn in Pool B for the 2009 tournament, along 
with Cuba, Mexico and South Africa, competing at Foro Sol Stadium in Mexico 
City.[20] After beating Mexico in their opening game,[21] they lost their 
next two games to Cuba[22] and Mexico,[23] and were eliminated from the 
tournament.[24] The Australians set a WBC record against Mexico: 22 hits 
in a single game is more than any other team has achieved in either tournament.[25] 
In June 2011, it was announced that the field for the 2013 WBC would be 
expanded to include an additional 12 teams and that a qualifying round 
would be several months prior to the main tournament. The qualifying tournament 
involved the 12 newly invited teams, as well as the four lowest-placed 
teams from the 2009 tournament; all teams who did not win a game. The qualifying 
tournament broke the teams into four pools of four teams each, which competed 
in a six-game, modified double-elimination format, similar to the first 
round of the 2009 tournament, with the winners of the sixth game in each 
pool proceeding to the main tournament. Australia, having finished 12th 
after beating Mexico in their first game in 2009, automatically qualified 
for the main tournament.[11] The main tournament combined elements of both 
previous WBC editions. The first round was split all teams into four pools, 
where the teams competed in a round-robin, as was the case in the 2006 
tournament. The second round used the same modified double-elimination 
format as used in the 2009 tournament and the 2013 qualifying tournament. 
The final round was contested in the same manner as both previous tournaments: 
the top two teams from each group in the second round qualifying for the 
two semi-final matches, the winners of which played in the championship 
game.[26] Australia was drawn into Pool B, which was held at the Taichung 
Intercontinental Baseball Stadium in Taiwan. In their opener, they fell 
to host and qualifiers Chinese Taipei, 4–1. They followed up with a 6–0 
loss to South Korea before finishing with a 4–1 defeat to the Netherlands. 
Pool B Game 1 Game 4 Game 5 Right-handed pitchers Left-handed pitchers 
Infielders Outfielders Utility players Coaches Australia was the third 
nation, after the United States and Sweden,[29] to participate in baseball 
at the Summer Olympics, making their first appearance at the 1956 Games 
in Melbourne, and again as part of its demonstration at the 1988 Games 
in Seoul. Though the sport has applied for re-admission for 2016, baseball 
is no longer contested as a medal event at the Olympics.[30] Since baseball 
was first included as a medal sport at the 1992 Games in Barcelona,[31] 
Australia has participated in three of the five tournaments. The best result 
achieved was in the 2004 Games in Athens, where Australia lost the gold 
medal match to Cuba to receive silver.[32] Their medal tally puts them 
at 5th, equal to Chinese Taipei.[Oly 1] Australia has participated in ten 
of the IBAF World Cup tournaments. To date its best result has been 5th, 
which Australia has achieved twice in both of the most recent tournaments 
held—2009[34] and 2011.[35] At the 2007 tournament, Trent Oeltjen became 
the first Australian player to be named in a World Cup All Star team,[36] 
in recognition of his tournament-leading hitting and base-running statistics. 
Australia is currently participating in the 2011 tournament in Panama.[37][38] 
Until 1986, the World Cup was actually referred to as the "Amateur World 
Series". The Amateur World Series only made use of round-robin fixtures, 
with teams ranked at the end of the tournament. Australia's first appearance 
was in Italy in 1978. Out of the ten teams to compete, Australia finished 
9th ahead of the other debuting team, Belgium.[39] Since the 1988 tournament, 
it has held the "World Cup" name, with the IBAF recognising the past Amateur 
World Series winners as World Cup winners. With the change of name came 
a change in format for the tournament: a round-robin phase, followed by 
a knockout phase for the top four teams. (Later tournaments would see two 
pools used in the first phase, and an expanded knockout phase including 
the top four teams from each pool.) In the "World Cup Era", Australia has 
reached the final phase four times, finishing 7th in 1998,[40] 6th in 2007[41] 
and most recently 5th in 2009 and 2011.[34][35] There are six separate 
tournaments that the IBAF currently recognises as "minor world championships". 
Of those, Australia has only participated in one senior tournament: the 
Intercontinental Cup. (Australia has also participated in the World Junior 
Baseball Championship and the World Youth Baseball Championship, both of 
which are also included in the same category for the IBAF rankings.)[2] 
Australia is one of five nations to have won the Intercontinental Cup, 
winning the 1999 tournament by beating Cuba 4–3 in extra innings in front 
of a home crowd in Sydney.[42] It was the first time Australia had won 
an international baseball tournament, and through 2009 the only win outside 
of the Oceania Baseball Championship. The team enjoyed several individual 
successes as well:[43] It was only the third time Cuba had been beaten 
in the gold medal match in the tournament's history, having reached the 
tournament decider every time they have participated. Australia also shares 
another honour with Cuba: of the nine nations to have hosted the tournament, 
only Australia and Cuba have won as hosts, combining for five tournament 
wins from five times hosted. (Cuba in 1979, 1987, 1995 and 2002, Australia 
in 1999.)[44] Australia first participated in the tournament at the 1981 
Intercontinental Cup, managing only one win out of their seven games, finishing 
8th.[45] Missing the 1983 Intercontinental Cup, they returned in 1985 to 
repeat their previous performance: 1 win, 8th-place finish.[46] They would 
not reappear at the tournament until 1993 where they improved to a 5–4 
record to finish in 6th position.[47] Australia's first medal performance 
at the Intercontinental Cup (and their first medal at a world tournament) 
was at the 1997 tournament. In their best performance through the preliminary 
round, they put together a 6–1 record losing only to eventual silver-medalists 
Cuba, and beating eventual gold-medalists Japan. They lost to Japan in 
the semi-final, but beat the United States for the second time in the tournament 
to secure the bronze.[48] Australia also competed in the most recent tournament 
in 2006. There they finished in 5th position, compiling a 3–4 record. This 
is likely to be the last edition of the tournament for the foreseeable 
future.[2] Australia is the second of only two nations to have participated 
in IBAF-sanctioned continental tournaments for more than one continent: 
the Asian Baseball Championship between 1971–1993, and the Oceania Baseball 
Championship since 2003. The first nation to achieve this was Guam, who 
competed in the Asian tournament within the same timeframe as Australia, 
though they were involved in the first Oceania tournament in 1999.[49] 
Australia is one of thirteen nations to have participated in the Asian 
Baseball Championship since the tournament was first held in 1954. The 
last time they contested the championship was in 1993, as a result of joining 
the newly formed Baseball Confederation of Oceania. Though their best result 
was a bronze medal in the 1975, the only teams to consistently finish ahead 
of Australia were Japan, South Korea and Chinese Taipei—the top three teams 
in Asia, and all in the top five in the world.[50] Though scheduled to 
participate on three separate occasions, Australia has only contested the 
Oceania Baseball Championship once in 2003. The two other times, Australia's 
scheduled opponents—Guam in 2004[51] and New Zealand in 2007[52]—withdrew 
from competition in the lead up to each series, both times scheduled to 
be held in Sydney. Australia was awarded the championship both times, and 
as a result represented Oceania at the 2004 Summer Olympics[OBC 1] and 
at the 2007 Baseball World Cup respectively. Held during late April 2003, 
Australia won its first continental championship, beating hosts Guam 12–1, 
12–1 and 5–1 to win the best of five series three games to one. (Guam won 
