The Australian Baseball League (ABL) was a baseball league, established 
in 1987 and disbanded in 1999. Before the formation of the Australian Baseball 
League, the Claxton Shield, established in 1934, was Australia's premier 
baseball tournament.[1][2] The idea of an Australian baseball league was 
first conceived in 1987, possibly prompted by the success of Australia's 
National Basketball League. The final Claxton Shield competition was held 
in 1988 by the Auburn Baseball Club in New South Wales at its home ground 
of Oriole Park. Auburn funded all visiting teams' fares and accommodation 
with the expectation of recouping from gate takings and increased revenue 
at its social club.[3] Soon after, the ABL was formed, with eight teams 
from around Australia. The Australian Baseball League was much like many 
other professional baseball leagues around the world, with teams playing 
home and away series during a regular season, playing to compete in the 
playoffs, the winner of which being crowned champions. The season length 
ranged from 42 to 62 games, depending on the number of teams in the season. 
The competition used the designated hitter rule, much like the Major League 
Baseball's American League, but allowed aluminium bats for non-MLB contracted 
players, with the contracted players using wood. There were also allowances 
in place for pinch runners to run for a catcher if he made base safely, 
this was put in place for not only speed up the break between innings waiting 
for a catcher to change into his gear, but to create more excitement on 
the basepaths. Import restrictions also applied in the League as to nurture 
home grown talent[4] The ABL experimented with many different types of 
scheduling to try to increase attendances, including day and night games 
at different times of the week, seven-inning double headers. The length 
of games became a problem as many grounds had night curfews. The Australian 
Baseball League formally got underway in October 1989, representing Australia's 
first professional "major league" in baseball. Officially, the first ABL 
game was contested between Perth Heat and Adelaide Giants at Parry Field 
in Perth on 27 October 1989, with the Giants winning 8-5. The league consisted 
of between 6 and 9 teams over the 10 years, with its highest point in 1995 
with 9 teams competing. Championships were decided by a top two 5 game 
play off series for the first 3 seasons before changing to a top 4 play 
off series with winners advancing to the championship series. Following 
the change to the top 4 format, both semi-finals and championship series 
were played as a best-of-three series. The Australian Baseball League formally 
got underway in October 1989, representing Australia's first professional 
"major league" of baseball. Officially, the first ABL game was contested 
between Perth Heat and Adelaide Giants at Parry Field in Perth on 27 October 
1989, with the Giants winning 8-5. The inaugural season was dominated by 
the Waverley Reds a record of 34 wins and 6 losses, only losing 2 games 
at home from 19 starts, taking out the Championship series 3 games to 1 
against cross town rivals the Melbourne Monarchs. The 1990–91 ABL championship 
was won by the Perth Heat, defeating the minor premiers, the Gold Coast's 
Daikyo Dolphins by 3 games to 2.[5] In a reversal of the previous season, 
the 1991–92 ABL title was won by the Daikyo Dolphins, defeating the Perth 
Heat by 3 games to 1. The first year of the four-team finals format, the 
championship series saw the Melbourne Monarchs face the minor premier Perth 
Heat at Perth's Parry Field, having eliminated the Sydney Blues and Waverley 
Reds, respectively. The Melbourne Monarchs defeated the Heat 2 games to 
nil in the final to clinch the 1992–93 ABL championship. Won by the Brisbane 
Bandits, defeating the minor premier Sydney Blues 2 games to nil in the 
championship series held at Parramatta Stadium. The Perth Heat and Adelaide 
Giants, respectively, were the two defeated semi-finalists. Won by the 
Waverley Reds, defeating the Perth Heat 2 games to nil at Moorabbin Oval. 
The Sydney Blues (defeated by the Reds) and East Coast Cougars (defeated 
by the Heat) were eliminated in the semi-finals. Won by the Sydney Blues, 
defeating the Melbourne Reds 2 games to nil in the Blues' only season at 
the old Sydney Showground at Moore Park. In the first time a team had reached 
the final from fourth place, the Reds defeated the minor premier Brisbane 
Bandits in the semi-final, while the Perth Heat were eliminated by the 
Blues. Won by the Perth Heat. Won by the Melbourne Reds. The final ABL 
Championship, held as a test event at the new Sydney Showground at Sydney 
Olympic Park, was taken out by the Gold Coast Cougars (defeating the Sydney 
Storm), after the Adelaide Giants dominated the regular season to finish 
on top. The ABL had a total running cost of $6 million by the later half 
of the 1990s, due to a lack of sponsorship and gate takings the league 
was only raising $4 million by the final season.[6] Due to these mounting 
debts the Australian Baseball Federation sold off the rights to the league 
and Claxton Shield to Australian baseballer David Nilsson for a reported 
$5 million who replaced it with the International Baseball League of Australia, 
which in turn folded in 2002.[7] Over the ten years of the Australian Baseball 
League there was a total of twelve franchise licences issued, most seasons 
the ABL had a total of 8 teams but had as many as nine and for the final 
season six. The founding eight teams of the Australian Baseball League 
were; Later additions to the league were; The ABL experienced a lot of 
baseball talent not only from Australia, but from overseas, with over 90 
MLB or future MLB players playing over the history of the competition.[9] 
Many of these import players were sent to Australia from rookie ball up 
to advanced A (with some exceptions) as a winter ball league that provided 
a different environment to winter leagues in Latin America. It proved to 
be a good 'instructional league' for MLB organisations or even for extended 
rehabilitation. Many of the import players would not come back for a second 
season as they were either advanced in their organisation, or replaced 
by a different player who was thought could benefit from playing in Australia. 
While no confirmation was forthcoming from either source, plans were apparently 
hatched between the Australian Baseball Federation and Major League Baseball 
to re-establish an Australian national league in November 2008.[10][11] 
The new national league was proposed to run for 10 weeks from November 
2008 to February 2009 and to be partly funded by Major League Baseball.[12] 
On 10 August 2007 it was announced the 2008 Claxton Shield would be run 
as a "home and away" series. The revamped series was made up of two pools 
of three teams, with each team playing three home and three away games 
against the other two teams in its pool. Pool A was to be made up of the 
Victoria Aces, Perth Heat and South Australia, and Pool B was to be made 
up of the New South Wales Patriots, Queensland Rams and Australia Provincial. 
The revamped series was run from late December 2007 to early February 2008.[10][13] 
The 2009 series followed a similar format, but without the Australia Provincial 
team, resulting in each team playing each other team once in either a home 
or an away three-game series, in addition to a "showcase" round to start 
the season, held in Sydney with each team playing every other team once 
over the course of the week. On 1 July 2009, a joint announcement was made 
by the Australian Baseball Federation, Australian Federal Government and 
Major League Baseball stating the intention to resurrect a national baseball 
league for Australia, with the Government announcing A$400,000 towards 
the new league.[14] It was originally planned that the Australian Baseball 
League would eventually have a 60-game season from November to February 
consisting of teams from Adelaide, Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney 
with a pending spot for Canberra. The league is 75% owned by Major League 
Baseball and 25% by the Australian Baseball Federation. The first ABL season 
is scheduled for November–February 2009/2010, but will be run under the 
banner of the 2010 Claxton Shield with 2011 season scheduled to be the 
first 'official' season. Some players will be paid, and some will not, 
with an average salary expected to be about A$800 per month. Players will 
be under contract, although the system of player-league relations will 
be highly centralized in the ABF for the league's early years in order 
to ensure cheap and efficient league operation. In November 2009 referendums 
were held on team names.[15] In November 2009, the Australian Baseball 
League approved Canberra's bid for a 6th spot in the inaugural ABL season 
with the ACT Government contributing $75,000 for the first season, and 
$30,000 every other season. Also, the franchise already has over $64,000 
from 3200 people pledging support at $20 a head during the bid attempt. 
ActewAGL, Rolfe Audi were announced as major sponsors of the team.[16] 
In May, 2010, the Australian Baseball League made steps towards marketing 
their product, producing a website and two advertisements shown on ESPN 
Australia and ONE HD. The logo was officially unveiled and the Melbourne 
franchise's general manager, Stephen Nash, announced a 40-game season between 
six franchises over 10 weeks from November to January, with a post-season 
finals series in February.[17] On 5 August 2010, the team names for the 
Australian Baseball League were made public. They include the Brisbane 
Bandits, the Sydney Blue Sox, the Canberra Cavalry, the Melbourne Aces, 
