The Australian Baseball League (ABL) is a professional baseball league 
in Australia. The league is governed by the Australian Baseball Federation 
(ABF), and is jointly funded by the ABF, Major League Baseball (MLB) and 
the Australian Federal Government. It uses the same name as a now defunct 
competition held during the 1990s, and though it shares some history of 
the original league with the Claxton Shield awarded to winners of both 
competitions, it is considered to be a separate competition. The current 
champions are the Brisbane Bandits. Because the ABL's season takes place 
from November through February, the ABL has several players who also play 
in the minor leagues in North America, making it similar to a winter league 
(although it is summer in Australia when the season takes place.) The ABL 
is jointly owned by MLB (75%) and the ABF (25%). Rather than following 
more traditional models of the franchises being owned privately by individuals 
or organisations, the league is the owner of each team. One of the rationales 
for this structure is to closely manage the financial situation, helping 
to ensure that all teams are equally viable. It is expected that this arrangement 
will continue for at least the first five seasons: the period of time covered 
by the financial commitment made by MLB and the ABF.[1] As a result of 
the central ownership of the teams, all players are paid by the league. 
This is to ensure that no team receives an unfair advantage over any other 
with regards to financial success. The payscale has set a number of tiers 
which group players of similar experience levels, with all players in the 
same tier receiving the same pay. The ABL has considered the possibility 
of having one or two marquee players paid above the standard scale, though 
no final decision has been made with regard to this. One concern about 
high rates of pay expressed by the ABF was that it was a contributing factor, 
if not the main factor, in the failure of the previous Australian Baseball 
League. ABF management has also expressed the concern that if this league 
were to fail, there may never be another opportunity for professional baseball 
in Australia. The business model is heavily reliant on local team following 
as, for reason of distance, it is unlikely that away teams will attract 
significant fan followings other than Sydney-Canberra. Baseball was brought 
to Australia by American gold miners and played on the gold fields of Ballarat 
for fun on their rest days in the 1850s. Cricketers Gaggin & Goldsmith 
tried to play baseball at Yarra Park, Melbourne in 1867, but Australian 
rules football fans arriving for the adjacent football disrupted the games. 
The first series of full competitive games of baseball by Australians were 
played by members of the Surry Baseball Club on Moore Park and by members 
of the NSW Cricket Association on the adjacent Sydney Cricket Ground in 
June/July 1878. In 1881, American residents formed a Union Baseball Club 
and a year later with Australians, formed a Sydney Baseball Club with U.S. 
Consul Gilderoy Wells Griffin forming a NSW Baseball Association in 1885. 
Following the A.G. Spalding tour by the Chicago White Sox and All-America 
teams in 1888/9, Harry Simpson stayed in Australia, formed baseball clubs 
in Melbourne, Adelaide, Broken Hill, and eventually Sydney with competition 
games being played. Simpson also travelled to New Zealand to promote baseball. 
When he suddenly died in September 1891, after setting up the NSW Baseball 
League, it was a New Zealander, Tony Chuck, who took his place in Australia. 
The original Australian Baseball League commenced in 1989. At the time 
it replaced the Claxton Shield as the top baseball competition in the country, 
with eight teams from Adelaide, Brisbane, Gold Coast, Melbourne, Perth 
and Sydney. Over the course of the league's life, teams were also based 
in Canberra and Newcastle, with the number of teams competing in any one 
season varying from six to nine. Only four teams contested each of the 
ten seasons, with the others folding due to financial problems, or due 
to a lack of a suitable venue for home games. The financial difficulties 
were not restricted to the clubs, as the league was forced to close after 
the summer of 1999. Running at a loss of A$2 million a season, the rights 
to the league were sold to Dave Nilsson—an Australian Major League Baseball 
player with the Milwaukee Brewers at the time—for a reported A$5 million.[2] 
On 1 July 2009, a joint press-conference was held by the ABF, MLB and Australian 
Federal Government at the Palm Meadows Baseball Complex on the Gold Coast 
in Queensland, the site of the Major League Baseball Australian Academy 
Program (MLBAAP). During the conference the intention to resurrect a national 
baseball league for Australia was announced, with the Government announcing 
A$400,000 towards the new league.[3] Though some sources reported that 
the new league could be running as early as October 2010,[4] there had 
been no official timeframe released for the new league to commence.[5] 
Initial reports suggested the competition would likely include between 
eight and ten teams from around Australia. Discussions were held between 
the ABF and Baseball New Zealand about the possibility of a team based 
in New Zealand being included in the competition. The offer, however, was 
declined on the basis that there was not sufficient infrastructure, specifically 
citing the need for a suitable stadium and a major sponsor for the team. 
The possibility of a New Zealand team joining the competition at some point 
in the future has not been ruled out though.[6] There were additional concerns 
about the viability of a team based in South Australia, primarily based 
on the lack of a suitable stadium with lights to be able to play night 
games.[7] This, along with playing on baseball-specific grounds — as opposed 
to playing on temporarily converted rugby league grounds as had been the 
case in the old ABL — was seen as a necessary requirement to insure the 
long-term profitability of the competition.[8] In August 2009, a bid process 
was launched by the Australian Capital Territory Baseball Association (ACTBA) 
for a team to be based in Canberra with the name and motto of "Let's Do 
It Canberra".[9] The bid was not in competition with any other bids, but 
was required to meet certain minimum standards, such as fan and sponsorship 
support, to be successful and join the other five teams from Adelaide, 
Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney that were at the time confirmed.[1] 
On 18 November 2009, it was announced by the ABF that the Canberra bid 
was successful, confirming that the inaugural season would include six 
teams.[10] In December 2009, a competition was launched for fans to decide 
the names of the foundation franchises, called "Name Your ABL Team". For 
each franchise, four team-name options were available to choose from, in 
addition to being able to enter another name created by the entrant.[11] 
In August 2010, the names of the teams were announced, along with team 
logos and colours: Adelaide Bite, Brisbane Bandits, Canberra Cavalry, Melbourne 
Aces, Perth Heat, and Sydney Blue Sox.[12] For the inaugural season, the 
regular season was played from November through to January over ten weeks, 
similarly to the 2010 season of the Claxton Shield. With the expansion 
from five to six teams, each team played every week as opposed to the two 
bye weeks the teams had previously. In addition, rather than a three-game 
series each week, the series were four games each, resulting in each team 
playing 40 games over the season. As had been the case in 2010, the majority 
of games were played on Fridays and Saturdays, though some games were also 
played on Thursdays and Sundays, depending on the team hosting and whether 
or not a doubleheader was included in the series.[13] The 2011–12 season 
largely followed the same format as the 2010–11 season, with only minor 
changes. Though the opening game of the season was scheduled again be the 
only game played that day, the whole series was played over the same weekend 
along with the first series for each of the other four teams. To allow 
for the Perth Heat's participation in the Asia Series, each of the teams 
had a bye weekend during the first half of the season. The season expanded 
from 40 to 45 games per team; one of the two series played against each 
opponent expanded from 4 to 5 games.[14] The 2012–13 season also had minor 
modifications from the previous season. Each team's bye weekends were in 
the first three rounds of competition, and each series held during these 
weekends were only 3 games long, and were billed as "... against their 
two closest geographical neighbours; building upon both traditional and 
newly established rivalries."[15] The match-ups for these games echoed 
the divisions used in the 2008 Claxton Shield, where teams based in Brisbane, 
Canberra and Sydney were in the Eastern Division, and teams from Adelaide, 
Melbourne and Perth were in the Southern Division. The remaining 10 weeks 
were made up of 4 game series, like the 2010–11 season. By the end of the 
season, each team had played each other team at least eight times, with 
an additional three against both of their geographic rivals.[16] In the 
league's second season, it was announced that an All-Star Game would take 
place, to be held in Perth on 21 December 2011. Like the Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game, it would be held midway through the regular season, and 
would feature the best players in the league. Rather than the teams in 
the All-Star Game being made up of players from certain teams, the game 
would be contested by Team Australia and a team of World All-Stars, selected 
from the import or international players participating in the ABL at the 
time.[17] For the first two ABL seasons, the postseason involved the top 
four teams in a three-round structure following the Page playoff system. 
In the inaugural season, each round consisted of a best–of–three game series 
between the respective teams,[22] however this was changed in 2011–12 such 
that the first two rounds were decided in a best–of–five series, with the 
championship series remaining best–of–three.[23] The first- and second-placed 
teams played each other in the major semi-final series, with the winner 
proceeding directly to the championship series and the loser to the preliminary 
final series. The winner of the minor semi-final series between the third- 
and fourth-placed teams also went to the preliminary final series, while 
the loser was eliminated. Likewise, the winner of the preliminary final 
series qualified for the championship series, the loser eliminated.[24] 
The third season used a shortened format from the two previous seasons. 
Only the top three teams qualified for a two-round postseason, with each 
round consisting of a best–of–three game series. The first-placed team 
directly qualified for the championship series, and the second- and third-placed 
teams played each other in the preliminary final series, the winner of 
which qualified for the second place in the championship series.[25] The 
winner of the championship series is named the ABL Champion for that season, 
and is awarded the Claxton Shield; the prize given to the top Australian 
baseball team since 1934.[13] Announced after the inaugural ABL season 
had been completed, the league's champions each season will be invited 
to the restarted Asia Series.[26] The event had previously been contested 
between the winners of Nippon Professional Baseball's (NPB) Japan Series, 
Korea Professional Baseball's (KPB) Korean Series, Chinese Professional 
Baseball League's (CPBL) Taiwan Series, and China Baseball League's (CBL) 
championship series. The 2011 tournament will not feature the CBL's champions, 
but officials have stated that a team would participate in future editions. 
Unlike all four previous editions of the tournament which were held in 
Japan, the 2011 edition will be held in Taiwan. The tournament follows 
a round-robin format, where each team plays each other once. The top two 
teams then face each other in a single game to decide the champion.[27] 
The Asia Series is held in November, which would otherwise create a conflict 
for the ABL champion team as the following season would have already commenced. 
To avoid this, the League announced that during the 2011–12 season, the 
Perth Heat—2010–11 champions—would be scheduled to have a bye while competing 
in Taiwan.[28] For the inaugural season, there had been no television coverage 
of regular season games, either live, delayed or in a regular highlights 
package review format, despite having been in negotiations with Fox Sports 
and Network Ten.[29] After completing negotiations for live television 
coverage of the finals,[30] the championship series was broadcast live 
on Fox Sports.[31] On 1 November 2010, Sydney community radio station Triple 
H FM announced it would provide live broadcasts of Sydney Blue Sox home 
matches as well as Canberra Cavalry's home series against the Blue Sox, 
Melbourne Aces and Perth Heat—the weeks Sydney was away from home.[32] 
Perth Now's radio station SportFM announced it would cover the Perth Heat 
spring training games as well as the opening game of every Heat home series.[33] 
The Adelaide Bite,[34] Brisbane Bandits[35] and Perth Heat[36] provided 
free audio and video streaming through internet website Ustream. For the 
second season, Fox Sports expanded its television coverage of the ABL to 
include the All-Star Game in addition to the championship series.[37] The 
game was also carried live via ESPN Star Sports in China, India and Taiwan. 
It was shown on delay in the United States on the MLB Network, as well 
as also being shown on delay in Japan and South Korea.[38] The international 
television coverage of the championship series expanded from that of the 
All-Star Game, with Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Philippines also 
getting live coverage through ESPN Star Sports, with several additional 
countries in Asia and Oceania including New Zealand getting delayed television 
coverage. The Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) introduced live 
radio coverage of the championship series via the digital ABC Radio Grandstand 
station.[39] In recent years, ABL coverage of its All-Star Game and championship 
series has expanded to Canada through SportsNet Ontario (effectively simulcasting 
MLB Network in the United States). For the 2015—16 season, one Sunday match 
for each of the last five regular season rounds was shown live nationally 
on ESPN. This marked the first time in the franchise's history that regular 
season matches had been shown on television. In addition, all five were 
also aired live in Asia via Fox Sports Asia, while three of the matches 
were shown live in the U.S on the MLB Network.[40] ESPN has broadcast live 
the 2013–14, 2014–15, and 2015–16 Championship series'.[41][42][43] In 
addition, the 2014–15 and 2015–16 series' were broadcast in the United 
States on MLB Network and online on MLB.com, and in Asia on Fox Sports 
Asia.[42][43] Though the locations for the six teams had been known for 
some time previously, it was not until 5 August 2010 that the names of 
the teams were announced. Websites were also launched on the same day for 
each of the teams with the exception of the Perth Heat, which had been 
the name of the Western Australian team playing in the Claxton Shield since 
2006, as well as being one of the franchises from the original ABL, contesting 
all ten seasons.[48] The Brisbane Bandits is also a reintroduction of a 
team name from the original ABL that participated in all but the final 
season.[45] The Adelaide Bite uses a name that the South Australia state 
baseball team has previously used at various times in the Claxton Shield, 
which in turn refers both to the great white shark common to South Australian 
waters as well as the geographic feature, the Great Australian Bight.[44] 
Likewise, the Melbourne Aces uses the Victoria state baseball team's moniker 
from Claxton Shield competitions past.[47] The Canberra Cavalry and the 
Sydney Blue Sox both use names not previously used in Australian baseball 
at the national level. The Adelaide Bite's home ground, Norwood Oval (known 
as Coopers Stadium due to sponsorship) is the only current ABL venue not 
built specifically for baseball use. Norwood Oval is the long time home 
of Australian rules football team the Norwood Redlegs who play in Adelaide 
major local competition the South Australian National Football League (SANFL). 
The oval however, due to having lights installed, has generally been the 
main venue for baseball in Adelaide since 1951.[50] Although the oval has 
a normal spectator capacity of 22,000 for football, due to the configuration 
of the baseball diamond spectators are not permitted beyond the outfield 
fence and capacity is generally restricted to around 10-15,000 for ABL 
games still making it easily the largest capacity venue in the league. 
Expansion teams to represent the Gold Coast, the Central Coast, and Geelong 
are being considered for future seasons, as well as the possibility of 
second teams from Melbourne and Sydney.[1] There is further potential for 
teams to be based overseas, with New Zealand[6] and Japan[51] having been 
publicly discussed. Another alternative for expansion teams being considered 
is the possibility of an all-Japanese or all-Asian team added to the league, 
with the team being based in Australia rather than requiring international 
