The Australian Schools Championships for baseball, also informally named 
at all levels 'schoolboys', is an annual secondary school tournament that 
has been officially running since 1989. It includes an Open and U-15 tournament. 
Currently New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, Western 
Australia and the ACT compete in the Championship. Teams are picked by 
their state's school sport association from their respective schoolboys 
state titles. It also provides an opportunity for the Australia national 
schoolboy baseball team to be picked. From 6 May to 12 May 2007 the Championship 
was held in Geelong, Victoria at the Geelong Baseball Park. The eventual 
tournament winner was Queensland, defeating New South Wales 3-1 in the 
final. The 2008 tournament was held in Lismore, New South Wales at Albert 
Park from 4 May to 10 May 2008. Western Australia won the event defeating 
New South Wales 5-0 in the final. In 2009, the tournament was held in Canberra, 
Australian Capital Territory from 4–9 May. In one of the most tightly contested 
championships of recent years, the Victorian side came out on top, defeating 
NSW 5-3 in the final on Saturday. Leading 3-0 early in the final, NSW fell 
victim to Victorian reliever Thomas Shaw who shut out his opponents the 
rest of the game - giving his team a chance of a thrilling comeback that 
they provided in turn. For NSW the honours were shared, but some brilliant 
work in the field from shortstop Jacob Younis kept his side close enough 
to bring the tying run to the plate in the last inning. That was as close 
as the team got, as it took Victorian closer Andrew Jones just the one 
pitch to finish the game and bring the title back to Victoria - their first 
since 2005 and 7th in the history of the tournament. In addition to team 
heroics, the tournament also played host to a raft of standout individual 
performances - culminating in the naming of the 2009 Australian Schools 
Team that will tour North America later this year under the guidance of 
Head Coach Stuart Hanrahan, assistants Chris Norrie and Brendon Wallace 
and tour Manager Neil Barrowcliff. The 2010 tournament was played a week 
later than usual and at Perth, meaning many states sent a weakened squad 
due to the geographic location of Perth in relation to the rest of Australia 
and that Major League Baseball Australian Academy Program was due to start 
earlier in the year. New South Wales sent a roster far stronger than any 
of the other states and dominated the tournament, winning all eight matches 
and scoring an average of 12 runs per game. They defeated Australian Capital 
Territory in the final 10-5. Individual standouts were Luke Parish from 
New South Wales, who batted .524 and Colin Tilini (1-0) also from NSW who 
