The Babe Ruth League is an international youth baseball and softball league 
based in Hamilton, New Jersey, named after George Herman "Babe" Ruth. The 
parent program, Babe Ruth League, Incorporated, is a non-profit, tax-exempt 
organization.[1] Babe Ruth League has increased steadily from its first 
10-team league in Hamilton Township, New Jersey, to its present combined 
size of well over one million players on some 60,000+ teams in more than 
11,000 leagues and over 1.9 million volunteers. The Babe Ruth League consists 
of five divisions: Cal Ripken Baseball (ages 4–12), Babe Ruth Baseball 
(ages 13–18), Babe Ruth Softball (ages 4–18), Bambino Buddy Ball (ages 
5–20), and Xtreme Fastpitch (ages 6–18).[2] Baseball Hall of Fame inductees 
who played Babe Ruth League include Carl Yastrzemski, Joe Morgan, Jim Palmer, 
Rod Carew, George Brett, Nolan Ryan, Cal Ripken, Jr., Frank Thomas, Randy 
Johnson, John Smoltz, and Mike Piazza.[3] In 1951, ten men, who believed 
that the future of their community depended upon the proper development 
of the young people, met at the historic Yardville Hotel in Hamilton, New 
Jersey, for the purpose of developing a baseball program for young men 
between 13 and 15 years of age. Babe Ruth League, Inc. recognizes Marius 
D. Bonacci as the Founding Father of the program, along with the contribution 
of the following nine men, Samuel M. Welch, Ferdinand J. Wagner, Ed Jones, 
Ted Jasek, Cliff Fovour, Boots Snyder, William Dombrowski, Maskill Paxson 
and Willard Carson, Jr.[2] Originally organized under the name Little Bigger 
League, Claire Merritt Ruth, the widow of Babe Ruth, met with the league's 
organizers in 1954 and authorized them to rename the league in Ruth's honor.[4] 
In 1974, the 13-Year-Old Prep League was added. The Prep League allows 
13-year-old players to make the transition to the regulation size diamond, 
while competing with peers their own age. In 1982, Babe Ruth Baseball added 
yet another division to its program, the Bambino division for players ages 
4–12. In 1984, Babe Ruth League, Inc. added another dimension to its program 
— Babe Ruth Softball. The Softball Division encompasses players 4 to 18 
years of age. The program was organized because Babe Ruth League, Inc. 
saw a need for a quality national softball program. The softball program 
was designed to focus on all ability levels of young female athletes, providing 
them with the same enriching athletic experience as the baseball divisions. 
July 6, 1999 was the beginning of a new era for Babe Ruth League, Inc. 
The Bambino Division was renamed “Cal Ripken Baseball, a Division of Babe 
Ruth League, Inc.” Cal Ripken, Jr.’s visions and philosophies, molded by 
his father, Cal Ripken, Sr., directly parallel those of Babe Ruth League, 
Inc. Now, two of the most prolific legends and heroes in baseball, inspire 
in our youth participants their knowledge, spirit and pure passion for 
the game. In 2000 the Buddy-Ball Division for players ages 5-20 who are 
physically and/or mentally challenged was renamed the Bambino BuddyBall 
Division. A “buddy” helps the player swing a bat, round the bases, catch 
a ball. 2013 saw the addition of Xtreme Fastpitch to accommodate all softball 
participants—those who wish to play on a recreational level to those who 
seek a higher degree of competition to hone their skills with the goal 
of continuing play into high school and beyond. Features a 50' pitching 
distance and 70' base paths, this division is offered as an option to the 
major division format, and includes a tournament trail from District competition 
through the World Series in Aberdeen, Maryland at the Ripken Baseball Complex 
featuring 8 International Champions. Features a 46' pitching distance and 
60' base paths. Special base running rules are also in effect. This division 
is offered as an option to the major division format, and includes a tournament 
trail from District competition through the World Series. Recommended for 
ballplayers ages 9–10. Players build and refine their fundamental skills 
while beginning to understand game strategy and teamwork. In most regions, 
participants first experience post-season tournament competition in this 
level, leading to the 10 Year-Old World Series. Designed primarily for 
ballplayers ages 7–8, this division makes use of a pitching machine to 
allow for more hittable balls at the plate and more action in the field. 
Fear of actually being hit by a pitched ball is diminished. It makes the 
game safer and improves the playing confidence and ability of all participants. 
Ballplayers ages 4–6 learn hitting and fielding fundamentals in a supportive 
team environment. Young athletes hit the ball from a batting tee which 
is height-adjusted for a level swing, batting in order through the line-up 
for the entire game. The primary goal is to begin to instruct young players 
in the fundamentals of baseball in a supportive team environment. Babe 
Ruth Baseball was created for ballplayers ages 13–15 who wished to continue 
their baseball playing experience beyond the age of 12. This is where players 
get their baseball cleats muddy for the first time on standard 90' diamonds 
under Official Baseball Rules used by Major League Baseball. In this division, 
teams are eligible to enter tournament competition and move along the tournament 
trail, culminating in a World Series. Three World Series are held in this 
division: one for 13 Year-Old players, one for 13 and 14 Year-Old Players, 
and the renowned 13-15 World Series. Players often express a fear of competing 
with 14 and 15 Year-Old players who have already experienced one or two 
years playing on a standard 90' diamond. Babe Ruth League introduced this 
prep league - comprising teams with only 13-year-old players-to foster 
more participation in the game for this age group. This league offers the 
13-year-old player the assurance to play without age intimidation and the 
chance to participate in the 13-Year-Old World Series. The highest and 
most accomplished level in Babe Ruth Baseball. A favorite among high school 
players and coaches, this division prepares players for collegiate recruiting 
and the professional draft. This division allows players a chance to compete 
through a tournament trail to reach the 16-18 Year-Old World Series. The 
primary objective of the 16-Year-Old Prep program is to provide players 
the opportunity to stay involved in organized baseball while sharpening 
their skills against competition in their own age group. Any league franchised 
in 16-18 Babe Ruth Baseball may also choose to register a 16-Year-Old Prep 
League. Designed for girls ages 4–18, age divisions offered include: 6 
& Under, 8 & Under, 10 & Under, 12 & Under, 14 & Under, 16 & Under and 
18 & Under. The primary emphasis of Babe Ruth Softball is on education, 
skill development, participation for all levels of ability and of course, 
having fun. A special highlight of Babe Ruth Softball is its annual tournament 
trail. Tournament teams from each local league are eligible to participate 
in District competition with winners advancing to the State and Regional 
levels. Entry to the official Babe Ruth Softball tournament trail is free. 
12 & Under and 16 & Under Divisions advance to a World Series. Babe Ruth 
Softball also offers an invitational World Series for the 8 & Under, 10 
& Under, and 14 & Under divisions. The Bambino Buddy-Ball Division was 
established for organizations who wish to charter a league that encompasses 
players ages 5–20 who are either physically and/or mentally challenged. 
This division makes allowance for a “buddy” to help the player swing a 
bat, round the bases, catch a ball, etc. There are no restrictions to the 
age of the “buddy”. A Bambino Buddy-Ball team may be composed of players 
ages 5–20 and sometimes older. The Bambino Buddy-Ball division is designed 
so that everyone has the opportunity to have fun. The Bambino Buddy-Ball 
Division allows our challenged or special needs athletes to develop confidence 
and positive self-esteem. It allows them to be part of organized sports 
and assists with physical fitness as well as their social skills. The joy 
and emotion you experience when you put on that first baseball uniform 
or cap on a challenged child’s head is like no other. As you can see, the 
Bambino Buddy-Ball Division is an emotionally rewarding experience for 
everyone as it also allows the “buddies” to feel good about helping their 
challenged friends, while at the same time making it a fun and memorable 
time for all. There are no geographical boundaries limiting where the players 
who sign up for an Xtreme team come from. Participating leagues can sign 
up a group of players from any geographical make-up and form a team to 
play other Xtreme teams in special games or tournaments throughout the 
year. Xtreme teams are eligible to play at their own facility or in local 
tournaments. Playing rules match High School and College playing rules 
to better prepare players for the next level of competition. Babe Ruth 
League consists of 8 Regions.[10] Babe Ruth League offers 12 World Series 
to its leagues to compete in.[11] The Babe Ruth World Series follows the 
tournament trail of Districts, States, Regionals, and the World Series. 
At the World Series, 8 Regional Champions along with the Host League and 
State Champion compete for the World Series Title. The World Series can 
be hosted by any chartered league which in turn gets an automatic bid into 
the World Series. The Cal Ripken Major/70 World Series is hosted annually 
at the Ripken Experience in Aberdeen, MD. The Host Team is the Harford 
County, MD Champion. 8 International Teams compete for the International 
Championship with the winner playing the US Champion for the World Championship. 
