Babe Ruth's called shot was the home run hit by Babe Ruth of the New York 
Yankees in the fifth inning of Game 3 of the 1932 World Series, held on 
October 1, 1932, at Wrigley Field in Chicago. During the at-bat, Ruth made 
a pointing gesture, which existing film confirms, but the exact meaning 
of his gesture remains ambiguous. Although neither fully confirmed nor 
refuted, the story goes that Ruth pointed to the center-field bleachers 
during the at-bat. It was allegedly a declaration that he would hit a home 
run to this part of the park. On the next pitch, Ruth hit a home run to 
center field. The home run was his fifteenth, and last, in his 41 post-season 
games. It was said to be one of the greatest home runs in history. There 
is no dispute over the general events of the moment. All the reports say 
that the Chicago Cubs' "bench jockeys" were riding Ruth mercilessly, and 
that Ruth, rather than ignoring them, was "playing" with them through words 
and gestures. The longtime debate is over the nature of one of Ruth's gestures. 
It is unclear if he pointed to center field, to the pitcher (Charlie Root), 
or to the Cubs bench. Even the films of the at-bat (by amateur filmmaker 
Matt Miller Kandle, Sr.) that emerged during the 1990s have not allowed 
any definitive conclusions. With the score tied four-all in the fifth inning 
of game three, he took strike one from Root. As the Cubs players heckled 
Ruth, and the fans hurled insults, Ruth held up his hand, pointing at either 
Root, the Cubs dugout, or center field. No one knows for sure what his 
intentions were. He then repeated this gesture after taking strike two. 
Root's next pitch was a curveball that Ruth hit at least 440 feet to the 
deepest part of center field near the flag pole (some estimates are as 
high as 490 feet). The ground distance to the center field corner, somewhat 
right of straightaway center, was 440 feet. The ball landed a little bit 
to the right of the 440 corner and farther back, apparently in the temporary 
seating in Sheffield Avenue behind the permanent interior bleacher seats. 
Calling the game over the radio, broadcaster Tom Manning shouted, "The 
ball is going, going, going, high into the center field stands...and it 
is a home run!" Ruth himself later described the hit as "past the flagpole" 
which stood behind the scoreboard and the 440 corner. Ruth's powerful hit 
was aided by a strong carrying wind that day.[1] Newsreel footage (available 
in MLB's 100 Years of the World Series) shows that Ruth was crowding the 
plate and nearly stepped forward out of the batter's box, inches away from 
risk of being called out (Rule 6.06a). The film also shows that as he rounded 
first base, Ruth looked toward the Cubs dugout and made a waving-off gesture 
with his left hand; then as he approached third, he made another mocking 
gesture, a two-armed "push" motion, toward the suddenly quiet Cubs bench. 
Many reports[2] have claimed that Ruth "thumbed his nose" at the Cubs dugout, 
but the existing newsreel footage does not show that (if it occurred, it 
might have been considered vulgar and would have been edited out). Attending 
the game was Franklin Delano Roosevelt,[3] soon to be elected 32nd President 
of the United States. FDR reportedly had a laugh as he watched Ruth round 
the bases.[4] When he crossed home plate, Ruth could no longer hide his 
smile, and he was patted by his exuberant teammates when he reached the 
Yankees dugout.[5] There is more footage that showed that Ruth's shot was 
called. The Hall of Fame and the Society for American Base-ball Research 
confirmed that the footage showed that Ruth did call the shot.[6] Root 
was left in the game, but for only one pitch, which Lou Gehrig drilled 
into the right field seats for his second home run of the day. The Yankees 
won the game 7–5, and the next day they finished off the demoralized Cubs 
13–6, completing the fourth game necessary to win the World Series. Ruth's 
second home run in game 3 probably would have been merely an exclamation 
point for the 1932 World Series and for Ruth's career, had it not been 
for reporter Joe Williams. Williams was a respected but opinionated sports 
editor for the Scripps-Howard newspapers. In a late edition the same day 
of the game, Williams wrote this headline that appeared in the New York 
World-Telegram, evoking billiards terminology: "RUTH CALLS SHOT AS HE PUTS 
HOME RUN NO. 2 IN SIDE POCKET." [6] Williams' summary of the story included, 
"In the fifth, with the Cubs riding him unmercifully from the bench, Ruth 
pointed to center and punched a screaming liner to a spot where no ball 
had been hit before." Apparently Williams' article was the only one written 
the day of the game that made a reference to Ruth pointing to center field. 
It was probably due to the wide circulation of the Scripps-Howard newspapers 
that gave the story life, as many read Williams' article and assumed it 
was accurate. A couple of days later, other stories started to appear stating 
that Ruth had called his shot, a few even written by reporters who were 
not at the game. The story would have had some initial credibility, given 
Ruth's many larger-than-life achievements, including past reported incidents 
of promising sick child Johnny Sylvester that he would "hit a home run 
for him" and then fulfilling that promise soon after. In the public mind, 
Ruth "calling his shot" had precedent. At the time, Ruth did not clarify 
the matter, initially stating that he was merely pointing towards the Cubs 
dugout to tell them he still had one more strike. At one point very early 
on, he said, "It's in the papers, isn't it?" In another interview, this 
one with respected Chicago sports reporter John Carmichael, Ruth said he 
did not point to any particular spot, but that he just wanted to give the 
ball a good ride. Soon, however, the media-savvy Ruth was going along with 
the story that he had called his shot, and his subsequent versions over 
the years became more dramatic. "In the years to come, Ruth publicly claimed 
that he did, indeed, point to where he planned to send the pitch."[7] One 
newsreel footage, Ruth voiced over the called shot scene with the remarks, 
"Well, I looked out at center field and I pointed. I said, 'I'm gonna hit 
the next pitched ball right past the flagpole!' Well, the good Lord must 
have been with me." In his 1948 autobiography, Ruth gave another enhanced 
version by stating he told his wife "I'll belt one where it hurts them 
the most" and that the idea of calling his own shot then came to him.[8] 
Ruth then recounts the at-bat: No member of either team was sorer than 
I was. I had seen nothing my first time at bat that came close to looking 
good to me, and that only made me more determined to do something about 
taking the wind out of the sails of the Chicago players and their fans. 
I mean the fans who had spit on Claire [i.e., Ruth's wife]. I came up in 
the fourth inning with Earle Combs on base ahead of me. My ears had been 
blistered so much before in my baseball career that I thought they had 
lost all feeling. But the blast that was turned on me by Cub players and 
some of the fans penetrated and cut deep. Some of the fans started throwing 
vegetables and fruit at me. I stepped back out of the box, then stepped 
in. And while Root was getting ready to throw his first pitch, I pointed 
to the bleachers which rise out of deep center field. Root threw one right 
across the gut of the plate and I let it go. But before the umpire could 
call it a strike-which it was-I raised my right hand, stuck out one finger 
and yelled, “Strike one!” The razzing was stepped up a notch. Root got 
set and threw again-another hard one through the middle. And once again 
I stepped back and held up my right hand and bawled, “Strike two!” It was. 
You should have heard those fans then. As for the Cub players they came 
out on the steps of their dugout and really let me have it. I guess the 
smart thing for Charlie to have done on his third pitch would have been 
to waste one. But he didn’t, and for that I’ve sometimes thanked God. While 
he was making up his mind to pitch to me I stepped back again and pointed 
my finger at those bleachers, which only caused the mob to howl that much 
more at me. Root threw me a fast ball. If I had let it go, it would have 
been called a strike. But this was it. I swung from the ground with everything 
I had and as I hit the ball every muscle in my system, every sense I had, 
told me that I had never hit a better one, that as long as I lived nothing 
would ever feel as good as this. I didn’t have to look. But I did. That 
ball just went on and on and on and hit far up in the center-field bleachers 
in exactly the spot I had pointed to. To me, it was the funniest, proudest 
moment I had ever had in baseball. I jogged down toward first base, rounded 
it, looked back at the Cub bench and suddenly got convulsed with laughter. 
You should have seen those Cubs. As Combs said later, “There they were-all 
out on the top step and yelling their brains out-and then you connected 
and they watched it and then fell back as if they were being machine-gunned.” 
That home run-the most famous one I ever hit-did us some good. It was worth 
two runs, and we won that ball game, 7 to 5.[9] Ruth explained he was upset 
about the Cubs' insults during the series, and was especially upset when 
someone spat on his wife Claire, and he was determined to fix things.[10] 
Ruth not only said he deliberately pointed to center with two strikes, 
he said he pointed to center even before Root's first pitch.[11] Others 
helped perpetuate the story over the years. Tom Meany, who worked for Joe 
Williams at the time of the called shot, later wrote a popular but often 
embellished 1947 biography of Ruth. In the book, Meany wrote, "He pointed 
to center field. Some say it was merely as a gesture towards Root, others 
that he was just letting the Cubs bench know that he still had one big 
one left. Ruth himself has changed his version a couple of times... Whatever 
the intent of the gesture, the result was, as they say in Hollywood, slightly 
colossal."[12] Despite the fact that the article he wrote on the day of 
the game appears to have been the source of the entire legend, over the 
ensuing years, Joe Williams himself came to doubt the veracity of Ruth 
calling his shot. Another part of folklore has Ruth being mad at the Cubs 
in general for the perceived slight of cutting Babe's ex-Yankee teammate, 
Mark Koenig, now with the Cubs, out of his full World Series share. Nonetheless, 
the called shot further became etched as truth into the minds of thousands 
of people after the 1948 film The Babe Ruth Story, which starred William 
Bendix as Ruth. The film took its material from Ruth's autobiography, and 
hence did not question the veracity of the called shot. Two separate biographical 
films made in the 1990s also repeated this gesture in an unambiguous way, 
coupled with Ruth hitting the ball over the famous ivy-covered wall, which 
did not actually exist at Wrigley Field until five years later. Eyewitness 
accounts were equally inconclusive and widely varied, with some of the 
opinions possibly skewed by partisanship. The called shot particularly 
irked Root. He had a fine career, winning over 200 games, but he would 
be forever remembered as the pitcher who gave up the "called shot", much 
to his annoyance.[18] When he was asked to play himself in the 1948 film 
about Ruth, Root turned it down when he learned that Ruth's pointing to 
center field would be in the film. Said Root, "Ruth did not point at the 
fence before he swung. If he had made a gesture like that, well, anybody 
who knows me knows that Ruth would have ended up on his ass. The legend 
didn't get started until later." Root's teammate, catcher Gabby Hartnett, 
also denied that Ruth called the shot. In 1942, during the making of The 
Pride of the Yankees, Babe Herman (who was at that time a teammate of Root 
with the minor league Hollywood Stars) was on the movie set as a double 
for both Ruth (who played himself in most scenes) and Gary Cooper (who 
played Lou Gehrig). Herman re-introduced Root and Ruth on set and the following 
exchange (later recounted by Herman to baseball historian Donald Honig), 
took place: Root went to his grave vehemently denying that Ruth ever pointed 
to center field. In the 1970s, a 16 mm home movie of the called shot surfaced 
and some believed it might put an end to the decades-old controversy. The 
film was shot by an amateur filmmaker named Matt Miller Kandle, Sr. Only 
family and friends had seen the film until the late 1980s. Two frames from 
the film were published in the 1988 book, Babe Ruth: A Life in Pictures, 
by Lawrence S. Ritter and Mark Rucker, on p. 206. The film was broadcast 
on a February 1994 FOX television program called Front Page.[19] Later 
in 1994, still images from the film appeared in filmmaker Ken Burns documentary 
film Baseball. The film was taken from the grandstands behind home plate, 
off to the third base side. One can clearly see Ruth's gesture, although 
it is hard to determine the angle of his pointing. Some contend Ruth's 
extended arm is pointing more to the left field direction, toward the Cubs 
bench, which would be consistent with his (continued) gesturing toward 
the bench while rounding the bases after the hit. Others who have studied 
the film closely assert that in addition to the broader gestures, Ruth 
did make a quick finger point in the direction of Cubs pitcher Charlie 
Root, or center field just as Root was winding up. In 1999, another 16 
mm film of the called shot appeared. This one had been shot by inventor 
Harold Warp, and coincidentally it was the only major league baseball game 
Warp ever attended. The rights to his footage were sold to ESPN which aired 
it as part of the network's SportsCentury program in 2000 as well as a 
countdown show of Best Damn Sports Show. Warp's film has not been as widely 
seen by the public as Kandle's film, but those who have seen it and have 
offered a public opinion on the matter seem to feel that it shows Ruth 
did not call his shot. The film itself shows the action much more clearly 
than the Kandle film, showing Ruth visibly shouting something either at 
Root or at the Cub dugout while pointing. The authors of the book Yankees 
Century also believe the Warp film proves conclusively that the home run 
was not at all a "called shot". However, Montville's 2006 book, The Big 
Bam, asserts that neither film answers the question definitively. Shortly 
after the called shot, the Chicago-based Curtiss Candy Company, makers 
of the Baby Ruth candy bar, installed a large advertising sign on the rooftop 
on one of the apartment buildings on Sheffield Avenue. The sign, which 
read "Baby Ruth", was just across the street from where Ruth's home run 
had landed. Until the 1970s, when the aging sign was taken down, Cubs fans 
at Wrigley Field had to endure this not-so-subtle reminder of the "called 
shot". In the 1948 biographical film The Babe Ruth Story, Ruth delivers 
on a promise he made to a young cancer patient that he would hit a home 
run. Not only does Ruth succeed in fulfilling the promise, but the child 
is subsequently cured of his cancer. In an early scene in the 1984 film, 
The Natural, a Ruth-like player called "the Whammer" points his bat menacingly 
toward and past Roy Hobbs, declaring his own "called shot." However, Hobbs 
strikes the Whammer out on three pitches. Major league slugger Jim Thome 
used a similar bat-pointing gesture as part of his normal preparation for 
an at-bat. In 1993 film, The Sandlot, the characters are fans of Ruth and 
reference his called shot by imitating it. In 2000, a novel titled Babe 
& Me was published by author Dan Gutman. A young boy travels back in time 
to prove the shot was called. In the 1989 film Major League, the climax 
of the movie depicts Indians catcher Jake Taylor pointing towards the outfield, 
clearly making a reference to Ruth's called shot. Fittingly, Jake was playing 
against the New York Yankees. The pitcher then throws a pitch high and 
inside, referencing Root's suggestion that he would have thrown at Ruth 
if he had really called his shot. Jake repeats the called shot, but instead 
of going for a home run, bunts the next pitch for a modified squeeze play, 
allowing the winning run to come in from second base. In George Carlin's 
2001 book Napalm and Silly Putty, he "reveals" that, "Contrary to popular 
belief, Babe Ruth did not call his famous home run shot. He was actually 
giving the finger to a hot dog vendor who had cheated him out of twelve 
cents." In the mid-2000s Bud Light made a commercial of the called shot, 
showing that the reason Ruth pointed towards center field was because he 
had spotted a vendor selling Bud Light there. In the video game Team Fortress 
2, the baseball fanatic Scout, in one of his taunts called the Home Run, 
points at the sky in the distance and then whacks an opponent with his 
baseball bat, hitting the player in the direction he pointed, landing an 
instant kill on anyone caught by it. In the 2006 computer animated film 
Everyone's Hero, the shot is instead played by protagonist Yankee Irving 
using Ruth's famed bat. Yankee hits a home run on Ruth's suggestion. According 
to the film, the story takes place during the 1932 World Series. In the 
2006 movie The Benchwarmers, one of the main characters, Richie, points 
his hand towards center field, resembling Ruth's called shot. Richie's 
hand then starts dragging down to a spot right in front of home plate. 
Richie then hits the ball right where his hand points to. In the Simpsons 
episode "Homer at the Bat", Homer Simpson, when up for bat at a softball 
game, points to the stands. When he hits the ball and it goes to the opposite 
side of where he pointed, he points to that side and pretends that's where 
