Babylon is a village in Suffolk County, New York, United States. The population 
was 12,166 at the 2010 census. Its location is approximately 25 miles (40 km) 
from New York City at the Queens border, and approximately 33 miles (53 km) 
from Manhattan. Its official name is The Incorporated Village of Babylon. 
It is commonly referred to as Babylon Village, to distinguish it from the 
Town of Babylon, of which it is a part. What is now Babylon Town and Village 
was originally part of Huntington Town and known as Huntington South. Lightly 
settled from 1689, its main industry, in common with much of the area along 
Great South Bay and South Oyster Bay (both actually lagoons), was the harvesting 
of salt hay, which was used as cattle feed and bedding. When a coherent 
community grew up in the area by 1803, prominent local citizens sought 
to adopt a new name. An influential local lady, Mrs. Conklin, was used 
to living inland in what is now considered Dix Hills and was at unease 
with the home site that her grandchildren would be raised in. The bible-reading 
Mrs. Conklin compared the new hamlet to the biblical city of Babylon and 
proposed that name in apparent defiance of the area's rather bawdy reputation 
as a stop-over place for travelers on Long Island's south shore. Her son 
Nat was appalled by the use of an "unholy" name. The family legend states 
she replied: "But it will be a new Babylon." The name stuck, despite some 
effort to change it. The adjacent part of Islip town, an effective extension 
of Babylon, was originally considered as part of Babylon, or as East Babylon, 
but today is the hamlet of West Islip. Babylon soon became the primary 
gateway to the nearby barrier beaches, including Fire Island, a position 
it held until the building of the current Captree Causeways allowing automobile 
access to the beaches nearest the Babylon shore. Beachgoers arriving by 
train or coach, or staying at local hotels typically took the Babylon Railroad, 
originally a horsecar line and later a trolley, to the Babylon Dock for 
ferries to Oak Island, Muncie Island, and Fire Island destinations. As 
now, the epitome of the luxury lifestyle was summering on the ocean. This 
led many affluent individuals and families to reside at Babylon's seaside 
resorts, both on the mainland and on barrier beach islands. Muncie Island, 
(was just north of Oak Beach, island was depleted for the construction 
of Ocean Parkway) was host to one of the most elite sanatoriums and nearby 
Saltaire was host to the Surf Hotel offering several hundred rooms to guests. 
Guests of the Surf would take the rail road to Babylon's trolley and then 
cross the bay by a ferry. Off Robins Avenue at Stone Dock was the South 
Shore Inn and Watson House on Fire Island Avenue was famed to be "L.I.'s 
most luxurious hotel" when it was built. Those of even greater wealth would 
have homes or compounds built on the shore or barrier beach islands for 
vacationing. Stage stop hotels include the La Grange Inn, previously used 
as a catering hall, and now a West Islip Historical Museum, and is actually 
adjacent West Islip. Some of Babylon's hotels included: The famous Argyle 
Hotel in Babylon was one of many built in the late 19th century to accommodate 
wealthy summer visitors from New York City. It was constructed in 1882 
by August Belmont, the LIRR and resort entrepreneur on the former estate 
of Brooklyn railroad magnate Electus B. Litchfield. Financing was provided 
by a syndicate headed by Long Island Rail Road President, Austin Corbin. 
The grounds, which included a large millpond, Blythebourne Lake became 
renamed Argyle Lake, for one of the hotel’s largest investors and town 
aristocrat, the heir to the Dukedom of Argyll. The renaming gave the Hotel 
& Park a more genteel English flavor yet the hotel proved a bad venture: 
it was near the end of the era of such projects, it was built much too 
large with 350 rooms, and so was rarely more than one-third filled. After 
about a decade of disuse, it was finally demolished in 1904, with some 
of the material from the structure being used to build homes west of the 
lake in the neighborhood now known as Argyle Park. In 1921, the land that 
is now the Argyle Park was donated for passive recreation to the Village 
of Babylon, by J. Stanley Foster,Esq. This park is still popular, drawing 
substantial numbers of visitors from outside the community for fishing, 
strolling, playing on the children's playground, and winter ice skating 
(including a lighted area for night skating). Effingham Park was the site 
of the Old Mill on what is now the Babylon Village-West Islip border and 
South Country Road, now Montauk Highway (Main Street in Babylon). The old 
mill is claimed to be the first permanent structure in the Village area 
and was constructed for Judge Garrett Montfort and operated by the Oakley 
family for approximately 100 years. Nathaniel Conklin also owned the mill 
and in its final years, ownership was in the hands of David Ricketts, the 
second mayor of the Village. Ricketts used the mill as a toy whip factory 
which he later relocated to George Street. At one point, a bridge was used 
to carry Main Street over the overflows connection to Sumpwams Creek. The 
park belonged to the estate of Effingham Sutton that later came into the 
ownership of Edwin Hawley, a U.S. railroad tycoon. Hawley demolished the 
Old Mill and parts of Sutton's Estate to erect an even more opulent estate 
including guest cottages, staff housing, and stables. Hawley turned the 
overflow from the Old Mill into a waterfall that matched and, some claim, 
exceeded the splendor of the still-existent Argyle Falls at Argyle Memorial 
Park. In addition to the falls, there were two bridges crossing the north 
side and mid-northeast side of the lake in many old postcards and photographs. 
The north side bridge was likely the bridge that carried George Street 
over the stream feeding Hawley's Pond, before New York Highway 231 was 
put through the area. The Hawley Estate was gated off from the public with 
hedges and grand ornate estate fencing so that the public rarely saw its 
vast luxuries and amenities. In the late 1960s the site of Hawley's Pond 
was in a rundown state, being unkempt and dilapidated. When Route 231 was 
being built, Hawley's Lake Park lost all hope of being repaired and restored 
to its former glory: the routes northern and southern terminus were run 
directly through the estate. Some sources even claim that the lake was 
made considerably smaller and was partially filled in during the expressway's 
construction. Today, Hawley's Lake Park is an unused resource due mostly 
for its lack of parking and lack of village concern. The aging grand falls 
were replaced with a more modern, less ornate and less attractive setup. 
The Babylon Beautification Society tries from time to time to maintain 
the site, although no plan has proved considerably successful. Since there 
is no parking at the site, and because access to families that might otherwise 
want to use it is constrained by the necessity of crossing active highway 
lanes, the current status of the site has remained unchanged. Between the 
park and the Lake Drives in West Islip and the northern terminus of Route 
231 is a small group of ponds also belonging to the former Effingham Park. 
This portion is no longer designated as park property, and is accessible 
to the homes on Lake Drive South and Lake Drive North. The overflow pool 
from Hawley's Fall opens into two tunnels beneath Main Street that drain 
into Sumpwams River, known locally as East Creek, and eventually into Great 
South Bay. Many of the black service personnel of the Argyle Hotel formed 
a baseball team, the Babylon Black Panthers, said to be the first black 
professional baseball team. The team so dominated local white teams that 
Walter Cook, a New Jersey promoter, put up the money to have them travel 
and play as the "Cuban Giants." Calling black ballplayers (or ballplayers 
in "white" professional clubs in that era who seemed too dark to be Caucasian) 
"Cuban" was a common practice through World War II. There were no Cubans 
in the Cuban Giants. The team went on to become the "world colored champions" 
of 1887 and 1888, and spawned imitators. Babylon Village today has three 
baseball fields for the high school, little league and adult play, and 
the high school team is named the Babylon Panthers. The Babylon Panthers 
varsity baseball team won Long Island championships in 2005-2006, 2012, 
and the New York State championship in 2007. The village also has one of 
Long Island's older continuous African-American communities, of which the 
employees of the Argyle are said to have formed the core. This community 
still maintains two of the village's 12 churches, the Ebenezer Baptist 
Church and the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church, both on Cooper 
Street. Another prominent African-American, the film actress Thelma (Butterfly) 
McQueen, moved with her family from her birthplace of Tampa, Florida to 
live on Cottage Row in Babylon, where she went on to graduate from Babylon 
High School and then pursued her acting career before later attending several 
universities and attaining a degree in political science. Cottage Row still 
exists but no longer has any housing on it, falling prey to parking space 
for business district stores. Many Babylon village residences and businesses 
suffered major flood and wind damage from Hurricane Sandy on October 29, 
2012 with most of the damage occurring south of Montauk Highway (Main Street) 
close to the Great South Bay. This particular area experienced storm surge 
as high as six feet during the storm. Damage caused by Sandy displaced 
dozens of families in Babylon for several months. Babylon today is part 
suburban bedroom community, part small-town, and has a substantial shopping 
and business district. Today the village is best known for its restaurants 
and shops, and hosts shopping events during the fall as well as a popular 
crafts fair. A statue of Robert Moses was erected in front of the Village 
Hall on Main Street (Montauk Highway) in 2003. The commercial and housing 
stock in Babylon reflects its longevity as a community. Because of the 
140-year presence of the railroad, and its earlier status as a way station 
on Montauk Highway, originally the only through highway on Long Island's 
south shore, most of the core of Babylon dates to the era from before the 
American Civil War to World War I. As a result, there is a mix of building 
styles, including pre-Civil War, colonial, Victorian, and more recent designs. 
Nearer the shore, much of the housing was originally summer properties, 
including mansions and estates, cottages and bungalows: the latter two, 
virtually all now winterized. As far as large formal mansions and estates, 
most have been razed, yet one of the last remaining estates in Babylon, 
and presumably the towns smallest is the Long Island Yacht Club, built 
by E.W. Howell Co. of Babylon, NY in 1927 at a cost of $26.500.00. Areas 
of large old homes and less formal mansions exist in a number of areas, 
including on Fire Island Avenue, Crescent Avenue and Thompson Avenue on 
Sumpawam's Neck, the area in between West Creek (Carll's River) and East 
Creek (Sumpawams River), the main body of the village between Main Street 
and the Bay. Because of this history, and the general unavailability of 
large tracts of building land, Babylon Village has very few tract houses 
or developments. Some of the few areas developed after World War II reflected 
the conversion of remaining farms and remains of large estates and mansions. 
These areas generally contain 1950s-style ranch houses, but there are some 
characteristic Long Island split level homes and high ranches. Areas of 
large new homes are on formerly undeveloped or reclaimed former wetlands 
developed during the late 1940s through 1970s, including on Lucinda and 
Peninsula Drives, with estate-like homes such as that of Bret Saberhagen 
until 2001. Most of the affluent homes built in these new areas were large 
ranch houses, popular in the time of building, but much less favored today. 
In the last decade and continuing to the present, many of these houses 
have been expanded by adding a story and changing their style to more colonial 
appearance. Babylon Village has also experienced the modern phenomenon 
in which small sound houses on desirable lots have been purchased and torn 
down by affluent recent purchasers and replaced with houses as large as 
zoning will permit, meaning that the new home builder has paid the price 
of a home just to obtain the lot. Most of the residents of the Village 
of Babylon are served by the Babylon Union Free School District (UFSD). 
Since the school district lines are not coextensive with the village boundaries, 
as is common on Long Island, some residents of Babylon Village are in the 
West Babylon UFSD and, conversely, some residents of West Babylon go to 
the village schools, as well as residents of Oak Island, Oak Beach, Gilgo, 
West Gilgo, and Captree Island across the Great South Bay.[2] As of the 
2010-2011 School Year, the Babylon Union Free School District had 1,788 
students. The racial demographics were 0% Native American or Alaska Native, 
4% non-Hispanic black or African-American, 8% Hispanic or Latino, 84% non-Hispanic 
white, 3% Asian or Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and 0% multiracial. 
9% of students were eligible for free lunch, 3% for reduced-price lunch, 
and 1% of students were Limited English Proficient. 10.7% of students were 
classified as "Special Ed". The school district had a graduation rate of 
94%, and 1% of students did not complete school. 96% of graduates received 
a Regents Diploma and 67% received a Regents Diploma with Advanced Designation. 
Of the 2011 completers, 75% planned to move on to 4-year College, 19% to 
2-year College, 0% to Other Post-Secondary, 0% to the Military, 4% to Employment, 
0% to Adult Services, 2% had other known post-secondary plans, and 0% had 
no known post-secondary plan. The district currently has three schools: 
Babylon Village children who live in the West Babylon School District (all 
of Babylon Village west of Route 109 and all of Little East Neck south 
of Cambridge Drive) are served by these schools: The poet Walt Whitman, 
forced to find work after the Great Fire of New York in 1835 devastated 
the printing and publishing industry, took work at a number of Long Island 
"country schools." Among them was West Babylon's school, located midway 
between Little East Neck and Great East Neck Roads, just west of the current 
village boundary, and now occupied by a supermarket, where he taught in 
the winter of 1836-37.[1] According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the village has a total area of 2.8 square miles (7.1 km²), of which, 2.4 square 
miles (6.2 km²) of it is land and 0.3 square miles (0.9 km²) of it (12.32%) 
is water. Babylon Village is bordered to the west by West Babylon, to the 
north by North Babylon, to the east by West Islip, and to the south by 
the Great South Bay. As of the census[5] of 2010, there were 12,166 people 
and 4,585 households in the village, with 2.65 persons per household. The 
population density was 4,975.9 people per square mile (2,864.3/km²). There 
were 4,768 housing units. 3.8% were vacant and 20.7% of occupied housing 
units were occupied by renters. The racial makeup of the village was 91.9% 
White, 2.0% African American, 0.1% Native American, 2.2% Asian, 0.0% Pacific 
Islander, 1.8% from other races, and 2.0% from two or more races. Hispanic 
or Latino of any race were 6.7% of the population. The village was 87.6% 
non-Hispanic White.[6] There were 4,585 households out of which 33.3% had 
children under the age of 18 living with them, 24.5% had individuals over 
the age of 65, 55.4% were married couples living together, 10.3% had a 
female householder with no husband present, and 30.1% were non-families. 
23.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 7.8% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.64 and the average family size was 3.18. In the village the population 
was spread out with 5.3% under the age of 5, 22.5% under the age of 18, 
5.2% from 20 to 24, 25.7% from 25 to 44, 31.6% from 45 to 64, and 12.1% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41.6 years. The following 
data is from the Census' American Community Survey (from 2006-2010): Babylon 
is served by several transit options. The Babylon station is the terminal 
for the Babylon Branch of the Long Island Rail Road, and is also served 
by the Montauk Branch. Therefore, passengers utilizing the Babylon station 
can travel to both the westernmost and easternmost stations on Long Island, 
making the village ideal for commuters. The average weekday commute from 
Babylon station to New York City's Penn Station ranges (roughly) from 55 
minutes to 1 hour 15 minutes, depending on train schedules and station 
stops. The train station is also a hub for many buses run by Suffolk County 
Transit, as well as a route run by Nassau Inter-County Express.[7] Babylon 
village is primarily served by Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center in 
the nearby hamlet of West Islip, and by Southside Hospital in the nearby 
