Baby Ruth is an American candy bar made of peanuts, caramel and chocolate-flavored 
nougat covered in compound chocolate. Allegedly named after President Grover 
Cleveland's daughter Ruth, Baby Ruth is currently owned by the Swiss company 
Nestlé.[1] In 1921, the Curtiss Candy Company refashioned its Kandy Kake 
into the Baby Ruth. The bar was a staple of the Chicago-based company for 
some seven decades. Curtiss was purchased by Nabisco in 1981. In 1990, 
RJR Nabisco sold the Curtiss brands to Nestlé.[1] Although the name of 
the candy bar sounds like the name of the famous baseball player Babe Ruth, 
the Curtiss Candy Company traditionally claimed that it was named after 
President Grover Cleveland's daughter, Ruth Cleveland. The candy maker, 
located on the same street as Wrigley Field, named the bar "Baby Ruth" 
in 1921, as Babe Ruth's fame was on the rise, 24 years after Cleveland 
had left the White House, and 17 years after his daughter, Ruth, had died. 
The company did not negotiate an endorsement deal with Ruth, and many saw 
the company's story about the origin of the name to be a devious way to 
avoid having to pay the baseball player any royalties. Curtiss successfully 
shut down a rival bar that was approved by, and named for, Ruth, on the 
grounds that the names were too similar.[2] In the trivia book series Imponderables, 
David Feldman reports the standard story about the bar being named for 
Grover Cleveland's daughter, with additional information that ties it to 
the President: "The trademark was patterned exactly after the engraved 
lettering of the name used on a medallion struck for the Chicago World's 
Columbian Exposition in 1893, and picturing the President, his wife, and 
daughter Baby Ruth."[3] He also cites More Misinformation, by Tom Burnam: 
"Burnam concluded that the candy bar was named ... after the granddaughter 
of Mr. and Mrs. George Williamson, candy makers who developed the original 
formula and sold it to Curtiss." (Williamson had also sold the "Oh Henry!" 
formula to Curtiss around that time.) The writeup goes on to note that 
marketing the product as being named for a company executive's granddaughter 
would likely have been less successful, hence their "official" story.[4] 
However, David Mikkelson of Snopes.com denies the claim that the Williamsons 
invented the recipe, as Mr. George Williamson was head of the Williamson 
Candy Company, producers of the Oh Henry! bar. He continues to say that 
"the Baby Ruth bar came about when Otto Schnering, founder of the Curtiss 
Candy Company, made some alterations to his company's first candy offering, 
a confection known as 'Kandy Kake.'"[5] As if to tweak their own official 
denial of the name's origin, after Babe Ruth’s “called shot” at Wrigley 
Field in the 1932 World Series, Curtiss installed an illuminated advertising 
sign for Baby Ruth on the roof of one of the flats across Sheffield Avenue, 
near where Ruth's home run ball had landed in center field. The sign stood 
for some four decades before being removed. In 1995, a company representing 
the Ruth estate licensed his name and likeness for use in a Baby Ruth marketing 
campaign.[6] On p. 34 of the spring, 2007, edition of the Chicago Cubs 
game program, there is a full-page ad showing a partially unwrapped Baby 
Ruth in front of the Wrigley ivy, with the caption, "The official candy 
bar of major league baseball, and proud sponsor of the Chicago Cubs." Continuing 
the baseball-oriented theme, during the summer and post-season of the 2007 
season, a TV ad for the candy bar showed an entire stadium (played by Dodger 
Stadium) filled with people munching Baby Ruths, and thus having to hum 
rather than singing along with "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during the 
seventh-inning stretch. In other promotions, company founder Otto Schnering 
chartered a plane in 1923 to drop thousands of Baby Ruth bars over the 
city of Pittsburgh — each with its own mini parachute.[1] Original flavor 
U.S. edition, listed by weight in decreasing order: sugar, roasted peanuts, 
corn syrup, partially hydrogenated palm kernel and coconut oil, nonfat 
milk, cocoa, high-fructose corn syrup and less than 1% of glycerin, whey 
(from milk), dextrose, salt, Egg, monoglyceride, soy lecithin, soybean 
oil, natural and artificial flavors, carrageenan, TBHQ, citric acid (to 
preserve freshness) and caramel color.[citation needed] In addition to 
the single 2.1-ounce (59.5-gram) bar (sold in packages as Full Size), Baby 
Ruth is also sold in a 3.7-ounce King Size, and in packages of Fun Size 
and Miniatures. Nestlé also produces a Baby Ruth ice cream bar with a milk 
chocolate coating, chocolate-covered peanuts, and a vanilla-and-nougat 
flavored ice cream center. Nestlé also produces Baby Ruth Crisp bars, which 
are chocolate-covered wafer cookies, with a caramel-flavored cream and 
crushed peanuts. This is part of a line of Nestlé products under the Crisp 
name, including Nestlé Crunch Crisp and Butterfinger Crisp. The Baby Ruth 
bar is infamously featured in a scene in the 1980 movie Caddyshack that 
takes place at a pool party. Two teenage girls are sitting at poolside 
and one girl offers to share the tasty confection with her friend, when 
a third teen — a boy — asks for a piece of the candy and the girls refuse 
his request. The boy then tries to take the candy bar from the first girl, 
thereby accidentally knocking it into the pool, much to the young ladies' 
annoyance. Thinking someone had defecated in the pool due to the candy's 
perceived resemblance to human feces, all the partygoers make a mad scramble 
out of the pool. When Carl Spackler (Bill Murray) is cleaning out the pool 
afterward and recognizes the offending item as a Baby Ruth bar ("It's no 
big deal!"), he takes a bite out of it, much to the disgust of the country 
club's owners (played by Ted Knight and Lois Kibbee), who still believe 
it to be feces. Baby Ruth was also used in the American film The Goonies 
by Chunk to befriend Sloth. In the film The Sandlot, Scotty Smalls (after 
using his stepfather's Babe Ruth-autographed baseball in a game and wanting 
to get it back after he hit it over the fence into a backyard) mistakenly 
tells his friends that it was autographed by "Baby Ruth", to which his 
friends knew what he meant to say and shout "BABE RUTH!" before running 
to the fence to see the ball before it's taken away by a demonic dog they 
call "the Beast". In the film The Mighty both Max and Kevin are awarded 
Baby Ruth bars for taking care of a problem in a local store. In the film 
Hellboy, a Baby Ruth bar is used to lure and mollify the infant Hellboy 
when he is discovered after the destruction of the Nazi portal. A popular 
song from the year 1956 was "A Rose and a Baby Ruth," written by John D. 
Loudermilk and recorded by George Hamilton IV. President Richard Nixon 
served Baby Ruth candy bars on Air Force One.[citation needed] In the movie 
Four Brothers, Angel Mercer (played by Tyrese Gibson) offers to give a 
local kid playing baseball an entire box of Baby Ruth bars if he helps 
Angel by creating a distraction so Angel can ambush a dirty cop at his 
