The Bacharach Giants were a Negro league baseball team that played in Atlantic 
City, New Jersey. The club was founded when two African-American politicians 
moved the Duval Giants of Jacksonville, Florida, to Atlantic City in 1916 
and renamed them after Harry Bacharach, the city's mayor. The Bacharachs 
became a top independent team within a few years, featuring shortstop Dick 
Lundy, third baseman Oliver Marcelle, and the great pitchers Dick Redding 
and Jesse "Nip" Winters. In 1920 the club joined the Midwest-based Negro 
National League (NNL) as an associate member. Though the Bacharachs played 
NNL teams extensively, touring the Midwest each year from 1920 to 1922, 
they did not compete for the league championship. In 1922, the club splintered 
into two factions; one took most of the roster and moved to New York City 
under the management of John Henry Lloyd, while the other remained in Atlantic 
City. In 1923, the two clubs were reunited in Atlantic City, and the Bacharach 
Giants became a founding member of the Eastern Colored League (ECL). The 
team hovered around .500 until 1926, when the shortstop Dick Lundy took 
over as playing manager, and brought home two consecutive pennants, helped 
by Marcelle, center fielder Chaney White, and pitchers Arthur "Rats" Henderson, 
Claude Grier, and Luther Farrell. The Bacharachs lost the Negro League 
World Series to the Chicago American Giants both years, though Grier and 
Farrell both tossed no-hitters for the Atlantic City team, the only no-hitters 
in Negro League World Series history. When the ECL failed early in 1928, 
the Bacharachs continued to play as an independent team. Despite the Bacharachs' 
success, attendance was not high enough to sustain their high-priced roster. 
In one of the most famous trades in Negro league history, they sent Lundy 
and Marcelle to the Baltimore Black Sox in return for veteran first baseman 
and manager Ben Taylor, catcher Mack Eggleston, and cash. Lundy and Marcelle 
sparked the Black Sox to the 1929 American Negro League pennant, while 
the Bacharachs languished in fifth place (out of six teams), with a 19–45 
record. The team disbanded after the 1929 season and its connection to 
Atlantic City ended. In 1931, white promoter Harry Passon organized a new 
Bacharach team based in Philadelphia. The club eventually joined Gus Greenlee's 
new Negro National League in 1934 but returned to independent baseball 
in 1935. The Bacharachs then operated independently until Passon's death 
