Backyard cricket, street cricket, beach cricket, gully cricket, corridor 
cricket, deef or garden cricket is an informal ad hoc variant of the game 
of cricket, played by people of all genders and all ages in gardens, back 
yards, on the street, in parks, carparks, beaches and any area not specifically 
intended for the purpose. Backyard cricket has connotations to the past 
time of Australian children who had large expansive backyards where they 
were able to play this informal game of sport often with friends, family 
and neighbours.[1] Whilst loosely based upon the game of cricket, many 
aspects are improvised: the playing ground, the rules, the teams, and the 
equipment. Quite often there are no teams at all; the players take turns 
at batting and there is often no emphasis on actually scoring runs. The 
bat can be anything, as long as it can hit the ball and can be suitably 
held in the hands. However, usage of a bat is necessary. A ball is the 
other essential item. Tennis balls are often used due to the fact that 
they are less likely to inflict injuries than a cricket ball. They are 
also much cheaper and more readily available than a leather cricket ball 
and are easier to hit due to their slower air-speed and relative lightness. 
Tennis balls also bounce more than normal cricket balls, especially at 
low speeds. Often a tennis ball will be heavily taped on one side to give 
the ball extra 'swing'. This is known as a 'swing ball'—swing balls may 
be made with: gaffer tape, electrical tape, plumbing tape or any other 
kind of tape available. The pitch can be any stretch of ground that is 
reasonably flat. The wicket may be any convenient object – a chair, a cardboard 
box, a set of long twigs or sticks, a rubbish bin, tree or a drawing on 
the wall. Often, the wicket is by no means close to the official size, 
but it is used anyway. A wicket at the non-striker's end is generally a 
single stump if proper stumps are available and in the absence of larger 
objects may be just a hat or a shoe. Its main purpose is to mark the bowler's 
crease, but can be instrumental when there are two batters and one may 
be run out. Garden/backyard cricket in South Africa and Australia is considered 
by many to be the pinnacle event of social and sporting excellence in the 
summer period. Many games are paired with a barbecue which often has a 
carnival atmosphere. Backyard cricket allows for rules to be changed, and 
the rules being played by will depend on the context and physical environment 
of the game. However a list of the typical rules which are used most of 
the time are as follows: Play on an actual beach can be achieved either 
by using the flat strip of hard-packed sand along the surf line as the 
pitch, or by only "bowling" gentle full tosses to avoid the problem of 
the ball not bouncing off loose sand. If there are no true stumps available 
a bin, deckchair, boogie board or cool box may be used. In beach cricket 
the creases and the boundary are normally drawn in the sand in a line which 
extends well past the side of the agreed pitch to prevent them becoming 
obliterated in the first over. The batsmen will frequently redraw the line. 
Sometimes, play is shifted along the beach to a new pitch as the packed 
sand of the original pitch is turned up, thus reducing the standard of 
or even completely disabling bowling. The tide plays a big part in the 
standard of the pitch in beach cricket. During low tide, the pitch tends 
to be on the semi-wet sand, and is deemed superior than cricket played 
in high tide (when the pitch is on dryer, looser sand). In particularly 
long matches, the play will shift up and down the beach depending on the 
tide. In Brazil, the game is called "taco"(cue) or "bets" and is very practiced 
by young people on the beaches, in the streets and in schools. Its rules 
are very similar including the traditional cricket. There are several versions 
about the origin of the "taco". One is that the game was created by fishermen 
in Brazil during the eighteenth century; another is that it was practiced 
by the British Company of the Indies, who played club in the ship's hold 
during the latch trip of the oceans. To this tradition, the game is a descendant 
of "cricket" In the Dominican Republic exists "la Plaquita" ('The little 
Plate') or "la Placa" ('The Plate'), a street variation played between 
two couples, usually making use of broomsticks as bats, rubber or tennis 
balls, and old license plates as wickets (with their ends twisted to make 
them stand up). The game is divided in alternate 3-out innings like in 
