Baker Bowl is the best-known popular name of a baseball park that formerly 
stood in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Its formal name, painted 
on its outer wall, was National League Park. It was also initially known 
as Philadelphia Park or Philadelphia Base Ball Grounds. It was on a small 
city block bounded by N. Broad St., W. Huntingdon St., N. 15th St. and 
W. Lehigh Avenue. The ballpark was initially built in 1887. It was constructed 
by Phillies owners AJ Reach and John Rogers.[3] The ballpark cost $80,000 
and had a capacity of 12,500.[3] At that time the media praised it as state-of-the-art. 
In that dead-ball era, the outfield was enclosed by a relatively low wall 
all around. Center field was fairly close, with the railroad tracks running 
behind it. Later, the tracks were lowered and the field was extended over 
top of them. Bleachers were built in left field, and over time various 
extensions were added to the originally low right field wall, resulting 
in the famous 60-foot (18 m) fence. The ballpark's second incarnation opened 
in 1895. It was notable for having the first cantilevered upper deck in 
a sports stadium, and was the first ballpark to use steel and brick for 
the majority of its construction. It also took the rule book literally, 
as the sweeping curve behind the plate was about 60 feet (18 m), and instead 
of angling back toward the foul lines, the 60-foot (18 m) wide foul ground 
extended all the way to the wall in right, and well down the left field 
line also. The spacious foul ground, while not fan-friendly, would have 
resulted in more foul-fly outs than in most parks, and thus was probably 
the park's one saving grace in the minds of otherwise-frustrated pitchers. 
The most notable and talked-about feature of Baker Bowl was the right field 
wall, which was only some 280 feet (85 m) from home plate, with right-center 
only 300 feet (91.5 m) away, and with a wall-and-screen barrier that in 
its final form was 60 feet (18 m) high. By comparison, the Green Monster 
at Fenway Park is 37 feet (11 m) high and 310 feet (94 m) away. The Baker 
wall was a rather difficult task to surmount. The wall was an amalgam of 
different materials. It was originally a relatively normal-height masonry 
structure. When it became clear that it was too soft a home run touch, 
the barrier was extended upward using more masonry, wood, and a metal pipe-and-wire 
screen. The masonry in the lower part of the wall was extremely rough (writer 
Michael Benson termed it "the sort of surface that efficiently removes 
an outfielder's skin upon contact"[4]) and eventually a layer of tin was 
laid over the entire structure except for the upper part of the screen. 
The wall dominated the stadium in much the same way as the Green Monster 
does, only some 30 feet (9.1 m) closer to the diamond; and because of its 
material, it made a distinctive sound when balls ricocheted off it, as 
happened frequently. The clubhouse was located above and behind the center 
field wall.[3] No batter ever hit a ball over the clubhouse, but Rogers 
Hornsby once hit a ball through a window.[3] The ballpark, shoehorned as 
it was into the Philadelphia city grid, acquired a number of nicknames 
over the years. Baker Bowl is the best-known name, and is nearly always 
referred to by that name in histories of the Phillies. The prosaic "Philadelphia 
Baseball Grounds" was the name often used by sportswriters prior to the 
Baker era. Photographs during its later years show the sign on the ballpark's 
exterior with the equally prosaic label "National League Park". "Huntingdon 
Street Grounds" was a nickname for a while, after the street running behind 
the first base line. Baker Bowl, also called "Baker Field" in the baseball 
guides, referred to one-time Phillies owner William F. Baker. The use of 
"Baker Field" was perhaps confusing, since Columbia University's athletic 
facility in New York City was also called Baker Field. How it acquired 
the unique suffix "Bowl" is subject to conjecture. It may have referred 
to the banked bicycle track that was there for a time, or it may have been 
used derisively, suggesting non-existent luxuriousness. "The Hump" referred 
to a hill in center field covering a partially submerged railroad tunnel 
in the street beyond right field that extended through into center field. 
Outfielders would occasionally feel the rumblings of the trains passing 
underneath them.[3] "The Cigar Box" and "The Band Box" referred to the 
tiny size of the playing field. After the demise of the Baker Bowl, the 
terms "cigar box" and "bandbox" were subsequently applied to any "intimate" 
ballpark (like Boston's Fenway Park or Brooklyn's Ebbets Field) whose configurations 
were conducive to players hitting home runs. During the 51½ seasons the 
Phillies played there, they managed only one pennant (1915). The 1915 World 
Series was significant in that it was the first time a sitting president 
attended a World Series game when President Wilson attended and threw out 
the first pitch prior to Game 2.[5] The Series was also the first post-season 
appearance by Babe Ruth, and the last to be played in a venue whose structure 
predated the modern World Series. While they were occasionally at least 
respectable in the dead-ball era, once the lively ball was introduced the 
Phils nearly always finished in last place, substantially helping them 
towards the 10,000-loss "milestone" they reached on July 15, 2007.[6] During 
its last two decades, the ballpark became heaven for batters (both home 
and visiting), whereas having to play half their games there every year 
became hell for the Phillies' pitching staff. For a number of years, a 
huge advertising sign on the right field wall read "The Phillies Use Lifebuoy", 
a popular brand of soap. This led to the oft-reported quip that appended 
"... and they still stink!" In 1936, a vandal sneaked into Baker Bowl one 
night and actually wrote that phrase on the Lifebuoy ad.[7] Conventional 
wisdom ties their failures to Baker Bowl, but they remained cellar-dwellers 
in Shibe Park as well. On June 9, 1914, Honus Wagner hit his 3,000th career 
hit in the stadium. Babe Ruth played his last major league baseball game 
in Baker Bowl on May 30, 1935. The ballpark was abandoned during the middle 
of the 1938 season, as the Phillies chose to move 5 blocks west on Lehigh 
Avenue to rent the newer and more spacious Shibe Park from the A's rather 
than remain at the Baker Bowl. Phils president Gerald Nugent cited the 
move as an opportunity for the Phillies to cut expenses as stadium upkeep 
would be split between two clubs.[8] The final game was played on the 30th 
of June, when a crowd of only 1,500 spectators watched the Phillies lose 
to the New York Giants 14-1.[3] At Baker Bowl, the Phillies finished with 
a 30-38-1 record against the A's in City Series exhibition games.[9] After 
the Phillies' move, the upper deck was peeled off and the stadium was used 
for sports ranging from midget auto racing to ice skating. Its old centerfield 
clubhouse served as a piano bar for a while. By the late 1940s, all that 
stood of the original structure were the four outer walls and a field choked 
with weeds. What remained of the ballpark was finally demolished in 1950 
– coincidentally, the year of the Phils' first pennant since 1915. The 
site now features a gas station/convenience store where the centerfield 
clubhouse once stood, garages, and a car wash. Baker Bowl was the first 
home field of the Philadelphia Eagles who played there from 1933 through 
1935. In their three seasons there, they had a record of 9-21-1. Eagles' 
owner Bert Bell hoped to play home games at larger Shibe Park, but negotiations 
with the Athletics were not fruitful, and Bell agreed to a deal with Phillies' 
owner Gerry Nugent. For Eagles games, 5,000 temporary seats were erected 
along the right-field wall. The Eagles played their first game at the ballpark 
on October 3, 1933, a 40–0 pre-season victory over a U.S. Marines team; 
the game was played at night under rented floodlights. In the first regular-season 
game on October 18, 1933, 1,750 fans saw the Portsmouth Spartans beat the 
Eagles, 25–0. Later that season, 17,850 fans watched the Eagles tie the 
Chicago Bears on Sunday, November 18, 1933. Under Pennsylvania blue laws, 
Sunday games had been prohibited.[10] With the ballpark in poor condition, 
the Eagles left Baker Bowl after the 1935 season for the city-owned Municipal 
Stadium, which was then only 10 years old and could seat up to 100,000 
spectators. During its tenure, the park also hosted Negro League games, 
including those of the Hilldale Daisies and Negro League World Series games 
from 1924–1926. The first two games of the 1924 Colored World Series between 
the Kansas City Monarchs and the local Hilldale Club were hosted at Baker 
Bowl on October 3 and October 4, owing to its larger capacity. It was during 
a 1929 exhibition with a Negro League team that Babe Ruth hit two home 
runs that landed about halfway into the rail yards across the street in 
right.[11] Rodeos were occasionally held at Baker Bowl in order to raise 
additional revenue. That activity and mindset fit with the reported use 
of sheep to graze on the field during Phillies road trips, in lieu of buying 
lawn mowers, until sometime in the 1920s. Fire destroyed the grandstand 
and bleachers of the original stadium on August 6, 1894. The $80,000 in 
damage (equal to $2,191,692 today) was covered fully by insurance. The 
fire also spread to the adjoining properties, causing an additional $20,000 
in damage, equal to $547,923 today.[12] Temporary stands were built in 
time for a game on August 18. It was then fully rebuilt of fireproof materials 
with a cantilevered upper deck. It also contained a banked bicycle track 
for a while, exploiting the cycling craze of the late 19th century. In 
terms of pure design, the ballpark was well ahead of its time, but subsequent 
problems and the parsimony of the team's owners undermined any apparent 
positives, as the ballpark soon became rundown and unsafe. During a game 
on August 8, 1903, an altercation between two drunken men and two teenage 
girls in 15th Street caught the attention of bleacher fans down the left 
field line.[3] Many of them ran to the top of the wooden seating area, 
and the added stress on that section of the bleachers caused it to collapse 
into the street, killing 12 and injuring 232. This led to more renovation 
of the stadium and forced the ownership to sell the team. The Phillies 
temporarily moved to the Philadelphia Athletics' home field, Columbia Park, 
while Baker Bowl was repaired.[13] The Phillies played sixteen games at 
Columbia Park in August and September 1903.[14] During a game on May 14, 
1927, parts of two sections of the lower deck extension along the right-field 
line collapsed due to rotted shoring timbers, again triggered by an oversize 
gathering of people, who were seeking shelter from the rain. Miraculously, 
no one died during the collapse, but one individual did die from heart 
failure in the subsequent stampede that injured 50. After both of those 
catastrophes, the Phils rented from the A's while repairs were being made 
to the old structure. When Baker Bowl was first opened, it was praised 
as the finest baseball palace in America. By the time it was abandoned, 
it had been a joke for years. The Chicago Tribune ran a series of articles 
on baseball parks during the summer of 1937, and the article about Baker 
Bowl was merciless in its ridicule of this park.[15] The many futile attempts 
to keep it going, for a dozen years after its abandonment, only added to 
the ridicule due to the park's "lingering death". The later Phillies' ballparks, 
Shibe Park and Veterans Stadium, would similarly undergo the cycle of praise 
upon opening and disdain upon closure. A Pennsylvania Historical marker 
stands on Broad Street just north of West Huntingdon Street, Philadelphia. 
The marker is titled, "Baker Bowl National League Park" and the text reads, 
The Phillies' baseball park from its opening in 1887 until 1938. Rebuilt 
1895; hailed as nation's finest stadium. Site of first World Series attended 
by U.S. President, 1915; Negro League World Series, 1924-26; Babe Ruth's 
last major league game, 1935. Razed 1950.[16] The marker was dedicated 
on August 16, 2000 at Veterans Stadium during an on-the-field pre-game 
ceremony. The marker was unveiled by former Phillies shortstop Bobby Stevens, 
who played for the team in 1931, and then–current Phillies pitcher Randy 
Wolf. The marker was displayed at the Vet through the end of the 2000 season 
and then moved to the location of the ballpark, just behind where the right 
field foul pole would be.[17] Some distinctive buildings visible in vintage 
photos of the ballpark remain standing and help to mark the ballpark's 
former location. One is the roughly 10-story-tall, triangular building 
across Lehigh to the north-northeast, behind what was centerfield. It was 
originally a Ford Motor Company building, and was completed at some point 
prior to the 1915 World Series. Another is the neoclassical North Broad 
Street Station train depot building across Broad Street from what was the 
end of the first base grandstand. It was built in the 1920s and is visible 
in later aerial photos of the ballpark. The building itself now houses 
a homeless shelter. The modern North Broad (SEPTA station) stands nearby. 
