The BALCO scandal was a scandal involving the use of banned, performance-enhancing 
substances by professional athletes. The Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative 
(BALCO) was a San Francisco Bay Area business which supplied anabolic steroids 
to professional athletes. The incident surrounds a 2002 US Federal government 
investigation of the laboratory.[1] Founded in 1984 by Victor Conte and 
his first wife Aubry, BALCO began as Millbrae Holistic, a vitamin shop 
in Millbrae, California. Initially a business venture to keep food on the 
table, only one year after opening, Victor Conte closed Millbrae Holistic 
and started BALCO as a sport supplement company in neighboring Burlingame. 
Investing in an ICP spectrometer, Conte used his knowledge of nutrition, 
largely self-taught, to devise a system of testing athletes for mineral 
deficiencies in order to maintain a perfect balance of minerals in the 
body. Through regular urine and blood testing, Conte would monitor and 
treat mineral shortages in athletes, supposedly elevating their level of 
physical wellness dramatically. Surviving his divorce from Aubry and several 
years of financial hardships, BALCO did not achieve professional success 
until the summer of 1996 with the addition of NFL linebacker Bill Romanowski 
to its client list. From there Conte began acquiring additional high-profile 
athletes with his special concoction of undetectable drugs, manufactured 
by rogue Illinois chemist Patrick Arnold and distributed by personal trainer 
Greg Anderson.[1] Arnold created a wide range of substances, that when 
used in a cycle could go relatively undetected by drug testing, even on 
the Olympic level. Five different types of drugs along with mineral supplements 
were used to achieve optimum results. Types of drugs include erythropoietin, 
human growth hormone, modafinil, testosterone cream, and tetrahydrogestrinone. 
Erythropoietin or EPO is a hormone naturally produced by the kidneys that 
stimulates erythropoiesis. Originally used to treat anemia, when artificially 
introduced to the body EPO stimulates an increased production of red blood 
cells enhancing the body's ability to transport oxygen. Human growth hormone 
is secreted by the anterior pituitary and is generally anabolic. In theory, 
this hormone builds muscle mass although some studies suggest it has no 
effect on building muscle mass to a degree that would benefit athletes. 
Modafinil is a mild stimulant designed to be taken right before competition 
in order to sharpen an athlete’s senses and performance. Legally marketed 
as a treatment for narcolepsy and sleep disorders, modafinil is not regarded 
as a high risk drug by athletic governing bodies but is still banned from 
competition. Testosterone Cream or "The Cream" is a salve that when rubbed 
on the body introduces testosterone, trimming body fat and building muscle. 
Though less effective than testosterone injections, "The Cream" was widely 
used because it didn’t cause a significant rise in normal testosterone 
levels when scrutinized by a drug test. Tetrahydrogestrinone, THG, or "The 
Clear," is a designer anabolic steroid that affects the user like other 
anabolic steroids, making muscles bigger and stronger. THG was the main 
steroid distributed by BALCO with the other products more of a regimen 
to heighten its effects according to an individual athlete's body.[2] Conte, 
Arnold and Anderson continued selling these substances undetected from 
1988 until 2002 when the official federal investigation of BALCO began. 
Parallel with this investigation, the USADA began its own covert investigation 
of Conte and his operation. In the summer of 2003, USADA investigators 
received a syringe with trace amounts of a mysterious substance. The anonymous 
tipster was Trevor Graham, sprint coach to Marion Jones and Tim Montgomery. 
The syringe went to Don Catlin, MD, the founder and then-director of the 
UCLA Olympic Analytical Laboratory, who had developed a testing process 
for the substance, tetrahydrogestrinone (THG). [3] Later that year, the 
Chicago Tribune named Catlin Sportsman of the Year.[4] He tested 550 existing 
samples from athletes, of which 20 proved to be positive for THG. [3] Athletes 
including Kelli White, British sprinter Dwain Chambers, shot putter Kevin 
Toth, middle distance runner Regina Jacobs, and hammer throwers John McEwen 
and Melissa Price were subsequently incriminated in the investigation.[5] 
The former American League MVP admitted to steroid use as well as HGH use 
in front of a grand jury in December 2003. Jason Giambi first became connected 
with BALCO after inquiring with Greg Anderson about Barry Bonds' training 
regimen. The much publicized leak of court documents which were said to 
contain this admission led to a tarnishing of Giambi's career, yet because 
he never actually failed a drug test, Giambi has, thus far, avoided punishment 
from Major League Baseball. Giambi subsequently made a few apologies to 
the media, the most direct of which may have come on May 16, 2007, when 
he told USA Today, "I was wrong for using that stuff...what we should have 
done a long time ago was stand up — players, ownership, everybody - and 
said 'we made a mistake.'" His younger brother Jeremy, a fellow major leaguer 
and former teammate of Giambi's on the Oakland A's, was also involved in 
receiving supplements from BALCO, and has admitted to using steroids during 
his career.[6] Barry Bonds, the former San Francisco Giants outfielder, 
who holds the major league records for home runs in both a single season 
and a career, has never been caught explicitly using steroids and has steadfastly 
denied any allegations against him. Critics of Bonds pointed to his large 
increase in size late in his career, as well as his improvement primarily 
in his power numbers, despite his age. Bonds's trainer, Greg Anderson, 
was sentenced to jail time after refusing to testify against Bonds before 
a grand jury investigating the slugger for perjury. Mark Fainaru-Wada and 
Lance Williams, reporters for the San Francisco Chronicle, profiled Bonds' 
alleged use of performance-enhancing substances in their 2006 book Game 
of Shadows. The reporters used Bonds' testimony in front of a grand jury, 
and refused to reveal their source for the court documents. The U.S. government 
sought charges against them for leaking the testimony, but dropped them 
when a former attorney for Conte pleaded guilty to doing so. Bonds, like 
Giambi, has never been punished by the MLB in any way because he has not 
yet failed any drug test.[7] On November 15, 2007, Bonds was indicted for 
perjury and obstruction of justice based on his grand jury testimony in 
this investigation. The trial began on March 21, 2011;[8] and he was convicted 
on April 13, 2011, on a single charge of obstruction of justice; the other 
charges were dismissed[9][10] In 2015, Bonds's conviction was overturned 
by a 10-1 vote of an en banc panel of the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Ninth Circuit.[11] Marion Jones is a track and field athlete who 
won five medals, three gold, at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia. 
Jones attended the University of North Carolina on a basketball scholarship, 
but eventually shifted her focus solely to track. It was there she met 
shot-putter and then UNC coach C.J. Hunter, whom she married in 1998 and 
eventually divorced in 2002. A former world champion, Hunter, also involved 
with BALCO, was caught using performance-enhancing drugs and disgraced. 
The publicity surrounding this led many to believe Jones herself used such 
drugs as well, an accusation she vehemently denied over and over again. 
Jones then began a relationship with American sprinter Tim Montgomery, 
leading to the birth of a son. Montgomery himself benefited from the banned 
substances he received from BALCO (in fact he, as well as both Jones and 
Hunter, can still be seen posing with Conte in photos on his SNAC website[12]), 
and the one-time 100 meter dash record holder has been stripped of his 
awards and records since admitting to steroid use, and is now retired. 
After news of Montgomery's cheating broke, Jones was again faced with increased 
doubt as to the integrity of her career, yet she continued to deny any 
wrongdoing. Finally, in October 2007, Jones admitted to lying to federal 
agents about her use of performance-enhancing drugs, though she still maintains 
she believed the substances she was using were flaxseed oil, not steroids, 
at the time. Jones has handed over the five Olympic medals she earned in 
Sydney and officially retired from the sport. The most notable football 
player to be involved in the BALCO scandal is two-time All-Pro linebacker 
Bill Romanowski. The 16-year NFL veteran openly advertised Conte's zinc 
supplement ZMA. In the words of Romanowski, "I've got about 90 percent 
of the Broncos on ZMA. The guys are telling me they sleep better and feel 
better!" His involvement with BALCO has only further tainted the career 
of the four-time Super Bowl champion. Romanowski has also been accused 
of using other performance enhancing drugs, such as Human growth hormone, 
a drug banned by the federal government.[13] The media coverage of the 
BALCO case has been extremely extensive. The San Francisco Chronicle, and 
more specifically Chronicle journalists Mark Fainaru-Wada and Lance Williams, 
have played a prominent role in covering the story; ultimately collaborating 
in Game of Shadows, a book chronicling the BALCO scandal. Fainaru-Wada 
and Williams broke the story concerning U.S. track coach Trevor Graham 
and his admission to turning a syringe laced with THG over to investigators. 
That syringe was the catalyst for the entire investigation of Conte’s lab. 
These journalists also wrote the story about C.J. Hunter (Marion Jones’ 
ex-husband) and his interview with an IRS agent, in which Hunter told the 
agents that Jones was taking performance-enhancing drugs during the 2000 
Olympic Games in Sydney. Hunter said that at times, he injected the drugs 
into Jones himself. He also admitted to taking steroids, and said that 
he had obtained them through Conte. The duo’s most groundbreaking story, 
however, was their report on October 16, 2004, of a secret audio conversation 
that contained Greg Anderson (Barry Bonds’ trainer) stating that Bonds 
had been using steroids provided by Victor Conte and himself. Anderson 
also revealed the names of numerous Olympic athletes that had been provided 
with "The Clear", boasting that neither they nor Bonds would test positively 
on a drug test because the substance was undetectable. After reporting 
on the BALCO case, Fainaru-Wada and Williams took their interviews and 
observations and published Game of Shadows, a journalistic book that explored 
every aspect of BALCO, beginning with Conte’s early struggles as an aspiring 
musician and ending with the federal bust of the BALCO headquarters. Publicly, 
most of the attention the book received was due to the incriminating evidence 
of Barry Bond’s ties to BALCO. They begin by telling of young Victor Conte. 
He was aspiring musician (and hippie, and alleged drug dealer), but those 
dreams were quickly dashed. So, undaunted, he decided to open his own health 
clinic. That idea crashed as well, but the third time was a charm for Conte. 
He decided that he wanted to become a nutritionist and help star athletes 
to reach their physical potential. Despite not having a background in chemistry, 
Conte quickly gained respect among athletes and nutrition buffs. Fainaru-Wada 
and Williams then delve into the many different schemes by which the drugs 
were distributed to these high profile athletes. Trips to Mexico, suspicious 
address names, and steroids disguised as flaxseed oil were a few among 
many ways in which the drugs got to the athletes. From there, the book 
goes on to name the many athletes who received the drugs, and the writers 
go into great detail describing their thoughts on Barry Bonds. They believed 
that Bonds was a superior athlete, but was jealous of all the attention 
that Mark McGwire received in his record-breaking season of 1998. Bonds 
was jealous, they hypothesized, because McGwire was a suspected "juicer" 
and the Giants’ slugger wanted to prove that he could compete on a level 
equal to or exceeding that of McGwire. Prior to the scandal, every major 
sport except baseball had a policy against steroids. As a result of the 
BALCO bust, Major League Baseball commissioner Bud Selig instituted a written, 
league-wide policy. The first time a player tests positive for steroids, 
he is subject to a 50-game (about 1/3 of a regular season) suspension. 
For the second offense, the penalty is a 100 (about 2/3 of a regular season) 
game suspension. Finally, if a third offense occurs, the player is given 
a lifetime ban from Major League Baseball. This policy compares favorably 
with the NFL’s policy. A first offense in the NFL gets a minimum 4 game 
suspension (1/4 of a regular season). A second offense gets a minimum of 
8 games, and a third gets a suspension of at least one calendar year. All 
of these penalties are without pay. Technically speaking, BALCO is extinct, 
but Victor Conte is a free man and still running a business called "Scientific 
Nutrition for Advanced Conditioning" or "SNAC." After serving a four-month 
prison sentence prior to pleading guilty in 2005, he now sells various 
supplements and vitamins. Patrick Arnold and Greg Anderson each served 
a three-month jail sentence after pleading guilty with Anderson serving 
an additional three-month house arrest sentence. Recently Anderson was 
incarcerated again after being found in contempt of court for refusing 
to testify about Barry Bonds and Gary Sheffield’s use of banned steroids.[14] 
BALCO is not completely dead however; on the SNAC website, Conte has BALCO 
