In baseball, a pitcher can commit a number of illegal motions or actions 
that constitute a balk. Most of these violations involve a pitcher pretending 
to pitch when he has no intention of doing so. In games played under the 
Official Baseball Rules, a balk results in a dead ball or delayed dead 
ball. In certain other circumstances, a balk may be wholly or partially 
disregarded. Under other rule sets, notably in the United States under 
the National Federation of High Schools (Fed or Federation) Baseball Rules, 
a balk results in an immediate dead ball. In the event a balk is enforced, 
the pitch is generally (but not always) nullified, each runner is awarded 
one base, and the batter (generally) remains at bat, and with the previous 
count. The balk rule in Major League Baseball was introduced in 1898.[1] 
A pitcher is restricted to a certain set of motions and one of two basic 
pitching positions before and during a pitch; if these regulations are 
violated with one or more runners on base, an umpire may call a balk. With 
a runner on base and the pitcher on or astride (with one leg on each side 
of) the rubber, under Official Baseball Rules, it is a balk[2] when the 
pitcher: Balk rules under other rule sets vary. The pitcher's acts of spitting 
on the ball, defacing or altering the ball, rubbing the ball on the clothing 
or body, or applying a foreign substance to the ball are not balks; however, 
it will result in the pitcher's ejection from the game if caught. A pitcher 
was allowed to feint toward third (or second) base, and then turn and throw 
or feint to first base if his pivot foot disengages the rubber after his 
initial feint. This is called the "fake to third, throw to first" play. 
However, Major League Baseball classified this as a balk beginning with 
the 2013 season.[3] If no runners are on base and the pitcher commits an 
otherwise balkable action, there generally is no penalty. However, delivering 
a quick return or pitching while off the rubber (which constitute balks 
when runners are on base) results in a ball being called with the bases 
empty. If the pitcher should commit an act confusing to the batter with 
nobody on, or if he stops his delivery or otherwise violates because the 
batter steps out or otherwise acts confusingly, time is called and the 
play restarted without penalty (whether or not runners are on base). If 
a pitcher repeatedly commits illegal actions without runners on base, he 
may be subject to ejection for persistently violating the rules. If, during 
an attempt to execute the "hidden ball trick" (where the defensive team 
deceives the runner(s) as to the ball's location while the play is live), 
the pitcher stands on the rubber prior to the fielder revealing the ball 
and applying the tag, the runner is not out. Instead, it is a balk, with 
all runners on base being awarded their next base. A "catcher's balk" occurs 
when the catcher does not stay in the catcher's box until the pitcher delivers 
the ball. The rule is rarely enforced, though.[4] However, a catcher's 
balk is still charged to the pitcher. This is because the pitcher is deemed 
to have illegally delivered a pitch while the catcher was out of position.[citation 
needed] While the purpose of the balk rule is to prevent the pitcher from 
deliberately befuddling the base runner (per comment to Rule 8.05, OBR), 
or occasionally the batter, there are many legal ways for pitchers to deceive 
runners: pickoff attempts, look-backs, and speeding up the pitching motion 
all are efforts at deception. Only actions that violate the balk rules, 
however, may be penalized with a balk. Another misconception occurs when 
in the set position, a pitcher must step off the rubber before attempting 
a pick-off or appeal play. Rule 8.01(c) allows a pitcher to pitch, throw 
to an occupied base, or step off while in contact with the rubber. The 
pitcher may also throw to an unoccupied base if appealing that a runner 
missed a base or left too early on a fly ball. Additionally, there is no 
"fielder's balk" for a player other than the catcher being in foul territory 
during a pitch. It is also not a balk for a pitcher to take a sign from 
a catcher while not in contact with the rubber. These are listed in the 
rule book as infractions without penalties. The umpire shall call "time" 
