Ball Four is a book written by former Major League Baseball pitcher Jim 
Bouton in 1970. The book is a diary of Bouton's 1969 season, spent with 
the Seattle Pilots (during the club's only year in existence) and then 
the Houston Astros following a late-season trade. In it Bouton also recounts 
much of his baseball career, spent mainly with the New York Yankees. Despite 
its controversy at the time, with baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn's attempts 
to discredit it and label it as detrimental to the sport, it is considered 
to be one of the most important sports books ever written[1] and the only 
sports-themed book to make the New York Public Library's 1996 list of Books 
of the Century. It also is listed in Time magazine's 100 greatest non-fiction 
books of all time. Bouton befriended sportswriter Leonard Shecter during 
his time with the Yankees. Shecter approached him with the idea of writing 
and publishing a season-long diary. Bouton, who had taken some notes during 
the 1968 season after having a similar idea, readily agreed. Bouton chronicled 
the 1969 season—the turning point year in which Neil Armstrong walked on 
the moon, the Woodstock Festival was held, and the year of the Miracle 
Mets. In so doing, Bouton provided a frank, insider's look at professional 
sports teams. The book's context was the Seattle Pilots' only operating 
season, though Bouton was traded to Houston late in the year. Ball Four 
described a side of baseball that was previously unseen by writing about 
the obscene jokes and the drunken tomcatting of the players and about the 
routine drug use, including by Bouton himself. Bouton wrote with candor 
about the anxiety he felt over his pitching and his role on the team. Bouton 
detailed his unsatisfactory relationships with teammates and management 
alike, his sparring sessions with Pilots manager Joe Schultz and pitching 
coach Sal Maglie, and the lies and minor cheating that has gone on in sports 
seemingly from time immemorial. Ball Four revealed publicly for the first 
time the degree of womanizing prevalent in the major leagues (including 
"beaver shooting," the ogling of women anywhere, including rooftops or 
from under the stands). Bouton also disclosed how rampant amphetamine or 
"greenies" usage was among players. Also revealed was the heavy drinking 
of Yankee legend Mickey Mantle, which had previously been kept almost entirely 
out of the press. Baseball commissioner Howie Kuhn called Ball Four "detrimental 
to baseball," and tried to force Bouton to sign a statement saying that 
the book was completely fictional. Bouton refused to deny any of Ball Four's 
revelations. Many of Bouton's teammates never forgave him for publicly 
airing what he had learned in private about their flaws and foibles. The 
book made Bouton unpopular with many players, coaches and officials on 
other teams as well, as they felt he had betrayed the long-standing rule: 
"What you see here, what you say here, what you do here, let it stay here." 
Pete Rose took to yelling "Fuck you, Shakespeare!" from the dugout whenever 
Bouton was pitching. Many of the day's sportswriters also denounced Bouton, 
with Dick Young leading the way, calling Bouton and Shecter "social lepers". 
The fact that Bouton had a mediocre pitching year in 1969 even by his more 
modest recent standards is not minimized in the book. Ball Four can also 
be viewed as the decline and fall of a former star pitcher. Arguing with 
the coaches (usually about his role with the team, his opinion that he 
should use the knuckleball exclusively, and his desire to throw between 
outings) and his outspoken views on politics (and everything else) meant 
that many considered him a malcontent and a subversive in the clubhouse. 
Early in the season he was sent to Seattle's minor-league affiliate in 
Vancouver, British Columbia (which caused him to miss being on the sole 
Topps Seattle Pilots baseball team card, as the photo used was taken in 
his absence), and was later traded during the season to the Houston Astros 
for Dooley Womack, who, like Bouton, was a former Yankee "phenom" himself. 
Although Bouton wrote about Mickey Mantle mostly in a positive light, his 
comments on Mantle's excesses spawned most of the book's notoriety, and 
provoked Bouton's essential blacklisting from baseball. Bouton tried several 
times to make peace with Mantle, but not until Bouton sent a condolence 
note after Mantle's son Billy died of cancer in 1994 did Mantle contact 
Bouton. The two former teammates reconciled not long before Mantle's death. 
For personal opinions about this book from Hank Aaron, Leo Dorocher, Mickey 
Mantle and Tom Gorman, whom all had direct and indirect association with 
Bouton, watch Part 2 of the three-part episode of "The Dick Cavett Show" 
from 1979. All three parts aired on "Decades Television" on 21 Oct 2016. 
Hank Aaron also describes an event between himself and Bouton, which is 
related to the book according to Aaron. The following year Bouton described 
the fallout from Ball Four and his ensuing battles with Commissioner Kuhn 
and others in another book, entitled I'm Glad You Didn't Take It Personally. 
The title was Dick Young's response when Bouton joked with him about his 
