Ball boys/girls are individuals, usually youths, who retrieve and supply 
balls for players or officials in sports such as association football, 
American football, bandy, cricket, tennis, baseball, and basketball. Though 
non-essential, their activities help to speed up play by reducing the amount 
of inactive time. In 1920, ball boys were introduced at Wimbledon. Ball 
boys are chosen from schools. Ball girls were introduced at Wimbledon in 
1977. Due to the nature of the sport, quick retrieval of loose tennis balls 
and delivery of the game balls to the servers are necessary for quick play 
in tennis. In professional tournaments, every court will have a trained 
squad of ball boys/girls with positionings and movements designed for maximum 
efficiency, whilst also not interfering with active play. As well as dealing 
with the game balls, ball boys/girls may also provide the players with 
other assistance, such as the delivery of towels and drinks.[1] Feeding 
is how the ball boys and girls give the balls to the players. At different 
tournaments, they use different techniques for feeding. At some tournaments, 
bases have both arms in the air, then feed the balls with one arm; at others, 
they have one arm in the air which they feed the balls with and the other 
arm behind their back. When feeding the ball, they must also be aware of 
a player's preference. Most players accept the standard, which is for the 
ball boy or girl to gently toss the ball (from the position with their 
arms extended upwards) such that it bounces one time then to the proper 
height for the player to catch the ball easily. There are various methods 
for selecting the ball boys and girls for a tournament. In many tournaments, 
such as Wimbledon and the Queen's Club Championships, they are picked from 
or apply through schools, where they are selected by tournaments and they 
have to go through a number of selections and tests.[1] In some other tournaments, 
such as the Nottingham Open, Australian Open and the US Open,[2] positions 
are advertised and there are open try-outs. Applicants are required to 
pass a physical ability assessment. In addition to fitness and stamina, 
the abilities to concentrate and remain alert are essential. High-profile 
association football matches may employ ball boys to avoid long delays 
when a game ball leaves the pitch and its immediate vicinity. Typically 
positioned behind advertising boards surrounding the pitch, ball boys will 
try to be in possession of a spare ball at all times, so that this can 
be given to the players prior to the loose ball being retrieved. Ball boys 
are not permitted to enter the field of play. Methods for selecting ball 
boys vary between grounds.[3] On occasion, away teams have complained about 
perceived favour of ball boys towards home sides.[3] Association football 
ball boys hit the headlines in England in 2013 when, with his side trailing 
on aggregate in an away 2013 Capital One Cup match, Chelsea player Eden 
Hazard appeared to kick at an apparently time-wasting ball boy who was 
lying on top of the ball.[4] Hazard was subsequently sent off for violent 
