The Baltimore Black Sox were a professional Negro league baseball team 
based in Baltimore, Maryland. The Black Sox started as an independent team 
in 1916 by George Rossiter and Charles Spedden. They were one of the original 
six teams to make up the Eastern Colored League in 1923. In 1929, The Black 
Sox boasted the "Million Dollar Infield" of Jud "Boojum" Wilson (first 
baseman), Frank Warfield (second baseman), Oliver "Ghost" Marcelle (third 
baseman) and Sir Richard Lundy (shortstop). The nickname was given to them 
by the media because of the prospective worth had they been white players. 
The Black Sox won over 70% of their games during the 1929 season and won 
the American Negro League Championship. During their only season in the 
East-West League (1932), the Black Sox were in third place with a 41-41 
record when the league ceased operations. In 1932, Joe Cambria became co-owner 
and general manager and moved the team into Cum Posey's new East-West League. 
During that same year, the team moved its home games to Bugle Field, which 
was owned by Cambria. He renovated and expanded the field and added lighting 
equipment for night games.[1] The team was in first place in the East-West 
League in late June when the league disbanded and the teams stopped paying 
player salaries, instead splitting a percentage of the gate receipts with 
the players.[2] In 1933, the team joined Gus Greenlee's new Negro National 
League. The next season, Cambria applied to reenter the Negro National 
League, but when several star players announced they would leave the team, 
his application was rejected and he disbanded the team.[3] In mid-season 
1934, another team entered the league using the Black Sox name, but it 
didn't meet with much success and disbanded after only one year. On 6 September 
2007, the Baltimore Orioles wore Black Sox uniforms in commemoration of 
the 75th anniversary of the Black Sox' 1932 season.[4] On 18 May 2014 the 
Baltimore Orioles wore Black Sox uniforms as part of the Kansas City Royals's 
