Baltimore (/ˈbɔːltᵻˌmɔːr/, locally: [ˈbɔɫ.mɔɻ]) is the largest city in 
the U.S. state of Maryland, and the 29th-most populous city in the country. 
It was established by the Constitution of Maryland[9] and is not part of 
any county; thus, it is the largest independent city in the United States. 
Baltimore has more public monuments per capita than any other city in the 
country and is home to some of the earliest National Register historic 
districts in the nation, including Fell's Point (1969), Federal Hill (1970) 
and Mount Vernon Place (1971). More than 65,000 properties, or roughly 
one in three buildings in the city, are listed on the National Register, 
more than any other city in the nation.[10][11] Founded in 1729, Baltimore 
is the second largest seaport in the Mid-Atlantic.[12] Baltimore's Inner 
Harbor was once the second leading port of entry for immigrants to the 
United States and a major manufacturing center.[13] After a decline in 
major manufacturing, industrialization and rail transportation, Baltimore 
shifted to a service-oriented economy, with the Johns Hopkins Hospital 
(founded 1889), and Johns Hopkins University (founded 1876), now the city's 
top two employers.[14] Baltimore had a population of 621,849 in 2015; in 
2010, that of Baltimore Metropolitan Area was 2.7 million, the 21st largest 
in the country.[15][16] With hundreds of identified districts, Baltimore 
has been dubbed "a city of neighborhoods". Famous residents have included 
the writers Edgar Allan Poe, Edith Hamilton, Frederick Douglass, and H.L. 
Mencken; jazz musician James "Eubie" Blake; singer Billie Holiday; actor 
and filmmaker John Waters; and baseball player Babe Ruth. In the War of 
1812, Francis Scott Key wrote The Star-Spangled Banner, later the American 
national anthem, in the city.[17] The city has 289 properties listed on 
the National Register of Historic Places. The historical records of the 
government of Baltimore are located at the Baltimore City Archives. The 
city is named after Cecil Calvert, second Lord Baltimore,[18] (1605–1675),[19] 
of the Irish House of Lords and founding proprietor of the Province of 
Maryland.[20][21] Baltimore Manor was the name of the estate in County 
Longford on which the Calvert family lived in Ireland.[21][22] Baltimore 
is an anglicization of the Irish name Baile an Tí Mhóir, meaning "town 
of the big house."[21] In 1608, Captain John Smith traveled 210 miles from 
Jamestown to the uppermost Chesapeake Bay, leading the first European expedition 
to the Patapsco River [23] The name "Patapsco" is derived from pota-psk-ut, 
which translates to "backwater" or "tide covered with froth" in Algonquian 
dialect.[24] A quarter century after John Smith's voyage, English colonists 
began to settle in Maryland. The area constituting the modern City of Baltimore 
and its metropolitan area was first settled by David Jones in 1661. He 
claimed the area known today as Harbor East on the east bank of the Jones 
Falls stream, which flows south into Baltimore's Inner Harbor.[25] In the 
early 1600s, the immediate Baltimore vicinity was sparsely populated, if 
at all, by Native Americans. The Baltimore County area northward was used 
as hunting grounds by the Susquehannocks living in the lower Susquehanna 
River valley who "controlled all of the upper tributaries of the Chesapeake" 
but "refrained from much contact with Powhatan in the Potomac region." 
[26] Pressured by the Susquehannocks, the Piscataway tribe of Algonquians 
stayed well south of the Baltimore area and inhabited primarily the north 
bank of the Potomac River in what is now Charles and southern Prince George's 
south of the Fall Line.[27][28][29] The Baltimore area had been inhabited 
by Native Americans since at least the 10th millennium BC, when Paleo-Indians 
first settled in the region. One Paleo-Indian site and several Archaic 
period and Woodland period archaeological sites have been identified in 
Baltimore, including four from the Late Woodland period.[30] During the 
Late Woodland period, the archaeological culture that is called the "Potomac 
Creek complex" resided in the area from Baltimore to the Rappahannock River 
in Virginia.[31] The current Baltimore on the Patapsco River was established 
in 1729, but an earlier Baltimore existed on the Bush River as early as 
1674, The first county seat of Baltimore County is known today as "Old 
Baltimore". It was located on the Bush River on land that in 1773 became 
part of Harford County. In 1674, the General Assembly passed "An Act for 
erecting [sic] a Court-house and Prison in each County within this Province." 
The site of the court house and jail for Baltimore County was evidently 
"Old Baltimore" near the Bush River. We know this because in 1683, the 
General Assembly passed "An Act for Advancement of Trade" to "establish 
towns, ports, and places of trade, within the province." One of the towns 
established by the act in Baltimore County was "on Bush River, on Town 
Land, near the Court-House." The court house on the Bush River referenced 
in the 1683 Act was in all likelihood the one created by the 1674 Act. 
"Old Baltimore" was in existence as early as 1674, but we don't know with 
certainty what if anything happened on the site prior to that year. The 
exact location of Old Baltimore was lost for years. It was certain that 
the location was somewhere on the site of the present-day Aberdeen Proving 
Grounds (APG), a U.S. Army testing facility. APG’s Cultural Resource Management 
Program took up the task of finding Old Baltimore. The firm of R. Christopher 
Goodwin & Associates (Goodwin) was contracted for the project. After Goodwin 
first performed historical and archival work, they coordinated their work 
with existing landscape features to locate the site of Old Baltimore. APG’s 
Explosive Ordnance Disposal personnel went in with Goodwin to defuse any 
unexploded ordnance. The field team worked from fall 1997 through winter 
1998. The team dug 420 test pits, and they uncovered several artifacts...." 
[32] [33] [34] The colonial General Assembly of Maryland created the Port 
of Baltimore at old Whetstone Point (now Locust Point) in 1706 for the 
tobacco trade. The Town of Baltimore was founded and laid out shortly thereafter 
on July 30, 1729, and is named after Lord Baltimore (Cecilius Calvert), 
who was the first Proprietary Governor of the Province of Maryland. Cecilius 
Calvert was the oldest son of Sir George Calvert, (1579–1632), who became 
the First Lord Baltimore of County Longford, Ireland in 1625. Previously, 
he had been a loyal agent of King Charles I of England (1600–1649) as his 
Secretary of State until declaring himself a follower of Roman Catholicism. 
Regardless, the King still gave his heir Cecil the 1632 grant for the Maryland 
colony. The colony was a followup to his earlier settlement in Newfoundland, 
known as "Acadia" or "Avalon", (future Canada), which he found too cold 
and difficult for habitation.[35] Baltimore grew swiftly in the 18th Century 
as a granary for sugar-producing colonies in the Caribbean. The profit 
from sugar encouraged the cultivation of cane and the importation of food.[36] 
It was also during this time when Baltimore saw the establishment of its 
public market system in 1763.[37] Lexington Market, founded in 1782, continues 
to be known as one of the oldest continuously operating public markets 
in the United States today.[38] Other firsts include: the first Post Office 
System in the United States (inaugurated in 1774)[39] and the first water 
company chartered in the United States (Baltimore Water Company, 1792).[40][41] 
Baltimore played a key part in events leading to and including the American 
Revolution. City leaders such as Jonathan Plowman Jr. moved the city to 
join the resistance to British taxes, and merchants signed agreements to 
not trade with Britain.[42] The Second Continental Congress met in the 
Henry Fite House from December 1776 to February 1777, effectively making 
the city the capital of the United States during this period.[43] After 
the Revolutionary war, the Town of Baltimore, nearby Jonestown, and an 
area known as Fells Point were incorporated as the City of Baltimore in 
1796–1797. The city remained a part of surrounding Baltimore County, where 
it had also served as the "county seat" since 1768, until 1851 when it 
was made an independent city, with the same status in state government 
as the other 23 counties of Maryland.[44] The city was the site of the 
Battle of Baltimore during the War of 1812. After burning Washington, D.C., 
the British attacked Baltimore outside the eastern outskirts of town on 
the "Patapsco Neck" on September 12, at the Battle of North Point, then 
on the night of September 13–14, 1814. United States forces from Fort McHenry 
successfully defended the city's harbor from the British. Francis Scott 
Key, (1779–1843), a Maryland lawyer from Georgetown and Frederick, was 
aboard a British ship where he had been negotiating for the release of 
an American prisoner, Dr. William Beanes. Key witnessed the bombardment 
from this ship and after seeing the huge American flag on the morning of 
September 14, 1814, he wrote "The Star-Spangled Banner", a poem recounting 
the attack. Key's poem was set to a 1780 tune by British composer John 
Stafford Smith, and "The Star-Spangled Banner" became the official national 
anthem of the United States in 1931. Following the Battle of Baltimore, 
the city's population grew rapidly and was the first American city to illuminate 
its streets with hydrogen gas in 1816. The construction of the federally 
funded National Road (which later became part of U.S. Route 40) and the 
private Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B. & O.) made Baltimore a major shipping 
and manufacturing center by linking the city with major markets in the 
Midwest. A distinctive local culture started to take shape, and a unique 
skyline peppered with churches and monuments developed. Baltimore acquired 
its moniker "The Monumental City" after an 1827 visit to Baltimore by President 
John Quincy Adams. At an evening function Adams gave the following toast: 
"Baltimore: the Monumental City—May the days of her safety be as prosperous 
and happy, as the days of her dangers have been trying and triumphant."[46] 
Baltimore suffered one of the worst riots of the antebellum South in 1835, 
when bad investments led to the Baltimore bank riot.[47] Soon after the 
city pioneered in creating the world's first dental college the Baltimore 
College of Dental Surgery in 1840, and sharing Samuel Morse's invention 
of the world's first telegraph line between Baltimore and Washington DC 
in 1844. Maryland remained part of the Union during the American Civil 
War despite being a slave state, in addition to popular support for secession 
in its southern and eastern regions, along with Baltimore, all of which 
benefited greatly from both the tobacco and slave trades.[48][49] When 
Union soldiers from the Sixth Massachusetts state militia and some unarmed 
Pennsylvania state militia known as the "Washington Brigade" from Philadelphia 
with their band marched through the city at the start of the war, Confederate 
sympathizers attacked the troops, which led to the first bloodshed in the 
Civil War during the Baltimore riot of 1861. Four soldiers and twelve civilians 
were killed during the riot, which caused Union troops to later occupy 
Baltimore in May under Gen. Benjamin F. Butler of Massachusetts. Maryland 
came under direct federal administration—in part, to prevent the state 
from seceding—until the end of the war in April 1865. In the midst of the 
Long Depression, which followed the Panic of 1873, the Baltimore & Ohio 
Railroad company attempted to lower its workers' wages, leading to strikes 
and riots in Baltimore, as part of the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. On 
July 20, 1877, Maryland Governor John Lee Carroll called up the 5th and 
6th Regiments of the National Guard to end the strikes, which had disrupted 
train service at Cumberland in western Maryland. Citizens sympathetic to 
the railroad workers attacked the National Guard troops as they marched 
from their armories in Baltimore to Camden Station. Soldiers from the 6th 
Regiment fired on the crowd, killing 10 and wounding 25. Rioters then damaged 
B&O trains and burned portions of the rail station. Order was restored 
in the city on July 21–22 when federal troops arrived to protect railroad 
property and end the strike.[50] On February 7, 1904, the Great Baltimore 
Fire destroyed over 1,500 buildings in 30 hours, leaving more than 70 blocks 
of the downtown area burned to the ground. Damages were estimated at $150 million—in 
1904 dollars.[51] As the city rebuilt during the next two years, lessons 
learned from the fire led to improvements in firefighting equipment standards.[52] 
The city grew in area by annexing new suburbs from the surrounding counties, 
the last being in 1918, when the city acquired portions of Baltimore County 
and Anne Arundel County.[53] A state constitutional amendment, approved 
in 1948, required a special vote of the citizens in any proposed annexation 
area, effectively preventing any future expansion of the city's boundaries.[54] 
The relative size of the city's black population grew from 23.8% in 1950 
to 46.4% in 1970.[55] The Baltimore riot of 1968 occurred following the 
assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. in Memphis, Tennessee, on April 
4, 1968. Coinciding with riots in other cities, public order was not restored 
until April 12, 1968. The Baltimore riot cost the city of Baltimore an 
estimated $10 million (US$ 68 million in 2016). A total of 11,000 Maryland 
National Guard and federal troops were ordered into the city.[56] Lasting 
effects of the riot can be seen on the streets of North Avenue, Howard 
Street, Gay Street, and Pennsylvania Avenue, where long stretches of the 
streets remain barren.[57] The city experienced challenges again in 1974 
when teachers, municipal workers, and police officers conducted strikes.[58] 
By the beginning of the 1970s, Baltimore's downtown area known as the Inner 
Harbor had been neglected and was occupied by a collection of abandoned 
warehouses. The nickname "Charm City" came from a 1975 meeting of advertisers 
seeking to improve the city's reputation.[59][60] Efforts to redevelop 
the area started with the construction of the Maryland Science Center, 
which opened in 1976, the Baltimore World Trade Center (1977), and the 
Baltimore Convention Center (1979). Harborplace, an urban retail and restaurant 
complex, opened on the waterfront in 1980, followed by the National Aquarium, 
Maryland's largest tourist destination, and the Baltimore Museum of Industry 
in 1981. During the epidemic of HIV/AIDS in the United States, Baltimore 
City Health Department official Robert Mehl persuaded the city's mayor 
to form a committee to address food problems; the Baltimore-based charity 
Moveable Feast grew out of this initiative in 1990.[61][62][63] By 2010, 
the organization's region of service had expanded from merely Baltimore 
to include all of the Eastern Shore of Maryland.[64] In 1992, the Baltimore 
Orioles baseball team moved from Memorial Stadium to Oriole Park at Camden 
Yards, located downtown near the harbor. Pope John Paul II held an open-air 
mass at Camden Yards during his papal visit to the United States in October 
1995. Three years later the Baltimore Ravens football team moved into M&T 
Bank Stadium next to Camden Yards.[65] In January 2004, the historic Hippodrome 
Theatre reopened after significant renovation as part of the France-Merrick 
Performing Arts Center.[66] The Reginald F. Lewis Museum of Maryland African 
American History & Culture opened in 2005 on the northeast corner of President 
Street and East Pratt Street, and the National Slavic Museum in Fell's 
Point was established in 2012. On April 12, 2012, Johns Hopkins held a 
dedication ceremony to mark the completion of one of the United States' 
largest medical complexes – the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore – which 
features the Sheikh Zayed Cardiovascular and Critical Care Tower and The 
Charlotte R. Bloomberg Children's Center. The event, held at the entrance 
to the $1.1 billion 1.6 million-square-foot-facility, honored the many 
donors including Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, first president of 
the United Arab Emirates, and Michael Bloomberg.[67][68] Maryland's Star-Spangled 
200 celebration, launched as the "Star-Spangled Sailabration" and crescendo 
"Star-Spangled Spectacular" festivals, was a three-year commemoration of 
the 200th anniversary of the War of 1812 and the penning of The Star-Spangled 
Banner. The Star-Spangled Sailabration festival brought a total of 45 tall 
ships, naval vessels and others from the US, United Kingdom, Canada, Colombia, 
Brazil, Ecuador, and Mexico to Baltimore's Harbor. The event, held June 
13–19, 2012, was the week encompassing Flag Day and the 200th anniversary 
of the Declaration of War.[69][70] The Star-Spangled Spectacular was a 
10-day free festival that celebrated the 200th anniversary of the United 
States National Anthem from September 6–16, 2014. More than 30 naval vessels 
and tall ships from the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Norway, 
Germany, Spain and Turkey berthed at the Inner Harbor, Fell's Point and 
North Locust Point. An air show from the Navy's Flight Demonstration Team, 
the Blue Angels performed during both festivals. Special guests such as 
President Barack Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, and Secretary of the 
Navy Ray Mabus, were in attendance at Fort McHenry National Monument and 
Historic Shrine.[71] During the course of the Star-Spangled 200 celebration 
the city was showcased on three separate live television broadcasts. Visit 
Baltimore CEO, Tom Noonan, was quoted in the Baltimore Sun as calling the 
Spectacular, "the largest tourism event in our city's history." Over a 
million people visited Baltimore during both festivals.[72] Following the 
Death of Freddie Gray in April 2015, the city experienced major protests 
and international media attention, which resulted in a temporary curfew 
being enforced, as well as a drastic rise in murders.[73] On September 
19, 2016 the Baltimore City Council approved a $660 million bond deal for 
the $5.5 billion Port Covington redevelopment project championed by Under 
Armour founder Kevin Plank and his real estate company Sagamore Development. 
Port Covington surpassed the Harbor Point development as the largest tax-increment 
financing deal in Baltimore’s history and it's among the largest urban 
redevelopment projects in the country.[74] The waterfront development that 
includes the new headquarters for Under Armour, as well as shops, housing, 
offices, and manufacturing spaces is projected to create 26,500 permanent 
jobs with a $4.3 billion annual economic impact.[75] In an open letter 
Plank refers to the turbulent history in Baltimore's economic development 
and civic life as "forks in the road." He concludes by saying "we saw one 
of those great forks in the road, and chose the best course" with Port 
Covington.[76] Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake led the signing of three 
bills that commit the city to the sale of bonds over the next 15 to 20 
years to fund the infrastructure for the Port Covington development on 
September 28, 2016.[77] Baltimore is in north-central Maryland on the Patapsco 
River close to where it empties into the Chesapeake Bay. The city is also 
located on the fall line between the Piedmont Plateau and the Atlantic 
Coastal Plain, which divides Baltimore into "lower city" and "upper city". 
The city's elevation ranges from sea level at the harbor to 480 feet (150 m) 
in the northwest corner near Pimlico.[5] According to the 2010 Census, 
the city has a total area of 92.1 square miles (239 km2), of which 80.9 sq mi 
(210 km2) is land and 11.1 sq mi (29 km2) is water.[4] The total area is 
12.1 percent water. Baltimore is almost completely surrounded by Baltimore 
County, but is politically independent of it. It is bordered by Anne Arundel 
County to the south. Baltimore exhibits examples from each period of architecture 
over more than two centuries, and work from many famous architects such 
as Benjamin Latrobe, George A. Frederick, John Russell Pope, Mies van der 
Rohe and I. M. Pei. The city is rich in architecturally significant buildings 
in a variety of styles. The Baltimore Basilica (1806–1821) is a neoclassical 
design by Benjamin Latrobe, and also the oldest Catholic cathedral in the 
United States. In 1813 Robert Cary Long, Sr., built for Rembrandt Peale 
the first substantial structure in the United States designed expressly 
as a museum. Restored, it is now the Municipal Museum of Baltimore, or 
popularly the Peale Museum. The McKim Free School was founded and endowed 
by John McKim, although the building was erected by his son Isaac in 1822 
after a design by William Howard and William Small. It reflects the popular 
interest in Greece when the nation was securing its independence, as well 
as a scholarly interest in recently published drawings of Athenian antiquities. 
The Phoenix Shot Tower (1828), at 234.25 feet (71.40 m) tall, was the tallest 
building in the United States until the time of the Civil War. It was constructed 
without the use of exterior scaffolding. The Sun Iron Building, designed 
by R.C. Hatfield in 1851, was the city's first iron-front building and 
was a model for a whole generation of downtown buildings. Brown Memorial 
Presbyterian Church, built in 1870 in memory of financier George Brown, 
has stained glass windows by Louis Comfort Tiffany and has been called 
"one of the most significant buildings in this city, a treasure of art 
and architecture" by Baltimore Magazine.[78][79] The 1845 Greek Revival-style 
Lloyd Street Synagogue is one of the oldest synagogues in the United States. 
The Johns Hopkins Hospital, designed by Lt. Col. John S. Billings in 1876, 
was a considerable achievement for its day in functional arrangement and 
fireproofing. I.M. Pei's World Trade Center (1977) is the tallest equilateral 
pentagonal building in the world at 405 feet (123 m) tall. The Inner Harbor 
East area has seen the addition of two new towers which have completed 
construction: a 24-floor tower that is the new world headquarters of Legg 
Mason, and a 21-floor Four Seasons Hotel complex. The streets of Baltimore 
are organized in a grid pattern, lined with tens of thousands of brick 
and formstone-faced rowhouses. In The Baltimore Rowhouse, Mary Ellen Hayward 
and Charles Belfoure considered the rowhouse as the architectural form 
defining Baltimore as "perhaps no other American city."[80] In the mid-1790s, 
developers began building entire neighborhoods of the British-style rowhouses, 
which became the dominant house type of the city early in the 19th century.[81] 
Formstone facings, now a common feature on Baltimore rowhouses, were an 
addition patented in 1937 by Albert Knight. John Waters characterized formstone 
as "the polyester of brick" in a 30-minute documentary film, Little Castles: 
A Formstone Phenomenon.[82] Oriole Park at Camden Yards is considered by 
many to be the most beautiful baseball park in Major League Baseball, and 
has inspired many other cities to build their own versions of this retro 
style ballpark. Camden Yards along with the National Aquarium have helped 
revive the Inner Harbor from what once was an industrial district full 
of dilapidated warehouses into a bustling commercial district full of bars, 
restaurants and retail establishments. Today, the Inner Harbor boasts the 
highest, most desirable real estate in the Mid-Atlantic.[83] Baltimore's 
newly rehabilitated Everyman Theatre was honored by the Baltimore Heritage 
at the 2013 Preservation Awards Celebration in 2013. Everyman Theatre will 
receive an Adaptive Reuse and Compatible Design Award as part of Baltimore 
Heritage's 2013 historic preservation awards ceremony. Baltimore Heritage 
is Baltimore's nonprofit historic and architectural preservation organization, 
which works to preserve and promote Baltimore's historic buildings and 
neighborhoods.[84] Baltimore is officially divided into nine geographical 
regions: North, Northeast, East, Southeast, South, Southwest, West, Northwest, 
and Central, with each district patrolled by a respective Baltimore Police 
Department. Interstate 83 and Charles Street down to Hanover Street and 
Ritchie Highway serve as the east-west dividing line and Eastern Avenue 
to Route 40 as the north-south dividing line. However, Baltimore Street 
is north-south dividing line for the U.S. Postal Service.[96] It is not 
uncommon for locals to divide the city simply by East or West Baltimore, 
using Charles Street or I-83 as a dividing line or into North and South 
using Baltimore Street as a dividing line.[citation needed] Central Baltimore, 
originally called the Middle District,[97] stretches north of the Inner 
Harbor up to the edge of Druid Hill Park. Downtown Baltimore has mainly 
served as a commercial district with limited residential opportunities. 
However, between 2000 and 2010, the downtown population grew 130 percent 
as old commercial properties have been replaced by residential property.[98] 
Still the city's main commercial area and business district, it includes 
Baltimore's sports complexes: Oriole Park at Camden Yards, M&T Bank Stadium, 
and the Baltimore Arena; and the shops and attractions in the Inner Harbor: 
Harborplace, the Baltimore Convention Center, the National Aquarium, Maryland 
Science Center, Pier Six Pavilion, and Power Plant Live.[96] The University 
of Maryland, Baltimore, the University of Maryland Medical Center, and 
Lexington Market are also in the central district, as well as the Hippodrome 
and many nightclubs, bars, restaurants, shopping centers and various other 
attractions.[96][97] The northern portion of Central Baltimore, between 
downtown and the Druid Hill Park, is home to many of the city's cultural 
opportunities. Maryland Institute College of Art, the Peabody Institute 
(music conservatory), George Peabody Library, Enoch Pratt Free Library 
– Central Library, the Lyric Opera House, the Joseph Meyerhoff Symphony 
Hall, the Walters Art Museum, the Maryland Historical Society and its Enoch 
Pratt Mansion, and several galleries are located in this region.[99] North 
Baltimore lies directly north of Central Baltimore and is bounded on the 
east by The Alameda and on the west by Pimlico Road. Loyola University 
Maryland, Johns Hopkins University Homewood Campus, St. Mary's Seminary 
and University and Notre Dame of Maryland University are located in this 
district. Baltimore Polytechnic Institutehigh school for mathematics, science 
and engineering, and adjacent Western High School, the oldest remaining 
public girls secondary school in America, share a joint campus at West 
Cold Spring Lane and Falls Road.[citation needed] Several historic and 
notable neighborhoods are in this district: Roland Park (1891), Guilford 
(1913), Homeland (1924), Hampden, Woodberry, Old Goucher, and Jones Falls. 
Along the York Road corridor going north are the large neighborhoods of 
Charles Village, Waverly, and Mount Washington. The Station North Arts 
and Entertainment District is also located in North Baltimore.[100] South 
Baltimore, a mixed industrial and residential area, consists of the "Old 
South Baltimore" peninsula below the Inner Harbor and east of the old B&O 
Railroad's Camden line tracks and Russell Street downtown. It is a culturally, 
ethnically, and socioeconomically diverse waterfront area with neighborhoods 
such as Locust Point and Riverside around a large park of the same name.[101] 
Just south of the Inner Harbor, the historic Federal Hill neighborhood, 
is home to many working professionals, pubs and restaurants. At the end 
of the peninsula is historic Fort McHenry, a National Park since the end 
of World War I, when the old U.S. Army Hospital surrounding the 1798 star-shaped 
battlements was torn down.[102] The area south of the Vietnam Veterans 
(Hanover Street) Bridge and the Patapsco River was annexed to the city 
in 1919 from being independent towns in Anne Arundel County.[citation needed] 
Across the Hanover Street Bridge are residential areas such as Cherry Hill,[103] 
Brooklyn, and Curtis Bay, with Fort Armistead bordering the city's south 
side from Anne Arundel County.[citation needed] Northeast is primarily 
a residential neighborhood, home to Morgan State University, bounded by 
the city line of 1919 on its northern and eastern boundaries, Sinclair 
Lane, Erdman Avenue, and Pulaski Highway to the south and The Alameda on 
to the west. Also in this wedge of the city on 33rd Street is Baltimore 
City College high school, third oldest active public secondary school in 
the United States, founded downtown in 1839.[104] Across Loch Raven Boulevard 
is the former site of the old Memorial Stadium for the Baltimore Colts 
and Baltimore Orioles, now replaced by an YMCA athletic and housing complex.[105][106] 
Lake Montebello is in Northeast Baltimore.[97] Located below Sinclair Lane 
and Erdman Avenue, above Orleans Street, East Baltimore is mainly made 
up of residential neighborhoods. This section of East Baltimore is home 
to Johns Hopkins Hospital and Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine 
on Broadway. Notable neighborhoods include: Armistead Gardens, Broadway 
East, Barclay, Ellwood Park, Greenmount, and McElderry Park.[97] This area 
was the on-site film location for Homicide: Life on the Street, The Corner 
and The Wire.[107] Southeast Baltimore, located below Fayette Street, bordering 
the Inner Harbor and the Northwest Branch of the Patapsco River to the 
west, the city line of 1919 on its eastern boundaries and the Patapsco 
River to the south, is a mixed industrial and residential area. Patterson 
Park, the "Best Backyard in Baltimore,"[108] as well as the Highlandtown 
Arts District, and Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center are located in 
Southeast Baltimore. The Shops at Canton Crossing opened in 2013.[109] 
The Canton neighborhood, is located along Baltimore's prime waterfront. 
Other historic neighborhoods include: Fells Point, Patterson Park, Butchers 
Hill, Highlandtown, Greektown, Harbor East, Little Italy, and Upper Fells 
Point.[97] Northwestern is bounded by the county line to the north and 
west, Gwynns Falls Parkway on the south and Pimlico Road on the east, is 
home to Pimlico Race Course and Sinai Hospital. Its neighborhoods are mostly 
residential and are dissected by Northern Parkway. The area was the center 
of Baltimore's Jewish community after World War II. Notable neighborhoods 
include: Pimlico, Mount Washington, and Cheswolde, and Park Heights.[110] 
West Baltimore is located west of downtown and the Martin Luther King, 
Jr. Boulevard and is bounded by Gwynns Falls Parkway, Fremont Avenue, and 
West Baltimore Street. The Old West Baltimore Historic District includes 
the neighborhoods of Harlem Park, Sandtown-Winchester, Druid Heights, Madison 
Park, and Upton.[111][112] Originally a predominantly German neighborhood, 
by the last half of the 1800s, Old West Baltimore was home to a substantial 
section of the city's African American population. It became the largest 
neighborhood for the city's black community and its cultural, political, 
and economic center.[111] Coppin State University, Mondawmin Mall, and 
Edmondson Village are located in this district. The area's crime problems 
have provided subject material for television series, such as The Wire.[113] 
Local organizations, such as the Sandtown Habitat for Humanity and the 
Upton Planning Committee, have been steadily transforming parts of formerly 
blighted areas of West Baltimore into clean, safe communities.[114][115] 
Southwest Baltimore is bounded by the Baltimore County line to the west, 
West Baltimore Street to the north, and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard 
and Russell Street/Baltimore-Washington Parkway (Maryland Route 295) to 
the east. Notable neighborhoods in Southwest Baltimore include: Pigtown, 
Carrolton Ridge, Ridgely's Delight, Leakin Park, Violetville, Lakeland, 
and Morrell Park.[97] St. Agnes Hospital on Wilkens and Caton[97] avenues 
is located in this district with the neighboring Cardinal Gibbons High 
School, which is the former site of Babe Ruth's alma mater, St. Mary's 
Industrial School.[citation needed] Also through this segment of Baltimore 
ran the beginnings of the historic National Road, which was constructed 
beginning in 1806 along Old Frederick Road and continuing into the county 
on Frederick Road into Ellicott City, Maryland.[citation needed] Other 
sides in this district are: Carroll Park, one of the city's largest parks, 
the colonial Mount Clare Mansion, and Washington Boulevard, which dates 
to pre-Revolutionary War days as the prime route out of the city to Alexandria, 
Virginia, and Georgetown on the Potomac River.[citation needed] Belair-Edison 
Woodberry Reservoir Hill Station North Fells Point Roland Park Mount Vernon 
The City of Baltimore is bordered by the following communities, all unincorporated 
census-designated places. Under the Köppen classification, Baltimore lies 
within the humid subtropical climate zone (Cfa), with four distinct seasons, 
and is part of USDA plant hardiness zones 7b and 8a.[116] Winters are chilly 
but variable, with sporadic snowfall: January has a daily average of 35.8 °F 
(2.1 °C),[117] though temperatures reach 50 °F (10 °C) rather often and 
drop below 20 °F (−7 °C) when Arctic air masses affect the area.[117] The 
average seasonal snowfall is 20.1 inches (51 cm),[118] but it varies greatly 
depending on the winter, with some seasons seeing minimal snow while others 
see several major Nor'easters. [a] Due to lessened urban heat island (UHI) 
as compared to the city proper and distance from the moderating Chesapeake 
Bay, the outlying and inland parts of the Baltimore metro area are usually 
cooler, especially at night, than the city proper and the coastal towns. 
Thus, in the northern and western suburbs, winter snowfall is more significant, 
and some areas average more than 30 in (76 cm) of snow per winter.[120] 
It is by no means uncommon for the rain-snow line to set up in the metro 
area.[121] Freezing rain and sleet occurs a few times each winter in the 
area, as warm air overrides cold air at the low to mid-levels of the atmosphere. 
When the wind blows from the east, the cold air gets dammed against the 
mountains to the west and the result is freezing rain or sleet. Spring 
and autumn are warm, with spring being the wettest season in terms of the 
number of precipitation days. Summers are hot and humid with a daily average 
in July of 80.7 °F (27.1 °C),[117] and the combination of heat and humidity 
leads to rather frequent thunderstorms. A southeasterly bay breeze off 
the Chesapeake often occurs on summer afternoons when hot air rises over 
inland areas; prevailing winds from the southwest interacting with this 
breeze as well as the city proper's UHI can seriously exacerbate air quality.[122][123] 
In late summer and early autumn the track of hurricanes or their remnants 
may cause flooding in downtown Baltimore, despite the city being far removed 
from the typical coastal storm surge areas.[124] Extreme temperatures range 
from −7 °F (−22 °C) on February 9, 1934, and February 10, 1899,[b] up to 
108 °F (42 °C) on July 22, 2011.[125][126] On average, 100 °F (38 °C)+ 
temperatures occur on 0.9 days annually, 90 °F (32 °C)+ on 37 days, and 
there are 10 days where the high fails to breach the freezing mark.[117] 
At the 2010 Census, there were 620,961 people residing in Baltimore, a 
decrease of 4.6% since 2000; a substantially more significant decline of 
23% happened among school age children (ages 5 to 17).[136] The 2012 Census 
estimate has the population of Baltimore at 621,342 as of July 2012, an 
increase of 1,100 residents over the previous year and the first increase 
in population since its peak in 1950.[137] After decades of decline, downtown 
Baltimore and its surrounding neighborhoods are seeing a resurgence of 
young professionals and immigrants, mirroring major cities across the country. 
The increase, attributed to growing international migration and fewer people 
abandoning the city, is the second census estimate since Mayor Stephanie 
Rawlings-Blake announced at her inauguration in December 2011 that her 
main goal is to increase the city's population by "10,000 families" within 
a decade.[136] Gentrification of the surrounding 401 District has grown 
significantly over the past 10 years in Central and eastern portions of 
the city.[138] According to the 2010 Census, 63.7% of the population was 
Black, 29.6% White, 0.4% American Indian and Alaska Native, 2.3% Asian, 
1.8% from some other race and 2.1% of two or more races. 4.2% of Baltimore's 
population was of Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish origin (they may be of any 
race). Non-Hispanic Whites were 28% of the population.[139] After New York 
City, Baltimore was the second city in the United States to reach a population 
of 100,000.[140][141] From the 1830 through 1850 U.S. censuses, Baltimore 
was the second most-populous city,[141][142] before being surpassed by 
Philadelphia in 1860.[143] It was among the top 10 cities in population 
in the United States in every census up to the 1980 census,[144] and after 
World War II had a population of nearly a million. Although Baltimore's 
population has continued to decline since 1950, the number of families 
living downtown has increased significantly in recent years, according 
to the Downtown Partnership of Baltimore, Inc. Downtown Baltimore's core 
area experienced a population increase of 130% since 2000[citation needed]. 
The area in a one-mile radius of downtown between Pratt and Light streets 
grew 13.6% during that time as well. New construction and the conversion 
of obsolete commercial buildings into residences has been a primary factor 
for growth in the central city. The average household income in downtown 
increased 39.7% from $45,895 to $64,128.[98] Despite the increase in the 
number of families, Baltimore's downtown still lost about 10,000 total 
residents since the 2000 Census, a decline of about 6%.[145] According 
to the U.S. Census Bureau, Baltimore's population lived in a total of 294,579 
housing units in 2009. Age ranges were 22.4% under 18 years old, 11.8% 
at age 65 or older, and 65.8% from 18 to 64 years old. Baltimore's population 
was 53.4% female.[146] The median age is 35 years old. A statistical abstract 
prepared by the U.S. Census Bureau estimated the median income for a household 
in the city during 2008 at $30,078, and the median income for a family 
at $48,216. The same abstract also listed a per capita income of $22,885 
for the city in 2008, with 15.4% of families and 19.3% of the population 
below the poverty line.[147] Housing in Baltimore is relatively inexpensive 
for large, coastal cities of its size. The median sale price for homes 
in Baltimore in 2012 was $95,000.[148] Despite the housing collapse, and 
along with the national trends, Baltimore residents still face slowly increasing 
rent (up 3% in the summer of 2010).[149] The homeless population in Baltimore 
is steadily increasing; it exceeded 4,000 people in 2011. The increase 
in the number of young homeless people was particularly severe.[150] The 
Baltimore—Towson metropolitan area is home to a self-identifying gay and 
bisexual community estimated at 100,031 individuals, the 18th largest in 
the United States.[151] In 2012, voters statewide approved the legalization 
of same-sex marriage in Maryland and authorized them to take place beginning 
January 1, 2013.[152] 47.33% of the people in Baltimore, Maryland are religious, 
meaning they affiliate with a religion. 11.85% are Catholic, 0.30% are 
LDS, and 11.42% are another Christian faith. This includes the next largest 
affiliation the Baptist Church, which makes up about 7% of the population. 
The Jewish population of the city is much higher than the average city. 
About 4.3% of the population is Jewish, compared to the average city, which 
is only about 0.7% Jewish; 0.10% are an eastern faith; 0.55% affiliates 
with Islam.[154][155] As of 2010, 90.92% (526,705) of Baltimore residents 
aged five and older spoke only English at home. In addition, 3.74% (21,661) 
spoke Spanish, 0.77% (4,442) African languages, 0.70% (4,078) French, and 
0.56% (3,237) spoke Chinese.[156] Crime in Baltimore, generally concentrated 
in areas high in poverty and drug activity, has been above the national 
average for many years. Baltimore ended 2015, with 344 homicides. [157] 
continuing a higher per capita homicide rate (52.5 per 100,000 people) 
than the record set in 1993.[158][159] In 2011, Baltimore police reported 
196 homicides, the lowest number of slayings in the city since a count 
of 197 homicides in 1978 and far lower than the peak homicide count of 
353 slayings in 1993. City leaders credit a sustained focus on repeat violent 
offenders and increased community engagement for the continued drop, reflecting 
a nationwide decline in crime.[160][161] On August 8, 2014, Baltimore's 
new youth curfew law went into effect. It prohibits unaccompanied children 
under age 14 from being on the streets after 9 p.m. and those aged 14–16 
from being out after 10 p.m. during the week and 11 p.m. on weekends and 
during the summer. The goal is to keep children out of dangerous places 
and reduce crime.[162] Crime in Baltimore reached another peak in 2015 
when the year's tally of 344 homicides was second only to the record 353 
in 1993, when Baltimore had about 100,000 more residents. The killings 
in 2015 were on pace with recent years in the early months of 2015 but 
skyrocketed after the unrest and rioting of late April. In five of the 
next eight months, killings topped 30 or 40 a month. Nearly 90 percent 
of 2015's homicides were the result of shootings, renewing calls for new 
gun laws. Counting nonfatal shootings, gun violence was up more than 75 
percent compared to 2014, with more than 900 people shot.[citation needed] 
Once a predominantly industrial town, with an economic base focused on 
steel processing, shipping, auto manufacturing (General Motors Baltimore 
Assembly), and transportation, the city experienced deindustrialization 
which cost residents tens of thousands of low-skill, high-wage jobs.[163] 
The city now relies on a low-wage service economy, which accounts for 90% 
of jobs in the city.[164][165] Around the turn of the century, Baltimore 
was the leading US manufacturer of rye whiskey and straw hats. It also 
led in refining of crude oil, brought to the city by pipeline from Pennsylvania.[166] 
As of March 2015 the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics calculates Baltimore's 
unemployment rate at 8.1%[167] while one quarter of Baltimore residents 
(and 37% of Baltimore children) live in poverty.[168] The 2012 closure 
of a major steel plant at Sparrows Point is expected to have a further 
impact on employment and the local economy.[169] The Census Bureau reported 
in 2013 that 207,000 workers commute into Baltimore city each day.[170] 
Downtown Baltimore is the primary economic asset within Baltimore City 
and the region with 29.1 million square feet of office space. The tech 
sector is rapidly growing as the Baltimore metro ranks 8th in the CBRE 
Tech Talent Report among 50 U.S. metro areas for high growth rate and number 
of tech professionals.[171] Forbes ranked Baltimore fourth among America's 
"new tech hot spots".[172] The city is home to the Johns Hopkins Hospital. 
Other large companies in Baltimore include Under Armour,[173] Cordish Company,[174] 
Legg Mason, McCormick & Company, T. Rowe Price, and Royal Farms.[175] A 
sugar refinery owned by American Sugar Refining is one of Baltimore's cultural 
icons. Nonprofits based in Baltimore include Lutheran Services in America 
and Catholic Relief Services. Almost a quarter of the jobs in the Baltimore 
region were in science, technology, engineering and math as of mid 2013, 
in part attributed to the city's extensive undergraduate and graduate schools; 
maintenance and repair experts were included in this count.[176] The center 
of international commerce for the region is the World Trade Center Baltimore. 
It houses the Maryland Port Administration and U.S. headquarters for major 
shipping lines. Baltimore is ranked 9th for total dollar value of cargo 
and 13th for cargo tonnage for all U.S. ports. In 2014, total cargo moving 
through the port totaled 29.5 million tons, down from 30.3 million tons 
in 2013. The value of cargo traveling through the port in 2014 came to 
$52.5 billion, down from $52.6 billion in 2013. The Port of Baltimore generates 
$3 billion in annual wages and salary, as well as supporting 14,630 direct 
jobs and 108,000 jobs connected to port work. In 2014, the port also generated 
more than $300 million in taxes. It serves over 50 ocean carriers making 
nearly 1,800 annual visits. Among all U.S. ports, Baltimore is first in 
handling automobiles, light trucks, farm and construction machinery; and 
imported forest products, aluminum, and sugar. The port is second in coal 
exports. The Port of Baltimore's cruise industry, which offers year-round 
trips on several lines supports over 500 jobs and brings in over $90 million 
to Maryland's economy annually. Growth at the port continues with the Maryland 
Port Administration plans to turn the southern tip of the former steel 
mill into a marine terminal, primarily for car and truck shipments, but 
also for anticipated new business coming to Baltimore after the completion 
of the Panama Canal expansion project.[177] Baltimore's history and attractions 
have allowed the city to become a strong tourist destination on the East 
Coast. In 2014, the city hosted 24.5 million visitors, who spent $5.2 billion.[178] 
The Baltimore Visitor Center, which is operated by Visit Baltimore, is 
located on Light Street in the Inner Harbor. Much of the city's tourism 
centers around the Inner Harbor, with the National Aquarium being Maryland's 
top tourist destination. Baltimore Harbor's restoration has made it "a 
city of boats", with several historic ships and other attractions on display 
and open for the public to visit. The USS Constellation, the last Civil 
War-era vessel afloat, is docked at the head of the Inner Harbor; the USS 
Torsk, a submarine that holds the Navy's record for dives (more than 10,000); 
and the Coast Guard cutter Taney, the last surviving U.S. warship that 
was in Pearl Harbor during the Japanese attack on December 7, 1941, and 
which engaged Japanese Zero aircraft during the battle.[179] Also docked 
is the lightship Chesapeake, which for decades marked the entrance to Chesapeake 
Bay; and the Seven Foot Knoll Lighthouse, the oldest surviving screw-pile 
lighthouse on Chesapeake Bay, which once marked the mouth of the Patapsco 
River and the entrance to Baltimore. All of these attractions are owned 
and maintained by the Historic Ships in Baltimore organization. The Inner 
Harbor also is the home port of Pride of Baltimore II, the state of Maryland's 
"goodwill ambassador" ship, a reconstruction of a famous Baltimore Clipper 
ship.[179] Other popular tourist destinations throughout the city include 
Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Fort McHenry, the Mount Vernon and Fells Point 
neighborhoods, and museums such as the Walters Art Museum, the Baltimore 
Museum of Industry, and the B&O Railroad Museum. Baltimore Visitor Center 
in Inner Harbor Fountain near visitor center in Inner Harbor Sunset views 
from Baltimore's Inner Harbor Baltimore is the home of the National Aquarium, 
one of the world's largest. Historically a working-class port town, Baltimore 
has sometimes been dubbed a "city of neighborhoods", with 72 designated 
historic districts[180] traditionally occupied by distinct ethnic groups. 
Most notable today are three downtown areas along the port: the Inner Harbor, 
frequented by tourists due to its hotels, shops, and museums; Fells Point, 
once a favorite entertainment spot for sailors but now refurbished and 
gentrified (and featured in the movie Sleepless in Seattle); and Little 
Italy, located between the other two, where Baltimore's Italian-American 
community is based – and where former U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi grew 
up. Further inland, Mount Vernon is the traditional center of cultural 
and artistic life of the city; it is home to a distinctive Washington Monument, 
set atop a hill in a 19th-century urban square, that predates the more 
well-known monument in Washington, D.C. by several decades. Baltimore also 
has a significant German American population,[181] and was the second largest 
port of immigration to the United States, behind Ellis Island in New York 
and New Jersey. Between 1820 and 1989, almost 2 million who were German, 
Polish, English, Irish, Russian, Lithuanian, French, Ukrainian, Czech, 
Greek and Italian came to Baltimore, most between the years 1861 to 1930. 
By 1913, when Baltimore was averaging forty thousand immigrants per year, 
World War I closed off the flow of immigrants. By 1970, Baltimore's heyday 
as an immigration center was a distant memory. There also was a Chinatown 
dating back to at least the 1880s which consisted of no more than 400 Chinese 
residents. A local Chinese-American association remains based there, but 
only one Chinese restaurant as of 2009. Baltimore has quite a history when 
it comes to making beer, an art that thrived in Baltimore from the 1800s 
to the 1950s with over 100 old breweries in the city's past.[182] The best 
remaining example of that history is the old American Brewery Building 
on North Gay Street and the National Brewing Company building in the Brewer's 
Hill neighborhood. In the 1940s the National Brewing Company introduced 
the nation's first six-pack. National's two most prominent brands, were 
National Bohemian Beer colloquially "Natty Boh" and Colt 45. Listed on 
the Pabst website as a "Fun Fact", Colt 45 was named after running back 
#45 Jerry Hill of the 1963 Baltimore Colts and not the .45 caliber handgun 
ammunition round. Both brands are still made today and served all around 
the Baltimore area at bars, Oriole and Ravens games. The Natty Boh logo 
appears on all cans, bottles, and packaging; and merchandise featuring 
him can still easily be found in shops in Maryland, including several in 
Fells Point. Each year the Artscape takes place in the city in the Bolton 
Hill neighborhood, due to its proximity to Maryland Institute College of 
Art. Artscape styles itself as the "largest free arts festival in America".[183] 
Each May, the Maryland Film Festival takes place in Baltimore, using all 
five screens of the historic Charles Theatre as its anchor venue. Many 
movies and television shows have been filmed in Baltimore. The Wire was 
set and filmed in Baltimore. House of Cards is set in Washington, D.C. 
but filmed in Baltimore.[184] Baltimore has cultural museums in many areas 
of study. The Baltimore Museum of Art, and the Walters Art Museum are internationally 
renowned for its collection of art. The Baltimore Museum of Art has the 
largest holding of works by Henri Matisse in the world.[185] The National 
Great Blacks in Wax Museum is the first African American wax museum in 
the country, featuring more than 150 life-size and lifelike wax figures.[40] 
Baltimore is known for its Maryland blue crabs, crab cake, Old Bay Seasoning, 
pit beef, and the "chicken box." The city has many restaurants in or around 
the Inner Harbor. The Little Italy neighborhood's biggest draw is the food. 
Fells Point also is a foodie neighborhood for tourists and locals and is 
where the oldest continuously running tavern in the country, "The Horse 
You Came In On Saloon," is located.[186] Many of the city's upscale restaurants 
can be found in Harbor East. Five public markets are located across the 
city. The Baltimore Public Market System is the oldest continuously operating 
public market system in the United States.[187] Lexington Market is one 
of the longest-running markets in the world and longest running in the 
country, having been around since 1782. The market continues to stand at 
its original site. Baltimore is the last place in America where one can 
still find arabbers, vendors who sell fresh fruits and vegetables from 
a horse-drawn cart that goes up and down neighborhood streets.[188] Food- 
and drink-rating site Zagat ranked Baltimore second in a list of the 17 
best food cities in the country in 2015.[189] One thing visitors quickly 
notice is that some locals refer to their city as "Balmer", dropping the 
"t". The traditional local accent, particular to some working-class areas 
of the city, has long been noted and celebrated as "Baltimorese" or "Bawlmorese". 
While in other parts of the city, locals refer to their city as "Baldamore". 
Baltimore's dialect is a member of the Atlantic midland English dialect 
group, and shares many characteristics with Philadelphia's, such as the 
addition of an "eh" sound before a long "o". Its influence distinguishes 
Baltimore, especially with words containing "oi" flattened into an "aw" 
sound.[190] The Baltimore accent, however is noted for sounding more southern 
than Philadelphia's. Glide deletion in the accent is present, with the 
long "i" sound being flattened to "ah" among certain speakers before voiced, 
liquid and nasal consonants. Due to its combination of rhoticity and glide 
deletion, the word "iron" is pronounced somewhat like "arn" and the word 
"fire" like "far".[citation needed] Baltimore native John Waters parodies 
the city and its dialect extensively in his films. Most of them are filmed 
and/or set in Baltimore, including the 1972 cult classic Pink Flamingos, 
as well as Hairspray and its Broadway musical remake. Baltimore has three 
state-designated arts and entertainment (A & E) districts. The Station 
North Arts and Entertainment District, Highlandtown Arts District, and 
the Bromo Arts & Entertainment District. The Baltimore Office of Promotion 
& The Arts, a non-profit organization, produces events and arts programs 
as well as manages several facilities. It is the official Baltimore City 
Arts Council. BOPA coordinates Baltimore's major events including New Year's 
Eve and July 4 celebrations at the Inner Harbor, Artscape which is America's 
largest free arts festival, Baltimore Book Festival, Baltimore Farmers' 
Market & Bazaar, School 33 Art Center's Open Studio Tour and the Dr. Martin 
Luther King, Jr. Parade.[191] The Baltimore Symphony Orchestra is an internationally 
renowned orchestra, founded in 1916 as a publicly funded municipal organization. 
The current Music Director is Marin Alsop, a protégé of Leonard Bernstein. 
Centerstage is the premier theater company in the city and a regionally 
well-respected group. The Lyric Opera House is the home of Lyric Opera 
Baltimore, which operates there as part of the Patricia and Arthur Modell 
Performing Arts Center. The Baltimore Consort has been a leading early 
music ensemble for over twenty-five years. The France-Merrick Performing 
Arts Center, home of the restored Thomas W. Lamb-designed Hippodrome Theatre, 
has afforded Baltimore the opportunity to become a major regional player 
in the area of touring Broadway and other performing arts presentations. 
Renovating Baltimore's historic theatres have become widespread throughout 
the city such as the Everyman, Centre, Senator and most recent Parkway 
theatre. Other buildings have been reused such as the former Mercantile 
Deposit and Trust Company bank building. It is now the Chesapeake Shakespeare 
Company Theater. Baltimore also boasts a wide array of professional (non-touring) 
and community theater groups. Aside from Center Stage, resident troupes 
in the city include Everyman Theatre, Single Carrot Theatre, and Baltimore 
Theatre Festival. Community theaters in the city include Fells Point Community 
Theatre and the Arena Players Inc., which is the nation's oldest continuously 
operating African American community theater.[192] In 2009, the Baltimore 
Rock Opera Society, an all-volunteer theatrical company, launched its first 
production.[193] Baltimore is home to the Pride of Baltimore Chorus, a 
three-time international silver medalist women's chorus, affiliated with 
Sweet Adelines International. The Maryland State Boychoir is located in 
the northeastern Baltimore neighborhood of Mayfield. Baltimore is the home 
of non-profit chamber music organization Vivre Musicale. VM won a 2011–2012 
award for Adventurous Programming from the American Society of Composers, 
Authors and Publishers and Chamber Music America.[194] The Peabody Institute, 
located in the Mount Vernon neighborhood, is the oldest conservatory of 
music in the United States.[195] Established in 1857, it is one of the 
most prestigious in the world,[195] along with Juilliard, Eastman, and 
the Curtis Institute. The Morgan State University Choir is also one of 
the nation's most prestigious university choral ensembles.[196] The city 
is home to the Baltimore School for the Arts, a public high school in the 
Mount Vernon neighborhood of Baltimore. The institution is nationally recognized 
for its success in preparation for students entering music (vocal/instrumental), 
theatre (acting/theater production), dance, and visual arts. Prior to an 
NFL team moving to Baltimore, there had been several attempts at a professional 
football team prior to the 1950s. Most were minor league or semi-professional 
teams. The first major league to base a team in Baltimore was the All-America 
Football Conference (AAFC), which had a team named the Baltimore Colts. 
The AAFC Colts played for three seasons in the AAFC (1947, 1948, and 1949), 
and when the AAFC folded following the 1949 season, moved to the NFL for 
a single year (1950) before going bankrupt. Three years later, the NFL's 
Dallas Texans would itself fold, and its assets and player contracts purchased 
by an ownership team headed by Baltimore businessman Carroll Rosenbloom, 
who moved the team to Baltimore, establishing a new team also named the 
Baltimore Colts. During the 1950s and 1960s, the Colts were one of the 
NFLs more successful franchises, led by NFL Hall of Fame quarterback Johnny 
Unitas who set a then-record of 47 consecutive games with a touchdown pass. 
The Colts advanced to the NFL Championship twice (1958 & 1959) and Super 
Bowl twice (1969 & 1971), winning all except Super Bowl III in 1969. After 
the 1983 season, the team left Baltimore for Indianapolis in 1984, where 
it became the Indianapolis Colts. The NFL returned to Baltimore when the 
former Cleveland Browns moved to Baltimore to become the Baltimore Ravens 
in 1996. Since then, the Ravens won a Super Bowl championship in 2000 and 
2012, four AFC North division championships (2003, 2006, 2011 and 2012), 
and appeared in four AFC Championship Games (2000, 2008, 2011 and 2012). 
Baltimore has a long and storied baseball history, including its distinction 
as the birthplace of Babe Ruth in 1895. The original 19th century Baltimore 
Orioles were one of the most successful early franchises, featuring numerous 
hall of famers during its years from 1882 to 1899. As one of the eight 
inaugural American League franchises, the Baltimore Orioles played in the 
AL during the 1901 and 1902 seasons. The team moved to New York City before 
the 1903 season and was renamed the New York Highlanders, which later became 
the New York Yankees. Ruth played for the minor league Baltimore Orioles 
team, which was active from 1903 to 1914. After playing one season in 1915 
as the Richmond Climbers, the team returned the following year to Baltimore, 
where it played as the Orioles until 1953.[197] The team currently known 
as the Baltimore Orioles has represented Major League Baseball locally 
since 1954 when the St. Louis Browns moved to the city of Baltimore. The 
Orioles advanced to the World Series in 1966, 1969, 1970, 1971, 1979 and 
1983, winning three times (1966, 1970 and 1983), while making the playoffs 
all but one year (1972) from 1969 through 1974. In 1995, local player (and 
later Hall of Famer) Cal Ripken, Jr. broke Lou Gehrig's streak of 2,130 
consecutive games played, for which Ripken was named Sportsman of the Year 
by Sports Illustrated magazine.[citation needed] Six former Orioles players, 
including Ripken (2007), and two of the team's managers have been inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame. The first professional sports organization 
in the United States, The Maryland Jockey Club, was formed in Baltimore 
in 1743. Preakness Stakes, the second race in the United States Triple 
Crown of Thoroughbred Racing, has been held every May at Pimlico Race Course 
in Baltimore since 1873. College lacrosse is a popular sport in the spring, 
as the Johns Hopkins Blue Jays men's lacrosse team has won 44 national 
championships, the most of any program in history. In addition, Loyola 
University won its first men's NCAA lacrosse championship in 2012. The 
Baltimore Blues are a semi-professional rugby league club which began competition 
in the USA Rugby League in 2012.[198] The Baltimore Bohemians are an American 
soccer club. They compete in the USL Premier Development League, the fourth 
tier of the American Soccer Pyramid. Their inaugural season started in 
the spring of 2012. The Baltimore Grand Prix debuted along the streets 
of the Inner Harbor section of the city's downtown on September 2–4, 2011. 
The event played host to the American Le Mans Series on Saturday and the 
IndyCar Series on Sunday. Support races from smaller series were also held, 
including Indy Lights. After three consecutive years, on September 13, 
2013, it was announced that the event would not be held in 2014 or 2015 
due to scheduling conflicts.[199] The athletic equipment company, Under 
Armour is also based out of Baltimore. Founded in 1996 by Kevin Plank, 
a University of Maryland alumnus, the company's headquarters are located 
in Tide Point, adjacent to Fort McHenry and the Domino Sugar factory. The 
Baltimore Marathon is the flagship race of several races. The marathon 
begins at the Camden Yards sports complex and travels through many diverse 
neighborhoods of Baltimore, including the scenic Inner Harbor waterfront 
area, historic Federal Hill, Fells Point, and Canton, Baltimore. The race 
then proceeds to other important focal points of the city such as Patterson 
Park, Clifton Park, Lake Montebello, the Charles Village neighborhood and 
the western edge of downtown. After winding through 42.195 kilometres (26.219 mi) 
of Baltimore, the race ends at virtually the same point at which it starts. 
The City of Baltimore boasts over 4,900 acres (1,983 ha) of parkland.[200] 
The Baltimore City Department of Recreation and Parks manages the majority 
of parks and recreational facilities in the city including Patterson Park, 
Federal Hill Park, and Druid Hill Park.[201] The city is also home to Fort 
McHenry National Monument and Historic Shrine, a coastal star-shaped fort 
best known for its role in the War of 1812. As of 2015[update], The Trust 
for Public Land, a national land conservation organization, ranks Baltimore 
40th among the 75 largest U.S. cities.[200] Baltimore is an independent 
city, and not part of any county. For most governmental purposes under 
Maryland law, Baltimore City is treated as a county-level entity. The United 
States Census Bureau uses counties as the basic unit for presentation of 
statistical information in the United States, and treats Baltimore as a 
county equivalent for those purposes. Baltimore has been a Democratic stronghold 
for over 150 years, with Democrats dominating every level of government. 
In virtually all elections, the Democratic primary is the real contest.[202] 
The city hosted the first six Democratic National Conventions, from 1832 
through 1852, and hosted the DNC again in 1860, 1872, and 1912.[203][204] 
Sheila Dixon became the first female mayor of Baltimore on January 17, 
2007. As the former City Council President, she assumed the office of Mayor 
when former Mayor Martin O'Malley took office as Governor of Maryland.[205] 
On November 6, 2007, Dixon won the Baltimore mayoral election. Mayor Dixon's 
administration ended less than three years after her election, the result 
of a criminal investigation that began in 2006 while she was still City 
Council President. She was convicted on a single misdemeanor charge of 
embezzlement on December 1, 2009. A month later, Dixon made an Alford plea 
to a perjury charge and agreed to resign from office; Maryland, like most 
states, does not allow convicted felons to hold office.[206][207] Stephanie 
Rawlings-Blake, who was City Council President at that time, assumed the 
office of Mayor on February 4, 2010, when Dixon's resignation became effective.[208] 
She was elected to a full term in 2011, receiving 84% of the vote.[209] 
Grassroots pressure for reform, voiced as Question P, restructured the 
city council in November 2002, against the will of the mayor, the council 
president, and the majority of the council. A coalition of union and community 
groups, organized by the Association of Community Organizations for Reform 
Now (ACORN), backed the effort.[210] The Baltimore City Council is now 
made up of 14 single-member districts and one elected at-large council 
president. Bernard C. "Jack" Young has been the council president since 
February 2010, when he was unanimously elected by the other council members 
to replace Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, who had become mayor.[211] Edward 
Reisinger, the 10th district representative, is the council's current vice 
president.[212] The Baltimore City Police Department, founded 1784 as a 
"Night City Watch" and day Constables system and later reorganized as a 
City Department in 1853, with a following reorganization under State of 
Maryland supervision in 1859, with appointments made by the Governor of 
Maryland after a disturbing period of civic and elections violence with 
riots in the later part of the decade, is the current primary law enforcement 
agency serving the citizens of the City of Baltimore. Campus and building 
security for the city's public schools is provided by the Baltimore City 
Public Schools Police, established in the 1970s. The Maryland Transportation 
Authority Police under the Maryland Department of Transportation, (originally 
established as the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel Police" when opened in 1957) 
is the primary law enforcement agency on the Fort McHenry Tunnel Thruway 
(Interstate 95), the Baltimore Harbor Tunnel Thruway (Interstate 895), 
which go under the Northwest Branch of the Patapsco River, and Interstate 
395, which has three ramp bridges crossing the Middle Branch of the Patapsco 
River which are under MdTA jurisdiction, the Baltimore-Washington International 
Airport, (BWI) and have limited concurrent jurisdiction with the Baltimore 
City Police Department under a "memorandum of understanding". Law enforcement 
on the fleet of transit buses and transit rail systems serving Baltimore 
is the responsibility of the Maryland Transit Administration Police, which 
is part of the Maryland Transit Administration of the state Department 
of Transportation. The MTA Police also share jurisdiction authority with 
the Baltimore City Police, governed by a memorandum of understanding.[213] 
As the enforcement arm of the Baltimore circuit and district court system, 
the Baltimore City Sheriff's Office, created by state constitutional amendment 
in 1844, is responsible for the security of city courthouses and property, 
service of court-ordered writs, protective and peace orders, warrants, 
tax levies, prisoner transportation and traffic enforcement. Deputy Sheriffs 
are sworn law enforcement officials, with full arrest authority granted 
by the constitution of Maryland, the Maryland Police and Correctional Training 
Commission and the Sheriff of the City of Baltimore.[214] The United States 
Coast Guard, operating out of their shipyard and facility (since 1899) 
at Arundel Cove on Curtis Creek, (off Pennington Avenue extending to Hawkins 
Point Road/Fort Smallwood Road) in the Curtis Bay section of southern Baltimore 
City and adjacent northern Anne Arundel County. The U.S.C.G. also operates 
and maintains a presence on Baltimore and Maryland waterways in the Patapsco 
River and Chesapeake Bay. "Sector Baltimore" is responsible for commanding 
law enforcement and search & rescue units as well as aids to navigation. 
The city of Baltimore is protected by the over 1,800 professional firefighters 
of the Baltimore City Fire Department (BCFD), which was founded in December 
1858 and began operating the following year. Replacing several warring 
independent volunteer companies since the 1770s and the confusion resulting 
from a riot involving the "Know-Nothing" political party two years before, 
the establishment of a unified professional fire fighting force was a major 
advance in urban governance. The BCFD operates out of 37 fire stations 
located throughout the city and has a long history and sets of traditions 
in its various houses and divisions. Since the legislative redistricting 
in 2002, Baltimore has had six legislative districts located entirely within 
its boundaries, giving the city six seats in the 47-member Maryland Senate 
and 18 in the 141-member Maryland House of Delegates.[215][216] During 
the previous 10-year period, Baltimore had four legislative districts within 
the city limits, but four others overlapped the Baltimore County line.[217] 
As of January 2011, all of Baltimore's state senators and delegates were 
Democrats.[215] Approval of the next redistricting plan is expected to 
become effective in time for Maryland's 2012 congressional primary election 
on February 14, 2012.[218] Three of the state's eight congressional districts 
include portions of Baltimore: the 2nd, represented by Dutch Ruppersberger; 
the 3rd, represented by John Sarbanes; and the 7th, represented by Elijah 
Cummings. All three are Democrats; a Republican has not represented a significant 
portion of Baltimore in Congress since John Boynton Philip Clayton Hill 
represented the 3rd District in 1927, and has not represented any of Baltimore 
since the Eastern Shore-based 1st District lost its share of Baltimore 
after the 2000 census; it was represented by Republican Wayne Gilchrest 
at the time. Both of Maryland's senators, Ben Cardin and Barbara Mikulski, 
are from Baltimore. The last three people to represent Maryland in the 
Senate represented the 3rd District before being elected to the Senate. 
Paul Sarbanes represented the 3rd from 1971 until 1977, when he was elected 
to the first of five terms in the Senate. Sarbanes was succeeded by Mikulski, 
who represented the 3rd from 1977 to 1987. Mikulski was succeeded by Cardin, 
who held the seat until handing it to John Sarbanes upon his election to 
the Senate in 2007.[219] The Postal Service's Baltimore Main Post Office 
is located at 900 East Fayette Street in the Jonestown area.[220] The national 
headquarters for the United States Social Security Administration is located 
in Woodlawn, just outside of Baltimore. Baltimore is the home of numerous 
places of higher learning, both public and private. 100,000 college students 
from around the country attend Baltimore City's 12 accredited two-year 
or four-year colleges and universities.[221][222] Among them are: The city's 
public schools are managed by Baltimore City Public Schools and include 
schools that have been well known in the area: Carver Vocational-Technical 
High School, the first African American vocational high school and center 
that was established in the state of Maryland; Digital Harbor High School, 
one of the secondary schools that emphasizes information technology; Lake 
Clifton Eastern High School, which is the largest school campus in Baltimore 
City of physical size; the historic Frederick Douglass High School, which 
is the second oldest African American high school in the United States;[224] 
Baltimore City College, the third oldest public high school in the country;[225] 
and Western High School, the oldest public all-girls school in the nation.[226] 
Baltimore City College (also known as "City") and Baltimore Polytechnic 
Institute (also known as "Poly") share the nation's second-oldest high 
school football rivalry.[227] The Interstate highways serving Baltimore 
are I-70, I-83 (the Jones Falls Expressway), I-95 (the John F. Kennedy 
Memorial Highway north of the city), I-395, I-695 (the Baltimore Beltway), 
I-795 (the Northwest Expressway), I-895 (the Harbor Tunnel Thruway), and 
I-97. The city's mainline Interstate highways—I-95, I-83, and I-70—do not 
directly connect to each other, and in the case of I-70 end at a park and 
ride lot just inside the city limits, because of freeway revolts in Baltimore. 
These revolts were led primarily by Barbara Mikulski, now a United States 
senator, which resulted in the abandonment of the original plan. There 
are two tunnels traversing Baltimore Harbor within the city limits: the 
four-bore Fort McHenry Tunnel (serving I-95) and the two-bore Harbor Tunnel 
(serving I-895). The Baltimore Beltway crosses south of Baltimore Harbor 
over the Francis Scott Key Bridge. The only U.S. Highways in the city are 
US 1, which bypasses downtown, and US 40, which crosses downtown from east 
to west. Both run along major surface streets; however, US 40 utilizes 
a small section of a freeway cancelled in the 1970s in the west side of 
the city originally intended for Interstate 170. State routes in the city 
also travel along surface streets, with the exception of Maryland Route 
295, which carries the Baltimore–Washington Parkway. The Baltimore City 
Department of Transportation (BCDOT) is responsible for several functions 
of the road transportation system in Baltimore, including repairing roads, 
sidewalks, and alleys; road signs; street lights; and managing the flow 
of transportation systems.[228] In addition, the agency is in charge of 
vehicle towing and traffic cameras.[229][230] BCDOT maintains all streets 
within the city of Baltimore. These include all streets that are marked 
as state and U.S. highways as well as the portions of I-83 and I-70 within 
the city limits. The only highways within the city that are not maintained 
by BCDOT are I-95, I-395, I-695, and I-895; those four highways are maintained 
by the Maryland Transportation Authority.[231] Public transit in Baltimore 
is mostly provided by the Maryland Transit Administration (abbreviated 
"MTA Maryland") and Charm City Circulator. MTA Maryland operates a comprehensive 
bus network, including many local, express, and commuter buses, a light 
rail network connecting Hunt Valley in the north to BWI Airport and Cromwell 
(Glen Burnie) in the south, and a subway line between Owings Mills and 
Johns Hopkins Hospital.[232] A proposed rail line, known as the Red Line, 
which would link the Social Security Administration to Johns Hopkins Bayview 
Medical Center and perhaps the Canton and Dundalk communities, was cancelled 
as of June 2015 by Governor Larry Hogan; a proposal to extend Baltimore's 
existing subway line to Morgan State University, known as the Green Line, 
is in the planning stages.[233] The Charm City Circulator (CCC), a shuttle 
bus service operated by Veolia Transportation for the Baltimore Department 
of Transportation, began operating in the downtown area in January 2010. 
Funded partly by a 16 percent increase in the city's parking fees, the 
circulator provides free bus service seven days a week, picking up passengers 
every 15 minutes at designated stops during service hours.[234][235] The 
CCC's first bus line, the Orange route, travels between Hollins Market 
and Harbor East. Its Purple route, launched June 7, 2010, operates between 
Penn Station and Federal Hill. The Green route runs between Johns Hopkins 
and City Hall.[235][236] The Charm City Circulator operates a fleet of 
diesel and hybrid vehicles built by DesignLine, Orion, and Van Hool.[234] 
Baltimore is a top destination for Amtrak along the Northeast Corridor. 
Baltimore's Penn Station is one of the busiest in the country. In FY 2014, 
Penn Station was ranked the seventh-busiest rail station in the United 
States by number of passengers served each year.[237] The building sits 
on a raised "island" of sorts between two open trenches, one for the Jones 
Falls Expressway and the other for the tracks of the Northeast Corridor 
(NEC). The NEC approaches from the south through the two-track, 7,660-foot 
Baltimore and Potomac Tunnel, which opened in 1873 and whose 30 mph limit, 
sharp curves, and steep grades make it one of the NEC's worst bottlenecks. 
The NEC's northern approach is the 1873 Union Tunnel, which has one single-track 
bore and one double-track bore. Just outside the city, Baltimore/Washington 
International (BWI) Thurgood Marshall Airport Rail Station is another popular 
stop. Amtrak's Acela Express, Palmetto, Carolinian, Silver Star, Silver 
Meteor, Vermonter, Crescent, and Northeast Regional trains are the scheduled 
passenger train services that stop in the city. Additionally, MARC commuter 
rail service connects the city's two main intercity rail stations, Camden 
Station and Penn Station, with Washington, D.C.'s Union Station as well 
as stops in between. The MARC consists of 3 lines; the Brunswick, Camden 
and Penn. On December 7, 2013 the Penn Line began weekend service.[238] 
Baltimore is served by two airports, both operated by the Maryland Aviation 
Administration, which is part of the Maryland Department of Transportation.[239] 
Baltimore–Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport, generally 
known as "BWI," lies about 10 miles (16 km) to the south of Baltimore in 
neighboring Anne Arundel County. The airport is named after Thurgood Marshall, 
a Baltimore native who was the first African American to serve on the Supreme 
Court of the United States. In terms of passenger traffic, BWI is the 22nd 
busiest airport in the United States.[240] As of calendar year 2014, BWI 
is the largest, by passenger count, of three major airports serving the 
Baltimore–Washington Metropolitan Area. It is accessible by I-95 and the 
Baltimore–Washington Parkway via Interstate 195, the Baltimore Light Rail, 
and Amtrak and MARC Train at BWI Rail Station. Baltimore is also served 
by Martin State Airport, a general aviation facility, to the northeast 
in Baltimore County. Martin State Airport is linked to downtown Baltimore 
by Maryland Route 150 (Eastern Avenue) and by MARC Train at its own station. 
Baltimore has a comprehensive system of bicycle routes in the city. These 
routes are not numbered, but are typically denoted with green signs sporting 
a silhouette of a bicycle upon an outline of the city's border, and denote 
the distance to destinations, much like bicycle routes in the rest of the 
state. The roads carrying bicycle routes are also labelled with either 
bike lanes, sharrows, or Share the Road signs. Many of these routes pass 
through the downtown area. The network of bicycle lanes in the city continues 
to expand, with over 140 miles added between 2006 and 2014.[241] Alongside 
bike lanes, Baltimore has also built bike boulevards, starting with Guilford 
Avenue in 2012. Baltimore currently has three major trail systems within 
the city. The Gwynns Falls Trail runs from the Inner Harbor to the I-70 
Park and Ride, passing through Gwynns Falls Park and possessing numerous 
branches. There are also many pedestrian hiking trails traversing the park. 
The Jones Falls Trail currently runs from the Inner Harbor to the Cylburn 
Arboretum; however, it is currently undergoing expansion. Long term plans 
call for it to extend to the Mount Washington Light Rail Stop, and possibly 
as far north as the Falls Road stop to connect to the Robert E. Lee boardwalk 
north of the city. It will also incorporate a spur alongside Western Run. 
The two aforementioned trails carry sections of the East Coast Greenway 
through the city. There is also the Herring Run Trail, which runs from 
Harford Road east to its end beyond Sinclair Lane, utilizing Herring Run 
Park; long term plans also call for its extension to Morgan State University 
and north to points beyond. Other major bicycle projects include a protected 
cycle track installed on both Maryland Avenue and Mount Royal Avenue, expected 
to become the backbone of a downtown bicycle network. Installation for 
the cycletracks is expected in 2014 and 2016, respectively. In addition 
to the bicycle trails and cycletracks, Baltimore has the Stony Run Trail, 
a walking path that will eventually connect from the Jones Falls north 
to Northern Parkway, utilizing much of the old Ma and Pa Railroad corridor 
inside the city. In 2011, the city undertook a campaign to reconstruct 
many sidewalk ramps in the city, coinciding with mass resurfacing of the 
city's streets. A 2011 study by Walk Score ranked Baltimore the 14th most 
walkable of fifty largest U.S. cities.[242] The port was founded in 1706, 
preceding the founding of Baltimore. The Maryland colonial legislature 
made the area near Locust Point as the port of entry for the tobacco trade 
with England. Fells Point, the deepest point in the natural harbor, soon 
became the colony's main ship building center, later on becoming leader 
in the construction of clipper ships.[243] After Baltimore's founding, 
mills were built behind the wharves. The California Gold Rush led to many 
orders for fast vessels; many overland pioneers also relied upon canned 
goods from Baltimore. After the Civil War, a coffee ship was designed here 
for trade with Brazil. At the end of the nineteenth century, European ship 
lines had terminals for immigrants. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad made 
the port a major transshipment point.[244]:17,75 Currently the port has 
major roll-on/roll-off facilities, as well as bulk facilities, especially 
steel handling.[245] Water taxis also operate in the Inner Harbor. Governor 
Ehrlich participated in naming the port after Helen Delich Bentley during 
the 300th anniversary of the port.[246] In 2007, Duke Realty Corporation 
began a new development near the Port of Baltimore, named the Chesapeake 
Commerce Center. This new industrial park is located on the site of a former 
General Motors plant. The total project comprises 184 acres (0.74 km2) 
in eastern Baltimore City, and the site will yield 2,800,000 square feet 
(260,000 m2) of warehouse/distribution and office space. Chesapeake Commerce 
Center has direct access to two major Interstate highways (I-95 and I-895) 
and is located adjacent to two of the major Port of Baltimore terminals. 
The Port of Baltimore is one of two seaports on the U.S. East Coast with 
a 50-foot (15 m) dredge to accommodate the largest shipping vessels.[247] 
Along with cargo terminals, the port also has a passenger cruise terminal, 
which offers year-round trips on several lines, including Royal Caribbean's 
Grandeur of the Seas and Carnival's Pride. Overall five cruise lines have 
operated out of the port to the Bahamas and the Caribbean, while some ships 
traveled to New England and Canada. The terminal has become a popular embarkation 
point where passengers have the rare opportunity to park and board next 
to the ship visible from Interstate 95.[248] Passengers from Pennsylvania, 
New York and New Jersey make up a third of the volume, with travelers from 
Maryland, Virginia, the District and even Ohio and the Carolinas making 
up the rest.[249] Baltimore's Inner Harbor, known for its skyline waterscape 
and its tourist friendly-areas, was horribly polluted. The waterway was 
often filled with garbage after heavy rainstorms, failing its 2014 water 
quality report card. The Waterfront Partnership of Baltimore took steps 
to remediate the waterways, in hopes that the harbor would be fishable 
and swimmable once again. Installed in May 2014, the Water Wheel, known 
as Mr. Trash Wheel, sits at the mouth of the Jones Falls River in Baltimore's 
Inner Harbor. A February 2015 agreement with a local waste-to-energy plant, 
is believed to make Baltimore the first city to use reclaimed waterway 
debris to generate electricity.[250] Mr. Trash Wheel is the world's first 
permanent water wheel trash interceptor to clean up the city's polluted 
Inner Harbor.[251] The Jones Falls river watershed drains fifty-eight square 
miles of land outside of Baltimore and is a significant source of trash 
that enters the harbor. Garbage collected by Mr. Trash Wheel could come 
from anywhere in the Jones Falls Watershed area.[252] The wheel moves continuously, 
removing garbage and dumping it into an attached dumpster using only hydro 
and solar renewable power to keep its wheel turning. It has the capability 
to collect 50,000 pounds of trash per day, and has removed more than 350 
tons of litter from Baltimore's landmark and tourist attraction in its 
first 18 months, estimated as consisting of approximately 200,000 bottles, 
173,000 potato chip bags and 6.7 million cigarettes butts.[253][254] The 
Water Wheel has been very successful at trash removal, visibly decreasing 
the amount of garbage that collects in the harbor, especially after a rainfall. 
The Waterfront Partnership is raising money to build a second Water Wheel 
at the end of Harris Creek, an entirely piped stream that flows beneath 
Baltimore's Canton neighborhood and empties into the Baltimore Harbor. 
Harris Creek is known to carry tons of trash every year.[255][256] The 
planned new Water Wheel will capture that trash and keep it out of the 
Harbor, Chesapeake Bay, and Atlantic Ocean. A number of projects are going 
on in Baltimore City and County that should result in better water quality 
scores. These projects include the Blue Alleys project, the Water Wheel, 
expanded street sweeping, and stream restoration.[251] In August 2010, 
the National Aquarium assembled, planted, and launched a floating wetland 
island designed by Biohabitats in Baltimore's Inner Harbor.[257] Hundreds 
of years ago Baltimore's harbor shoreline would have been lined with tidal 
wetlands. Floating wetlands provide many environmental benefits to water 
quality and habitat enhancement, which is why the Waterfront Partnership 
of Baltimore has included them in their Healthy Harbor Initiative pilot 
projects.[258] Biohabitats also developed a concept to transform a dilapidated 
wharf into a living pier that cleans Harbor water, provides habitat and 
is an aesthetic attraction. Currently under design, the top of the pier 
will become a constructed tidal wetland.[259] The city also has a fleet 
of trash skimmer operators to clean the harbor, which together accumulate 
a total of 200,000 tons of trash each year.[260] Baltimore's main newspaper 
is The Baltimore Sun. It was sold by its Baltimore owners in 1986 to the 
Times Mirror Company,[261] which was bought by the Tribune Company in 2000.[262] 
The Baltimore News-American, another long-running paper that competed with 
the Sun, ceased publication in 1986.[263] The city is home to the Baltimore 
Afro-American, an influential African American newspaper founded in 1892.[264][265] 
In 2006, The Baltimore Examiner was launched to compete with The Sun. It 
was part of a national chain that includes The San Francisco Examiner and 
The Washington Examiner. In contrast to the paid subscription Sun, The 
Examiner was a free newspaper funded solely by advertisements. Unable to 
turn a profit and facing a deep recession, The Baltimore Examiner ceased 
publication on February 15, 2009. Despite being located 40 miles northeast 
of Washington, D.C., Baltimore is a major media market in its own right, 
with all major English language television networks represented in the 
city. WJZ-TV is a CBS owned and operated station, and WBFF is the flagship 
of Sinclair Broadcast Group, the largest station owner in the country. 
Nielsen ranked Baltimore as the 26th-largest television market for the 
2008–2009 viewing season and the 27th-largest for 2009–2010.[266] Arbitron's 
Fall 2010 rankings identified Baltimore as the 22nd largest radio market.[267] 
Baltimore has ten sister cities, as designated by Sister Cities International: 
