The Baltimore Terrapins were one of the most successful teams in the short-lived 
Federal League of professional baseball from 1914 to 1915, but their brief 
existence led to litigation that led to an important legal precedent in 
baseball. The team played its home games at Terrapin Park. Most of the 
professional baseball teams in Baltimore have been called the Orioles, 
in reference to the Baltimore oriole bird. There was already a minor league 
Baltimore Orioles, and the new Federal League club built their ballpark 
directly across the street from the Orioles park. The new club chose to 
call itself the Baltimore Terrapins, after the diamondback terrapin, the 
state reptile of Maryland. That nickname would later become primarily associated 
with the University of Maryland, College Park sports teams called the Maryland 
Terrapins. While the 1914 team posted a respectable 84–70 record and finished 
only 4½ games out of first place under player-manager Otto Knabe, the team 
was less than successful at the box office, even though four of the eight 
teams in the league (Chicago, Brooklyn, Pittsburgh, and St. Louis) were 
competing with one and even two (Chicago and St. Louis) other major league 
teams in the same cities. In an attempt to turn this situation around and 
attract a marquee player to help them at the box office, the 1915 team 
recruited Chief Bender of the American League champion Philadelphia Athletics. 
The Athletics had sold off several future Hall-of-Famers like Eddie Plank, 
Eddie Collins and Frank "Home Run" Baker after being swept by the surprising 
Boston Braves in the 1914 World Series. Bender had come off an impressive 
17–3 season where he compiled seven shutouts and a 2.26 ERA in 1914. However, 
his 1915 season at Baltimore was a low point of his Hall of Fame career 
when he slumped to a 4–16 record, no shutouts, and a 3.99 ERA. Baltimore's 
collapse to a 47–107 record, 40 games out of first, was overshadowed only 
by the collapse of Bender's former team who went from a 99–53 league championship 
season to a dismal 43–109 record, 58½ games out of first in 1915. Bender 
and the Baltimore Terrapins never made a full recovery from 1915. The incident 
did show the Federal League could compete seriously with the National League 
and American League on a professional baseball level and led to the buy-out 
truce which ended the Federal League for good. However, the Baltimore team's 
owners were not offered a part in this buyout. When the Federal League 
started, the Terrapins severely cut into the minor league Baltimore Orioles' 
attendance, causing financial problems for the owner. As a result, several 
players, including the young left-handed pitcher Babe Ruth, were offered 
for sale to major league teams. Ruth's contract was purchased by the Boston 
Red Sox, after being turned down by Connie Mack and the Philadelphia Athletics. 
In 1914, the Babe begin his career with the Red Sox of the rival American 
League. After the demise of the Federal League and the Terrapins, Baltimore 
would not see major league baseball again until 1954, when the former St. 
Louis Browns moved into town and became the current-day Baltimore Orioles. 
As the Terrapins' owners were not offered any part of the buyout offer 
made to most Federal League teams by the American and National Leagues, 
they decided to sue alleging that the buyout was in violation of the Sherman 
Antitrust Act. The resulting case led to the decision by the U.S. Supreme 
Court that the scheduling and playing of "base ball games" did not constitute 
"interstate commerce" in any sense envisioned by the Framers of the United 
States Constitution and therefore the Sherman Act and other federal laws 
and regulations did not apply to baseball. The case, Federal Baseball Club 
v. National League, was not ultimately decided until 1922. The minor league 
Orioles moved into Terrapin Park, a wooden ballpark. This move began a 
chain of events which would eventually lead to the return of major league 
