The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula) is a small icterid blackbird common 
in eastern North America as a migratory breeding bird. It received its 
name from the resemblance of the male's colors to those on the coat-of-arms 
of Lord Baltimore. Observations of interbreeding between the Baltimore 
oriole and the western Bullock's oriole, Icterus bullockii, led to both 
being classified as a single species, called the northern oriole, from 
1973-1995. Research by James Rising, a professor of zoology at the University 
of Toronto, and others showed that the two birds actually did not interbreed 
significantly.[2] The Baltimore oriole is the state bird of Maryland. It 
is also the inspiration for the Baltimore Orioles baseball team. Like all 
New World orioles, this species is named after an unrelated, physically 
similar family found in the Old World: the Oriolidae. "Oriole" ultimately 
derives from Latin aureolus, "golden".[3] The genus name Icterus is from 
Ancient Greek ikteros, a yellow bird, usually taken to be the Eurasian 
golden oriole, the sight of which could cure jaundice. The specific galbula 
is the Latin name for a yellow bird, again usually assumed to be the golden 
oriole.[4] This medium-sized passerine measures 17–22 cm (6.7–8.7 in) in 
length and spans 23–32 cm (9.1–12.6 in) across the wings. Their build is 
typical of icterids, as they have a sturdy body, a longish tail, fairly 
long legs and a thick, pointed bill. The body weight averages 33.8 g (1.19 oz), 
with a range of weights from 22.3 to 42 g (0.79 to 1.48 oz).[5] The male 
oriole is slightly larger than the female, although the size dimorphism 
is minimal by icterid standards.[6][7][8] Adults always have white bars 
on the wings. The adult male is orange on the underparts shoulder patch 
and rump, with some birds appearing a very deep flaming orange and others 
appearing yellowish-orange. All of the rest of the male's plumage is black. 
The adult female is yellow-brown on the upper parts with darker wings, 
and dull orange-yellow on the breast and belly. The juvenile oriole is 
similar-looking to the female, with males taking until the fall of their 
second year to reach adult plumage. Baltimore orioles are found in the 
Nearctic in summer, primarily the eastern United States. They breed from 
Minnesota to Maine and south to central Mississippi and Alabama and northern 
Georgia. They migrate to winter in the Neotropics as far north as Mexico 
and sometimes the southern coast of the United States, but predominantly 
in Central America and northern South America. Some areas of the southern 
United States may retain orioles all winter if they have feeders that appeal 
to them. The range of this bird overlaps with that of the similar Bullock's 
oriole in the Midwest, and the two species were once considered to be conspecific 
under the name northern oriole because they form fertile hybrids. The Baltimore 
oriole is a rare vagrant to Western Europe. Baltimore orioles are often 
found high up in large, leafy deciduous trees, but do not generally reside 
in deep forests. The species has been found in summer and migration in 
open woodland, forest edge, and partially wooded wetlands or stands of 
trees along rivers. They are very adaptable and can breed in a variety 
of secondary habitats. In recent times, they are often found in orchards, 
farmland, urban parks and suburban landscapes as long as they retain woodlots. 
In Mexico, they winter in flowering canopy trees, often over shade coffee 
plantations.[9] The male sings a loud flutey whistle, with a buzzy, bold 
quality, a familiar sound in much of the eastern United States. The male 
typically sings from the tree canopy, often giving away its location before 
being sighted. Baltimore orioles are basically solitary outside their mating 
season. The species is generally considered monogamous, although evidence 
suggests that extra-pair copulation is reasonably common. In the spring, 
males establish a territory then display to females by singing and chattering 
while hopping from perch to perch in front of them. Males also give a bow 
display, bowing with wings lowered and tail fanned. Depending on their 
receptiveness, the females may ignore these displays or sing and give calls 
or a wing-quiver display in response. The wing-quiver display involves 
leaning forward, often with tail partly fanned, and fluttering or quivering 
slightly lowered wings. The Baltimore oriole's nest is built by the female. 
It is a tightly woven pouch located on the end of a branch, consisting 
of any plant or animal materials available, hanging down on the underside. 
Trees such as elms, cottonwoods, maples, willows or apples are regularly 
selected, with the nest usually located around 7 to 9 m (23 to 30 ft) above 
the ground. The female lays three to seven eggs, with the norm being around 
four. The eggs are pale gray to bluish white, measuring 2.3 cm × 1.6 cm 
(0.91 in × 0.63 in) on average. The incubation period is 12 to 14 days. 
Once the nestlings hatch, they are fed by regurgitation by both parents 
and brooded by the female for two weeks. After this the young start to 
fledge, becoming largely independent shortly thereafter. If the eggs, young, 
or nest are destroyed, the oriole is unable to lay a replacement clutch.[9] 
Predation is a common source of mortality, typically also occurring with 
eggs, nestlings and fledgings. Common predators at Baltimore oriole nests 
can include common grackles, American crows, Blue Jays, black-billed magpies, 
tree squirrels and domestic cats, which most commonly capture newly fledged 
orioles or adults engaged in brooding behavior. Rapacious birds commonly 
prey on both young and fully-grown orioles, the most prolific being the 
eastern screech owl and Cooper's and sharp-shinned hawks. Somewhat larger 
rapacious birds also sometimes opportunistically predate the oriole, including 
peregrine falcons, great horned owls, and barn owls, while merlins may 
do so while orioles are migrating.[10][11] The record lifespan for a wild 
bird was 11 years and 7 months, with captive orioles living up to 14 years. 
Baltimore orioles forage in trees and shrubs, also making short flights 
to catch insects. They acrobatically clamber, hover and hang among foliage 
as they comb high branches. They mainly eat insects, berries and nectar, 
and are often seen sipping at hummingbird feeders. Their favored prey is 
perhaps the forest tent caterpillar moth, which they typically eat in their 
larval stage, and can be a nuisance species if not naturally regulated 
by predation. The larvae caterpillar are beaten against a branch until 
their protective hairs are skinned off before being eaten. Unlike American 
robins and many other fruit-eating birds, Baltimore orioles seem to prefer 
only ripe, dark-colored fruit. Orioles seek out the darkest mulberries, 
the reddest cherries, and the deepest-purple grapes, and will ignore green 
grapes and yellow cherries even if they are ripe. Baltimore orioles sometimes 
use their bills in an unusual way, called "gaping": they stab the closed 
bill into soft fruits, then open their mouths to cut a juicy swath from 
which they drink with their tongues. During spring and fall, nectar, fruit 
and other sugary foods are readily converted into fat, which supplies energy 
for migration. Many people now attract Baltimore orioles to their backyards 
with oriole feeders. Such feeders contain essentially the same food as 
hummingbird feeders, but are designed for orioles, and are orange instead 
of red and have larger perches. Baltimore orioles are also fond of halved 
oranges, grape jelly and, in their winter quarters, the red arils of gumbo-limbo 
(Bursera simaruba).[12] If they discover a well-kept feeder, orioles lead 
