The Baltimore–Columbia–Towson Metropolitan Statistical Area, also known 
as Central Maryland, is a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) in Maryland 
as defined by the United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB). 
As of the 2010 Census, the combined population of the seven counties is 
2,710,489. The MSA has the fourth-highest median household income in the 
United States, at $66,970 in 2012.[2] The area includes the following counties:[3][4] 
The metropolitan area includes the following principal communities : It 
also includes several other communities (not necessarily incorporated as 
cities or towns): In addition to its technical metropolitan area, Baltimore 
also receives a large number of commuters from cities such as York, Pennsylvania[5] 
and the Washington Metropolitan Area. Greater Baltimore (the city and surrounding 
suburbs in Baltimore County) is home to four Fortune 1000 companies: Grace 
Chemicals (in Columbia), Legg Mason, T. Rowe Price, and McCormick & Company 
(in Hunt Valley). Other companies that call Greater Baltimore home include 
AAI Corporation (in Hunt Valley), Adams Express Company, Brown Advisory, 
First Home Mortgage Corporation, FTI Consulting, Petroleum & Resources 
Corporation, Vertis, Prometric, Sylvan Learning, Laureate Education, Under 
Armour, Polk Audio, DAP, 180s, DeBaufre Bakeries, Wm. T. Burnett & Co, 
Old Mutual Financial Network, Firaxis Games (in Sparks), Sinclair Broadcast 
Group (in Hunt Valley), Fila USA (in Sparks), and JoS. A. Bank Clothiers 
(in Hampstead). The capital of Maryland and the agencies of the Maryland 
state government are located in the Baltimore MSA, mainly in Annapolis 
and Baltimore City. The area is also home to the National Security Agency 
(NSA) headquarters in Fort Meade in Anne Arundel County, as well as the 
Social Security Administration and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services (CMS) in Woodlawn in Baltimore County. In Baltimore County: In 
Anne Arundel County: Coordinates: 39°16′59.86″N 76°36′27.6″W﻿ / ﻿39.2832944°N 
