Byron Bancroft "Ban" Johnson (January 5, 1864 – March 28, 1931) was an 
American executive in professional baseball who served as the founder and 
first president of the American League (AL). Johnson developed the AL—a 
descendant of the minor league Western League—into a "clean" alternative 
to the National League, which had become notorious for its rough-and-tumble 
atmosphere.[1] To encourage a more orderly environment, Johnson strongly 
supported the new league's umpires,[2] which eventually included Hall of 
Famer Billy Evans.[3] With the help of league owners and managers such 
as Charles Comiskey, Charles Somers and Jimmy McAleer, Johnson lured top 
talent to the AL, which soon rivaled the more established National League.[4] 
Johnson dominated the AL until the mid-1920s, when a public dispute with 
Baseball Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis culminated in his forced 
resignation as league president.[2] Born in Norwalk, Ohio, Johnson went 
on to study law at Marietta College, although he did not take his degree. 
He subsequently became the sports editor of a newspaper in Cincinnati.[1] 
During this time, Johnson befriended Charles Comiskey, who was then manager 
of the Cincinnati Reds.[1] At the urging of Comiskey and Reds owner John 
T. Brush, Johnson was elected as president of the Western League, a faltering 
minor league, at a reorganization meeting held in 1893.[1] Johnson had 
criticized the National League for its rowdy atmosphere, which was driving 
away families and women.[1] He set about making baseball more friendly 
to both. Contrary to the practice of the time, Johnson gave his umpires 
unqualified support and had little tolerance for players or managers who 
failed to show them due respect.[5] Johnson also fined and suspended players 
who used foul language on the field. Soon, the Western League was recognized 
as not only the strongest minor league, but also as the most effectively 
managed league in all of baseball.[5] Johnson, however, had a bigger plan—another 
major league. With the help of Comiskey, who had purchased the Sioux City 
franchise and moved it to St. Paul in 1894 after leaving the Reds, Johnson 
initiated an ambitious plan of expansion. He got his chance after the 1899 
season, when the National League dropped teams in Baltimore, Cleveland, 
Louisville and Washington, D.C.[1] Johnson moved the Grand Rapids franchise 
to Cleveland, where they would eventually become the Indians.[1] He also 
had Comiskey move his Saint Paul team to Chicago, where they eventually 
became the White Sox.[1] The latter move was made with the blessing of 
the NL, which saw Comiskey's team as a way to head off any attempt to revive 
the American Association.[1] For the 1900 season, the Western League was 
renamed as the American League, although it remained a minor league.[1] 
The 1900 season was an unqualified success, and Johnson received a 10-year 
contract extension.[1] In October, he withdrew the AL from the National 
Agreement (the formal understanding between the NL and the minor leagues). 
The final step came on January 28, 1901, when he declared the AL would 
operate as a major league. He then placed teams in Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia 
and Washington.[1] The Buffalo Bisons were to be a member of the new American 
League and their manager Franklin was told right up to Jan. 29, 1901, that 
"Buffalo was in the league and not to worry", Ban Johnson unceremoniously 
dumped Buffalo and placed the franchise in Boston. It was later revealed 
that he not only had been negotiating surreptitiously with Boston people 
for several months, but also that he had money invested in the Boston franchise.[citation 
needed] Johnson also had a large stake in the Washington franchise, which 
he kept until 1903. The NL then made a critical blunder by limiting salaries 
to $2,400–a low sum even by 1901 standards. Johnson, Comiskey and the other 
AL owners responded by raiding NL rosters, promising disgruntled players 
much higher salaries. In 1901, the AL's St. Louis Browns alone drew future 
Hall of Famers Jesse Burkett and Bobby Wallace.[4] Eventually, over 100 
players "jumped" to the new league. After a two-year war in which the AL 
trounced the NL in attendance both seasons, the NL sued for peace.[1] Under 
a new National Agreement, the AL was formally recognized as the second 
major league. A three-man National Commission was set up, composed of both 
league presidents and Reds owner Garry Herrmann. Although Herrmann was 
nominal president of the commission, Johnson soon dominated the body.[1] 
Johnson brooked no criticism, and made it very difficult for men he didn't 
like to buy into the league. For instance, when Harry Frazee bought the 
Boston Red Sox in 1917, Johnson tried almost from the start to drive him 
out because Frazee had not been hand-picked by Johnson.[6] At one point, 
Johnson even had ownership interests in the Cleveland and Washington teams. 
The Frazee dispute planted the seed for Johnson's downfall. Eventually, 
the league divided into two factions, with the Red Sox, White Sox and New 
York Yankees on one side (commonly known as "The Insurrectos") and the 
other five clubs (the Indians, Philadelphia Athletics, St. Louis Browns, 
Detroit Tigers and Washington Senators, known as the "Loyal Five") on the 
other. By this time, Comiskey had become a bitter enemy of Johnson; the 
two men's once warm friendship had strained considerably. Johnson's authority 
eroded further that year when the Red Sox traded Carl Mays to the Yankees 
in defiance of a Johnson order to suspend him after Mays had jumped the 
club.[7] The Yankees went to court and received an injunction to allow 
Mays to play, as Johnson had demonstrated throughout the proceedings that 
his investment in the Cleveland Indians hindered his ability to be impartial.[7] 
The final nail in Johnson's coffin proved to be the Black Sox Scandal. 
Johnson paid no attention to Comiskey's claims that his White Sox may have 
been on the take from gamblers.[2] However, when the scandal broke after 
the 1920 season, the White Sox, Red Sox and Yankees threatened to pull 
out of the AL and join a new 12-team National League. The enlarged league 
would include a new team in Detroit unrelated to the Tigers, who were owned 
by Johnson loyalist Frank Navin. However, Navin was in no mood for another 
war and persuaded the other five clubs to agree to appoint a new National 
Commission of non-baseball men. Federal District Court Judge Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis was appointed as chairman. However, Landis would only accept an 
appointment as sole Commissioner of Baseball, with unlimited power over 
the game.[8] The owners were still reeling from the damage to baseball's 
reputation due to the Black Sox Scandal, and readily agreed to Landis' 
demands.[8] Under the circumstances, a clash between the iron-willed Johnson 
and the iron-willed Landis was inevitable, and it happened prior to the 
1924 World Series. Landis banned two New York Giants from the Series for 
attempting to bribe members of the Philadelphia Phillies late in the season. 
After Frankie Frisch and two other Giants stars were implicated, only to 
be cleared by Landis, Johnson demanded that the Series be canceled. He 
publicly criticized Landis for his handling of the affair, and Landis threatened 
to resign if the AL owners didn't rein Johnson in. After the Series, the 
AL owners promised to remove Johnson from office if he stepped out of line 
again. Johnson remained on good behavior for two years, even getting an 
extension of his contract to 1935 and a raise to $40,000 (he had previously 
made $25,000). However, in 1926, Johnson criticized Landis for granting 
Ty Cobb and Tris Speaker an amnesty after evidence surfaced that they had 
fixed a game in 1919. Landis demanded that the AL choose between him and 
Johnson. The AL owners were prepared to remove Johnson from office at their 
annual meeting in January 1927. Because Johnson was in ill health at the 
time, the owners decided to put him on an indefinite sabbatical instead. 
Johnson tried to return in the spring and acted as if nothing had changed. 
However, the situation had become untenable, and Johnson was forced to 
resign at the end of the season.[2] Frank Navin served as acting president 
of the American League until the owners selected Indians general manager 
Ernest Barnard as president. Johnson died at age 66 in St. Louis, Missouri,[9] 
just a few hours after his successor, E.S. Barnard. Johnson was elected 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1937 as one of its charter members. The 
athletic fieldhouse at Marietta College is named in his honor. He was laid 
to rest at Riverside Cemetery in Spencer, Indiana. Will Harridge, who succeeded 
to the AL presidency in 1931, summed up Johnson's legacy: "He was the most 
brilliant man the game has ever known. He was more responsible for making 
baseball the national game than anyone in the history of the sport".[9] 
