Ban Johnson Park was a baseball stadium located in Hot Springs, Arkansas, 
within the Whittington Park Historic District, a "tree-shaded greenway" 
that is located along Whittington Creek, which runs down the center island 
of Whittington Avenue.[4][5] The location of the ballpark was across from 
the still active Arkansas Alligator Farm and Petting Zoo (built 1902).[6] 
Originally known as Whittington Park, the field served as a training site 
for many Major League Baseball teams, by hosting spring training games 
and serving as home for minor league teams. In 1918, Babe Ruth hit a 573-foot 
home run at the park, while a pitcher for the Boston Red Sox. The park 
was also home to the ever first Umpire School. In 1935, Ray Doan, the operator 
of a youth instructional camp at Whittington Park, renamed the park after 
Hall of Fame baseball pioneer Ban Johnson, founder of the American League.[7][8] 
Beginning with the spring of 1886, when the Chicago White Stockings' (today's 
Chicago Cubs) President Albert Spalding, the founder of A.G Spalding, and 
player/manager Cap Anson brought their players to Hot Springs, Arkansas. 
The concept was for the players to have training and fitness before the 
start of the regular season. This move gave credit to Hot Springs being 
called the "birthplace of spring training baseball". Both Spalding and 
Anson, liked the city and the natural springs for their players. They first 
played in an area behind what is now the Garland County Courthouse on Ouachita 
Avenue and was called the Hot Springs Baseball Grounds. Many other teams 
followed and began training in Hot Springs Springs[9] In 1894 Whittington 
Park opened as a replacement for the Hot Springs Baseball Grounds. Along 
with Majestic Park, built in 1909, and nearby Fogel Field, built in 1912, 
Hot Springs developed training venues to meet the demand for Major League 
teams.[10][11] Later, another venue, Sam Guinn Field was built in 1933 
at 497 Crescent Avenue to host Negro League spring training.[12][13] The 
original playing field was estimated to be between 500–600 feet to center 
field. In 1910, the original grandstand was demolished and home plate moved, 
giving the field shorter dimensions. In 1938, the right field fence was 
heightened by 15-feet because right field distance was only 260 feet.[6] 
Over 130 Major League Baseball Hall of Fame players, including Babe Ruth, 
Cy Young, Cap Anson, Honus Wagner, Ty Cobb, Tris Speaker, Walter Johnson, 
Rogers Hornsby, Mel Ott, Jimmie Foxx, Stan Musial and Satchel Paige were 
involved in training or spring training games at Whittington Park.[14] 
The park was also utilized by the House of David teams, and for baseball 
schools. The bearded House of David traveling baseball team used Whittington 
Field and Hot Springs for their training site.[15][16][17] Major League 
teams training at Whittington Park between 1896 and 1926 were the Cleveland 
Spiders, Chicago Cubs, St. Louis Cardinals, Pittsburgh Pirates, Detroit 
Tigers, New York Yankees, Brooklyn Dodgers and Boston Red Sox.[8] The Pittsburgh 
Pirates trained for over a decade at Whittington Park, giving shortstop 
Honus Wagner plenty of visits to Hot Springs. Becoming a fixture in the 
city, he donated basketball uniforms and equipment to Hot Springs High 
School in 1912. The uniforms were in the Pittsburgh black and gold and 
subsequently the school switched permanently to those colors. Wagner also 
refereed a basketball game for the school that season, something he would 
later repeat.[18] St. Patrick's Day, 1918, is nicknamed the "Day that changed 
Baseball Forever".[11] On that day, Babe Ruth hit a long Home Run into 
the Arkansas Alligator Farm and Petting Zoo. The story goes that on March 
17, 1918, Babe Ruth, then an accomplished 23-year-old Boston Red Sox left-handed 
pitcher, altered the course of baseball history. Red Sox first baseman 
Dick Hoblitzel was unable to play in the opening exhibition game against 
Brooklyn at Whittington Park. Ruth (coming off a 24-13 season) was a last 
minute replacement at first base, his first time at a position other than 
pitcher. Ruth would hit two long home runs that day while playing the field 
for the first time. His first home run was a long blast that landed in 
a wood pile. However, his second Home run is legendary in its record setting 
length and eventual effect on Ruth. It was a grand slam, a shot that traveled 
an astonishing estimated 573 feet,[19][20] sailing out of the park, across 
the entire span of Whittington Avenue, landing in a pond the alligator 
farm across the street. Even the Dodgers stood and cheered. Amazingly, 
Ruth would prove it was no fluke as he hit another home run into the alligator 
farm a week later, while pitching for the Red Sox.[21] On March 15, 2011 
an event was held to recognize and celebrate the famous Ruth home run at 
the site.[21] Bill Jenkinson, a noted baseball historian was part of the 
event, visited the site and helped to authenticate the 573-foot home run.[22] 
About the home run distance, Jenkins said, "No one can confirm it with 
complete certainty, but the data points in that direction. As an historian 
I must remain objective, and I am simply stating that, either way, what 
Ruth did that day was literally amazing."[21] Ruth's performance that day 
at Whittington Park led to a change in Ruth's career and a major change 
in baseball history. As a result of his hitting, the Red Sox began rethinking 
Ruth's dual abilities during and after 1918. To begin, Ruth would alternate 
in the 1918 season, pitching less and playing the field often. His dual 
abilities helped lead the Red Sox to the 1918 World Series Championship. 
Hitting more regularly in 1918, Ruth hit a league leading 11 home runs 
to go with a 13-7 record (and two wins in the Series).[23] Eventually Ruth 
stopped pitching and became a hitter, with results of legend that exploded 
after his 1920 sale to the New York Yankees: Lifetime, .342 average; 714 
Home Runs; 2062 RBI'S; 2174 Runs Scored; 1.164 OPS.[14][21][23][24][25] 
Along with hosting eight Major League teams, Whittington Park also was 
home to the minor league Hot Springs Vapors, Hot Springs Vaporites and 
Hot Springs Bathers.[26] From 1933–1938, Ray L. Doan operated the "All-Star 
Baseball School" at the park.[27] The "school" attracted thousands of younger 
players, with 1938 topping at 450 attendees. Instructors included: Rogers 
Hornsby, Grover Cleveland Alexander, Red Faber, Dizzy Dean, George Sisler, 
Bob Feller, Tris Speaker and Burleigh Grimes. Attendees included legendary 
female athlete Babe Didrickson, who attended in 1934, after already being 
an Olympic Gold Medalist in the 1932 Summer Olympic Games.[28] Future Major 
League player Sam Narron also enrolled. In 1936, Doan installed lights 
at the park to begin night usage and games.[11][29] To coincide with Doan's 
"baseball School", Major League Umpire George Barr operated his George 
Barr Umpire School, which is recognized as the first ever umpire instructional 
school. Future Major League Umpires Bill McKinley and Scotty Robb were 
attendees.[30] In 1939, Hornsby took over for Doan and started the Rogers 
Hornsby Baseball College. Hornsby's operation was housed at Majestic Field, 
but utilized Whittington Park and other fields in Hot Springs, including 
Whittington Park and Fogel Field, which was located behind the Alligator 
Farm. Hornsby's college operated until 1952. Hornsby's "college" would 
attract 100-200 prospective professionals, with scouts present, for six 
week sessions. Hornsby had legendary instructors: Cy Young, Jimmie Foxx, 
Tris Speaker and Schoolboy Rowe.[8][31] After World War II halted many 
baseball leagues, the Bathers were gone and Major League teams had moved 
to warmer climates for spring training. In 1942, the St. Louis Browns and 
Pittsburgh Pirates outlined plans to move their spring training from California 
to Ban Johnson Park.[32] However those plans never materialized and the 
future use of Ban Johnson Field was affected. In 1947, with no baseball 
tenants, the ‘Whittington Park Speedway’ racetrack began operation on the 
site. To replace Ban Johnson Field, Jaycee Park was built at the Majestic 
Field site on the corner of Belding Avenue and Carson Street. Later, from 
1948–1951, the Chicago White Sox would return Spring training to Hot Springs, 
utilizing Jaycee Field as their training site.[8][33] "Baseball Trail Park" 
at 1201 Whittington Ave. is part of the City of Hot Springs Park System. 
It is named in tribute to the Hot Springs Historic Baseball Trail and the 
ball fields that once existed nearby: Sam Guinn Field, Whittington Park 
and Fogel Field.[34] Today, the Ban Johnson Park site is an asphalt parking 
lot for the Weyerhaeuser Company. There is a home plate marker in the parking 
lot.[35] A section of cement bleachers remains visible in the adjacent 
hillside. The cement bleachers on the side of the hill was a fan section 
called the "Wolves Den". The Arkansas Alligator Farm and Petting Zoo is 
still across the street with a marker for the landing spot of Ruth's St. 
Patrick's Day Home Run.[20][36][37] Artifacts related to Ban Johnson Park 
are on display at the Hot Springs Baseball Museum. Whittington Park and 
Ruth's home run are featured prominently in the Documentary The First Boys 
of Spring (2015). Produced by Larry Foley, the documentary on Hot Springs 
spring training is narrated by actor Billy Bob Thornton, a Hot Springs 
area native.[38][39][40] The documentary began airing nationally on the 
MLB Network in February, 2016.[41] Today, there are four plaques at the 
site as part of the Hot Springs Historic Baseball Trail: Whittington Park, 
Mel Ott, Honus Wagner and Babe Ruth. The Whittington Park marker reads: 
More baseball was played in the ballpark on this corner than anywhere else 
in Hot Springs. Built here in 1894 and used until 1942, Whittington Park, 
which was later named Ban Johnson Field, was the epicenter of baseball 
in Hot Springs. A partial list of those who played classic games here includes: 
Cy Young, Honus Wagner, Buck Freeman, Sam Crawford, Walter Johnson, Tris 
Speaker, and Babe Ruth[42] The Mel Ott plaque reads as follows: This Hall 
of Fame outfielder, personally tutored by John "Mugsy" McGraw, played his 
entire career with the New York Giants, hitting 511 home runs. On his 30th 
birthday, March 2, 1939, in an intra-squad game here at Whittington Park, 
"Master Melvin" belted three homers over the right field fence. He played 
alongside Hall of Famers Bill Terry and Carl Hubbell, to lift the Hal Schumacher 
team over the Carl Hubbell team, 10-6.[43] The plaque for Honus Wagner 
states: No player left a bigger legacy in Hot Springs than "the Flying 
Dutchman." He enjoyed the baths and all the activities Hot Springs had 
to offer, he also participated in civic functions and coached the high 
school basketball team. Honus played in dozens of classic baseball games 
at Whittington Park. On March 19, 1911, he recorded a single, triple and 
home run, while his Hall of Fame manager, Fred Clarke, hit two home runs.[44] 
The plaque for Babe Ruth says the following: Ruth trained here nine times 
and became a very familiar face around Hot Springs. He hiked the mountains, 
took the baths, played golf, patronized the casinos, and visited the racetrack. 
On March 17, 1918 (St. Patrick’s Day), he launched a mammoth home run from 
Whittington Park that landed on the fly, inside the Arkansas Alligator 
Farm. It has been measured at 573 feet, — baseball’s first 500-foot-plus 
