The Bank Street Grounds is a former baseball park located in Cincinnati. 
The park was home to three major league baseball teams. The first National 
League Cincinnati Reds club in 1880, the current Cincinnati Reds franchise 
from 1882 to 1883 and the Cincinnati Outlaw Reds of the Union Association 
in 1884. The ballpark was located at the intersection of Bank Street and 
McLaren Avenue, less than one mile away from the future site of Crosley 
Field. Its location has typically been described as "the foot of Bank Street." 
It succeeded the Avenue Grounds as the home site for professional ball 
in the Queen City. When the first National League Reds club was kicked 
out of the league for selling beer and renting out its ballpark on Sundays, 
violating its self-instituted "blue law", the club was disbanded. A new 
Reds franchise was formed as an American Association club in 1882. This 
club is the same Reds team that exists today. The AA had no such rules 
against Sunday play or beer sales. Indeed, the American Association was 
known informally as "the beer and whiskey" league. The Reds won the inaugural 
season of the AA, and as such participated in a World Series, of sorts, 
with the NL champions, the Chicago White Stockings. The exhibition Series 
was informally arranged, and ended after two games with each team having 
won one. Both games were staged at the Bank Street Grounds. In 1884, a 
former prominent member of the Reds front-office, a man named Justus Thorner, 
invested in the new Union Association club. He secured the Bank Street 
Grounds for his team, and the Reds had to look elsewhere. (Allen, p. 29-30). 
The Reds eventually settled on Findlay and Western, opening the site that 
would eventually become Crosley Field, the home of the Reds until partway 
into the 1970 season. Although the Union Association was dominated by the 
St. Louis Maroons, the Cincinnati Unions or "Outlaw Reds" had a strong 
club that could hold its own against the Maroons, and drew well at the 
gate, eroding the "real" Reds' fan base. However, the "Onion League" folded 
after just one season. The Reds opted to stay at Findlay and Western, and 
Bank Street was done with professional baseball. The Southwest Ohio Regional 
Transit Authority ("SORTA") and CSX Transportation are current tenants 
on the Bank Street Grounds property. Coordinates: 39°07′13″N 84°32′17″W﻿ 
