Banned substances in baseball has been an ongoing issue for Major League 
Baseball. Several players have come forward in recent years to suggest 
that drug use is rampant in baseball. David Wells stated that "25 to 40 
percent of all Major Leaguers are juiced".[1] Jose Canseco stated on 60 
Minutes and in his tell-all book Juiced that as many as 80% of players 
used steroids, and that he credited steroid use for his entire career.[2] 
Ken Caminiti revealed that he won the 1996 National League MVP award while 
on steroids.[3] In February 2009, after reports emerged alleging that Alex 
Rodriguez tested positive for steroids in 2003, a year in which he was 
American League MVP, he admitted to having used performance-enhancing drugs 
(PEDs) between 2001 and 2003.[4] Mark McGwire, dogged by allegations of 
PED use for years, admitted in January 2010 that he had used steroids and 
human growth hormone off and on for over a decade, including in 1998 when 
he set the single-season home run record.[5] Players have attempted to 
gain chemical advantages in baseball since the earliest days of the sport. 
In 1889, for example, pitcher Pud Galvin became the first baseball player 
to be widely known for his use of performance-enhancing substances.[6] 
Galvin was a user and vocal proponent of the Brown-Séquard Elixir, a testosterone 
supplement derived from the testicles of live animals such as dogs and 
guinea pigs.[6] The book The Baseball Hall of Shame's Warped Record Book, 
written by Bruce Nash, Bob Smith, Allan Zullo, and Lola Tipton, includes 
an account of Babe Ruth administering to himself an injection of an extract 
from sheep testicles.[7] The experimental concoction allegedly proved ineffective, 
making Ruth ill and leading the Yankees to attribute his absence from the 
lineup to "a bellyache".[7] During World War II, both the Allied and Axis 
powers systematically provided amphetamines to their troops, in order to 
improve soldiers' endurance and mental focus.[8] After the end of the war, 
many of those returning troops attended college, and when they did, they 
applied their knowledge of the benefits of amphetamine use first to college 
sports, and then to professional sports, including professional baseball.[8] 
According to writer Zev Chafets, Mickey Mantle's fade during his 1961 home 
run chase with Roger Maris was the indirect result of an attempt by Mantle 
to gain a substance-based edge.[9] Chafets alleges that Mantle was hampered 
by an abscess created by a botched injection of a chemical cocktail administered 
by a "quack" doctor, Max Jacobsen.[9] According to Chafets, the injection 
included steroids and amphetamines, among other substances.[9] In his autobiography 
I Had a Hammer, which was co-written with Lonnie Wheeler and published 
in 1992, outfielder Hank Aaron wrote that he accepted an amphetamine pill 
from an unnamed teammate and taken it before a game during the 1968 season, 
after becoming frustrated about his lack of offensive performance.[10] 
Aaron described it as "a stupid thing to do", observing that the pill made 
him feel like he "was having a heart attack".[10] Former pitcher Tom House, 
drafted in 1967 and active in MLB from 1971-1978, has admitted to using 
"steroids they wouldn't give to horses" during his playing career.[11] 
According to House, the use of performance-enhancing drugs was widespread 
at that time.[11] He estimates that "six or seven" pitchers on every team 
were at least experimental users of steroids or human growth hormone, and 
says that after losses, players would frequently joke that they'd been 
"out-milligrammed" rather than beaten.[11] Third baseman Mike Schmidt, 
an active player from 1972-1989, admitted to Murray Chass in 2006 that 
he had used amphetamines "a couple [of] times".[12] In his book Clearing 
the Bases, he said that amphetamines "were widely available in major-league 
clubhouses" during his playing career,[12] and that "amphetamine use in 
baseball is both far more common and has been going on a lot longer than 
steroid abuse".[12] Relief pitcher Goose Gossage, active from 1972-1994, 
also admitted to using amphetamines during his playing career, in a 2013 
interview with Ken Davidoff.[13] In the same interview, Gossage voiced 
the opinion that amphetamines are not "a performance-enhancing drug", though 
he admitted that using them was illegal at the time.[13] During the Pittsburgh 
drug trials in 1985, several players testified about the use of amphetamines 
in baseball. Shortstop Dale Berra admitted that he had used "greenies" 
while playing for both the Pittsburgh Pirates and the AAA Portland Beavers, 
and stated that while in Pittsburgh between 1979 and 1984 he had been supplied 
with the drugs by teammates Bill Madlock and Willie Stargell.[14] Outfielder 
John Milner testified that while he was playing for the New York Mets, 
he had seen in the locker of teammate Willie Mays a powerful liquid amphetamine 
he called the "red juice".[15] Steroids finally made it to baseball’s banned 
substance list in 1991, however testing for major league players did not 
begin until the 2003 season.[16] While testing for steroids began, the 
usage did not stop. From 1991 to 2003 the steroid era ran rampant through 
the MLB and tarnished many great names and many great records. In 2005, 
Jose Canseco released a tell-all book, Juiced, about his experience with 
steroids in his career. In the book, Canseco named several other players, 
including Mark McGwire, Rafael Palmeiro, Ivan Rodriguez, Juan Gonzalez, 
Jason Giambi and Alex Rodriguez, as steroid users. The book caused great 
controversy, and most of these players have claimed Canseco's implications 
to be false, though McGwire and Giambi have since admitted to using PEDs, 
and Palmeiro has tested positive. Canseco released another book, Vindicated, 
about his frustrations in the aftermath of the publishing of Juiced. In 
it, he discusses his belief that Alex Rodriguez also used steroids. The 
claim was eventually proven true with Rodriguez's admission in 2009, just 
after his name was leaked as being on the list of 103 players who tested 
positive for banned substances in Major League Baseball. As of July 2013, 
Alex Rodriguez was again under investigation for using banned substances 
provided by Biogenesis of America.[17] He was ultimately suspended for 
the entirety of the 2014 season. Mark McGwire admitted to using steroids 
throughout his professional baseball career.[18] The admission of steroid 
use caused many cases of questioning of whether or not his long list of 
accomplishments should be rebutted. His most famous accomplishment undoubtedly 
took place in the 1998 season when he broke the single season home run 
record previously held by Roger Maris.[19] It was after this accomplishment 
that McGwire and a wide array of MLB players came under scrutiny for use 
of steroids. A news reporter stumbled upon an open container of androstenedione 
in McGwire's locker in August of the '98 season.[20] At the time androstenedione 
was not on the banned substance list for Major League Baseball, but was 
viewed as a precursor to anabolic steroids and was already banned by the 
International Olympic Committee, the National Football League, and the 
National Collegiate Athletic Association. In 2005, after the release of 
Juiced, Mark McGwire was among 11 Major League Baseball players that were 
publicly addressed concerning their use of steroids.[21] During the accusations 
McGwire was noted for avoiding direct questions from Congress, instead 
continually saying "I'm not here to talk about the past." Although he never 
admitted to steroid use, the public certainly questioned whether or not 
he was a user because of his unwillingness to answer direct questions. 
McGwire was never officially identified as a steroid user, however his 
public image suffered after he failed to respond to these accusations. 
The truth did eventually come out. Mark McGwire admitted to using steroids 
off and on throughout his MLB career on January 11, 2010. He claimed to 
only have used steroids for health reasons and for quick recovery, never 
for strength or size gains. These claims were publicly disputed by McGwire's 
steroid supplier, who stated that he did, in fact, use steroids to gain 
a competitive edge.[22] The nutrition center BALCO was accused of distributing 
steroids to many star players, most notably Barry Bonds and Jason Giambi. 
Baseball has attempted to toughen its drug policy, beginning a plan of 
random tests to players. Players such as Ryan Franklin and others were 
handed suspensions as short as ten days. However, a Congressional panel 
continued to argue that the penalties were not tough enough, and took action. 
Many top players, including Canseco, Alex Rodriguez, Rafael Palmeiro, Mark 
McGwire, Sammy Sosa, and Curt Schilling were summoned on March 17, 2005 
to testify in front of Congress (Schilling was summoned because of his 
outspoken opposition to the use of PEDs). During the session, Canseco admitted 
his steroid use which he claims was perfectly acceptable during the 1980s 
and early 90's. Palmeiro denied all steroid use during his career,[23] 
while McGwire refused to discuss the issue, contending that he would be 
considered guilty no matter what he said. His repeated statement "I'm not 
here to talk about the past,"[24] became the most highlighted moment of 
the proceedings. Palmeiro, who was listed in Canseco's book as a user along 
with McGwire, denied Canseco's claims and told Congress that those claims 
were absolutely erroneous. The committee had stated that baseball had failed 
to confront the problems of performance-enhancing drugs. The committee 
was disturbed by the accepted use of steroids by athletes because it created 
a bad persona of players who in many cases are role models to many of the 
aspiring youth. During the testimonies the players called to Congress offered 
their condolences for youthful athletes who had committed suicide after 
using performance-enhancing drugs. Five months after the Congressional 
hearing, information came out indicating Palmeiro had already tested positive 
for steroids and knew it when he spoke before Congress. He appealed but 
the test results and ensuing suspension were upheld. Mark McGwire, whose 
credentials could arguably satisfy expectations for first ballot Hall of 
Fame election, was denied election in his first year, with many voters 
citing McGwire's perceived refusal to speak at the Congressional Investigation. 
During this period, Bonds' trainer, Greg Anderson and BALCO head Victor 
Conte (also connected to Jason Giambi and Canseco), were not subpoenaed 
in California by the House Committee for investigation. As a result of 
pressure from Congress, baseball and the Major League Baseball Players 
Association started applying stricter regulations and applied a zero tolerance 
policy in correspondence to performance-enhancing drugs. On August 1, 2005, 
Palmeiro tested positive for performing enhancing substances and was suspended 
ten days.[23] Once thought to be a lock for the Baseball Hall of Fame as 
one of only four players to have both 3,000 hits and 500 home runs, Palmeiro's 
legacy has now been called into question. Palmeiro's career would quickly 
plummet as he would be granted free agency following the 2005 season. He 
hasn't played since. The Bonds controversy continues, especially now that 
he has surpassed the All-Time Home Run record with 762 career home runs; 
the media continues to pressure Bonds with questions over the issue. In 
2006, the book Game of Shadows was published offering researched claims 
that Bonds' trainer was providing illegal performance enhancers to Bonds 
and other athletes. Bonds had admitted that he did use a clear substance 
and lotion given to him by his trainer but had no idea that they were any 
sort of performance enhancers. Bonds claimed that to his knowledge, the 
substances given to him were legal to treat his arthritis. On March 29, 
2006, ESPN learned that former Senator, Boston Red Sox board member, and 
Disney chairman George J. Mitchell would head an investigation into past 
steroid use by Major League Baseball players, including San Francisco Giants 
outfielder Barry Bonds. Mitchell was appointed by baseball commissioner 
Bud Selig in the wake of controversy over the book Game of Shadows, which 
chronicles alleged extensive use of performance-enhancing drugs, including 
several different types of steroids and human growth hormones Bonds allegedly 
had taken. Selig did not refer to Bonds by name in announcing the investigation, 
and many past and present players will be investigated. Mitchell took on 
a role similar to that of John Dowd, who investigated Pete Rose's alleged 
gambling in the late 1980s. However, Selig acknowledged that the book, 
by way of calling attention to the issue, was in part responsible for the 
league's decision to commission an independent investigation. A report 
of the investigation released on December 13, 2007 named more than 80 former 
and current baseball players.[25] On June 6, 2006, Arizona Diamondbacks 
relief pitcher Jason Grimsley's home was searched by federal agents. He 
later admitted to using human growth hormone, steroids, and amphetamines. 
According to court documents, Grimsley failed a baseball drug test in 2003 
and allegedly named other current and former players who also used drugs. 
On June 7, 2006 he was released by the Diamondbacks, reportedly at his 
own request. Over most of the course of Major League Baseball history, 
steroid testing was never a major issue. In 1991, Commissioner Fay Vincent 
sent a memo to all teams stating that steroid use was against the rules, 
though there was no official rule change. However, after the BALCO steroid 
scandal, which involved allegations that top baseball players had used 
illegal performance-enhancing drugs, Major League Baseball finally decided 
to both ban steroids and issue penalties to steroid users. The current 
policy, which was accepted by Major League Baseball players and owners, 
was issued at the start of the 2005 season and went as follows: A first 
positive test resulted in a suspension of 10 games, a second positive test 
resulted in a suspension of 30 games, the third positive test resulted 
in a suspension of 60 games, the fourth positive test resulted in a suspension 
of one full year, and a fifth positive test resulted in a penalty at the 
commissioner’s discretion. Players were tested at least once per year, 
with the chance that several players could be tested many did not succeed. 
This program replaced the previous steroid testing program under which, 
for example, no player was even suspended in 2004. Under the old policy, 
which was established in 2002, a first-time offense would only result in 
treatment for the player, and the player would not be named. In November 
2005, MLB owners and players approved even tougher penalties for positive 
tests than the ones in place during the 2005 season. Under the new rules, 
a first positive test would result in a 50-game suspension, a second positive 
test would result in a 100-game suspension, and a third positive test would 
result in a lifetime suspension from MLB.[26] On March 28, 2014 the players 
and owners announced that the penalties for a positive test would be increased 
to an 80-game suspension for a first time offense. Then escalate to an 
162-game suspension for the second offense, and a lifetime ban from the 
sport for the third. Players who are suspended for the season, will not 
be allowed to participate in the post season. These suspensions do not 
allow the player to be paid while suspended. This is the strictest policy 
against doping that the MLB has had. These new penalties are much harsher 
than the previous ones. The new steroid policy finally brings MLB closer 
in line with international rules. On March 30, 2006, Bud Selig launched 
an investigation on the alleged steroid use by players such as Barry Bonds 
and Gary Sheffield as the weight of books like Game of Shadows emerged. 
The inquiry into steroids' use in baseball is expected to go back no further 
than 2002, when the MLB started testing players for performance-enhancing 
drugs. Steven Hoskins, on Wednesday, March 23, 2010, testified against 
Barry Bonds as a government witness in the perjury and obstruction of justice 
case against the former baseball star. Hoskins described Barry Bonds's 
use of anabolic steroids, and how his personal trainer, Greg Anderson, 
would discuss taking the steroids in an open manner. Even though Hoskins 
never witnessed Barry Bonds actually taking the drugs, he witnessed Anderson 
handling the needle, and Barry Bonds going in and out of the bedroom, and 
Barry Bonds complaining about the shots leaving his butt sore. Barry Bonds 
would use his girlfriends to get the steroids, and would pay them a few 
thousand dollars at a time. Heisler analyzes the different sports and their 
testings. Like most other sports, baseball has a testing policy. The policy 
states that a player cannot be tested without reason. Meaning, that there 
must be a very specific reason why a player should be tested.[27] On January 
10, 2013, MLB and the players union reached an agreement to add random, 
in-season human growth hormone testing and a new test to reveal the use 
of testosterone. Testing began the 2013 season.[28] In 2013, at least twenty 
MLB players (and athletes in other sports) were accused of taking HGH. 
Ultimately 14 were suspended, most famously Ryan Braun of the Milwaukee 
Brewers (suspended for final 65 games of 2013 season), Alex Rodriguez of 
the New York Yankees (suspended for 211 games), and Nelson Cruz of the 
Texas Rangers (50 games). The clinic was run by Anthony “Tony” Bosch in 
Florida. The notebooks he kept made it clear that he supplied human growth 
hormones, anabolic steroids, and performance-enhancing drug lozenges to 
his clients, which not only included professional athletes but teenagers 
as well. It is worth noting that Bosch is not a doctor [29] and has a fake 
