Coordinates: 42°01′16″N 73°54′27″W﻿ / ﻿42.02108°N 73.90756°W﻿ / 42.02108; 
-73.90756 Bard College, founded in 1860 as St. Stephen's College, is a 
private liberal arts college in Annandale-on-Hudson, a hamlet in Dutchess 
County, New York, United States, in the town of Red Hook. The campus overlooks 
the Hudson River and Catskill Mountains, and is within the Hudson River 
Historic District, a National Historic Landmark. The institution consists 
of a liberal arts college, a conservatory, as well as eight graduate programs 
offering over 20 graduate degrees in the arts and sciences.[4] The undergraduate 
student-to-faculty ratio is 10:1.[5] The college has a network of over 
thirty-five affiliated programs, institutes, and centers, spanning twelve 
cities, five states, seven countries, and four continents.[6] Bard's Annandale 
campus serves as an important regional cultural institution. Both the CCS 
Hessel Museum of Contemporary Art and the Richard B. Fisher Center for 
the Performing Arts are located on campus. The college also hosts two acclaimed 
annual arts festivals, Bard SummerScape, and the Bard Music Festival.[7][8] 
During much of the nineteenth century, the land now owned by Bard was mainly 
composed of several country estates. These estates were called Blithewood, 
Bartlett, Sands, Cruger's Island, and Ward Manor/Almont. In 1853, John 
Bard and Margaret Bard purchased a part of the Blithewood estate and renamed 
it Annandale. John Bard was the grandson of Samuel Bard, a prominent doctor, 
a founder of Columbia University's medical school, and physician to George 
Washington.[9] John Bard was also the nephew of the Rev. John McVickar, 
a professor at Columbia University. The family had strong connections with 
the Episcopal Church and Columbia. The following year, in 1854, John and 
Margaret established a parish school on their estate in order to educate 
the area's children. A wood-frame cottage, known today as Bard Hall, served 
as a school on weekdays and a chapel on weekends. In 1857, the Bards expanded 
the parish by building the Chapel of the Holy Innocents next to Bard Hall.[10] 
During this time, John Bard remained in close contact with the New York 
leaders of the Episcopal Church. The Church suggested that he found a theological 
college.[11] With the promise of outside financial support, John Bard donated 
the unfinished Chapel, and the surrounding 18 acres, to the diocese in 
November 1858. In March 1860, St. Stephen's College was founded. In 1861, 
construction began on the first St. Stephen's College building, a stone 
collegiate gothic dormitory called Aspinwall. During its initial years, 
the college relied on wealthy benefactors, like trustee Cornelius Vanderbilt 
for funding.[12] The college began taking shape within four decades. In 
1866, Ludlow Hall, an administrative building, was erected. Preston Hall 
was built in 1873 and used as a refectory. A set of four dormitories, collectively 
known as Stone Row, were completed in 1891. And in 1895, the Greek revival 
Hoffman Memorial Library was built.[13] The school officially changed its 
name to Bard College in 1934 in honor of its founder. In the 20th century, 
social and cultural changes amongst New York's high society would bring 
about the demise of the great estates. In 1914, Louis Hamersley purchased 
the fire-damaged Ward Manor/Almont estate and erected a tudor style mansion 
and gatehouse, or what is today known as Ward Manor.[14] Hamersley expanded 
his estate in 1926 by acquiring the abandoned Cruger's Island estate. That 
same year, after Hamersley's combined estate was purchased by William Ward, 
it was donated to charity and served as a retirement home for almost four 
decades. By the mid-1900s, Bard's campus significantly expanded. The Blithewood 
estate was donated to the college in 1951, and in 1963, Bard purchased 
90 acres (36 ha) of the Ward Manor estate, including the main manor house. 
The rest of the Ward Manor estate is now the 900-acre (360 ha) Tivoli Bays 
nature preserve.[15][16] In 1928, Bard merged with Columbia University, 
serving as an undergraduate school similar to Barnard College. Under the 
agreement, Bard remained affiliated with the Episcopal Church and retained 
control of its finances. The merger raised Bard's prestige; however, it 
failed to provide financial support to the college during the Great Depression.[17] 
So dire was Bard's financial situation that in 1932, then-Governor of New 
York and College trustee Franklin D. Roosevelt sent a telegram to the likes 
of John D. Rockefeller, Jr., George Eastman and Frederick William Vanderbilt 
requesting donations for the college.[18] On May 26, 1933, Dr. Donald Tewksbury, 
a Columbia professor, was appointed Dean of the College. Although Dean 
for only 4 years, Tewksbury had a lasting impact on the school. Tewksbury, 
an educational philosopher, had extensive ideas regarding higher education. 
While he was Dean, Tewksbury steered the college into a more secular direction, 
and changed its name from St. Stephens to Bard. He also placed a heavy 
academic emphasis on the arts, something atypical of colleges at the time, 
and set the foundations for Bard's Moderation and Senior Project requirement.(see 
below)[17][19] Although Tewksbury never used the term progressive to describe 
Bard's curriculum, the school would later be considered an early adopter 
of progressive education. In his 1943 study of early progressive colleges, 
titled General Education in the Progressive College, Louis T. Benezet used 
Bard as one of his three case studies.[17][20] During the 1940s, Bard provided 
a haven for intellectual refugees fleeing Europe. These included Hannah 
Arendt, the political theorist, Stefan Hirsch, the precisionist painter; 
Felix Hirsch, the political editor of the Berliner Tageblatt; the violinist 
Emil Hauser; the linguist Hans Marchand; the noted psychologist Werner 
Wolff; and the philosopher Heinrich Blücher.[17] In 1944, as a result of 
World War II, enrollment significantly dropped putting financial stress 
on the college. In order to increase enrollment, the college became co-educational, 
thereby severing all ties with Columbia. The college became an independent, 
secular, institution in 1944. Thus enrollment more than doubled, from 137 
students in 1944, to 293 in 1947.[21] In the 1950s, with the addition of 
the Blithewood estate and Tewksbury Hall, the college would increase its 
enrollment by 150 students. A police raid on Bard in 1969 led alumni Donald 
Fagen and Walter Becker to write the 1973 song "My Old School" for their 
rock group, Steely Dan. Novelist, artist and former Bard faculty spouse 
Rikki Ducornet has said she believes Fagen wrote another Steely Dan song, 
"Rikki Don't Lose That Number", about her.[22] In 1975, after serving as 
the youngest college president in history at Franconia College, Leon Botstein 
was elected president of Bard. He is generally credited with reviving the 
academic and cultural prestige of the college. He has overseen a major 
expansion of the college. In Annandale, the student population has increased 
by over 400 percent while several signature postmodern buildings have been 
constructed, including the Gehry-designed Fisher Center, the Venturi-designed 
Stevenson Library addition, and the Viñoly-designed Reem-Kayden Center 
for Science and Computation. Furthermore, over 35 affiliated institutes, 
centers, and programs, located locally, nationally, and internationally, 
have been created during Botstein's tenure. The campus contains more than 
70 buildings with a total gross building space of 1,167,090 square feet.[23] 
Campus buildings represent varied architectural styles, but the campus 
remains heavily influenced by the Collegiate Gothic and Postmodern styles. 
Bard’s historic buildings are associated with the early development of 
the college and the history of the Hudson River estates (see Bard College 
History).[14] During a late twentieth-century building boom, the college 
embraced a trend of building signature buildings designed by prominent 
architects like Venturi, Gehry, and Viñoly.[24] In January 2016, Bard purchased 
Montgomery Place, a 380-acre estate adjacent to the Bard campus, with significant 
historic and cultural assets. The estate consists of a historic mansion, 
a farm, and some 20 smaller buildings. The College purchased the property 
from Historic Hudson Valley, the historical preservation organization that 
had owned Montgomery Place since the late 1980s. The addition of this property 
brings Bard’s total campus size to nearly 1,000 acres along the Hudson 
River in Annandale-on-Hudson, New York.[25] Bard is a college of the liberal 
arts and sciences. In the undergraduate college, Bard offers Bachelor of 
Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees. There are 23 academic departments 
that offer over 40 major programs, as well as 12 interdisciplinary concentrations. 
The college was the first in the nation to offer a human rights major.[26] 
In the 2011-2012 academic year, the college held 1,345 classes. In the 
three weeks preceding their first semester, first-year students attend 
the Language and Thinking (L&T) program, an intensive, writing-centered 
introduction to the liberal arts. The interdisciplinary program, established 
in 1981, aims to "cultivate habits of thoughtful reading and discussion, 
clear articulation, accurate self-critique, and productive collaboration."[27] 
The program covers philosophy, history, science, poetry, fiction, and religion. 
In 2011, the core readings included works by Hannah Arendt, Franz Kafka, 
Frans de Waal, Stephen Jay Gould, Clifford Geertz, M. NourbeSe Philip, 
and Sophocles.[28] During their winter intercession, first-year students 
must also participate in the Citizen Science program, a three-week program 
that began in 2011. The Citizen Science program introduces students to 
science and the ideas of the scientific method. The program is designed 
to promote science literacy and utilizes the theme of infectious disease: 
the importance of infectious disease in a community, and the impact that 
infectious disease outbreaks and subsequent management can have on our 
global society. The curriculum ranges from conducting laboratory experiments 
and analyzing a scientific problem, to modeling potential solutions to 
that problem. The program merges three distinct, yet thematically interwoven, 
rotations, each designed to address a large question: How can we reduce 
the global burden of infectious disease? All first-year students take the 
"First-Year Seminar," a year-long, reading and writing core curricular 
course. "FYSem," as it is commonly known among students and faculty, begins 
in the fall semester of the freshman year. The first semester spans thinkers 
from Confucius to Galileo, while the second semester spans John Locke to 
Virginia Woolf. There are nearly thirty sections of the course each semester, 
taught by a wide variety of professors, including President Botstein and 
other members of the administration. The course covers works by Plato, 
Virgil, Saint Augustine, Dante, William Shakespeare, Galileo Galilei, Jean 
Jacques Rousseau, Mary Shelley, Karl Marx, Charles Darwin, Friedrich Nietzsche, 
W. E. B. Du Bois, Sigmund Freud, Virginia Woolf, Chinua Achebe, and Primo 
Levi. Another mandatory process of the college is moderation. Moderation 
typically takes place in the fourth or fifth semester, as a way of choosing 
a major. Conditions vary from department to department and most require 
the completion of a certain set or a certain number of courses. To moderate, 
the student presents whatever work is required to a moderation board of 
three professors, and is subsequently interviewed, examined, and critiqued. 
The capstone of the Bard undergraduate experience is the Senior Project. 
As with moderation, this project takes different forms in different departments. 
Many students write a paper of around eighty pages, which is then, as with 
work for moderation, critiqued by a board of three professors. Arts students 
must organize a series of concerts, recitals, or shows, or produce substantial 
creative work; math and science students, as well as some social science 
students, undertake research projects. In its 2014 edition of college rankings, 
U.S. News and World Report ranked Bard the 38th best liberal arts college 
in the United States[29] In 2015, the Princeton Review ranked Bard first 
in best classroom experience and best overall college experience, and considered 
Bard a private best-value college and a green college.[30] Forbes ranks 
Bard number 9 on a nationwide ranking of Return on Investment.[31] In 2011, 
Newsweek ranked Bard as the eleventh most rigorous and twenty-second most 
artistic.[32] In 2015 U.S. News ranked Bard first in the category of most 
innovative colleges. In September 2011, Travel+Leisure named the college 
as one of the most beautiful campuses in the United States.[33] For the 
class of 2019, 32% of applicants were accepted. The median SAT score was 
640 in critical reading and 620 in math. Forty-nine percent of matriculating 
students ranked in the top 10% of their high school class out of those 
who reported.[34] The class of 2019 included students from 34 states and 
20 countries.[34] Bard has developed several innovative graduate programs 
and research institutes, including the Milton Avery Graduate School of 
the Arts, the Levy Economics Institute which began offering a Masters of 
Science in Economic Theory and Policy in 2014, the Center for Curatorial 
Studies and Art in Contemporary Culture, the Bard Center for Environmental 
Policy, the Bard College Conservatory of Music, the ICP-Bard Program in 
Advanced Photographic Studies in Manhattan,[35] the Master of Arts in Teaching 
Program (MAT), the Bard College Clemente Program, and the Bard Graduate 
Center in Manhattan. The college's Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing 
Arts was designed by acclaimed architect Frank Gehry, and was completed 
in the spring of 2003. The Bard Prison Initiative provides a liberal arts 
degree to incarcerated individuals (Prison education) in five different 
prisons in New York State, and currently enrolls nearly 200 students.[36] 
Since federal funding for prison education programs was eliminated in 1994,[37] 
the BPI is one of only a small number of programs in the country of its 
kind.[36] Bard College is also affiliated with Bard College at Simon's 
Rock, the nation's oldest and most prestigious early college entrance program[citation 
needed]; Bard High School Early College, which has campuses in Manhattan, 
Queens, and Newark; as well as Bard Center for Environmental Policy. Bard 
also helped construct a curriculum for Smolny College, Russia's first liberal 
arts college, with St. Petersburg State University. Additionally, the college 
hosts the Bard Globalization and International Affairs (BGIA) Program in 
New York City, which is focused on the specialized study of human rights 
law, international relations ethics, civil society, humanitarian action, 
and global political economy. Students attend seminar classes in the evenings 
and work at a substantive international affairs internship during the day. 
BGIA publishes BardPolitik, a semiannual international affairs journal 
featuring contributions for students and academics. In February 2009, Bard 
announced the first dual degree program between a Palestinian university 
and an American institution of higher education. The College entered into 
a collaboration with Al-Quds University involving an honors college, a 
masters program in teaching and a model high school.[38] In 1990, Bard 
College acquired, on permanent loan, art collector Marieluise Hessel's 
substantial collection of important contemporary artwork. In 2006, Hessel 
contributed another $8 million (USD) for the construction of a 17,000-square-foot 
addition to Bard's Center for Curatorial Studies building, in which the 
collection is exhibited.[39] In March 2010, Bard established an official 
partnership with American University of Central Asia located in Bishkek, 
Kyrgyzstan. The partnership will allow students of American Studies, Anthropology, 
Economics, European Studies, International and Comparative Politics, Journalism 
and Mass Communications, Psychology, Sociology and Software Engineering 
programs to receive liberal arts degrees fully accredited in the United 
States. In June 2011, Bard officially acquired the Longy School of Music 
in Boston,[40] and in November 2011, Bard took ownership of the European 
College of Liberal Arts in Berlin, Germany to become Bard College Berlin.[41] 
In 2013, Bard entered into a comprehensive agreement with Soochow University 
in Suzhou, China that will include a joint program between the Soochow 
University School of Music and the Bard College Conservatory of Music, 
exploration leading to the establishment of The Bard College Liberal Arts 
Academy at Soochow University, and student exchange.[42] Over 120 student 
clubs are financed through Bard's Convocation Fund, which is distributed 
once a semester by an elected student body and ratified during a public 
forum. Bard College has one print newspaper, the Bard Free Press, which 
was awarded a Best in Show title by the Associated Collegiate Press in 
2013.[43] In 2003, the Bard Free Press won Best Campus Publication in SPIN 
Magazines first annual Campus Awards.[44] Student-run literary magazines 
include the semiannual Lux, The Moderator, and Sui Generis, a journal of 
translations and of original poetry in languages other than English. 'The 
Draft, a human rights journal, the Bard Journal of the Social Sciences, 
Bard Science Journal, and Qualia, a philosophy journal, are also student-published. 
Bard Papers is a privately funded literary magazine operated jointly between 
faculty and students. Other prominent student groups include: the International 
Students Organization and other cultural organizations, Anti-Capitalism 
Feminist Coalition, Body Image Discussion Group, Self-Injury Support and 
Discussion, Bard Film Committee, Queer Student Association, Trans Life 
Collective, Student Labor Dialogue, Bard Debate Union, Bard Model UN, Surrealist 
Training Circus, Bard Bike Co-Op, and college radio station WXBC. [45] 
Bard is also home to the Root Cellar, a completely student-run, multipurpose 
space that serves as an Infoshop, vegan café, and venue for small-scale 
shows. Bard has a strong independent music scene considering its isolation 
and size. The college's Old Gym was once a popular location for concerts 
and parties in the 1980s, 1990s, and early 2000s. In 2004, the Old Gym 
was shut down and in spring 2006 transformed into a student-run theater 
by students Brel Froebe, Julie Rossman, and Kell Condon. Many activities 
that once took place there now occur in the smaller SMOG building. SMOG 
is now primarily used as a music venue.[46] Student-run theater is also 
popular: dozens of student directed and written productions are put on 
each semester and a 24 Hour Theater Festival is held at least once a year. 
Bard College teams participate as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association's Division III. The Raptors are a member of the Liberty League. 
Their past conference affiliations were mostly as an Independent, and the 
Skyline Conference, which the Raptors joined from the 2007-08 through the 
2010-11 seasons. Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, 
lacrosse, soccer, squash, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and 
volleyball; while women's sports include basketball, cross country, lacrosse, 
soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and volleyball. One of 
the more popular sports on campus is rugby. In the spring of 2006, Bard 
Women's Rugby joined the men's side, Bard Rugby Football Club, as an official 
team. In 2011, the Bard Women's and Men's Football teams joined the Liberty 
League tournament. The most notable alumni of Bard include fraternal songwriters 
Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman, comedian and actor Chevy Chase 
(1967); Walter Becker and Donald Fagen of Steely Dan (1969); Patrick Kindlon 
of Self Defense Family, actress Blythe Danner (1965); filmmakers Gia Coppola, 
Todd Haynes (MFA); Herb Ritts, Photographer; Christopher Guest, actor/director 
(This is Spinal Tap, Waiting for Guffman, Best in Show); Larry Hagman, 
actor; Jonah Hill, actor, screenwriter; Gaby Hoffmann, actor; Howard Koch, 
screenwriter (Casablanca, Letter from an Unknown Woman); Jeff Preiss, filmmaker; 
Adrian Grenier, actor; and Adam Conover, actor. Franklin W. Olin Humanities 
Building Chapel of the Holy Innocents New Robbins Dormitory Milton and 
Sally Avery Arts Center Kline Commons Stevenson Library Stone Row Aspinwall 
Hall Ward Gate Richard B. Fisher Center for the Performing Arts CCS Hessel 
