Barrie is a city in Central Ontario, Canada, on the western shore of Lake 
Simcoe. Although located in Simcoe County, the city is politically independent. 
It is part of the Huronia region of Central Ontario. Barrie is within the 
northern part of the Greater Golden Horseshoe, a densely populated and 
industrialized region of Ontario.[8] In 2011 census, the city's population 
was originally reported as 135,711, making it the 34th largest in Canada.[9] 
The city's 2011 population was subsequently revised to 136,063.[5] The 
Barrie census metropolitan area (CMA) had a population of 187,013 residents, 
making it the 21st largest CMA in Canada.[10] At its inception, Barrie 
was an establishment of houses and warehouses at the foot of the Nine Mile 
Portage from Kempenfelt Bay to Fort Willow, an aboriginal transportation 
route that existed centuries before Europeans came to Simcoe County. The 
portage linked Kempenfelt Bay through Willow Creek, connecting Lake Simcoe 
to the Nottawasaga River which flows into Georgian Bay off Lake Huron. 
Barrie played an integral role in the War of 1812. During the War, the 
city became a supply depot for British forces, and in addition, the Nine 
Mile Portage was adopted by the British Military as a key piece of their 
supply line which provided a strategic path for communication, personnel, 
and vital supplies and equipment to and from Fort Willow and Georgian Bay 
/ Lake Huron. Today, the Nine Mile Portage is marked by signs along roads 
in Barrie and in Springwater Township. You can follow the scenic path from 
Memorial Square all the way to Fort Willow. The city was named in 1833 
after Sir Robert Barrie, who was in charge of the naval forces in Canada 
and frequently commanded forces through the city and along the Nine Mile 
Portage. Barrie was also the final destination for one branch of the Underground 
Railroad. In the mid-19th century, this network of secret routes allowed 
many American slaves to enter Barrie and the surrounding area. This contributed 
to the development (and name) of nearby Shanty Bay. By 1869, Barrie was 
the county seat of Simcoe in the Township of Vespra with a population 3,000. 
It was a station of the Northern Railway. It was pleasantly situated on 
Kempenfelt Bay, Lake Simcoe. There were steamers to the Muskoka Territory 
Orillia & Stages to Penetanguishene.[11] During World War II, the Royal 
Canadian Navy named a Flower class corvette HMCS Barrie. On 7 September 
1977, a private aircraft dropped altitude to 500 feet (150 m) in dense 
fog, struck the 1,000-foot (300 m) CKVR-TV tower, killing all five on the 
plane and destroying the tower and antenna. The station's 225-foot (69 
m) auxiliary tower was also destroyed and there was some damage to the 
main studio. CKVR were back on the air using a temporary 400' tower and 
reduced power of 40,000 watts at 8:55am on 19 September. The new 1,000-foot 
(300 m) tower was rebuilt in 1978.[citation needed] On 31 May 1985, an 
F4 tornado struck Barrie. It was one of the most violent and deadliest 
tornadoes in Canadian history. On 12–13 June 1987, a sculpture called Spirit 
Catcher by Ron Baird was moved to Barrie from Vancouver, British Columbia, 
where it had been exhibited as part of Expo '86. The sculpture was erected 
permanently at the foot of Maple Avenue on the shore of Kempenfelt Bay. 
However, with the re-development along the waterfront/Lakeshore Drive, 
the city is considering moving the Spirit Catcher to the gravel outcropping 
at the foot of Bayfield Street. In January 2004, Barrie made international 
news when its city police raided the former Molson brewery, and found Canada's 
largest illegal cannabis grow operation. Barrie's Park Place (formerly 
Molson Park) was chosen to host Live 8 Canada on 2 July 2005.[12] The success 
of the concert contributed to the resistance to a plan to convert the concert 
area to a commercial district. However, the stage, buildings and many of 
the trees on site have been destroyed since construction of the Park Place 
commercial district has begun. An explosion in the Royal Thai restaurant, 
housed in the landmark Wellington Hotel, at the historic Five Points intersection 
in Barrie's downtown core occurred at 11:20 PM on 6 December 2007. The 
fire quickly spread to several neighbouring buildings. Firefighters battled 
the blaze well into the following morning, requiring assistance from other 
Simcoe County fire services. Officials estimate the damages to be in the 
millions. The Wellington Hotel building collapsed. It was over one hundred 
years old.[13][14] On 17 February 2008, two people were charged in connection 
with the fire, after the Ontario Fire Marshal's office concluded the explosion 
and fire were the result of arson.[15] Barrie is located in the central 
portion of Southern Ontario, approximately 90 km (56 mi) north of Toronto 
within the Greater Golden Horseshoe subregion. It is accessible via Highways 
26, 400, 11. Barrie's historic downtown area is situated in a distinct 
curved or wrapped valley, surrounding the western edge of Kempenfelt Bay 
(part of Lake Simcoe. Terrain is generally flat near the city's centre. 
Moving up the valley slopes toward the city's north and south ends, the 
terrain can be rather steep in some areas. The city does not have any major 
rivers within its limits, but does have numerous creeks and streams, most 
of which empty into Kempenfelt Bay. Barrie has been designated an Urban 
Growth Centre by the Province of Ontario (Places to Grow Simcoe Area, 2009). 
Its population growth, largely due to its emergence as a bedroom community 
for Toronto, has given rise to the development of numerous subdivisions 
on the southern side of the city. Barrie successfully annexed 2,293 acres 
(9.28 km2) of land from the neighbouring Town of Innisfil to the south 
and southeast on 1 January 2010.[16] The annexation comprised lands south 
beyond McKay Road and west of the 10th Sideroad, and as far south as Lockhart 
Road on the east side of the 10th Sideroad.[17] The annexation was intended 
to allow Barrie to meet its growing population demands without having to 
extend into the countryside on the northern, western, and eastern boundaries 
of the city's limits. Like the rest of southern Ontario, Barrie has a humid 
continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfb), with warm, humid 
summers and cold winters. In late spring and summer months, the Barrie 
area is known for heavy thunderstorm activity, due to its location within 
a convergence of breezes originating from Georgian Bay, Lake Ontario and 
Lake Erie. In the winter months, the proximity to the Great Lakes moderates 
winter temperatures but also results in significant snowfall in the general 
area. Barrie is on the southern edge of Ontario's snowbelt region, where 
lake-effect snow, primarily from Georgian Bay, falls throughout the winter. 
An average of 238 centimetres (95 inches) of snow falls annually, with 
at least 50% due to the lake effect. Since the snowfall gradient is tight, 
snowfall totals tend to be significantly higher just north of the city 
as compared with the south end. The highest temperature ever recorded in 
Barrie was 38.9 °C (102 °F) on 5 July 1911.[18] The coldest temperature 
ever recorded was −38.9 °C (−38 °F) on 8 January 1866.[19] Barrie experienced 
tornadoes during the Barrie tornado outbreak of 1985 and the June 16–18, 
2014 tornado outbreak during which an EF2 tornado spawned and caused minimal 
damage to southern Barrie but affected the nearby town of Angus to a greater 
extent.[23] In the 2011 Census, Barrie originally had a population of 135,711 
living in 49,943 of its 52,185 total dwellings, a 5.7% change from its 
2006 population of 128,430.[9] Statistics Canada subsequently amended the 
2011 census results to a population of 136,063 living in 50,075 of its 
52,329 total dwellings, a 5.9% change from 2006.[5] With a land area of 
77.39 km2 (29.88 sq mi), it had a population density of 1,758.1/km2 (4,553.6/sq mi) 
in 2011.[5][9] Barrie's median age is 37.2 years compared with the national 
average of 40.6 years.[26] Comparatively, the Barrie CMA had a population 
of 187,013 living in 68,495 of its 72,817 total dwellings, a 5.6% change 
from its 2006 population of 177,061.[10] With a land area of 897.83 km2 
(346.65 sq mi), the CMA had a population density of 208.3/km2 (539.5/sq mi) 
in 2011.[10] According to the 2011 National Household Survey, 7001970000000000000♠97% 
of Barrie residents were Canadian citizens while 7000300000000000000♠3% 
were not.[27] The median value of a dwelling in Barrie is $276,279,[27] 
which is almost on par with the national average of $280,552.[28] Religious 
affiliations, 2011[29] The following are some of the city's major employers: 
Notwithstanding these major employers, Barrie has increasingly been perceived 
as a bedroom community for those commuting to Toronto, which is approximately 
90 km (56 mi) south of Barrie. Approximately 32% of the resident-employed 
labour force (17,040 persons/53,400 persons) commute out of Barrie for 
employment purposes, however, approximately 28% of the resident-employed 
labour force (14,880 persons/53,400 persons) commute into Barrie for employment 
for a net out-commuting figure of only 4.26% (17,040 persons –14,880 persons)/(50,665 
persons employed in Barrie)). Source: 2001 Census and City of Barrie Economic 
Development. Tourism plays an important role in the local economy. Barrie's 
historic downtown and waterfront are at the heart of its tourism industry. 
Downtown Barrie hosts many older buildings that have been kept up over 
the years or given new facades that exemplify their historical importance. 
Many specialty shops, boutiques, pubs and restaurants are located throughout 
downtown Barrie, most notably along Dunlop Street East. Downtown Barrie 
is becoming well known for its fashion boutiques, local art, live theatre, 
indie-music and nightlife scenes. In addition, downtown Barrie is home 
to numerous annual festivals and events such as The Barrie Waterfront Festival, 
Barrielicious, Winterfest, Celebrate Barrie, Ecofest, Jazz & Blues Festival, 
Promenade Days, Ribfest and Craft Beer Show, Caribfest, Lawnchair Luminata, 
Kempenfest, The New Music Festival, Barrie Film Festival, Santa Claus Parade 
and the New Year’s Countdown. In the summer months, the city boasts several 
beaches including Minet's Point Beach, Johnsons Beach, The Gables, Tyndale 
Beach, and Centennial Beach. Boating in also very popular in Kempenfelt 
Bay and Lake Simcoe as it connects to the Trent Severn Waterway. In 2011, 
Barrie's waterfront was under redevelopment, with the relocation of several 
roadways to provide more greenspace and parkland along the lakeshore. There 
are numerous winter recreation activities and facilities in the surrounding 
area, including skiing, snow tubing and snowboarding resorts, snowmobile 
trails and ice fishing. Recreational activities include skiing at nearby 
Horseshoe Resort, Snow Valley, Mount St. Louis Moonstone and Blue Mountain. 
Barrie is home to vibrant performing and fine arts scenes. There are a 
number of live performance companies including Theatre by the Bay, Talk 
Is Free Theatre and the Huronia Symphony. Grove Park Home is the practice 
hall for On Stage Performance Group which performs in Cookstown. The Strolling 
Youth Players, and the Kempenfelt Community Players also all perform in 
Barrie. In addition, an annual live concert series is hosted by Georgian 
College. There are two main performing arts venues in the city: the Mady 
Centre For The Performing Arts, and the Georgian Theatre. The Mady Centre 
For The Performing Arts is located in Barrie’s downtown at the Five Points 
intersection and was completed in 2011. This modern facility is home to 
many professional and amateur cultural productions, film screenings, theatrical 
plays, concerts, dance recitals and other performances. It is also the 
main venue for Theatre by the Bay and the Talk Is Free Theatre Companies. 
The venue features a flexible stage area with lighting and sound for professional 
theatre, music, dance, and other presentations, an automated riser/seating 
system with capacity for 120 to 200 seats and a sprung performance floor. 
The Georgian Theatre is a professional performing arts facility located 
in Barrie’s north end on the campus of Georgian College. The theatre features 
a proscenium stage, sound, lights, fly gallery, and seating for 427 on 
the main level with 3 pods which can be used to increase the seating capacity 
to 690. The Theatre is used for both theatrical and non-theatrical activity 
including conferences and seminars. The prominent MacLaren Art Centre is 
located in Barrie. This is an innovative art gallery that inspired the 
"Art City" project, which has had many different large sculptures installed 
around the city. These can be found in parks and along the scenic waterfront. 
The MacLaren Art Centre is a large and beautiful building on Mulcaster 
Street in downtown Barrie. International and Canadian artists display in 
the three main galleries. A permanent collection of art is growing, the 
Radio Cafe, a gift shop, film nights, speakers, theatre and many children's 
programs and community art projects are just a small part of the gallery's 
mandate. The gallery contributes overall to a vibrant arts community in 
the Barrie area with it leading edge arts. A bronze cast of Auguste Rodin's 
sculpture "The Thinker" is housed permanently on the front gardens of the 
gallery. Barrie is also home to many independent galleries and studios. 
A concentration of independent galleries, studios and boutiques is located 
in Lakeshore Mews. This area is located behind the downtown's Dunlop Street, 
and provides a location where one-of-a-kind items can be purchased. Lakeshore 
Mews artists also organize the annual “Arts ce Soir”; an all-night contemporary 
art event in celebration of visual, musical, theatrical and literary art. 
In addition, a studio tour in the Barrie/Orillia area takes place on the 
Canadian Thanksgiving weekend every year. It is called the Images Studio 
Tour and has over 25 artists on average. The self-guided tour allows people 
to visit artists in their working studio and see how the art is created 
while enjoying the beautiful fall colours driving through the two cities 
and the countryside. Potters, jewellers, painters, textile artists and 
fashion designers make up a few of the disciplines of the talents on display. 
Barrie is also home to Kempenfest; one of the largest outdoor arts and 
crafts celebrations in Ontario. This festival occurs annually over the 
August long weekend and features over 300 artisans, an antique show, food 
demonstrations, children’s activities and live entertainment, including 
an indie-music stage. Some of the main arts and culture groups in the city 
include: Barrie has numerous recreational venues and community centres 
throughout the city. Barrie is also home to the Mariposa School of Skating 
which has trained many world-class figure skaters, including Brian Orser, 
Elvis Stojko and Jeffrey Buttle. The current mayor of Barrie is Jeff Lehman, 
who was elected in November 2010, succeeding Dave Aspden. Barrie has a 
long military history dating back to at least the Nine Mile Portage of 
the War of 1812. By the time of the 1837 Rebellion, Simcoe County had a 
sufficient population to form a battlion of Sedentary Militia of almost 
600 strong. This battlion was involved in marching alleged rebels down 
Yonge Street to Toronto in order to face justice. By 1855, Barrie was home 
to an independent company of Rifle Company of militia, followed in 1863 
by a company of Infantry. These companies served during the Fenian Raids. 
With the Militia Act of 1866, the companies in Barrie were respectively 
organized as Number 1 and Number 5 companies, in the newly formed 35th 
Battalion of Infantry (Simcoe Foresters), gazetted on 14 September 1866. 
In 1885, four companies the 35th Simcoe Foresters, including those from 
Barrie, formed with four companies from the 12th York Battalion to form 
the York-Simcoe Battalion. This specially raised battalion served in Western 
Canada during the Northwest Rebellion, under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel 
W.E. O'Brien of Shanty Bay, Ontario. For its efforts, The Simcoe Foresters 
received its first Battle Honour "Northwest Canada 1885." Citizens of Barrie 
would next volunteer for military service during the Boer War in South 
Africa 1899-1902. It was during this conflict that at the Battle of Paardeberg 
the citizens of Barrie and The Simcoe Foresters suffered their first fatal 
casualty, Private James Halkett Findlay. Private Findlay was killed-in-action 
on 18 February 1900, while serving with C Company of the 2nd Battalion 
Royal Canadian Regiment of Infantry. In 1914, the First World War broke 
out and many citizens of Barrie were quick to volunteer for service overseas 
with The Simcoe Foresters. Late the following year, the Regiment was tasked 
with raising two overseas battalions, the 157th Battalion (Simcoe Foresters), 
CEF and the 177th Battalion (Simcoe Foresters), CEF. In the spring of 1916, 
the Barrie and Collingwood companies of the 157th Battalion began clearing 
the land and construction of the new military camp on the Simcoe Pines 
Plain - Camp Borden (now CFB Borden). This began Barrie's long friendship 
with the Base. With a re-organization of the Canadian Militia between the 
two World Wars, The Simcoe Foresters, headquartered in Barrie, were amalgamated 
in 1936 with the Grey Regiment, headquartered at Owen Sound, Ontario. This 
event created the present-day regiment of The Grey and Simcoe Foresters, 
which is headquartered at the Armoury in Queen's Park, downtown Barrie. 
With the outbreak of the Second World War in 1939, citizens of Barrie volunteered 
for service overseas with The Grey and Simcoe Foresters, the Royal Canadian 
Navy and the Royal Canadian Air Force. The City of Barrie sponsored a ship 
in the RCN, HMCS Barrie K-138, a Flower class corvette. There are no major 
airports with scheduled flights near Barrie. There are a few airports that 
are used for light aviation aircraft: Barrie is served by Provincial Highway 
Highway 400, which acts as the primary route between Barrie and Toronto. 
Highway 400 bisects the city on a roughly north-south basis. Highway 26, 
also located in the city, is the main route to the Collingwood area and 
is known as Bayfield Street within the city limits. Barrie was once served 
by Highway 27, Highway 90, Highway 93, Highway 131 and Highway 11. However, 
the province downgraded many highways in 1997 and 1998; these highways 
are now known as Simcoe County Road 27, Simcoe County Road 90 (Dunlop Street), 
Simcoe County Road 93 and Simcoe County Road 30. The portion of Highway 11 
through Barrie is known as Yonge Street, though it is actually part of 
the Penetanguishene Road Major arterial roads within the city include Mapleview 
Drive, Ferndale Drive, 10th Line, Big Bay Point Road, Essa Road, Huronia 
Road and Bayfield Street. Public transport is provided by Barrie Transit, 
which operates numerous bus routes within the city. Accessible transit 
is offered by booking with city run Barrie Accessible Community Transportation 
Service. Most regular bus routes operated by Barrie Transit are accessible 
using low floor vehicles. Barrie also has GO Trains and Buses. GO Transit 
connects the city to the Greater Toronto Area through daily train service, 
with trains operating from the Allandale Waterfront GO Station and the 
Barrie South GO Station. This is primarily a commuter rail service to the 
GTA, with southbound trips in the morning rush hour, and northbound trips 
in the evening rush hour. In addition to train service, GO Transit offers 
daily commuter-oriented bus service to the Greater Toronto Area. Barrie 
is served by various private interurban bus lines such as Penetang-Midland 
Coach Lines and parent Greyhound Canada, which run buses between Barrie 
and Toronto's Yorkdale Bus Terminal. Greyhound operates QuickLink commuter 
service from Barrie to Toronto seven days a week. In the past Gray Coach 
offered service from Toronto to Barrie; the route was later acquired by 
Greyhound. Ontario Northland operates bus routes from various locations 
to and from Barrie. All inter-urban buses operate from the Barrie Transit 
Terminal at 24 Maple Street. Historically, Barrie was served by scheduled 
passenger rail service. Allandale Station was a stop for the Grand Trunk 
Railway, Canadian National Railway and Via Rail. In addition, Ontario Northland's 
Northlander used the station as a stop, as did CN Rail/Via Rail (namely 
The Canadian). Regular passenger rail service to the station ended in the 
1980s and has largely been replaced by interurban / commuter rail service. 
Barrie has two major English school boards that operate inside the city 
at a public level. The Simcoe County District School Board administers 
a Public education in Barrie and Simcoe County, while the Simcoe Muskoka 
Catholic District School Board administers to the Catholic population and 
serves the Simcoe and Muskoka areas. It also has two French school boards, 
Le Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud and Le Conseil scolaire 
Viamonde. There are also several private schools both for K-8 and K-12. 
Georgian College's main campus, with over 10,000 full-time students and 
approximately 25,000 part-time students, is located in Barrie. Georgian 
College offers a wide variety of diplomas and is well known in Canada and 
abroad for many quality programs, an exceptionally high graduate employment 
rate (94% and the highest in Ontario), and student and employer satisfaction 
rates. Georgian College is home to the University Partnership Centre (UPC), 
which offers numerous Bachelor’s and master's degrees from various universities 
including Laurentian University, York University, Nipissing University, 
Embry-Riddle University and Central Michigan University. The UPC has been 
partnering with universities since 1997 and as of 2011, serves over 2400 
students. The construction of the Centre for Health and Wellness will ensure 
Georgian has the capacity to expand its University Partnership Centre to 
offer even more degree and advanced-degree level studies. Georgian College 
is also home to the "Sadlon Centre for Health and Wellness". Opened in 
2011, this $65 million, 165,000-square-foot (15,300 m2) facility has allowed 
Georgian to double the number of health program students to 3,000 and allows 
students to pursue health and wellness related certificates, diplomas and 
degrees, including advanced degree programs. It is also home to a variety 
of health care services teaching clinics open to the public, as well as 
leading-edge laboratories and technology-enhanced classrooms. The recently 
constructed "Centre for Sustainable Technologies" is also located in Georgian 
College's Barrie Campus. This new $8 million, 18,000-square-foot (1,700 m2) 
facility opened in 2009 and is home to construction and energy-related 
programming and skills training. The Centre serves as a learning lab with 
technology and systems that demonstrate where the future of the industry 
is headed on all building projects. Village Media operates BarrieToday.com. 
There are both daily and a semi-weekly newspapers in the City of Barrie. 
The Barrie Examiner, established in 1864, is one of Canada's oldest daily 
newspapers. It is distributed 5 days a week (Tuesday to Saturday) to paid 
subscribers and is also delivered to the remainder of the market free each 
Thursday. It features coverage of local, regional and national news, entertainment, 
opinion, weather, sports and local community events. The Barrie Advance 
is a free newspaper established in 1983, delivered twice a week (Tuesdays 
and Thursdays) to every residence in the city, Springwater Township, and 
parts of Oro-Medonte. The newspaper contains local news, classifieds, advertisements 
and flyers. Barrie Business is a free newsprint publication covering local 
and regional business news. Published monthly, and distributed to every 
business in the City of Barrie through Canada Post, it seeks to highlight 
and support Barrie's local business community and events. Rogers Cable 
is the local cable franchise serving the Barrie area. The area is served 
by Toronto television stations, however, the following are more specific 
to Barrie: Local radio stations serving Barrie and area include: Coordinates: 
44°23′24″N 79°41′10″W﻿ / ﻿44.390°N 79.686°W﻿ / 44.390; -79.686﻿ (Barrie) 
