The Barry Bonds perjury case was a case of alleged perjury regarding use 
of anabolic steroids by former San Francisco Giants outfielder and all-time 
Major League Baseball career home run leader, Barry Bonds, and the related 
investigations surrounding these accusations. On April 13, 2011, Bonds 
was convicted of one felony count of obstruction of justice for giving 
an incomplete answer to a question in grand jury testimony. A mistrial 
was declared on the remaining three counts of perjury, and those charges 
were dropped.[1] The obstruction of justice conviction was upheld by an 
appellate panel in 2013, but a larger panel of the appellate court overturned 
the conviction in 2015.[2] In 2003, Barry Bonds became embroiled in a scandal 
when Greg Anderson of the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative (BALCO), Bonds' 
trainer since 2000, was indicted by a federal grand jury in the United 
States District Court for the Northern District of California and charged 
with supplying anabolic steroids to athletes, including a number of baseball 
players. This led to speculation that Bonds had used performance-enhancing 
drugs during a time when there was no mandatory testing in Major League 
Baseball. Bonds declared his innocence, attributing his changed physique 
and increased power to a strict regimen of bodybuilding, diet and legitimate 
supplements. During grand jury testimony on December 4, 2003, Bonds said 
that he used a clear substance and a cream that he received from his personal 
strength trainer, Greg Anderson, who told him they were the nutritional 
supplement flaxseed oil and a rubbing balm for arthritis.[3] This testimony 
was released to the San Francisco Chronicle by Troy Ellerman, a defense 
lawyer for Victor Conte. (Ellerman pleaded guilty to disclosing sealed 
grand jury testimony on February 14, 2007). Later reports on Bonds’ leaked 
grand-jury testimony contend that he admitted to unknowingly using "the 
clear," a form of the designer steroid THG and "the cream", a concoction 
designed to mask certain hormone ratios helping the user to beat drug tests. 
In August 2005, all four defendants in the BALCO steroid scandal trial, 
including Anderson, struck deals with federal prosecutors that did not 
require them to reveal names of athletes who may have used banned drugs. 
CNN reported that federal investigators were looking into whether or not 
Bonds committed perjury during his 2003 grand jury testimony relating to 
the BALCO steroids scandal when he testified that he believed a clear substance 
and a cream, given to him by personal trainer Greg Anderson, were flaxseed 
oil and arthritis balm. The United States Attorney's Office in San Francisco 
brought evidence before another grand jury to determine if Bonds should 
be indicted. Before testifying to the original grand jury (in 2003), witnesses 
including Bonds were told that they could not be charged with any crime 
other than perjury based on their testimony.[4] On July 5, 2006, Anderson 
was found in contempt of court by U.S. District Judge William Alsup for 
refusing to testify before the grand jury investigating perjury accusations 
against Bonds. Anderson was denied bail and immediately sent to the Federal 
Correctional Institution in Dublin, California. Anderson's attorney, Mark 
Geragos, said he would file an appeal based on his assertion that the subpoena 
to testify violated Anderson's plea bargain agreement in the BALCO case.[5] 
Later that month, the grand jury investigating the incident retired without 
issuing an indictment. Anderson was immediately released and promptly subpoenaed 
to testify before a new grand jury that would take up the case.[6] Geragos 
stated that his client would continue to refuse to testify. Days later, 
federal prosecutors obtained Bonds’ medical files as part of their perjury 
investigation. Bonds’ former girlfriend, Kimberly Bell, testified that 
Bonds blamed an elbow injury on steroid use. According to the San Francisco 
Chronicle, prosecutors had subpoenaed the documents nearly two months earlier, 
but Bonds’ attorneys went to federal court to stop the government from 
obtaining them.[7] On August 17, 2006, Anderson again refused to testify 
before the grand jury investigating Bonds. Judge Alsup ordered Anderson 
to return to court August 28 for a contempt hearing. In requesting the 
hearing, prosecutors for the first time publicly acknowledged they were 
targeting Bonds.[8] Anderson was held in contempt of court at the August 
28 hearing and sent to federal prison for a second time. Judge Alsup said 
Anderson had provided no legal justification for refusing to tell the grand 
jury on August 17 whether he had supplied steroids to Bonds or other athletes, 
or even whether he knew Bonds. Geragos said he would file an appeal with 
the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.[9] Anderson was released from 
prison on October 5, after serving 37 days. Judge Alsup ordered his release 
because the federal appeals court hadn't affirmed the contempt order within 
the required 30 days after Anderson was jailed. The 9th U.S. Circuit Court 
of Appeal had sent the contempt order back to Judge Alsup, thus delaying 
any ruling. The main contention of Anderson's appeal is that a secret, 
illegally recorded tape of him discussing Bonds' steroid use was the basis 
for the grand jury questions he refused to answer. Prosecutors, however, 
said the tape was legal and was made in a face-to-face meeting with Anderson. 
Although Judge Alsup dismissed Anderson's tape claim and others, the 9th 
Circuit Court sent Anderson's appeal back to the judge, saying Alsup's 
ruling regarding the tape was not clear enough. In clarifying his order, 
Alsup said he agreed with prosecutors that there was ample evidence beyond 
the tape to question Anderson. Prosecutors also said the questions they 
wanted answered were based on athletes' secret testimony in the Bay Area 
Laboratory Co-Operative case and a search of Anderson's house that turned 
up drug records, some with Bonds' name on it. Other than the tape dispute, 
the 9th Circuit Court had rejected the merits of Anderson's appeal.[10] 
In November, after the order was clarified, the 9th Circuit Court agreed 
to hear Anderson's argument that his "entire grand jury process was tainted" 
because the government let the grand jury hear the tape. If the appeals 
court had agreed that the tape unfairly contributed to Anderson's guilty 
plea, his conviction could have been thrown out, even though Anderson had 
already completed his three-month sentence. In the disputed tape recording, 
first reported by the San Francisco Chronicle, Anderson reportedly told 
an unidentified person that Bonds was using drugs which could not be detected. 
Judge Alsup, who had read a transcript of the tape, called it "as worthless 
a piece of evidence as I've ever seen", according to newspaper reports.[11] 
On November 16, the 9th Circuit Court rejected Anderson's appeal and ruled 
that he must return to prison for refusing to testify before the grand 
jury investigating Bonds. The court ordered him to report to the Federal 
Correctional Institution in Dublin by November 20. The court agreed with 
Judge Alsup, ruling there was ample evidence beyond the tape to justify 
the grand jury's interest in questioning Anderson about Bonds.[12] Anderson's 
lawyers announced they would seek an appeal before the entire 9th Circuit 
Court. In January, 2007, U.S. attorney Kevin V. Ryan resigned and was replaced 
by Scott Schools. Despite rumors the probe into Bonds would be hampered, 
the Associated Press reported that by February 2007, the investigation 
had resumed. The AP quoted Michael Rains, a lawyer for Bonds, as saying 
"There is absolutely no doubt that the U.S. attorney is still running a 
grand jury and still taking evidence that involves Bonds. There is still 
an active effort to indict Barry."[13] The 9th Circuit Court rejected Anderson's 
appeal in March, and Geragos stated that he intended to appeal to the U.S. 
Supreme Court.[14] After losing the appeal, Geragos told ESPN "My client 
is never going to speak...He has got absolutely no intention of talking."[15][16] 
On July 21, the New York Daily News reported that the grand jury investigating 
Bonds had been extended for six months. According to the Daily News, the 
"U.S. Attorney's office in San Francisco is confident it will have enough 
evidence to secure an indictment once [the grand jury] resumes in September." 
The Daily News quoted an anonymous source as saying "[Prosecutors] seem 
to feel they have a strong case...If the case is 90% now, there's no reason 
not to go for 100%. They aren't just waiting around for Greg Anderson."[17] 
A month later, Bonds hired two attorneys, John Burris of Oakland and Todd 
Schneider of San Francisco, to defend him against what he claimed were 
false public statements made against him, including claims that he took 
steroids.[18] The move was chiefly aimed at Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt 
Schilling, who made disparaging remarks about Bonds in an HBO interview 
with sportscaster Bob Costas.[19] Bonds dismissed Schilling's comments. 
On November 15, 2007, a federal grand jury returned an indictment against 
Bonds. He was charged with four counts of perjury and one count of obstruction 
of justice. "During the criminal investigation, evidence was obtained including 
positive tests for the presence of anabolic steroids and other performance 
enhancing substances for Bonds and other athletes," the indictment reads. 
The charges focus on Bonds' responses to the grand jury in his 2003 testimony, 
specifically his denials when asked if he had used steroids, and whether 
Anderson had administered steroids to him.[20][21][22][23] The Giants, 
Major League Baseball and its players' union all expressed sadness at the 
indictment, and even the White House weighed in, calling it a "sad day 
in baseball".[24] Hours after Bonds was indicted, Greg Anderson was ordered 
released from prison. Anderson's attorney, Mark Geragos, denied his client 
had testified before the grand jury and expressed outrage Anderson had 
been imprisoned, telling the New York Daily News, "They kept Greg in prison 
a year. I read the indictment and there is nothing that the government 
didn't have a year ago to indict Bonds. My guy was nonessential." Geragos 
also told the Daily News that Anderson would not testify at trial against 
Bonds if he is called, adding "They would have to indict him [on civil 
contempt charges] first."[25][26][27] Bonds pleaded not guilty on December 
7, 2007 and was freed on bond while awaiting trial. On January 23, 2008, 
Bonds filed a motion to dismiss the indictment, asserting that the charges 
are vague and allege more than one offense in each count, which may violate 
his constitutional rights.[28] In a response from the government on February 
14, 2008, prosecutors stated that they would present evidence at trial 
showing that Bonds tested positive for steroids in November 2000.[29] Bonds's 
trial was set for March 2, 2009, but delayed by appeals, after the judge 
excluded drugs tests and other evidence that could not be specifically 
tied to Bonds without the testimony of Greg Anderson, who is alleged to 
have provided steroids to Barry Bonds when he was Bonds personal trainer 
and linked to Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative (BALCO).[30] Law professor 
Peter Keane called the prosecutors' move a blunder,[31] although an account 
by another published attorney disagreed.[32] In June 2010, however, the 
9th Circuit U.S. Court of Appeals ruled that the evidence should be excluded.[33] 
On August 7, 2010, it was reported that U.S. District Judge Susan Illston 
of San Francisco had rescheduled the trial for March 21, 2011.[34] On Friday, 
December 17, 2010, it was reported that attorneys for Bonds, citing the 
appeals court ruling, filed papers asking the judge to forbid testimony 
of current and former baseball players linked to BALCO or the steroids 
scandal, and not to permit use of Anderson's drug ledgers and calendars, 
as well as other documents from BALCO which the prosecution was seeking 
to use at the trial in spite of the appeals court ruling.[35] On January 
10, 2011, lawyers for Bonds filed additional papers asking the judge not 
to permit use of Anderson as a witness by the prosecution (since, given 
his previous unwillingness to testify, it was presumed he would again decline), 
nor to allow prosecutors to tell the jury about any refusal of Anderson 
to testify, nor permit use of a reported tape[36] of Anderson talking to 
Steve Hoskins, previously a business manager of Bonds.[37] The judge had 
already excluded evidence which could not be connected to Bonds because 
of Anderson's refusal to testify about his alleged knowledge of Bonds' 
alleged connection to the evidence.[38] The same applies to several other 
pieces of evidence, which Bonds' attorneys asked to be excluded in the 
January 10, 2011 filing.[39] A hearing was set to be held on the exclusion 
of the testimony and the additional evidence on January 21, 2011.[40] A 
report in the New York Times had earlier suggested it was likely that Bonds 
would not get prison time even if convicted, after pro cyclist Tammy Thomas 
received house arrest and probation for similar crimes in the BALCO scandal, 
in a case decided by the very same judge presiding over the Bonds case.[41] 
Bonds' trial began on Monday March 21, 2011. The case was prosecuted by 
Assistant United States Attorneys Matthew Parrella and Jeffrey Nedrow. 
The defense team consisted of 8 lawyers. Allen Ruby, a partner at Skadden 
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP, served as the lead attorney and was assisted 
by Sean Contain and Patrick Hammon. Cris Arguedas, of Arguedas Cassman 
& Headley, served as second chair and was assisted by Ted Cassman and Michael 
Anderson. Appellate lawyers Dennis Riordan[42] and Don Horgan drafted pre-trial 
motions and attended the trial in order to brief appellate issues in real 
time. Witnesses included Jeff Novitzky, Forment I.R.S Agent who conducted 
the BALCO money laundering investigation, which led to the discovery of 
illicit steroid sales; Steve Hoskins, Bonds' former personal assistant; 
Larry Bowers, chemist from United States Anti-Doping Agency specializing 
in detecting drugs in blood and urine samples; Kimberly Bell, Bonds' former 
mistress; Mike Murphy, the Giant's equipment manager; Stan Conte; former 
Giants trainer; and Marvin Benard, Jason Giambi, and Jeremy Giambi, baseball 
players who acquired steroids from Greg Anderson. On 13 April 2011, a jury 
found Bonds guilty on the felony charge of obstructing justice. U.S. District 
Judge Susan Illston declared a mistrial on the three perjury charges, as 
the jury was unable to come to a unanimous verdict.[43] Case number is 
U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California 
(San Francisco). Released documents of the case have been posted online.[44] 
On December 15, 2011, Bonds was sentenced to 30 days of house arrest, two 
years of probation and 250 hours of community service, for an obstruction 
of justice conviction stemming from a grand jury appearance in 2003. However, 
U.S. District Judge Susan Illston then delayed the sentence pending his 
appeal.[45] On February 13, 2013 a three judge panel of the U.S. Court 
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit heard the appeal to overturn Bonds's conviction 
for Obstruction of Justice.[46] On September 13 of that year, the Ninth 
Circuit upheld Bonds' conviction. Judge Mary M. Schroeder, writing for 
the three judge panel, found that Bonds' responses regarding his answers 
regarding receiving injections were evasive and obstructed justice. "When 
factually true statements are misleading or evasive, they can prevent the 
grand jury from obtaining truthful and responsive answers. They may therefore 
obstruct and impede the administration of justice." [47] According to Bonds' 
lawyers, he answered all questions truthfully and to the satisfaction of 
the prosecutor, and this is the first known obstruction guilty verdict 
based on truthful testimony under oath.[48] An en banc panel of the Ninth 
Circuit Court heard oral arguments on Bonds's motion to reconsider the 
panel ruling on September 18, 2014.[49] On April 22, 2015, the en banc 
panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals overturned Bonds' conviction 
by a 10-1 vote. A short per curiam opinion characterized Bonds' statement 
as "a rambling, non-responsive answer to a simple question" and found that 
there was "insufficient evidence" that the statement was material to the 
investigation, requiring reversal of the conviction. The court also held 
that the reversal implicated Bonds' double jeopardy rights, meaning that 
he cannot be retried on the charge. Several groups of judges added separate 
