The Bernard M. Baruch College of the City University of New York, commonly 
known as Baruch College, is a constituent college of the City University 
of New York system located in the Gramercy Park section of Manhattan, New 
York City. Named for financier and statesman Bernard M. Baruch, the college 
operates undergraduate, masters, and Ph.D. programs through its Zicklin 
School of Business,[3] as well as the Weissman School of Arts and Sciences 
and the Marxe School of Public and International Affairs. Baruch is one 
of CUNY's senior colleges, and traces its roots back to the 1847 founding 
of the Free Academy,[6] the first institution of free public higher education 
in the United States. The New York State Literature Fund was created to 
serve students who could not afford to enroll in New York City’s private 
colleges. The Fund led to the creation of the Committee of the Board of 
Education of the City of New York, led by Townsend Harris, J.S. Bosworth, 
and John L. Mason, which brought about the establishment of what would 
become the Free Academy, on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan. The Free Academy 
became the College of the City of New York, now The City College of New 
York (CCNY). In 1919, what would become Baruch College was established 
as City College School of Business and Civic Administration.[7] On December 
15, 1928, the cornerstone was laid on the new building which would house 
the newly founded school. At this point, the school did not admit women. 
At the time it opened it was considered the biggest such school for the 
teaching of business education in the United States.[8] By the 1930s, women 
were allowed into the School of Business. The total enrollment at CCNY 
reached an all-time high of 40,000 students in 1935, and the School of 
Business had an enrollment of more than 1,700 students in the day session 
alone. In 1953, it was renamed the Baruch School of Business in honor of 
Bernard Baruch, an 1889 graduate of CCNY who went on to become a prominent 
financier and adviser to two presidents. In 1961, the New York State Education 
Law established the City University of New York (CUNY) system. In 1968, 
the Baruch School of Business was spun off as Baruch College, an independent 
senior college in the City University system. The first president of the 
new college (1969–1970) was the previous Federal Secretary of Housing and 
Urban Development Robert C. Weaver. In 1971, the college appointed Clyde 
Wingfield, a noted educator, as its president. He was succeeded by economist 
Joel Edwin Segall in 1977. Segall recruited several well-known faculty 
members to the School of Business and established the college's permanent 
home on Lower Lexington Avenue.[9] Matthew Goldstein was president of the 
school from 1991 to 1998 (he later went on to serve as the Chancellor of 
CUNY from 1999-2013). He was responsible for raising admissions requirements 
and creating the School of Public Affairs in 1994. Edward Regan, former 
comptroller of New York state, served as president from 2000 to 2004. During 
his tenure, test scores rose, student retention rates increased, and many 
new faculty members were hired.[10] In 2001, the Vertical Campus opened 
and Baruch accepted its first students from the CUNY Honors College, now 
known as the Macaulay Honors College. The college also implemented a common 
core curriculum for all undergraduates. Baruch received donations from 
alumni, with the Vertical Campus, 23rd Street building, and Performing 
Arts complex renamed in honor of the three largest donors, respectively.[11] 
Alumni giving has increased under "Baruch Means Business," a $150 million 
capital campaign.[12] In August 2009, Waldron resigned from her position 
to become a University Professor at the Graduate Center. Stan Altman, former 
dean of the School of Public Affairs from 1999 to 2005, was named interim 
president.[13] On February 22, 2010, Dr. Mitchel Wallerstein, Dean of the 
Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University, 
was appointed as the next President of Baruch College. He took office on 
August 2, 2010.[14] Baruch was the scene of student protests in 2011 as 
a result of tuition hikes.[15] This resulted in arrests.[15] Larry Zicklin, 
who endowed the Zicklin School of Business with an $18 million gift in 
1997, is currently a Clinical Professor at Stern School of Business at 
New York University and teaches courses in Corporate Governance and the 
Management of a Financial Business at Stern. Zicklin is also a Senior Fellow 
at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. The college is 
composed of three academic schools, the Zicklin School of Business, the 
Weissman School of Arts & Science, and the Marxe School of Public Affairs. 
The Zicklin School of Business grants a Bachelor of Business Administration 
(BBA) degree in 19 different business related areas, a Masters of Business 
Administration (MBA) in 14 business related areas, and a Masters of Science 
(MS) in 8 business related programs.[16] The Weissman School of Arts and 
Sciences grants a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in over 26 different arts 
and science related areas, a Masters of Arts (MA)in Corporate Communications 
and Mental Health Counseling, and a Masters of Science (MS) in Financial 
Engineering and Industrial Organizational Psychology.[17] The Austin W. 
Marxe School of Public and International Affairs grants a Bachelor of Science 
(BS) degree in Public Affairs, a Masters of Public Administration (MPA) 
in 5 different public affairs related areas and a Masters of Science in 
Education (MSEd) in Higher Education Administration.[18] The college also 
houses several doctoral (PhD) programs offered through the CUNY Graduate 
Center. They include Business (with specializations in Accounting, Finance, 
Information Systems, Marketing or Organizational Behavior) as well as Industrial 
and Organizational Psychology.[19][20] As of June 2013, the CUNY PhD in 
Business degree is offered jointly by the Graduate Center and Baruch College.[21] 
The building at 17 Lexington Avenue, or the 23rd Street Building as it 
is commonly referred to is still in use by the college today. According 
to Mr. Jim Lloyd, the assistant vice president of Campus Operations at 
Baruch College, the 23rd St Building is scheduled to begin renovation in 
2013. The ten-year renovation project will finally bring the 23rd Street 
Building to 21st-century standards.[22] In 1998, after decades of renting 
space for classrooms, the college began construction of what would later 
be called the Newman Vertical Campus, named after businessman William Newman. 
Inaugurated on August 27, 2001, the 17-story building is now home to the 
Zicklin School of Business and the Weissman School of Arts and Sciences 
(the School of Public Affairs is housed in a separate building at 135 East 
22nd Street).[23] East 25th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues 
was renamed "Bernard Baruch Way," and the college now uses the Vertical 
Campus as its official address. The Information and Technology Building, 
opened in 1994, is located across East 25th Street from the Newman Vertical 
Campus.[24] It is home to the William and Anita Newman Library, featuring 
multiple floors with Wi-Fi access and designated "study-pod" areas. A 320-seat 
computer lab, the Baruch Computing and Technology Center, is on the sixth 
floor. The building also contains the offices of the Registrar, Undergraduate 
Admissions, Financial Aid and the International Student Center. It is colloquially 
known as the "Library Building" by students and staff. The Newman Vertical 
Campus is 786,000 square feet, 17-floor building, which cost a total of 
$327 million to erect.[23][25] It was honored in 2003 by the American Institute 
of Architects with the highest award it offers to an individual building.[26] 
It houses classrooms, faculty offices, additional computer labs for student 
use, along with the Athletic and Recreation Complex (ARC), Cafeteria, and 
Baruch Bookstore.[27] The Administration Building, located on East 22nd 
Street, is home to the School of Public Affairs and several administrative 
offices. Baruch College's Zicklin Business School, Brooklyn Law School, 
and New York Law School Zicklin School of Business maintains a joint J.D./M.B.A. 
program with Brooklyn Law School and New York Law School.[48] Baruch had 
been ranked #1 for seven consecutive years as the 'Most Ethnically Diverse 
College' in United States by US News.[49] The Ticker[50] has been the student 
newspaper since 1932. The school is home to business organizations, including 
large chapters of such national and international organizations such as 
ALPFA (The Association of Latino Professionals in Finance & Accounting), 
AIESEC, Toastmasters, Roller Hockey Club,[51] Alpha Kappa Psi, American 
Humanics, and Golden Key.[52] Baruch College teams participate as a member 
of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division III. The Bearcats 
are a member of the City University of New York Athletic Conference (CUNYAC). 
Men's sports include baseball, basketball, cross country, soccer, swimming 
& diving, tennis and volleyball; while women's sports include basketball, 
cross country, dance team, softball, swimming & diving, tennis and volleyball. 
Baruch's Undergraduate Admissions is considered to be "Very Selective" 
by College Board.[53] In the Fall of 2013, over 19,400 students applied 
for admissions and only 5,000 were admitted with an acceptance rate of 
27%. Baruch follows a holistic admissions process by considering teacher 
recommendations, application essay, and extracurricular activities, in 
addition to standardized test scores and GPA. The Zicklin School of Business 
(commonly known as Zicklin) is Baruch College's business school. It was 
established in 1919. Baruch College is ranked among the region's and nation's 
top colleges by U.S. News & World Report, Forbes, Princeton Review, and 
others. Before 1968, alumni were officially alumni of the City College 
of New York. The number of Baruch College's Living Alumni is 107,277 as 
of 2007–08. It is represented by alumni in all 50 US states and 85 countries 
