Baseball is a minor sport in the United Kingdom.[1][2][3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13] 
In 1890 the international version of the game was introduced to the United 
Kingdom in Derby by Francis Ley, a Derby man who had 'discovered' the game 
on a trip to the United States, and Albert Goodwill Spalding, an American 
former star player and sporting goods businessman who saw opportunities 
to expand his business across the Atlantic. Aston Villa, now known exclusively 
as a football club, won the only professional baseball championship in 
1890. The competition was hindered by poor weather and disappointing crowds 
and made a loss to its investors.[14] One of the first baseball clubs was 
the Derby County Baseball Club who lead the first championship after the 
National Baseball League of Great Britain and Ireland was established in 
1890. However, pressure from other teams in the league over the number 
of American players on the Derby team and low attendances forced Derby 
to resign before the end of the season, though the baseball club itself 
lasted until 1898. The so-called Baseball Ground continued to be used under 
that name as the home of football's Derby County F.C. for over a century, 
from 1895 to 1997. Baseball's peak popularity in Britain was in the years 
immediately preceding World War II. Baseball teams shared grounds with 
football clubs and the game was run at a professional standard with up 
to 10,000 spectators per game. One milestone of baseball in the United 
Kingdom was the 1938 victory of Great Britain over the United States in 
the 1938 Amateur World Series, considered the first World Cup of Baseball. 
Today, there are more than 40 baseball teams, 875 adult and Junior (Under 
18) players ranging geographically from Croydon to Liverpool, Bristol to 
Edinburgh. The Junior Great British National Team consists of 15 players 
which recently competed in the European championships. There have been 
numerous league formats since 1890. The British Baseball Federation (BBF) 
is the governing body for baseball in the UK and the baseball leagues. 
Baseball clubs pay annual affiliation fees to be a member of the BBF and 
play in the BBF Leagues and Junior Leagues. There is also a full Great 
Britain Baseball Programme which comprises the Great Britain Baseball Academy, 
junior national teams and Great Britain 'Seniors' Baseball Team. The league 
format is divided into the national divisions, consisting of four tiers 
from the National League, down to tier 'A' leagues, and the Northern League 
for teams based in Northern England. At the end of the season, all divisions 
except the 'A' Leagues have a final four tournament where the top two teams 
from each conference play a knock out match with the winning teams then 
progressing to the Championship Series. The Championship Series of the 
National League is best of three, the AAA and AA championships are single 
games. In addition to this there are two leagues independent of the British 
Baseball Federation, the Scottish National League, run by Baseball Scotland 
and the South West Baseball League, representing the South West of England. 
The season runs from April until August. Baseball in Northern Ireland is 
affiliated to Baseball Ireland for practical reasons. Northern Ireland's 
only team, the Belfast Northstars, play in the Irish Adult League. British 
University Baseball has also been growing with 20 universities with clubs 
at the end of the 2015/16 season: Cambridge, Coventry, Durham, Edinburgh, 
Essex, Exeter, Hull, Imperial, Leeds Beckett, Leeds Gryphons Baseball Club, 
Loughborough, Manchester Metropolotian University (Chesire), Nottingham 
University, Nottingham Trent University, Sheffield, Southampton, Stirling, 
Swansea, UCL and UEA. The University season runs from September to May, 
the typical off-season for the sport. Without a British Universities & 
Colleges Sport (BUCS) league, teams compete in the National University 
Baseball Championships (NUBC) tournament, which happens twice a year in 
the spring and the autumn and are run by BaseballSoftballUK (BSUK). The 
Spring 2016 Champions are Loughborough, and have won the past 3 NUBC tournaments. 
Despite not having a BUCS league a Northern University Baseball League 
was set up for the 2015/16 season, and is planned to expand and be renamed 
to the National University Baseball League, and have a similar set up to 
