Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2007 proceeded according to 
revised rules enacted in 2001. The Baseball Writers Association of America 
(BBWAA) held an election to select from among recent players. The Veterans 
Committee held an election with two ballots: the biennial election for 
players retired over 20 years, and the quadrennial election for non-players 
(managers, umpires and executives), the first since 2003. Induction ceremonies 
in Cooperstown were held July 29 with Commissioner Bud Selig presiding. 
The BBWAA was again authorized to elect players active in 1987 or later, 
but not after 2001; the ballot, announced on November 27, 2006, included 
candidates from the 2006 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but 
were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, 
whose last appearance was in 2001. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were 
eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate who received votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be 
honored with induction to the Hall. Results of the 2007 election by the 
BBWAA were announced on January 9. The ballot consisted of 32 players; 
a record 545 ballots were cast, with 409 votes required for election. A 
total of 3584 individual votes were cast, an average of 6.58 per ballot. 
Those candidates who received less than 5% of the vote will not appear 
on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans 
Committee. Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated 
here with a †. There were 15 candidates returning from the 2006 ballot. 
The two candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected 
are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been selected 
in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. Steve Garvey was on the ballot for the 15th and 
final time. The newly-eligible candidates included 26 All-Stars, eight 
of whom were selected at least five times, and ten of whom were not even 
included on the ballot. For only the second time (equalling 1982), three 
players with 400 home runs were among the new candidates; the five newly 
eligible players with 300 home runs were a new high (exceeding the 1980 
total), and the twelve new candidates with 200 home runs shattered the 
previous high mark of eight, set in 1992. With the exception of the first 
balloting in 1936, it was the second time that two players with 3000 hits 
debuted on the ballot (Tony Gwynn and Cal Ripken, Jr.), and also the second 
time that two players with 1500 RBI made their initial appearances (Ripken 
and Harold Baines). Again excepting 1936, the numbers of newly eligible 
candidates with 2000 hits (7), 2500 hits (3), 1000 RBI (9), 1200 RBI (5), 
3000 total bases (11), 3500 total bases (5) or 4000 total bases (3) all 
tied or broke previous records. The field included three MVP Award Winners 
(Ken Caminiti, Jose Canseco, and Cal Ripken, Jr., who won the award twice), 
one Cy Young Award winner (Bret Saberhagen, twice awarded), and four Rookie 
of the Year Award winners (Cal Ripken, Jr., Mark McGwire, Jose Canseco, 
and Gregg Olson, who was not even on the ballot). As expected, Gwynn and 
Ripken were elected on the first ballot; the other first-time candidates 
were generally seeking simply enough votes to remain on the ballot for 
the 2008 election, when a much less crowded field was expected. However, 
of the first-timers who were not elected, only two—McGwire and Baines—received 
enough votes to make the 2008 ballot, and had Baines received two fewer 
votes, he also would have become ineligible for BBWAA consideration. Players 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Derek 
Bell, Willie Blair, Brian Bohanon, Ricky Bones, Jeff Brantley, Norm Charlton, 
Chad Curtis, Rob Ducey, Mark Gardner, Bernard Gilkey, Craig Grebeck, Darryl 
Hamilton, Pete Harnisch, Charlie Hayes, Doug Henry, Gil Heredia, Glenallen 
Hill, Ken Hill, John Jaha, Stan Javier, Randy Knorr, Mark Leiter, Mark 
Lewis, Dave Magadan, Dave Martinez, Ramón Martínez, Chuck McElroy, Alan 
Mills, Omar Olivares, Joe Oliver, Gregg Olson, Scott Radinsky, Pat Rapp, 
Pete Schourek, Scott Servais, Jeff Shaw, Bill Spiers, Ed Sprague, Kevin 
Tapani, Eddie Taubensee, Turner Ward, John Wehner, and Rick Wilkins. Performance-enhancing 
substances, which had made headlines in the sport for the past several 
years, became a factor in voting for the first time. Two MVP winners who 
later admitted to steroid use – José Canseco and Ken Caminiti – were both 
among the first-time candidates. More prominently, McGwire was appearing 
on the ballot for the first time; considered a highly likely first-ballot 
selection following his record-setting home run feats in the late 1990s, 
his candidacy was heavily debated more recently as observers of the sport 
considered both his admitted use of legal dietary supplements (particularly 
androstenedione, which he stopped using in 1998 and was banned in 2004), 
as well as suspicions in some quarters that he had also used steroids (which 
he ultimately admitted in 2010 to having used for much of his career, including 
1998). The voters took these matters into consideration, individually determining 
how recent offensive totals should be regarded by the Hall, as the first 
players from the sport's offensive explosion in the late 1990s now began 
to appear on the ballot in significant numbers. In November 2006, the Associated 
Press received responses from 125 baseball writers they had asked about 
their voting plans; about 3/4 of those who had decided were against electing 
McGwire, at least for the time being.[1] New York Daily News sportswriter 
Bill Madden, who has also been part of the Veterans Committee selection 
process since 2003, said he will not vote for any player he even suspects 
of using steroids, citing the ballot guidelines which include a player's 
integrity as being among the five criteria voters should consider: "I'm 
not voting for any of those guys – Bonds, McGwire, Sosa, Palmeiro, any 
of them. I draw the line at eyeball evidence and what I personally believe. 
I had three Hall of Famers come up to me at Cooperstown ... and they all 
said the same thing, 'We're looking to you guys to uphold the integrity 
of this place.'" He added, "If the Hall of Fame doesn't want me or any 
other writers to take a stand, then take that clause out of the ballot. 
I plan to invoke that clause." USA Today writer Bob Nightengale stated 
that even proof of steroid use would not cause him to withhold his vote, 
noting, "So many other guys were taking them, including pitchers. So it's 
almost like a level playing field ... everybody was allowed to cheat, you 
still choose the best of that particular era." He nonetheless indicated 
that he would likely withhold his vote from McGwire for at least a year 
or two, saying, "The biggest trouble I have with McGwire, he hit so many 
home runs in such a short period of time. It's not like he was a consistent 
Hall of Famer his whole career."[2] In contrast, Tony La Russa – McGwire's 
manager for all but one and a half years of his 16-season career – has 
said, "Without question, I believe he belongs there on the first ballot. 
You're talking about a long and distinguished career."[2] (McGwire was 
indeed an All-Star in all but two seasons from 1987 through 2000, and had 
already finished seventh or higher in the MVP voting three times before 
his 1998 record season.) La Russa also reiterated his belief that McGwire 
had never used steroids, saying, "I know people are struggling with how 
to put it in perspective. I don't know where it goes. I don't know how 
people weigh. I don't know how the public feels. To me, the issue is the 
player that I saw for years and years. I believe in him. And that's where 
I leave it."[1] MLB.com sportswriter Barry Bloom, noting that the supplements 
McGwire has admitted using were permitted in baseball at the time, stated 
that he would vote for McGwire and any other qualified candidate against 
whom there is no empirical evidence of steroid use, saying, "They knew 
he was doing [androstenedione] and they didn't do anything at the time. 
Regardless of what happened since, I can't assume McGwire did anything."[2] 
St. Louis sportswriter Rob Rains said he will not vote for McGwire until 
he apologizes, saying, "I want to hear that he's sorry for what he did. 
I still might not vote for him. But it would help."."[3] Writer and statistician 
John Thorn has cast a skeptical eye on writers who claim to be upholding 
a standard of integrity, observing that cheating for an advantage has always 
been a part of baseball, even among Hall of Famers such as Gaylord Perry 
and 19th-century star King Kelly: "This whole thing about McGwire simply 
permits sportswriters to imagine themselves to be Woodward and Bernstein, 
people who see themselves as guardians of a sacred portal, the last best 
hope for truth and justice - and it's all hogwash and baloney."[3] ESPN 
sportswriter Jayson Stark, who stated that he would vote for McGwire, noting 
the earlier election of Perry, said, "I think I'm stuck with evaluating 
what the sport allowed to happen on the field. Either the '90s happened 
or they didn't. Since they happened, and the hundreds of players using 
whatever they used leveled the playing field to some extent, I feel more 
comfortable voting for players like McGwire than I do trying to pick and 
choose who did what, and when, and why."[4] Chicago Tribune writer Ron 
Rapoport stated, "I'll vote for him. You can't rewrite the history of the 
game after the fact."[4] Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt offered his opinion 
in a commentary, saying of McGwire, "The public wanted to see his giant 
biceps and long bombs, and could care less [sic] what he was putting in 
his milk. Now you want to vilify him because he doesn't want to own up, 
or admit, or even refute an involvement with steroids? Whoa! I'd ask the 
voters to look past the basic question -- did he or didn't he? -- and consider 
the era and what fueled it."[5] Washington Post columnist Thomas Boswell, 
noted for his extensive writings on baseball, suggested that waiting a 
few years is the ideal solution, saying, "Should we 'pardon' McGwire for 
accusations of steroid use that he has never actually admitted and for 
which no evidence exists?" (In keeping with Post rules regarding writers 
voting on awards, Boswell previously gave up his BBWAA voting rights.) 
Observing that candidates initially have 15 years in which to be elected, 
Boswell added, "McGwire's name will still be on the Hall of Fame ballot. 
But our perspective on him and the period in which he played may - for 
reasons we may not yet know - be far clearer than it is now."[6] Some writers 
were sharply critical of McGwire for his remarks in Congressional hearings 
in March 2005, in which he stated: "I will not participate in naming names 
and implicating my friends and teammates. Asking me, or any other player, 
to answer questions about who took steroids in front of television cameras 
will not solve this problem. If a player answers, 'No,' he simply will 
not be believed. If he answers, 'Yes,' he risks public scorn and endless 
government investigations." Many voters expressed concerns that his remarks 
constituted an implied confession. But Boswell defended McGwire's appearance, 
saying, "He didn't make a non-confession confession. He simply said he 
refused to join a witch hunt. ... That's still a permissible position in 
America, right?"[6] Sandy Alderson, general manager of the Oakland Athletics 
when McGwire starred for the team, and from 1998 to 2005 the executive 
vice president for baseball operations for Major League Baseball, has said 
he believes McGwire should be elected, adding that voters have a duty to 
bar steroid users; but he noted that "it's not clear all the writers have 
to come up with the gold standard they're going to apply for all years." 
La Russa said, "I can understand votes that are trying to send a message," 
but expressed his concern that "I'm afraid that message is personal to 
a guy I think deserves the induction." All-Star second baseman Jeff Kent 
stated, "I don't know where you draw the line," but added, "I applaud the 
Hall of Fame voters for stressing over this, because it's worth it. Because 
it matters. And it should matter."[2] The day before the results were announced, 
Paul Ladewski of the Chicago-area Daily Southtown (now known as the SouthtownStar) 
revealed that he had submitted a blank ballot (thus guaranteeing Gwynn 
and Ripken would not earn unanimous election), saying that he could not 
currently support any candidates who played primarily between 1993 and 
2004, a period he termed the "Steroids Era."[7][8] He also added, After 
the results of the writers' balloting were announced, Stark was sharply 
critical of most of the writers who chose not to vote for Ripken or Gwynn, 
though he mildly defended Ladewski's decision. On Ripken, he noted: The 
following day, Bill Shannon of Sports Press Service stated that he had 
not voted for Ripken or Gwynn, solely because he felt there were ten other 
worthy candidates who needed his vote more: "I thought they were such obvious 
candidates they didn't need my vote. I wasn't thinking in terms of a 100 
percent."[10] As for Gwynn, Stark added: Ladewski responded, Regarding 
those who refused to vote for McGwire, St. Louis Post-Dispatch writer Bernie 
Miklasz stood by his vote for him, and criticized those he termed self-appointed 
"morality police": "I saw what happened in 1998, I saw that it was good 
for the game, I saw the baseball establishment all approved of it, even 
though we all looked at McGwire and had some doubts about the source of 
his strength. I just don't believe a relatively short time later he should 
have to wear the scarlet letter." [11] And Rick Hummel, who had earlier 
been announced as the year's recipient of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award, 
said in defense of his vote for McGwire, "I don't have any evidence, and 
you are innocent until proven guilty. Are his stats worthy of the Hall? 
I think they are."[11] But some figures noted that McGwire's vote totals 
will likely increase with time, resulting in his eventual election. Pitcher 
Todd Jones wrote in his column in The Sporting News that failure to elect 
him would make the Hall look bad, rather than McGwire. Describing the voting 
writers as an angry mob, he agreed with McGwire's opinion that he would 
have drawn scorn and ridicule regardless of any testimony he had offered 
before Congress, and said, "Now that mob thinks it is teaching him a lesson."[12] 
And Hall of Famer Juan Marichal stated that McGwire belongs in the Hall 
on the basis of his home run total, and indicated that he will eventually 
be selected by the Veterans Committee if not by the writers, saying, "Big 
Mac will be chosen for the Hall of Fame."[13] However, the observers who 
said that McGwire's vote totals would increase with time have so far not 
been correct. McGwire's vote total has yet to increase beyond the 128 votes 
he received in this election; following his 2010 admission of steroid use, 
which came after the announcement of the 2010 election results, his support 
dropped from 128 that year to 115 in 2011. McGwire's vote totals have continued 
to fall since then; he only received 63 votes in the most recent election 
in 2014. Rules enacted in August 2001 provided that the Veterans Committee 
would be expanded from its previous 15 members, elected to limited terms, 
to include the full living membership of the Hall, including recipients 
of the Ford C. Frick Award and J. G. Taylor Spink Award. Elections for 
players retired over 20 years would be held every other year, with elections 
of non-players (managers, umpires and executives) held every fourth year 
on a "composite ballot". No candidates were elected from either ballot 
in 2003, nor from the players' ballot in 2005, leading to criticism from 
the press and public that the voters were being too restrictive in evaluating 
candidates. The Committee voted in 2007 on players who were active no later 
than 1985. Candidates were eligible for the composite ballot if they had 
been retired from the sport for five years, or if they were at least 65 
years of age and had been retired for at least six months. The Committee 
voted on players again in preparation for the 2009 inductions, but that 
election was conducted under significantly different rules enacted in July 
2007.[14] The most important changes were: For a more complete discussion 
of the changes, see the Veterans Committee article. The Committee was scheduled 
to vote on non-players in 2011, but the July 2007 rules also dramatically 
affected the voting process for non-players. A 16-member panel of Hall 
of Famers, executives, and veteran media members voted on managers and 
umpires again prior to the 2008 inductions. A separate 12-member panel, 
drawn from the same sources as the managers/umpires panel but with a greater 
concentration of executives, simultaneously voted on executives. Both panels 
voted in the future for inductions in even-numbered years[15] before further 
changes announced in 2010 that took effect with the 2011 elections. In 
December 2005, a Historical Overview Committee of ten sportswriters appointed 
by the BBWAA's Board of Directors met at the Hall of Fame's library to 
develop a list of 200 former players who merited consideration for election 
but played no later than 1985, and a second list of 60 former managers, 
umpires and executives. They were provided with statistical information 
by the Elias Sports Bureau, official statistician for Major League Baseball 
since the 1920s, which also identified the 1,400 players with 10 or more 
years of play who were eligible. The Historical Overview Committee comprised 
Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune), Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun), Steve Hirdt 
(Elias Sports Bureau), Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch), Moss Klein 
(Newark Star-Ledger), Bill Madden (New York Daily News), Ken Nigro (former 
Baltimore Sun writer), Jack O'Connell (BBWAA officer and writer for The 
Hartford Courant), Nick Peters (The Sacramento Bee), and Mark Whicker (Orange 
County Register). Their lists of 200 players and 60 other contributors 
were announced April 3, 2006. Players. († marks those newly eligible since 
2005 (twelve). They last played in the majors during 1984 or 1985.) Babe 
Adams - Joe Adcock - Dick Allen - Felipe Alou • Sal Bando - Dick Bartell 
- Ginger Beaumont - Mark Belanger - Wally Berger - Bobby Bonds - †Larry 
Bowa - Ken Boyer - Harry Brecheen - Tommy Bridges - Pete Browning - Charlie 
Buffinton - Lew Burdette - George H. Burns - George J. Burns • Dolph Camilli 
- Bert Campaneris - Bob Caruthers - George Case - Norm Cash - Phil Cavarretta 
- Spud Chandler - Ben Chapman - Rocky Colavito - Mort Cooper - Walker Cooper 
- Wilbur Cooper - Doc Cramer - Del Crandall - Gavvy Cravath - Lave Cross 
- Mike Cuellar • Bill Dahlen - Alvin Dark - Jake Daubert - Tommy Davis 
- Willie Davis - Paul Derringer - Dom DiMaggio - Patsy Donovan - Larry 
Doyle - Jimmy Dykes • Bob Elliott - Del Ennis - Carl Erskine • Elroy Face 
- Wes Ferrell - Freddie Fitzsimmons - Curt Flood - Bill Freehan - Jim Fregosi 
- Carl Furillo • Mike Garcia - Junior Gilliam - Jack Glasscock - Joe Gordon 
- Dick Groat - Heinie Groh • Stan Hack - Mel Harder - Jeff Heath - Tommy 
Henrich - Babe Herman - John Hiller - Gil Hodges - Ken Holtzman - †Burt 
Hooton - Willie Horton - Elston Howard - Frank Howard - Dummy Hoy • Larry 
Jackson - Jackie Jensen - Sam Jethroe - Bob L. Johnson - Joe Judge • Jim 
Kaat - Ken Keltner - Don Kessinger - Johnny Kling - Ted Kluszewski - †Jerry 
Koosman - Ray Kremer - Harvey Kuenn • Sam Leever - Mickey Lolich - Sherm 
Lollar - Eddie Lopat - Dolf Luque - †Greg Luzinski - Sparky Lyle • Sherry 
Magee - Sal Maglie - Jim Maloney - Firpo Marberry - Marty Marion - Roger 
Maris - Mike G. Marshall - Pepper Martin - Lee May - Carl Mays - Tim McCarver 
- Frank McCormick - Lindy McDaniel - Gil McDougald - Sam McDowell - †Tug 
McGraw - Stuffy McInnis - Denny McLain - Roy McMillan - Dave McNally - 
Andy Messersmith - Bob Meusel - Irish Meusel - Clyde Milan - Bing Miller 
- Stu Miller - Minnie Miñoso - Terry Moore - Tony Mullane - Thurman Munson 
- Bobby Murcer - Johnny Murphy - Buddy Myer • Art Nehf - Don Newcombe • Lefty 
O'Doul - Tony Oliva - †Al Oliver - Claude Osteen - †Amos Otis • Andy Pafko 
- Milt Pappas - Camilo Pascual - Ron Perranoski - Jim Perry - Johnny Pesky 
- Rico Petrocelli - Deacon Phillippe - Billy Pierce - Vada Pinson - Johnny 
Podres - Boog Powell • Jack Quinn • Vic Raschi - Ed Reulbach - Allie Reynolds 
- †Mickey Rivers - †Steve Rogers - Eddie Rommel - Charlie Root - Al Rosen 
- Schoolboy Rowe - Jimmy Ryan • Johnny Sain - Slim Sallee - Ron Santo - 
Wally Schang - George Scott - Rip Sewell - Bob Shawkey - Urban Shocker 
- Roy Sievers - Curt Simmons - †Ken Singleton - Reggie Smith - †Rusty Staub 
- Vern Stephens - Riggs Stephenson - Mel Stottlemyre - Harry Stovey • Jesse 
Tannehill - Fred Tenney - Bobby Thomson - Luis Tiant - Mike Tiernan - Joe 
Torre - Cecil Travis - Hal Trosky - Virgil Trucks • Johnny Vander Meer 
- George Van Haltren - Bobby Veach - Mickey Vernon • Dixie Walker - Bucky 
Walters - Lon Warneke - †Bob Watson - Will White - Cy Williams - Ken R. 
Williams - Maury Wills - Smoky Joe Wood - Wilbur Wood - Jimmy Wynn • Rudy 
York Among the newly eligible players who were not included were Rick Monday, 
Bucky Dent, Jeff Burroughs, Lou Piniella, Richie Hebner, Mike Torrez, Paul 
Splittorff and Oscar Gamble. As in previous years, the 200 players were 
almost evenly divided between players retired less than 50 years (98 players 
retired from 1957 to 1985) and those retired over 50 years (102 players 
retired 1956 or earlier). The list of 200 was almost identical to the list 
prepared for the 2005 election; apart from the twelve players who were 
newly eligible, only three players from the 1910s were added: left fielder 
Sherry Magee, center fielder Clyde Milan, and pitcher Slim Sallee. Perhaps 
due to the reliance on official statistics – often incomplete in the sport's 
early years – provided by the Elias Sports Bureau, the committee included 
very few players from the sport's first half-century, which remains poorly 
represented in the Hall; only 14 players were included who made their debut 
before 1893 (one fewer than in 2005). Although the Hall's current membership 
includes fewer than a dozen non-pitchers of the 1870s and 1880s, compared 
to nearly 50 from the 1930s and 1940s, the committee included over 40 more 
players from the period between 1920 and 1945, but only 7 who played primarily 
in the 25 years before 1893: first baseman/outfielder Harry Stovey, shortstop 
Jack Glasscock, outfielder Pete Browning, and pitchers Charlie Buffinton, 
Bob Caruthers, Tony Mullane and Will White. For the third time, Will White 
was included even though his brother Deacon (who is to be inducted in 2013) 
is widely accepted as having been a far greater player. In addition to 
Deacon White, stars of the 19th century who were omitted included Paul 
Hines, Deacon McGuire, Cupid Childs, Bobby Lowe, George Gore, Hardy Richardson, 
Ezra Sutton, Arlie Latham, Fred Pfeffer and Joe Start. By primary fielding 
position the nominees were starting pitchers (67), relief pitchers (10), 
catchers (10), first basemen (21), second basemen (5), third basemen (11), 
shortstops (18), left fielders (17), center fielders (22) and right fielders 
(19). Of the 15 players who were dropped from the 2005 list, nearly all 
were infielders (11) or pitchers (3), with Hank Sauer being the only outfielder; 
as had been true in earlier years, the list of preliminary candidates seemed 
to have been developed based on raw offensive totals, with less regard 
for defensive ability or considerations of era. Contributors. The committee 
also named 60 managers, umpires and executives. († marks those newly eligible 
since 2005. Managers are denoted by (M), umpires by (U) and executives 
by (E).) Gene Autry (E) - Buzzie Bavasi (E) - Samuel Breadon (E) - Charles 
Bronfman (E) - August Busch, Jr. (E) - George W. Bush (E) - Roger Craig 
(M) - Harry Dalton (E) - Bing Devine (E) - Bill Dinneen (U) - Charles Dressen 
(M) - Barney Dreyfuss (E) - Chub Feeney (E) - John Fetzer (E) - Charles 
O. Finley (E) - Calvin Griffith (E) - Charlie Grimm (M) - Doug Harvey (U) 
- Garry Herrmann (E) - Whitey Herzog (M) - John Heydler (E) - Ralph Houk 
(M) - Bob Howsam (E) - Fred Hutchinson (M) - †Davey Johnson (M) - Ewing 
Kauffman (E) - Bowie Kuhn (E) - Frank Lane (E) - Billy Martin (M) - Gene 
Mauch (M) - John McSherry (U) - †Jack McKeon (M) - Marvin Miller (E) - 
Danny Murtaugh (M) - Hank O'Day (U) - Walter O'Malley (E) - Steve O'Neill 
(M) - Paul Owens (E) - Steve Palermo (U) - Gabe Paul (E) - Babe Pinelli 
(U) - Bob Quinn (E) - Alfred Reach (E) - Beans Reardon (U) - Paul Richards 
(M) - Cy Rigler (U) - Bill Rigney (M) - Jake Ruppert (E) - Ben Shibe (E) 
- Charles Somers (E) - Billy Southworth (M) - Bill Summers (U) - Chuck 
Tanner (M) - Birdie Tebbetts (M) - Chris von der Ahe (E) - Lee Weyer (U) 
- Bill White (E) - Dick Williams (M) - Phil Wrigley (E) - †Don Zimmer (M) 
53 of the 60 nominees were holdovers from the 2003 list; along with the 
three newly eligible candidates, the four additions were Bing Devine, John 
McSherry, Jake Ruppert, and Charlie Grimm (who had been included on the 
players' list in both 2003 and 2005). The candidates include 31 individuals 
who were primarily executives, 19 who were managers, and 10 who were umpires. 
Davey Johnson, like Grimm, was dropped from the players' ballot after being 
included there in 2003 and 2005; evidently the review committee members 
regarded Johnson (age 63) as having been retired since 2000 even though 
he had managed the U.S. team in the 2005 Baseball World Cup, and served 
as a bench coach in the 2006 World Baseball Classic. Some people eligible 
for the first time but not nominated were umpires Larry Barnett, Jim Evans, 
Rich Garcia, Dave Phillips and Harry Wendelstedt, and managers Jim Fregosi, 
Tom Kelly and Johnny Oates (Fregosi was included on the players' list). 
The Historical Overview Committee nominations were forwarded to a 60-member 
BBWAA screening committee comprising two writers from each major league 
city. In summer 2006 they elected 25 players and 15 contributors who would 
appear on the final ballots. (Everyone voted for 25 and 15 candidates from 
the two preliminary ballots.) Meanwhile a committee of six Hall of Fame 
members independently selected five of the 200 nominated players who would 
appear on the final ballot, so the final ballots would comprise 25 to 30 
players and 15 contributors. Evidently the writers passed over two of the 
Hall of Fame members' five selections, for there were 27 on the final players 
ballot. The final ballots were announced on September 28, 2006. 23 of the 
25 players on the 2005 ballot returned, with Lefty O'Doul, Cecil Travis, 
Mickey Vernon and one newly eligible player added as well, replacing Elston 
Howard and Smoky Joe Wood. Those selected played primarily from the 1950s 
onward, with only six of the candidates having retired before 1960, and 
only three – pitchers Carl Mays and Wes Ferrell, and left fielder/pitcher 
O'Doul – having retired before 1947. The BBWAA screening committee failed 
to include any candidates from the era before 1910. This likely reflected 
a tendency among the voting writers to vote only for those players they 
had seen themselves, and to withhold votes from earlier players. All 61 
living members of the Hall were eligible to cast ballots in the final election, 
along with the 8 living recipients of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award (including 
Jack Lang, who died on January 25 after voting had begun), the 14 living 
recipients of the Ford C. Frick Award, and the sole additional member of 
the pre-2001 Veterans Committee whose term had not yet expired (John McHale). 
Balloting was conducted by mail in January 2007, with voters permitted 
to vote for up to 10 candidates from each ballot; all candidates who received 
at least 75% of the vote would be elected. Results of the voting by the 
Veterans Committee were announced on February 27. There were 84 eligible 
voters. 82 cast ballots in the players election, with 62 votes required 
for election; 81 cast ballots in the composite election, with 61 votes 
required for election. In all, 489 individual votes were cast on the players 
ballot, for an average of 5.96 votes per ballot, while 338 individual votes 
were cast on the composite ballot, an average of 4.17 votes per ballot. 
For the third consecutive Veterans Committee election, no one was elected. 
Of the 23 players who were also on the 2005 ballot, 14 received fewer votes 
in 2007, with only Jim Kaat (9), Don Newcombe (9), Maury Wills (7) and 
Ron Santo (5) increasing their totals by at least five votes. The 27 candidates 
on the players' ballot, with one player newly eligible since 2005 indicated 
with a † and candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
indicated in italics, were: There were 15 candidates on the composite ballot, 
all of whom had been previously eligible. Again reflecting an emphasis 
on recent figures, all 15 were active in the sport in 1976 or later. The 
candidates, with the ten executives designated (E), the four managers designated 
(M) and the sole umpire designated (U), and those who have since been selected 
in subsequent elections indicated in italics, were: Following the third 
consecutive election in which there were no selections, and with only minimal 
gains by individual candidates over that period, Hall of Fame chairwoman 
Jane Forbes Clark suggested that the Hall's board of directors might make 
changes in the process before the next scheduled election in 2009, saying, 
"We are disappointed that no one has been elected in the three voting cycles. 
We will be evaluating this process and its trends at our next meeting, 
which is March 13, and discussing whether there should be any changes." 
She added, "The board may decide that the trends are not what we thought 
they were going to be. Perhaps this hasn't worked as well as some of the 
board members thought it would and maybe it needs a little bit of change."[16] 
The board took no action at its March meeting, opting to continue discussions 
before its next meeting during induction weekend in July.[17] Hall of Fame 
member and vice chairman Joe Morgan tried to deflect criticism, saying, 
"We're being blamed because something hasn't happened. If you're asking 
me, 'Do we lower our standards to get more people in?' my answer would 
be no." Noting that he voted for the maximum 10 players, he added, "I feel 
there are some guys out there that belong in the Hall of Fame," but also 
said, "The writers voted on these people for 15 years and they weren't 
elected. Why are we being criticized because we haven't elected someone?"[16] 
Joe Torre, who received less than half the required number of votes (but 
was elected in his first year of eligibility as a manager), expressed disappointment 
that no one was selected and said, "I'm not exactly sure what process they 
use. Don't forget, you've got the old guard and the young guard. People 
with different interests."[16] And Hall of Famer Mike Schmidt noted his 
support for Jim Kaat and observed that other members also had "their guys," 
admitting, "Maybe that is the problem when you are trying to evaluate 'bubble' 
players on entrance. The same thing happens every year. The current members 
want to preserve the prestige as much as possible, and are unwilling to 
open the doors."[16] Two months after the results were announced, Commissioner 
Bud Selig expressed puzzlement that figures such as Ron Santo had not been 
elected, and indicated that after three unsuccessful elections he now favored 
a revision in the voting method.[18] Coincidentally or not, the aforementioned 
rules changes for the Veterans Committee election process were announced 
almost exactly three months after Selig's remarks. Rick Hummel received 
the J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. (The award was 
voted at the December 2006 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 2006, and conferred 
in the summer 2007 ceremonies.) The Spink Award has been presented by the 
BBWAA at the annual summer induction ceremonies since 1962. It recognizes 
a sportswriter "for meritorious contributions to baseball writing". The 
recipients are not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely featured in 
a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters 
commonly call them "Hall of Fame writers" or words to that effect. Living 
recipients were members of the Veterans Committee for elections in odd 
years 2003 to 2007. Three final candidates, selected by a BBWAA committee, 
were named on July 11, 2006 in Pittsburgh in conjunction with All-Star 
Game activities: Rick Hummel of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Nick Peters 
of The Sacramento Bee, and Morris Siegel, a writer for four Washington, 
D.C. newspapers. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to cast 
ballots in voting conducted by mail in November. On December 6 at baseball's 
winter meetings, Rick Hummel was announced as the recipient [1], having 
received 233 votes out of the 411 ballots cast, with Siegel receiving 112 
votes and Peters receiving 66 [2]. Denny Matthews received the Ford C. 
Frick Award honoring a baseball broadcaster. The Frick Award has been presented 
at the annual summer induction ceremonies since 1978. It recognizes a broadcaster 
for "major contributions to baseball". The recipients are not members of 
the Hall of the Fame, merely featured in a permanent exhibit at the National 
Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall 
of Fame broadcaster" or words to that effect. Living honorees were members 
of the Veterans Committee for elections in odd years 2003 to 2007. To be 
eligible, an active or retired broadcaster must have a minimum of 10 years 
of continuous major league broadcast service with a ball club, a network, 
or a combination of the two; 195 candidates were eligible. On December 
5, 2006, the ten finalists were announced. In accordance with guidelines 
established in 2003, seven were chosen by a research committee at the museum: 
Tom Cheek, Dizzy Dean, Tony Kubek, France Laux, Denny Matthews, Graham 
McNamee and Dave Niehaus. Three additional candidates – Ken Harrelson, 
Bill King, and Joe Nuxhall – were selected through results of voting by 
fans conducted throughout November at the Hall's official website; more 
than 75,000 votes were cast [3]. On February 22, Denny Matthews was announced 
as the 2007 recipient [4]; a broadcaster of Kansas City Royals games since 
the franchise was established in 1969, he was selected in a January vote 
by a committee composed of the 14 living recipients, along with six additional 
broadcasting historians or columnists: Bob Costas (NBC), Barry Horn (The 
Dallas Morning News), Stan Isaacs (formerly of New York Newsday), Ted Patterson 
(historian), Curt Smith (historian) and Larry Stewart (Los Angeles Times). 
The committee members voted by mail, and based the selection on the following 
criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including national 
assignments such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity 
