Baseball was introduced in the Philippines during the American colonial 
period. Baseball was a national past time in the country. The sport has 
become a re-emerging sport in the recent years. Baseball was introduced 
in the Philippines by the Americans. The first baseball game in the Philippines 
was played in September 1898 weeks after the Battle of Manila of 1898, 
a match between Astor Battery led by George Wetlaufer and a regiment from 
the American Army. From 1899 to 1900, baseball clubs were established by 
local Filipinos. The sport's introduction aided the American colonial government's 
assimilation efforts. General Otis planned to eliminate local cockfighting 
through the introduction of the sport. A baseball league composing of six 
clubs was established. Then Governor General William Howard Taft encouraged 
baseball in the archipelago. Baseball grew to be a popular sport in the 
country.[1][2][3] Arlie Pond was instrumental to the growth of baseball 
in the country.[4] Baseball's popularity saw a decline from 1898-1923 due 
to claims of neglect by the Department of Public Instruction. Prior to 
1998, sporting officials claimed that the department through the Bureau 
of Education has supported baseball in the country with the goal of eliminating 
cockfighting in the country. Teachers who were brought from the United 
States to the country had no experience in baseball and even in basic athletics. 
The Philippine Amateur Athletic Federation favored indoor baseball over 
its outdoor counterpart. In 1923, the Manila League was the only flourishing 
league in the country.[5] Baseball experienced a boost when the Philippines 
hosted the first Asian Baseball Championship in 1954 and emerged as champions 
in the inaugural tournament. Bobby Balcena became the first player of Filipino 
descent to play in the Major League Baseball in 1956. Baseball continued 
to be a popular sport up to the mid 1970s. Political conflict among baseball 
officials led to the decline of the sports in the country. Basketball eventually 
gained popularity over baseball.[6][7] From 1971 up to 1994 the Philippines 
didn't take part in any international competition. Baseball suffered from 
lack of financial support and decrease of baseball venues. There was also 
a lack of coverage on television on the sport.[7] Since 2005, the Philippine 
baseball became a re-emerging sport finishing just behind the three Asian 
baseball powerhouses. The Philippines became a powerhouse in the ASEAN 
region and has developed rivalries with Thailand and Indonesia. Baseball 
