Harmon Killebrew Pee Wee Reese Rick Ferrell Luis Aparicio Elections to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1984 followed the system in place since 1978. 
The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select 
from recent major league players and elected three: Luis Aparicio, Don 
Drysdale, and Harmon Killebrew. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, 
and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected two players, Rick Ferrell 
and Pee Wee Reese. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 
1964 or later, but not after 1978; the ballot included candidates from 
the 1983 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 1978. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 29 players; a total 
of 403 ballots were cast, with 303 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,905 individual votes were cast, an average of 7.21 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected 
are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. The newly-eligible players included 12 All-Stars, 
five of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 25 
All-Star selections. Jim Fregosi, who was selected to the All Star Game 
six times, was the only newly eligible player selected at least five times. 
Players eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot 
were: Sandy Alomar, Sr., Andy Etchebarren, Al Fitzmorris, Tito Fuentes, 
Wayne Garrett, Cito Gaston, Larry Haney, Ed Herrmann, Joe Lahoud, Paul 
