A baseball bat is a smooth wooden or metal club used in the sport of baseball 
to hit the ball after it is thrown by the pitcher. By regulation it may 
be no more than 2.75 inches in diameter at the thickest part and no more 
than 42 inches (1,100 mm) long. Although historically bats approaching 
3 pounds (1.4 kg) were swung,[1] today bats of 33 ounces (0.94 kg) are 
common, topping out at 34 ounces (0.96 kg) to 36 ounces (1.0 kg).[1] Although 
using a stick to hit a ball is a somewhat simple concept, the bat is a 
complex object. It is carved or constructed very carefully to allow a quick, 
balanced swing while providing power. The bat is divided into several regions. 
The barrel is the thick part of the bat, where it is meant to hit the ball. 
The part of the barrel best for hitting the ball, according to construction 
and swinging style, is often called the sweet spot. The end of the barrel 
is not part of the sweet spot and is simply called the top, end or cap 
of the bat. The barrel narrows and becomes the handle. The handle is very 
thin, so that batters can comfortably grip the bat in their hands. Sometimes, 
especially on metal bats, the handle is wrapped with a rubber or tape grip. 
Finally, below the handle is the knob of the bat, a wider piece that keeps 
the bat from slipping from a batter's hands. Over the decades, the bat's 
form has become more refined. During the 19th century, many shapes were 
experimented with, as well as handle designs. Today, bats are much more 
uniform in design. "Lumber" is an often-used slang term for a bat, especially 
when wielded by a particularly able batter. The bat drop of a bat is its 
weight, in ounces, minus its length, in inches. For example, a 30-ounce, 
33-inch-long bat has a bat drop of minus 3 (30 − 33 = −3). Larger bat drops 
help to increase swing speed. Bats with smaller drops create more power. 
In the mid-1800s, baseball batters were known to shape or whittle their 
own bats by hand. This allowed there to be a wide variety in shape, size, 
and weight. For example, there were flat bats, round bats, short bats, 
and fat bats. Earlier bats were known to be much heavier and larger than 
today's regulated ones. Since the bat regulations were set, there have 
not been many major design changes in the bats. In the American major leagues, 
Rule 1.10(a) states:[2] The bat shall be a smooth, round stick not more 
than 2.61 inches in diameter at the thickest part and not more than 42 
inches in length. The bat shall be one piece of solid wood. Bats are not 
allowed to be hollowed or corked—that is, filled with an alien substance 
such as cork which reduces the weight. This corking is thought to increase 
bat speed without greatly reducing hitting power; however this idea was 
challenged as unlikely on the Discovery Channel series MythBusters.[3] 
Both wooden and metal alloy (generally aluminum) bats are generally permitted 
in amateur baseball. Metal alloy bats are generally regarded as being capable 
of hitting a ball faster and farther with the same power. However, increasing 
numbers of "wooden bat leagues" have emerged in recent years, reflecting 
a trend back to wood over safety concerns and, in the case of collegiate 
summer baseball wood-bat leagues, to better prepare players for the professional 
leagues that require wood bats. Metal alloy bats can send a ball towards 
an unprotected pitcher's head just 60 ft 6 in (18.44 m) or less away at 
a velocity far too high for the pitcher to get out of the way in time. 
Some amateur baseball organizations enforce bat manufacturing and testing 
standards which attempt to limit maximum ball speed for wood and non-wood 
bats.[4][5][6] Aesthetically, wooden bats are generally preferred to metal, 
both for their traditional appearance and satisfying traditional "crack", 
far superior to alloy bats' hollow "ping". Most wooden bats are made from 
ash. Other woods include maple, hickory, and bamboo. Hickory has fallen 
into disfavor over its greater weight, which slows down bat speed, while 
maple bats gained popularity following the introduction of the first major 
league sanctioned model in 1997. The first player to use one was Joe Carter 
of the Toronto Blue Jays.[7] Barry Bonds used maple bats the seasons he 
broke baseball's single-season home run record in 2001, and the career 
home run record in 2007.[7] In 2010, the increased tendency of maple bats 
to shatter has caused Major League Baseball to examine their use, banning 
some models in minor league play.[8][9] Within league standards there is 
ample latitude for individual variation, many batters settling on their 
own bat profile, or one used by a successful batter. Formerly, bats were 
hand-turned from a template with precise calibration points; today they 
are machine-turned to a fixed metal template. Historically significant 
templates may be kept in a bat manufacturers' vault; for example, Babe 
Ruth's template, which became popular among major-league players, is R43 
in the Louisville Slugger archives.[citation needed] Once the basic bat 
has been turned, it has the manufacturer's name, the serial number, and 
often the signature of the player endorsing it branded into it opposite 
the wood's best side. Honus Wagner was the first player to endorse and 
sign a bat. Next, most bats are given a rounded head, but some 30%[citation 
needed] of players prefer a "cup-balanced" head, in which a cup-shaped 
recess is made in the head; this lightens the bat and moves its center 
of gravity toward the handle. Finally, the bat is stained in one of several 
standard colors, including natural, red, black, and two-tone blue and white. 
In high school baseball in the United States: In some 12-year-old-and-under 
youth leagues (such as Little League baseball), the bat may not be more 
than 2 1⁄4 inches (57 mm) in diameter.[11] However, in many other leagues 
(like PONY League Baseball, and Cal Ripken League Baseball), the bat may 
not be more than 2 3⁄4 inches (70 mm) in diameter.[12] A baseball player 
may apply pine tar on the gripping end of the bat in order to improve grip. 
Too much pine tar, however, is illegal: according to Rule 1.10(c) of the 
Major League Baseball Rulebook, it is not allowed more than 18 inches up 
from the bottom handle. An infamous example of the rule in execution is 
the Pine Tar Incident on July 24, 1983, when Kansas City Royals third baseman 
George Brett was called out after hitting an apparent home run, because 
after comparing the length of the pine-tar treated area to the width of 
home plate (17 inches), the umpire determined too much of the bat was covered 
with pine tar. At the time, such a hit was defined in the rules as an illegally 
batted ball, the penalty for which is that the batter is declared out according 
to Rule 6.06. Nonetheless, at the time, the out call was challenged and 
overruled, and the game was resumed on August 6, starting after the now-upheld 
home run. Rules 1.10 and 6.06 were later changed to reflect the intent 
of Major League Baseball, as exemplified by the league president's ruling. 
Rule 1.10 now only requires that the bat be removed from the game if discovered 
after being used in a game; it no longer necessitates any change to the 
results of any play which may have taken place. Rule 6.06 refers only to 
bats that are "altered or tampered with in such a way to improve the distance 
factor or cause an unusual reaction on the baseball. This includes, bats 
that are filled, flat-surfaced, nailed, hollowed, grooved or covered with 
a substance such as paraffin, wax, etc." It no longer makes any mention 
of an "illegally batted ball". In 2001, MLB approved the use of Gorilla 
Gold Grip Enhancer in major and minor league games as an alternative to 
pine tar.[13][14] Players can be very particular about their bats. Ted 
Williams cleaned his bats with alcohol every night and periodically took 
them to the post office to weigh them. "Bats pick up condensation and dirt 
lying around on the ground," he wrote, "They can gain an ounce or more 
in a surprisingly short time." Ichiro Suzuki also takes great care that 
his bats do not accumulate moisture and thus gain weight: he stores his 
bats in humidors, one in the club house and another, a portable one, for 
the road. Rod Carew fought moisture by storing his bats in a box full of 
sawdust in the warmest part of his house. "The sawdust acts as a buffer 
between the bats and the environment," he explained, "absorbing any moisture 
before it can seep into the wood."[15] Many players "bone" their bats, 
meaning that before games, they rub their bats repeatedly with a hard object, 
believing this closes the pores on the wood and hardens the bat. Animal 
bones are a popular boning material, but rolling pins, soda bottles and 
the edge of a porcelain sink have also been used. Pete Rose had his own 
way of hardening his bats: he soaked them in a tub of motor oil in his 
basement then hung them up to dry.[15] Simple stains can be removed with 
soap and water, while conditioners and approved solutions may be used for 
harder ones. Rubbing alcohol is a good cleanser for pine tar stains and 
ball marks and works like a charm. Lysol wipes and olive oil are also good 
against sticky stains.[16] A wood baseball bat should always be used "label 
up" or "label down".[17] Manufacturers position each bat's label over the 
mechanically weaker side of the wood.[17] To reduce chance of fracture,[17] 
and maybe deliver more energy to the ball,[18] a bat is intended to be 
held so the label faces sky or ground when it strikes the ball during a 
horizontal swing. In this orientation, the bat is considered stiffer and 
less likely to break.[19] For bats made of ash, labels will generally be 
where the grain spacing is widest. For maple bats they will usually be 
positioned where grain is tightest. Woods fracture differently.[20] Maple 
bats in particular were once known (circa 2008) to potentially shatter 
in a way that resulted in many sharp edges, sometimes creating more dangerous 
projectiles when a bat broke.[17][21][22] Maple bat manufacture evolved 
significantly, in cooperation with Major League Baseball,[23] paying special 
attention to grain slope, and including an ink spot test to confirm safest 
wood grain orientation.[19] Based on consistent anecdotal reports of sales 
at sporting goods stores, Maple appears to be displacing Ash as most popular 
new baseball bat material in the United States. Next and rising in popularity 
is Bamboo, which has more isotropic fine grain, great strength, and less 
weight for a bat of any given size. A fungo bat is a specially designed 
bat used by baseball and softball coaches for practice. The etymology of 
the word fungo (pronunciation: /ˈfʌŋɡoʊ/) is uncertain, but the Oxford 
English Dictionary suggests it is derived from the Scots fung: to pitch, 
toss, or fling.[24] A fungo is longer and lighter than a regulation bat, 
with a smaller diameter. The bat is designed to hit balls tossed up in 
the air by the batter, not pitched balls.[25] Typical fungo bats are 35 
to 37 inches (89 to 94 cm) long and weigh 17 to 22 ounces (480 to 620 g). 
Coaches hit many balls during fielding practice, and the weight and length 
allow the coach to hit balls repeatedly with high accuracy. The small diameter 
also allows coaches to easily hit pop-ups to catchers and infielders along 
with ground balls due to better control of the barrel of the bat. A baseball 
