Baseball in the United States is one of the most popular sports for both 
participants and spectators.[1][2] The highest level of baseball in the 
U.S. is Major League Baseball.[3] The World Series of Major League Baseball 
is the culmination of the sport's postseason each October. It is played 
between the winner of each of the two leagues, the American League and 
the National League, and the winner is determined through a best-of-seven 
playoff.[4] As baseball developed over 150 years ago in the northeast, 
it has been played and followed in this region longer than in others. New 
York City is for many sports fans synonymous with the New York Yankees 
and their logo.[5] The team is noted as having been the team of many of 
the all-time greats in the history of the game, and for having won more 
titles than any other US major professional sports franchise. The city 
was also host to two other highly popular baseball teams in the National 
League, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants, before their transfer 
to California beginning with the 1958 season. The Yankees' chief rivals, 
the Boston Red Sox, also enjoy a huge following in Boston and throughout 
New England. The fierce National League rivalry between the former Brooklyn 
Dodgers and New York Giants was transferred to the West Coast when the 
teams became the Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants, and 
California has always been among the US states which have supplied the 
most players in the major leagues. Philadelphia sports fans have rooted 
for the Phillies since 1883, as they are the oldest continuous, one-name, 
one-city franchise in all of professional American sports.[6] Philadelphia 
Phillies fans are known for their rabid support of their team throughout 
Philadelphia and the Delaware Valley, and have famously been dubbed as 
the "Meanest Fans in America".[7] Chicago sports fans also avidly follow 
the Chicago Cubs and to a lesser extent the Chicago White Sox despite the 
comparative lack of success for the teams, with Chicago Cub fans being 
known throughout the country for their passionate loyalty to the team despite 
their not having won a championship from 1908 to 2016.[8] An extensive 
minor league baseball system covers most mid-sized cities in the United 
States. Minor league baseball teams are organized in a six-tier hierarchy, 
in which the highest teams (AAA) are in major cities that do not have a 
major league team but often have a major team in another sport, and each 
level occupies progressively smaller cities. The lowest levels of professional 
baseball serve primarily as development systems for the sport's most inexperienced 
prospects, with the absolute bottom, the rookie leagues, occupying the 
major league squads' spring training complexes and making no effort to 
earn money on their own. Some limited independent professional baseball 
exists, the most prominent being the Atlantic League, which occupies mostly 
suburban locales that are not eligible for high level minor league teams 
of their own. Outside the minor leagues are collegiate summer baseball 
leagues, which occupy towns even smaller than those at the lower end of 
minor league baseball and typically cannot support professional sports. 
Summer baseball is an amateur exercise and uses players that choose not 
to play for payment in order to remain eligible to play college baseball 
for their respective universities in the spring. At the absolute lowest 
end of the organized baseball system is senior amateur baseball (also known 
as Town Team Baseball), which typically plays its games only on weekends. 
Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball organization that 
is the oldest of the four major professional sports leagues in the United 
States and Canada. A total of 30 teams now play in the American League 
(AL) and National League (NL), with 15 teams in each league. The AL and 
NL operated as separate legal entities from 1901 and 1876 respectively. 
After cooperating but remaining legally separate entities since 1903, in 
2000 the leagues merged into a single organization led by the Commissioner 
of Baseball.[9] The organization also oversees minor league baseball leagues, 
which comprise about 240 teams affiliated with the major-league clubs. 
With the World Baseball Softball Confederation, MLB manages the international 
World Baseball Classic tournament. Baseball's first professional team was 
founded in Cincinnati in 1869. The first few decades of professional baseball 
were characterized by rivalries between leagues and by players who often 
jumped from one team or league to another. The period before 1920 in baseball 
was known as the dead-ball era; players rarely hit home runs during this 
time. Baseball survived a conspiracy to fix the 1919 World Series, which 
came to be known as the Black Sox Scandal. The sport rose in popularity 
in the 1920s, and survived potential downturns during the Great Depression 
and World War II. Shortly after the war, baseball's color barrier was broken 
by Jackie Robinson. The 1950s and 1960s were a time of expansion for the 
AL and NL, then new stadiums and artificial turf surfaces began to change 
the game in the 1970s and 1980s.[1] Home runs dominated the game during 
the 1990s, and media reports began to discuss the use of anabolic steroids 
among Major League players in the mid-2000s.[10] In 2006, an investigation 
produced the Mitchell Report, which implicated many players in the use 
of performance-enhancing substances, including at least one player from 
each team. Today, MLB is composed of thirty teams: twenty-nine in the United 
States and one in Canada. Teams play 162 games each season and five teams 
in each league advance to a four-round postseason tournament that culminates 
in the World Series, a best-of-seven championship series between the two 
league champions that dates to 1903. Baseball broadcasts are aired throughout 
North America and in several other countries throughout the world. Games 
are aired on television, radio, and the Internet. MLB has the highest season 
attendance of any sports league in the world with more than 74 million 
spectators in 2013.[11] Minor League Baseball is a hierarchy of professional 
baseball leagues in the Americas that compete at levels below Major League 
Baseball (MLB) and provide opportunities for player development and a way 
to prepare for the major leagues. All of the minor leagues are operated 
as independent businesses. Most are members of the umbrella organization 
known as Minor League Baseball (MiLB), which operates under the Commissioner 
of Baseball within the scope of organized baseball. Several leagues, known 
as independent baseball leagues, do not have any official links to Major 
League Baseball. Except for the Mexican League, teams in the organized 
minor leagues are generally independently owned and operated but are directly 
affiliated with one major league team through a standardized Player Development 
Contract (PDC). These leagues also go by the nicknames the "farm system", 
"farm club", or "farm team(s)" because of a joke passed around by major 
league players in the 1930s when St. Louis Cardinals' general manager Branch 
Rickey formalized the system, and teams in small towns were "growing players 
down on the farm like corn." Major League Baseball and Minor League Baseball 
teams may enter into a PDC for a two- or four-year term. At the expiration 
of a PDC term, teams may renew their affiliation, or sign new PDCs with 
different clubs, though many relationships are renewed and endure for extended 
time periods. For example, the Omaha Storm Chasers (formerly the Omaha 
Royals) have been the Triple-A affiliate of the Kansas City Royals since 
the Royals joined the American League in 1969, but the Columbus Clippers 
changed affiliations, after being associated with the New York Yankees 
from 1979, to the Washington Nationals in 2007 and have been affiliated 
with the Cleveland Indians since 2009. A few minor league teams are directly 
owned by their major league parent club, such as the Springfield Cardinals, 
owned by the St. Louis Cardinals, and all of the Atlanta Braves' affiliates 
except the Carolina Mudcats. Minor League teams that are owned directly 
by the major league Club do not have PDCs with each other and are not part 
of the reaffiliation shuffles that occur every other year. Today, 19 affiliated 
minor baseball leagues operate with 246 member clubs in large, medium, 
and small towns, as well as the suburbs of major cities, across the United 
States, Canada, Mexico, the Dominican Republic, and Venezuela.[12] Several 
more independent leagues operate in the United States and Canada. College 
baseball is played on the intercollegiate level at institutions of higher 
education. In comparison to football and basketball, college competition 
in the United States plays a smaller role in developing professional players, 
as baseball's professional minor leagues are more extensive. Moving directly 
from high school to the professional level is more common in baseball than 
in football or basketball. However, if players enroll at a four-year college, 
they must complete three years to regain eligibility, unless they reach 
age 21 before starting their third year of attendance. Players who enroll 
at junior colleges (i.e., two-year institutions) regain eligibility after 
one year at that level, Bryce Harper being a notable example. In 2013, 
there are 298 NCAA Division I teams in the United States. As with most 
other U.S. intercollegiate sports, competitive college baseball is played 
under the auspices of the NCAA or the NAIA. The NCAA writes the rules of 
play, while each sanctioning body supervises season-ending tournaments. 
The final rounds of the NCAA tournaments are known as the College World 
Series; one is held on each of the three levels of competition sanctioned 
by the NCAA. The College World Series for Division I takes place in Omaha, 
Nebraska in June, following the regular season. The playoff bracket for 
Division I consists of 64 teams, with four teams playing at each of 16 
regional sites (in a double-elimination format). The 16 winners advance 
to the Super Regionals at eight sites, played head-to-head in a best-of-three 
series. The eight winners then advance to the College World Series, a double 
elimination tournament (actually two separate four-team brackets) to determine 
the two national finalists. The finalists play a best-of-three series to 
determine the Division I national champion. In 2015, Virginia won the College 
World Series. Notable American baseball players in history include Babe 
Ruth, Ty Cobb, Cy Young, Honus Wagner, Ted Williams, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, 
Mickey Mantle, Stan Musial, Willie Mays, Sandy Koufax, Yogi Berra, Hank 
Aaron, Nolan Ryan, Mike Schmidt, Cal Ripken, Roger Clemens, Derek Jeter. 
Jackie Robinson was instrumental in dissolving the color line and allowing 
African-Americans into the major leagues. [13] The more noted players of 
today include Miguel Cabrera, Mike Trout and Albert Pujols and Bryce Harper 
