Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1973 followed the system in 
place since 1971, except by adding the special election of Roberto Clemente, 
who died in a plane crash on New Year's Eve. The Baseball Writers Association 
of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from recent major league players 
and elected Warren Spahn. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to consider executives, managers, umpires, and earlier major league players. 
It selected three people: Billy Evans, George Kelly, and Mickey Welch. 
The Negro Leagues Committee also met in person and selected Monte Irvin. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1953 or later, but 
not after 1967; the ballot included candidates from the 1972 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1967. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 43 players; a total of 380 ballots were 
cast, with 285 votes required for election. A total of 3,011 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 7.92 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. Johnny Mize, Marty Marion, Dom DiMaggio, Dutch 
Leonard and Harry Brecheen were on the ballot for the final time. The newly-eligible 
players included 24 All-Stars, 16 of whom were not included on the ballot, 
representing a total of 95 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates 
were 17-time All-Star Warren Spahn, 10-time All-Star Whitey Ford, 9-time 
All-Star Smoky Burgess, 8-time All-Star Dick Groat and Bill Skowron, 7-time 
All-Star Robin Roberts and 5-time All-Star Earl Battey. On March 20, the 
BBWAA held a special election for Roberto Clemente, who had died in a plane 
crash on December 31, 1972. Clemente was elected after receiving 393 votes 
