Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1978 introduced a new system 
that would continue to 1994. The special committee on Negro Leagues had 
disbanded after its 1977 meeting. Two of its members were appointed to 
the Veterans Committee, as part of expanding that body from twelve to eighteen 
members, and its responsibilities were extended to cover the Negro Leagues. 
Where the special committee had elected nine people in seven years from 
1971, the expanded Veterans Committee would elect two in seventeen years 
up to 1994, before the next reform. The Baseball Writers Association of 
America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from recent major league players 
and elected Eddie Mathews. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, 
and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected Addie Joss and Larry MacPhail. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1958 or later, but 
not after 1972; the ballot included candidates from the 1977 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1972. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 36 players; a total of 379 ballots were 
cast, with 285 votes required for election. A total of 2,779 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 7.33 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. Roberto Clemente, who died during the 1972 season, 
was included on the 1973 ballot under a standard provision for players 
who die before the five-year waiting period has elapsed. The newly-eligible 
players included 18 All-Stars, 11 of whom were not included on the ballot, 
representing a total of 39 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates 
were 7-time All-Star Bill Mazeroski and 5-time All-Stars Hoyt Wilhelm and 
Maury Wlls. The field included two MVPs (Wills and Denny McLain), one Cy 
Young Award winner (Denny McLain, who received the MVP the same year as 
one of his two Cy Young Awards; that same season, he was the last pitcher 
to win thirty games in a season) and two Rookies of the Year (Ron Hansen 
and Gary Peters). Bill Mazeroski also had eight Gold Gloves at Second Base, 
the record at the time. Players eligible for the first time who were not 
included on the ballot were: Ted Abernathy, Joe Azcue, John Bateman, Wade 
Blasingame, Don Buford, Donn Clendenon, Tony Cloninger, Moe Drabowsky, 
Joe Gibbon, Tom Haller, Steve Hamilton, Ron Hansen, Joe Horlen, Julian 
Javier, Denny Lemaster, J. C. Martin, Don Mincher, Gary Peters, Phil Regan, 
