Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1980 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected Al Kaline 
and Duke Snider. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider 
older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, and 
figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected Chuck Klein and Tom Yawkey. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1960 or later, but 
not after 1974; the ballot included candidates from the 1979 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with players 
whose last appearance was in 1974. As had happened in the 1979 voting, 
the BBWAA choose to put all eligible first-year candidates on the ballot 
rather than limiting them to those chosen by a selection committee. All 
10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed 
to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on 
at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. 
The ballot consisted of 61 players; a total of 385 ballots were cast, with 
289 votes required for election. A total of 2,963 individual votes were 
cast, an average of 7.70 per ballot. Those candidates receiving less than 
5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually 
be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were eligible for 
the first time are indicated here with a †. The two candidates who received 
at least 75% of the vote and were elected is indicated in bold italics; 
candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections are indicated 
in italics. The 38 candidates who received less than 5% of the vote, thus 
becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are indicated with 
a *. Mickey Vernon, Don Newcombe and Alvin Dark were on the ballot for 
the 15th and final time. The newly-eligible players included 20 All-Stars, 
representing a total of 66 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates 
were 15-time All-Star Al Kaline, 9-time All-Star Ron Santo, 7-time All-Star 
Orlando Cepeda and 5-time All-Star Mel Stottlemyre, Sr. The field included 
