Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2005 proceeded in keeping with 
rules enacted in 2001. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) 
held an election to select from recent players, and the Veterans Committee 
held a separate election to select from players retired more than 20 years. 
Induction ceremonies in Cooperstown were held July 31 with Commissioner 
Bud Selig presiding. The BBWAA was again authorized to elect players active 
in 1985 or later, but not after 1999; the ballot included candidates from 
the 2004 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 1999. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. Results of the 2005 election by the BBWAA were 
announced on January 4. The ballot consisted of 27 players; 516 ballots 
were cast, with 387 votes required for election. A total of 3263 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 6.32 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote (26 votes) will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, 
but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates 
who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two 
candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated 
in bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in subsequent 
elections are indicated in italics. The candidates who received less than 
5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. The newly-eligible candidates included 10 All Stars 
(two of whom were not on the ballot), who were selected for a combined 
total of 43 times. Wade Boggs, a 12-time All Star, and Darryl Strawberry, 
an eight-time All Star, were the only new candidates selected five or more 
times. The ballot included one Rookie of the Year (Strawberry), one Cy 
Young Award-winner (Jack McDowell), and one MVP (Willie McGee). Players 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Paul 
Assenmacher, Jeff Blauser, Mike Blowers, John Cangelosi, Jim Corsi, Rich 
DeLucia, Tony Fossas, Carlos García, Jack Howell, Darrin Jackson, Jeff 
King, Mike Macfarlane, Kirt Manwaring, Derrick May, Brian McRae, Eric Plunk, 
Mark Portugal, Mel Rojas, Paul Sorrento, and Dale Sveum. Of the new players 
on the ballot, only Wade Boggs was elected; Willie McGee was the only other 
first-timer to receive enough votes to remain on the ballot, receiving 
the exact minimum (26) to stay eligible. Rules enacted in August 2001 provided 
that the Veterans Committee would be expanded from its previous 15 members, 
elected to limited terms, to include the full living membership of the 
Hall. Elections for players retired over 20 years would be held every other 
year, with elections of non-players (managers, umpires and executives) 
held every fourth year. No candidates were elected from either ballot in 
2003. Following 2004, when no Veterans election was held, the Committee 
voted in 2005 on players who were active no later than 1983; the next such 
election was in 2007. There was no 2005 election for non-players; the last 
such election was in 2003, and the next was held in 2007. In December 2003, 
a Historical Overview Committee of nine sportswriters appointed by the 
BBWAA's Board of Directors met at the Hall of Fame's library and nominated 
200 players who were active in the major leagues no later than 1983. They 
were provided with statistical information by the Elias Sports Bureau, 
official statistician for Major League Baseball since the 1920s, which 
also identified the 1,400 players with 10 or more years of play who were 
eligible. The Historical Overview Committee comprised Bob Elliott (Toronto 
Sun), Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau), Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch), 
Moss Klein (Newark Star-Ledger), Bill Madden (New York Daily News), Ken 
Nigro (former Baltimore Sun writer), Jack O'Connell (The Hartford Courant), 
Tracy Ringolsby (Rocky Mountain News), and Mark Whicker (Orange Country 
Register). Their list of 200 players was announced April 19, 2004. Players. 
(† marks those newly eligible since 2003 (eight). They last played in the 
majors during 1982 or 1983.) Babe Adams - Joe Adcock - Dick Allen - Felipe 
Alou - Sal Bando - Dick Bartell - Ginger Beaumont - †Mark Belanger - Wally 
Berger - Bobby Bonds - Ken Boyer - Harry Brecheen - Tommy Bridges - Pete 
Browning - Charlie Buffinton - Lew Burdette - George H. Burns - George 
J. Burns - Dolph Camilli - †Bert Campaneris - Bob Caruthers - George Case 
- Norm Cash - Phil Cavarretta - Spud Chandler - Ben Chapman - Rocky Colavito 
- Mort Cooper - Walker Cooper - Wilbur Cooper - Doc Cramer - Del Crandall 
- Gavvy Cravath - Lave Cross - Mike Cuellar - Bill Dahlen - Alvin Dark 
- Jake Daubert - Tommy Davis - Willie Davis - Paul Derringer - Dom DiMaggio 
- Patsy Donovan - Larry Doyle - Jimmy Dykes - Bob Elliott - Del Ennis - 
Carl Erskine - Elroy Face - Wes Ferrell - Freddie Fitzsimmons - Curt Flood 
- Bill Freehan - Jim Fregosi - Carl Furillo - Mike Garcia - Junior Gilliam 
- Jack Glasscock - Joe Gordon - Charlie Grimm - Dick Groat - Heinie Groh 
- Stan Hack - Harvey Haddix - Mel Harder - Jeff Heath - Tommy Henrich - 
Babe Herman - Pinky Higgins - John Hiller - Gil Hodges - Ken Holtzman - 
Willie Horton - Elston Howard - Frank Howard - Dummy Hoy - Larry Jackson 
- Jackie Jensen - Sam Jethroe - Bob L. Johnson - Davey Johnson - Joe Judge 
- †Jim Kaat - Willie Kamm - Ken Keltner - Don Kessinger - Johnny Kling 
- Ted Kluszewski - Ray Kremer - Harvey Kuenn - Joe Kuhel - Vern Law - Sam 
Leever - Mickey Lolich - Sherm Lollar - Herman Long - Eddie Lopat - Dolf 
Luque - †Sparky Lyle - Sal Maglie - Jim Maloney - Firpo Marberry - Marty 
Marion - Roger Maris - Mike G. Marshall - Pepper Martin - †Lee May - Carl 
Mays - Tim McCarver - Frank McCormick - Lindy McDaniel - Gil McDougald 
- Sam McDowell - Stuffy McInnis - Denny McLain - Roy McMillan - Dave McNally 
- Andy Messersmith - Bob Meusel - Irish Meusel - Bing Miller - Stu Miller 
- Minnie Miñoso - Terry Moore - Tony Mullane - Thurman Munson - †Bobby 
Murcer - Johnny Murphy - Buddy Myer - Art Nehf - Don Newcombe - Bobo Newsom 
- Lefty O'Doul - Tony Oliva - Claude Osteen - Andy Pafko - Milt Pappas 
- Camilo Pascual - Ron Perranoski - Jim Perry - Johnny Pesky - Rico Petrocelli 
- Deacon Phillippe - Billy Pierce - Vada Pinson - Wally Pipp - Johnny Podres 
- Boog Powell - Jack Quinn - Vic Raschi - Ed Reulbach - Allie Reynolds 
- Eddie Rommel - Charlie Root - Al Rosen - Schoolboy Rowe - Pete Runnels 
- Jimmy Ryan - Johnny Sain - Ron Santo - Hank Sauer - Wally Schang - George 
Scott - Rip Sewell - Bob Shawkey - Urban Shocker - Roy Sievers - Curt Simmons 
- †Reggie Smith - Vern Stephens - Riggs Stephenson - Mel Stottlemyre - 
Harry Stovey - Jesse Tannehill - Tony Taylor - Johnny Temple - Fred Tenney 
- Bobby Thomson - †Luis Tiant - Mike Tiernan - Joe Torre - Cecil Travis 
- Hal Trosky - Virgil Trucks - Johnny Vander Meer - George Van Haltren 
- Bobby Veach - Mickey Vernon - Dixie Walker - Bucky Walters - Lon Warneke 
- Will White - Cy Williams - Ken R. Williams - Maury Wills - Smoky Joe 
Wood - Wilbur Wood - Glenn Wright - Jimmy Wynn - Rudy York The 200 players 
were almost evenly divided between players retired less than 50 years (99 
players retired from 1955 to 1983) and those retired over 50 years (101 
players retired 1954 or earlier). The list of 200 was almost identical 
to the list prepared for the 2003 election; apart from the eight players 
who were newly eligible, only Larry Doyle, Andy Pafko and Smoky Joe Wood 
were added to the list, for a net change of 11 individuals. Perhaps due 
to the reliance on official statistics – often incomplete in the sport's 
early years – provided by the Elias Sports Bureau, the committee included 
very few players from the sport's first half-century, which remained poorly 
represented in the Hall; only 15 players were included who made their debut 
before 1893. Although the Hall's current membership included fewer than 
a dozen non-pitchers of the 1870s and 1880s, compared to nearly 50 from 
the 1930s and 1940s, the committee included nearly 50 more players from 
the period between 1920 and 1945, but only 7 who played primarily in the 
25 years before 1893: first baseman/outfielder Harry Stovey, shortstop 
Jack Glasscock, outfielder Pete Browning, and pitchers Charlie Buffinton, 
Bob Caruthers, Tony Mullane and Will White. The inclusion of Will White 
was remarkable in that his brother Deacon White is widely accepted as having 
been a far greater player. In addition to Deacon White, stars of the 19th 
century who were omitted included Paul Hines, Deacon McGuire, Cupid Childs, 
Bobby Lowe, George Gore, Hardy Richardson, Ezra Sutton, Arlie Latham, Fred 
Pfeffer and Joe Start. By primary fielding position the nominees were starting 
pitchers (66), relief pitchers (9), catchers (10), first basemen (24), 
second basemen (8), third basemen (13), shortstops (19), left fielders 
(18), center fielders (17) and right fielders (16). The Historical Overview 
nominations were forwarded to a 60-member BBWAA screening committee comprising 
two writers from each major league city. In summer 2004 they elected 25 
players who would appear on the final ballot. (Everyone voted for 25 nominees.) 
Meanwhile a committee of six Hall of Fame members independently selected 
five of the 200 nominees who would appear on the final ballot, which would 
thereby comprise 25 to 30 players. Evidently the writers named all of the 
Hall of Fame members' five selections, for there were 25 on the final ballot. 
On December 6, 2004, the final ballot of 25 candidates was announced. Those 
selected played primarily from the 1950s onward, with only 5 of the 25 
candidates having retired before 1960, and only three pitchers – Smoky 
Joe Wood, Carl Mays and Wes Ferrell – having retired before 1950. The BBWAA 
screening committee had failed to include any candidates from the era before 
1910. This likely reflected a tendency among the voting writers to vote 
only for those players they had seen themselves, and to withhold votes 
from earlier players. All 60 living members of the Hall were eligible to 
cast ballots in the final election, along with the 8 living recipients 
of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award, the 14 living recipients of the Ford C. 
Frick Award, and the sole additional member of the pre-2001 Veterans Committee 
whose term had not yet expired (John McHale). Balloting was conducted by 
mail in January 2005, with voters permitted to vote for up to 10 candidates 
from the ballot of 25 individuals; all candidates who received at least 
75% of the vote would be elected. Results of the voting by the Veterans 
Committee were announced on March 2. There were 83 eligible voters, 80 
of whom cast ballots; 60 votes were required for election. In all, 458 
individual votes were cast, for an average of 5.73 votes per ballot. For 
the second consecutive Veterans Committee election, no player was elected. 
Of the 21 candidates who were also on the 2003 ballot, only 7 gained more 
votes in 2005, with only Joe Torre (7), Ron Santo (6) and Ken Boyer (4) 
increasing their totals by more than two votes. Candidates who were considered 
by the Committee for the first time are indicated here with a †; candidates 
who have since been elected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. 
The complete ballot, with the number of votes cast for each candidate, 
was: Hall of Fame chairwoman Jane Forbes Clark responded to the Committee's 
failure to elect anyone by saying: "The results of the last two elections 
show that the writers – by and large – have done a great job of electing 
players to the Hall of Fame. The current process works by upholding the 
Hall of Fame's high standards for election and by providing a more open, 
more inclusive and more understandable process." Noting that the top candidates 
gained slightly from the 2003 voting, she added: "What's encouraging for 
me is that this shows the process to be dynamic, not static." Hall of Fame 
member Tom Seaver, noting that he had voted for three candidates including 
Gil Hodges, said of the chances of future selections: "I'm of the opinion 
it's going to be awfully hard, and maybe that's how it should be." He added: 
"Will somebody make it out of this committee one day? Absolutely. I'm convinced 
they will." But response from observers in the press and throughout baseball 
was widely critical. Stephen Cannella of Sports Illustrated wrote: "Seaver's 
right. Hall of Fame standards should be high. But letting the inmates play 
gatekeeper allows them to make those standards unreachable. ... it might 
be too much to ask Hall of Famers to be guardians of their realm. ... Would 
you want to belong to a club that would have anyone else as a member?" 
Mike Downey of the Chicago Tribune wrote: "And once again these gentlemen 
made it crystal clear they like their society being extremely exclusive. 
They act as aristocratically as a board from a private school or a homeowners 
association in the Hamptons. ... if the vote were left strictly to former 
players, they might not let another soul in." Dave Anderson wrote in The 
New York Times: "It's time not only for the Cooperstown pooh-bahs to rethink 
this realigned committee's selection process, but also to question the 
responsibility of the do-nothing committee ... after two veterans committee 
shutouts, it's fair to wonder how responsibly do the Hall of Famers, especially 
the 58 ex-players among them, take their duty as voters? Do they really 
study the two pages of statistics, rankings and highlights supplied to 
them for each of the 25 candidates on the ballot – particularly those of 
players from other eras whom they never competed against and probably know 
nothing about? Do they just glance at the list and make a snap judgment?" 
Some writers specifically lamented the failure to elect particular candidates. 
Ken Rosenthal wrote for The Sporting News: "The writers blew it, and now 
the Veterans Committee is blowing it. Former Cubs third baseman Ron Santo 
should be in the Hall of Fame. Santo's career .826 OPS is more than 100 
points higher than Brooks Robinson's and is only 30 points lower than George 
Brett's. Nine All-Star Games, five Gold Gloves – what exactly is the problem?" 
And Bill Madden of the New York Daily News wrote: "Another exercise in 
futility by the new and expanded Veterans Committee has again left Gil 
Hodges waiting on the Hall of Fame doorstep." Candidate Tony Oliva responded 
to the election by saying: "It's almost impossible to go into the Hall 
of Fame the way the system is now. It's ridiculous." And Ron Santo said: 
"It was a very tough day. ... I'm fortunate to have a wonderful family 
that puts everything into perspective. ... It was hard to believe no one 
got in. One thing I can say is the next time I won't be sitting at home 
waiting for the phone." Peter Gammons received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award 
honoring a baseball writer. (The award was voted at the December 2004 meeting 
of the BBWAA, dated 2004, and conferred in the summer 2005 ceremonies.) 
The Spink Award has been presented by the BBWAA at the annual summer induction 
ceremonies since 1962. It recognizes a sportswriter "for meritorious contributions 
to baseball writing". The recipients are not members of the Hall of the 
Fame, merely featured in a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, 
but writers and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall of Fame writers" 
or words to that effect. Living recipients were members of the Veterans 
Committee for elections in odd years 2003 to 2007. Three final candidates, 
selected by a BBWAA committee, were named on July 13, 2004 in Houston in 
conjunction with All-Star Game activities; the finalists were: Peter Gammons 
of The Boston Globe, Sports Illustrated and ESPN The Magazine; the late 
Vern Plagenhoef, who covered the Detroit Tigers for Michigan's Booth Newspaper 
Group; and Tracy Ringolsby, who has covered the Colorado Rockies for the 
Rocky Mountain News since 1993 and has completed 30 seasons as a baseball 
writer. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to cast ballots 
in voting conducted by mail in November. On December 12, Peter Gammons 
was announced as the recipient, having received 248 votes out of the 448 
ballots cast, with Ringolsby receiving 134 votes and Plagenhoef receiving 
66. Jerry Coleman received the Ford C. Frick Award honoring a baseball 
broadcaster. The Frick Award has been presented at the annual summer induction 
ceremonies since 1978. It recognizes a broadcaster for "major contributions 
to baseball". The recipients are not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely 
featured in a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, but writers 
and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall of Fame broadcaster" or words 
to that effect. Living honorees were members of the Veterans Committee 
for elections in odd years 2003 to 2007. To be eligible, an active or retired 
broadcaster must have a minimum of 10 years of continuous major league 
broadcast service with a ball club, a network, or a combination of the 
two; more than 160 candidates were eligible. On December 13, 2004, 10 finalists 
were announced. In accordance with guidelines established in 2003, seven 
were chosen by a research committee at the museum: Jerry Coleman, Ken Coleman, 
Dizzy Dean, Gene Elston, Tony Kubek, France Laux and Graham McNamee. Three 
additional candidates – Dave Niehaus, Tom Cheek and Ron Santo – were selected 
in voting by over 65,000 fans prior to November 2004 at the Hall's official 
website [1]. On February 22, Jerry Coleman was announced as the 2005 recipient 
[2]; a former major league infielder and the voice of the San Diego Padres 
almost continuously since 1972, he was selected in a January vote by a 
20-member committee composed of the 14 living recipients, along with six 
additional broadcasting historians or columnists: Bob Costas (NBC), Barry 
Horn (The Dallas Morning News), Stan Isaacs (formerly of New York Newsday), 
Ted Patterson (historian), Curt Smith (historian) and Larry Stewart (Los 
Angeles Times). Committee members are asked to base the selection on the 
following criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including 
national assignments such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity 
