Greg Maddux Tom Glavine Frank Thomas Bobby Cox Tony La Russa Joe Torre 
Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2014 proceeded according to 
rules most recently revised in July 2010. As in the past, the Baseball 
Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from a ballot 
of recently retired players, with results announced on January 8, 2014.[1] 
The Expansion Era Committee, one of three voting panels that replaced the 
more broadly defined Veterans Committee following the July 2010 rules change, 
convened early in December 2013 to select from a ballot of retired players 
and non-playing personnel who made their greatest contributions to the 
sport after 1972, a time frame that the Hall of Fame calls the "Expansion 
Era".[2][3] The induction class consists of managers Bobby Cox, Tony La 
Russa, and Joe Torre, elected by the Expansion Era Committee,[4] and Greg 
Maddux, Tom Glavine, and Frank Thomas, elected by the BBWAA.[5] The induction 
ceremonies were held on July 27, 2014 at the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York.[3] On the day before the actual induction ceremony, the annual 
Hall of Fame Awards Presentation took place. At that event, the Hall presented 
two awards for media excellence—its own Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasters 
and the BBWAA's J. G. Taylor Spink Award for writers. In addition, the 
Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award was also handed out;[6] under the 
rules for that award, last presented in 2011, it may be presented no more 
frequently than every third year.[7] The BBWAA ballot was announced on 
November 26, 2013.[8] The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active 
in 1994 or later, but not after 2008; the ballot included the following 
categories of players: All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to 
vote, and had until December 31, 2013 to return their ballots to the Hall. 
The ballot consisted of 17 of the 18 candidates who received at least 5% 
of the vote in the 2013 election, plus 19 first-time candidates. (The other 
candidate who received 5% or more of the 2013 vote, Dale Murphy, dropped 
off the ballot after 15 years.) Voters were instructed to cast votes for 
up to 10 candidates. Under BBWAA rules, write-in votes were not permitted. 
Results of the 2013 election by the BBWAA were announced on January 8, 
2014.[5] A total of 571 ballots were cast (including one ballot which supported 
no candidates), with 429 votes required for election. A total of 4,793 
individual votes were cast, an average of 8.39 per ballot. According to 
former BBWAA president Bill Shaiklin, 50% of all voters filled out all 
10 available slots on their ballots, up from 22% in 2013.[9] Any candidate 
who received votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be inducted.[3] 
Those candidates who received less than 5% of the vote will not appear 
on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans 
Committee. Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated 
here with a †. The candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and 
were elected are indicated in bold italics; candidates selected in subsequent 
elections, if any, will be indicated in italics. Jack Morris was on the 
ballot for the 15th and final time. The newly eligible candidates included 
28 All-Stars, 12 of whom were not on the ballot, representing a total of 
83 All-Star selections. Among the candidates were 10-time All-Star and 
2-time Cy Young Award winner Tom Glavine, 8-time All-Star and 4-time Cy 
Young Award winner Greg Maddux, 6-time All-Star Moises Alou, 5-time All-Star 
and 2-time MVP Award winner Frank Thomas, 5-time All-Star and 1-time MVP 
Award winner Jeff Kent, and 5-time All-Stars Luis Gonzalez. The field included 
1995 NL Rookie of the Year Hideo Nomo, two MVPs (Kent and Thomas), three 
Cy Young Award winners (Glavine, Maddux and Éric Gagné). The field included 
four candidates with at least five Gold Glove Awards: Maddux (18 at pitcher, 
a record), Mussina (7 at pitcher), Kenny Rogers (5 at pitcher) and J. T. 
Snow (6 at first base). As in most recent elections, it was expected that 
the controversy over use of performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) was likely 
to dominate the elections.[10][11] ESPN.com columnist Jim Caple noted in 
the days before the announcement of the 2012 results that the PED issue 
and the BBWAA's limit of 10 votes per ballot was likely to result in a 
major backlog in upcoming elections:[11] Due to the steroid issue and a 
general lack of consensus, the following players will probably be on the 
ballot in three years: Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens, Pedro Martinez, Randy 
Johnson, Sammy Sosa, Jeff Bagwell, John Smoltz, Edgar Martinez, Mark McGwire, 
Mike Mussina, Jeff Kent, Larry Walker, Alan Trammell, Fred McGriff, Rafael 
Palmeiro, Lee Smith, Tim Raines, Gary Sheffield, Mike Piazza, Curt Schilling 
and, of course, Bernie [Williams]. That's 21 players who warrant serious 
consideration. And that's not counting Barry Larkin, who might be [Ed. 
– and was] elected this year, and also assuming Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, 
Craig Biggio and Frank Thomas make it their first years on the ballot. 
Finding room for Bonds, Clemens, Pedro, Johnson and others means I'll have 
to dump more good players from my ballot than the Marlins dumped after 
winning the 1997 World Series. Several other players returning from the 
2013 ballot with otherwise-strong Hall credentials have been linked to 
PEDs, among them Mark McGwire (who admitted to long-term steroid use in 
2010),[12] Jeff Bagwell (who never tested positive, but was the subject 
of PED rumors during his career),[13] and Rafael Palmeiro (who tested positive 
for stanozolol shortly after denying that he had ever used steroids).[14] 
Players who were eligible for the first time who were not included on the 
ballot were: Tony Armas Jr., Gary Bennett, Joe Borowski, Jose Cruz Jr., 
Mike DiFelice, Damion Easley, Scott Elarton, Shawn Estes, Sal Fasano, Keith 
Foulke, Scott Hatteberg, Geoff Jenkins, Jason Johnson, Ray King, Jon Lieber, 
Esteban Loaiza, Kent Mercker, Matt Morris, Trot Nixon, Abraham Nunez, Odalis 
Perez, Tomas Perez, Mark Redman, Alberto Reyes, Ricardo Rincon, Dave Roberts, 
Rudy Seanez, Shannon Stewart, Tanyon Sturtze, Mark Sweeney, Salomon Torres, 
Steve Trachsel, Javier Valentin, Jose Vidro, Daryle Ward, and Dmitri Young.[15] 
Following the vote, a number of writers expressed concern about what they 
viewed as a flawed election process. Jayson Stark of ESPN.com noted about 
this election, It wasn't exactly a perfect day for any of us who care about 
this process, because it sledgehammered home this painful reminder of the 
enduring Hall of Fame crisis of the 21st century: We still have no idea 
how to resolve the fate of many of the greatest players of all time. Now 
do we?...Is this what we want -- a Hall that attempts to pretend that players 
who just happen to hold some of the greatest records in the entire record 
book are now invisible to the naked eye?[16] Jonah Keri, writing for the 
ESPN outlet Grantland, remarked, Short of dropping the required share of 
the vote well below 75 percent, I think there's a good chance that the 
voters' failure to elect candidates who not only match but raise the bar 
on existing inductees has put us in an intractable position. That position 
will leave many obviously worthy players at the mercy of the Expansion 
Era Committee, or whatever the veterans committees will be called 10 or 
12 years from now. And not to be overly dramatic about it, but there's 
a reasonable chance that some of those players will either never make it 
in or be dead by the time they do, the way Ron Santo was when he got his 
long-overdue induction.[9] It was also revealed that voter Dan Le Batard 
had allowed Deadspin to use his vote. The website was protesting the "absurd 
election process" by submitting to BBWAA the results from a poll of its 
readers.[17] He was subsequently permanently stripped of his Hall of Fame 
voting privileges.[18] In keeping with the current voting procedure by 
eras, the BBWAA-appointed Historical Overview Committee, made up of 11 
BBWAA members, identified 12 Expansion Era candidates who were judged to 
have made their greatest contributions after 1972; this group was previously 
considered in 2011. Although several managers and executives and one umpire 
from this period were selected between 1993 and 2011, no player from this 
period has yet been elected by any of the forms of the Veterans Committee. 
Along with the post-1972 era, these criteria defined the consideration 
set:[3] The eleven BBWAA-appointed Historical Overview Committee members 
were Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune); Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Steve 
Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch); Bill 
Madden (New York Daily News); Ken Nigro (formerly Baltimore Sun); Jack 
O'Connell (BBWAA secretary/treasurer); Tracy Ringolsby (Fox Sports Rocky 
Mountain/MLB.com); Glenn Schwarz (formerly San Francisco Chronicle); Claire 
Smith (ESPN); and Mark Whicker (Orange County Register).[1] The ballot 
for election by the Expansion Era Committee was released on November 4, 
2013,[1] and the Hall of Fame announced the results on December 9. The 
cutoff for election and summer 2014 induction remains the standard 75%, 
or 12 of 16 votes.[3] Dave Concepcion, Steve Garvey, Tommy John, Billy 
Martin, Marvin Miller, Dave Parker, Dan Quisneberry, Ted Simmons and George 
Steinbrenner each received six or fewer votes.[19] The Expansion Era Committee's 
16-member voting electorate, appointed by the Hall of Fame's Board of Directors, 
was announced at the same time as the ballot of 12 candidates.[1] The Hall 
officially calls this group the "Expansion Era Committee", but media still 
generally refer to it as the "Veterans Committee". Players eligible for 
the first time who were not named on the ballot include Bob Boone, Bill 
Buckner, Dwight Evans, Keith Hernandez, Fred Lynn, Dale Murphy, Willie 
Randolph and Frank White. Other first-time eligibles who did not appear 
on the ballot include manager Lou Piniella and umpire Ed Montague. Following 
the election, ESPN columnist Rick Reilly accused the committee members 
of hypocrisy, believing they did not follow the same standard for managers 
who had alleged or confirmed PED users on their teams as many BBWAA members 
used in refusing to vote for the same players. Reilly was especially critical 
of La Russa's election, claiming he "did more for juicers than Jack LaLanne,"[20] 
and added (emphasis in original): In all, the three managers being inducted 
oversaw at least 34 players who've been implicated as PED users and never 
noticed a thing wrong. You could build a wing with the admitted and suspected 
drug cheats they won with: A-Rod, Roger Clemens (Torre), Jason Giambi, 
Jose Canseco (Torre and La Russa), Mark McGwire (La Russa), Melky Cabrera 
(Torre and Cox), David Justice (Torre and Cox), Andy Pettitte (Torre), 
Manny Ramirez (Torre with the Dodgers) and [Gary] Sheffield (Torre and 
Cox). If we get really lucky, maybe disgraced HGH pitcher Darren Holmes 
will show up. He played under all three of them! It's just another year 
in the Hall of Farce, where the codes of conduct shift like beach sand; 
where the rules for one set of men are ignored for another; where PED poppers 
can never enter, but the men who turned their backs to the cheating get 
gleaming, bronze plaques. . . . But for the expansion error committee to 
let these three managers in — unanimously, no less — after winning hundreds 
of games with better chemistry is the gold standard of double standards.[20] 
In July 2016, the Hall announced major changes to its era-based committees, 
replacing the then-current three voting bodies with four new committees. 
The era covered by the Expansion Era Committee will now be served by two 
new panels—the Modern Baseball and Today's Game Committees, respectively 
covering the 1970–1987 and post-1987 eras. Each new committee will meet 
twice in a 5-year cycle.[21] The J. G. Taylor Spink Award has been presented 
by the BBWAA at the annual summer induction ceremonies since 1962.[22] 
Through 2010, it was awarded during the main induction ceremony, but is 
now given the previous day at the Hall of Fame Awards Presentation. It 
recognizes a sportswriter "for meritorious contributions to baseball writing".[23] 
The recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are featured in 
a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum. The three nominees 
for the 2014 award, selected by a BBWAA committee, were announced at the 
BBWAA's annual All-Star Game meeting on July 16, 2013. They were Roger 
Angell, longtime essayist for The New Yorker; the late Furman Bisher, longtime 
columnist for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution; and Mel Durslag, former 
columnist for the Los Angeles Herald Examiner.[24] Under BBWAA rules, the 
winner was to be announced either during the 2013 World Series or at the 
2013 winter meetings; in recent years, the announcement has been made at 
the winter meetings. On December 10, the Hall announced Angell as the recipient. 
He received 258 votes from a total of 451 ballots, including four blanks. 
Bisher received 115 votes and Durslag 74. Angell, who was 93 at the time 
of announcement, is the first Spink Award recipient to have never been 
a member of the BBWAA; according to the Hall, the group "limits its membership 
to writers covering Major League Baseball for daily newspapers, wire services 
and some Internet outlets." However, the award is not restricted to BBWAA 
members, and Angell was nominated by the group's San Francisco Bay Area 
chapter. Angell has written about baseball for The New Yorker for over 
50 years, and many of his essays for the magazine have been reprinted in 
several best-selling books spanning four decades.[25] The Ford C. Frick 
Award, honoring excellence in baseball broadcasting, has been presented 
at the induction ceremonies since 1978.[26] Through 2010, it had been presented 
at the main induction ceremony, but is now awarded at the Awards Presentation. 
Recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are permanently recognized 
in an exhibit at the museum. To be eligible, an active or retired broadcaster 
must have a minimum of 10 years of continuous major league broadcast service 
with a ball club, a network, or a combination of the two. The honor is 
based on four criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including 
national assignments such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity 
with fans. The recipient was announced during the 2013 winter meetings 
on December 11, following a vote by a 20-member committee composed of the 
living recipients along with broadcasting historians and columnists.[27] 
Beginning with this year's election, the selection process underwent major 
changes similar to those instituted for Veterans Committee balloting in 
2010. Candidates are now considered every third year, based on the era 
in which they made their most significant contributions:[28] Also, the 
committee that selects the final recipient no longer has a role in determining 
any of the finalists. In previous years, the selection committee also chose 
seven of the 10 finalists, but that role has now been given to a Hall of 
Fame research committee.[28] Ten finalists from the "High Tide Era" were 
announced on October 2, 2013.[27] In accord with the new guidelines, seven 
were chosen by a Hall of Fame research committee. Three were selected from 
a list of candidates by fan voting at the Hall's Facebook page from September 
9 to September 30.[29] All finalists except King were living when the ballot 
was announced; the only living finalist who was not active was Van Wieren[27] 
(who would die six days after the induction ceremony). On December 11, 
Nadel was announced as the recipient. He has been a radio broadcaster for 
the Texas Rangers since 1979. and has been the team's lead radio voice 
since 1985. Nadel became the first broadcaster associated primarily with 
the Rangers to receive the award.[30] Another Hall of Fame honor, the Buck 
O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award, was also presented at the 2014 Awards 
Presentation. The award was created in 2008 in honor of Buck O'Neil, a 
Negro leagues star who went on to become one of baseball's leading ambassadors 
until his death in 2006. The first award was presented posthumously to 
O'Neil at the 2008 induction ceremony, and the second was given to veteran 
baseball executive Roland Hemond in 2011. According to the Hall, The Buck 
O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award is presented by the Hall of Fame's Board 
of Directors not more than once every three years to honor an individual 
whose extraordinary efforts enhanced baseball's positive impact on society, 
broadened the game's appeal, and whose character, integrity and dignity 
are comparable to the qualities exhibited by O'Neil.[31] As with the media 
awards, recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are permanently 
recognized by the Hall. In this case, the recipients are listed alongside 
a life-size statue of O'Neil that stands at the entrance to the museum. 
Written nominations for the award are accepted by mail at any time; the 
nomination must specifically state how the nominee meets the traits exemplified 
by O'Neil.[31] On December 4, 2013, the Hall announced that Joe Garagiola 
would be the 2014 recipient. Garagiola, a former player and broadcaster 
who received the Frick Award in 1991, is a founder of two organizations 
that, according to the Hall, "impact baseball in a positive manner"—the 
Baseball Assistance Team, which has distributed over $28 million in grants 
to needy members of the professional baseball community since the organization's 
formation in 1986, and the National Spit Tobacco Education Program, devoted 
