The following is a chronological list of the technological advancements[1][2][3] 
of Major League Baseball television broadcasts: On August 26,[5][6] the 
first ever Major League Baseball telecast (the Brooklyn Dodgers vs. Cincinnati 
Reds from Ebbets Field) aired by W2XBS, an experimental station in New 
York City which would ultimately become WNBC-TV. Red Barber called the 
game without the benefit of a monitor and with only two cameras capturing 
the game. One camera was on Barber and the other was behind the plate. 
Barber had to guess from which light was on and where it pointed. In 1939, 
baseball games were usually covered by one camera providing a point-of-view 
along the third base line. On August 11, 1951, WCBS-TV in New York City 
televised the first baseball game (in which the Boston Braves beat the 
Brooklyn Dodgers by the score of 8-1) in color. On October 3 of that year, 
NBC aired the first coast-to-coast baseball telecast as the Brooklyn Dodgers 
were beaten by the New York Giants in the final game of a playoff series 
by the score of 5-4 (off Bobby Thomson's now-legendary home run). 1955 
marked the first time that the World Series was televised in color. [9] 
On July 23, 1962, Major League Baseball had its first satellite telecast 
(via Telstar Communications). The telecast included portion of a contest 
between the Chicago Cubs vs. the Philadelphia Phillies from Wrigley Field 
with Jack Brickhouse commentating on WGN-TV. By 1969, the usage of chroma 
key (in which the commentators would open a telecast by standing in front 
of a greenscreen composite of the stadiums' crowds) became a common practice 
for baseball telecasts. In the bottom of the 12th inning of Game 6 of the 
1975 World Series[12] at Boston's Fenway Park, Red Sox catcher Carlton 
Fisk was facing Cincinnati Reds pitcher Pat Darcy. Fisk then hit a pitch 
down the left field line that appeared to be heading to foul territory. 
The enduring image of Fisk jumping and waving the ball fair as he made 
his way to first base is arguably one of baseball's greatest moments. The 
ball struck the foul pole, giving the Red Sox a 7-6 win and forcing a seventh 
and deciding game of the fall classic. During this time, cameramen covering 
baseball games were instructed to follow the flight of the ball; reportedly, 
Fisk's reaction[13] was only being recorded because NBC cameraman Lou Gerard 
had become frightened by a rat.[14] This play was perhaps the most important 
catalyst in getting camera operators to focus most of their attention on 
the players themselves.[15] On July 6, 1983, NBC televised the All-Star 
Game out of Chicago's Comiskey Park. During the telecast, special guest 
analyst, Don Sutton helped introduce NBC's new pitching tracking device 
dubbed The NBC Tracer.[17] The NBC Tracer was a stroboscopic comet tail 
showing the path of a pitch to the catcher's glove. For instance, The NBC 
Tracer helped track a Dave Stieb curveball among others. In 1985, NBC's 
telecast of the All-Star Game out of the Metrodome in Minnesota was the 
first program to be broadcast in stereo by a television network.[18] For 
the 1987 World Series between the Minnesota Twins and St. Louis Cardinals, 
ABC utilized 12 cameras and nine tape machines. This includes cameras positioned 
down the left field line, on the roof of the Metrodome, and high above 
third base. In 1990, CBS took over from both ABC and NBC as Major League 
Baseball's national, over-the-air television provider. They in the process 
brought along their telestration technology that they dubbed CBS Chalkboard. 
CBS Chalkboard made its debut eight years earlier during CBS' coverage 
of Super Bowl XVI. For CBS' coverage of the 1992 All-Star Game, they introduced 
Basecam,[20][21][22] a lipstick-size camera, inside first base. During 
CBS' coverage of the 1993 World Series, umpires were upset with the overhead 
replays being televised by CBS. Dave Phillips, the crew chief, said just 
prior to Game 2 that the umpires want "CBS to be fair with their approach." 
Rick Gentile, the senior vice president for production of CBS Sports, said 
that Richie Phillips, the lawyer for the Major League Umpires Association, 
tried to call the broadcast booth during Saturday's game, but the call 
was not put through. Richie Phillips apparently was upset when Dave Phillips 
called the Philadelphia Phillies' Ricky Jordan out on strikes in the fourth 
inning, and a replay showed the pitch to be about 6 inches outside. National 
League President Bill White, while using a CBS headset in the broadcast 
booth during Game 1, was overheard telling Gentile and the producer Bob 
Dekas: On July 8, 1997, Fox[23] televised its first ever All-Star Game 
(out of Jacobs Field in Cleveland). For this particular game, Fox introduced 
"Catcher-Cam" in which a camera was affixed to the catchers' masks in order 
to provide unique perspectives of the action around home plate.[24] Catcher-Cam 
soon would become a regular fixture in Fox's baseball broadcasts. In addition 
to Catcher-Cam, other innovations (some of which have received more acclaim 
than others) that Fox[25] has provided for baseball telecasts have been: 
For a Saturday afternoon telecast of a Los Angeles Dodgers/Chicago Cubs 
game at Wrigley Field on August 26, 2000, Fox aired a special "Turn Back 
the Clock"[28] broadcast to commemorate the 61st anniversary of the first 
televised baseball game.[29] The broadcast started with a re-creation of 
the television technology of 1939, with play-by-play announcer Joe Buck 
working alone with a single microphone, a single black-and-white camera, 
and no graphics; then, each subsequent half-inning would see the broadcast 
"jump ahead in time" to a later era, showing the evolving technologies 
and presentation of network baseball coverage through the years. In October 
2002, Fox televised the first ever World Series to be shown in high definition. 
Starting in 2004, some TBS telecasts (mostly Fridays or Saturdays) became 
more enhanced. The network decided to call it Braves TBS Xtra. Enhancements 
included catcher cam, Xtra Motion, which featured the type of pitch and 
movement, also leadOff Line. It would also show features with inside access 
to players. In October 2004, Fox started airing all Major League Baseball 
postseason broadcasts (including the League Championship Series and World 
Series) in high definition. Fox also started airing the Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game in HD the following year. At the same time, the FoxBox and 
graphics are upgraded. For their 2007 Division Series coverage,[30] TBS[31] 
debuted various new looks, such as the first live online views from cameras 
in dugouts and ones focused on pitchers. TBS also introduced a graphic 
that creates sort of a rainbow to trace the arc of pitches on game replays. 
The graphic was superimposed in the studio so analysts like Cal Ripken, 
Jr. for instance, could take virtual cuts at pitches thrown in games.[32] 
During their 2009 playoff coverage, TBS[33] displays their PitchTrax graphic 
full-time during at-bats (with the center field camera only) during the 
high-definition version of the broadcast in the extreme right-hand corner 
of the screen.[34] Meanwhile, for their own 2009 playoff coverage, Fox 
announced that they would occasionally include this stat on replays: Speed 
of pitches as they leave pitchers' hands as well as their speed when they 
cross home plate.[35] With the start of the 2011 postseason, TBS planned 
to introduce the following[37] The screen on TBS's standard definition 
4:3 feed now airs a letterboxed version of the native HD feed to match 
Fox's default widescreen SD presentation, allowing the right side pitch 
tracking graphic to be seen by SD viewers. For the 2011 World Series, Fox 
debuted infrared technology[39] that's designed to pinpoint heat made by 
a ball making contact — with, say, bats, face masks, players' bodies — 
and mark the spot for viewers by making it glow. During Game 1, Fox used 
"Hot Spot" to show that a batted ball was fouled off Texas Rangers batter 
Adrian Beltre's foot.[40] Fox's 2012 World Series coverage would include 
a camera whose replays could generate as many as 20,000 frames per second, 
the most ever seen on Fox—and up from about 60 frames per second on regular 
replays. The camera would allow viewers "to see the ball compress" when 
batted, similar to how cameras now show golf balls getting compressed when 
struck. The technology for the camera, originated with the U.S. military 
