Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1968 followed rules revised 
in June 1967, which returned the BBWAA to annual elections without any 
provision for runoff. In the event, the Baseball Writers Association of 
America voted once by mail to select from recent major league players and 
elected Joe Medwick. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider 
executives, managers, umpires, and earlier major league players. It selected 
two players, Kiki Cuyler and Goose Goslin. The BBWAA was authorized to 
elect players active in 1948 or later, but not after 1962; the ballot included 
candidates from the 1967 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but 
were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, 
whose last appearance was in 1962. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were 
eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 48 players; a total 
of 283 ballots were cast, with 213 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,109 individual votes were cast, an average of 7.45 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The one candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The 21 candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. Joe Medwick, Arky Vaughan, Terry Moore, Frankie 
Crosetti and Frank McCormick were on the ballot for the final time. Players 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Reno 
Bertoia, Steve Bilko, Jim Busby, Andy Carey, Bob Cerv, Harry Chiti, Billy 
Consolo, Dick Gernert, Joe Ginsberg, Billy Goodman, Granny Hamner, Clem 
Labine, Turk Lown, Hal Naragon, Bob Nieman, Danny O'Connell, Dave Philley, 
