Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2004 proceeded in keeping with 
rules enacted in 2001. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
held an election to select from recent players. The Veterans Committee 
did not hold an election; the 2001 rules changes provided that elections 
for players retired over 20 years would be held every other year, with 
elections of non-players (managers, umpires and executives) held every 
fourth year. The Committee held elections in 2003 in both categories, including 
players who were active no later than 1981. The next election for players 
was in 2005; elections in both categories would again be held in 2007. 
The induction ceremonies were held on July 25 in Cooperstown, with Commissioner 
Bud Selig presiding. The BBWAA was again authorized to elect players active 
in 1984 or later, but not after 1998; the ballot included candidates from 
the 2003 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 1998. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. Results of the 2004 election by the BBWAA were 
announced on January 6. The ballot consisted of 32 players; 506 ballots 
were cast, with 380 votes required for election. A total of 3314 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 6.55 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote (25 votes) will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, 
but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates 
who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two 
candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated 
in bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in subsequent 
elections are indicated in italics. The candidates who received less than 
5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. The newly eligible candidates included 17 All-Stars, 
five of whom were not on the ballot, who were selected a total of 52 times. 
While no player was selected more than ten times, Paul Molitor (seven times), 
Dave Stieb (seven), Dennis Eckersley (six) and Joe Carter (five) were selected 
five times or more. The field included two Cy Young Award winners (Eckersley 
and Doug Drabek), three MVPs (Eckersley, Terry Pendleton and Kevin Mitchell) 
and one Rookie of the Year (Jerome Walton). Players eligible for the first 
time who were not included on the ballot were: Rafael Belliard, Greg Cadaret, 
Tony Castillo, Dave Clark, Joey Cora, Mike Devereaux, Erik Hanson, Xavier 
Hernandez, Chris Hoiles, Rex Hudler, Pete Incaviglia, Mark Lemke, Nelson 
Liriano, John Marzano, Tom Pagnozzi, Donn Pall, Mark Parent, Bob Patterson, 
Billy Ripken, Luis Rivera, Bip Roberts, Craig Shipley, Pete Smith, Bill 
Swift, Jerome Walton, David West, and Eddie Williams. None of the newly-eligible 
candidates would appear on any future ballots. As expected, Eckersley and 
Molitor were elected on their first appearance; no other first-timer received 
the 5% of votes required to remain on the ballot. Murray Chass received 
the J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. (The award was 
voted at the December 2003 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 2003, and conferred 
in the summer 2004 ceremonies.) The Spink Award has been presented by the 
BBWAA at the annual summer induction ceremonies since 1962. It recognizes 
a sportswriter "for meritorious contributions to baseball writing". The 
recipients are not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely featured in 
a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters 
commonly call them "Hall of Fame writers" or words to that effect. Living 
recipients were members of the Veterans Committee for elections in odd 
years 2003 to 2007. Three final candidates, selected by a BBWAA committee, 
were named on July 15, 2003 in Chicago in conjunction with All-Star Game 
activities; the finalists were: Murray Chass, who covered the New York 
Yankees for the New York Times; Joe Goddard, who has long covered the Chicago 
Cubs and White Sox for the Chicago Sun-Times; and Bob Burnes, who covered 
the St. Louis Browns for the St. Louis Globe Democrat. All 10-year members 
of the BBWAA were eligible to cast ballots in voting conducted by mail 
in November. On December 17, Murray Chass was announced as the recipient, 
having received 280 votes out of the 438 ballots cast, with Goddard receiving 
98 votes and Burnes receiving 60 [1]. Lon Simmons received the Ford C. 
Frick Award honoring a baseball broadcaster. The Frick Award has been presented 
at the annual summer induction ceremonies since 1978. It recognizes a broadcaster 
for "major contributions to baseball". The recipients are not members of 
the Hall of the Fame, merely featured in a permanent exhibit at the National 
Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall 
of Fame broadcaster" or words to that effect. Living honorees were members 
of the Veterans Committee for elections in odd years 2003 to 2007. To be 
eligible, an active or retired broadcaster must have a minimum of 10 years 
of continuous major league broadcast service with a ball club, a network, 
or a combination of the two; more than 160 candidates were eligible. On 
December 11, 2003, 10 finalists were announced. In accordance with guidelines 
established in 2003, seven were chosen by a research committee at the museum: 
Ken Coleman, Jack Graney, Graham McNamee, Hal Totten, Gene Elston, France 
Laux and Ty Tyson. Three additional candidates – Joe Nuxhall, Dave Niehaus 
and Lon Simmons – were selected in voting by over 105,000 fans prior to 
November 2003 at the Hall's official website [2]. On February 26, Lon Simmons 
was announced as the 2004 recipient [3]; an original voice of the San Francisco 
Giants, as well as an announcer for the Oakland Athletics. He called games 
for 41 years before retiring following the 2002 season. He was selected 
in a January vote by a 20-member committee composed of the 14 living recipients, 
along with six additional broadcasting historians or columnists: Bob Costas 
(NBC), Barry Horn (The Dallas Morning News), Stan Isaacs (formerly of New 
York Newsday), Ted Patterson (historian), Curt Smith (historian) and Larry 
Stewart (Los Angeles Times). Committee members are asked to base the selection 
on the following criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including 
national assignments such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity 
