Baseball Tasmania is the governing body of baseball within Tasmania. After 
a number of years without an organised baseball body in the state, a league 
was re-formed in 2007 with the hopes of re-igniting baseball in the state. 
Baseball reached its peak in Tasmania during the 1970s and 1980s, with 
a league in both Hobart and Launceston. However, by the late 80’s, the 
Launceston league was forced to disband as league started to lack players 
to fill the teams. The Hobart league lasted until the early 90’s before 
it folded due to financial troubles. There was no organised baseball in 
Tasmania after the collapse of the Hobart league, until 2007, a group of 
Masters players got together with the goal of re-instating a league in 
the state's capital of Hobart. This was primarily driven by a group of 
Masters players who had been involved in the previous incarnation of Baseball 
Tasmania many years ago and wished to restart a baseball league in Tasmania. 
After some initial open days, the new league was launched in October 2007 
with 4 teams: Red Sox, Whitesox, Blue Jays and Green Bays. The Blue Jays 
won the first ever game of new league. Two seasons were run in the original 
summer, with a season being run until the Christmas break in December and 
then a new season running from January until March. Games were played at 
Prince of Wales Bay Recreation Ground in Goodwood (in the city of Glenorchy, 
north of Hobart) till the 2012-13 season when the ground underwent a major 
overhaul to install new storm water pipes. The 2012-13 season was played 
at Goodwood Primary School and with ongoing problems at Prince of Wales 
Bay, the 2013-14 season was initially played there also until half way 
through the season when circumstances warranted a move to Shoobridge Park 
in Claremont. Changes began occurring in the 2013-14 season with the introduction 
of the Dragons Softball team (the last remaining men's softball team in 
southern Tasmania), the allocation of recruiting zones to each of the teams 
and the renaming of the league to the Hobart Summer Baseball League (HSBL), 
with Baseball Tasmania the governing body. The Athletics became the Eastern 
Athletics, the Red Sox became the Southern Red Sox, the White Sox became 
the Northern White Sox and the Blue Jays retained their name but had a 
recruiting area of central Hobart. Once again the league tried a five team 
competition but by the last month of the season, numbers for the White 
Sox and the Red Sox had dropped off so dramatically that the remaining 
players had to amalgamate to form a viable team. The 2014-15 season heralded 
the return of the league to Prince of Wales Bay Recreation Ground and with 
it, a new found enthusiasm. Full-time scorers were introduced for the first 
time and by mid season, all teams had secured proper uniforms to look the 
part for playing baseball. The competition, back to a four team format 
with the Dragons, Eastern Athletics, Hobart Blue Jays, and the Northern 
White Sox, was highly competitive and for the first time, a sponsor was 
involved in the league with Hotel Soho agreeing to sponsor the Hobart Blue 
Jays. For a number of years, an over 45 team, representing the Baseball 
Tasmania league under the name of the Tassie Tigers, had traveled to Ballarat 
(or Geelong) in Victoria to compete in the Victorian Masters Baseball Carnival. 
With the drive and enthusiasm of players renewed in 2014-15, Tasmania sent 
two teams to compete in the Victorian Masters Baseball Carnival for the 
first time, the usual over 45's and the new over 35's. The over 35's were 
super competitive but failed to win a match whilst the over 45's played 
inspired team baseball to eventually win their first title, defeating the 
Big Cat Tomatoes in the Grand Final, 12-1. Off the field, the future of 
baseball was questioned as there was an absence of young players coming 
through the ranks. Southern Softball was experiencing a similar problem 
so Baseball Tasmania and the Southern Softball Association formed a joint 
venture to re-introduce t-ball to school children and through that, give 
them the skills and options to play baseball or softball. The Batter Up 
T-ball League was formed and the first games were played on Saturday 24th 
October 2015. Teams The first season of the new league was a successful 
twilight league, with Sunday games occurring for the season opener and 
the finals series. After a relatively easy season, the Blue Jays were inaugurated 
as the league's first champion after defeating the Whitesox in the Grand 
Final. Teams After some post-Christmas talent re-distribution and the creation 
of a fifth (the Gold Diggers) and sixth (the Orange Ruffies) team, the 
second season was a much closer affair and though the Blue Jays once again 
met the Whitesox in the Grand Final, the 'Sox would exact revenge for the 
first season loss. The Orange Ruffies would fold after just 2 games due 
to over-stretched playing personnel across all the teams and would be replaced 
with a Tasmanian Masters side that would play the Ruffies' scheduled opponent 
in an exhibition game for the remainder of the season. Teams The 2008-2009 
season started with five teams but after only two weeks, the Royals team 
was folded due to lack of numbers and the remaining players were moved 
into the four original teams. Over 18 recorded rounds of competition, the 
league became divided with the Whitesox and Blue Jays once again fighting 
for the top spot while the Red Sox and Athletics showed positive signs 
but quickly lost touch with the other two teams. The Whitesox would go 
on to win the Grand Final, once again facing the Blue Jays. Teams A strong 
start to the season by the Blue Jays established the foundation for them 
to finish the season as minor premiers. For the first time, all four teams 
were involved in a traditional four-team finals system. The Red Sox were 
unfortunately decimated with injury and player departure and fell off as 
the season progressed, but the Athletics had unlocked some new talent and 
the Whitesox had returning players when the season entered the finals series. 
1st Semi Final: Athletics def Red Sox 2nd Semi Final: Whitesox def Blue 
Jays Preliminary Final: Blue Jays def Athletics Grand Final: Whitesox def 
Blue Jays Teams The 2010/2011 season saw the first indication that early 
days of the Whitesox and Blue Jays dominating the competition were coming 
to an end with the Blue Jays falling from defending 4-time Minor Premier 
to wooden spooner. This did not stop the Whitesox from having another strong 
season, allowing them to capture their first Minor Premiership. But it 
would turn out that being minor premier was starting to show that it carried 
a curse with it. Despite being runaway contenders during the minor season, 
the Red Sox broke through for not only their first ever finals win, but 
also their maiden premiership, upsetting the defending champions in the 
Grand Final. 1st Semi Final: Athletics def Blue Jays 2nd Semi Final : Red 
Sox def Whitesox Preliminary Final: Whitesox def Athletics Grand Final: 
Red Sox def Whitesox Teams Despite starting the season with a 1-3-1 record, 
the Blue Jays won the final 12 games of the season (one round lost due 
to bad weather) to record the best ever regular season record for a team. 
This didn't bode well though as the team's fifth minor premiership may 
have heralded a fifth Grand Final appearance but the curse of the minor 
premier continued. An injury-plagued and departure riddle Whitesox fell 
to their first wooden spoon and the Athletics captured their maiden premiership 
when they easily accounted for the Blue Jays in the Grand Final. 1st Semi 
Final: Athletics def Red Sox 2nd Semi Final: Blue Jays def Whitesox Grand 
