A baseball glove or mitt is a large leather glove worn by baseball players 
of the defending team, which assists players in catching and fielding balls 
hit by a batter or thrown by a teammate. By convention, the glove is described 
by the handedness of the intended wearer, rather than the hand on which 
the glove is worn: a glove that fits on the left hand—used by a right-handed 
thrower—is called a right-handed (RH) or "right-hand throw" (RHT) glove. 
Conversely, a left-handed glove (LH or LHT) is worn on the right hand, 
allowing the player to throw the ball with the left hand. Early baseball 
was a game played without gloves. During the slow transition to gloves, 
a player who continued to play without one was called a barehanded catcher; 
this did not refer to the position of catcher, but rather to the practice 
of catching with bare hands. The earliest glove was not webbed and not 
particularly well suited for catching but was used more to bat a ball to 
the ground so that it could be picked up. One of the first players believed 
to use a baseball glove was Doug Allison, a catcher for the Cincinnati 
Red Stockings, in 1870, due to an injured left hand.[1] The first confirmed 
glove use was by Charlie Waitt, a St. Louis outfielder and first baseman 
who, in 1875, donned a pair of flesh-colored gloves. Glove use slowly caught 
on as more and more players began using different forms of gloves. Many 
early baseball gloves were simple leather gloves with the fingertips cut 
off, supposedly to allow for the same control of a bare hand but with extra 
padding. First baseman Albert Spalding, originally skeptical of glove use, 
influenced more infielders to begin using gloves. Spalding later founded 
the sporting goods company Spalding, which still manufactures baseball 
gloves along with other sports equipment.[2] By the mid-1890s, it was the 
norm for players to wear gloves in the field. In 1920, Bill Doak, a pitcher 
for the St. Louis Cardinals, suggested that a web be placed between the 
first finger and the thumb in order to create a pocket. This design soon 
became the standard for baseball gloves. Doak patented his design and sold 
it to Rawlings. His design became the precursor to modern gloves, and enabled 
Rawlings to become the preferred glove of professional players.[3] For 
many years it was customary for fielders to leave their gloves on the field 
when their team went in to bat. This practice was prohibited by the major 
leagues in 1954.[4] Baseball gloves have grown progressively larger since 
their inception. While catching in baseball had always been two handed, 
eventually, gloves grew to a size that made it easier to catch the ball 
in the webbing of the glove, and use the off-hand to keep it from falling 
out. A glove is typically worn on the non-dominant hand, leaving the dominant 
hand for throwing the ball; for example, a right-handed player would wear 
a glove on the left hand. The shape and size of the baseball glove is governed 
by official baseball rules. Section 3.00 - EQUIPMENT AND UNIFORMS specifies 
glove dimensions and materials in parts 3.04 through 3.07. The baseball 
glove has come a long way in over the past century. Today, gloves are made 
more precisely and more efficiently. There are still many advancements 
coming in the age of the baseball glove. Even today, Easton is "experimenting 
with combining leather and Kevlar (used in bullet-proof vests) in a new 
ultra-light weight glove line".[2] Manufacturers have created different 
types of gloves to suit different types of people. Also, they have started 
personalizing gloves for certain players to increase exposure on national 
television. Rawlings sponsors more than 49.99% of the current MLB Players.[5] 
It is because of this dedication to gloves that the MLB has rewarded Rawlings 
with the "annual Rawlings Gold Glove Award, which has been presented to 
players for fielding excellence since 1957." The highest-quality gloves 
are usually made of heavy leather that will need some time to break in, 
provide a "snug" fit on one's hand off the shelf, and typically do not 
have palm pads or Velcro adjustable wrist straps, which are excellent features 
to have if one is buying a youth or recreational type glove. Most players 
choose which glove manufacturer they will sign with when they are in the 
minor leagues, and stay with them for their entire career.[5] Most glove 
companies will pay in the hundreds of thousands of dollars for high-caliber 
players to endorse their gloves.[5] Pitchers usually get the highest contracts 
for gloves because their glove is shown on television more frequently than 
other gloves.[5] One of the biggest endorsers of gloves was Roger Clemens, 
who won seven Cy Young Awards with gloves from three different glove companies.[5] 
Even though there have been many advancements in the design and creation 
of the baseball glove, the greatest came in the invention of the catcher's 
mitt. However, a Wake Forest University study demonstrated, through 39 
minor-league players, that even though today's catcher's mitts are state-of-the-art, 
they still do not offer enough protection from long-term injury to the 
hand and wrist.[2] Baseball gloves are measured by starting at the top 
of the index finger of the glove and measuring down the finger, along the 
inside of the pocket and then out to the heel of the glove. Gloves typically 
range in size from 9 inches (youth starter size) to 12.75 inches for adult 
outfield play.[6] Catcher's mitts, unlike those of other gloves, are measured 
around the circumference, and they typically have 32- to 34-inch patterns. 
The shape and size of a glove is described by its pattern. Modern gloves 
