The Baseball Assistance Team is a 501(c)(3) non-profit affiliated with 
Major League Baseball. The organization's stated goal is to "help members 
of the Baseball Family who have come on hard times and are in need of assistance," 
and is guided by the principles of teamwork, caring, and sharing.[1] The 
baseball family includes former players, both from the Major and Minor 
Leagues, former Negro League players, umpires, scouts, and MLB and MiLB 
team personnel. B.A.T. recognizes that "events and circumstances can become 
difficult and trying when the cheering ends," and aims to alleviate medical, 
financial, or psychological hardships faced by members of the Baseball 
Family.[2] The Baseball Assistance Team was founded in 1986 during the 
term of Commissioner Peter Ueberroth as a way for Major League Baseball 
and its players to take care of former players who have fallen upon hard 
times. Eligibility for help from B.A.T. has since been expanded to include 
those with two years of service as Major League and Minor League front 
office personnel, umpires, scouts, Minor League players, athletic trainers, 
former Negro League baseball players, women from the Women’s Professional 
Baseball League, and their widows, widowers, and children under the age 
of 23. B.A.T. has also worked hard to expand its efforts into Latin America 
where they have provided help to players coming mostly from Puerto Rico, 
the Dominican Republic, and Venezuela. This organization was founded with 
the goal of helping members of the Baseball Family during times of hardship, 
not as a long term program but as a bridge to get people back on their 
feet and self-sufficient without losing pride or dignity. In 1991, a contribution 
from Major League Baseball, the Major League Baseball Players Association, 
and the Freedom Foundation[disambiguation needed] established an endowment 
for B.A.T. While B.A.T. was not, and is not, meant to be a substitute for 
a pension or retirement savings, it is able to prevent eviction, cover 
emergency medical bills, or provide for household expenses in a time of 
need. Major League Baseball provides for the overhead expenses of the Baseball 
Assistance Team, including salary and travel expenses, which allows every 
penny raised to be donated to a grant recipient. B.A.T. raises the money 
it uses to help members of the Baseball Family in a number of ways.[3] 
To date, B.A.T. has provided over 3400 grants totaling over $32 million 
in assistance. The annual B.A.T. Spring Training Fundraising Tour is another 
major endeavor for B.A.T. Since 2003, members of B.A.T. have visited each 
team in Major League Baseball and solicited donations, all of which are 
given back to former players and members of the Baseball Family in need. 
Through the payroll deduction program, players and coaches can pledge a 
portion of their salary to B.A.T. which goes directly to the grants.[4] 
Most importantly, the visits also educate the players to be the eyes and 
the ears of B.A.T. by notifying the organization about anyone who may be 
in need of assistance. This year, the tour generated $2.8 million in donations 
pledged by 1,600 players, shattering all-time B.A.T. records in both categories.[5] 
The teams that donate the most money to B.A.T. are honored each year with 
the Bobby Murcer Award. The 2016 Bobby Murcer Award recipients are the 
Arizona Diamondbacks and the Detroit Tigers. This is the second consecutive 
year for the Tigers and the second win for the Diamondbacks (also in 2012).[6] 
The Frank Slocum Big B.A.T. Award,[7] named for the first director of the 
Baseball Assistance Team, is given to “an individual or a group of individuals 
whose exemplary service to B.A.T. has helped provide dignity and self-esteem 
to members of the Baseball Family." The 2016 award was presented to Jake 
Peavy of the San Francisco Giants.[8][9] Past award winners include Commissioners 
Bud Selig, Peter Ueberroth and Fay Vincent as well as Bob Costas, Bob Uecker, 
Ozzie Smith, George Brett, the late George M. Steinbrenner, Don Zimmer, 
Bob Watson, Brad Lidge, and Adam Jones. The Bart Giamatti award is given 
to the “individual associated with baseball who best exemplifies the compassion 
demonstrated by the late commissioner.” Generally, it is given to a player 
involved in a wide range of charity work, benefitting both those involved 
with the game of baseball and those in the community at large. At the 2012 
Going to Bat for B.A.T. dinner, the Bart Giamatti Award was given to Carlos 
Beltran of the New York Mets. Previous winners include CC Sabathia of the 
New York Yankees, Cal Ripken, Jr., Ken Griffey, Jr., Derek Jeter, Al Leiter, 
Don Mattingly, Tom Glavine, Jorge Posada, and Tim Wakefield. The Bobby 
Murcer Award, named in honor of late Yankee great and B.A.T. Chairman Bobby 
Murcer, is presented to the team from each league that donates the most 
money during the annual B.A.T. Spring Training Fundraising Tour. The teams 
that will be presented the award for their contributions during the 2016 
Spring Training Tour are the Arizona Diamondbacks of the National League 
and the Detroit Tigers of the American League. This is the second win for 
the Arizona Diamondbacks and the second consecutive year the Tigers have 
been the recipients of the award.[10] In addition to being supported by 
players from every club in Major League Baseball, the Baseball Assistance 
Team enjoys a significant amount of support among members of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. Present at the 2011 Going to BAT for B.A.T. dinner were Hall 
of Famers Hank Aaron, Roberto Alomar, Rickey Henderson, Luis Aparicio, 
Jim Palmer, Billy Williams, Goose Gossage, Earl Weaver, and Dick Williams. 
Currently, Erik Nilsen serves as the Director of B.A.T. Under his direction, 
B.A.T. continues to educate members of the Baseball Family about the B.A.T. 
mission, fundraise, and ensure the organization is reaching and assisting 
