Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1977 followed the system in 
place since 1971. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected Ernie Banks. 
The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider executives, managers, 
umpires, and earlier major league players. It selected three people: Al 
Lopez, Amos Rusie, and Joe Sewell. The Negro Leagues Committee also met 
in person and selected two players, Martín Dihigo and John Henry Lloyd. 
The Negro Leagues Committee also determined to disband. It had elected 
nine players in seven years. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players 
active in 1957 or later, but not after 1971; the ballot included candidates 
from the 1976 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not 
elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, 
whose last appearance was in 1971. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were 
eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 34 players; a total 
of 383 ballots were cast, with 288 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,929 individual votes were cast, an average of 7.65 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The one candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. Pee Wee Reese, George Kell 
and Walker Cooper were on the ballot for the final time. Harvey Kuenn, 
whose last game played was in 1966, was actually activated by the Brewers 
for the last two weeks of 1971, in order for him to qualify for pension 
purposes. He did not play in an actual game, however. The newly-eligible 
players included 13 All-Stars, 8 of whom were not included on the ballot, 
representing a total of 50 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates 
were 11-time All-Star Ernie Banks, 8-time All-Star Harvey Kuenn, and 7-time 
All-Stars Jim Bunning and Camilo Pascual. The field included two MVPs (Banks, 
who won twice, and Zoilo Versalles), one Cy Young Award winner (Dean Chance) 
and one Rookie of the Year (Kuenn). Players eligible for the first time 
who were not included on the ballot were: Bob Aspromonte, Clete Boyer, 
George Brunet, Dean Chance, Ty Cline, Clay Dalrymple, Dick Ellsworth, Jake 
Gibbs, Tony González, Mudcat Grant, Dick Hall, Jim Hannan, Mike Hershberger, 
Chuck Hinton, Mack Jones, Cal Koonce, Jim Maloney, Lee Maye, Mike McCormick, 
Don Pavletich, Claude Raymond, Howie Reed, Ducky Schofield, Al Spangler, 
