Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2002 proceeded in keeping with 
rules enacted in 2001. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) 
held an election to select from among recent players. The Veterans Committee 
did not hold an election; the 2001 rules changes provided that elections 
for players retired over 20 years would be held every other year, with 
elections of non-players (managers, umpires and executives) held every 
fourth year. The Committee held elections in 2001 for players who were 
active no later than 1979. The next Veterans Committee election, for both 
categories, was in 2003. The induction ceremonies were held on July 28 
in Cooperstown, with Commissioner Bud Selig presiding. The BBWAA was again 
authorized to elect players active in 1982 or later, but not after 1996; 
the ballot included candidates from the 2001 ballot who received at least 
5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected players, chosen 
by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 1996. All 10-year 
members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast 
votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 
75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. Results 
of the 2002 election by the BBWAA were announced on January 8, 2002. The 
ballot consisted of 28 players; 472 ballots were cast, with 354 votes required 
for election. A total of 2810 individual votes were cast, an average of 
5.96 per ballot. Those candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote (24 
votes) will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered 
by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were eligible for the first time 
are indicated here with a †. The one candidate who received at least 75% 
of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold italics; candidates who 
have since been selected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. 
The 8 candidates who received less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible 
for future BBWAA consideration, are indicated with a *. Luis Tiant was 
on the ballot for the 15th and final time. The newly-eligible players included 
twelve All-Stars, one of whom (Steve Howe) was not on the ballot, representing 
a total of 49 All-Star selections. Among the candidates were 15-time All 
Star Ozzie Smith, 8-time All Star Andre Dawson, 6-time All-Star Alan Trammell 
and 5-time All Star Tim Wallach. The field also included two Rookies of 
the Year (Dawson and Steve Howe), one Cy Young Award winner (Frank Viola) 
and one MVP (Dawson). Finally, Ozzie Smith holds the record for Gold Gloves 
at Shortstop, with thirteen. Players eligible for the first time who were 
not included on the ballot were: Mike Aldrete, Joe Boever, Chris Bosio, 
Mark Carreon, Rob Deer, Mark Eichhorn, Félix Fermín, Marvin Freeman, Lee 
Guetterman, Chris Gwynn, John Habyan, Mel Hall, Steve Howe, Dion James, 
Mike Kingery, Kirk McCaskill, Roger McDowell, Rich Monteleone, Jeff Parrett, 
Alejandro Peña, Dick Schofield, Zane Smith, Milt Thompson, and Dave Valle. 
Joe Falls received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. 
(The award was voted at the December 2001 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 2001, 
and conferred in the summer 2002 ceremonies.) Harry Kalas received the 
