In Australia, baseball is a game that is played in all states and territories 
of the country. Baseball was believed to have been brought to Australia 
with Americans gold miners in the Victorian gold rush of the 1850s, where 
miners would play baseball on the gold fields on their rest days. The first 
reports of organised teams and results appeared in Ballarat, Victoria in 
1857.[2] In 1867, Victorian cricketers William Gaggin and Louis Goldsmith 
tried to set up a game of baseball at Yarra Park but were disrupted by 
fans arriving for a local Australian football match. The first competitive 
series was played between the Surry Baseball Club and members of the New 
South Wales Cricket Association over June/July 1878. However, it is argued 
competitive organised one off matches from as early as 1875 were played 
before this time.[3] The first interstate baseball games were played in 
1890 when Victoria played South Australia at the East Melbourne Cricket 
Ground. The visitors won the best of three series 16-14, 27-18 and 22-26 
in Melbourne.[2] These two states in 1897 formed the first Australia representative 
baseball team which toured the United States. The Australian team sponsored 
by Mr A.J. Roberts with £1,500 was selected to tour the United States. 
They were outclassed by the home teams, winning only eight of their first 
26 matches. The Americans were surprised to note the Australian outfielders 
did not wear mitts. Many of the tourists relied on friends and relatives 
to get them home as the organisers ran out of credit to send them back 
home.[4] Those players on the team who could afford it continued on to 
tour England. Games were billed as Australia vs England and were played 
at the Crystal Palace Sports Ground,[5] although the tour turned sour when 
the team manager left London with the gate receipts, leaving many more 
players in financial limbo. This set the game back several years in Victoria 
and South Australia; however, it continued to flourish in New South Wales 
where the sport was established as a winter sport through the New South 
Wales Winter League in 1898. The first Australian championships were in 
1910 in Hobart, Tasmania between New South Wales, Victoria and Tasmania 
and won by NSW. This was followed by a similar series in Melbourne, Victoria 
between Victoria, NSW, South Australia and Tasmania in August 1910. NSW 
also won this series.[6] In December 1888, an American, Albert Spalding, 
brought his Chicago White Stockings and a team of U.S. all-stars to Australia, 
as part of a world tour.[7] Sydney Cricket Ground hosted three games.[7] 
At the end of the 19th century, Americans also tried to set up baseball 
leagues and competitions in Australia, with some success. A national league 
was initiated in 1934, and the national team entered World Championship 
competition in the late 1970s. Prior to winning the silver medal at the 
2004 Olympic Games in Athens, Australia had finished 7th in the Olympics 
twice, which is also the highest position reached in World Championships. 
In the late 1980s to late 1990s the national league took off, with most 
capital cities having a team. The games were broadcast weekly on ABC television 
around the country. In the 12 months to March 1995 baseball hit its peak 
attendance rates with 133,000 people, equivalent to 0.9% of Australians 
over 15, having attended a baseball game that year. This was just under 
the attendance of Golf and above outdoor hockey and lawn bowls.[8] A national-level 
competition still exists, as well as lower-level club competitions, but 
the game attracts comparatively little or no spectator or media interest. 
Several Australians, however, have attracted the attention of American 
scouts and have gone on to play in the major leagues in the United States 
and Japan. Although baseball remains a fringe sport at adult level, it 
has experienced explosive growth at the youth level in the 21st century. 
The first Little League Baseball-affiliated league in the country was established 
in 2007.[9] By mid-2012, the number of Little Leagues in the country had 
risen to about 400, making Australia the largest country in Little League 
participation outside of North America. This growth led the parent organisation 
to announce that Australia would receive an automatic berth in the Little 
League World Series starting in 2013.[10] In 2013, Australian baseball 
player Chris Lane was murdered in Oklahoma.[11] Baseball is considered 
traditionally a summer sport, meaning such that it will start in spring 
and end in autumn, however, this has changed many times in Australia for 
different reasons. One of these reasons is because baseball in Australia 
was originally considered a sport for cricketers in the off-season, but 
as baseball became more popular as a standalone sport it was played more 
often in summer. The Claxton Shield was traditionally played in the Australian 
winter so Sheffield Shield players could participate. However, the Australian 
Baseball League, International Baseball League of Australia and Claxton 
Shield in recent years have been played in the Australian summer, this 
is due to the MLB and other northern hemisphere baseball leagues being 
played in the northern summer, therefore many high-profile players from 
Australia were unable to play in the southern winter. Both summer and winter 
baseball was played in Melbourne in the 1920s and Sydney from 1913 until 
the end of World War II, when baseball across Australia became mainly winter 
only. The exception to this was summer night baseball at Norwood Oval in 
Adelaide, South Australia in the 1950s and at Oriole Stadium in Sydney 
from 1969. During the late 1960s the trend swung back towards baseball's 
traditional season of summer. When the New South Wales Major League decided 
to play summer only day baseball in 1973, a breakaway Sydney Winter League 
formed to continue playing in winter, while most NSW country centres continued 
in the winter. The Victorian Baseball Association in Melbourne switched 
to summer only in mid-1970. Since 1974 Sydney Baseball is now indeed an 
all year round sport. There are many Australians playing baseball professionally 
in the United States, Japan, Korea, and various other countries. As of 
