Baseball Victoria is the governing body of baseball within Victoria. Baseball 
Victoria is governed by the Australian Baseball Federation. The Victorian 
Baseball League (VBL) was constituted in 1889 by J.C. Williamson, Harry 
Rickards, Harry Musgrove, J.S. Milford and Major Ben Wardill (the longtime 
secretary of the Melbourne Cricket Club). J. C. Williamson was the first 
President and remained in office for six years.[1][2] The teams in the 
inaugural season of the Victorian Baseball League were: Carlton, Ferguson 
& Mitchell, Fitzroy, Geelong, Kew, M.C.C., Melbourne (to be renamed Metropolitans), 
Richmond, Richmond C.C., St.Kilda, the “Age” and Victoria. They were followed 
by South Melbourne, East Melbourne and Malvern in 1893, Essendon in 1893, 
Hawkesburn in 1896, and Prahran in 1897.[2] Since before the First World 
War Baseball curtain-raisers to League football had been an institution. 
The Victorian Baseball League A-grade competition fixture was aligned with 
the Victorian Football Association fixture and under this system every 
A grade team also had the backing of a District Cricket Club with all of 
the resultant benefits.[2] In 1896 football in Victoria was split into 
two sections when eight of the thirteen Victorian Football Association 
(VFA) clubs (Carlton, Collingwood, Essendon, Fitzroy, Geelong, Melbourne, 
St Kilda and South Melbourne) broke away to form the Victorian Football 
League (VFL). This league soon became to be the dominate of the two especially 
given all twenty Victorian Football Association premierships to that stage 
had been shared by six of those eight clubs. The VFA continued to be an 
independent body, with only five of its original clubs (Footscray, North 
Melbourne, Port Melbourne, Richmond and Williamstown) – but within five 
years it had expanded to ten clubs, a size it maintained until the 1920s. 
This split had a significant impact on Victorian Baseball. For several 
years after football split the Victorian Baseball League debated the need 
to restructure its constitution to recognize the split between the VFA 
and VFL. At each annual meeting of the VBL a portion of the business was 
dedicated to the allocation of teams between A and B grades, following 
a basic relegation and promotion system. In 1915 this meant that A Grade 
consisted of six teams playing on league football grounds and four on Association 
grounds. This caused it to be near impossible to organize a fair fixture 
of home and away matches matching teams with their respective football 
club. Further exacerbating the problem was the fact that the VFL played 
on better grounds to larger crowds. At a special meeting of the Victoria 
Baseball League on March 25, 1915 the executive committee submitted a proposition 
to split the league into one division of “League” clubs and one of “Association” 
clubs. Each section was to compete for its own pennant, the winners to 
play one game at the end of the season to decide the championship and the 
right to hold the Frank Laver shield. However a sufficient majority to 
pass the changes to the constitution was not secured. A Grade delegates 
contended that they had little voice in the management of the League, being 
frequently out-voted by the B and C grade delegates. With a feeling of 
certainty that baseball affairs in Victoria were not controlled by the 
administrative officers and responsible clubs, the seceding clubs unanimously 
agreed that there was only one step to take. The Victorian Baseball Union 
was formed by Fitzroy, East Melbourne, Melbourne, South Melbourne, Carlton, 
Richmond, St Kilda and Collingwood.[3] The Union included every major office 
holder of the Victorian Baseball League (with the exception of one member 
of the executive committee).[4] In 1925 the League and the Union settled 
their differences and amalgamated into the Victorian Baseball Association 
(VBA) under the Presidency of Len Johnston. Baseball curtain-raisers were 
discontinued in 1947 when the introduction of the VFL third eighteen eliminated 
baseball from League football grounds. This did allow the Victorian Baseball 
Association to reintroduce promotion and relegation independent of football 
to the competition.[2] In 1960 the VBA amalgamated A and B grades together 
and formed North and South division. In 1963 however, the VBA reverted 
to the old A and B grade system. In August 1976 the Victorian Baseball 
Association made the major decision to change the season for the main competition 
to summer. This is the time of year in which the sport is played in the 
two major countries of America and Japan. Furthermore, all other Australian 
states were playing during summer and this put Victoria at a considerable 
disadvantage for the Australian Championships (the Claxton Shield). In 
2006, the Victorian Baseball Association (VBA) and the Victorian Provincial 
Baseball League (VPBL) entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). 
The MOU was an attempt to clear the situation of having two governing bodies 
for baseball in Victoria. The VPBL was made of affiliated associations, 
predominantly based in regional centres, which scheduled competitions in 
the winter months (i.e. April - September). The VBA was predominantly based 
around the metropolitan suburbs of Melbourne and played their matches in 
the summer months (i.e. October - March). The VBA and the VPBL both have 
strong histories and heritage. The unification process was further galvanised 
in 2009 by the establishment of a new Constitution and independent Board 
of Directors to run a single governing body for Victorian baseball, to 
be known as Baseball Victoria. It was hoped that the unification process 
would guarantee the growth and management of baseball in Victoria. The 
conduct, and therefore costs associated with the previous VPBL competitions 
remained the jurisdiction of the various associations. Features of a unified 
model would be the full establishment of statewide programs, operating 
in all areas of Melbourne and Country Victoria and working with all clubs 
regardless of historical ties to VBA or VPBL. Baseball Victoria is responsible 
for selecting the Victoria Aces team that competed in the Claxton Shield; 
an annual, national baseball competition currently contested between the 
five mainland states of Australia. Baseball Victoria also governs all levels 
of baseball in the state, and directly runs the State Summer League (renamed 
the Baseball Victoria Summer League in 2010), considered to be the top 
level of competition in the state and the source of the majority of Australian-based 
players selected for the Victoria Aces. Baseball in Victoria is played 
all year round with two seasons - Summer and Winter. Summer Baseball is 
conducted between October and March. The Baseball Victoria Summer League 
(BVSL) has the direct authority over the competitions conducted within 
the summer season, with Baseball Victoria providing umbrella support. Competition 
matches are generally played within the metropolitan areas of Melbourne. 
The Baseball Victoria Summer League was formed in 2010 by Baseball Victoria 
and replaced the former Victorian State League and the Vodafone State League. 
Baseball Victoria rebranded the competition to comprise mainstream men’s, 
women’s, junior and Masters competitions.[5] Winter Baseball is conducted 
between April and September. Regionally based Associations have the direct 
authority over the competitions conducted within the winter season, with 
Baseball Victoria providing umbrella support to other baseball activities, 
such as development and high performance programs. Victorian Baseball during 
the winter is played across eight Leagues and Associations. Each League 
and Association is responsible for the competitions within their local 
areas. Baseball Victoria also stage the State Winter Championships which 
matches representative teams from each League and Association. While being 
competitive is a high priority, it is just as important to have fun and 
enjoy a weekend of baseball in a relaxed environment. The Melbourne Winter 
Baseball League, formerly the Victorian Winter Baseball League, is the 
biggest winter baseball league in Victoria. It is run by Baseball Victoria 
as of 2010 after it took control from the VPBL after a Memorandum of Understanding. 
There are 25 different clubs and field teams in five grades from A to E. 
Every Grade has a reserves as well. The Melbourne Winter Baseball League 
is made up from two leagues. One being the Ringwood District Baseball League 
and the other, Diamond Valley Baseball League. This is more important for 
juniors as junior teams only play teams in their own district. Except for 
under 17s where both districts play each other. At the state winter championships 
