Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2008 proceeded according to 
revised rules enacted in 2001 and further revamped in 2007. The Baseball 
Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) held an election to select from 
among recent players. A restructured format for Veterans Committee voting 
resulted in the first successful election by that body since 2001, with 
five candidates earning induction, after the three elections in the intervening 
years failed to produce any inductees. Initially, the Veterans Committee 
was not scheduled to hold an election; the 2001 rules changes provided 
that elections for players retired over 20 years would be held every other 
year, with elections of non-players (managers, umpires and executives) 
held every fourth year. The Committee voted in 2007 in both areas, and 
an election for players was next held in 2009. Under the 2001 rules, the 
next election for non-players would have been conducted in 2011; however, 
the 2007 changes meant that elections of non-players would now be conducted 
for inductions in even-numbered years beginning in 2008, with managers 
and umpires elected from one ballot and executives from a separate ballot.[1][2] 
Induction ceremonies in Cooperstown were held July 27 with Commissioner 
Bud Selig presiding. The BBWAA was again authorized to elect players active 
in 1988 or later, but not after 2002; the ballot, announced on November 
26, 2007, included candidates from the 2007 ballot who received at least 
5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected players, chosen 
by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 2002. All 10-year 
members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast 
votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate who received votes on at least 
75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. Results 
of the 2008 election by the BBWAA were announced on January 8. The ballot 
consisted of 25 players, and over 575 ballots were distributed; they had 
to be returned by December 31, and votes were tabulated by BBWAA official 
Jack O'Connell along with Michael DiLecce, a partner in the Ernst & Young 
accounting firm.[3] 543 ballots were cast (including 3 ballots which supported 
no candidates), two short of the record total of 2007, with 408 votes required 
for election. A total of 2,907 individual votes were cast, an average of 
5.35 per ballot. Those candidates who received less than 5% of the vote 
will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered 
by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were eligible for the first time 
are indicated here with a †. Fourteen candidates returned from the 2007 
ballot. The candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. Dave Concepción was on the ballot for the 15th 
and final time. The newly-eligible candidates included 17 All-Stars, eight 
of whom were not included on the ballot, with only one (Tim Raines, with 
seven) who was selected more than five times. In contrast to the remarkably 
deep field of candidates in 2007, when those newly eligible had been named 
to the All-Star team a combined total of 103 times, the 2008 field of new 
candidates were selected a total of only 43 times. José Rijo, who appeared 
on the 2001 ballot before returning to the major leagues in 2001–2002, 
again became eligible. Darryl Kile, who died during the 2002 season, was 
included on the 2003 ballot under a standard provision for players who 
die before the five-year waiting period has elapsed; this same provision 
allowed Rod Beck (who played his last game in 2004 but died in 2007) to 
appear on the 2008 ballot. The ballot included two Rookie of the Year Award 
winners: David Justice and Chuck Knoblauch. Players eligible for the first 
time who were not included on the ballot were: Luis Alicea, Alex Arias, 
Andy Benes, Mike Benjamin, Dennis Cook, Delino DeShields, Darrin Fletcher, 
Rich Garcés, Chris Haney, Dave Hollins, Bobby J. Jones, Tom Lampkin, Darren 
Lewis, Mike Magnante, Dave Mlicki, Mike Morgan, Hipólito Pichardo, Armando 
Reynoso, Henry Rodríguez, Lee Stevens, Greg Swindell, Mike Trombley, John 
Valentin, Randy Velarde, Ed Vosberg, and Mark Wohlers. Of the newly-eligible 
candidates, the only one who amassed enough votes to remain on the BBWAA 
ballot was Raines. This contrasts with the 2007 voting, when Cal Ripken, 
Jr. and Tony Gwynn were inducted at the first opportunity, and two other 
newcomers, Mark McGwire and Harold Baines, received enough votes to remain 
on the ballot. McGwire, who received 128 votes in 2007, got the same number 
of votes in 2008. Baines, whose 29 votes in 2007 kept him on the ballot 
by two votes, lost one vote in 2008, remaining on the ballot with exactly 
the minimum requirement. Also notable was Jim Rice falling short of election, 
this time by 16 votes. He was on the ballot for the 15th and final time 
in 2009, finally earning induction that year alongside newcomer Rickey 
Henderson. The Veterans Committee election process, radically changed in 
2001, was revamped yet again in July 2007.[1] The changes that most directly 
affected this election involved elections of non-players (managers, umpires 
and executives). Under the 2001 rules, elections of non-players would be 
held every fourth year on a "composite ballot". No candidate was elected 
from the composite ballot in 2003 or 2007. With the 2007 rules changes, 
the composite ballot was split into two separate ballots—one for managers 
and umpires and the other for executives. Also, the voting membership of 
the Committee, which previously included all living members of the Hall, 
was now reduced to include just a handful of those members, plus additional 
executives and sportswriters (only one of whom had been among the previous 
electorate). Voting for both the managers/umpires and executives ballots 
will now take place prior to inductions in even-numbered years, starting 
with 2008. To be eligible, managers and umpires need to be retired for 
at least five years, or for at least six months if they are age 65 or older, 
while executives need to be either retired or at least age 65. A Historical 
Overview Committee of eleven sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board 
of Directors met to develop a ballot of 10 managers and umpires; the committee 
members were: Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune), Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun), 
Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch), Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau), 
Moss Klein (Newark Star-Ledger), Bill Madden (New York Daily News), Ken 
Nigro (formerly Baltimore Sun), Jack O'Connell (MLB.com), Nick Peters (The 
Sacramento Bee), Tracy Ringolsby (Rocky Mountain News) and Mark Whicker 
(The Orange County Register). The managers/umpires list was submitted to 
a 16-member panel composed of 10 Hall of Famers (8 players and 2 managers), 
3 executives and 3 veteran media members for a final vote. A separate ballot 
of 10 executives was developed by a 12-member panel including 7 executives, 
2 players and 3 writers, which was the same committee which did the final 
voting in that area. On November 8, 2007, the final ballots were released. 
Each panel member could vote for up to four individuals on each ballot, 
and each candidate who received 75% of the vote from either panel would 
be elected;[2][4] therefore, a maximum of five inductions was possible 
from each ballot. Voting was conducted at baseball's winter meetings in 
Nashville, Tennessee on December 2, 2007, with the results announced on 
December 3; it was the first time since 2001 that the Committee met to 
discuss candidates, as the previous three elections had been conducted 
by mail. The ballot for managers and umpires included seven managers (designated 
M) and three umpires (designated U), with 12 votes required for election. 
Candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected[5][6] 
are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
later elections are indicated in italics. Southworth, who won four National 
League titles between 1942 and 1948, and Williams, who won American League 
titles in 1967 and 1972–73 and an NL flag in 1984, had been the only eligible 
managers with at least four league pennants who had not yet been elected 
to the Hall;[7] Southworth's 1,044 career victories, however, were the 
fewest by any manager yet elected.[8] The committee members apparently 
made an effort to vote for as many candidates as they were allowed, casting 
at least 58 of a possible 64 individual votes (vote totals for four candidates 
were not released). Herzog, Martin, Williams and Harvey had previously 
been on the final composite ballot in the 2007 election. Four of the candidates 
were still living; at the time the ballot was released, Williams was 78, 
Harvey 77, Herzog a day shy of his 76th birthday, and Johnson 64. Harvey 
was the only manager or umpire on the ballot who received majority support 
in 2007, receiving 52 votes from the 81 committee members who voted that 
year. The leading vote-getter among managers in 2007 was Williams, who 
received 30 votes; Herzog was just behind at 29. Harvey and Herzog would 
both live to be inducted in 2010. The election committee, which was announced 
on the same day as the ballot, included:[2] At the induction ceremonies, 
St. Louis Cardinals owner Bill DeWitt gave the speech to accept Southworth's 
induction. On the executives ballot, 9 votes were required for election; 
those candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected[5][6] 
are indicated in bold italics: Dreyfuss, who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates 
from 1900 to 1932, and O'Malley, who owned the Brooklyn/Los Angeles Dodgers 
from 1950 to 1979, were the first National League owners since the 1880s 
to be elected to the Hall; Kuhn — who died in March 2007 after receiving 
just 17% of the vote in the January 2007 vote — had been the only eligible 
commissioner who served more than five years who had not yet been elected. 
As with the other committee, voters apparently tried to vote for as many 
candidates as they were allowed, casting at least 44 of a possible 48 individual 
votes (vote totals for three candidates were not released). Five of the 
10 candidates (Bavasi, Kuhn, Miller, O'Malley and Paul) were holdovers 
from the 2007 composite ballot, with McHale (who was then a member of the 
voting committee) being the only one who was not on the initial 2007 list 
of 60 candidates. The four candidates then living (Bavasi, Howsam, McHale 
and Miller) were all age 86 or older; Bavasi, Howsam and McHale all died 
within five months of the election. Miller's 51 votes on the 2007 ballot 
were second overall to Harvey and tops among executives, and made him the 
only executive to earn majority support that year. The election committee, 
which was announced on the same day as the ballot, included:[2] After the 
elections, various observers expressed skepticism over the failure to elect 
Marvin Miller, especially given the selection of Kuhn, his longtime bargaining 
adversary. It was noted that Miller had received 51 votes (out of 81) in 
the January 2007 election to Kuhn's 14, when all but one of the 84 eligible 
voters were former players, managers or members of the media; only two 
had been former executives, including one (McHale) who had previously played 
in the major leagues, and one former general manager (Lee MacPhail, father 
of 2008 committee member Andy). Miller had also outpolled Kuhn in the 2003 
election by a 35-20 margin. In contrast, half of the 2008 committee was 
made up of six executives who had never been players, serving almost exclusively 
as team chairmen or CEOs (Andy MacPhail was the sole general manager), 
and this panel instead favored Kuhn by a 10-3 margin. Miller himself noted 
that he was unsurprised by the outcome, given the makeup of the revised 
committee, saying, "This was done with precision. If you have a set goal 
in mind, and I think they did, it's not very hard. I'm so able to count 
votes in advance. Nothing has dimmed with age. No matter how various people 
involved in the Hall try to put a different gloss on it, it was done primarily 
to have somebody elected and secondarily to have particular people elected. 
I don't think this election was about me." He added, "I think it was rigged, 
but not to keep me out. It was rigged to bring some of these [people] in. 
It's not a pretty picture. It's demeaning, the whole thing, and I don't 
mean just to me. It's demeaning to the Hall and demeaning to the people 
in it."[9] At the induction ceremonies, Andrew Dreyfuss gave the speech 
to accept the induction of his great-grandfather Barney, former Dodgers 
owner Peter O'Malley accepted his father Walter's induction, and Paul Degener 
accepted the induction of his adoptive stepfather Bowie Kuhn. Larry Whiteside 
received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. (The 
award was voted at the December 2007 meeting of the BBWAA but dated 2008 
in a break from previous practice that gives a misleading appearance of 
skipping one year.) The Spink Award has been presented by the BBWAA at 
the annual summer induction ceremonies since 1962. It recognizes a sportswriter 
"for meritorious contributions to baseball writing". The recipients are 
not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely featured in a permanent exhibit 
at the National Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters commonly 
call them "Hall of Fame writers" or words to that effect. Three final candidates, 
selected by a BBWAA committee, were named on July 10, 2007, in San Francisco 
in conjunction with All-Star Game activities: Nick Peters of The Sacramento 
Bee, Dave Van Dyck of the Chicago Tribune, and Larry Whiteside (1937–2007) 
of The Boston Globe. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to 
cast ballots in voting conducted by mail in November. On December 5 at 
baseball's winter meetings, Larry Whiteside was announced as the recipient, 
having received 203 votes out of the 411 ballots cast, with Peters receiving 
119 votes and Van Dyck receiving 89.[10] His son Tony gave the acceptance 
speech on his behalf. Dave Niehaus received the Ford C. Frick Award honoring 
a baseball broadcaster. The Frick Award has been presented at the annual 
summer induction ceremonies since 1978. It recognizes a broadcaster for 
"major contributions to baseball". The recipients are not members of the 
Hall of the Fame, merely featured in a permanent exhibit at the National 
Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall 
of Fame broadcaster" or words to that effect. To be eligible, an active 
or retired broadcaster must have a minimum of 10 years of continuous major 
league broadcast service with a ball club, a network, or a combination 
of the two. Ten finalists were announced on December 4, 2007.[11] In accordance 
with guidelines established in 2003, seven were chosen by a 20-member committee 
composed of the 14 living recipients, along with 6 additional broadcasting 
historians and columnists: Bob Costas (NBC), Barry Horn (The Dallas Morning 
News), Stan Isaacs (formerly of New York Newsday), Ted Patterson (historian), 
Curt Smith (historian) and Larry Stewart (Los Angeles Times). The seven 
finalists chosen by the committee were: Tom Cheek, Ken Coleman, Dizzy Dean, 
Tony Kubek, Graham McNamee, Dave Niehaus and Dave Van Horne. Three additional 
candidates – Joe Nuxhall, Bill King and Joe Morgan – were selected from 
a list of 201 candidates through results of voting by fans conducted throughout 
November at the Hall's official website.[12] On February 19 it was announced 
that Dave Niehaus, play-by-play announcer for the Seattle Mariners since 
the team began play in 1977, would be the 2008 recipient. His signature 
"My, oh my!" and "Get out the rye bread and mustard Grandma, cause it's 
grand salami time!" had been the siren call of summer for Seattle fans 
for 31 years; at the time he was announced as the recipient, he had called 
4,817 of their 4,899 games, and was also a 2000 inductee into the Mariners' 
Hall of Fame. He was selected in a January vote by the same committee which 
selected the finalists. They voted by mail, and based the selection on 
the following criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including 
national assignments such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity 
with fans. The Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award, which "honors an 
individual whose extraordinary efforts to enhance baseball's positive impact 
on society has broadened the game's appeal, and whose character, integrity 
and dignity reflect the qualities embodied by Buck O'Neil throughout his 
life and career", was established by the Hall in October 2007 in memory 
of O'Neil (1911–2006), a former Negro league player and manager, major 
league coach and scout, and longtime ambassador for the sport. O'Neil was 
named the first recipient of the honor, which will be bestowed by the Hall's 
board of directors at a minimum interval of three years. At the 2008 induction 
ceremonies, Hall of Famer Joe Morgan gave the speech to dedicate and accept 
the award; a statue of O'Neil, just inside the Hall's entrance, had been 
