Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1993 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected Reggie Jackson. 
The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider older major league 
players as well as managers, umpires, executives, and figures from the 
Negro Leagues. It selected no one. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players 
active in 1973 or later, but not after 1987; the ballot included candidates 
from the 1992 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not 
elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, 
whose last appearance was in 1987. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were 
eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 32 players; a total 
of 423 ballots were cast, with 318 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,437 individual votes were cast, an average of 5.76 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The one candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The 11 candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. The newly-eligible players included 27 All-Stars, 
twelve of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 
78 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 14-time All-Star 
Reggie Jackson, 10-time All-Star Steve Garvey, 6-time All-Star Ron Cey 
and 5-time All-Star Cecil Cooper. The field included two MVPs (Jackson 
and Garvey) and one Rookie of the Year (Gary Matthews). Players eligible 
for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Len Barker, 
Dale Berra, Ray Burris, Dan Driessen, Mike Easler, Jamie Easterly, Mike 
Fischlin, George Frazier, Johnny Grubb, Moose Haas, Al Holland, Tom Hume, 
Clint Hurdle, Ruppert Jones, Lee Lacy, Ken Landreaux, Gary Lavelle, Johnnie 
LeMaster, Aurelio Lopez, Rick Manning, Charlie Moore, Jorge Orta, Tom Paciorek, 
Lenn Sakata, Joe Sambito, Bob Shirley, Roy Smalley, Sammy Stewart, U L 
