Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1956 followed a system that 
had been the object of criticism and reform in recent years, which would 
continue that summer. The Veterans Committee was meeting only in odd-number 
years to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, 
and executives. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent players and elected two, Joe Cronin and Hank 
Greenberg. Following the election, complaints by the writers that the electees 
were not up to the standards of previous choices, and that the eligible 
players included few strong candidates, led to a number of changes in the 
rules. Foremost among the alterations was the decision to hold future BBWAA 
elections only in alternating years with the Veterans Committee, and also 
the elimination of the rule which required writers to vote for 10 candidates; 
thereafter, they would be advised only to vote for up to 10. Various factors 
over the previous few years had led to the voters' complaints regarding 
the strength of the eligible candidates. Among these were the decision 
in the early 1950s to extend the waiting period for eligibility following 
a player's retirement from one year to five years; as a result, many players 
who retired in the early 1950s and would otherwise have been eligible were 
temporarily taken out of contention. Also, many of the players who retired 
in the late 1940s and early 1950s had careers which were interrupted by 
military service during World War II, depriving them of accomplishments 
during those seasons which might have enhanced their qualifications in 
the eyes of voters. Some players returned from the war with their skills 
in decline after the long layoff, and retired within a few years when they 
might otherwise have enjoyed several productive seasons if not for the 
interruption in their play; in other cases, similar players who might have 
become more distinct with a few added seasons ended up with careers which 
were more difficult to distinguish. Perhaps most significantly, the Hall 
of Fame had instituted a rule at the beginning of the decade which was 
designed to ensure that the honor of selection was not exploited for profit 
as a mere gate attraction, and that players who were selected were not 
put into games long after their playing ability had waned simply to sell 
tickets; as a result, any individual who was still in uniform as a manager 
or coach – even at the minor league level – had been ruled ineligible for 
selection. (It is important to note that at the time, managers and coaches 
were widely regarded as being full members of the roster; playing managers 
and coaches were still very common, and even minor league managers not 
generally thought of as playing managers often inserted themselves into 
games in emergency situations.) The BBWAA was authorized to elect players 
active in 1926 or later, but not after 1950. All 10-year members of the 
BBWAA were eligible to vote. Any candidate receiving votes on at least 
75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. Votes were 
cast for 83 players; a total of 193 ballots were cast, with 145 votes required 
for election. A total of 1,455 individual votes were cast, an average of 
7.54 per ballot. The two candidates who received 75% of the vote and were 
elected are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected 
