In baseball, base running is the act of running around the bases performed 
by members of the team at bat. In general, base running is a tactical part 
of the game with the goal of eventually reaching home to score a run. The 
goal of batting is generally to produce base runners, or help move base 
runners along. Runners on second or third base are considered to be in 
scoring position since a normal hit, even a single, will often score them. 
Part of the goal of a runner and a batter is to get the runner into scoring 
position. For any base running to occur, a batter must initially become 
a base runner. This happens when:[1] The term batter-runner is used in 
official terminology to identify an offensive player from the time he puts 
a fair ball into play or the third strike is not caught (thereby ceasing 
to be a batter) until the end of the play he initiated, whether the play 
results in the player being put out or becoming a runner by legally attaining 
first base or any subsequent base. The term is generally not applied if 
the batter hits a foul ball or to a player awarded first base, e.g., for 
a base on balls. A player ceases to be a base runner when: If a base runner's 
teammate is put out for the third out of the inning, he is said to be left 
on base (LOB). A runner who is touching a base which he is entitled to 
occupy may not be tagged out. Runners may attempt to advance from base 
to base on any fair ball that touches the ground. When a ball is hit in 
the air (i.e., a fly ball) and caught by the defending team, runners must 
return and touch the base they occupy—called tagging up—after the ball 
is first touched by a fielder. Once they do this, they may attempt to advance 
at their own risk. On a ball that touches the ground in fair territory, 
if there is a force, runners are required to run. Base runners may attempt 
to advance at any time while the ball is alive, even before or while the 
pitcher is throwing a pitch. The catcher—or pitcher, in lieu of delivering 
the pitch—often tries to prevent this by throwing the ball to one of the 
infielders in order to tag the runner. This pick-off attempt is usually 
unsuccessful in tagging out the runner but is effective in keeping the 
runner closer to the base. If the runner is tagged out while diving back 
to the base, it is called a pickoff. If the runner attempts to advance 
to the next base but is tagged out before reaching it safely, he is caught 
stealing. A successful attempt by the runner is called a stolen base. If 
a pitch gets away from the catcher, runners may also try to advance. This 
may be a wild pitch, if the pitcher is held responsible for the ball getting 
away, or a passed ball if the catcher is deemed to be at fault. Sometimes 
the defending team will ignore a runner who is trying to steal a base; 
in this case a runner is not credited with a steal, and the base is attributed 
to defensive indifference. The standard dimensions of a baseball field, 
with 90 feet (27.4 m) between bases, generate many close base running plays. 
On one hand, an infielder who cleanly fields a ball hit on the ground, 
then throws it quickly and accurately, will usually get the ball to a base 
before the runner reaches it. However, any hesitation or mistake on the 
part of the fielder may allow the runner to reach the base safely. Teams 
that are familiar with their opposition may attempt to run when a certain 
player has the ball. For example, on a deep fly ball to center field with 
a man on second base, if the center fielder is known to have a weak arm, 
the runner on second base may attempt to tag up to get to third, even though 
that is a risky play. Base running and hitting are often combined to produce 
better results. Smart, quick base running is a key element in the squeeze 
play. The hit and run and similar plays involve base running. When the 
count is full and there are two outs, runners with a force behind them 
will always run as if they were stealing, since they cannot be caught stealing: 
a strike is the third out, a walk entitles him to the next base, a foul 
is not in play (runners return to previous bases without jeopardy), and 
the runner should be running on any ball hit into play. Also, good runners 
will often try to get extra bases when a play is being made at a different 
base. For example, when there is a runner at second base and the batter 
hits a shallow single and there is a play at home plate, the batter might 
try to get to second (though this would be scored as a single with the 
batter advancing to second on the throw, rather than a double). Sometimes 
runners can be helpful even after they are out. The most common way to 
do this is during a potential double play. If a double play has begun, 
and the runner running to second knows he will be forced out, he will often 
try to aid the runner running to first base by performing a take-out slide, 
to stop the player with the ball from throwing to first. Some versions 
of such a slide could be considered offensive interference in amateur competition, 
but this maneuver is traditionally tolerated in professional baseball. 
Some tag plays are so close that the slide performed by the runner affects 
the outcome. The right type of slide with the right location might allow 
the runner to be safe, while a conventional slide might allow the defending 
