The 1939 elections to select inductees to the Baseball Hall of Fame were 
the last ones conducted prior to the Hall's opening that year. Needing 
just one addition to complete the initial goal of 10 inductees from the 
20th century, members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
were once again given authority to select any players active in the 20th 
century, excepting active players. Difficulties in convening the Centennial 
Commission of the previous two years led to an even smaller Old-Timers 
Committee selecting inductees from the 19th century – a cause of particular 
urgency to many who had been anticipating the five promised but unfulfilled 
selections in that area for over three years. In the BBWAA election, voters 
were instructed to cast votes for 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall upon its opening in Cooperstown, New York on June 12 of that year. 
After the Hall's opening, a special election was also held in December. 
Because the initial goal for the Hall's opening of selecting 10 players 
from the 20th century had now been met, it was further decided to delay 
the next election until 1942, even though observers widely believed that 
electing three players per year (12 had been elected in four regular BBWAA 
elections) had turned out to be an ideal rate. A total of 274 ballots were 
cast, with 2,710 individual votes for 108 specific candidates, an average 
of 9.89 per ballot; 206 votes were required for election. Although three 
stars of the 1920s did very well, the balloting was otherwise dominated 
by players of the 1900s and 1910s, who many voters felt should be given 
priority. Players who had been retired over 20 years received 60% of the 
votes, and accounted for 14 of the top 20 in the balloting. Due to frustration 
over the fact that no 19th century players had yet been selected, a number 
of players from that era whose careers extended into the 20th century only 
briefly (or not at all) even received some votes, as did some managers. 
The results were announced in January 1939. The three candidates who received 
at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in bold italics; 
candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections are indicated 
in italics: As the opening of the Hall approached, criticism mounted that 
no 19th century figures who were known primarily as players had yet been 
selected, when basic plans nearly four years earlier had promised five 
as an ideal initial number. In addition, the 6-member Centennial Commission 
which had selected honorees in the previous two years never had an opportunity 
to meet. As a result, a smaller committee of only three members – Commissioner 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis, National League president Ford Frick, and American 
League president Will Harridge – was formed to choose appropriate honorees; 
their selections were announced on May 2, less than 6 weeks before the 
Hall's opening. They chose six inductees, all of whom were deceased; of 
the 13 committee selections between 1937 and 1939, only Connie Mack was 
still living at the time of the Hall's opening (his Athletics played in 
the inaugural Hall of Fame game). The committee's choices included the 
two players who had tied for first in the failed 1936 Veterans vote (the 
3rd- and 4th-place finishers had by this time been selected by the BBWAA; 
the 6th-place choice had been selected by an earlier committee): The remaining 
inductees were: At the major league winter meetings in Cincinnati in December 
1939, the BBWAA held a special election to act on Lou Gehrig, who had announced 
his retirement that summer. The writers elected Gehrig to the Hall of Fame 
(the results of that election are unknown) and also determined to postpone 
the next regular election until 1942, as the initial quota of 10 inductees 
