Rod Carew Ferguson Jenkins Bill Veeck Gaylord Perry Tony Lazzeri Elections 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1991 followed the system in place since 
1978. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail 
to select from recent major league players and elected three, Rod Carew, 
Ferguson Jenkins, and Gaylord Perry. The Veterans Committee met in closed 
sessions to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, 
executives, and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected two, Tony Lazzeri 
and Bill Veeck. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1971 
or later, but not after 1985; the ballot included candidates from the 1990 
ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along 
with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance 
was in 1985. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters 
were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 45 players; a total of 443 ballots were 
cast, with 333 votes required for election. A total of 2,948 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 6.65 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The three candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in 
bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The 22 candidates who received less than 5% of 
the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Jim Bunning and Harvey Kuenn were on the ballot for 
the 15th and final time. The field of newly-eligible players included 14 
All-Stars, all of whom were on the ballot, representing a total of 58 All-Star 
selections. Among the new candidates were 18-time All-Star Rod Carew, 7-time 
All-Stars Rollie Fingers and Al Oliver, 6-time All-Star Rusty Staub, and 
5-time All-Stars Larry Bowa and Steve Rogers. The field included four Rookies 
of the Year (Carew, Al Bumbry, Mike Hargrove and Pat Zachry), three MVPs 
(Carew, Fingers and Jeff Buroughs) and two Cy Young Award winners (Sparkey 
Lyle and Rollie Fingers. Fingers also received the MVP Award the same year). 
Players eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot 
were: Benny Ayala, Alan Bannister, Kurt Bevacqua, Steve Braun, Miguel Diloné, 
Doug Flynn, Tim Foli, Dan Ford, Kiko Garcia, Ed Glynn, Andy Hassler, Jay 
Johnstone, Duane Kuiper, Sixto Lezcano, Dan Meyer, Rick Miller, Dale Murray, 
Joe Nolan, Dan Spillner, Mike Squires, Bill Stein, Derrel Thomas, Rick 
