A baseball park, also known as a ballpark or diamond, is a venue where 
baseball is played. A baseball park consists of the playing field and the 
surrounding spectator seating. While the diamond and the areas denoted 
by white painted lines adhere to strict rules, guidelines for the rest 
of the field are flexible. The term "ballpark" sometimes refers either 
to the entire structure, or sometimes to just the playing field. A home 
run where the player makes it around the bases, and back to home plate, 
without the ball leaving the playing field is typically called an "inside-the-park" 
home run. Sometimes a home run over the fence is called "out of the ballpark", 
but that phrase more often means a home run that clears the stands and 
lands outside the building. The playing field is most often called the 
"ballfield", though the term is often used interchangeably with "ballpark" 
when referring to a small local or youth league facility. A baseball field 
can be referred to as a diamond. The infield is a rigidly structured diamond 
of dirt containing the three bases, home plate, and the pitchers mound. 
The space between the bases and home is normally a grass surface, save 
for the dirt mound in the center. Some ballparks, like Toronto's Rogers 
Centre, have grass or artificial turf between the bases, and dirt only 
around the bases and pitcher's mound. Others, such as Koshien Stadium in 
Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan, have an entirely dirt infield. Two white lines 
run out from the home plate area, aligned with first and third bases. These 
are the foul lines or base lines, usually differentiated by referring to 
them as the first base line, or the third base line. If a ball hit by the 
batter lands outside of the space between these two lines, or rolls out 
of this space before reaching first or third base, the ball is "foul" (meaning 
it is dead and the play is over). If it lands between or on the lines, 
it is "fair". At the end of the lines are two foul poles, which help the 
umpires judge whether a ball is fair or foul. These "foul poles" are actually 
in fair territory, so a ball that hits them on the fly is a home run (if 
hit on the bounce, it is instead an automatic double). On either side of 
home plate are the two batter's boxes (left-handed and right-handed.) This 
is where the batter stands when at bat. Behind home is the catcher's box, 
where the catcher and the home plate umpire stand. Next to first and third 
base are two coaches' boxes, where the first and third base coaches guide 
the baserunners, generally with gestures or shouts. As the baserunner faces 
away from the outfield when running from second base to third, they cannot 
see where the ball is, and must look to the third base coach on whether 
to run, stop, or slide. Farther from the infield on either side are the 
dugouts, where the teams and coaches sit when they're not on the field. 
They are named such because, at the professional levels, this seating is 
below the level of the playing field so as to not block the view from prime 
spectator seating locations. In amateur parks, the dugouts may be above-ground 
wooden or CMU structures with seating inside, or simply benches behind 
a chain link fence. Beyond the infield and between the foul lines is a 
large grass outfield, generally twice the depth of the infield. The playing 
field is bordered by fences of varying height. The infield fences are in 
foul territory, and a ball hit over them isn't a home run; consequently, 
they are often lower than the outfield fences to provide a better view 
for spectators. Sometimes, the outfield fence is made higher in certain 
areas to compensate for a close proximity to the batter. In professional 
parks, the field is surrounded by an area roughly 10 feet (3.0 m) wide 
made of dirt or rubberized track surface called a "warning track". Originally 
used in Yankee Stadium in 1923 as an actual footrace track,[citation needed] 
it is now present in all major league ballparks. This change in terrain 
warns a fielder, who is watching a ball in the air, that the wall is near, 
avoiding possible injury. Beyond the outfield fence in professional parks 
is an area called the batter's eye. To ensure the batter can see the white 
ball, the batter's eye contains no seating, and is a darker color. This 
can be anything from a dark wall to a grassy slope. Today, in Major League 
Baseball, a multi-tiered seating area, a grandstand, surrounds the infield. 
How far this seating extends down the baselines or around the foul poles 
varies from park to park. In minor league parks, the grandstands are notably 
smaller, proportional to expected sizes of crowds compared with the major 
leagues. The seating beyond the outfield fence generally differs from the 
grandstand, though some multi-purpose or jewel box parks have the grandstand 
surround the entire field. This area could contain inexpensive bleacher 
seats, smaller grandstands, or simply inclined seating. In local ballparks, 
there are often simply a set or two of aluminum bleachers on the first-base 
and third-base sides. Distinctive from "goal games" such as football and 
soccer, which have fixed-size playing areas, the infield is the only rigidly 
laid-out part of the field. Like its English relative, cricket, there is 
significant flexibility in the shape and size of the rest of the playing 
area. To prevent "cheap" home runs, baseball leagues may specify a minimum 
distance from home plate to the outfield fences. Generally, the higher 
the skill level, the deeper the minimum dimensions must be, to prevent 
an excess of home runs. In the major leagues, a rule was passed in 1958[1] 
that compelled any new fields built after that point to have a minimum 
distance of 325 feet (99 m) from home plate to the fences in left and right 
field, and 400 feet (120 m) to center. (Rule 1.04, Note(a)). This rule 
was passed to avoid situations like the Los Angeles Coliseum, which was 
251 ft (77 m). down the left field line. However, with the opening of Baltimore's 
Camden Yards (1992), the "minimum distance" rule began to be ignored.[citation 
needed] One factor may be[citation needed] that the quaint, "retro" look 
of Camden Yards, with its irregular measurements, proved to be very popular, 
along with a traditionalist backlash against the symmetrical, multi-purpose, 
"cookie-cutter" stadiums. Since the opening of Camden Yards, many other 
"retro" stadiums have been built, each with asymmetrical fences. These 
distances vary from park to park, and can even change drastically in the 
same park. One of the most famous examples is the original Yankee Stadium, 
whose odd-shaped plot of land caused right field to be over 100 feet (30 m) 
shorter than left, although this difference lessened over time. The rectangular 
Polo Grounds had extremely short distance down the lines, 258 ft (79 m). 
to right and 280 ft (85 m). to left. In contrast, the deepest part of center 
field was nearly 500 ft (150 m). from home plate. Older ballparks, such 
as Fenway Park, were grandfathered in and allowed to keep their original 
dimensions. Also, new parks have sometimes received special dispensation 
to deviate from these rules. For instance, the second Yankee Stadium, built 
2009, used the same dimensions as the original Yankee Stadium.[2] The heights 
of the fences can also vary greatly, the most famous example being the 
37-foot (11 m)-high Green Monster in Fenway Park's left field. Such tall 
fences are often used to stop easy home runs in a section of the ballpark 
where the distances from home are shorter, or where there is little space 
between the field and the street beyond. Some in-play scoreboards and high 
fences reached 50 to 60 feet (18 m), whereas a few outfields were even 
lined with hedges rather than normal fences or walls. The Hubert H. Humphrey 
Metrodome, when set up for baseball, had a 23-foot (7.0 m) right field 
"fence" that was actually a relatively thin blue plastic sheet covering 
folded up football seats. It was often called the "Baggie" or "Hefty bag". 
Some ballparks have irregularly shaped fences. Ballparks may have round 
swooping fences or rigidly angles fences, or possibly a significant change 
in direction or irregular angle. For example, the center field stands and 
the left field stands at Fenway Park meet at an uneven angle, creating 
an indentation (called "the triangle") that angles sharply back into the 
stands. In Citi Field and AT&T Park, part of the right field fence juts 
unevenly into the outfield as if the builders were trying to create an 
unpredictable ricochet effect for balls hit against it.[3] Some "retro" 
parks, such as Globe Life Park in Arlington, throw in a sudden and small 
inward turn (often referred to as a jog) just to give a little quirkiness 
to the design.[citation needed] Milwaukee's Miller Park was designed, with 
the help of former player Robin Yount, to promote extra base hits.[4] Originally 
(mostly in the old jewel box parks) these variations resulted from the 
shape of the property where the park was constructed. If there was a street 
beyond left field, the distance to the left field fence would be shorter, 
and if the distance was too short, the fence would be higher. For example, 
in the old Griffith Stadium in Washington, D.C., part of center field had 
to be built around a cluster of apartment houses and the result was a rather 
large angular indentation in the left-center field fence.[3] Now, these 
variations are mostly influenced by the specifications and whims of the 
designers. New "retro" parks, which try to recapture the feel of the jewel 
box parks, are often designed to have these quirks. Baseball was originally 
played in open fields or public parks. The genesis of modern baseball is 
conventionally connected with Elysian Fields in Hoboken, New Jersey,[citation 
needed] a large public park where the businessmen of New York City gathered 
from time to time to play organized baseball games and cricket matches, 
starting around the mid-1840s. The name "Field" or "Park" was typically 
attached to the names of the early ballparks. With the beginnings of professional 
baseball, the ballfield became part of a complex including fixed spectator 
seating areas, and an enclosure to restrict access to paying customers, 
as with a fairgrounds. The name "Grounds" began to be attached to ballparks, 
starting with the Union Grounds in 1862.[citation needed] The suffixes 
"Field" and "Park" were still used, but many professional ballparks were 
"Grounds". The last surviving major league "Grounds" was the Polo Grounds 
in New York City, which was razed in 1964. The term "stadium" had been 
used since ancient times, typically for a running track and its seating 
area. As college football gained in popularity, the smaller college playing 
fields and/or running tracks (which also frequently had the suffix "Field") 
gave way to large stadiums, many of them built during the sport's "boom" 
of the 1920s. Major league baseball enjoyed a similar boom. One of the 
first major league ballparks to be called a "stadium" was actually the 
Polo Grounds, which was temporarily renamed Brush Stadium from its reconstruction 
in 1911 until the death of owner John T. Brush in the 1920s. By then, the 
most famous baseball "stadium" of them all had been constructed: Yankee 
Stadium. From that point until the retro building boom of the 1990s, the 
suffix "Stadium" was used for almost every new major league ballpark, and 
was sometimes applied to the old ones, such as Shibe Park, which was renamed 
Connie Mack Stadium in 1954. The suffix "Dome" was also used for the indoor 
stadiums constructed from the 1960s onward. The official names of those 
arenas also often included the word "Stadium", such as the Houston Astrodome, 
whose formal name was "Harris County Domed Stadium" in 1965; the Kingdome, 
whose formal name was "King County Domed Stadium", and the Metrodome, for 
which the Minneapolis highway signs directed the driver to "Metrodome Stadium". 
The retro era of the 1990s and early 2000s saw a return to the original 
arboreal terms, even to domed structures such as Safeco Field and Miller 
Park. There is little consistency in the choice between "Field" and "Park". 
Organizations appear to choose based on which suffix "sounds" better for 
a given ballpark name.[citation needed] For example, Houston's Minute Maid 
Park was originally named "Enron Field". Organized baseball has been a 
popular spectator sport from its beginning[citation needed]. Seating area 
design is affected by many variables, including required capacity, audience 
access, and road traffic. Early ballparks like Elysian Fields were far 
from the city center. Each game was an event, and fans traveled by public 
transit to watch the game. With the growth of professional leagues, and 
consequent growth in the quantity of games, each game became less of an 
event, and fan convenience became more important.[citation needed] Many 
professional ballparks were built either near the city center, or in working-class 
neighborhoods, based on expected economic level of the average fan. Consequently, 
the classic ballparks typically had little space for automobiles, as it 
was expected that most fans would take mass transit to the games, a situation 
that still prevails at Boston's Fenway Park and Chicago's Wrigley Field, 
for example. Some early ballparks, such as Brooklyn's Eastern Park, were 
abandoned because the trolley lines did not go out far enough and the team 
was not performing well enough for people to tolerate the inconvenience. 
As fans became more affluent, and especially as they moved to the suburbs 
and bought cars, the lack of parking became an important issue. Some ballparks 
remedied this problem through the construction of parking garages in the 
vicinity, or building new ballparks with ample parking. Others built ballparks 
in the suburbs, typically with large parking areas. The ballpark/stadium 
thus became an "island" in an "ocean" of parking space. The modern "retro" 
trend seeks to cover all the bases: an urban location, with plenty of parking 
and public transportation available. The first professional baseball venues 
were large wooden ballparks with seats mounted on wood platforms. Although 
known for being constructed out of wood, they featured iron columns for 
better support. Some included one tier of inclined seating, topped with 
either a flat roof or, in some instances, a small upper tier. The outfield 
was bordered by tall walls or fences covered in advertisements, much like 
today's minor league parks. These advertisements were sometimes fronted 
with bleacher seats, or "bleaching boards". Wood, while prone to decomposition, 
was a relatively inexpensive material, as there was no official governing 
body for professional baseball at the time. However, the use of wood as 
the primary material presented a major problem, especially as baseball 
continued to thrive. Over time, the wooden stands aged and dried. Many 
parks caught fire, and some were leveled completely. This problem, along 
with the popularization of baseball and expectations for long-term use 
of the parks were major factors that drove the transition to the new standard 
materials for ballparks: steel and concrete.[citation needed] Some famous 
wooden parks, such as the Polo Grounds III in New York and National League 
Park in Philadelphia, burned and were rebuilt with fire-resistant materials 
(Polo Grounds IV and Baker Bowl). Others were simply abandoned in favor 
of new structures built elsewhere. These new fire-resistant parks often 
lasted for many decades, and (retrospectively) came to be known as "jewel 
boxes".[citation needed] Since there are no more professional ballparks 
in existence left with this architectural trend, it's basically a dead 
design. The ballparks built or rebuilt of concrete and steel (albeit with 
wooden seats) after the days of the wooden ballpark are now known as the 
jewel box ballparks or classic parks. These parks are said by many[who?] 
to embody the golden age of baseball. They are known for an intimate feel, 
and major use of exposed steel, brick, and stone. The first of these was 
Shibe Park, which opened in 1909 in Philadelphia. Another Philadelphia 
ballpark, the Baker Bowl, which opened in 1895, used steel and brick instead 
of wood as the primary construction materials, and is considered[by whom?] 
the forerunner of the jewel box parks. Two-tiered grandstands became much 
more prevalent in this era[when?]. These decks were typically held up by 
steel pillars that obstructed the view from some seats in the lower level. 
However, because of these supports, the upper decks could come very close 
to the field, giving the ballpark a more intimate feel. Two tiers was the 
standard for decades, until the New York Yankees built Yankee Stadium. 
To accommodate the large crowds Babe Ruth drew, Yankee Stadium was the 
largest ballpark in baseball, and was built with three tiers. This became 
the new standard until some recently built[when?] parks reverted to two. 
Most Jewel Box Parks were built to fit the constraints of actual city blocks, 
resulting in asymmetrical outfield dimensions[examples needed]. The exceptions 
were Shibe Park and Comiskey Park, which were built on rectangular city 
blocks that were large enough to accommodate left/right field symmetry. 
Other sports, such as soccer and football, were often played at these sites 
(the Polo Grounds and Yankee Stadium were, for example, designed to accommodate 
football). In contrast to the later multi-purpose parks, the seats were 
generally angled in a configuration suitable for baseball. The "retro" 
ballparks built in the 1990s and beyond are an attempt to capture the feel 
of the jewel box parks. The only jewel box parks still used by Major League 
Baseball are Fenway Park and Wrigley Field. From the 1960s until the arrival 
of retro parks in 1992, baseball built many multi-purpose ballparks. Also 
derisively known as "concrete donuts", "cookie-cutters", or "giant ashtrays", 
they were usually tall and circular or square structures made entirely 
of, usually bare, reinforced concrete. The parks were built to hold baseball 
as well as football, soccer, and other sports. One of the earliest baseball 
stadiums that incorporated this type of design was Cleveland Stadium (built 
1932), which featured an oval grandstand that was more friendly to goal-centered 
sports like football. A park built to suit all sports well, which was co-owned 
by the teams or the city, seemed advantageous to all, especially because 
it was less expensive to maintain one stadium rather than two. Some parks 
that were originally built for one sport were renovated to accommodate 
multiple sports. The shape of the parks generally depended on the original 
use. Baseball parks that were renovated to accommodate football, like Candlestick 
Park and Anaheim Stadium, were usually asymmetrically shaped. Football 
stadiums that were renovated to accommodate baseball, like Sun Life Stadium 
and Mile High Stadium, were usually of a rectangular shape, though Mile 
High actually started its life in 1948 as a Minor League Baseball park 
known as Bears Stadium. Parks that were built to serve both were usually 
circular and completely enclosed on all sides. These were the parks that 
gained multi-purpose parks the reputation as bland cookie-cutter structures. 
The first of these parks was RFK Stadium (named changed in January 1969 
from the original DC Stadium) in the District of Columbia. RFK is unique 
in that it hosted two different baseball teams, and that it was the first 
to originally be intended for multiple sports. It is currently in use for 
only Major League Soccer's D.C. United. A notable variant among the cookie-cutter 
stadia was Shea Stadium. One of the first parks designed and built for 
baseball and football, it did not feature an exterior of bare concrete, 
but was clad in steel. This steel was later painted blue, making Shea the 
only multi-purpose park to have an exterior that was not either gray or 
white. Also, the grandstand only extended just past the foul poles, and 
did not completely enclose the field. Plans were made to enclose the grandstand 
and build a dome, but engineers discovered that the structure could not 
handle the load of the proposed dome. Thus the stadium simply remained 
with the area behind the outfield fence open. One major innovation of the 
multi-purpose parks was the cantilevered upper deck. In earlier ballparks, 
the columns used to support the upper decks obstructed the view from some 
seats in the lower deck. The upper decks were extended upwards and the 
columns removed. However, even though the extension counterbalanced some 
of the weight, the upper decks could no longer extend as close to the field 
and had to be moved back. Also, the roofs could no longer be as large, 
and often only covered the top 15 or so rows. This exposed fans to the 
elements. Besides the drawbacks of the cantilever design, there were other 
issues with these parks. With few exceptions, seating was angled to face 
the center of the field of play, rather than home plate. Luxury boxes, 
which were a part of football culture, were now introduced to baseball, 
and were usually placed below the upper decks, pushing upper deck seating 
farther from the field. The furthest seats in these parks were 500 feet 
(150 m) or more from the plate. The capacities of these stadiums were staggeringly 
large, due to football's smaller schedule drawing a larger crowd per game. 
However, they were usually far too large for baseball, further diminishing 
their intimacy. Even crowds of 40,000, a fair amount for baseball, seemed 
sparse. Often the only times they looked full were on opening day and playoff 
games. Due to the rectangular shape needed for football or soccer, outfield 
dimensions were generally symmetrical, and even seats at field level down 
the lines could be far from the action. Such stadiums weren't much better 
for football. The "cookie-cutters" with swiveling, field-level sections 
proved problematic. Because the front rows were too close to the field, 
the fans had difficulty seeing over the football benches. This was evident 
in the movable seating sections in RFK Stadium. The first ten rows of the 
football configuration were practically at field level, and fans in those 
sections often stood up on their seats to get a better view. Other stadiums 
overcame this simply by covering those seats, not bothering to sell them. 
Despite being cost-effective, these problems eventually caused the parks 
to become unfashionable. The multi-purpose architecture reached a climax 
when Toronto's SkyDome (now Rogers Centre) opened in 1989. It had state-of-the-art 
amenities including a retractable roof, hotel, and a restaurant behind 
the outfield from where patrons could view the games. Only one of the purely 
open-air multi-purpose parks is still in use by baseball today: Oakland 
Coliseum. The Athletics plan to move out of Oakland Coliseum and build 
a new ballpark of their own in the future. Note: To reduce redundancy, 
this table does not list the indoor stadiums of the multi-purpose era in 
this section. However, all of the indoor ballparks of North America, which 
are listed in their own section, were also built as multi-purpose stadiums. 
*A baseball-only ballpark converted to a multi-purpose stadium. **A football-only 
stadium converted to a multi-purpose stadium. denotes stadium is also a 
retractable-roof ballpark While most teams turned to multi-purpose parks, 
some chose to build baseball-only parks. While these modern ballparks shirked 
some of the conventions of multi-purpose parks, they did include some of 
the new features. The most notable influences were the cantilevered upper 
decks, the use of seating colors other than green, and fairly plain concrete 
exteriors. The most important things, though, were that they had a more 
intimate feel to them, and they were built for baseball. While the multi-purpose 
parks have become all but extinct, some modern parks, such as Dodger Stadium 
and Kauffman Stadium, have been hailed for aging beautifully. Rather than 
build new parks, the teams have decided instead to renovate the current 
structures, adding a few newer conveniences. Several of the modern parks 
built as such have remained in use, with no indication of being demolished. 
While Cleveland Stadium is the ancestor to the multi-purpose ballpark, 
the ancestor of the modern ballpark is Milwaukee County Stadium. It was 
the first to feature a symmetrical, round outfield fence. It also featured 
the rounded V-shaped grandstand and colorful seats that are common among 
all modern parks. Coincidentally, it also would have been one of the earlier 
examples of a converted park as well. It was supposed to replace a minor 
league facility, and serve as home of the minor league team until a major 
league franchise could be lured to the city. However, the Braves came to 
Milwaukee earlier than expected, and the minor league team never played 
in the stadium. The first two truly modern ballparks were built by the 
two New York teams who moved to California, the Giants and the Dodgers. 
Candlestick Park was created first, but was converted to a multi-purpose 
park to accommodate the 49ers. Dodger Stadium has been upgraded a number 
of times, but remains baseball-only and its original design is still largely 
intact. Anaheim Stadium, which was initially modeled closely on Dodger 
Stadium, was expanded for football as was Candlestick, but once the Rams 
departed, most of the extra outfield seating was peeled back, returning 
the structure to more like its original design. The original Yankee Stadium 
is an exceptional case. Yankee Stadium was a jewel box park, albeit a very 
large one. It was showing its age in the 1970s, and the stadium was extensively 
renovated during 1973-75, converting it into more of a modern style ballpark. 
Many of the characteristics that defined it as a classical jewel box were 
also retained, so the remodeled Stadium straddled both categories. New 
Comiskey Park (now Guaranteed Rate Field) was the last modern ballpark 
to be built in North America. A series of renovations have been made to 
make it appear more like a retro-classic ballpark. With the 1960s came 
the first expansion teams. While some teams expanded in cities where there 
were established teams with facilities that could be shared, not all were 
as fortunate. This led to the emergence of two distinct subsets of parks 
in the major leagues: temporary ballparks and converted ballparks. In some 
cases, there are plans to build a new ballpark for the expansion team, 
but it will not be completed until a few years after the team is established. 
This may be for a few reasons, such as delays or a desire to hold off until 
the deal is settled. In this case, an established building is used as a 
temporary home, often a minor league park. The first temporary ballparks 
were not actually used by expansion teams but by established franchises. 
When the Dodgers and Giants moved to California from New York, they played 
in Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum and Seals Stadium respectively while Dodger 
Stadium and Candlestick Park were being built. The other case is when, 
rather than building a new park, the city renovates an existing minor league 
or college facility, expanding it to fit a major league team. These converted 
ballparks are different from football stadia that were converted to facilitate 
baseball in that converted ballparks were originally built to be baseball 
only, albeit for a non-major league level. Early converted ballparks were 
Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Municipal Stadium in Kansas City, and Metropolitan 
Stadium in Bloomington, Minnesota. All three were expanded minor league 
facilities, although Baltimore and the Met were constructed with the idea 
of expanding to major league level in mind. Kansas City was a true established 
minor league park that was substantially expanded to accommodate major 
league size crowds. These two types of ballpark are distinct because of 
their use, not their design. Because of this, a temporary or converted 
ballpark can also be any of the other types: jewel box, modern, multi-purpose, 
etc. An important type of ballpark is the indoor park. These parks were 
covered with a fixed roof, usually a hard concrete dome. Reasons to build 
indoor parks were varied. The Astrodome, the first indoor sports stadium 
ever built, was built to escape the hot and very humid climate of Houston; 
the Kingdome was built to escape Seattle's constant rains, and the Sapporo 
Dome in Japan (which also hosts a soccer team) was built to escape Sapporo's 
extreme snowfall. There is little to no natural light in these parks, necessitating 
the use of one of the most distinguishing aspects of an indoor park: artificial 
turf. Since there was not enough light to grow grass, artificial turf was 
installed, and this affected the game. Artificial turf was harder, and 
thus a ball hit on the ground moved faster and bounced high. This, coupled 
with the usually dull white or gray roofs that could camouflage a fly ball, 
caused what Twins fans called a "dome-field advantage". A park of note 
is Olympic Stadium in Montreal. The park was designed with a large tower 
that loomed over top. Cables came down from the top of the tower to connect 
to the large oval center of the roof. This oval center was supposed to 
be lifted by the cables, opening the park up if the weather was pleasant. 
However, the mechanism never worked correctly, and what was supposed to 
be a retractable roof was initially not used, then used for only a short 
period of time, and later replaced with a permanently fixed roof, making 
the stadium a strictly indoor facility. Indoor parks faced many of the 
same problems of the multi-purpose parks, which was compounded with the 
added problem of playing an outdoors sport indoors. Tropicana Field is 
the only indoor-only or fixed-dome park left hosting a Major League Baseball 
team, and may be replaced in the near future. As mentioned above, the indoor 
parks were built for several different reasons, chief among those weather. 
However, as multi-purpose parks became unfashionable, so did the drab indoor 
parks. This led to the creation of retractable-roof parks. These allowed 
shelter from the elements, but still could be opened on a nice day. To 
be able to support the roof, most were closed in on all sides like multi-purpose 
and indoor parks, but as all retractable-roof parks except Rogers Centre 
are baseball only, every square foot does not need to be filled with seating, 
and there is plenty of room for open spaces or windows that look outside. 
Because the roof needs to go somewhere when not covering the field, a distinguishing 
characteristic of the retractable roof park is a large extension of the 
interior spaces to either one side of the field or both sides that the 
roof sits on when retracted. The only exception to this is Miller Park 
whose fan-shaped roof folds in upon itself and hangs behind the stands 
down the foul lines. Often, when retracted, the roof still hangs over the 
field, casting large shadows. This is countered at Miller Park by large 
panes of glass under the roof. While most seal up when the roof is closed, 
others are at least partially open, with large gaps that do not let in 
harsh weather, but don't give the feel of being inside. Except for Rogers 
Centre, all of these parks feature natural grass. Pittsburgh's Civic Arena 
was the first sports building in the world with a retractable roof; however, 
the building was originally constructed for the Pittsburgh Civic Light 
Opera, which moved out in 1969 due to dissatisfaction with the acoustics 
in the arena. The arena's long-term tenants, the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins, 
never played with the roof open, and the arena itself was never used for 
baseball. While Montreal's Olympic Stadium was the first baseball park 
to have a retractable roof, the roof was plagued by numerous problems, 
and was never fully used. As a result, it is not generally considered to 
be a retractable-roof facility. This made Rogers Centre the first fully 
functional retractable-roof park. It managed to succeed where Olympic Stadium 
failed, building a multi-section roof that folded upon itself, retracting 
over the hotel in center field. Retractable-roof parks can vary greatly 
in style, from the utilitarian (Rogers Centre), to those infused with retro 
elements (such as Minute Maid Park), to the contemporary (Marlins Park). 
The style of each park reflects the popular architecture of the era in 
which it was built. (This differs from indoor ballparks — all of which 
were built during the time of multi-purpose parks, and thus reflected the 
same "flying-saucer" style.) When Rogers Centre opened in 1989, baseball 
was near the end of the modern and multi-purpose era. Chase Field, Safeco 
Field, Minute Maid Park, and Miller Park all opened in the middle of the 
retro era. When Marlins Park opened in 2012, it introduced a new and different 
style, and perhaps the beginning of a new era.[7] The Texas Rangers intend 
to build their new retractible roof ballpark in the retro style similar 
to their current ballpark, Globe Life Park.[8] Therefore, the term "retractable-roof 
ballpark/stadium" is not a description of the overall architectural style 
of the building, but of the functional aspect of it. For this reason, retractable-roof 
parks are also dual-listed in style-based types of ballparks. For example, 
the 4 retractable-roof parks built during the retro era are also considered 
to be retro-modern ballparks. In 1992, Oriole Park at Camden Yards opened 
in Baltimore. Going in a different direction from the multi-purpose and 
modern ballparks, Camden Yards harkened back to the old jewel box parks. 
This began the building of a series of parks known as the retro-classic 
ballparks, or, simply, retro ballparks. The retro parks were built with 
all the luxuries of the newer parks, such as luxury boxes and more restrooms 
and concession areas, along with new additions, such as indoor concourses 
that are open to the field, allowing fans to always have a view of the 
game. However (except for a few exceptions harkening back to the wooden 
ballpark era), the aesthetics shifted back to jewel box conventions, which 
included the use of green seats, bricks, stone, and green-painted exposed 
steel. A major divergence from jewel boxes was the layout of the grandstand. 
The focus was now on everyone in the park having a good view. Columns were 
missing as with the modern parks, but the upper deck was drawn back and 
shrunk, while the middle tiers grew in size, causing a stepped effect. 
The cantilevered upper deck was no longer a large necessity. However, since 
these new upper decks were drawn back, the shape of the inclined seating 
was clearly expressed on the exterior, a feature that is a hallmark of 
modern parks. Like the jewel box parks, the outfield fences were angled 
rather than the gradual curve of the newer parks, and often had quirky 
dimensions. The requirements for minimum distance to the outfield fences 
were rarely enforced during this time. Teams with multi-purpose and indoor 
parks longed for this beautiful and classic look, and began systematically 
demolishing them and moving to either retro-classic or retro-modern parks. 
Since Camden Yards opened, two-thirds of all major league teams have opened 
new ballparks, each of which contain unique features. The most important 
feature was that they were built primarily for baseball, although these 
venues have also hosted football, soccer and ice hockey games. Turner Field 
was originally constructed as Centennial Olympic Stadium for the 1996 Summer 
Olympics and was retrofitted to baseball the following year. Guaranteed 
Rate Field has an unusual place in ballpark history. It was the last modern 
park built, built a year before Camden Yards just missing the retro movement, 
it was viewed as obsolete only a year into its life. The White Sox responded 
with a series of renovations to give the park more retro charm. This included 
the changing from a cantilever upper deck to a flat roof with columns, 
and the change from a symmetrical fence to a more recognizably-shaped asymmetrical 
fence. The most recent retro-classic ballparks were built in New York City. 
Queens' Citi Field is modeled after Ebbets Field, and the Bronx's Yankee 
Stadium is modeled after the pre-renovation "House that Ruth Built". Both 
parks opened in 2009. Teams are now trending away from the retro-classic 
look and are instead building retro-modern and contemporary ballparks. 
Turner Field is the first retro-classic park scheduled to be replaced, 
as the Atlanta Braves plan to move to SunTrust Park after the 2016 season, 
while the Texas Rangers intend to move from Globe Life Park in Arlington 
to a new retractible roof ballpark in 2021. While Camden Yards influenced 
nearly every ballpark built after it, not all fully adhere to its design. 
Those that deviate to incorporate more modern-looking elements are called 
retro-modern ballparks. Progressive Field was built two years after Camden 
Yards, and featured the angular, asymmetrical fences of varying heights, 
a smaller upper deck, stepped tiers, and an unobtrusive singular color 
scheme. While the interior has all the hallmarks of a retro park, the exterior 
did not feature the look of the jewel box parks. It could not truly be 
called a retro-classic park. Many of today's parks have followed in this 
second school of retro. Rather than brick, the exteriors heavily feature 
white- or gray-painted steel. If there is any masonry, it is sandstone 
or limestone. Some feature progressive elements such as curtain walls, 
or retractable roofs.[11] Angel Stadium of Anaheim has seen many changes 
throughout the years. It was originally a modern park, similar to the Angels' 
previous home, Dodger Stadium. When the NFL's Los Angeles Rams left the 
Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum in 1980 and set up shop in what was then 
Anaheim Stadium, the first round of renovations began. The grandstand was 
expanded to completely enclose the stadium, turning it into a multi-purpose 
park. The Rams left in 1994, leaving the Angels alone in the large, 65,000 
seat stadium. After a two-year renovation, the steel was painted green, 
and what concrete remained was painted sandstone, including the sweeping 
curve of the entrance plaza. The seating configuration was significantly 
altered, most notably by tearing out most of the outfield seating except 
for parts of the lower decks in left and right fields, to more closely 
resemble the original design from the park's first 15 years. The finished 
product in 1998 was a retro-modern ballpark. The same year, when Chase 
Field opened for the expansion Arizona Diamondbacks, it incorporated a 
retractable roof and a swimming pool — elements that did not exist in jewel-box 
ballparks. Despite the absence of MLB history in the Phoenix area and an 
overwhelming roof design, much of the interior was still built with all 
of the hallmarks of retro, similar to Progressive Field. Although Chase 
Field was not the first retractable-roof ballpark in history, it was the 
first in a wave of four retractable-roof ballparks (opening within just 
four years) to follow the retro-modern pattern. During the second decade 
of retro, Petco Park and Kauffman Stadium followed the construction and 
renovation concepts of Progressive Field and Angel Stadium, respectively. 
Meanwhile, the period saw another subset of three new retro-modern stadiums 
that pushed away from classic parks even more. When Great American Ball 
Park opened in 2003, it featured a contemporary-looking, glass-wrapped 
facade. Such prominent use of elements that were unfamiliar even to pre-1992 
modern stadiums signaled that some stadium planners were more willing to 
incorporate designs that looked into the 21st century as much as they did 
the 20th. Five years later, Nationals Park built off Cincinnati's design, 
making yet more liberal use of glass along with white concrete that would 
not clash with architecture in the District. Nationals Park became the 
first stadium to go green while still offering all of the amenities — another 
concept that looked ahead instead of behind.[12] The retro-modern style 
climaxed in 2010 with the sculptured, contemporary exterior and canopy 
of Target Field, rendering it almost unrecognizable from the outside. Its 
cantilevered glass on top of a limestone base was designed partly to functionally 
fit the tiny 8-acre plot in the middle of a bustling transportation interchange. 
But the principal architect of Target Field, Earl Santee of Populous, said 
that the exterior was also an artistic interpretation of the culture of 
Minnesotans: a dichotomy of cosmopolitan and natural.[13] Designing the 
building as a metaphor for people was a different way of thinking about 
ballpark architecture. The exterior of the later retro-contemporary trio 
of ballparks progressively evolved further and further from jewel-box or 
even modern-style parks. Yet, in the stands and on the field they still 
have the familiar classic feel while implementing the marks of retro (i.e., 
unique-shaped fences, forest green or other singular color scheme, etc.).[11] 
denotes stadium is also a retractable-roof ballpark Prior to the start 
of the 2012 baseball season, USA Today noted that new Marlins Park "likely 
is the last major league ballpark to be built for another five to 10 years", 
and speculated that it would "perhaps provide a coda to the postmodern 
Camden Yards era".[14] After 2 decades of the retro style dominating ballpark 
architecture, a new type of design emerged in 2012 with the opening of 
Marlins Park, snapping the consecutive streak of 20 new (plus 3 renovated) 
MLB retro stadiums. This latest style's purpose is to make the fan experience 
the present-day culture of the stadium's surrounding city or area, and 
rejects the basic notion of retro. Stadium planners are calling the style 
contemporary. A contemporary stadium for Tampa Bay was designed, but the 
project was cancelled. The New Yorker wrote regarding the new MLB architecture: 
"The retro mold has finally been broken, but this might be the last chance 
a new style gets for some time." [15] denotes stadium is also a retractable-roof 
ballpark The numbers mean the number of feet from home plate to the wall 
of that part of the field. Left and Right Field normally refer to the distances 
along the foul lines. Left Center and Right Center are the approximate 
power alley figures. Center Field could mean straightaway center field 
or it could mean to the deepest part of the center field area. Backstop 
refers to the distance behind home plate to the backstop screen. These 
numbers [16] are one researcher's opinion of the true values and may differ 
from the numbers marked on the wall/fence by as much as 30 feet (9.1 m). 
Capacity[17] figures may also vary. * Fenway Park is 37,227 during day 
games ** Oakland Coliseum is expandable to 55,945. *** Tropicana Field 
is expandable to 42,735. †Actual distance to center field is 400 feet (122 m); 
the 395 feet (120 m) markings are to the left and right of dead center.[19] 
††At Fenway Park, deep center is 379 feet (116 m) and straightaway center 
