Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1982 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
voted by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, 
Hank Aaron and Frank Robinson. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, 
and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected Happy Chandler and Travis 
Jackson. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1962 or later, 
but not after 1976; the ballot included candidates from the 1981 ballot 
who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1976. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 42 players; a total of 415 ballots were 
cast, with 312 votes required for election. A total of 3,344 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 8.06 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected is indicated in 
bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The 18 candidates who received less than 5% of 
the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. The newly-eligible players included 17 All-Stars, two 
of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 74 All-Star 
selections. Among the new candidates were 21-time All-Star Hank Aaron, 
12-time All-Star Frank Robinson, 11-time All-Star Bill Freehan, 9-time 
All-Star Tony Oliva and 6-time All-Star Billy Williams. The field included 
two MVPs (Aaron and Frank Robinson, who won one in each league), and three 
Rookies of the Year (Oliva, Robinson and Williams). Players eligible for 
the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Dick Bosman, Buddy 
Bradford, Nate Colbert, Dave Duncan, Alan Foster, Danny Frisella, Ted Kubiak, 
