Baseball Tonight is a program that airs on ESPN. The show, which recapitulates 
the day's Major League Baseball action, has been on the air since 1990. 
Its namesake program also airs on ESPN Radio at various times of the day 
during the baseball season, with Marc Kestecher as host. Baseball Tonight 
is also the title of a daily podcast hosted by Buster Olney with frequent 
appearances by Jayson Stark, Tim Kurkjian, Karl Ravech, and Jerry Crasnick. 
Baseball Tonight appears nightly on ESPN throughout the baseball season 
at 10:00 p.m. ET and 12:00 a.m. ET on ESPN2. The 10 PM show airs on ESPN2 
in the event of a conflict. Following the cancellation of The Trifecta 
in late 2006, the 12:00 a.m. run of Baseball Tonight was expanded to a 
full 40 minutes. The show has permission from Major League Baseball to 
show in-progress highlights. The show is also seen at 12:30 p.m. ET and 
7:00 p.m. ET on Sundays, the latter show leading up to the Sunday Night 
Baseball telecast. The late-night edition on Sundays is usually just a 
re-air of the 7:00 show, with a SportsCenter anchor providing highlights 
of the Sunday night game in place of a game preview segment that airs during 
the live broadcast. The midnight edition usually re-aired at 12:00 p.m. 
ET the following day (excluding Saturday, when the show is usually 40 minutes 
to a full hour). That practice ended Monday August 11, 2008, when SportsCenter 
went to live editions in the mornings. The show also appears live at events 
throughout the year, such as spring training, the Major League Baseball 
All-Star Game and the World Series sites, at ESPN the Weekend, and occasionally 
has remote stunts, i.e. a show from the rooftop at Fenway Park and a show 
from one of the Wrigley Rooftops at Wrigley Field in 2005. It aired live 
from the field at Fenway Park on April 26, 2009 before the Sunday Night 
Baseball game between the Yankees–Red Sox game, which featured an interview 
with Dustin Pedroia.[1] On June 28, 2009, it aired from Citi Field in anticipation 
of that night's Subway Series game between the Mets and the Yankees. The 
ESPN Baseball Tonight Theme music was written by Jon Cobert for Roger Tallman 
Associates in 1990. Cobert and Tallman are listed as writers on the Copyright 
form. The theme has been arranged and re-arranged many times over the years, 
but the original melody still remains the same. On January 3, 2000, the 
segment "Web Gems" was coined and created by then-producer Judson Burch. 
The segment originally featured great defensive plays followed by viewer 
internet voting on the "web." The phrase "web gem" is now common vernacular 
in baseball broadcasts and circles to describe outstanding glove-work. 
In 2002, the home run segment "Going, Going, Gone", complete with the immensely 
popular "screaming baseball" animation was replaced with a tamer segment 
"Touch 'Em All" sans screaming baseball. Beginning with the 2005 season, 
Baseball Tonight has been broadcast in high-definition on ESPNHD from the 
opposite side of the studio used for Sunday NFL Countdown, NBA Shows and 
College Football Scoreboard shows, albeit with a baseball demonstration 
field laid on top of the NFL floor. Airing begins in March during spring 
training and ends after the World Series in October. In 2006, Baseball 
Tonight introduced new graphics. The opening sequence features players 
on baseball cards moving and a ball going from one to another via a throw 
or off a bat. A much longer variation of this is also used to open ESPN's 
live game broadcasts. The theme music also was updated from the normal 
orchestral treatment to a livelier rock vamp. In 2007, a new segment entitled 
"That's Nasty!" was introduced. The new segment featured top pitching performances 
of the day, including the best individual pitches. These clips often include 
extremely high velocity fastballs, 12–6 curveballs, or changeups that completely 
fool the opposing batters. Prior to the 2007 All-Star Game, a modified 
version of the opening sequence was used which featured various San Francisco 
landmarks, including the Golden Gate Bridge. In 2008, Roger Clemens was 
replaced by Josh Beckett in the baseball card opening sequence. In 2009, 
the "screamin' baseball" graphic returned in the "Touch 'Em All" segment. 
In 2012, the new Baseball Tonight logo was introduced and the theme music 
was re-mixed. Steve Berthaiume, who was one of the program's hosts, left 
ESPN after that season. In 2013, Adnan Virk replaced Berthiaume as one 
of the program's hosts, joining Karl Ravech. In 2015, the roll-out of a 
new SportsCenter-inspired graphics package, which started the previous 
year, continued with Baseball Tonight. Baseball Tonight is split into a 
number of segments, each of which focuses on a particular aspect of baseball. 
These segments include: One featured running gag on the show is the spoof 
segment "Name That Molina", where one of the personalities has to guess 
which of the three Molina catcher brothers – Bengie, Jose, or Yadier – 
is being shown. "Name that LaRoche" is another spoof segment featuring 
the two brothers who play for the Toronto Blue Jays Andy and the Washington 
Nationals Adam. Another running gag is the Umpire Fantasy League in which 
"owners" of umpires in this fictitious league are rewarded for their umpires 
ejecting players or coaches. It is unclear whether this is reference to 
the real-life Umpire Ejection Fantasy League. Also another gag in session 
is when an analyst on the show uses the "Stump the host" slogan. This is 
when the analyst has information on a certain players milestone that has 
just happened on the telecast. An example is when a player hits a home 
run, double, steals a base, or strikes someone out and the analyst will 
say "Stump the Host; Career hr/strikeout/2-B/SB/etc. number __? The host 
very seldom knows the answer but will take a reasonable, and sometimes 
ludicrous, guess at what the answer might be. This gag is very seldom used 
but sometimes is quite comical for the fact that the host has no idea what 
the answer may be. ESPN is generally prohibited by Major League Baseball 
from showing live look-ins of in-progress games, and limited to showing 
in-progress highlights after they happen. However, an exception is made 
when there is an extraordinary event taking place, such as a no-hitter 
or perfect game, and ESPN is allowed to show live look-ins during Baseball 
Tonight. Some have criticized the program because of a perceived bias in 
favor of certain teams. The most vocal comment was expressed by Heath Bell: 
In late 2012, mobile game company SkyZone Entertainment and TheAppsGames 
released ESPN Going Going Gone, an arcade style home run derby game for 
both Android and iOS. The game features an intro and voice over by ESPN's 
