Baseball Ireland is the governing body of baseball in Ireland, covering 
both Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.[1] Although the existence 
of baseball in Ireland is not widely known, the game has been played there 
since the early 1990s. What began with a few friends playing pickup games 
on soccer and rugby fields in Dublin and Greystones, soon grew into a small 
league.[2] Ireland played its first game in international competition in 
1996 against the Czech Republic, losing by a score of 23-2.[3] Since then 
Ireland has gone on to win a bronze in 2004 in Germany and a silver in 
Belgium in 2006 at the European Pool B Baseball Championships. Ireland's 
national team, although only ten years old, has won at least one game in 
every tournament it has entered including 1996, in Kingston upon Hull. 
In the years since, baseball has spread throughout Ireland. The game is 
currently played in Ashbourne, Cavan, Shankhill, Dublin, Greystones, Belfast, 
Cork and Kerry. Youth baseball is also played in Portstewart and Portrush 
in Northern Ireland. The Irish National Baseball Team won its first bronze 
medal at the 2004 European Championships in Germany. In August 2006, the 
Irish National Baseball Team won the silver medal at the European Championships 
held in Antwerp, Belgium. They also competed in the European championships 
held in Vienna in Austria The Emerald Diamond, a documentary film released 
in 2006, chronicled the history of baseball in Ireland and the Irish National 
Baseball Team. The Irish National Baseball Team has been in existence since 
1996 and has taken part in several major baseball tournaments and tours. 
The Irish Baseball League was founded in 1997. Participating teams come 
from Dublin, Belfast and Greystones. The Irish cadet team (13–18) played 
in a Dutch tournament held in Alphen aan den Rijn Netherlands. In this 
competition they came home with a bronze medal but also much experience 
gained from the club BSC Alphians who won the tournament. Amsterdam Pirates 
