The first elections to select inductees to the Baseball Hall of Fame were 
held in 1936. Members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
were given authority to select individuals from the 20th century; while 
a special Veterans Committee, made up of individuals with greater familiarity 
with the 19th century game, was polled to select deserving individuals 
from that era. The intent was for 15 honorees to be selected before the 
1939 ceremonies – 10 from the 20th century and 5 from the 19th; additional 
players from both eras would be selected in later years.[1] Voters were 
given free rein to decide for themselves in which group a candidate belonged, 
with neither group knowing the outcome of the other election; some candidates 
had their vote split between the elections as a result – Cy Young, the 
pitcher with most wins in Major League history, finished 8th in the BBWAA 
vote and 4th in the Veterans vote. In addition, there was no prohibition 
on voting for active players, a number of whom received votes. Individuals 
who had been banned from baseball – such as Shoeless Joe Jackson and Hal 
Chase – were also not formally excluded, though few voters chose to include 
them on ballots. In the BBWAA election, voters were instructed to cast 
votes for 10 candidates, the same number of desired selections; in the 
Veterans' election, voters were also instructed to vote for 10, although 
the desire for only 5 initial selections led to revisions in the way the 
votes were counted.[2] Any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of 
the ballots in either election would be honored with induction to the Hall 
upon its opening in the sport's supposed centennial year of 1939. A total 
of 226 ballots were cast, with 2,231 individual votes for 47 specific candidates, 
an average of 9.87 per ballot; 170 votes were required for election. Initial 
ballots included 33 players listed as suggestions, although revised ballots 
were later sent with an additional 7 names; when questions arose about 
players who had been omitted, voters needed to be reminded that these names 
were simply intended as suggestions rather than the entire field of possibilities, 
and that write-in votes were fully allowed. Candidates who were listed 
on the ballot as suggestions are indicated here with a †. The five candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in 
bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics: A total of 78 ballots were cast by players, writers, 
managers and officials who had first-hand familiarity with 19th-century 
baseball, resulting in 371 individual votes for 57 specific candidates; 
59 votes were required for election. No candidates were elected, possibly 
because of a great deal of confusion regarding the voting procedure. The 
ballots which were issued in this vote also featured a list of suggested 
candidates, which was amended after complaints that Ed Delahanty, Willie 
Keeler and Cy Young should be on this ballot as well as that for the 20th 
century; but when some voters expressed doubts regarding the possibility 
of write-in votes, a letter including clearer instructions specifically 
allowing for write-ins had to be mailed. Many voters were also under the 
impression that they were to select an "All-Star team" of 10 players, with 
one at each position; 58 ballots cast in this manner were sent back to 
the voters to be re-cast, although 10 voters returned the ballots unaltered, 
stating that was the way they wished to vote regardless of the instructions. 
The results were delayed for several days until early February while these 
reminders and revisions took place. It was further decided, during the 
tabulations and after the voting, that voters would each be restricted 
to 5 total votes in order to limit the initial 19th century selections 
to 5 players; but since most voters had cast votes for 10, it was ruled 
that each vote would only count as 1/2 in the total for that candidate – 
making a 75% tally nearly mathematically impossible. When the votes were 
tabulated with this method, only two candidates had totals reaching even 
50% of the required number. Plans for a runoff election featuring only 
the top 12 finishers, to be held prior to the 1939 opening of the Hall, 
never materialized; even with all the problems, the 1936 vote would remain 
the Hall's most successful attempt to seek a wide vote from experts on 
the era regarding candidates from that period. Candidates who were listed 
as suggestions on the ballot are indicated here with a †. Candidates who 
have since been selected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics, 
