Johnny Bench Carl Yastrzemski Red Schoendienst Al Barlick Elections to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1989 followed the system in place since 1978. 
The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select 
from recent major league players and elected two, Johnny Bench and Carl 
Yastrzemski. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider 
older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, and 
figures from the Negro Leagues. It also selected two people, Al Barlick 
and Red Schoendienst. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active 
in 1969 or later, but not after 1983; the ballot included candidates from 
the 1988 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 1983. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 41 players; a total 
of 447 ballots were cast, with 336 votes required for election. A total 
of 3,016 individual votes were cast, an average of 6.75 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote would not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots, but could eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The two candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were 
elected are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected 
in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The 20 candidates who 
received less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future 
BBWAA consideration, are indicated with a *. The newly-eligible players 
included 16 All-Stars, three of whom were not included on the ballot, representing 
a total of 71 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 18-time 
All-Star Carl Yastrzemski, 14-time All-Star Johnny Bench, 6-time All-Star 
Bert Campaneris and 5-time All-Stars Bobby Murcer and Gaylord Perry. The 
field included two MVPs (Bench, who won teice, and Yastrzemski), two Cy 
Young Award-winners (Fergie Jenkins and Gaylord Perry, who won twice) and 
three Rookies of the Year (Bench, John Matlack and Bake McBride). The field 
also included some prominent Gold Glove winners: Jim Kaat, whose 16 at 
Pitcher was the record until broken by Greg Maddux; Johnny Bench, whose 
10 at Catcher was record until broken by Iván Rodríguez; and Carl Yastrzemski, 
who won 7 as an Outfielder. Players eligible for the first time who were 
not included on the ballot were: Larry Biittner, Doug Bird, Tim Blackwell, 
Bill Castro, Larry Christenson, Bill Fahey, Ed Farmer, Don Hood, Mike Ivie, 
Dave LaRoche, Randy Moffitt, Jerry Morales, Rowland Office, Mike Phillips, 
Steve Renko, Aurelio Rodríguez, Elías Sosa, Jerry Turner and Otto Vélez. 
