Baseball Before We Knew It: A Search for the Roots of the Game is a 2005 
book by David Block about the history of baseball. Block looks into the 
early history of baseball, the debates about baseballs beginnings, and 
presents new evidence.[1] The book received the 2006 Seymour Medal from 
the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR).[2] The account, first 
published in 1905, that Abner Doubleday invented baseball in 1839 was once 
widely promoted and widely believed. However, this belief was discredited 
almost immediately.[1] Although the Doubleday myth was never taken seriously 
by historians, Block showed that the gospel that supplanted it was also 
deeply flawed. In this accounting, baseball was understood as the derivation 
of an English children's game, rounders, but America was allowed to retain 
patrimony over its national pastime through the assertion that it had been 
reinvented as a modern sport by the members of the New York Knickerbockers, 
who codified its rules for the first time in 1845. This idea, according 
to Block is wrong in almost every aspect. In the book, Block argues that 
baseball was not a product of rounders, and its essential form had already 
been established by the late 18th century.[1] Block's new evidence in the 
matter includes the first known record of the term base-ball in the United 
States. It came in a 1791 ordinance in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, that 
banned ballplaying near the town's new meetinghouse. However, that was 
not the first appearance of "base-ball" in print. That distinction belongs 
to an English book, A Little Pretty Pocket-Book (1744). By 1796 the rules 
of this English game were well enough established to earn a mention in 
German scholar Johann Gutsmuths book on popular pastimes, that described 
"Englische Base-ball" involved a contest between two teams, in which "the 
batter has three attempts to hit the ball while at the home plate"; only 
one out was required to retire a side.[3] The book also predates the rules 
laid out by the New York Knickerbockers by nearly fifty years. In the book, 
Block suggests that it was the English game of baseball that had arrived 
in the U.S. as part of "a sweeping tide of cultural migration" during the 
colonial period. Once on American soil, the game developed popular regional 
variations that included "town-ball", "round-ball" and the "New York game".[1] 
English baseball was itself the product of a prolonged, nonlinear evolution. 
"Tut-ball" may have been its immediate predecessor. "Stool-ball", an earlier 
sport, may have been even more influential in the evolution of baseball, 
and is also a likely parent of cricket, which developed independently. 
Medieval texts also suggest that baseball's English antecedents may themselves 
have descended from Continental bat-and-ball games. An illustration in 
the French manuscript "The Romance of Alexander" (1344) depicts a group 
of monks and nuns engaged in a game, thought to be "la soule", that looks 
much like co-ed softball. Two other French games, théque and la balle empoisonée 
("poisoned ball"), also bear similarities to early baseball. They could 
have migrated to England. In Block's words, the field is clear for the 
French to claim "parental rights over America's National Game."[1] Block 
also notes in the book that American researchers during the past half-century 
"have made only minimal effort to document baseball's early history and 
for the most part have not been inclined to go looking to European sources 
