Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1983 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
voted by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, 
Juan Marichal and Brooks Robinson. The Veterans Committee met in closed 
sessions to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, 
executives, and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected Walter Alston 
and George Kell. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1963 
or later, but not after 1977; the ballot included candidates from the 1982 
ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along 
with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance 
was in 1977. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters 
were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 46 players; a total of 374 ballots were 
cast, with 281 votes required for election. A total of 3,125 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 8.36 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The 23 candidates who received less than 5% of 
the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Gil Hodges and Red Schoendienst were on the ballot 
for the 15th and final time. As of 2011, Hodges has received the highest 
voting percentage of anyone who has not been elected. The newly-eligible 
players included 22 All-Stars, three of whom were not included on the ballot, 
representing a total of 68 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates 
were 15-time All-Star Brooks Robinson, 9-time All-Star Joe Torre, 7-time 
All-Star Dick Allen and 5-time All-Star Cookie Rojas. The field included 
four MVPs (Allen, Robinson, Torre and Boog Powell), one Cy Young Award-winner 
(Mike Cuellar), and two Rookies of the Year (Allen and Tommy Helms). Brooks 
Robinson also had 16 Gold Gloves, the all-time record at third base. Players 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Ken 
Boswell, Ollie Brown, Willie Crawford, Bruce Dal Canton, Tom Hall, Steve 
Hargan, Terry Harmon. Mike Hegan, Bob Heise, Jerry Johnson, Ed Kirkpatrick, 
