Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1990 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, Joe 
Morgan and Jim Palmer. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to 
consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, 
and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected no one. The BBWAA was authorized 
to elect players active in 1970 or later, but not after 1984; the ballot 
included candidates from the 1989 ballot who received at least 5% of the 
vote but were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening 
committee, whose last appearance was in 1984. All 10-year members of the 
BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up 
to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the 
ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted 
of 44 players; a total of 444 ballots were cast, with 333 votes required 
for election. A total of 3,050 individual votes were cast, an average of 
6.87 per ballot. Those candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will 
not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by 
the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were eligible for the first time 
are indicated here with a †. The two candidates who received at least 75% 
of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold italics; candidates who 
have since been elected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. 
The 20 candidates who received less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming 
ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are indicated with a *. Roy 
Face was on the ballot for the 15th and final time. The newly eligible 
candidates included 19 All-Stars, four of whom were not on the ballot, 
who were selected a total of 50 times. The field included 10-time All-Star 
Joe Morgan, 6-time All-Star Jim Palmer, and 5-time All-Star Amos Otis. 
The group of new candidates include one MVP (Morgan, who won twice), one 
Cy Young Award winner (Palmer, who won thrice), and one Rookie of the Year 
(Lou Piniella). Players eligible for the first time who were not on the 
ballot were: Glenn Abbott, Jerry Augustine, Tom Burgmeier, John Curtis, 
Jim Essian, Pete Falcone, Ron Hodges, Ron Jackson, Frank LaCorte, Jerry 
Martin, Milt May, Larry Milbourne, Sid Monge, Biff Pocoroba, Ron Reed, 
Leon Roberts, Craig Swan, Tom Underwood, Mike Vail, and Tom Veryzer. 1990 
