Baseball-Reference.com is a website providing baseball statistics for every 
player in Major League Baseball history. The site is often used by major 
media organizations and baseball broadcasters as a source for statistics. 
It offers a variety of advanced baseball sabermetrics in addition to traditional 
baseball "counting stats". Baseball-Reference.com is part of Sports Reference, 
LLC; according to an article in Street & Smith's Sports Business Journal: 
The Sports Reference sites combine to generate more than 1 million unique 
users per month, according to internal analytics. Company president and 
former college math professor Sean Forman has become something of a folk 
hero to baseball fans for the massive depth of data stretching to the 19th 
century and for the ease of navigation within Baseball-Reference.com.[3] 
Founder Sean Forman began developing the website while working on his Ph.D. 
dissertation in applied math and computational science at the University 
of Iowa. While writing his dissertation, he had also been writing articles 
on and blogging about sabermetrics. Forman's database was originally built 
from the Total Baseball series of baseball encyclopedias.[4] The website 
came online in April 2000, after first being launched in February 2000 
as part of the website for the Big Bad Baseball Annual. It was originally 
built as a web interface to the Lahman Baseball Database, though it now 
employs a variety of data sources. In 2004, Forman founded Sports Reference. 
The company was incorporated as Sports Reference, LLC in 2007.[5] In 2006, 
Forman left his job as a math professor at Saint Joseph's University in 
order to focus on Baseball-Reference full-time.[4][6] In February 2009, 
Fantasy Sports Ventures took a minority stake in Sports Reference, LLC, 
the parent company of Baseball-Reference, for a "low seven-figure sum".[3] 
It has year-by-year team pages, a baseball encyclopedia (the Bullpen, powered 
by MediaWiki software, using the GFDL),[7] box scores and game logs from 
every MLB game back to 1914 and minor league player stats as far back as 
1888. In addition, there are a number of what the website calls "Frivolities", 
e.g., The Oracle of Baseball, which links any two players by common teammates 
in the way the pop culture favorite "Oracle of Bacon" website does. Another 
one of their Frivolities is the page devoted to Keith Hernandez's mustache,[8] 
which is the only "fictional" page on B-R.com.[9] Baseball-Reference.com 
has its own baseball encyclopedia, a wiki called "Baseball Reference Bullpen", 
which can be edited by anyone and is modeled after Wikipedia.[10] As of 
July 2015, the Baseball Reference Bullpen contains over 77,200 articles. 
