Elections to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum for 1987 followed 
the system in place since 1978. The Baseball Writers Association of America 
(BBWAA) voted by mail to select from recent major league players and elected 
two, Catfish Hunter and Billy Williams. The Veterans Committee met in closed 
sessions to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, 
executives, and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected Ray Dandridge 
from the Negro Leagues. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active 
in 1967 or later, but not after 1981; the ballot included candidates from 
the 1986 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 1981. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 28 players; a total 
of 413 ballots were cast, with 310 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,730 individual votes were cast, an average of 6.61 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The two candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The 4 candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. Lew Burdette was on the ballot for the 15th and 
final time. The newly-eligible players included 8 All-Stars, three of whom 
were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 17 All-Star selections. 
4-time All Star Sal Bando had the most selections of any newly eligible 
candidate. The field included two Cy Young Award winners (Mike Marshall 
and Steve Stone, who retired one season after winning his award). Players 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Rick 
Auerbach, Ken Brett, Reggie Cleveland, Dick Drago, Duffy Dyer, John Ellis, 
Tom Hutton, Pat Kelly, Mike Lum, Billy North, Johnny Oates, Freddie Patek, 
