Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1947 followed yet another round 
of reform. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) continued 
to vote by mail but the Hall of Fame Committee had revised the procedures 
for that election and reduced its historical jurisdiction relative to the 
Old-Timers Committee. The BBWAA now considered major league players retired 
no more than 25 years. The reform seemed to work, for it elected four: 
Mickey Cochrane, Frank Frisch, Lefty Grove, and Carl Hubbell. In the wake 
of the successful BBWAA election, and perhaps in deference to those critics 
who believed that the 21 selections by the Old-Timers Committee in the 
previous two years had been too many in such a short time, the Hall of 
Fame Committee did not meet in 1947 to make further selections from among 
the players of the era before 1922, or to add names to the Roll of Honor. 
It was believed, with some optimism, that further revisions in the election 
process were currently unnecessary. The new members of the Hall were formally 
inducted in Cooperstown on July 21, along with the previous year's 11 selections 
by the Old-Timers Committee, with National League president Ford Frick 
presiding. All four new electees were still living, as were four of the 
earlier choices; however, of the eight living inductees, only Ed Walsh 
attended the ceremonies. After the January 1946 BBWAA election failed to 
elect any inductees, capping a seven-year period in which only one player 
had been elected, the Hall of Fame Committee concluded that the wide field 
of candidates from 1900 to the present was making it impossible for any 
single candidate to gain votes on 75% of all ballots. In response, the 
Committee selected at its April 1946 meeting eleven inductees, including 
most of the popular candidates from the era between 1900 and 1918; there 
was even some support on the committee for removing the BBWAA from the 
selection process entirely. There was a great deal of criticism regarding 
the committee's decision in this regard, as they had been understood to 
only have the capacity to select players from the 19th century; many observers 
believed the committee was infringing upon the BBWAA's jurisdiction over 
players of the 20th century. The committee met again in December 1946, 
and formally revealed its previously unannounced decision that the jurisdictions 
of the BBWAA would no longer be defined by the fixed year 1900 receding 
into the past but by a fixed length of time from the present day, initially 
set at 25 years. Players who retired more than 25 years ago would be considered 
only by the Old-Timers Committee. The committee also revised the 2-stage 
method by which the BBWAA election had been conducted in 1946. That year's 
election, which saw every candidate do less well on the final ballot than 
on the nominating ballot, led to the initial vote again becoming the main 
election. Whereas the 1946 system required a second ballot before electing 
a candidate, now a second runoff election featuring the top 20 candidates, 
with the potential to select no more than one player, would be held only 
if no candidate received votes from 75% of the writers in the first election. 
There was also no longer any minimum number of ballots required to make 
the election valid. The Hall of Fame Committee also instituted a change 
in the rules regarding eligibility of voters. Previously, all members of 
the BBWAA were permitted to cast ballots; however, it would now be necessary 
that a writer have been a BBWAA member for ten years before becoming eligible 
to vote. This resulted in fewer than half the BBWAA members casting ballots, 
and a 39% reduction in the number of ballots from the previous year. Members 
of the BBWAA now had the authority to select any players active in 1922 
or later, provided they had not appeared in a major league game in 1946. 
Just as in the elections prior to 1946, voters were instructed to cast 
votes for 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% 
of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. If no candidate 
received votes on 75% of the ballots, the top 20 candidates would advance 
to the runoff election, with the vote totals from the first ballot not 
being revealed until the runoff was over. In addition to many candidates 
becoming ineligible due to length of retirement, some players who had served 
in World War II and who had received votes in the 1945 and 1946 elections 
had now become ineligible once again as a result of appearing in major 
league games in 1946. Also, the previous year's creation of the Roll of 
Honor had reduced the incentive to vote for managers, as there was a question 
of whether they were to be considered for this separate honor. The reduction 
of the field of eligible candidates was considerable; the players elected 
by the Old-Timers Committee in 1946 had received 37% of the vote in the 
last BBWAA election, and had included 4 of the top 5 candidates. Players 
now ineligible due to retirement prior to the cutoff point accounted for 
an additional 14% of the 1946 vote, and players returning from WWII had 
received another 2%. Because less than half of the previous year's votes 
had been cast for those still eligible, hopes had increased that new inductees 
might at last be elected. A total of 161 ballots were cast, with 1,559 
individual votes for 39 specific candidates, an average of 9.68 per ballot; 
121 votes were required for election. The results were announced in January 
1947. For the first time in three elections and five years, the election 
was successful, electing four new inductees to the Hall; it was the largest 
group of inductees since the initial selections in 1936, and no runoff 
was necessary. The new system was hailed as a great success, and would 
be used with relatively minor revisions in the ensuing years. The number 
of players receiving votes (39) was the lowest for any election yet, and 
barely half of the previous year's total (76). Very few players received 
votes who had not appeared in past voting, suggesting that with the new 
rules in effect, many voters focused on the previous year's results; with 
only weeks to complete their ballots, there was perhaps a limited effort 
to look for new candidates who had retired in the years between 1922 and 
1945. With precise historical records scarce, and little time to seek them, 
there may also have been some uncertainty regarding particular candidates 
as to whether they had retired before or after 1922. Chief Bender, who 
received 72 votes, had played his last regular season in 1917; he was technically 
still eligible due to a single inning pitched in 1925, though it is unknown 
whether voters were aware of this. Bender had been - along with Mordecai 
Brown, an earlier figure who was more clearly now ineligible - one of only 
two pre-1920 candidates who received over 10% of the 1946 vote without 
being selected later by the Old-Timers Committee. Besides Bender, 4 other 
votes in the 1947 election also went to candidates retired slightly before 
1922. With a reduced number of eligible voters, fewer candidates were named 
on only 1 or 2 ballots. The trend of the past several years toward earlier 
players was now completely reversed; whereas players retired for well over 
20 years had been receiving 60-70% of the vote, the 1947 election saw players 
retired for less than 13 years receive 73% of the vote. The top 9 candidates 
were all active in 1934 or later, and those who played their last season 
in the 1920s received only 16% of the vote. The four candidates who received 
at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in bold italics; 
candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections are indicated 
