A baseball is a ball used in the sport of the same name, baseball. The 
ball features a rubber or cork center, wrapped in yarn, and covered, in 
the words of the Official Baseball Rules "with two strips of white horsehide 
or cowhide, tightly stitched together." It is 9.00–9.25 inches (228.60–234.95 mm) 
in circumference, (2.86–2.94 in or 72.64–74.68 mm in diameter), and masses 
from 5.00 to 5.25 ounces (141.75 to 148.83 g).[1] The yarn or string used 
to wrap the baseball can be up to one mile (1.6 km) in length. Some are 
wrapped in a plastic-like covering. A significant characteristic of the 
baseball is the stitching that holds together the covering of the ball. 
After a ball has been pitched, these raised stitches act like wings on 
a plane, catching the wind and causing the ball to swerve slightly on its 
way to the catcher. Whether the ball swerves to the right, to the left, 
downward, or a combination thereof, and whether it swerves sharply or gradually, 
depends on which direction, and how fast, the stitches have been made to 
spin by the pitcher. See, for example, curveball, slider, two-seam fastball, 
four-seam fastball, sinker, cutter.[2] In the early, mid-1800s days of 
baseball, there was a great variety in the size, shape, weight, and manufacturing 
of baseballs. Early baseballs were made from a rubber core from old, melted 
shoes, wrapped in yarn and leather. Fish eyes were also used as cores in 
some places. Pitchers usually made their own balls, which were used throughout 
the game, softening and coming unraveled as the game went on. One of the 
more popular earlier ball designs was the "lemon peel ball," named after 
its distinct four lines of stitching design. Lemon peel balls were darker, 
smaller, and weighed less than other baseballs, prompting them to travel 
further and bounce higher, causing very high-scoring games.[3] In the mid-1850s, 
teams in New York met in attempt to standardize the baseball. They decided 
to regulate baseballs to weighing between 5.5-6 oz and having a circumference 
of 8-11 inches. There were still many variations of baseballs since they 
were completely handmade. Balls with more rubber and a tighter winding 
went further and faster (known as "live balls"), and balls with less rubber 
and a looser winding (known as "dead balls") did not travel as far or fast. 
This is generally true for all baseballs. Teams often used this knowledge 
to their advantage, as players from the team usually manufactured their 
own baseballs to use in games.[3] There is no agreement on who invented 
the commonplace figure-8 stitching on baseballs. Some historians say that 
it was invented by Ellis Drake, a shoemaker's son, to make the cover stronger 
and more durable. Others say it was invented by Colonel William A. Cutler 
and sold to William Harwood in 1858. Harwood built a factory in Natick, 
Massachusetts, and was the first to popularize and mass-produce baseballs 
with the figure-8 design.[3] In 1876, the National League (NL) was created, 
and standard rules and regulations were put in place. A.G. Spalding, a 
well-known baseball pitcher who made his own balls, convinced the NL to 
adopt his ball as the official baseball for the NL. It remained that way 
for 100 years. In 1910, the cork-core ball was introduced. They outlasted 
rubber core baseballs; and for the first few years they were used, balls 
were hit farther and faster than rubber core balls. It eventually went 
back to normal.[3] In 1920, a couple of important changes were made to 
baseballs. They began to be made using machine winders and a higher grade 
of yarn from Australia. Although there was no evidence that these balls 
impacted the game, offensive statistics rose throughout the 1920s, and 
both players and fans believed that the new balls helped batters hit the 
ball farther.[4] In 1925, Milton Reach patented his "cushion cork" center. 
It was a cork core surrounded by black rubber, then another layer of red 
rubber.[3] In 1934, The National League and American League came to a compromise 
and standardized the baseball. They agreed on a cushion cork center; two 
wrappings of yarn; a special rubber cement coating; two more wrappings 
of yarn; and, finally, a horsehide cover.[5] Baseballs have gone through 
only a few small changes since the compromise. During World War II, the 
US banned the use of rubber for non war-related goods, including for baseballs. 
So in 1943, instead of using rubber, baseballs were made with rubberlike 
shells of balata; a substance, obtained from a particular type of tropical 
tree, that was also used in golf balls. Hitting declined a lot in 1943. 
The introduction of synthetic rubber in 1944 resulted in baseballs returning 
to normal.[6] In 1974, baseballs covers were switched from horsehide to 
cowhide. In 1976, MLB stopped using Spalding for manufacturing their baseballs 
and started using Rawlings.[6] Cushioned wood cores were patented in the 
late 19th century by sports equipment manufacturer Spalding, the company 
founded by former baseball star A.G. Spalding. In recent years, various 
synthetic materials have been used to create baseballs; however, they are 
generally considered lower quality, and are not used in the major leagues. 
Using different types of materials affects the performance of the baseball. 
Generally a tighter-wound baseball will leave the bat faster, and fly farther. 
Since the baseballs used today are wound tighter than in previous years, 
notably the dead-ball era that prevailed through 1920, people often say 
that the ball is "juiced". The height of the seams also affects how well 
a pitcher can pitch. Generally, in Little League through college leagues, 
the seams are markedly higher than balls used in professional leagues. 
In the early years of the sport, only one ball was typically used in each 
game, unless it was too damaged to be usable; balls hit into the stands 
were retrieved by team employees in order to be put back in play, as is 
still done today in most other sports.[citation needed] Over the course 
of a game, a typical ball would become discolored due to dirt, and often 
tobacco juice and other materials applied by players; damage would also 
occur, causing slight rips and seam bursts. However, after the 1920 death 
of batter Ray Chapman after being hit in the head by a pitch, perhaps due 
to his difficulty in seeing the ball during twilight, an effort was made 
to replace dirty or worn baseballs. In 1909, sports magnate and former 
player Alfred J. Reach patented the ivory centered "ivory nut" in Panama 
and suggested it might be even better in a baseball than cork. However, 
Philadelphia Athletics president Benjamin F. Shibe, who had invented and 
patented [7] the cork centered ball, commented, "I look for the leagues 
to adopt an 'ivory nut' baseball just as soon as they adopt a ferro-concrete 
bat and a base studded with steel spikes." Both leagues adopted Shibe's 
cork-centered ball in 1910. The official major league ball is made by Rawlings, 
which produces the stitched balls in Costa Rica. Attempts to automate the 
manufacturing process were never entirely successful, leading to the continued 
use of hand-made balls. The raw materials are imported from the United 
States, assembled into baseballs and shipped back. Throughout the 20th 
Century, Major League Baseball used two technically identical but differently 
marked balls. The American League had "Official American League" and the 
American League's president's signature in blue ink, while National League 
baseballs had "Official National League" and the National League president's 
signature in black ink. According to Bob Feller, in the 1930s, when he 
was a rookie the National League, baseball laces were black, intertwined 
with red; the American League's were blue and red.[8] In 2000, Major League 
Baseball reorganized its structure to eliminate the position of league 
presidents, and switched to one ball specification for both leagues. Under 
the current rules, a major league baseball weighs between 5 and 5 1⁄4 ounces 
(142 and 149 g), and is 9 to 9 1⁄4 inches (229–235 mm) in circumference 
(2 7⁄8–3 in or 73–76 mm in diameter).[9] There are 108 double stitches 
on a baseball, or 216 individual stitches. Today, several dozen baseballs 
are used in a typical professional game, due to scratches, discoloration, 
and undesirable texture that can occur during the game. Balls hit out of 
the park for momentous occasions (record setting, or for personal reasons) 
are often requested to be returned by the fan who catches it, or donated 
freely by the fan. Usually, the player will give the fan an autographed 
bat and/or other autographed items in exchange for the special ball. Balls 
used in the professional game are rubbed with a mud known as "rubbing mud", 
which is typically applied by the umpire before each game, and is intended 
to help the pitcher's grip.[10] There are several historic instances of 
people catching or attempting to catch baseballs: Other famous baseballs: 
