Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1985 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, Lou 
Brock and Hoyt Wilhelm. The BBWAA petitioned the Hall of Fame Board of 
Directors to reconsider the eligibility of Ken Boyer, Curt Flood and Ron 
Santo with the intention of restoring their names to the 1985 ballot. Each 
had failed to achieve 5% in their first years on the ballot (Boyer, 1975–79, 
Flood, 1977–79 and Santo, 1980). The Board approved and Boyer, Flood and 
Santo returned to the ballot. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, 
and figures from the Negro Leagues. It also selected two players, Enos 
Slaughter and Arky Vaughan. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active 
in 1965 or later, but not after 1979; the ballot included candidates from 
the 1984 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 1979. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 41 players; a total 
of 395 ballots were cast, with 297 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,918 individual votes were cast, an average of 7.39 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The two candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were 
elected are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected 
in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The 18 candidates who 
received less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future 
BBWAA consideration, are indicated with a *. Nellie Fox was on the ballot 
for the 15th and final time. Thurman Munson, who died in a plane crash 
in 1979, would have been eligible for the first time, but the five-year 
waiting period was waived. The newly eligible players included 16 All-Stars, 
two of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 44 
All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 8-time All-Star Catfish 
Hunter,.and 6-time All-Stars Lou Brock and Don Kessinger. The field included 
two Cy Young Award-winners (Catfish Hunter and Jim Lonborg), as well as 
George Scott, whose eight Gold Gloves at first base were a record at the 
time. Players eligible for the first time who were not on the ballot were: 
Darrel Chaney, Gene Clines, Joe Coleman, Willie Davis, Frank Duffy, Ray 
Fosse, Ellie Hendricks, Steve Mingori, Bob Montgomery, Tom Murphy, Bob 
