Baseball Queensland is the governing body of baseball within Queensland. 
Baseball Queensland is governed by the Australian Baseball Federation. 
It is located in Milton, Queensland and run by chief executive officer 
Col Dick. It is also the governing bodies that picks the Queensland Rams 
team that competes in the Claxton Shield. It also picks U14, U16 and U18 
state teams and Greater Brisbane League All-Star teams, the largest competition 
in Queensland. It runs all regional bodies in Queensland and the far north 
coast of New South Wales and also controls the Queensland Umpires, Scorers 
and Coaches associations. In November 2008, the Pine Rivers Rapids club 
announced their interest in a breakaway league from the Greater Brisbane 
League that Baseball Queensland runs. The controversy arose before the 
start of the 2008-2009 season when Pine Rivers amongst other high profile 
clubs, were warned that they are in danger of not meeting GBL Major League 
criteria which enables them to have a team in the top three divisions of 
Queensland baseball. The 'mutiny' is led by club committee members, Derek 
Harvey and Peter Dutton, father of Australian baseballer Brad Dutton.[1] 
The push for a breakaway league as of December, 2008 seems to have died 
off with all big Greater Brisbane League clubs declaring their support 
for Baseball Queensland including Redcliffe Padres, Narangba Demons, Redlands 
Baseball Club and Pine Hills Lightning.[2] On 31 November 2008, Rapids 
forfeited their 3rd Major B game of the season which according to GBL breach 
of forfeit rules: And without a team in Major A, B and C, a club cannot 
qualify for Major League criteria (see GBL Major League Criteria). This 
left Baseball Queensland in a compromising position whether to kick Major 
A leaders, Pine Rivers Rapids out of Major League or continue to be criticised 
by other clubs for not following through with GBL By-Laws. Baseball Queensland 
is split into eight regions, seven of which are active as April 2009. These 
regions are listed below: *All clubs in the Sunshine Coast region have 
been defunct since 2006 On 9 December 2008, the Australian Baseball Federation 
announced the 2009 Baseball Australia Diamond Awards with Baseball Queensland 
picking up: Awards will be presented 21 February 2009 in Melbourne, Victoria.[3] 
