Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2009 proceeded according to 
revised rules enacted in 2001 and further revamped in 2007. The Baseball 
Writers Association of America (BBWAA) held an election to select from 
among recent players. In keeping with the 2007 rules changes, the Veterans 
Committee held an election for players who were active in the years 1943 
to 1987, but not before or after that period; for the fourth consecutive 
election cycle, this election produced no selections. An election to select 
from among players who were active prior to 1943 was conducted by a separate 
Veterans Committee panel of 12 Hall of Famers, writers, and baseball historians, 
chosen by the Hall of Fame's Board of Directors, and this election produced 
the first Veterans Committee selection since 2001. An election to select 
managers, umpires and executives was held for the 2008 inductions; the 
next such election was held prior to the 2010 inductions. Induction ceremonies 
in Cooperstown were held July 26, 2009, with Commissioner Bud Selig presiding. 
The BBWAA was again authorized to elect players active in 1989 or later, 
but not after 2003; the ballot, announced on December 1, 2008, included 
candidates from the 2008 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but 
were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, 
whose last appearance was in 2003. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were 
eligible to vote; ballots had to be returned by December 31. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate who received 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. Results of the 2009 election by the BBWAA were announced on January 
12. The ballot consisted of 23 players, the lowest number ever; there were 
13 candidates returning from the 2008 ballot, also a record low. 539 ballots 
were cast (including two ballots which supported no candidates), with 405 
votes required for election. A total of 2,902 individual votes were cast, 
an average of 5.38 per ballot. Those candidates who received less than 
5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually 
be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were eligible for 
the first time are indicated here with a †. The candidates who received 
at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in bold italics; 
candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections are indicated 
in italics. The candidates who received less than 5% of the vote, thus 
becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are indicated with 
a *. Tommy John and Jim Rice were on the ballot for the 15th and final 
time; Rice became the first player elected in his final year of BBWAA ballot 
eligibility since Ralph Kiner in 1975, while John's eligibility ran out. 
The newly-eligible candidates included 22 All-Stars (12 of whom were not 
included on the ballot), who were selected a combined total of 58 times 
– a slight increase from 2008, when 17 All-Stars who had been selected 
a total of 43 times became eligible. Rickey Henderson, a 10-time All-Star, 
was the only new candidate who was selected more than five times. The ballot 
included two MVPs (Henderson and Mo Vaughn), and one Cy Young Award-winner 
and perfect game thrower (David Cone), none of them winning more than once. 
Players eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot 
were: Steve Avery, Jason Bere, Mike Bordick, John Burkett, Omar Daal, Joe 
Girardi, Mark Guthrie, Joey Hamilton, Bill Haselman, Darren Holmes, Trenidad 
Hubbard, Todd Hundley, Brian L. Hunter, Félix José, Chad Kreuter, Graeme 
Lloyd, Keith Lockhart, Albie Lopez, Pat Mahomes, Al Martin, Orlando Merced, 
Charles Nagy, Denny Neagle, Troy O'Leary, Lance Painter, Dean Palmer, Craig 
Paquette, Tom Prince, Jeff Reboulet, Rick Reed, Rich Rodriguez, Terry Shumpert, 
Luis Sojo, Dave Veres, Matt Walbeck, Mike Williams and Kevin Young. None 
of the newly-eligible candidates would appear on any future ballots. As 
expected, Henderson was elected on his first appearance; no other first-timer 
received the 5% of votes required to remain on the ballot. As a result, 
the 2010 ballot broke the record set this year for fewest returning candidates, 
with only 11 players returning. Rules for election by the Veterans Committee 
were revised in July 2007 following complaints that the three elections 
conducted under the previous format (in 2003, 2005, and 2007) had resulted 
in no selections. After the February 2007 election, Bud Selig expressed 
frustration over the ongoing difficulties, and voiced his support for a 
revision of the process.[1] Under the revised format, a Historical Overview 
Committee composed of 11 sportswriters appointed by the BBWAA's Board of 
Directors met in spring 2008 to develop a ballot of 20 former players active 
between 1943 and 1987; the committee members were: Dave Van Dyck (Chicago 
Tribune); Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch); 
Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Moss Klein (formerly Newark Star-Ledger); 
Bill Madden (New York Daily News); Ken Nigro (formerly Baltimore Sun); 
Jack O'Connell (MLB.com); Nick Peters (The Sacramento Bee); Tracy Ringolsby 
(Rocky Mountain News); and Mark Whicker (The Orange County Register). A 
six-member panel of Hall of Famers also met to independently select five 
players for consideration; these lists were merged to create a preliminary 
ballot of 21 names: Dick Allen, Ken Boyer, Bert Campaneris, Rocky Colavito, 
Mike Cuellar, Steve Garvey, Gil Hodges, Jim Kaat, Ted Kluszewski, Mickey 
Lolich, Roger Maris, Lee May, Minnie Miñoso, Thurman Munson, Tony Oliva, 
Al Oliver, Vada Pinson, Ron Santo, Luis Tiant, Joe Torre and Maury Wills. 
Following the elections of 2003 through 2007, when the voting membership 
of the Veterans Committee included not only the living members of the Hall 
but also recipients of the Ford C. Frick Award and J. G. Taylor Spink Award, 
voting was now limited to Hall members; they met at the Hall during induction 
weekend in 2008, and reduced the ballot to 10 names through voting by mail 
in August. This final ballot was then sent to the 64 living members, and 
they voted by mail, casting votes for up to four candidates each. Any candidate 
receiving votes on 75% of ballots would be inducted to the Hall; a maximum 
of five inductees was possible. The final ballot was announced on September 
16; all ten finalists were returnees from the 2007 final ballot. Results 
were announced on December 8 at Major League Baseball's winter meetings 
in Las Vegas, Nevada, but no candidate received the necessary number of 
votes. All 64 eligible voters cast ballots, with 48 votes required for 
election. Players elected in subsequent years are indicated in plain italics. 
A total of 213 votes were cast for the 10 candidates, an average of 3.33 
votes per ballot cast, suggesting that most voters cast votes for the maximum 
number of candidates but that the votes were too scattered for any one 
candidate to reach the required number. Although Hall of Fame officials 
had hoped that reducing the field of candidates on the final ballot from 
approximately 25 names to 10 would help focus attention on the most popular 
candidates and increase the chances of a selection, the coinciding move 
to reduce the allowable number of votes per ballot from ten to four appeared 
to counteract any potential benefit, as every candidate but one saw his 
percentage of the vote drop from 2007 (Tiant improved slightly from 18.3% 
to 20.3%). Hall of Fame chairwoman Jane Forbes Clark stated, "When our 
board of directors restructured the Veterans Committee after the 2007 election, 
it did so with the goal of ensuring the voters – the living Hall of Famers 
– would review their peers. The 10 post-1942 ballot finalists all spent 
a substantial part of their playing career in the 1960s or the 1970s, and 
a vast majority of the voters were either actively playing, managing or 
involved in baseball in those two decades." She added, "The process was 
not redesigned with the goal of necessarily electing someone, but to give 
everyone on the ballot a very fair chance of earning election through a 
ballot of their peers. The vote reinforces the selections of the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America and maintains the high standards set by 
the BBWAA. A 75-percent threshold is extremely difficult to attain, but 
the highly selective process helps ensure that enshrinement in the Baseball 
Hall of Fame remains the greatest honor in the game."[2] Former manager 
Dick Williams, who had been inducted into the Hall earlier in the year, 
noted, "It's not our job to vote someone in," and added, "It's our job 
to consider the candidates." Noting his support for some of the candidates, 
he stated, "I thought Kaat would get in. I voted for him. And I think Joe 
Torre will, too, when he's done managing. I missed quite a few times before 
I got in. I know what that's like."[3] In announcing the lack of selections 
from this ballot, Hall president Jeff Idelson noted that the Hall's board 
of directors would review the results at its annual spring meeting, in 
keeping with their regular practice, and consider whether to further alter 
the selection process; he stressed that this was the first use of the new 
process featuring a smaller voting body and a reduced ballot. He added 
that the voting levels indicated that the members believed there were worthy 
candidates for induction, although no agreement could be reached as to 
the best ones. Hall member Joe Morgan, also a member of the Hall's board, 
argued that the current members were not trying to keep candidates out, 
but observed that the addition of strong new candidates each election might 
have the effect of reducing the support for any single player.[4] The ballot 
was composed almost entirely of players who were active in the 1960s and 
1970s, with all but Hodges being active during the period from 1967 to 
1972 (Hodges was a manager in that time period); even among the 21 players 
initially considered, only six had their rookie seasons before 1958, and 
only Hodges, Ted Kluszewski and Minnie Miñoso debuted before 1955. Other 
players who were on the 2007 ballot who were eligible for consideration 
were Bobby Bonds, Curt Flood, Sparky Lyle and Don Newcombe. In addition 
to Ken Boyer, Rocky Colavito, Kluszewski, Roger Maris, Miñoso and Newcombe, 
other potential candidates whose rookie seasons were before 1958 were Billy 
Pierce, perhaps the American League's top pitcher in the mid-1950s, Roy 
Face, the National League's first great reliever, and Dick Groat, a solid-hitting 
shortstop who was the NL's MVP in 1960. Among the players who were eligible 
for the first time were Dusty Baker, Vida Blue, Ron Cey, Cecil Cooper, 
George Foster, Steve Garvey, Bobby Grich, Dave Kingman, Davey Lopes and 
Bill Madlock, with only Garvey being included among the 21 semifinalists. 
In addition to improving on the fruitless outcome of the previous three 
elections for players, there may have been particular urgency in the 2009 
vote resulting in the selection of one or more new members, as in 2011 
a large group of potentially popular candidates would become eligible – 
possibly further diluting the support for any single candidate. Under the 
then-current Veterans Committee rules, those becoming eligible in 2011 
would have included Buddy Bell, Dave Concepción, Ron Guidry, Tommy John, 
Graig Nettles and Ted Simmons; another sizable group of potentially popular 
candidates, including Bob Boone, Dwight Evans, Keith Hernandez, Fred Lynn, 
Dave Parker and Dan Quisenberry, would have become eligible in 2013. As 
it turned out, this would be the last election for the Veterans Committee 
in this particular form. In July 2010, the Hall announced a new voting 
procedure to consider individuals not eligible for the BBWAA ballot. Starting 
with the elections for 2011 induction, the Veterans Committee was split 
into three 16-member subcommittees, each made up of Hall of Famers, executives, 
baseball historians, and media members. Each subcommittee votes once every 
three years on candidates from a composite ballot including both long-retired 
players and non-playing personnel. The ballots and subcommittees were divided 
by era, with the first vote involving figures from what the Hall calls 
the "Expansion Era" (1973 and later). The following year saw candidates 
considered from the "Golden Era" (1947–1972), with candidates from the 
"Pre-Integration Era" (1871–1946) following in the 2013 election.[5] The 
first player elected under the new procedure was Ron Santo, elected in 
2011 by the Golden Era subcommittee as part of the class of 2012.[6] For 
the first and ultimately only time, a separate election was held for players 
whose major league careers began before 1943; these elections are scheduled 
to occur every five years. The election was conducted on December 7, 2008 
at the winter meetings in Las Vegas, among a committee of twelve Hall members 
and members of the media, with results announced the following day; votes 
by proxy would be allowed only in emergencies, but this was not necessary. 
The Historical Overview Committee of the BBWAA selected 10 candidates to 
appear on the ballot, with votes from 75% of the committee necessary for 
election; each committee member could vote for up to four candidates, allowing 
for a maximum of five selections. The final ballot was announced on August 
25; the candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics. The committee members apparently made an 
effort to vote for as many candidates as they were allowed, casting at 
least 41 of a possible 48 individual votes (vote totals for three candidates 
were not released), for a minimum possible average of 3.42 votes per ballot. 
Of the ten final candidates, none were living; Vernon was alive at the 
time the final ballot was announced, but died a month later. The finalists 
included candidates spanning the entire period from 1868 (White) to 1960 
(Vernon), although six of the ten were active in the 1940s; four of the 
top five finishers were active in the 1940s, with the four pre-1930 candidates 
gaining no more than 12 total votes. The voting committee comprised:[2] 
The Historical Overview Committee was permitted to nominate candidates 
who played in the Negro leagues prior to 1946, as long as their time in 
the Negro leagues and major leagues totals at least ten seasons; this rule 
would seem to include players such as Minnie Miñoso (who debuted with the 
New York Cubans in 1945) and Don Newcombe (who debuted with the Newark 
Eagles in 1944), even if they did not appear in the Negro leagues until 
after 1943. Negro league first baseman Buck O'Neil, whose playing career 
began in 1937, was eligible to be included on this ballot; however, if 
the overview committee believed that his contributions to baseball after 
his playing career ended outweigh his playing accomplishments, he could 
be instead considered in the election for non-players in 2010. The rules 
state that: "Those whose careers entailed involvement as both players and 
managers/executives/umpires will be considered for their overall contribution 
to the game of Baseball; however, the specific category in which such individuals 
shall be considered will be determined by the role in which they were most 
prominent. In those instances when a candidate is prominent as both a player 
and as a manager, executive or umpire, the BBWAA Screening Committee shall 
determine that individual's candidacy as either a player (Players Ballot), 
or as a manager, umpires, executive or pioneer (Managers/Umpires Ballot, 
or Executives/Pioneers Ballot)." Because of the 2010 changes to Veterans 
Committee voting, this would be the only vote of the pre-1943 committee. 
The J. G. Taylor Spink Award has been presented by the BBWAA at the annual 
summer induction ceremonies since 1962. It recognizes a sportswriter "for 
meritorious contributions to baseball writing". The recipients are not 
members of the Hall of the Fame, merely featured in a permanent exhibit 
at the National Baseball Museum, but writers and broadcasters commonly 
call them "Hall of Fame writers" or words to that effect. Three final candidates, 
selected by a three-member BBWAA committee, were named on July 15, 2008 
in New York City in conjunction with All-Star Game activities: Nick Peters 
of The Sacramento Bee, Dave Van Dyck of the Chicago Tribune, and Bob Elliott 
of the Toronto Sun.[7] All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to 
cast ballots in voting conducted by mail in November. On December 10 at 
baseball's winter meetings, Nick Peters was announced as the recipient. 
Peters, who covered the San Francisco Giants from 1961 to 2007, received 
210 votes out of the 447 ballots cast, with Elliott receiving 123 votes 
and Van Dyck receiving 107; seven blank ballots were submitted.[8] The 
Ford C. Frick Award has been presented at the annual summer induction ceremonies 
since 1978. It recognizes a broadcaster for "major contributions to baseball". 
The recipients are not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely featured 
in a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, but writers and 
broadcasters commonly call them "Hall of Fame broadcaster" or words to 
that effect. To be eligible, an active or retired broadcaster must have 
a minimum of 10 years of continuous major league broadcast service with 
a ball club, a network, or a combination of the two. Ten finalists were 
announced on October 6, 2008.[9] In accordance with guidelines established 
in 2003, seven were chosen by a 20-member committee composed of the 15 
living recipients, along with 5 additional broadcasting historians and 
columnists: Bob Costas (NBC), Barry Horn (The Dallas Morning News), Stan 
Isaacs (formerly of New York Newsday), Ted Patterson (historian) and Curt 
Smith (historian). The seven finalists chosen by the committee were: Billy 
Berroa, Ken Coleman, Dizzy Dean, Lanny Frattare, Tony Kubek, Graham McNamee 
and Dave Van Horne. Three additional candidates – Tom Cheek, Jacques Doucet 
and Joe Nuxhall – were selected from a list of 210 candidates through results 
of voting by fans conducted throughout September at the Hall's official 
website,[10] with 145,138 ballots cast. On December 9 at baseball's winter 
meetings, it was announced that Tony Kubek would be the recipient. Kubek, 
who was a television analyst for NBC, the Toronto Blue Jays and the New 
York Yankees from 1965 until his 1994 retirement, became the first recipient 
of the Frick Award whose broadcasting career was solely in television (1995 
recipient Bob Woolf is best known as a television play-by-play man, but 
has also worked in radio), and also the first recipient to have called 
games for a Canadian team. He was selected in a November vote by the same 
committee which selected the finalists. They voted by mail, and based the 
selection on the following criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; 
honors, including national assignments such as the World Series and All-Star 
