Baseball in the Netherlands started in 1911, having been introduced to 
the country by English teacher J.C.G Grasé of Amsterdam following a holiday 
to America. The first professional baseball league (now the Honkbal Hoofdklasse) 
began in 1922. The national governing body for baseball is the Koninklijke 
Nederlandse Baseball en Softball Bond.[1] The Netherlands National Baseball 
Team is consistently ranked in the top ten of the IBAF World Rankings and 
has won the European Baseball Championship twenty times. Although baseball 
is a minority sport within the Netherlands, it is the main sport of the 
Dutch overseas territories in the Caribbean (the former Netherland Antilles).[2] 
The driving force in the early days of Dutch baseball was J.C.G. Grasé 
of Amsterdam. After discovering baseball while on vacation in the United 
States, he introduced the game in the Netherlands in 1911. An English teacher 
by profession, Grasé was able to translate the rules of the game into Dutch. 
The first official games were played in 1911 and on 12 March 1912, Grasé 
founded the Dutch Baseball Union. Grasé was also the founder of the oldest 
baseball club in Europe, Quick Amsterdam (founded 1 March 1913). The first 
official competition was played in 1922. The major league was formed out 
of four clubs that year: Ajax (a branch of the famous football club), Blue 
White (also a football club), Hercules and Quick Amsterdam. Quick Amsterdam 
became the first Dutch champion. During the early years, baseball was only 
played in Amsterdam, and quickly spread to Haarlem as well. These two cities 
dominated Dutch baseball until 1963. In 1925, a ship of the US Navy visited 
Amsterdam. Players of Blue White heard of the visit and invited the sailors 
to a game of baseball. After one inning, the Americans led 14-0. After 
two hours of play, the final score was 27-2. In the early days, the pitcher 
was the one who could throw the fastest ball. At the time, it was considered 
unsportsmanlike to bunt or to take advantage of the lack of control by 
a pitcher and was considered a humiliation to get a base on balls. It was 
far better to hit a fly out than to reach first base on four balls. Furthermore, 
the sport was played wearing shorts. At the end of the 1937 season, EDO 
from Haarlem and Blue White from Amsterdam played each other to determine 
the Dutch champion. The game was played with a two-hour time limit. The 
coach of EDO thought that he had won the game after the final out of an 
inning, but according to the umpire, there were three more minutes to be 
played, so a new inning began. The players of EDO were furious and Blue 
White ended up winning and became Dutch champion. This was the final instance 
of a two-hour time limit, and beginning in 1938, games in the major league 
lasted nine innings. In 1939, a team of Mormon missionaries from Salt Lake 
City played in the Dutch league under the name Seagulls. They only lost 
two games (vs. Blue White from Amsterdam 7-1, and vs. HHC from Haarlem 
6-2). After the German invasion in May 1940, baseball went through a difficult 
period. As the war continued, baseball materials became scarce. Starting 
in 1943, baseballs were made of rubber-like substance with a cork center. 
The balls, which were made by the tire company Vredenstein, could absorb 
little more than a couple of hits, before breaking apart. Some pitchers 
would cut out a small piece in order to throw a curve, because the balls 
didn't have seams. Clubs were forced to mend cracked bats with screws or 
whatever other materials were handy. After World War II, the Americans 
helped Europe rebuild with the Marshall Plan. They also sent baseball materials 
to the Netherlands including uniforms, bats, balls, etc. Teams like OVVO 
from Amsterdam and HHC from Haarlem played in red uniforms. Many games 
were played against military teams. In their own league, the Dutch could 
hold their own, but not against the better skilled Americans. Han Urbanus, 
was the best Dutch pitcher in these days. Getting a hit against him guaranteed 
a starting spot in the Dutch national team. A Dutch American journalist, 
Albert Balink, managed two trips to spring training camp for Han Urbanus. 
The journalist knew that the Dutchman would need a lot more experience 
to improve. Martin Jole, one of the players who could hit Hans Urbanus, 
went to a spring training camp with the Cincinnati Reds. He showed Dutch 
players how swinging a bat day after day could improve their hitting. Albert 
Balink also introduced medals for the best players and hitters, which allowed 
him to show that baseball is a sport of stats. In 1953, Han Urbanus got 
a phone call from the USA. The New York Giants had offered him a minor 
league contract. He refused, due to the fact that he preferred to teach 
his fellow countrymen what he had learned in the USA. Dutch baseball was 
dominated from 1949 to 1953, by OVVO from Amsterdam, which claimed five 
consecutive national titles. In 1955, the club won it for the last time, 
and would never win another championship again. The post-war help of the 
Americans helped the Dutch earn their first European title in 1956 in Rome, 
Italy. Han Urbanus was a defensive force and the Dutch batters performed 
very well. Because of the European title, the Dutch were allowed to go 
to the Global World Series. American coaches like Ron Fraser and Bill Arce 
helped the Dutch to improve their game. The number of baseball fields built 
around the country increased dramatically. In 1963, a real baseball stadium 
was built in Haarlem. This stadium would be the base of the Haarlem Baseball 
Week, a yearly event. Prior to 1963, baseball was dominated by teams from 
Amsterdam and Haarlem. But in 1963, Sparta from Rotterdam became Dutch 
champion. From 1963 to 1974, Sparta clinched nine national titles, a record 
not exceeded until 1985 by the Haarlem Nicols. In the early sixties, each 
team played 14 games; one game every weekend. In 1970, a Dutch-born pitcher 
named Bert Blyleven made the Minnesota Twins roster. He had a very successful 
Major League career which lasted until 1992, and was elected to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 2010. He was, however, raised in California and never played 
in the Dutch league. The first Dutch Major League Baseball player who actually 
grew up and learned the game in the Netherlands was Win Remmerswaal, who 
pitched briefly for the Boston Red Sox in 1979 and 1980. Dutch baseball 
was dominated by Sparta from Rotterdam in the early 70s. The "magnificent 
three" from the Dutch Antilles were unstoppable: Hudson John, Simon Arrindell 
and Hamilton Richardson, who all had a big influence on Sparta, but by 
1974, the era was over. At the end of the 1972 season, the football club 
Ajax decided to cut loose the baseball branch, ending the ball club. At 
the end of the 1977 season, there was some turmoil at OVVO from Amsterdam. 
This baseball club was also a branch of a football club. The football club, 
an amateur side, decided to turn professional and begin paying players. 
The baseball branch did not agree, and big names, like Han Urbanus, decided 
to leave and founded a new club: Amstel Tigers. Other players like Charles 
Urbanus Jr. (pitcher/shortstop), Jan Hijzelendoorn (pitcher), Paul Smit 
(catcher) and Don Wedman decided to follow suit, along with almost the 
entire team. The Dutch Baseball Federation tried to mediate, but the players 
did not come back. The city of Amsterdam appointed a terrain in the Western 
part of the city. The Amstel Tigers thought that field would be too far 
away, but ultimately the new club built a baseball field there, which is 
now used by Quick Amsterdam. In the meantime, OVVO would not be persuaded 
to take a step back to a lower division. The Amstel Tigers started their 
first season in the overgangsklasse; a league one level lower than the 
hoofdklasse. With such strong players, the Tigers were quickly promoted 
to the top division in 1979. OVVO's 1978 season was a disaster and the 
team was relegated. The Amstel Tigers went on to become champions in 1979, 
1980, and 1986. In 1979, a Dutch pitcher made his MLB debut on the mound 
in Milwaukee. The Red Sox were trailing 4-1, as they called pitcher Win 
Remmerswaal. His debut was a good one, even though his team lost 5-3. After 
the game, journalists seemed fascinated that a Dutch player could have 
come so far in the game. The MLB career of Win Remmerswaal only lasted 
two seasons, due to injuries. After the 1980 season, Remmerswaal pitched 
22 games (3 victories and 1 loss). His short career among baseball's elite 
lasted 55 innings. After his Major League career, Remmerswaal went to Italy, 
and played on several teams for many years. The eighties and nineties were 
bad decades for many baseball clubs. In 1986, Charles Urbanus, Jr. decided 
that it would be his last season. This was a huge blow for his club, the 
Amstel Tigers. Urbanus was a magnet for players, who considered it an honour 
to play with him. But an Amstel Tigers without him was not as attractive 
to new talent and the club lost competitiveness. Eventually, the members 
voted for a merger with HCAW from Bussum, a club that was playing the lower 
league. The new club, HCAW Tigers, were promoted to the major league in 
1989 and would go on to win the title in 1996 and 1998, albeit without 
any of the old Amstel Tigers players. Haarlem Nicols were particularly 
dominant in the 1980s with seven pennants over ten years, but declared 
bankruptcy in 1994, just five years after winning their last pennant. In 
1981, Neptunus Rotterdam won the pennant for the first time since the baseball 
team's foundation in 1942. Neptunus began to dominate the championship 
during the 1990s and 2000s, winning eleven pennants in total including 
seven consecutively between 1999 and 2005. In 2009, the Netherlands defeated 
the heavily favored Dominican Republic twice to qualify for the second 
round of the World Baseball Classic. The Dutch upset the Dominican team 
3-2 in their first meeting and 2-1 in 11 innings in a qualification game. 
In 2011, the Netherlands defeated the former World Baseball Championship 
winner, Cuba, and became world champion for the first time in history.[3] 
Their team captain, Brian Farley led them to a 2-1 victory. Players De 
Jong and Smith scored for the Dutch team. Record holder, Cuba, has won 
25 out of 39 matches. First round: Netherlands - Taiwan 2-1, Netherlands 
- Greece 19-0, Netherlands - Japan 5-2, Netherlands - Puerto Rico 5-0, 
Netherlands - USA 7-5, Netherlands - Canada 4-5, Netherlands - Panama 7-3. 
Second round: Netherlands - South-Korea 5-1, Netherlands - Australia 2-1, 
Netherlands - Cuba 4-1, Netherlands - Venezuela 12-2. Final: Netherlands 
