Baseball Prospectus (BP) is an organization that publishes a website, BaseballProspectus.com, 
devoted to the sabermetric analysis of baseball. BP has a staff of regular 
columnists and provides advanced statistics as well as player and team 
performance projections on the site. Since 1996 the BP staff has also published 
a Baseball Prospectus annual as well as several other books devoted to 
baseball analysis and history. Baseball Prospectus has fathered several 
popular new statistical tools that have become hallmarks of baseball analysis. 
Baseball Prospectus is accredited by the Baseball Writers' Association 
of America. Four of Baseball Prospectus's current regular writers are members 
of the Baseball Writers' Association of America and thus eligible to vote 
for nominees for Major League Baseball's post-season awards and the Baseball 
Hall of Fame.[1] Baseball Prospectus is formally an entity of Prospectus 
Entertainment Ventures, LLC, a private corporation that runs websites and 
publishes books focusing on the statistical analysis of the sports of baseball, 
basketball, and hockey. As of August 2014, the President & CEO is Joe Hamrahi, 
and Vice President is Dave Pease.[2] For several years, Prospectus Entertainment 
Ventures (PEV) partnered with Football Outsiders for the publication and 
promotion of Football Outsiders Almanac (ISBN 1-4486-4845-9), before 2009 
called Pro Football Prospectus (ISBN 0-452-28847-9). On October 10, 2007, 
PEV launched Basketball Prospectus,[3] a new website for the analysis of 
men's college and pro basketball, with Joe Sheehan taking the role of Managing 
Editor[4] and announcing the lineup of principal writer-analysts for the 
site. Initially, this website did not require a subscription for access, 
but it introduced subscriptions in 2011 for access to most of the material 
on the site. BasketballProspectus.com's first annual book, College Basketball 
Prospectus 2008–2009 (ISBN 0-452-28987-4), was published in October 2008. 
It released Pro Basketball Prospectus 2009–10 for purchase online in October 
2009.[5] Subsequently, it published both College Basketball Prospectus 
2010–11 (ISBN 1-4538-7282-5) and Pro Basketball Prospectus 2010–11 (ISBN 
1-4538-6899-2) in both print and online (PDF) modes. On March 19, 2008, 
Imagine Sports announced a strategic partnership with PEV and Baseball 
Prospectus. Imagine sports owns the baseball simulation engine "Diamond 
Mind Baseball".[6] On October 14, 2008, PEV announced the acquisition of 
Baseball Digest Daily (BDD),[7] an online blog devoted to baseball analysis 
and statistics. Joe Hamrahi, new Chief Financial Officer of PEV and founder 
of BDD, reported that "PEV's decision to acquire Baseball Digest Daily 
further enhances the content offerings of Baseball Prospectus by adding 
some of the game's best analysts as well as over 100 pages of baseball 
news and original content. In addition, BDD's player tracker provides a 
platform for serious fans and fantasy baseball enthusiasts to easily monitor 
the progress of their teams, allowing users to manipulate and track the 
progress of an unlimited set of players over a customized period of time".[8] 
At the same time, PEV revealed publicly that it "owns a significant interest 
in 538 (www.fivethirtyeight.com), a political analysis website that generates 
over 700,000 unique visitors daily". On February 23, 2009, Prospectus Entertainment 
Ventures (PEV) launched the website Puck Prospectus[9] with the intent 
of providing cutting-edge analysis of hockey. Will Carroll assumed the 
role of the Executive Editor, and Andrew Rothstein, the founder of Puck 
Prospectus, assumed the role of the Managing Editor.[10] Puck Prospectus 
published its first annual book, Puck Prospectus 2010–2011 (ISBN 1-4538-1784-0) 
in both online and print formats. Initially a free site, Puck Prospectus 
introduced subscriptions in 2011. On March 24, 2009, Baseball Prospectus 
announced that Nate Silver was stepping down as its Managing Partner, and 
Kevin Goldstein was assuming this role. At that time, PEV relinquished 
its previously announced financial interest in Silver's FiveThirtyEight 
blog. At the same time, it was announced that BP has a partnership relationship 
with ESPN.com.[11] In January 2010, PEV's Managing Partner Kevin Goldstein 
reported that one of BP's founding members, Joe Sheehan, had departed the 
organization.[12] He reported that John Perrotto had been elevated to full-time 
status on the BP staff and would become the new Editor-in-Chief of BaseballProspectus.com, 
taking over that responsibility from Christina Kahrl. And he reported that 
Jeff Euston was joining the BP staff and that Euston's Cot's Baseball Contracts 
website[13] would be joining the Baseball Prospectus family. In February 
2011, Perrotto was replaced as Editor-in-Chief by Steven Goldman. In February 
2010, BP's "Fantasy Manager" Marc Normandin announced that BP had established 
a partnership with Heater Magazine.[14] Heater Magazine ceased publication 
after the 2010 season. In November 2011, Kevin Goldstein announced that 
he was stepping down as PEV's Managing Partner in favor of Joe Hamrahi.[15] 
On March 3, 2012, Hamrahi announced that Steven Goldman was stepping down 
as Editor-in-Chief of BaseballProspectus.com; Goldman had taken a position 
as a lead baseball writer for Bleacher Report.[16] Ben Lindbergh was named 
Managing Editor of Baseball Prospectus on March 5, 2012[17] and Editor-in-Chief 
of Baseball Prospectus on July 13, 2012.[18] On April 30, 2012, PEV's Managing 
Partner Joe Hamrahi announced that "Dan Brooks, Harry Pavlidis, and Brooks 
Baseball have agreed to team up and join forces with Baseball Prospectus. 
BrooksBaseball.net is the premier site for PITCHf/x analysis and pitch 
classification".[19] On March 15, 2013, after explaining a week earlier 
that its key staff of writers had been hired away by ESPN, Baseball Prospectus's 
Dave Pease declared in response to a question in the comments: "Basketball 
Prospectus will not be publishing any new content. We are going quiet. 
The archives will remain available. Thank you".[20] On March 8, Pease had 
written: "You've probably noticed our Basketball Prospectus Premium coverage 
has been pretty quiet lately. You may have also noticed that our core pro 
writers, Kevin Pelton, Bradford Doolittle, and John Gasaway are now writing 
for ESPN Insider on a regular basis. Late last year, we learned that, following 
their completion of the Pro Basketball Prospectus 2012–13 and College Basketball 
Prospectus 2012–13 annuals, Kevin, Bradford, and John would be moving to 
ESPN on a full-time basis". Baseball Prospectus (sometimes referred to 
as BP) was founded in 1996 by Gary Huckabay, who recruited the initial 
contributor group of Clay Davenport, Rany Jazayerli, Christina Kahrl, and 
Joe Sheehan, with the publication of the first annual set of forecasts. 
"That first year, BP charged $20 for a statistics guide produced on a photocopier. 
It printed around 300 copies and sold about 170 to fellow statheads, even 
though the book was missing the St. Louis Cardinals. 'It was terrible,' 
recalls Kahrl, 'but it nevertheless didn't discourage us.' Within a few 
years Brassey's Inc. published the guide, which grew to about 3,000 copies. 
By 2007 it reached The New York Times bestseller list, topping 70,000 copies 
at $21.95 a pop."[21] The kind of sabermetric approach favored by Baseball 
Prospectus has gained significant acceptance by the management of many 
Major League Baseball clubs, notably the Boston Red Sox and Cleveland Indians. 
BP has often been considered the modern successor to Bill James' Baseball 
Abstract series of books in the 1980s.[22] Reflecting its legacy as a group 
of sabermetricians who met over the Internet, BP has no "main office." 
Working for BP is a second or part-time job for many of the regular staff, 
who conduct their work for BP in their own home offices. The website BaseballProspectus.com 
began in 1997 primarily as a way to present original sabermetric research; 
publish advanced baseball statistics such as EqA, the Davenport Translations 
(DT's), and VORP; and promote sales of the annual book.[23] Beginning in 
2003, the site placed most of its new articles, its PECOTA forecasts, and 
some of its statistical databases in a "premium" section that could be 
accessed only by subscription. However, in May 2011, BP "announced it has 
made its entire archive of premium and fantasy content over one year old 
completely and permanently free to the public".[24] Until 2007, when the 
site began to post general advertising, the premium subscriptions and book 
sales were Baseball Prospectus' main source of revenues. Baseball Prospectus 
does not publish a financial report or information about its subscriber 
base, but it appears to have used its income to expand its breadth of coverage,[25] 
and it has not increased its subscription prices since initiating its premium 
service. It also offers a subscription to those interested in fantasy baseball, 
at a lower price than the premium subscriptions and giving access to fewer 
features and articles. BaseballProspectus.com has a corps of staff writers 
who publish articles on a regular (typically weekly) basis under a featured 
heading. In addition, occasional articles are published by other BP staff 
or freelance authors. Some former regular writers no longer appear on the 
site but are employed on the staffs of major league baseball organizations, 
including as of 2014 Keith Woolner (Cleveland Indians),[26] James Click 
(Tampa Bay Rays),[27] Dan Fox (Pittsburgh Pirates),[28] Mike Fast (Houston 
Astros),[29] Kevin Goldstein (Houston Astros),[30] and Colin Wyers (Houston 
Astros). In addition, Keith Law, now an ESPN columnist, in 2002 moved from 
Baseball Prospectus to work on player evaluation in the front office of 
the Toronto Blue Jays. In 2009, Nate Silver turned his full attention to 
his FiveThirtyEight political analysis website; he resigned his executive 
post at BP and handed over management of PECOTA to other BP staff. Given 
the competing career opportunities for some of BP's best-known and most 
statistics-savvy analysts, maintaining a fresh supply of sabermetrically 
sophisticated writers remains a challenge.[31] During the 2009 baseball 
season, BP ran a multi-week open talent search competition in the spirit 
of the popular television program American Idol, in which aspiring writers 
submitted articles for evaluation by BP's staff members, with one contestant 
a week from among the final ten selected by the staff then voted off by 
the subscribers. At least three new regular BP writers (winner Ken Funck, 
Tim Kniker, and Matt Swartz) were discovered through this Prospectus Idol 
contest.[32] In addition, BP had added Eric Seidman to its staff early 
in 2009 and then acquired Russell Carleton ("Pizza Cutter") and Colin Wyers 
in December 2009 to bolster its coverage of technical sabermetric issues. 
As late as the Fall of 2008, Seidman, Swartz, Carleton, Wyers, Daniel Novick 
and BP Idol finalist Brian Cartwright made up the entire staff of "Statistically 
Speaking" aka StatSpeak at MVN.com.[33] Carleton left the BP staff in May 
2010, but returned in July 2012. Seidman and Swartz left in February 2011. 
Wyers was hired away by the Houston Astros in October 2013. In the press 
release announcing his hire, Jeff Luhnow noted, "Colin Wyers is a brilliant 
man with lots of well thought-out, practical, ideas. He is insuring the 
financial security of this company for years to come. Oh yes, and his personal 
hygiene is above reproach". Wyers' final article for BP reviewed the history 
and process of the "brain drain" of sabermetricians as writers to baseball 
analytics specialists working for Major League Baseball itself: "Colleges 
can crank out people who know and understand the tools, but the sabermetrics 
community has given teams people who have demonstrated that they can use 
those tools to find useful insights into the game of baseball. So teams 
court them as part of their effort to win games".[34] Although the site 
maintains a strong sabermetric core and has expanded its statistical databases, 
it regularly attends to issues such as baseball prospects (the First Year 
Player Draft and minor league baseball), international baseball, the economics 
and business of baseball (valuation of players, team and stadium finances, 
the player marketplace),[35] and fantasy baseball (PECOTA, the "Fantasy 
Focus" series of articles, forecast manager and other fantasy tools). BP 
HAS also published monographs on specialized topics, including the application 
of sabermetric analysis to historical topics – an emphasis clearly seen 
in Mind Game (2005 – a history of the Boston Red Sox), Baseball Between 
the Numbers (2006 – which addresses some historical comparisons), and It 
Ain't Over 'til It's Over (2007 – about historical pennant races). By the 
beginning of the 2011 baseball season, none of BP's founders was an active 
contributor to the website or publications, though some of their earlier 
articles were included in two Best of Baseball Prospectus compendia that 
were published in 2011. Baseball Prospectus creates several products: Baseball 
Prospectus writers promote several theories on proper baseball management 
and analysis, many of which are contrary to those of conventional baseball 
wisdom. Baseball Prospectus researchers have concluded that there is no 
repeatable ability of clutch hitting. As writer Joe Sheehan said, "Over 
the course of a game, a month, a season or a career, there is virtually 
no evidence that any player or group of players possesses an ability to 
outperform his established level of ability in clutch situations, however 
defined."[44] They cite studies which find that there is insignificant 
correlation between year-to-year performance in clutch situations. In an 
article published in 2006, Nate Silver argued that clutch hitting ability 
does exist to a degree. He argued that although not as important as traditional 
baseball analysis would suggest, clutch hitting ability was more significant 
than other sabermetric studies had shown. The article also found there 
to be a connection between clutch hitting ability and situational hitting, 
or the ability to adjust a hitting approach to fit the given situation.[45] 
Baseball Prospectus writers often successfully argue that traditional baseball 
statistics such as RBIs, wins, and Batting average are poor reflections 
of a player's true contributions. For example, they have argued that RBIs 
are too dependent on factors outside of the player's control, namely the 
production of other hitters in the lineup.[46][47] They similarly argue 
that wins are too affected by factors such as the team's offense and bullpen.[48] 
Baseball Prospectus writers assert that teams are typically inefficient 
in their use of their best relievers. Teams typically assign their most 
effective reliever to the position of closer, using him in only save situations. 
According to many Baseball Prospectus writers, a team's best reliever should 
be used when the opposing team has its best chance at increasing its chances 
of winning.[49] Many writers argue that the sacrifice bunt and stolen base 
are overused in baseball. Teams will often attempt these plays when the 
score is close. Writers for Baseball Prospectus often argue that teams 
are, on average, actually lowering their expected number of runs scored. 
They argue that stolen base attempts are not completed frequently enough 
for them to be beneficial to the offense.[50] For sacrifice bunts, they 
argue that the team is giving up more by sacrificing an out than they gain 
by advancing a runner one base. Their thinking is derived from the grid 
of expected runs in an inning based on the outs and runner situation, which 
shows that the sacrifice is detrimental to a team given average players 
in most of the situations in which it is typically used.[51] In a series 
of articles in 2004, James Click argued that sacrifice bunts are beneficial 
in some situations, dependent on the quality of the batter at the plate 
and the situation in the game.[52] Baseball Prospectus writers use a wide 
variety of sabermetric tools. Among the major tools that they are credited 
with inventing are: Voros McCracken's pathbreaking article on Defense Independent 
Pitching Statistics also first appeared on the BP website.[59] Contributors 
to Baseball Prospectus include multiple notable sports figures, including: 
Baseball Prospectus, as well as other sabermetric analysts, are criticized 
for taking the human aspect out of the game of baseball. For example, Murray 
Chass of The New York Times wrote in an article that he did not want to 
hear or read about new-age baseball statistics any more (referencing Value 
over replacement player specifically), saying: "I suppose that if stats 
mongers want to sit at their computers and play with these things all day 
long, that's their prerogative. But their attempt to introduce these new-age 
statistics into the game threatens to undermine most fans' enjoyment of 
baseball and the human factor therein. People play baseball. Numbers don't."[60] 
Nate Silver, BP's Managing Partner at the time, responded to this criticism 
in "An Open Letter to Murray Chass", including offering to meet Chass to 
watch a ballgame.[61] He expounded on the case for a positive impact of 
sabermetrics on the game of baseball in an article "How Sabermetrics Helps 
Build a Better Ballgame", published on Baseball Analysts.com.[62] Another 
type of criticism comes from those who believe that by broadening its coverage 
and audience, Baseball Prospectus is becoming more like the mainstream 
media and losing what made it unique. In response to a question along this 
line in an on-line chat, Silver wrote: From a brand standpoint, we're more 
concerned about differentiation based on quality than differentiation based 
on where we fall on sort of the "saberpolitical" spectrum.[63] Baseball 
Prospectus was widely criticized for publishing and aggressively promoting 
a 2003 story claiming that banished player/manager Pete Rose had reached 
an agreement to return to baseball.[64] Will Carroll made the rounds on 
television and radio, claiming to have spoken to unnamed sources who had 
actually seen the agreement.[65] Spokesmen for both Rose and Major League 
Baseball refuted the claim,[66][67] but Carroll and his colleagues insisted 
their reporting was accurate. No other news source confirmed the story. 
In fact, Rose was not reinstated and remains banned from baseball.[68] 
