Baseball in Venezuela originates with the early twentieth century cultural 
influence of United States oil companies, and is the country's leading 
sport. The Venezuelan Professional Baseball League (VPBL) is a winter league 
that was established in 1945, with Leones del Caracas the leading team; 
another leading club is Valencia's Navegantes del Magallanes, established 
in 1917. There is a Venezuelan Summer League established in 1997 and composed 
of teams affiliated with Major League Baseball (MLB) clubs. The Liga paralela 
is a secondary Venezuelan winter league, with the teams acting as farm 
teams for VPBL clubs. Venezuelan teams have won the Caribbean Series a 
number of times. The Venezuela national baseball team won the Baseball 
World Cup several times in the 1940s, and the baseball tournament at the 
Pan American Games in 1959. The team finished 7th in the inaugural World 
Baseball Classic and 3rd in the 2009 event, but has dropped to 10th in 
the 2013 event. Over 200 Venezuelans have played in Major League Baseball 
since 1939, with 59 Venezuelans playing in MLB as of Opening Day 2014, 
the second most from any country (after the Dominican Republic).[1] The 
Luis Aparicio Award was established in 2004, in honor of Luis Aparicio, 
the only Venezuelan ballplayer to have been inducted into the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. The award is given annually 
to honor the Venezuelan player who recorded the best individual performance 
in Major League Baseball, as voted on by sports journalists in Venezuela. 
Six MLB teams maintained training academies in Venezuela in 2010, down 
from 21 in 2002. Possible reasons for the decline include strained relations 
between the U.S. and Venezuela and the increasingly ubiquitous presence 
of MLB teams in the country creating more competition for talent there.[2][3] 
The high crime rates prevalent in some parts of Venezuela have occasionally 
affected those involved with baseball. In November 2011 Washington Nationals 
catcher Wilson Ramos was kidnapped while home to play for his Venezuelan 
winter league team, Tigres de Aragua.[4] Two days later he was rescued 
unharmed by police commandos in the mountains of Carabobo state. Eight 
people were arrested in connection with the kidnapping.[5] Out of the 50 
players involved in the 2012 Major League Baseball World Series, 9 were 
