Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1967 followed rules in transition. 
The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) held its first election 
in any odd-number year since 1955 and its last election with provision 
for a runoff in case of no winner. (In June the rules were rewritten to 
restore a single annual vote permanently.) In the event, the BBWAA voted 
twice by mail and elected Red Ruffing on the second ballot. The Veterans 
Committee met in closed sessions to consider executives, managers, umpires, 
and earlier major league players. It selected two people, Branch Rickey 
and Lloyd Waner. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1947 
or later, but not after 1961; the ballot included selected players, chosen 
by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 1961. All 10-year 
members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast 
votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 
75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. The ballot 
consisted of 47 players; a total of 292 ballots were cast, with 219 votes 
required for election. A total of 2,321 individual votes were cast, an 
average of 7.95 per ballot. Those candidates receiving less than 5% of 
the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may eventually be 
considered by the Veterans Committee. No one reached the threshold so there 
was a runoff election featuring the 31 leading candidates (thirty including 
a tie). There would be one winner regardless of numerical support on the 
second ballot; in fact, winner Red Ruffing tallied 266 of 306 votes or 
87%. A total of 1,198 individual votes were cast in the run-off, an average 
of 4.10 per ballot. Candidates who were eligible for the first time are 
indicated here with a †. Candidates who have since been elected in subsequent 
elections are indicated in italics. (Al Lopez, line seven, is in the Hall 
of Fame, too, but as a manager.) The 20 candidates who received less than 
5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. Red Ruffing, Al Lopez, Billy Herman, Mel Harder 
and Ernie Lombardi were on the ballot for the final time because they last 
played in 1947. The results show that voters in the second election concentrated 
