Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2006 proceeded in keeping with 
rules enacted in 2001, augmented by a special election; the result was 
the largest class of inductees (18) in the Hall's history, including the 
first woman elected. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
held an election to select from among recent players. The Veterans Committee 
did not hold an election; the 2001 rules changes provided that elections 
for players retired over 20 years would be held every other year, with 
elections of non-players (managers, umpires and executives) held every 
fourth year. The Committee voted in 2005 on players who were active no 
later than 1983; there was no 2005 election for non-players. Elections 
in both categories were held in 2007. On July 26, 2005, the Hall announced 
that its Board of Directors had approved a special election to be held 
in 2006, by the Committee on African-American Baseball, of Negro leagues 
and pre-Negro leagues candidates. Induction ceremonies in Cooperstown were 
held July 30 with Commissioner Bud Selig presiding. The BBWAA was again 
authorized to elect players active in 1986 or later, but not after 2000; 
the ballot, announced on November 28, 2005, included candidates from the 
2005 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, 
along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last 
appearance was in 2000. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. Results of the 2006 election by the BBWAA were 
announced on January 10. The ballot consisted of 29 players; 520 ballots 
were cast, with 390 votes required for election. A total of 2933 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 5.64 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Pete Rose, who last 
played in 1986, was again not included on the ballot due to his banishment 
from baseball in what was theoretically his final opportunity, as players 
retired over 20 years can not be considered by the BBWAA under current 
rules; however, Hall of Fame chair Jane Forbes Clark indicated prior to 
the ballot announcement that if Rose is ever reinstated by Major League 
Baseball, the Hall's board of directors might review the rules in light 
of the fact that Rose never had an opportunity to appear on a BBWAA ballot. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. The candidates who received 
less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, 
are indicated with a *. The newly eligible candidates included 18 All-Stars, 
six of whom were not on the ballot, representing 46 selections. Only two 
players were named to five or more All-Star Games: Will Clark (six times) 
and Albert Belle (five). Included in the class were three Rookie of the 
Year Award winners (Dwight Gooden, Ozzie Guillén and Walt Weiss) and two 
Cy Young Award winners (Orel Hershiser and Dwight Gooden). Players eligible 
for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Rich Amaral, 
Tim Belcher, Stan Belinda, Gerónimo Berroa, Sean Berry, Mark Clark, Dave 
Eiland, Kevin Elster, Eric Gunderson, Juan Guzmán, Carlos Hernández, Thomas 
Howard, Jeff Huson, Lance Johnson, Scott Kamieniecki, Roberto Kelly, Jim 
Leyritz, Mike Maddux, Mickey Morandini, Mike Munoz, Jaime Navarro, Charlie 
O'Brien, Steve Ontiveros, Luis Polonia, Jim Poole, Jeff Reed, Heathcliff 
Slocumb, Mike Stanley, Lenny Webster, and Mark Whiten. In July 2000, the 
Hall was given a $250,000 grant from Major League Baseball to begin a comprehensive 
study on African Americans in baseball from 1860–1960, with the hope of 
enhancing the Hall's collections in these areas. In February 2001, the 
Hall selected three historians – Dr. Larry Hogan,[1] Dick Clark and Larry 
Lester – to conduct the study, which involved over 50 other researchers 
and authors. The resulting study was a narrative, bibliography, and statistical 
database, including 3,000 day-by-day records, league leaders and all-time 
leaders, collected from box scores in 128 newspapers of sanctioned Negro 
league games played from 1920–1954. The box scores reflect almost 100% 
of games of the 1920s, over 90% of the games played in the 1930s, and 50-70% 
of games in the 1940s and 1950s. In February 2006, National Geographic 
published a book featuring material from the study, in conjunction with 
the Hall, called Shades of Glory; it covers not only the development of 
the game, but also its impact within the African American community. Pride 
and Passion, an exhibit focusing on the history of African American baseball, 
debuted at the Hall's museum in April 2006. In July 2005 the Hall's Board 
of Directors appointed two expert committees, a screening committee of 
five and a voting committee of twelve. Former Commissioner of Baseball 
Fay Vincent served as the non-voting chairman of both committees and Hall 
of Famer Frank Robinson served as an advisor and assistant to Vincent and 
the committees. Written recommendations from fans and non-committee members 
were accepted through October 2005 (stage one). From the many candidates 
recommended, 94 were selected for consideration by the screening committee. 
These second-stage nominations were the first ones published (stage two). 
Newt Allen – Walter Ball – Sam Bankhead – Bernardo Baró – John Beckwith 
– William Bell – Ed Bolden – Chet Brewer – Chester Brooks – Dave Brown 
– Larry Brown – Ray Brown – Willard Brown – Bill Byrd – Rev Cannady – Bill 
Cash – Phil Cockrell – Pancho Coimbre – Andy Cooper – Bingo DeMoss – Rap 
Dixon – John Donaldson – Frank Duncan – José Fernández – Bud Fowler – Jelly 
Gardner – Charlie Grant – Frank Grant – Gus Greenlee – Vic Harris – Pete 
Hill – Bill Holland – Sammy T. Hughes – Fats Jenkins – Sam Jethroe – Home 
Run Johnson – Oscar Johnson – Henry Kimbro – Frank Leland – Dick Lundy 
– Jimmie Lyons – Biz Mackey – Dave Malarcher – Abe Manley – Effa Manley 
– Max Manning – Oliver Marcelle – J. B. Martin – Horacio Martínez – Verdell 
Mathis – Dan McClellan – Hurley McNair – José Méndez – Minnie Miñoso – 
Bill Monroe – Dobie Moore – Alejandro Oms – Buck O'Neil – Red Parnell – 
John Patterson – Jap Payne – Bruce Petway – Spottswood Poles – Alex Pompez 
– Cumberland Posey – Alex Radcliffe – Ted Radcliffe – Dick Redding – Neal 
Robinson – Nat Rogers – Louis Santop – George Scales – Chino Smith – Clarence 
Smith – George Stovey – Mule Suttles – Ben Taylor – C. I. Taylor – Candy 
Jim Taylor – Cristóbal Torriente – Juan Vargas – Moses Walker – Frank Warfield 
– Chaney White – Sol White – Frank Wickware – Wabishaw Wiley – J. L. Wilkinson 
– Clarence Williams – George Williams – George Wilson – Jud Wilson – Nip 
Winters – Bill Wright Using statistics and other historical material from 
the Hall's earlier study, the screening committee met in November at Dodgertown 
in Vero Beach, Florida to create two ballots – one for Negro league players, 
managers, umpires and executives, and another for candidates whose careers 
mainly preceded the leagues—this is, before 1920. The committee members 
and listed areas of expertise were Adrian Burgos (Latin America), Dick 
Clark (Negro leagues), Larry Hogan (overall history), Larry Lester (Negro 
leagues) and Jim Overmyer (eastern teams and 19th century). They cut the 
94 nominees to ten pre-Negro leagues and 29 Negro leagues candidates (stage 
three). The following candidates appeared on the two final ballots:[2] 
Negro leagues: Newt Allen – John Beckwith – William Bell – Chet Brewer 
– Ray Brown – Willard Brown – Bill Byrd – Andy Cooper – Rap Dixon – John 
Donaldson – Sammy T. Hughes – Fats Jenkins – Dick Lundy – Biz Mackey – 
Effa Manley – Oliver Marcelle – Minnie Miñoso – Dobie Moore – Alejandro 
Oms – Buck O'Neil – Red Parnell – Alex Pompez – Cumberland Posey – George 
Scales – Mule Suttles – Candy Jim Taylor – C. I. Taylor – Cristóbal Torriente 
– J. L. Wilkinson – Jud Wilson Pre-Negro leagues: Frank Grant – Pete Hill 
– Home Run Johnson – José Méndez – Spottswood Poles – Dick Redding – Louis 
Santop – Ben Taylor – Sol White According to Hall president Dale Petroskey, 
"The screening committee did a great job of handling the first step of 
narrowing the list of candidates to those who should be seriously considered 
for election to the Hall of Fame." Vincent added, "I'm very satisfied with 
the work done by the screening committee. The committee members had some 
difficult choices to make, but because they are extremely knowledgeable, 
had strong research at their disposal and spent a great deal of time reviewing 
all candidates thoroughly, they did a tremendous job. The final ballots 
represent players, managers, executives and builders who are top-tier candidates 
and worthy of review for consideration for election to the Hall of Fame." 
The 39 candidates on the final ballots were announced on November 21. The 
voting committee met in Tampa, Florida on February 25 for two days of discussion, 
after which they cast paper ballots with a "yes" or "no" for every candidate. 
Those who received "yes" votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be 
elected. The seven additional voting committee members and listed areas 
of expertise were Todd Bolton (Latin America), Greg Bond (19th century), 
Ray Doswell (overall history), Leslie Heaphy (women's history, Negro leagues), 
Rob Ruck (Negro leagues eastern teams), Sammy Miller (eastern and western 
teams), and Robert W. Peterson (overall history). Ruck replaced Neil Lanctot, 
author of two books on Negro league baseball. Peterson died on February 
11, but he had submitted an absentee ballot two days earlier and the other 
committee members voted unanimously to accept it. The results were announced 
February 27: seventeen new members had been elected to the Hall. All were 
deceased. The Newark-based executive Effa Manley would be the first woman 
in the Hall of Fame. Vote counts were not announced but the twelve-person 
committee evidently cast at least 153 "yes" votes (seventeen times nine) 
or at least 13 per voter on average. The inductees brought to 35 the number 
of Negro leagues and pre-leagues figures elected to the Hall, the first 
being Satchel Paige in 1971. According to the contemporary press release 
by the Hall of Fame ["Seventeen ..."], its chairwoman Jane Forbes Clark 
stated, "The Board of Directors is extremely pleased with how this project 
has evolved over the last five years – culminating in today's vote. Over 
the last two days, this committee has held discussions in great detail, 
utilizing the research and statistics now available to determine who deserves 
baseball's highest honor – a plaque in the Hall of Fame Gallery in Cooperstown." 
Major League Baseball had funded the prior scholarly study. Its commissioner 
Bud Selig said, "I applaud the National Baseball Hall of Fame for conducting 
this special election of former Negro league stars, and I heartily congratulate 
those who were elected. ... Eighteen Negro league stars had been elected 
prior to today's vote, but previous committees had overlooked many who 
were deserving. Major League Baseball is proud to have played a part in 
a process that has corrected some of those omissions." Tracy Ringolsby 
received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. (The 
award was voted at the December 2005 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 2005, 
and conferred in the summer 2006 ceremonies.) The Spink Award has been 
presented by the BBWAA at the annual summer induction ceremonies since 
1962. It recognizes a sportswriter "for meritorious contributions to baseball 
writing". The recipients are not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely 
featured in a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, but writers 
and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall of Fame writers" or words to 
that effect. Living recipients were members of the Veterans Committee for 
elections in odd years 2003 to 2007. Three final candidates, selected by 
a BBWAA committee, were named on July 12, 2005 in Detroit in conjunction 
with All-Star Game activities; the finalists were: Joe Goddard of the Chicago 
Sun-Times; the late Vern Plagenhoef, who covered the Detroit Tigers for 
Michigan's Booth Newspaper Group; and Tracy Ringolsby, who has covered 
the Colorado Rockies for the Rocky Mountain News since 1993 and has written 
on baseball for 30 years. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible 
to cast ballots in voting conducted by mail in November. On December 7, 
Tracy Ringolsby was announced as the recipient, having received 225 votes 
out of the 429 ballots cast, with Goddard receiving 128 votes and Plagenhoef 
receiving 76. Gene Elston received the Ford C. Frick Award honoring a baseball 
broadcaster. The Frick Award has been presented at the annual summer induction 
ceremonies since 1978. It recognizes a broadcaster for "major contributions 
to baseball". The recipients are not members of the Hall of the Fame, merely 
featured in a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum, but writers 
and broadcasters commonly call them "Hall of Fame broadcaster" or words 
to that effect. Living honorees were members of the Veterans Committee 
for elections in odd years 2003 to 2007. On December 6, 2005, the ten finalists 
were announced. In accordance with guidelines established in 2003, seven 
were chosen by a research committee at the museum: Tom Cheek, Ken Coleman, 
Dizzy Dean, Gene Elston, Tony Kubek, Denny Matthews, and Graham McNamee. 
Three additional candidates – Bill King, Dave Niehaus, and Jacques Doucet 
– were selected through results of voting by fans conducted throughout 
November at the Hall's official website; more than 105,000 votes were cast. 
Photos and profiles of the ten candidates can be found at the Hall's website. 
On February 21, Gene Elston was announced as the 2006 recipient [1]; best 
known for his 25 years of broadcasting Houston Astros games from 1962 to 
1986, he was selected in a January vote by a committee composed of the 
14 living recipients, along with six additional broadcasting historians 
or columnists: Bob Costas (NBC), Barry Horn (The Dallas Morning News), 
Stan Isaacs (formerly of New York Newsday), Ted Patterson (historian), 
Curt Smith (historian) and Larry Stewart (Los Angeles Times). The ballots 
were cast prior to the death of Curt Gowdy on February 20. The members 
voted by mail, and based the selection on the following criteria: longevity; 
continuity with a club; honors, including national assignments such as 
the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity with fans. Hall of 
