In baseball and softball, while there are nine named fielding positions, 
players may move around freely. The positioning for the nine positions 
is very flexible, although they all have regular depths—distances from 
home plate, and sometimes lateral positioning. A shift means that a player 
is playing in a noticeably different location than the norm for his positioning. 
A fielder who is playing shallow or in is playing closer to home plate, 
while a player playing deep is playing farther from home plate than normal. 
Regular terms are used for some positionings. For example, double play 
depth is used when there is potential for a force play at second base. 
This means the shortstop and second baseman are playing slightly closer 
to second base and sometimes a little bit shallower. This position makes 
it easier to turn the double play. The first baseman is said to be holding 
the runner if he positions himself right at first base with one foot on 
the base, ready to receive a pickoff throw from the pitcher if the runner 
strays too far from first base between pitches. Bringing the corners in 
means the first and third baseman are both playing in (closer than usual 
to home plate); this will often be used with runners at third base or when 
a bunt is anticipated. The disadvantage of these defensive shifts is that 
they make more room for the hitter to hit the ball through the gaps for 
a base hit. Sometimes in the bottom half of the ninth inning (or later), 
when a team has a runner on third base in a tie game with less than two 
outs, the defending team will pull the outfielders in very close, almost 
creating three extra infielders. This is sometimes known as do or die depth. 
The reason for positioning this way in this situation is that there is 
no point in having the outfielders playing deep, waiting to catch a fly 
ball for an out; if they do, the runner at third base will be able to tag 
up when the ball is caught and then run to home plate to score the winning 
run. So the outfielders can contribute constructively only by filling the 
gaps between the infielders. Some extreme repositioning known as a shift 
has been used against pull hitters. For example, versus excellent left-handed 
pull-hitters like Ted Williams, David Ortiz, and Ryan Howard, teams will 
move more players to the right side of the field. They sometimes play with 
the shortstop behind or even to the right of second base. The second baseman 
may simply move to the right, in which case this just qualifies as a shift, 
or he might move deeper into shallow right field—this particular formation 
is called the wishbone defense, because of the shape the shortstop, first 
baseman, second baseman, and right fielder make. Another variation has 
the third baseman move to where the shortstop would play in the shift, 
leaving the shortstop (who is generally the team's best infielder) to cover 
the left side of the infield. Many believe that this shift was first employed 
against Ted Williams in the 1940s, as thought up by then-Indians manager 
Lou Boudreau. However, it was first used against Cy Williams in the 1920s.[1][2] 
