Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1971 featured a new committee 
on the Negro Leagues that met in February and selected Satchel Paige. The 
museum planned to honor Paige and those who would follow in a special permanent 
exhibit outside the Hall of Fame but controversy about the nature of the 
honor began at the event announcing his election, February 9, and continued 
until the induction ceremonies six months later. At the latter event Paige 
was inducted to the Hall of Fame itself, the same as the major league figures. 
Otherwise the elections continued a system of annual elections in place 
since 1968. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted by 
mail to select from recent major league players and elected no one. The 
Veterans Committee met in closed-door sessions to select from executives, 
managers, umpires, and earlier major league players. It elected seven, 
the biggest year in its 1953 to 2001 history: Dave Bancroft, Jake Beckley, 
Chick Hafey, Harry Hooper, Joe Kelley, Rube Marquard, and George Weiss. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1951 or later, but 
not after 1965; the ballot included candidates from the 1970 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1965. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 48 players; a total of 360 ballots were 
cast, with 270 votes required for election. A total of 2,681 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 7.45 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. Candidates who 
have since been elected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. 
Johnny Vander Meer and Bobby Doerr were on the ballot for the final time. 
The field of newly eligible players included 13 All Stars, 7 of whom were 
not included on the ballot, representing a total of 70 All Star selections. 
The new class included 18-time All-Star Yogi Berra, 15-time All-Star Nellie 
Fox, 6-time All-Star Vic Power, and 5-time All-Stars Dick Donovan and Roy 
