Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1974 followed the system in 
place since 1971. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, Whitey 
Ford and Mickey Mantle. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to 
consider executives, managers, umpires, and earlier major league players. 
It selected three people: Jim Bottomley, Jocko Conlan, and Sam Thompson. 
The Negro Leagues Committee also met in person and selected Cool Papa Bell. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1954 or later, but 
not after 1968; the ballot included candidates from the 1973 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1968. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 42 players; a total of 365 ballots were 
cast, with 274 votes required for election. A total of 3,000 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 8.22 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in 
bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. Allie Reynolds was on the ballot for the final 
time. The newly-eligible players included 9 All-Stars, 4 of whom were not 
included on the ballot, representing a total of 75 All-Star selections. 
Among the new candidates were 20-time All-Star Mickey Mantle, 12-time All-Stars 
Elston Howard and Eddie Mathews, 9-time All-Star Rocky Colavito, 7-time 
