Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2017 will proceed according 
to rules most recently amended in 2016. As in the past, the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America (BBWAA) will vote by mail to select from a ballot 
of recently retired players, with results to be announced in January 2017. 
The three voting panels that replaced the more broadly defined Veterans 
Committee following a July 2010 rules change[1] were replaced by a new 
set of four panels in July 2016.[2] The newly created Today's Game Committee 
will convene early in December 2016 to select from a ballot of retired 
players and non-playing personnel who made their greatest contributions 
to the sport after 1987.[2] On July 26, 2014, the Hall announced changes 
to the rules for election for recently retired players, reducing the number 
of years a player will be eligible to be on the ballot from fifteen years 
to ten. One candidate presently on the BBWAA ballot (Lee Smith) in years 
10-15 was grandfathered into this system and retained his previous 15 years 
of eligibility. In addition, BBWAA members who were otherwise eligible 
to cast ballots were required to complete a registration form and sign 
a code of conduct before receiving their ballots, and the Hall will make 
public the names of all members who cast ballots (but not their individual 
votes) when it announces the election results.[3] The code of conduct specifically 
states that the ballot is non-transferable, a direct reaction to Dan Le 
Batard turning his 2014 Hall of Fame ballot over to the sports website 
Deadspin and allowing the site's readers to make his Hall votes (an act 
that drew him a lifetime ban from future Hall voting). Violation of the 
code of conduct will result in a lifetime ban from BBWAA voting.[4] A more 
recent rules change, announced on July 28, 2015, tightened the qualifications 
for the BBWAA electorate. Beginning with the 2016 election, eligible voters 
must not only have 10 years of continuous BBWAA membership, but also be 
currently active members, or have held active status within the 10 years 
prior to the election. A BBWAA member who has not been active for more 
than 10 years can regain voting status by covering MLB in the year preceding 
the election.[5] As a result of the new rule, the vote total in 2016 decreased 
by 109 from the previous year, to 440.[6] The ballot will include two categories 
of players: All BBWAA members with at least 10 years of continuous membership 
and active membership status at any time in the preceding 10 years will 
be eligible to vote. Tim Raines and Lee Smith are on the ballot for their 
final time. Players who are eligible for the first time and could potentially 
be included on this ballot include: Danys Báez, Casey Blake, Milton Bradley, 
Russell Branyan, Pat Burrell, Orlando Cabrera, Mike Cameron, Juan Castro, 
Ramon Castro, Alex Cora, Craig Counsell, Doug Davis, J. D. Drew, Ryan Franklin, 
Ross Gload, Vladimir Guerrero, Carlos Guillén, Derrek Lee, Julio Lugo, 
Trever Miller, Melvin Mora, Magglio Ordóñez, Jorge Posada, Manny Ramirez, 
Édgar Rentería, Dennys Reyes, Arthur Rhodes, Iván Rodríguez, Aaron Rowand, 
Freddy Sanchez, Matt Stairs, Brett Tomko, Jason Varitek, Javier Vázquez, 
and Tim Wakefield.[7] On July 23, 2016, the Hall of Fame announced changes 
to the Era Committee system. The system's timeframes were restructured 
to place a greater emphasis on the modern game, and to reduce the frequency 
at which individuals from the pre-1970 game (including Negro Leagues figures) 
will have their careers reviewed.[2] Separate 16-member subcommittees will 
continue to vote on individuals from different eras of baseball, with candidates 
still being classified by the time periods that cover their greatest contributions: 
All committees' ballots will include 10 candidates. While there was previously 
a one-year waiting period after elimination from annual BBWAA consideration, 
there will now be no waiting period. At least one committee will convene 
every December, in the calendar year before the induction ceremony in July. 
The Early Baseball committee will convene only in years ending in 0, and 
the Golden Days committee will convene in years ending in 0 and 5. The 
Today's Game and Modern Baseball committees will alternate their meetings 
in that order, skipping years in which the Golden Days and Early Baseball 
committees meet. [2] Accordingly, the committees will meet in the following 
years as part of the elections for the next calendar year: Additionally, 
the Hall of Fame has modified the criteria for consideration of active 
executives. Previously, active executives 65 or older were eligible for 
consideration by era-based committees; the lower age limit has now been 
raised to 70. The new criteria explicitly state that for those who meet 
the age cutoff, neither their positions in an organization nor their currently 
active status will affect their election.[2] The J. G. Taylor Spink Award 
has been presented by the BBWAA at the annual summer induction ceremonies 
since 1962.[8] Through 2010, it was awarded during the main induction ceremony, 
but is now given the previous day at the Hall of Fame Awards Presentation. 
It recognizes a sportswriter "for meritorious contributions to baseball 
writing".[9] The recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are 
featured in a permanent exhibit at the National Baseball Museum. Various 
changes in July 2016 were also made to the annual Ford C. Frick Award elections, 
presented annually to a preeminent baseball broadcaster since 1978. According 
to the Hall, the new criteria for selection are "Commitment to excellence, 
quality of broadcasting abilities, reverence within the game, popularity 
with fans, and recognition by peers." Additionally, a ballot of eight candidates 
will now be set, down from 10 in years past. The three ballot slots previously 
determined by fan voting on Facebook will now be filled by a committee 
of historians. A new election cycle has been established, rotating annually 
between Current Major League Markets (team-specific announcers) with the 
2017 Frick Award; National Voices (broadcasters whose contributions were 
realized on a national level) with the 2018 Frick Award; and Broadcasting 
Beginnings (early team voices and pioneers of baseball broadcasting) with 
the 2019 Frick Award. This cycle will repeat every three years.[2] Another 
Hall of Fame honor, the Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award, is expected 
to be presented at the 2017 Awards Presentation. The award was created 
in 2008 in honor of Buck O'Neil, a Negro leagues star who went on to become 
one of baseball's leading ambassadors until his death in 2006. It was first 
presented posthumously to O'Neil at the 2008 induction ceremony, and most 
recently in 2014 to Joe Garagiola, whose career as a player and broadcaster 
spanned nearly 70 years. According to the Hall, The Buck O'Neil Lifetime 
Achievement Award is presented by the Hall of Fame's Board of Directors 
not more than once every three years to honor an individual whose extraordinary 
efforts enhanced baseball's positive impact on society, broadened the game's 
appeal, and whose character, integrity and dignity are comparable to the 
qualities exhibited by O'Neil.[10] If a 2017 recipient is named, the announcement 
is expected to be made during the 2016 winter meetings. As with the media 
awards, recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are permanently 
recognized by the Hall. In this case, the recipients are listed alongside 
a life-size statue of O'Neil that stands at the entrance to the museum. 
Written nominations for the award are accepted by mail at any time; the 
nomination must specifically state how the nominee meets the traits exemplified 
