Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2001 followed the system in 
use since 1995. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two: Kirby 
Puckett and Dave Winfield. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
and selected two people from multiple classified ballots: Bill Mazeroski 
and Hilton Smith. Induction ceremonies in Cooperstown, New York, were held 
August 5 with Commissioner Bud Selig presiding. The BBWAA was authorized 
to elect players active in 1981 or later, but not after 1995; the ballot 
included candidates from the 2000 ballot who received at least 5% of the 
vote but were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening 
committee, whose last appearance was in 1995. All 10-year members of the 
BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up 
to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the 
ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. Results of the 2001 
election by the BBWAA were announced on January 16, 2001. The ballot consisted 
of 32 players; 515 ballots were cast, with 387 votes required for election. 
A total of 3258 individual votes were cast, an average of 6.33 per ballot. 
Those candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote (25 votes) would not 
appear on future BBWAA ballots, and under then-current rules were also 
eliminated from future consideration by the Veterans Committee. A change 
in Hall policy later in 2001 restored the eligibility of players dropped 
from BBWAA balloting for Veterans Committee consideration. Candidates who 
were eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in 
bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The 13 candidates who received less than 5% of 
the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. José Rijo, who received only one vote, resumed his 
major league career in 2001-2002; he again became eligible on the 2008 
ballot. Both selections, Kirby Puckett of the Minnesota Twins and Dave 
Winfield of the New York Yankees, were late-1980s/early-1990s star hitters. 
Puckett is best known for leading the Twins to the World Championship before 
being forced to retire due to glaucoma. The newly-eligible candidates included 
21 All-Stars, five of whom were not on the ballot, representing a total 
of 65 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 12-time All-Star 
Dave Winfield, 10-time All-Star Kirby Puckett, 8-time All-Star Lance Parrish, 
6-time All-Star Don Mattingly and 5-time All-Star Lou Whitaker. The field 
also included 2 MVPs (Mattingly and Kirk Gibson), 2 Rookies of the Year 
(Whitaker and Dave Righetti), and one Cy Young Award winner (Steve Bedrosian). 
Players eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot 
were: Scott Bankhead, Kevin Bass, Bud Black, Jerry Browne, Steve Buechele, 
Danny Cox, José DeLeón, Scott Fletcher, Tom Foley, Jim Gott, Atlee Hammaker, 
Brian Harper, Greg A. Harris, Billy Hatcher, Dwayne Henry, Tim Hulett, 
Chris James, Bill Krueger, Mike LaValliere, Manuel Lee, Candy Maldonado, 
Mike Moore, Rob Murphy, Matt Nokes, José Oquendo, Spike Owen, Mike Pagliarulo, 
Gerald Perry, Dennis Rasmussen, Randy Ready, Franklin Stubbs, Mitch Webster, 
and Bill Wegman. This was the final meeting of the Committee on Veterans 
established by the Hall of Fame in 1953. It met in closed sessions, as 
always, to elect as many as two executives, managers, umpires, and older 
major league players—the categories considered in all of its meetings. 
The older players eligible were those with ten major league seasons beginning 
1946 or earlier; those who received at least 100 votes from the BBWAA in 
some election up to 1992; and those who received at least 60% support in 
some election beginning 1993. Players on Major League Baseball's ineligible 
list were also ineligible for election. By an arrangement since 1995 the 
committee separately considered candidates from the Negro Leagues and from 
the 19th century with authority to select one from each of those two special 
ballots. It elected two people, second baseman Bill Mazeroski from the 
1960s and pitcher Hilton Smith from the Negro Leagues. The Board of Directors 
reformed the system radically with new rules enacted in August. Formerly 
15 members appointed to limited terms, the new Veterans Committee would 
comprise all living members of the Hall and recipients of the Spink and 
Frick awards to writers and broadcasters. In particular the new members 
were 61 living Hall of Famers, 13 living recipients of the J. G. Taylor 
Spink Award, 13 living recipients of the Ford C. Frick Award, and three 
members of the previous committee with unexpired terms had not yet expired. 
Elections for players retired more than 20 years would be held every other 
year and elections for (managers, umpires and executives) would be held 
every fourth year. The first cycle for both categories would be in 2002 
and 2003 for induction in 2003. Ross Newhan received the J. G. Taylor Spink 
Award honoring a baseball writer. (The award was voted at the December 
2000 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 2000, and included in the summer 2001 
ceremonies.) Felo Ramírez received the Ford C. Frick Award honoring a baseball 
