Baseball statistics play an important role in evaluating a player's and/or 
team's progress. Since the flow of a baseball game has natural breaks to 
it, and normally players act individually rather than performing in clusters, 
the sport lends itself to easy record-keeping and statistics. Statistics 
have been kept for professional baseball since the creation of the National 
League and American League, now part of Major League Baseball. Many statistics 
are also available from outside of Major League Baseball, from leagues 
such as the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players and 
the Negro Leagues, although the consistency of whether these records were 
kept, of the standards with respect to which they were calculated, and 
of their accuracy varied from league to league. The practice of keeping 
records of player achievements was started in the 19th century by Henry 
Chadwick.[1] Based on his experience with the sport of cricket, Chadwick 
devised the predecessors to modern-day statistics including batting average, 
runs scored, and runs allowed. Traditionally, statistics such as batting 
average (the number of hits divided by the number of at bats) and earned 
run average (the average number of earned runs allowed by a pitcher per 
nine innings) have dominated attention in the statistical world of baseball. 
However, the recent advent of sabermetrics has created statistics drawing 
from a greater breadth of player performance measures and playing field 
variables. Sabermetrics and comparative statistics attempt to provide an 
improved measure of a player's performance and contributions to his team 
from year to year, frequently against a statistical performance average. 
Comprehensive, historical baseball statistics were difficult for the average 
fan to access until 1951, when researcher Hy Turkin published The Complete 
Encyclopedia of Baseball. In 1969, Macmillan Publishing printed its first 
Baseball Encyclopedia, using a computer to compile statistics for the first 
time. Known as "Big Mac", the encyclopedia became the standard baseball 
reference until 1988, when Total Baseball was released by Warner Books 
using more sophisticated technology. The publication of Total Baseball 
led to the discovery of several "phantom ballplayers", such as Lou Proctor, 
who did not belong in official record books and were removed.[2] Throughout 
modern baseball, a few core statistics have been traditionally referenced 
– batting average, RBI, and home runs. To this day, a player who leads 
the league in all of these three statistics earns the "Triple Crown." For 
pitchers, wins, ERA, and strikeouts are the most often-cited statistics, 
and a pitcher leading his league in these statistics may also be referred 
to as a "Triple Crown" winner. General managers and baseball scouts have 
long used the major statistics, among other factors and opinions, to understand 
player value. Managers, catchers and pitchers use the statistics of batters 
of opposing teams to develop pitching strategies and set defensive positioning 
on the field. Managers and batters study opposing pitcher performance and 
motions in attempting to improve hitting. Some sabermetric statistics have 
entered the mainstream baseball world that measure a batter's overall performance 
including on-base plus slugging, commonly referred to as OPS. OPS adds 
the hitter's on-base percentage (number of times reached base by any means 
divided by total plate appearances) to his slugging percentage (total bases 
divided by at-bats). Some argue that the OPS formula is flawed and that 
more weight should be shifted towards OBP (on-base percentage).[2] The 
statistic wOBA (weighted on-base average) attempts to correct for this. 
OPS is also useful when determining a pitcher's level of success. "Opponent 
On-base Plus Slugging" (OOPS) is becoming a popular tool to evaluate a 
pitcher's actual performance. When analyzing a pitcher's statistics, some 
useful categories to consider include K/9IP (strikeouts per nine innings), 
K/BB (strikeouts per walk), HR/9 (Home runs per nine innings), WHIP (walks 
plus hits per inning pitched) and OOPS (opponent on-base plus slugging). 
However, since 2001, more emphasis has been placed on Defense-Independent 
Pitching Statistics, including Defense-Independent ERA (dERA), in an attempt 
to evaluate a pitcher's performance regardless of the strength of the defensive 
players behind him. All of the above statistics may be used in certain 
game situations. For example, a certain hitter's ability to hit left-handed 
pitchers might incline a manager to increase his opportunities to face 
left-handed pitchers. Other hitters may have a history of success against 
a given pitcher (or vice versa), and the manager may use this information 
to create a favorable match-up. Broadcast commentators often refer to this 
as "playing the percentages". Most of these terms also apply to softball. 
Commonly used statistics with their abbreviations are explained here. The 
explanations below are for quick reference and do not fully or completely 
define the statistic; for the strict definition, see the linked article 
for each statistic. It is difficult to determine quantitatively what is 
considered to be a "good" value in a certain statistical category, and 
qualitative assessments may lead to arguments. Using full-season statistics 
available at the Official Site of Major League Baseball[4] for the 2004 
through 2015 seasons, the following tables show top ranges in various statistics, 
