Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1945 included the first regular 
election conducted in three years and a strong response to criticism of 
the slow pace of honors. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
voted by mail to select from recent players and elected no one. The Old 
Timers Committee responded by electing the biggest class yet, ten people: 
Roger Bresnahan, Dan Brouthers, Fred Clarke, Jimmy Collins, Ed Delahanty, 
Hugh Duffy, Hughie Jennings, King Kelly, Jim O'Rourke, and Wilbert Robinson. 
After the baseball centennial and grand opening of the Hall of Fame in 
1939, the BBWAA had determined to vote only every third year. After elected 
three players that year, it elected one in 1942 and none in 1945. New rules 
now provided that the writers would return to voting on recent players 
annually. In response to increasing complaints that the stars of the 19th 
century were being ignored, commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis had in 
August 1944 enlarged the Hall of Fame Committee from four members to seven, 
and had instructed them to elect a minimum of 10 players from the 1876–1900 
period when they met as the Old-Timers Committee in early 1945 – a goal 
the committee members believed would be relatively easy to meet, as some 
among them stated that the number of qualified candidates was likely over 
two dozen. After Landis' death in November 1944, the committee met briefly 
to elect Landis to membership in the Hall, and also suggested that if the 
January 1945 election by the BBWAA failed to select any players whose careers 
extended into the initial years of the 20th century, some would be selected 
by the committee when they met in February. Members of the BBWAA again 
had the authority to select any players active in the 20th century (after 
1900), provided they had not appeared in a major league game in 1944. Voters 
were instructed to cast votes for 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. A total of 247 ballots were cast, with 2,495 individual votes 
for 94 specific candidates, an average of 10.01 per ballot; 186 votes were 
required for election. The results were announced on January 28, 1945. 
The emphasis on the players of the 1900s and 1910s, who many voters felt 
should be given priority, again continued to increase beyond the levels 
seen in 1939 and 1942. Only 5 of the top 22 candidates in the voting, and 
none of the top 6, had seen any substantial play since 1917; only 3 of 
the top 36, and none of the top 22, had played their final season anytime 
between 1918 and 1933. 8 of the top 13 candidates were deceased. Players 
who had been retired over 27 years – 48 of the 94 named – received 72% 
of the votes. For the first time in the three BBWAA elections, no candidate 
received at least 75% of the vote. Particularly in view of the fact that 
the next election was not scheduled to be held until 1948, that a new generation 
of players was quickly becoming eligible, and that increasingly fractured 
voting patterns would make selections more improbable, criticism became 
widespread that the election system needed to be reviewed and quickly revised; 
it was suggested that the Old-Timers Committee might select some of the 
earliest popular candidates to help clear the top of the ballot. At its 
September 1945 meeting, the Hall of Fame Committee ordered that the three-year 
wait between elections be abolished, and that annual elections resume under 
a revised format. Candidates who have since been selected in subsequent 
elections are indicated in italics; players chosen by the Old-Timers Committee 
in 1945 marked with an asterisk: In response to the failure of the BBWAA 
to select any inductees, the Old-Timers Committee was encouraged to assist 
the BBWAA in clearing the congestion at the top of its ballot by including, 
among their 10 requested selections from the period 1876–1900, some players 
whose careers extended into the early 20th century – in particular, the 
three players gaining over 100 votes in the BBWAA election whose careers 
had peaked before 1905. The committee members were: Hall of Fame president 
Stephen C. Clark, who chaired the committee; Hall of Fame treasurer Paul 
S. Kerr, the committee secretary; Yankees president Ed Barrow; Athletics 
owner/manager Connie Mack; New York sportswriter Sid Mercer; Braves president 
Bob Quinn; and Boston sportswriter Mel Webb. The committee had initially 
planned to meet in February; but the long search for a successor to Landis, 
along with the retirements of Barrow and Quinn as club presidents, delayed 
the meeting until April 25, one day after Albert "Happy" Chandler was elected 
as the new commissioner. On that day, in the offices of the New York Yankees, 
six members of the committee met to make their selections; Sid Mercer could 
not attend due to a long illness which took his life 8 weeks later. The 
committee, as requested, selected 10 inductees, the first 3 by unanimous 
vote: Of the 10 selections, only Clarke and Duffy were still living. The 
committee intended to consider the pitchers of the era at their next meeting 
in September, and to elect additional members at that time. When they met 
in Cooperstown on September 6, however, they focused instead on revising 
the widely criticized election process, and ordered that the BBWAA resume 
annual elections under a revised format which was hoped to facilitate more 
selections (the BBWAA having selected only one player in 6 years). Former 
National League president John Heydler participated in the meeting to replace 
those members who were deceased or otherwise unable to attend. Once the 
decision was made to hold the next election in 1946 rather than in 1948, 
the committee agreed to postpone the selection of pitchers and other candidates 
until they met in spring 1946. Among those candidates who were not elected 
by the Old-Timers Committee at their April 1945 meeting, there were five 
who received particularly strong support or attention: Although the committee's 
selections were roundly applauded at the time, in later years many baseball 
historians and writers came to believe strongly that the committee erred 
in some of its 1945 selections, and that too many individuals had been 
elected; however, this view does not consider the fact that the committee 
had been required to select 10 inductees that year. There are also several 
