Baseball has a long history in Canada, where it is one of the most popular 
sports. There is currently one major league team, the Toronto Blue Jays; 
Canada's first major league team, the Montreal Expos, formed in 1969, relocated 
to Washington, D.C., in 2005. Around seventy-five Canadian cities and towns 
have been home to minor league baseball teams.[1] There is currently one 
minor league team, the Vancouver Canadians of the Class A Northwest League, 
an affiliate of the Blue Jays. There are also several independent league 
teams in Canada, playing in the Can-Am League and the American Association. 
Ontario is home to a semi-professional league, known as the Intercounty 
Baseball League. Quebec has a similar league, the Ligue de Baseball Senior 
Élite du Québec. There are additionally amateur-level baseball teams playing 
in each province in the summer months. There are also several American-based 
collegiate leagues that have teams in Canada. The governing body of baseball 
in Canada is Baseball Canada, which is based in Ottawa and was founded 
in 1964. Baseball Canada is a member of the Canadian Olympic Committee 
and the International Baseball Federation. The Canadian national baseball 
team represents Canada in international competitions. Since 1970, the team 
has participated in 17 Baseball World Cups. Canada earned the bronze medal 
in the 2009 Baseball World Cup, their highest finish in the history of 
the competition. In the 2004 Summer Olympics they placed fourth, losing 
the game for 3rd place to Japan and, in 2008, they finished fifth. In two 
appearances so far at the World Baseball Classic, the team has not finished 
higher than 9th place. The national team also won gold medals at the 2011 
and 2015 Pan American Games. Adapted from the British game of rounders — 
and by extension, cricket — the game of base ball or "townball" became 
popular in the early 19th century in Southwestern Ontario (then Canada 
West or Upper Canada), New York and New England. The first documented evidence 
of a base ball game in Canada comes from a letter published in Sporting 
Life magazine in 1886, a letter by Dr. Adam E. Ford of Denver, Colorado, 
formerly of St. Marys, Ontario and Beachville, Ontario, about a game 48 
years earlier in Beachville on June 4, 1838 — Militia Muster Day. Many 
Canadians, including the staff of the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame and 
Museum in St. Marys, Ontario, claim that this was the first documented 
game of modern baseball, although there appears to be no evidence that 
the rules used in this game were codified and adopted in other regions. 
Originally, the rules of the game were informal in nature and often modified 
to reflect regional preferences. In Ontario, a variant of baseball known 
as "The Canadian Game" was most prevalent. It featured five bases, bats 
that resembled those used in cricket or rounders and eleven players per 
team. All eleven players went to bat each inning, which would not end until 
they were all retired. The American variant of baseball had nine players 
a side instead of eleven, and four bases instead of five. Southwestern 
Ontario was the first region in Canada to adopt this version of the game, 
doing so in 1860.[1] The London Tecumsehs of London, Ontario were charter 
members of the International Association and won its first championship 
in 1877, beating the Pittsburgh Alleghenies. Rather than competing nationally 
in an east-west fashion, local baseball clubs would instead compete with 
their American neighbours to the south. This meant that teams from the 
Maritimes played teams from New England, teams from Quebec played against 
teams from New York and teams from British Columbia competed with those 
from Washington.[1] The first Canadian to appear in a Major League game 
was Bill Phillips, who played for Cleveland. In his first game on May 1, 
1879, the Saint John, New Brunswick native went hitless, although managed 
to get three hits the next game. In his second season, in 1880, he became 
the first Canadian to hit a home run in the Majors.[1] By 1913, there were 
24 minor league baseball teams in Canada. This number has since been unequaled.[1] 
Babe Ruth hit his first professional home run on Canadian soil on September 
5, 1914 at the former Hanlan's Point Stadium on Centre Island in Toronto.[citation 
needed] Ruth was playing for the Providence Grays against the Toronto Maple 
Leafs baseball team of the International League. In 1985, the City of Toronto 
erected a small plaque to denote the location, but it is difficult to locate, 
given the parklike setting and remote nature of the Toronto Islands. In 
1946, Brooklyn Dodgers general manager Branch Rickey assigned new-signing 
Jackie Robinson to the Montreal Royals of the International League, Brooklyn's 
Triple-A farm team. Robinson would famously go on to break Major League 
Baseball's colour barrier the following year in 1947, but during his season 
in Montreal Robinson led the Royals to the Governors' Cup, the IL championship, 
and became a beloved figure in the city. In Ken Burns' documentary film 
Baseball, the narrator quotes Sam Maltin, a stringer for the Pittsburgh 
Courier: "It was probably the only day in history that a black man ran 
from a white mob with love instead of lynching on its mind." In 1957, former 
Cincinnati Reds and Philadelphia Phillies outfielder Glen Gorbous, a native 
of Drumheller, Alberta set the current world record for longest throw of 
a baseball at 445 feet, 10 inches (135.89m) in Omaha, Nebraska. The lone 
Canadian in the National Baseball Hall of Fame is Ferguson Jenkins, a right-handed 
pitcher who compiled a 284-226 record, 3.34 ERA and 3,192 strikeouts in 
19 seasons from 1965 to 1983 with the Philadelphia Phillies, Chicago Cubs, 
Texas Rangers, and Boston Red Sox. Jenkins is considered an anchor of the 
Black Aces, a group of African American pitchers with at least twenty wins 
in one season (although Jenkins is actually a Black Canadian, not African 
American). The London Tecumsehs were refused admission to the National 
League in 1877 because they refused to stop playing exhibition games against 
local teams. While baseball is widely played in Canada, the American major 
leagues did not include a Canadian team until 1969, when the Montreal Expos 
joined the National League. The team enjoyed a widespread following until 
about 1994, when the Expos were in first place in the NL East; after the 
strike shortened year, a series of poor management decisions, disputes 
with the city, and neglect by the ownership caused the Expos to be routinely 
last in MLB attendance. In 2004, the Expos, then owned by MLB itself, moved 
to Washington, D.C. and became the Washington Nationals. In 1977, the Toronto 
Blue Jays joined the American League. They later became the first Canadian-based 
team to win the World Series, winning back-to-back titles in 1992 and 1993. 
In 1993, besides the two Canadian major league clubs, Canada hosted four 
Triple-A teams (the Calgary Cannons, Edmonton Trappers, Ottawa Lynx and 
Vancouver Canadians), one Double-A team (the London Tigers), two Class 
A Short Season teams (the St. Catharines Blue Jays and Welland Pirates) 
and two rookie-level teams (the Lethbridge Mounties and Medicine Hat Blue 
Jays). In 2003 an attempt to create the Canadian Baseball League was launched, 
but the league folded halfway through its first season. In 2010's the sport 
is experiencing a surge of popularity.[2][3][4][5] Today only one Canadian 
team plays in the so-called "affiliated" minor leagues, defined as those 
having a formal relationship with Major League Baseball. The Vancouver 
Canadians, currently an affiliate of the Blue Jays, play in the Northwest 
League at the Short-Season A level. Several other Canada-based teams play 
in low-tier American independent circuits. See List of baseball teams in 
Canada. Canada has produced some successful players in Major League Baseball. 
Ferguson Jenkins is currently the only Canadian in the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame. The following table lists other achievements earned by Canadian 
