Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1996 followed the system in 
use since 1995. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players but no one tallied the 
necessary 75% support. The BBWAA had petitioned the Hall of Fame Board 
of Directors on January 5, 1995, to reconsider the eligibility of Larry 
Bowa, Bill Madlock, Al Oliver and Ted Simmons, each of whom had failed 
to receive at least 5% of ballots cast in each of their first years of 
eligibility (Bowa and Oliver in 1991, Maddlock in 1993 and Simmons in 1994). 
The Board approved, but before the ballot was released, the BBWAA decided 
not to include them on the ballot after all. The Veterans Committee met 
in closed sessions and selected four people from multiple classified ballots: 
Jim Bunning, Bill Foster, Ned Hanlon, and Earl Weaver. The BBWAA was authorized 
to elect players active in 1976 or later, but not after 1990; the ballot 
included candidates from the 1995 ballot who received at least 5% of the 
vote but were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening 
committee, whose last appearance was in 1990. All 10-year members of the 
BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up 
to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the 
ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted 
of 35 players; 470 ballots were cast, with 353 votes required for election. 
A total of 2,687 individual votes were cast, an average of 5.72 per ballot.Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote (24 votes) will not appear 
on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually be considered by the Veterans 
Committee. Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated 
here with a †. Candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The ten candidates who received less than 5% 
of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Vada Pinson, Curt Flood, and Tony Oliva were all on 
the ballot for the 15th and final time. The newly-eligible players included 
20 All-Stars, eight of whom were not included on the ballot, representing 
a total of 51 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 9-time 
All-Star Fred Lynn and 5-time All-Star Keith Hernandez. The field included 
two MVPs, Hernandez and Lynn, who was the first player ever to win an MVP 
in the same year as winning Rookie of the Year. Players eligible for the 
first time who were not included on the ballot were: Don Aase, Doug Bair, 
Thad Bosley, Tom Brookens, Ernie Camacho, Mark Clear, Dave Collins, Jody 
Davis, Richard Dotson, Jim Dwyer, Terry Francona, Mickey Hatcher, Rick 
Leach, Larry McWilliams, Greg Minton, Paul Mirabella, Tom Niedenfuer, Dickie 
Noles, Mike Norris, Ron Oester, Ken Phelps, Joe Price, Domingo Ramos, Ed 
Romero, Wayne Tolleson, Alex Treviño, Ozzie Virgil, Jr., and Gary Ward. 
The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to elect as many as two executives, 
managers, umpires, and older major league players—the categories considered 
in all its meetings since 1953. By an arrangement since 1995 it separately 
considered candidates from the Negro Leagues and from the 19th century 
with authority to select one from each of those two special ballots. The 
committee elected four people again, the maximum number permitted: pitcher 
Jim Bunning from the 1960s, manager Earl Weaver from the 1970s, pitcher 
Bill Foster from the Negro Leagues, and manager Ned Hanlon from the 19th 
century . Joe Durso received the J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball 
writer. (The award was voted at the December 1995 meeting of the BBWAA, 
dated 1995, and included in the summer 1996 ceremonies.) Herb Carneal received 
