Baseball scorekeeping is the practice of recording the details of a baseball 
game as it unfolds. Professional baseball leagues hire official scorers 
to keep an official record of each game (from which a box score can be 
generated), but many fans keep score as well for their own enjoyment.[1] 
Scorekeeping is usually done on a printed scorecard and, while official 
scorers must adhere precisely to one of the few different scorekeeping 
notations, most fans exercise some amount of creativity and adopt their 
own symbols and styles.[2] Sportswriter Henry Chadwick is generally credited 
as the inventor of baseball scorekeeping. His basic scorecard and notation 
have evolved significantly since their advent in the 1870s[3] but they 
remain the basis for most of what has followed. Some symbols and abbreviations 
are shared by nearly all scorekeeping systems. For example, the position 
of each player is indicated by a number: The designated hitter (DH), if 
used, is marked using a zero (0). Scorecards vary in appearance but almost 
all share some basic features, including areas for: Usually two scorecards 
(one for each team) are used to score a game. Because the traditional method 
has been in use for so long, it has the most variations in its symbols 
and syntax.[citation needed] It is difficult, at this point in time, to 
describe an "authoritative" set of rules for traditional scorekeeping, 
but what is described here is a representative sample. In the traditional 
method, each cell in the main area of the scoresheet represents the "lifetime" 
of an offensive player, from at-bat to baserunner, to being put out or 
scoring a run. When an out is recorded, the combination of defensive players 
executing that out is recorded. For example: If a batter reaches first 
base, either due to a walk, a hit, or an error, the basepath from home 
to first base is drawn, and the method described in the lower-righthand 
corner. For example: When a runner advances due to a following batter, 
it can be noted by the batting position or the uniform number of the batter 
that advanced the runner. This kind of information is not always included 
by amateur scorers, and there is a lot of variation in notation. For example: 
The scorecard on the right describes the August 8, 2000 game between the 
Milwaukee Brewers and San Francisco Giants, played at Pacific Bell Park, 
in San Francisco.[4] The scorecard describes the following events in the 
top of the 1st inning: One hard and fast rule of baseball scorekeeping 
is that every out and every time a baserunner advances must be recorded. 
The scoring can get a little more complicated when a batter who has reached 
base, is then "moved up" (advances one or more bases) by his own actions 
or by the actions of a hitter behind him. This is demonstrated in the Giants' 
first inning: Stranded baserunners might be notated as being "LOB" (Left 
On Base) for that inning, with a number from 1-3 likely at the bottom of 
the inning column. For example, if two runners are left on base after the 
3rd out, the scorekeeper might note "LOB:2", then at the end of the game 
calculate a total number of LOB for the game. A more complicated example 
of scorekeeping is the record of the bottom of the 5th inning: Project 
Scoresheet was an organization run by volunteers in the 1980s for the purpose 
of collecting baseball game data and making it freely available to the 
public (the data collected by Major League Baseball was and still is not 
freely available). To collect and distribute the data, Project Scoresheet 
needed a method of keeping score that could be easily input to a computer. 
This limited the language to letters, numbers, and punctuation (no baseball 
diamonds or other symbols not found on a computer keyboard). In addition 
to the new language introduced by Project Scoresheet, a few major changes 
were made to the traditional scorecard. Firstly, innings of play are not 
recorded in a one-per-column fashion; instead all boxes are used sequentially 
and new innings are indicated with a heavy horizontal line. This saves 
considerable space on the card (since no boxes are left blank) and reduces 
the likelihood of a game requiring a second set of scorecards. The second 
major change is the detailed offensive and defensive in/out system, which 
allows the scorekeeper to specify very specifically when players enter 
and leave the game. This is vital for attributing events to the proper 
players. Lastly, each "event box" on a Project Scoresheet scorecard is 
broken down into three sections: before the play, during the play, and 
after the play. All events are put into one of these three slots. For example, 
a stolen base happens "before the play" because it occurs before the batter's 
at-bat is over. A hit is considered "during the play" because it ends the 
batter's plate appearance, and baserunner movement subsequent to the batter's 
activity is considered "after the play". The language developed by Project 
Scoresheet can be used to record trajectories and locations of batted balls 
and every defensive player who touched the ball, in addition to the basic 
information recorded by the traditional method. Here are some examples: 
In the "before the play" slot: In "during the play" slot: In the "after 
the play" slot: For a complete description of the language and the scorecard 
please see David Cortesi's documentation. Project Scoresheet addressed 
a lack of precision in the traditional scorekeeping method, and introduced 
several new features to the scorecard. But while the Project Scoresheet 
language continues to be the baseball research community's standard for 
storing play-by-play game data in computers, the scorecards it yields are 
difficult to read due to the backtracking required to reconstruct a mid-inning 
play. Hence, despite its historical importance, the system has never gained 
favor with casual fans. In 2002 Alex Reisner developed a new scorekeeping 
method that took the language of Project Scoresheet but redefined the way 
the event boxes on the scorecard worked, virtually eliminating the backtracking 
required by both Project Scoresheet and the traditional method. The system 
also makes it easy to reconstruct any mid-inning situation, a difficult 
task with the other two systems (for this reason it was originally promoted 
as "Situational Scorekeeping"). A Reisner scorecard looks like a cross 
between a traditional and Project Scoresheet scorecard. It has a diamond 
(representing the field, as in the traditional system) and a single line 
for recording action during and after the play (like Project Scoresheet's 
second and third lines). The diamond in each event box is used to show 
which bases are occupied by which players at the start of an at-bat. Stolen 
bases, pickoffs, and other "before the play" events are also marked on 
the diamond, so that one can see the "situation" in which an at-bat took 
