Baseball is one of the most popular sports in Cuba. It was popularized 
in Cuba by Nemesio Guillot, who founded the first major baseball club in 
the country. It became the most played sport in the country in the 1870s, 
before the period of American intervention. Despite its American origin, 
baseball is strongly associated with Cuban nationalism, as it effectively 
replaced colonial Spanish sports such as bullfighting. After the Cuban 
Revolution, the league system in Cuba has been officially amateur. Top 
players are placed on the national team, earning stipends for training 
and playing in international competitions. Baseball was introduced to Cuba 
in the 1860s by Cuban students returning from colleges in the United States 
and American sailors who ported in the country. The sport spread quickly 
across the island nation after its introduction, with student Nemesio Guillot 
receiving popular credit date for the game's growth in the mid-19th century. 
Nemesio attended Spring Hill College, in Mobile, Alabama with his brother 
Ernesto and returned to Cuba with his brother in 1864. The two formed a 
baseball team in Cuba in 1868, the Havana Base Ball Club. The club won 
a major match against the crew of an American schooner anchored at the 
Matanzas harbor.[1] Soon after this, the first Cuban War of Independence 
against its Spanish rulers spurred Spanish authorities in 1869 to ban playing 
the sport in Cuba.[1] The reasons were because Cubans began to prefer baseball 
to viewing bullfights, which Cubans were expected to dutifully attend as 
homage to their Spanish rulers in an informal cultural mandate. As such, 
baseball became symbolic of freedom and egalitarianism to the Cuban people. 
The ban also prompted Esteban Bellán to join the semipro Troy Haymakers. 
He became the first Latin American player to play in a Major League in 
the United States. Bellan started playing baseball for the Fordham Rose 
Hill Baseball Club, while attending Fordham University (1863–1868). After 
that he played for the Unions of Morrisania, a New York City team. Bellan 
played for the Haymakers until 1862; in 1861 it joined the National Association.[2] 
The first official match in Cuba took place in Pueblo Nuevo, Matanzas, 
at the Palmar del Junco, December 27, 1874. It was between Club Matanzas 
and Club Habana, the latter winning 51 to 9, in nine innings. In late 1878 
the Cuban League was founded. At its inception the league consisted of 
three teams: Almendares, Havana, and Matanzas. Every team played the other 
two teams four times each. The first game was played on December 29, 1878, 
with Havana defeating Almendares 21 to 20. Havana, under team captain Bellán, 
went undefeated in the inaugural season and won the championship. The teams 
were composed amateurs and were all-white, however professionalism gradually 
took hold as teams bid on players to pry them from their rivals. The Spanish–American 
War brought increased opportunities to play against top teams from the 
United States. Also, the Cuban League admitted black players beginning 
in 1900. Soon many of the best players from the Northern American Negro 
Leagues were playing on integrated teams in Cuba. Beginning in 1908, Cuban 
teams scored a number of successes in competition against major league 
baseball teams, behind outstanding players such as pitcher José Méndez 
and outfielder Cristóbal Torriente (who were both enshrined in the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 2006). By the 1920s, the level of play in the Cuban League 
was superb, as Negro League stars like Oscar Charleston and John Henry 
Lloyd spent their winters playing in Cuba. In 1899, the All Cubans, consisting 
of Cuban League professional players, were the first Latin American team 
to tour the United States. The team returned in 1902–05, exposing white 
Cuban players to U.S. major league and minor league scouts, and introducing 
black Cuban players to competition against the Negro leagues. Later Negro 
league teams included the Cuban Stars and the New York Cubans, which were 
stocked mostly with Cuban or other Latin American players. Amateur baseball 
in Cuba was thriving in the 1940s and deepened the organization and maturity 
of the league. There were several amateur leagues in Cuba. Many of the 
leagues were composed of factory or businesses workers who represented 
their individual companies. Main sources of talent for Cuban baseball teams 
were from sugarmill baseball, semi-professional teams, and the amateur 
leagues. Original amateur teams represented exclusive social clubs in the 
Havana area, such as the Velado Tennis club.[3] The term “amateur baseball” 
is defined as “specifically the game played by social clubs who played 
in the Amateur league.”[3] Cubans refer to this league as los amateurs. 
The growth of amateur baseball can be attributed to the economic recovery 
in Cuba around 1934.[4] In 1934 there were only six teams but by 1940 that 
grew to eighteen.[5] In 1954 amateur Dominican baseball became better organized, 
respected abroad, and very structured which led professional clubs to draw 
young talent from the ingenious leagues in cities throughout Cuba. Leagues 
which talented players were recruited from consisted of clever and unique 
ball players. The removal of some of the talented players in the league 
only slightly impacted the amateur leagues in Cuban cities. The young and 
talented team players who remained in the leagues gained physical strength 
by participating in the amateur games. Amateur leagues were the heart and 
soul of Cuban baseball. The desire to throw, catch and hit a baseball was 
ingrained in young Cuban Amateur players. The leagues in Cuba participated 
in several championship tournaments. Cuban males were inclined to participate 
in the amateur leagues because they were an outlet from the everyday stresses 
they experienced in both work and family life. The passion of amateur play 
was not controlled by money or international recognition. One major form 
of amateur baseball in Cuba was sugarmill baseball. Sugarmill baseball 
was popularized in the early 1950s.[6] This group of amateurs consisted 
mainly of players who were originally workers at the sugarmill. It was 
often loosely organized and regionally established. Each team represented 
a different sugarmill and they would compete against one another. Games 
were generally played on Sunday and holidays in order to leave weekdays 
reserved for field work.[7] Players in the league used sugarmill ball as 
an escape from the harsh working conditions of the mill. During the Golden 
Age of Cuban League sugarmill baseball was one of the most important producers 
of talent. In Cuba’s amateur baseball leagues some of the greatest moments 
and players the game has ever produced on the island can be found, along 
with a high level of unconcealed iniquity. Until 1959 blacks were excluded 
from the amateur leagues.[8] Segregation is traced back to the start of 
the 20th century when disagreement among players regarding the professionalization 
of the game led to a split. The amateur game was the origin of the segregation 
and remained a sport played among exclusive social clubs and factory workers.[9] 
Membership in these clubs were restricted to whites, therefore blacks were 
excluded from amateur baseball and had to play for the semiprofessional 
teams. Whether the whites only policy was a direct consequence of American 
influence on upper-class Cubans or was a retention from colonial times 
is difficult to determine.[8] The growth of education in Cuba led to the 
decline of amateur baseball. As the players became more educated, they 
attempted to bypass the amateur level of ball and head straight for the 
Professional leagues. The amateur leagues did not provide players with 
a large financial income. As players became more aware of the opportunities 
of the Professional leagues they aspired to gain recognition as ball players 
and join the Professional leagues. Opportunities the Professional leagues 
offered players gave them the option of playing for US teams and making 
more money. In Amateur baseball fields the home plates are made of wood. 
The fields are not in very good shape. The grandstands present at amateur 
baseball fields are protected by chicken wire and rarely painted. The maximum 
occupancy for a grandstand is 300 fans. Generally the stands are full and 
often fans will stand on the sidelines to watch the games. The stands at 
amateur games are filled with cane cutters and factory workers looking 
to enjoy life after a hard day's work in the fields. On the field the Cuban 
game has a few quirks (aluminum bats are allowed, and the umpire puts strikes 
before balls when he gives the count), but it closely resembles American 
baseball in both style and level of accomplishment. Today amateur baseball 
remains an outlet from a hard day's work in the fields and is still played 
by cane workers. In 1960s the government abolished all professional sports 
on the island.[10] Sports were viewed as opposing the principles of the 
Revolution. With this thought in mind the ideas of sport were altered to 
better coincide with the ideology of the Revolution. To reshape baseball 
was a difficult task the idea of tradition had to be demolished and rebuilt.[10] 
Rewriting Cuban baseball history by connecting the president to the glory 
years of the Amateur Leagues began to take shape and reflect revolutionary 
ideas. From then on baseball and sports in Cuba were meant to encourage 
cooperation among nations, represent national pride, and promote fitness 
and military preparedness.[11] Through sports Cubans were able to feel 
personally involved in the nation building, socialization, and political 
integration of the revolution.[11] Fidel Castro said, “We can say that 
our athletes are the children of our Revolution and, at the same time, 
the standard-bearers of that same Revolution.”[12] In 1960, after the abolishment 
of all professional sports fans shifted their focus to the amateur leagues. 
In the 1960s once amateur baseball became the main focus there was a strong 
desire to play and participate in sports. Cuban baseball shed its commercial 
skin and sought out to advance the social and political aims of the revolution 
via sport. The organization of the game and role baseball led in society 
was transformed. Changes were revolutionary and discrimination in amateur 
baseball was abolished. The reorganization of baseball after 1961, the 
durability and expansion of the structure of baseball, construction of 
new stadiums, and the production of players are all significant results 
the Revolution had on Cuban sports.[13] The island has remained the powerhouse 
of world amateur baseball since then. In 1959 the Cuban Revolution ushered 
in fundamental changes in how Cuban baseball was organized. The revolutionary 
government made baseball a symbol of excellence and used it to encourage 
nationalism.[14] Shortly after the revolution, victorious guerrilla leaders 
demonstrated their Cuban spirit by engaging in exhibition baseball games 
that included symbolic gestures reinforcing the notion that baseball would 
be an integral component of post-revolution Cuba.[15] In 1961, the Cuban 
government replaced the former professional baseball system with new amateur 
baseball leagues, most prominent among them the Cuban National Series. 
The reorganization aimed to organize the sport based on a socialist model 
of sports driven by national ideals rather than money.[16] Revolutionary 
officials believed that under capitalism sport is corrupted by the profit 
motive. The perversion of sport was believed to result in the exploitation 
of the masses.[17] The shift from a professional to amateur system was 
preceded by the introduction of the Institute for Sports, Physical Education 
and Recreation (INDER).[18] The Cuban government made success in sports 
competitions a primary goal in the hopes that international sports triumphs 
could draw positive attention to the Cuban Revolution. In addition to displaying 
Cuba’s leadership to Third World countries, this would give Cubans themselves 
a sense of pride and feelings of nationalism for the Revolution. It was 
seen as a way of enhancing the revolutionary government’s legitimacy.[19] 
Sports participation in Cuba was also universalized and thus made an essential 
component of revolutionary activity. The term coined to describe such a 
process was Masividad, and sports served the purpose to not only educate 
and train the Cuban people, but also to allow them yet another opportunity 
to fit in an egalitarian society that conformed to the very principles 
of the revolution. The Cuban people also became healthier due to their 
participation in sporting related activities, especially those that promoted 
physical education. Most Cuban sports facilities and the equipment they 
possess are adequate and meet the needs of the people as thoroughly as 
possible. INDER has branches at the municipal, provincial and community 
level and is ultimately responsible for the delivery of all sport and physical 
education functions; and the coordination of all sport related systems, 
structures and services delivered by political, health, cultural, community 
development, education and sports agencies and institutions that traditionally 
function independently of each other.[20] Although sport in general underwent 
a huge transformation after the revolution, it is still imperative to note 
that baseball continued to play a pivot role. After all it was Cuba’s bloodline 
and was easy to pick up and play since it required less conditioning and 
more focus on the crafting skills of hitting, pitching, and strategy.[21] 
Sports other than baseball retain some popularity in Cuba, including boxing 
and soccer, and the government continues to consider an athlete in fulfillment 
his or her duty as a Cuban citizen regardless of the sport pursued.[22] 
As mentioned earlier, sport in post-revolutionary Cuba was utilized to 
not only improve health, but in doing so citizens have become more prepared 
in-terms of self-defense in light of hostile policies at least in the early 
days of the revolution by the United States. Baseball, like all other sports 
in Cuba was also utilized for political ends. For instance, Cuba has allowed 
for the Cuban National Baseball team to play in countries abroad such as 
Nicaragua to benefit flood victims and in Japan as a symbolic gesture to 
express goodwill for a strong trading partner.[23] Such assistance by Cuba 
underlies its commitment to socialist internationalism, which still to 
this day sees a bevy of Cuban sports specialists training and instructing 
abroad citizens of other nations.[24] Everything has seemingly been positive, 
however not everything went as planned. Since the professional system was 
abolished in-favor of amateur leagues, players were not paid as extravagantly 
as they once were. One report found that most baseball stars made less 
than $2,000 annually and that all players would receive sports leave pay 
at the same rate they would get from their off-season jobs as professionals, 
sports coaches, craftsmen, etc.[23] The situation would get worse in the 
early 1990s after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, which was Cuba’s 
main trading partner. This led many players to defect to the United States 
due to deteriorating economic conditions. Amidst such action, even Fidel 
Castro admitted himself that it's hard to prevent the baseball stars from 
defecting. He would later proclaim, “if you have to compete against six 
million dollars versus three thousand Cuban pesos you cannot win.”[25] 
Other problems included bribery scandals in which coaches and player alike 
would fix games, which subsequently led to them being banned from baseball 
in Cuba.[26] Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, there were also 
instances in Cuba where baseball games would be canceled due to power outages 
and most people chose to watch games from their home since it seemed more 
feasible to do so. The situation was so bad that pitchers in-game, would 
often have to exchange cleats with the pitcher who would have to pitch 
in the next half-inning.[25] Resources even as minute as baseball cleats 
were scarce during this very time. The Cuban government to this very day 
is also somewhat hostile in relation to the players that did defect in 
the 1990s. In 1999, the Cuban national baseball team played a two-game 
exhibition series against the Baltimore Orioles of Major League Baseball. 
This marked the first time the Cuban national team played against an MLB 
team, and the first time an MLB team played in Cuba since 1959.[27] The 
Orioles won the first game, which was held in Havana, while the Cuban national 
team won the second game, which was held in Baltimore. In December 2014, 
the United States and Cuba began to reestablish diplomatic relations. MLB 
Commissioner Rob Manfred entered into discussions to hold an exhibition 
game between a MLB team and the Cuban national team in 2016.[28]The Tampa 
Bay Rays played the Cuban national baseball team on March 22, 2016 in Havana's 
Estadio Latinoamericano. The Tampa Bay Rays defeated the Cuban national 
baseball team by a score of 4 to 1. The game was attended by U.S. President 
Barack Obama, Cuban President Raul Castro and Rachel Robinson, the widow 
