Randy Johnson Pedro Martínez John Smoltz Craig Biggio Elections to the 
Baseball Hall of Fame for 2015 proceeded according to rules most recently 
amended in 2014.[1] As in the past, the Baseball Writers' Association of 
America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from a ballot of recently retired 
players, with results announced on January 6, 2015. Randy Johnson, Pedro 
Martínez, John Smoltz and Craig Biggio were elected to the Hall of Fame.[2] 
It was the first time since 1955 that the BBWAA elected four players in 
one year.[3] The Golden Era Committee, one of three voting panels by era 
that replaced the more broadly defined Veterans Committee following an 
earlier rules change in July 2010, convened at Major League Baseball's 
winter meetings in San Diego on December 8, 2014 to select from a ballot 
of 10 retired players and non-playing personnel who made their greatest 
contributions to the sport between 1947 and 1972.[4][5] None of these candidates 
received enough votes to be elected. The Hall of Fame induction ceremonies 
were held on July 26 at the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York,[5] with 
new commissioner Rob Manfred presiding for the first time. On the day before 
the actual induction ceremony, the annual Hall of Fame Awards Presentation 
took place. At that event, two awards for media excellence were presented 
– the Hall's Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasters and the BBWAA's J. G. 
Taylor Spink Award for writers. The other major Hall of Fame award, the 
Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award, will not be presented again until 
at least 2017.[6] Among the other portions of the ceremonies was a presentation 
by Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus honoring the service of baseball personnel 
in World War II; he also announced the naming of the littoral combat ship 
USS Cooperstown. On July 26, 2014, the Hall announced changes to the rules 
for election for recently retired players, reducing the number of years 
a player will be eligible to be on the ballot from 15 years to 10. Three 
candidates presently on the BBWAA ballot (Lee Smith, Don Mattingly and 
Alan Trammell) in years 10-15 were grandfathered into this system and retained 
their previous 15 years of eligibility. In addition, BBWAA members who 
were otherwise eligible to cast ballots were required to complete a registration 
form and sign a code of conduct before receiving their ballots, and the 
Hall made public the names of all members who cast ballots (but not their 
individual votes) when it announced the election results.[7] The code of 
conduct specifically states that the ballot is non-transferable, a direct 
reaction to Dan Le Batard's actions in the 2014 balloting process. Violation 
of the code of conduct will result in a lifetime ban from BBWAA voting.[8] 
The ballot included two categories of players: There were 549 total ballots 
cast and 4623 individual votes for players, for an average of 8.4 players 
named per ballot. All BBWAA members with at least 10 years of continuous 
membership were eligible to vote. One member of the 2014 electorate, Dan 
Le Batard, was suspended from the BBWAA for a year (which automatically 
made him ineligible to cast a vote in this election) and also banned for 
life from voting in any future Hall of Fame election after he revealed 
that he had turned over his 2014 ballot to Deadspin and allowed the website's 
readers to make selections.[9] As in most recent elections, the controversy 
over use of performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) dominated the election.[10][11] 
ESPN.com columnist Jim Caple noted in the days before the announcement 
of the 2012 results that the PED issue and the BBWAA's limit of 10 votes 
per ballot was likely to result in a major backlog in upcoming elections:[11] 
Caple's predictions about the players on the 2015 ballot, as well as the 
players he expected to be elected before then, mostly proved accurate. 
Larkin was indeed elected in 2012, and Maddux, Glavine and Thomas were 
elected on their first ballot appearance in 2014. The main exceptions were 
Palmeiro and Williams, who got less than 5% of the vote in prior elections 
and failed to stay on, and Biggio, who fell short of election in both of 
his first two years on the ballot, missing out in 2014 by two votes. Another 
ESPN.com writer, Tim Kurkjian, noted that the 2013 ballot would include 
several new candidates who either tested positive or were strongly linked 
to PEDs:[12] Don Mattingly was on the ballot for the 15th and final time. 
Players who were eligible for the first time who were not included on the 
ballot were: Marlon Anderson, Paul Bako, Michael Barrett, Chad Bradford, 
Doug Brocail, Emil Brown, Paul Byrd, Raul Chavez, Joe Crede, David Dellucci, 
Adam Eaton, Alan Embree, Kelvim Escobar, Chad Fox, Tony Graffanino, Matt 
Herges, Braden Looper, Mark Loretta, Ramón Martínez, Doug Mientkiewicz, 
Kevin Millar, Eric Milton, Greg Norton, Tomo Ohka, Sidney Ponson, Glendon 
Rusch, B.J. Ryan, Brian Shouse, Justin Speier, Julián Tavárez, Ron Villone, 
Luis Vizcaino, Jamie Walker, Jarrod Washburn and David Weathers. [13][14] 
In keeping with the current Hall of Fame voting procedure, the BBWAA-appointed 
Historical Overview Committee, made up of 11 BBWAA members, identified 
10 Golden Era candidates who were judged to have made their greatest contributions 
between 1947 and 1972. Along with the 1947–1972 era, these rules defined 
the consideration set:[5] The eleven Historical Overview Committee members 
(the same members who served in 2011) were: Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune), 
Bob Elliot (Toronto Sun), Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post Dispatch), Steve 
Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau), Bill Madden (New York Daily News), Ken Nigro 
(formerly Baltimore Sun), Jack O'Connell (BBWAA Secretary/Treasurer), Tracy 
Ringolsby (MLB.com), Glen Schwartz (formerly San Francisco Chronicle), 
Claire Smith (ESPN) and Mark Whicker (Los Angeles News Group).[15][5][16] 
The names of the committee members were released by the Hall of Fame on 
November 4, 2014. The ballot for election by the Golden Era Committee was 
released on October 30, 2014;[17] the committee voted at the MLB winter 
meetings in San Diego on December 8, 2014, with the results announced by 
MLB immediately thereafter. The cutoff for election and summer 2015 induction 
remained the standard 75%, or 12 of 16 votes.[16] None of the candidates 
received enough votes, continuing a long period of difficulty in electing 
players eligible under the Hall's special committees; the last living player 
elected to the Hall after the expiration of his BBWAA eligibility was Bill 
Mazeroski in 2001.[18] This election marked the second time this era had 
been considered; Ron Santo was elected by the committee and inducted in 
2012. In addition, Joe Torre – another popular candidate from this period 
– was inducted as a manager in 2014. Four of the candidates – Allen, Howsam, 
Pierce, and Wills – were considered for the first time. Among the holdovers 
from the 2011 Golden Era balloting were four who received at least half 
of the committee votes: Kaat (10), Hodges (9), Miñoso (9), and Oliva (8).[16] 
Seven of the candidates were living when the ballot was announced, the 
exceptions being Hodges, Boyer, and Howsam (who respectively died in 1972, 
1982 and 2008). The Golden Era Committee's 16-member voting electorate, 
appointed by the Hall of Fame's Board of Directors, was announced at the 
same time as the ballot of 10 candidates.[16] The Baseball Hall of Fame 
officially named this group the "Golden Era Committee" ("The Committee"), 
which voted for the first time on December 5, 2011. All of the Hall of 
Fame members on this committee were inducted as players, except for executive 
Pat Gillick. In July 2016, the Hall announced a major change to its era-based 
committee system, replacing the then-existing three voting bodies with 
four new panels. The change will have a significant effect on future elections 
of individuals who had been considered by the Golden Era Committee. In 
the new system, the closest equivalent to the Golden Era Committee is the 
new Golden Days Committee, which will consider figures whose greatest contributions 
occurred between 1950 and 1969. Also, this new voting body will only meet 
once every five years, specifically in years ending in 0 and 5 as part 
of the election process for the next year's induction ceremony.[19] The 
J. G. Taylor Spink Award has been presented by the BBWAA at the annual 
summer induction ceremonies since 1962.[20] Through 2010, it was awarded 
during the main induction ceremony, but is now given the previous day at 
the Hall of Fame Awards Presentation. It recognizes a sportswriter "for 
meritorious contributions to baseball writing".[21] The recipients are 
not members of the Hall of Fame but are featured in a permanent exhibit 
at the National Baseball Museum. The three nominees for the 2015 award, 
selected by a BBWAA committee, were announced at the BBWAA's annual All-Star 
Game meeting on July 15, 2014. They were the late Furman Bisher, longtime 
columnist for the Atlanta Journal-Constitution; Tom Gage, beat writer for 
The Detroit News; and Dan Shaughnessy, columnist for The Boston Globe.[22] 
Under BBWAA rules, the winner was to be announced either during the 2014 
World Series or at the 2014 winter meetings; in recent years, the announcement 
has been made at the winter meetings.[23] On December 9, Gage was named 
as the recipient. Of the record 463 ballots cast (including one blank), 
Gage received 167 to Bisher's 161, with Shaughnessy receiving 134. The 
vote was the closest since balloting by mail began in 2002, both by the 
margin between the top two candidates and the gap between the three finalists. 
At the time of announcement, Gage was covering the Detroit Tigers for The 
Detroit News, a position he had held since leaving his original home of 
The Times-Picayune of New Orleans in 1978. He had twice been Michigan's 
sportswriter of the year, and had also not missed a day while on the Tigers 
beat – including covering a night game after undergoing a root canal procedure 
that morning. He is also a past member of the Hall of Fame ballot screening 
committee.[24] The Ford C. Frick Award, honoring excellence in baseball 
broadcasting, has been presented at the induction ceremonies since 1978.[25] 
Through 2010, it had been presented at the main induction ceremony, but 
is now awarded at the Awards Presentation. Recipients are not members of 
the Hall of Fame but are permanently recognized in an exhibit at the museum. 
To be eligible, an active or retired broadcaster must have a minimum of 
10 years of continuous major league broadcast service with a ball club, 
a network, or a combination of the two. The honor is based on four criteria: 
longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including national assignments 
such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity with fans. 
The 2015 recipient was announced during the 2014 winter meetings, following 
a vote by a 20-member committee composed of the living recipients along 
with broadcasting historians and columnists.[26] This was the second Frick 
Award selection under a process similar to that instituted for Veterans 
Committee balloting in 2010. Candidates are now considered every third 
year, based on the era in which they made their most significant contributions:[27] 
Also, the committee that selects the final recipient no longer has a role 
in determining any of the finalists. Before the 2014 selection process, 
the selection committee also chose seven of the 10 finalists, but that 
role has now been given to a Hall of Fame research committee.[27] Ten finalists 
from the "Living Room Era" were announced on October 3, 2014.[28] In accord 
with the current guidelines, seven were chosen by a Hall of Fame research 
committee, while the other three were selected from a list of candidates 
by fan voting at the Hall's Facebook page from September 8 to September 
30.[26] At the time of the announcement of the finalists, only Cárdenas 
and Enberg were still living, and only Enberg was still active. The broadcasting 
careers of the finalists covered a span of nearly 75 years, starting with 
the beginning of Dean's broadcasting career immediately after his retirement 
as a player in 1941. In addition to the still-active Enberg, three other 
finalists (Berroa, Kiner, and Nuxhall) were active in the 21st century. 
Three of the finalists (Ashburn, Dean, and Kiner) are Hall of Fame members 
as players.[28] On December 10, 2014, Enberg was named as the recipient. 
He began his MLB broadcasting career in 1968 as the play-by-play announcer 
for the California Angels, continuing in that role through 1978. Enberg 
joined NBC Sports in 1975, covering baseball plus many other sports for 
the next quarter-century. He then moved to CBS Sports in 2000; after leaving 
that network in 2010, he became the play-by-play announcer for the San 
Diego Padres, a position he still held when he was announced as the recipient.[29] 
