Lee MacPhail Larry Doby Bullet Rogan Don Sutton George Davis Elections 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1998 followed the system in use since 
1995. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail 
to select from recent major league players and elected Don Sutton. The 
Veterans Committee met in closed sessions and selected four people from 
multiple classified ballots: George Davis, Larry Doby, Lee MacPhail, and 
Bullet Rogan. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1978 
or later, but not after 1992; the ballot included candidates from the 1997 
ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along 
with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance 
was in 1992. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters 
were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 26 players; 473 ballots were cast, with 
355 votes required for election. A total of 2,559 votes were cast, an average 
of 5.41 per ballot. Those candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote 
(24 votes) would not appear on future BBWAA ballots, and under then-current 
rules were also eliminated from future consideration by the Veterans Committee. 
A 2001 change in Hall policy restored the eligibility of players dropped 
from BBWAA balloting for Veterans Committee consideration. Candidates who 
were eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected is indicated in 
bold italics; candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The seven candidates who received less than 5% 
of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Ron Santo was on the ballot for the 15th and final 
time. The newly-eligible players included 17 All-Stars, nine of whom were 
not included on the ballot, representing a total of 44 All-Star selections. 
Among the new candidates were 11-time All-Star Gary Carter, 6-time All-Star 
Willie Randolph and 5-time All-Stars Pedro Guerrero. The field also included 
one Cy Young Award-winner, Mike Flanagan. Players eligible for the first 
time who were not included on the ballot were: Jim Acker, Dave Anderson, 
Floyd Bannister, Jesse Barfield, Juan Berenguer, Dave Bergman, Don Carman, 
Rick Cerone, Mike Fitzgerald, Jim Gantner, Rich Gedman, Jerry Don Gleaton, 
Von Hayes, Brook Jacoby, Dennis Lamp, John Moses, Rance Mulliniks, Ken 
Oberkfell, Gary Pettis, Jamie Quirk, Rafael Ramirez, Don Robinson, Luis 
Salazar, Dave Schmidt, Mike Scioscia, Matt Sinatro, Dave Smith, Pat Tabler, 
Walt Terrell, and Denny Walling. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to elect as many as two executives, managers, umpires, and older major 
league players—the categories considered in all its meetings since 1953. 
By an arrangement since 1995 it separately considered candidates from the 
Negro Leagues and from the 19th century with authority to select one from 
each of those two special ballots. The committee elected four people, the 
maximum number permitted: center fielder Larry Doby from the 1950s, executive 
Lee MacPhail from the 1960s, pitcher Bullet Rogan from the Negro Leagues, 
and shortstop George Davis from the 19th century. Sam Lacy received the 
J. G. Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. (The award was voted 
at the December 1997 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 1997, and included in 
the summer 1998 ceremonies.) Jaime Jarrín received the Ford C. Frick Award 
