Baseball Philippines is a start-up baseball circuit established in 2007 
by a joint venture between Community Sports Incorporated and Pureplay Sports 
Management Incorporated in partnership with the Philippine Amateur Baseball 
Association and sanctioned by the Philippine Sports Commission. The circuit 
was established in hopes of sustaining the growth of the sport in the Philippines, 
which was one of Asia's baseball powerhouses during the first half of the 
20th century well into the early 1970s. Five teams took part in the inaugural 
season's first leg—dubbed as the Pilot Series—which was held during the 
late summer season. The second leg saw six teams in an expanded 10-game, 
three-round playoff format. Eventually the circuit envisions a single leg, 
two-division regular season played out during the dry months of the year. 
In the early 20th century, there existed a Manila League, which had sent 
a team to play in Japan, Hawaii, and the United States in 1913.[1] Organized 
baseball circuits in the Philippines were a staple throughout the 20th 
century, the most popular of which was the prestigious Manila Bay Baseball 
League which was disbanded in the 1970s. The Philippine Baseball League 
soon followed during the early part of the 1980s but disbanded after a 
short time. Nevertheless, the Titans Baseball Club along with the PABA, 
the universities (notably the UAAP), and other private interests, organized 
baseball continues to thrive throughout the archipelago, albeit to differing 
degrees. Other school-based circuits such as the PRISAA and SCUAA tournaments 
also conduct baseball tournaments on a regional and national level. Although 
the teams are regional-based, the games are not presently played on a geographic 
home-and-away scale, but rather held at the Rizal Memorial Baseball Stadium. 
As of 2010, the league also plays its games at the Alabang Country Club 
and at the newly built Felino Marcelino Baseball Stadium in Taguig. However, 
a true home-and-away format is envisioned for the future. In 2011,Baseball 
Philippines Series 8 will tour some parts of the country with games in 
Batangas, Laguna and Subic. In 2012,Baseball Philippines Series 9 will 
