Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 2016 proceeded according to 
rules most recently amended in 2015. As in the past, the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from a ballot of 
recently retired players, with results announced on January 6, 2016. Ken 
Griffey Jr. and Mike Piazza were elected to the Hall of Fame. The Pre-Integration 
Committee, the last of three new voting committees established during an 
earlier rules change in 2010 to replace the more broadly defined Veterans 
Committee, convened in December 2015 to select from a ballot of players 
and non-playing personnel who made their greatest contributions to the 
sport prior to 1947 – called the "Pre-Integration Era" by the Hall of Fame 
– but failed to select any inductees.[1][2] The Hall of Fame induction 
ceremonies was held on July 24, 2016 at the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York, with commissioner Rob Manfred presiding. On the day before the 
actual induction ceremony, the annual Hall of Fame Awards Presentation 
took place. At that event, two awards for media excellence were presented 
– the Hall's Ford C. Frick Award for broadcasters and the BBWAA's J. G. 
Taylor Spink Award for writers. The other major Hall of Fame award, the 
Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award, will not be presented again until 
at least 2017.[3] On July 26, 2014, the Hall announced changes to the rules 
for election for recently retired players, reducing the number of years 
a player will be eligible to be on the ballot from fifteen years to ten. 
Two candidates presently on the BBWAA ballot (Lee Smith and Alan Trammell) 
in years 10-15 were grandfathered into this system and retained their previous 
15 years of eligibility. In addition, BBWAA members who were otherwise 
eligible to cast ballots were required to complete a registration form 
and sign a code of conduct before receiving their ballots, and the Hall 
will make public the names of all members who cast ballots (but not their 
individual votes) when it announces the election results.[4] The code of 
conduct specifically states that the ballot is non-transferable, a direct 
reaction to Dan Le Batard turning his 2014 Hall of Fame ballot over to 
the sports website Deadspin and allowing the site's readers to make his 
Hall votes (an act that drew him a lifetime ban from future Hall voting). 
Violation of the code of conduct will result in a lifetime ban from BBWAA 
voting.[5] The most recent rules change, announced on July 28, 2015, tightened 
the qualifications for the BBWAA electorate. Beginning with the 2016 election, 
eligible voters must not only have 10 years of continuous BBWAA membership, 
but also be currently active members, or have held active status within 
the 10 years prior to the election. A BBWAA member who has not been active 
for more than 10 years can regain voting status by covering MLB in the 
year preceding the election.[6] As a result of the new rule, the vote total 
in 2016 decreased by 109 from the previous year, to 440.[7] The BBWAA ballot 
was announced on November 9, 2015; ballots were submitted by December 21, 
and results were announced on January 6, 2016. The ballot included two 
categories of players: All BBWAA members with at least 10 years of continuous 
membership and active membership status at any time in the preceding 10 
years were eligible to vote. As in most recent elections, the controversy 
over use of performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) is likely to dominate the 
election.[8][9] ESPN.com columnist Jim Caple noted in the days before the 
announcement of the 2012 results that the PED issue and the BBWAA's limit 
of 10 votes per ballot was likely to result in a major backlog in upcoming 
elections:[9] Due to the steroid issue and a general lack of consensus, 
the following players will probably be on the ballot in three years: Barry 
Bonds, Roger Clemens, Pedro Martinez, Randy Johnson, Sammy Sosa, Jeff Bagwell, 
John Smoltz, Edgar Martinez, Mark McGwire, Mike Mussina, Jeff Kent, Larry 
Walker, Alan Trammell, Fred McGriff, Rafael Palmeiro, Lee Smith, Tim Raines, 
Gary Sheffield, Mike Piazza, Curt Schilling and, of course, Bernie [Williams]. 
That's 21 players who warrant serious consideration. And that's not counting 
Barry Larkin, who might be elected this year, and also assuming Greg Maddux, 
Tom Glavine, Craig Biggio and Frank Thomas make it their first years on 
the ballot. Finding room for Bonds, Clemens, Pedro, Johnson and others 
means I'll have to dump more good players from my ballot than the Marlins 
dumped after winning the 1997 World Series. Caple's predictions about the 
players on the 2015 ballot, as well as the players he expected to be elected 
before then, mostly proved accurate. Larkin was indeed elected in 2012, 
and Maddux, Glavine and Thomas were elected on their first ballot appearance 
in 2014. The main exceptions were Palmeiro and Williams, who got less than 
5% of the vote in prior elections and failed to stay on, and Biggio, who 
fell short of election in both of his first two years on the ballot, missing 
out in 2014 by two votes. Biggio was finally elected in 2015. Another ESPN.com 
writer, Tim Kurkjian, noted that the 2013 ballot would include several 
new candidates who either tested positive or were strongly linked to PEDs:[10] 
The next Hall of Fame ballot will include Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens, Sammy 
Sosa, Mike Piazza, Craig Biggio and Curt Schilling. They all have Hall 
of Fame numbers, some stronger than others, but Bonds, Clemens, Sosa and 
Piazza certainly are not going to be elected on the first ballot — and 
in the case of Bonds, Clemens and Sosa, they might not make it to Cooperstown 
for many, many years to come. In his first year on the ballot, Ken Griffey 
Jr. received 99.3% of the vote, a BBWAA election record. Mike Piazza finished 
second at 83.0% and was the only other player elected.[7] Alan Trammell 
and Mark McGwire were on the ballot for their final time. Neither were 
elected, meaning they will not be eligible for further consideration by 
the BBWAA. Under current Hall of Fame rules, they are now awaiting eligibility 
for consideration by the since-created Today's Game Committee. This body 
is authorized to consider all MLB figures whose greatest contributions 
occurred after 1987, with the restriction that the only players that can 
be considered are those whose BBWAA eligibility has been exhausted. Trammell 
and McGwire will thus be eligible for consideration when the Today's Game 
Committee first meets in late 2016 as part of the 2017 election process. 
Should they not be elected at that time, they will remain eligible at further 
meetings of that committee (occurring twice in a five-year cycle, as part 
of the following calendar year's election process).[11] Players who were 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Ronnie 
Belliard, Eric Byrnes, Frank Catalanotto, Jesús Colomé, Elmer Dessens, 
Pedro Feliz, José Guillén, Cristian Guzmán, Bob Howry, Gabe Kapler, Mike 
Lamb, Jason LaRue, Ron Mahay, Dámaso Marte, Gary Matthews Jr., Gil Meche, 
Brian Moehler, Chad Moeller, Bengie Molina, Russ Ortiz, Chan Ho Park, Jay 
Payton, Mike Redmond, Juan Rincón, David Riske, Scott Schoeneweis, Scot 
Shields, Russ Springer, Fernando Tatís, Jeff Weaver and Gregg Zaun. In 
keeping with the voting procedure by eras, the BBWAA-appointed Historical 
Overview Committee, made up of 11 BBWAA members, identified ten Pre-Integration 
candidates who were judged to have made their greatest contributions from 
the origins of the sport to the end of baseball's color line in 1947. This 
era was previously under consideration in the 2013 election, when three 
candidates were elected; Bill Dahlen was the only other candidate to receive 
more than three votes. Along with the era, these rules defined the consideration 
set:[2] However, due to the passage of time, the only listed criteria that 
materially restricted the field from which the candidates were selected 
were years of service and presence on baseball's ineligible list. The eleven 
BBWAA-appointed Historical Overview Committee members were Dave Van Dyck 
(Chicago Tribune); Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Jim Henneman (formerly Baltimore 
Sun); Steve Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch); 
Bill Madden (formerly New York Daily News); Jack O'Connell (BBWAA secretary/treasurer); 
Jim Reeves (formerly Fort Worth Star-Telegram); Tracy Ringolsby (MLB.com); 
Glenn Schwarz (formerly San Francisco Chronicle); and Mark Whicker (Los 
Angeles News Group). All except Henneman and Reeves were members of the 
committee that selected the 2013 candidates. The Pre-Integration ballot 
for election was released on October 5, 2015; final voting was conducted 
by the Pre-Integration Committee, a 16-member body which met at baseball's 
winter meetings in Nashville on December 6, with 75% (12 of 16 votes) required 
for election; results were announced the following morning. The committee's 
members, appointed by the Hall of Fame's board of directors, were announced 
later in fall 2015 and included members of the Hall, baseball executives, 
members of the media and historians: Blyleven, Gillick, Niekro, DeWitt, 
Hughes, Hirdt, Morris, Smith and T.R. Sullivan previously served on the 
committee which selected the 2013 inductees. For the second consecutive 
year, none of the candidates received enough votes for election; it marked 
the third consecutive year – and the fifth time in seven years – in which 
no former players were chosen by the Hall's special committees.[12] Speaking 
on MLB Network's Hot Stove immediately after it broadcast the announcement, 
Major League Baseball's official historian John Thorn expressed surprise 
and disappointment at the results, noting that he had felt there were three 
particularly strong candidates (prior to the announcement, he had commented 
favorably on the candidacies of Doc Adams and Harry Stovey); he speculated 
that the number of good candidates may have deadlocked the voting once 
again, and suggested that the Hall may need to amend the voting process 
in the future. At the time of the election, figures from this era were 
scheduled to be considered prior to the 2019 inductions. However, in July 
2016, the Hall announced changes to its era-based committee system, replacing 
the three then-current committees with four new voting bodies. The Pre-Integration 
Era body was replaced by the newly created Early Baseball committee. The 
new committee will consider figures whose greatest contributions occurred 
before 1950 (a slightly broader time frame from its predecessor), but will 
not hold its first meeting until 2020 as part of the 2021 election process. 
Most significantly, this committee will meet only once a decade, specifically 
in years ending in 0.[11] The candidates for election were: Breadon, Dahlen, 
Ferrell, Marion and Walters were previously candidates on the 2013 ballot. 
The J. G. Taylor Spink Award has been presented by the BBWAA at the annual 
summer induction ceremonies since 1962.[13] Through 2010, it was awarded 
during the main induction ceremony, but is now given the previous day at 
the Hall of Fame Awards Presentation. It recognizes a sportswriter "for 
meritorious contributions to baseball writing".[14] The recipients are 
not members of the Hall of Fame but are featured in a permanent exhibit 
at the National Baseball Museum. On December 8, 2015, Boston Globe columnist 
Dan Shaughnessy received 185 out of 417 of the votes cast, making him the 
2016 recipient of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award. The Ford C. Frick Award, 
honoring excellence in baseball broadcasting, has been presented at the 
induction ceremonies since 1978.[15] Through 2010, it had been presented 
at the main induction ceremony, but is now awarded at the Awards Presentation. 
Recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are permanently recognized 
in an exhibit at the museum. To be eligible, an active or retired broadcaster 
must have a minimum of 10 years of continuous major league broadcast service 
with a ball club, a network, or a combination of the two. The honor is 
based on four criteria: longevity; continuity with a club; honors, including 
national assignments such as the World Series and All-Star Games; and popularity 
with fans. This was the third and final Frick Award selection under a process 
similar to that instituted for Veterans Committee balloting in 2010. Under 
this process, candidates were considered every third year, based on the 
era in which they made their most significant contributions:[16] As part 
of the rules changes announced in July 2016, the Hall also announced changes 
to the Frick Award selection process, effective with the 2017 award. While 
the process will continue to involve three annually rotating voting bodies, 
the groups of candidates to be considered by each committee have changed. 
The newly established committees will rotate in the following order: "Current 
Major League Markets" (team-specific broadcasters), "National Voices" (national 
broadcasters), and "Broadcasting Beginnings" (early broadcasters). In addition, 
the number of finalists will be reduced from 10 to 8, and the three ballot 
slots that had been filled by fan voting on the Hall's Facebook page will 
now be chosen by a committee of baseball historians.[11] Ten finalists 
from the "Broadcasting Dawn Era" were announced on October 6, 2015.[17][18] 
In accord with the current guidelines, seven were chosen by a Hall of Fame 
research committee, while the other three were selected (for the final 
time) from a list of candidates by fan voting at the Hall's Facebook page 
from September 14 to October 2.[19] All of the candidates were deceased,[18] 
with the most recently living among them being Laux, who died in November 
1978. Heilmann is a Hall of Fame member as a player.[18] On December 9, 
McNamee was announced as the recipient. The Hall's official announcement 
called him "quite possibly the first celebrity sportscaster... renowned 
as the most recognized personality during radio’s formative years." He 
began his broadcasting career in 1923 with WEAF (now known as WNBC) in 
New York City, and called 12 World Series, countless other baseball games, 
