Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1992 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, Rollie 
Fingers and Tom Seaver. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to 
consider older major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, 
and figures from the Negro Leagues. It selected two, Bill McGowan and Hal 
Newhouser. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1972 or 
later, but not after 1986; the ballot included candidates from the 1991 
ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along 
with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance 
was in 1986. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters 
were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 35 players; a total of 430 ballots were 
cast, with 323 votes required for election. A total of 2,609 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 6.07 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The 14 candidates who received less than 5% of 
the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Maury Wills and Bill Mazeroski were on the ballot for 
the 15th and final time. The newly-eligible players included 20 All-Stars, 
seven of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 
70 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 12-time All-Star 
Tom Seaver, 7-time All-Star Tony Pérez, 6-time All-Stars Vida Blue and 
Bobby Grich and 5-time All-Star George Foster. The field included two MVPs 
(Foster and Blue), four Cy Young Award-winners (Blue, who also won the 
MVP the same year, Seaver, who won three times, John Denny and Pete Vuckovich) 
and two Rookies of the Year (Seaver and John Montefusco). Players eligible 
for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Bruce Bochte, 
Barry Bonnell, Enos Cabell, Al Cowens, Julio Cruz, Terry Forster, Wayne 
Gross, Marc Hill, Dane Iorg, Roy Lee Jackson, Cliff Johnson, Jim Kern, 
Rick Langford, Randy Lerch, Buck Martinez, John Montefusco, Omar Moreno, 
Bob Owchinko, Greg Pryor, Dave Rozema, Vern Ruhle, Dick Ruthven, Jim Slaton, 
Jason Thompson, Dave Tomlin, Jerry White, Terry Whitfield, Milt Wilcox, 
and Jim Wohlford. On February 8, 1991, the Hall of Fame formally declared 
that persons on baseball's ineligible list would no longer be eligible 
for induction into the Hall of Fame. As such, Pete Rose was ineligible 
for BBWAA election, but received 41 write-in votes. These votes were invalid 
