Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1997 followed the system in 
use since 1995. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected Phil Niekro. 
The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions and selected three people 
from multiple classified ballots: Nellie Fox, Tommy Lasorda, and Willie 
Wells. The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1977 or later, 
but not after 1991; the ballot included candidates from the 1996 ballot 
who received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1991. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 30 players; 473 ballots were cast, with 
353 votes required for election. A total of 2,515 individual votes were 
cast, an average of 5.32 per ballot. Those candidates receiving less than 
5% of the vote (24 votes) will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but 
may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who 
were eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The ten candidates who received less than 5% 
of the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Dick Allen and Joe Torre were on the ballot for the 
15th and final time. The newly-eligible candidates included 20 All-Stars, 
including twelve who were not on the ballot, representing a total of 39 
All-Star selections. The only candidate elected to at least five All-Star 
Games was Dave Parker, who was selected a total of seven times. Parker 
was also the only MVP, winning the award once. The field also included 
one Cy Young Award-winner (Mike Scott) and one Rookie of the Year (Ron 
Kittle). Players eligible for the first time who were not included on the 
ballot were: Marty Barrett, Tony Bernazard, Oil Can Boyd, Greg Brock, Carmen 
Castillo, Jim Clancy, Steve Crawford, Warren Cromartie, Scott Garrelts, 
Ron Hassey, Andy Hawkins, Mike Heath, Danny Heep, Tom Herr, Ron Kittle, 
Mike LaCoss, Dave LaPoint, Vance Law, Rick Mahler, Mike Marshall, Andy 
McGaffigan, Lloyd Moseby, Pascual Pérez, Dan Petry, Dan Schatzeder, John 
Shelby, Eric Show, Max Venable, Ed Whitson, Ernie Whitt, and Mookie Wilson. 
The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to elect as many as two executives, 
managers, umpires, and older major league players—the categories considered 
in all its meetings since 1953. By an arrangement since 1995 it separately 
considered candidates from the Negro Leagues and from the 19th century 
with authority to select one from each of those two special ballots. The 
committee elected three people, one fewer than permitted: second baseman 
Nellie Fox from the 1950s, manager Tommy Lasorda from the 1970s, and shortstop 
Willie Wells from the Negro Leagues. Charley Feeney received the J. G. 
Taylor Spink Award honoring a baseball writer. (The award was voted at 
the December 1996 meeting of the BBWAA, dated 1996, and conferred in the 
summer 1997 ceremonies.) Jimmy Dudley received the Ford C. Frick Award 
