A baseball uniform is a type of uniform worn by baseball players. Most 
baseball uniforms have the names and uniform numbers of players who wear 
them, usually on the backs of the uniforms to distinguish players from 
one other. Baseball shirts (jerseys), pants, shoes, socks, caps, and gloves 
are parts of baseball uniforms. Most uniforms have different logos and 
colors to aid players, officials, and spectators in distinguishing the 
two teams from each other and the officials. They are made out of polyester 
instead of cotton as washing shrinks the cotton fabric. Baseball uniforms 
were first worn by the New York Knickerbockers Baseball Club in 1849.[1] 
Today, sales of replica uniforms and derivative branded products generate 
large amounts of income for Major League teams through merchandising. The 
New York Knickerbockers were the first baseball team to wear uniforms, 
taking the field on April 4, 1849, in pants made of blue wool, white flannel 
shirts and straw hats.[1][2] The practice of wearing a uniform soon spread, 
and by 1900, all Major League Baseball teams had adopted them.[3] By 1882 
most uniforms included stockings, which covered the leg from foot to knee, 
and were used to differentiate one club from another. The uniforms themselves 
had different colors and patterns that reflected the different baseball 
positions.[4] In the late 1880s, the Detroit Wolverines and Washington 
Nationals of the National League and the Brooklyn Bridegrooms of the American 
Association were the first to wear striped uniforms.[5] By the end of the 
19th century, teams began the practice of wearing one of two different 
uniforms, one when they played in their own baseball stadium and a different 
one when they played on the road. It became common to wear white at home 
and one of gray, solid dark blue, or black on the road.[3] An early example 
of this is the Brooklyn Superbas, who started to use a blue pattern for 
their road uniforms in 1907.[3] In 1916, on the New York Giants' road uniforms, 
purple lines gave their uniforms a tartan-like effect, and another kind 
of road uniform was a solid dark blue or black material with white around 
this time. The Kansas City Athletics' home and road uniforms were changed 
by Charles O. Finley in 1963, to the colors of gold and green.[6] Some 
teams used light blue for their road uniforms from the 1970s to the early 
1990s.[3] Early striped patterns developed into long stripes along the 
length of the uniforms, called pinstriping. This was first worn on some 
major league baseball team's uniforms in 1907, and the pinstripes were 
then widened in 1912, so that the crowd could see them more clearly.[3] 
The Brooklyn Bridegrooms used checked uniforms in 1889, and brought them 
back in 1907 (as the Superbas) and 1916–1917 (as the Robins).[7][8] Satin 
uniforms were developed by several teams including the Brooklyn Dodgers 
for night games, as the sheen of the fabric was more reflective and thus 
easier to see.[7] Pinstripes were commonly worn on the uniforms of the 
New York Yankees. Legend had it that the stripes were adopted to make Babe 
Ruth look slimmer,[9] but since the Yankees had already been wearing pinstripes 
a few years before Ruth played for them in 1920, the legend was found to 
be a myth. The Yankees' pinstripes on their home uniforms soon became a 
team symbol. In 1916, the Cleveland Indians became the first team to add 
numbers on their uniforms, positioned on the left sleeve of the home uniforms 
only. (Okkonen, p. 36, p. 120)[3] In 1929, numbers were first added on 
the backs of uniforms by the New York Yankees and the Cleveland Indians. 
By 1932, all major league baseball teams had numbers on their players' 
uniforms.[3] The Brooklyn Dodgers, in 1952, became the first baseball team 
to add numbers to the fronts of their uniforms.[3][7] In most parts of 
the world, numbers are no more than two digits long; however, Japanese 
players who are on their team's developmental roster have three-digit numbers. 
Major league teams typically assign the highest numbers (#50 and above) 
in spring training to the players who are not expected to make the regular-season 
roster; hence the lower numbers are considered more prestigious, although 
there are many veterans who wear high numbers anyway. Two Hall of Famers 
who wore high numbers are Don Drysdale, who wore #53 for the Brooklyn and 
Los Angeles Dodgers, and Carlton Fisk, who wore #72 for the Chicago White 
Sox (reverse of the #27 he wore with the Boston Red Sox; Fisk also was 
the American League Rookie of the Year in 1972). Caps, or other types of 
headgear with eye-shades, have been a part of baseball uniforms from the 
beginning.[10][11] From the 1840s to the 1870s, baseball players wore various 
types of hats, or even no cap at all, since there was no official rule 
regarding headgear.[12] Examples included full-brimmed straw hats such 
as boating caps, jockey caps, cycling caps, and flat-topped caps.[10] The 
Brooklyn Excelsiors was the first team to wear what would later become 
the modern baseball cap, with its distinctive rounded top and peak, in 
the 1860s.[10][13] By the early years of the twentieth century, this style 
of cap had become common, but some teams occasionally revived the flat-topped 
cap, such as the New York Giants in 1916 and the Pittsburgh Pirates as 
recently as during the 1979 World Series.[3] Over time, the peak has enlarged 
slightly to further protect the player's eyes from the sun.[14] More recently, 
players have worn hats with fold-down ear flaps in cold weather. In the 
late 19th century, soft but durable leather shoes were the preferred choice 
of baseball players. In the 1970s, as artificial turf became prominent 
on developed countries' baseball fields, modifications to footwear became 
necessary.[15] Detachable spikes became popular in the 20th century, as 
they helped players to avoid slipping, especially on turf, but they were 
banned in 1976. In the 19th century and the first part of the 20th, baseball 
shoes were commonly black in color. In the 1960s, the Kansas City Athletics 
began wearing revolutionary white shoes, a tradition carried over when 
they moved to Oakland. Since then, some teams are wearing colored cleats 
corresponding to their team colors. For example, the Philadelphia Phillies 
and St. Louis Cardinals now wear red cleats, the Chicago Cubs and the Los 
Angeles Dodgers wear blue cleats, and some of the San Francisco Giants 
players wear orange cleats. Inspired by the Cincinnati Red Stockings, the 
stocking colors of teams in the 1860s onward were a principal device in 
distinguishing one team from another (hence team names such as the Chicago 
White Stockings, St. Louis Brown Stockings (or Browns), etc.). Except for 
a few "candy-cane" varieties (particularly by the New York Giants, St. 
Louis Cardinals and Washington Senators), striping was quite minimal during 
the 1920s and, in contrast, a revival of other sorts in the early 1930s.[17] 
By the 1990s, new styles of close-trimmed pants legs made it possible for 
players to wear pants that ran clear to the shoetops, in lieu of the traditional 
knee-breeches style that had prevailed for generations. This led to a violation 
of the literal concept of a "uniform", in that different players on a given 
team might wear knee-length and full-length pants on the field at the same 
time. Players such as Manny Ramirez have taken this fashion trend to an 
extreme, wearing loose-fitting pants whose legs nearly lap under the heels 
of the shoes. Some, such as Gary Sheffield, have even developed straps 
that hook under the cleats. Meanwhile, players such as Alfonso Soriano 
continue to wear the traditional knee-breeches, though most of these players 
still lack the traditional stirrups. By the end of the first decade of 
the 21st century, nearly all players wore either traditional knee-high 
socks or pants that covered the shoetops and contained no elastic in the 
bottom. Such loose-fitting pants are called "pro-flare", as they are worn 
by most major league players. However, a few older players, like Derek 
Jeter, wear pants that stop right at the shoes, like the style of the late 
1990s/early 2000s. In recent years teams that wear throwback uniforms usually 
outfit themselves with stirrups or knee-breeches, to simulate the look 
of a particular era. In addition, some teams began to wear stockings with 
stripes. Examples include the Tampa Bay Rays sporting Columbia blue and 
white striping on their navy stockings, the St. Louis Cardinals with navy 
and white stripes on their red stockings, and the San Francisco Giants 
in black stockings with orange stripes. From the beginning, graphic designs 
were used to identify teams. Often an Old English letter was worn on the 
chest. This style survives with the Detroit Tigers and their gothic style 
"D" on their home shirts. The Oakland Athletics currently have an Old English 
"A" on their caps and their alternative jerseys. As official nicknames 
gained prominence in the early 1900s (in contrast to media-generated and 
unofficial nicknames of prior generations), pictorial logos began emerging 
as part of the team's marketing. Some early examples include a small red 
tiger on the black cap of the 1901 Detroit Tigers, as they were officially 
the Tigers from the beginning; and a bear cub logo on the Chicago Cubs 
shirts by 1907, as that unofficial nickname was then adopted officially 
by the club. In another famous example, the Boston Americans (an unofficial 
designation that merely distinguished them from their across-the-tracks 
rivals) adopted the Nationals' abandoned red stockings in 1908, and have 
been the Boston Red Sox officially ever since then.[18] By the 1930s, nearly 
every team had distinctive logos, letters or the team nickname on their 
home shirts, as part of the team's marketing. The trend of the city name 
on the road jerseys continued. In recent years, with team nicknames being 
so strongly associated with the clubs, logos that were once only used at 
