Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1976 followed the system in 
place since 1971. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected two, Bob 
Lemon and Robin Roberts. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions 
to consider executives, managers, umpires, and earlier major league players. 
It selected three players: Roger Connor, Cal Hubbard, and Freddie Lindstrom. 
The Negro Leagues Committee also met in person and selected Oscar Charleston. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1956 or later, but 
not after 1970; the ballot included candidates from the 1975 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1970. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 32 players; a total of 388 ballots were 
cast, with 291 votes required for election. A total of 2,937 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 7.57 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The two candidates 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. Phil Rizzuto was on the ballot for the final 
time. The newly-eligible players included 9 All-Stars, 7 of whom were not 
included on the ballot, representing a total of 28 All-Star selections. 
Among the new candidates were 8-time All-Star Del Crandall and 6-time All-Star 
Johnny Roseboro. The field included one Rookie of the Year (Bob Allison). 
Players eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot 
were: Jerry Adair, Hank Aguirre, Bob Allison, Gerry Arrigo, Don Cardwell, 
Jim Davenport, Tito Francona, Gary Geiger, Bob Johnson, Ken Johnson, Lou 
Klimchock, Ron Kline, Al McBean, Pedro Ramos, Rich Rollins, Johnny Roseboro, 
Tom Satriano, Russ Snyder, Lee Stange, Hawk Taylor, Ray Washburn and Earl 
