The color line in American baseball, until the late 1940s, excluded, with 
some big exceptions in the 19th century until the line was firmly drawn, 
players of Black African descent from Major League Baseball and its affiliated 
Minor Leagues. Racial segregation in professional baseball was sometimes 
called a gentlemen's agreement, meaning a tacit understanding, as there 
was no written policy at the highest level of organized baseball, the major 
leagues. But a high minor league's vote in 1887 against allowing new contracts 
with black players within its league sent a powerful signal that eventually 
led to the disappearance of blacks from the sport's other minor leagues 
later that century, including the low minors. After the line was in virtually 
full effect in the early 20th century, many black baseball clubs were established, 
especially during the 1920s to 1940s when there were several Negro Leagues. 
During this period some light-skinned Hispanic players, Native Americans, 
and native Hawaiians were able to play in the Major Leagues. The color 
line was broken for good when Jackie Robinson signed with the Brooklyn 
Dodgers organization for the 1946 season. In 1947, both Robinson in the 
National League and Larry Doby with the American League's Cleveland Indians 
appeared in games for their teams. By the late 1950s, the percentage of 
black players on Major League teams matched or exceeded that of the general 
population. Formal beginning of segregation followed the baseball season 
of 1867. On October 16, the Pennsylvania State Convention of Baseball in 
Harrisburg denied admission to the "colored" Pythian Baseball Club.[1] 
Major League Baseball's National League, founded in 1876, had no black 
players in the 19th century, except for a recently discovered one, William 
Edward White, who played in a single game in 1879 and who apparently passed 
for being white. The National League and the other main major league of 
the day, the American Association, had no written rules against having 
African American players. In 1884, the American Association had two black 
players, Moses Fleetwood Walker and, for a few months of the season, his 
brother Weldy Walker, both of whom played for the Toledo Blue Stockings. 
The year before, in 1883, prominent National League player Cap Anson had 
threatened to have his Chicago team sit out an exhibition game at then-minor 
league Toledo if Toledo's Fleet Walker played. Anson backed down, but not 
before uttering the “N word” on the field and vowing that his team would 
not play in such a game again.[2] In 1884, the Chicago club made a successful 
threat months in advance of another exhibition game at Toledo, to have 
Fleet Walker sit out. In 1887, Anson made a successful threat by telegram 
before an exhibition game against the Newark Little Giants of the International 
League that it must not play its two black players, Fleet Walker and pitcher 
George Stovey.[3] An unsettled question is how far to spread the blame, 
to players such as Anson and racism in society at large as of the mid-1880s, 
for the most noted vote in 19th-century professional baseball in favor 
of segregation: a July 14, 1887 one by the high-minor International League 
to ban the signing of new contracts with black players. By a 6-to-4 vote, 
the league’s entirely white teams voted in favor and those with at least 
one black player voted in the negative. The Binghamton, N.Y., team, which 
had just released its two black players, voted with the majority.[4] Right 
after the vote, the sports weekly Sporting Life stated, “Several representatives 
declared that many of the best players in the league are anxious to leave 
on account of the colored element, and the board finally directed Secretary 
[C.D.] White to approve of no more contracts with colored men.” A lengthy 
2016 essay that focused on claims of Anson’s alleged influence on the vote 
cited the Sporting Life report and showed that several historians have 
been lax by not conveying that Anson’s influence on the vote is a matter 
of speculation.[5] On the afternoon of the International League vote, Anson’s 
Chicago team played the above-alluded-to game at Newark, with Stovey and 
the apparently injured Walker sitting out. Some historians who have come 
down hard on Anson rewrote the sequence of events that day to undo the 
fact that the league vote took place at a meeting that was convened in 
the morning, before the game that afternoon. The essay’s writer, Anson 
book-length biographer Howard W. Rosenberg, concluded that, “A fairer argument 
is that rather than being an architect [of segregation in professional 
baseball, as the late baseball racism historian Jules Tygiel termed Anson 
in his 1983 Baseball’s Great Experiment: Jackie Robinson and His Legacy], 
that he was a reinforcer of it, including in the National League – and 
that he had no demonstrable influence on changing the course of events 
apart from his team’s exhibition-game schedule.” The year 1887 was also 
the high point of achievement of blacks in the high minor leagues, and 
each National League team that year except for Chicago played exhibition 
games against teams with black players, including against Newark and other 
International League teams.[6] Some of Anson’s notoriety stems from a 1907 
book on early blacks in baseball by black minor league player and later 
black semi-professional team manager Sol White, who was elected to the 
Hall of Fame in 2006. White’s claims against Anson, such as that, “Were 
it not for this same man Anson, there would have been a colored player 
in the National League in 1887,” were analyzed at length by Rosenberg in 
his 2006 Anson biography and are referenced in a few places in his 2016 
essay.[7] After the 1887 season, the International League retained just 
two blacks for the 1888 season, both of whom were under contracts signed 
before the 1887 vote, Frank Grant of the Buffalo Bisons and Moses Fleetwood 
Walker of the Syracuse franchise, with Walker staying in the league for 
most of 1889. In September 1887, eight members of the St. Louis Browns 
of the then-major American Association (who would ultimately change their 
nickname to the current St. Louis Cardinals) staged a mutiny during a road 
trip, refusing to play a game against the New York Cuban Giants, the first 
all-black professional baseball club, and citing both racial and practical 
reasons: that the players were banged up and wanted to rest so as to not 
lose their hold on first place. At the time, the St. Louis team was in 
Philadelphia, and a story that ran in the Philadelphia Times stated that 
“for the first time in the history of base ball the color line has been 
drawn." [8] Blacks were gone from the high minors after 1889 and a trickle 
of them were left in the minor leagues within a decade. Besides White’s 
single game in 1879, the lone blacks in major league baseball for around 
75 years were Fleet Walker and his brother Weldy, both in 1884 with Toledo. 
A big change would take place starting in 1946, when Jackie Robinson played 
for the Montreal Royals in, fittingly, the International League.[9] While 
professional baseball was regarded as a strictly white-men-only affair, 
in fact the racial color bar was directed against black players exclusively. 
Other races were allowed to play in professional white baseball. One example 
was Charles Albert Bender, a star pitcher for the Philadelphia Athletics 
in 1910. Bender was the son of a Chippewa Indian mother and a German father 
and had the inevitable nickname "Chief" from the white players.[10] As 
a result of this exclusive treatment of black players, deceptive tactics 
were used by managers to sign African Americans, including several attempts, 
with the player's acquiescence, to sign players who they knew full well 
were African American as Native Americans despite the ban. In 1901, John 
McGraw, manager of the Baltimore Orioles, tried to add Charlie Grant to 
the roster as his second baseman. He tried to get around the Gentleman's 
Agreement by trying to pass him as a Cherokee Indian named Charlie Tokohama. 
Grant went along with the charade. However, in Chicago Grant's African 
American friends who came to see him try out gave him away and Grant never 
got an opportunity to play ball in the big leagues.[11] On May 28, 1916, 
British Columbian Jimmy Claxton temporarily broke the professional baseball 
color barrier when he played two games for the Oakland Oaks of the Pacific 
Coast League. Claxton was introduced to the team owner by a part-Native-American 
friend as a fellow member of an Oklahoma tribe. The Zee-Nut candy company 
rushed out a baseball card for Claxton.[10] However, within a week, a friend 
of Claxton revealed that he had both Negro and Native American ancestors, 
and Claxton was promptly fired.[12] It would be nearly thirty more years 
before another black man, at least one known to be black, played organized 
white baseball. There possibly were attempts to have people of African 
descent be signed as Hispanics. One possible attempt may have occurred 
in 1911 when the Cincinnati Reds signed two light-skinned players from 
Cuba, Armando Marsans and Rafael Almeida. Both of them had played "Negro 
Baseball", barnstorming as members of the integrated All Cubans. When questions 
arose about them playing the white man's game, the Cincinnati managers 
assured the public that "...they were as pure white as Castile soap."[10] 
The African American newspaper New York Age had this to say about the signings: 
Now that the first shock is over, it will not be surprising to see a Cuban 
a few shades darker breaking into the professional ranks. It would then 
be easier for colored players who are citizens of this country to get into 
fast company.[10] The Negro National League was founded in 1920 by Rube 
Foster, independent of Organized Baseball's National Commission (1903–1920). 
The NNL survived through 1931, primarily in the midwest, accompanied by 
the major Eastern Colored League for several seasons to 1928. "National" 
and "American" Negro leagues were established in 1933 and 1937 which persisted 
until integration. The Negro Southern League operated consecutively from 
1920, usually at a lower level. None of them, nor any integrated teams, 
were members of Organized Baseball, the system led by Commissioner Landis 
from 1921. Rather, until 1946 professional baseball in the United States 
was played in two racially segregated league systems, one on each side 
of the so-called color line. Much of that time there were two high-level 
"Negro major leagues" with a championship playoff or all-star game, as 
between the white major leagues. During his 1921–1944 tenure as the first 
baseball commissioner, Kenesaw Mountain Landis has been alleged to have 
been particularly determined to maintain the segregation.[citation needed] 
It is possible that he was guided by his background as a federal judge, 
and specifically by the then-existing constitutional doctrine of "separate 
but equal" institutions (see Plessy v. Ferguson).[citation needed] He himself 
maintained for many years that black players could not be integrated into 
the major leagues without heavily compensating the owners of Negro league 
teams for what would likely result in the loss of their investments.[citation 
needed] In addition, integration at the major league level would likely 
have necessitated integrating the minor leagues, which were much more heavily 
distributed through the rural U.S. South and Midwest.[citation needed] 
Although Landis had served an important role in helping to restore the 
integrity of the game after the 1919 World Series scandal, his unyielding 
stance on the subject of baseball's color line was an impediment.[according 
to whom?][how?][citation needed] His death in late 1944 was opportune, 
as it resulted in the appointment of a new Commissioner, Happy Chandler, 
who was much more open to integration than Landis was. From the purely 
operational viewpoint, Landis' predictions on the matter would prove to 
be correct. The eventual integration of baseball spelled the demise of 
the Negro leagues, and integration of the southern minor leagues was a 
difficult challenge.[citation needed] The only serious attempt to break 
the color line during Landis' tenure came in 1942, when Bill Veeck tried 
to buy the then-moribund Philadelphia Phillies and stock them with Negro 
league stars. However, when Landis got wind of his plans,[13] he and National 
League president Ford Frick scuttled it in favor of another bid by William 
D. Cox. In his autobiography, Veeck, as in Wreck, in which he discussed 
his abortive attempt to buy the Phillies, Veeck also stated that he wanted 
to hire black players for the simple reason that in his opinion the best 
black athletes "can run faster and jump higher" than the best white athletes.[14] 
Veeck realized that there was no actual rule against integration; it was 
just an unwritten policy, a "Gentlemen's Agreement." Veeck stated that 
Landis and Frick prevented him from buying and thus integrating the Phillies, 
on various grounds.[citation needed] The authors of a controversial article 
in the 1998 issue of SABR's The National Pastime argued that Veeck invented 
the story of buying the Phillies, claiming Philadelphia's black press made 
no mention of a prospective sale to Veeck.[15] Subsequently, the article 
was strongly challenged by the late historian Jules Tygiel, who refuted 
it point-by-point in an article in the 2006 issue of SABR's The Baseball 
Research Journal,[16] and in an appendix, entitled "Did Bill Veeck Lie 
About His Plan to Purchase the ’43 Phillies?", published in Paul Dickson's 
biography, Bill Veeck: Baseball's Greatest Maverick.[17] Joseph Thomas 
Moore wrote in his biography of Doby, "Bill Veeck planned to buy the Philadelphia 
Phillies with the as yet unannounced intention of breaking that color line."[18] 
Ironically, the Phillies ended up being the last National League team, 
and third-last team in the majors, to integrate, with John Kennedy debuting 
for the Phillies in 1957, 15 years after Veeck's attempted purchase. Around 
1945, Branch Rickey, General Manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers, held tryouts 
of black players, under the cover story of forming a new team called the 
"Brooklyn Brown Dodgers." The Dodgers were, in fact, looking for the right 
man to break the color line. Rickey had an advantage in that he was already 
an employee of the Dodgers. Also, Landis had died by this time and new 
commissioner Happy Chandler was more supportive of integrating the major 
leagues. The color line was breached when Rickey, with Chandler's support, 
signed the African American player Jackie Robinson in October 1945, intending 
him to play for the Dodgers. Chandler later wrote in his biography that 
although he risked losing his job as commissioner, he could not in good 
conscience tell black players they could not play with white players when 
they had fought alongside them in World War II.[citation needed] After 
a year in the minor leagues with the Dodgers' top minor-league affiliate, 
the Montreal Royals of the International League, Robinson was called up 
to the Dodgers in 1947. He endured epithets and death threats and got off 
to a slow start. However, his athleticism and skill earned him the first 
ever Rookie of the Year award, which is now named in his honor. Less well-known 
was Larry Doby, who signed with Bill Veeck's Cleveland Indians that same 
year to become the American League's first African American player. Doby, 
a more low-key figure than Robinson, suffered many of the same indignities 
that Robinson did, albeit with less press coverage. As baseball historian 
Daniel Okrent wrote, "Robinson had a two year drum roll, Doby just showed 
up."[19] Both men were ultimately elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame 
on the merits of their play. Due to their success, teams gradually integrated 
African Americans on their rosters. (Almost a dozen years after his 1947 
debut, Doby would become the first American player of African descent to 
appear for the Detroit Tigers, on April 10, 1959.) Prior to the integration 
of the major leagues, the Brooklyn Dodgers led the integration of the minor 
leagues. Jackie Robinson and Johnny Wright were assigned to Montreal, but 
also that season Don Newcombe and Roy Campanella became members of the 
Nashua Dodgers in the class-B New England League. Nashua was the first 
minor-league team based in the United States to integrate its roster after 
1898. Subsequently that season, the Pawtucket Slaters, the Boston Braves' 
New England League franchise, also integrated its roster, as did Brooklyn's 
class-C franchise in Trois-Rivières, Quebec. With one exception, the rest 
of the minor leagues would slowly integrate as well, including those based 
in the southern United States. The Carolina League, for example, integrated 
in 1951 when the Danville Leafs signed Percy Miller Jr. to their team. 
The exception was the Class AA Southern Association. Founded in 1901 and 
based in the Deep South, it allowed only one black player, Nat Peeples 
of the 1954 Atlanta Crackers, a brief appearance in the league. Peeples 
went hitless in two games played and four at bats on April 9–10, 1954, 
was demoted one classification to the Jacksonville Braves of the Sally 
League, and the SA reverted to white-only status. As a result, its major-league 
parent clubs were forced to field all-white teams during the 1950s. By 
the end of the 1950s, the SA also was boycotted by civil rights leaders. 
The Association finally ceased operation after the 1961 season, still a 
bastion of segregation. Its member teams joined the International, Sally 
and Texas leagues, which were all racially integrated. The Boston Red Sox 
were the last major league team to integrate, holding out until 1959.[20] 
This was allegedly due to the steadfast resistance provided by team owner 
Tom Yawkey. In April 1945, the Red Sox refused to consider signing Jackie 
Robinson (and future Boston Braves outfielder Sam Jethroe) after giving 
him a brief tryout at Fenway Park.[20] The tryout, however, was a farce 
chiefly designed to assuage the desegregationist sensibilities of powerful 
Boston City Councilman Isadore Muchnick.[21] Even with the stands limited 
to management, Robinson was subjected to racial epithets.[20] Robinson 
left the tryout humiliated.[22] Robinson would later call Yawkey "one of 
the most bigoted guys in baseball".[23] Boston city councilor Isadore Muchnick 
further spurred the Robinson tryout by threatening to revoke the team's 
exemption from Sunday blue laws.[citation needed] The segregation policy 
was enforced by Yawkey's general managers: Eddie Collins (through 1947), 
and Joe Cronin (1948–58). A pennant winning team in 1946, the year before 
integration, the Red Sox would perpetually fail to make the playoffs for 
the next twenty seasons, with implications being that Boston shut itself 
out by ignoring the expanded talent pool of black players. On April 7, 
1959 during spring training, Yawkey and general manager Bucky Harris were 
named in a lawsuit charging them with discrimination and the deliberate 
barring of black players from the Red Sox.[24] The NAACP issued charges 
of "following an anti-Negro policy", and the Massachusetts Commission Against 
Discrimination announced a public hearing on racial bias against the Red 
Sox.[25] Thus, the Red Sox were forced to integrate, becoming the last 
pre-expansion major-league team to do so when Harris promoted Pumpsie Green 
from Boston's AAA farm club. On July 21, Green debuted for the team as 
a pinch runner, and would be joined later that season by Earl Wilson, the 
second black player to play for the Red Sox.[26] In the early to mid 1960s, 
the team added other players of color to their roster including Joe Foy, 
José Tartabull, George Scott, George Smith, John Wyatt, Elston Howard and 
Reggie Smith. The 1967 Red Sox went on to win the "Impossible Dream" pennant 
but lost to the St. Louis Cardinals in seven games in that year's World 
Series. Tom Yawkey died in 1976, and his widow Jean Yawkey eventually sold 
the team to Haywood Sullivan and Edward "Buddy" LeRoux. As chief executive, 
Haywood Sullivan found himself in another racial wrangle that ended in 
a courtroom. The Elks Club of Winter Haven, Florida, the Red Sox spring 
training home, did not permit black members or guests. Yet the Red Sox 
allowed the Elks into their clubhouse to distribute dinner invitations 
to the team's white players, coaches, and business management. When the 
African-American Tommy Harper, a popular former player and coach for Boston, 
then working as a minor league instructor, protested the policy and a story 
appeared in the Boston Globe, he was promptly fired. Harper sued the Red 
Sox for racial discrimination and his complaint was upheld on July 1, 1986.[27] 
The under-representation of black players in U.S. baseball ended during 
the early years of the Civil rights movement, but has fallen in recent 
years and as of 2010 was lower than in 1959 when the hiring of black players 
was still very controversial. * A case has been made for Ernie Banks as 
the de facto first black manager in the major leagues. On May 8, 1973, 
Chicago Cubs manager Whitey Lockman was ejected from the game. Coach Ernie 
Banks filled in as manager for two innings of the 12-inning 3–2 win over 
the San Diego Padres. The Sporting News Official Baseball Guide prior to 
the 1974 season stated flatly that on May 8, "Ernie Banks became the major 
leagues' first black manager, but only for a day" (page 129). The other 
two regular coaches on the team were absent that day, opening this door 
for Banks for the one occasion, but Banks never became a manager on a permanent 
