There was no regular election in 1944 to select inductees to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame; in 1939 the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
had moved to hold elections every three years rather than annually, and 
the next scheduled election was to be in 1945. In addition, the four-member 
Old-Timers Committee formed in late 1939 to select deserving individuals 
from the 19th century had still never met for that purpose, and criticism 
of the lack of honorees from that period was increasing. On August 4, 1944, 
baseball commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis named three new members to 
the Hall of Fame Committee, in addition to the four already named; he instructed 
them to put aside any delay and choose at least 10 individuals from the 
period 1876–1900 when they met early in 1945, in order that those selected 
might be honored concurrently with any elected by the BBWAA in their regular 
election in January. This was a goal the committee members believed they 
would have no problem meeting, and some noted that the number of deserving 
players was probably over two dozen. The previously named committee members 
were: Yankees president Ed Barrow; Athletics owner/manager Connie Mack; 
New York sportswriter Sid Mercer; and Braves president Bob Quinn. The newly 
named members were: Hall of Fame president Stephen C. Clark, who would 
chair the committee; Hall of Fame treasurer Paul S. Kerr, who would serve 
as committee secretary; and Boston sportswriter Mel Webb. Landis died on 
November 25, even as plans were being made to extend his contract for a 
new 7-year term. Within days, the public and press strongly advocated his 
immediate election to the Hall. Two weeks after Landis' death, the Old-Timers 
Committee met at baseball's winter meetings in New York City and elected 
Landis to membership in the Hall of Fame; Connie Mack sent his approval 
of the move by telegram from California, where he was vacationing. The 
members stated that any delay in electing Landis might have resulted in 
an unfortunate increase in public pressure, possibly creating the impression 
that the move was somehow forced rather than voluntary. The committee also 
suggested that if the upcoming BBWAA election failed to select any players 
whose careers extended into the early 20th century, some would be selected 
by the committee when they met again in February 1945. Landis was formally 
inducted into the Hall of Fame on June 13, 1946, with New York Governor 
