Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1979 followed the system in 
place since 1978, except that players who appeared on fewer than 5% of 
BBWAA ballots would now no longer be eligible in future elections. The 
Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select 
from recent major league players and elected Willie Mays. The Veterans 
Committee met in closed sessions to consider older major league players 
as well as managers, umpires, executives, and figures from the Negro Leagues. 
It selected Warren Giles and Hack Wilson. The BBWAA was authorized to elect 
players active in 1959 or later, but not after 1973; the ballot included 
players whose last appearance was in 1973. Originally a selection committee 
met and decided that only Willie Mays and Luis Aparicio were first year 
players deserving of being on the ballot, but after a protest by Milt Pappas[1], 
all eligible first-year candidates were placed on the ballot.[2] All 10-year 
members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast 
votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving votes on at least 
75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to the Hall. The ballot 
consisted of 54 players; a total of 432 ballots were cast, with 324 votes 
required for election. A total of 3,327 individual votes were cast, an 
average of 7.70 per ballot. Candidates who were eligible for the first 
time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate who received at least 
75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold italics; candidates 
who have since been elected in subsequent elections are indicated in italics. 
The 31 candidates who received less than 5% of the vote, thus becoming 
ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are indicated with a *. Enos 
Slaughter and Bobby Thomson were on the ballot for the final time. The 
newly-eligible players included 11 All-Stars, representing a total of 51 
All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 20-time All-Star Willie 
Mays and 10-time All-Star Luis Aparicio. The field included one MVP (Mays, 
who won twice), and four Rookies of the Year (Tommy Agee, Luis Aparicio, 
Frank Howard and Willie Mays). In addition, Willie Mays had 12 Gold Gloves 
at Outfield, tied for most all-time with Roberto Clemente, and Luis Aparicio 
