A baseball cap is a type of soft cap with a rounded crown and a stiff peak 
projecting in front. The front of the cap typically contains designs or 
logos of sports teams (namely baseball teams, or names of relevant companies, 
when used as a commercial marketing technique). The back of the cap may 
be "fitted" to the wearer's head size or it may have a plastic, Velcro, 
or elastic adjuster so that it can be quickly adjusted to fit different 
wearers. The baseball cap is a part of the traditional baseball uniform 
worn by players, with the brim pointing forward to shield the eyes from 
the sun. The cap is often seen in everyday casual wear. In 1860, the Brooklyn 
Excelsiors wore the ancestor of the modern rounded-top baseball cap, which 
featured a long peak and a button on top, and by 1900, the "Brooklyn style" 
cap became popular.[1] During the 1940s, latex rubber became the stiffening 
material inside the hat and the modern baseball cap was born. The peak, 
also known in certain areas as the "bill" or "brim", was designed to protect 
a player's eyes from the sun. Typically, the peak was much shorter in the 
earlier days of the baseball hat. Also, the hat has become more structured, 
versus the overall "floppy" cap of the 19th and early 20th centuries. The 
baseball cap was and still is an important means by which to identify a 
team. Often the logo, mascot, or team's initial was placed on the cap. 
Usually, the cap was also fashioned in the official colors of a particular 
team. The basic shape, including curved peak, is similar to some styles 
of 19th century sun bonnets.[2] Fitted baseball caps, those without an 
adjuster, are normally sewn in six sections, and may be topped with a matching 
fabric-covered button (also called a squatchee) on the crown. Metal grommets 
or fabric eyelets are often sewn or attached near the top of each of the 
six sections of fabric to provide ventilation. In some cases, the rear 
sections of the crown are made of net-like mesh material for extra ventilation. 
The peak is typically stiffened by a sewn-in piece of paperboard or stiff 
plastic. Baseball caps are made of many types of material and shaped in 
various styles for different purposes. Major and minor league baseball 
players wear classic-style caps made of wool (or, more recently, polyester) 
with their team's simple logo and colors; the logo is usually embroidered 
into the fabric. Formerly, baseball caps only came in standard hat sizes. 
Since 1980, they have also been available in a one-size-fits-all form, 
with an adjustment strap in the back. The style, commonly called snapback, 
has become increasingly popular as fashion accessories.[3] Advances in 
textiles have led to the "stretch-fit" hat, which uses Lycra or rubber 
to allow a hat to have a fitted style while still being "adjustable" within 
sizes. Another version of the baseball cap is a plastic mesh cap with a 
foam front imprinted with a company logo. This style of baseball cap is 
sometimes called a trucker cap or a "gimme cap" because it is given away 
for free as a promotional item. Beginning with the 2014 season, MLB pitchers 
are permitted to wear a special reinforced cap to protect their heads from 
line drives.[4] Athletes in other sports wear caps with their team's logo 
and colors as "sideline" caps; both types are also sold as authentic team 
merchandise in retail stores and are quite popular.[citation needed] Other 
caps may simply have a company's logo, such as Reebok, Nike or Carhartt; 
these hats are often made of brushed cotton. Golfers tend to prefer the 
visor form of cap which does not cover the head but keeps the sun out of 
their eyes; women also traditionally have worn visors casually but a trend 
towards certain youth subcultures see an increase in visor popularity among 
both sexes. Some armed forces also use baseball caps as part of their uniforms, 
including the United States Navy and United States Coast Guard. Used mostly 
with the utility uniform and coveralls, the baseball cap usually has a 
command logo on the front to denote command affiliation. Also baseball 
caps of a particular color are worn to denote a specific function of a 
person or particular job. Two examples are in the United States submarine 
force, red baseball caps are worn by drill monitors who facilitate and 
critique members of the boat's crew during drills. Also in the United States 
Army, parachute riggers wear red baseball caps and parachute instructors 
wear black baseball caps as part of their uniform. In various squadrons 
of the United States Air Force's civilian auxiliary, squadron-distinctive 
baseball caps have been issued as headgear (or "cover") for the Battle 
Dress Uniform, typically displaying squadron colors, squadron number, and/or 
squadron patch. Though the BDUs have their own cover, a patrol cap in M81 
Woodland, some squadrons have opted for more distinctive covers. In many 
United States police forces, the baseball cap is worn as a more practical 
alternative to the traditional peaked cap or campaign hat, the latter of 
which is generally used by Sheriff's departments and state police forces. 
This is more true on the West Coast, whereas in eastern states the traditional 
peaked cap is more prominent. A notable exception is the San Francisco 
Police Department, where peaked caps are still worn regularly. In Slovenia, 
policemen on motorcycles wear baseball caps as a part of their uniform, 
when they remove the helmet. The baseball cap is also commonly used by 
private security companies as a cheap, practical piece of uniform headgear. 
There has been a marked trend in recent years amongst police forces and 
other uniformed bodies throughout the world to substitute the cheap and 
comfortable baseball cap for peaked caps and other traditional headdresses. 
Many armed police units around the world, notably SWAT in the United States 
and Metropolitan Police's Specialist Firearms Command in the United Kingdom, 
often wear baseball caps to shield their eyes from the sun where a full 
