Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1946 were conducted by methods 
refashioned and then fashioned again during the year. As in 1945 the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from recent 
players and elected no one. Also as in 1945 the Old Timers Committee responded 
by electing the biggest class yet, then ten and now eleven people: Jesse 
Burkett, Frank Chance, Jack Chesbro, Johnny Evers, Clark Griffith, Tommy 
McCarthy, Joe McGinnity, Eddie Plank, Joe Tinker, Rube Waddell, and Ed 
Walsh. Most of those "old timers" were star players from the 1900s and 
1910s rather than the 19th century. Afterward the jurisdiction of the BBWAA 
was formally reduced to cover only players who retired during the last 
25 years; in 1947 those would be players active in 1922 and later. Perhaps 
the relatively narrow scope would help the writers concentrate their votes 
on a few candidates. To make certain, the rules for 1947 provided a runoff 
in case of no winner on the first ballot. On Dec. 3, the BBWAA also limited 
voting to writers who had been members for at least ten years. The eleven 
old timers were selected in the summer of 1946 and inducted as part of 
the 1947 ceremonies. Among them, Ed Walsh alone was present. Because the 
Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) had failed to elect any 
candidates in 1945, and had elected only one player since 1939, the previous 
delay of three years between elections had been eliminated in September 
1945 by the Hall of Fame Committee, and annual elections restored. In response 
to the high number of candidates drawing votes in the 1945 election, a 
2-step ballot process was created to narrow the field for a final vote. 
The first ballot would proceed in the same manner as previous elections, 
with voters free to name any 10 candidates. However, there would be no 
possibility of any inductees being elected in this vote; instead, the top 
20 candidates would proceed to a final ballot. In order for any candidate 
to be elected, at least 200 ballots would have to be cast in each phase 
of the election. In addition to the field being narrowed in this manner, 
it was hoped that the absence of several previously popular candidates 
would clear the way for others; the 10 players elected by the Old-Timers 
Committee in 1945 had received 26% of the vote in the last BBWAA election, 
and had included 7 of the top 16 candidates. It was hoped that the revised 
approach and reduced field of candidates would result in up to 5 new members 
of the Hall annually. Members of the BBWAA again had the authority to select 
any players active in the 20th century (after 1900), provided they had 
not appeared in a major league game in 1945. Voters were instructed to 
cast votes for 10 candidates. The top 20 candidates would advance to the 
final ballot, but the vote totals from the first ballot would not be revealed 
until the second election was over. In addition, the Hall of Fame Committee 
had instituted a set of criteria for the voters to observe in completing 
their ballot; for each candidate, they were to take into consideration: 
A total of 202 ballots were cast, with 1,948 individual votes for 76 specific 
candidates, an average of 9.64 per ballot; due to a tie for 20th place, 
the top 21 candidates (those who had received 39 or more votes) were announced 
on January 3, 1946, and advanced to the final ballot. Even following the 
previous year's election of several players from that era, the emphasis 
on the stars of the 1900s and 1910s – who many voters felt should be given 
priority – was again evident, although not quite at the levels seen previously. 
Only 5 of the top 14 candidates in the voting, and none of the top 5, had 
seen any substantial play since 1917; only 2 of the top 26, and none of 
the top 19, had played their final season anytime between 1918 and 1933. 
Players who had been retired over 28 years – 35 of the 76 named – received 
53% of the votes. No player received 75% of the vote in this stage; even 
if the rules had allowed a selection at this point, none would have occurred. 
Individuals who were barred from baseball were still not officially ineligible. 
Shoeless Joe Jackson received 2 votes; this was the first time since 1937 
that anyone who had been thrown out of baseball had received any votes, 
and it would be the last time any such candidate received any recognized 
votes. Candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics; players selected by the Old-Timers Committee 
in 1946 marked with an asterisk: The 21 final candidates were listed on 
the ballot in alphabetical order, as their vote totals in the first round 
had not been revealed. Because no more than 5 selections were desired at 
this time, voters were restricted to voting for their top 5 choices; this, 
of course, did not allow for the fact that candidates were less likely 
to be among a voter's top 5 choices than they were to be among his top 
10, thus making any selections less probable than they otherwise might 
have been. A total of 263 ballots were cast, with 1318 individual votes 
for the 21 candidates; 198 votes were required for election. The results 
were announced on January 23, 1946. For the second year in a row, no candidate 
gained the necessary number of votes, with none even coming within 40 of 
the required total. As might have been mathematically projected, every 
candidate got a lower percentage of the vote than they had received on 
the nomination ballot. As a result of the restriction to 5 choices, only 
4 candidates received even half the necessary votes for election. Again, 
an emphasis on the earliest candidates was evident; the top 6 candidates 
were all retired by 1917, while the bottom 4 were all active in 1934 or 
later, with the 11 candidates who were retired over 23 years receiving 
65% of the vote. The continuing inability to elect anyone created an even 
greater clamor for radical revision of the selection method. Some suggested 
that perhaps a lower threshold than 75% was advisable; others proposed 
that the final ballot should include only 10 names, with voters choosing 
the top 5. The Hall of Fame Committee, meeting in April and again in December, 
found it necessary to again overhaul the election method. All of the candidates 
on the ballot were elected by 1955, with the exception of manager Miller 
Huggins, who was elected in 1964. After its 1945 selections, the committee 
had intended to review the pitchers from the pre-1910 era and to also re-focus 
on the earlier 19th century players; but after the BBWAA had failed to 
select any inductees for the second year in a row, and with only one player 
chosen by the BBWAA since 1939, it was generally accepted that a dramatic 
revision of the election process by the Hall of Fame Committee was necessary. 
The committee firmly agreed that any flaws in the rules were causing errors 
of omission rather than ones of liberality in selections, and that the 
wide field of candidates from the entire 20th century was making it unlikely 
that any candidate could draw 75% of the vote from the BBWAA. The committee 
members were: Hall of Fame president Stephen C. Clark, who chaired the 
committee; Hall of Fame treasurer Paul S. Kerr, the committee secretary; 
former Yankees president Ed Barrow; Athletics owner/manager Connie Mack; 
former Braves president Bob Quinn; and Boston sportswriter Mel Webb. New 
York sportswriter Harry Cross, who had been named in February to fill the 
vacancy created by the death of Sid Mercer, also died on April 4. On April 
23, the members of the committee met in New York City to consider their 
selections and to make further revisions in the election process. In May, 
Grantland Rice was named to fill the vacancy on the committee, and another 
major revision in the BBWAA voting process was enacted at their meeting 
in December. The committee determined that the candidates from the early 
part of the century were gaining the most support, but would likely never 
reach the necessary threshold of 75% because many younger writers were 
reluctant to vote for players about whom they had limited first-hand knowledge. 
In 1945 the committee had believed that only a handful of those early candidates 
whose careers bridged the turn of the century needed to be removed from 
BBWAA consideration in order to facilitate elections; they were now more 
certain that they needed to select players whose careers began after 1900, 
and extended through the 1910s, in order to break the deadlock in the BBWAA 
voting. There was even some support on the committee from eliminating the 
BBWAA from the process entirely, due to their inability for several years 
to agree on appropriate inductees. The committee selected 11 inductees 
– 5 of whom were still living – including the first two left-handed pitchers 
to reach the Hall. They were formally inducted on July 21, 1947, with National 
League president Ford Frick officiating; however, of the 4 still living 
at that time (Johnny Evers died in the interim), only Ed Walsh attended 
the ceremonies: The committee had followed up on its intent to review most 
of the popular pitching candidates of the era, but took no further action 
on the candidacies, proposed one year earlier, of Abner Doubleday and Franklin 
Roosevelt. They also took no action on additional stars such as Jim "Deacon" 
White from the era before 1890, an area in which selections had continually 
been postponed. The Hall of Fame Committee also announced the creation 
of the Honor Rolls of Baseball, which would be displayed at the museum, 
featuring the names of significant non-players in four areas. This second-tier 
list consisted of 5 managers, 11 umpires, 11 executives and 12 sportswriters. 
These contributors were not designated as official Hall of Fame members, 
so plaques on the wall were not authorized, as they were reserved only 
for those outstanding players, along with certain pioneers of the game. 
The Honor Roll recognition was not meant to be a final destination for 
anyone in the categories of writers, umpires, managers and executive. The 
committee was clear that any of the men named to the Honor Rolls would 
be eligible for full admission into the Hall in the future. In fact, 8 
of the 39 have received the higher. Of the 39 honorees, only eight were 
still living: Barrow, Carrigan, Connolly, Dinneen, Evans, Heydler, Klem 
and Quinn. Whereas the committee's 1945 selections met with criticism only 
in later years, complaints regarding their moves in 1946 began more immediately. 
The committee had not yet outlined the revised voting rules for BBWAA elections, 
and many observers felt that the BBWAA's privilege of selecting 20th century 
players was being infringed. It was widely suggested that the committee 
should either reform the BBWAA's voting rules or eliminate the writers 
entirely from the process; it was also noted that there was still plenty 
of work for the committee in selecting further 19th century inductees. 
Criticism was also directed at the Roll of Honor, which had been created 
by the committee without any popular request; many felt that the Roll was 
a backhanded, secondary honor for individuals who had perhaps earned full 
membership in the Hall, and that the committee had simply established it 
as an excuse for inaction regarding non-playing candidates. It was further 
noted that managers (Connie Mack), executives (Ban Johnson), sportwriters 
(Henry Chadwick) and pioneers (Alexander Cartwright) were already included 
among the Hall's members, indicating that it had not been intended as an 
honor solely for players. Probably as a result of this criticism, there 
were never any additions to the Roll of Honor. Specific, individual criticism 
regarding the 11 inductees selected by the committee was not as immediate, 
although the choices included some which have come to be met with greater 
disapproval than any of the 1945 choices; McCarthy has been described as 
the worst player in the Hall of Fame.[1] Again, it is reasonably clear 
to discern the several factors which the committee likely found most important 
