Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1975 followed the system in 
place since 1971. The Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA) voted 
by mail to select from recent major league players and elected Ralph Kiner. 
The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider executives, managers, 
umpires, and earlier major league players. It selected three people: Earl 
Averill, Bucky Harris, and Billy Herman. The Negro Leagues Committee also 
met in person and selected Judy Johnson. The BBWAA was authorized to elect 
players active in 1955 or later, but not after 1969; the ballot included 
candidates from the 1974 ballot who received at least 5% of the vote but 
were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening committee, 
whose last appearance was in 1969. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were 
eligible to vote. Voters were instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; 
any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored 
with induction to the Hall. The ballot consisted of 37 players; a total 
of 362 ballots were cast, with 272 votes required for election. A total 
of 2,870 individual votes were cast, an average of 7.93 per ballot. Those 
candidates receiving less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future 
BBWAA ballots but may eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. 
Candidates who were eligible for the first time are indicated here with 
a †. The one candidate who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected 
is indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been elected in 
subsequent elections are indicated in italics. Ralph Kiner, Hal Newhouser, 
Phil Cavarretta, Johnny Sain and Vic Raschi were on the ballot for the 
last time. Kiner's selection, in which he barely reached the cut-off point, 
was widely hailed as a mistake.[1] The newly eligible players included 
10 All-Stars, 6 of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a 
total of 53 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 11-time 
All-Star Ken Boyer, 9-time All-Star Don Drysdale, 8-time All-Star Bill 
White, 6-time All-Star Roy Face and 5-time All-Star Turk Farrell. Players 
eligible for the first time who were not included on the ballot were: Ruben 
Amaro, Gary Bell, Roy Face, Turk Farrell, Jack Fisher, Julio Gotay, Woodie 
Held, Bill Henry, Al Jackson, Gene Oliver, Phil Ortega, Jim Pagliaroni, 
Charley Smith, Dick Stuart, Leon Wagner, Dave Wickersham and Al Worthington. 
