The 1937 process of selecting inductees to the Baseball Hall of Fame was 
markedly different from the initial elections the previous year. As only 
half of the initial goal of 10 inductees had been selected in 1936, members 
of the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) were once again 
given authority to select any players active in the 20th century; but the 
unsuccessful 1936 Veterans Committee election for 19th-century players 
led to a smaller Centennial Commission choosing a handful of inductees 
whose contributions were largely as non-players. In the BBWAA election, 
voters were again instructed to cast votes for 10 candidates, but were 
now discouraged from casting votes for active players (though some player-managers 
whose playing days were largely over, such as Rogers Hornsby, received 
votes). Any candidate receiving votes on at least 75% of the ballots would 
be honored with induction to the Hall upon its opening in the sport's supposed 
centennial year of 1939. Again, individuals who had been barred from baseball 
were not formally ineligible; Hal Chase received some votes, though Shoeless 
Joe Jackson did not. A total of 201 ballots were cast, with 1,949 individual 
votes for 113 specific candidates, an average of 9.70 per ballot; 151 votes 
were required for election. Selections were announced on January 19, 1937. 
The three candidates who received at least 75% of the vote and were elected 
are indicated in bold italics; candidates who have since been selected 
in subsequent elections are indicated in italics: After the error-ridden 
1936 Veterans election failed to select any 19th-century players, the Hall 
opted in 1937 to have a small committee select inductees "for outstanding 
service to base ball apart from playing the game." The Commission's members 
were: Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis; National League president Ford 
Frick; American League president Will Harridge; Judge William G. Bramham, 
president of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues 
(the minor league overseeing body); former NL president John Heydler; and 
George Trautman, president of the minor league American Association and 
chairman of the National Association's executive committee. At the December 
1937 major league winter meetings in Chicago, Frick announced that the 
Commission had elected: Of the five selectees, only Mack was still living 
