Baseball Canada is the governing body for Baseball in Canada.[1] Incorporated 
in 1964 as the Canadian Federation of Amateur Baseball, it is made up of 
10 provincial associations which represent players, coaches, and umpires 
across Canada. Baseball Canada is a member of both the Canadian Olympic 
Committee and the International Baseball Federation and competes in international 
tournaments as Canada. It is funded and recognized by Sport Canada and 
Heritage Canada, and is recognized by Revenue Canada as having charitable 
status.[2] Baseball Canada's sole mission is "dedicated, through collaborative 
leadership, to develop, promote and deliver ethical athlete centred programs 
which allow individuals to maximize their potential."[3] Founded in 1999; 
the Junior National Team began an elite selection process in developing 
baseball players in North America. Canada Baseball organizes numerous teams 
composed of High School, College, and Professional baseball players competing 
nationally and internationally. Canada Baseball also fields the Junior 
National Team featuring the best under-18 prospects. The Mizuno Elite Development 
Camp which selects the top under-16 prospects in Canada every September 
to play at the Rogers Centre, home of the Toronto Blue Jays; evaluated 
by top coaches in the country.[4] Another event that takes place annually 
is the Baseball Canada Cup. This event takes place every August within 
Canada. The competition features the under-17 players from each of the 
10 provinces in Canada contending for a national championship.[5] The final 
stage of the Junior National Team eventually leads to the World Junior 
Baseball Championship which takes place every other year. In the past this 
tour has included games against top collegiate summer teams, elite travel 
or club teams, and national teams from other countries both at the high 
school and college level.[6] Since 1981, Canada has tallied one gold, one 
silver, and seven bronze medals with their most recent silver medal coming 
at the 2012 18U Baseball World Championship, held in Seoul, South Korea.[7] 
The Junior National Team has produced numerous players that have gone on 
to play professional and college baseball, along with players who have 
represented Canada in the World Baseball Classic, and also the Olympics. 
Some of these players include 2006 American League MVP Justin Morneau, 
2004 National League Rookie of the Year Jason Bay, National League MVP 
Larry Walker and Joey Votto, first round picks Adam Loewen and Jeff Francis 
as well as current Major League Baseball players: Brett Lawrie, Russell 
Martin, Ryan Dempster, and John Axford.[8] The program was created in 2008 
in order to give local baseball associations across Canada the chance to 
apply for accreditation with the RBI Program. According to Baseball Canada, 
by becoming accredited through the RBI Program, an association gain credibility 
in their community. Parents signing their children up for baseball will 
be able to tell if the association they are signing up with is well-run 
and meets the high standards Baseball Canada sets for its programs. In 
order to apply for membership in the RBI Program, an association must at 
least meet the minimum standards in these five areas:[9] If an organization 
does not deal with young children (ages 5–8) and would still like to be 
a member of the program, they can gain membership through a points system 
that evaluates their association. They must meet at least 5 of the core 
criteria that Baseball Canada has set, a few of which are, having the Challenger 
Program for special needs children in place, a girls specific program, 
and hosting both umpire and coaches clinics. Based on how relevant each 
of these criteria are, the RBI Program awards the association points. If 
they meet the 5 necessary criteria but are awarded less than 10 points, 
they receive a bronze designation, if they are awarded 10-16 points they 
receive a silver designation, and if they are awarded 16-22 points they 
receive a gold designation. The following associations have all received 
accreditation through the RBI Program:[10] Alberta Saskatchewan Manitoba 
New Brunswick Prince Edward Island Baseball Canada's Challenger Program[11] 
is designed to ensure that children with special needs get the opportunity 
to participate in organized baseball. Whether they have mental or physical 
disabilities, children are given the opportunity to play at a level that 
is suited to their abilities. It is a safe, fun and positive environment 
where no score is kept, and each child is assigned their own personal "buddy" 
who aids them during a game. Whether it be learning the rules, aiding them 
around the base path, or teaching them how to play, these buddies help 
to ensure that each child has an enjoyable experience. Maintaining the 
team aspect of conventional baseball is a key part of this program, as 
is ensuring that each participant is treated the same way as they would 
be in a regular baseball program. Baseball Canada's website provides this 
list of objectives[12] they hope to meet through their Challenger Program: 
Their website also provides this list of benefits[13] they feel families 
and children will receive from participating in this program: Originally 
a program that was launched by Baseball Ontario, and with the help of Baseball 
Canada, the MLB and the Toronto Blue Jays, it has become a nationwide program 
that helps get kids (primarily aged 6–12) involved with baseball in a fun 
and easy way. The program is set up with schools and local communities 
and is free of charge. It contains simple and entertaining games that a 
child can play by themselves or in groups. These games are designed specifically 
for each age group and focus on developing the key skill sets used in baseball: 
hitting, throwing, and fielding. The non-competitive aspect of these games 
ensures that each child has fun and doesn't feel that baseball isn't for 
them if they don't succeed. In addition to the physical benefits of the 
program, Winterball also teaches children valuable social skills, such 
as how to play fair, how to play as a team, and proper etiquette.[14] Some 
of the games included in the program are:[15] Canada regularly competes 
in international play. Most recently the team they played in the 2013 World 
