Baseball at the 2004 Summer Olympics was held on two separate diamonds 
within the Helliniko Olympic Complex, from August 15 to August 25. This 
was a male-only event. The competition consisted of a preliminary round 
with each team playing all the other teams once, for a total of seven games. 
The top four teams at the end of this round advanced to the medals round. 
The medals round consisted of two semifinal games with the winners advancing 
to the gold medal game. The losing teams of the semifinals would play in 
the bronze medal game. Despite being the "home of baseball" and the defending 
gold medalists, the United States did not make it to Athens after losing 
a qualifying game to Mexico, 1-0. The Americas Tournament, which decided 
which two teams from North America, South America and the Caribbean went 
to Athens, was single-elimination, when almost all other baseball tournaments 
are double-elimination. (The Mexicans didn't make it to the Olympics either; 
in the very next round, they were beaten by Canada.) Ironically, many Americans 
wound up playing in Athens anyway, as members of the nascent Greek team. 
Others took issue with the fact that three of the eight slots in the Olympics 
(including the hosts) were European, while the Americas and Asia (with 
much stronger baseball nations) got only two slots apiece. The absence 
of such teams as the USA, Mexico, the Dominican Republic and South Korea 
led to disinterest in the Olympic tournament in those countries. The 2008 
tournament has changed the qualifying procedure; the United States qualified, 
as did Cuba and the host country China. The top four teams (Japan, Cuba, 
Canada and Australia) advanced to the semifinals. To determine the seed 
ranking of teams tied in the standings, the result of the two teams' game 
against each other was used. Japan therefore received first place due to 
the win over Cuba. In the semi-finals, Japan (#1) played Australia (#4) 
and Cuba (#2) played Canada (#3). The higher ranked team in each game was 
