Baseball Ontario, officially known as the Ontario Baseball Association 
(OBA), is the provincial governing body for baseball in Ontario. The Ontario 
Baseball Association was founded under the name “Ontario Baseball Amateur 
Association” which was organized at a meeting held in Hamilton at the Central 
YMCA on Saturday, May 4, 1918. In 1938, the name was changed to “Ontario 
Baseball Association”, and in 1982, the organization was incorporated as 
“Ontario Baseball Association, Inc”. Baseball Ontario currently has its 
headquarters in Cambridge, Ontario.[1] In 2013, Baseball Ontario was named 
Province of the Year by Baseball Canada due, in large part to the 8 medals 
won by Ontario teams at National Championships. Ontario medaled in all 
7 tournaments winning gold at the Bantam Girls, Bantam Boys, Midget, Junior, 
Senior Women and Senior Men's tournaments in addition to a silver medal 
at the Baseball Canada Cup and a bronze at the Senior Men's tournament. 
The establishment of the Baseball Ontario Hall of Fame provides the opportunity 
to recognize individuals and teams that have achieved the highest standards 
and commitment to the sport of baseball in Ontario. Inductees of the Baseball 
Ontario Hall of Fame are players, coaches, managers, umpires, teams and 
builders. They are chosen by the Baseball Ontario Hall of Fame’s Selection 
Committee. In order of priority, the objectives of the OBA as clearly stated 
in the Constitution & By-Laws of Baseball Ontario are: To be eligible to 
play in a particular category, a player must fall within the age group 
indicated next to the category listed in the table below. It is possible 
for a younger player to play with an older age category, such as a Mosquito-aged 
player with a Peewee-aged team; however, the player will be considered 
as a player of the older series and cannot be called up to the younger 
series team.[3] The links below provide summaries and approved interpretations 
of the following Baseball Ontario rules. As a result of the Board of Directors 
meetings held April 15, and May 27, 2007 the following clarifications are 
being provided to the membership: Baseball Ontario's Umpire Development 
program is administered under the leadership of the Supervisor of Umpires, 
Ed Quinlan and The Baseball Ontario Umpires Committee. It is one of the 
hardest working committees in the OBA, working year-round to improve umpiring 
across the province. They are always available to answer any questions 
or comments about the Ontario Baseball Association’s umpiring program. 
Umpires in Ontario are certified by Baseball Canada trained Course Conductors 
and progress through the ranks beginning with Level 1 and working their 
way to the pinnacle of amateur umpiring in Canada, Level 5 (International 
Certified). The following individuals currently form the Baseball Ontario 
Umpires Committee.[7] The following chart describes the OBA’s umpire certification 
program, and how one would go about becoming an umpire. First, one must 
be certified as a Level 1 umpire. At this level, no previous experience 
is necessary, and to meet the requirements one must simply attend a Level 
1 clinic. The chart also demonstrates final examination requirements; the 
levels of baseball that a Level 1 umpire is certified to umpire; and, the 
requirements necessary to maintain certification. The evaluation column 
refers to required live evaluations from highly trained umpires during 
an actual game. In 2013, Baseball Ontario Umpire Committee member and former 
Minor League umpire Trevor Grieve was selected to participate in the World 
Baseball Classic. Grieve was given the opportunity to umpire at the WBC 
Qualifier in Jupiter, Florida in September 2012 where he worked four out 
of six tournament games including home plate when South Africa took on 
France in an elimination game and first base when Spain defeated Israel 
in the championship contest. The Oshawa, ON native umpired every round 
of the WBC beginning in Taichung, Taiwan for the first round before travelling 
to Tokyo, Japan for the second round of competition. Trevor was very successful 
in the first two rounds of the tournament and earned a spot in the Championship 
Round held in San Francisco, CA working third & first base in each of the 
semi-final games and then finishing off the tournament by working the right 
field line in the Gold Medal game with three MLB umpires. By the end of 
the First Year Player Draft in 2009, 1521 players were drafted by the 30 
Major League Baseball teams. From the 1521 players drafted, forty were 
Canadian, with fourteen coming from Ontario. First, the Toronto Blue Jays 
selected Newmarket native Jake Eliopoulos as their second pick and number 
68th overall. In total, the Toronto Blue Jays selected four players from 
Ontario. Furthermore, in the 41st round the Detroit Tigers selected Chatham’s 
Larry Balkwill, who was named Baseball Ontario’s 2008 Adult Player of the 
Year. Listed below are all of the Ontario players selected in the 2009 
First Year Player Draft. Since its inception as a non-profit, charitable 
foundation in October 1983, the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame & Museum 
has been dedicated to preserving Canada’s rich baseball heritage. Originally 
located in Toronto at both Exhibition Place and then Ontario Place until 
1989, the Hall then moved to its current location in St. Marys in 1994 
and opened in 1998.[10] The Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame & Museum has 
90 Inductees (including the 2010 Inductees). They range from players to 
administrators to amateurs to umpires to trainers and to builders.[11] 
Listed below are the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame & Museum Inductees 
from Ontario: On June 4, 1838, a year before Abner Doubleday was recognized 
with inventing baseball in Cooperstown, New York, two teams from Oxford 
and Zorra townships met in Beachville, Ontario in what is now known as 
the first documented game in North American history. It was Dr. Adam Ford, 
a former resident of St. Marys, Ontario, now home to the Canadian Baseball 
Hall of Fame, who later reported details of this game in a letter published 
in the May 5, 1886 issue of Sporting Life magazine. While living in Denver, 
Colorado, he wrote of his recollections that the match was played on a 
square field in a pasture. The game included five bases, fair and foul 
balls, players using a hand hewn stick as a bat and a ball made of twisted 
yarn and covered with calf skin. Ford's account was researched by the Beachville 
District Historical Society and it was concluded that the information in 
his letter is authentic. The following are the names of the players on 
the Beachville and Zorra teams that participated in the historic game: 
The members of the Ontario Baseball Association Board of Directors includes 
the President, first Vice President, second Vice President, the Immediate 
Past President, six elected Directors, the Treasurer, Life Members, Honorary 
Members, Past Presidents and one appointed Director from each Affiliated 
Association who is appointed by his or her own Affiliated Association.[14] 
Each member is responsible, through a series of meetings, for making various 
decisions that affect the OBA, including but not limited to organizing 
league tournaments, coaches, sponsorships, and management of funds. The 
Board of Director meeting minutes for both current and past meetings can 
be found at Baseball Ontario's official website.[15] The following table 
lists the current members of the OBA's Board of Management. Life Members 
are recommended by the OBA Board of Directors once the individual has continuously 
served the OBA for fifteen years or more and if the OBA Board of Directors 
want to reward the active service of the individual with an official status. 
Only previous Honorary Members are eligible to be appointed Life Members. 
The maximum number of Life Members that can serve at any one time is three; 
however, Life Members appointed prior to 1972 will maintain their status 
during their lifetime.[14] When necessary, Life Members may be called upon 
to rule on matters not covered in the OBA Constitution and By-Laws and 
their decisions on these matters are final.[16] The following individuals 
currently hold the Ontario Baseball Association's Life Members' positions. 
Honorary Members are given their title by the OBA Board of Directors for 
their endless commitment and commendable service to the Ontario Baseball 
Association. Honorary Members have the right of delegates at all Annual 
and Special Meetings of the OBA, including the right to vote.[14] The following 
is a list of the current Ontario Baseball Association's Honorary Members. 
Like Honorary Members, Past Presidents have the right to vote at all Annual 
Meetings and Special Meetings of the OBA.[14] With Life Members, Past Presidents 
can be called upon to make final decisions on matters that are not addressed 
in the Ontario Baseball Association Constitution and By-Laws.[16] The following 
table lists the head representatives from each affiliate association within 
the Ontario Baseball Association. *Deceased Series Chairs act as the liaison 
between their identified league and/or title and the OBA Board of Management. 
Series Chairs are responsible for reviewing the proposed team(s) classifications 
submitted by the Affiliated Associations to ensure all the information 
is complete and correct. The Series Chairs must also make certain that 
each team is properly classified based on the performance of the team, 
the quality of its competition, and the size of the community. The Series 
Chairs are responsible for making final recommendations with regards to 
team classifications.[19] The following table lists the OBA's Series Chairs 
and their respective positions. Affiliate secretaries and/or registrars 
deal with general inquiries, concerns, and registrations for their respective 
OBA-affiliated inner leagues. The following table lists the current OBA 
secretaries and/or registrars and their respective affiliate association. 
Both the Administrative Director and the Administrative Co-ordinator are 
responsible for the daily operations of the Baseball Ontario office in 
Cambridge, Ontario. Their duties include processing applications and fees 
from Affiliated Associations as well as expense claims from the Board of 
Management. They are also responsible for disseminating information to 
all Board Members, Series Chairs, and Affiliated Associations of the Ontario 
Baseball Association.[20] Affiliated Associations interested in joining 
the Ontario Baseball Association must send a completed membership application, 
a list of its officers, and a copy of its constitution and by-laws, to 
the OBA Office for approval.[21] Once approved, Affiliated Associations 
are responsible for submitting classifications of the team(s) within their 
jurisdiction to the OBA Office.[19] With every new membership approval, 
territorial boundaries for each and every association are re-assessed and 
determined by the OBA Board of Directors. [22] The following list names 
the OBA's current Affiliated Associations. In 1999, the Coach of the Year 
Award was divided into two categories: The Fergie Jenkins Award for Pitcher 
of the Year was divided into two categories - Youth and Adult beginning 
