Elections to the Baseball Hall of Fame for 1994 followed the system in 
place since 1978. The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) 
voted by mail to select from recent major league players and elected Steve 
Carlton. The Veterans Committee met in closed sessions to consider older 
major league players as well as managers, umpires, executives, and figures 
from the Negro Leagues. It selected two, Leo Durocher and Phil Rizzuto. 
The BBWAA was authorized to elect players active in 1974 or later, but 
not after 1988; the ballot included candidates from the 1993 ballot who 
received at least 5% of the vote but were not elected, along with selected 
players, chosen by a screening committee, whose last appearance was in 
1988. All 10-year members of the BBWAA were eligible to vote. Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate receiving 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. The ballot consisted of 38 players; a total of 456 ballots were 
cast, with 342 votes required for election. A total of 2,884 individual 
votes were cast, an average of 6.32 per ballot. Those candidates receiving 
less than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may 
eventually be considered by the Veterans Committee. Candidates who were 
eligible for the first time are indicated here with a †. The one candidate 
who received at least 75% of the vote and was elected is indicated in bold 
italics; candidates who have since been elected in subsequent elections 
are indicated in italics. The 14 candidates who received less than 5% of 
the vote, thus becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are 
indicated with a *. Orlando Cepeda and Ken Boyer were on the ballot for 
the 15th and final time. The newly-eligible players included 26 All-Stars, 
eight of whom were not included on the ballot, representing a total of 
86 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates were 10-time All-Star 
Steve Carlton, 9-time All-Star Dave Concepción, 8-time All-Stars Ted Simmons 
and Lance Parrish, and 6-time All-Stars Graig Nettles and Bruce Sutter. 
The field included MVP (Don Baylor), three Cy Young Award winners (Sutter, 
Ron Guidry, and Carlton, who won four times), and two Rookies of the Year 
(Chris Chambliss and Bob Horner). Players eligible for the first time who 
were not included on the ballot were: Bill Almon, Joaquín Andújar, Juan 
Beníquez, Ron Davis, Iván DeJesús, Gene Garber, Steve Henderson, Larry 
Herndon, Steve Kemp, Tippy Martinez, Donnie Moore, Jim Morrison, Jerry 
Mumphrey, Gary Roenicke, Jerry Royster, Lary Sorensen, Willie Upshaw, and 
