Baseball is a 1994 American television documentary miniseries created by 
Ken Burns about the game of baseball. First broadcast on PBS, this was 
Burns' ninth documentary and won the 1995 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding 
Informational Series.[1] Baseball is similar to Burns' previous documentaries 
such as The Civil War, in the use of archived pictures and film footage 
mixed with interviews for visual presentation. Actors provide voice over 
reciting written work (letters, speeches, etc.) over pictures and video. 
The episodes are interspersed with the music of the times taken from previous 
Burns series, original played music, or recordings ranging from Louis Armstrong 
to Elvis Presley. The series was narrated by John Chancellor, the former 
anchor of the NBC Nightly News from 1970 to 1982. The documentary is divided 
into nine parts, each referred to as an "inning", following the division 
of a baseball game. Each "inning" reviews a particular era in time, mentioning 
notable moments in the world and in America itself, and begins with a brief 
prologue that acts as an insight to the game during that era. The prologue 
ends with the playing of "The Star-Spangled Banner" just as a real baseball 
game would begin, being performed usually by a brass band, with a couple 
of exceptions: The 1920s, where the rendition is played by a piano of the 
era, and the 1960s, where the rendition is the version played by Jimi Hendrix 
at Woodstock. In some "inning" episodes, a period version of the baseball 
anthem "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" is used. Roughly halfway through 
each "inning", a title card appears, reading "Bottom of" the inning, dividing 
the episode in two parts in a manner also recalling the game; in the seventh 
"inning", the "Bottom" is immediately preceded by the "seventh-inning stretch", 
in which several of the guests sing renditions of "Take Me Out to the Ball 
Game." Major themes explored throughout the documentary are those of race, 
business, labor relations, and the relationship between baseball and society. 
The series had an audience of 45 million viewers, which makes it the most 
watched program in Public Television history. Original airdate: Sunday, 
September 18, 1994.[2] Original airdate: Monday, September 19, 1994.[2] 
Original airdate: Tuesday, September 20, 1994.[2] Original airdate: Wednesday, 
September 21, 1994.[2] Original airdate: Thursday, September 22, 1994.[2] 
Original airdate: Sunday, September 25, 1994.[2] Original airdate: Monday, 
September 26, 1994.[2] Original airdate: Tuesday, September 27, 1994.[2] 
Original airdate: Wednesday, September 28, 1994.[2] At a preview screening 
of his 2007 documentary The War, Ken Burns spoke of the possibility of 
coming up to date in the history of baseball with a "Tenth Inning" episode 
of his Baseball documentary.[3] This was officially confirmed by Burns 
in an MLB Network interview, and later to the NBC LA web site during the 
winter Television Critics Association media tour January 8. It aired in 
Fall 2010 and covered the period from the 1994 strike through the 2009 
season. During in-game coverage of a Texas Rangers game during July 2009, 
Burns was interviewed, and said The Tenth Inning would air "about a year 
from now" on PBS. He also stated that it would be two two-hour programs. 
One would be the "top of the 10th", and the other would be the "bottom 
of the 10th". He also said that "the good Lord willing", there would be 
an 11th Inning and a 12th Inning in the future. His aim is to air the 11th 
Inning in 2020 opening with Armando Galarraga.[4] Burns also said that 
Baseball is the only one of his documentaries to which he was ever interested 
in doing a "sequel" (of sorts). The Tenth Inning premiered on PBS on September 
28, 2010, narrated by Keith David. The Inning was broken into two halves 
airing on September 28 and 29, 2010 and October 5, 2010. The documentary 
discussed the major stories of the last fifteen years in baseball. It focuses 
heavily on examining the Steroid era and the many players that got caught 
up in it, but also discusses other major issues in baseball, such as how 
baseball rebounded from the 1994 strike largely thanks to the selflessness 
of Cal Ripken Jr. and other players, the return to prominence of the Yankees, 
the influence of international players (specifically Dominican and Japanese 
players) on the game, and the drama of the 2003 and 2004 American League 
Championship Series, which helps baseball, even in the midst of America's 
greatest economic crisis since the Great Depression, become as popular 
as it has ever been. As a postscript, Marcos Breton, the Sacramento Bee 
writer who was interviewed extensively during the film finally realized 
his boyhood dream of watching the Giants win their first World Championship 
in San Francisco shortly after the film premiered on PBS. Ken Burns has 
talked about the possibility of making an 11th inning in interviews.[5] 
The documentary is made available to local PBS stations to air as part 
of their programming. Usually these can be found on weekends or during 
pledge drives. Starting in 2009 the series also can be found on MLB Network 
Sunday nights at 8 PM ET/5 PM PT. These airings include commercial breaks 
which stretch the run time of each episode from around 1 hour to 2 or even 
3 depending on how many breaks MLB Network adds to the episode. As the 
series was intended to air commercial-free on public television the breaks 
are often quite abrupt. The first episode to air on the network also had 
utterances of the word "nigger" (as read from first person accounts or 
quotes from the time) bleeped out, despite the offensive language of the 
episode being heard uncensored on over-the-air PBS stations for years. 
Later episodes dropped this censoring but added a disclaimer at the beginning 
of the program warning that it contained offensive language. The following 
is a non-exhaustive list of people not involved in baseball who were interviewed 
in the documentary: The following is a non-exhaustive list of people who 
were more involved in the game of baseball, and were interviewed in the 
documentary: The following did voices of characters in Baseball: The entire 
series was released on a ten-disc DVD set on October 17, 2000 from the 
PBS DVD Gold, and it was Re-issued in September 28, 2004, with each inning 
on a separate disc and a tenth disc of unaired material titled Extra Innings 
featuring a making of Baseball among other features. A revised DVD set, 
now including The Tenth Inning, was released on October 5, 2010, as was 
