Baseball is believed to have been introduced to Korea in 1905 by American 
missionaries during the Korean Empire, after which it gradually attained 
prominence.[1][2] It is one of the most popular sports in the country. 
There are 10 pro teams in the Korea Baseball Organization. Baseball season 
runs from March to October. On December 1921, a team of American Major 
League players stopped in Seoul during a tour of Asia, and a Korean team 
was assembled to play against them. The Koreans were defeated, 23-3.[3] 
Various Korean cities also participated in the Japanese Intercity Baseball 
Tournament, from its inception in 1927 until 1942.[4] In 1940 and 1942 
Seoul won the tournament, defeating (respectively) the teams of Dalian 
and Osaka. The 1980s marked the beginning of the era of professional baseball 
in Korea. In 1982 the MBC Chungyong, Lotte Giants, Samsung Lions, OB Bears, 
Haitai Tigers, and Sammi Superstars were launched, as was the highest-level 
league that they composed, the Korea Baseball Championship.[5] This league 
continues to be Korea's major league, although as of 2015 it has expanded 
to 10 teams. The sport reached a new level of popularity when pitcher Chan 
Ho Park made his debut for the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1994.[6] Park achieved 
a great deal of success in his Major League Baseball career, and paved 
the way for the American success of fellow Korean players such as Hee-seop 
Choi, Byung Hyun Kim, Jung Bong, Shin-Soo Choo, Hyun-Jin Ryu, and Jung-ho 
Kang. It is also played widely on the local high school and collegiate 
level, as well as in a farm league (the Korea Baseball Futures League). 
Baseball's governing body in Korea is the Korea Baseball Organization, 
a member of the International Baseball Federation and the organization 
responsible for the nation's participation in such international competitions 
such as the Olympics, World Baseball Classic and the Asian Games. The KBO 
also manages Korea's highly successful national team. In the mid-2000s 
South Korea rose as a dominant power in the international baseball scene, 
twice placing second in the World Baseball Classic, and winning the bronze 
medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia, and the gold medal 
against Cuba at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China. Korea consistently 
