Baseball New Zealand, formerly known as the New Zealand Baseball Federation, 
is the governing body of the sport of baseball in New Zealand. Baseball 
New Zealand is composed of a number of local clubs, primarily located in 
Northland, Auckland, and Canterbury.[1]David Ballinger was elected president 
in 2008 for a two-year term. The current president is Noel Davies.[2] National 
Club Championships are held annually in the last weekend of February.[3] 
Highly talented players may get the opportunity to attend the Major League 
Baseball Australia Academy Program, held every winter in July and August 
in Queensland. Past attendees from New Zealand include Scott Campbell, 
Joshua Batchelor and Daniel Devonshire. The executive consists of eight 
(8) directors. The President and Vice President, three (3) elected directors, 
and the Presidents of Northland, Auckland and Canterbury regional associations.[4] 
CEO: Ryan Flynn [5] Coaches: Dan Tan, Cola Yeh [6] Baseball NZ must hold 
an Annual General Meeting of the members once in each calendar year on 
a date to be fixed by the Board and no later than 15 months after the previous 
Annual General Meeting.[7] Scott Richmond became the first New Zealand 
citizen to play at the Major League level on 31 July 2008,[8] when he pitched 
for the Toronto Blue Jays. Born in Canada to a New Zealand father, Richmond 
started the 2008 season with Campbell at New Hampshire, but was promoted 
to AAA Syracuse on 28 June and then to the Major League club on 28 July 
2008. His call-up cost him the opportunity to play for the Canadian national 
team in the 2008 Olympics. Brothers Boss and Moko Moanaroa were signed 
by the Boston Red Sox in 2008[9] [10] Beau Te Wera Bishop was signed by 
the Boston Red Sox in 2011 [11][12][13][14] Pita Rona was signed by the 
Baltimore Orioles in 2012 Daniel Devonshire was drafted in the 37th round 
of the 2012 First Year Player Draft by the Toronto Blue Jays, and has signed 
with the organisation. Scott Campbell, the first New Zealander selected 
in the Major League Baseball amateur draft, currently plays in the Toronto 
Blue Jays' organization. He spent 2007 at their High-A club, the Lansing 
Lugnuts, after spending 2006 with the short-season Auburn Doubledays. In 
2008, he's playing for the New Hampshire Fisher Cats in Double-A. Campbell 
was named to the 2006 New York Pennsylvania (NYP) League Mid-Season All-Star 
team. He finished in the top 10 for both batting average and on-base percentage. 
In 2008, Campbell played in the Futures All-Star game in Yankee Stadium. 
He went 0-4 as the designated hitter, scoring a run, in the 3-0 victory 
over the USA team.[citation needed]. Campbell retired on 15 March 2012, 
due to recurring injury problems in his hip.[citation needed] Travis Wilson 
was signed by the Atlanta Braves after being spotted as part of the world 
champion Black Socks. Wilson spent eight years signed to the club, though 
never making the Major Leagues and spending most of his time at Triple-A 
level. He returned to New Zealand to continue his softball career in 2005, 
and also performs coaching duties for the Black Caps (the New Zealand cricket 
team). Gus Leger was signed by the California Angels in 1993 after being 
spotted as a softball player for New Zealand. Leger spent 2 years playing 
Rookie Ball in the Arizona League as an outfielder.[15] Baseball was introduced 
to the region in 2006 Bayside Westhaven has been going for a number of 
years and fields teams from peewee (T ball) up through to a seniors team. 
Home fields are at Crossfield Reserve, Crossfield Road in Glendowie, Auckland 
The Central City Baseball Club was formed in 2007 and play out of Fearon 
Park in Mt Roskill. The Howick-Pakuranga club is located in Pakuranga adjacent 
to the rugby club at Lloyd Elsmore Park. Established in 2010 West City 
Baseball Club plays its home games at McLeod Park in Te Atatu South and 
is part of the Auckland Baseball Association. In December 2008, West City 
hosted Masashiro Tanaka, star Olympian Japanese Baseball player from the 
Rakuten Eagles of Japan. The Canterbury Baseball Club was founded in 2003 
and is located at Avonhead Park, on the western edge of Christchurch. The 
Auckland Baseball Association runs a junior competition each summer, with 
12U, Little League, 14U, 16U, and 18U leagues. The senior competition is 
dominated by Howick-Pakuranga and West City. Canterbury runs an internal 
competition, while Northland runs an internal competition for the 14U age 
group. The first true National Club Championships occurred in January 2006, 
when four age levels held competition: Senior, Under 19, Under 15 & Under 
13. Prior years' tournaments were one-off or friendly competitions or only 
included teams from Auckland. West City won their third national title 
in four years as they downed Howick-Pakuranga 7-2 in the senior final. 
Central City won the Under 12s, defeating Howick-Pakuranga 3-0. The tournament 
witnessed the longest game in Nationals history – Canterbury defeated HP 
6-4 in 16 innings. It was small solace for Canterbury, who were eliminated 
on tiebreakers as all three senior teams finished 1-1. The tournament was 
marred with poor weather, as an entire day's schedule was wiped out by 
rain, resulting in an abbreviated schedule. The Howick-Pakuranga seniors 
defeated West City 4-3 in the final.[16] Both teams finished 3-2, while 
Canterbury finished 1-3. Bayside-Westhaven Under 16s defeated Howick-Pakuranga 
6-5 in their final. The Bayside-Westhaven Under 13s defeated Central City 
3-1 in their final. The first baseball tournament held outside of Auckland, 
the 2007 national championships saw nine teams from four clubs compete 
in Canterbury. In the senior level, West City won the title, defeating 
Canterbury 12-11.[17] Howick-Pakuranga finished 1-1, but failed to reach 
the finals on IBAF tiebreakers. At the under 15 level, Howick-Pakuranga 
claimed the title over Bayside-Westhaven in extra innings, while Canterbury 
finished third. At the under 13 level, Bayside-Westhaven swept away Howick-Pakuranga, 
with Canterbury again finishing third. The first national championship 
tournament with teams from outside of Auckland saw all four age levels 
contested by 10 teams from four different clubs. West City defeated Canterbury 
5-4 in 10 innings in the championship game to cap an undefeated tournament.[18] 
Howick-Pakuranga came in third. The Howick-Pakuranga under 18s defeated 
Canterbury two games to one. The Bayside-Westhaven & Howick-Pakuranga under 
15s were awarded a co-championship. The Bayside-Westhaven under 13s defeated 
the Canterbury under 13s in the championship game after all three teams 
finished 1-1. NZ's first Representative side participated in the 1992 Merit 
Cup tournament, held in Cocoa Beach, Florida U.S.A New Zealand sent a squad 
to Australia for the Olympic Qualifying Tournament for the 1996 Olympics, 
but were beaten by Australia. New Zealand was invited to challenge Australia 
for the right to compete in the 2008 Olympic qualifying tournament, but 
pulled out three weeks before the tournament.[citation needed] A senior 
team competes in the Australian Provincial Championships most years. An 
Under 15 team competed against Australia and New Caledonia for the right 
to represent Oceania in the 2007 IBAF ‘AA’ World Championships to be held 
in Venezuela later in 2007. New Zealand won all of their games against 
New Caledonia and lost all of their games against Australia.[19] In 2011 
New Zealand will be hosting the IBAF Oceania Qualifiers, in which Australia 
and Guam will compete against New Zealand for the right to participate 
in the 2011 IBAF AA World Cup in Mexico later on in the year. Another addition 
to the tournament is Curtis Granderson, centre-fielder to the New York 
Yankees, who will make an appearance to promote Baseball around the minor-code 
nation. In 2011, Major League Baseball announced that New Zealand would 
be among the nations invited to a new qualification round to be held in 
2012 for the 2013 World Baseball Classic.[20] Ryan Flynn, Chief Executive 
of Baseball New Zealand, called the development "the best thing to happen 
