Baseball America is a sports magazine that covers baseball at every level, 
with a particular focus on up-and-coming players in high school, college, 
Japan, and the minor leagues. It is currently published in the form of 
a bi-weekly newspaper, five annual reference book titles, a weekly podcast, 
and a website. It also regularly produces lists of the top prospects in 
the sport, and covers aspects of the game from a player-development point 
of view. The publication's motto is "Baseball news you can't find anywhere 
else." Founded in 1980, Baseball America established itself as one of the 
top baseball-only publications and has since grown into a full-service 
media company. Founder Allan Simpson began writing the magazine from Canada, 
originally calling it the All-America Baseball News. By 1983, Simpson moved 
the magazine to Durham, North Carolina, after it was purchased by then-Durham 
Bulls owner Miles Wolff. Simpson has since resigned his position at the 
magazine, and the publication has been passed on to co-editors in chief 
John Manuel and Will Lingo. Today, Baseball America is home to a ten-man 
editorial staff. It also uses out-of-office correspondents for its content. 
The publication was once known for using statistics sparingly, and primarily 
emphasizing stats like wins and batting average when it did. Since the 
departure of Simpson, Baseball America has started using the newer batting 
average/on-base percentage/slugging percentage stat line when referring 
to hitters in place of the traditional batting average/home runs/runs batted 
in stat line. Source Interlink Media bought Baseball America in 2011.[1] 
Baseball America is published bi-weekly in print and on the web. Every 
issue features coverage of the majors, minors, college and high school 
baseball. Other features include reviews and analysis of prospects as well 
as tracking the progress of the best players in amateur baseball and the 
minors.[2] Other annual publications produced by the company include Baseball 
America Almanac, Baseball America Prospect Handbook, Baseball America Directory, 
Super Register and Prospects Plus. The website features specialty blogs 
about the business of baseball, college baseball, high school baseball, 
prospects and the draft.[3] Baseball America selects the players for the 
All-Star Futures Game. The "Organization of the Year" award was first presented 
in 1982.[25][26] In addition to the awards below, Baseball America releases 
rankings of the top 25 teams in the nation, as voted by its staff. A preseason 
