Elections to the National Baseball Hall of Fame for 2011 proceeded according 
to the rules revised in July 2010. As in the past, the Baseball Writers' 
Association of America (BBWAA) voted by mail to select from a ballot of 
recently retired players. The new Expansion Era Committee, that replaced 
the Veterans Committee, convened in December 2010 to select from an Expansion 
Era ballot of long-retired players and non-playing personnel who made their 
greatest contributions to the sport from 1973 to the present time, called 
the "Expansion Era" by the Hall of Fame.[1] The Hall of Fame induction 
class of 2011 consisted of players Roberto Alomar and Bert Blyleven elected 
by the writers and executive Pat Gillick, elected by the Committee, who 
formally entered the Hall on July 24, 2011 at the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York.[2] For the first time, the Hall of Fame extended its induction 
festivities over a weekend. On the day before the main induction ceremony, 
the Hall of Fame hosted the first Hall of Fame Awards Presentation. Two 
annual awards for media excellence, the Hall's own Ford C. Frick Award 
for broadcasters and the BBWAA's J. G. Taylor Spink Award for writers, 
were presented at this ceremony. The irregularly presented Buck O'Neil 
Lifetime Achievement Award was also included in the ceremony.[3] Previously, 
these awards were presented at the actual induction ceremony.[4] The BBWAA 
ballot was announced on November 29, 2010. The BBWAA was again authorized 
to elect players active in 1991 or later, but not after 2005; the ballot 
included candidates from the 2010 ballot who received at least 5% of the 
vote but were not elected, along with selected players, chosen by a screening 
committee, whose last appearance was in 2005. All 10-year members of the 
BBWAA were eligible to vote. Results of the 2011 election by the BBWAA 
were announced on January 5, 2011.[2] The writers' ballot consisted of 
33 players–14 candidates returning from the 2010 ballot, plus 19 first-time 
candidates, the most since the 1991 ballot's 24 newcomers.[5] Voters were 
instructed to cast votes for up to 10 candidates; any candidate who received 
votes on at least 75% of the ballots would be honored with induction to 
the Hall. Write-in votes were not permitted. A record 581 ballots were 
cast (including five ballots which supported no candidates), with 436 votes 
required for election. A total of 3,474 individual votes were cast, an 
average of 5.98 per ballot. Any candidate who received votes on at least 
75% of the ballots would be inducted. Those candidates who received less 
than 5% of the vote will not appear on future BBWAA ballots, but may eventually 
be considered by the Expansion Committee.[6] Candidates who were eligible 
for the first time are indicated here with a †. The candidates who received 
at least 75% of the vote and were elected are indicated in bold italics; 
candidates who have since been selected in subsequent elections are indicated 
in italics. The candidates who received less than 5% of the vote, thus 
becoming ineligible for future BBWAA consideration, are indicated with 
a *. Dave Parker was on the ballot for the 15th and final time. The two 
candidates who earned Hall of Fame induction, Alomar and Blyleven, fell 
short of induction in 2010 by fewer than 10 votes—the first time in history 
that two candidates had done so in the same election. The newly eligible 
candidates included 25 All-Stars, nine of whom were not on the writers' 
ballot, representing a total of 60 All-Star selections. Among the new candidates 
were 6-time All Star Kevin Brown, and 5-time All Stars Larry Walker and 
Benito Santiago. The field also included three Rookie-of-the-Year Award 
winners Jeff Bagwell, Raúl Mondesí and Santiago. Walker won seven Gold 
Glove Awards for the right field position. Juan González won six Silver 
Slugger Awards in the outfield. The new candidates on the 2011 ballot included 
three MVP Award winners: Jeff Bagwell (1994 NL), Walker (1997 NL), and 
González (1996 and 1998 AL). Also eligible was Rafael Palmeiro, who recorded 
over 3000 hits and 500 home runs, which would typically foreshadow a first-ballot 
election; however, his candidacy has generated controversy due to his testing 
positive for steroids. Palmeiro has steadfastly maintained his innocence 
in the steroid controversy, stating that he must have tested positive due 
to a tainted B12 injection.[7] Ongoing debate about the influence of steroids 
on the game in the 1990s was widely believed to have affected the vote 
totals for several power hitters on the ballot, including McGwire, Bagwell, 
Walker and Gonzalez, regardless of whether they had ever tested positive 
for steroid use or had even been accused of involvement with steroids; 
the top five vote-getters were either pitchers or middle infielders with 
relatively few home runs. Walker's candidacy was also affected by voters' 
assessment of his extreme home/away statistical splits, attributed by many 
to the fact that he spent slightly more than half his career with hitter's 
paradise Coors Field as his home park,[5][8] though he also spent several 
years playing in the more pitching-friendly Olympic Stadium. Many candidates 
may simply have been seeking to remain on the ballot for 2012, when a generally 
weaker field of candidates is expected, with the most prominent new candidates 
including Bernie Williams, Rubén Sierra, Vinny Castilla, Eric Young, Tim 
Salmon, Brad Radke and Danny Graves. Players who were eligible for the 
first time who were not included on the writers' ballot were: Terry Adams, 
Wilson Álvarez, Brian Anderson, James Baldwin, Pat Borders, Ricky Bottalico, 
Frank Castillo, Roger Cedeño, Jason Christiansen, Wil Cordero, Midre Cummings, 
Cal Eldred, John Flaherty, Buddy Groom, Jeffrey Hammonds, Dave Hansen, 
Félix Heredia, Denny Hocking, Al Levine, Luis López, Matt Mantei, Dave 
McCarty, Jim Mecir, Ramiro Mendoza, Mike Mordecai, Greg Myers, C. J. Nitkowski, 
José Offerman, Keith Osik, Antonio Osuna, Eddie Pérez, Jay Powell, Paul 
Quantrill, Steve Reed, Rey Sánchez, Ugueth Urbina, Ismael Valdez, Gabe 
White, Matt Whiteside, Gerald Williams and Dan Wilson. José Lima, who last 
played in the major leagues in 2006 and died on May 23, 2010, was eligible 
for consideration in this round of balloting – similar to the inclusion 
on the ballot of Darryl Kile and Rod Beck in 2003 and 2008 respectively 
– but was not placed on the ballot. Under Hall of Fame rules, an otherwise 
eligible player who dies before being retired 5 years becomes eligible 
in the first election held at least 6 months after his death. In keeping 
with the new Hall of Fame voting procedure, the Historical Overview Committee 
identified 12 Expansion Era candidates who were judged to have made their 
greatest contributions from 1973 to present. Along with the 1973 to present 
time era, these rules defined the consideration set:[9] Historical Overview 
Committee (eleven veteran BBWAA members): Dave Van Dyck (Chicago Tribune); 
Bob Elliott (Toronto Sun); Rick Hummel (St. Louis Post-Dispatch); Steve 
Hirdt (Elias Sports Bureau); Moss Klein (formerly Newark Star-Ledger); 
Bill Madden (New York Daily News); Ken Nigro (formerly Baltimore Sun); 
Jack O'Connell (BBWAA secretary/treasurer); Nick Peters (formerly Sacramento 
Bee); Tracy Ringolsby (FSN Rocky Mountain); and Mark Whicker (Orange County 
Register).[10] The Expansion Era ballot was originally scheduled for release 
in October[1] but was delayed until November 8, 2010. The 12 Expansion 
Era Candidates were eight players, one manager, and three executives.[10] 
The sole candidate who was elected is indicated in bold italics. All except 
Martin and Steinbrenner were living when the ballot and results were announced. 
Martin and Miller were holdovers from the most recent ballots covering 
managers and executives (2010), and Oliver was a holdover from the most 
recent ballot covering post-1942 players (2009). The new Expansion Era 
Committee (16-members appointed by the Hall's Board of Directors) was announced 
at the same time as the final ballot:[10] The Committee convened at the 
2010 winter meetings in Orlando, Florida with the standard 75% or 12 of 
16 votes required for election and July 2011 Hall of Fame induction. Results 
were announced at 10:00 am EST on December 6.[10] The J. G. Taylor Spink 
Award has been presented by the BBWAA at the annual summer induction ceremonies 
since 1962.[12] Through 2010, it was awarded during the main induction 
ceremony, but is now awarded the previous day. It recognizes a sportswriter 
"for meritorious contributions to baseball writing".[13] The recipients 
are not members of the Hall of the Fame but are featured in a permanent 
exhibit at the National Baseball Museum. The three nominees for the 2011 
award were Bob Elliott of the Toronto Sun, Bill Conlin of the Philadelphia 
Daily News, and Joe Giuliotti of the Boston Herald.[14] This was the third 
consecutive year Elliott had been nominated and the second for Giuliotti. 
Under BBWAA rules, the winner was to be announced either during the 2010 
World Series or at the 2010 winter meetings. The winner of the 2011 J. 
G. Taylor Spink Award, announced at the winter meetings, was Bill Conlin, 
who received 188 votes from the 434. Elliott received 160 votes. Joe Giuliotti 
got 83 votes. Three blank ballots were among those submitted. The Ford 
C. Frick Award, honoring excellence in baseball broadcasting, has been 
presented at the induction ceremonies since 1978.[15] Through 2010, it 
had been presented at the main induction ceremony, but is now presented 
the previous day. Recipients are not members of the Hall of Fame but are 
permanently recognized in an exhibit at the museum. To be eligible, an 
active or retired broadcaster must have a minimum of 10 years of continuous 
major league broadcast service with a ball club, a network, or a combination 
of the two. The honor is based on four criteria: longevity; continuity 
with a club; honors, including national assignments such as the World Series 
and All-Star Games; and popularity with fans. The recipient was announced 
on December 8, 2010 at the winter meetings, following a vote by the same 
committee that selected seven of the finalists (below).[16] Ten finalists 
were announced in October 2010.[16] In accord with guidelines established 
in 2003, seven were chosen by a committee composed of the living recipients 
along with broadcasting historians and columnists. Three were selected 
from a list of candidate by fan voting in September 2010 at the Hall's 
Facebook page.[17] Five candidates were living when the ballot was announced—the 
active McCarver, Nadel, and Van Horne; and the retired Cárdenas and Doucet.[16] 
On December 8, Dave Van Horne, the lead play-by-play announcer for the 
Florida Marlins (now Miami Marlins) on the team's radio network, was named 
as the recipient. He began his career with the Richmond Braves in the Triple-A 
International League before joining the English-language radio broadcast 
team for the Montreal Expos in their inaugural year of 1969. He remained 
with the Expos through 2000 before joining the Marlins in 2001. He also 
called the Expos' last home game in Montreal in 2004 as a member of the 
visiting Marlins broadcast team. He has also called games on The Baseball 
Network, and called three World Series and National League Championship 
Series for Canadian networks, in addition to the Marlins' 2003 World Series 
victory.[18] The Frick Award is Van Horne's second award for broadcasting 
excellence from a baseball hall of fame. In 1996, he received the Jack 
Graney Award, given irregularly for excellence in either writing or broadcasting, 
from the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. Van Horne became the second Frick 
Award winner, after 2009 recipient Tony Kubek, to have called games for 
a Canadian team, and also the second Marlins broadcaster to receive the 
Frick Award, after 2001 recipient Felo Ramírez.[18] The Hall presented 
its Buck O'Neil Lifetime Achievement Award for the second time. The award 
was created in 2008 in honor of Buck O'Neil, a Negro leagues star who went 
on to become one of baseball's leading ambassadors until his death in 2006. 
The first award was presented posthumously to O'Neil at the 2008 induction 
ceremony. According to the Hall, As with the media awards, recipients are 
not members of the Hall of Fame but are permanently recognized in an exhibit 
at the museum. The Hall accepts written nominations for the award by mail 
at any time; the nomination must specifically state how the nominee meets 
the traits exemplified by O'Neil.[19] Roland Hemond received the O'Neil 
Award at the Awards Presentation. He first came to prominence as the assistant 
scouting director of the Milwaukee Braves in the 1950s, and became the 
first scouting director of the Los Angeles Angels in 1961. From there, 
Hemond went on to be general manager of the Chicago White Sox and Baltimore 
Orioles, winning the MLB Executive of the Year Award three times (1972 
and 1983 in Chicago, 1989 in Baltimore). He went to the newly created Arizona 
Diamondbacks as Senior Executive Vice President in 1996, seeing them through 
their MLB debut in 1998. Hemond returned to the White Sox as an adviser 
in 2001, and to the Diamondbacks in 2007 as a special assistant to the 
president, a position he still holds.[19] Outside the front office, Hemond 
is president of the Association of Professional Baseball Players of America, 
which provides financial and other assistance to individuals connected 
with professional baseball. He also helped found the Professional Baseball 
Scouts Foundation, a similar organization focused on assisting veteran 
