The Route Inn BCL, formerly known as the Baseball Challenge League (ベースボール・チャレンジ・リーグ, 
Bēsubōru Charenji Rīgu?), is an independent semi-professional baseball 
league in Japan. The league's abbreviated designation is "BC League (BCリーグ?)." 
The Baseball Challenge League has two divisions, Future—East and Advance—West, 
with four teams in each division. Not every team has a home stadium; instead, 
the team travels around its home prefecture, playing in different stadiums, 
each one called "home” for that game.[1] The 72-game season runs from April–October, 
split into two half-terms, with the division champion from each half-term 
meeting in a playoff at the end of the year to determine which two teams 
compete for the league championship. Each team carries 27 players.[2] Typically, 
players earn 150,000 yen (c. U.S. $2,000) per month, with another 50,000 
yen in potential bonuses.[3] The league imposes a 7.2 million yen (c. U.S. 
$60,600) salary limit for team managers.[4] The BC League began play in 
2007 as the Hokushinestu Baseball Challenge League. It originally consisted 
of four teams based in the Hokuriku region: the Ishikawa Million Stars, 
the Niigata Albirex Baseball Club, the Shinano Grandserows, and the Toyama 
Thunderbirds. In 2008 the league added two teams, Gunma Diamond Pegasus 
and the Fukui Miracle Elephants, and split into two divisions, Jōshin'etsu 
(Gunma, Shinano, and Niigata) and Hokuriku (Fukui, Ishikawa, and Toyama). 
Ishikawa Million Stars Infielder Kensuke Uchimura led the league in steals 
in 2007, which led to him being drafted by Nippon Professional Baseball's 
Rakuten Golden Eagles. In 2008, he became the first player to reach NPB 
after playing in the BC League. In February 2014, the league agreed to 
a naming rights deal with Route Inn Group, becoming the Route Inn BC League.[5] 
That same month, it was announced that a new team, the Musashi Heat Bears, 
based out of Saitama Prefecture, would join the league in time for the 
2015 season.[5] In July 2014, it was announced that a second new team, 
the Fukushima Hopes, would also join the league for the 2015 season.[6] 
Late in the summer of 2014, along with the Shikoku Island League Plus, 
the Route Inn BCL formed the Japan Independent Baseball League Organization.[7] 
With the addition of two new teams, in 2015 the league realigned and renamed 
its divisions, replacing the previous divisions Jōshin'etsu and Hokuriku 
with Future—East and Advance—West. Gold is the League Champion, and Silver 
