The first-ever televised baseball game was on May 17, 1939, between Princeton 
and Columbia; Princeton beat Columbia 2–1 at Columbia's Baker Field. The 
contest was aired on W2XBS, an experimental station in New York City which 
would ultimately become WNBC-TV. The game was announced by Bill Stern. 
Dawson L. Farber, Jr. pitched for Princeton.[1] On August 26 of the same 
year, the first ever Major League Baseball game was televised (once again 
on W2XBS). With Red Barber announcing, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Cincinnati 
Reds played a doubleheader at Ebbets Field. The Reds won the first, 5–2 
while the Dodgers won the second, 6–1. Barber called the game without the 
benefit of a monitor and with only two cameras capturing the game. One 
camera was placed behind home plate, in the second tier of seating, while 
another was positioned near the visitors' dugout, on the third-base side.[2] 
By 1947, television sets (most with five and seven-inch screens) were selling 
almost as fast as they could be produced. Because of this, Major League 
teams began televising games and attracted a whole new audience into ballparks 
in the process. This was because people who had only casually followed 
baseball began going to the games in person and enjoying themselves. As 
a result, the following year, Major League attendance reached a record 
high of 21 million. 1947 saw the first televised World Series. The games 
were shown in the New York City area by NBC over WNBT Channel 4 (now WNBC) 
and reportedly on the rudimentary NBC Television Network, consisting in 
1947 of New York, Schenectady, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington, 
D.C. The broadcast was sponsored by Gillette and Ford. Even though there 
were only about 100,000 television sets in the entire country at that time, 
the 1947 World Series brought in an estimated 3.9 million viewers -- many 
watching in bars and other public places -- becoming television's first 
mass audience. On April 16, 1948, Chicago's WGN-TV (run by Jake Israel) 
broadcast its first big-league game, with Jack Brickhouse calling the White 
Sox' 4-1 defeat of the Cubs in an exhibition game at Wrigley Field. WGN 
televised each Cubs and White Sox home game live. According to Brickhouse, 
On July 11, 1950, the All-Star Game out of Chicago's Comiskey Park was 
televised for the first time. On November 8, 1950, Commissioner Happy Chandler 
and player reps agreed on the split of the TV-radio rights from the World 
Series. On August 11, 1951, WCBS-TV in New York City televised the first 
baseball game (in which the Boston Braves beat the Brooklyn Dodgers by 
the score of 8-1) in color. On October 1 of that year, NBC aired the first 
coast-to-coast baseball telecast as the Brooklyn Dodgers were beaten by 
the New York Giants in the first game of a playoff series by the score 
of 3-1 on a Bobby Thomson's 3-run game-winning home run. Thomson's famous 
now-legendary home run) would occur in the third game of the best of 3 
series. The 1955 World Series was the first televised in color (on NBC). 
In 1958, KTTV in Los Angeles, California aired the first regular-season 
baseball game ever played on the West Coast, a Los Angeles Dodgers-San 
Francisco Giants game from Seals Stadium in San Francisco, California, 
with Vin Scully announcing. In its first year airing Major League Baseball, 
KTTV aired only the Dodgers' road games. What may be the first sports instant 
replay using videotape occurred on July 17, 1959, during a broadcast of 
a New York Yankees game by New York TV station WPIX. It came after a hit 
by Jim McAnany of the Chicago White Sox ended a no-hitter by the Yankees' 
Ralph Terry. Since the game was being videotaped, broadcaster Mel Allen 
asked director Terry Murphy to play a tape of McAnany's hit over the air. 
On July 23, 1962, Major League Baseball had its first satellite telecast 
(via Telstar Communications). The telecast included portion of a contest 
between the Chicago Cubs vs. the Philadelphia Phillies from Wrigley Field 
with Jack Brickhouse commentating. On July 17, 1964, a game out of Los 
Angeles between the Chicago Cubs and Los Angeles Dodgers contest became 
the first Pay TV baseball game. Basically, subscription television offered 
the cablecast to subscribers for money. The Dodgers beat the Cubs by the 
score of 3-2, with Don Drysdale collecting 10 strikeouts by the way. On 
March 17, 1965, Jackie Robinson became the first black network (ABC) broadcaster 
for Major League Baseball. That year, ABC provided the first-ever nationwide 
baseball coverage with weekly Saturday broadcasts on a regional basis. 
Some time later, Bill White became the first black man to regularly do 
play-by-play work for Major League Baseball. On October 13, 1971, the World 
Series held a night game for the first time. Commissioner Bowie Kuhn, who 
felt that baseball could attract a larger audience by featuring a prime 
time telecast (as opposed to a mid-afternoon broadcast, when most fans 
either worked or attended school), pitched the idea to NBC. An estimated 
61 million people watched Game 4 on NBC; TV ratings for a World Series 
game during the daytime hours would not have approached such a record number. 
In subsequent years, all weekday games would be played at night. Except 
for Game 1 in both series, all League Championship Series games in 1975 
were regionally televised. Meanwhile, Game 3 of both League Championship 
Series were aired in prime time, the first time such an occurrence happened. 
On October 18, 1977, ABC's Bill White became the first African American 
broadcaster to preside over the presentation of the Commissioner's Trophy 
at the conclusion of the World Series. In 1985, NBC's telecast of the All-Star 
Game out of the Metrodome in Minnesota was the first program to be broadcast 
in stereo by a TV network. Also in 1985, ABC announced that every game 
of the World Series would be played under the lights for the biggest baseball 
audience possible. It marked the first time that all World Series games 
were played at night. In 1989, NBC's Gayle Gardner became the first woman 
to regularly host Major League Baseball games for a major television network. 
In 1990, CBS Sports' Lesley Visser became the first female to cover the 
World Series, serving as their lead field reporter. In addition to working 
the World Series from 1990-1993 for CBS, Visser covered the 1995 World 
Series for ABC Sports via The Baseball Network. On August 3, 1993, Gayle 
Gardner became the first woman to do television play-by-play for a Major 
League Baseball game. It was the Colorado Rockies vs. Cincinnati Reds on 
KWGN-TV in Denver. Also in 1993, CBS' Andrea Joyce became the first woman 
to co-host the network television coverage of the World Series. Joyce co-hosted 
that particular World Series with Pat O'Brien. On October 2, 1995, ESPN 
televised the first cable tie-breaker playoff game. Jon Miller and Joe 
Morgan called the game [3] from Seattle's Kingdome between the Seattle 
Mariners and California Angels. In 1995, NBC's Hannah Storm not only became 
the first woman to serve as solo host a World Series game, but also the 
first woman to preside over the World Series Trophy presentation. In 1996, 
ESPN began a five-year contract with Major League Baseball worth $440 million 
and about $80 million per year. ESPN paid for the rights to a Wednesday 
doubleheader and the Sunday night Game of the Week, as well as all postseason 
games not aired on Fox or NBC. As a result, Major League Baseball postseason 
games were aired on cable for the very first time. On July 8, 1997, Fox 
televised its first ever All-Star Game (out of Jacobs Field in Cleveland). 
For this particular game, Fox introduced "Catcher-Cam" in which a camera 
was affixed to catchers' masks in order to provide unique perspectives 
of the action around home plate.[4] Catcher-Cam soon would become a regular 
fixture in Fox's baseball broadcasts. 2001 marked first year of split coverage 
of one League Championship Series game as well as the first cable involvement 
in LCS. Game 5 of the NLCS and Game 4 of the ALCS were split between the 
Fox Broadcasting Company and Fox Sports Net. 2001 also featured the first 
cable League Division Series game to be aired in prime time. The 2002 World 
Series, broadcast on Fox, was the first World Series to be broadcast in 
high-definition. With TBS acquiring rights to air one half of the League 
Championship Series (the other half going to Fox), 2007 marked the first 
time that an LCS was broadcast exclusively on cable. It also marked the 
first time that cable television produced postseason games weren't available 
on over-the-air television in the participating teams' home markets.[5] 
Also in 2007, ESPN2 broadcast the Major League Baseball Draft. It was the 
first time[6] the draft was televised. 2009 marked the first time that 
Baseball Hall of Fame election ceremony was broadcast live, when MLB Network 
televised the occasion. Also in 2009, New York Yankees broadcaster Suzyn 
Waldman[7] became the first woman to work a World Series game from the 
broadcast booth. On August 24, 2015, Jessica Mendoza was the first female 
analyst for a Major League Baseball game in the history of ESPN, during 
a game between the St. Louis Cardinals and the Arizona Diamondbacks.[8] 
On August 30, 2015, Mendoza filled in for suspended color commentator Curt 
Schilling for the Cubs-Dodgers game on Sunday Night Baseball. Cubs pitcher 
Jake Arrieta pitched a no hitter in the game. John Kruk, Dan Shulman and 
Mendoza called the 2015 American League Wild Card Game on October 6, and 
