A batboy or batgirl in sports is an individual who carries the baseball 
bats around to a baseball team. A batboy may also lay out the equipment 
and mud the baseballs to be used in the game. Mascots and batboys had both 
been part of baseball since the 1880s. Perhaps the most famous mascot/batboy 
was Eddie Bennett, who was supposedly hired as a mascot by the Chicago 
White Sox at the urging of Happy Felsch in 1919, a tale Eddie told often 
but no White Sox player ever corroborated. After the 1919 World Series 
scandal, he was hired by the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1920. When the Dodgers 
lost the 1920 World Series to the Cleveland Indians, some suggested the 
four straight losses on the road were due to leaving Bennett behind. He 
then served for almost 12 years as mascot/batboy for the New York Yankees. 
Batboys typically wear the same uniform design as their associated team. 
They will also usually wear a batting helmet to protect them from flying 
balls or bats. During any given major league game, both the home and visiting 
team batboys will be drawn from the city where the game is taking place 
(batboys typically do not travel on the road with their team, unless they 
are relatives of a player). Home batboys often have regular jobs with a 
team, and thus may wear their first names on their uniforms; visiting teams, 
on the other hand, usually do not know who will be serving as their batboys 
on the road, and thus will send uniforms of various sizes to accommodate 
batboys of varying heights and weights. A batboy may be provided his own 
number, but will usually wear 00 or 'BB' in its place. If a batboy uniform 
does not have a first name on it, it will usually have the term 'BAT BOY' 
or no name at all. Drew Storen of the Seattle Mariners was a Batboy for 
the Montreal Expos. Jesse Litsch who pitched for the Toronto Blue Jays, 
was a Batboy for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in 2001 & 2002. The batboy, Bobby 
Savoy, is a supporting character in the 1984 film, The Natural. At the 
finale Bobby gives the main character, Roy Hobbs, a bat that he's made 
with Hobbs' help after Hobbs has broken his own personally made childhood 
bat. Two Warner Brothers cartoons, Porky's Baseball Broadcast and Baseball 
Bugs), feature sight-gags involving batboys who fly in on bat wings to 
