In baseball, the batting order or batting lineup is the sequence in which 
the members of the offense take their turns in batting against the pitcher. 
The batting order is the main component of a team's offensive strategy. 
In Major League Baseball, the batting order is set by the manager, who 
before the game begins must present the home plate umpire with two copies 
of his team's lineup card, a card on which a team's starting batting order 
is recorded. The home plate umpire keeps one copy of the lineup card of 
each team, and gives the second copy to the opposing manager. Once the 
home plate umpire gives the lineup cards to the opposing managers, the 
batting lineup is final and a manager can only make changes under the Official 
Baseball Rules governing substitutions.[1] If a team bats out of order, 
it is a violation of baseball's rules and subject to penalty. According 
to The Dickson Baseball Dictionary, a team has "batted around" when each 
of the nine batters in the team's lineup has made a plate appearance, and 
the first batter is coming up again during a single inning.[2] Dictionary.com, 
however, defines "bat around" as "to have every player in the lineup take 
a turn at bat during a single inning."[3] It is not an official statistic. 
Opinions differ as to whether nine batters must get an at-bat, or if the 
opening batter must bat again for "batting around" to have occurred.[4] 
In modern American baseball, some batting positions have nicknames: "leadoff" 
for first, "cleanup" for fourth, and "last" for ninth. Others are known 
by the ordinal numbers or the term #-hole (3rd place hitter would be 3-hole). 
In similar fashion, the third, fourth, and fifth batters are often collectively 
referred to as the "heart" or "meat" of the batting order, while the seventh, 
eighth, and ninth batters are called the "bottom of the lineup," a designation 
generally referring both to their hitting position and to their typical 
lack of offensive prowess.[5] At the start of each inning, the batting 
order resumes where it left off in the previous inning, rather than resetting 
to start with the #1 hitter again. While this ensures that the players 
all bat roughly the same number of times, the game will almost always end 
before the last cycle is complete, so that the #1 hitter (for example) 
almost always has one plate appearance more than the #9 hitter, which is 
a significant enough difference to affect tactical decisions. Early forms 
of baseball or rounders from the mid 19th-Century did not require a fixed 
batting order, any player who was not on base could be called upon to bat.[6] 
The concept of a set batting order is said to have been invented by Alexander 
Cartwright, who also instituted rules such as the foul ball and tagging 
the runner (as opposed to pegging him with the ball), and devised the shortstop 
position.[6] In the early days of baseball, the rules did not require that 
the batting order be announced before game time. This permitted strategic 
decisions regarding batting order to occur while the game was in progress. 
For example, Cap Anson was known to wait to see if the first two men got 
on base in the first inning. If they did not, he would wait and hit in 
the next inning.[7] However, in the 1880s, organized baseball began mandating 
that the batting order be disclosed before the first pitch.[7] For example, 
Rule 36 ("The Batsman's Position--Order of Batting") in The Playing Rules 
of Professional Base Ball Clubs of 1896 stated the following: "The Batsmen 
must take their positions within the batsmen's lines ... in the order in 
which they are named in the batting order, which batting order must be 
submitted by the Captains of the opposing teams to the Umpire before the 
game, and this batting order must be followed except in the case of a substitute 
player, in which case the substitute must take the place of the original 
player in the batting order. After the first inning the first striker in 
each inning shall be the batsman whose name follows that of the last man 
who completed his turn ... in the preceding inning."[8] In cricket, the 
batting order is generally fixed so that players are sure of their role 
within the team, but there is no obligation to submit a definitive batting 
order and stick to it. A batsman can be "promoted" to a higher spot (or 
conversely, demoted to a lower one) in the batting order according to the 
team's wishes.[9] The idea of a "revolving" batting order, in which the 
on-deck batter at the time the final out is made in one inning becomes 
the lead-off batter in the next inning (unless his spot is taken by a pinch-hitter), 
is unique to baseball. In the shorter form of cricket, there is only one 
innings per side, while in the longer form each side bats a maximum of 
two times. In a typical innings of this latter form, all eleven players 
on the team will have a chance to bat, and the innings finishes when 10 
players are out. In the team's second innings, the batting order is usually 
maintained, but the team can make any changes it desires. As in baseball, 
many batting order configurations are possible, but a standard order might 
be: It has been noted that the concept of a batting order in baseball is 
"profoundly democratic; no matter how good a hitter you are, you have to 
wait your turn."[11] In that respect, although baseball, like cricket, 
"may have begun as a gentlemen's game," Americans gravitated toward baseball 
as a better embodiment of the country's egalitarian ideal, and as a symbol 
of cultural as well as political independence from the British colonial 
legacy.[11] However, it should also be remembered that in cricket a single 
innings lasts hours or even days, and there are periods in which batting 
can be markedly easier or more difficult. A related factor is that a single 
ball is used in an innings for around 80 overs (approximately 5 hours of 
play). At the beginning of an innings, therefore, when bowlers are fresh 
and the ball is hard, it would be appreciably more challenging for the 
non=specialist batsmen to make an impact. Conversely, if such a player 
bats when the ball is old and the bowlers are tired, he can thrive, and 
this can often be a great source of pleasure to spectators, as insult is 
added to injury for the other side.[12] Finally, in cricket, there is no 
such thing as a designated hitter, so even if a bowler has no batting ability, 
he will still be required to bat, usually as the last man in the order. 
The first player in the batting order is known as the leadoff hitter. The 
leadoff batter is traditionally an individual with a high on-base percentage, 
plate discipline, bat control, good speed, and the ability to steal bases.[13] 
His goal is to ensure the team has baserunners when the later, more powerful 
hitters come to bat. His need for a high on-base percentage (OBP) exceeds 
that of the other lineup spots. Because leadoff hitters are selected primarily 
for their speed and ability to reach base, they are typically not power 
hitters. Leadoff hitters typically hit mostly singles and doubles and draw 
walks to get on base. However, speed is not essential, as was shown by 
Wade Boggs, but it is highly desired among leadoff hitters. Once on base, 
his main goal is to get into scoring position (that is, 2nd or 3rd base) 
as quickly as possible, either through steals, hit and run plays or intelligent 
baserunning decisions, and then on to score. However, today's model for 
a leadoff hitter developed only gradually. An early "job description" for 
a leadoff hitter by baseball pioneer Henry Chadwick in 1867 advised only, 
"Let your first striker always be the coolest hand of the nine."[14] By 
1898, though, a Sporting Life article noted, "It is customary to have a 
small, active fellow who can hit, run and steal bases, and also worry a 
pitcher into a preliminary base on balls, as a leader in the list."[14] 
Examples of classic leadoff hitters are Phil Rizzuto, Richie Ashburn, Maury 
Wills, Lou Brock, Pete Rose, Rod Carew, Tim Raines, and Ichiro Suzuki, 
with some having somewhat more power (Lou Whitaker, Rickey Henderson, Paul 
Molitor, Derek Jeter, Carlos Gómez, Gerardo Parra, Johnny Damon). It should 
be noted that the term “leadoff hitter” can be used interchangeably to 
describe not only the first batter on the lineup card, but also the first 
batter up in any particular inning. For example, if, in the second inning, 
the fifth batter in the lineup card is the first batter up, it will be 
said that he is leading off or that he is the leadoff batter for that particular 
inning.[1] The second batter is usually a contact hitter with the ability 
to bunt or sacrifice a baserunner over or get a hit.[14] His main goal 
is to move the leadoff man into scoring position and to avoid grounding 
into double plays. Managers often like to have a left-handed hitter bat 
second because of the potential gap in the infield defense caused by the 
first baseman holding the leadoff batter. As early as 1892, it was recognized 
that a left-handed hitter in the second spot would make it easier for a 
man on base to steal second.[14] On a very good team this batter can have 
characteristics of both a leadoff hitter and a power hitter (Curt Flood, 
Joe Morgan, Robin Yount, Alan Trammell), in some such cases abandoning 
the advantage of having a left-hand hitter in favor of a good right-handed 
hitter. The third batter, in the three-hole, is generally the best all-around 
hitter on the team, often hitting for a high batting average but not necessarily 
very fast. Part of his job is to reach base for the cleanup hitter, and 
part of it is to help drive in baserunners himself. Third-place hitters 
are best known for "keeping the inning alive". However, in recent years, 
some managers have tended to put their best slugger in this position. Typically 
the greatest hitters for a combination of power and OBP on their teams 
bat third, as is shown by the use of such hitters as Babe Ruth, Mel Ott, 
Ted Williams, Willie Mays, Chipper Jones, Barry Bonds, Mickey Mantle, Carl 
Yastrzemski, Albert Pujols, Joey Votto, Andrew McCutchen, Miguel Cabrera, 
Ken Griffey Jr. Josh Hamilton, Evan Longoria, José Bautista, Edwin Encarnción,Mike 
Trout, and Hank Aaron in this position in the lineup. Even without the 
combination of extreme power (Yogi Berra, Al Kaline, George Brett) or high 
batting average (Ernie Banks, Harmon Killebrew, Johnny Bench, Mike Schmidt, 
Reggie Jackson) this batting position contains an inordinate number of 
hitters who eventually become members of the Baseball Hall of Fame. The 
fourth player in the batting order is known as the cleanup hitter, and 
in modern baseball is almost always one of the best hitters on the team, 
often the one with the most power and ability to drive in runs with extra-base 
hits (double, triple, or home run).[13] Baseball managers tend to place 
hitters who are most likely to reach base ahead of the clean-up man, so 
that the fourth batter can "clean" the bases by driving these baserunners 
home to score runs. His main goal is to drive in runs, although he is expected 
to score runs as well. Hitting cleanup requires an exceptional level of 
talent, and the ability to deliver big hits in important situations (such 
as the bases loaded with two out). Examples of #4 hitters include Lou Gehrig, 
Eddie Mathews, Willie McCovey, Billy Williams, Tony Pérez, Eddie Murray, 
Alex Rodriguez, Prince Fielder, David Ortiz, Edgar Martinez, and Ryan Howard. 
The theory behind the cleanup hitter is that, at the beginning of the game, 
if at least one of the first three batters reaches base with a single-base 
hit or walk, a home run will result in two or more runs rather than just 
one (a "solo" home run). If all three players reach base, thereby loading 
the bases, the cleanup hitter has the chance to hit a grand slam, scoring 
four runs. But even without the grand slam, this batter can extend an inning 
with a high batting average and frequent walks. However, since home runs 
were a rarity before 1920, the concept of slotting a home run hitter fourth 
was slow to develop. However, the need for a good run producer in that 
position was recognized from the early days in baseball history, as demonstrated 
by Cap Anson generally penciling his name there.[14] As power came to play 
a larger role in the game, the tendency to bat home run hitters fourth 
developed accordingly. In 1904, sportswriter Tim Murnane stated unequivocally 
that "The heavy hitter of the team is located at the fourth place."[14] 
The #3 and #4 hitters can often be switched in roles. For example, the 
2011 Detroit Tigers had Miguel Cabrera as their #4 hitter but moved him 
to the #3 hitter after acquiring Prince Fielder as a free agent before 
the 2012 season. The fifth and sixth (and sometimes seventh) batters have 
traditionally been RBI men, with the main goal of driving runners home, 
especially with sacrifice flies. The 3rd, 4th and 5th hitters in the lineup 
are called the "heart of the order", signifying their collective ability 
to get on base, hit for power and drive in runs. Modern sabermetric baseball 
theories suggests that even the 5th and 6th batters should have high on-base 
percentages, though this approach has not been universally adopted. The 
fifth batter is usually a team's second-best power hitter, and his purpose 
is often to "protect" the clean-up hitter in the batting order. He is expected 
to pose enough of a threat that the opposing team refrains from intentionally 
walking the clean-up hitter in potential scoring situations. The sixth 
hitter serves as a backup to the fifth hitter in case he fails to score 
runs or to drive more in himself if another scoring opportunity presents 
itself. The seventh and eighth batters are often not as powerful as the 
earlier batters, and do not have as high a batting average. They are often 
players who are in the lineup more because of their defensive ability (typically 
catcher, second baseman or shortstop) than their ability as hitters. They 
are still expected to produce (as is the case for any regular starter), 
but they have less pressure in those spots. The main pressure on the eighth 
hitter comes when there are two outs: in this case, he must battle the 
pitcher to get on base so that the ninth hitter can come up. That way, 
even if the ninth hitter gets out, the top of the order comes up next. 
Very often the #7 hitter is a catcher, commonly the slowest baserunner 
on a team whose lack of speed would contribute to a large number of double 
plays higher in the order even if he is a good hitter (Bill Freehan). The 
eighth batter is often a good contact hitter, and can be used as a back-up 
#2 hitter. In leagues without designated hitters (DHs), the catcher often 
bats eighth, as they are often employed for their defensive skills and 
handling of the pitching staff, and tend to have a relatively low batting 
average. However, this is by no means always the case. In a situation where 
the pitcher is batting in the #9 slot, #8 hitters are sometimes intentionally 
walked to get to the pitcher's spot in the #9 hole; however, with two outs 
the opposing pitcher is expected to battle the #8 hitter, so in the event 
of an out the pitcher leads off the following inning. In the presence of 
the designated hitter, the ninth batter is often like the second leadoff. 
Nine-hitters tend to be fast, and have a decent on-base percentage like 
the leadoff hitter. In leagues where the DH rule is not in effect, the 
starting pitcher almost always fills the ninth spot, although relief pitchers 
may occupy a different spot due to a double switch. If there is a man on 
first or second base with fewer than two outs when the ninth hitter is 
up, he almost always bunts. However, a notable alternative exists to this, 
in which the pitcher or weakest hitter actually bats in the 8th slot, and 
another player with decent OBP and speed bats in the 9th slot, thus creating 
a kind of second leadoff hitter, at the bottom of the lineup, that loops 
to the top of the order afterwards. This has been used sparingly in the 
major leagues, but was notably employed by St. Louis Cardinals manager 
Tony La Russa in the second half of the 1998 baseball season, and again 
in August 2007 and in 2008, and by Milwaukee Brewers manager Ned Yost in 
2008.[15][16] In 1957 major league manager Bobby Bragan placed his best 
hitter in the leadoff position and the remainder of his lineup in descending 
batting average order. Earnshaw Cook in his 1966 book, Percentage Baseball, 
claimed that, using a computer, Bragan's lineup would result in 1 to 2 
more wins per season. A recent computer simulation demonstrates the superiority 
