In baseball, batting out of turn or batting out of order refers to an event 
in which a batter makes a plate appearance out of sequence from the batting 
order specified in the lineup card submitted by the manager to the home 
plate umpire before the start of the game. The initial batting order is 
a list of the nine position players selected by the manager to play that 
game, indicating the sequence in which they will bat and the position to 
which they have been assigned for the game. During the game, batters make 
a plate appearance in the order specified by the batting order, repeating 
the sequence once the ninth batter has made a plate appearance. Occasionally, 
one or more batters may bat in the incorrect order. In Major League Baseball, 
this violates rule 6.01(a) of the Official Baseball Rules. Batting out 
of turn is ignored by rule unless a member of the defensive team notifies 
the umpire that an infraction has occurred. Once the umpire is notified, 
he enforces the rule based on the batting order he had received. At any 
time, the proper batter is simply the player whose name follows the previous 
actual batter in the written batting order (at the start of the game, the 
#1 hitter is the proper batter, and in subsequent innings, the leadoff 
proper batter is the one who follows the last batter to complete a plate 
appearance in the last previous inning). Any batter's out-of-turn but completed 
plate appearance is legalized when a pitch is thrown to any subsequent 
batter on either team. Thus, in order to determine who is the proper batter 
at any given time, it is necessary only to consider the last two batters 
who have received a pitch—the last proper or legalized batter and the batter 
whose action will be nullified if found improper. When an improper batter 
is legalized by a pitch to a subsequent batter, the written order does 
not change. The proper batter is then the next batter in the written order 
just after the newly legalized improper batter, even if this causes one 
or more batters to be skipped. (If the proper batter is on base—a situation 
that can happen due to his being a previous improper batter, now legalized—he 
is skipped and the batting order goes to the next name on it.) Because 
the umpire and official scorer are not to comment on the batting order 
(outside of ruling on an appeal), the teams need to be vigilant about following 
the written order. If an infraction is discovered immediately after a batter 
completes his appearance, then the umpire considers that batter and the 
previous one. If the batter who just finished batting does not follow the 
previous batter in the written order, his plate appearance was improper, 
any advances or scores due to his action are nullified, he is removed from 
the bases if he reached, and the proper batter is called out. If batting 
out of turn is appealed, the entire play is nullified under Official Baseball 
Rule 6.07 and MiLB Umpire Manual 4.3. Any runners who advanced on the play 
would be returned to the base they occupied at the time of the pitch. However, 
an advance on a stolen base or wild pitch is not a result of the batter's 
illegal action, and would stand. If the improper batter hits into a double 
play, in which he was put out as well as another runner, the defense can 
still appeal that he was the improper batter. If this is the case, the 
proper batter is declared out, the other runner called out on the double 
play is returned to the base he occupied at the time of the pitch, and 
the batter that follows the proper batter who was declared out will come 
to the plate. Under high school (NFHS) rules, any additional outs recorded 
on the play stand - the other out on the play would not be nullified, and 
the defense could still benefit from the double play. If the infraction 
is discovered during a plate appearance (that is, a pitch has been thrown 
to the current batter), then the umpire considers the current batter and 
the previous one. If the current batter's name does not follow the previous 
actual batter's name in the written order, the current batter is improper. 
There is no penalty, but the situation is rectified — the proper batter 
comes to bat and assumes the improper batter's current count. In this situation, 
if the proper batter is on base, then he is simply skipped in the order, 
and the next batter in the order is now the proper batter. In this situation 
under high school (NFHS) rules, the proper batter is brought in off the 
bases, assumes his proper at bat, and a courtesy runner (the last batted 
out) takes his place on the bases. Suppose the batting order is: Abel, 
Baker, Charles, Daniel, Edward, Frank, George, Hooker, Irwin. Abel bats 
and is put out. Charles then bats out of turn. Charles makes a safe hit, 
reaching first base. Before any pitch is thrown to the next batter, a member 
of the defensive team asks the umpire to make a ruling. RULING: The proper 
batter after Abel was Baker, not Charles. Baker is called out for failing 
to bat in his turn, and Charles is removed from base and comes to bat again, 
because he is now the proper batter. For instance, on July 6, 2013, San 
Francisco Giants manager Bruce Bochy submitted a lineup to the umpires 
with Gregor Blanco leading off, Marco Scutaro batting second, Pablo Sandoval 
batting third and Buster Posey hitting cleanup. After Blanco got on base 
and Scutaro made out, Posey improperly stepped to the plate and hit an 
RBI double to right field, scoring Blanco from third base. However, Los 
Angeles Dodgers manager Don Mattingly immediately appealed to plate umpire 
Tony Randazzo for a ruling and after discussion amongst the umpires, Sandoval 
was declared out for failing to bat in his turn, Blanco was sent back to 
3rd base, and Posey, who was removed from the basepaths, came to bat again 
because he was now the proper batter. This time around, Posey flew out 
to end the inning, leaving Blanco stranded.[1] Abel bats and is put out. 
Charles then bats out of turn. Charles makes a safe hit, reaching first 
base. Baker then comes to bat. A strike is pitched to Baker. A member of 
the defensive team then asks the umpire to make a ruling regarding the 
improper batting order. RULING: The first pitch to Baker made Charles's 
turn legal. The proper batter after Charles is Daniel, not Baker. Without 
penalty, Daniel comes to bat (replacing Baker) and assumes that one-strike 
count. Abel bats and is put out. Edward then bats out of turn. Edward reaches 
first base, and Charles then comes to bat and reaches base. The infraction 
is discovered by the defensive manager before a pitch is thrown to any 
subsequent batter, and it is reported to the umpire at that time. RULING: 
Edward did bat out of turn, but the first pitch to Charles legalized Edward's 
plate appearance. Therefore, the proper batter after Edward is Frank, so 
Charles is removed from the bases, Edward is returned to first base, Frank 
is called out for failing to bat in his proper turn, and George is now 
the proper batter. Suppose that Charles often bats second but was written 
as the third batter for this game. Abel bats and is put out. Charles then 
bats out of turn and makes a safe hit, reaching first base. Baker then 
bats out of turn and receives a base on balls, advancing Charles to second 
base. Edward then comes to bat and takes a strike. The defense then appeals 
to the umpire. RULING: The first pitch to Edward legalized Baker's turn 
at bat. The proper batter after Baker is Charles, but he is on base, so 
he is skipped in the order; thus Daniel is now the proper batter. Because 
Edward's plate appearance had not yet finished, there is no penalty; Daniel 
comes to bat (replacing Edward) and assumes the one strike Edward received. 
In this example, you will notice that the umpire ignores the fact that 
Charles previously batted out of turn. This underscores the principle that 
any pitch legalizes all previous turns at bat. Charles's turn at bat became 
legal when a pitch was thrown to Baker. The umpire needs to consider only 
Baker and Edward, the last two batters who have received a pitch. When 
a substitute enters the game, he takes the written spot of the player whom 
he replaces. Suppose that George bats and is put out, then a pinch hitter, 
Stephen, comes to bat. Stephen (a) reports that he is batting for Irwin, 
or (b) doesn't report. Stephen hits safely and reaches first base. Hooker 
then comes to bat and hits safely, advancing Stephen. The defense appeals 
to the umpire that batter was out of turn. RULING: In (a), Stephen's name 
replaces Irwin in the batting order. The first pitch to Hooker legalized 
Stephen's turn at bat. The proper batter after Stephen is Abel. Thus Hooker 
is removed from the bases for being an improper batter; Stephen returns 
to first base; Abel is called out for failing to bat in turn, and the proper 
batter is now Baker. In (b), since Stephen did not report as a substitute, 
he legally enters the game in the place of the proper batter. Stephen's 
name thus replaces Hooker in the order, and Hooker is out of the game. 
Since Hooker was no longer in the game when he came to bat, he was an illegal 
substitute and not a batter out of turn. The penalty for this infraction 
