In cricket, the batting order is the sequence in which batsmen play through 
their team's innings, there always being two batsmen taking part at any 
one time. All eleven players in a team are required to bat if the innings 
is completed (i.e., if the innings does not close early due to a declaration 
or other factor). The batting order is colloquially subdivided into:[citation 
needed] The order in which the eleven players will bat is usually established 
before the start of a cricket match, but may be altered during play. The 
decision is based on factors such as each player's specialities; the position 
each batsman is most comfortable with; each player's skills and attributes 
as a batsman; possible combinations with other batsmen; and the match situation 
whereby, for example, the team may require a more defensive or attacking 
player at that point in the innings. Also, a middle order batsman in Tests 
may open for ODI's and Twenty20 due to their aggressive approach to the 
game. The captain of the team can change the batting order during the game 
at his or her discretion. They can even change the batting line-up from 
one game to another in a tournament or series. There are no rules about 
the nature or number of changes made and, if more than one innings is played, 
the order used in each need not be the same. It has even been known for 
a captain to completely reverse his batting order for the second innings 
after following on. This has made it possible for a bowler to take a hat-trick 
across three consecutive overs of a match, including the same batsman twice.[1] 
There are various reasons why the captain might make a change from the 
established order. Usually, however, captains and coaches prefer not to 
adjust the batting order unless necessary. Like when South Africa had to 
move Imran Tahir up the order against India because South African top 7 
batsmen are poor against spin bowlers, a plan which backfired spectacularly.[2] 
If the state of the game requires runs to be scored quickly, a captain 
will often promote a batsman who is known to score quickly up the order. 
This is usually a lower-order batsman, as their wicket is not regarded 
as being so valuable. A batsman who is promoted up the order with the intention 
of scoring quick runs is called a pinch hitter. When a wicket falls near 
the end of the day, a lower order (less capable) batsman might be sent 
in to bat with the intention that the more capable players will be held 
in reserve until the next morning. The more capable players are then not 
exposed to the risk of dismissal while tired or in low-light conditions. 
The batsman who is sent in is known as the nightwatchman. This tactic is 
also used because players are typically nervous and unsettled at the start 
of the innings before settling into their rhythm and becoming "set". Sending 
a specialist batsman in late in the day means that he will have to survive 
one such period in the afternoon, before doing the same again after the 
resumption of play the next day, increasing the chance of a dismissal, 
so a less valuable batsman is sent in instead. The opening batsmen or "openers" 
are the batsmen who bat first in the innings (no. 1 and 2). This position 
is important as the openers need to get the innings off to a good start. 
The early fall of wickets can have a psychological impact on the rest of 
the team, affecting their performance with the bat. The opening batsmen 
also get the first experience of the pitch and conditions, and must be 
able to adjust to them quickly. Most importantly, the opening batsmen must 
face a new ball, which is hard and has a pronounced seam. This makes it 
more liable to travel fast, bounce high, seam around (i.e., bounce unpredictably 
off the seam) and swing (i.e., deviate sideways when travelling through 
the air). These early conditions favour the bowling team, so the opening 
batsmen must have considerable patience, a sound technique and be good 
defensively. As the ball gets older, its condition starts to favour the 
batting team. Therefore, the openers will ideally stay at the crease long 
enough to protect the batsmen further down the order. In first-class cricket, 
the rate at which the openers score runs is not as important as "taking 
the shine off" the new ball. This is the process of softening and roughening 
the cricket ball, whose condition tends to degrade the longer it is in 
play. By occupying the crease for a long time and taking the shine off 
the ball, the openers themselves are able to score more freely later on. 
This also makes batting easier for the rest of the order. Because of the 
defensive technique required early on, openers are sometimes less fluent 
stroke-players than the specialist batsmen who follow. In limited overs 
cricket, the role of opening batsman is slightly different. In this type 
of cricket a high run rate is a necessity. Also, in the early 1990s, fielding 
restrictions were introduced in the early overs of the game, limiting the 
fielding side to only two players on the boundary. To start the innings 
effectively and take advantage of the fielding restrictions, it became 
beneficial to have an aggressive batsman opening the innings. If an opening 
batsman remains not out at the end of the team's innings, after all 10 
other batsmen have been dismissed, or have batted through the entire allotment 
of overs in limited-overs cricket, he is said to have carried the bat. 
The batsmen who bat at positions 3, 4 and 5 in the order are sometimes 
the most technically proficient batsmen with the best stroke play. As they 
are likely to face an older ball that is easier to score runs against, 
they must aim to make a large number of runs. They may be exposed to the 
new ball if an opener loses his wicket early on and so must be equipped 
to deal with this scenario as well. Top and middle order batsmen must also 
be adaptable as they may be required to attack, consolidate or defend according 
to the needs of the team as the match situation develops. The world's most 
prolific and best recognised batsmen are generally found in the top order. 
The middle order usually consists of versatile batsmen who must continue 
to build an innings. The middle order batsman is likely to be facing a 
much older ball bowled by a spin bowler and defensive technique is necessary 
to overcome this type of attack, but they are often also fleet-footed players 
who attack slow bowling by charging down the pitch. The middle order players 
must also be adept at making runs when playing with the poor quality batsmen 
in the lower order. This requires the ability to manipulate the strike 
so that the tail-enders are shielded from the more potent bowlers. Players 
who are designated as all-rounders often bat in the middle order (e.g., 
Garfield Sobers usually batted at number 6; by contrast, W. G. Grace always 
opened the innings). Wicketkeepers generally bat in the middle order as 
well, often at number 7 (e.g. Adam Gilchrist). One reason for placing all-rounders 
and wicket-keepers in the middle-order even though they may be more skilled 
than those who batted above them was because such players would be tired 
after bowling or keeping wicket during the preceding innings. In One Day 
International cricket, middle order batsmen are generally able to change 
their game depending on the conditions. If their team loses wickets early, 
they must be able to play a long careful innings. Conversely, if they are 
not required to bat until later in the game, they must be able to attempt 
to score quickly, often attempting to hit many fours or sixes, and if they 
only have a short period to bat, they are expected to be innovative and 
able to settle after a short period. In run-chases they are required to 
be good at calculating and minimising the risks needed to reach the target, 
by scoring at close to the rate required. If they score more quickly than 
is required, they run the risk of getting out and exposing the weaker, 
lower-order batsmen to the pressure situation, but if they score too slowly, 
then they fall behind schedule and the pressure again increases. The lower 
order is made up of players who have average or poor batting skills, commonly 
known as tailenders (tail ender or tail-ender). These players are the team's 
specialist bowlers and sometimes the wicketkeeper, or even players on debut 
if their batting abilities are unproven because bowlers with better batting 
abilities, aspiring all-rounders or wicketkeepers do have a chance to move 
up the order over the course of their careers (notably Steve Smith moved 
from 8 to 3–5, or Ashton Agar moved from 11 to 7 in first class cricket). 
However, some bowlers do establish themselves as competent lower order 
batsmen, as in the case of fast bowler Chaminda Vaas, who has a Test century 
to his name. But by the same token, opening batsman could move down the 
order due to poor form, having a top-heavy line-up or being better suited 
to play against spin bowling (Notably Moeen Ali moving down from an opener 
to 8 since 2015 Ashes series). Therefore, the start of the lower order 
may vary in position depending on the balance of the side in terms of overall 
batting capability. Also, given ODI's and Twenty20 needs to score quickly 
and aggressively, an opener in limited-over forms of the game may bat down 
the order in tests. It is likely that these batsmen will be dismissed for 
low scores. However, as expectations on these players are low when they 
are batting, they often play aggressive, carefree shots in the hope of 
achieving as many runs as possible. On occasion, the scores posted by the 
lower order have made a difference to the outcome of a match. If a significant 
contribution has come from the tail-enders, it is often said that "the 
tail wagged". On occasions in which the batting team is a long way behind 
its opponents, the lower-order batsmen may attempt to salvage a draw by 
playing defensively until the end of the match. An example of this would 
be the first test in the 2009 Ashes series, in which England bowlers James 
Anderson and Monty Panesar were able to remain at the crease for 11.3 overs, 
denying Australia the chance to win the match. The last batsman in the 
order is sometimes referred to as Last man Jack, a term that has passed 
into everyday parlance. This is because if the batting order were arranged 
as a pack of cards numbers 9 and 10 would be followed by Jack. The batsman 
those who bat at numbers 7, 8, and 9 are known as middle lower order batsman. 
