A batting cage (aka tunnel) is an enclosed area for baseball or softball 
players to practice the skill of batting. The optimal material for batting 
cages is netting, and they are typically rectangular in shape. Chain-link 
fence is not required but can be useful to enclose the netting to prevent 
vandalism. However, this material is not suitable for the primary impact 
layer because it will warp the fencing and damage balls. The ideal netting 
for a batting cage is either diamond- or square-shaped.[1] Both types of 
netting have their advantages and disadvantages. Indoor Indoor batting 
cages are typically suspended by steel cable lines, 1 line every 6–8 feet. 
The anchor points being the most important component, typically connected 
using a steel plate to the wall. Without strong anchors, the netting will 
sag. Outdoor Outdoor batting cages are typically installed using steel 
pole sections (2 uprights and 1 cross-bar per section), spaced every 12–20 
feet. The greater the span between supports, the more sag in the netting 
and less usable the cage becomes.[2] Netting Netting can greatly vary in 
quality and durability. #21 Gauge is suitable for little-league players, 
#36 Gauge is suitable for High-School players, and #60 is recommended for 
Commercial facilities and Pro Players. Resources such as this Netting Infographic 
Guide are helpful for identifying the best netting for an application. 
A batter stands at one end of the cage, with a pitching machine (or, less 
often, a human pitcher) at the opposing end. The pitcher or pitching machine 
pitches baseballs to the batter, who hits them. It is recommended to use 
a protective pitcher's L-screen to prevent batted balls from striking the 
pitcher or machine. The cage is used to keep the loose baseballs within 
a certain range so that they're easy to pick up and are not lost. Batting 
cages are found both indoors and outdoors. The interior floor of a batting 
cage may be sloped, to automatically feed the baseballs back into the automatic 
pitching machine. The automatic pitching machines using sloped floors usually 
pitch out a synthetic baseball or softball, rather than an official solid 
core leather hardball. Commercial batting cages pitch with several different 
speeds, which can range from 30 miles (48 km) (for softball) to 90 miles 
(140 km) per hour. Cricket nets and tunnels, used by cricket batsmen are 
similar in purpose, but bowling machines are much less common than facing 
a live bowler (this reflects the fact that nearly half of the members of 
a cricket team are specialist bowlers, and therefore proportionately more 
bowling practice is needed in cricket than pitching practice in baseball). 
