Batting gloves are a component in Bat-and-ball games sportswear. Typically 
consisting of a leather palm and back made of nylon or another synthetic 
fabric, the glove covers one or both hands of a batter, providing comfort, 
prevention of blisters, warmth, improved grip, and shock absorption when 
hitting the ball. The use of gloves is not obligatory in any level of the 
game, but they are considered an essential part of Cricket clothing and 
equipment. Some claim the first player to wear a batting glove was Bobby 
Thomson of the Giants, who wore golf gloves during spring training in 1949. 
Others say that Ted Williams was the first to wear a golf glove in batting 
practice during the summer of 1953, after he returned to the Red Sox from 
Korea. According to David Cataneo, the veteran sportswriter who wrote I 
Remember Williams: Anecdotes and Memories of Baseball's Splendid Splinter, 
Williams' manager, Fred Corcoran, who also managed Sam Snead and Babe Zaharias 
at that time, was with Williams one day while he was taking an extra batting 
practice to get back in shape. Corcoran saw the blisters on Williams' hand 
and pulled out a golf glove and gave it to him to try. Soon, everyone was 
wearing a golf glove while batting. The first person to wear a batting 
glove in a game was Ken "Hawk" Harrelson. Some sources say Harrelson first 
wore golf gloves while playing for the Kansas City A's in 1964. Others 
cite a more lyrical and perhaps apocryphal tale, in which Harrelson was 
with the Red Sox in 1968 and, not expecting to play in a night game, spent 
the afternoon playing golf. Arriving at the ballpark with blistered hands 
after shooting 27 holes, he was surprised to find himself in the starting 
lineup and resorted to wearing golf gloves to protect his sore hands. Rusty 
Staub was the first to wear the golf gloves on a daily basis. Batting gloves 
became an essential and common element of MLB during the early 1980s with 
Mike Schmidt of the Philadelphia Phillies spearheading efforts of Franklin 
Sports to become the choice of the majority of players. Over time Franklin 
Sports became (and remains today) the official batting glove of Major League 
Baseball. The majority of baseball players, at any level of play, wear 
batting gloves. They are worn because they help increase the quality of 
the grip on the bat. Maintaining a tight and controlled grip is essential 
to successful hits. Even the slightest slip or variation in grip can cost 
the team greatly. They also act as a protector of the hand when one slides 
into a base. Batting gloves today are even worn by fielders because they 
say that they feel better in their glove. Another prime use for batting 
gloves, especially in younger leagues that permit aluminum bats, is shock 
protection. On a cold day, a bad or loose swing can fracture fingers. However, 
several Major League players bat gloveless: Some retired players who often 
