Batting average is a statistic in cricket, baseball, and softball that 
measures the performance of batsmen in cricket and batters in baseball. 
The development of the baseball statistic was influenced by the cricket 
statistic.[1] In cricket, a player's batting average is the total number 
of runs they have scored divided by the number of times they have been 
out. Since the number of runs a player scores and how often they get out 
are primarily measures of their own playing ability, and largely independent 
of their team mates, batting average is a good metric for an individual 
player's skill as a batsman. The number is also simple to interpret intuitively. 
If all the batsman's innings were completed (i.e. they were out every innings), 
this is the average number of runs they score per innings. If they did 
not complete all their innings (i.e. some innings they finished not out), 
this number is an estimate of the unknown average number of runs they score 
per innings. Batting average has been used to gauge cricket players' relative 
skills since the 18th century. Most players have career batting averages 
in the range of 20 to 40. This is also the desirable range for wicket-keepers, 
though some fall short and make up for it with keeping skill. Until a substantial 
increase in scores in the 21st century due to improved bats and smaller 
grounds among other factors, players who sustained an average above 50 
through a career were considered exceptional, and before the development 
of the heavy roller in the 1870s an average of 25 was considered very good.[2] 
Career records for batting average are usually subject to a minimum qualification 
of 20 innings played or completed, in order to exclude batsmen who have 
not played enough games for their skill to be reliably assessed. Under 
this qualification, the highest Test batting average belongs to Australia's 
Sir Donald Bradman, with 99.94. Given that a career batting average over 
50 is exceptional, and that only four other players have averages over 
60, this is an outstanding statistic. The fact that Bradman's average is 
so far above that of any other cricketer has led several statisticians 
to argue that, statistically at least, he was the greatest sportsman in 
any sport.[3] As at 21 October 2016, Adam Voges of Australia has recorded 
an average of 72.75 from 27 innings played, but only 20 innings completed. 
Batting averages in One Day International (ODI) cricket tend to be lower 
than in Test cricket,[4] because of the need to score runs more quickly 
and take riskier strokes and the lesser emphasis on building a large innings. 
It should also be remembered, especially in relation to the ODI histogram 
above, that there were no ODI competitions when Bradman played. If a batsman 
has been dismissed in every single innings, then their total number of 
runs scored divided by the number of times they have been out gives exactly 
the average number of runs they score per innings. However, for a batsman 
with innings which have finished not out, this statistic is only an estimate 
of the average number of runs they score per innings – the true average 
number of runs they score per innings is unknown as it is not known how 
many runs they would have scored if they could have completed all their 
not out innings. If their scores have a geometric distribution then total 
number of runs scored divided by the number of times out is the maximum 
likelihood estimate of their true unknown average.[5] Batting averages 
can be strongly affected by the number of not outs. For example, Phil Tufnell, 
who was noted for his poor batting,[6] has an apparently respectable ODI 
average of 15 (from 20 games), despite a highest score of only 5 not out, 
as he scored an overall total of 15 runs from 10 innings, but was out only 
once.[7] A different, and more recently developed, statistic which is also 
used to gauge the effectiveness of batsmen is the strike rate. It measures 
a different concept however – how quickly the batsman scores (number of 
runs from 100 balls) – so it does not supplant the role of batting average. 
It is used particularly in limited overs matches, where the speed at which 
a batsman scores is more important than it is in first-class cricket. (Source: 
Cricinfo Statsguru 6 August 2016) Table shows players with at least 20 
innings completed. * denotes not out. For more comprehensive statistics 
see List of cricket batting averages. In baseball, the batting average 
(BA) is defined by the number of hits divided by at bats. It is usually 
reported to three decimal places and read without the decimal: A player 
with a batting average of .300 is "batting three-hundred." A point (or 
percentage point) is understood to be .001 . If necessary to break ties, 
batting averages could be taken to more than three decimal places. Henry 
Chadwick, an English statistician raised on cricket, was an influential 
figure in the early history of baseball. In the late 19th century he adapted 
the concept behind the cricket batting average to devise a similar statistic 
for baseball. Rather than simply copy cricket's formulation of runs scored 
divided by outs, he realized that hits divided by at bats would provide 
a better measure of individual batting ability. This is because while in 
cricket, scoring runs is almost entirely dependent on one's own batting 
skill, in baseball it is largely dependent on having other good hitters 
on one's team. Chadwick noted that hits are independent of teammates' skills, 
so used this as the basis for the baseball batting average. His reason 
for using at bats rather than outs is less obvious, but it leads to the 
intuitive idea of the batting average being a percentage reflecting how 
often a batter gets on base, whereas in contrary, hits divided by outs 
is not as simple to interpret in real terms. In modern times, a season 
batting average higher than .300 is considered to be excellent, and an 
average higher than .400 a nearly unachievable goal. The last player to 
do so, with enough plate appearances to qualify for the batting championship, 
was Ted Williams of the Boston Red Sox, who hit .406 in 1941, though the 
best modern players either threaten to or actually do achieve it occasionally, 
if only for brief periods of time. There have been numerous attempts to 
explain the disappearance of the .400 hitter, with one of the more rigorous 
discussions of this question appearing in Stephen Jay Gould's 1996 book 
Full House. Ty Cobb holds the record for highest career batting average 
with .367, 9 points higher than Rogers Hornsby who has the second highest 
average in history at .358. The record for lowest career batting average 
for a player with more than 2,500 at-bats belongs to Bill Bergen, a catcher 
who played from 1901 to 1911 and recorded a .170 average in 3,028 career 
at-bats. The modern-era record for highest batting average for a season 
is held by Napoleon Lajoie, who hit .426 in 1901, the first year of play 
for the American League. The modern-era record for lowest batting average 
for a player that qualified for the batting title is held by Rob Deer, 
who hit .179 in 1991. While finishing six plate appearances short of qualifying 
for the batting title, Adam Dunn of the Chicago White Sox hit .159 for 
the 2011 season, twenty points (and 11.2%) lower than the record. The highest 
batting average for a rookie was .408 in 1911 by Shoeless Joe Jackson. 
For non-pitchers, a batting average below .230 is often considered poor, 
and one below .200 is usually unacceptable. This latter level is sometimes 
referred to as "The Mendoza Line", named for Mario Mendoza (a lifetime 
.215 hitter), a stellar defensive shortstop whose defensive capabilities 
just barely made up for his offensive shortcomings. The league batting 
average in Major League Baseball for 2004 was just higher than .266, and 
the all-time league average is between .260 and .275. In rare instances, 
MLB players have concluded their careers with a perfect batting average 
of 1.000. John Paciorek had three hits in all three of his turns at bat. 
Esteban Yan went two-for-two, including a home run. Hal Deviney's two hits 
in his only plate appearances included a triple, while Steve Biras, Mike 
Hopkins, Chet Kehn, Jason Roach and Fred Schemanske also went two-for-two. 
A few dozen others have hit safely in their one and only career at-bat. 
Sabermetrics, the study of baseball statistics, considers batting average 
a weak measure of performance because it does not correlate as well as 
other measures to runs scored, thereby causing it to have little predictive 
value. Batting average does not take into account walks or power, whereas 
other statistics such as on-base percentage and slugging percentage have 
been specifically designed to measure such concepts. Adding these statistics 
together form a player's On-base plus slugging or "OPS". This is commonly 
seen as a much better, though not perfect, indicator of a player's overall 
batting ability as it is a measure of hitting for average, hitting for 
power and drawing bases on balls. In 1887, Major League Baseball counted 
bases on balls as hits. The result of this was skyrocketed batting averages, 
including some near .500, and the experiment was abandoned the following 
season. The Major League Baseball batting averages championships (often 
referred to as "the batting title") is awarded annually to the player in 
each league who has the highest batting average. Ty Cobb holds the MLB 
(and American League) record for most batting titles, officially winning 
11 in his pro career.[9] The National League record of 8 batting titles 
is shared by Honus Wagner and Tony Gwynn. Most of Cobb's career and all 
of Wagner's career took place in what is known as the Dead-Ball Era, which 
was characterized by higher batting averages and much less power, whereas 
Gwynn's career took place in the Live-Ball Era. To determine which players 
are eligible to win the batting title, the following conditions have been 
used over the sport's history:[10] From 1967 to the present, if the player 
with the highest average in a league fails to meet the minimum plate-appearance 
requirement, the remaining at-bats until qualification (e.g., 5 ABs, if 
the player finished the season with 497 plate appearances) are hypothetically 
considered hitless at-bats; if his recalculated batting average still tops 
the league, he is awarded the title. This is officially called Rule 10.22(a), 
but it is also known as the Tony Gwynn rule because the Padres' legend 
won the batting crown in 1996 with a .353 average on just 498 plate appearances 
(i.e., was four shy). Gwynn was awarded the title since he would have led 
the league even if he'd gone 0-for-4 in those missing plate appearances. 
His average would have dropped to .349, five points better than second-place 
Ellis Burks' .344.[11] In 2012, a one-time amendment to the rule was made 
to disqualify Melky Cabrera from the title. Cabrera requested that he be 
disqualified after serving a suspension that season for a positive testosterone 
test. He had batted .346 with 501 plate appearances, and the original rule 
would have awarded him the title over San Francisco Giants teammate Buster 
Posey, who won batting .336.[12][13] Following from usage in cricket and 
baseball, batting average has come to be used for other statistical measures 
of performance and in the general usage on how a person did in a wide variety 
of actions. An example is the Internet Archive, which uses the term in 
ranking downloads. Its "batting average" indicates the correlation between 
views of a description page of a downloadable item, and the number of actual 
downloads of the item. This avoids the effect of popular downloads by volume 
swamping potentially more focused and useful downloads, producing an arguably 
