The batter's eye or batter's eye screen is a solid-colored, usually dark 
area beyond the center field wall of a baseball stadium, that is the visual 
backdrop directly in the line of sight of a baseball batter, while facing 
the pitcher and awaiting a pitch. This dark surface allows the batter to 
see the pitched ball against a sharply contrasted and uncluttered background. 
Its primary purpose is the safety of the batter.[citation needed] The use 
of a batter's background has been standard in baseball (as well as cricket) 
since at least the late 19th century. The batter's eye performs the same 
role at a baseball venue as the sight-screen does at a cricket venue, except 
that a cricket sight-screen is usually white in order to contrast with 
the dark red cricket ball. Alternatively a black screen is used to contrast 
the white Limited Overs cricket ball. The batter's eye area is usually 
painted or otherwise decorated in black, dark green, or other color dark 
enough to allow batters to track the flight of the white ball. If there 
are seats behind center field, they are painted a dark color and are not 
occupied during baseball games, as the "black bleachers" section is directly 
in front of them. If fans were allowed to sit in this section, it would 
create a pitcher's advantage, in addition to raising the batter's exposure 
to danger, as it would make it more difficult for the batter to track the 
ball if a substantial number of fans were wearing white shirts. One example 
of a batter's background is the black area in the center-field bleachers 
section of the original Yankee Stadium, known as the Black Seats. At one 
time, there were seats where the black area was, but because of distractions 
the seats were removed and the area painted black. (Before the stadium's 
mid-1970s renovation, a batter's eye screen was often put up in front of 
the section.) At Fenway Park in Boston, the batter's eye is made by laying 
a large black tarp over a section of the center field bleachers. During 
day games, the seats will not be sold so the tarp can be laid down; however, 
during night games, when the batter is more likely to be able to see the 
ball regardless of the backdrop, the seats are sold. This has often created 
unusual seating arrangements during night games that are made up during 
part of a day-night doubleheader as the sections remain uncovered for the 
people who have purchased the seats. The Red Sox have solved this problem 
by handing out T-shirts of the same color to these fans to wear during 
the game. At Wrigley Field, the center field bleachers used to be closed 
off and covered by a tarpaulin, and later by juniper plants. There is now 
a shaded luxury suite there referred to by the Cubs as the "Bud Light Batter's 
Eye".[1] Some stadiums have rotating billboards in this area. In this case, 
advertisements are displayed in between innings, while a dark surface is 
rotated in while the game is in play. This method was used at Shea Stadium 
(and continues at Shea's replacement, Citi Field) in New York,[2] AT&T 
Park in San Francisco, and at Petco Park in San Diego.[3] Tropicana Field 
in St. Petersburg, Florida has a restaurant called the Batter's Eye Restaurant.[4] 
The current Yankee Stadium has a restaurant with dark tinted glass that 
serves as the batter's eye. Minor League ballparks are normally much smaller 
than major league parks, and the vast majority have no seats or other sections 
in the outfield that would distract the batter or obstruct his view of 
the pitched ball. Nevertheless, many have erected tall, dark, stand-alone 
batters-eye screens in center to ensure there is no interference with the 
batter's view. For example, beyond the batter's eye screen looming over 
center field in Richmond County Bank Ballpark, home of the Staten Island 
Yankees, is The Narrows, the strait of water separating Staten Island from 
Manhattan. The batter's eye screen prevents, in day games, the glare of 
the hazy ocean air and, in night games, the lights from lower Manhattan, 
