Military Division of the Mississippi: The Battle of Kennesaw Mountain was 
fought on June 27, 1864, during the Atlanta Campaign of the American Civil 
War. It was the most significant frontal assault launched by Union Maj. 
Gen. William T. Sherman against the Confederate Army of Tennessee under 
Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, ending in a tactical defeat for the Union forces. 
Strategically, however, the battle failed to deliver the result that the 
Confederacy desperately needed—namely a halt to Sherman's advance on Atlanta. 
Sherman's 1864 campaign against Atlanta, Georgia, was initially characterized 
by a series of flanking maneuvers against Johnston, each of which compelled 
the Confederate army to withdraw from heavily fortified positions with 
minimal casualties on either side. After two months and 70 miles (110 km) 
of such maneuvering, Sherman's path was blocked by imposing fortifications 
on Kennesaw Mountain, near Marietta, Georgia, and the Union general chose 
to change his tactics and ordered a large-scale frontal assault on June 
27, 1864. Maj. Gen. James B. McPherson feinted against the northern end 
of Kennesaw Mountain, while his corps under Maj. Gen. John A. Logan assaulted 
Pigeon Hill on its southwest corner. At the same time, Maj. Gen. George 
H. Thomas launched strong attacks against Cheatham Hill at the center of 
the Confederate line. Both attacks were repulsed with heavy losses, but 
a demonstration by Maj. Gen. John M. Schofield achieved a strategic success 
by threatening the Confederate army's left flank, prompting yet another 
Confederate withdrawal toward Atlanta and the removal of General Johnston 
from command of the army. In March 1864, Ulysses S. Grant was promoted 
to lieutenant general and named general in chief of the Union Army. He 
devised a strategy of multiple, simultaneous offensives against the Confederacy, 
hoping to prevent any of the rebel armies from reinforcing the others over 
interior lines. The two most significant of these were by Maj. Gen. George 
G. Meade's Army of the Potomac, accompanied by Grant himself, which would 
attack Robert E. Lee's army directly and advance toward the Confederate 
capital of Richmond, Virginia; and Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman, replacing 
Grant in his role as commander of the Military Division of the Mississippi, 
who would advance from Chattanooga, Tennessee, to Atlanta.[4] Both Grant 
and Sherman initially had objectives to engage with and destroy the two 
principal armies of the Confederacy, relegating the capture of important 
enemy cities to a secondary, supporting role. This was a strategy that 
President Abraham Lincoln had emphasized throughout the war, but Grant 
was the first general who actively cooperated with it. As their campaigns 
progressed, however, the political importance of the cities of Richmond 
and Atlanta began to dominate their strategy. By 1864, Atlanta was a critical 
target. The city of 20,000 was founded at the intersection of four important 
railroad lines that supplied the Confederacy and was a military manufacturing 
arsenal in its own right. Atlanta's nickname of "Gate City of the South" 
was apt—its capture would open virtually the entire Deep South to Union 
conquest. Grant's orders to Sherman were to "move against Johnston's Army, 
to break it up and to get into the interior of the enemy's country as far 
as you can, inflicting all the damage you can against their War resources."[5] 
Sherman's force of about 100,000 men was composed of three subordinate 
armies: the Army of the Tennessee (Grant's and later Sherman's army of 
1862–63) under Maj. Gen. James B. McPherson; the Army of the Cumberland 
under Maj. Gen. George H. Thomas; and the relatively small Army of the 
Ohio (composed of only the XXIII Corps) under Maj. Gen. John M. Schofield. 
Their principal opponent was the Confederate Army of Tennessee, commanded 
by Gen. Joseph E. Johnston, who had replaced the unpopular Braxton Bragg 
after his defeat in Chattanooga in November 1863. The 50,000-man army consisted 
of the infantry corps of Lt. Gens. William J. Hardee, John Bell Hood, and 
Leonidas Polk, and a cavalry corps under Maj. Gen. Joseph Wheeler.[6] Sherman's 
campaign began on May 7, 1864, as his three armies departed from the vicinity 
of Chattanooga. He launched demonstration attacks against Johnston's position 
on the long, high mountain named Rocky Face Ridge while McPherson's Army 
of the Tennessee advanced stealthily around Johnston's left flank toward 
the town of Resaca and Johnston's supply line on the Western & Atlantic 
Railroad. Unfortunately for Sherman, McPherson encountered a small Confederate 
force entrenched in the outskirts of Resaca and cautiously pulled back 
to Snake Creek Gap, squandering the opportunity to trap the Confederate 
army. As Sherman swung his entire army in the direction of Resaca, Johnston 
retired to take up positions there. Full scale fighting erupted in the 
Battle of Resaca on May 14–15 but there was no conclusive result and Sherman 
flanked Johnston for a second time by crossing the Oostanaula River. As 
Johnston withdrew again, skirmishing erupted at Adairsville on May 17 and 
more general fighting on Johnston's Cassville line May 18–19. Johnston 
planned to defeat part of Sherman's force as it approached on multiple 
routes, but Hood became uncharacteristically cautious and feared encirclement, 
failing to attack as ordered. Encouraged by Hood and Polk, Johnston ordered 
another withdrawal, this time across the Etowah River.[7] Johnston's army 
took up defensive positions at Allatoona Pass south of Cartersville, but 
Sherman once again turned Johnston's left as he temporarily abandoned his 
railroad supply line and advanced on Dallas. Johnston was forced to move 
from his strong position and meet Sherman's army in the open. Fierce but 
inconclusive fighting occurred on May 25 at New Hope Church, May 27 at 
Pickett's Mill, and May 28 at Dallas. By June 1, heavy rains turned the 
roads to quagmires and Sherman was forced to return to the railroad to 
supply his men. Johnston's new line (called the Brushy Mountain Line) was 
established by June 4 northwest of Marietta, along Lost Mountain, Pine 
Mountain, and Brush Mountain. On June 14, following eleven days of steady 
rain, Sherman was ready to move again. While on a personal reconnaissance, 
he spotted a group of Confederate officers on Pine Mountain and ordered 
one of his artillery batteries to open fire. Lt. Gen. Leonidas Polk, the 
"Fighting Bishop," was killed and Johnston withdrew his men from Pine Mountain, 
establishing a new line in an arc-shaped defensive position from Kennesaw 
Mountain to Little Kennesaw Mountain. Hood's corps attempted an unsuccessful 
attack at Peter Kolb's farm (the Battle of Kolb's Farm) south of Little 
Kennesaw Mountain on June 22. Maj. Gen. William W. Loring succeeded to 
command Polk's corps.[8] Sherman was in a difficult position, stalled 15 
miles (24 km) north of Atlanta. He could not continue his strategy of moving 
around Johnston's flank because of the impassable roads, and his railroad 
supply line was dominated by Johnston's position on the top of 691 feet 
(211 m) Kennesaw Mountain. He reported to Washington "The whole country 
is one vast fort, and Johnston must have at least 50 miles (80 km) of connected 
trenches with abatis and finished batteries. We gain ground daily, fighting 
all the time. ... Our lines are now in close contact and the fighting incessant, 
with a good deal of artillery. As fast as we gain one position the enemy 
has another all ready. ... Kennesaw ... is the key to the whole country." 
Sherman decided to break the stalemate by attacking Johnston's position 
on Kennesaw Mountain. He issued orders on June 24 for an 8 a.m. attack 
on June 27.[9] Sherman's plan was first to induce Johnston to thin out 
and weaken his line by ordering Schofield to extend his army to the right. 
Then McPherson was to make a feint on his extreme left—the northern outskirts 
of Marietta and the northeastern end of Kennesaw Mountain—with his cavalry 
and a division of infantry, and to make a major assault on the southwestern 
end of Little Kennesaw Mountain. Meanwhile, Thomas's army was to conduct 
the principal attack against the Confederate fortifications in the center 
of their line, and Schofield was to demonstrate on the Confederate left 
flank and attack somewhere near the Powder Springs Road "as he can with 
the prospect of success."[10] At 8 a.m. on June 27, Union artillery opened 
a furious bombardment with over 200 guns on the Confederate works and the 
Rebel artillery responded in kind. Lt. Col. Joseph S. Fullerton wrote, 
"Kennesaw smoked and blazed with fire, a volcano as grand as Etna." As 
the Federal infantry began moving soon afterward, the Confederates quickly 
determined that much of the 8 miles (13 km) wide advance consisted of demonstrations 
rather than concerted assaults. The first of those assaults began at around 
8:30 a.m., with three brigades of Brig. Gen. Morgan L. Smith's division 
(Maj. Gen. John A. Logan's XV Corps, Army of the Tennessee) moving against 
Loring's corps on the southern end of Little Kennesaw Mountain and the 
spur known as Pigeon Hill near the Burnt Hickory Road. If the attack were 
successful, capturing Pigeon Hill would isolate Loring's corps on Kennesaw 
Mountain. All three brigades were disadvantaged by the approach through 
dense thickets, steep and rocky slopes, and a lack of knowledge of the 
terrain. About 5,500 Union troops in two columns of regiments moved against 
about 5,000 Confederate soldiers, well entrenched.[11] On the right of 
Smith's attack, the brigade of Brig. Gen. Joseph A. J. Lightburn was forced 
to advance through a knee-deep swamp, stopped short of the Confederate 
breastworks on the southern end of Pigeon Hill by enfilading fire. They 
were able to overrun the rifle pits in front of the works, but could not 
pierce the main Confederate line. To their left, the brigades of Col. Charles 
C. Walcutt and Brig. Gen. Giles A. Smith crossed difficult terrain interrupted 
by steep cliffs and scattered with huge rocks to approach the Missouri 
brigade of Brig. Gen. Francis Cockrell. Some of the troops were able to 
reach as far as the abatis, but most were not and they were forced to remain 
stationary, firing behind trees and rocks. When General Logan rode forward 
to judge their progress, he determined that many of his men were being 
"uselessly slain" and ordered Walcutt and Smith to withdraw and entrench 
behind the gorge that separated the lines.[12] About 2 miles (3.2 km) to 
the south, Thomas's troops were behind schedule, but began their main attack 
against Hardee's corps at 9 a.m. Two divisions of the Army of the Cumberland—about 
9,000 men under Brig. Gen. John Newton (Maj. Gen. Oliver O. Howard's IV 
Corps) and Brig. Gen. Jefferson C. Davis (Maj. Gen. John M. Palmer's XIV 
Corps)—advanced in column formation rather than the typical broad line 
of battle against the Confederate divisions of Maj. Gens. Benjamin F. Cheatham 
and Patrick R. Cleburne, entrenched on what is now known as "Cheatham Hill." 
On Newton's left, his brigade under Brig. Gen. George D. Wagner attacked 
through dense undergrowth, but was unable to break through the abatis and 
fierce rifle fire. On his right, the brigade of Brig. Gen. Charles G. Harker 
charged the Tennessee brigade of Brig. Gen. Alfred Vaughan and was repulsed. 
During a second charge, Harker was mortally wounded.[13] Davis's division, 
to the right of Newton's, also advanced in column formation. While such 
a movement offered the opportunity for a quick breakthrough by massing 
power against a narrow point, it also had the disadvantage of offering 
a large concentrated target to enemy guns. Their orders were to advance 
silently, capture the works, and then cheer to give a signal to the reserve 
divisions to move forward to secure the railroad and cut the Confederate 
army in two. Col. Daniel McCook's brigade advanced down a slope to a creek 
and then crossed a wheat field to ascend the slope of Cheatham Hill. When 
they reached within a few yards of the Confederate works, the line halted, 
crouched, and began firing. But the Confederate counter fire was too strong 
and McCook's brigade lost two commanders (McCook and his replacement, Col. 
Oscar F. Harmon), nearly all of its field officers, and a third of its 
men. McCook was killed on the Confederate parapet as he slashed with his 
sword and shouted "Surrender, you traitors!" Col. John G. Mitchell's brigade 
on McCook's right suffered similar losses. After ferocious hand-to-hand 
fighting, the Union troops dug in across from the Confederates, ending 
the fighting around 10:45 a.m. Both sides nicknamed this place the "Dead 
Angle."[14] To the right of Davis's division, Maj. Gen. John W. Geary's 
division of Maj. Gen. Joseph Hooker's XX Corps advanced, but did not join 
in Davis's attack. Considerably farther to the right, however, was the 
site of the only success of the day. Schofield's army had been assigned 
to demonstrate against the Confederate left and he was able to put two 
brigades across Olley's Creek without resistance. That movement, along 
with an advance by Maj. Gen. George Stoneman's cavalry division on Schofield's 
right, put Union troops within 5 miles (8.0 km) of the Chattahoochee River, 
closer to the last river protecting Atlanta than any unit in Johnston's 
army.[15] Sherman's armies suffered about 3,000 casualties in comparison 
to Johnston's 1,000.[3] The Union general was not initially deterred by 
these losses and he twice asked Thomas to renew the assault. "Our loss 
is small, compared to some of those [battles in the] East." The Rock of 
Chickamauga replied, however, "One or two more such assaults would use 
up this army." A few days later Sherman mournfully wrote to his wife, "I 
begin to regard the death and mangling of couple thousand men as a small 
affair, a kind of morning dash."[16] Kennesaw Mountain was not Sherman's 
first large-scale frontal assault of the war,[17] but it was his last. 
He interrupted his string of successful flanking maneuvers in the Atlanta 
campaign for the logistical reasons mentioned earlier, but also so that 
he could keep Johnston guessing about the tactics he would employ in the 
future. In his report of the battle, Sherman wrote, "I perceived that the 
enemy and our officers had settled down into a conviction that I would 
not assault fortified lines. All looked to me to outflank. An army to be 
efficient, must not settle down to a single mode of offence, but must be 
prepared to execute any plan which promises success. I wanted, therefore, 
for the moral effect, to make a successful assault against the enemy behind 
his breastworks, and resolved to attempt it at that point where success 
would give the largest fruits of victory."[18] Kennesaw Mountain is usually 
considered a significant Union tactical defeat, but Richard M. McMurry 
wrote, "Tactically Johnston had won a minor defensive triumph on Loring's 
and Hardee's lines. Schofield's success, however, gave Sherman a great 
advantage, and the federal commander quickly decided to exploit it." The 
opposing forces spent five days facing each other at close range, but on 
July 2, with good summer weather at hand, Sherman sent the Army of the 
Tennessee and Stoneman's cavalry around the Confederate left flank and 
Johnston was forced to withdraw from Kennesaw Mountain to prepared positions 
at Smyrna.[19] On July 8, Sherman outflanked Johnston again—for the first 
time on his right—by sending Schofield to cross the Chattahoochee near 
the mouth of Soap Creek. The last major geographic barrier to entering 
Atlanta had been overcome. Alarmed at the imminent danger posed to the 
city of Atlanta, and frustrated with the strategy of continual withdrawals, 
Confederate President Jefferson Davis relieved Johnston of command on July 
17, replacing him with the aggressive John Bell Hood, who was temporarily 
promoted to full general. Hood proceeded to attack Sherman in battles at 
Peachtree Creek (July 20), Atlanta/Decatur (July 22), and Ezra Church (July 
28), in all of which he suffered enormous casualties without tactical advantage. 
Sherman besieged Atlanta for the month of August, but sent almost his entire 
force swinging to the south to cut off the city's last remaining railroad 
connection. In the Battle of Jonesboro (August 31 and September 1), Hood 
attacked again to save his railroad, but was unsuccessful and was forced 
to evacuate Atlanta. Sherman's men entered the city on September 2 and 
Sherman telegraphed President Lincoln, "Atlanta is ours, and fairly won." 
This milestone was arguably one of the key factors enabling Lincoln's reelection 
in November.[20] The site of the battle is now part of Kennesaw Mountain 
National Battlefield Park, where both Confederate deliberate trenches on 
top of the mountain and some Union rifle pits are still visible today.[21] 
The first commissioner of Major League Baseball, Judge Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis, was named for Kennesaw Mountain, but using a variant spelling. 
His father, a physician, fought on the Union side and reportedly nearly 
lost his leg in the battle.[22] Coordinates: 33°56′11″N 84°35′52″W﻿ / ﻿33.9363°N 
