The Battle Creek Bombers are a baseball team that plays in the Northwoods 
League, a collegiate summer baseball league. All players on the team must 
have NCAA eligibility remaining in order to participate. Their home games 
are played at the C.O. Brown Stadium in Battle Creek, Michigan. The team 
is currently owned by the Northwoods League. The Bombers compete for the 
I-94 Rivalry Cup with the Kalamazoo Growlers. The rivalry began in 2014 
when the Growlers entered the Northwoods League, ending the Bombers reign 
as the only team in the league from Michigan. The Bombers lead the yearly 
series 2-1 as well as the all time series 14 games to 6. The Battle Creek 
Bombers began play in 2007 as an expansion team in the Northwoods League. 
First year manager Brian Murphy guided the team to a record of 26-41. Attendance 
for their first season was 27946,[1] including a game on August 2, 2007 
which was nationally televised on ESPNU and drew 4087 fans in a 3-2 loss 
to the Rochester Honkers.[1] The Bombers announced on October 15, 2007 
that Matt Fonteno would be their field manager for the upcoming 2008 season. 
Matt has 3 years of experience as an assistant coach in college baseball.[2] 
The Bombers announced on May 1, 2008 that former intern Nate Mueske will 
replace Jake Thayer as Assistant General Manager. 2008 total attendance 
grew slightly from 2007 to 29,497. The Bombers finished the first half 
of the 2008 season in last place and they finished the second half in 6th 
place, missing the playoffs for the second straight season. Under guidance 
of new field manager Tom Fleenor, the Bombers set a franchise record for 
wins in a season, going 37-30. The Bombers won 21 games in the first half 
of the season, finishing a game-and-a-half back of the Eau Claire Express. 
They finished four games back in the second half, barely missing out on 
the playoffs. On the final night of the season, the Bombers drew a record 
crowd of 4,424 fans. Prior to the game, Chris Lewis was named team MVP 
for his outstanding season. Lewis broke 8 franchise records, and was in 
the top 2 of the league in seven offensive categories. The Bombers sent 
a record 7 players to the Northwoods League All-Star Game, and 3 of those 
players (Chris Lewis, Matt Talley, and R.J. Hively) were selected to the 
Northwoods League Postseason All-Star Team. The Battle Creek Bombers capped 
of their most successful season in franchise history hoisting the Northwoods 
League Championship trophy at C.O. Brown Stadium as they were crowned winners 
of the Summer Collegiate World Series. Without a doubt the most memorable 
season in Bombers history, the 2011 campaign began on uneven ground: a 
new GM (Brian Colopy), new field manager (Donnie Scott), new pitching coach 
(Brandon Higelin), new logos, new front office employees, and, of course, 
new players. After an abysmal 2010 season in which the Bombers finished 
20-50, the team, and town, needed a new era to begin. During the off-season, 
Colopy brought back hitting coach Thad Frame of Huntington University and 
together they assembled a lineup of veteran local standout talent mixed 
with younger players from big name schools . For the majority of the season, 
Battle Creek's lineup consisted of players from Central Michigan University, 
Taylor University, Evansville University, Northern Illinois, Western Illinois, 
Texas-San Antonio, and Miami (Ohio). The ultimate "player's coach," Scott 
brought major league playing experience and minor-league managing experience 
to his players, and the combination thrived. The Bombers jumped out to 
an early Southern Division lead, and didn't lose a series until nearly 
three weeks into the regular season. The success continued, and after a 
down-to-the-wire race for the first-half championship, the Bombers clinched 
their playoff berth based on head-to-head records after tying Eau Claire 
and Green Bay for the best record. Scott kept the team focused in the second 
half; eventually helping the Bomb Squad to a 2nd half championship and 
home field advantage in the divisional series against 2nd-place finisher 
Green Bay. After finishing 30 games under .500 in 2010, the team finished 
the regular season 43-26, by far the best season in franchise history. 
Battle Creek faced their Southern Division rival, Green Bay, in the Southern 
Division playoff, and the Bombers took the pennant in two straight games 
before doing the same in the Northwoods League Championship against the 
Northern Division's Mankato Moondogs. Including the Championship win, the 
Bombers finished the 2011 season on an 11-game winning streak, and never 
lost more than three games in a row through the 73-game season. With the 
Bombers 47-26 overall record, they officially completed the largest turnaround 
in the Northwoods Leagues 18-year history. The team improved their record 
by a dramatic 27 games in 2011. This blew out the former record of 19 set 
back in 1995 when the Kenosha Kroakers improved their 21-31 record to 40-18. 
Scott claimed all credit goes to his players, and it's clear to see why 
he believes it: Bryce Redeker broke the previous team home run record when 
he blasted 11 during the 2011 campaign (most of which came in Battle Creek, 
the league's deepest field), Jordan Dean set records for hits (89), doubles, 
and at-bats, Danny Rockett bought in a franchise-high 53 RBIs, and Martinez 
finished second in the NWL in walks (53) blowing out the old team record. 
Not only did Battle Creek see success on the field, attendances numbers 
reached an all-time high at 1,176 fans a game in 2011. Compare that to 
last season's 778 fans a game, attendance increased by a dramatic 49%. 
The last team to have such a large increase was the Madison Mallards in 
the 2003 season when they increase their attendance from 1,973 fans a game 
(in 2002) to 4,411 fans a game in 2003 (124% increase).[3] The Bombers 
attempted to defend their first ever Northwoods League championship with 
new coaches taking the reins of the on-field squad. Former pitching coach 
Brandon Higelin took over for former manager Donnie Scott.[4] New coaches 
joining Higelin's staff were Joseph Ramos[5] and Brad Gschwind.[6] The 
Bombers ended their season with 26 wins and 43 loses. The Bombers finished 
their 2013 season with a team record of 29 wins to 41 loses. Higelin returned 
as manager and Joseph Oliveira, Cody Piechocki and Chris Smith joined the 
staff as hitting coach, pitching coach, and assistant coach respectively. 
The Bombers had an active roster of 18 players from 12 different NCAA universities. 
The 2014 season with a team record of 32 wins to 40 loses. Higelin returned 
as manager and Jimmy Correnti joined the staff as the assistant coach. 
Bill Murphy and Robbie Robinson took over for Higgling as manager. The 
Bombers also began new stadium renovations at C. O. Brown Stadium that 
increased stadium capacity. Under the direction of field manager Robbie 
Robinson, the Bombers ended the 2015 season with a record of 27-44. Although 
the team took a step back from the 2014 season, they managed to still stay 
ahead of rival Kalamazoo in the final standings. Dan Swain and Niko Pacheco 
led the team with five home runs each. Alex Hermeling was the ace of the 
team and was selected to the Northwoods League all-star team. He led the 
team with 52 strikeouts in 53.2 innings. He was drafted by the Los Angeles 
Dodgers and current plays for their Class A affiliate, the Great Lakes 
Loons. Coaching Changes: The Battle Creek Bombers have announced the hiring 
of Gary McClure as field manager for the 2016 season. McClure, the former 
Austin Peay State University Head Coach, came to the Bombers with almost 
three decades of division one coaching experience.[7] Mascot Reveals: The 
Battle Creek Bombers revealed its new mascot design on April 17 at a public 
event at C.O. Brown Stadium. [8] The team also announced major ballpark 
renovations that will drop the seating capacity of C.O. Brown Stadium from 
more than 4,000 to 2,300. The marquee renovation includes the introduction 
of an all-new “Home Plate Club,” which features 10 granite half-moon tables 
situated directly behind home plate. Each table also features four stadium 
chairs sourced from Camden Yards. Each table has access to its own all-inclusive 
menu, including both beer and wine pairings. “The Champions Club,” now 
shifts down the first and third base lines. These areas feature additional 
legroom and a food and beverage railing in front of each seat. This renovation 
allows for a more comfortable fan experience and gives the Bombers 98 Champions 
