In baseball, batting is the act of facing the opposing pitcher and trying 
to produce offense for one's team. A batter or hitter is a person whose 
turn it is to face the pitcher. The three main goals of batters are to 
become a baserunner, drive runners home, or advance runners along the bases 
for others to drive home, but the techniques and strategies they use to 
do so vary. Hitting uses a motion that is virtually unique to baseball, 
one that is rarely used in other sports. Hitting is unique because unlike 
most sports movements in the vertical plane of movement hitting involves 
rotating in the horizontal plane.[1] In general, batters try to get hits. 
However, their primary objective is to avoid making an out, and helping 
their team to score runs. There are several ways they can help their team 
score runs. They may draw a walk if they receive and do not swing the bat 
at four pitches located outside the strike zone. In cases when there is 
a runner on third and fewer than two outs, they can attempt to hit a sacrifice 
fly to drive the runner in by allowing the runner on third to tag up and 
score. When there are fewer than two outs and runners on base, they can 
try to sacrifice bunt to advance the runner(s) or, with a runner on first 
or with runners on first and third, they can try a hit and run play, also 
designed to advance the runner(s). They might even be hit by a pitch, reach 
on an error or—if first is empty or there are two outs—on a dropped third 
strike.[2] The defense attempts to get the batter out. The pitcher's main 
role in this is to throw the ball in such a way that the batter either 
strikes out or cannot hit it cleanly so that the defense can get him or 
her out. Batting is often cited as one of the most difficult feats in sports 
because it consists of hitting a small round ball, usually moving at high 
velocity, with a thin round bat. In fact, if a batter can get a hit in 
three out of ten at bats, giving him a batting average of .300 (pronounced 
"three hundred"), he or she is considered a good hitter. In Major League 
Baseball, no batter has had over a .400 average at the end of the season 
since Ted Williams in 1941, and no batter has ever hit over .367 in a lifetime—Ty 
Cobb hit .3664.[3] In modern times, the statistic on-base plus slugging 
(OPS) is seen as a more accurate measure of a player's ability as a batter; 
this stat combines the player's on-base percentage (a percentage of their 
plate appearances where the batter gets on base), with the player's slugging 
percentage (an average of total bases with at-bats). An OPS at or near 
1.000 is considered to be the mark of an exceptional hitter. A sustained 
OPS at or above 1.000 over a career is a feat only a few hitters have ever 
been able to reach. Batters vary in their approach at the plate. Some are 
aggressive hitters, often swinging at the first pitch (as pitchers often 
attempt to throw a first-pitch strike). Others are patient, attempting 
to work the pitch count in order to observe all the types of pitches a 
pitcher will use, as well as tire out the pitcher by forcing him to throw 
many pitches early. Generally, contact hitters are more aggressive, swinging 
at pitches within the strike zone, whereas power hitters will lay off borderline 
strikes in order to get a pitch they can drive for extra bases. In preparation 
of hitting, every baseball player has their own particular warm-up routine. 
Warming up before the game is usually done as a team, at the amateur level, 
and focuses on helping the hitter get in the correct mindset to hit the 
ball. The most notable drill used is the "Tee Drill", where you hit a ball 
off a baseball tee and correct any issues you found during previous games 
or practices.[4] There are also various hitting devices used during warm 
up in the "on deck circle" to try and increase the batter's bat velocity. 
The over weighted supplemental devices include swinging multiple bats, 
Schutt Dirx (96 oz),[5] Pitcher's Nightmare,[6] Power Fin (14 oz),[7] Standard 
23 oz softball bat, heavier 26 oz softball bat, lighter 18 oz softball 
bat and Doughnut ring (16 oz).[8][9][10] Weighted warm-up devices are commonly 
used because players feel that warming-up with heavier bats will help them 
increase bat velocity because after the warm-up with a heavier bat, the 
normal bat feels lighter and they feel they could swing it faster.[11] 
The effect of these devices is not only mental, but it may also be physical. 
Heavy warm up loads stimulate the neural system, allowing for increased 
muscle activation during lighter bat swings. The use of weighted bats is 
based on the theory of complex training where sets of heavier and lighter 
resistances are alternated to increase muscle performance. This theory 
revolves around the idea that muscle contractions are stronger after reaching 
near maximal contractions. The postactivation potentiation improves motor 
neuron pool excitability and increases the number of recruited motor units, 
both leading to greater power output. The additional weight may also help 
strengthen the muscles of the forearms and wrist thus increasing bat velocity,[12] 
though some evidence suggests that the effect is psychological rather than 
biomechanical. [13] The lineup or batting order is a list of the nine baseball 
players for a team in the order they will bat during the game. During the 
game the only way to change the lineup is via substitution, as batting 
out of turn is not allowed. Once the ninth person in the lineup finishes 
batting, the first person bats again; this is the top of the order. Lineups 
are designed to facilitate manufacturing runs. Depending on batters' skills, 
they might be placed in different parts of the lineup. Of course, when 
it comes down to it, all batters are attempting to create runs for the 
team. The player currently batting in a game is said to be at the plate, 
at bat, or up to bat (shortened to up). To keep the game moving at an orderly 
pace, the next batter due up waits to take his turn in a circle (actually 
marked or imaginary) between his team's dugout or bench and the batter's 
box, and is said to be on deck, with the circle known as the on deck circle. 
The player in the batting order after the on deck batter is said to be 
in the hole.[14] When baseball was in its beginning years, baseball players 
made their own bats. This allowed players to experiment with different 
shapes and sizes of the bats. It did not take long for players to realize 
that the best bats were those with rounded barrels. Wood bats are rare 
at most levels other than the pros. The majority of wood baseball bats 
today are made from northern white ash harvested from Pennsylvania or New 
York. White ash is used because of its hardness, durability, strength, 
weight and feel. Trees that provide the lumber for baseball bats are often 
50 years old, and of all the lumber harvested, the top 10 percent is saved 
for pro bats. Recent technology in drying wood has created bats with lower 
moisture content, which are light enough to make effective baseball bats. 
Rock or Sugar Maple bats are preferred. Maple bats cost more than white 
ash, but they often last longer as a result of their high strength.[citation 
needed] In addition to the Louisville Slugger, there are many other types 
of bats that have been used throughout the history of baseball. The introduction 
of aluminum baseball bats in the 1970s forever changed the game of baseball 
at every level but the professional. Aluminum bats are lighter and stronger 
than wooden bats. Because of the trampoline effect that occurs when a baseball 
hit an aluminum bat, aluminum bats can hit a ball significantly farther 
than wooden bats can. In light of the increase in power of composite and 
alloy bats, the NCAA and NFHS have adopted more stringent standards against 
the use of composite and alloy bats. The NCAA changed standards at the 
start of the 2011 season, and the NFHS plans to complete the change in 
the 2012 baseball season.[needs update] The design of bats also continues 
to evolve as manufactures search for ways to magnify the trampoline effect 
and increase the size of the bat’s “sweet spot.” In aluminum bats, a double-walled 
bat was introduced in the late 1990s. This design comprises an outer wall 
of scandium-aluminum, an inner wall of a composite material, and a “filling 
