Fidel Castro John F. Kennedy Allen Dulles The Bay of Pigs Invasion (Spanish: 
Invasión de Playa Girón or Invasión de Bahía de Cochinos or Batalla de 
Girón) was a failed military invasion of Cuba undertaken by the CIA-sponsored 
paramilitary group Brigade 2506 on 17 April 1961. A counter-revolutionary 
military, trained and funded by the United States government's Central 
Intelligence Agency (CIA), Brigade 2506 fronted the armed wing of the Democratic 
Revolutionary Front (DRF) and intended to overthrow the increasingly communist 
government of Fidel Castro. Launched from Guatemala & Nicaragua, the invading 
force was defeated within three days by the Cuban Revolutionary Armed Forces, 
under the direct command of Prime Minister Fidel Castro. The Cuban Revolution 
of 1952 to 1959 had forced dictator Fulgencio Batista, an ally of the United 
States, into exile. He was replaced by the 26th July Movement led by Castro, 
which severed the country's formerly strong links with the US after nationalizing 
American economic assets (banks, oil refineries, sugar and coffee plantations, 
along with other American owned businesses), and developing strong economic 
links with the Soviet Union, with whom, at the time, the United States 
was engaged in the Cold War. US President Dwight D. Eisenhower was very 
concerned at the direction Castro's government was taking, and in March 
1960 he allocated $13.1 million to the CIA to plan Castro's overthrow (though 
the plan to overthrow Castro was put off for Kennedy to decide). The CIA 
proceeded to organize the operation with the aid of various Cuban counter-revolutionary 
forces, training Brigade 2506 in Guatemala. Eisenhower's successor John 
F. Kennedy approved the final invasion plan on 4 April 1961. Over 1,400 
paramilitaries, divided into five infantry battalions and one paratrooper 
battalion, assembled in Guatemala before setting out for Cuba by boat on 
13 April 1961. Two days later on 15 April, eight CIA-supplied B-26 bombers 
attacked Cuban airfields and then returned to the US. On the night of 16 
April, the main invasion landed at a beach named Playa Girón in the Bay 
of Pigs. It initially overwhelmed a local revolutionary militia. The Cuban 
Army's counter-offensive was led by José Ramón Fernández, before Castro 
decided to take personal control of the operation. As the US involvement 
became apparent to the world, Kennedy decided against providing further 
air cover for the invasion.[5] As a result, the operation only had half 
the forces the CIA had deemed necessary. The original plan devised during 
Eisenhower's presidency had required both air and naval support. On 20 
April, the invaders surrendered after only three days, with the majority 
being publicly interrogated and put into Cuban prisons. The failed invasion 
helped to strengthen the position of Castro's leadership, making him a 
national hero, and cemented the rocky relationship between the former allies. 
It also strengthened the relations between Cuba and the Soviet Union. This 
led eventually to the events of the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962. The invasion 
was a major failure for US foreign policy; Kennedy ordered a number of 
internal investigations across Latin America. Cuban forces under Castro's 
leadership clashed directly with US forces during the Invasion of Grenada 
over 20 years later. For centuries, Cuba was home of the Spanish Empire. 
In the late 19th century, Cuban nationalist revolutionaries rebelled against 
Spanish dominance, resulting in three liberation wars: the Ten Years' War 
(1868–1878), the Little War (1879–1880) and the Cuban War of Independence 
(1895–1898). Interested in extending its hegemony over Cuba, the crown 
jewel of the Spanish colonial empire, as a colony, the United States government 
proclaimed war on the Spanish Empire, resulting in the Spanish–American 
War (1898). The US subsequently invaded the island, and forced the Spanish 
army out. On 20 May 1902, a new independent government proclaimed the foundation 
of the Republic of Cuba, with US Military governor Leonard Wood handing 
over control to President Tomás Estrada Palma, a Cuban-born US citizen.[6] 
Subsequently, large numbers of US settlers and businessmen arrived in Cuba, 
and by 1905, 60% of rural properties were owned by non-Cuban North Americans.[7] 
Between 1906–1909, 5,000 US Marines were stationed across the island, and 
returned in 1912, 1917 and 1921 to intervene in internal affairs, sometimes 
at the behest of the Cuban government.[8] "Until Castro, the US was so 
overwhelmingly influential in Cuba that the American ambassador was the 
second most important man, sometimes even more important than the Cuban 
president". In March 1952, a Cuban general and politician, Fulgencio Batista, 
seized power on the island, proclaimed himself president and deposed the 
discredited president Carlos Prío Socarrás of the Partido Auténtico. Batista 
canceled the planned presidential elections, and described his new system 
as "disciplined democracy"; although he gained some popular support, many 
Cubans saw it as the establishment of a one-man dictatorship.[10][11][12][13] 
Many opponents of the Batista regime took to armed rebellion in an attempt 
to oust the government, sparking the Cuban Revolution. One of these groups 
was the National Revolutionary Movement (Movimiento Nacional Revolucionario 
– MNR), a militant organization containing largely middle class members 
that had been founded by the Professor of Philosophy Rafael García Bárcena.[14][15][16] 
Another was the Directorio Revolucionario Estudantil (DRE), which had been 
founded by the Federation of University Students (FEU) President José Antonio 
Echevarría (1932–1957).[17][18][19] However, the best known of these anti-Batista 
groups was the "26th of July Movement" (MR-26-7), founded by a lawyer named 
Fidel Castro. Consisting of both a civil and a military committee, the 
former conducted political agitation through an underground newspaper while 
the latter armed and trained recruits to take violent action against Batista. 
With Castro as the MR-26-7's head, the organization was based upon a clandestine 
cell system, with each cell containing ten members, none of whom knew the 
whereabouts or activities of the other cells.[20][21][22] Between December 
1956 and 1959, Castro led a guerrilla army against the forces of Batista 
from his base camp in the Sierra Maestra mountains. The Batista's repression 
of revolutionaries had earned him widespread unpopularity, and by 1958, 
his armies were in retreat. On 31 December 1958, Batista resigned, and 
fled into exile, taking with him an amassed fortune of more than US$300,000,000.[23][24][25] 
The presidency fell to Castro's chosen candidate, the lawyer Manuel Urrutia 
Lleó, while members of the MR-26-7 took control of most positions in the 
cabinet.[26][27][28] On 16 February 1959, Castro himself took on the role 
of Prime Minister.[29][30] Dismissing the need for elections, Castro proclaimed 
the new administration an example of direct democracy, in which the Cuban 
populace could assemble en masse at demonstrations and express their democratic 
will to him personally.[31] Critics instead condemned the new regime as 
un-democratic.[32] Soon after the success of the Cuban Revolution, militant 
counter-revolutionary groups developed in an attempt to overthrow the new 
regime. Undertaking armed attacks against government forces, some set up 
guerrilla bases in Cuba's mountainous regions, leading to the six-year 
Escambray Rebellion. These dissidents were funded and armed by various 
foreign sources, including the exiled Cuban community, the US Central Intelligence 
Agency (CIA), and Rafael Trujillo's regime in the Dominican Republic.[33][34][35] 
No quarter was given during the suppression of the resistance in the Escambray 
Mountains, where former rebels from the War Against Batista took different 
sides.[36] On 3 April 1961, a bomb attack on militia barracks in Bayamo 
killed four militia, and wounded eight more. On 6 April, the Hershey Sugar 
factory in Matanzas was destroyed by sabotage.[37] On 14 April 1961, guerrillas 
led by Agapito Rivera fought Cuban government forces near Las Cruces, Montembo, 
Las Villas, where several government troops were killed and others wounded.[37] 
Also on 14 April 1961, a Cubana airliner was hijacked and flown to Jacksonville, 
Florida; resultant confusion then helped discovery of the staged 'defection' 
of a B-26 and pilot at Miami on 15 April.[38][39] Castro's government began 
a crackdown on this opposition movement, arresting hundreds of dissidents.[40][41][42] 
Though it rejected the physical torture Batista's regime had used, Castro's 
government sanctioned psychological torture, subjecting some prisoners 
to solitary confinement, rough treatment, hunger, and threatening behavior.[43] 
After conservative editors and journalists began expressing hostility towards 
the government following its left-ward turn, the pro-Castro printers' trade 
union began to harass and disrupt editorial staff. In January 1960, the 
government proclaimed that each newspaper was obliged to publish a "clarification" 
by the printers' union to the end of any article that criticized the government. 
This was the start of press censorship in Castro's Cuba.[40][44] Popular 
uproar across Cuba demanded that those figures who had been complicit in 
the widespread torture and killing of civilians be brought to justice. 
Although he remained a moderating force and tried to prevent the mass reprisal 
killings of Batistanos advocated by many Cubans, Castro helped to set up 
trials of many figures involved in the old regime across the country, resulting 
in hundreds of executions. Although widely popular in Cuba, critics, in 
particular from the U.S. press, argued that many of these did not meet 
the standards of a fair trial, and condemned Cuba's new government as being 
more interested in vengeance than justice. Castro retaliated strongly against 
such accusations, proclaiming that "revolutionary justice is not based 
on legal precepts, but on moral conviction." In a show of support for this 
"revolutionary justice", he organized the first Havana trial to take place 
before a mass audience of 17,000 at the Sports Palace stadium; when a group 
of aviators accused of bombing a village were found not guilty, he ordered 
a retrial, in which they were instead found guilty and sentenced to life 
imprisonment.[45][46][47] On 11 March 1961, Jesus Carreras and American 
William Alexander Morgan (a former Castro ally) were executed after a trial.[48][49] 
Castro's Cuban government ordered the country's oil refineries – then controlled 
by US corporations Esso and Standard Oil and Anglo-Dutch Shell – to process 
crude oil purchased from the Soviet Union, but under pressure from the 
US government, these companies refused. Castro responded by expropriating 
the refineries and nationalizing them under state control. In retaliation, 
the US canceled its import of Cuban sugar, provoking Castro to nationalize 
most US-owned assets on the island, including banks and sugar mills.[50][51][52] 
Relations between Cuba and the US were further strained following the explosion 
and sinking of a French vessel, the Le Coubre, in Havana harbor in March 
1960. Carrying weapons purchased from Belgium, the cause of the explosion 
was never determined, but Castro publicly insinuated that the US government 
were guilty of sabotage.[53][54][55] On 13 October 1960, the US government 
then prohibited the majority of exports to Cuba – the exceptions being 
medicines and certain foodstuffs – marking the start of an economic embargo. 
In retaliation, the Cuban National Institute for Agrarian Reform took control 
of 383 private-run businesses on 14 October, and on 25 October a further 
166 US companies operating in Cuba had their premises seized and nationalized, 
including Coca-Cola and Sears Roebuck.[56][57] On 16 December, the US then 
ended its import quota of Cuban sugar, the country's primary export.[58] 
The US government was becoming increasingly critical of the direction Castro's 
revolutionary government was taking Cuba. At an August 1960 meeting of 
the Organization of American States (OAS) held in Costa Rica, the US Secretary 
of State Christian Herter publicly proclaimed that Castro's administration 
was "following faithfully the Bolshevik pattern" by instituting a single-party 
political system, taking governmental control of trade unions, suppressing 
civil liberties, and removing both the freedom of speech and freedom of 
the press. He furthermore asserted that international communism was using 
Cuba as an "operational base" for spreading revolution in the western hemisphere, 
and called on other OAS members to condemn the Cuban government for its 
breach of human rights.[59] In turn, Castro lambasted the treatment of 
black people and the working classes he had witnessed in New York, which 
he lampooned as that "superfree, superdemocratic, superhumane, and supercivilized 
city". Proclaiming that the American poor were living "in the bowels of 
the imperialist monster", he attacked the mainstream US media and accused 
it of being controlled by big business.[60] In August 1960, CIA contacted 
Cosa Nostra in Chicago with the intention to draft a simultaneous assassination 
of Fidel Castro, Raul Castro and Che Guevara. In exchange, if the operation 
succeeded and that a pro-American government was restored in Cuba, the 
United States agreed that the Mafia gets their " monopoly on gaming, prostitution 
and drugs.[61][62] The idea of overthrowing Castro's dictatorship first 
emerged within the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), an independent civilian 
intelligence agency of the United States government, in early 1960. Founded 
in 1947 by the National Security Act, the CIA was "a product of the Cold 
War", having been designed to counter the espionage activities of the Soviet 
Union's own national security agency, the KGB. As the perceived threat 
of "international communism" grew larger, the CIA expanded its activities 
to undertake covert economic, political, and military activities that would 
advance causes favourable to U.S. interests (oftentimes resulting in brutal 
dictatorships that favored US interests).[63] The CIA's Director at the 
time, Allen Dulles, was responsible for overseeing clandestine operations 
across the world, and although widely considered an ineffectual administrator, 
he was immensely popular among his employees, whom he had protected from 
the accusations of McCarthyism.[64] The man overseeing plans for the Bay 
of Pigs Invasion was Richard M. Bissell, Jr., the CIA's Deputy Director 
for Plans (DDP). Putting together a "Special Group" known as the 5412 Committee, 
he assembled a number of other agents to aid him in the plot, many of whom 
had worked on the 1954 Guatemalan coup six years before; these included 
David Philips, Gerry Droller and E. Howard Hunt.[65] Bissell placed Droller 
in charge of liaising with anti-Castro segments of the Cuban-American community 
living in the United States, and asked Hunt to fashion a government-in-exile, 
which the CIA would effectively control.[66] Hunt proceeded to travel to 
Havana, the capital city of Cuba, where he spoke with Cubans from various 
different backgrounds and discovered a brothel through the Mercedes-Benz 
agency.[67] Returning to the US, he informed the Cuban-Americans whom he 
was liaising with that they would have to move their base of operations 
from Florida to Mexico City, because the State Department refused to permit 
the training of a militia on US soil. Although unhappy with the news, they 
conceded to the order.[67] On 17 March 1960, the CIA put forward their 
plan for the overthrow of Castro's administration to the U.S. National 
Security Council (NSC), where it was given the support of US President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower.[63] The stated first objective of the plan was to 
"bring about the replacement of the Castro regime with one more devoted 
to the true interests of the Cuban people and more acceptable to the US 
in such a manner to avoid any appearance of US intervention."[68] On 18 
August 1960, Eisenhower approved a budget of $13,000,000 for the operation. 
By 31 October 1960, most guerrilla infiltrations and supply drops directed 
by the CIA into Cuba had failed, and developments of further guerrilla 
strategies were replaced by plans to mount an initial amphibious assault, 
with a minimum of 1,500 men. On 18 November 1960, Allen Dulles (CIA Director) 
and Richard Bissell (CIA Deputy Director for Plans) first briefed President-elect 
John Kennedy on the outline plans. Having experience in actions such as 
the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état, Dulles was confident that the CIA was 
capable of overthrowing the Cuban government as led by Prime Minister Fidel 
Castro since 16 February 1959. On 29 November 1960, President Eisenhower 
met with the chiefs of the CIA, Defense, State and Treasury departments 
to discuss the new concept. No objections were expressed, and Eisenhower 
approved the plans, with the intention of persuading John Kennedy of their 
merit. On 8 December 1960, Bissell presented outline plans to the "Special 
Group" while declining to commit details to written records. Further development 
of the plans continued, and on 4 January 1961 they consisted of an intention 
to carry out a "lodgement" by 750 men at an undisclosed site in Cuba, supported 
by considerable air power.[69] Meanwhile, in the 1960 presidential election, 
both main candidates, Richard Nixon of the Republican Party and John F. 
Kennedy of the Democratic Party, campaigned on the issue of Cuba, with 
both candidates taking a hardline stance on Castro.[70] Nixon – who was 
then Vice President – sent a military aide to Dulles to ask how the planned 
invasion was progressing; he believed that it was taking too long, considering 
the swift preparation of the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'etat. Nixon insisted 
that Kennedy should not be informed of the military plans, to which Dulles 
conceded.[71] On 28 January 1961, President Kennedy was briefed, together 
with all the major departments, on the latest plan (code-named Operation 
Pluto), which involved 1,000 men landed in a ship-borne invasion at Trinidad, 
Cuba, about 270 km (170 mi) south-east of Havana, at the foothills of the 
Escambray Mountains in Sancti Spiritus province. Kennedy authorized the 
active departments to continue, and to report progress.[72] Trinidad had 
good port facilities, it was closer to many existing counter-revolutionary 
activities, it had an easily defensible beachhead, and it offered an escape 
route into the Escambray Mountains. When that scheme was subsequently rejected 
by the State Department, the CIA went on to propose an alternative plan. 
Kennedy rejected the landings at Trinidad largely because the airfield 
there was not large enough for B-26 bombers and since B-26s were to play 
a prominent role in the invasion, this would destroy the façade that the 
invasion was just an uprising with no American involvement.[73] On 4 April 
1961, President Kennedy then approved the Bay of Pigs plan (also known 
as Operation Zapata), because it had an airfield that did not need extending 
to handle bomber operations, it was farther away from large groups of civilians 
than the Trinidad plan, and it was less "noisy" militarily, which would 
make any future denial of direct US involvement more plausible.[74] The 
invasion landing area was changed to beaches bordering the Bahía de Cochinos 
(Bay of Pigs) in Las Villas Province, 150 km south-east of Havana, and 
east of the Zapata Peninsula. The landings were to take place at Playa 
Girón (code-named Blue Beach), Playa Larga (code-named Red Beach), and 
Caleta Buena Inlet (code-named Green Beach).[75][76][77][78] In March 1961, 
the CIA helped Cuban exiles in Miami to create the Cuban Revolutionary 
Council (CRC), chaired by José Miró Cardona, former Prime Minister of Cuba 
in January 1959. Cardona became the de facto leader-in-waiting of the intended 
post-invasion Cuban government.[79] In April 1960, the CIA began to recruit 
anti-Castro Cuban exiles in the Miami area. Until July 1960, assessment 
and training was carried out on Useppa Island and at various other facilities 
in South Florida, such as Homestead AFB. Specialist guerrilla training 
took place at Fort Gulick, Panama and at Fort Clayton, Panama.[38][80] 
The force that become Brigade 2506 started with 28 men, who initially were 
told that their training was being paid for by an anonymous Cuban millionaire 
émigré, but the recruits soon guessed who was paying the bills, calling 
their supposed anonymous benefactor "Uncle Sam", and the pretense was dropped.[81] 
The overall leader was Dr. Manuel Artime while the military leader was 
José "Pepe" Peréz San Román, a former Cuban Army officer imprisoned under 
both Batista and Castro.[81] For the increasing ranks of recruits, infantry 
training was carried out at a CIA-run base (code-named JMTrax) near Retalhuleu 
in the Sierra Madre on the Pacific coast of Guatemala.[82] The exiled group 
named themselves Brigade 2506 (Brigada Asalto 2506).[82] In summer 1960, 
an airfield (code-named JMadd, aka Rayo Base) was constructed near Retalhuleu, 
Guatemala. Gunnery and flight training of Brigade 2506 aircrews was carried 
out by personnel from Alabama ANG (Air National Guard) under General Reid 
Doster, using at least six Douglas B-26 Invaders in the markings of Fuerza 
Aérea Guatemalteca, legitimate delivery of those being delayed by about 
six months.[83] An additional 26 B-26s were obtained from US military stocks, 
'sanitized' at 'Field Three' to obscure their origins, and about 20 of 
them were converted for offensive operations by removal of defensive armament, 
standardization of the 'eight-gun nose', addition of underwing drop tanks 
and rocket racks.[84][85] Paratroop training was at a base nicknamed Garrapatenango, 
near Quetzaltenango, Guatemala. Training for boat handling and amphibious 
landings took place at Vieques Island, Puerto Rico. Tank training took 
place at Fort Knox, Kentucky and Fort Benning, Georgia. Underwater demolition 
and infiltration training took place at Belle Chase near New Orleans.[78] 
To create a navy, the CIA purchased five cargo ships from the Cuban-owned, 
but Miami-based Garcia Line, thereby giving "plausible deniability" as 
the State Department had insisted no American ships could be involved in 
the invasion.[86] The first four of the five ships, namely the Atlantico, 
the Caribe, the Houston and Rió Esondido were to carry enough supplies 
and weapons to last thirty days while the Lake Charles had 15 days of supplies 
and was intended to land the provisional government of Cuba.[86] The ships 
were loaded with supplies at New Orleans and sailed to Puerto Cabezas.[86] 
Additionally, the invasion force had two old Landing Craft Infantry (LCI) 
ships, the Blagar and Barbara J from World War II that were part of the 
CIA's "ghost ship" fleet and served as command ships for the invasion.[86] 
The crews of the supply ships were Cuban while the crews of the LCIs were 
Americans, borrowed by the CIA from the Military Sea Transportation Service 
(MSTS)[86] One CIA officer wrote that MSTS sailors were all professional 
and experienced, but not trained for combat.[86] In November 1960, the 
Retalhuleu recruits took part in quelling an officers' rebellion in Guatemala, 
in addition to the intervention of the US Navy.[87] The CIA transported 
people, supplies, and arms from Florida to all the bases at night, using 
Douglas C-54 transports. On 9 April 1961, Brigade 2506 personnel, ships, 
and aircraft started transferring from Guatemala to Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua.[49] 
Curtiss C-46s were also used for transport between Retalhuleu and a CIA 
base (code-named JMTide, aka Happy Valley) at Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua. 
Facilities and limited logistical assistance were provided by the governments 
of General Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes in Guatemala, and General Luis Somoza 
Debayle in Nicaragua, but no military personnel or equipment of those nations 
were directly employed in the conflict.[85][88] Both governments later 
received military training and equipment, including some of the CIA's remaining 
B-26s. In early 1961, Cuba's army possessed Soviet-designed T-34 medium 
tanks, IS-2 heavy tanks, SU-100 tank destroyers, 122mm howitzers, other 
artillery and small arms plus Italian 105mm howitzers. The Cuban air force 
armed inventory included Douglas B-26 Invader light bombers, Hawker Sea 
Fury fighters, and Lockheed T-33 jets, all remaining from the Fuerza Aérea 
del Ejército de Cuba (FAEC), the Cuban air force of the Batista government.[82] 
Anticipating an invasion, Che Guevara stressed the importance of an armed 
civilian populace, stating: "all of the Cuban people must become a guerrilla 
army; each and every Cuban must learn to handle and if necessary use firearms 
in defense of the nation".[89] Recruiting of Cuban exiles in Miami was 
organized by CIA staff officers E. Howard Hunt and Gerry Droller. Detailed 
planning, training and military operations were conducted by Jacob Esterline, 
Colonel Jack Hawkins and Colonel Stanley W. Beerli under the direction 
of Richard Bissell, and his deputy Tracy Barnes.[78] Already, Fidel Castro 
was known as, and addressed as, the commander-in-chief of Cuban armed forces, 
with a nominal base at 'Point One' in Havana. In early April 1961, his 
brother Raúl Castro was assigned command of forces in the east, based in 
Santiago de Cuba. Che Guevara commanded western forces, based in Pinar 
del Río. Major Juan Almeida Bosque commanded forces in the central provinces, 
based in Santa Clara. Raúl Curbelo Morales was head of the air force. Sergio 
del Valle Jiménez was Director of Headquarters Operations at Point One. 
Efigenio Ameijeiras was the Head of the Revolutionary National Police. 
Ramiro Valdés Menéndez was Minister of the Interior and head of G-2 (Seguridad 
del Estado, or state security). His deputy was Comandante Manuel Piñeiro 
Losada, also known as 'Barba Roja'. Captain José Ramón Fernández was head 
of the School of Militia Leaders (Cadets) at Matanzas.[3][90][91][92][93] 
Other commanders of units during the conflict included Major Raúl Menéndez 
Tomassevich, Major Filiberto Olivera Moya, Major René de los Santos, Major 
Augusto Martínez Sanchez, Major Félix Duque, Major Pedro Miret, Major Flavio 
Bravo, Major Antonio Lussón, Captain Orlando Pupo Pena, Captain Victor 
Dreke, Captain Emilio Aragonés, Captain Angel Fernández Vila, Arnaldo Ochoa, 
Orlando Rodriguez Puerta.[38][94] Soviet-trained Spanish advisors were 
brought to Cuba from Eastern Bloc countries. These advisors had held high 
staff positions in the Soviet armies during World War II, and became known 
as "Hispano-Soviets", having long resided in the Soviet Union. The most 
senior of these were the Spanish communist veterans of the Spanish Civil 
War, Francisco Ciutat de Miguel, Enrique Líster, and Cuban-born Alberto 
Bayo.[95] Ciutat de Miguel (Cuban alias: Ángel Martínez Riosola, commonly 
referred to as "Angelito"), was an advisor to forces in the central provinces. 
The role of other Soviet agents at the time is uncertain, but some of them 
acquired greater fame later. For example, two KGB colonels, Vadim Kochergin 
and Victor Simanov were first sighted in Cuba in about September 1959.[96][97] 
The Cuban security apparatus knew the invasion was coming, via their extensive 
secret intelligence network, as well as loose talk by members of the brigade, 
some of which was heard in Miami, and was repeated in US and foreign newspaper 
reports. Nevertheless, days before the invasion, multiple acts of sabotage 
were carried out, such as the El Encanto fire, an arson attack in a department 
store in Havana on 13 April, that killed one shop worker.[38][98] The Cuban 
government also had been warned by senior KGB agents Osvaldo Sánchez Cabrera 
and 'Aragon', who died violently before and after the invasion, respectively.[99] 
The general Cuban population was not well informed, except for CIA-funded 
Radio Swan.[100] As of May 1960, almost all means of public communication 
were in the government's hands.[101][102] On 29 April 2000, a Washington 
Post article, "Soviets Knew Date of Cuba Attack", reported that the CIA 
had information indicating that the Soviet Union knew the invasion was 
going to take place, and did not inform Kennedy. On 13 April 1961, Radio 
Moscow broadcast an English-language newscast, predicting the invasion 
"in a plot hatched by the CIA" using paid "criminals" within a week. The 
invasion took place four days later.[103] David Ormsby-Gore, British Ambassador 
to the US, stated that British intelligence analysis, as made available 
to the CIA, indicated that the Cuban people were predominantly behind Castro, 
and that there was no likelihood of mass defections or insurrections.[104] 
Under the cover of darkness, the invasion fleet set sail from Puerto Cabezas, 
Nicaragua and headed towards the Bay of Pigs on the night of 14 April.[105] 
Following behind the fleet was the carrier USS Essex and five destroyers.[105] 
During the night of 14/15 April, a diversionary landing was planned near 
Baracoa, Oriente Province, by about 164 Cuban exiles commanded by Higinio 
'Nino' Diaz. Their mother ship, named La Playa or Santa Ana, had sailed 
from Key West under a Costa Rican ensign. Several US Navy destroyers were 
stationed offshore near Guantánamo Bay to give the appearance of an impending 
invasion fleet.[106] The reconnaissance boats turned back to the ship after 
their crews detected activities by Cuban militia forces along the coastline.[3][82][91][107][108][109] 
As a result of those activities, at daybreak, a Cuban Air Force reconnaissance 
sortie over the Baracoa area was launched from Santiago de Cuba. That was 
a FAR (Fuerza Aérea Revolucionaria) T-33, piloted by Lt Orestes Acosta, 
and it crashed fatally into the sea. On 17 April, his name was falsely 
quoted as a defector among the disinformation circulating in Miami.[110] 
The CIA, with the backing of the Pentagon, had originally requested permission 
to produce sonic booms over Havana on 14 April to create an air of confusion. 
The request was denied, however, since officials thought such would be 
too obvious a sign of involvement by the United States.[111] On 15 April 
1961, at about 06:00 AM Cuban local time, eight Douglas B-26B Invader bombers 
in three groups simultaneously attacked three Cuban airfields at San Antonio 
de los Baños and at Ciudad Libertad (formerly named Campo Columbia), both 
near Havana, plus the Antonio Maceo International Airport at Santiago de 
Cuba. The B-26s had been prepared by the CIA on behalf of Brigade 2506, 
and had been painted with the false flag markings of the FAR, the air force 
of the Cuban government. Each was armed with bombs, rockets and machine 
guns. They had flown from Puerto Cabezas in Nicaragua, and were crewed 
by exiled Cuban pilots and navigators of the self-styled Fuerza Aérea de 
Liberación (FAL). The purpose of the action (code-named Operation Puma) 
was reportedly to destroy most or all of the armed aircraft of the FAR 
in preparation for the main invasion. At Santiago, the two attackers destroyed 
a C-47 transport, a PBY Catalina flying boat, two B-26s and a civilian 
DC-3 plus various other civilian aircraft. At San Antonio, the three attackers 
destroyed three FAR B-26s, one Sea Fury and one T-33, and one attacker 
diverted to Grand Cayman due to low usable fuel. Aircraft that diverted 
to the islands were aggressively seized since Great Britain was leery that 
the Cayman Islands might be perceived as a launch site for the invasion.[111] 
At Ciudad Libertad, the three attackers destroyed only non-operational 
aircraft such as two P-47 Thunderbolts. One of those attackers was damaged 
by anti-aircraft fire, and ditched about 50 km north of Cuba,[112] with 
the loss of its crew Daniel Fernández Mon and Gaston Pérez. Its companion 
B-26, also damaged, continued north and landed at Boca Chica field (Naval 
Air Station Key West), Florida. The crew, José Crespo and Lorenzo Pérez-Lorenzo, 
were granted political asylum, and made their way back to Nicaragua the 
next day via Miami and the daily CIA C-54 flight from Opa-locka Airport 
to Puerto Cabezas Airport. Their B-26, purposely numbered 933, the same 
as at least two other B-26s that day for disinformation reasons, was held 
until late on 17 April.[110][113] About 90 minutes after the eight B-26s 
had taken off from Puerto Cabezas to attack Cuban airfields, another B-26 
departed on a deception flight that took it close to Cuba but headed north 
towards Florida. Like the bomber groups, it carried false FAR markings 
and the same number 933 as painted on at least two of the others. Before 
departure, the cowling from one of the aircraft's two engines was removed 
by CIA personnel, fired upon, then re-installed to give the false appearance 
that the aircraft had taken ground fire at some point during its flight. 
At a safe distance north of Cuba, the pilot feathered the engine with the 
pre-installed bullet holes in the cowling, radioed a mayday call, and requested 
immediate permission to land at Miami International airport. He landed 
and taxied to the military area of the airport near an Air Force C-47 and 
was met by several government cars. The pilot was Mario Zúñiga, formerly 
of the FAEC (Cuban Air Force), and after landing he masqueraded as 'Juan 
Garcia', and publicly claimed that three colleagues had also defected from 
the FAR. The next day he was granted political asylum, and that night he 
returned to Puerto Cabezas via Opa-Locka.[85][110][114] This deception 
operation was successful at the time in convincing much of the world media 
that the attacks on the Cuban Air Force bases were the work of an internal 
anti-Communist faction, and did not involve outside actors.[115] At 10:30 
am on 15 April at the United Nations, the Cuban Foreign Minister Raúl Roa 
accused the US of aggressive air attacks against Cuba, and that afternoon 
formally tabled a motion to the Political (First) Committee of the UN General 
Assembly. Only days earlier, the CIA had unsuccessfully attempted to entice 
Raúl Roa into defecting.[111] In response to Roa's accusations before the 
UN, US ambassador to the UN Adlai Stevenson stated that US armed forces 
would not "under any conditions" intervene in Cuba, and that the US would 
do everything in its power to ensure that no US citizens would participate 
in actions against Cuba. He also stated that Cuban defectors had carried 
out the attacks that day, and he presented a UPI wire photo of Zúñiga's 
B-26 in Cuban markings at Miami airport. Stevenson was later embarrassed 
to realize that the CIA had lied to him and to Secretary of State Dean 
Rusk.[49][77][91] President Kennedy supported the statement made by Stevenson: 
"I have emphasized before that this was a struggle of Cuban patriots against 
a Cuban dictator. While we could not be expected to hide our sympathies, 
we made it repeatedly clear that the armed forces of this country would 
not intervene in any way".[116] On 15 April, the national police, led by 
Efigenio Ameijeiras, started the process of arresting thousands of suspected 
anti-revolutionary individuals, and detaining them in provisional locations 
such as the Karl Marx Theatre, the moat of Fortaleza de la Cabana and the 
Principe Castle all in Havana, and the baseball park in Matanzas.[48] On 
the night of 15/16 April, the Nino Diaz group failed in a second attempted 
diversionary landing at a fresh location near Baracoa.[91] On 16 April, 
Merardo Leon, Jose Leon, and 14 others staged an armed uprising at Las 
Delicias Estate in Las Villas, with only four surviving. Leonel Martinez 
and three others took to the countryside.[37][clarification needed] Following 
the air strikes on airfields on 15 April 1961, the FAR managed to prepare 
for armed action at least four T-33s, four Sea Furies and five or six B-26s. 
All three types were armed with machine guns (20mm cannon, in the case 
of the Sea Furies) for air-to-air combat and for strafing of ships and 
ground targets. CIA planners had failed to discover that the US-supplied 
T-33 jets had long been armed with M-3 machine guns. The three types could 
also carry bombs, for attacks against ships and tanks.[117] No additional 
air strikes against Cuban airfields and aircraft were specifically planned 
before 17 April, because B-26 pilots' exaggerated claims gave the CIA false 
confidence in the success of the 15 April attacks, until U-2 reconnaissance 
photos taken on 16 April showed otherwise. Late on 16 April, President 
Kennedy ordered cancellation of further airfield strikes planned for dawn 
on 17 April, to attempt plausible deniability of US direct involvement.[78] 
Late on 16 April, the CIA/Brigade 2506 invasion fleet converged on 'Rendezvous 
Point Zulu', about 65 kilometres (40 mi) south of Cuba, having sailed from 
Puerto Cabezas in Nicaragua where they had been loaded with troops and 
other materiel, after loading arms and supplies at New Orleans. The US 
Navy operation was code-named Bumpy Road, having been changed from Crosspatch 
on 1 April 1961.[78] The fleet, labelled the 'Cuban Expeditionary Force' 
(CEF), included five 2,400-ton (empty weight) freighter ships chartered 
by the CIA from the Garcia Line, and subsequently outfitted with anti-aircraft 
guns. Four of the freighters, Houston (code name Aguja), Río Escondido 
(code name Ballena), Caribe (code name Sardina), and Atlántico (code-name 
Tiburón), were planned to transport about 1,400 troops in seven battalions 
of troops and armaments near to the invasion beaches. The fifth freighter, 
Lake Charles, was loaded with follow-up supplies and some Operation 40 
infiltration personnel. The freighters sailed under Liberian ensigns. Accompanying 
them were two LCIs (Landing Craft Infantry) outfitted with heavy armament 
at Key West. The LCIs were Blagar (code-name Marsopa) and Barbara J (code-name 
Barracuda), sailing under Nicaraguan ensigns. After exercises and training 
at Vieques Island, the CEF ships were individually escorted (outside visual 
range) to Point Zulu by US Navy destroyers USS Bache, USS Beale, USS Conway, 
USS Cony, USS Eaton, USS Murray, USS Waller. US Navy Task Group 81.8 had 
already assembled off the Cayman Islands, commanded by Rear Admiral John 
E. Clark onboard aircraft carrier USS Essex, plus helicopter assault carrier 
USS Boxer, destroyers USS Hank, USS John W. Weeks, USS Purdy, USS Wren, 
and submarines USS Cobbler and USS Threadfin. Command and control ship 
USS Northampton and carrier USS Shangri-La were also reportedly active 
in the Caribbean at the time. USS San Marcos was a Landing Ship Dock that 
carried three LCUs (Landing Craft Utility) and four LCVPs (Landing Craft, 
Vehicles, Personnel). San Marcos had sailed from Vieques Island. At Point 
Zulu, the seven CEF ships sailed north without the USN escorts, except 
for San Marcos that continued until the seven landing craft were unloaded 
when just outside the 5 kilometres (3 mi) Cuban territorial limit.[38][49][118] 
During the night of 16/17 April, a mock diversionary landing was organized 
by CIA operatives near Bahía Honda, Pinar del Río Province. A flotilla 
containing equipment that broadcast sounds and other effects of a shipborne 
invasion landing provided the source of Cuban reports that briefly lured 
Fidel Castro away from the Bay of Pigs battlefront area.[38][91][119] At 
about 00:00 on 17 April 1961, the two CIA LCIs Blagar and Barbara J, each 
with a CIA 'operations officer' and an Underwater Demolition Team (UDT) 
of five frogmen, entered the Bay of Pigs (Bahía de Cochinos) on the southern 
coast of Cuba. They headed a force of four transport ships (Houston, Río 
Escondido, Caribe and Atlántico) carrying about 1,400 Cuban exile ground 
troops of Brigade 2506, plus tanks and other vehicles in the landing craft.[120] 
At about 01:00, the Blagar, as the battlefield command ship, directed the 
principal landing at Playa Girón (code-named Blue Beach), led by the frogmen 
in rubber boats followed by troops from Caribe in small aluminium boats, 
then LCVPs and LCUs.[121] The Barbara J, leading Houston, similarly landed 
troops 35 km further northwest at Playa Larga (code-named Red Beach), using 
small fiberglass boats.[121] Unloading troops at night was delayed, due 
to engine failures and boats damaged by unforeseen coral reefs. As the 
frogmen came in, they were shocked to discover that the Red Beach was lit 
with floodlights, which led to the location of the landing being hastily 
changed.[121] As the frogmen landed, a firefight broke out when a jeep 
carrying Cuban militia happened by.[121] The few militia in the area succeeded 
in warning Cuban armed forces via radio soon after the first landing, before 
the invaders overcame their token resistance.[91][122] Castro was woken 
up at about 3: 15 am to be informed of a landings, which led him to put 
all militia units in the area on the highest state of alert and to be order 
airstrikes.[121] The Cuban regime planned to strike the brigadistas at 
Playa Larga first as they were inland before turning on the brigadistas 
at Girón at the sea.[121] El Commandante departed personally to lead his 
forces into battle against the brigadistas.[121] At daybreak at about 06:30 
AM, three FAR Sea Furies, one B-26 bomber and two Lockheed T-33 fighter 
jets started attacking those CEF ships still unloading troops. At about 
06:50, and 8 kilometres (5.0 mi) south of Playa Larga, Houston was damaged 
by several rockets from a Sea Fury and a T-33, and about 2 hours later 
captain Luis Morse intentionally beached it on the western side of the 
bay.[121] About 270 troops had been unloaded, but about 180 survivors who 
struggled ashore were incapable of taking part in further action because 
of the loss of most of their weapons and equipment. The loss the Houston 
was a great blow to the bridgadistas as that ship was carrying much of 
the Brigade 2506's medical supplies, which meant that wounded bridgadistas 
had to make do with inadequate medical care.[121] At about 07:00, two invading 
FAL B-26s attacked and sank the Cuban Navy Patrol Escort ship El Baire 
at Nueva Gerona on the Isle of Pines.[91][110] They then proceeded to Girón 
to join two other B-26s to attack Cuban ground troops and provide distraction 
air cover for the paratroop C-46s and the CEF ships under air attack. Brigade 
2506's tanks had been all landed by 7:30 am at Blue Beach and all of the 
troops by 8:30 am.[123] Neither San Román at Blue Beach or Erneido Oliva 
at Red Beach could communicate as all of the radios had been soaked in 
the water during the landings.[123] At about 07:30, five C-46 and one C-54 
transport aircraft dropped 177 paratroops from the parachute battalion 
of Brigade 2506 in an action code-named Operation Falcon.[124] About 30 
men, plus heavy equipment, were dropped south of central Australia sugar 
mill on the road to Palpite and Playa Larga, but the equipment was lost 
in the swamps, and the troops failed to block the road.[123] Other troops 
were dropped at San Blas, at Jocuma between Covadonga and San Blas, and 
at Horquitas between Yaguaramas and San Blas. Those positions to block 
the roads were maintained for two days, reinforced by ground troops from 
Playa Girón.[125] The paratroopers had landed amid a collection of militia, 
but their training allowed to hold their own against the ill-trained militiamen.[123] 
However, the dispersal of the paratroopers as they landed meant they were 
unable to take the road from the Central Australia sugar mill down to Playa 
Larga, which allowed the government to continue to send troops down to 
resist the invasion.[123] At about 08:30, a FAR Sea Fury piloted by Carlos 
Ulloa Arauz crashed in the bay, due to stalling or anti-aircraft fire, 
after encountering a FAL C-46 returning south after dropping paratroops. 
By 09:00, Cuban troops and militia from outside the area had started arriving 
at Australia sugar mill, Covadonga and Yaguaramas. Throughout the day they 
were reinforced by more troops, heavy armour and T-34 tanks typically carried 
on flat-bed trucks.[126] At about 09:30, FAR Sea Furies and T-33s fired 
rockets at the Rio Escondido, that 'blew up' and sank about 3 kilometres 
(1.9 mi) south of Girón.[82][91] The Rio Escondido was loaded with aviation 
fuel and as the ship started to burn, the captain gave the order to abandon 
ship with the ship being destroyed in three explosions shortly afterwards.[127] 
The Rio Escondido carried not only fuel, but also enough ammunition, food 
and medical supplies to last ten days and the radio that allowed the Brigade 
to communicate with the Liberation Air Force.[127] The loss of the communications 
ship Rio Escondido meant that San Román was only able to issue orders to 
the forces at Blue Beach, and he had no idea of what happening at Red Beach 
or with the paratroopers.[127] A messenger from Red Beach arrived at about 
10:00 am asking San Román to send tank and infantry to block the road from 
Central Australia sugar mill, a request that he agreed to.[127] It was 
not expected that government would be counter-attacking from this direction.[128] 
At about 11:00, Premier Fidel Castro issued a statement over Cuba's nationwide 
network saying that the invaders, members of the exiled Cuban revolutionary 
front, have come to destroy the revolution and take away the dignity and 
rights of men.[129] At about 11:00, a FAR T-33 attacked a FAL B-26 (serial 
number 935) piloted by Matias Farias who then survived a crashlanding on 
the Girón airfield, his navigator Eduardo González already killed by gunfire. 
His companion B-26 suffered damage and diverted to Grand Cayman Island; 
pilot Mario Zúñiga (the 'defector') and navigator Oscar Vega returned to 
Puerto Cabezas via CIA C-54 on 18 April. By about 11:00, the two remaining 
freighters Caribe and Atlántico, and the CIA LCIs and LCUs, started retreating 
south to international waters, but still pursued by FAR aircraft. At about 
12:00, a FAR B-26 exploded due to heavy anti-aircraft fire from Blagar, 
and pilot Luis Silva Tablada (on his second sortie) and his crew of three 
were lost.[85][91] By 12:00, hundreds of militia cadets from Matanzas had 
secured Palpite, and cautiously advanced on foot south towards Playa Larga, 
suffering many casualties during attacks by FAL B-26s. By dusk, other Cuban 
ground forces were gradually advancing southward from Covadonga and southwest 
from Yaguaramas toward San Blas, and westward along coastal tracks from 
Cienfuegos towards Girón, all without heavy weapons or armour.[91] At 2: 
30 pm a group of militiamen from the 339th Battalion set up a position, 
which came under attack from the brigadista M1 tanks, who inflicted heavy 
losses on the defenders.[130] This action is remembered in Cuba as the 
"Slaughter of the Lost Battalion" as most of the militiamen were killed.[130] 
Three FAL B-26s were shot down by FAR T-33s, with the loss of pilots Raúl 
Vianello, José Crespo, Osvaldo Piedra and navigators Lorenzo Pérez-Lorenzo 
and José Fernández. Vianello's navigator Demetrio Pérez bailed out and 
was picked up by USS Murray. Pilot Crispín García Fernández and navigator 
Juan González Romero, in B-26 serial 940, diverted to Boca Chica, but late 
that night they attempted to fly back to Puerto Cabezas in B-26 serial 
933 that Crespo had flown to Boca Chica on 15 April. In October 1961, the 
remains of the B-26 and its two crew were found in dense jungle in Nicaragua.[110][131] 
One FAL B-26 diverted to Grand Cayman with engine failure. By 16:00, Fidel 
Castro had arrived at the Central Australia sugar mill, joining José Ramón 
Fernández whom he had appointed as battlefield commander before dawn that 
day.[132] On 17 April 1961, Osvaldo Ramírez (leader of the rural resistance 
to Castro) was captured by Castro's forces in Aromas de Velázquez, and 
immediately executed.[133] At about 21:00 on 17 April 1961, a night air 
strike by three FAL B-26s on San Antonio de Los Baños airfield failed, 
reportedly due to incompetence and bad weather. Two other B-26s had aborted 
the mission after take-off.[85][117] Other sources allege that heavy anti-aircraft 
fire scared the aircrews[134] As night fell, the Atlantico and the Caribe 
pulled away from Cuba, to be followed by the Blagar and Barbara J.[135] 
The ships were to return to the Bay of Pigs the next day to land more ammunition, 
but the captains of the Atlantico and Caribe decided to abandon the invasion 
and headed out to the open sea.[135] Destroyers from the US Navy intercepted 
the Atlantico about 110 miles south of Cuba, and persuaded the captain 
to return, but the Caribe was not intercepted until she was 218 miles away 
from Cuba, and she was not to return until it was too late.[135] During 
the night of April 17–18, the force at Red Beach came under repeated counter-attacks 
from the Cuban Army and militia.[136] As casualties mounted and ammunition 
was used up, the brigadistas steadily gave way.[136] Airdrops from four 
C-52s and 2 C-46s had only limited success in landing more ammunition.[135] 
Both the Blagar and Barbara J returned at midnight to land more ammunition, 
which proved insufficient for the brigadistas.[135] Following desperate 
appeals for help from Oliva, San Román ordered all of his M1 tanks six 
mortars to assist in the defense.[137] During the night fighting, a tank 
battle broke out with the brigadista tanks clashed with the T-34 tanks 
of the Cuban Army, a sharp action that ended with the bridgadisas being 
driven back.[138] At 8 pm, the Cuban Army opened fire with its 76.2 mm 
and 122mm artillery guns on the brigadista forces at Playa Larga, which 
was followed by an attack by T-34 tanks at about midnight.[137] The 2,000 
artillery rounds fired by the Cuban Army had mostly missed the brigadista 
defense positions and the T-34 tanks rode into an ambush with the fire 
from the M1 tanks and mortar fire.[137] At 1 am, Cuban Army infantrymen 
and militiamen started an offensive.[137] Despite heavy losses on the part 
of the Communist forces, the shortage of ammunition forced the brigadistas 
back and the T-34 tanks continued to force their way past the wreckage 
of the battlefield to press on the assault.[137] The Communist forces numbered 
about 2, 100 consisting of about 300 FAR soldiers, 1,600 militiamen and 
200 policemen supported by 20 T-34s who were faced by 370 brigadistas.[137] 
By 5:00 am, Oliva started to order his men to retreat as he had almost 
no ammunition or mortar rounds left.[139] By about 10:30 am on 18 April, 
Cuban troops and militia, supported by tanks, took Playa Larga after Brigade 
forces had fled towards Girón in the early hours. During the day, Brigade 
forces retreated to San Blas along the two roads from Covadonga and Yaguaramas. 
By then, both Fidel Castro and José Ramón Fernández had re-located to that 
battlefront area.[140] As the men from Red Beach arrived at Girón, San 
Román and Oliva met to discuss the situation.[141] With ammunition low, 
Oliva suggested that the Brigade 2506 retreated into the Escambray mountains 
to wage guerilla warfare, but San Román decided to hold the beachhead.[142] 
At about 11: 00 am, the Cuban government began an offensive to take San 
Blas.[143] San Román ordered all of the paratroopers back in order to hold 
San Blas, who halted the offensive.[143] During the afternoon, Castro kept 
the brigadistas under steady air attack and artillery fire, but did not 
order any new major attacks.[143] At about 17:00 on 18 April, FAL B-26s 
attacked a Cuban column of 12 civilian buses leading trucks carrying tanks 
and other armour, moving southeast between Playa Larga and Punta Perdiz. 
The vehicles, loaded with civilians, militia, police and soldiers, were 
attacked with bombs, napalm and rockets, suffering heavy casualties. The 
six B-26s were piloted by two CIA contract pilots plus four pilots and 
six navigators from Brigade 2506 air force.[91][110] The column later re-formed 
and advanced to Punta Perdiz, about 11 km northwest of Girón.[144] During 
the night of 18 April, a FAL C-46 delivered arms and equipment to the Girón 
airstrip occupied by Brigade 2506 ground forces, and took off before daybreak 
on 19 April.[145] The C-46 also evacuated Matias Farias, the pilot of B-26 
serial '935' (code-named Chico Two) that had been shot down and crash-landed 
at Girón on 17 April.[124] The crews of the Barbara J and Blagar had done 
their best to land what ammunition they had left onto the beachhead, but 
without air support the captains of both ships reported that it was too 
dangerous to be operating off the Cuban coast at day.[146] The final air 
attack mission (code-named Mad Dog Flight) comprised five B-26s, four of 
which were manned by American CIA contract air crews and pilots from the 
Alabama Air Guard. One FAR Sea Fury (piloted by Douglas Rudd) and two FAR 
T-33s (piloted by Rafael del Pino and Alvaro Prendes) shot down two of 
these B-26s, killing four American airmen.[49] Combat air patrols were 
flown by Douglas A4D-2N Skyhawk jets of VA-34 squadron operating from USS 
Essex, with nationality and other markings removed. Sorties were flown 
to reassure Brigade soldiers and pilots, and to intimidate Cuban government 
forces without directly engaging in acts of war.[110] At 10 am, a tank 
battle had broken out, with the brigadista holding their line until about 
2 pm, which led Olvia to order a retreat into Girón.[147] Following the 
last air attacks, San Román ordered his paratroopers and the men of the 
3rd Battalion to launch a surprise attack, which was initially successful, 
but soon failed.[147] With the brigadistas in disorganized retreat, the 
Cuban Army and militiamen started to rapidly advance, taking San Blas and 
only being stopped outside of Girón at about 11 am.[147] Later that afternoon, 
San Román heard the rumbling of the advancing T-34s and reported with no 
more mortar rounds and bazooka rounds, he could not stop the tanks and 
ordered his men to the beach.[148] Oliva arrived afterwards to find that 
the brigadistas were all heading out to the beach or retreating into the 
jungle or swamps.[148] Without direct air support, and short of ammunition, 
Brigade 2506 ground forces retreated to the beaches in the face of considerable 
onslaught from Cuban government artillery, tanks and infantry.[82][149][150] 
Late on 19 April, destroyers USS Eaton (code-named Santiago) and USS Murray 
(code-named Tampico) moved into Cochinos Bay to evacuate retreating Brigade 
soldiers from beaches, before firing from Cuban army tanks caused Commodore 
Crutchfield to order a withdrawal.[91] From 19 April until about 22 April, 
sorties were flown by A4D-2Ns to obtain visual intelligence over combat 
areas. Reconnaissance flights are also reported of Douglas AD-5Ws of VFP-62 
and/or VAW-12 squadron from USS Essex or another carrier, such as USS Shangri-La 
that was part of the task force assembled off the Cayman Islands.[91][110] 
On 21 April, Eaton and Murray, joined on 22 April by destroyers USS Conway 
and USS Cony, plus submarine USS Threadfin and a CIA PBY-5A Catalina flying 
boat, continued to search the coastline, reefs and islands for scattered 
Brigade survivors, about 24-30 being rescued.[145] Aircrews killed in action 
totaled 6 from the Cuban air force, 10 Cuban exiles and 4 American airmen.[85] 
Paratrooper Eugene Herman Koch[151] was killed in action, and the American 
airmen shot down were Thomas W. Ray, Leo F. Baker, Riley W. Shamburger, 
and Wade C. Gray.[91] In 1979, the body of Thomas 'Pete' Ray was repatriated 
from Cuba. In the 1990s, the CIA admitted he was linked to the agency, 
and awarded him the Intelligence Star.[152] 114 Cuban exiles from Brigade 
2506 were killed in action.[D] The final toll in Cuban armed forces during 
the conflict was 176 killed in action.[B] This figure includes only the 
Cuban Army and it is estimated that about 2, 000 militiamen were killed 
or wounded during the fighting.[148] Other Cuban forces casualties were 
between 500 and 4,000 (killed, wounded or missing).[C] The airfield attacks 
on 15 April left 7 Cubans dead and 53 wounded.[38] In 2011, the National 
Security Archive, in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act, released 
over 1200 pages of documents. One detail within these documents was incidents 
of friendly fire. The CIA had outfitted some B-26 bombers to appear as 
Cuban aircraft, having ordered them to remain inland to avoid being fired 
upon by American-backed forces. Some of the planes did not heed the warning, 
and were fired upon. According to CIA operative Grayston Lynch, “we couldn’t 
tell them from the Castro planes. We ended up shooting at two or three 
of them. We hit some of them there because when they came at us…it was 
a silhouette, that was all you could see.”[111] "Havana gleefully noted 
the wealth of the captured invaders: 100 plantation owners, 67 landlords 
of apartment houses, 35 factory owners, 112 businessmen, 179 lived off 
unearned income, and 194 ex-soldiers of Batista." On 19 April 1961, at 
least seven Cubans plus two CIA-hired US citizens (Angus K. McNair and 
Howard F. Anderson) were executed in Pinar del Rio province, after a two-day 
trial. On 20 April, Humberto Sorí Marin was executed at Fortaleza de la 
Cabaña, having been arrested on 18 March following infiltration into Cuba 
with 14 tons of explosives. His fellow conspirators Rogelio González Corzo 
(alias "Francisco Gutierrez"), Rafael Diaz Hanscom, Eufemio Fernandez, 
Arturo Hernandez Tellaheche and Manuel Lorenzo Puig Miyar were also executed.[37][48][108][154][155] 
Between April and October 1961, hundreds of executions took place in response 
to the invasion. They took place at various prisons, including the Fortaleza 
de la Cabaña and El Morro Castle.[108] Infiltration team leaders Antonio 
Diaz Pou and Raimundo E. Lopez, as well as underground students Virgilio 
Campaneria, Alberto Tapia Ruano, and more than one hundred other insurgents 
were executed.[77] About 1,202 members of Brigade 2506 were captured, of 
whom nine died from asphyxiation during transfer to Havana in a closed 
truck. In May 1961, Fidel Castro proposed to exchange the surviving Brigade 
prisoners for 500 large farm tractors, valued at US$28,000,000.[156] On 
8 September 1961, 14 Brigade prisoners were convicted of torture, murder 
and other major crimes committed in Cuba before the invasion, five being 
executed and nine jailed for 30 years.[3] Three confirmed as executed were 
Ramon Calvino, Emilio Soler Puig ("el Muerte") and Jorge King Yun ("el 
Chino").[48][82] On 29 March 1962, 1,179 men were put on trial for treason. 
On 7 April 1962, all were convicted and sentenced to 30 years in prison. 
On 14 April 1962, 60 wounded and sick prisoners were freed and transported 
to the US.[3] On 21 December 1962, Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro and 
James B. Donovan, a US lawyer aided by Milan C. Miskovsky, a CIA legal 
officer,[157] signed an agreement to exchange 1,113 prisoners for US $53 
million in food and medicine, sourced from private donations and from companies 
expecting tax concessions. On 24 December 1962, some prisoners were flown 
to Miami, others following on the ship African Pilot, plus about 1,000 
family members also allowed to leave Cuba. On 29 December 1962, President 
Kennedy and his wife Jacqueline attended a "welcome back" ceremony for 
Brigade 2506 veterans at the Orange Bowl in Miami, Florida.[82][158] The 
failed invasion severely embarrassed the Kennedy administration, and made 
Castro wary of future US intervention in Cuba. On 21 April, in a State 
Department press conference, President Kennedy said: "There's an old saying 
that victory has a hundred fathers and defeat is an orphan ... Further 
statements, detailed discussions, are not to conceal responsibility because 
I'm the responsible officer of the Government ..."[159] The initial U.S. 
response concerning the first air attacks were of a dismissive quality. 
U.S. Ambassador Adlai Stevenson denied any involvement in the first wave 
of air strikes, stating before the United Nations, "These charges are totally 
false and I deny them categorically." Stevenson continued to promote a 
story of two Cuban planes that had reportedly defected to the United States, 
apparently unaware that they were in fact U.S. planes piloted by U.S-backed 
Cuban pilots in an effort to promote a false story of defection.[160] In 
August 1961, during an economic conference of the Organization of American 
States in Punta del Este, Uruguay, Che Guevara sent a note to Kennedy via 
Richard N. Goodwin, a secretary of the White House. It read: "Thanks for 
Playa Girón. Before the invasion, the revolution was weak. Now it's stronger 
than ever".[161] Additionally, Guevara answered a set of questions from 
Leo Huberman of Monthly Review following the invasion. In one reply, Guevara 
was asked to explain the growing number of Cuban counter-revolutionaries 
and defectors from the regime, to which he replied that the repelled invasion 
was the climax of counter revolution, and that afterwards such actions 
"fell drastically to zero." In regards to the defections of some prominent 
figures within the Cuban government, Guevara remarked that this was because 
"the socialist revolution left the opportunists, the ambitious, and the 
fearful far behind and now advances toward a new regime free of this class 
of vermin."[162] As Allen Dulles later stated, CIA planners believed that 
once the troops were on the ground, Kennedy would authorize any action 
required to prevent failure - as Eisenhower had done in Guatemala in 1954 
after that invasion looked as if it would collapse.[163] President Kennedy 
was angered with the CIA's failure, and declared he wanted "to splinter 
the CIA in a thousand pieces and scatter it to the winds." However, following 
a "rigorous inquiry into the agency's affairs, methods, and problems ... 
[Kennedy] did not 'splinter' it after all and did not recommend Congressional 
supervision."[164] Kennedy commented to his journalist friend Ben Bradlee, 
"The first advice I'm going to give my successor is to watch the generals 
and to avoid feeling that because they were military men their opinions 
on military matters were worth a damn."[165] The aftermath of the Bay of 
Pigs invasion and events involving Cuba that followed caused the US to 
feel threatened by their neighbor. Previous to the events at Playa Girón 
the US government imposed embargoes that limited trade with Cuba. An article 
that appeared in The New York Times on 6 January 1960 called trade with 
Cuba "too risky"[166] and about six months later in July 1960, the US reduced 
the import quota of Cuban sugar, which left the US to increase its sugar 
supply using other sources.[167] Just following the Bay of Pigs invasion 
the Kennedy Administration considered complete trade restrictions with 
Cuba.[168] Five months later the president was authorized to do so. After 
Cuba’s declaration of Marxism the Kennedy administration imposed a complete 
trade embargo against Cuba. After the Cuban Missile Crisis in 1962 the 
Kennedy Administration imposed strict travel restrictions for U.S. citizens.[citation 
needed] According to author Jim Rasenberger, the Kennedy administration 
became very aggressive in regards to overthrowing Fidel Castro following 
failure of the Bay of Pigs Invasion, reportedly doubling its efforts against 
Castro. Rasenberger elaborated on the fact that, almost every decision 
that made by Kennedy following the Bay of Pigs had some correlation with 
the destruction of the Castro administration. Shortly after the invasion 
ended, Kennedy ordered the Pentagon to design secret operations to overthrow 
the Castro regime. Also, President Kennedy persuaded his brother Robert 
to set up a covert operation against Castro which was known as "Operation 
Mongoose." This covert operation included sabotage and assassination plots. 
One major flaw with these operations was that, both Castro and Khrushchev 
were aware of these secret plots and even the plan to invade the Bay of 
Pigs which can possibly explain the failure of the operation.[citation 
needed] On 22 April 1961, President Kennedy asked General Maxwell D. Taylor, 
Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, Admiral Arleigh Burke and CIA Director 
Allen Dulles to form the Cuba Study Group, to report on lessons to learn 
from the failed operation. On 13 June, General Taylor submitted the Board 
of Inquiry's report to President Kennedy. The report attributed the defeat 
to lack of early realization of the impossibility of success by covert 
means, inadequate aircraft, limitations on armaments, pilots and air attacks 
to attempt plausible deniability—and ultimately, loss of important ships 
and lack of ammunition.[169] The Taylor Commission received criticism due 
to implications of bias. Attorney General Robert Kennedy was included in 
the group and collectively, the commission was seen as a unit more preoccupied 
with deflecting the White House from blame than that of a group concerned 
with realizing the true depth of mistakes that promoted the failure in 
Cuba. Jack Pfeiffer, who worked as a historian for the CIA until the mid-1980s, 
simplified his own view of the failed Bay of Pigs effort by including a 
quote from Raul Castro, Fidel's brother, given to a Mexican media member 
in 1975. "Kennedy vacillated," Castro said. "If at that moment he had decided 
to invade us, he could have suffocated the island in a sea of blood, but 
he could have destroyed the revolution. Lucky for us, he vacillated." [170] 
In November 1961, CIA Inspector-General Lyman B Kirkpatrick, authored a 
report 'Survey of the Cuban Operation', that remained classified until 
1996. Conclusions were:[171] In spite of vigorous rebuttals by CIA management 
of the findings, CIA Director Allen Dulles, CIA Deputy Director Charles 
Cabell, and Deputy Director for Plans Richard Bissell were all forced to 
resign by early 1962.[76] In later years, the CIA's behavior in the event 
became the prime example cited for the psychology paradigm known as groupthink 
syndrome.[91] Further study shows that among various components of groupthink 
analyzed by Irving Janis, The Bay of Pigs Invasion followed the structural 
characteristics that led to an irrational decision making in foreign policy 
pushed by deficiency in impartial leadership.[172] An account on the process 
of invasion decision reads, [At] each meeting, instead of opening up the 
agenda to permit a full airing of the opposing considerations, he allowed 
the CIA representatives to dominate the entire discussion. The president 
permitted them to refute immediately each tentative doubt that one of the 
others might express, instead of asking whether anyone else had the same 
doubt or wanted to pursue the implications of the new worrisome issue that 
had been raised. Referencing to both the ‘Survey of the Cuban Operation’ 
and Groupthink: Psychological Studies of Policy Decisions and Fiascoes 
by Irving Janis, the lack of communication and the mere assumption of concurrence 
can be identified to be the main causes behind the C.I.A and the president's 
collective failure to efficiently evaluate the facts before them. In fact, 
a considerable amount of information presented before President Kennedy 
actually proved to false in reality, making it inevitable to assess the 
situation and the future of the operation rationally. The absence of the 
initiative to explore other options of the debate led the participants 
to remain optimistic and rigid in their belief that the operation would 
succeed, being unknowingly biased in the group psychology of wishful thinking 
as well. In mid-1960, CIA operative E. Howard Hunt had interviewed Cubans 
in Havana; in a 1997 interview with CNN, he said, "... all I could find 
was a lot of enthusiasm for Fidel Castro."[174] For many Latin Americans, 
the Bay of Pigs Invasion served to reinforce the already widely held belief 
that the US could not be trusted. The invasion also illustrated that the 
US could be defeated, and thus, the failed invasion encouraged political 
groups across the Latin American region to find ways to undermine US influence.[175] 
The invasion is often recognized as making Castro even more popular, adding 
nationalistic sentiments to the support for his economic policies. Following 
the air attacks on Cuban airfields on 15 April, he declared the revolution 
"Marxist-Leninist".[92] After the invasion, he pursued closer relations 
with the Soviet Union, partly for protection, that helped pave the way 
for the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis. Castro was then increasingly wary of 
further US intervention, and more open to Soviet suggestions of placing 
nuclear weapons on Cuba to ensure its security. In March 2001, shortly 
before the 40th anniversary of the invasion, a conference took place in 
Havana, attended by about 60 American delegates. The conference was titled 
Bay of Pigs: 40 Years After, co-sponsored by the University of Havana and 
the US-based National Security Archive.[176] There are still yearly nationwide 
drills in Cuba during the 'Dia de la Defensa' (Defense Day), to prepare 
the population for an invasion. Many who fought for the CIA in the conflict 
remained loyal after the event; some Bay of Pigs veterans became officers 
in the US Army in Vietnam, including six colonels, 19 lieutenant colonels, 
nine majors, and 29 captains.[177] By March 2007, about half of the Brigade 
had died.[178] In April 2010, the Cuban Pilot's Association unveiled a 
monument at the Kendall-Tamiami Executive Airport in memory of the 16 aviators 
for the exile side killed during the battle.[179] The memorial consists 
of an obelisk and a restored B-26 replica aircraft atop a large Cuban flag.[180] 
The name for the invasion in Spanish is politically contested. The Cuban 
government generally calls it "Playa Girón", while Cuban exiles generally 
