June 30, 2016 Oakland Coliseum The Bay Bridge Series, or the Battle of 
the Bay, is the name of a series of baseball games played between—and the 
rivalry of—Major League Baseball's Oakland Athletics of the American League 
and San Francisco Giants of the National League. The series takes its name 
from the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge which links the cities of Oakland 
and San Francisco. Although competitive, the regional rivalry between the 
A's and Giants is considered a friendly one with mostly mutual companionship 
between the fans, as opposed to Cubs–White Sox, or Mets–Yankees games where 
animosity runs high, though more radical sections of each fanbase does 
harbor towards the entirety of the other. This, however, is severely limited 
as many people see the opposing team as no threat to their own; hats displaying 
both teams on the cap are sold from vendors at the games, and once in a 
while the teams both dress in uniforms from an historic era of their franchises. 
The series is also occasionally referred to as the "BART Series" for the 
Bay Area Rapid Transit system that links Oakland to San Francisco. However, 
the name "BART Series" has never been popular beyond a small selection 
of history books and national broadcasters and has fallen out of favor. 
Bay Area locals almost exclusively refer to the rivalry as the "Bay Bridge 
Series" of the "Battle of the Bay." Originally, the term described a series 
of exhibition games played between the two clubs after the conclusion of 
spring training, immediately prior to the start of the regular season. 
It was first used to refer to the 1989 World Series which the Athletics 
won and the first time both teams had met since they moved to the San Francisco 
Bay Area. Today, it also refers to games played between the teams during 
the regular season since the commencement of Interleague play in 1997. 
Through the 2015 season, the A's have won 57 games, and the Giants have 
won 53.[2] The Giants and Athletics met in the 1905, 1911 and 1913 World 
Series as the New York Giants and Philadelphia Athletics. The Giants won, 
4–1, in 1905, and the Athletics won in 1911 and 1913. Hall of Famers such 
as John McGraw, Roger Bresnahan, Christy Mathewson, Joe McGinnity and Rube 
Marquard took part on the Giants side while the Athletics had Connie Mack, 
Chief Bender, Eddie Plank, Rube Waddell, Frank Baker and Eddie Collins. 
Such World Series match-ups might have helped contribute to the modern 
New York-Philadelphia sports rivalry that still continues to this day. 
The San Francisco Giants and Oakland Athletics met for the first time in 
the 1989 World Series. This series was interrupted minutes before Game 
3 on October 17, 1989, when an earthquake, measuring 7.1 on the Richter 
Scale, struck the San Francisco Bay Area. The resulting damage to both 
Candlestick Park and to a lesser extent the Oakland Coliseum, along with 
the emotional and economic damage to the area, delayed the resumption of 
the series for 10 days, the longest interval between games in World Series 
history. The earthquake caused the collapse of a portion of the Bay Bridge, 
the centerpiece of many promotions for the "Bay Bridge Series"; however, 
experts have suggested that the Series actually helped to save countless 
lives, as many would-be commuters from both sides of the Bay had left work 
early or stayed in the cities to watch the game - as a result, traffic 
on the roads below collapsed portions of the Bay Bridge and Cypress Street 
Viaduct in Oakland (while this disaster killed 42 people, local officials 
initially assumed that the death toll would be well into the hundreds) 
was significantly lighter than it would normally be at rush hour.[3] The 
Athletics swept the Giants to win their most recent World Series championship. 
Both teams met for the first time in the regular season in June 1997. The 
Giants' Barry Zito started 0–4 against his former team, finally beating 
the Athletics on June 12, 2010 at AT&T Park. The A's have been considering 
relocating to San Jose, California, for 13 years but have reportedly met 
resistance from the Giants. San Jose is located in Santa Clara County, 
which is considered to be the Giants "territory".[4] The Athletics claim 
that former owner Walter A. Haas, Jr. agreed for the Giants to take over 
the Santa Clara area when the Giants were considering moving to Florida 
and needed revenue. The Giants contend that the agreement was not based 
upon actually relocating the team to Santa Clara as the A's contended. 
MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, who was fraternity brothers with A's managing 
partner Lew Wolff at the University of Wisconsin, stated that the A's would 
not be able to survive as a franchise if they remained at the Oakland Coliseum. 
The Giants claimed that the territorial rights were "explicitly reaffirmed 
by Major League Baseball on four separate occasions," when former managing 
partner Peter Magowan bought the team in the early 1990s. The Giants stated 
"upon purchasing the team 20 years ago, our plan to revive the franchise 
relied heavily on targeting and solidifying our fan base in the largest 
and fastest growing county within our territory. Based on these Constitutionally-recognized 
territorial rights, the Giants invested hundreds of millions of dollars 
to save and stabilize the team for the Bay Area, built AT&T Park privately 
and has operated the franchise so that it can compete at the highest levels."[5] 
