Bayamón (Spanish pronunciation: [baʝaˈmon]) is a municipality of Puerto 
Rico located on the northern coastal valley, north of Aguas Buenas and 
Comerío; south of Toa Baja and Cataño; west of Guaynabo; and east of Toa 
Alta and Naranjito. Bayamón is spread over 11 wards and Bayamón Pueblo 
(the downtown area and the administrative center of the city). It is part 
of the San Juan-Caguas-Guaynabo Metropolitan Statistical Area. The Taíno 
people, the historic indigenous peoples who encountered European explorers 
and settlers, were the long time settlers in this area. The Spanish colonist 
Juan Ramírez de Arellano established Bayamón as a Spanish settlement on 
May 22, 1772. Two beliefs exist about the origin of name Bayamón. According 
to one belief it was named after the local Taíno chief, Bahamon. As per 
the other belief the name was derived from the Taíno word Bayamongo, which 
is a river that runs across this region. In turn implying that Bayamón 
is the area around this main river, which later on became the center of 
city's development. In 1821, Marcos Xiorro, an ethnic African slave, planned 
to lead a revolt against the sugarcane plantation owners and the Spanish 
Colonial government in Puerto Rico. The slave conspiracy was revealed and 
suppressed, but Xiorro became a hero among the slaves. He is part of Puerto 
Rico's folklore. Marco Xiorro was owned by Vicente Andino, a militia captain 
who owned a sugarcane plantation in Bayamón.[1] The Municipality of Bayamón 
sits on the Northern Coastal Plain region of Puerto Rico. It is bordered 
by the municipalities of Toa Baja, Cataño, Comerío, Aguas Buenas, Toa Alta, 
Naranjito, and Guaynabo. Bayamón has a surface area of 43.5 square miles 
(113.1 km2). The terrain is mostly plain, but includes some peaks such 
as La Peña and Vergaras. Bayamón is Puerto Rico's second-largest municipality 
and is part of the large metropolitan area centered on San Juan. Other 
cities included in the metropolitan area are Guaynabo, Cataño, Toa Baja, 
Canóvanas, Carolina and Trujillo Alto. Bayamón is served by the San Juan 
airport. Despite the city's size, it has no weather reporting station. 
The rivers that pass through Bayamón include the Río Bayamón, Río Hondo, 
Río Minillas, Río Bucarabones and Río Cuesta Arriba. Bayamón is divided 
into twelve barrios, with the following populations: Bayamón is the site 
of several notable Puerto Rican landmarks and places of interest. Bayamón 
Central Park is a public park where people gather and relax. Bayamon also 
hosts the Braulio Castillo Theater, the Francisco Oller Museum, and the 
José Celso Barbosa Monument. The Bayamón City Hall building is notable 
by being built across a major divided highway. While walking through a 
connecting corridor, right above the road, pedestrians can see passing 
cars underneath. It is believed to be the only building of its class in 
the world.[citation needed] One of the most popular attractions in Bayamón 
is the Parque de las Ciencias. It is a science-themed park with various 
exhibitions and attractions. It is the only place, outside of the United 
States, where NASA rockets and parts are exhibited. It is located in the 
middle of karstic hills. An observation building on one of the hills gives 
a good view of the metropolitan area. That building also hosts antennas 
for government and civil communication. El parque del tren was a park featuring 
what was then Puerto Rico's only working train (domestic commercial flights 
as well as highways and vehicle use had overtaken the railroads in Puerto 
Rico) It also featured a DC-3, which had been used by United Airlines. 
In 2001, the park was dismantled and destroyed in the course of major road 
construction, still underway. What is left of the park is a small plaza 
for activities and an area for jogging and passive entertainment. A suspension 
bridge in Bayamón is a pedestrian-only bridge, believed to be one of only 
three of its kind in Puerto Rico.[citation needed] Bayamón is the site 
of several annual festivities. The festivities in honor of Santa Cruz, 
the town's patron saint, are held in May. Also, José Celso Barbosa's birthday 
is celebrated in July. There's also an artisans festival celebrated that 
month. Known as La Ciudad del Chicharrón (Pork Rind City), there's a festival 
dedicated to it in July as well. There are several professional and amateur 
sports team based in Bayamón. The Vaqueros de Bayamón are the local basketball 
team that plays at the Baloncesto Superior Nacional league. They are currently 
the team with the most championships in the history of the league with 
14, the last of which was achieved in 2009. The team played at the Coliseo 
Rubén Rodríguez. The Vaqueros de Bayamón was also the name of the baseball 
club which played from 1974 through 2003 in the Professional Baseball League 
of Puerto Rico, and played its home games at Juan Ramón Loubriel Stadium. 
The city also has a female volleyball team, called the Vaqueras de Bayamón, 
which plays for the Liga de Voleibol Superior Femenino. Recently, Bayamón 
has become popular for being the hometown of the Puerto Rico Islanders 
(now known as Puerto Rico FC) of the North American Soccer League. The 
team plays at Juan Ramon Loubriel Stadium in Bayamón. Another team, Bayamón 
FC, started playing in the stadium in the Puerto Rico Soccer League in 
the 2009 season. Sevilla Bayamón FC, now called Sevilla-FC Juncos, used 
to play in the stadium, until they moved to the town of Juncos due to ownership 
and financial problems. The famous boxing fight between Alexis Argüello 
and Alfredo Escalera dubbed The Bloody Battle of Bayamon (their first; 
their equally legendary rematch was held in Rimini, Italy) was held in 
Bayamón in 1978. Also, professional boxers Luis Del Valle, Wilfredo Vazquez 
and Wilfredo Vazquez Jr. are from Bayamón. International Boxing Hall of 
Fame member Hector Camacho was born in Bayamon. The Paseo del Rio (Paseo 
Lineal) near the Bayamón River is a 6-mile stretch shared by joggers, walkers 
and cyclists. It is divided in two lanes, one for the bicycles and the 
other for running or walking. Parque Nacional Julio Enrique Mónagas has 
trails used by mountain bikers to train and compete. It also has cliffs 
where rappelling enthusiasts can practice. The founding of the town of 
Bayamón is closely tied to the cultivation of sugarcane. The products currently 
grown in Bayamón include coffee, grapefruit, sugarcane, tobacco and vegetables. 
Bayamón was also the site where the first hydraulic sugar mill on the island 
was built in 1549.[2] Due to its location within the San Juan Metropolitan 
area and close to its airport and port, Bayamón is one of the most viable 
places for commerce. It is also the Puerto Rican city with the most shopping 
centers and malls. Here are some: Goya Foods has its Puerto Rico offices 
in Bayamón.[3] All municipalities in Puerto Rico are administered by a 
mayor, elected every four years. The current mayor of Bayamón is Ramón 
Luis Rivera, Jr., of the New Progressive Party (PNP). He was elected at 
the 2000 general elections, succeeding his father, Ramón Luis Rivera, after 
23 years. For a list of all the mayors of Bayamón see "External Links". 
The city belongs to the Puerto Rico Senatorial district II, which is represented 
by two Senators. Migdalia Padilla and Carmelo Ríos Santiago have served 
as District Senators since 2005.[5] The current flag of Bayamón features 
the Scandinavian Cross found in many Nordic Cross flags. It was embroidered 
by Mrs. Gloria M. León and maintains the design and colors of its Coat 
of Arms. This shield is a symbol and synthesis of the history and the values 
which distinguish the city of Bayamón. The main colors of the shield are 
blue and silver, representing the waters of the Bayamón river and recalling 
that it was on these banks that the first hydraulic sugarcane refinery 
of Puerto Rico was established in 1549. The center contains the Holy Cross 
(Santa Cruz), patron of the first church of the municipality and the name 
of the old sugarcane refinery "Santa Cruz", which was the historical origin 
of the town of Bayamón. The sugarcane flowers (guajanas) allude directly 
to the sugarcane industry that is of social and economic importance to 
the origin and development of Bayamón. The five-tower crown, which is used 
for cities, was assigned to Bayamón as an exception for its extraordinary 
urban development, the magnitude of its population and for its religious 
dignity, which will possibly be raised to become Episcopal seat. The motto 
"IN HOC SIGNO VINCES" makes reference to Emperor Constantine when in the 
4th century had the vision in which the victory was promised to him if 
it accepted the Cross of Christianity as his banner. Bayamón has many public 
and private schools. One of them is Colegio De La Salle. Another well-known 
primary school is Academia Santa Rosa. Like all municipalities, public 
education is administered by Puerto Rico Department of Education. Bayamón 
also has many higher-learning institutions such as the University of Puerto 
Rico at Bayamón, the Interamerican University of Puerto Rico and its School 
of Optometry, Bayamón Central University, American University of Puerto 
Rico, Universidad Central del Caribe, and some community colleges. In addition, 
Metropolitan University (Universidad Metropolitana), better known as UMET, 
has a campus in downtown Bayamón. Bayamón is the final stop for the Tren 
Urbano. Three of its stops are located within the city. Bayamón serves 
as the host city for foreign consular representation in Puerto Rico for 
