Bayside is an upper middle class neighborhood in the New York City borough 
of Queens. CNN Money ranked Bayside as one of the most expensive housing 
markets nationally when analyzing comparable detached homes throughout 
the United States.[1] Despite its large housing stock of free-standing 
homes, it nationally ranks high to very high in population density.[2][3][4] 
These homes give the neighborhood a similar feel to other wealthy Queens 
neighborhoods such as Douglaston and Little Neck. The neighborhood is part 
of Queens Community Board 11.[5] Bayside's history dates back to 2000 B.C.E., 
when the Matinecock Native American tribe first settled there. In the late 
17th century, the area was settled by English colonists. By the middle 
of the 18th century, early settlers left their homes in Flushing and developed 
a farming community, Bay Side. During the Revolutionary War, the Bayside-Little 
Neck area suffered from raids by whaleboatmen from the Connecticut shores. 
In the 19th century Bayside was still mostly farmland. Middle 20th century 
urban sprawl in New York City, with the help of more convenient and accessible 
transportation, led to its development. During the 1920s, many actors and 
actresses, such as Rudolph Valentino, lived in Bayside. At the end of the 
19th and beginning of the 20th century Bayside saw an influx of people 
associated with the theater and movie industries. The town was then established 
as a colony for stage and screen stars. When rumors ran rampant through 
the acting community that Bayside would be the location of a new movie 
and production studio, many actors purchased homes in anticipation of an 
easy commute to the studio. However, this rumored studio never materialized. 
When Hollywood emerged as the capital of the movie industry during the 
1920s, many actors left Bayside to pursue careers in California.[6] Bayside 
was the site of a murder by Peter Hains, a prominent army officer, abetted 
by his brother, sea novelist Thornton Jenkins Hains, who gunned down prominent 
editor William Annis at his yacht club in 1908. The so-called "Regatta 
Murder" led to a widely publicized trial at the Flushing County Courthouse. 
Peter Hains was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to eight years 
at Sing Sing, while Thornton Hains was acquitted.[7] Bayside remains one 
of the safest and wealthiest neighborhoods in the borough of Queens. However, 
Bayside has been the setting to several organized crime incidents. Michael 
Pappadio, of Bayside, was a mobster who worked for the Lucchese crime family 
in secrecy from his wife. He managed the Lucchese family’s interests in 
the Garment District of Manhattan. In 1989, upon a falling out with his 
superiors, he was murdered at a bagel shop called the Crown Bagel, on Rockaway 
Boulevard in South Ozone Park.[8] His wife subsequently reported Michael 
as missing. Three years later the FBI presented her with information about 
his death and his life in organized crime.[9][10] In April 2002, Gambino 
crime family associate Darren D’Amico was shot in the leg outside of the 
Café on the Green restaurant in Bayside. It is speculated that Bonanno 
crime family associate Randolph Pizzolo was responsible for the crime. 
He was subsequently murdered on a hit called by Vincent "Vinny Gorgeous" 
Basciano. Basciano is now serving life in prison without parole.[11][12][13][14] 
Bayside is bordered by the Bronx to the north across the Long Island Sound 
and Douglaston Manor across the Little Neck Bay. The eastern land border 
is the Cross Island Parkway and Douglaston; the western is Francis Lewis 
Boulevard/Utopia Parkway and Auburndale; the southern is Long Island Expressway 
and Oakland Gardens. The neighborhood of Bayside Hills is itself a newer 
subdivision within Bayside. Bayside Gables is a privately owned gated community 
located near the Bay Terrace shopping center and the Little Neck Bay. Arguably 
one of the wealthiest areas in Queens (along with Forest Hills Gardens, 
Malba, Holliswood, Jamaica Estates, and Douglaston Manor), homes in this 
community can sell for as high as 4 million dollars. Bayside Hills is a 
subdivision of Bayside's south side, bordered by 48th Ave to the north, 
the Long Island Expressway to the south, 211th Street to the west, and 
Springfield Boulevard on the east. The homes in Bayside Hills have more 
value and are more upscale, many of which were built by Gross Morton.[15] 
Bayside Hills is known for its thirty-three street malls and accents, especially 
the gatehouse (Bell Boulevard at 48th street), gateposts (48th Avenue from 
216th Street) and Bayside Hills Street Clock (Bell Boulevard and 214th 
Street).[16] The Victorian style street clock sits upon the Leo Green Clock 
Mall, dedicated to the local civic activist. Further east, Captain William 
C Dermody Triangle Park (48 Avenue and 216 Street) memorializes Dermody's 
abolitionism and service in the Civil War, leading him to be mortally wounded 
at the Battle of Spotsylvania Court House.[17] Much of the public green 
space is maintained by the NYC Parks Department and the Bayside Hills Civic 
Association. The zip code 11364 is shared with Oakland Gardens. Bay Terrace 
is an affluent neighborhood[18] often considered part of the larger area 
of Bayside. The area encompasses gated cooperative/condominium developments 
such as the Bay Club and Baybridge Condos. Other cooperative/condominium 
developments include the Towers at Waters Edge, the Kennedy Street Quad, 
the Bayside Townhouse Condominiums, Bay Country Owners, Bell Owners and 
others. The gated estate community of the "Bayside Gables" is also located 
within the Bay Terrace neighborhood, being the site of some of the only 
single family homes in the area.[19] Bay Terrace overlooks the East River 
and the approaches to the Throgs Neck Bridge from the Clearview Expressway 
and Cross Island Parkway. The neighborhood is part of Queens Community 
Board 7 and Queens Community Board 11,[20] and is located within ZIP code 
11360, bounded on the west by the Clearview Expressway, on the south by 
26th Avenue and 28th Avenue, and to the east and north by the Little Neck 
Bay and Little Bay (which are a cove of the East River and a neighborhood, 
respectively).[21] The civic organization serving Bay Terrace is the Bay 
Terrace Community Alliance (BTCA).[22] In 1639, Dutch Governor Willem Kieft 
(1597–1647) purchased the land that today encompasses Queens County from 
the Matinecock. William Lawrence (1622–1680), who served as a magistrate 
under Dutch and English administrations, was granted a parcel of land by 
King Charles II in 1645 that included a large portion of what is today 
Bayside, in addition to College Point, Whitestone, and Fort Totten. Bayside 
began its course of development from an agricultural community to a suburb 
when the North Shore Railroad was extended in 1866. During the following 
several decades, the Bayside Land Association purchased farms for development. 
Bay Terrace, originally included within the bounds of Bayside, remained 
composed of farms and large estates until the 1950s, when Cord and Charles 
Meyer sold their 225-acre (0.91 km2) farm for development.[23] By 1952, 
residential development of Bay Terrace Sections 1–12 began and continued 
into the mid-1960s. The Bay Terrace at Bayside Shopping Center was bui;t 
in the 1950s.[24] The New York City Department of City Planning conducted 
a transportation study of Bay Terrace in 2004.[25] Findings included parking 
and intersection issues, including poor access to the Cross Island Parkway. 
Eventually, a median will be constructed along the length of 212th street, 
with increased access to the Cross Island Parkway near the Baybridge Commons 
Shopping Center and reconstruction of the existing entrance and exit ramps.[25] 
The Bay Terrace at Bayside Shopping Center plans on adding new storefronts 
to their plaza. including World Kitchen; Aéropostale; and PM Pediatrics, 
a state-of-the-art pediatric emergency care facility.[26] Bay Terrace has 
the ZIP code 11360. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the estimated 
2012 median family income for the census tracts encompassing the Bay Terrace 
area of New York City (997.03, 997.04, and 997.05), exclusively, is $103, 
263.[18] The current population of Bay Terrace, Queens, New York City is 
13,392 [18] while the population density is 14,683.8 per square mile.[27] 
The median home value of the area is $1,253,000.[27][27] The median age 
of individuals residing in 11360 is 48.9 years.[27] Oakland Gardens is 
a middle class neighborhood in the southern part of Bayside, bounded to 
the north by the Long Island Expressway, to the east by Alley Pond Park, 
to the south by Union Turnpike, and to the west by Cunningham Park.[28] 
Whitestone is to the north, and Queens Village and Bellerose are to the 
south and southeast, respectively.[29] The neighborhood is part of Queens 
Community Board 11.[30] Fredrick Newbold Lawrence built a mansion in the 
area in 1847 called "The Oaks", and the neighborhood's name probably derives 
from that estate.[28] Many people refer to Oakland Gardens as "southern 
Bayside" because of its proximity and similarity to Bayside. Its Median 
income is $54,031. Bayside's Interstate Highways include I-295 and I-495, 
as well as the Cross Island Parkway. The north end of the Brooklyn-Queens 
Greenway is in Little Bay Park, under the Throgs Neck Bridge approaches, 
with convenient connection to the Utopia Parkway bicycle lane. It lies 
between Cross Island Parkway and Little Neck Bay, connecting Bayside to 
Douglaston and Alley Pond Park, and to central Queens and Coney Island. 
Francis Lewis Boulevard is a major street notorious for drag racing, which 
resulted in several fatalities to drivers and pedestrians over the years.[31] 
Bayside is connected to Penn Station in Midtown Manhattan, other areas 
of Queens, and Long Island by the Long Island Rail Road's Port Washington 
Branch at the Bayside railroad station. Many also choose to take the New 
York City Subway's 7 <7> trains in nearby Flushing at Flushing–Main Street 
station. After the MTA began extending the 7 <7> trains of the IRT Flushing 
Line westward into Manhattan in 2007, the 2012 fiscal year Community District 
Needs of Queens report suggests extending the line eastward in order to 
relieve congestion in Downtown Flushing. The report states: "It's time 
for residents and businesses of East Flushing, Bayside, and maybe some 
parts of Douglaston to share in freeing Downtown Flushing from this growing 
problem."[32] It should be noted the original plan for the line in 1935 
was to have it end, not in Flushing, but Bell Boulevard near Northern Boulevard. 
Local data from the Census Bureau's American Community Survey (based on 
samples from 2005 to 2009) shows that the demographics of Bayside changes 
significantly from area to area. For example, the pocket bordered by the 
Clearview Expressway to the west, Northern Boulevard to the north, Bell 
Boulevard to the east, and 48th avenue to the south is 40% Asian, 26% Black, 
21% Hispanic, and 13% White. Other areas can be up to 71% majority White, 
mostly inhabited by those of Italian, Greek, and Irish descent.[33] As 
of the 2000 Census, Whites made up 65.6% of Bayside's population. Of people 
from this group, Italian Americans, Irish Americans, and Greek Americans 
were the largest ethnic groups representing 17.6, 12.4, and 7.3% of the 
population respectively. German Americans made up 6.7% of the population 
while Polish Americans were 3.5% of the populace. In addition, there is 
a large Asian American population as well. Around the mid-1990s, a significant 
number of Korean families began moving into the area. As of the 2000 Census, 
Asian Americans made up a significant 22.7% of the neighborhood's population, 
most of whom were Korean Americans, who made up 10.4% of the population 
and Chinese Americans, who made up 9.2% of the populace. There is a small 
African American community representing 4.5% of Bayside's population. American 
Indians made up a mere 0.2% of the neighborhood's population. Pacific Islander 
Americans were almost nonexistent in the neighborhood as there were only 
seven individuals of this ethnic group residing in Bayside at the 2000 
Census. Multiracial individuals made up 3.2% of the population. Hispanics 
or Latinos made up 11.8% of Bayside's population with a small Puerto Rican 
population representing 2.6% of the neighborhood's population. In terms 
of nativity, 65.6% of the populace was native and 34.4% was foreign-born. 
In terms of language, 52.9% of the population aged 5 years and over spoke 
only the English language at home with the remaining 47.1% speaking a language 
other than English. Due to the large Hispanic community, 10.4% of Bayside's 
population spoke the Spanish language at home. Also, due to a large community 
of foreign-born European Americans, 15.2% speak an Indo-European language 
other than Spanish at home. And in part of the significant Asian American 
community, 20.7% of the population speak an Asian language at home. The 
northern part of Bayside, including Bay Terrace, has a large concentration 
of European Americans, particularly people of Italian heritage. The southern 
and eastern portions of Bayside have a more ethnically diverse population. 
Bayside contains 11,439 housing units. The majority of Bayside's residents 
are part of family households representing 67.0% of all households with 
an average household size of 2.59. The median age of Bayside's residents 
is 38.3 years and 15.0% of residents are over 65 years of age. 83.8% of 
residents age 25 and over have at least graduated from high school, while 
35.0% have a bachelor's degree or higher, making Bayside a more educated 
community than other American communities.[34][35] As of the 2010 Census, 
Bayside was 46.9% White, 2.6% Black, 11.6% Hispanic, 37.3% Asian, and 0.3% 
Other. The median household income in 2010 was $72,114.[36] Bayside is 
home to Queensborough Community College, a branch of the City University 
of New York (CUNY) system.[37] The college is located on a 37-acre site 
that was formerly the Oakland Golf Club.[38] Bayside is part of the New 
York City Department of Education's district 26, the highest performing 
school district for grades K-9 in all of New York City. The district includes 
20 elementary schools and 5 middle schools.[39] District 25 also serves 
part of the neighborhood. The Queens Borough Public Library operates the 
Bay Terrace Branch. Bayside is home to a number of New York City Public 
Schools: Parochial schools include: Queens Borough Public Library operates 
the Bayside, Bay Terrace and Windsor Park Branches. Coordinates: 40°46′6″N 
