The Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA) is a professional 
association for baseball journalists writing for daily newspapers, magazines 
and qualifying Web sites. The BBWAA was founded on October 14, 1908,[1] 
to improve working conditions for sportswriters in the early part of the 
20th century; It also sought to promote uniformity of scoring methods, 
and to professionalize the press box, such that access was limited only 
to working reporters, telegraphers, and others who had a reason to be there. 
The forty-three founding members of the Baseball Writers Association first 
met in mid-October 1908.[2] They included Joe S. Jackson, who became the 
association's first president. At that time, Jackson was the sporting editor 
(today called sports editor) of the Detroit Free Press. Also selected as 
officers were Irving E. Sanborn of the Chicago Tribune, syndicated columnist 
Hugh Fullerton, and Boston Globe baseball writer Tim Murnane[3] A second 
meeting was held in New York City in December; Sanborn decided he could 
not serve as an officer at that time, and he was replaced by William Weart 
of the Philadelphia Times. The slate of officers was ratified, and anyone 
who wrote about baseball in major league cities was eligible for membership. 
This policy changed, however, in December 1913, at which time it was decided 
that minor league baseball writers could also become members.[4] Then, 
Jackson became a dominant force in the early years of the baseball writers, 
being elected as president of the association during nine consecutive terms.[5] 
Jackson finally retired in 1919, while Sanborn returned to assume the position 
of president. After that, Jackson became a member of the BBWAA Board of 
Directors.[6] The organization's primary function is to work with Major 
League Baseball and individual teams to assure clubhouse and press-box 
access for BBWAA members. In addition, BBWAA members also elect players 
to the National Baseball Hall of Fame, which is the organization's most 
public function. All writers with 10 continuous years of membership in 
the BBWAA, plus active BBWAA membership at any time in the preceding 10 
years, are eligible to vote for the Hall of Fame. The BBWAA also votes 
annually for the Kenesaw Mountain Landis Most Valuable Player Award, Cy 
Young Award, Jackie Robinson Rookie of the Year Award, and Manager of the 
Year Award in each of the two major leagues. The Hall of Fame also empowers 
the BBWAA's Historical Overview Committee, made up of 11 or 12 veteran 
BBWAA members, to formulate the annual ballot for the Veterans Committee. 
Considering the ready availability of television broadcasts for the majority 
of baseball games, plus instant access to information through the Internet, 
some have called into question why the BBWAA has not broadened its membership 
rules to include broadcasters and researchers.[7] (Similar arguments were 
made for the inclusion of Web-based journalists, before the BBWAA added 
Web writers to its ranks in December, 2007.[8] Others have openly questioned 
why the BBWAA is involved in the award and Hall of Fame voting processes 
at all,[9] citing in some cases journalistic integrity and the need to 
remain unbiased in their coverage of newsworthy events.[10] The BBWAA's 
most public function is to annually vote on candidates for the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame. In addition, the BBWAA is responsible for voting 
on several annual awards in each major league, including: In or about 2000, 
the BBWAA took over the voting responsibility for the Edgar Martínez Award, 
given each year to the outstanding designated hitter in the American League. 
From 1953 to 1962, the BBWAA presented a "Sophomore of the Year Award" 
in each league.[11] In 1997, a 36-member BBWAA panel selected the Major 
League Baseball All-Time Team. Replicas of various BBWAA awards and lists 
of past winners are displayed at the National Baseball Hall of Fame and 
Museum, in the Records Room, which also has other exhibits, including charts 
showing active and all-time leaders in various baseball statistical categories. 
The annual J. G. Taylor Spink Award is the highest award given by the BBWAA. 
The award is open to both BBWAA members and nonmembers, but only one winner—Roger 
Angell of The New Yorker, the 2014 recipient—had never been a BBWAA member 
in his career. Despite having written on baseball for more than a half-century, 
Angell never worked a specific baseball writing beat, thereby making him 
ineligible for BBWAA membership. In 2007, the BBWAA opened its membership 
to web-based writers employed on a full-time basis by "websites that are 
credentialed by MLB for post-season coverage."[8] During the 2012 World 
Series, the Association elected its first female president, Susan Slusser, 
of the San Francisco Chronicle.[22] Names of members are followed by the 
name of the organization for whom they write.[23] Note: New York Times, 
Washington Post[24] and Baltimore Sun[25] writers have stated that they 
are no longer permitted to vote by their employers. The Los Angeles Times 
has a similar policy,[26] though it appears to be negotiable. "Baseball 
