Beacon is a city located in Dutchess County, New York, United States. The 
2010 census placed the city total population at 15,541.[1] Beacon is part 
of the Poughkeepsie–Newburgh–Middletown, New York Metropolitan Statistical 
Area as well as the larger New York–Newark–Bridgeport, New York–New Jersey–Connecticut–Pennsylvania 
Combined Statistical Area. It was named to commemorate the historic beacon 
fires that blazed forth from the summit of the Fishkill Mountains to alert 
the Continental Army about British troop movements. The area occupied as 
Beacon was originally settled as the villages of Matteawan and Fishkill 
Landing in 1709, which were among the first colonial communities in the 
county. Beacon is located in the southwest corner of Dutchess County in 
the Mid-Hudson Region, approximately 90 miles (140 km) south of Albany, 
New York, and approximately 60 miles (97 km) north of New York City. In 
1683, the land that would come to include the City of Beacon was purchased 
from the Wappinger Indians by Francis Rombout and Gulian Verplanck, merchant-fur 
traders from New York City. The sale was confirmed, in 1685 by royal patent 
issued in the names of Rombout, Jacobus Kipp (as successor to the deceased 
Verplanck, and Stephanus Van Cortlandt. Rombout died in 1691, leaving his 
share to his daughter, Catharyna, who later married Roger Brett, an officer 
in the Royal Navy. The Rombout Patent was partitioned in 1706 with Catharyna 
Brett receiving about 28,000 acres along the Vis Kill. In 1708 the Bretts 
re-located upriver from the family home on Broadway to an area near the 
mouth of the Fishkill Creek and built a grist mill on the lower creek. 
In June 1718, Roger Brett was drowned when his sloop encountered a fierce 
squall near Fishkill Landing while returning from New York with supplies. 
Thereafter Catharyna Brett continued to manage her holdings, becoming a 
well-respected businesswoman. Unlike the Verplancks, Livingstons, and other 
landowners, Madam Brett was not averse to selling land to settlers, although 
often retaining the right to build a mill. Of paramount importance was 
the commerce in flour. During the first third of the nineteenth century, 
Dutchess County ranked first among New York State counties in wheat production, 
supplying one third of all the flour produced in the State.[2] Madam Brett 
laid out a free road over her property from the river eastward to the limits 
of her lands.[3] “Madam Brett’s Road” (now, route 52) ran from Fishkill 
Landing through Matteawan to Fishkill.[4] The mill thrived, attracting 
farmers from both sides of the river. Wheat and corn were ground into flour 
and meal, and shipped to New York. In 1748, Madam Brett, with eighteen 
others, entered into an agreement for the building of the Frankfort Store 
House. which stood near the water at the "Lower Landing" north of Dennings 
Point. This was the origin of river freighting.[3] Fishkill Landing developed 
into a river port. As early as 1780 two dozen vessels operated out of Fishkill 
Landing. The early development of Fishkill Landing was due in no small 
part to the enterprises of John Peter DeWint. [1] DeWint was born in Tappan 
in 1787. His father was a Dutchman who came to New York from the West Indies. 
The DeWint house in Tappan was one of George Washington's headquarters 
during the Revolution. In September 11, 1814 John Peter DeWint married 
Caroline Smith, granddaughter of John Adams. DeWint owned 2,000 acres at 
Fishkill Landing, a gift from his father; and held property and business 
interests across the river in Newburgh. In 1815 he built the Long Dock. 
He had a shipyard on the river just south of the Long Dock, and interests 
in the freight business which for many years was conducted by sloops for 
the Long Dock as well as the Lower and Upper Landings. In 1828 Cornelius 
Carman of Low Point, (present day Chelsea), built for DeWint and Carpenter, 
the Plow Boy, the first steam-powered ferry between Fishkill Landing and 
Newburgh.[5] The Fishkill Landing post office was established in 1804.[3] 
DeWint purchased the Bogardus-DeWindt House and lands as part of his Cedar 
Grove estate. His mother, Elizabeth, moved there in 1825. DeWint's original 
homestead was located on the river just north of Fishkill Landing, but 
was destroyed by fire in 1862. He donated land for the Dutch parsonage 
and burial grounds. John Peter DeWint died on November 18, 1870.[3] Between 
the voyages of the Half Moon and the Clermont there were two centuries 
when sloops conducted much of the river traffic. The sloop is of Dutch 
origin. In its simplest form, it is a vessel of one mast, carrying a mainsail, 
jib, and generally a topsail. For steering, a long tiller was used. Sloops 
were a favorite means of travel, and for the shipping of light articles, 
parcels, and letters. Frequently, better time was made the sloop than by 
the stagecoach. The Caroline, built by John Peter DeWint and named in honor 
of his daughter, once made the sixty miles from New York to Fishkill Landing 
in five hours.[6] Matteawan was situated on the Fishkill Creek about a 
mile and a half east of Fishkill Landing, and a like distance above the 
mouth of the creek, whose hydraulic properties contributed to its development 
as a manufacturing center. It lay at the foot of the Fishkill Mountains, 
and was a station on both the Newburgh, Dutchess & Connecticut, and the 
New York & New England Railroads, and was connected with the Fishkill Landing 
by stage, and rail. The first settlers were Roger and Catharyna Brett, 
who in 1709 built a home further upstream from their original location.[7] 
Ferry service between the future locations of both Beacon and Newburgh 
had existed in some form at least since 1743. By the early 20th century 
the fleet had grown to three 160-foot (49 m) coal-fired ferries, the Orange, 
Dutchess and Beacon, capable of carrying 30 vehicles each. It linked the 
two segments of NY 52, the major east-west artery at that point. Increasing 
traffic on 52 by midcentury, however, coupled with the building of the 
New York State Thruway in the Hudson corridor, was straining the ferry 
beyond its breaking point. The state's Department of Public Works began 
planning for a bridge, but it was not a serious possibility until federal 
money became available through the construction of Interstate 84. Beacon 
is serviced weekdays by a commuter ferry, The Newburgh-Beacon Ferry, over 
the Hudson between both cities which helps alleviate traffic to the Beacon 
Train Station from Orange County commuters. The ferry's route runs between 
Beacon City Harbor and Newburgh City Waterfront. The city served a variety 
of roles during the Revolutionary War. It manufactured war supplies, and 
served as a fort and signaling point. The city's name came from signal 
fires that were atop nearby Beacon Mountain. During the 1800s, the city 
became a factory town and was known as "The Hat Making Capital of the US" 
with nearly 50 hat factories operating at one time.[citation needed] Beacon 
incorporated as a city in 1913, amalgamating the two villages as well as 
a small portion of the hamlet of Glenham from the town of Fishkill. During 
the 1960s, urban renewal led to the destruction of some significant historic 
buildings. In the late 1970s, the Dutchess Ski area, which had been a large 
tourist attraction, was closed. Also in the 1970s, a decline in the economy 
shuttered most of the factories. This decline quickly became a severe and 
ongoing economic downturn that lasted from about 1970 to the late 1990s, 
during which almost 80 percent of the city's commercial business spaces 
and factories were vacant. Starting in the late 1990s, with the opening 
of one of the world's largest contemporary art museums Dia: Beacon, Beacon 
began an artistic and commercial rebirth. New development continues to 
enlarge the city. Currently, the two largest planned projects are a waterfront 
hotel and conference center, and "The Rivers and Estuaries Center" on Dennings 
Point[citation needed]. Beginning on February 24, 2010, a massive snowstorm 
affected the city and surroundings. On February 25, Mayor Steve Gold enacted 
a State Of Emergency, due to total snow accumulations in excess of three 
feet. The city was without electricity and gas services for over two days. 
Beacon is home to one of a handful operating "dummy lights" in the United 
States, located at the intersection of Main and East Main Streets. It is 
a traffic signal on a pedestal which sits in the middle of an intersection, 
dating back to the 1920s. Two others are located in New York, in Canajoharie 
and Croton-on-Hudson. According to the United States Census Bureau, the 
city has a total area of 4.9 square miles (13 km2), of which 4.8 square 
miles (12 km2) is land and 0.1 square miles (0.26 km2) is water. The total 
area is 2.25% water. Located on the eastern shore of the Hudson River, 
Beacon is noted for its proximity to numerous historic sites and large 
cities. It is located minutes away from Bannerman's Castle and West Point. 
Beacon also sits with the famous Mount Beacon as its backdrop and the Hudson 
River as its front door. The city also is located across the river from 
its larger sister city, Newburgh. Beacon is just 20 minutes south of the 
Hudson Valley Region Capital City, Poughkeepsie. In addition, Danbury, 
Connecticut is located to the east and New York City is to the south. The 
city includes the following neighborhoods: Main Neighborhoods Secondary 
Neighborhoods Byrnsville, or Tioronda, was a hamlet near the mouth of the 
Fishkill, about a mile south of Fishkill Landing, and contained the Tioronda 
Hat Works. In 1880 it had a population of two hundred and seventeen. The 
Hat Works occupied the site of an old cotton-mill at this place which failed 
before 1850. A grist and saw-mill were subsequently built on the site but 
torn down by Lewis Tompkins in 1878 when the Hat Works were erected. A 
little below these works is the former site of the Madam Brett grist-mill, 
for which this has been mistaken.[8] Groveville derives its name from the 
extensive oak grove which formerly occupied the site. There was a grist 
mill at Groveville from a very early day, owned about 1820 by Samuel Upton, 
a Quaker. who acquired it from Abraham Dubois. Upton also erected on the 
opposite side of the race a stone building which he used as a fulling mill. 
Sometime after 1840, the property, was sold it to the Glenham Co., who 
converted it to a woolen mill, and did carding,spinning and weaving.[8] 
The first several blocks of Main Street east of its junction with South 
Avenue constitutes the Lower Main Street Historic District and features 
many small businesses located in vintage Italianate-style buildings. The 
2010 United States census listed the population at 15,541.[12] The census[1] 
of 2000 placed the city's population at 13,808 people. The census also 
showed that the city has 5,091 households and 3,360 families residing in 
the city. The population density is 2,891.6 inhabitants per square mile 
(1,115.3/km²), based on the census population of 13,808. There are 5,406 
housing units at an average density of 1,132.1 per square mile (436.7/km²). 
The racial makeup of the city is 9,440 or 68.37% White and 4,368 or 31.63% 
Minority. The minority population is dominated by African Americans at 
2,713 residents or 19.65%, then followed by Hispanic or Latino which make 
up 2,334 residents or 16.90% of the city. Smaller minority groups include 
956 residents or 6.92% from other races, 181 residents or 1.31% Asian, 
43 residents or 0.31% Native American, and 0.00% Pacific Islander. Also, 
the city includes 475 residents or 3.44% identifying themselves as two 
or more races. Based on census data showing 5,091 households, 34.7% have 
children under the age of 18 living with them, 44.6% are married couples 
living together, 16.9% have a female householder with no husband present, 
and 34.0% are non-families. 28.6% of all households are made up of individuals 
and 10.4% have someone living alone who is 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size is 2.61 and the average family size is 3.23. Of 
the city's total population, 27.1% are under the age of 18, 7.1% are between 
18 and 24, 31.9% are between 25 and 44, 21.7% are between 45 and 64, and 
12.2% are 65 years of age or older. The median age is 36 years. For every 
100 females there are 90.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there are 86.3 males. The median income for a household in the city is 
$45,236, and the median income for a family is $53,811. Males have a median 
income of $40,949 versus $29,154 for females. The per capita income for 
the city is $20,654. 1,465 residents or 11% of the population and 310 families 
or 9.1% of the total number of families are living below the poverty line. 
Of the total population, 834 residents or 11% of those under the age of 
18, and 99 residents or 8.6% of those 65 and older, are living below the 
poverty line. The city's housing stock is currently composed of 10% subsidized 
housing, of which about 400 units are state and federal housing projects. 
Beacon is governed via the mayor-council system. The mayor is elected in 
a citywide vote. The city council consists of six members. Two are elected 
at-large. The other four are elected from one of four wards. The City of 
Beacon participates in the Dutchess County Department of Emergency Response. 
All calls for police are routed to the City of Beacon Police who dispatch 
their vehicles to the call. All calls for fire or medical assistance are 
dispatched by the County Department of Emergency Response. The City of 
Beacon Fire Department is a combination Paid and Volunteer Department that 
provides fire suppression, rescue, and emergency medical first response 
for the city. Beacon Volunteer Ambulance Corps is a combination paid and 
volunteer agency that provides Basic Life Support and Mobile Life Support 
Services provide Advanced Life Support medical care within the city. Beacon's 
most major route is Interstate 84 (I-84), which passes through the city's 
north side, providing a connection that is minutes to the Taconic State 
Parkway, New York State Thruway, and Stewart International Airport. The 
city also has the Newburgh-Beacon Bridge which carries the Interstate Highway 
over the Hudson River. New York State Route 9D (NY 9D) serves as the city's 
north-south arterial. It starts at the city's north side and wraps around 
the city to its south side. The city also has NY 52 Business, which begins 
in the city's west side at NY 9D and runs across the middle of the city 
to I-84 east of the city limits. Commuter service to New York City is available 
via the Beacon Train Station, served by Metro-North Railroad. From 1902 
to 1978, the Mount Beacon Incline Railway was one of the steepest incline 
railways in existence (a 74% grade). It took an estimated 3.5 million people 
up to the 1,540-foot (470 m) summit of Mount Beacon. Fire and vandalism 
destroyed the incline railway. There is now a movement to restore it. In 
the nearby Town of Wappinger, the Dutchess County Airport services local 
commuter flights. The nearest major airport to Beacon is Stewart International 
Airport about 10 minutes away, in Newburgh. Duchess County's LOOP transportation 
system operates public bus service in and near Beacon on weekdays and Saturdays.[13] 
One line (Route A) travels from downtown Beacon northeast on NY 52 to Fishkill 
and north on U.S. Route 9 (US 9) through Wappingers Falls to South Hills 
Mall, Poughkeepsie Galleria and downtown Poughkeepsie.[14] Another line 
(Route B) travels from Beacon north to Poughkeepsie along NY 9D and US 9.[15] 
A third line (Route F) travels northeast from Beacon through Fishkill to 
Hopewell Junction.[16] Beacon also has its own shuttle service, which runs 
on Sundays (unlike the LOOP buses).[17] An amateur rugby club, The Hudson 
Valley Rebels, are composed of a Women's Rugby team (formed in 2005), and 
a Men's team (started in 2002). The club practices beginning mid-March 
at the Beacon Memorial Park on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 6:00pm. All are 
welcome to come join, 18 or older. No experience is necessary. For details, 
visit: www.hvrugby.com. A disc golf ("frisbee golf") course was constructed 
in the woods and fields of the University Settlement camp in 2011. Parking 
for the course is located on NY 9D when entering Beacon from the south. 
This 18-hole course, "Beacon Glades", is free and open to the public. Stroke-play 
tournaments are occasionally held. A weekly 2-person scramble tournament 
is held every Wednesday at 6:30pm during the summer. Beacon High School 
has a Fitness Center and 25-yard swimming pool run by the Athletic Department 
that is open to the public for membership.[18] Natives: Residents: Major 
