"Beanball" is a colloquialism used in baseball, for a ball thrown at an 
opposing player with the intention of striking him such as to cause harm, 
often connoting a throw at the player's head (or "bean" in old-fashioned 
slang).[1] A pitcher who throws beanballs often is known as a "headhunter". 
The term may be applied to any sport in which a player on one team regularly 
attempts to throw a ball toward the general vicinity of a player of the 
opposite team, but is typically expected not to hit that player with the 
ball. In cricket, the equivalent term is "beamer". In baseball, a beanball 
is a pitch, similar to a brushback pitch but actually intended to hit the 
batter as it is thrown at the head. It is rarely used as a strategic weapon, 
and is usually an act of anger and frustration; however, batters facing 
known headhunters are given a reason to fear a beanball and may alter their 
approach to hitting in the interests of self-protection, perhaps giving 
some strategic advantage to the pitcher. Some pitchers have been known 
to throw beanballs in response to giving up home runs. Teams with heated 
rivalries often find several beanballs exchanged in a season. Beanballs 
can sometimes lead to fights, charging the mound, and bench-clearing brawls. 
Because of the hazards of the pitch and the possibility of fights, umpires 
will now often warn teams, after beanballs or fights have occurred, that 
any pitcher who throws at a batter will be ejected from the game with a 
mandatory one day suspension for the pitcher's manager. Throwing at batters 
can sometimes lead to suspension for a number of games as well. Managers 
may also be ejected if, in the umpire's judgment, they encouraged their 
pitcher to throw a beanball. Several players' careers have been impaired 
or derailed after being struck with a beanball. Hall of Famer Mickey Cochrane 
was knocked unconscious and later hospitalized for 7 days in 1937, and 
never played another game. In 1941, Dodgers outfielder Pete Reiser was 
hospitalized for a month, one of numerous injuries which shortened his 
career. Lou Boudreau played only sporadically after being beaned in 1951, 
and retired the following season. Tony Conigliaro missed over a year after 
being hit in the eye, and his vision later deteriorated to the point where 
he was forced to retire. Dickie Thon returned from a gruesome beaning in 
1984, but never matched his earlier success. On September 28, 1995, Kirby 
Puckett, the superstar outfielder of the Minnesota Twins, was struck in 
the cheek by a Dennis Martínez fastball, breaking his jaw and loosening 
two teeth. It would be his last game; during spring training the following 
year he developed glaucoma, which ended his career. In 2005, the Cubs' 
Adam Greenberg was hit in the head with the first pitch that he faced in 
his major league career. Ron Santo, who thought he had lost an eye when 
his cheekbone was broken by a pitch in 1966, rushed back to the lineup. 
He described his attitude: "It was like, 'Here, hit me again.' I didn't 
have any fear. I just went on. When you get older, maybe fear does set 
in. Nobody will admit that, but it does happen." Don Zimmer, who was nearly 
killed by a beanball in 1953 and had four metal buttons surgically implanted 
in his skull, recounted, "It's not a case of being tougher than anybody 
else... You never know how you're going to react until you come back and 
play again." Only one player has died after being hit in the head. Cleveland 
Indians shortstop Ray Chapman was hit by a pitch thrown by submarine pitcher 
and noted headhunter Carl Mays on August 16, 1920 at the Polo Grounds in 
New York. He died 12 hours later and is noted as the only player to have 
been killed by a pitch. The following spring, Chapman's teammates experimented 
with leather helmets similar to those being used by football players; that 
year's Spaulding Guide declared, "There is nothing 'sissy' about it." Catcher 
Roger Bresnahan is cited as one of the first players to construct and wear 
a helmet, in 1907. Starting in 1956, Major League Baseball required that 
all batters either wear batting helmets or protective plastic liners underneath 
their caps. Full helmets were made mandatory in 1971, and wearing a model 
with an earflap has been required since 1983. Minor leaguers (as well as 
most college, high school, and youth leagues) must wear helmets with a 
flap covering each ear. A pitcher who is known for a habit of purposely 
throwing at opposing batters' heads is called a headhunter. Pitchers popularly 
known as headhunters include Don Drysdale, Bob Gibson, Sal Maglie, Hugh 
Casey, Nolan Ryan, Roger Clemens, Pedro Martínez, Vicente Padilla, Josh 
