Bedford–Stuyvesant (/ˈbɛdfərdˈstaɪvəsənt/; colloquially known as Bed–Stuy 
and occasionally Stuyford[2]) is a neighborhood of 153,000 inhabitants 
in the north central portion of the New York City borough of Brooklyn. 
The neighborhood is part of Brooklyn Community Board 3, Brooklyn Community 
Board 8, and Brooklyn Community Board 16.[3] The neighborhood is patrolled 
by the NYPD's 79th[4] and 81st[5] precincts. In the City Council, the district 
is represented by Robert Cornegy of the 36th Council District. Bedford–Stuyvesant 
is bordered by Flushing Avenue to the north (bordering Williamsburg), Classon 
Avenue to the west (bordering Clinton Hill), Broadway to the east (bordering 
Bushwick), and Atlantic Avenue to the south (bordering Crown Heights and 
Brownsville).[6] It is served by Postal Service ZIP codes 11205, 11206, 
11216, 11221, 11233, and 11238. The main north–south thoroughfare is Nostrand 
Avenue, but the main shopping street is Fulton Street; the latter lies 
above the main subway line for the area, on the A C trains. Fulton Street 
runs east–west the length of the neighborhood and intersects high-traffic 
streets including Bedford Avenue, Nostrand Avenue, and Stuyvesant Avenue. 
Bedford–Stuyvesant is actually made up of four neighborhoods: Bedford, 
Stuyvesant Heights, Ocean Hill, and Weeksville (also part of Crown Heights). 
Part of Clinton Hill used to be considered part of Bedford–Stuyvesant. 
For decades, it has been a cultural center for Brooklyn's African American 
population. Following the construction of the IND Fulton Street Line[7] 
in 1936, African Americans left an overcrowded Harlem for greater housing 
availability in Bedford–Stuyvesant. From Bedford–Stuyvesant, African Americans 
have since moved into the surrounding areas of Brooklyn, such as East New 
York, Crown Heights, Brownsville, and Fort Greene. Bedford–Stuyvesant has 
many historic brownstones. These homes were developed by speculative developers 
for the expanding middle to upper middle class from the 1890s to the late 
1910s. Many of these homes contain highly ornamental detailing throughout 
the interior of the home and have classical architectural elements, such 
as brackets, quoins, fluting, finials, and elaborate frieze and cornice 
banding. The neighborhood's name is a combination of the names of the Village 
of Bedford and Stuyvesant Heights neighborhoods. The name Stuyvesant derives 
from Peter Stuyvesant, the last governor of the colony of New Netherland. 
In the second half of the 17th century, the lands which comprise the present 
neighborhood belonged to three Dutch settlers, Dirck Janse Hooghland, who 
operated a ferryboat on the East River, Jan Hansen and Leffert Pietersen 
van Haughwout, both farmers. In pre-revolutionary Kings County, Bedford 
was the first major settlement east of the then Village of Brooklyn on 
the ferry road to the town of Jamaica and eastern Long Island. Stuyvesant 
Heights, however, was farmland; the area became a community after the American 
Revolutionary War. In 1838 the Weeksville subsection was recognized as 
one of the first free African American communities in the United States.[8] 
For most of its early history, Stuyvesant Heights was part of the outlying 
farm area of the small hamlet of Bedford, settled by the Dutch during the 
17th century within the incorporated town of Breuckelen. The hamlet had 
its beginnings when a group of Breuckelen residents decided to improve 
their farm properties behind the Wallabout section, which gradually developed 
into an important produce center and market. The petition to form a new 
hamlet was approved by Governor Stuyvesant in 1663. Its leading signer 
was Thomas Lambertsen, a carpenter from Holland. A year later the British 
capture of New Netherland signaled the end of Dutch rule. In Governor Nicolls' 
Charter of 1667 and in the Charter of 1686, Bedford is mentioned as a settlement 
within the Town of Brueckelen. Bedford hamlet had an inn as early as 1668, 
and in 1670 the people of Breuckelen purchased from the Canarsie Indians 
an additional area for common lands in the surrounding region. Bedford 
Corners, located approximately where the present Bedford Avenue meets Fulton 
Street, and only three blocks west of the present Historic District, was 
the intersection of several well traveled roads. The Brooklyn and Jamaica 
Turnpike, constructed by a corporation founded in 1809 and one of the oldest 
roads in Kings County, ran parallel to the present Fulton Street, from 
the East River ferry to the village of Brooklyn, thence to the hamlet of 
Bedford and on toward Jamaica via Bed–Stuy. Farmers from New Lots and Flatbush 
used this road on their way to Manhattan. Within the Stuyvesant Heights 
Historic District, the Turnpike ran along the approximate line of Decatur 
Street. Cripplebush Road to Newtown and the Clove Road to Flatbush also 
met at Bedford Corners. Hunterfly Road, which joined the Turnpike about 
a mile to the east of Clove Road, also served as a route for farmers and 
fishermen of the Canarsie and New Lots areas. At the time of the Revolution, 
Leffert's son Jakop was a leading citizen of Bedford and the town clerk 
of Brooklyn. His neighbor Lambert Suydam was captain of the Kings County 
troop of horse cavalry in 1776. An important part of the Battle of Long 
Island took place in and near the Historic District. In 1784, the people 
of the Town of Brooklyn held their first town meeting since 1776. In 1800, 
Bedford was designated one of the seven districts of the Town of Brooklyn, 
and in 1834 it became part of the seventh and ninth wards of the newly 
incorporated City of Brooklyn. The present gridiron street system was laid 
out in 1835, as shown by the Street Commissioners map of 1839, and the 
blocks were lotted. The new street grid system led to the abandonment of 
the Brooklyn and Jamaica Turnpike in favor of a continuation of Brooklyn's 
Fulton Street, which was opened up just south of the Historic District 
in 1842. The lands for the street system within what is now Bedford–Stuyvesant 
however were not sold to the City of Brooklyn until 1852. Earlier in the 
same year Charles C. Betts had purchased Maria Lott's tract of land. This 
marked the end of two centuries of Dutch patrimonial holdings. Betts, as 
Secretary of the Brooklyn Railroad Company acquired the land for the horsecar, 
later trolley, lines on Fulton Street and for investment purposes. Most 
of the streets were not actually opened, however, until the 1860s. Streets 
in Bedford–Stuyvesant were named after prominent figures in American history. 
Francis Lewis was a signer of the Declaration of Independence, whilst Bainbridge, 
Chauncey, Decatur and MacDonough were naval heroes of the Tripolitan War 
and the War of 1812. The Dripps Map of 1869 shows that the area was still 
largely rural with a few freestanding houses mostly on MacDonough Street. 
The real development of the district began slowly at first, accelerating 
between 1885 and 1900, and gradually tapering off during the first two 
decades of the 20th century. With the building of the Brooklyn and Jamaica 
Railroad in 1833, along Atlantic Avenue, Bedford was established as a railroad 
station near the intersection of current Atlantic Avenue and Franklin Avenues. 
In 1836, the Brooklyn and Jamaica Railroad was taken over by the Long Island 
Rail Road (LIRR). In 1878, the Brooklyn, Flatbush and Coney Island Railway 
established its northern terminal with a connection to the LIRR at the 
same location.[9] Construction of masonry row houses in the 1870s began 
to transform the rural district into an urban area. The first row of masonry 
houses in Stuyvesant Heights was built in 1872 on MacDonough Street for 
developer Curtis L. North. In the 1880s and 1890s, more rows were added, 
most of the Stuyvesant Heights north of Decatur Street looked much as it 
does today. Stuyvesant Heights was emerging as a neighborhood entity with 
its own distinctive characteristics. The houses had large rooms, high ceilings, 
and large windows. The people who brought these houses were generally upper-middle-class 
families, mostly lawyers, shopkeepers, and merchants of German and Irish 
descent, with a sprinkling of English people; there were also a few professionals. 
A contemporary description calls it a very well kept residential neighborhood, 
typical of the general description of Brooklyn as "a town of homes and 
churches." Built in 1863, the Capitoline Grounds were the home of the Brooklyn 
Atlantics baseball team.[10] The grounds were bordered by Nostrand Avenue, 
Halsey Street, Marcy Avenue, and Putnam Avenue.[10] During the winters, 
the operators would flood the area and open an ice-skating arena. The grounds 
were demolished in 1880.[citation needed] In 1890, the city of Brooklyn 
founded another subsection Ocean Hill, a working-class predominantly Italian 
enclave. In the last decades of the 19th century, with the advent of electric 
trolleys and the Fulton Street Elevated, Bedford–Stuyvesant became a working-class 
and middle-class bedroom community for those working in downtown Brooklyn 
and Manhattan in New York City. At that time, most of the pre-existing 
wooden homes were destroyed and replaced with brownstone rowhouses. In 
1907, the completion of the Williamsburg Bridge facilitated the immigration 
of Jews and Italians from the Lower East Side of Manhattan.[11] During 
the 1930s, major changes took place due to the Great Depression years. 
Immigrants from the American South and the Caribbean brought the neighborhood's 
black population to around 30,000, making it the second largest Black community 
in the city at the time. During World War II, the Brooklyn Navy Yard attracted 
many blacks to the neighborhood as an opportunity for employment, while 
the relatively prosperous war economy enabled many of the resident Jews 
and Italians to move to Queens and Long Island. By 1950, the number of 
blacks had risen to 155,000, comprising about 55 percent of the population 
of Bedford–Stuyvesant.[11] In the 1950s, real estate agents and speculators 
employed blockbusting to turn a profit. As a result, formerly middle class 
white homes were being turned over to poorer black families. By 1960, eighty-five 
percent of the population was black.[11] Gang wars erupted in 1961 in Bedford–Stuyvesant. 
During the same year, Alfred E. Clark of The New York Times referred to 
it as "Brooklyn's Little Harlem".[12] One of the first urban riots of the 
era took place there. Social and racial divisions in the city contributed 
to the tensions, which climaxed when attempts at community control in the 
nearby Ocean Hill-Brownsville school district pitted some black community 
residents and activists (from both inside and outside the area) against 
teachers, the majority of whom were white, many of them Jewish. Charges 
of racism were a common part of social tensions at the time. In 1964, race 
riots broke out in the Manhattan neighborhood of Harlem after an Irish 
American NYPD lieutenant, Thomas Gilligan, shot and killed an African American 
teenager, James Powell, aged 15.[13] The riot spread to Bedford–Stuyvesant 
and resulted in the destruction and looting of many neighborhood businesses, 
many of which were Jewish-owned.[citation needed] Race relations between 
the NYPD and the city's black community were strained as police were seen 
as an instrument of oppression and racially biased law enforcement; further, 
at that time, few black policemen were present on the force.[14] In predominantly 
black New York neighborhoods, arrests and prosecutions for drug-related 
crimes were higher than anywhere else in the city, despite evidence that 
illegal drugs were used at at least the same rate in the white community, 
further contributing to the problems between the white dominated police 
force and black community. Coincidentally, the 1964 riot took place throughout 
the NYPD's 28th and 32nd precincts, in Harlem, and the 79th precinct, in 
Bedford–Stuyvesant, which at one time were the only three police precincts 
in the NYPD where black police officers were allowed to patrol.[15] Race 
riots followed in 1967 and 1968, as part of the political and racial tensions 
in the United States of the era, aggravated by continued high unemployment 
among blacks, continued de facto segregation in housing, and the failure 
to enforce civil rights laws. Following the 1964 election, With the help 
of local activists and politicians, such as Civil Court Judge Thomas Jones, 
grassroots organizations of community members and businesses willing to 
aid were formed and began the rebuilding of Bedford–Stuyvesant. Kennedy's 
program was soon used as a nationwide model in other large urban areas 
to fight the War on Poverty. In 1965, Andrew W. Cooper, a journalist from 
Bedford–Stuyvesant, brought suit under the Voting Rights Act against racial 
gerrymandering.[16] The lawsuit claimed that Bedford–Stuyvesant was divided 
among five congressional districts, each represented by a white Congress 
member.[17] It resulted in the creation of New York's 12th Congressional 
District and the election in 1968 of Shirley Chisholm, the first black 
woman and West Indian American ever elected to the US Congress.[18] In 
early 1975, when Seatrain Shipbuilding, inside the Brooklyn Navy Yard, 
experienced a massive layoff of shipbuilders—80% of those affected living 
in and around Bedford–Stuyvesant—it was Congresswoman Chisholm who came 
to their rescue. Chisholm convinced the government to restructure existing 
loans and guarantee new loans backed by the VLCC's Stuyvesant and Bay Ridge 
so the shipbuilders could resume building them. From 1968 through 1979, 
Seatrain Shipbuilding was the largest employer inside the Brooklyn Navy 
Yard, providing an estimated $750 million in economic stimulus to the City 
of New York by way of its shipbuilding activities in those years.[citation 
needed] In 1967, Robert F. Kennedy, who was elected US Senator for the 
State of New York, was tasked on fighting the war on poverty as race riots 
broke out across the urban north while the issues of the civil rights movement 
in southern states were still more of a priority for African American rights 
activists. Rather than focus on problems facing African Americans outside 
of New York, Kennedy launched a study of problems facing the urban poor 
in Bedford–Stuyvesant, which received almost no federal aid and was the 
city's largest non-white community.[19][20] The Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration 
Corporation was established as the United States’ first community development 
corporation, envisioned by Kennedy, along with Jacob Javits, Elsie Richardson, 
Franklin A. Thomas, John Doar, and other activists.[21] The Manhattan-based 
Development and Services Corporation (D&S) was established, which was composed 
of business, banking and professional leaders which advised and fundraised 
private funding for the BSRC’s projects.[21] The abandoned Sheffield Milk 
bottling plant on Fulton Street was turned into the BRSC offices in 1967; 
the same year saw the start of the exterior restoration project, which 
employed local residents to work with contractors to repair facades, restore 
stoops, fix and replace railings and fences and redo sidewalks.[21] The 
BSRC bought many housing units in Bedford-Stuyvesant and hired local residents 
to renovate the units; the BRSC also administered a $73 million mortgage 
assistance program to encourage African-American homeownership.[21] In 
1968, Thomas A. Watson, who was on the board of directors for the D&S, 
opened an IBM computer cable factory in an abandoned building on the corner 
of Gates and Nostrand.[21] As part of the BRSC, architect I.M. Pei implemented 
a controversial plan to create two superblocks on St. Marks Avenue and 
Prospect Place, between Kingston and Albany avenues; the project closed 
the streets off from traffic and cut a pathway mid-block to join the two 
and fill the street spaces with recreational spaces.[21] In 1977, a power 
outage occurred across New York City due to a power failure at the Con 
Edison Plant. Looters took advantage of the outage, and Bedford–Stuyvesant 
and neighboring Bushwick were two of the worst-hit areas. Thirty-five blocks 
of Broadway, the street dividing the two communities, were affected, with 
134 stores looted, 45 of which were set ablaze.[citation needed] In the 
late 1980s, resistance to illegal drug-dealing included, according to Rita 
Webb Smith, following police arrests with a civilian Sunni Muslim 40-day 
patrol of several blocks near a mosque, the same group having earlier evicted 
drug sellers at a landlord's request, although that also resulted in arrests 
of the Muslims for "burglary, menacing and possession of weapons", resulting 
in a probationary sentence.[22] Beginning in the 2000s, the neighborhood 
began to experience gentrification.[7] The two significant reasons for 
this were the affordable housing stock consisting of brownstone rowhouses 
located on quiet tree-lined streets and the marked decrease of crime in 
the neighborhood. The latter is partly attributable to the decline of the 
national crack epidemic as well as heightened policing. Many properties 
were renovated after the start of the 21st century, and crime declined. 
New clothing stores, mid-century collector furniture stores, florists, 
bakeries, cafes, and restaurants opened, and Fresh Direct began delivering 
to the area. As a result, Bedford–Stuyvesant became increasingly racially, 
economically, and ethnically diverse, with an increase of foreign-born 
Afro-Caribbean and African residents as well as residents of other ethnic 
backgrounds. As is expected with gentrification, the influx of new residents 
has contributed to the displacement of poorer residents. In other cases, 
newcomers have rehabilitated and occupied formerly vacant and abandoned 
properties. Through a series of "wallscapes" (large outdoor murals), the 
campaign honored famous community members, including community activist 
and poet June Jordan, activist Hattie Carthan, and rapper The Notorious 
B.I.G.[23] The campaign sought to show off the area's positive accomplishments.[24] 
Several long-time residents and business owners expressed concern that 
they would be priced out by newcomers, whom they disparagingly characterize 
as "yuppies and buppies [black urban professionals]", according to one 
neighborhood blog.[25] They feared that the neighborhood's ethnic character 
would be lost. However, Bedford–Stuyvesant's population has experienced 
much less displacement of the black population, including those who are 
economically disadvantaged, than have other areas of Brooklyn, such as 
Williamsburg and Cobble Hill.[26] Many of the new residents[who?] are upwardly 
mobile middle-income African American families, as well as immigrants from 
Africa and the Caribbean. Neighborhoods surrounding Bedford–Stuyvesant 
in Northern and Eastern Brooklyn are also majority black, such as Brownsville, 
Canarsie, Crown Heights, East Flatbush, Flatlands, Prospect Lefferts Gardens, 
East New York, and Fort Greene. Together these neighborhoods have a population 
of about 940,000 and are roughly 82% black, making them the largest concentration 
of African Americans in the United States.[27] There was a belief that 
neighborhood change would benefit all residents of the area, bringing with 
it greater neighborhood safety and more local jobs and creating a demand 
for improved retail services along the major commercial strips, such as 
Fulton Street (recently co-named Harriet Tubman Avenue),[28] Nostrand Avenue, 
Tompkins Avenue, Greene Avenue, Lewis Avenue, Flushing Avenue, Park Avenue, 
Myrtle Avenue, Dekalb Avenue, Putnam Avenue, Bedford Avenue, Marcy Avenue, 
Malcolm X Boulevard, Gates Avenue, Madison Street, and Jefferson Avenue. 
To that effect, both the Fulton Street and Nostrand Avenue commercial corridors 
became part of the Bed-Stuy Gateway Business Improvement District, bringing 
along with it a beautification project that provides various pedestrian 
and landscape improvements.[29] In July 2005, the NYPD designated the Fulton 
Street–Nostrand Avenue business district in Bedford–Stuyvesant as an "Impact 
Zone". The designation directed significantly increased levels of police 
protection and resources to the area centered on the intersection of Fulton 
Street and Nostrand Avenue for a period of six months. It was renewed for 
another six-month period in December 2005. Since the designation of the 
Impact Zone in Bedford–Stuyvesant, crime within the district decreased 
15% from the previous year. The police department has ranked Bedford–Stuyvesant 
as one of the neighborhoods that has experienced a steady decline in crime 
and has had improved safety. Despite the improvements and increasing stability 
of the community, Bedford–Stuyvesant has continued to be stigmatized in 
some circles. In March 2005 a campaign was launched to supplant the "Bed-Stuy, 
Do-or-Die" slogan with "Bed-Stuy, and Proud of It".[30] Also, the threat 
of crime taking over certain neighborhoods did not disappear, as violent 
crime remains a problem in the area. Much like Brownsville and East New 
York, Bed-Stuy is well known for drive-bys, robberies, murders, and assaults. 
The two precincts that cover Bedford–Stuyvesant reported a combined 37 
murders in 2010.[31][32] The 81st precinct was also accused in 2010 of 
not reporting crimes and recording felonies as misdemeanors to make the 
crime rate appear lower.[33] Despite the largest recession to hit the United 
States in the last 70 years, gentrification continues steadily throughout 
the neighborhood, if not accelerated by the relatively affordable prices 
of living in Bedford–Stuyvesant. The strong community and abundance of 
historic brownstone townhouses in the neighborhood contribute to its growth. 
Since 2008 a score of new cafes, restaurants, bakeries, boutiques, galleries, 
and wine bars have sprung up in the area, with concentrated growth along 
the western and southern parts of the neighborhood; the blocks north of 
the Nostrand Avenue and Fulton Street intersection and west of Fulton Street 
and Stuyvesant Avenues were particularly impacted. In 2011, Bedford–Stuyvesant 
listed three Zagat-rated restaurants for the first time. Today there are 
over ten Zagat-rated establishments,[34] and in June 2013, 7 Arlington 
Place, the setting for Spike Lee's 1994 film Crooklyn, was sold for over 
its asking price, at $1.7 million.[35] A diverse mix of students, hipsters, 
artists, creative professionals, architects, and attorneys of all races 
continue to move to the neighborhood. A business improvement district has 
been launched along the Fulton and Nostrand Corridor with a redesigned 
streetscape to include new street trees, street furniture, pavers, and 
signage and improved cleanliness in an effort to attract more business 
investment.[36] Major infrastructure upgrades have been performed or are 
in progress, such as Brooklyn's first Select Bus Service route, the B44 
SBS Bus Rapid Transit service along Nostrand and Bedford Avenues, which 
began operating in late 2013.[37] Other infrastructure upgrades in the 
neighborhood includes major sewer and water modernization projects.[38] 
Verizon FiOS and Cablevision also continue to expand high-speed fiber-optic 
and cable service to the area.[39] Improved natural and organic produce 
continue to become available at local delis and grocers, the farmer's market 
on Malcolm X Boulevard, and through the Bed-Stuy Farm Share.[40] FreshDirect 
services the neighborhood, and a large member constituency of the adjacent 
Greene-Hill Food Coop are from Bedford–Stuyvesant. In spring 2013, the 
Bedford–Stuyvesant YMCA received a $25,000 donation from DKNY following 
the wishes of a resident photographer whose work had been used by the company 
without his permission.[41] On December 20, 2014, two NYPD officers were 
killed in the neighborhood, supposedly in revenge for the death of Eric 
Garner and the shooting of Michael Brown. The suspect then committed suicide 
after being chased by other police officers onto the subway.[42][43] 75001193[46] 
Stuyvesant Heights Historic District is a national historic district in 
Bedford-Stuyvesant that consists of 577 contributing residential buildings 
built between about 1870 and 1900. The district encompasses 17 individual 
blocks (13 identified in 1975 and four new in 1996). The buildings within 
the district consist primarily of two and three-story rowhouses with high 
basements, with a few multiple dwellings and institutional structures. 
The district includes the Our Lady of Victory Catholic Church, the Romanesque 
Revival style Mount Lebanon Baptist Church, and St. Phillip's Episcopal 
Church.[47][48] It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1975 and expanded in 1996.[46] Bedford Stuyvesant/Expanded Stuyvesant 
Heights Historic District was designated on April 16, 2013 and extended 
the district north to Jefferson Ave, east to Malcolm X Blvd, and west to 
Tompkins Avenue.[49] Miracle Temple On Decatur Street On Decatur Street 
St. Phillip's Episcopal Church Mt. Lebanon Baptist Church Mt. Lebanon Baptist 
Church On Lewis Street African Americans migrated from the Southern United 
States in the early- to mid-20th century, pursuing what they perceived 
as the racial equality and freedoms of the north. This movement is known 
as the Great Migration. Many African Americans moved north in search of 
new industry. The Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood became a popular landing 
ground for African Americans.[50] The New York Times wrote in July 2014 
that the area was "diverse and changing"[51] and that, "The sprawling Brooklyn 
neighborhood of Bedford-Stuyvesant is famous for its African-American heritage 
and beautiful brownstone architecture."[51] As of the 2010 census, Bed-Stuy 
was 70.1% Black, 15% Hispanic, 10.1% White, 1.8% Asian, and 3% other.[citation 
needed] As of 2014, Bedford–Stuyvesant is still a predominantly African 
American neighborhood,[51] though there are populations of Hispanic and 
White populations that are growing.[51] According to the American Community 
survey, in 2013 the population was 56% Black, 22% White, 19% Hispanic, 
2% Asian, and 2% other or from two or more races[52] Several public schools 
serve Bedford-Stuyvesant. The zone high school for the neighborhood is 
Boys and Girls High School on Fulton Street. At the eastern edge of the 
neighborhood is Paul Robeson High School for Business and Technology. For 
the early grades (kindergarten and first grade in 2012), Success Academy 
Bed-Stuy 1 and 2 are charter schools; one is open and the other opened 
in August 2012. Bed-Stuy is also home to the Brooklyn Waldorf School, which 
moved to Claver Castle (at 11 Jefferson Avenue) in 2011. Other institutions 
include: Bedford–Stuyvesant is served by several New York City Bus Brooklyn 
bus routes. It is served by the New York City Subway IND Fulton Street 
Line (A C trains), which opened in 1936. This underground line replaced 
the earlier, elevated BMT Fulton Street Line on May 31, 1940. The IND Crosstown 
Line (G train), running underneath Lafayette Avenue and Marcy Avenue, opened 
for service in 1937. The elevated BMT Jamaica Line (J M Z trains), the 
city's oldest subway line because of its having opened in 1885, also serves 
the neighborhood, running alongside its northern boundaries at Broadway. 
Bedford–Stuyvesant is also served by the Nostrand Avenue and East New York 
stations of the Long Island Rail Road. Until 1950, the BMT Lexington Avenue 
Line served Lexington Avenue in the neighborhood. Likewise, the BMT Myrtle 
