Beijing (formerly romanized as Peking[8]) is the capital of the People's 
Republic of China and the world's third most populous city proper. It is 
also one of the world's most populous capital cities. The city, located 
in northern China, is governed as a direct-controlled municipality under 
the national government with 16 urban, suburban, and rural districts.[9] 
Beijing Municipality is surrounded by Hebei Province with the exception 
of neighboring Tianjin Municipality to the southeast; together the three 
divisions form the Jingjinji metropolitan region and the national capital 
region of China.[10] Beijing is the second largest Chinese city by urban 
population after Shanghai and is the nation's political, cultural, and 
educational center.[11] It is home to the headquarters of most of China's 
largest state-owned companies, and is a major hub for the national highway, 
expressway, railway, and high-speed rail networks. The Beijing Capital 
International Airport is the second busiest in the world by passenger traffic.[12] 
The city's subway network is among the longest and busiest in the world. 
The city's history dates back three millennia. As the last of the Four 
Great Ancient Capitals of China, Beijing has been the political center 
of the country for much of the past eight centuries.[13] The city is renowned 
for its opulent palaces, temples, parks, gardens, tombs, walls and gates,[14] 
and its art treasures and universities have made it a center of culture 
and art in China.[14] Encyclopædia Britannica notes that "few cities in 
the world have served for so long as the political headquarters and cultural 
centre of an area as immense as China."[15] Beijing has seven UNESCO World 
Heritage Sites – the Forbidden City, Temple of Heaven, Summer Palace, Ming 
Tombs, Zhoukoudian, as well as parts of the Great Wall and the Grand Canal.[16] 
Beijing hosted the 2008 Summer Olympics and was chosen to host the 2022 
Winter Olympics, which will make it the first city to ever host both events.[17] 
Over the past 3,000 years, the city of Beijing has had numerous other names. 
The name Beijing, which means "Northern Capital" (from the Chinese characters 
北 for north and 京 for capital), was applied to the city in 1403 during 
the Ming Dynasty to distinguish the city from Nanjing (the "Southern Capital").[18] 
The English spelling is based on the pinyin romanization of the two characters 
as they are pronounced in Standard Mandarin. An older English spelling, 
Peking, is the postal romanization of the same two characters as they are 
pronounced in Chinese dialects spoken in the southern port towns first 
visited by European traders and missionaries.[19] Those dialects preserve 
the Middle Chinese pronunciation of 京 as kjaeng,[20] prior to a phonetic 
shift in the northern dialects to the modern pronunciation.[21] The single 
Chinese character abbreviation for Beijing is 京, which appears on automobile 
license plates in the city. The official Latin alphabet abbreviation for 
Beijing is "BJ".[22] The earliest traces of human habitation in the Beijing 
municipality were found in the caves of Dragon Bone Hill near the village 
of Zhoukoudian in Fangshan District, where Peking Man lived. Homo erectus 
fossils from the caves date to 230,000 to 250,000 years ago. Paleolithic 
Homo sapiens also lived there more recently, about 27,000 years ago.[23] 
Archaeologists have found neolithic settlements throughout the municipality, 
including in Wangfujing, located in downtown Beijing. The first walled 
city in Beijing was Ji, a city from the 11th to 7th century BC. Within 
modern Beijing, Ji was located south of the present Beijing West Railway 
Station.[24] This settlement was later conquered by the state of Yan and 
made its capital under the name Yanjing.[25] After the First Emperor unified 
China, Beijing became a prefectural capital for the region.[1] During the 
Three Kingdoms period, it was held by Gongsun Zan and Yuan Shao before 
falling to Cao Cao's Wei Kingdom. The AD 3rd-century Western Jin demoted 
the town, placing the prefectural seat in neighboring Zhuozhou. During 
the Sixteen Kingdoms period when northern China was conquered and divided 
by the Wu Hu, Beijing, as Jicheng, was briefly the capital of the Xianbei 
Former Yan Kingdom.[26] After China was reunified during the Sui Dynasty, 
Beijing, known as Zhuojun, became the northern terminus of the Grand Canal. 
Under the Tang Dynasty, Beijing as Fanyang, served as a military frontier 
command center. During the An-Shi Rebellion and again amidst the turmoil 
of the late Tang, local military commanders founded their own short-lived 
Yan Dynasties and called the city Yanjing, or the "Yan Capital." In 938, 
after the fall of the Tang, the Later Jin ceded the entire northern frontier 
to the Khitan Liao Dynasty, which renamed the city Nanjing, or the "Southern 
Capital", one of four secondary capitals to complement its "Supreme Capital", 
Shangjing (modern Baarin Left Banner in Inner Mongolia). Some of the oldest 
surviving structures in Beijing date to the Liao period, including the 
Tianning Pagoda. The Liao fell to the Jurchen Jin dynasty in 1122, which 
gave the city to the Song Dynasty and then retook it in 1125 during its 
conquest of northern China. In 1153, the Jurchen Jin made Beijing their 
"Central Capital", called Zhongdu.[1] The city was besieged by Genghis 
Khan's invading Mongolian army in 1213 and razed to the ground two years 
later.[27] Two generations later, Kublai Khan ordered the construction 
of Dadu (or Daidu to the Mongols, commonly known as Khanbaliq), a new capital 
for his Yuan dynasty to be located adjacent to the Jurchen Jin ruins. The 
construction took from 1264 to 1293,[1][27][28] but greatly enhanced the 
status of a city on the northern fringe of China proper. The city was centered 
on the Drum Tower slightly to the north of modern Beijing and stretched 
from the present-day Chang'an Avenue to the Line 10 subway. Remnants of 
the Yuan rammed earth wall still stand and are known as the Tucheng.[29] 
In 1368, soon after declaring the new Hongwu era of the Ming dynasty, the 
rebel leader Zhu Yuanzhang sent an army to Khanbaliq and conquered it.[30] 
Since the Yuan continued to occupy Shangdu and Mongolia, however, a new 
town was established to supply the military garrisons in the area.[31] 
This was called Beiping[32] and under the Hongwu Emperor's feudal policies 
it was given to Zhu Di, one of his sons, who was created "Prince of Yan". 
The early death of Zhu Yuanzhang's heir led to a succession struggle on 
his death, one that ended with the victory of Zhu Di and the declaration 
of the new Yongle era. Since his harsh treatment of the Ming capital Yingtian 
(modern Nanjing) alienated many there, he established his fief as a new 
co-capital. The city of Beiping became Shuntian[33] in 1403.[18] The construction 
of the new imperial residence, the Forbidden City, took from 1406 to 1420;[27] 
this period was also responsible for several other of the modern city's 
major attractions, such as the Temple of Heaven[34] and Tian'anmen (although 
the square facing it was not cleared until 1651[35]). On 28 October 1420, 
the city was officially designated the capital of the Ming Dynasty in the 
same year that the Forbidden City was completed.[36] Beijing became the 
empire's primary capital (Jingshi) and Yingtian – or called Nanjing – became 
the co-capital. (A 1425 order by Zhu Di's son, the Hongxi Emperor, to return 
the capital to Nanjing was never carried out: he died, probably of a heart 
attack, the next month. He was buried, like almost every Ming emperor to 
follow him, in an elaborate necropolis to Beijing's north.) By the 15th 
century, Beijing had essentially taken its current shape. The Ming city 
wall continued to serve until modern times, when it was pulled down and 
the 2nd Ring Road was built in its place.[37] It is generally believed 
that Beijing was the largest city in the world for most of the 15th, 16th, 
17th, and 18th centuries.[38] The first known church was constructed by 
Catholics in 1652 at the former site of Matteo Ricci's chapel; the modern 
Nantang Cathedral was later built upon the same site.[39] The capture of 
Beijing by Li Zicheng's peasant army in 1644 ended the dynasty, but he 
and his Shun court abandoned the city without a fight when the Manchu army 
of Prince Dorgon arrived 40 days later. Dorgon established the Qing Dynasty 
as a direct successor of the Ming (delegitimizing Li Zicheng and his followers)[40] 
and Beijing became China's sole capital.[41] The Qing emperors made some 
modifications to the Imperial residence but, in large part, the Ming buildings 
and the general layout remained unchanged. Facilities for Manchu worship 
were introduced, but the Qing also continued the traditional state rituals. 
Signage was bilingual or Chinese. This early Qing Beijing later formed 
the setting for the Chinese novel Dream of the Red Chamber. During the 
Second Opium War, Anglo-French forces captured the city, looting and burning 
the Old Summer Palace in 1860. Under the Convention of Peking ending that 
war, Western powers for the first time secured the right to establish permanent 
diplomatic presences within the city. In 1900, the attempt by the "Boxers" 
to eradicate this presence, as well as Chinese Christian converts, led 
to Beijing's reoccupation by foreign powers.[42] During the fighting, several 
important structures were destroyed, including the Hanlin Academy and the 
(new) Summer Palace. The fomenters of the Xinhai Revolution of 1911 sought 
to replace Qing rule with a republic and leaders like Sun Yat-sen originally 
intended to return the capital to Nanjing. After the Qing general Yuan 
Shikai forced the abdication of the last Qing emperor and ensured the success 
of the revolution, the revolutionaries accepted him as president of the 
new Republic of China. Yuan maintained his capital at Beijing and quickly 
consolidated power, declaring himself emperor in 1915. His death less than 
a year later[43] left China under the control of the warlords commanding 
the regional armies. Following the success of the Nationalists' Northern 
Expedition, the capital was formally removed to Nanjing in 1928. On 28 
June the same year, Beijing's name was returned to Beiping (written at 
the time as "Peiping").[11][44] During the Second Sino-Japanese War,[11] 
Beiping fell to Japan on 29 July 1937[45] and was made the seat of the 
Provisional Government of the Republic of China, a puppet state that ruled 
the ethnic-Chinese portions of Japanese-occupied northern China.[46] This 
government was later merged into the larger Wang Jingwei government based 
in Nanjing.[47] In the final phases of the Chinese Civil War, the People's 
Liberation Army seized control of the city peacefully on 31 January 1949 
in the course of the Pingjin Campaign. On 1 October that year, Mao Zedong 
announced the creation of the People's Republic of China from atop Tian'anmen. 
He restored the name of the city, as the new capital, to Beijing,[48] a 
decision that had been reached by the Chinese People's Political Consultative 
Conference just a few days earlier. In the 1950s, the city began to expand 
beyond the old walled city and its surrounding neighborhoods, with heavy 
industries in the west and residential neighborhoods in the north. Many 
areas of the Beijing city wall were torn down in the 1960s to make way 
for the construction of the Beijing Subway and the 2nd Ring Road. During 
the Cultural Revolution from 1966 to 1976, the Red Guard movement began 
in Beijing and the city's government fell victim to one of the first purges. 
By the fall of 1966, all city schools were shut down and over a million 
Red Guards from across the country gathered in Beijing for eight rallies 
in Tian'anmen Square with Mao.[49] In April 1976, a large public gathering 
of Beijing residents against the Gang of Four and the Cultural Revolution 
in Tiananmen Square was forcefully suppressed. In October 1976, the Gang 
was arrested in Zhongnanhai and the Cultural Revolution came to an end. 
In December 1978, the Third Plenum of the 11th Party Congress in Beijing 
under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping reversed the verdicts against victims 
of the Cultural Revolution and instituted the "policy of reform and opening 
up." Since the early 1980s, the urban area of Beijing has expanded greatly 
with the completion of the 2nd Ring Road in 1981 and the subsequent addition 
of the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th Ring Roads.[50][51] According to one 2005 
newspaper report, the size of newly developed Beijing was one-and-a-half 
times larger than before.[52] Wangfujing and Xidan have developed into 
flourishing shopping districts,[53] while Zhongguancun has become a major 
center of electronics in China.[54] In recent years, the expansion of Beijing 
has also brought to the forefront some problems of urbanization, such as 
heavy traffic, poor air quality, the loss of historic neighborhoods, and 
a significant influx of migrant workers from less-developed rural areas 
of the country.[55] Beijing has also been the location of many significant 
events in recent Chinese history, principally the Tiananmen Square protests 
of 1989[56] and the 2008 Summer Olympics. This city was awarded to host 
the 2015 World Championships in Athletics.[57] Beijing is situated at the 
northern tip of the roughly triangular North China Plain, which opens to 
the south and east of the city. Mountains to the north, northwest and west 
shield the city and northern China's agricultural heartland from the encroaching 
desert steppes. The northwestern part of the municipality, especially Yanqing 
County and Huairou District, are dominated by the Jundu Mountains, while 
the western part is framed by Xishan or the Western Hills. The Great Wall 
of China across the northern part of Beijing Municipality was built on 
the rugged topography to defend against nomadic incursions from the steppes. 
Mount Dongling, in the Western Hills and on the border with Hebei, is the 
municipality's highest point, with an altitude of 2,303 metres (7,556 ft). 
Major rivers flowing through the municipality, including the Chaobai, Yongding, 
Juma, are all tributaries in the Hai River system, and flow in a southeasterly 
direction. The Miyun Reservoir, on the upper reaches of the Chaobai River, 
is the largest reservoir within the municipality. Beijing is also the northern 
terminus of the Grand Canal to Hangzhou, which was built over 1,400 years 
ago as a transportation route, and the South–North Water Transfer Project, 
constructed in the past decade to bring water from the Yangtze River basin. 
The urban area of Beijing, on the plains in the south-central of the municipality 
with elevation of 40 to 60 metres (130–200 feet), occupies a relatively 
small but expanding portion of the municipality's area. The city spreads 
out in concentric ring roads. The Second Ring Road traces the old city 
walls and the Sixth Ring Road connects satellite towns in the surrounding 
suburbs. Tian'anmen and Tian'anmen Square are at the center of Beijing, 
directly to the south of the Forbidden City, the former residence of the 
emperors of China. To the west of Tian'anmen is Zhongnanhai, the residence 
of China's current leaders. Chang'an Avenue, which cuts between Tiananmen 
and the Square, forms the city's main east-west axis. Beijing has a monsoon-influenced 
humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dwa), characterized 
by higher humidity in the summers due to the East Asian monsoon, and colder, 
windier, drier winters that reflect the influence of the vast Siberian 
anticyclone.[58] Spring can bear witness to sandstorms blowing in from 
the Gobi Desert across the Mongolian steppe, accompanied by rapidly warming, 
but generally dry, conditions. Autumn, like spring, is a season of transition 
and minimal precipitation. The monthly daily average temperature in January 
is −3.7 °C (25.3 °F), while in July it is 26.2 °C (79.2 °F). Precipitation 
averages around 570 mm (22 in) annually, with close to three-fourths of 
that total falling from June to August. With monthly percent possible sunshine 
ranging from 47% in July to 65% in January and February, the city receives 
2,671 hours of bright sunshine annually. Extremes since 1951 have ranged 
from −27.4 °C (−17.3 °F) on 22 February 1966 to 41.9 °C (107.4 °F) on 24 
July 1999 (unofficial record of 42.6 °C (108.7 °F) was set on 15 June 1942).[59][60] 
Beijing has a long history of environmental problems.[64] Between 2000 
and 2009 Beijing's urban extent quadrupled, which not only strongly increased 
the extent of anthropogenic emissions, but also changed the meteorological 
situation fundamentally, even if emissions of human society are not included. 
For example, surface albedo, wind speed and humidity near the surface were 
decreased, whereas ground and near-surface air temperatures, vertical air 
dilution and ozone levels were increased.[65] Because of the combined factors 
of urbanization and pollution caused by burning of fossil fuel, Beijing 
is often affected by serious environmental problems, which lead to health 
issues of many inhabitants. In 2013 heavy smog struck Beijing and most 
parts of northern China, in total 600 million people. After this "pollution 
shock" air pollution became an important economic and social concern in 
China. After that the government of Beijing announced measures to reduce 
air pollution, for example by lowering the share of coal from 24% in 2012 
to 10% in 2017, while the national government ordered heavily polluting 
vehicles to be removed from 2015 to 2017 and increased its efforts to transition 
the energy system to clean sources.[66] Joint research between American 
and Chinese researchers in 2006 concluded that much of the city's pollution 
comes from surrounding cities and provinces. On average 35–60% of the ozone 
can be traced to sources outside the city. Shandong Province and Tianjin 
Municipality have a "significant influence on Beijing's air quality",[67] 
partly due to the prevailing south/southeasterly flow during the summer 
and the mountains to the north and northwest. In preparation for the 2008 
Summer Olympics and to fulfill promises to clean up the city's air, nearly 
17 billion USD was spent.[68] Beijing implemented a number of air improvement 
schemes for the duration of the Games, including halting work at all construction 
sites, closing many factories in Beijing permanently, temporarily shutting 
industry in neighboring regions, closing some gas stations,[69] and cutting 
motor traffic by half by limiting drivers to odd or even days (based on 
their license plate numbers),[70] reducing bus and subway fares, opening 
new subway lines, and banning high-emission vehicles.[71][72] The city 
further assembled 3,800 natural gas-powered buses, one of the largest fleets 
in the world.[68] Beijing became the first city in China to require the 
Chinese equivalent to the Euro 4 emission standard.[73] Coal burning accounts 
for about 40% of the PM 2.5 in Beijing and is also the chief source of 
nitrogen and sulfur dioxide.[74] Since 2012, the city has been converting 
coal-fired power stations to burn natural gas[75] and aims to cap annual 
coal consumption at 20 million tons. In 2011, the city burned 26.3 million 
tons of coal, 73% of which for heating and power generation and the remainder 
for industry.[75] Much of the city's air pollutants are emitted by neighboring 
regions.[74] Coal consumption in neighboring Tianjin is expected to increase 
from 48 to 63 million tons from 2011 to 2015.[76] Hebei Province burned 
over 300 million tons of coal in 2011, more than all of Germany, of which 
only 30% were used for power generation and a considerable portion for 
steel and cement making.[77] Power plants in the coal-mining regions of 
Shanxi, Inner Mongolia and Shaanxi, where coal consumption has tripled 
since 2000, and Shandong also contribute to air pollution in Beijing.[74] 
Shandong, Shanxi, Hebei and Inner Mongolia, respectively rank from first 
to fourth, among Chinese provinces by coal consumption.[76] There were 
four major coal-fired power plants in the city to provide electricity as 
well as heating during the winter. The first one (Gaojing Thermal Power 
Plant) was shut down in 2014.[78][79] Another two were shut in March 2015. 
The last one (Huaneng Thermal Power Plant) would be shut in 2016.[78] Between 
2013 and 2017, the city planned to reduce 13 million tons of coal consumption 
and cap coal consumption to 15 million tons in 2015.[78] The government 
regularly uses cloud-seeding measures to increase the likelihood of rain 
showers in the region to clear the air prior to large events[80] as well 
as to combat drought conditions in the area. Beijing air quality is often 
poor, especially in winter. In mid-January 2013, Beijing's air quality 
was measured on top of the city's American embassy at a PM2.5 density of 
755 micrograms per cubic meter, which went off the U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency's air quality index. It was widely reported, originally through 
a Twitter account, that the category was "crazy bad". This was later changed 
to "beyond index".[81] On 8 and 9 December 2015 Beijing had its first smog 
alert which shut down a majority of the industry and other commercial businesses 
in the city.[82] Later in the month another smog "red alert" was issued.[83] 
Due to Beijing's high-level of air pollution, there are various readings 
by different sources on the subject. Daily pollution readings at 27 monitoring 
stations around the city are reported on the website of the Beijing Environmental 
Protection Bureau (BJEPB).[84] The American Embassy of Beijing also reports 
hourly fine particulate (PM2.5) and ozone levels on Twitter.[85] Since 
the BJEPB and US Embassy measure different pollutants according to different 
criteria, the pollution levels and the impact to human health reported 
by the BJEPB are often lower than that reported by the US Embassy.[85] 
Dust from the erosion of deserts in northern and northwestern China results 
in seasonal dust storms that plague the city; the Beijing Weather Modification 
Office sometimes artificially induces rainfall to fight such storms and 
mitigate their effects.[86] In the first four months of 2006 alone, there 
were no fewer than eight such storms.[87] In April 2002, one dust storm 
alone dumped nearly 50,000 tons of dust onto the city before moving on 
to Japan and Korea.[88] Municipal government is regulated by the local 
Communist Party of China (CPC), led by the Beijing CPC Secretary (Chinese: 
北京市委书记). The local CPC issues administrative orders, collects taxes, manages 
the economy, and directs a standing committee of the Municipal People's 
Congress in making policy decisions and overseeing the local government. 
Government officials include the mayor (Chinese: 市长) and vice-mayor. Numerous 
bureaus focus on law, public security, and other affairs. Additionally, 
as the capital of China, Beijing houses all of the important national governmental 
and political institutions, including the National People's Congress.[89] 
Beijing Municipality currently comprises 16 administrative county-level 
subdivisions including 16 urban, suburban, and rural districts. On 1 July 
2010, Chongwen and Xuanwu were merged into Dongcheng and Xicheng, respectively. 
On 13 November 2015 Miyun and Yanqing were upgraded to districts. Beijing's 
16 county-level divisions (districts) are further subdivided into 273 lower 
third-level administrative units at the township level: 119 towns, 24 townships, 
5 ethnic townships and 125 subdistricts. Towns within Beijing Municipality 
but outside the urban area include (but are not limited to): Several place 
names in Beijing end with mén (门), meaning "gate", as they were the locations 
of gates in the former Beijing city wall. Other place names end in cūn 
(村), meaning "village", as they were originally villages outside the city 
wall. Neighbourhoods may extend across multiple districts. Major neighbourhoods 
in urban Beijing include: The judicial system in Beijing consists of the 
Supreme People's Court, the highest court in the country, the Beijing Municipal 
High People's Court, the high people's court of the municipality, three 
intermediate people's courts, one intermediate railway transport court, 
14 basic people's court (one for each of the municipality's districts and 
counties), and one basic railway transport court. The Beijing No. 1 Intermediate 
People's Court in Shijingshan oversees the basic courts of Haidian, Shijingshan, 
Mentougou, Changping and Yanqing.[94] The Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People's 
Court in Fengtai oversees the basic courts of Dongcheng, Xicheng, Fengtai, 
Fangshan and Daxing.[94] The Beijing No. 3 Intermediate People's Court 
in Laiguangying, is the newest of the three intermediate people's courts 
and opened on 21 August 2013.[94] It oversees the district courts of Chaoyang, 
Tongzhou, Shunyi, Huairou, Pinggu and Miyun.[94][95] Each court in Beijing 
has a corresponding people's procuratorate. About 163 countries have embassies 
in Beijing, which are concentrated in Jiangguomenwai, Sanlitun and Liangmaqiao 
in Chaoyang District. Beijing's economy ranks among the most developed 
and prosperous in China. In 2013, the municipality's nominal gross domestic 
product (GDP) was CN￥1.95 trillion (US$314 billion), about 3.43% of the 
country's total output, and ranked 13th among province-level administrative 
units.[97] Per capita GDP, at CN￥93,213 (US$15,051) in nominal terms and 
Int$21,948 at purchasing power parity, was 2.2 times the national average 
and ranked second among province-level administrative units.[98] The economy 
tripled in size from 2004 to 2012,[99] and grew at an annual rate of 7.7% 
in 2013.[96] Due to the concentration of state owned enterprises in the 
national capital, Beijing in 2013 had more Fortune Global 500 Company headquarters 
than any other city in the world.[99] The city has a post-industrial economy 
that is dominated by the tertiary sector (services), which generated 76.9% 
of output, followed by the secondary sector (manufacturing, construction) 
at 22.2% and the primary sector (agriculture, mining) at 0.8%. The services 
sector is broadly diversified with professional services, wholesale and 
retail, information technology, commercial real estate, scientific research, 
and residential real estate each contributing at least 6% to the city's 
economy in 2013.[96] The single largest sub-sector remains industry, whose 
share of overall output has shrunk to 18.1% in 2013.[96] The mix of industrial 
output has changed significantly since 2010 when the city announced that 
140 highly-polluting, energy and water resource intensive enterprises would 
be relocated from the city in five years.[100] The relocation of Capital 
Steel to neighboring Hebei province had begun in 2005.[101][102] In 2013, 
output of automobiles, aerospace products, semiconductors, pharmaceuticals, 
and food processing all increased.[96] In the farmland around Beijing, 
vegetables and fruits have displaced grain as the primary crops under cultivation.[96] 
In 2013, the tonnage of vegetable, edible fungus and fruit harvested was 
over three times that of grain.[96] In 2013, overall acreage under cultivation 
shrank along with most categories of produce as more land was reforested 
for environmental reasons.[96] In 2006, the city government identified 
six high-end economic output zones around Beijing as the primary engines 
for local economic growth. In 2012, the six zones produced 43.3% of the 
city's GDP, up from 36.5% in 2007.[103][104] The six zones are: Shijingshan, 
on the western outskirts of the city, is a traditional heavy industrial 
base for steel-making.[107] Chemical plants are concentrated in the far 
eastern suburbs. Less legitimate enterprises also exist. Urban Beijing 
is known for being a center of infringed goods; anything from the latest 
designer clothing to DVDs can be found in markets all over the city, often 
marketed to expatriates and international visitors.[108] In 2013, Beijing 
had a total population of 21.148 million within the municipality, of which 
18.251 million resided in urban districts or suburban townships and 2.897 
million lived in rural villages.[96] Within China, the city ranked second 
in urban population after Shanghai and the third in municipal population 
after Shanghai and Chongqing. Beijing also ranks among the most populous 
cities in the world, a distinction the city has held for much of the past 
800 years, especially during the 15th to early 19th centuries when it was 
the largest city in the world. About 13 million of the city's residents 
in 2013 had local hukou permits, which entitles them to permanent residence 
in Beijing.[96] The remaining 8 million residents had hukou permits elsewhere 
and were not eligible to receive some social benefits provided by the Beijing 
municipal government.[96] The population increased in 2013 by 455,000 or 
about 7% from the previous year and continued a decade-long trend of rapid 
growth.[96] The total population in 2004 was 14.213 million.[109] The population 
gains are driven largely by migration. The population's rate of natural 
increase in 2013 was a mere 0.441%, based on a birth rate of 8.93 and a 
mortality rate of 4.52.[96] The gender balance was 51.6% males and 48.4% 
females.[96] Working age people account for nearly 80% of the population. 
Compared to 2004, residents age 0–14 as a proportion of the population 
dropped from 9.96% to 9.5% in 2013 and residents over the age of 65 declined 
from 11.12% to 9.2%.[96][109] According to the 2010 census, nearly 96% 
of Beijing's population are ethnic Han Chinese.[110] Of the 800,000 ethnic 
minorities living in the capital, Manchu (336,000), Hui (249,000), Korean 
(77,000), Mongol (37,000) and Tujia (24,000) constitute the five largest 
groups.[111] In addition, there were 8,045 Hong Kong residents, 500 Macau 
residents, and 7,772 Taiwan residents along with 91,128 registered foreigners 
living in Beijing.[110] A study by the Beijing Academy of Sciences estimates 
that in 2010 there were on average 200,000 foreigners living in Beijing 
on any given day including students, business travelers and tourists are 
not counted as registered residents.[112] From 2000 to 2010, the percentage 
of city residents with at least some college education nearly doubled from 
16.8% to 31.5%.[110] About 22.2% have some high school education and 31% 
had reached middle school.[110] People native to urban Beijing speak the 
Beijing dialect, which belongs to the Mandarin subdivision of spoken Chinese. 
This speech is the basis for putonghua, the standard spoken language used 
in mainland China and Taiwan, and one of the four official languages of 
Singapore. Rural areas of Beijing Municipality have their own dialects 
akin to those of Hebei province, which surrounds Beijing Municipality. 
Beijing or Peking opera (京剧, Jīngjù) is a traditional form of Chinese theatre 
well known throughout the nation. Commonly lauded as one of the highest 
achievements of Chinese culture, Beijing opera is performed through a combination 
of song, spoken dialogue, and codified action sequences involving gestures, 
movement, fighting and acrobatics. Much of Beijing opera is carried out 
in an archaic stage dialect quite different from Modern Standard Chinese 
and from the modern Beijing dialect.[113] Beijing cuisine is the local 
style of cooking. Peking Roast Duck is perhaps the best known dish. Fuling 
Jiabing, a traditional Beijing snack food, is a pancake (bing) resembling 
a flat disk with a filling made from fu ling, a fungus used in traditional 
Chinese medicine. Teahouses are common in Beijing. The cloisonné (or Jingtailan, 
literally "Blue of Jingtai") metalworking technique and tradition is a 
Beijing art specialty, and is one of the most revered traditional crafts 
in China. Cloisonné making requires elaborate and complicated processes 
which include base-hammering, copper-strip inlay, soldering, enamel-filling, 
enamel-firing, surface polishing and gilding.[114] Beijing's lacquerware 
is also well known for its sophisticated and intrinsic patterns and images 
carved into its surface, and the various decoration techniques of lacquer 
include "carved lacquer" and "engraved gold". Younger residents of Beijing 
have become more attracted to the nightlife, which has flourished in recent 
decades, breaking prior cultural traditions that had practically restricted 
it to the upper class.[115] ...the city remains an epicenter of tradition 
with the treasures of nearly 2,000 years as the imperial capital still 
on view—in the famed Forbidden City and in the city's lush pavilions and 
gardens... At the historical heart of Beijing lies the Forbidden City, 
the enormous palace compound that was the home of the emperors of the Ming 
and Qing dynasties;[117] the Forbidden City hosts the Palace Museum, which 
contains imperial collections of Chinese art. Surrounding the Forbidden 
City are several former imperial gardens, parks and scenic areas, notably 
Beihai, Shichahai, Zhongnanhai, Jingshan and Zhongshan. These places, particularly 
Beihai Park, are described as masterpieces of Chinese gardening art,[118] 
and are popular tourist destinations with tremendous historical importance;[119] 
in the modern era, Zhongnanhai has also been the political heart of various 
Chinese governments and regimes and is now the headquarters of the Communist 
Party of China and the State Council. From Tiananmen Square, right across 
from the Forbidden City, there are several notable sites, such as the Tiananmen, 
Qianmen, the Great Hall of the People, the National Museum of China, the 
Monument to the People's Heroes, and the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong. The Summer 
Palace and the Old Summer Palace both lie at the western part of the city; 
the former, a UNESCO World Heritage Site,[120] contains a comprehensive 
collection of imperial gardens and palaces that served as the summer retreats 
for the Qing imperial family. Among the best known religious sites in the 
city is the Temple of Heaven (Tiantan), located in southeastern Beijing, 
also a UNESCO World Heritage Site,[121] where emperors of the Ming and 
Qing dynasties made visits for annual ceremonies of prayers to Heaven for 
good harvest. In the north of the city is the Temple of Earth (Ditan), 
while the Temple of the Sun (Ritan) and the Temple of the Moon (Yuetan) 
lie in the eastern and western urban areas respectively. Other well-known 
temple sites include the Dongyue Temple, Tanzhe Temple, Miaoying Temple, 
White Cloud Temple, Yonghe Temple, Fayuan Temple, Wanshou Temple and Big 
Bell Temple. The city also has its own Confucius Temple, and a Guozijian 
or Imperial Academy. The Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, built 
in 1605, is the oldest Catholic church in Beijing. The Niujie Mosque is 
the oldest mosque in Beijing, with a history stretching back over a thousand 
years. Beijing contains several well-preserved pagodas and stone pagodas, 
such as the towering Pagoda of Tianning Temple, which was built during 
the Liao Dynasty from 1100 to 1120, and the Pagoda of Cishou Temple, which 
was built in 1576 during the Ming Dynasty. Historically noteworthy stone 
bridges include the 12th-century Lugou Bridge, the 17th-century Baliqiao 
bridge, and the 18th-century Jade Belt Bridge. The Beijing Ancient Observatory 
displays pre-telescopic spheres dating back to the Ming and Qing dynasties. 
The Fragrant Hills (Xiangshan) is a popular scenic public park that consists 
of natural landscaped areas as well as traditional and cultural relics. 
The Beijing Botanical Garden exhibits over 6,000 species of plants, including 
a variety of trees, bushes and flowers, and an extensive peony garden. 
The Taoranting, Longtan, Chaoyang, Haidian, Milu Yuan and Zizhu Yuan parks 
are some of the notable recreational parks in the city. The Beijing Zoo 
is a center of zoological research that also contains rare animals from 
various continents, including the Chinese giant panda. There are 144 museums 
and galleries (as of June 2008) in the city.[122][123][124] In addition 
to the Palace Museum in the Forbidden City and the National Museum of China, 
other major museums include the National Art Museum of China, the Capital 
Museum, the Beijing Art Museum, the Military Museum of the Chinese People's 
Revolution, the Geological Museum of China, the Beijing Museum of Natural 
History and the Paleozoological Museum of China.[124] Located at the outskirts 
of urban Beijing, but within its municipality are the Thirteen Tombs of 
the Ming Dynasty, the lavish and elaborate burial sites of thirteen Ming 
emperors, which have been designated as part of the UNESCO World Heritage 
Site Imperial Tombs of the Ming and Qing Dynasties.[125] The archaeological 
Peking Man site at Zhoukoudian is another World Heritage Site within the 
municipality,[126] containing a wealth of discoveries, among them one of 
the first specimens of Homo erectus and an assemblage of bones of the gigantic 
hyena Pachycrocuta brevirostris. There are several sections of the UNESCO 
World Heritage Site Great Wall of China,[127] most notably Badaling, Jinshanling, 
Simatai and Mutianyu. Three styles of architecture are predominant in urban 
Beijing. First, there is the traditional architecture of imperial China, 
perhaps best exemplified by the massive Tian'anmen (Gate of Heavenly Peace), 
which remains the People's Republic of China's trademark edifice, the Forbidden 
City, the Imperial Ancestral Temple and the Temple of Heaven. Next, there 
is what is sometimes referred to as the "Sino-Sov" style, with structures 
tending to be boxy and sometimes poorly constructed, which were built between 
the 1950s and the 1970s.[128] Finally, there are much more modern architectural 
forms, most noticeably in the area of the Beijing CBD. In the early 21st 
century, Beijing has witnessed tremendous growth of new building constructions, 
exhibiting various modern styles from international designers. A mixture 
of both 1950s design and neofuturistic style of architecture can be seen 
at the 798 Art Zone, which mixes the old with the new. Beijing is famous 
for its siheyuans, a type of residence where a common courtyard is shared 
by the surrounding buildings. Among the more grand examples are the Prince 
Gong Mansion and Residence of Soong Ching-ling. These courtyards are usually 
connected by alleys called hutongs. The hutongs are generally straight 
and run east to west so that doorways face north and south for good Feng 
Shui. They vary in width; some are so narrow only a few pedestrians can 
pass through at a time. Once ubiquitous in Beijing, siheyuans and hutongs 
are rapidly disappearing,[129] as entire city blocks of hutongs are replaced 
by high-rise buildings.[130] Residents of the hutongs are entitled to live 
in the new buildings in apartments of at least the same size as their former 
residences. Many complain, however, that the traditional sense of community 
and street life of the hutongs cannot be replaced,[131] and these properties 
are often government owned.[132] Religion in Beijing The religious heritage 
of Beijing is rich and diverse as Chinese folk religion, Taoism, Buddhism, 
Confucianism, Islam and Christianity all have significant historical presence 
in the city. As the national capital, the city also hosts the State Administration 
for Religious Affairs and various state-sponsored institutions of the leading 
religions.[133] In recent decades, foreign residents have brought other 
religious faiths to the city.[133] According to Wang Zhiyun of the Chinese 
Academy of Social Sciences in 2010 there were 2.2 million Buddhists in 
the city, equal to 11.2% of the total population.[134] According to the 
Chinese General Social Survey of 2009, Christians constitute 0.78% of the 
city's population.[135] According to a 2010 survey, Muslims constitute 
1.76% of the population of Beijing.[136] Beijing had many temples dedicated 
to folk religious deities, many of which have been reconstructed or are 
being reconstructed in the 2000s and 2010s. Yearly sacrifices to the God 
of Heaven (祭天 jìtiān) at the Temple of Heaven have been resumed by Confucian 
groups in the 2010s. There are temples dedicated to the worship of the 
Goddess (娘娘 Niángniáng) in the city, one of them near the Olympic Village, 
and they revolve around a major cult centre at Mount Miaofeng. There are 
also temples of the Dragon God (龙神 Lóngshén) and temples of the City God 
(城隍神 Chénghuángshén). Many of these temples are governed by the Beijing 
Taoist Association, such as the Fire God Temple. The national Chinese Taoist 
Association and Chinese Taoist College have their headquarters at the White 
Cloud Temple of Quanzhen Taoism, which was founded in 741 and rebuilt numerous 
times. The Beijing Dongyue Temple outside Chaoyangmen is the largest temple 
of Zhengyi Taoism in the city. The Beijing Taoist Association has its headquarters 
at the Lüzu Temple near Fuxingmen.[137] The Buddhist Association of China, 
the state's supervisory organ overseeing all Buddhist institutions in mainland 
China, is headquartered in the Guangji Temple, a temple founded over 800 
years ago during the Jin dynasty (1115–1234) in what is now Fuchengmennei. 
The Beijing Buddhist Association along with the Buddhist Choir and Orchestra 
are based in the Guanghua Temple, which dates to the Yuan Dynasty over 
700 years ago. The Buddhist Academy of China and its library are housed 
in the Fayuan Temple near Caishikou. The Fayuan Temple, which dates to 
the Tang Dynasty 1300 years ago, is the oldest temple in urban Beijing. 
The Tongjiao Temple inside Dongzhimen is the city's only Buddhist nunnery. 
The West Yellow Temple originally dates to the Liao Dynasty. In 1651, the 
temple was commissioned by the Qing Emperor Shunzhi to host the visit of 
the Fifth Dalai Lama to Beijing. Since then, this temple has hosted the 
13th Dalai Lama as well as the Sixth, Ninth and Tenth Panchen Lamas. The 
largest Tibetan Buddhist Temple in Beijing is the Yonghe Temple, which 
was decreed by the Qing Emperor Qianlong in 1744 to serve as the residence 
and research facility for his Buddhist preceptor of Rölpé Dorjé the third 
Changkya (or living Buddha of Inner Mongolia). The Yonghe Temple is so-named 
because it was the childhood residence of the Yongzheng Emperor, and retains 
the glazed tiles reserved for imperial palaces. The Lingguang Temple of 
Badachu in the Western Hills also dates to the Tang Dynasty. The temple's 
Zhaoxian Pagoda was first built in 1071 during the Liao Dynasty to hold 
a tooth relic of the Buddha. The pagoda was destroyed during the Boxer 
Rebellion and the tooth was discovered from its foundation. A new pagoda 
was built in 1964. The six aforementioned temples: Guangji, Guanghua, Tongjiao, 
West Yellow, Yonghe and Lingguang have been designated National Key Buddhist 
Temples in Han Chinese Area. In addition, other notable temples in Beijing 
include the Tanzhe Temple (founded in the Jin dynasty (265–420) is the 
oldest in the municipality), Tianning Temple (oldest pagoda in the city), 
Miaoying Temple (famed for Yuan-era white dagoba), the Wanshou Temple (home 
to the Beijing Art Museum) and Big Bell Temple. Beijing has about 70 mosques 
recognized by the Islamic Association of China, whose headquarters are 
located next to the Niujie Mosque, the oldest and most famous mosque in 
the city.[138][139] The Niujie Mosque was founded in 996 during the Liao 
Dynasty and is frequently visited by Muslim dignitaries. Other notable 
mosques in the old city include the Dongsi Mosque, founded in 1346; the 
Huashi Mosque, founded in 1415; Nan Douya Mosque, near Chaoyangmen; Jinshifang 
Street Mosque, in Xicheng District; and the Dongzhimen Mosque.[140] There 
are large mosques in outlying Muslim communities in Haidian, Madian, Tongzhou, 
Changping, Changying, Shijingshan and Miyun. The China Islamic Institute 
is located in the Niujie neighborhood in Xicheng District. In 1289, John 
of Montecorvino came to Beijing as a Franciscan missionary with the order 
from the Pope. After meeting and receiving the support of Kublai Khan in 
1293, he built the first Catholic church in Beijing in 1305. The Chinese 
Patriotic Catholic Association (CPCA), based in Houhai is the government 
oversight body for Catholics in mainland China. Notable Catholic churches 
in Beijing include: The National Seminary of Catholic Church in China is 
located in Daxing District. The earliest Protestant churches in Beijing 
were founded by British and American missionaries in the second half of 
the 19th century. Protestant missionaries also opened schools, universities 
and hospitals which have become important civic institutions. Most of Beijing's 
Protestant churches were destroyed during the Boxer Rebellion and rebuilt. 
In 1958, the 64 Protestant churches in the city were reorganized into four 
and overseen by the state through the Three-Self Patriotic Movement. In 
the last 30 years, a number of new Protestant churches have opened in the 
city, including some by foreign expatriats. The London Missionary Society 
founded the Gangwashi Church in Xizhimen in 1863 and the Mishi Church in 
Dongdan in 1865. The Gangwashi Church was briefly renamed the Xi Tang or 
"West Church" in 1958. The Mishi Church which closed in 1958 but reopened 
in 1973, was for a time the only church in the city open to foreigners. 
In 1982, the congregation of the Mishi Church joined the Chongwenmen Church. 
The London Missionary Society Hospital, built near the Mishi Church, became 
part of the Peking Union Medical College Hospital. In 1907, the Church 
of England founded the Holy Saviour's Cathedral, which no longer functions 
as a church but the architecture remains. Anglicans also founded Chongde 
Middle School (now No. 31 Middle School) and Duzhi Middle School (now Luxun 
Middle School). The American Methodist Episcopal Mission founded eight 
churches in Beijing including the Zhushikou Church (renamed the Nan Tang 
or "South Church" in 1958), Kuanjie Church (renamed Bei Tang or "North 
Church" in 1958), the Chongwenmen Church and Huashi Church. The first three 
remain active houses of worship. The Huashi Church, like many other churches, 
was converted to other use and razed in 2004. The American Methodists also 
founded the Tongren Hospital, Huiwen Middle School, and Muchen Methodist 
Middle School for Girls (now No. 125 Middle School).[141] The American 
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions, representing the Congregational 
Church of America, founded the Dengshikou Church (renamed the Dong Tang 
or "East Church" in 1958) and the Haidian Church. The Dengshikou Church 
was destroyed in 1966 during the Cultural Revolution. The Haidian Church 
now based in Zhongguancun was expanded in 2007. The Congregationalist missionaries 
also founded the Luhe Hospital, Yu Ying Boys' School (now No. 25 Middle 
School), Bridgeman Girls' School (now No. 166 Middle School), and Tongzhou 
Luhe Middle School. The American Presbyterian Mission in China founded 
founded churches at Jiaodaokou and Gulou, which no longer exist. But the 
Chongci Girls' School (now No. 165 Middle School), Chongshi School (now 
No. 21 Middle School) continue in Jiaodaokou, and the Douw Hospital for 
Women and Children is now Beijing No. 6 Hospital. In addition, the Reverend 
Yasuzo Shimizu, a U.S.-educated Japanese Presbyterian missionary, founded 
the Chongzhen Vocational and Grammar School for Girls outside Chaoyangmen 
in 1921.[142] American Methodists, American Congressionalists and the London 
Missionary Society with the support of the American Presbyterian Mission 
China laid a foundation for the Yenching University. The Yanjing Theological 
Seminary, formerly the theology department of the Yenching University, 
is now based in Qinghe. The Salvation Army founded churches in Qianmen, 
Deshengmen, and Yuyou Hutong but none have survived as religious institutions. 
In 2003, Three-Self Patriotic Movement opened the Chaoyang Church, the 
first new church opened under its jurisdiction since 1949. Newer Protestant 
churches that serve foreign expatriate community include the Beijing Baptist 
Church, Beijing International Christian Fellowship, Capital Community Church, 
Congregation of the Good Shepherd and the River of Grace Church.[143] There 
were a significant amount of Orthodox Christian in Beijing. Orthodox has 
come to Beijing along with Russian prisoners from Albazino conflicts in 
the 17th century.[144] In 1956, Viktor, the bishop of Beijing returned 
to the Soviet Union, and the Soviet embassy took over the old cathedral 
and demolished it. In 2007, Russian embassy has rebuilt a new church in 
its garden to serve the Russian Orthodox Christian in Beijing. Beijing 
Television broadcasts on channels 1 through 10. Three radio stations feature 
programmes in English: Hit FM on FM 88.7, Easy FM by China Radio International 
on FM 91.5, and the newly launched Radio 774 on AM 774. Beijing Radio Stations 
is the family of radio stations serving the city. The well-known Beijing 
Evening News (Beijing Wanbao, 北京晚报), covering news about Beijing in Chinese, 
is distributed every afternoon. Other newspapers include Beijing Daily, 
The Beijing News (Xin Jing Bao, 新京报), the Beijing Star Daily, the Beijing 
Morning News, and the Beijing Youth Daily (Beijing Qingnian Bao), as well 
as English-language weeklies Beijing Weekend and Beijing Today. The People's 
Daily, Global Times and the China Daily (English) are published in Beijing 
as well. Publications primarily aimed at international visitors and the 
expatriate community include the English-language periodicals Time Out 
Beijing, City Weekend, Beijing This Month, Beijing Talk, That's Beijing. 
Beijing has hosted numerous international and national sporting events, 
the most notable was the 2008 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games. Other 
multi-sport international events held in Beijing include the 2001 Universiade 
and the 1990 Asian Games. Single-sport international competitions include 
the Beijing Marathon (annually since 1981), China Open of Tennis (1993–97, 
annually since 2004), ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating Cup of China (2003, 
2004, 2005, 2008, 2009 and 2010), WPBSA China Open for Snooker (annually 
since 2005), Union Cycliste Internationale Tour of Beijing (since 2011), 
1961 World Table Tennis Championships, 1987 IBF Badminton World Championships, 
the 2004 AFC Asian Cup (football), and 2009 Barclays Asia Trophy (football). 
Beijing hosted the 2015 IAAF World Championships in Athletics. Beijing's 
LeSports Center will be one of the main venues for the 2019 FIBA Basketball 
World Cup.[145] The city hosted the second Chinese National Games in 1914 
and the first four National Games of China in 1959, 1965, 1975, 1979, respectively, 
and co-hosted the 1993 National Games with Sichuan and Qingdao. Beijing 
also hosted the inaugural National Peasants' Games in 1988 and the sixth 
National Minority Games in 1999. In November 2013, Beijing made a bid to 
host the 2022 Winter Olympics.[146] On 31 July 2015, the International 
Olympic Committee awarded the 2022 Winter Olympics to the city.[147] Major 
sporting venues in the city include the National Stadium, also known as 
the "Birds' Nest",[148][149] National Aquatics Center, also known as the 
"Water Cube", National Indoor Stadium, all in the Olympic Green to the 
north of city center; the MasterCard Center at Wukesong west of the city 
center; the Workers' Stadium and Workers' Arena in Sanlitun just east of 
city center and the Capital Arena in Baishiqiao, northeast of the city 
center. In addition, many universities in the city have their own sport 
facilities. Professional sports teams based in Beijing include: The Beijing 
Olympians of the American Basketball Association, formerly a Chinese Basketball 
Association team, kept their name and maintained a roster of primarily 
Chinese players after moving to Maywood, California in 2005. China Bandy 
Federation is based in Beijing, one of several cities in which the potential 
for bandy development is explored.[150] Beijing is an important transport 
hub in North China with five ring roads, nine expressways, eleven National 
Highways, nine conventional railways, and two high-speed railways converging 
on the city. Beijing serves as a large rail hub in China's railway network. 
Ten conventional rail lines radiate from the city to: Shanghai (Jinghu 
Line), Guangzhou (Jingguang Line), Kowloon (Jingjiu Line), Harbin (Jingha 
Line), Baotou (Jingbao Line), Qinhuangdao (Jingqin Line), Chengde (Jingcheng 
Line), Tongliao, Inner Mongolia (Jingtong Line), Yuanping, Shanxi (Jingyuan 
Line) and Shacheng, Hebei (Fengsha Line). In addition, the Datong–Qinhuangdao 
Railway passes through the municipality to the north of the city. Beijing 
also has three high-speed rail lines: the Beijing-Tianjin Intercity Railway, 
which opened in 2008; the Beijing-Shanghai High-Speed Railway, which opened 
in 2011; and the Beijing–Guangzhou High-Speed Railway, which opened in 
2012. The city's main railway stations are the Beijing Railway Station, 
which opened in 1959; the Beijing West Railway Station, which opened in 
1996; and the Beijing South Railway Station, which was rebuilt into the 
city's high-speed railway station in 2008. As of 1 July 2010, Beijing Railway 
Station had 173 trains arriving daily, Beijing West had 232 trains and 
Beijing South had 163. The Beijing North Railway Station, first built in 
1909 and expanded in 2009, had 22 trains. Smaller stations in the city 
including Beijing East Railway Station and Qinghuayuan Railway Station 
handle mainly commuter passenger traffic. The Fengtai Railway Station has 
been closed for renovation. In outlying suburbs and counties of Beijing, 
there are over 40 railway stations.[151] From Beijing, direct passenger 
train service is available to most large cities in China. International 
train service is available to Mongolia, Russia, Vietnam and North Korea. 
Passenger trains in China are numbered according to their direction in 
relation to Beijing. Beijing is connected by road links to all parts of 
China as part of the National Trunk Road Network. Nine expressways of China 
serve Beijing, as do eleven China National Highways. Beijing's urban transport 
is dependent upon the five "ring roads" that concentrically surround the 
city, with the Forbidden City area marked as the geographical center for 
the ring roads. The ring roads appear more rectangular than ring-shaped. 
There is no official "1st Ring Road". The 2nd Ring Road is located in the 
inner city. Ring roads tend to resemble expressways progressively as they 
extend outwards, with the 5th and 6th Ring Roads being full-standard national 
expressways, linked to other roads only by interchanges. Expressways to 
other regions of China are generally accessible from the 3rd Ring Road 
outward. A final outer orbital, the Capital Ring Expressway (G95), is being 
built and will extend into neighbouring Tianjin and Hebei. Within the urban 
core, city streets generally follow the checkerboard pattern of the ancient 
capital. Many of Beijing's boulevards and streets with "inner" and "outer" 
are still named in relation to gates in the city wall, though most gates 
no longer stand. Traffic jams are a major concern. Even outside of rush 
hour, several roads still remain clogged with traffic. Beijing's urban 
design layout further exacerbates transportation problems.[152] The authorities 
have introduced several bus lanes, which only public buses can use during 
rush hour. In the beginning of 2010, Beijing had 4 million registered automobiles.[153] 
By the end of 2010, the government forecast 5 million. In 2010, new car 
registrations in Beijing averaged 15,500 per week.[154] Towards the end 
of 2010, the city government announced a series of drastic measures to 
tackle traffic jams, including limiting the number of new license plates 
issued to passenger cars to 20,000 a month and barring cars with non-Beijing 
plates from entering areas within the Fifth Ring Road during rush hour.[155] 
More restrictive measures are also reserved during major events or heavily 
polluted weather. Beijing's primary airport is the Beijing Capital International 
Airport (IATA: PEK) about 20 kilometres (12 mi) northeast of the city center. 
The airport is the second busiest airport in the world after Hartsfield-Jackson 
Atlanta International Airport.[12] After renovations for the 2008 Olympics, 
the airport now boasts three terminals, with Terminal 3 being one of the 
largest in the world. Most domestic and nearly all international flights 
arrive at and depart from Capital Airport. It is the main hub for Air China 
and a hub for China Southern and Hainan Airlines. The airport links Beijing 
with almost every other Chinese city with regular air passenger service. 
The Airport Expressway links the airport to central Beijing; it is a roughly 
40-minute drive from the city center during good traffic conditions. Prior 
to the 2008 Olympics, the 2nd Airport Expressway was built to the airport, 
as well as a light rail system, which now connects to the Beijing Subway. 
Other airports in the city include Liangxiang, Nanyuan, Xijiao, Shahe and 
Badaling. These airports are primarily for military use and are less well 
known to the public. Nanyuan serves as the hub for only one passenger airline. 
A second international airport, to be called Beijing Daxing International 
Airport,[156] is currently being built in Daxing District, and is expected 
to be open by 2017.[157] As of 1 January 2013[update], tourists from 45 
countries are permitted a 72-hour visa-free stay in Beijing. The 45 countries 
include Singapore, Japan, the United States, Canada, all EU and EEA countries 
(except Norway and Liechtenstein), Switzerland, Brazil, Argentina and Australia. 
The programme benefits transit and business travellers[158] with the 72 
hours calculated starting from the moment visitors receive their transit 
stay permits rather than the time of their plane's arrival. Foreign visitors 
are not permitted to leave Beijing for other Chinese cities during the 
72 hours.[159] The Beijing Subway, which began operating in 1969, now has 
18 lines, 334 stations, and 554 km (344 mi) of track and is the second 
longest subway system in the world and first in annual ridership with 3.41 
billion rides delivered in 2014. In 2013, with a flat fare of ¥2.00(0.31 
USD) per ride with unlimited transfers on all lines except the Airport 
Express, the subway was also the most affordable rapid transit in China. 
The subway is undergoing rapid expansion and is expected to reach 30 lines, 
450 stations, 1,050 kilometres (650 mi) in length by 2020. When fully implemented, 
95% residents inside the Fourth Ring Road will be able walk to a station 
in 15 minutes.[160] The Beijing Suburban Railway provides commuter rail 
service to outlying suburbs of the municipality. On December 28, 2014, 
the Beijing Subway switched to a distance-based fare system from a fixed 
fare for all lines except the Airport Express.[161] Under the new system 
a trip under 6 km will cost ¥3.00(0.49 USD), an additional ¥1.00 will be 
added for the next 6 kilometres (3.7 miles) and the next 10 kilometres 
(6.2 miles) until the distance for the trip reaches 32 kilometres (20 miles).[161] 
For every 20 kilometres (12 miles) after the original 32 kilometres (20 
miles) an additional ¥1.00 is added.[161] For example, a 50 kilometres 
(31 miles) trip would cost ¥ 8.00. There are nearly 1,000 public bus and 
trolleybus lines in the city, including four bus rapid transit lines. Standard 
bus fares are as low as ¥1.00 when purchased with the Yikatong metrocard. 
Metered taxi in Beijing start at ¥13 for the first 3 kilometres (1.9 mi), 
¥2.3 Renminbi per additional 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) and ¥1 per ride fuel 
surcharge, not counting idling fees which are ¥2.3 (¥4.6 during rush hours 
of 7–9 am and 5–7 pm) per 5 minutes of standing or running at speeds lower 
than 12 kilometres per hour (7.5 mph) . Most taxis are Hyundai Elantras, 
Hyundai Sonatas, Peugeots, Citroëns and Volkswagen Jettas. After 15 kilometres 
(9.3 mi), the base fare increases by 50% (but is only applied to the portion 
over that distance). Different companies have special colors combinations 
painted on their vehicles. Usually registered taxis have yellowish brown 
as basic hue, with another color of Prussian blue, hunter green, white, 
umber, tyrian purple, rufous, or sea green. Between 11 pm and 5 am, there 
is also a 20% fee increase. Rides over 15 km (9 mi) and between 23:00 and 
06:00 incur both charges, for a total increase of 80%. Tolls during trip 
should be covered by customers and the costs of trips beyond Beijing city 
limits should be negotiated with the driver. The cost of unregistered taxis 
is also subject to negotiation with the driver. Beijing has long been well 
known for the number of bicycles on its streets. Although the rise of motor 
traffic has created a great deal of congestion and bicycle use has declined, 
bicycles are still an important form of local transportation. Large numbers 
of cyclists can be seen on most roads in the city, and most of the main 
roads have dedicated bicycle lanes. Beijing is relatively flat, which makes 
cycling convenient. The rise of electric bicycles and electric scooters, 
which have similar speeds and use the same cycle lanes, may have brought 
about a revival in bicycle-speed two-wheeled transport. It is possible 
to cycle to most parts of the city. Because of the growing traffic congestion, 
the authorities have indicated more than once that they wish to encourage 
cycling, but it is not clear whether there is sufficient will to translate 
that into action on a significant scale.[162] The command headquarters 
of China's military forces are based in Beijing. The Central Military Commission, 
the political organ in charge of the military, is housed inside the Ministry 
of National Defense, located next to the Military Museum of the Chinese 
People's Revolution in western Beijing. The Second Artillery Corps, which 
controls the country's strategic missile and nuclear weapons, has its command 
in Qinghe, Haidian District. The headquarters of the Beijing Military Region, 
one of seven nationally, is based further west in Gaojing. The Beijing 
Military Region oversees the Beijing Garrisons as well as the 27th, 38th 
and 65th Armies, which are based in Hebei. Military institutions in Beijing 
also include academies and thinktanks such as the PLA National Defence 
University and Academy of Military Science, military hospitals such as 
the 301, 307 and the Academy of Military Medical Sciences, and army-affiliated 
cultural entities such as the 1 August Film Studios and the PLA Song and 
Dance Troupe. The China National Space Administration, which oversees country's 
space program, and several space-related state owned companies such as 
CASTC and CASIC are all based in Beijing. The Beijing Aerospace Command 
and Control Center, in Haidian District tracks the country's manned and 
unmanned flight and other space exploration initiatives. Beijing Municipality 
has 20 nature reserves that have a total area of 1,339.7 km2 (517.3 sq mi).[163] 
The mountains to the west and north of the city are home to a number of 
protected wildlife species including leopard, leopard cat, wolf, red fox, 
wild boar, masked palm civet, raccoon dog, hog badger, Siberian weasel, 
Amur hedgehog, roe deer, and mandarin rat snake.[164][165][166] The Beijing 
Aquatic Wildlife Rescue and Conservation Center protects the Chinese giant 
salamander, Amur stickleback and mandarin duck on the Huaijiu and Huaisha 
Rivers in Huairou District.[167] The Beijing Milu Park south of the city 
is home to one of the largest herds of Père David's deer, now extinct in 
the wild. The Beijing barbastelle, a species of vesper bat discovered in 
caves of Fangshan District in 2001 and identified as a distinct species 
in 2007, is endemic to Beijing. The mountains of Fangshan are also habitat 
for the more common Beijing mouse-eared bat, large myotis, greater horseshoe 
bat and Rickett's big-footed bat.[168] The city flowers are the Chinese 
rose and chrysanthemum.[169] The city trees are the Chinese arborvitae, 
an evergreen in the cypress family and the Pagoda Tree, also called the 
Chinese scholar tree, a deciduous tree of the Fabaceae family.[169] The 
oldest scholar tree in the city was planted in what is now Beihai Park 
during the Tang Dynasty, 1,300 years ago.[170] Lat. and Long. 39°54′23″N 
116°22′47″E﻿ / ﻿39.90639°N 116.37972°E﻿ / 39.90639; 116.37972 aDirect-controlled 
Municipalities. bSub-provincial cities as provincial capitals. cSeparate 
state-planning cities. 1Special Economic Zone Cities. 2Coastal development 
cities. 3Prefecture capital status established by Heilongjiang Province 
and not recognized by Ministry of Civil Affairs. Disputed by Oroqen Autonomous 
Banner, Hulunbuir, Inner Mongolia as part of it. 4Only administers islands 
and waters in South China Sea and have no urban core comparable to typical 
cities in China. 5The claimed province of Taiwan no longer have any internal 
division announced by Ministry of Civil Affairs of PRC, due to lack of 
actual jurisdiction. See Template:Administrative divisions of the Republic 
of China instead. 1 Tokyo-Yokohama 2 Jakarta 3 Shanghai 4 Karachi 5 Delhi 
  6 Seoul-Incheon   7 Mexico City   8 Beijing   9 Lagos   10 São Paulo 
11 Mumbai 12 New York 13 Osaka 14 Dhaka 15 Kolkata 16 Tehran 17 Istanbul 
