Maroon and gold Home Road The Belfast Northstars is one of two clubs from 
Northern Ireland competing in the Baseball Ireland adult league. An amateur 
club, the Northstars play their home games at Hydebank Playing Fields in 
Newtownbreda, Belfast. The club competes in Baseball Ireland's B League.[1] 
The Northstars were formed in September 1996 when 10 players split away 
from the Belfast Blue Sox. The Blue Sox had been affiliated with baseball 
in Britain, but travelling to games and hosting visiting teams became problematic. 
Following the Blue Sox' demise, Gerry Long of Los Angeles was installed 
as the Northstars' first coach, and the new team quickly established an 
affiliation with Baseball Ireland.[2] Following a frustrating first few 
years of existence, in which the team often performing poorly in the standings, 
the 2004 season saw the Northstars in contention to the last day of the 
season. The club beat one of the league's new teams, the Dublin Trojans, 
as well as the established Dublin Black Sox.[citation needed] Following 
two narrow defeats against the reigning champion Dublin Hurricanes, the 
Northstars came close to making the playoffs but lost the final game of 
the season to the Black Sox, with that team finishing with a 12-6 record 
to the Northstars' 11-7 and barely edging out the Black Sox for one of 
the four playoff spots.[3] A shake-up in Baseball Ireland's league structure 
for the 2005 season saw the creation of two separate competitions. Teams 
in the now nine-team league played each other just once before the league 
split into two. The top five teams competed for the League Championship 
while the remaining four battled for the newly created League Trophy. Teams 
played each other twice in the second half. By winning three of their first 
four games in the second half, the Northstars faced the now defunct Dublin 
Panthers, who had won their first four games, in two games that would decide 
the trophy winners. The Panthers, however, swept the short series at the 
O'Malley Fields at Corkagh Park in Clondalkin, West Dublin, the home of 
Irish Baseball. [4] The addition of new young players alongside many established 
veterans helped the club to its first winning season in five years. Highlights 
included two victories over the reigning national champions the Spartans 
in Belfast,[5] while there were also wins against the Black Sox, Hurricanes 
and league newcomers the Munster Warriors. By finishing the regular season 
with a record of 8 wins and 7 defeats, the Northstars placed fourth in 
the table, setting up a playoff semi-final with the Spartans.[6] The Northstars 
entered a growth and development phase in 2013, bringing in former Keuka 
College Storm pitcher Jonathan Sculli as co-manager,[7] finishing a respectable 
eighth place at the Finkstonball tournament in Attnang-Puchheim, Austria[8] 
and reintroducing the development team to Baseball Ireland's B League.[9] 
[10] By the first weekend in August, both A and B teams had qualified for 
the playoffs.[11] The strong 2013 season was followed by another trip to 
the playoffs in the 2014 season, a berth clinched following a home two-game 
sweep over the defending champion Spartans.[12] Catchers Infielders At 
the end of the 2004 season, the Northstars retired the number 12, which 
had been worn for eight seasons by their first full international player, 
Terry Rosbotham. Rosbotham, the Northstars starting shortstop and one-time 
outfielder with the Ireland National team, had his career cut short due 
to a serious knee injury. Prior to taking up baseball, Rosbotham played 
American football in Belfast. An accomplished fielder and clutch hitter, 
his meteoric rise in baseball saw him selected in 2001 to represent Ireland 
at Fenway Park in Boston against the Slocum baseball club from Rhode Island.[14] 
His number was retired during a post-season awards ceremony in Belfast 
in 2004. Rosbotham continues to train with the Northstars and in 2007 became 
a player coach of the Belfast Brawlers softball team. He currently coaches 
and plays softball for the Smokin Aces in the Ulster Softball League. To 
date, Terry Rosbotham remains the only Northstar to have played in a full 
international for Ireland, playing outfield in 2001 at Fenway Park.[15] 
Two years later, both he and teammate John Want were named as members of 
the Irish Development Baseball Team.[16] In 2006, two young Northstar outfielders 
- David McCullagh and Conor Keenan - were both selected to represent Ireland 
ahead of the European B Pool Championships in Belgium, but neither made 
an appearance. In 2010, Colin Powers was selected to travel to Rhode Island 
with the National Team as a Development Player.[17] There has been Northstars 
representation on both the President's 9 and Los Barbaros,[18] select international 
teams made up of non-Irish nationals playing in the Baseball Ireland adult 
league. Pitchers Gordon Cuthbert and Conor Dawson are among those to have 
appeared for the President's 9. At the culmination of each season, Northstars 
players cast votes for their season MVP. Awards are also handed out for 
Team Player and Most Improved Player of the year. 2006 Gordon Cuthbert 
was named MVP by his team after a successful season on the mound and at 
the plate. A right-handed pitcher, he was one of the original Northstars 
that broke away from the Blue Sox in 1996. He was rewarded for his "solid 
and consistent pitching" and "good offensive numbers". He was also named 
MVP in 1998.[19] 2005 One year after being named most improved player, 
Northstars first baseman and pitcher Sean Shackley was presented with the 
MVP award recording a batting average of .360 and slugging percantage of 
.560.[20] 2004 Player coach Stephen Van Houten was the overwhelming choice 
for team MVP in 2004. He led the Baseball Ireland adult league in stolen 
bases with 18 swipes in 18 games, had a batting average of .400, an OBP 
of .531, scored 25 runs and drove in 18.[21] 2003 Joe Mladnich from Florida 
was named 2003 MVP after a successful all-round year. In a losing season, 
Mladnich was the only Northstars pitcher to finish the year with a winning 
record, ending with two wins and one loss and with an ERA of 5.48.[22] 
At the plate, Mladnich batted .286, had an OBP of .353, scored nine runs, 
drove in five and stole five bases.[23] 2002 Catcher John Want was the 
choice for MVP after a terrific year with the bat. He ended the season 
with a .394 average, .512 OBP and had a slugging percentage of .576. He 
scored 11 runs and drove in 10 and hit four doubles and one triple. Behind 
the plate, Want had a fielding percentage of .897. A League B League League 
Trophy The Northstars colours are maroon and gold. In home games the team 
wears maroon shirts with the team name, stylized as NorthStars, written 
in gold lettering. Player numbers - also in gold - appear only on the back 
of the shirt. Belfast has the only team in the Baseball Ireland league 
with such a colour scheme. When the team plays on the road it changes to 
gold shirts with `Belfast' written on the front in maroon lettering. Grey 
road shirts were worn for the opening game of the 2007 season against Twins 
United in Dublin. In their first few years of league play, the team wore 
red shirts with grey lettering but changed to the new colours of maroon 
and gold ahead of the 2003 season, when Stephen Van Houten was appointed 
player-coach. Playing in a city in which colours such as blue and green 
have become affiliated with one religion or another, the club wanted neutral 
colours for its own uniform. On one occasion during the 2006 season the 
Northstars changed from its traditional maroon and gold and instead played 
in black shirts.[24] On July 1, 2006, the Northstars team wore black shirts 
and Pittsburgh Pirates caps to mark the 100th anniversary of Irish McIlveen's 
major league debut.[25] [26] Highly acclaimed and praised as a phenomenon 
during baseball’s ‘deadball era’, McIlveen remains Belfast’s only link 
to the major leagues. He made his debut, pitching for the Pirates on July 
4, 1906. The 2006 game against the Dublin Spartans was won fittingly by 
Spartans left-handed pitcher Chaime Cuevas. In an interview with the Irish 
News after the game, John Dillon, Ireland international and Spartans club 
captain, said it was a privilege to be involved in the celebrations.[27] 
"While the baseball league in Ireland is still in its infancy, it is satisfying 
to know that so many Irish emigrants have gone before us and played in 
the major leagues in the US. "Perhaps one day, we’ll be seeing another 
Irish player emigrating to the US to play in the majors." In addition, 
Northstars infielder Simon Doyle wears uniform number 53, the number of 
major league games played by McIlveen in his short career.[28] A second 
Belfast team was added to Baseball Ireland ahead of the 2004 season. The 
Belfast Wolves took their name from the city's Harland and Wolff shipyard. 
The team was the brainchild of then Northstars player-coach Stephen Van 
Houten and was an attempt to lay the groundwork towards the creation of 
a northern division of Baseball Ireland. The Wolves team struggled for 
two years in the adult league, winning just a handful of games, before 
being relegated to the status of Northstars' farm team for the 2006 season. 
At the end of their third season, the Wolves were dissolved, with the players 
joining the Northstars roster for the 2007 season.[29] The Northstars and 
Wolves had faced each other on five occasions in the 2004 and 2005 seasons, 
with the Northstars winning every time. The Emerald Diamond, a documentary 
film released in 2006 that chronicles the history of baseball in Ireland 
and the Irish National team, features footage of a 2005 Northstars game 
against the Blue Devils of Dublin.[30] [31] On March 15, 2007, Ulster Television 
broadcast a short documentary entitled Fastball, which told the story of 
how baseball helped US-born players cope with homesickness.[32] The film 
featured footage of Northstars games, interviews with players and also 
delved into the history of baseball in Belfast.[33] The team has also been 
