Belleville (Canada 2011 Census population 49,454;[2] census agglomeration 
population 92,540[3]) is a city located at the mouth of the Moira River 
on the Bay of Quinte in Southern (Central) Ontario, Canada, along the Quebec 
City-Windsor Corridor. It is the seat of Hastings County, but politically 
independent of it, and is the centre of the Bay of Quinte Region. Originally 
the site of an Anishinaabe (Mississaugus) village in the 18th century known 
as Asukhknosk, the future location of the city was settled by United Empire 
Loyalists, after which it became known as Meyer's Creek after prominent 
settler and industrialist John Walden Meyers.[5] It was renamed Belleville 
in honour of Lady Arabella Gore in 1816, after a visit to the settlement 
by Sir Francis Gore and his wife. Belleville became an important railway 
junction with the completion of the Grand Trunk Railway in 1855. In 1858 
the iron bridge over the Moira River at Bridge Street became the first 
iron bridge in Hastings County. Belleville's beautiful High Victorian Gothic 
city hall was built in 1872 to house the public market and administrative 
offices.[6] The City Hall tower stands some 185 feet (56 m) above street 
level. The Dixie Lee Fried Chicken chain (1964) and the Journey's End Corporation 
economy limited service hotel chain (1978) were both founded in the city. 
In 1998, the city was amalgamated with the surrounding Township of Thurlow 
to form an expanded City of Belleville as part of Ontario-wide municipal 
restructuring. The city also annexed portions of Quinte West to the west. 
Belleville is located at the mouth of the Moira River on the Bay of Quinte 
in southeastern Ontario between the cities of Quinte West to the west and 
Napanee to the east. These cities are connected by both Ontario's Highway 
2 and the Macdonald-Cartier Freeway (Highway 401); The city is also served 
by Highway 37, running north-south from Belleville towards Tweed to the 
east of the Moira River; and Highway 62 (once Highway 14 south of 401), 
northwards towards Madoc, and southward to Prince Edward County over the 
Bay Bridge. Belleville is located in a transitional zone which may be considered 
part of the Central Ontario or Eastern Ontario regions by different sources. 
Officially, Belleville is properly considered part of the Central Ontario 
region as it is located west of the St. Lawrence River's starting point, 
but the city is popularly considered part of Eastern Ontario as it shares 
the eastern region's area code 613 and K postal code. Belleville's climate 
has four distinctive seasons. The City's traditional continental climate 
(hot summers, cold winters) is moderated by its location near Lake Ontario. 
The lake moderates temperature extremes, cooling hot summer days and warming 
cold days during the fall and winter.[citation needed] As such, winter 
snowfall is somewhat limited due to the increased frequency of precipitation 
falling as rain during the winter months. In the summer months, severe 
thunderstorm activity is usually limited because of the non-favourable 
lake breeze conditions. The city, being located on the north shore of Lake 
Ontario, is also in an unfavourable location for lake effect snow. One 
notable exception however, was in December 2010 when 14 cm of snow occurred 
in one day as a result of a snow band from Lake Ontario. The summer months 
do not typically experience exceedingly hot temperatures, however humidity 
levels can make daytime highs uncomfortable. Summer rainfall is usually 
modest, and delivered by passing thunderstorms or warm fronts. Remnants 
of tropical systems do pass through on occasion towards summer's end, resulting 
in one or two days of consistently wet weather. The winter season is highly 
variable, with the record setting winter of 2007-08 experiencing near 270 cm 
of snow. Four years later, the winter of 2011-12 experienced only 60 cm 
of snow. Winter temperatures are also highly variable, even in one season. 
Air masses change frequently, and while a few days may see above freezing 
temperatures at a time in January, the next week may bring cold and snowfall. 
Autumn is usually mild, with an increase in precipitation starting in late 
September as conditions for fall storms develop. Recent years have had 
a tendency to bring almost snow free Novembers to the region. The highest 
temperature ever recorded in Belleville was 104 °F (40.0 °C) on 9 July 
1936.[7] The coldest temperature ever recorded was −39 °F (−39.4 °C) on 
9 February 1934.[7] Local government is represented by Belleville City 
Council with a mayor and eight councillors. There are two city wards with 
Ward 1 (Belleville) represented by six councillors and Ward 2 (Thurlow) 
by two councillors. Ward 1 consists of the historic city and Ward 2 was 
created in 1998 with the amalgamation of Township of Thurlow. City Council 
sits at Belleville City Hall. Procter & Gamble, Kellogg's, Bardon Supplies 
Limited, Redpath, Parmalat, Sigma Stretch, Magna, Amer Sports Canada, Sears 
and Avaya (formerly Nortel) are corporations operating in Belleville. Many 
other manufacturing sector companies operate within the City of Belleville, 
including Bioniche Life Sciences, Sprague Foods, Airborne Systems Canada 
Ltd, Berry Plastics Canada, Sigma Stetch Film Canada, CpK Interior Products, 
Halla Climate Control Canada, Reid's Dairy, Parmalat Canada - Black Diamond 
Cheese Division, Kelloggs Canada and Norampac Inc, just to name a few. 
Belleville is home to two shopping malls: The Bay View Mall in east-end 
Belleville and the Quinte Mall along Highway 401 in North Belleville. The 
Quinte Economic Development Commission is the regional economic development 
office representing the City of Belleville, the City of Quinte West and 
the Municipality of Brighton. The Quinte EDC is mandated with the responsibility 
for regional marketing for its member municipalities as well as supporting 
existing industries through regional strategies. The City of Belleville 
is located within a 15-minute drive of 8 Wing / Canadian Forces Base (CFB) 
Trenton. 8 Wing CFB Trenton is Canada’s largest Canadian Forces Air Base 
and is available for commercial flights for passenger and cargo uses, by 
prior arrangement with DND. There is a Customs and Immigration office located 
on site for international flights. Airport facilities include snow removal, 
crash response, fire fighting and rescue services, 24-hour-a-day air traffic 
control tower, fully equipped airfield navigational and visual approach, 
and one paved runway which is 10,000 feet long and can accommodate 747 
and C5A classes. Belleville is serviced by the 401 highway system, and 
bus service to and from Toronto International Airport is provided three 
times daily each way by Megabus. Deseronto Transit provides public transportation 
services to destinations including Deseronto, Napanee, and Prince Edward 
County.[9] Belleville is located on the Toronto-Montreal main rail lines 
for both Canadian National Railway and Canadian Pacific Railway; both companies 
provide freight access. VIA Rail also operates five daily passenger services 
each way along its Windsor–Québec rail corridor. According to the 2011 
Canadian Census,[12] the population of Belleville is 49,454, a 1.3% increase 
from 2006. The population density is 200.0 people per square km. The median 
age is 43.5 years old, a bit higher than the national median at 40.6 years 
old. There are 22,153 private dwellings with an occupancy rate of 95.1%. 
According to the 2011 National Household Survey, the median value of a 
dwelling in Belleville is $200,473 which is a fair bit lower than the national 
average at $280,552. The median household income (after-taxes) in Belleville 
is $48,552, not much lower than the national average at $54,089. Belleville 
is mostly made up of European descents. The racial make up of Belleville 
is: Most of Belleville is either a Christian (67.1%), or affiliates with 
no religion (30.3%). The remaining 2.6% affiliate with another religion. 
The city of Belleville, with the amalgamation of the Township of Thurlow, 
and the annexation of a portion of the City of Quinte West, had a population 
of 48,821 people in the Canada 2006 Census. Belleville is the largest urban 
centre in a much larger market area generally known as the Quinte Region. 
The city's census agglomeration had a population of 91,518 in the 2006 
census. Population trend:[11] Mother tongue:[18] Belleville offers a number 
of options at the elementary, secondary, and post-secondary levels. Academy 
of Learning College is a local college. Loyalist College is a local public 
college. The Public school system is served by the Hastings & Prince Edward 
District School Board. The Catholic School system is served by the Algonquin 
and Lakeshore Catholic District School Board. Following are Belleville 
area schools managed by the Algonquin and Lakeshore Catholic District School 
Board. Belleville was home to the Belleville Bulls of the Ontario Hockey 
League, who were sold and the franchise moved to Hamilton. They played 
at the Yardmen Arena, located on Cannifton Road. Belleville was also previously 
home to two senior hockey teams, the Belleville Macs and the Belleville 
McFarlands. The McFarlands won the Allan Cup in 1958, and the World Championship 
in 1959. Belleville is also home the Bay of Quinte Yacht Club, which challenged 
for the America's Cup in 1881. Belleville also has some other teams, such 
as the Belleville Bearcats and the Belleville Jr. Bulls. On September 25, 
2016, the Ottawa Senators announced that their AHL affiliate will move 
from Binghamton, New York, to Belleville for the 2017-18 season. The new 
team will be known as the Belleville Senators.[19] January February June 
July August September November December The City of Belleville has three 
Sister City arrangements with communities outside of Canada which include:[20] 
