Beloit College is a private liberal arts college in Beloit, Wisconsin. 
Founded in 1846, Beloit is the oldest continuously operated college in 
Wisconsin, and was founded while the state of Wisconsin was still a territory.[2] 
It is a member of the Associated Colleges of the Midwest and has an enrollment 
of roughly 1,300 undergraduate students. Beloit College was founded by 
the group Friends for Education, which was started by seven pioneers from 
New England who, soon after their arrival in the Wisconsin Territory, agreed 
that a college needed to be established. The group raised funds for a college 
in their new town and convinced the territorial legislature to enact the 
charter for Beloit College on February 2, 1846. The first building (then 
called Middle College) was built in 1847, and it remains in operation today. 
Classes began in the fall of 1847, with the first degrees awarded in 1851. 
The first president of Beloit was a Yale University graduate, Aaron Lucius 
Chapin, who served as president from December 1849 until 1886.[3] Although 
independent today, Beloit College was historically, though unofficially, 
associated with the Congregationalist tradition.[4] The college remained 
very small for almost its entire first century with enrollment topping 
1,000 students only with the influx of World War II veterans in 1945–1946. 
The "Beloit Plan" was a year-round curriculum introduced in 1964 that comprises 
three full terms and a "field term" of off-campus study.[5] The trustees 
decided to return to the two semester program in 1978. Beloit's campus 
is located within the Near East Side Historic District.[6] The campus is 
host to "20 conical, linear, and animal effigy mounds built between about 
AD 400 and 1200", created by Native Americans identified by archaeologists 
as Late Woodland people.[7][8] One of the mounds, in the shape of a turtle, 
inspired Beloit's symbol and unofficial mascot. The mounds on Beloit's 
campus are "catalogued" burial sites, and therefore may not be disturbed 
without an official permit from the Wisconsin Historical Society. Several 
of the Beloit College sites have been partially excavated and restored, 
and material found within them—including pottery and tool fragments—are 
now held in the College's Logan Museum of Anthropology.[7] Beloit College 
completed a 120,000 sq ft (11,000 m2) Center for the Sciences in the fall 
of 2008. The building was awarded LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design) green building certification.[citation needed] It also won a Design 
Excellence Honor Award in Interior Architecture from the Chicago chapter 
of the American Institute of Architects (AIA) on October 30, 2009.[citation 
needed] In the fall of 2010, Beloit College opened the Hendricks Center 
for the Arts, a 58,000-square-foot (5,400 m2) structure that holds dance, 
music and theater facilities. The building previously held the Beloit Post 
Office and later the Beloit Public Library. The renovation and expansion 
of the facility is the largest single gift in the college's history. The 
building is named after Diane Hendricks, chair of ABC Supply of Beloit, 
and her late husband and former college trustee Ken Hendricks.[9] Two Beloit 
campus museums open to the public are run by college staff and students. 
The Logan Museum of Anthropology and the Wright Museum of Art were both 
founded in the late 19th century. The Logan Museum, accredited by the American 
Alliance of Museums, curates over 300,000 ethnographic and archaeological 
objects from 125 countries and over 600 cultural groups. The Wright Museum's 
holdings of over 8,000 objects include a large collection of original prints 
and Asian art. Both museums feature temporary special exhibitions year 
round. The Beloit College campus also houses two sculptures by artist Siah 
Armajani, his "Gazebo for One Anarchist: Emma Goldman 1991" and "The Beloit 
College Poetry Garden."[10] Beloit College's curriculum retains many aspects 
of the Beloit Plan from the 1960s, emphasizing experiential learning, learner 
agency, and reflective connection-making between out-of-classroom and in-classroom 
learning experiences, or "the liberal arts in practice." Academic strengths 
include field-oriented disciplines such as anthropology and geology. More 
Beloit graduates have earned Ph.D.s in anthropology than graduates of any 
other undergraduate liberal arts college not affiliated with a university,[11] 
and the school ranks among the top 20 American liberal arts colleges whose 
graduates go on to earn a Ph.D. in general.[12] The geology department 
continues a tradition that began with T. C. Chamberlin more than a century 
ago. Today the department combines a course load with mandatory field methods 
and research. The department is a member of the Keck Geology Consortium, 
a research collaboration of several similar colleges across the United 
States, including Amherst College, Pomona College, and Washington and Lee 
University. The Consortium sends undergraduate students worldwide to research 
and publish their findings. Jerry Gustafson (Beloit '63) created the Center 
for Entrepreneurship in Liberal Education at Beloit (CELEB) to provide 
opportunities for students to learn entrepreneurial skills in both business 
and the arts. The college long hosted the Beloit Poetry Journal, but the 
editor, Professor Emerita Marion K. Stocking, now deceased, had retired 
to Maine and operated the journal from there. In 1985 the complementary 
Beloit Fiction Journal began, publishing an annual collection of short 
contemporary fiction every year since. The establishment of the Mackey 
Chair in Creative Writing has brought a new nationally-known author to 
campus annually for several years, including Billy Collins, Bei Dao, Ursula 
K. Le Guin, Amy Hempel, Denise Levertov, and Robert Stone. Beloit biology 
faculty member, John Jungck, along with Nils S. Peterson, CEO of From the 
Heart Software, co-founded and run the BioQUEST,[13] and Brock Spencer 
maintains ChemLinks.[14] Both are special-interest groups on the reform 
of science education. Beloit has had a faculty and student exchange program 
with Fudan University in China since the 1980s. Since 2010, the Beloit 
College Philosophy Department has hosted visiting philosophers through 
the Selzer Visiting Philosopher Series. In 2010, Martha Nussbaum visited. 
In 2011, Daniel Dennett.[15] Beloit students' housing options range from 
substance-free dormitories to special interest houses, such as the Art, 
Spanish, Outdoor Environmental Club (OEC), and interfaith options.[16] 
Beloit has a student congress (BSC), and in the 2008 elections 275 students 
(approximately 20% of the student body) voted.[17] A wide variety of student 
clubs bring visitors (musicians, artists, poets) to campus frequently. 
While Beloit adheres to Wisconsin state law, which states that the legal 
drinking age is 21, strict no-alcohol policies found on many other college 
campuses are not present at Beloit. Resident assistants, employed by the 
Residential Life office, help to maintain campus safety and encourage responsible 
behavior. Beloit College has a frisbee golf course contained almost entirely 
within the grounds of the college. In April 2006, Beloit College students 
broke the world record for the longest game of Ultimate Frisbee by playing 
for over 72 hours.[18] In 2011 Beloit College received the Senator Paul 
Simon Award for Comprehensive Campus Internationalization.[19] 48 states 
are represented at the college and approximately 11% of the student body 
is from countries outside the United States.[20] In addition, about half 
of all Beloit College students study abroad in places such as China, Russia, 
Brazil, Germany, India, Spain and other countries. Each year, students 
can share their experiences abroad on International Symposium Day, which 
is a day when all classes are cancelled so that everyone can attend the 
presentations.[21] Since 1998, the college has produced the annual "Mindset 
List," written by Tom McBride, summarizing pop culture references that 
are allegedly meaningless to incoming college freshmen. Beloit College 
is a member of the Midwest Conference NCAA in Division III and fields varsity 
teams in football, baseball, softball, volleyball, men's and women's swimming, 
men's and women's basketball, men's and women's cross country, women's 
tennis, men's and women's track and field, men's and women's lacrosse, 
and men's and women's soccer. The school also had a competitive rowing 
team sponsored by club funds and alumni support. The current head coach 
for the Beloit Buccaneer Football Team is Seth Duerr. In 2011, Beloit was 
ranked both 55 overall and a "Best Value" in the category of National Liberal 
Arts Colleges by U.S. News & World Report, and it ranked #125 of the top 
600 schools by Forbes in 2010.[22][23] [24] Beloit was included in Loren 
Pope's book, Colleges That Change Lives, which distinguishes schools having 
two essential elements: "A familial sense of communal enterprise that gets 
students heavily involved in cooperative rather than competitive learning, 
and a faculty of scholars devoted to helping young people develop their 
powers, mentors who often become their valued friends".[25] Pope also added 
that, "What Beloit turns out is a better, more effective person, and one 
who tends to go on getting better … [Beloit] outproduces very selective 
schools in graduates who make significant contributions and achievements." 
