September 24, 2015 Nationals Park, Washington, D.C.[1] The Beltway Series, 
promoted by the teams as The Battle of the Beltways, is the Major League 
Baseball (MLB) interleague rivalry series played between the Baltimore 
Orioles and Washington Nationals. The Orioles are a member of the American 
League (AL) East division, and the Nationals are a member of the National 
League (NL) East division. The series name is taken from the two beltway 
highways, the Baltimore Beltway and the Capital Beltway, that service Baltimore 
and Washington, D.C. The relocation of the Montreal Expos to Washington 
in 2005 marked the first time the Baltimore–Washington Metropolitan Area 
had two Major League Baseball franchises since 1971, when the second Washington 
Senators franchise moved to Texas to become the Texas Rangers. Interleague 
play has ensured the rivals have faced one another in each year of their 
co-existence. The Orioles lead the Beltway Series by year, 6–1–3, and the 
Orioles also lead the overall series, 36–23. Both cities have a long history 
of professional baseball, beginning with the 1871 Washington Olympics and 
the 1882 American Association Baltimore Orioles, followed by the 1886 Washington 
Nationals of the National League. At the formation of the American League 
in 1901, franchises were placed in both cities, with the original Washington 
Senators and an earlier Baltimore Orioles among the eight charter members. 
The Senators and Orioles played 39 times in those first two seasons, with 
the Orioles winning 22.[2] The original Orioles, however, moved to New 
York in 1903 and eventually became the New York Yankees. A new Senators–Orioles 
rivalry began in 1954 when the St. Louis Browns relocated to Baltimore 
and became the current Orioles, once again giving both cities teams in 
the American League and regular meetings each season. This second Senators–Orioles 
rivalry lasted through the 1971 season. The original Senators moved to 
Minnesota in 1961 and became the Minnesota Twins and were replaced by a 
second Senators franchise, which played from 1961 through the 1971 season. 
After the 1971 season, the second Senators franchise moved to Texas and 
became the Texas Rangers. Overall, the Orioles won the series with the 
Senators 224–126, which included an 89–65 mark against the original Senators 
and a 135–61 record against the second Senators franchise.[3][4] In addition 
to the existing rivalry between the cities of Baltimore and Washington, 
the Nationals–Orioles rivalry is also influenced by circumstances surrounding 
the Nationals' founding. Peter Angelos, the owner of the Orioles, opposed 
the move of the Montreal Expos to Washington on the grounds that it would 
harm the Orioles financially, contending that the Orioles alone had a legal 
right to the Baltimore-Washington market. Ultimately, the owners of the 
other MLB teams approved the move to Washington in a 28–1 vote on December 
3, 2004; Angelos cast the sole dissenting vote. In the four full seasons 
since baseball returned to Washington, the Nationals drew 9,127,252 fans 
to their games, compared to 8,892,951 fans attending Orioles games. The 
Nationals were a larger draw in 2005, while both teams were about the same 
in 2006 (the Orioles drew exactly 100 more fans that year), and in 2007 
the Orioles were a larger draw by nearly 200,000 fans. In 2008 the momentum 
swung back the Nationals' way, with the Nationals outdrawing the Orioles 
by over 370,000 fans, due in part to the opening of Nationals Park.[5] 
The dispute with Angelos over the move was resolved when the Orioles were 
granted the right to broadcast Nationals games on their new television 
network, the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network. However, the deal was struck 
only days before the beginning of the 2005 season and many D.C.-area fans 
did not receive the new network for some time and were unable to watch 
most games. Furthermore, it has been reported that Angelos and the Orioles 
hold majority ownership in the network, which has led some Nationals fans 
to contend that the channel exhibits a bias in covering the Orioles compared 
to the Nationals (such as displaying the scores of Beltway Series games 
as "Orioles vs. Washington" as opposed to "Orioles vs. Nationals"). Furthermore, 
the Orioles changed the name on their away jerseys from "Baltimore" to 
"Orioles" in 1972 after D.C. lost the last Senators team, in an attempt 
to convince D.C. fans to adapt them as their team. In 2009, the Orioles 
changed back to "Baltimore" on their away jerseys. The tradition of yelling 
"O!" during the line "Oh say does that Star Spangled Banner yet wave" in 
the "Star Spangled Banner" is a Baltimore Orioles tradition. Over the years 
it became a staple of Washington, D.C.-area sporting events. The chant 
has had controversy in the past, and the usage of the "O!" chant at Nationals 
