Coordinates: 40°46′46″N 73°58′09″W﻿ / ﻿40.779447°N 73.96906°W﻿ / 40.779447; 
-73.96906 Belvedere Castle is a folly in Central Park in Manhattan, New 
York City. It contains exhibit rooms and an observation deck, and since 
1919, the folly has also been the location of the official Central Park 
weather station.[1] Belvedere Castle was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted 
and Calvert Vaux in the late 1800s. An architectural hybrid of Gothic and 
Romanesque styles, Vaux's design called for a more weighty Manhattan schist 
and granite structure with a corner tower with conical cap, with the existing 
lookout over parapet walls between them.[note 1] To reduce costs it was 
revised in November 1870, and completed under the new Tammany Hall regime 
as an open painted-wood pavilion.[2] Belvedere means "beautiful view" or 
"panoramic view" in Italian. Belvedere Castle was originally built as a 
shell with open doorway and window openings. Starting in 1919, it housed 
the New York Meteorological Observatory, which had been taken over by the 
United States Weather Bureau in 1912. The current weather station in Central 
Park, an Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS), is located immediately 
south of the castle, though wind equipment is still located on the main 
tower. The two fanciful wooden pavilions deteriorated without painting 
and upkeep and were removed before 1900.[3] The Observatory contains family-friendly 
displays that demonstrate the process by which naturalists observe their 
world and share their scientific discoveries about it. The displays, which 
include telescopes, microscopes, skeletons and feathers, are designed to 
expose children to fundamentals of the scientific method in natural observation. 
Other Observatory exhibits include a plywood tree with papier-mâché reproductions 
of birds often seen in Central Park, encouraging people to watch for these 
birds from the precipice of the castle, which has become one of New York's 
most popular birdwatching sites. Free family and community programs hosted 
at Belvedere Castle include "On A Wing" birding programs, stargazing, astronomy 
talks, storytimes with the Princess of Belvedere Castle, and the "Spooks 
at Belvedere" haunted castle event every Halloween. The new castle faced 
a rectangular receiving reservoir; today, it overlooks the Great Lawn,[note 
2] an oval of turf with eight baseball diamonds, loosely defined by plantings 
of trees in clumps in the manner of the English landscape garden, and, 
at the foot of Vista Rock, the Turtle Pond, redesigned in 1997 as a naturalistic 
planting, in which no single vantage-point reveals the water's full extent. 
Sunken concrete shelving at varying depths provide ideal water depths for 
shoreline plants such as lizard's tail, bullrush, turtlehead, and blueflag 
iris. The success of habitat for birds, insects, amphibians, and reptiles 
is embodied in sightings of species of dragonfly not previously sighted 
in Central Park. Built as a Victorian folly in 1869, the castle caps Vista 
Rock, an outcropping of schist and the park's second-highest natural elevation.[note 
3][5] Constructed of Manhattan schist quarried in the park and dressed 
with gray granite, it tops the natural-looking woodlands of The Ramble, 
as seen from the formal Bethesda Terrace. The natural rock was tunneled 
through for the innovative sunken transverse roadway that still carries 
commercial and other traffic unobtrusively through the Park. In 1867, one 
of the designers of Central Park, Calvert Vaux, decided to develop this 
area by building Belvedere Castle on the top of the rock, overlooking the 
Croton reservoir, site of the Great Lawn.[6][7] The castle provides impressive 
views across Central Park and New York City. It was designed as an additional 
feature of the Central Park "Greensward" plan by the architects Calvert 
Vaux and Jacob Wrey Mould after they, along with Frederick Law Olmsted, 
were reappointed to oversee the park's construction in 1865. As the plantings 
matured, the castle has disappeared from its original intended viewpoint. 
Its turret is the highest point in the park.[8] The site, which overlooks 
the Lower Reservoir, already held a fire tower under the control of the 
Croton Aqueduct board. In 1867, the board transferred the site to the Park, 
and the fire tower was demolished.[9] After the New York Meteorological 
Observatory automated its equipment and moved its offices to Rockefeller 
Center in the 1960s, Belvedere Castle was closed to the public and became 
an object of much vandalism, neglect and deterioration.[10] The Central 
Park Conservancy launched a restoration effort and reopened the structure 
on May 1, 1983, as the Henry Luce Nature Observatory. Soon after its restoration, 
the building was used as a filming location for Merchant-Ivory's 1984 film 
The Bostonians, starring Christopher Reeve and Vanessa Redgrave. Its facade 
has been used for exterior shots of the castle where Count von Count lived 
on the children's television series Sesame Street. In 1995, the Conservancy's 
Historic Preservation Crew replaced the painted wooden loggia of the castle, 
working from Vaux's designs, on the granite piers and walls that had survived. 
