Larry Benjamin McDonald (born November 24, 1967) is a former Major League 
Baseball pitcher. A collegiate star at Louisiana State University in both 
basketball and baseball, McDonald, who stands 6'7", led the 1988 US Olympic 
Team to a gold medal, winning complete games against host South Korea and 
Puerto Rico. During his three-year college career at LSU, McDonald twice 
helped his team reach the College World Series. He gave up a notable walk 
off grand slam to Stanford's Paul Carey in the 1987 series.[1] His best 
collegiate season came in 1989, which he finished with a 14–4 record, a 
3.49 ERA, and a Southeastern Conference record 202 strikeouts. That year, 
he was selected as a member of the All-America team, and he won the Golden 
Spikes Award. That summer, the Baltimore Orioles made McDonald the first 
overall selection in the June draft. He is the only LSU Tiger to have been 
drafted number one, and is followed by shortstop Alex Bregman who was selected 
while he was a junior with the second pick in the first round of the 2015 
MLB draft.[2][3] He had earlier been chosen by the Atlanta Braves in the 
27th round of the 1986 draft, but decided to go to college at that time 
instead of signing. He signed with the Orioles on August 19, and on September 
6, he made his major league debut. McDonald was the second member of his 
draft class to reach the majors, coming up three days after his Olympic 
teammate John Olerud. McDonald joined the Orioles' starting rotation in 
1990, and in his first major league start on July 21, he threw a complete 
game shutout against the Chicago White Sox. At the end of the season, he 
finished eighth in Rookie of the Year voting, with the award going to catcher 
Sandy Alomar, Jr. McDonald would go on to spend seven seasons with the 
Orioles, before leaving as a free agent in 1996 to join the Milwaukee Brewers. 
He never led his league in a major category, but ranked among the top 10 
at various times in categories such as complete games, wins, ERA, WHIP, 
and strikeouts. McDonald was the first #1 draft pick to win his first three 
starts in Major League history, a feat which has been equalled by Gerrit 
Cole.[4] While with the Brewers, McDonald began to encounter shoulder problems, 
missing part of the 1997 season. He was traded to the Cleveland Indians 
that offseason, in a deal that brought Marquis Grissom and Jeff Juden to 
Milwaukee in exchange for him, Mike Fetters, and Ron Villone. McDonald 
would never pitch for the Indians, though, as an operation to repair his 
rotator cuff on February 26, 1998 proved unsuccessful. He was ultimately 
forced to retire, and the Brewers sent Mark Watson to Cleveland to resolve 
their obligation in the matter. McDonald ended his career with a 78–70 
record, 894 strikeouts, and a 3.91 ERA in 1,291 1⁄3 innings pitched. He 
never pitched in the postseason. In 2008, McDonald was elected to the College 
Baseball Hall of Fame.[5] McDonald was a guest analyst for Orioles telecasts 
on MASN in 2010 and an assistant coach for the Denham Springs High School 
softball team in Denham Springs, Louisiana. He also occasionally serves 
a guest color commentator on Orioles radio broadcasts. He also is a color 
