A bench-clearing brawl, sometimes known as a basebrawl or a rhubarb, is 
a form of ritualistic fighting that occurs in sports, most notably baseball 
and ice hockey, in which every player on both teams leave their dugouts, 
bullpens, or benches and charge the playing area in order to fight one 
another or try to break up a fight. In baseball, brawls are usually the 
result of escalating infractions, often stemming from a player being hit 
by a pitch, or an altercation between a baserunner and infielder stemming 
from excessive contact in an attempted tag out (such as a runner crashing 
into the catcher at home plate in an attempt to dislodge the ball, which 
is an offensive interference violation that may result in ejection). They 
are also known to occur when a batter charges the mound. However, few bench-clearing 
brawls result in serious injury, as in most cases, no punches are thrown, 
and the action is limited to pushing and shoving. Unlike most other team 
sports, in which teams usually have an equivalent number of players on 
the field at any given time, in baseball the hitting team is at a numerical 
disadvantage, with a maximum of five players (batter, up to three runners, 
and on-deck batter) and two base coaches on the field at any time, compared 
to the fielding team's nine players. For this reason, leaving the dugout 
to join a fight is generally considered acceptable in that it results in 
numerical equivalence on the field, a fairer fight, and a generally neutral 
outcome, as in most cases, managers and/or umpires will intervene to restore 
order and resume the game. In at least one case (the infamous Ten Cent 
Beer Night promotion), one team (the Cleveland Indians) left its dugout 
to defend the other (the Texas Rangers) from Cleveland's own fans (who 
had stormed the field). Depending on the severity of the unsportsmanlike 
conduct, an umpire may or may not eject a brawl's participants. Since a 
bench-clearing brawl by definition involves everyone on both teams, it 
is exceedingly unlikely that all participants will be ejected, but the 
player or players responsible for the precipitating event are often ejected.[1] 
Fines and suspensions generally result and are issued at a later date. 
Fighting in ice hockey by enforcers is an established, if unofficial, part 
of the sport (especially in North America, where the penalty rules are 
more permissive); the general procedure in a one-on-one fight is to let 
it pan out and then send both players to the penalty box with five-minute 
major penalties. Escalations beyond isolated fights, such as line brawls 
between groups of players on the ice, are prohibited, meaning bench-clearing 
brawls will result in serious consequences. General brawls can result in 
players being assessed game misconduct penalties and ejected from the game. 
This is especially the case if a player leaves the bench or penalty box 
to join a fight. As in baseball, hockey brawls usually result from escalating 
infractions; in this case, dangerous hits, excessive post-whistle roughness, 
taking shots after the whistle, attacking the goaltender, and hatred from 
competition in a game with a significant amount of inter-player violence, 
all contribute to bench-clearing brawls. In the National Hockey League 
the penalties include, in addition to in-game penalties, an automatic 10-game 
suspension and a fine of $10,000[2] for the first player to leave his bench 
or the penalty box to participate in a brawl; for the second player to 
leave his bench or the penalty box, the penalties include, in addition 
to in-game penalties, an automatic five-game suspension and a fine of $5,000. 
The International Ice Hockey Federation rules prescribe a double minor 
penalty plus a game misconduct penalty for the first player to leave the 
bench during an altercation and a misconduct penalty for other such players;[3] 
a player who leaves the penalty box during an altercation is assessed a 
minor penalty plus a game misconduct penalty.[4] In addition to these penalties 
for leaving the bench, all players engaging in a fight may be penalized.[5] 
One of the more notable incidents was the Punch-up in Piestany, a game 
between Canada and the Soviet Union during the 1987 World Junior Ice Hockey 
Championships. The game was rougher and more dangerous than is generally 
accepted, and with 6:07 left in the second period, a wild fight broke out 
between Pavel Kostichkin and Theoren Fleury, causing both teams to leave 
the benches for 20 minutes. The officials ordered that the arena lights 
be turned out, but to no avail, and the IIHF eventually declared the game 
void. Both teams were ejected from the tournament, costing Canada a potential 
gold medal, and the Canadian team, disgusted at what they perceived to 
be a conspiracy against them, chose to leave rather than stay for the end-of-tournament 
festivities, from which the Soviet team were banned. The only notable KHL 
bench clearing brawl saw all the players of Avangard Omsk and Vityaz Chekhov, 
except for the goaltenders, fighting at 3 minutes and 34 seconds. The referees 
penalized all the players who were involved in the brawl, and called the 
game due to lack of players; the teams were fined 5.7 million rubles and 
had the game counted as a double loss. Bench-clearing brawls have also 
been known to occur in other sports, and officials in those sports have 
been cracking down on such brawls; in 1995, the National Basketball Association 
changed the penalty for leaving the bench to participate in a brawl from 
a $500 fine to an automatic one-game suspension. In 2010, the Northern 
Territory Football League in Australia ruled that any player found to have 
left the interchange bench to participate in a melee would be ejected from 
that match; they would also have their melee fine increased by 25% and 
receive an automatic one-game suspension. Bench-clearing brawls are almost 
nonexistent in gridiron football. All levels of the game penalize any "substitute 
who leaves the team box during a fight" (as it is worded in the high school 
rule books) with automatic ejection and possible further sanctions depending 
on the league, and the amount of equipment a football player wears increases 
the risk for injury in a brawl greatly. In addition, on-field umpires and 
referees move in immediately to break up fights, and any contact by a team 
member against an official will draw the immediate penalty of ejection 
from the game, with further sanctions by league officials virtually certain, 
along with on-field penalties that move the ball closer or farther from 
the goal line depending on the team sanctioned, hurting the team's winning 
chances far more than in other sports. One notable brawl at the college 
level was between Florida International University and the University of 
Miami, where tough talk between two crosstown rivals escalated into a brawl 
with severe consequences for FIU. At least two bench-clearing brawls have 
taken place in the Lingerie Football League, since renamed the Legends 
Football League. The first came in 2009 between the Miami Caliente and 
the New York Majesty; that brawl eventually led to the Majesty suspending 
operations. Another occurred during the December 9, 2011 LFL game between 
the Toronto Triumph and the Philadelphia Passion. It was unclear what punishment 
either team would face as Toronto was already using replacement players 
due to a mass walkout of the original team earlier in the year. Bench-clearing 
brawls are prohibited in scholastic competition with the National Federation 
of State High School Associations specifying the penalty for leaving the 
bench area to participate in a fight in any sanctioned sport as an automatic 
ejection and, if actively involved in a fight, an automatic suspension, 
along with more severe penalties as disqualification from activities, or 
