The Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks (BPOE; also often known as 
the Elks Lodge or simply The Elks) is an American fraternal order founded 
by Joseph M. Norcross in 1868 originally as a social club in New York City. 
Today headquartered at Elks National Veterans Memorial in Chicago, Illinois, 
it is one of the leading fraternal orders in the United States, claiming 
nearly one million members.[4] The Elks had modest beginnings in 1868 as 
a social club for minstrel show performers, called the "Jolly Corks".[1] 
It was established as a private club to elude New York City laws governing 
the opening hours of public taverns. After the death of a member left his 
wife and children without income, the club took up additional service roles, 
rituals and a new name. Desiring to adopt "a readily identifiable creature 
of stature, indigenous to America," fifteen members voted 8–7 in favor 
of the elk above the buffalo.[5] Early members were mostly from theatrical 
performing troupes in New York City. It has since evolved into a major 
American fraternal, charitable, and service order with more than a million 
members, both men and women, throughout the United States and the former 
territories of the Philippines and the Panama Canal.[6] The BPOE was originally 
an all-white organization. In the early 1970s this policy led the Order 
into conflict with the courts over its refusal to allow African Americans 
the use of its club and leisure activities. In nearly all instances, the 
all-whites clause was made public after someone was denied the use of the 
Elks' dining or leisure facilities. The clause was revoked at the Grand 
Lodge of 1976, with the proviso that it could be reinstated if the law 
allowed. No interest in reinstating the rule exists in the Elks Organization. 
The Elks used the blackball system to accept members, and at least one 
third of votes cast at balloting for membership in a lodge were necessary 
to deny an applicant membership.[7] In 1919 a "Flag Day resolution" was 
passed, barring membership to even passive sympathizers "of the Bolsheviki, 
Anarchists, the I.W.W., or kindred organizations, or who does not give 
undivided allegiance to" the flag and constitution of the United States. 
In 1979 the qualifications for membership included being male, 21 years 
old, of sound mind and body, a citizen of the United States and not a member 
of the Communist Party. Belief in a Supreme Being has been a prerequisite 
for membership since 1892. The word "God" was substituted for Supreme Being 
in 1946.[8] The current requirements include a belief in God, American 
citizenship, good moral character and being over 21.[9] In 1976 the BPOE 
had 1,611,139 members.[10] Currently, it has 850,000 members.[9] The Elks 
have traditionally been an all-male fraternal order. Unlike many other 
male orders, it has never had an official female auxiliary, after passing 
a resolution in 1907 that ruled "There shall be no branches or degrees 
of membership in the Order, nor any insurance or mutual features, nor shall 
there be other adjuncts of auxiliaries".[11] The Elks enforced this resolution 
through at least the 1970s. Nevertheless, several unofficial female auxiliaries 
were created: the Emblem Club, the Lady Elks and the Benevolent, Patriotic 
Order of Does. The Lady Elks appear only to exist on the local level and 
varies from place to place with regard to its activities. There also does 
not appear to be any published or printed ritual.[12] More organized are 
the Benevolent, Patriotic Order of Does who were chartered on February 
12, 1921. This organization does have an organization above the local level, 
complete with districts, state organizations and a national "Grand Lodge".[13] 
The Does also have a written secret ritual based on the Magnificat of Mary 
and which makes reference to St. Paul's First Epistle to the Corinthians 
Chapter 13, emphasizing love and charity.[14] The Emblem Club was founded 
in 1926, with a ritual written by a male Elk. It also has a national organization 
with local Clubs, State Association and a national Supreme Club of the 
United States.[15] Women were permitted to join in the mid-1990s. The opening 
of membership to women was mandated by the Oregon Public Accommodations 
Act, which was found by an appeals court to apply to the BPOE, and it has 
been speculated that the religious restriction might be litigated on the 
same basis.[16] A year after the national organization changed its policy 
to allow women to join, the Vermont Supreme Court ordered punitive damages 
of $5,000 for each of seven women whom a local chapter had rejected citing 
other reasons.[17] The Elks' national headquarters are located in Chicago 
at the Elks National Veterans Memorial and Headquarters, overlooking Lincoln 
Park, near Lake Michigan. This building was originally conceived as a memorial 
to the nearly 1,000 Elk brothers who were lost in World War I. The cornerstone 
was laid July 7, 1924, and the building was officially dedicated on July 
14, 1926.[18][19] The rotunda displays mural and statues illustrating the 
Elks four cardinal virtues of charity, justice, brotherly love and fidelity. 
The friezes depict the "Triumphs of War" on side and "Triumphs of Peace" 
on the other. The entrance is flanked by large bronze Elks.[20] The BPOE 
is organized on three levels: the national or "grand" level, the state 
level and the local lodge. The highest level is the Grand Lodge, which 
meets in convention annually. The Grand Lodge elects all the officers of 
the order such as the Grand Exalted Ruler – the chief executive officer 
of the organization – Grand Secretary, Grand Esteemed Leading Knight, Grand 
Esteemed Loyal Knight, Grand Esteemed Lecturing Knight, Grand Treasurer, 
Grand Tiler (in charge of regalia), Grand Inner Guard and Grand Trustees. 
The three Knights assist the Grand Exalted Ruler and officiate in his absence; 
furthermore, the Grand Esteemed Loyal Knight acts a prosecutor in cases 
when an Elk is accused of an offense against the order. The Grand Trustee 
have general authority over assets and property owned by the order. The 
Grand Esquire is appointed by the Grand Exalted Ruler and organizes the 
Grand Lodges and serves as marshal of Elks parades. The Grand Chaplain 
is also appointed by the Grand Exalted Ruler.[21] The local lodges are 
known by their lodge number and the name of the city in which they are 
located. For example, the first Lodge, located in New York City, is Lodge 
1, while the Lodge in Nashville, Tennessee is Lodge 72. When a Lodge is 
closed, its number is retired, but if re-instituted at a later time, the 
city name and lodge number can be reinstated by the Grand Lodge.[citation 
needed] Elks Magazine is published 10 times a year and goes to all members.[4] 
The state level organizations are called "State Associations"; state level 
officers include presidents, vice presidents, secretaries and treasurers. 
Local groups are called "Subordinate Lodges". Lodges officers are essentially 
the same as the ones on the national level, with "Grand" prefix removed. 
Lodges also may establish dinner and recreational clubs for members. In 
1979 there were 2,200 lodges [22] Lodges which are incorporated are required 
to be governed by a board of directors. Otherwise the Lodge Trustees are 
the governing board. The board of directors consist of the chaired officers 
and the trustees. This committee has the following powers: (a) control 
of the funds, investments and real and personal property of the Lodge, 
(b) execute all leases, contracts or other papers. Lodges may choose in 
their bylaws between 4 options of governing their club facilities. Past 
Exalted Rulers are not considered officers, but rather a valuable advisory 
resource. A Lodge's Past Exalted Ruler's Association usually meets monthly, 
and current officers are encouraged to seek counsel from the men and women 
who have led Lodges in previous years. Like many other fraternal orders, 
the Elks at one point sponsored an insurance fund. The Elks Mutual Benefit 
Association was founded in 1878. At the 1885 Grand Lodge it was reported 
that the EMBA was prosperous, but its finances were carelessly managed. 
The Association was disbanded after the 1907 Grand Lodge passed a resolution 
banning mutual or insurance features, as well as degrees and auxiliaries.[23] 
Despite its 1907 resolution banning auxiliary, the Elks at one point had 
a youth affiliate for young men called the Antlers. The first chapter was 
organized in February 1922 by San Francisco Lodge #3. The 1927 Grand Lodge 
approved the junior order, granting the Grand Exalted Ruler the power to 
permit subordinate lodges to instituted organizations for males under 21. 
In 1933 there were 45 local unites of the Antlers with 3,584 members. However, 
the Antlers numbers were decimated during the Second World War, with so 
many young men going off to war. Despite 86 local Antlers groups still 
existing in 1946, the Grand Lodge deleted all reference to them in their 
constitution and bylaws that year. However, some local Antlers groups were 
still active in 1979, according to one source.[24] Lodges are encouraged 
to participate in national Elks charity programs. There are also State 
Elks Associations charity programs. This usually includes a State Major 
Project. Elks Lodges are usually involved in other local charitable efforts. 
Due to the willingness of most Elks Lodges to respond to community needs 
and events, it is common to turn the BPOE abbreviation into a backronym 
for "Best People on Earth."[25][26][27] Established in 1928, the Elks National 
Foundation is the charitable arm of the BPOE. The foundation, with an endowment 
valued at more than $400 million, has contributed $253.5 million toward 
Elks' charitable projects nationwide. The Elks pledge that "So long as 
there are veterans, the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks will never 
forget them."[28] The Elks have shown their devotion to Americanism by 
conducting bond drives, promoting civil defense programs and Flag Day observance. 
During World War II, they designated the week of March 15, 1942 "Win the 
War Week" and helped recruit for the United States Army Air Corps. An "Elks 
National Service Commission" was in operation from 1946 to 1950, and the 
Grand Lodge adopted a "Declaration of American Principles" in 1961 in Miami.[31] 
The Elks National Home is a retirement home in Bedford, Virginia built 
in 1916. The Elks originally borrowed a number of rituals, traditions, 
and regalia from the Freemasons. However, by the first decade of the twentieth 
century, much of this had been abandoned as the Elks sought to establish 
their own identity. The original two degrees required for membership were 
consolidated into one degree in 1890, the apron was discontinued in 1895, 
the secret password was gone in 1899, and the badges and secret handshake 
were abandoned by 1904.[31] Initiation and funeral rituals still exist, 
however. The initiation rite is not considered a secret. The initiation 
involves an altar, with a bible upon it and chaplain leading the brethren 
in prayers and psalms. The candidate must accept a "solemn and binding 
obligation" to never "reveal any of the confidential matters of the Order". 
He further promises to uphold the Constitution of the United States, protect 
brother Elks and their families, only support worthy candidates for admission 
and never bring political or sectarian questions up into the Order. The 
funeral rite is called the "Lodge of Sorrow" also involves prayers.[10] 
Deceased and otherwise absent lodge members are recalled each evening at 
11 p.m. Chimes or sometimes a bell will be rung 11 times and the Lodge 
Esquire intones, "It is the Hour of Recollection." The Exalted Ruler or 
a member designated by him gives the 11 o'clock toast, of which this version 
is the most common: You have heard the tolling of eleven strokes. This 
is to remind you that with Elks, the hour of eleven has a tender significance. 
Wherever Elks may roam, whatever their lot in life may be, when this hour 
falls upon the dial of night, the great heart of Elkdom swells and throbs. 
It is the golden hour of recollection, the homecoming of those who wander, 
the mystic roll call of those who will come no more. Living or dead, an 
Elk is never forgotten, never forsaken. Morning and noon may pass them 
by, the light of day sink heedlessly into the west. But ere the shadows 
of midnight shall fall, the chimes of memory will be pealing forth the 
friendly message: To our absent members.[32] An interesting physical artifact 
of the order is the number of communal cemetery plots once favored by the 
group. Often these are marked with impressive statuary. In Babbitt by Sinclair 
Lewis, a satire focusing on the banality of middle-class American life, 
the main character, George Babbitt, is an active member of the Elks. In 
"Podkayne of Mars", by Robert A. Heinlein, the title character's Great-Uncle 
Tom "hangs out at the Elks Club and plays pinochle"[40] and is subsequently 
shown to be at the Elks Club many times later. Canadian indie rock group 
The Weakerthans have a song entitled "Psalm for the Elks Lodge Last Call". 
The song "Brotherhood of Man" in How to Succeed in Business Without Really 
Trying mentions the Elks. In "Back to the Future" the Hill Valley Elks 
Lodge is shown from inside the diner during 1955 sequences. A large Elks 
emblem is visible on the exterior of the building. In the "Two Bad Neighbors" 
episode of The Simpsons, former president George H. W. Bush visits the 
Springfield B.P.O.E. In Curb Your Enthusiasm Larry David claims he's both 
"a Moose, and an Elk" to get into a mainly white Republican country club. 
The first Grand Lodge meeting was held on February 12, 1871, at 114–116 
East 13th Street New York City, NY. The Grand Lodge Officers were, George 
J. Green elected to preside, E.G. Browne as Secretary and Hugh P. O'Neil, 
Fernando Pastor, J. C. Pinckney, S.K. Spencer, Claude Goldie, Henry P. 
O'Neil, A.H. Mulligan and Antonio "Tony" Pastor in other offices.[41][42][43] 
