Benjamin José "Bengie" Molina (born July 20, 1974), nicknamed "Big Money",[1] 
is a former Major League Baseball catcher and a former first base coach 
and catching instructor for the Texas Rangers. He is the older brother 
of major league catchers José Molina and Yadier Molina. Initially regarded 
as a "good glove, no hit" catcher with a strong arm and an exceptional 
ball blocker, Molina won a Gold Glove as the top defensive player at his 
position in consecutive seasons in 2002 and 2003. But he also developed 
into a very good contact hitter and free-swinging power hitter. Between 
2000 and 2007, he struck out just 331 times, and in 2000 led the American 
League in average at-bats between strikeouts, with 14.3. He is the only 
player in history to hit a home run and not get credit for the run. However, 
he was regarded as one of the slowest baserunners of his day. Molina graduated 
from the Maestro Ladí High School with honors in Vega Alta, Puerto Rico, 
and played shortstop for Arizona Western College in Yuma, Arizona, in 1991 
and 1992. Molina entered the major leagues by playing two games for the 
Anaheim Angels in 1998, and a handful of games in 1999. He became the Angels' 
regular catcher in 2000 and remained so through the 2005 season. Over his 
last few seasons with the Angels, his backup as catcher was his brother, 
José Molina. Molina got his first championship ring in 2002 after the Angels 
beat the San Francisco Giants in the 2002 World Series. Molina's contract 
with the Angels expired after the 2005 season, and the team decided not 
pursue him because of the salary he would demand. He signed a 1-year $5 
million contract with the Toronto Blue Jays, with a mutual option for a 
second year. After signing with the Blue Jays, Molina expressed his anger 
at the Angels over how he parted company with them. "The way they let me 
go without a notice, without calling me, that said a lot," Molina said. 
"That's what really hurts me. I think I built a good relationship with 
them," he said. "They never let me know. They just threw me like a piece 
of trash."[2] Molina's agent, Alan Nero, later confirmed however, that 
both he and Molina had in fact received calls from the Angels informing 
them of the team's decisions. Nero suggested that Molina's comments were 
born of his disappointment that he was not retained by the Angels. While 
Molina was expected to catch most of the Jays' 2006 season with Gregg Zaun 
serving as his backup, his difficulties with right-handed pitchers led 
the Jays to use a platoon system. After the 2006 season, Molina became 
a free agent and signed a three-year, $16 million deal with San Francisco.[3] 
Molina hit his 100th home run on September 5, 2007, off Jorge Julio in 
the sixth inning of a 5–3 victory against the Colorado Rockies.[4] Molina 
was announced as the Willie Mac Award winner for 2007 (for spirit and leadership) 
in a pregame ceremony on September 21, 2007. He got the most out of 1,617 
votes from the fans.[5] Later in that September 21 game, Molina knocked 
in career RBI number 500 in the bottom of the first on a single that scored 
Dave Roberts. They lost the game to the Cincinnati Reds 9–8 in 11 innings. 
In 2007, Molina walked only 2.9% of the time, the lowest percentage in 
the NL.[6] On September 26, 2008, Molina became the first player in MLB 
history to hit a home run and not get credit for a run scored. In the 6th 
inning of a game against the Los Angeles Dodgers, he hit a ball off the 
right field wall at AT&T Park which the umpire called in fair play, and 
wound up at first base. Emmanuel Burriss immediately ran out to first base 
to pinch run for Molina before anyone else could intervene, as Giants manager 
Bruce Bochy discussed the matter with the umpires.[7] However, the umpires 
used instant replay and subsequently ruled the hit a home run, but refused 
Bochy the opportunity to reinsert Molina into the game. San Francisco continued 
the game under protest, but won 6–5 in the 10th inning. Preceding the same 
game, Molina had received the Willie Mac Award for the second year in a 
row.[7] In 2009 he led the majors in sacrifice flies (with 11), and received 
an unintentional walk in only 1.9% of his plate appearances, the lowest 
percentage in the NL for those with at least 350 PA.[8][9] On January 19, 
2010, Molina re-signed a 1 year $4.5 million contract with the San Francisco 
Giants.[10] Following one of the Giants' longer losing streaks of the season, 
and the sudden emergence of rookie catcher Buster Posey, Molina was traded 
to the Texas Rangers on June 30, 2010, for relief pitcher Chris Ray and 
a player to be named later, which was minor league RHP Michael Main.[11] 
As two of the Giants' best pitchers commented upon Molina's departure, 
his contributions to the Giants were very significant. "He helped me mature 
and succeed. I've said time and time again that he deserves half of those 
awards that I've gotten," said Tim Lincecum, the reigning two-time National 
League Cy Young Award winner. "The things he's done for me – for calling 
a game, to give me confidence throwing different pitches in different counts 
– really, really, really benefited me," Matt Cain said of Molina.[12] Notorious 
for his lack of baserunning ability, on July 16, 2010, Molina hit for the 
cycle against Boston. He had (in order) a single, double, home run (grand 
slam), and triple. He was then pinch run for and left the game in the top 
of the 8th inning after hitting the triple, with a leg injury. He is the 
fifth Texas Ranger to hit for the cycle. He is also the first catcher in 
MLB history to hit a grand slam and hit for the cycle in the same game. 
During the 2010 American League Division Series Molina (again despite his 
poor baserunning ability) stole a base in Game 5, his first in over four 
years. He also hit a home run in Game 1. In Game 4 of the 2010 American 
League Championship Series, with 2 outs in the 6th inning and the Rangers 
trailing the New York Yankees, 3–2, Molina hit a three-run home run off 
A. J. Burnett. The home run, arguably one of the most important in Rangers 
history, proved to be the game-winner for the Rangers and gave the underdog 
Rangers a commanding 3–1 lead in the series. The Rangers won the ALCS against 
the Yankees in six games, which allowed the Rangers to enter the World 
Series for the first time in franchise history. Since the Texas Rangers 
made it to the World Series, along with the San Francisco Giants, Molina 
became the sixth player to play for the two World Series teams in the same 
season.[13] Due to having played for both Giants and Rangers during the 
2010 season, Molina was guaranteed to receive a World Series ring regardless 
of whether his current or former team won the World Series.[14] In the 
2010 World Series, Molina batted only .182 with one RBI. The Rangers eventually 
lost the World Series to the Giants in five games. After the season was 
over, Molina was released as a free agent. Molina spent most of the 2011 
season on free agency and eventually retired. Ironically, the trade with 
the Giants resulted in ex-teammate Posey being named the National League 
Rookie of the Year. After his retirement, Molina accepted the Cardinals' 
offer on December 14, 2012 to be their assistant hitting coach to John 
Mabry.[15] Molina joined the Rangers' coaching staff for the 2014 season 
