Benjamin Franklin (January 17, 1706 [O.S. January 6, 1705][1] – April 17, 
1790) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. Franklin was 
a renowned polymath and a leading author, printer, political theorist, 
politician, freemason, postmaster, scientist, inventor, civic activist, 
statesman, and diplomat. As a scientist, he was a major figure in the American 
Enlightenment and the history of physics for his discoveries and theories 
regarding electricity. As an inventor, he is known for the lightning rod, 
bifocals, and the Franklin stove, among other inventions.[2] He facilitated 
many civic organizations, including Philadelphia's fire department and 
The University of Pennsylvania, an Ivy League institution.[3] Franklin 
earned the title of "The First American" for his early and indefatigable 
campaigning for colonial unity, initially as an author and spokesman in 
London for several colonies. As the first United States Ambassador to France, 
he exemplified the emerging American nation.[4] Franklin was foundational 
in defining the American ethos as a marriage of the practical values of 
thrift, hard work, education, community spirit, self-governing institutions, 
and opposition to authoritarianism both political and religious, with the 
scientific and tolerant values of the Enlightenment. In the words of historian 
Henry Steele Commager, "In a Franklin could be merged the virtues of Puritanism 
without its defects, the illumination of the Enlightenment without its 
heat."[5] To Walter Isaacson, this makes Franklin "the most accomplished 
American of his age and the most influential in inventing the type of society 
America would become."[6] Franklin became a successful newspaper editor 
and printer in Philadelphia, the leading city in the colonies, publishing 
the Pennsylvania Gazette at the age of 23.[7] He became wealthy publishing 
this and Poor Richard's Almanack, which he authored under the pseudonym 
"Richard Saunders". After 1767, he was associated with the Pennsylvania 
Chronicle, a newspaper that was known for its revolutionary sentiments 
and criticisms of the British policies. He pioneered and was first president 
of the The Academy and College of Philadelphia which opened in 1751 and 
later became the University of Pennsylvania. He organised and was the first 
secretary of the American Philosophical Society and was elected president 
in 1769. Franklin became a national hero in America as an agent for several 
colonies when he spearheaded an effort in London to have the Parliament 
of Great Britain repeal the unpopular Stamp Act. An accomplished diplomat, 
he was widely admired among the French as American minister to Paris and 
was a major figure in the development of positive Franco-American relations. 
His efforts proved vital for the American Revolution in securing shipments 
of crucial munitions from France. He was promoted to deputy postmaster-general 
for the British colonies in 1753, having been Philadelphia postmaster for 
many years, and this enabled him to set up the first national communications 
network. After the Revolution, he became the first US Postmaster General. 
He was active in community affairs and colonial and state politics, as 
well as national and international affairs. From 1785 to 1788, he served 
as governor of Pennsylvania. He initially owned and dealt in slaves but, 
by the 1750s, he argued against slavery from an economic perspective and 
became one of the most prominent abolitionists. His colorful life and legacy 
of scientific and political achievement, and his status as one of America's 
most influential Founding Fathers have seen Franklin honored more than 
two centuries after his death on coinage and the $100 bill, warships, and 
the names of many towns, counties, educational institutions, and corporations, 
as well as countless cultural references. Benjamin Franklin was born on 
Milk Street, in Boston, Massachusetts, on January 17, 1706,[1][8] and baptized 
at Old South Meeting House. He was one of seventeen children born to Josiah 
Franklin, and one of ten born by Josiah's second wife, Abiah Folger; the 
daughter of Peter Foulger and Mary Morrill. Among Benjamin's siblings were 
his older brother James and his younger sister Jane. Josiah wanted Ben 
to attend school with the clergy, but only had enough money to send him 
to school for two years. He attended Boston Latin School but did not graduate; 
he continued his education through voracious reading. Although "his parents 
talked of the church as a career"[9] for Franklin, his schooling ended 
when he was ten. He worked for his father for a time, and at 12 he became 
an apprentice to his brother James, a printer, who taught Ben the printing 
trade. When Ben was 15, James founded The New-England Courant, which was 
the first truly independent newspaper in the colonies. When denied the 
chance to write a letter to the paper for publication, Franklin adopted 
the pseudonym of "Silence Dogood", a middle-aged widow. Mrs. Dogood's letters 
were published, and became a subject of conversation around town. Neither 
James nor the Courant's readers were aware of the ruse, and James was unhappy 
with Ben when he discovered the popular correspondent was his younger brother. 
Franklin was an advocate of free speech from an early age. When his brother 
was jailed for three weeks in 1722 for publishing material unflattering 
to the governor, young Franklin took over the newspaper and had Mrs. Dogood 
(quoting Cato's Letters) proclaim: "Without freedom of thought there can 
be no such thing as wisdom and no such thing as public liberty without 
freedom of speech."[10] Franklin left his apprenticeship without his brother's 
permission, and in so doing became a fugitive.[11] At age 17, Franklin 
ran away to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, seeking a new start in a new city. 
When he first arrived, he worked in several printer shops around town, 
but he was not satisfied by the immediate prospects. After a few months, 
while working in a printing house, Franklin was convinced by Pennsylvania 
Governor Sir William Keith to go to London, ostensibly to acquire the equipment 
necessary for establishing another newspaper in Philadelphia. Finding Keith's 
promises of backing a newspaper empty, Franklin worked as a typesetter 
in a printer's shop in what is now the Church of St Bartholomew-the-Great 
in the Smithfield area of London. Following this, he returned to Philadelphia 
in 1726 with the help of Thomas Denham, a merchant who employed Franklin 
as clerk, shopkeeper, and bookkeeper in his business.[11] In 1727, Benjamin 
Franklin, then 21, created the Junto, a group of "like minded aspiring 
artisans and tradesmen who hoped to improve themselves while they improved 
their community." The Junto was a discussion group for issues of the day; 
it subsequently gave rise to many organizations in Philadelphia.[12] The 
Junto was modeled after English coffeehouses that Franklin knew well, and 
which should become the center of the spread of Enlightenment ideas in 
Britain.[13][14] Reading was a great pastime of the Junto, but books were 
rare and expensive. The members created a library initially assembled from 
their own books after Franklin wrote: This did not suffice, however. Franklin 
conceived the idea of a subscription library, which would pool the funds 
of the members to buy books for all to read. This was the birth of the 
Library Company of Philadelphia: its charter was composed by Franklin in 
1731. In 1732, Franklin hired the first American librarian, Louis Timothee. 
The Library Company is now a great scholarly and research library.[16] 
Upon Denham's death, Franklin returned to his former trade. In 1728, Franklin 
had set up a printing house in partnership with Hugh Meredith; the following 
year he became the publisher of a newspaper called The Pennsylvania Gazette. 
The Gazette gave Franklin a forum for agitation about a variety of local 
reforms and initiatives through printed essays and observations. Over time, 
his commentary, and his adroit cultivation of a positive image as an industrious 
and intellectual young man, earned him a great deal of social respect. 
But even after Franklin had achieved fame as a scientist and statesman, 
he habitually signed his letters with the unpretentious 'B. Franklin, Printer.'[11] 
In 1732, Ben Franklin published the first German language newspaper in 
America – Die Philadelphische Zeitung – although it failed after only one 
year, because four other newly founded German papers quickly dominated 
the newspaper market.[17] Franklin printed Moravian religious books in 
German. Franklin often visited Bethlehem staying at the Moravian Sun Inn.[18] 
In a 1751 pamphlet on demographic growth and its implications for the colonies, 
he called the Pennsylvania Germans "Palatine Boors" who could never acquire 
the "Complexion" of the English settlers and to "Blacks and Tawneys" as 
weakening the social structure of the colonies. Although Franklin apparently 
reconsidered shortly thereafter, and the phrases were omitted from all 
later printings of the pamphlet, his views may have played a role in his 
political defeat in 1764.[19] Franklin saw the printing press as a device 
to instruct colonial Americans in moral virtue. Frasca argues he saw this 
as a service to God, because he understood moral virtue in terms of actions, 
thus, doing good provides a service to God. Despite his own moral lapses, 
Franklin saw himself as uniquely qualified to instruct Americans in morality. 
He tried to influence American moral life through construction of a printing 
network based on a chain of partnerships from the Carolinas to New England. 
Franklin thereby invented the first newspaper chain. It was more than a 
business venture, for like many publishers since, he believed that the 
press had a public-service duty.[20] When Franklin established himself 
in Philadelphia, shortly before 1730, the town boasted two "wretched little" 
news sheets, Andrew Bradford's American Mercury, and Samuel Keimer's Universal 
Instructor in all Arts and Sciences, and Pennsylvania Gazette. This instruction 
in all arts and sciences consisted of weekly extracts from Chambers's Universal 
Dictionary. Franklin quickly did away with all this when he took over the 
Instructor and made it The Pennsylvania Gazette. The Gazette soon became 
Franklin's characteristic organ, which he freely used for satire, for the 
play of his wit, even for sheer excess of mischief or of fun. From the 
first he had a way of adapting his models to his own uses. The series of 
essays called "The Busy-Body", which he wrote for Bradford's American Mercury 
in 1729, followed the general Addisonian form, already modified to suit 
homelier conditions. The thrifty Patience, in her busy little shop, complaining 
of the useless visitors who waste her valuable time, is related to the 
ladies who address Mr. Spectator. The Busy-Body himself is a true Censor 
Morum, as Isaac Bickerstaff had been in the Tatler. And a number of the 
fictitious characters, Ridentius, Eugenius, Cato, and Cretico, represent 
traditional 18th-century classicism. Even this Franklin could use for contemporary 
satire, since Cretico, the "sowre Philosopher", is evidently a portrait 
of Franklin's rival, Samuel Keimer. As time went on, Franklin depended 
less on his literary conventions, and more on his own native humor. In 
this there is a new spirit—not suggested to him by the fine breeding of 
Addison, or the bitter irony of Swift, or the stinging completeness of 
Pope. The brilliant little pieces Franklin wrote for his Pennsylvania Gazette 
have an imperishable place in American literature. The Pennsylvania Gazette, 
like most other newspapers of the period, was often poorly printed. Franklin 
was busy with a hundred matters outside of his printing office, and never 
seriously attempted to raise the mechanical standards of his trade. Nor 
did he ever properly edit or collate the chance medley of stale items that 
passed for news in the Gazette. His influence on the practical side of 
journalism was minimal. On the other hand, his advertisements of books 
show his very great interest in popularizing secular literature. Undoubtedly 
his paper contributed to the broader culture that distinguished Pennsylvania 
from her neighbors before the Revolution. Like many publishers, Franklin 
built up a book shop in his printing office; he took the opportunity to 
read new books before selling them. Franklin had mixed success in his plan 
to establish an inter-colonial network of newspapers that would produce 
a profit for him and disseminate virtue.[21] He began in Charleston, South 
Carolina, in 1731. After the second editor died, his widow Elizabeth Timothy 
took over and made it a success, 1738–46. She was one of the colonial era's 
first woman printers.[22] For three decades Franklin maintained a close 
business relationship with her and her son Peter who took over in 1746.[23] 
The Gazette had a policy of impartiality in political debates, while creating 
the opportunity for public debate, which encouraged others to challenge 
authority. Editor Peter Timothy avoided blandness and crude bias, and after 
1765 increasingly took a patriotic stand in the growing crisis with Great 
Britain.[24] However, Franklin's Connecticut Gazette (1755–68) proved unsuccessful.[25] 
In 1731, Franklin was initiated into the local Masonic Lodge. He became 
Grand Master in 1734, indicating his rapid rise to prominence in Pennsylvania.[26][27] 
That same year, he edited and published the first Masonic book in the Americas, 
a reprint of James Anderson's Constitutions of the Free-Masons. Franklin 
remained a Freemason for the rest of his life.[28][29] At age 17 in 1723, 
Franklin proposed to 15-year-old Deborah Read while a boarder in the Read 
home. At that time, Read's mother was wary of allowing her young daughter 
to marry Franklin, who was on his way to London at Governor Sir William 
Keith's request, and also because of his financial instability. Her own 
husband had recently died, and she declined Franklin's request to marry 
her daughter.[11] While Franklin was in London, his trip was extended, 
and there were problems with Sir William's promises of support. Perhaps 
because of the circumstances of this delay, Deborah married a man named 
John Rodgers. This proved to be a regrettable decision. Rodgers shortly 
avoided his debts and prosecution by fleeing to Barbados with her dowry, 
leaving her behind. Rodgers's fate was unknown, and because of bigamy laws, 
Deborah was not free to remarry. Franklin established a common-law marriage 
with Deborah Read on September 1, 1730. They took in Franklin's recently 
acknowledged young illegitimate son William and raised him in their household. 
They had two children together. Their son, Francis Folger Franklin, was 
born in October 1732 and died of smallpox in 1736. Their daughter, Sarah 
"Sally" Franklin, was born in 1743 and grew up to marry Richard Bache, 
have seven children, and look after her father in his old age. Deborah's 
fear of the sea meant that she never accompanied Franklin on any of his 
extended trips to Europe, despite his repeated requests. She wrote to him 
in November 1769 saying she was ill due to "dissatisfied distress" from 
his prolonged absence, but he did not return until his business was done.[30] 
Deborah Read Franklin died of a stroke in 1774, while Franklin was on an 
extended mission to England; he returned in 1775. In 1730, 24-year-old 
Franklin publicly acknowledged the existence of his son William, who was 
deemed 'illegitimate' as he was born out of wedlock, and raised him in 
his household. His mother's identity is unknown.[31] He was educated in 
Philadelphia. Beginning at about age 30, William studied law in London 
in the early 1760s. He fathered an illegitimate son, William Temple Franklin, 
born February 22, 1762. The boy's mother was never identified, and he was 
placed in foster care. Franklin later that year married Elizabeth Downes, 
daughter of a planter from Barbados. After William passed the bar, his 
father helped him gain an appointment in 1763 as the last Royal Governor 
of New Jersey. A Loyalist, William and his father eventually broke relations 
over their differences about the American Revolutionary War. The elder 
Franklin could never accept William's position. Deposed in 1776 by the 
revolutionary government of New Jersey, William was arrested at his home 
in Perth Amboy at the Proprietary House and imprisoned for a time. The 
younger Franklin went to New York in 1782, which was still occupied by 
British troops. He became leader of the Board of Associated Loyalists — 
a quasi-military organization, headquartered in New York City. They initiated 
guerrilla forays into New Jersey, southern Connecticut, and New York counties 
north of the city.[32] When British troops evacuated from New York, William 
Franklin left with them and sailed to England. He settled in London, never 
to return to North America. In the preliminary peace talks in 1782 with 
Britain, "... Benjamin Franklin insisted that loyalists who had borne arms 
against the United States would be excluded from this plea (that they be 
given a general pardon). He was undoubtedly thinking of William Franklin."[33] 
In 1733, Franklin began to publish the noted Poor Richard's Almanack (with 
content both original and borrowed) under the pseudonym Richard Saunders, 
on which much of his popular reputation is based. Franklin frequently wrote 
under pseudonyms. Although it was no secret that Franklin was the author, 
his Richard Saunders character repeatedly denied it. "Poor Richard's Proverbs", 
adages from this almanac, such as "A penny saved is twopence dear" (often 
misquoted as "A penny saved is a penny earned") and "Fish and visitors 
stink in three days", remain common quotations in the modern world. Wisdom 
in folk society meant the ability to provide an apt adage for any occasion, 
and Franklin's readers became well prepared. He sold about ten thousand 
copies per year—it became an institution.[34] In 1741 Franklin began publishing 
The General Magazine and Historical Chronicle for all the British Plantations 
in America, the first such monthly magazine of this type published in America. 
In 1758, the year he ceased writing for the Almanack, he printed Father 
Abraham's Sermon, also known as The Way to Wealth. Franklin's autobiography, 
begun in 1771 but published after his death, has become one of the classics 
of the genre. Daylight saving time (DST) is often erroneously attributed 
to a 1784 satire that Franklin published anonymously.[35] Modern DST was 
first proposed by George Vernon Hudson in 1895.[36] Franklin was a prodigious 
inventor. Among his many creations were the lightning rod, glass harmonica 
(a glass instrument, not to be confused with the metal harmonica), Franklin 
stove, bifocal glasses and the flexible urinary catheter. Franklin never 
patented his inventions; in his autobiography he wrote, "... as we enjoy 
great advantages from the inventions of others, we should be glad of an 
opportunity to serve others by any invention of ours; and this we should 
do freely and generously."[37] Franklin started exploring the phenomenon 
of electricity in 1746 when he heard of the Leyden jar. Franklin proposed 
that "vitreous" and "resinous" electricity were not different types of 
"electrical fluid" (as electricity was called then), but the same "fluid" 
under different pressures. He was the first to label them as positive and 
negative respectively,[38][39] and he was the first to discover the principle 
of conservation of charge.[40] In 1748 he constructed a multiple plate 
capacitor, that he called an "electrical battery" (not to be confused with 
Volta's pile) by placing eleven panes of glass sandwiched between lead 
plates, suspended with silk cords and connected by wires.[41] In 1750, 
he published a proposal for an experiment to prove that lightning is electricity 
by flying a kite in a storm that appeared capable of becoming a lightning 
storm. On May 10, 1752, Thomas-François Dalibard of France conducted Franklin's 
experiment using a 40-foot-tall (12 m) iron rod instead of a kite, and 
he extracted electrical sparks from a cloud. On June 15 Franklin may possibly 
have conducted his well known kite experiment in Philadelphia, successfully 
extracting sparks from a cloud. Franklin's experiment was not written up 
with credit[42] until Joseph Priestley's 1767 History and Present Status 
of Electricity. Franklin was careful to stand on an insulator, keeping 
dry under a roof to avoid the danger of electric shock.[43] Others, such 
as Prof. Georg Wilhelm Richmann in Russia, were indeed electrocuted during 
the months following Franklin's experiment. In his writings, Franklin indicates 
that he was aware of the dangers and offered alternative ways to demonstrate 
that lightning was electrical, as shown by his use of the concept of electrical 
ground. If Franklin did perform this experiment, he may not have done it 
in the way that is often described—flying the kite and waiting to be struck 
by lightning—as it would have been dangerous.[44] Instead he used the kite 
to collect some electric charge from a storm cloud, which implied that 
lightning was electrical.[citation needed] On October 19 in a letter to 
England with directions for repeating the experiment, Franklin wrote: When 
rain has wet the kite twine so that it can conduct the electric fire freely, 
you will find it streams out plentifully from the key at the approach of 
your knuckle, and with this key a phial, or Leyden jar, may be charged: 
and from electric fire thus obtained spirits may be kindled, and all other 
electric experiments [may be] performed which are usually done by the help 
of a rubber glass globe or tube; and therefore the sameness of the electrical 
matter with that of lightening completely demonstrated.[45] Franklin's 
electrical experiments led to his invention of the lightning rod. He noted 
that conductors with a sharp rather than a smooth point could discharge 
silently, and at a far greater distance. He surmised that this could help 
protect buildings from lightning by attaching "upright Rods of Iron, made 
sharp as a Needle and gilt to prevent Rusting, and from the Foot of those 
Rods a Wire down the outside of the Building into the Ground; ... Would 
not these pointed Rods probably draw the Electrical Fire silently out of 
a Cloud before it came nigh enough to strike, and thereby secure us from 
that most sudden and terrible Mischief!" Following a series of experiments 
on Franklin's own house, lightning rods were installed on the Academy of 
Philadelphia (later the University of Pennsylvania) and the Pennsylvania 
State House (later Independence Hall) in 1752.[46] In recognition of his 
work with electricity, Franklin received the Royal Society's Copley Medal 
in 1753, and in 1756 he became one of the few 18th-century Americans elected 
as a Fellow of the Society. He received honorary degrees from Harvard and 
Yale universities (his first).[47] The cgs unit of electric charge has 
been named after him: one franklin (Fr) is equal to one statcoulomb. Franklin 
advised Harvard University in its acquisition of new electrical laboratory 
apparatus after the complete loss of its original collection, in a fire 
which destroyed the original Harvard Hall in 1764. The collection he assembled 
would later become part of the Harvard Collection of Historical Scientific 
Instruments, now on public display in its Science Center.[48] Franklin 
had a major influence on the emerging science of demography, or population 
studies.[49] Thomas Malthus is noted for his rule of population growth 
and credited Franklin for discovering it.[50] Kammen (1990) and Drake (2011) 
say Franklin's "Observations on the Increase of Mankind" (1755) stands 
alongside Ezra Stiles' "Discourse on Christian Union" (1760) as the leading 
works of eighteenth-century Anglo-American demography; Drake credits Franklin's 
"wide readership and prophetic insight."[51][52] In the 1730s and 1740s, 
Franklin began taking notes on population growth, finding that the American 
population had the fastest growth rates on earth.[53] Emphasizing that 
population growth depended on food supplies—a line of thought later developed 
by Thomas Malthus—Franklin emphasized the abundance of food and available 
farmland in America. He calculated that America's population was doubling 
every twenty years and would surpass that of England in a century.[54] 
In 1751, he drafted "Observations concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling 
of Countries, &c." Four years later, it was anonymously printed in Boston, 
and it was quickly reproduced in Britain, where it influenced the economists 
Adam Smith and later Thomas Malthus. Franklin's predictions alarmed British 
leaders who did not want to be surpassed by the colonies, so they became 
more willing to impose restrictions on the colonial economy.[55] Franklin 
was also a pioneer in the study of slave demography, as shown in his 1755 
essay.[56] As deputy postmaster, Franklin became interested in the North 
Atlantic Ocean circulation patterns. While in England in 1768, he heard 
a complaint from the Colonial Board of Customs: Why did it take British 
packet ships carrying mail several weeks longer to reach New York than 
it took an average merchant ship to reach Newport, Rhode Island? The merchantmen 
had a longer and more complex voyage because they left from London, while 
the packets left from Falmouth in Cornwall. Franklin put the question to 
his cousin Timothy Folger, a Nantucket whaler captain, who told him that 
merchant ships routinely avoided a strong eastbound mid-ocean current. 
The mail packet captains sailed dead into it, thus fighting an adverse 
current of 3 miles per hour (5 km/h). Franklin worked with Folger and other 
experienced ship captains, learning enough to chart the current and name 
it the Gulf Stream, by which it is still known today. Franklin published 
his Gulf Stream chart in 1770 in England, where it was completely ignored. 
Subsequent versions were printed in France in 1778 and the U.S. in 1786. 
The British edition of the chart, which was the original, was so thoroughly 
ignored that everyone assumed it was lost forever until Phil Richardson, 
a Woods Hole oceanographer and Gulf Stream expert, discovered it in the 
Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris in 1980.[57][58] This find received front 
page coverage in the New York Times.[59] It took many years for British 
sea captains to adopt Franklin's advice on navigating the current; once 
they did, they were able to trim two weeks from their sailing time.[60][61] 
In 1853, the oceanographer and cartographer Matthew Fontaine Maury noted 
that Franklin only charted and codified the Gulf Stream, he did not discover 
it: Though it was Dr. Franklin and Captain Tim Folger, who first turned 
the Gulf Stream to nautical account, the discovery that there was a Gulf 
Stream cannot be said to belong to either of them, for its existence was 
known to Peter Martyr d'Anghiera, and to Sir Humphrey Gilbert, in the 16th 
century.[62] Franklin was, along with his contemporary Leonhard Euler, 
the only major scientist who supported Christiaan Huygens' wave theory 
of light, which was basically ignored by the rest of the scientific community. 
In the 18th century Newton's corpuscular theory was held to be true; only 
after Young's well known slit experiment in 1803 were most scientists persuaded 
to believe Huygens' theory.[63] On October 21, 1743, according to popular 
myth, a storm moving from the southwest denied Franklin the opportunity 
of witnessing a lunar eclipse. Franklin was said to have noted that the 
prevailing winds were actually from the northeast, contrary to what he 
had expected. In correspondence with his brother, Franklin learned that 
the same storm had not reached Boston until after the eclipse, despite 
the fact that Boston is to the northeast of Philadelphia. He deduced that 
storms do not always travel in the direction of the prevailing wind, a 
concept that greatly influenced meteorology.[64] After the Icelandic volcanic 
eruption of Laki in 1783, and the subsequent harsh European winter of 1784, 
Franklin made observations connecting the causal nature of these two separate 
events. He wrote about them in a lecture series.[65] Though Benjamin Franklin 
has been most noted kite-wise with his lightning experiments, he has also 
been noted by many for his using kites to pull humans and ships across 
waterways.[66] The George Pocock in the book A TREATISE on The Aeropleustic 
Art, or Navigation in the Air, by means of Kites, or Buoyant Sails[67] 
noted being inspired by Benjamin Franklin's traction of his body by kite 
power across a waterway. In his later years he suggested using the technique 
for pulling ships. Franklin noted a principle of refrigeration by observing 
that on a very hot day, he stayed cooler in a wet shirt in a breeze than 
he did in a dry one. To understand this phenomenon more clearly Franklin 
conducted experiments. In 1758 on a warm day in Cambridge, England, Franklin 
and fellow scientist John Hadley experimented by continually wetting the 
ball of a mercury thermometer with ether and using bellows to evaporate 
the ether.[68] With each subsequent evaporation, the thermometer read a 
lower temperature, eventually reaching 7 °F (−14 °C). Another thermometer 
showed that the room temperature was constant at 65 °F (18 °C). In his 
letter Cooling by Evaporation, Franklin noted that, "One may see the possibility 
of freezing a man to death on a warm summer's day." According to Michael 
Faraday, Franklin's experiments on the non-conduction of ice are worth 
mentioning, although the law of the general effect of liquefaction on electrolytes 
is not attributed to Franklin.[69] However, as reported in 1836 by Prof. 
A. D. Bache of the University of Pennsylvania, the law of the effect of 
heat on the conduction of bodies otherwise non-conductors, for example, 
glass, could be attributed to Franklin. Franklin writes, "... A certain 
quantity of heat will make some bodies good conductors, that will not otherwise 
conduct ..." and again, "... And water, though naturally a good conductor, 
will not conduct well when frozen into ice."[70] An aging Franklin accumulated 
all his oceanographic findings in Maritime Observations, published by the 
Philosophical Society's transactions in 1786.[71] It contained ideas for 
sea anchors, catamaran hulls, watertight compartments, shipboard lightning 
rods and a soup bowl designed to stay stable in stormy weather. In a 1772 
letter to Joseph Priestley, Franklin lays out the earliest known description 
of the Pro & Con list,[72] a common decision-making technique, now sometimes 
called a decisional balance sheet: ... my Way is, to divide half a Sheet 
of Paper by a Line into two Columns, writing over the one Pro, and over 
the other Con. Then during three or four Days Consideration I put down 
under the different Heads short Hints of the different Motives that at 
different Times occur to me for or against the Measure. When I have thus 
got them all together in one View, I endeavour to estimate their respective 
Weights; and where I find two, one on each side, that seem equal, I strike 
them both out: If I find a Reason pro equal to some two Reasons con, I 
strike out the three. If I judge some two Reasons con equal to some three 
Reasons pro, I strike out the five; and thus proceeding I find at length 
where the Ballance lies; and if after a Day or two of farther Consideration 
nothing new that is of Importance occurs on either side, I come to a Determination 
accordingly.[72] While traveling on a ship, Franklin had observed that 
the wake of a ship was diminished when the cooks scuttled their greasy 
water. He studied the effects on a large pond in Clapham Common, London. 
"I fetched out a cruet of oil and dropt a little of it on the water ... 
though not more than a teaspoon full, produced an instant calm over a space 
of several yards square." He later used the trick to "calm the waters" 
by carrying "a little oil in the hollow joint of my cane".[73] Franklin 
is known to have played the violin, the harp, and the guitar. He also composed 
music, notably a string quartet in early classical style. He developed 
a much-improved version of the glass harmonica, in which the glasses rotate 
on a shaft, with the player's fingers held steady, instead of the other 
way around; this version soon found its way to Europe.[74] Franklin was 
an avid chess player. He was playing chess by around 1733, making him the 
first chess player known by name in the American colonies.[75] His essay 
on "The Morals of Chess" in Columbian magazine in December 1786 is the 
second known writing on chess in America.[75] This essay in praise of chess 
and prescribing a code of behavior for the game has been widely reprinted 
and translated.[76][77][78][79] He and a friend also used chess as a means 
of learning the Italian language, which both were studying; the winner 
of each game between them had the right to assign a task, such as parts 
of the Italian grammar to be learned by heart, to be performed by the loser 
before their next meeting.[80] Franklin was able to play chess more frequently 
against stronger opposition during his many years as a civil servant and 
diplomat in England, where the game was far better established than in 
America. He was able to improve his playing standard by facing more experienced 
players during this period. He regularly attended Old Slaughter's Coffee 
House in London for chess and socializing, making many important personal 
contacts. While in Paris, both as a visitor and later as ambassador, he 
visited the famous Café de la Régence, which France's strongest players 
made their regular meeting place. No records of his games have survived, 
so it is not possible to ascertain his playing strength in modern terms.[81] 
Franklin was inducted into the U.S. Chess Hall of Fame in 1999.[75] The 
Franklin Mercantile Chess Club in Philadelphia, the second oldest chess 
club in the U.S., is named in his honor. In 1736, Franklin created the 
Union Fire Company, one of the first volunteer firefighting companies in 
America. In the same year, he printed a new currency for New Jersey based 
on innovative anti-counterfeiting techniques he had devised. Throughout 
his career, Franklin was an advocate for paper money, publishing A Modest 
Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency in 1729, and 
his printer printed money. He was influential in the more restrained and 
thus successful monetary experiments in the Middle Colonies, which stopped 
deflation without causing excessive inflation. In 1766 he made a case for 
paper money to the British House of Commons.[82] As he matured, Franklin 
began to concern himself more with public affairs. In 1743, he first devised 
a scheme for The Academy, Charity School, and College of Philadelphia. 
However, the person he had in mind to run the academy, Rev. Richard Peters, 
refused and Franklin put his ideas away until 1749, when he printed his 
own pamphlet, Proposals Relating to the Education of Youth in Pensilvania.[83]:30 
He was appointed president of the Academy on November 13, 1749; the Academy 
and the Charity School opened on August 13, 1751. In 1743, Franklin founded 
the American Philosophical Society to help scientific men discuss their 
discoveries and theories. He began the electrical research that, along 
with other scientific inquiries, would occupy him for the rest of his life, 
in between bouts of politics and moneymaking.[11] In 1747, Franklin (already 
a very wealthy man) retired from printing and went into other businesses.[84] 
He created a partnership with his foreman, David Hall, which provided Franklin 
with half of the shop's profits for 18 years. This lucrative business arrangement 
provided leisure time for study, and in a few years he had made discoveries 
that gave him a reputation with educated persons throughout Europe and 
especially in France. Franklin became involved in Philadelphia politics 
and rapidly progressed. In October 1748, he was selected as a councilman, 
in June 1749 he became a Justice of the Peace for Philadelphia, and in 
1751 he was elected to the Pennsylvania Assembly. On August 10, 1753, Franklin 
was appointed deputy postmaster-general of British North America, (see 
below). His most notable service in domestic politics was his reform of 
the postal system, with mail sent out every week.[11] In 1751, Franklin 
and Dr. Thomas Bond obtained a charter from the Pennsylvania legislature 
to establish a hospital. Pennsylvania Hospital was the first hospital in 
what was to become the United States of America. Between 1750 and 1753, 
the "educational triumvirate"[85] of Dr. Benjamin Franklin, the American 
Dr. Samuel Johnson of Stratford, Connecticut, and the immigrant Scottish 
schoolteacher Dr. William Smith built on Franklin's initial scheme and 
created what Bishop James Madison, president of the College of William 
& Mary, called a "new-model"[86] plan or style of American college. Franklin 
solicited, printed in 1752, and promoted an American textbook of moral 
philosophy from the American Dr. Samuel Johnson titled Elementa Philosophica[87] 
to be taught in the new colleges to replace courses in denominational divinity. 
In June 1753, Johnson, Franklin, and Smith met in Stratford.[88] They decided 
the new-model college would focus on the professions, with classes taught 
in English instead of Latin, have subject matter experts as professors 
instead of one tutor leading a class for four years, and there would be 
no religious test for admission.[89] Johnson went on to found King's College 
(now Columbia University) in New York City in 1754, while Franklin hired 
Smith as Provost of the College of Philadelphia, which opened in 1755. 
At its first commencement, on May 17, 1757, seven men graduated; six with 
a Bachelor of Arts and one as Master of Arts. It was later merged with 
the University of the State of Pennsylvania to become the University of 
Pennsylvania. The College was to become influential in guiding the founding 
documents of the United States: in the Continental Congress, for example, 
over one third of the college-affiliated men who contributed the Declaration 
of Independence between September 4, 1774, and July 4, 1776, were affiliated 
with the College.[90] In 1753, both Harvard[91] and Yale[92] awarded him 
honorary degrees.[93] In 1754, he headed the Pennsylvania delegation to 
the Albany Congress. This meeting of several colonies had been requested 
by the Board of Trade in England to improve relations with the Indians 
and defense against the French. Franklin proposed a broad Plan of Union 
for the colonies. While the plan was not adopted, elements of it found 
their way into the Articles of Confederation and the Constitution. In 1756, 
Franklin organized the Pennsylvania Militia (see "Associated Regiment of 
Philadelphia" under heading of Pennsylvania's 103rd Artillery and 111th 
Infantry Regiment at Continental Army). He used Tun Tavern as a gathering 
place to recruit a regiment of soldiers to go into battle against the Native 
American uprisings that beset the American colonies. Reportedly Franklin 
was elected "Colonel" of the Associated Regiment but declined the honor. 
From the mid 1750s to the mid 1770s, Franklin spent much of his time in 
London. Officially he was there on a political mission, but he used his 
time to further his scientific explorations as well, meeting many notable 
people. In 1757, he was sent to England by the Pennsylvania Assembly as 
a colonial agent to protest against the political influence of the Penn 
family, the proprietors of the colony. He remained there for five years, 
striving to end the proprietors' prerogative to overturn legislation from 
the elected Assembly, and their exemption from paying taxes on their land. 
His lack of influential allies in Whitehall led to the failure of this 
mission. At this time, many members of the Pennsylvania Assembly were feuding 
with William Penn's heirs, who controlled the colony as proprietors. After 
his return to the colony, Franklin led the "anti-proprietary party" in 
the struggle against the Penn family, and was elected Speaker of the Pennsylvania 
House in May 1764. His call for a change from proprietary to royal government 
was a rare political miscalculation, however: Pennsylvanians worried that 
such a move would endanger their political and religious freedoms. Because 
of these fears, and because of political attacks on his character, Franklin 
lost his seat in the October 1764 Assembly elections. The anti-proprietary 
party dispatched Franklin to England again to continue the struggle against 
the Penn family proprietorship. During this trip, events drastically changed 
the nature of his mission.[94] In London, Franklin opposed the 1765 Stamp 
Act. Unable to prevent its passage, he made another political miscalculation 
and recommended a friend to the post of stamp distributor for Pennsylvania. 
Pennsylvanians were outraged, believing that he had supported the measure 
all along, and threatened to destroy his home in Philadelphia. Franklin 
soon learned of the extent of colonial resistance to the Stamp Act, and 
he testified during the House of Commons proceedings that led to its repeal.[95] 
With this, Franklin suddenly emerged as the leading spokesman for American 
interests in England. He wrote popular essays on behalf of the colonies. 
Georgia, New Jersey, and Massachusetts also appointed him as their agent 
to the Crown.[94] Franklin lodged in a house in Craven Street, just off 
The Strand in central London. During his stays there, he developed a close 
friendship with his landlady, Margaret Stevenson, and her circle of friends 
and relations, in particular her daughter Mary, who was more often known 
as Polly. Their house, which he used on various lengthy missions from 1757 
to 1775, is the only one of his residences to survive. It opened to the 
public as the Benjamin Franklin House museum in 2006. Whilst in London, 
Franklin became involved in radical politics. He belonged to a gentleman's 
club (which he called "the honest Whigs"), which held stated meetings, 
and included members such as Richard Price, the minister of Newington Green 
Unitarian Church who ignited the Revolution Controversy, and Andrew Kippis. 
In 1756, Franklin had become a member of the Society for the Encouragement 
of Arts, Manufactures & Commerce (now the Royal Society of Arts or RSA), 
which had been founded in 1754 and whose early meetings took place in Covent 
Garden coffee shops. After his return to the United States in 1775, Franklin 
became the Society's Corresponding Member, continuing a close connection. 
The RSA instituted a Benjamin Franklin Medal in 1956 to commemorate the 
250th anniversary of his birth and the 200th anniversary of his membership 
of the RSA. The study of natural philosophy (what we would call science) 
drew him into overlapping circles of acquaintance. Franklin was, for example, 
a corresponding member of the Lunar Society of Birmingham, which included 
such other scientific and industrial luminaries as Matthew Boulton, James 
Watt, Josiah Wedgwood and Erasmus Darwin; on occasion he visited them. 
In 1762, Oxford University awarded Franklin an honorary doctorate for his 
scientific accomplishments. He also managed to secure an appointed post 
for his illegitimate son, William Franklin, by then an attorney, as Colonial 
Governor of New Jersey.[11] While living in London in 1768, he developed 
a phonetic alphabet in A Scheme for a new Alphabet and a Reformed Mode 
of Spelling. This reformed alphabet discarded six letters Franklin regarded 
as redundant (c, j, q, w, x, and y), and substituted six new letters for 
sounds he felt lacked letters of their own. His new alphabet, however, 
never caught on, and he eventually lost interest.[96] Franklin used London 
as a base to travel. In 1771, he made short journeys through different 
parts of England, staying with Joseph Priestley at Leeds, Thomas Percival 
at Manchester and Erasmus Darwin at Lichfield.[97] In Scotland, he spent 
five days with Lord Kames near Stirling and stayed for three weeks with 
David Hume in Edinburgh. In 1759, he visited Edinburgh with his son, and 
recalled his conversations there as "the densest happiness of my life".[98] 
In February 1759, the University of St Andrews awarded him an Honorary 
Doctor of Laws degree. From then he was known as "Doctor Franklin".[99] 
In October of the same year he was granted Freedom of the Borough of St 
Andrews.[100] He had never been to Ireland before, and met and stayed with 
Lord Hillsborough, who he believed was especially attentive. Franklin noted 
of him that "all the plausible behaviour I have described is meant only, 
by patting and stroking the horse, to make him more patient, while the 
reins are drawn tighter, and the spurs set deeper into his sides."[101] 
In Dublin, Franklin was invited to sit with the members of the Irish Parliament 
rather than in the gallery. He was the first American to receive this honor.[97] 
While touring Ireland, he was moved by the level of poverty he saw. Ireland's 
economy was affected by the same trade regulations and laws of Britain 
that governed America. Franklin feared that America could suffer the same 
effects should Britain's "colonial exploitation" continue.[102] Franklin 
spent two months in German lands in 1766, but his connections to the country 
stretched across a lifetime. He declared a debt of gratitude to German 
scientist Otto von Guericke for his early studies of electricity. Franklin 
also co-authored the first treaty of friendship between Prussia and America 
in 1785. In September 1767, Franklin visited Paris with his usual traveling 
partner, Sir John Pringle. News of his electrical discoveries was widespread 
in France. His reputation meant that he was introduced to many influential 
scientists and politicians, and also to King Louis XV.[103] One line of 
argument in Parliament was that Americans should pay a share of the costs 
of the French and Indian War, and that therefore taxes should be levied 
on them. Franklin became the American spokesman in highly publicized testimony 
in Parliament in 1766. He stated that Americans already contributed heavily 
to the defense of the Empire. He said local governments had raised, outfitted 
and paid 25,000 soldiers to fight France—as many as Britain itself sent—and 
spent many millions from American treasuries doing so in the French and 
Indian War alone.[104][105] In 1773, Franklin published two of his most 
celebrated pro-American satirical essays: "Rules by Which a Great Empire 
May Be Reduced to a Small One", and "An Edict by the King of Prussia".[106] 
In June 1773 Franklin obtained private letters of Thomas Hutchinson and 
Andrew Oliver, governor and lieutenant governor of the Province of Massachusetts 
Bay, that proved they were encouraging the Crown to crack down on the rights 
of Bostonians. Franklin sent them to America, where they escalated the 
tensions. The British began to regard him as the fomenter of serious trouble. 
Hopes for a peaceful solution ended as he was systematically ridiculed 
and humiliated by Solicitor-General Alexander Wedderburn, before the Privy 
Council on January 29, 1774. He returned to Philadelphia in March 1775, 
and abandoned his accommodationist stance.[107] In 1763, soon after Franklin 
returned to Pennsylvania from England for the first time, the western frontier 
was engulfed in a bitter war known as Pontiac's Rebellion. The Paxton Boys, 
a group of settlers convinced that the Pennsylvania government was not 
doing enough to protect them from American Indian raids, murdered a group 
of peaceful Susquehannock Indians and marched on Philadelphia. Franklin 
helped to organize a local militia to defend the capital against the mob. 
He met with the Paxton leaders and persuaded them to disperse. Franklin 
wrote a scathing attack against the racial prejudice of the Paxton Boys. 
"If an Indian injures me", he asked, "does it follow that I may revenge 
that Injury on all Indians?"[108] He provided an early response to British 
surveillance through his own network of counter-surveillance and manipulation. 
"He waged a public relations campaign, secured secret aid, played a role 
in privateering expeditions, and churned out effective and inflammatory 
propaganda."[109] By the time Franklin arrived in Philadelphia on May 5, 
1775, after his second mission to Great Britain, the American Revolution 
had begun – with fighting between colonials and British at Lexington and 
Concord. The New England militia had trapped the main British army in Boston. 
The Pennsylvania Assembly unanimously chose Franklin as their delegate 
to the Second Continental Congress. In June 1776, he was appointed a member 
of the Committee of Five that drafted the Declaration of Independence. 
Although he was temporarily disabled by gout and unable to attend most 
meetings of the Committee, Franklin made several "small but important"[111] 
changes to the draft sent to him by Thomas Jefferson. At the signing, he 
is quoted as having replied to a comment by Hancock that they must all 
hang together: "Yes, we must, indeed, all hang together, or most assuredly 
we shall all hang separately."[112] Well known as a printer and publisher, 
Franklin was appointed postmaster of Philadelphia in 1737, holding the 
office until 1753, when he and publisher William Hunter were named deputy 
postmasters–general of British North America, the first to hold the office. 
(Joint appointments were standard at the time, for political reasons.) 
Franklin was responsible for the British colonies as far as the island 
of Newfoundland, opening Canada's first post office at Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
while Hunter became postal administrator in Williamsburg, Virginia and 
oversaw areas south of Annapolis, Maryland. Franklin reorganized the service's 
accounting system, then improved speed of delivery between Philadelphia, 
New York and Boston. By 1761, efficiencies lead to the first profits for 
the colonial post office.[113] When the lands of New France were ceded 
to the British under the Treaty of Paris in 1763, the new British province 
of Quebec was created among them, and Franklin saw mail service expanded 
between Montreal, Trois-Rivières, Quebec City, and New York. For the greater 
part of his appointment, Franklin lived in England (from 1757 to 1762, 
and again from 1764 to 1774) – about three-quarters of his term.[114] Eventually, 
his sympathies for the rebel cause in the American Revolution led to his 
dismissal on January 31, 1774. On July 26, 1775, the Second Continental 
Congress established the United States Post Office and named Benjamin Franklin 
as the first United States Postmaster General. Franklin had been a postmaster 
for decades and was a natural choice for the position.[115] He had just 
returned from England and was appointed chairman of a Committee of Investigation 
to establish a postal system. The report of the Committee, providing for 
the appointment of a postmaster general for the 13 American colonies, was 
considered by the Continental Congress on July 25 and 26. On July 26, 1775, 
Franklin was appointed Postmaster General, the first appointed under the 
Continental Congress. It established a postal system that became the United 
States Post Office, a system that continues to operate today.[116] In December 
1776, Franklin was dispatched to France as commissioner for the United 
States.[118] He took with him as secretary his 16-year-old grandson, William 
Temple Franklin. They lived in a home in the Parisian suburb of Passy, 
donated by Jacques-Donatien Le Ray de Chaumont, who supported the United 
States. Franklin remained in France until 1785. He conducted the affairs 
of his country toward the French nation with great success, which included 
securing a critical military alliance in 1778 and negotiating the Treaty 
of Paris (1783). Among his associates in France was Honoré Gabriel Riqueti, 
comte de Mirabeau—a French Revolutionary writer, orator and statesman who 
in early 1791 would be elected president of the National Assembly.[119] 
In July 1784, Franklin met with Mirabeau and contributed anonymous materials 
that the Frenchman used in his first signed work: Considerations sur l'ordre 
de Cincinnatus.[120] The publication was critical of the Society of the 
Cincinnati, established in the United States. Franklin and Mirabeau thought 
of it as a "noble order", inconsistent with the egalitarian ideals of the 
new republic.[121] During his stay in France, Benjamin Franklin was active 
as a Freemason, serving as Venerable Master of the Lodge Les Neuf Sœurs 
from 1779 until 1781. He was the 106th member of the Lodge. In 1784, when 
Franz Mesmer began to publicize his theory of "animal magnetism" which 
was considered offensive by many, Louis XVI appointed a commission to investigate 
it. These included the chemist Antoine Lavoisier, the physician Joseph-Ignace 
Guillotin, the astronomer Jean Sylvain Bailly, and Benjamin Franklin.[122] 
In 1781, he was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.[123] 
Franklin's advocacy for religious tolerance in France contributed to arguments 
made by French philosophers and politicians that resulted in Louis XVI's 
signing of the Edict of Versailles in November 1787. This edict effectively 
nullified the Edict of Fontainebleau, which had denied non-Catholics civil 
status and the right to openly practice their faith.[124] Franklin also 
served as American minister to Sweden, although he never visited that country. 
He negotiated a treaty that was signed in April 1783. On August 27, 1783, 
in Paris, Franklin witnessed the world's first hydrogen balloon flight.[125] 
Le Globe, created by professor Jacques Charles and Les Frères Robert, was 
watched by a vast crowd as it rose from the Champ de Mars (now the site 
of the Eiffel Tower).[126] This so enthused Franklin that he subscribed 
financially to the next project to build a manned hydrogen balloon.[127] 
On December 1, 1783, Franklin was seated in the special enclosure for honoured 
guests when La Charlière took off from the Jardin des Tuileries, piloted 
by Jacques Charles and Nicolas-Louis Robert.[125][128] When he returned 
home in 1785, Franklin occupied a position only second to that of George 
Washington as the champion of American independence. Le Ray honored him 
with a commissioned portrait painted by Joseph Duplessis, which now hangs 
in the National Portrait Gallery of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, 
D.C. After his return, Franklin became an abolitionist and freed his two 
slaves. He eventually became president of the Pennsylvania Abolition Society.[129] 
In 1787, Franklin served as a delegate to the Philadelphia Convention. 
He held an honorary position and seldom engaged in debate. He is the only 
Founding Father who is a signatory of all four of the major documents of 
the founding of the United States: the Declaration of Independence, the 
Treaty of Alliance with France, the Treaty of Paris and the United States 
Constitution. In 1787, a group of prominent ministers in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, 
proposed the foundation of a new college named in Franklin's honor. Franklin 
donated £200 towards the development of Franklin College (now called Franklin 
& Marshall College). Between 1771 and 1788, he finished his autobiography. 
While it was at first addressed to his son, it was later completed for 
the benefit of mankind at the request of a friend. Franklin strongly supported 
the right to freedom of speech: In those wretched countries where a man 
cannot call his tongue his own, he can scarce call anything his own. Whoever 
would overthrow the liberty of a nation must begin by subduing the freeness 
of speech ... Without freedom of thought there can be no such thing as 
wisdom, and no such thing as public liberty without freedom of speech, 
which is the right of every man ... In his later years, as Congress was 
forced to deal with the issue of slavery, Franklin wrote several essays 
that stressed the importance of the abolition of slavery and of the integration 
of blacks into American society. These writings included: In 1790, Quakers 
from New York and Pennsylvania presented their petition for abolition to 
Congress. Their argument against slavery was backed by the Pennsylvania 
Abolitionist Society and its president, Benjamin Franklin. Special balloting 
conducted October 18, 1785, unanimously elected Franklin the sixth president 
of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, replacing John Dickinson. 
The office was practically that of governor. Franklin held that office 
for slightly over three years, longer than any other, and served the constitutional 
limit of three full terms. Shortly after his initial election he was reelected 
to a full term on October 29, 1785, and again in the fall of 1786 and on 
October 31, 1787. In that capacity he served as host to the Constitutional 
Convention of 1787 in Philadelphia.[132] Like the other advocates of republicanism, 
Franklin emphasized that the new republic could survive only if the people 
were virtuous. All his life he explored the role of civic and personal 
virtue, as expressed in Poor Richard's aphorisms. Franklin felt that organized 
religion was necessary to keep men good to their fellow men, but rarely 
attended religious services himself.[133] When Franklin met Voltaire in 
Paris and asked his fellow member of the Enlightenment vanguard to bless 
his grandson, Voltaire said in English, "God and Liberty", and added, "this 
is the only appropriate benediction for the grandson of Monsieur Franklin."[134] 
Franklin's parents were both pious Puritans.[135] The family attended the 
Old South Church, the most liberal Puritan congregation in Boston, where 
Benjamin Franklin was baptized in 1706.[136] Franklin's father, a poor 
chandler, owned a copy of a book, Bonifacius: Essays to Do Good, by the 
Puritan preacher and family friend Cotton Mather, which Franklin often 
cited as a key influence on his life.[137] Franklin's first pen name, Silence 
Dogood, paid homage both to the book and to a widely known sermon by Mather. 
The book preached the importance of forming voluntary associations to benefit 
society. Franklin learned about forming do-good associations from Cotton 
Mather, but his organizational skills made him the most influential force 
in making voluntarism an enduring part of the American ethos.[138] Franklin 
formulated a presentation of his beliefs and published it in 1728.[139] 
It did not mention many of the Puritan ideas as regards belief in salvation, 
the divinity of Jesus, and indeed most religious dogma. He clarified himself 
as a deist in his 1771 autobiography,[140] although he still considered 
himself a Christian.[141] He retained a strong faith in a God as the wellspring 
of morality and goodness in man, and as a Providential actor in history 
responsible for American independence.[142] It was Ben Franklin who, at 
a critical impasse during the Constitutional Convention in June 1787, attempted 
to introduce the practice of daily common prayer with these words: ... In 
the beginning of the contest with G. Britain, when we were sensible of 
danger we had daily prayer in this room for the Divine Protection. – Our 
prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us 
who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances 
of a Superintending providence in our favor. ... And have we now forgotten 
that powerful friend? or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance. 
I have lived, Sir, a long time and the longer I live, the more convincing 
proofs I see of this truth – that God governs in the affairs of men. And 
if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable 
that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in 
the sacred writings that "except the Lord build they labor in vain that 
build it." I firmly believe this; and I also believe that without his concurring 
aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the Builders 
of Babel: ... I therefore beg leave to move – that henceforth prayers imploring 
the assistance of Heaven, and its blessings on our deliberations, be held 
in this Assembly every morning before we proceed to business, and that 
one or more of the Clergy of this City be requested to officiate in that 
service.[143] However, the motion met with resistance and was never brought 
to a vote.[144] Franklin was an enthusiastic supporter of the evangelical 
minister George Whitefield during the First Great Awakening. Franklin did 
not subscribe to Whitefield's theology, but he admired Whitefield for exhorting 
people to worship God through good works. Franklin published all of Whitefield's 
sermons and journals, thereby earning a lot of money and boosting the Great 
Awakening.[145] When he stopped attending church, Franklin wrote in his 
autobiography: ... Sunday being my studying day, I never was without some 
religious principles. I never doubted, for instance, the existence of the 
Deity; that He made the world, and governed it by His providence; that 
the most acceptable service of God was the doing good to man; that our 
souls are immortal; and that all crime will be punished, and virtue rewarded, 
either here or hereafter.[146][147] Franklin retained a lifelong commitment 
to the Puritan virtues and political values he had grown up with, and through 
his civic work and publishing, he succeeded in passing these values into 
the American culture permanently. He had a "passion for virtue".[148] These 
Puritan values included his devotion to egalitarianism, education, industry, 
thrift, honesty, temperance, charity and community spirit.[149] The classical 
authors read in the Enlightenment period taught an abstract ideal of republican 
government based on hierarchical social orders of king, aristocracy and 
commoners. It was widely believed that English liberties relied on their 
balance of power, but also hierarchal deference to the privileged class.[150] 
"Puritanism ... and the epidemic evangelism of the mid-eighteenth century, 
had created challenges to the traditional notions of social stratification"[151] 
by preaching that the Bible taught all men are equal, that the true value 
of a man lies in his moral behavior, not his class, and that all men can 
be saved.[151] Franklin, steeped in Puritanism and an enthusiastic supporter 
of the evangelical movement, rejected the salvation dogma, but embraced 
the radical notion of egalitarian democracy. Franklin's commitment to teach 
these values was itself something he gained from his Puritan upbringing, 
with its stress on "inculcating virtue and character in themselves and 
their communities."[152] These Puritan values and the desire to pass them 
on, were one of Franklin's quintessentially American characteristics, and 
helped shape the character of the nation. Franklin's writings on virtue 
were derided by some European authors, such as Jackob Fugger in his critical 
work Portrait of American Culture. Max Weber considered Franklin's ethical 
writings a culmination of the Protestant ethic, which ethic created the 
social conditions necessary for the birth of capitalism.[153] One of Franklin's 
notable characteristics was his respect, tolerance and promotion of all 
churches. Referring to his experience in Philadelphia, he wrote in his 
autobiography, "new Places of worship were continually wanted, and generally 
erected by voluntary Contribution, my Mite for such purpose, whatever might 
be the Sect, was never refused."[146] "He helped create a new type of nation 
that would draw strength from its religious pluralism."[154] The evangelical 
revivalists who were active mid-century, such as Franklin's friend and 
preacher, George Whitefield, were the greatest advocates of religious freedom, 
"claiming liberty of conscience to be an 'inalienable right of every rational 
creature.'"[155] Whitefield's supporters in Philadelphia, including Franklin, 
erected "a large, new hall, that ... could provide a pulpit to anyone of 
any belief."[156] Franklin's rejection of dogma and doctrine and his stress 
on the God of ethics and morality and civic virtue made him the "prophet 
of tolerance."[154] Franklin composed "A Parable Against Persecution", 
an apocryphal 51st chapter of Genesis in which God teaches Abraham the 
duty of tolerance.[157] While he was living in London in 1774, he was present 
at the birth of British Unitarianism, attending the inaugural session of 
the Essex Street Chapel, at which Theophilus Lindsey drew together the 
first avowedly Unitarian congregation in England; this was somewhat politically 
risky, and pushed religious tolerance to new boundaries, as a denial of 
the doctrine of the Trinity was illegal until the 1813 Act.[158] Although 
Franklin's parents had intended for him to have a career in the Church,[9] 
Franklin as a young man adopted the Enlightenment religious belief in deism, 
that God's truths can be found entirely through nature and reason.[159] 
"I soon became a thorough Deist."[160] As a young man he rejected Christian 
dogma in a 1725 pamphlet A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity, Pleasure 
and Pain,[161] which he later saw as an embarrassment,[162] while simultaneously 
asserting that God is "all wise, all good, all powerful."[162] He defended 
his rejection of religious dogma with these words: "I think opinions should 
be judged by their influences and effects; and if a man holds none that 
tend to make him less virtuous or more vicious, it may be concluded that 
he holds none that are dangerous, which I hope is the case with me." After 
the disillusioning experience of seeing the decay in his own moral standards, 
and those of two friends in London whom he had converted to Deism, Franklin 
turned back to a belief in the importance of organized religion, on the 
pragmatic grounds that without God and organized churches, man will not 
be good.[163] Moreover, because of his proposal that prayers be said in 
the Constitutional Convention of 1787, many have contended that in his 
later life Franklin became a pious Christian.[164][165] At one point, he 
wrote to Thomas Paine, criticizing his manuscript, The Age of Reason: For 
without the Belief of a Providence that takes Cognizance of, guards and 
guides and may favour particular Persons, there is no Motive to Worship 
a Deity, to fear its Displeasure, or to pray for its Protection ... think 
how great a Proportion of Mankind consists of weak and ignorant Men and 
Women, and of inexperienc'd and inconsiderate Youth of both Sexes, who 
have need of the Motives of Religion to restrain them from Vice, to support 
their Virtue, and retain them in the Practice of it till it becomes habitual, 
which is the great Point for its Security; And perhaps you are indebted 
to her originally that is to your Religious Education, for the Habits of 
Virtue upon which you now justly value yourself. If men are so wicked with 
religion, what would they be if without it.[166] According to David Morgan,[167] 
Franklin was a proponent of religion in general. He prayed to "Powerful 
Goodness" and referred to God as "the infinite". John Adams noted that 
Franklin was a mirror in which people saw their own religion: "The Catholics 
thought him almost a Catholic. The Church of England claimed him as one 
of them. The Presbyterians thought him half a Presbyterian, and the Friends 
believed him a wet Quaker." Whatever else Franklin was, concludes Morgan, 
"he was a true champion of generic religion." In a letter to Richard Price, 
Franklin stated that he believed that religion should support itself without 
help from the government, claiming, "When a Religion is good, I conceive 
that it will support itself; and, when it cannot support itself, and God 
does not take care to support, so that its Professors are oblig'd to call 
for the help of the Civil Power, it is a sign, I apprehend, of its being 
a bad one."[168] In 1790, just about a month before he died, Franklin wrote 
a letter to Ezra Stiles, president of Yale University, who had asked him 
his views on religion: As to Jesus of Nazareth, my Opinion of whom you 
particularly desire, I think the System of Morals and his Religion, as 
he left them to us, the best the world ever saw or is likely to see; but 
I apprehend it has received various corrupt changes, and I have, with most 
of the present Dissenters in England, some Doubts as to his divinity; tho' 
it is a question I do not dogmatize upon, having never studied it, and 
I think it needless to busy myself with it now, when I expect soon an Opportunity 
of knowing the Truth with less Trouble. I see no harm, however, in its 
being believed, if that belief has the good consequence, as it probably 
has, of making his doctrines more respected and better observed; especially 
as I do not perceive that the Supreme takes it amiss, by distinguishing 
the unbelievers in his government of the world with any particular marks 
of his displeasure.[11] On July 4, 1776, Congress appointed a three-member 
committee composed of Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and John Adams to design 
the Great Seal of the United States. Franklin's proposal (which was not 
adopted) featured the motto: "Rebellion to Tyrants is Obedience to God" 
and a scene from the Book of Exodus, with Moses, the Israelites, the pillar 
of fire, and George III depicted as pharaoh. The design that was produced 
was never acted upon by Congress, and the Great Seal's design was not finalized 
until a third committee was appointed in 1782.[169][170] Franklin sought 
to cultivate his character by a plan of 13 virtues, which he developed 
at age 20 (in 1726) and continued to practice in some form for the rest 
of his life. His autobiography lists his 13 virtues as: Franklin did not 
try to work on them all at once. Instead, he would work on one and only 
one each week "leaving all others to their ordinary chance." While Franklin 
did not live completely by his virtues, and by his own admission he fell 
short of them many times, he believed the attempt made him a better man 
contributing greatly to his success and happiness, which is why in his 
autobiography, he devoted more pages to this plan than to any other single 
point; in his autobiography Franklin wrote, "I hope, therefore, that some 
of my descendants may follow the example and reap the benefit."[171] During 
Franklin's lifetime slaves were numerous in Philadelphia. In 1750, half 
the persons in Philadelphia who had established probate estates owned slaves. 
Dock workers in the city consisted of 15% slaves. Franklin owned as many 
as seven slaves, two males of whom worked in his household and his shop. 
Franklin posted paid ads for the sale of slaves and for the capture of 
runaway slaves and allowed the sale of slaves in his general store. Franklin 
profited from both the international and domestic slave trade, even criticizing 
slaves who had run off to join the British Army during the colonial wars 
of the 1740s and 1750s. Franklin, however, later became a "cautious abolitionist" 
and became an outspoken critic of landed gentry slavery. In 1758, Franklin 
advocated the opening of a school for the education of black slaves in 
Philadelphia. After returning from England in 1762, Franklin became more 
anti-slavery, in his view believing that the institution promoted black 
degradation rather than the idea blacks were inherently inferior.[172] 
By 1770, Franklin had freed his slaves and attacked the system of slavery 
and the international slave trade. Franklin, however, refused to publicly 
debate the issue of slavery at the 1787 Constitutional Convention. Franklin 
tended to take both sides of the issue of slavery, never fully divesting 
himself from the institution.[173][174] Franklin suffered from obesity 
throughout his middle-aged and later years, which resulted in multiple 
health problems, particularly gout, which worsened as he aged. In poor 
health during the signing of the US Constitution in 1787, he was rarely 
seen in public from then until his death. Benjamin Franklin died from pleuritic 
attack[175] at his home in Philadelphia on April 17, 1790, at age 84. Approximately 
20,000 people attended his funeral. He was interred in Christ Church Burial 
Ground in Philadelphia. In 1728, aged 22, Franklin wrote what he hoped 
would be his own epitaph: The Body of B. Franklin Printer; Like the Cover 
of an old Book, Its Contents torn out, And stript of its Lettering and 
Gilding, Lies here, Food for Worms. But the Work shall not be wholly lost: 
For it will, as he believ'd, appear once more, In a new & more perfect 
Edition, Corrected and Amended By the Author.[176] Franklin's actual grave, 
however, as he specified in his final will, simply reads "Benjamin and 
Deborah Franklin".[177] In 1773, when Franklin's work had moved from printing 
to science and politics, he corresponded with a French scientist, Jacques 
Barbeu-Dubourg, on the subject of preserving the dead for later revival 
by more advanced scientific methods, writing: I should prefer to an ordinary 
death, being immersed with a few friends in a cask of Madeira, until that 
time, then to be recalled to life by the solar warmth of my dear country! 
But in all probability, we live in a century too little advanced, and too 
near the infancy of science, to see such an art brought in our time to 
its perfection.[178] (Extended excerpt also online.)[179] His death is 
described in the book The Life of Benjamin Franklin, quoting from the account 
of Dr. John Jones: ... when the pain and difficulty of breathing entirely 
left him, and his family were flattering themselves with the hopes of his 
recovery, when an imposthume, which had formed itself in his lungs, suddenly 
burst, and discharged a quantity of matter, which he continued to throw 
up while he had power; but, as that failed, the organs of respiration became 
gradually oppressed; a calm, lethargic state succeeded; and on the 17th 
instant (April 1790), about eleven o'clock at night, he quietly expired, 
closing a long and useful life of eighty-four years and three months.[180] 
A signer of both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, 
Franklin is considered one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. 
His pervasive influence in the early history of the nation has led to his 
being jocularly called "the only President of the United States who was 
never President of the United States."[181] Franklin's likeness is ubiquitous. 
Since 1928, it has adorned American $100 bills, which are sometimes referred 
to in slang as "Benjamins" or "Franklins." From 1948 to 1963, Franklin's 
portrait was on the half dollar. He has appeared on a $50 bill and on several 
varieties of the $100 bill from 1914 and 1918. Franklin appears on the 
$1,000 Series EE Savings bond. The city of Philadelphia contains around 
5,000 likenesses of Benjamin Franklin, about half of which are located 
on the University of Pennsylvania campus. Philadelphia's Benjamin Franklin 
Parkway (a major thoroughfare) and Benjamin Franklin Bridge (the first 
major bridge to connect Philadelphia with New Jersey) are named in his 
honor. In 1976, as part of a bicentennial celebration, Congress dedicated 
a 20-foot (6 m) marble statue in Philadelphia's Franklin Institute as the 
Benjamin Franklin National Memorial. Many of Franklin's personal possessions 
are also on display at the Institute, one of the few national memorials 
located on private property. In London, his house at 36 Craven Street, 
which is the only surviving former residence of Benjamin Franklin, was 
first marked with a blue plaque and has since been opened to the public 
as the Benjamin Franklin House.[182] In 1998, workmen restoring the building 
dug up the remains of six children and four adults hidden below the home. 
The Times reported on February 11, 1998: Initial estimates are that the 
bones are about 200 years old and were buried at the time Franklin was 
living in the house, which was his home from 1757 to 1762 and from 1764 
to 1775. Most of the bones show signs of having been dissected, sawn or 
cut. One skull has been drilled with several holes. Paul Knapman, the Westminster 
Coroner, said yesterday: "I cannot totally discount the possibility of 
a crime. There is still a possibility that I may have to hold an inquest." 
The Friends of Benjamin Franklin House (the organization responsible for 
the restoration) note that the bones were likely placed there by William 
Hewson, who lived in the house for two years and who had built a small 
anatomy school at the back of the house. They note that while Franklin 
likely knew what Hewson was doing, he probably did not participate in any 
dissections because he was much more of a physicist than a medical man.[183] 
Franklin bequeathed £1,000 (about $4,400 at the time, or about $112,000 
in 2011 dollars[184]) each to the cities of Boston and Philadelphia, in 
trust to gather interest for 200 years. The trust began in 1785 when the 
French mathematician Charles-Joseph Mathon de la Cour, who admired Franklin 
greatly, wrote a friendly parody of Franklin's "Poor Richard's Almanack" 
called "Fortunate Richard". The main character leaves a smallish amount 
of money in his will, five lots of 100 livres, to collect interest over 
one, two, three, four or five full centuries, with the resulting astronomical 
sums to be spent on impossibly elaborate utopian projects.[185] Franklin, 
who was 79 years old at the time, wrote thanking him for a great idea and 
telling him that he had decided to leave a bequest of 1,000 pounds each 
to his native Boston and his adopted Philadelphia. By 1990, more than $2,000,000 
had accumulated in Franklin's Philadelphia trust, which had loaned the 
money to local residents. From 1940 to 1990, the money was used mostly 
for mortgage loans. When the trust came due, Philadelphia decided to spend 
it on scholarships for local high school students. Franklin's Boston trust 
fund accumulated almost $5,000,000 during that same time; at the end of 
its first 100 years a portion was allocated to help establish a trade school 
that became the Franklin Institute of Boston, and the whole fund was later 
dedicated to supporting this institute.[186][187] Benjamin Franklin is 
a prominent figure in American history comparable to Washington, Jefferson 
and Lincoln, and as such he has been honored on U.S. postage stamps many 
times. The image of Franklin, the first Postmaster General of the United 
States, occurs on the face of U.S. postage more than any other notable 
American save that of George Washington.[188] Franklin appeared on the 
first U.S. postage stamp (displayed above) issued in 1847. From 1908 through 
1923 the U.S. Post Office issued a series of postage stamps commonly referred 
to as the Washington-Franklin Issues where, along with George Washington, 
Franklin was depicted many times over a 14-year period, the longest run 
of any one series in U.S. postal history. Along with the regular issue 
stamps Franklin however only appears on a few commemorative stamps. Some 
of the finest portrayals of Franklin on record can be found on the engravings 
inscribed on the face of U.S. postage.[188] "Advice to a Friend on Choosing 
a Mistress" is a letter written by Benjamin Franklin, dated June 25, 1745, 
in which Franklin gives advice to a young man about channeling sexual urges. 
Due to its licentious nature, the letter was not published in collections 
of Franklin's papers during the nineteenth century. Federal court decisions 
from the mid-to-late twentieth century cited the document as a reason for 
overturning obscenity laws, using it to make a case against censorship.[189] 
"The Princess and the Patriot: Ekaterina Dashkova, Benjamin Franklin and 
the Age of Enlightenment" exhibition opened in Philadelphia in February 
2006 and ran through December 2006. Benjamin Franklin and Dashkova met 
only once, in Paris in 1781. Franklin was 75 and Dashkova was 37. Franklin 
invited Dashkova to become the first woman to join the American Philosophical 
Society; she was the only woman so honored for another 80 years. Later, 
Dashkova reciprocated by making him the first American member of the Russian 
Academy of Sciences. As a founding father of the United States, Franklin's 
name has been attached to many things. Among these are: Franklin's father, 
Josiah Franklin, was a tallow chandler, a soap-maker and a candle-maker. 
Josiah was born at Ecton, Northamptonshire, England, on December 23, 1657, 
the son of Thomas Franklin, a blacksmith-farmer, and Jane White. Benjamin's 
mother, Abiah Folger, was born in Nantucket, Massachusetts, on August 15, 
1667, to Peter Folger (Governor Thomas Mayhew's assistant), a miller and 
schoolteacher, and his wife Mary Morrill, a former indentured servant. 
Josiah Franklin had 17 children with his two wives. He married his first 
wife, Anne Child, in about 1677 in Ecton and emigrated with her to Boston 
in 1683; they had three children before emigrating and four after. After 
her death, Josiah married Abiah Folger on July 9, 1689, in the Old South 
Meeting House by Samuel Willard. Benjamin, their eighth child, was Josiah 
Franklin's 15th child and tenth and last son. Benjamin Franklin's mother, 
Abiah Folger, was born into a Puritan family among those that fled to Massachusetts 
to establish a purified Congregationalist Christianity in New England, 
when King Charles I of England began persecuting Puritans. They sailed 
for Boston in 1635. Her father was "the sort of rebel destined to transform 
colonial America";[191] as clerk of the court, he was jailed for disobeying 
the local magistrate in defense of middle-class shopkeepers and artisans 
in conflict with wealthy landowners. Ben Franklin followed in his grandfather's 
footsteps in his battles against the wealthy Penn family that owned the 
Pennsylvania Colony. For young readers Biographical and guides Online writings 
Autobiography In the arts President of Pennsylvania (1785–1788), Ambassador 
