Coordinates: 40°36′12″N 74°0′7″W﻿ / ﻿40.60333°N 74.00194°W﻿ / 40.60333; 
-74.00194 Bensonhurst is a large, multiethnic neighborhood in the southwestern 
part of the New York City borough of Brooklyn, in the United States. As 
defined by the New York City Planning Commission, the neighborhood's borders 
are 14th Avenue and Dyker Heights to the west, 60th Street Borough Park 
to the north, McDonald Avenue and Avenue N Midwood to the east and northeast, 
Stillwell Avenue and 86th Street southeast Gravesend, and 86th Street and 
16th Avenue Bath Beach on the south and southwest.[1] It was well known 
as a Little Italy of Brooklyn due to its once large Italian-American population.[2] 
Bensonhurst has the largest population of residents born in China of any 
neighborhood in New York City and is now home to Brooklyn's second Chinatown.[3] 
The neighborhood accounts for 9.5% of the 330,000 Chinese-born residents 
of the city, based on data from 2007-2011.[4] Bensonhurst derives its name 
from Arthur W. Benson, the former president of Brooklyn Gas, who in 1835 
began buying farmland that formerly belonged to the Polhemus family. Between 
1835 and 1850 Benson divided the farmland into generous lots that were 
sold in the following decades as part of the newly created suburb of Bensonhurst 
by the Sea (current day Bath Beach section),[5] which was annexed into 
the 30th Ward of Brooklyn in the 1890s. Bensonhurst has a population of 
over 151,000 inhabitants as of the 2010 United States Census.[6] In the 
early 20th century, many Italians and Jews moved into the neighborhood, 
and prior to World War II the neighborhood was about equally Jewish and 
Italian.[7] In the 1950s, under pressure of an influx of immigrants from 
southern Italy and with new housing being built in the suburbs, the Jewish 
population began to decline and eventually, after several decades, most 
of the Jewish population left the neighborhood, leaving the area predominantly 
Italian. With a large Italian-American population, Bensonhurst is usually 
considered the main "Little Italy" of Brooklyn.[8] The Italian-speaking 
community remains over 20,000 strong, according to the census of 2000. 
But, the Italian-speaking community is becoming "increasingly elderly and 
isolated, with the small, tight-knit enclave in the city slowly disappearing 
as they give way to demographic changes." [9] Its main thoroughfare, 18th 
Avenue (also known as Cristoforo Colombo Boulevard) between roughly 60th 
Street and Shore Parkway, is lined with predominantly small, Italian family-owned 
businesses—many of which have remained in the same family for several generations. 
86th Street is another popular local thoroughfare, lined by the arches 
of the BMT West End Line. Around 1989, an influx of immigrants from China 
and the former USSR began to arrive, mainly from Southern China, Russia, 
Ukraine and Armenia. In the 1990s Bensonhurst rapidly grew in cultural 
diversity. Bensonhurst is home to many ethnic Albanian, Turkish, Uzbek, 
Arab, Iranians, Palestinian, Egyptian, Lebanese, Pakistani, Mexican, Guatemalan, 
Ecuadorian, and Puerto Rican Americans. In 2000, the New York City Department 
of City Planning determined that just over half of the residents were born 
in another country.[7] By 2013, then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced 
that the city's foreign-born population had reached a record high, and 
that Bensonhurst had the city's second-highest number of foreign-born people 
with 77,700 foreign born immigrants in the neighborhood, just after Washington 
Heights.[10] The annual Festa di Santa Rosalia (commonly known as "the 
Feast" to locals), is held on 18th Avenue from Bay Ridge Parkway (75th 
Street) to 66th Street in late August or early September. "The Feast" is 
presented by Bensonhurst resident and marketer Franco Corrado, as well 
as by the Santa Rosalia Society, on 18th Avenue. Born in Rome in 1955, 
Corrado has been an active social member of the Italian-American community 
for the past 20 years. St. Rosalia is the patron saint of the city of Palermo 
and is sometimes venerated as the patron for the entire island of Sicily. 
The annual end-of-summer celebration attracts thousands. Bensonhurt also 
hosts a Columbus Day parade. Like Lower Manhattan's Little Italy, Bensonhurst's 
Little Italy is declining with its Italian American population, superseded 
by Bensonhurst's rapidly expanding Chinatown and Chinese population.[11] 
Below the West End Line, served by the D train along on 86th Street between 
18th Avenue and Coney Island – Stillwell Avenue,[12] now emerging another 
Brooklyn Chinatown (布鲁克林華埠).[13] However, as of the 2010s it is still currently 
mixed in with different ethnic businesses and people, especially with many 
Italians and Russians still in the Bensonhurst neighborhood resembling 
more of Manhattan's Chinatown of the 1970s-80s when it was in expansion 
mode, but still mixed in with other ethnic enclaves.[14] Within recent 
years, most new businesses opening within this portion of Bensonhurst's 
86th Street, especially between 20th Avenue and 25th Avenue, have been 
Chinese. The D train is directly connected from the Grand Street station 
in Manhattan's Chinatown (紐約華埠) to this rapidly growing Chinese enclave 
between 18th Avenue and 25th Avenue, and it is becoming a third extension 
of Manhattan's Chinatown. It is also in some way becoming a second extension 
of Brooklyn's 8th Avenue Chinatown since the D trains are transferrable 
to the N train to travel to Brooklyn's 8th Avenue Chinatown.[15][16] On 
86th Street, Bensonhurst is home to growing Chinese restaurants including 
the 86 Wong Chinese Restaurant, which is one of the earliest Chinese restaurants 
and businesses to be established on this street.[17] Chinese grocery stores, 
salons, bakeries, and other types of Chinese businesses are also expanding 
swiftly on this street. With the large migration of the Cantonese as well 
as some Fuzhou people in Brooklyn now to Bensonhurst, and along with new 
Chinese immigration, other small Chinatowns have also started to emerge 
in other parts of Bensonhurst like 18th Avenue and Bay Parkway, but integrated 
with other ethnic groups and businesses. The N train stations are also 
located in these sections as well.[18][19][20][21][22][23] As a result, 
Bensonhurst now has several small emerging Chinatowns, but they are more 
scattered and mixed in with other ethnic enclaves in contrast to the Homecrest/Sheepshead 
Bay section of Brooklyn where there is only one small emerging Chinese 
enclave on Avenue U. This means Bensonhurst has much higher proportion 
of Chinese than the Homecrest/Sheepshead Bay area. The newly emerging Chinese 
enclaves in sections of Bensonhurst and another one in Homecrest/Sheepshead 
Bay are primarily Cantonese populated and are more of extensions of the 
Western Cantonese section of Manhattan's Chinatown or Little Hong Kong(小香港)/Little 
Guangdong(小廣東) or Cantonese Town (粵語埠). However, there are small numbers 
of Fuzhou and Mandarin speakers.[24][25][26] According to the Daily News, 
Brooklyn's Asian population, mainly Chinese, has grown tremendously not 
only in the Sunset Park area, but also in Bensonhurst, Dyker Heights, and 
Borough Park. In Bensonhurst alone, from 2000 to 2010, the Asian population 
increased by 57%. The study also shows that Asians very often live in houses 
that are divided into studio apartments, which means there is a possibility 
that the increased Asian population could be more than what the census 
represents and causing stressors on the growing Asian population in Brooklyn.[27] 
Chinese translation terms Bensonhurst as 本森社区. As there are no official 
neighborhood designations in New York City, Bensonhurst does not have any 
official boundaries.[28] Still, parts of Bath Beach, Mapleton, Dyker Heights, 
Gravesend, and Borough Park are sometimes considered parts of Bensonhurst.[7][29] 
However, Bensonhurst-proper includes the area bounded by 86th Street, 14th 
Avenue, 60th Street, McDonald Avenue, Avenue P, and Bay Parkway.[30] Bensonhurst 
is patrolled by the NYPD's 62nd Precinct.[31] McDonald Avenue from Avenue 
I to Kings Highway is sometimes considered the eastern boundary. The area's 
local post office is the U.S. Post Office-Parkville Station located at 
6618 20th Ave., was listed on the National Register of Historic Places 
in 1988.[32] Many of Bensonhurst's houses are attached or semidetached, 
though fully detached houses can be found in the west near Dyker Heights. 
These are mostly 20th century houses made of brick, stucco, and stone, 
with aluminum siding facades. After rezoning in the 2000s, many houses 
dating back over 90 years are being torn down and replaced by three-story 
brick apartment buildings and multi-family condominiums.[7] They are sometimes 
called "Fedders Houses" for their distinctive, standard air conditioner 
sleeves.[33] From 2002 to 2005, 1,200 new housing units in Bensonhurst 
were approved to accommodate the growing population including many foreign-born 
residents. With an increase in the area's real estate values, long-time 
homeowners sold their houses.[7] The New York City Department of Education 
serves Bensonhurst.[36] Zoned schools include: High schools include: Colleges 
and Universities The D train, which runs on the BMT West End Line above 
86th Street, provides a direct connection to Grand Street in Manhattan[7][37] 
while the N train, which runs on the BMT Sea Beach Line near 63rd Street, 
provides a direct connection to Canal Street.[7] This provides convenient 
commutes into Manhattan's Chinatown for the growing Bensonhurst Chinese 
population.[38] The Sea Beach Line has a station at Eighth Avenue in Brooklyn's 
Sunset Park Chinatown and a transfer to the West End Line is available 
at New Utrecht Avenue / 62nd Street. The IND Culver Line along McDonald 
Avenue, carrying the F train, also runs through the most northeastern end 
of Bensonhurst between the Bay Parkway and Kings Highway stations.[39] 
Subway stations in the neighborhood include New Utrecht Avenue / 62nd Street, 
71st Street, 79th Street, 18th Avenue, 18th Avenue, 20th Avenue, 20th Avenue, 
Bay Parkway, Bay Parkway, 25th Avenue, Avenue N and Avenue P.[39] The B1, 
B3, B4, B6, B8, B9, B64, B82 bus lines operate through Bensonhurst.[40] 
Bensonhurst has long been portrayed in film, art, and literature: Notable 
current and former residents of Bensonhurst include: A number of high-profile 
organized crime figures hail from Bensonhurst including Anthony Casso, 
Paul Castellano, Mikey DiLeonardo, Anthony Gaggi, Carlo Gambino, John Gambino, 
Sammy "The Bull" Gravano, Gregory Scarpa and Carmine Sessa. Chinese enclaves: 
