Bernardo 'Bernie' Carbo (born August 5, 1947 in Detroit, Michigan) is a 
former outfielder and designated hitter who played from 1969 through 1980 
for the Cincinnati Reds (1969–72), St. Louis Cardinals (1972–73, 1979–80), 
Boston Red Sox (1974–76, 1977–78), Milwaukee Brewers (1976), Cleveland 
Indians (1978) and Pittsburgh Pirates (1980). He batted left-handed and 
threw right-handed. He was raised in the Detroit suburb of Livonia and 
graduated in 1965 from Franklin High School, playing for the school's baseball 
team while there. Carbo was an outfielder who started his career with Cincinnati. 
He had been the Reds' number-one draft pick in the inaugural 1965 draft, 
ahead of Johnny Bench. In his 1970 rookie season, Carbo posted career highs 
in batting average (.310), home runs (21), runs batted in (63), hits (113), 
on-base percentage (.454), slugging average (.551), OPS (1,005) and games 
played (125). Carbo was selected Rookie of the Year by The Sporting News, 
but he slumped in the next two seasons and was sent to the Cardinals. Then, 
he was traded to Boston in 1973. The Cardinals sent Carbo and Rick Wise 
to the Red Sox for Reggie Smith and Ken Tatum. He said of coming to Boston: 
"When I first met [Red Sox owner] Mr. Yawkey, he was shining shoes in the 
clubhouse," said Carbo, "and I went up to him and gave him $20 and told 
him to get me a cheeseburger and fries." While playing for the Red Sox, 
he was a part of the "Buffalo Heads", with Bill "Spaceman" Lee and Ferguson 
Jenkins. Carbo would also carry around a giant stuffed gorilla that was 
named Mighty Joe Young. The gorilla sat next to him in the middle seat 
on planes. Carl Yastrzemski wanted the gorilla placed on the bat rack in 
the dugout.[1] On June 26, 1975, in a game against the Yankees, Carbo made 
a daring catch at the right-field wall at Fenway Park of a hit by Chris 
Chambliss, crashing into the wall and losing his chaw of tobacco, then 
asking the umpires for time so that he could search the outfield for the 
missing chaw; after holding up the game for nearly 10 minutes, he found 
it lying on the warning track and put it back in his mouth. [2] The 1975 
World Series matched the Red Sox with the heavily favored Cincinnati Reds, 
who were looking for their first title since 1940. Boston had also suffered 
a drought by not winning a Series since 1918. The clubs battled back and 
forth, with the Reds winning three of the first five games. Carbo was excited 
to see some of his old teammates. Carbo would be on the bench, and his 
former teammates were sympathetic. Clay Carroll inscribed a picture for 
him and it read "Good luck in the World Series.". After Game 3, when Carbo 
hit a home run off him, Carbo said, "They told me Carroll was in here and 
just went crazy, ripping up the picture into little pieces." Game 6 was 
postponed three days because of rain. Carbo did not join his teammates 
for batting practice at Tufts University because he said he couldn’t find 
it. He spent the early part of Game 6 working on his Louisville Slugger. 
"I’m sitting there and I’m whittling this bat, I took a lathe and took 
all the polish off. It's nice and smooth. Rick Wise is sitting next to 
me and says, ‘You know, you can’t use that bat. It doesn’t have an emblem 
on it.’ So as the game was going I took a magic marker and wrote ‘Louisville 
Slugger’ on it. That's how I kept myself amused." [1] In Game 6 (October 
21), with two outs and two batters on base in the eighth inning, Roger 
Moret was scheduled to bat. Darrell Johnson told Carbo to get ready. And 
I said, "Hey, I’m not going to hit. Juan Beníquez, grab a bat, you’re going 
to hit. Sparky's going to go to the lefthander because Sparky goes by the 
book." Darrell said, "Well, go up and stand on the on-deck circle." And 
they introduced me. So I’m still thinking Sparky will come out and take 
Rawly Eastwick out and go with Will McEnaney. But the umpire says, "C’mon, 
you’ve been announced, you’re hitting." So I go into the batter's box. 
I ain’t ready to hit. Next thing, strike one, strike two, ball one, ball 
two. Then he threw me a cut fastball, a little slider and I took it right 
out of Bench's glove — the ball just dribbled out. I step out and I’m thinking, 
"Aw man, I almost struck out. I was lucky." I hit the next pitch to center 
field. I rounded first base and I saw César Gerónimo going back. Rounding 
second, I knew it was gone and I’m yelling to Pete Rose, "Don’t you wish 
you were this strong?" And Pete is yelling back, "Ain’t this fun, Bernie? 
This is what the World Series is about. This is fun." Carbo's pinch three-run 
home run tied the score 6-all, paving the way for Carlton Fisk's game-winning 
homer in the bottom of the twelfth for a 7-6 Red Sox victory. Carbo's pinch 
homer was his second of the Series, tying Chuck Essegian's 16-year-old 
record for most in a World Series. Game 7, watched by an estimated 71 million 
TV viewers, saw the Reds triumph in the ninth inning on a bloop single 
by Joe Morgan for a 4-3 win. Tom Yawkey would pass away in 1976, and Carbo 
wept. Carbo saw Yawkey as a father figure, because his father did not really 
care about him. Even after his game tying home run in Game 6, he waited 
all night for a call and did not receive one. New owners Haywood Sullivan 
and Buddy LeRoux hired a private detective to follow Carbo. He was eventually 
sold to the Cleveland Indians in June 1978. This made Bill Lee mad and 
he called the owners "gutless" and staged a walkout. His major league career 
ended in 1980 with the Pittsburgh Pirates. Carbo went on to cosmetology 
school and opened a hairdressing salon. In 1985, in a federal drug distribution 
trial, former Cardinal Keith Hernandez said Carbo was the man who introduced 
him to cocaine in 1980. Carbo subsequently lost his house and his salon 
because of the bad publicity.[1] In 1989–90, while playing in a senior 
league in St. Petersburg, Florida, Carbo hit rock bottom. His mother had 
committed suicide, his father died two months later, and his family was 
disintegrating. He was spending $32000 a month on drugs (mostly cocaine). 
Dalton Jones, a member of the Red Sox 1967 Impossible Dream team, took 
one look at Carbo and said, "You need Jesus." [1] In a 12-year career, 
Carbo was a .264 hitter with 96 home runs and 358 RBI in 1010 games. Carbo 
was the field manager for the Pensacola Pelicans 2003–2005. Carbo compiled 
a record of 150–103 in his three seasons as the field manager, a winning 
percentage of .593. He led the Pelicans to the championship series in the 
independent Southeastern League in 2003, losing to the Baton Rouge RiverBats. 
Carbo resigned in February 2006, in order to return full-time to Diamond 
Club Ministry.[3] On April 1, 2010, in an interview with the Boston Globe, 
Carbo admitted to doing drugs during the 1975 World Series. He states, 
"I probably smoked two joints, drank about three or four beers, got to 
the ballpark, took some [amphetamines], took a pain pill, drank a cup of 
coffee, chewed some tobacco, had a cigarette, and got up to the plate and 
hit." It was not just a one-time binge, however. In the same article, Carbo 
states, "I played every game high. I was addicted to anything you could 
possibly be addicted to. I played the outfield sometimes where it looked 
like the stars were falling from the sky." "I threw away my career", said 
Carbo. "If I knew Jesus Christ was my savior at 17, I would have been one 
heck of a ballplayer, a near Hall of Famer. Instead, I wanted to die." 
[1] Carbo was out of baseball by age 33. After retiring, he spent time 
as a hairdresser.[4] He has since become a born again Christian. In 1993, 
he founded the evangelical organization "Diamond Club Ministry." [1] and 
now spends his time ministering to families and their children through 
his love for the game. He says he has not used drugs or alcohol in over 
fifteen years. On November 10, 2004, he was inducted to the Boston Red 
