Bernice Shiner Gera (June 15, 1931 – September 23, 1992) was the first 
female umpire in professional baseball.[1] Born in Ernest, Pennsylvania, 
Gera loved baseball as a child, but never considered a career in baseball 
until she was already in her mid thirties, married, and working as a secretary. 
According to a Time article, the idea to become an umpire just suddenly 
hit her one night. Gera sold her husband on the idea and enrolled in the 
Florida Baseball School in 1967. As umpiring had been a strictly male profession 
up to that point, the school had no facilities for Gera, and she spent 
much of the six-week program living in a nearby motel. By several reports, 
she excelled in her training, yet Gera was rejected by the National Association 
of Baseball Leagues (NABL), which claimed that she did not meet the physical 
requirements of the job.[2] Undeterred, Gera fought the NABL in court for 
several years. On January 13, 1972, Gera finally won a discrimination suit 
against the NABL,[3] and she received a contract to work in the New York–Penn 
League on April 13, opening the door for her to become the first female 
umpire in professional baseball.[4] On June 23, 1972, she gained national 
attention when she umpired the first game of a Class A minor league doubleheader 
between the Geneva Senators and Auburn Twins. In the fourth inning, Gera 
ruled Auburn base-runner Terry Ford safe at second on a double play, then 
reversed her call. Auburn manager Nolan Campbell disputed the decision 
and said that Gera's first mistake was putting on an umpire's uniform, 
and that her second was blowing the call. Campbell was ejected from the 
game, but Gera still decided to resign between games, saying she became 
disenchanted with umpiring when the other umpires refused to cooperate 
with her on the field.[5] She was scheduled to be the home plate umpire 
for the second game.[6] "Bernice would always say, 'I could beat them in 
the courts, but I can't beat them on the field,'" Steve Gera, her husband, 
quoted his wife as saying. Although she stopped umpiring, Bernice Gera 
stayed in the game. She went to work for the New York Mets in the team's 
community relations and promotions from 1974 to 1979 before retiring to 
Florida. Bernice died of kidney cancer in 1992 in Memorial Hospital West 
