Bernard Lafayette, Jr. (born July 29, 1940) is a longtime civil rights 
activist and organizer, who was a leader in the Civil Rights Movement. 
He played a leading role in early organizing of the Selma Voting Rights 
Movement; was a member of the Nashville Student Movement; and worked closely 
throughout the 1960s movements with groups such as the Student Nonviolent 
Coordinating Committee (SNCC), the Southern Christian Leadership Conference 
(SCLC), and the American Friends Service Committee.[1] Lafayette was born 
in Tampa, Florida. His parents were Bernard Lafayette, Sr., and Verdell 
Lafayette. Lafayette spent much of his childhood in Tampa. As a young man 
at the age of twenty, Lafayette moved to Nashville, Tennessee, and enrolled 
in the American Baptist Theological Seminary. During the course of his 
freshman year, he took classes in nonviolence at the Highlander Folk School 
run by Myles Horton, and attended many meetings promoting nonviolence. 
He learned more about the philosophy of nonviolence as lived by Mohandas 
Gandhi, while taking seminars from activist James Lawson, a well-known 
nonviolent representative of the Fellowship of Reconciliation. Lafayette 
began to use the nonviolent techniques as he became more exposed to the 
strong racial injustice of the South. In 1959, he, along with his fellow 
friends Diane Nash, James Bevel, and John Lewis, all members of the Nashville 
Student Movement, led sit-ins, such as the 1960 Lunch Counter Sit-In, at 
restaurants and businesses that practiced segregation. As a strong advocate 
of nonviolence, in 1960 Lafayette assisted in the formation of a group 
known as the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). In 1961, 
the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) initiated a movement to enforce 
federal integration laws on interstate bus routes. This movement, known 
as the Freedom Rides, had African American and white volunteers ride together 
on bus routes through the segregated South. Lafayette wanted to participate, 
but his parents forbade him. After the Freedom Riders were violently attacked 
in the city of Birmingham, Alabama, the Nashville Student Movement, of 
which Lafayette was a member, vowed to take over the journey. At the time, 
some civil rights leaders worried that the Freedom Rides were too provocative 
and would damage the movement. Despite many doubts, these Nashville students 
were determined to finish the job. In May 1961, in the city of Montgomery, 
Alabama, Lafayette and the other riders were "greeted" at the bus terminal 
by an angry white mob, members of Ku Klux Klan chapters, and were viciously 
attacked. The Freedom Riders were brutally beaten. Their attackers carried 
every makeshift weapon imaginable: baseball bats, wooden boards, bricks, 
chains, tire irons, pipes, and even garden tools.[2] During the Montgomery 
attack, Lafayette stood firm; his fellow riders William Barbee and John 
Lewis were beaten until they fell unconscious. Lafayette, Fred Leonard 
and Allen Cason narrowly escaped being killed by jumping over a wall and 
running to the post office. Everyone inside was carrying on individual 
business, just like nothing was happening outside.[2] Lafayette later stated, 
" I thought they were shooting Freedom Riders." It was the gunshot of Alabama's 
Director of Public Safety, Floyd Mann, who was fighting for the protection 
of the Freedom Riders. Lafayette with other Riders was arrested in Jackson, 
Mississippi, and jailed at Parchman State Prison Farm during June 1961.[3] 
During Lafayette's participation in civil rights activities, he was beaten 
and arrested 27 times.[citation needed] In the summer of 1962, Lafayette 
accepted a position with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 
(SNCC) to do organizing work in Selma, Alabama alongside his then wife 
Colia Liddell Lafayette.[4] Upon arriving in the city, he began leading 
meetings at which he spoke about the condition of African Americans in 
the South and encouraged local African Americans to share their experiences.[1] 
On the night of June 12, 1963, (the same night that Medgar Evers was murdered 
in Mississippi), Lafayette was severely beaten by a white assailant. While 
badly injured, he was not deterred from continuing his work.[1] In late 
1964, the board of Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) decided 
to join the ongoing Alabama Project organized by James Bevel, Diane Nash, 
and James Orange, and chose Selma as the focal point to gain voting rights 
for African Americans. In early 1965, Lafayette, Bevel, Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr., Orange, Nash and others organized a series of public demonstrations 
that finally, with the march from Selma-to-Montgomery initiated by Bevel, 
put enough pressure on the federal government to take action and gave enough 
support to President Lyndon Johnson for Johnson to demand the drafting 
and passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.[1] Lafayette went on to work 
on the 1966 Chicago Open Housing Movement (he had worked in Chicago earlier 
with Kale Williams, Bill Moyer, David Jehnsen and other leaders of the 
American Friends Service Committee). He later became ordained as a Baptist 
minister and served as president of the American Baptist Theological Seminary.[5] 
In 1973, Lafayette was named first director of the Peace Education Program 
at Gustavus Adolphus College, Saint Peter, Minnesota. The Gustavus program 
enabled Lafayette to infuse the entire curriculum of the college with peace 
education. Lafayette served this Lutheran liberal arts college for nearly 
three years. Lafayette has been recognized as a major authority on strategies 
for nonviolent social change.[6] He is also recognized as one of the leading 
exponents of nonviolent direct action in the world.[7] He was a Senior 
Fellow at the University of Rhode Island,[8] where he helped to found the 
Center for Nonviolence and Peace Studies. The Center promotes nonviolence 
education using a curriculum based on the principles and methods of Martin 
Luther King, Jr.[9] He is a Distinguished Scholar-in-Residence at the Candler 
School of Theology, at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia.[10] Lafayette 
was honored as a Doctor of Humane Letters from Mount Holyoke College, in 
May 2012. In 2014, The University of Rhode Island honored LaFayette with 
an honorary doctorate in recognition of his lifetime nonviolence leadership 
