The Best Nine Award is awarded annually to the best player at each position 
in both the Central League and Pacific League of Japanese professional 
baseball as determined by a pool of journalists. While the Best Nine Award 
was first presented to players following the 1940 season, it was not until 
1947 (after World War II) that it became an annual award. After the Japanese 
Baseball League was divided into Central and Pacific leagues in 1950, the 
award was presented to nine players from each league. Following the Pacific 
League's adoption of the DH rule in 1975, ten players (including the best 
designated hitter) have been chosen for the Best Nine Award in the Pacific 
League alone each year. Journalists vote on the best pitcher, catcher, 
first baseman, second baseman, third baseman, shortstop, and three outfielders 
(typically chosen on merit of best offensive numbers, with the exception 
of pitchers) in each of the two leagues. As is the case with the Silver 
Slugger Award, said to be the Major League equivalent of the award, left 
fielders, center fielders, and right fielders are not chosen separately. 
Voters for the award are chosen from journalists employed by national newspaper, 
broadcast, or communication outlets with five or more years of experience 
in covering professional baseball. Each voter selects one player at each 
position in each league; the player with the most votes at each position 
receives the Best Nine Award. Until 2004, the winning players of the award 
were announced two days after the final game of the Japan Series; from 
2005 onwards, the winners have been announced at the Professional Baseball 
Convention, the NPB's annual awards ceremony. Because of the nature of 
the voting process, it is possible, although exceedingly rare, that two 
or more players may end up with the same number of votes at any given position. 
In 2004, Masahiro Araki of the Chunichi Dragons and Greg LaRocca, then 
of the Hiroshima Carp, were tied for most votes for the Central League 
second baseman, the first time a tie had occurred since the current two-league 
system was adopted. In addition, it is also possible that a players ends 
up with the most votes at more than one position in the same season. In 
1966, then-Nankai Hawks infielder Yasuhiro Kunisada ended up with the most 
votes at both second base and third base in the Pacific League. He only 
received the award at second base, and the award for best third baseman 
went to Tony Roig of the Nishitetsu Lions. In the Central League, the pitcher 
that receives the Best Nine Award is also named the league's Most Valuable 
Pitcher. This is not the case in the Pacific League, where the pitcher 
with the highest winning percentage (among those that have thrown the required 
