University of Louisiana at Lafayette Political activist Elizabeth Ann Rickey, 
known as Beth Rickey (June 11, 1956 – September 12, 2009), was a Republican 
political activist from Louisiana who exposed the neo-Nazi connections[1] 
of former State Representative David Duke, who ran for the U.S. Senate 
and for governor of Louisiana in 1990 and 1991, respectively, under the 
GOP label though opposed by the party leadership. Rickey was born in Lafayette 
to Horace B. Rickey, Jr. (1901–1967), a veteran of World War II, and the 
former Flora Ann Womack (1921–1998). Rickey, who was single, had a brother, 
Robert Harper Rickey and his wife, Karen Elizabeth Rickey, of Devon, England.[2] 
An uncle, Branch Rickey, was a Major League Baseball executive who in 1947 
signed Jackie Robinson to play for the Brooklyn Dodgers, the first black 
player so designated.[3][4] Rickey's family was Republican. Horace Rickey 
was the early 1960s the secretary of the Louisiana Republican State Central 
Committee[5] on which his daughter would later be a member. The Rickeys 
supported both Barry Goldwater in 1964 and Ronald Reagan in 1980 and 1984 
for President. She received her Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts in 
government at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. She taught government 
at Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond until she entered Ph.D. 
studies at Tulane University.[6] David Duke has not changed his views even 
though he says he has. ... There is a difference between being a conservative 
and being a racist. He's trying to blur that distinction.[7] In 1988, Rickey 
received only 135 votes but won the House District 93 slot on the 144-member 
Louisiana Republican State Central Committee.[8] She was considered one 
of the more moderate members of the RSCC. Living in New Orleans, and attending 
Tulane, Rickey began to follow Duke in 1991 to various appearances across 
the state and nation, and discovered his continuing involvement with radical 
groups that he had supposedly repudiated. On more than one occasion, Duke 
met with Rickey to try to convince her that he was a mainstream conservative 
who could be trusted with political office. Duke called Rickey on the telephone, 
took her to lunch, and even introduced her to his two daughters."[1] Quin 
Hillyer of the Washington Times in Washington, D.C., a personal friend 
of Rickey's, said that her revelations did the most to stop the election 
of Duke as governor. With three weeks before the election, Duke was running 
in a dead heat in public opinion polls against the Democratic candidate, 
former Governor Edwin Washington Edwards. Hillyer said that "Duke had the 
momentum. What Duke could never escape, though, was all the evidence that 
he truly was a neo-Nazi, rather than what he claimed to be: a next-generation 
Reaganite conservative with a long-ago tawdry Ku Klux Klan past that he 
had thoroughly put behind him. Much of that evidence was unearthed by Beth 
Rickey."[1] Rickey had supported David C. Treen for governor in 1972, when 
Treen was defeated by Edwards, and in 1979, when Treen was narrowly elected 
to the state's highest post over the Democrat Louis Lambert. She also campaigned 
for Treen's brother, John S. Treen, a businessman from Metairie, who lost 
the District 81 state representative special election runoff to Duke in 
1989. Rickey even left her Tulane studies to work in the Treen campaign. 
The House seat opened when Republican Charles Cusimano of Jefferson Parish 
resigned to become a state court judge.[1] Rickey followed Duke to a national 
gathering in Chicago, Illinois, where she taped him making a racist remark. 
She released the tape and arranged for detectives to visit Duke's residence 
and legislative office where he was found selling Nazi books. As a Republican 
central committee member, she introduced a resolution to censure Duke, 
but the move was tabled because the committee has jurisdiction only over 
its own members, and Duke has never been a member of the state committee. 
The publicity generated by Rickey hurt Duke among Republican leaders and 
voters who questioned his Nazi ties. Signs appeared saying, "Vote for the 
Crook. It's Important", a reference to Edwards' ethical conduct. The campaign 
was also known as "the election from Hell." Rickey started getting death 
threats and hired security guards to watch her apartment.[3] Duke tried 
to convince Rickey, that he was a mainstream conservative in the post-Reagan 
era. As their communication developed, Rickey said that Duke told her that 
Jews were responsible for most of the nation's problems.[1] Rickey, journalist 
Quin Hillyer, and eight other Duke critics formed a new organization to 
hound the candidate in the weeks left in the gubernatorial campaign. The 
Louisiana Coalition against Racism and Nazism included figures from both 
parties, Christian ministers, Jewish activists, and various liberal scholars. 
The coalition prevailed, as Edwards defeated Duke, 61.2 to 38.8 percent. 
Duke never recovered politically and was later incarcerated for tax and 
mail fraud.[1] Edwards himself was sent to federal prison in Oakdale, Louisiana, 
on a conviction of racketeering. David Treen, whose political career had 
been launched in part to defeat Edwin Edwards, in 1972 and 1983, wound 
up supporting Edwards in 1991 to block the potential election of Duke as 
a Republican governor. He also later tried to get the George W. Bush administration 
to commute Edwards' prison sentence. Treen declared that Duke "simply is 
not believable. He is an opportunist who will say whatever is necessary 
to gain him votes. . . .To my Republican friends, therefore, I say do not 
be persuaded in favor of Duke simply because he has adopted the Republican 
label…. Duke affiliated with the Republican Party for one reason and one 
reason only: pure political opportunism. It is my judgment that David Duke 
must be defeated. He can't be defeated by voters staying at home out of 
disaffection for both candidates for governor.… There are but two names 
on the ballot: David Duke and Edwin Edwards. To defeat David Duke, one 
must vote for Edwin Edwards. That's what I will do."[9] The GOP state convention 
in the spring of 1991 had endorsed neither Duke nor incumbent Democrat-turned-Republican 
Governor Buddy Roemer, but instead conservative U.S. Representative Clyde 
Holloway of Forest Hill in Rapides Parish. Holloway, now a member of the 
Louisiana Public Service Commission, finished far behind in the nonpartisan 
blanket primary. Duke then went into the general election with Edwards 
on November 16, 1991. Roemer finished a strong third but was eliminated 
in the primary. Rickey said that "some members of the Republican Party 
are not sure what Duke's views are. My point is there is a difference between 
being a conservative and being a racist. He's trying to blur that distinction."[7] 
The Times-Picayune theorized that Louisiana voters might not have rejected 
Duke if Rickey had not made his exposure her life's crusade. ". . . Without 
Rickey, [voters] would never have known how big a fraud and unreconstructed 
Nazi [Duke] was. The media never had a more prolific and intrepid source 
[than Rickey]. If you weren't around here at the time, you could hardly 
credit what a threat Duke posed, although he was best known as a former 
Grand Wizard in the Klan who had at various times spoken warmly of Adolf 
Hitler. Duke's meteoric rise obviously signified that plenty of voters 
shared, or were at least prepared to overlook, his racist views. But he 
had been at great pains to create a more moderate persona, appearing in 
natty suits, and adopting the pose of a mainstream conservative politician 
who happened to have been a 'rascal"'in his long-ago youth. He was glib 
and, thanks to his plastic surgeon, quite photogenic. "With an electorate 
in a fit over welfare cheats and high taxes, there was no need, at least 
in polite society, for an explicit, white supremacist spiel. Duke was adept 
at telling white voters what a lot of them wanted to hear, and that is 
always the best way to come across as smart and reasonable."[10] In her 
later years, Rickey fell on hard times with declining health and financial 
woes. She took a church mission trip to Mexico in 1996 and returned with 
a mysterious virus which ruined her health.[1] Thereafter, she was diagnosed 
with Crohn's disease and hypertension. She was a former Presbyterian who 
had converted to Roman Catholicism.[citation needed] Unable to find steady 
employment and with high-deductible health insurance coverage, she had 
practically exhausted her life savings before being found dead with a pitcher 
of iced tea in her hand at the Silver Saddle Motel in Santa Fe, New Mexico. 
A friend had paid for a week of lodging for Rickey. Ironically, a concerned 
social worker found a philanthropist willing to help, but the offer came 
too late. Rickey first went to Santa Fe to escape Hurricane Katrina (2005) 
but had been in the New Mexico capital for the last time just a few weeks 
prior to her death at age fifty-three.[3] David Treen died in 2009 at the 
age of eighty-one, just six weeks after the passing of his longtime supporter 
Beth Rickey. In 2000, along with another New Orleans Republican, Marilyn 
Thayer, Rickey was inducted into the Louisiana Center for Women in Government 
and Business Hall of Fame at Nicholls State University in Thibodaux in 
