Bethlehem is a city in Lehigh and Northampton counties in the Lehigh Valley 
region of the eastern portion of the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. As of 
the 2010 census, the city had a total population of 74,982, making it the 
seventh largest city in Pennsylvania, after Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Allentown, 
Erie, Reading, and Scranton.[2] Of this, 55,639 were in Northampton County, 
and 19,343 were in Lehigh County. Bethlehem lies in the center of the Lehigh 
Valley, a region of 731 square miles (1,893 km²) that is home to more than 
800,000 people. Together with Allentown and Easton, the Valley embraces 
the Allentown-Bethlehem-Easton, PA-NJ metropolitan area, including Lehigh, 
Northampton, and Carbon counties within Pennsylvania, and Warren County 
in the adjacent state of New Jersey. Smaller than Allentown but larger 
than Easton, Bethlehem is the Lehigh Valley's second most populous city. 
In turn, this metropolitan area comprises Pennsylvania's third-largest 
metropolitan area and the state's largest and most populous contribution 
to the greater New York City metropolitan area. There are four general 
sections of the city: central Bethlehem, the south side, the east side, 
and the west side. Each of these sections blossomed at different times 
in the city's development and each contains areas recognized under the 
National Register of Historic Places. Zip codes that use the address Bethlehem 
totaled 116,000 in population in the year 2000. These zip codes include 
Bethlehem Township and Hanover Township. In July 2006, Money magazine placed 
Bethlehem as number 88 on its "Top 100 Best Places to Live."[3] The areas 
along the Delaware River and its tributaries in eastern Pennsylvania were 
long inhabited by indigenous peoples of various cultures. By the time of 
European contact, these areas were the historic territory of the Algonquian-speaking 
Lenape Nation, which had three main divisions, the Unami, Unalachtigo, 
and Munsee. They traded with the Dutch and then English colonists in the 
mid-Atlantic area. On Christmas Eve in 1741, David Nitschmann and Count 
Nicolaus von Zinzendorf, leading a small group of Moravians, founded the 
mission community of Bethlehem along the banks of the Monocacy Creek by 
the Lehigh River in the colony of Pennsylvania. They came to set up missionary 
communities among the Native Americans and unchurched German-speaking Christians. 
They named the settlement after the Biblical town Bethlehem of Judea, the 
birthplace of Jesus. "Count Zinzendorf said, 'Brothers, how more fittingly 
could we call our new home than to name it in honor of the spot where the 
event we now commemorate took place. We will call this place Bethlehem.' 
And so was Bethlehem named after the birthplace of the Man of Peace.'" 
(from a letter by Gordon Dent to Mr. T. Donald Bain March 3, 1965 quoting 
from "Story of Bethlehem Steel" by Arundel Cotter, more details are given 
in this article) Originally it was a typical Moravian Settlement Congregation, 
where the Church owned all the property. Until the 1850s, only members 
of the Moravian Church were permitted to lease land plots in Bethlehem. 
The historic Brethren's House, Sisters' House, Widows' House and Gemeinhaus 
(Congregation House) with the Old Chapel are remnants of this period of 
communal living. The Moravians ministered to regional Lenape Native Americans 
through their mission in the area, as well as further east in the New York 
colony. In the historic Bethlehem God's Acre cemetery, converted Lenape 
lie buried alongside the Moravians. In 1762, Bethlehem built the first 
water-works in America to pump water for public use. While George Washington 
and his troops stayed in Valley Forge, Washington stored his personal effects 
at the farm of James Burnside in Bethlehem – as of 1998[update] a historical 
museum (Burnside Plantation).[4] The prosperous village was incorporated 
into a free borough in the County of Northampton in 1845. After the Unity 
Synod of 1848, Bethlehem became the headquarters of the Northern Province 
of the Moravian Church in North America.[5] On March 27, 1900, the Bach 
Choir of Bethlehem presented the United States debut of German Lutheran 
Johann Sebastian Bach's Mass in B Minor in the city's Central Moravian 
Church. After the Civil War the Borough of South Bethlehem was formed. 
In 1886 the Borough of West Bethlehem (in Lehigh County) was formed. In 
1904, the Boroughs of West Bethlehem (in Lehigh County) and Bethlehem (in 
Northampton County) merged. In 1917, the Borough of South Bethlehem and 
Bethlehem merged to become the City of Bethlehem, with Archibald Johnston 
(1865-1948) selected as the new city's first mayor. Bethlehem Township, 
Pennsylvania has remained a separate political entity. Even after the merger 
of the two boroughs, the bureau initially provided a count for the original 
sections. Bethlehem became a center of heavy industry and trade during 
the industrial revolution. The Bethlehem Steel Corporation (1857–2003), 
founded and based in Bethlehem, was once the second-largest steel producer 
in the United States, after Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based U.S. Steel. 
Bethlehem Steel was also one of the largest shipbuilding companies in the 
world and one of the most powerful symbols of American industrial manufacturing 
leadership. Bethlehem Steel began producing the first wide-flange structural 
shapes made in the United States and they pioneered the production of the 
now-ubiquitous "I-beam" used in construction of steel-framed buildings, 
including skyscrapers. It manufactured construction materials for numerous 
New York and other city skyscrapers, as well as for major bridges. The 
company became a major supplier of armor plate and ordnance products during 
World War I and World War II, including the manufacture of 1,100 warships. 
After roughly 140 years of metal production at its Bethlehem plant, Bethlehem 
Steel ceased operations there in 1995, in the face of overseas competition 
and declining demand. On December 7, 1937, at a grand ceremony during the 
Great Depression, Mrs. Marion Brown Grace pulled a large switch to turn 
on the new Christmas street lights and a large wooden star. Mrs. Grace 
was the daughter of former South Bethlehem burgess, Charles F. Brown, and 
wife of Eugene Grace, President of Bethlehem Steel Corporation. Hundreds 
of citizens attended the ceremony and thousands more listened to the speeches 
and musical performances on the radio. This was the first year the Bethlehem 
Chamber of Commerce adopted the nickname "Christmas City, USA". The Hotel 
Bethlehem was chosen for the ceremony because it was built on the site 
of the first building in Bethlehem – a two-room log house – where on Christmas 
Eve 1741, the original settlers conducted their evening worship. As their 
benefactor, Count Zinzendorf, observed the farm animals that shared the 
space and listened to them sing the hymn, "Not Jerusalem, But Lowly Bethlehem", 
he proclaimed the name of the settlement to be Bethlehem. The people gathered 
at the 1937 ceremony heard the same words when the Bach Choir sang the 
old German hymn, "Jesu, Rufe Mich (Jesus, Call Thou Me)", by Adam Drese. 
The Bethlehem Globe-Times paid for the large wooden star erected on the 
top of South Mountain, at a cost of $460. The original star was created 
with four wooden planks, overlapped to create an eight-point star, 60 feet 
high by 51 feet wide, mounted on two wooden poles, and lit by 150 50-watt 
light bulbs. The installation of the star was done by Pennsylvania Power 
and Light and the Bethlehem Water Department. The star was erected on the 
top of South Mountain, on property owned by the Water Department, located 
in Lower Saucon Township. In 1939, the wooden star was replaced with a 
star made of Bethlehem steel, at a cost of $5,000. It had eight rays, with 
the main horizontal ray 81 feet wide and the main vertical ray 53 feet 
high. In 1967, the current star, 91 feet high, was installed on the old 
steel frame and set in a concrete base 25 feet wide by 5 feet deep. Plexiglas 
was installed to protect the 250 50-watt light bulbs. In the summer of 
2006, the city repaired the base. A crew of municipal electricians changes 
the bulbs every two years. Beginning in the mid-1990s, the star was lit 
from 4:30 p.m. until midnight, every day of the year. During World War 
II, from 1941 to 1945, none of the Christmas decorations in Bethlehem were 
lit. City officials said the lit star made "too good of an air raid target"[citation 
needed] and "during the global strife it didn't seem right for the lights 
to be all lit up when our boys were out in the darkness fighting for us".[citation 
needed] When lit, the star can be seen from as far as Wind Gap, 20 miles 
(32 km) away. The star has become an important symbol for Bethlehem. According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 19.4 square 
miles (50 km2), of which, 19.3 square miles (50 km2) of it is land and 
0.2 square miles (0.52 km2) of it (0.88%) is water. Because large volumes 
of water were required in the steelmaking process, the city purchased 22,000 
acres (8,900 ha) of land in the Pocono Mountains, where its water is stored 
in reservoirs. Bethlehem is about 50 miles (80 km) north of Philadelphia 
and about 80 miles (130 km) west of New York City. Bethlehem's climate 
falls in the humid continental or minimal criteria of the humid subtropical 
climate zone, depending on the preferred January isotherm. Summers are 
typically hot and humid, fall and spring are generally mild, and winter 
is cold. Precipitation is distributed throughout the year, with thunderstorms 
in the summer, showers in spring and fall, and snow in winter. The average 
high temperature varies widely, from 36 °F (2 °C) in January to 84 °F (29 °C) 
in July. The highest recorded temperature was 105 °F (41 °C), while the 
lowest recorded temperature was −16 °F (−27 °C). Bethlehem falls under 
the USDA 6b Plant Hardiness zone.[6] Bethlehem is divided into four main 
areas: Center City, West Side, East Side, and South Side. The West Side 
is located in Lehigh County, while the other three neighborhoods are located 
in Northampton county. As of the census[10] of 2010, there were 74,982 
people residing in the city. There were 31,221 housing units, with 5.9% 
vacant. The racial makeup of the city was 76.4% White, 6.9% African American, 
0.3% Native American, 2.9% Asian, 0.0% Pacific Islander, 10.0% from other 
races, and 3.4% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race 
were 24.4% of the population. As of the census[10] of 2000, there were 
71,329 people residing in the city, including 17,094 families and 28,116 
households. The population density was 3,704.4 people per square mile (1,429.9/km²). 
There were 29,631 housing units at an average density of 1,538.8 per square 
mile (594.0/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 81.85% White, 3.64% 
African American, 0.26% Native American, 2.22% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 
9.44% from other races, and 2.56% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 18.23% of the population. There were 28,116 households, 
out of which 26.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 44.1% 
were married couples living together, 12.8% had a female householder with 
no husband present, and 39.2% were non-families. 32.3% of all households 
were made up of individuals, and 14.4% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.34 and the average 
family size was 2.95. In the city, the population was spread out, with 
21.0% under the age of 18, 14.4% from 18 to 24, 26.6% from 25 to 44, 20.1% 
from 45 to 64, and 17.9% who were 65 years of age or older. The median 
age was 36 years. For every 100 females there were 91.5 males. For every 
100 females age 18 and over, there were 88.6 males. The median income for 
a household in the city was $35,815, and the median income for a family 
was $45,354. Males had a median income of $35,190 versus $25,817 for females. 
The per capita income for the city was $18,987. About 11.1% of families 
and 15.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 20.7% 
of those under age 18 and 8.8% of those age 65 or over. The city is served 
by Lehigh Valley International Airport, which also serves Allentown, Pennsylvania 
and the greater Lehigh Valley. In December 2006, Las Vegas Sands Corp was 
awarded a Category 2 Slot Machine License by the Pennsylvania Gaming Control 
Board. LVSC began work on the site, categorized as both the largest brownfield 
redevelopment project in the nation and the largest casino development 
investment made to date in the Commonwealth. Its mission was to create 
reinvestment and urbanization in the area. At a projected cost of $743 
million, the historic Bethlehem Steel plant is being redeveloped as a fully 
integrated resort, to include 3,000 slot machines, over 300 hotel rooms, 
9 restaurants, 200,000 square feet (19,000 m2) of retail outlet shopping, 
and 46,000 square feet (4,300 m2) of flexible multi-purpose space.[12] 
In 2007, the casino resort company of Las Vegas Sands began the construction 
of Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem. The Sands Casino has been projected to 
bring in approximately one million dollars in revenue per day as of 2009. 
Another major economic anchor to the city is St. Luke's Hospital located 
in neighboring Fountain Hill. That Hospital and Health Network is the second 
largest of its type in the Lehigh Valley. Other major employers include 
B. Braun, Lehigh University, and the Guardian Life Insurance Company of 
America.[13] Other companies in Bethlehem include the candy company Just 
Born. The city has also experienced many new shops opening along Main Street 
Downtown and along E. Third Street on the South Side. Several years ago, 
W. Broad Street between N. New Street and Guetter Street was an outdoor 
pedestrian mall, similar to the former Hamilton Mall in Allentown. Like 
the Hamilton Mall, the pedestrian mall was torn up and made into W. Broad 
Street. Adjacent to W. Broad Street is the Bethlehem Plaza Mall, a 90,000 
square feet (8,400 m2) enclosed shopping mall. Outside of Downtown there 
are several other shopping centers. In Bethlehem Township The city government 
is composed of a mayor and a seven-person city council. The current mayor 
is Robert Donchez who was sworn in on January 6, 2014. The previous mayor 
of Bethlehem was John B. Callahan, who was elected to his second term in 
November 2005. His election marked the 10th consecutive year a Democrat 
has held the city's highest office.[14] Callahan is a member of the Mayors 
Against Illegal Guns Coalition,[15] a bi-partisan group with a stated goal 
of "making the public safer by getting illegal guns off the streets." The 
Coalition was founded by former Boston Mayor Thomas Menino and New York 
City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Federally, Bethlehem is part of Pennsylvania's 
15th congressional district, represented by Republican Charlie Dent, elected 
in 2004. Bethlehem has a significantly lower crime rate than that of Allentown 
and Easton. In 2008, Bethlehem had an overall crime index of 244.4,[16] 
while Allentown's crime index was 510.4[17] and Easton's crime index was 
379.2.[18] The United States' average was 320.9. Bethlehem is home to three 
institutes of higher education. Lehigh University, located on South Mountain 
on the city's South Side, has 4,800 undergraduates and 2,100 graduate students.[19] 
The university, which was founded in 1865, was ranked No. 35 in U.S. News 
& World Report's 2010 ratings of America's best colleges.[20] Moravian 
College, located in the center city area, is a small, highly respected 
liberal arts college. Founded in 1742 as Bethlehem Female Seminary, Moravian 
is the sixth oldest college in the nation.[21] Besides undergraduate programs, 
the college also includes the Moravian Theological Seminary, a graduate 
school with approximately 100 students from more than a dozen religious 
denominations.[22] The International Institute for Restorative Practices 
is a graduate school dedicated to the advanced education of professionals 
and to the conduct of research that can develop the growing field of restorative 
practices.[23] The IIRP offers two master's degrees: the Master of Restorative 
Practices and Education (MRPE) and the Master of Restorative Practices 
and Youth Counseling (MRPYC). The IIRP also offers an 18-credit Graduate 
Certificate in Restorative Practices.[24] The main campus of Northampton 
Community College is located in neighboring Bethlehem Township, but it 
does have a satellite campus within the city. Bethlehem is home to the 
Bethlehem Area School District (BASD), which covers a 40-square-mile (100 km2) 
area that includes the city, the boroughs of Fountain Hill and Freemansburg, 
and Bethlehem and Hanover Townships.[25] The district operates two high 
schools for grades 9–12: Liberty High School near center city and Freedom 
High School in neighboring Bethlehem Township. The district also has four 
public middle schools for grades 6–8: Broughal Middle School, East Hills 
Middle School, Nitschmann Middle School, and Northeast Middle School. In 
addition, BASD maintains 16 public elementary schools for grades K-5: Asa 
Packer Elementary School, Calypso Elementary School, Clearview Elementary 
School, Donegan Elementary School, Farmersville Elementary School, Fountain 
Hill Elementary School, Freemansburg Elementary School, Governor Wolf Elementary 
School, Hanover Elementary School, James Buchanan Elementary School, Lincoln 
Elementary School, Marvine Elementary School, Miller Heights Elementary 
School, Spring Garden Elementary School, Thomas Jefferson Elementary School, 
and William Penn Elementary School. Lehigh Valley Charter High School for 
the Arts is also operated by the district, though it accepts students in 
grades 9–12 from throughout Northampton and surrounding counties. Bethlehem 
has two private high schools: Bethlehem Catholic High School, which serves 
grades 9–12, and Moravian Academy, which serves all primary and secondary 
school grades. Notre Dame High School, located just north of the city, 
also serves grades 9 through 12. Bethlehem Catholic, Freedom and Liberty 
all compete athletically in Pennsylvania's Eastern Pennsylvania Conference. 
Bethlehem's daily newspaper, The Globe-Times, ceased publication in 1991. 
The Morning Call, based in Allentown, and The Express-Times, based in Easton, 
are now the city's dominant newspapers. Other smaller newspapers include 
the Bethlehem Press; an award-winning weekly, Pulse Weekly, based in Allentown; 
Eastern Pennsylvania Business Journal, based in Bethlehem; and Lehigh Valley 
Sports Extra, an all-sports monthly newspaper founded in 2001. Religious 
broadcaster WBPH is the only television station licensed in Bethlehem, 
though WLVT Channel 39, a PBS affiliate, has its operations in the city. 
WFMZ Channel 69, an independent station, is based in neighboring Allentown. 
Bethlehem is part of the Philadelphia DMA and its cable systems also receive 
select radio and television broadcasts from New York City. Bethlehem has 
two licensed commercial radio stations, variety WGPA AM, and hard rock 
WZZO FM (though the latter's facilities are in Whitehall Township). There 
is also one non-commercial station, WLVR FM, operated by Lehigh University. 
In addition, public radio station WDIY FM, while licensed in Allentown, 
maintains its facilities in Bethlehem. There are numerous other stations 
broadcast from Allentown and Easton representing a variety of commercial 
formats, as well as several translators of public stations from Philadelphia 
and New Jersey. A semi-professional football team, the Lehigh Valley Storm, 
is based in the city. Bethlehem is also home to the Lehigh Valley Steelhawks, 
a Professional Indoor Football League team who played their home games 
at Stabler Arena in Bethlehem till they moved to PPL Center in Allentown 
for 2014. From 1996 to 2012, the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football 
League held their pre-season training camp each summer at the football 
facilities of Bethlehem's Lehigh University. As of 2013, the contract expired 
with the Philadelphia Eagles choosing to hold pre-season camp closer to 
home in South Philadelphia.[26] Bethlehem also is home to Lehigh University's 
Stabler Arena, which hosts numerous athletic and music events. Stabler 
is home to the Professional Indoor Football League's Lehigh Valley Steelhawks 
and to Lehigh University collegiate basketball. Bethlehem-area high schools, 
including Bethlehem Catholic High School, Freedom High School and Liberty 
High School, compete athletically in the Eastern Pennsylvania Conference. 
In the early part of the 20th century, Bethlehem had a corporate soccer 
team, the Bethlehem Steel F.C., which won the 1918–19 championship in the 
National Association Football League (NAFL), and then won what amounted 
to national championships three more times during the next decade (1920–21 
in the NAFL; 1926–27 in the American Soccer League I; and in 1928–29 winning 
the EPSL II). The Bethlehem Steel sides consisted largely of British imported 
players and also had the distinction of being the first American professional 
soccer team to play in Europe, which it did during its tour of Sweden in 
1919. The team also won the National Challenge Cup, now called the Lamar 
Hunt U.S. Open Cup after billionaire sports franchise owner Lamar Hunt, 
five times beginning in 1915, and for the last time in 1926. The Lehigh 
Valley RFC rugby union team play their home matches at Monocacy Park. The 
city is famous for its annual Musikfest, a largely free, ten-day music 
festival that draws over a million people to the city each August. Other 
festivals include The Celtic Classic, which celebrates Celtic culture, 
food and music,[27] and the SouthSide Film Festival, a non-competitive, 
not-for-profit film festival. The city has also been the past, and current 
host of the North East Art Rock Festival, or NEARFest, a popular 3-day 
Progressive rock music event. The Bethlehem Area Public Library is a popular 
destination for recreation and entertainment.[28] The Banana Factory houses 
studios of area artists and is open to the public every first Friday of 
the month.[29] Touchstone Theatre, also on the SouthSide, houses the Valley's 
only professional resident theatre company, producing and presenting original 
theatre performances.[30] Historic Bethlehem features many specialized 
boutiques, spas and nightclubs along its main streets. On the first Friday 
of the month, the businesses of the Southside Shopping District hosts First 
Friday,[31] a celebration of arts and culture. Stores, restaurants and 
art galleries stay open late and offer special discounts, refreshments, 
gallery openings and more. Lehigh University's Zoellner Arts Center offers 
a variety of musical and dramatic events through the year. The city is 
the location of Pennsylvania's largest casino, the Sands Casino Resort 
Bethlehem, located on the former Bethlehem Steel property. The Lehigh Canal 
provides hiking and biking opportunities along the canal towpath which 
follows the Lehigh River in Bethlehem. The western part of the former Bethlehem 
Steel site was selected as a filming location for the movie Transformers: 
Revenge of the Fallen, which was released in 2009. In the film, the Steel's 
blast furnaces and surrounding area are used for the opening sequence of 
the film to represent Shanghai. In spring 2011, the city opened Steel Stacks, 
a ten-acre campus that showcases music, art, festivals, films and educational 
programming throughout the year.[32] It is located in the backdrop of the 
blast furnaces of the former Bethlehem Steel plant. Bethlehem owns 39 park 
sites, encompassing 568 acres (2.3 km2). Among the city's parks are Buchannan 
Park, Elmwood Park, Illick's Mill Park, Johnston Park, Monocacy Park, Rockland 
Park, Rose Garden, Sand Island, Saucon Park, Sell Field, South Mountain 
