The Bethesda Big Train is a collegiate summer baseball team based in Bethesda, 
Maryland. Most of its players are drawn from the college ranks. The team 
is a member of the Cal Ripken Collegiate Baseball League (CRCBL), and derives 
its name from the nickname of Hall of Fame pitcher Walter Johnson,[1] who 
was a Bethesda resident for ten years.[2] The Big Train plays its home 
games at Shirley Povich Field. The Big Train is owned and operated by the 
non-profit The Bethesda Community Base Ball Club, Inc., and is funded through 
merchandise sales, donations, and other fundraising efforts at games. As 
of March 2008, 34 Big Train Alumni have played professional baseball.[3] 
The Bethesda Community Baseball Club, Inc. was founded in 1998 "to raise 
funds to improve the quality of youth baseball and softball fields in Montgomery 
County and the District of Columbia." Proceeds from the operations of the 
Bethesda Big Train are used to further this mission. As of March 2008 the 
Club reports they have raised $300,000 in support of this mission.[4] The 
Big Train commenced play in 1999 as part of the Clark Griffith League (CGL). 
In 2004, they won the CGL championship.[5] In 2005 the Big Train joined 
the Cal Ripken Collegiate Baseball League (CRCBL).[6] That first year, 
the team won the league championship and shared the post-season tournament 
championship with the Silver Spring-Takoma Thunderbolts. In 2006 the Big 
Train were the regular season champions.[7] In 2009, the Big Train won 
both the regular and postseason championships. In 2010, the Big Train captured 
their 2nd straight CRCBL Championship after placing 3rd in the regular 
season, and in 2011 rolled to their 3rd consecutive league championship 
with a 36-9 overall record and were ranked the #1 summer collegiate baseball 
league team in the nation by Perfect Game USA. In early 2012, BCBBC announced 
its merger with one of its longtime partners, BCC Baseball. Both organizations 
now operate as a single non-profit entity under the banner of the Bethesda 
Big Train. To this day, all proceeds from the Bethesda Big Train continue 
to enrich the ballfields of Montgomery County, MD and the District of Columbia. 
Starting in the summer of 2012, the summer camp programs of the BCBBC and 
BBC Baseball will also become one. The Bethesda Big Train summer baseball 
camp will allow for an even wider range of young people to take advantage 
