William Orville DeWitt Sr. (August 3, 1902 — March 4, 1982) was an American 
professional baseball executive and club owner whose career in Major League 
Baseball spanned more than 60 years. His son William DeWitt, Jr. is currently 
the principal owner and managing partner of the St. Louis Cardinals, while 
grandson William O. DeWitt III is the Redbirds' president. The senior DeWitt 
grew up in St. Louis. He began his baseball career with the Cardinals as 
a protégé of Branch Rickey, legendary business manager (later general manager) 
of the club from 1916 to 1942. One of DeWitt's first jobs, in 1916, was 
selling soda pop at the Cardinals' park (Robison_Field); as a young man, 
he received a law degree from Washington University in St. Louis and became 
treasurer of the Redbirds. But DeWitt ultimately joined the city's underdog 
American League team, the St. Louis Browns, in November 1936 as minority 
owner (initially in partnership with majority stockholder Donald Lee Barnes) 
and general manager.[1] The Browns were cash-strapped and struggling to 
survive as the second team in one of the smallest cities in the Major Leagues 
during The Great Depression. They had drawn only 93,267 fans during the 
entire 1936 season.[2] "We operated close to the belt. We had to", DeWitt 
told author William B. Mead in Mead's 1978 book, Even the Browns: Baseball 
During World War II. "Once we ran out of cash. Barnes tried to get the 
board of directors to put up some money. They said, 'No! That's money down 
the rat hole.' A lot wealthy guys, too ... The Browns had a hell of a time 
because the Cardinals were so popular and the Browns couldn't do a damned 
thing. We didn't have any attendance money to build up the ball cub with. 
Most of the clubs had players in the minors that were better than some 
of the ones we had on the Browns."[3] The Browns' attendance perked up 
when they were allowed to play more night home games than other AL teams. 
Meanwhile, Rickey disciple DeWitt managed to use some of his scant resources 
to strengthen the Browns' farm system and scouting department, signing 
and developing Vern Stephens, Al Zarilla and Jack Kramer—all future Major 
League stars.[3] He also attempted to add depth and unearth hidden talent 
by trading the Browns' few veteran assets, such as pitcher Bobo Newsom, 
for second-string players or minor leaguers with other organizations. Still, 
the team was nearly moved to Los Angeles after the 1941 season; however, 
the American League's secret vote on the transfer was scheduled for the 
week of December 8, and the attack on Pearl Harbor on Sunday, December 
7, plunged the U.S. into World War II and saved the Browns for St. Louis 
for another dozen seasons.[4] In 1944, under DeWitt's leadership as general 
manager, the Browns captured their only American League pennant. They won 
only 89 games (losing 65), but outlasted the Detroit Tigers by a single 
game. They drew as their World Series opponents their formidable tenants 
at Sportsman's Park, the Cardinals, who had won 105 games to breeze to 
their third consecutive National League championship. In the all-St. Louis 
1944 World Series, the Browns took the opener and Game 3, but then they 
dropped the final three games to the Redbirds, who were in the process 
of winning three World Series titles in a five-year span. Nevertheless, 
DeWitt was named 1944 Major League Executive of the Year by The Sporting 
News to recognize his achievement. The Browns' 1944 pennant is often downplayed 
by observers because it occurred during the height of the World War II 
manpower shortage, when most of the top American League players were in 
military service. But DeWitt's wartime Browns were one of the more successful 
teams in the AL, also posting winning campaigns in 1942 and 1945. During 
the latter year, they employed Pete Gray, an outfielder who, despite having 
only one arm, had become a capable minor league player. However, in 1946, 
the first postwar campaign, the Browns fell back into the second division 
and never enjoyed another winning campaign in St. Louis. DeWitt was forced 
to sell Stephens, Kramer and Zarilla—along with pitcher Ellis Kinder, a 
future 20-game-winner—to the wealthy Boston Red Sox to keep the team solvent. 
DeWitt and his brother Charlie (1901–67), the Browns' traveling secretary, 
bought control of the club from majority owner Richard C. Muckerman in 
1948, but the team's struggles on the field and at the box office continued, 
and the DeWitts sold the Browns to Bill Veeck in 1951. Bill DeWitt remained 
in the Browns' front office until Veeck was forced to sell the club; it 
then moved from St. Louis to become the Baltimore Orioles in 1954. DeWitt 
then served as assistant general manager of the New York Yankees from 1954 
to 1958 and as president and general manager of the Detroit Tigers in 1959–60. 
As the Tigers' president, DeWitt participated in three significant trades 
with swap-happy Cleveland Indians GM Frank Lane during the 1960 season. 
DeWitt, however, moved on himself shortly after the end of the 1960 season, 
replacing Gabe Paul as GM of the Cincinnati Reds.[5] He made a number of 
deals for players such as Joey Jay (a disappointment with the Milwaukee 
Braves who became a 20-game winner in Cincinnati), Don Blasingame and Gene 
Freese, and the Reds went on to win the 1961 National League pennant. A 
few months later, DeWitt again became an owner when he purchased 100% of 
the Reds from the Powel Crosley estate. He led the team for another five 
seasons. The Reds contended for most of that time, and enjoyed a productive 
farm system, but after the 1965 campaign, DeWitt controversially (and disastrously) 
traded future Hall of Fame outfielder Frank Robinson to the Orioles for 
two pitchers and a minor league outfielder; the outrage over the trade 
made it difficult for one of the pitchers, former Oriole ace Milt Pappas, 
to adjust to pitching in Cincinnati. (The trade has been made famous in 
the 1988 movie Bull Durham, where Susan Sarandon's character says, "Bad 
trades are a part of baseball; I mean who can forget Frank Robinson for 
Milt Pappas, for God's sake?") After announcing the trade, DeWitt famously 
defended the trade by calling Robinson "not a young 30." In his first season 
with the Orioles, Robinson won the Triple Crown, was unanimously voted 
the American League Most Valuable Player, and led the Orioles to their 
first World Series title. The Robinson deal somewhat clouded DeWitt's Cincinnati 
legacy, although many of the players he had signed or developed became 
key members of the team's "Big Red Machine" dynasty of the 1970s. He sold 
the Reds to a syndicate led by Cincinnati newspaper publisher Francis L. 
Dale (and including William DeWitt Jr.) in December 1966. DeWitt's last 
official post in baseball was as chairman of the Chicago White Sox from 
1975 to 1981, working with the flamboyant Veeck once again. He died in 
