William Adam Meyer (January 14, 1893 – March 31, 1957) was an American 
baseball player and manager. He holds the dubious distinction as having 
played for, and managed, two of the worst teams in the history of Major 
League Baseball. A catcher who spent most of his playing career in the 
minor leagues, Meyer broke into the majors with the 1913 Chicago White 
Sox, but played only one game. Three years later, in 1916, he returned 
to the American League with the Philadelphia Athletics; he appeared in 
50 games for a squad that won only 36 games and lost 117. (The following 
year, he played in 62 games for an A's club that improved by 19 games, 
but still posted a poor 55-98 mark.) Then, a generation-and-a-half later, 
Meyer piloted the 1952 Pittsburgh Pirates to the third-worst record in 
modern National League history, the Bucs winning only 42 of 154 games. 
Meyer was born in Knoxville, Tennessee, to William and Carrie Meyer. His 
father was born in Baden, Germany, came to the United States at age 16 
and operated a brewery. He eventually married his neighbor and classmate 
from grade school, Madelon Warters. He started playing baseball in grade 
school when his father bought him a catcher's glove to catch his older 
brother. His hero was catcher Johnny Kling. He was a good student until 
high school when baseball became such a primary focus that it even resulted 
in a school suspension. His father operated a brewery in Smithton, Pennsylvania, 
for a time and the younger Meyer worked there during vacation. During his 
sophomore year of high school, Billy Meyer was offered $75 per month to 
catch for a Lakeland, Florida, team, but he was expected to inherit the 
brewery so his father resisted the idea. He went regardless, and played 
so well that a Sanford, Florida, team offered him $175 per month to play 
for them. He caught for other Florida teams and finally hit a championship-winning 
home run for Gainesville, Florida. When he returned to Tennessee with $250, 
his father never protested against baseball again.[1] In 1915, Meyer played 
so well for a Davenport, Iowa, team that Connie Mack signed him to back 
up catcher Wally Schang for his Major League Philadelphia Athletics. He 
recalled that Mack had him catch for unpredictable young pitchers in order 
to save Schang. He played 50 games for the A's that year--and was thus 
on hand for a season in which the A's finished with the worst winning percentage 
in major league history. He played 62 games for the A's in 1917. As it 
turned out, this would be Meyer's last season in the major leagues.[1] 
After the season, Meyer was sold to the Louisville Colonels in the American 
Association. He would stay in Louisville for 11 years, and was a major 
contributor to the Colonels' American Association pennants in 1921 and 
1925 under Joe McCarthy.[2] When McCarthy was called up to manage the Chicago 
Cubs for the 1926 season, Meyer was named his successor.[1][3] In his first 
season, Louisville won a second consecutive pennant with a team that included 
future superstar second baseman Billy Herman(whom Meyer would replace as 
Pittsburgh Pirates manager over 20 years later).[1] But when the Colonels 
promptly slumped to consecutive 100-loss seasons in 1927 and 1928, he was 
fired. At the same time, he was released as a player. For the first time 
in almost 20 years, Meyer was out of baseball.[2] After a three-year wait, 
he was hired by the Springfield Rifles of the Eastern League. He had them 
in first place on July 17 when the league folded due to Depression-related 
financial troubles. A few months later, he was hired by the Binghamton 
Triplets of the New York–Pennsylvania League, and stayed there for three 
years, winning the pennant in 1933 and half the pennant in 1934 and 1935. 
Through his contacts with McCarthy, now manager of the New York Yankees, 
he moved to the Oakland Oaks of the Pacific Coast League in 1936. While 
he never won a pennant there, he impressed farm director George Weiss that 
he was promoted to manage the Kansas City Blues of the American Association 
in 1938.[2] For the next 10 years, Meyer alternated as the manager of the 
Blues (1938–1941, 1946–1947) and the Yankees' other top farm club, the 
Newark Bears of the International League. In that time, he won four pennants 
and finished second four times.[2] His 1939 team, which finished 107-47 
and won the Junior World Series for the second year in a row, was named 
the 12th best team in minor league history by Minor League Baseball. Meyer 
was named Minor League Manager of the Year by The Sporting News.[4] Overall, 
as a minor league manager, Meyer won eight pennants, narrowly missed a 
ninth, and finished in the second division only twice. On July 6, 1944, 
Meyer and Newark were in last place, 30 games behind Bucky Harris and his 
Buffalo Bisons, and had lost to Buffalo seven consecutive times. Newark 
rebounded by winning 30 of 34 games while Buffalo dropped into the second 
division, and missed winning the pennant by a fraction of a percent.[1] 
In 19 seasons as a minor league skipper, Meyer's clubs won 1,605 and lost 
1,325 (.548). Meyer was known for scrappiness. With Newark, one of his 
players, Nick Rhabe, threatened the general manager, "If you don't get 
me more dough, you'll be sorry." Rhabe carried through on the threat by 
running the bases poorly in a game. Meyer responded by knocking Rhabe down 
the dugout steps and kicking him off the team.[1] In general, he was a 
disciplinarian who rarely screamed at players, similar to the style of 
Joe McCarthy.[3] Meyer was an avid singer and a fan of George M. Cohan. 
While in New York, Joe McCarthy introduced Meyer to Cohan. Meyer impressed 
him by singing songs that Cohan himself had not remembered writing.[1] 
During his minor league managerial career, Meyer was considered for Major 
League jobs several times. He was a candidate to be manager for the 1938 
Cleveland Indians season, but lost out to Ossie Vitt.[1] Later, he was 
derailed by clubs' preference of the time for former players whose major 
league résumés were stronger than Meyer's.[2] When Gabby Hartnett departed 
after the 1940 Chicago Cubs season Meyer was considered, but Jimmie Wilson 
got the job after helping the Cincinnati Reds win the 1940 World Series. 
In 1945, Frank McKinney, part-owner of the Boston Braves, approached Meyer 
at the Little World Series in Louisville, but the Braves ultimately chose 
Billy Southworth.[1] After a tumultuous 1946 New York Yankees season, owner 
Larry MacPhail offered the Yankee managerial job to Meyer. He had been 
seriously ill that year, though, and declined the offer,[1] and the Yankees 
rebounded to win the pennant in 1947 under Bucky Harris. In contrast, the 
Pirates had finished their second consecutive seventh-place season in the 
eight-team National League.[3] For their 1948 season, the hired him for 
his first major-league managerial stint.[1] McCarthy had followed Meyer's 
work with future Yankees stars in Oakland, Kansas City and Newark closely, 
and was impressed enough to say Meyer had been the best manager in the 
minor leagues at the time. He went as far as to predict that Meyer would 
be one of the best in the majors as well.[3] In 1948, in his first season, 
Pittsburgh rose from seventh place to fourth in the standings—and just 
8.5 games out of first. The 21-game improvement to 83–71 earned Meyer The 
Sporting News Major League Manager of the Year.[2] Despite the home run 
heroics of Ralph Kiner, the Pirates dropped to sixth place in 1949. Reportedly, 
Meyer lost the team when he suggested to reporters that a player had run 
into a pitchout on his own when he'd actually given the player a hit and 
run sign. By 1950 they were back in the cellar.[2] They then hired as general 
manager executive Branch Rickey, whose solution was to purge the team of 
high-salaried veterans and bring up young players from the farm system—the 
same tactic he'd used to rebuild the St. Louis Cardinals and Brooklyn Dodgers. 
However, it backfired disastrously in Pittsburgh, and Meyer was saddled 
with what amounted to a minor-league team at the major-league level. The 
Pirates managed to improve to seventh in 1951, but lost 112 games in 1952—the 
second-worst record in franchise history, and the third-worst in modern 
(post-1900) National League history. Meyer resigned at the end of that 
campaign.[5] Despite a managing record of 317-452 (.412) over five seasons, 
all with Pittsburgh, and a career batting average of only .236 (with one 
home run and 21 runs batted in), Meyer was given two significant honors, 
a measure of how widely respected he was. For years the baseball park in 
his native city of Knoxville, Tennessee, was named Bill Meyer Stadium. 
Additionally, the Pirates retired Meyer's uniform number (1), despite the 
horrible 1952 campaign. After his managing days, Meyer worked as scout[3] 
and troubleshooter for the Pirates until he suffered a stroke in 1955.[6] 
Meyer died two years later, in Knoxville, of heart and kidney ailments 
