William Stanley Mazeroski (born September 5, 1936), is an American former 
Major League Baseball (MLB) second baseman. Nicknamed "Maz", he spent his 
entire 17-year career playing for the Pittsburgh Pirates, from 1956–72. 
He was elected into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2001. Mazeroski 
is regarded as one of the greatest defensive second basemen of all time. 
He was an All-Star for seven seasons[a]and a Gold Glove Award winner for 
eight seasons. He was a key member of the Pirates' World Series-winning 
teams in 1960 and 1971, and is perhaps best known for his walk-off home 
run in the bottom of the ninth inning in game 7 of the 1960 World Series—the 
only game 7 walk-off homer in World Series history.[1] Mazeroski was born 
in Wheeling, West Virginia, of Polish descent. He attended Warren Consolidated 
High School in Tiltonsville, Ohio, excelling in both baseball and basketball. 
He started on the varsity baseball team as a freshman. As a 17-year-old 
in 1954, Mazeroski signed with the Pittsburgh Pirates. Originally a shortstop, 
he was moved to second base and made his major league debut on July 7, 
1956; he played for the Pirates his entire career. Mazeroski was noted 
for his defensive prowess and earned his first of eight Gold Glove Awards 
in 1958. He had a career .983 fielding percentage, led the National League 
in assists nine times, and holds the MLB record for double plays by a second 
baseman. Baseball analyst Bill James has written that "Bill Mazeroski's 
defensive statistics are probably the most impressive of any player at 
any position".[2] While his defensive ability typically overshadowed his 
contributions with a bat – Pirates broadcaster Bob Prince used to call 
him simply "The Glove" – Mazeroski had several fine offensive seasons. 
His best was in 1958, when he batted .275, hit 19 home runs (a career best), 
had 68 RBIs, good enough that along with his sterling mitt he was considered 
for the MVP Award. In 1966 he knocked in 82, a career best. During his 
peak (1957–68), he drove in more runs than any other middle infielder of 
the period. Mazeroski's power numbers were held down by the distant fences 
in Forbes Field. In his career, he hit over twice as many home runs on 
the road as he did in his home park – 45 home runs at home versus 93 on 
the road. By comparison, the Chicago Cubs slugging second baseman Ryne 
Sandberg hit only 118 of his 282 career home runs away from the comfy confines 
of Wrigley Field. In the 1960 World Series, Mazeroski won the title for 
Pittsburgh in Game 7 with a game-winning home run off New York Yankees 
pitcher Ralph Terry in the bottom of the ninth inning. The Yankees had 
rallied with two runs to tie the game, 9-9, in the top of the inning, setting 
up Mazeroski's heroics. A 14-year-old fan named Andy Jerpe retrieved the 
ball outside the ground and had it signed by Mazeroski, but it was later 
lost when used in a game.[3][4] In spite of his reputation as a non-slugger, 
Mazeroski actually hit another decisive home run in the 1960 Series, tallying 
half of the Pirate team total over the seven games. In the fourth inning 
of Game 1, with Don Hoak on base, Mazeroski hit a shot off Jim Coates that 
went over the left field scoreboard and provided the edge in a 6–4 Pirates 
victory. Mazeroski and Roberto Clemente were the last remaining Pirate 
players from the 1960 World Series winners, when the Pirates won the World 
Series in 1971 and lost the NL championship series in 1972. Mazeroski was 
a member of ex-teammate Bill Virdon's coaching staff with the Pirates in 
1973, a year after retiring from playing. Mazeroski was elected into the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 2001. On induction day at Cooperstown he only 
made it as far into his prepared remarks as thanking the Veterans Committee 
voters for choosing a player based largely on defensive skills (a rarity) 
before becoming so emotional he had to stop. Apologizing to those who "had 
to come all the way up here to hear this crap!" he then sat down to a long 
and loud standing ovation from the audience and his fellow Hall-of-Famers. 
Today, a portion of the brick right field wall from Forbes Field remains 
standing on the University of Pittsburgh campus in Pittsburgh's Oakland 
District as a memorial; locally, the wall is usually referred to as "Mazeroski's 
Wall." Although this is technically not the actual section of wall that 
Mazeroski's famous home run cleared, a nearby plaque in the sidewalk of 
Roberto Clemente Drive does mark the spot where the sudden-victory homer 
cleared the wall. A Little League Softball field dedicated to Mazeroski 
lies on the other side. In 1979, Mazeroski was inducted into the National 
Polish-American Sports Hall of Fame.[5] In 1987, Mazeroski ran for the 
Democratic nomination for County Commissioner in his home of Westmoreland 
County, Pennsylvania but his bid was unsuccessful. In 1995, Harrison Central 
High school, located in Cadiz Ohio had a field donated by Bill which would 
later be known as "Mazeroski Field" In 2003, the Ohio Buckeye Local High 
School in Rayland (which had since absorbed Warren Consolidated) honored 
him by naming their new baseball field after him, placing a monument behind 
home plate in recognition. In 2004, the Ohio Valley Athletic Conference 
saluted Mazeroski by electing him among the inaugural members of their 
Hall of Fame, alongside Boston Celtic great John Havlicek and former Olympic 
wrestler Bobby Douglas. Mazeroski was recognized by Major League Baseball 
by being selected to throw out the first pitch of the Home Run Derby that 
preceded the 2006 All Star Game at Pittsburgh's PNC Park, receiving a long 
standing ovation. He also was picked to manage the National League during 
the All-Star Legends and Celebrity Softball Game during the All Star week 
celebrations there. In September 2010, a statue of Mazeroski was unveiled 
outside PNC Park, depicting his famed celebration—running with both arms 
extended, ball cap in right hand—after his game 7 walk-off home run to 
win the 1960 Series. Sports Illustrated ranked that home run eighth on 
its list of the 100 Greatest Moments in Sports History.[1] Mazeroski was 
the focus of a staged game-ending triple play as part of a cameo appearance 
in the 1968 Hollywood hit film The Odd Couple. In the scene, Oscar Madison 
was distracted from witnessing the play by an annoying phone call from 
Felix Ungar (immediately after sarcastically predicting to fellow sportswriter 
Heywood Hale Broun that the Mets still had a chance to win if Mazeroski 
hit into a triple play). In reality, Mazeroski never suffered such an inglorious 
moment during his playing days, but according to the Society for American 
Baseball Research was part of triple plays in both 1966 and 1968 as a fielder. 
According to an anecdote recorded at the Internet Movie Database web page 
on The Odd Couple, the scene was actually filmed just prior to the start 
of a regular game at Shea Stadium on June 27, 1967. Maz reported that he 
was given only 10 minutes to get it done: Jack Fisher was the pitcher for 
the Mets in that scene. Mazeroski serves as special infield instructor 
for the Pirates in spring training and is retired in Panama City, Florida. 
He was also in a commercial for FSN Pittsburgh featuring former Pirates 
first baseman Sean Casey. His son Darren is a retired junior college baseball 
coach. His son Dave is an atmospheric scientist and did not pursue a career 
in baseball. He would have been the guest of honor at the first showing 
in 50 years of the previously-lost television footage of Game 7 of the 
1960 World Series, but was unable to attend due to hospitalization. Mazeroski 
