William Louis "Bill" Veeck Jr. (/ˈvɛk/; February 9, 1914 – January 2, 1986), 
also known as "Sport Shirt Bill", was a native of Chicago, Illinois, and 
a franchise owner and promoter in Major League Baseball. Veeck was at various 
times the owner of the Cleveland Indians, St. Louis Browns and Chicago 
White Sox. As owner and team president of the Indians in 1947, Veeck signed 
Larry Doby, thus beginning the integration of the American League. Veeck 
was the last owner to purchase a baseball franchise without an independent 
fortune, and is responsible for many innovations and contributions to baseball.[1] 
Finding it hard to financially compete, Veeck retired after the 1980 Chicago 
White Sox season. He died of cancer six years later. He was inducted into 
the Baseball Hall of Fame five years later in 1991. Bill Veeck was born 
on February 9, 1914, in Chicago, Illinois. While Veeck was growing up in 
Hinsdale, Illinois, his father, William Veeck, Sr., became president of 
the Chicago Cubs. Veeck Sr. was a local sports writer who wrote several 
columns about how he would have run the Cubs differently, and the team's 
owner, William Wrigley Jr., took him up on it. While growing up, Bill Veeck 
worked as a popcorn vendor for the Cubs. Later, in 1937, Veeck came up 
with the idea of planting ivy on the walls of Wrigley Field.[2] Veeck attended 
Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts. In 1933, when his father died, 
Veeck left Kenyon College and eventually became club treasurer for the 
Cubs. In 1935 he married his first wife, Eleanor.[3] In 1942, Veeck left 
Chicago and, in partnership with former Cubs star and manager Charlie Grimm, 
purchased the American Association Triple-A Milwaukee Brewers. After winning 
three pennants in five years Veeck sold his Milwaukee franchise in 1945 
for a $275,000 profit.[4] According to his autobiography Veeck – As in 
Wreck, Veeck claimed to have installed a screen to make the right field 
target a little more difficult for left-handed pull hitters of the opposing 
team. The screen was on wheels, so any given day it might be in place or 
not, depending on the batting strength of the opposing team. There was 
no rule against that activity as such, but Veeck then took it to an extreme, 
rolling it out when the opponents batted, and pulling it back when the 
Brewers batted. Veeck reported that the league passed a rule against it 
the very next day. However, extensive research by two members of the Society 
for American Baseball Research (SABR) suggests that this story was made 
up by Veeck. The two researchers could not find any references to a moveable 
fence or any reference to the gear required for a moveable fence to work.[5] 
While a half-owner of the Brewers, Veeck served for nearly three years 
in the United States Marine Corps during World War II in an artillery unit. 
During this time a recoiling artillery piece crushed his leg, requiring 
amputation first of the foot, and shortly after of the leg above the knee. 
Over the course of his life he had 36 operations on the leg.[1] He had 
a series of wooden legs and, as an inveterate smoker, cut holes in them 
to use as an ashtray. Veeck had been a fan of the Negro Leagues since his 
early teens. He had also admired Abe Saperstein's Harlem Globetrotters 
basketball team, which was based in Chicago. Saperstein saved Veeck from 
financial disaster early on in Milwaukee by giving him the right to promote 
the Globetrotters in the upper Midwest in the winter of 1941–42. In the 
fall of 1942, Veeck met with Gerry Nugent, president of the Philadelphia 
Phillies, to discuss the possibility of buying the struggling National 
League team. He later wrote in his memoirs that he intended to buy the 
Phillies and stock the team's roster with stars from the Negro Leagues. 
Veeck quickly secured financing to buy the Phillies, and agreed in principle 
to buy the team from Nugent. While on his way to Philadelphia to close 
on the purchase, Veeck decided to alert MLB Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis of his intentions. Although Veeck knew Landis was an ardent segregationist, 
he did not believe Landis would dare say black players were unwelcome while 
blacks were fighting in World War II. By the time he arrived in Philadelphia, 
Veeck discovered the Phillies had been officially taken over by the National 
League and that a new owner was being sought (the Phillies were ultimately 
sold to lumber baron William D. Cox). The authors of a controversial article 
in the 1998 issue of SABR's The National Pastime argued that Veeck invented 
the story of buying the Phillies and filling their roster with Negro leaguers, 
claiming Philadelphia's black press made no mention of a prospective sale 
to Veeck. Subsequently, the article was strongly challenged by the late 
historian Jules Tygiel, who refuted it point-by-point in an article in 
the 2006 issue of SABR's The Baseball Research Journal,[6] and in an appendix, 
entitled "Did Bill Veeck Lie About His Plan to Purchase the ’43 Phillies?", 
published in Paul Dickson's biography, Bill Veeck: Baseball's Greatest 
Maverick.[7] Joseph Thomas Moore wrote in his biography of Doby, "Bill 
Veeck planned to buy the Philadelphia Phillies with the as yet unannounced 
intention of breaking that color line."[8] In 1946, Veeck became the owner 
of a major league team, the Cleveland Indians. He immediately put the team's 
games on radio. He also moved the team to Cleveland Municipal Stadium permanently 
in 1947. The team had split their games between the larger Municipal Stadium 
and the smaller League Park since the 1930s, but Veeck concluded that League 
Park was far too small to be viable.[9] In July of that year he signed 
Larry Doby, the first black player to play in the American League.[10] 
Doby's first game was on July 5 and before the game, Doby was introduced 
to his teammates by player-manager Lou Boudreau. "One by one, Lou introduced 
me to each player. 'This is Joe Gordon,' and Gordon put his hand out. 'This 
is Bob Lemon,' and Lemon put his hand out. 'This is Jim Hegan,' and Hegan 
put his hand out. All the guys put their hand out, all but three. As soon 
as he could, Bill Veeck got rid of those three", Doby said.[11] The following 
year later Veeck signed Satchel Paige to a contract, making the hurler 
the oldest rookie in major league history.[12][13] As in Milwaukee, Veeck 
took a unique approach to promotions, hiring Max Patkin, the "Clown Prince 
of Baseball", as a coach. Patkin's appearance in the coaching box delighted 
fans and infuriated the front office of the American League.[14] Although 
Veeck had become extremely popular, an attempt in 1947 to trade Boudreau 
to the St. Louis Browns led to mass protests and petitions supporting Boudreau. 
Veeck, in response, said he would listen to the fans, and re-signed Boudreau 
to a new two-year contract.[15] By 1948, led by Boudreau's .355 batting 
average, Cleveland won its first pennant and World Series since 1920.[16] 
Famously, the following season Veeck buried the 1948 flag, once it became 
obvious the team could not repeat its championship in 1949. Later that 
year, Veeck's first wife divorced him. Most of his money was tied up in 
the Indians, so he was forced to sell the team to fund the divorce settlement.[17] 
One year later, Veeck married his second wife Mary Frances Ackerman in 
1950. He had met her the previous year while in Cleveland.[18] After marrying 
Mary Frances Ackerman, Veeck bought an 80% stake in the St. Louis Browns 
in 1951.[19] Hoping to force the NL's St. Louis Cardinals out of town, 
Veeck hired Cardinal greats Rogers Hornsby and Marty Marion as managers, 
and Dizzy Dean as an announcer; and he decorated their shared home park, 
Sportsman's Park, exclusively with Browns memorabilia.[1] Ironically the 
Cardinals had been the Browns' tenants since 1920, even though they had 
long since passed the Browns as St. Louis' favorite team. Nonetheless, 
Veeck made a concerted effort to drive the Cardinals out of town.[citation 
needed] Some of Veeck's most memorable publicity stunts occurred during 
his tenure with the Browns, including the appearance on August 19, 1951, 
by Eddie Gaedel, who stood 3 feet 7 inches tall and is the shortest person 
to appear in a Major League Baseball game. Veeck sent Gaedel to pinch hit 
in the bottom of the first of the game. Wearing elf like shoes and "1/8" 
as his uniform number, Gaedel was walked on four straight pitches and then 
was pulled for a pinch runner.[20] Shortly afterwards "Grandstand Manager's 
Day" – involving Veeck, Connie Mack, and thousands of regular fans, enabled 
the crowd to vote on various in-game strategic decisions by holding up 
placards: the Browns won, 5–3, snapping a four-game losing streak.[21] 
After the 1952 season, Veeck suggested that the American League clubs share 
radio and television revenue with visiting clubs. Outvoted, he refused 
to allow the Browns' opponents to broadcast games played against his team 
on the road. The league responded by eliminating the lucrative Friday night 
games in St. Louis. A year later, Cardinals owner Fred Saigh was convicted 
of tax evasion. Facing certain banishment from baseball, he was forced 
to put the Cardinals up for sale. Most of the bids came from out-of-town 
interests, and it appeared that Veeck would succeed in driving the Cardinals 
out of town. However, just as Saigh was about to sell the Cardinals to 
interests who would have moved them to Houston, Texas; he instead accepted 
a much lower bid from St. Louis-based brewing giant Anheuser-Busch, who 
entered the picture with the specific intent of keeping the Cardinals in 
town.[21] Veeck quickly realized that the Cardinals now had more resources 
than he could not even begin to match, especially since he had no other 
source of income. Reluctantly, he decided to leave St. Louis and find another 
place to play. As a preliminary step, he sold Sportsman's Park to the Cardinals.[22] 
At first Veeck considered moving the Browns back to Milwaukee (where they 
had played their inaugural season in 1901). Milwaukee used recently built 
Milwaukee County Stadium in an attempt to entice the Browns. However, the 
decision was in the hands of the Boston Braves, the parent team of the 
Brewers. Under major league rules of the time, the Braves held the major 
league rights to Milwaukee. The Braves wanted another team with the same 
talent if the Brewers were shut down, and an agreement was not made in 
time for opening day. Ironically, a few weeks later, the Braves themselves 
moved to Milwaukee.[23] St. Louis was known to want the team to stay, so 
some in St. Louis campaigned for the removal of Veeck.[24] He got in touch 
with a group that was looking to bring a Major League franchise to Baltimore, 
Maryland. After the 1953 season, Veeck agreed in principle to sell half 
his stock to Baltimore attorney Clarence Miles, the leader of the Baltimore 
group, and his other partners. He would have remained the principal owner, 
with approximately a 40% interest. Even though league president Will Harridge 
told him approval was certain, only four owners—two short of the necessary 
six for passage—supported it. Realizing the other owners simply wanted 
him out of the picture (indeed, he was facing threats of having his franchise 
canceled), Veeck agreed to sell his entire stake to Miles' group, who then 
moved the Browns to Baltimore, where they were renamed as the Orioles, 
which has been their name ever since.[25] In 1959, Veeck became head of 
a group that purchased a controlling interest in the Chicago White Sox, 
who went on to win their first pennant in 40 years.[26][27] That year the 
White Sox broke a team attendance record for home games with 1.4 million. 
The next year the team broke the same record with 1.6 million visitors 
to Comiskey Park with the addition of the first "exploding scoreboard" 
in the major leagues – producing electrical and sound effects, and shooting 
fireworks whenever the White Sox hit a home run, and also began adding 
players' surnames on the back of their uniform, a practice now standard 
by 25 of 30 clubs on all jerseys, and by three more clubs on road jerseys.[1] 
The "exploding scoreboard" itself has since carried over to the U.S. Cellular 
Field, which opened in 1991 as the New Comiskey Park. One year later in 
1960, Veeck and former Detroit Tigers great Hank Greenberg, his partner 
with the Indians and White Sox, reportedly made a strong bid for the American 
League expansion franchise in Los Angeles. Greenberg would have been the 
principal owner, with Veeck as a minority partner.[28] However Los Angeles 
Dodgers owner Walter O'Malley was not willing to compete with a team owned 
by Veeck, even if he would only be a minority partner. When O'Malley heard 
of the deal, he invoked his exclusive franchise rights for Southern California. 
Any potential owner of an American League team in the area would have had 
to have O'Malley's blessing, and it was apparent that O'Malley would not 
allow any team to set up shop with Veeck as a major shareholder. Rather 
than try to persuade his friend to back out, Greenberg abandoned his bid 
for what became the Los Angeles Angels.[28] In 1961, due to poor health, 
Veeck sold his share of the team to John and Arthur Allyn for $2.5 million.[29] 
After selling the White Sox, Veeck spent a short time working as a television 
commentator.[30] When his health improved, Veeck made an unsuccessful attempt 
to buy the Washington Senators, then operated the Suffolk Downs race track 
in Boston in 1969–70. Veeck was not heard from again in baseball circles 
until 1975, when he repurchased the White Sox from John Allyn (sole owner 
since 1969).[1] Veeck's return rankled baseball's owner establishment, 
most of the old guard viewing him as a pariah after exposing most of his 
peers in his 1961 book Veeck As In Wreck. However, he was the only potential 
buyer willing to keep the White Sox in Chicago after an offer was made 
to buy the team and move it to Seattle, Washington.[citation needed] Almost 
immediately after taking control of the Sox for a second time Veeck unleashed 
another publicity stunt designed to irritate his fellow owners. He and 
general manager Roland Hemond conducted four trades in a hotel lobby, in 
full view of the public. Two weeks later, however, arbitrator Peter Seitz's 
ruling struck down the reserve clause and ushered in the era of free agency. 
Veeck's power as an owner began to wane relative to richer owners. Ironically 
Veeck had been the only baseball owner to testify in support of Curt Flood 
during his famous court case, at which Flood had attempted to gain free 
agency after being traded to the Philadelphia Phillies.[1] Veeck presented 
a Bicentennial-themed "Spirit of '76" parade on Opening Day in 1976, casting 
himself as the peg-legged fifer bringing up the rear.[1] In the same year 
he reactivated Minnie Miñoso for eight at-bats, in order to give Miñoso 
a claim towards playing in four decades; he did so again in 1980, to expand 
the claim to five.[31] He also unveiled radically altered uniforms for 
the players, including clamdigger pants and even shorts, which the Sox 
wore for the first time against the Kansas City Royals on August 8, 1976. 
In an attempt to adapt to free agency he developed a "rent-a-player" model, 
centering on the acquisition of other clubs' stars in their option years. 
The gambit was moderately successful: in 1977 the White Sox won 90 games, 
and finished in third place with additions like Oscar Gamble and Richie 
Zisk.[32] During this last run, Veeck decided to have announcer Harry Caray 
sing "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during the seventh-inning stretch. 
Veeck asked Caray to sing for the entire park, but he refused. Veeck replied 
that he already had a recording, so Caray would be heard either way. Caray 
reluctantly agreed to sing it live, accompanied by White Sox organist Nancy 
Faust, and went on to become famous for singing the tune, continuing to 
do so at Wrigley Field after becoming the broadcaster of the Chicago Cubs.[33] 
The 1979 season was filled with more promotions. On April 10 he offered 
fans free admission the day after a 10–2 Opening Day defeat by the Toronto 
Blue Jays. On July 12, Veeck, with assistance from son Mike and radio personality 
Steve Dahl, held one of his most infamous promotions, Disco Demolition 
Night, between games of a scheduled doubleheader, which resulted in a riot 
at Comiskey Park and a forfeit to the visiting Detroit Tigers.[34] Finding 
himself no longer able to financially compete in the free agent era, Veeck 
sold the White Sox in January 1981. He retired to his home in Chicago. 
Veeck had been a heavy smoker and drinker until 1980. In 1984 Veeck underwent 
two operations for lung cancer.[4] Two years later, in 1986, he died at 
the age of 71 from cancer.[1] He was elected five years later to the Baseball 
Hall of Fame.[35] When he died at age 71, he was survived by his wife, 
Mary Frances, and eight children. Two of his children, Peter and Ellen, 
were from his first marriage, and the others (Mike, Marya, Greg, Lisa, 
Julie and Chris) were from his second marriage.[36] Mike Veeck became owner 
of the independent minor-league St. Paul Saints and still is a partner 
in the team. The younger Veeck and co-owner actor Bill Murray emulated 
many of Bill Veeck's promotional stunts with the Saints. Veeck wrote three 
