William DeVaughn Lucas (January 25, 1936 – May 5, 1979) was the first African-American 
general manager in Major League Baseball as front-office boss of the Atlanta 
Braves from mid-September 1976 until his death in early May 1979. A member 
of the Braves' organization for 23 years, he was inducted into the Braves 
Hall of Fame in 2006. Lucas was born in Jacksonville, Florida. A graduate 
of Florida A&M University, he served as an officer in the United States 
Army. He then signed as an infielder with the Milwaukee Braves in 1957 
and played for six seasons in the club's farm system, batting .273 in 655 
games. He joined the Braves' front office in 1965, working in sales and 
promotions during the team's relocation to Atlanta before he switched to 
the player development department in 1967. Lucas was named the director 
of the Braves' farm system in 1972 and promoted to GM responsibilities 
on September 17, 1976. At the time, Braves were in last place in the National 
League West Division, 30 1⁄2 games out of the division lead. Lucas' official 
title was vice president of player personnel, but owner Ted Turner gave 
him all the duties of a general manager. With players like Dale Murphy 
coming up through Lucas' minor league system, and the selection of Bob 
Horner as the top pick in the 1978 Major League Baseball Draft, the Braves 
began assembling the team that would win the 1982 division title. But the 
job of rebuilding the Braves was compounded by Turner's tempestuous behavior. 
On May 11, 1977, the owner appointed himself the Braves' field manager 
during a losing streak. His dugout reign drew national headlines but lasted 
only one day before the president of the National League ruled that Turner, 
as an owner, could not appoint himself manager. Then, starting in 1978, 
Lucas found himself caught between Turner and players like rookie Horner 
and veteran pitcher Phil Niekro, a future Hall of Famer, during contentious 
contract negotiations.[1] On the evening of May 1, 1979, with the Braves 
on the road facing the Pittsburgh Pirates at Three Rivers Stadium, Lucas 
watched on television from his Atlanta home as Niekro won his 200th Major 
League game, 5–2. Hours after congratulating Niekro by phone, Lucas was 
stricken with cardiac arrest and a massive cerebral hemorrhage. He died 
three days later without regaining consciousness[2] at age 43. At his passing, 
he was still the highest-ranking black executive in professional baseball.[2] 
Said Murphy at Lucas' funeral: "Bill's dream was for this organization 
to become a success. It is our sacred honor to be chosen to fulfill his 
dream."[1] His widow, Rubye, later served on the board of directors of 
the Turner Broadcasting System and as president of the William D. Lucas 
Fund, which helps send young baseball players to college.[1] Lucas' sister, 
Barbara, was the former wife of Braves' Hall of Famer and home run king 
