William George "Billy" Rogell (November 24, 1904 – August 9, 2003) was 
an American baseball player who played 14 years in Major League Baseball, 
primarily as a shortstop for the Detroit Tigers. He made his major league 
debut on April 14, 1925 and played his last game August 25, 1940. After 
his playing career, he spent 36 years as a member of the Detroit City Council. 
Born in Springfield, Illinois, Rogell was originally signed by the Boston 
Red Sox prior to the 1925 campaign after two seasons in the Southwestern 
League. The Red Sox quickly tried to convert the switch-hitting Rogell 
into solely a right-handed batter, thinking that he would benefit from 
more appearances from the right side, hence more chances to drive balls 
off the Green Monster. “They just screwed me up for a couple years,” Rogell 
would say later. He appeared in 58 games for the last-place Red Sox—49 
at second base—while hitting .195 in 169 at-bats. He was sent back to the 
minors for more grooming during the 1926 season before being recalled by 
Boston for 1927. Rogell played in 82 games, hitting .266 while splitting 
time between third and second. The Red Sox again finished in the cellar, 
losing 100 games for the third year in a row. During the 1928 season he 
appeared in games at short, third, second, as well as all three outfield 
positions, and the Red Sox released him at the conclusion of the season. 
Rogell played 1929 for the St. Paul Saints of the American Association, 
batting .336 and driving in 90 runs. Following the season, amid offers 
from a handful of teams, Rogell signed with the Detroit Tigers, where he 
would spend the next ten seasons. Rogell struggled out of the gate and 
the club acquired shortstop Mark Koenig from the Yankees mid-season and 
plugged him into the lineup. Koenig, the same age as Rogell but already 
a household name, had been an integral part of the Yankees’ famed Murderers' 
Row lineup in 1927 and was still considered by many as one of the premier 
shortstops in the American League. Rogell finished the year with a .167 
average in 54 games, splitting his time between short and third. Though 
his start in Detroit was unimpressive, by the time the 1931 season had 
ended it was clear to the Tigers that they had found their shortstop of 
the future. Rogell unseated Koenig late in the year and finished the year 
hitting .303 in 48 games, all at shortstop. Koenig was released after the 
season ended. Rogell was the Tigers’ Opening Day shortstop for the 1932 
season, a position he would hold for the next eight years. A sure-handed 
fielder, he and Hall of Fame double-play partner Charlie Gehringer would 
give the Tigers one of the best keystone-combinations in baseball history. 
Marv Owen, who would man the left side of the Detroit infield with Rogell 
for five years, said of Rogell’s fielding prowess, “He’s the only player 
I ever knew who could catch a bad hop… I don’t know how he did it.” Rogell’s 
offense continued to show the promise it had with the St. Paul club. He 
hit .271 with 29 doubles and 88 runs scored during the ’32 campaign, and 
improved the following year to .295, 44 doubles, 11 triples, and drew 79 
walks to post a .381 on-base percentage while playing in every game. The 
1933 season also marked the first time Rogell, Gehringer, Owen, and first 
baseman Hank Greenberg appeared in the same lineup. The Tigers, perennial 
second division finishers, acquired catcher/manager Mickey Cochrane from 
the Philadelphia A’s during the winter. With him in place, the Tigers entered 
the 1934 season poised to take the American League by storm. Rogell, leading 
off in front of four future Hall of Famers (Cochrane, Gehringer, Greenberg, 
as well as Goose Goslin), had the best season of his career, hitting .296, 
driving in 100 runs and scoring 114. The infield combined for a major league 
record 462 runs batted in. The Tigers won the league by seven games and 
were set to square off against the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series. 
Rogell, unbeknownst to the Cardinals or the media, played the series on 
a broken ankle. Despite the injury he was able to collect eight hits and 
drive in four runs over the seven game series. He also found his way into 
one of the most popular plays in World Series history. After driving in 
a run with a single to right in the fourth inning of game four, Spud Davis 
was replaced by Hall of Famer Dizzy Dean as a pinch runner at first base. 
Pepper Martin then stepped in and hit a ground ball to Gehringer at second. 
Gehringer turned and threw to Rogell who forced out Dean at second, and 
then fired the ball squarely into Dean’s forehead on the relay throw to 
first. The ball ricocheted off Dean’s head and landed over a hundred feet 
away in the outfield. Dean, always known for his quick wit and humorous 
nature, remarked after a visit to the hospital, “The doctors X-rayed my 
head and found nothing.” Rogell would say of the play later, “If I’d have 
known his head was there, I would have thrown the ball harder.” After losing 
in seven games to the Cardinals, the Tigers returned to the series the 
following season. Again led by their stellar infield, the Tigers won the 
pennant by three games over the Yankees and earned a trip to face the Chicago 
Cubs for the world championship. Rogell finished with another solid year 
at the bat, hitting .275 with 88 runs scored while drawing 80 walks. Although 
he had shown speed in the minors, Rogell rarely had a chance to move on 
the bases with Detroit. “They didn’t want me to steal,” he would say after 
retiring. “I had Gehringer and Cochrane and Greenberg hitting behind me.” 
Even with American League MVP Greenberg out for much of the series, the 
Tigers finished off the Cubs in six games. Rogell had another good showing 
in the fall classic hitting .292 during the series. Although continuing 
to post winning records through the rest of the decade, the Tigers could 
not bring home another pennant. Rogell, after two more solid seasons at 
the bat, began to slip during the 1938 campaign. He did, however, set a 
Major League record on August 19 of that year when he was walked in 7 consecutive 
plate appearances (a record tied by three other players since, but never 
eclipsed). He accomplished the feat over a three-game span. He injured 
his arm after the season playing handball, and by the close of the 1939 
season he had been replaced by 24-year-old Frank Croucher at short. He 
was traded to the Cubs during the winter for shortstop Dick Bartell. The 
deal was described in the papers as being a trade of “one worn-out shortstop 
for another.” While Bartell would be a key part of the 1940 pennant winning 
Tiger club, Rogell entered a hornets nest the moment he stepped foot into 
the Cubs’ spring training camp. Holdovers from the 1935 team still held 
resentment toward Rogell and his Tiger teammates. Rogell, defending his 
former mates, got into a posturing match with manager/catcher Gabby Hartnett, 
who finally shouted, “You don’t belong here!” Rogell immediately asked 
for his release which the Cubs refused. He spent the year riding the bench, 
as the Cubs rode their way into the second division of the National League, 
and retired at the conclusion of the season. He appeared in only 33 games, 
collecting just eight hits. Rogell led American League shortstops in fielding 
percentage in 1935, ’36, and ’37. He also led the league once in both putouts 
and assists, and twice paired with Gehringer to lead the league in double 
plays. The two played over 1000 games together, making them one of the 
longest tenured double-play combinations in the history of the game. A 
fiery competitor, Rogell provided an intriguing foil to “The Mechanical 
Man” throughout their careers. Gehringer recalled in his Hall of Fame induction 
speech, "I wasn't a rabble rouser. I wasn't a big noisemaker in the infield, 
which a lot of managers think you've got to be or you're not showing. But 
I don't think it contributes much." Rogell, however, did not employ Gehringer's 
ideals when it came to on-field dialogue. On one occasion, after both failing 
to cover second on a steal attempt, Cochrane charged out from behind the 
plate shouting at Rogell and Gehringer. From The New Bill James Historical 
Baseball Abstract: Rogell, astonished, looked at Gehringer to see if he 
was going to say anything. Gehringer, of course, had nothing to say. "Goddamn 
you," yelled Rogell. "Don’t you come charging out here telling me how to 
play shortstop. You go back there and do the catching, and I’ll play shortstop. 
If I’m not good enough, you can find someone else." Cochrane went back 
to his own position. Rogell spent the bulk of his “retirement” as a member 
of the Detroit City Council. After a brief stint in the minors as a player 
and coach, he returned to Detroit and began his civil service career in 
1942. He would serve on the council, with a two-year break in the late 
forties, until 1980, playing a key role on the city’s planning commissions. 
“I think I did a lot for that city,” he would say after leaving his post. 
“I was chairman of the committee that built the big airport there. Also 
the roads and bridges committee.” The road entering Detroit's Metropolitan 
Airport from the north, Merriman Road, changes its name to William G. Rogell 
Drive as it enters the airport. Rogell also used his position to help old 
ballplayers in the Detroit area. Former Tiger teammate Tommy Bridges (who 
came to the Tigers the same year as Rogell), a sober man throughout his 
career, started to drink while serving in World War II. After trying to 
restart his career with Tigers following the war Bridges moved on to the 
Pacific Coast League. His drinking became more and more prevalent until 
he finally collapsed drunk on the mound during a game. He divorced his 
wife, married a waitress from a bar he often visited, moved back to Detroit, 
and caught up with some of his old teammates. Rogell, upset with the condition 
his former mate was in, lined up for Bridges a sales job in Detroit. Bridges 
never came to work, but Rogell did not hold any kind of resentment toward 
Bridges. “It was terrible to see that,” he said. “But nice guys go, too, 
you know.” Numerous other former players also turned to Rogell when they 
had run out of options, and he always worked hard to try to provide them 
with whatever assistance he could. Rogell, after leaving the council, spent 
the rest of his retirement in Detroit. At age 94 he threw out the first 
pitch at the final game at Tiger Stadium on September 27, 1999, nearly 
70 years after he had debuted for the Tigers in the same park. Billy Rogell 
died of pneumonia at the age of 98 in the Detroit suburb of Sterling Heights. 
