William Thomas "Bill" Burns (January 27, 1880 – June 6, 1953), nicknamed 
"Sleepy Bill," was an American baseball player who played as a pitcher 
in Major League Baseball for five different teams from 1908 to 1912. Burns 
earned his nickname for his noticeable lack of intensity on the mound.[1] 
Burns is best known for his involvement in the alleged fixing of the 1919 
Chicago White Sox World Series, dubbed the Black Sox Scandal. In his five-year 
career, Burns played for the Washington Senators, Chicago White Sox, Cincinnati 
Reds, Philadelphia Phillies, and Detroit Tigers.[2] In his rookie season, 
1908, Burns had a 1.69 earned run average (ERA) which was sixth best in 
the American League. However, he had a career record of 30–52 as a pitcher 
and never won more than eight games in a season. Pitching against the Tigers 
on May 21, 1908, Burns' bid for a no-hitter ended after 8 2/3 innings when 
Germany Schaefer singled to drive in the game's only run. On July 31, 1909, 
now pitching for the White Sox against Walter Johnson and the Senators, 
Burns again was one out from a no-hitter when it was broken up. This made 
him the first pitcher in baseball history to suffer this fate twice, a 
feat not repeated until Dave Stieb lost no-hitters with two outs in the 
ninth inning in consecutive starts on September 24 and 30, 1988. Yu Darvish 
would have become the third on May 9, 2014[3] , but a seventh-inning error 
was officially re-scored as a hit five days later after an appeal by David 
Ortiz[4] . Stieb would go on to break Burns's record on August 4, 1989, 
this time losing a perfect game with one out to go. Prior to the start 
of the 1919 World Series, a group of players from the Chicago White Sox 
agreed to intentionally lose the world series in exchange for money from 
gamblers. Burns met with Eddie Cicotte and Chick Gandil at The Ansonia, 
a hotel in New York City during the formative stages of the event.[5] It 
is likely that Burns operated on behalf of Arnold Rothstein, a New York 
businessman and gambler. Burns relayed messages back and forth between 
the players who had agreed to fix the games and a person whose initials 
were "A .R.".[6] After news of the scandal broke, a trial took place in 
Chicago, Illinois. During this trial, Burns served as a witness for the 
prosecution. Assistant State Attorney Edward Prindeville examined Burns 
during the trial. Burns testified: I told them I had the hundred thousand 
dollars to handle the throwing of the World Series. I also told them that 
I had the names of the men who were going to finance it. I told them they 
