William Alexander "Bill" Lange (/ˈlæŋ/;[1] June 6, 1871 – July 23, 1950), 
also known as "Little Eva",[2] was an American Major League Baseball center 
fielder, who played his entire seven-year career for the Chicago Colts 
and Orphans from 1893 to 1899. During his time in the Majors, he once led 
the National League in stolen bases, and was among the seasonal leaders 
in several other offensive categories including home runs, and batting 
average. Lange was noted for having a combination of great speed and power, 
especially for his size. His 6-foot-1-inch (1.85 m), 190-pound (86 kg) 
frame was considered large for his era.[3] He is best known for retiring 
from baseball during the prime of his career to get married, as his future 
father-in-law forbade his daughter to marry a baseball player. Despite 
the short-lived marriage, he refused all offers to return as a player. 
He became a successful businessman after his retirement from baseball. 
In addition to his success in real estate and insurance, he became a leading 
figure in Major League Baseball's efforts to generate interest in the game 
worldwide. He was enlisted by the leading baseball figures of the day to 
assist in establishing leagues in several European countries, that could 
eventually compete against American teams, while also scouting for undiscovered 
talent. Born in the Presidio District[4] of San Francisco, California,[5] 
he ran away from home while still in grammar school to live with his brother 
in Port Townsend, Washington.[4] It was from there that he moved up to 
play Minor League Baseball for the Seattle Reds of the Northwestern Baseball 
League in the early 1890s.[6] When the Northwestern League folded, Lange 
return the Bay area to play for the Oakland Colonels of the California 
League.[7] He played one season for the Colonels, then was signed by the 
Chicago Colts of the National League.[7] Lange made his Major League debut 
on April 27, 1893 for the Colts, and enjoyed a successful inaugural Major 
League season. He scored 92 times, hit eight home runs, had 88 runs batted 
in (RBIs), while also finishing seventh in stolen bases with 47, and batted 
.281. This was the only time he batted under .300 during his Major League 
career.[8] In the field that season, he played at second base, in right 
field and center field. He did not start playing center field exclusively 
until the following season.[5] Lange continued his success in 1894 by raising 
his batting average to .328 and finishing fifth in the league with 65 stolen 
bases.[8] Lange achieved his highest league rankings in 1895. His .389 batting 
average was fifth in the league[8] and is still the top individual season 
average in Chicago Cubs's history.[9] He also finished second in the league 
in stolen bases with 67, fifth in home runs with 10, fifth in on-base percentage 
with .456, hit 16 triples, scored 120 runs, and batted in 98 RBIs.[8] Lange 
had several notable moments during the 1896 season. On July 4, he stole 
five bases in one game against the Louisville Colonels,[10] although it 
was two stolen bases short of the record of seven set by George Gore and 
Billy Hamilton.[11] During a game on August 31, he entered baseball lore 
with a feat that he never actually performed. The game was scoreless in 
the bottom of the 10th inning when Lange made a diving catch in center 
field to keep the game scoreless. Later in the inning, Chicago's first 
baseman, George Decker attempted to field a thrown ball from third baseman 
Barry McCormick, but it bounced off and broke his wrist instead. In an 
effort to get Decker to the hospital adjacent the ballpark, his teammates 
knocked down several wooden slats of the outfield fence to expedite his 
journey. However, the two events were confused and it became legend that 
Lange had crashed through the fence making that acrobatic catch in tenth.[12] 
Lange finished the season with a .326 batting average, while also stealing 
84 bases, second in the league, and finished eighth in league with 16 triples.[8] 
His success continued into the 1897 season, as he batted .340, scored 119 runs, 
and led the league in stolen bases for the only time in his career.[8] 
His production dropped his last two seasons in the Majors as his runs scored 
fell to 79 in 1898 and 81 in 1899, although he still kept his batting averages 
of .319 and .325 respectively.[5] While he was very popular, his career 
as a baseball player was not without controversy. He was ejected from a 
game on at least two occasions,[5] one of which occurred on May 23, 1897 
when he had an on-field fight with Washington Senators second baseman John 
O'Brien.[13] On September 16, 1899, in a game against the Brooklyn Superbas, 
umpire Ed Swartwood called the game because of darkness with Brooklyn up 
by two runs. Lange, and other Chicago player surrounded Swartwood and proceeded 
to "knock him around", with Lange notably "tweaking" the umpire's ear.[14] 
Lange finished his career on October 15, 1899, having announced a few days 
earlier his intention to retire after the season. His team played a doubleheader 
that day, winning 7–0 against the St. Louis Perfectos, then losing to the 
Louisville Colonels later that day in a game shortened by darkness.[3] 
He retired from the game at age 28, during the prime of his career, so 
he could marry a woman whose father forbade her to marry a baseball player.[3] 
In the eyes of the 19th century public, baseball players were popular, 
but were often looked upon as low class. Lange's future wife was from his 
hometown of San Francisco, and her family was very well-to-do. Also, with 
the prospect of entering into the world of real estate and insurance, he 
could make much more money than he did as a ball player.[15] Though the 
marriage ended in a divorce a short time later,[3] he would not take any 
offers to return to Major League Baseball, despite Chicago's salary offer 
of $3,500 that would have made him the highest paid player in the league.[15] 
Although his career lasted only seven years, he finished as the decade 
leader among 1890s Chicago players in batting average, on-base percentage, 
slugging percentage, and stolen bases.[16] Lange became successful in both 
real estate and insurance in his hometown of San Francisco after he retired 
from baseball.[17] Lange is also credited in several sources, as being 
the person who discovered future Chicago Cubs first baseman, manager, and 
Hall of Famer, Frank Chance, after having watched him play for the local 
Fresno, California team during the off-season of 1897.[18] Lange had recommended 
Chance to the team owner, Jim Hart, but Hart disputed this claim, saying 
that Henry Harris had recommended Chance to him while Harris was an owner 
of a San Francisco team in the fall of 1897.[19] In 1907, the California 
State League, a minor league, was declared by organized baseball to be 
an "outlaw" league. Organized baseball accused the league of harboring 
players from the Majors Leagues who had violated the reserve clause to 
join a number of their teams.[14] The league had become a rival to the 
already established Pacific Coast League (PCL), who, after being an "outlaw" 
league themselves, had signed the National Agreement with organized baseball, 
agreeing that they would not harbor blacklisted or banned players from 
the Major Leagues.[14] A national commission decided that the best way 
to deal with this situation was to dissolve this outlaw league. They did 
this by lifting the blacklist on any player already in the State League, 
which would create competition among all known leagues, for these players. 
This commission enlisted Lange, who used his influence with the sports 
editors in the local area to speed up the process. The attempt worked as 
the PCL successfully lured the Sacramento, California team into joining 
their league, with many of the players soon to follow.[14] Later, John 
McGraw of the New York Giants enlisted Lange as his chief European baseball 
scout, hoping to discover any hidden talent in that untapped market. In 
1919, Ban Johnson, the American League president enlisted Lange as his 
chief organizer of baseball teams in Europe, mainly in England, France, 
Belgium, and Italy.[17] Johnson's plan was for Lange to evaluate talent 
and establish an International Baseball League that could compete against 
the American League pennant winning team in an effort to generate greater 
interest in the game.[17] Lange became part of the board of directors at 
the YMCA, which helped fund the expedition. Additionally, Washington Senators 
owner Clark Griffith donated $40,000 worth of equipment to assist in supplying 
the new league. Lange died at the age of 79 in his hometown of San Francisco, 
and is interred at the Holy Cross Cemetery in Colma, California.[5] Two 
of his nephews played Major League ball as well, Ren, and George "Highpockets" 
Kelly.[5][20] George later gained induction into the Baseball Hall of Fame 
