William Francis Lee III (born December 28, 1946), nicknamed "Spaceman", 
is an American former Major League Baseball pitcher. He played for the 
Boston Red Sox 1969–1978 and the Montreal Expos 1979–1982. On November 
7, 2008, Lee was inducted into the Red Sox Hall of Fame as the team's record-holder 
for most games pitched by a left-hander (321) and the third-highest win 
total (94) by a Red Sox southpaw. On August 23, 2012, Lee signed a contract 
to play with the San Rafael Pacifics of the independent North American 
League at age 65. In addition to his baseball experience, Lee is known 
for his counterculture behavior, his antics both on and off the field, 
and his use of the Leephus pitch, a personalized variation of the eephus 
pitch.[1] Lee has co-written four books: The Wrong Stuff; Have Glove, Will 
Travel; The Little Red (Sox) Book: A Revisionist Red Sox History; and Baseball 
Eccentrics: The Most Entertaining, Outrageous, and Unforgettable Characters 
in the Game. In 2006, the documentary film by Brett Rapkin Spaceman: A 
Baseball Odyssey featured Lee. Lee was born in Burbank, California,[2] 
into a family of former semi- and professional baseball players. His grandfather 
William Lee was an infielder for the Hollywood Stars of the Pacific Coast 
League and his aunt Annabelle Lee was a pitcher in the All-American Girls 
Professional Baseball League, whom Bill Lee said taught him to pitch.[3] 
Lee attended and played baseball at Terra Linda High School in San Rafael, 
California, graduating in 1964 before enrolling at the University of Southern 
California. At USC, Lee majored in physical education and geography and 
attended from 1964-1968 where he played for Rod Dedeaux, and was drafted 
by the Boston Red Sox in the 22nd round of the 1968 Major League Baseball 
Draft. Lee is a rastafarian and formerly Catholic.[4] He is married to 
Canadian-born Diana Donovan.[5] Lacking a good fastball, Lee developed 
off-speed pitches, including a variation of the Eephus pitch. The Leephus 
pitch or Space Ball, the names for Lee's take on the eephus pitch, follows 
a high, arcing trajectory and is very slow. Lee is the last Red Sox player 
to miss time during the season for military obligation after being active 
duty in the Army Reserve from June 1 to October 1, 1970.[6] Lee was used 
almost exclusively as a relief pitcher during the first four years of his 
career. During that period, Lee appeared in 125 games, starting in nine, 
and compiled a 19–11 record. In 1973, he was used primarily as a starting 
pitcher. He started 33 of the 38 games in which he appeared and went 17–11 
with a 2.95 Earned Run Average, and was named to the American League All-Star 
team. He followed 1973 with two more 17-win seasons. He started two games 
in the 1975 World Series against the Cincinnati Reds. He left both the 
2nd and 7th games with the lead, but the Red Sox lost both games, and the 
Series.[7] During the 1978 season, Lee and Red Sox manager Don Zimmer engaged 
in an ongoing public feud over the handling of the pitching staff. Lee's 
independence and iconoclastic nature clashed with Zimmer's old-school, 
conservative personality. Lee and a few other Red Sox formed what they 
called "The Buffalo Heads" as a response to the manager. Zimmer then relegated 
Lee to the bullpen and management traded Hall of Famer Ferguson Jenkins 
and Bernie Carbo. Lee was traded at the end of 1978 to the Montreal Expos 
for Stan Papi, a utility infielder. Lee bade farewell to Boston by saying, 
"Who wants to be with a team that will go down in history alongside the 
'64 Phillies and the '67 Arabs?" Lee won 16 games for the Expos in 1979, 
while being named The Sporting News National League Left Hander of the 
Year (over Philadelphia's Steve Carlton); his professional career ended 
in 1982, when he was released by the Expos after staging a one-game walkout 
as a protest over Montreal's decision to release second baseman and friend 
Rodney Scott. Lee's personality earned him popularity as well as the nickname 
"Spaceman", given to him by former Red Sox infielder John Kennedy.[citation 
needed] His outspoken manner and unfiltered comments were frequently recorded 
in the press. Lee spoke in defense of Maoist China, population control, 
Greenpeace, and school busing in Boston, among other things.[citation needed] 
He berated an umpire for a controversial call in the 1975 World Series, 
threatening to bite off his ear and encouraging the American people to 
write letters demanding the game be replayed.[citation needed] In his 1984 
book The Wrong Stuff, he claimed his marijuana use made him impervious 
to bus fumes while jogging to work at Fenway Park.[8] Much of the material 
in this book is, however, tongue-in-cheek. His propensity to criticize 
management led to his being dropped[citation needed] from both the Red 
Sox and the Expos, and the end of his professional career by 1982. After 
the Expos released Lee in May 1982, he played for semi-professional teams, 
including the single-season Senior League in Florida, largely composed 
of retired major leaguers. He played in Venezuela, and starting in 1984 
he lived in Moncton, New Brunswick, where he played first base and pitcher 
for the Moncton Mets, earning $500 per week.[9] That year, he published 
his first autobiographical book, The Wrong Stuff. In 1988, he and his second 
wife, Pamela, announced plans to move to Burlington, Vermont. In 1987, 
he had announced plans to run for President of the United States for the 
Rhinoceros Party, which necessitated the move.[10][11] Since then he has 
played mostly as a celebrity pitcher in games around the world.[12] Since 
1999, Lee has been an ambassador for Major League Baseball to Cuba helping 
to bring Cubans players to the US and setting up goodwill tours especially 
to Canada.[13] In 2007, Lee joined former major league players Dennis "Oil 
Can" Boyd, Marquis Grissom, Delino DeShields, and Ken Ryan on the Oil Can 
Boyd's Traveling All-Stars. In June 2008, Lee pitched for the Alaska Goldpanners 
during the annual "Midnight Sun" ball game played at night during the Summer 
Solstice.[14] In September 2010, Lee pitched 5 2⁄3 innings for the Brockton 
Rox (a team that was then a member of the Canadian-American Association 
of Professional Baseball), picking up the win.[15] The win made him the 
oldest pitcher to appear in or to win a professional baseball game.[16] 
On October 8, 2011, Lee participated in the "100 Innings of Baseball Game" 
hosted by the Boston Amateur Baseball Network to raise money for ALS (Lou 
Gehrig's Disease). On August 23, 2012, Lee pitched a nine-inning complete 
game for the San Rafael Pacifics in San Rafael, California, beating the 
Na Koa Ikaika Maui 9–4. Using a homemade bat in the fifth inning, he drove 
in the first run of the game for the Pacifics.[17] Lee was signed to a 
one-day contract by Pacifics' President and General Manager Mike Shapiro. 
Lee's bat and uniform were donated to the Baseball Hall of Fame following 
the game as the start gave him the record for the oldest pitcher to make 
a starting appearance, pitch a complete game and also to earn a win in 
a professional baseball game. Lee lives in northern Vermont with his third 
wife. He is also a regular on Melnick in the Afternoon with Mitch Melnick 
at TSN 690 sports radio in Montreal in a segment called "Answers from Space". 
In 2007, Lee was featured in High Times, a counterculture, pro-marijuana 
magazine. He also makes frequent appearances on Sports Overnight America, 
a nationally syndicated radio program hosted by Gerrie Burke (a long-time 
friend) out of San Francisco. He is also a regular coach/pro at the annual 
Red Sox Baseball Fantasy Camp run by the Red Sox Organization in Florida 
at the team's Spring Training Facility. Lee recently released his own wine 
label, "Spaceman Red" wine, a California syrah, cabernet and petite sirah 
blend, produced with winemaker friend Geoff Whitman, and distributed in 
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Vermont, Maine, and New Hampshire.[18] In 
2004 he released a beer in partnership with Vermont's Magic Hat Brewing 
Company. Called Spaceman Ale, it is no longer in production. In 2003, filmmakers 
Brett Rapkin and Josh Dixon joined Lee on a barnstorming trip to Cuba, 
gathering footage for the documentary film Spaceman: A Baseball Odyssey. 
The film premiered at the 2006 SILVERDOCS AFI/Discovery Channel Documentary 
Festival and later on the New England Sports Network and MLB Network. It 
is distributed across North America by Hart Sharp Video. Spaceman is a 
biographical film about Lee written and directed by Brett Rapkin and starring 
Josh Duhamel[19][20] as Lee. In 1988, Lee was the Rhinoceros Party presidential 
candidate running on a platform of bulldozing the Rocky Mountains so Alberta 
could receive a few extra minutes of sun light and banning guns and butter. 
His slogan was "No guns, no butter. Both can kill."[21] In May 2016, Lee 
was chosen by the Liberty Union Party as its nominee for the 2016 election 
for Governor of Vermont.[21] Lee, who had never heard of the Liberty Union 
Party before, was contacted by the party to run for governor and accepted.[4] 
Lee is not taking campaign contributions.[22] His campaign slogan is "So 
far left, we're right".[23] Lee is a supporter of Bernie Sanders but sees 
himself as "Bernie-heavy not Bernie-lite" arguing he is Sanders' policy 
twin.[21][24] He is the author of four books, two written with Richard 
