William Joseph Maharg, also known as William Joseph Graham (March 19, 1881 
– November 20, 1953) was a professional boxer that has three distinct historical 
connections with Major League Baseball—first, as a replacement player in 
the 1912 Detroit Tigers' players strike; second, for a one-game stint with 
the Philadelphia Phillies in 1916, and third, for his role in the 1919 
Chicago Black Sox Scandal. Maharg's first appearance in baseball came on 
May 18, 1912. Three days earlier, Ty Cobb jumped into the stands and attacked 
a handicapped heckler who had been taunting Cobb, calling him a "half-nigger". 
The heckler had lost one complete hand and two fingers from the other hand 
in an industrial accident. When fans yelled that the man had no hands, 
Cobb shouted back, "I don't care if he has no feet!" American League president 
Ban Johnson witnessed the incident and suspended Cobb indefinitely. Cobb's 
teammates voted to strike in support of Cobb, refusing to play until the 
suspension was lifted. When Ban Johnson threatened Tigers owner Frank Navin 
with a $5,000 per game fine if he failed to field a team, Navin told manager 
Hughie Jennings to find replacement players. As the Tigers were on the 
road in Philadelphia, Jennings recruited eight replacement "Tigers" from 
a neighborhood in North Philadelphia. Each man was paid $25. Maharg was 
one of the replacement players. The replacement Tigers lost 24-2 to the 
Philadelphia Athletics. Maharg played two innings at third base and had 
two assists and no errors. He failed to reach base in his only at bat in 
the game. The regular Tigers returned after a one-game strike, and Maharg's 
major league career was over until 1916. On October 5, 1916, Maharg resurfaced 
in major league baseball as an assistant trainer and driver with the Philadelphia 
Phillies. Maharg was given a chance to bat in the final game of the 1916 
season. With the Braves ahead 4-1 in the 8th inning‚ Phillies manager Pat 
Moran put the pudgy Maharg in as a pinch hitter. Maharg grounded out and 
then played left field before returning to his real duties as chauffeur 
for Phillies catcher Bill Killefer. After one-game, one-at-bat stints in 
both the American and National Leagues, Maharg ended his two-game playing 
career with a .000 batting average but a perfect 1.000 fielding percentage. 
Maharg's third connection with major league baseball came in 1919 as he 
conspired to fix the 1919 World Series—the infamous Black Sox Scandal. 
Several White Sox players, including Eddie Cicotte, Chick Gandil, and Swede 
Risberg, conspired with Sleepy Bill Burns, a former big-league pitcher, 
to throw the World Series in exchange for $100,000. Billy Maharg worked 
with Burns to find financing. Maharg and Burns approached New York gambler 
Arnold Rothstein to raise the money for the players. Other gamblers soon 
entered the picture, whereupon the players, Maharg and Burns suffered multiple 
double-crosses. The White Sox did in fact lose the Series. In September 
1920, a disgruntled Maharg gave the full details of the plot to a Philadelphia 
writer. Eight White Sox players were indicted for throwing the Series. 
When Maharg was called as a witness in the criminal trial, someone noted, 
“He flashed enough diamonds on his fingers to buy a flock of autos.” Maharg 
was asked, “Are you a ballplayer named “Peaches Graham?” The answer was, 
“No! I have never been anything but Billy Maharg. I know Graham, but I 
am not he.” (It has long been believed that Maharg's real name was Graham, 
or Maharg spelled backwards.) The Chicago jury found the six players not 
guilty, and Maharg celebrated with the players afterward. All six were 
subsequently banned from baseball for life by Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis. Three of the former players implicated in the Black Sox Scandal 
were members of the 1912 Detroit Tigers: Sleepy Bill Burns and Jean Dubuc 
were both pitchers for the 1912 Tigers, and Maharg was one of the 1912 
replacement Tigers. Actor Richard Edson played the part of Maharg in John 
