Bill Macatee (born November 17, 1955) is an American sports broadcaster 
for CBS Sports and Tennis Channel. Macatee was born in Rome, New York, 
and grew up in El Paso, Texas.[1] He graduated from Burges High School 
in El Paso. In 1978, he earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Lamar 
University in Beaumont, Texas.[2] He is a member of Delta Tau Delta International 
Fraternity. While in college, Macatee worked at KLTV-TV in Tyler, Texas 
as well as KTVV-TV in Austin, Texas. He became Sports Director at KBMT-TV 
in Beaumont, Texas where he was hired by Bill Paradoski. Following that 
he worked at KMBC-TV in Kansas City before spending 3 years at WFAA-TV 
in Dallas, Texas. Macatee was hired by NBC Sports and moved to New York 
in 1982. In 1982, Macatee began his network sports broadcasting career 
with NBC,[3] and was the youngest network sportscaster in the industry. 
With NBC Sports, he covered a wide range of events including Wimbledon, 
the Super Bowl, the Rose Bowl and the World Series. He hosted NBC's Major 
League Baseball Game of the Week pre-game show for 4 years as well as numerous 
events for the network's sports anthology show, NBC Sportsworld. Additionally, 
Macatee served as the sports correspondent for the Today Show and sports 
anchor for NBC News at Sunrise and Sunday Today. He also co-anchored the 
syndicated show USA Today on TV. Macatee joined USA Network as a sportscaster 
in 1990.[4] From 1991 until 2006, Macatee anchored coverage of the PGA 
Tour and hosted the network's Thursday/Friday coverage of The Masters from 
Butler Cabin as well as coverage of the Ryder Cup. His other duties included 
play-by-play for the U.S. Open Tennis Championships and the French Open 
at Roland Garros. Since joining CBS Sports in 1995, Macatee has served 
as a tower announcer and handled post-round, network interviews for The 
Masters and PGA Championship. He also substitutes for Jim Nantz during 
other PGA Tour events and has anchored CBS' coverage of the LPGA Championship 
and various Champions Tour events.[2] In 2015, Macatee became the host 
of the Golf Channel series, "Greatest Rounds". In tennis, Macatee was the 
main CBS play-by-play announcer for the U.S. Open Tennis Championship (taking 
over from Dick Enberg in 2012) and other ATP and WTA events. Additionally, 
Macatee serves as the main play-by-play voice and studio host for the cable 
network Tennis Channel, covering the Australian Open, The French Open (French 
Open Tonight), Wimbledon (Wimbledon Primetime) and the U.S. Open.[4] From 
1998 through 2013, Macatee did play-by-play for the NFL on CBS. He also 
called NCAA Basketball for CBS Sports including the NCAA Tournament and 
the NCAA Division II Championship Game. Macatee has done network play-by-play 
in sports as diverse as figure skating, skiing, track-and-field, gymnastics, 
boxing and even sumo wrestling.[2] Macatee has twice served as a network 
host for the Olympics. He co-anchored weekend coverage of the 1998 Winter 
Games in Nagano, Japan for CBS Sports and the 2006 Winter Games in Torino, 
Italy for USA. In 2013, Macatee joined The Vistria Group, a Chicago private 
equity firm, serving as a Senior Advisor. He is on the Board of Directors 
for Media Source, Inc. and the USTA Foundation. Macatee spent 2 years as 
an Adjunct Faculty Member at Chapman University in Southern California, 
teaching Sports Media at the prestigious Dodge College of Film and Media 
Arts. Macatee serves on the Board of Advisors at Lamar University's College 
of Fine Arts and Communications. He was named Distinguished Alumni at Lamar 
University in 2010 and gave the Commencement Address at Lamar in May 2014. 
On May 10, 2014, Macatee married Sonya Lee. They reside in Dallas, Texas.[5] 
He is also father to Caitlin Macatee, an up-and-coming comedian and author.[6] 
