William Lee Gullickson (born February 20, 1959 in Marshall, Minnesota) 
is a former major league baseball pitcher who played for six different 
major-league teams, in Canada, the U.S. and Japan, during an 18-year professional 
career, of which 14 seasons were spent in MLB. Gullickson was selected 
as the second player to be drafted in the first round of the June 1977 
Major League Baseball draft by the Montreal Expos, out of Joliet Catholic 
Academy in Joliet, Illinois. He finished second behind Steve Howe in the 
National League Rookie of the Year voting in 1980, after a season in which 
he went 10–5 with an earned run average (ERA) of 3.00, and set a major-league 
record for most strikeouts in a game by a rookie, with 18. Gullickson held 
that record for 18 years, until Kerry Wood broke it with 20 strikeouts 
in 1998. Gullickson held the Montreal Expos-Washington Nationals all-time 
strikeout record for a single game with 18 strikeouts until Max Scherzer 
broke the record in 2016. In 1981, he helped the Expos to their only division 
title with a 7–9, 2.81 record. The Expos lost the National League Championship 
Series to the Los Angeles Dodgers in five games. Except for the 1981 strike 
season, Gullickson was in double figures in wins for every year onward. 
On December 12, 1985, Gullickson was acquired by the Reds, along with catcher 
Sal Butera; the Reds sent pitchers Andy McGaffigan and John Stuper and 
catcher Dann Bilardello to the Expos. The next year Gullickson was acquired 
by the New York Yankees for their 1987 pennant drive, but he was unhappy 
there, and in 1988 accepted a two-million-dollar offer to pitch in Japan 
for the Yomiuri Giants. Gullickson stayed with the Giants for two seasons, 
with a record of 21–14. Kazushige Nagashima, the son of Japanese baseball 
legend Shigeo Nagashima, got the first hit in his professional career, 
a home run, off Gullickson. When asked about his time in Japan, Gullickson 
said it was strange; the only English words that he saw were "Sony and 
Mitsubishi."[citation needed] Although only in Japan for a short time, 
Gullickson left behind a positive legacy. When he was in Japan, it was 
considered a miracle that Gullickson, a patient with type 1 diabetes mellitus, 
played a professional sport. Since 1998, the Japan Diabetes Mellitus Society 
(JADMC) has awarded the "Gullickson Award" for the patient who is deemed 
a superior influence on society. While in Japan, Gullickson also developed 
a close friendship with a young Japanese pitcher, Masumi Kuwata, and even 
named his son "Craig Kuwata Gullickson" in his honor. Kuwata learned many 
things from Gullickson and grew to be one of the best players in Japan. 
Meanwhile, Kuwata had always wished to play in MLB, and at last, this dream 
was realized in 2007, as he became a member of the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Nearly 20 years after meeting Gullickson, Kuwata became an MLB rookie, 
at the age of 39. At the age of 12, Sam Fuld, an aspiring baseball player 
who also had diabetes, met Gullickson, and talked to him for two minutes. 
"That was enough to inspire me", Fuld said.[1] "Any time I can talk to 
young diabetic kids, I look forward to that opportunity", said Gullickson.[2] 
Fuld is now a major league outfielder with the Oakland Athletics. Gullickson 
signed as a free agent with the Houston Astros after the 1989 season, and 
had a mediocre 1990 season before being released. He then signed a multimillion-dollar 
contract with the Detroit Tigers, with whom he pitched for four seasons. 
While with the Tigers he met a young boy, who was then 12, who also had 
diabetes, and talked to him for two minutes. It was future major leaguer 
Sam Fuld, who battled to make the Cubs' 2008 team. "That was enough to 
inspire me", Fuld said. "Any time I can talk to young diabetic kids, I 
look forward to that opportunity."[3] In 1991 Gullickson led the American 
League in wins, with 20, his career high, but in 1994 was forced to retire 
due to injuries, at age 35. Gullickson is married to Sandy Gullickson. 
Their six children are all involved in sports or other physically intensive 
