As player As coach As manager Alfred Manuel "Billy" Martin (May 16, 1928 
– December 25, 1989) was an American Major League Baseball second baseman 
and manager. He is best known as the manager of the New York Yankees, a 
position he held five different times. As Yankees manager, he led the team 
to consecutive American League pennants in 1976 and 1977; the Yankees were 
swept in the 1976 World Series by the Cincinnati Reds but triumphed over 
the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games in the 1977 World Series. He also 
had notable managerial tenures with several other AL squads, leading four 
of them to division championships. Martin had a distinguished playing career 
in the 1950s, highlighted by his years with the Yankees during which he 
performed at a high level in appearances in the World Series. He was also 
selected for the American League All Star team in 1956. In these years 
his infamous propensity for fisticuffs became established, both on and 
off the baseball field. As a manager, Martin was known for turning losing 
teams into winners, and for arguing animatedly with umpires, including 
a widely parodied routine in which he kicked dust on their feet. However, 
he was criticized for not getting along with veteran players and owners, 
burning out young pitchers, and for having an addiction to alcohol. During 
the 1969 through 1988 period as a manager, Martin totaled 1,253 victories 
with a .553 winning percentage. Martin was born Alfred Manuel Pesano, Jr. 
to Alfred Manuel Pesano, Sr. and Joan Salvini "Jenny" Pesano in Berkeley, 
California. He was of Portuguese and Italian descent, as his father was 
a native of the Azores and his mother was born to a large Italian family 
in California. Alfred, Sr. abandoned the family eight months later;[1] 
for this reason, Jenny always referred to Alfred, her second husband, as 
the "jackass."[2] (She had been married before to a native Italian named 
Donato Pisani, whom her family arranged her to marry, and later married 
a singer named Jack Downey and took his name; the marriage lasted until 
Jack's death many years later.) Eventually, Jenny changed the family name 
to "Martin."[1] He began being called "Billy" after his grandmother (Joan's 
mother) started calling him "Bello" (Italian masculine for "beautiful"; 
Martin said in his autobiography Number One that she would also call him 
"Bellitz,", a dialectical version of the same word). As Martin grew up 
in West Berkeley his mother took careful notice not to let her son know 
his actual name, not wanting him to know he shared the same name with Alfred 
Pesano. In fact, such careful care had been taken to hide Martin's birthname 
from him that he didn't find out until entering junior high; on his first 
day in Seventh Grade, while the teacher took attendance, his teacher called 
on "Alfred Martin" and young Billy thought she had skipped over him.[3] 
While attending Berkeley High School, Martin tried out for and began playing 
for the Oakland Junior Oaks, affiliated with the Pacific Coast League's 
Oakland Oaks club. After graduation in 1946, he was signed by Eddie Leishman, 
also a Berkeley native, to play for him for Idaho Falls the Class D Pioneer 
League, hitting .254 in 32 games. Late in the 1947 season, he was signed 
to the Oaks, where his manager was Casey Stengel, who admired his aggressive 
play. Martin played for the Oaks in 1948 and 1949.[3] When Stengel became 
the manager of the New York Yankees in 1949 he had the Yankees obtain Martin 
in 1950. That year, Martin batted .250 in 34 games.[3] Martin began his 
major league career in 1950 as a second baseman for the Yankees. As a player, 
he was known for making clutch plays. In the 1952 World Series, he made 
a game-saving catch on an infield popup in Game 7.[4] In the 1953 season, 
Martin had career highs in home runs (15), RBIs (75), doubles (24), triples 
(6), and times hit by pitch (6). He was the most valuable player of the 
1953 World Series, as he batted .500 with a .958 slugging percentage and 
delivered with an RBI in Game 6 to clinch the series. Martin was an All-Star 
in 1956. In 1958, Martin led the league in sacrifice hits, with 13. After 
his 1957 trade (which also included Ralph Terry, Woodie Held, and Bob Martyn) 
to the Kansas City Athletics (see Altercations below), Martin's career 
declined, with several short stints with six different teams over the final 
4½ seasons of his playing career: the Athletics, the Detroit Tigers, the 
Cleveland Indians, the Cincinnati Reds, the Milwaukee Braves and the Minnesota 
Twins. Martin retired in 1961 with a career batting average of .257. He 
hit .333 in 28 World Series games for the Yankees. Despite Martin's impressive 
work ethic in practice and at the game, he developed a reputation for post-game 
drinking escapades and occasional allegations of being involved in fights. 
While Martin was by all accounts a very accomplished fighter who would 
quickly dispatch most any opponent in a brawl, most of the incidents that 
received significantly media play were of questionable accuracy. The famous 
Copacabana nightclub altercation involving Martin, Hank Bauer, Mickey Mantle 
and Yogi Berra resulted in Martin being traded from the Yankees to the 
Kansas City Athletics, but the Bauer family later said it had been Hank 
Bauer, not Billy Martin who has actually thrown punches. Being told of 
the trade, Martin felt betrayed by Stengel, with whom he had a strong father-son 
relationship, for failing to prevent the trade, and the two did not speak 
for years. Martin did have several on the field fights of note. On August 
4, 1960, Martin, then playing for the Reds, charged the mound in the second 
inning after receiving a brushback pitch from Chicago Cubs pitcher Jim 
Brewer. Martin threw his bat at Brewer, who picked up the bat and started 
to hand it to Martin as he approached. Martin punched Brewer in the right 
eye, breaking his cheekbone. Brewer was hospitalized for two months, and 
Martin served a five-day suspension. The Cubs sued Martin for $1,000,000 
(equivalent to $8,000,000 in 2015),[5] for the loss of Brewer's services. 
While the Cubs dropped their case, Brewer pursued his, and in 1969, a judge 
ordered Martin to pay $10,000 (equivalent to $60,000 in 2015),[5] in damages. 
When informed of the judgment by the press, he asked sarcastically, "How 
do they want it? Cash or check?" Martin's fights as a player also included 
bouts with Jimmy Piersall, Clint Courtney (twice), Matt Batts and Tommy 
Lasorda. Martin spent eight years (1962–69) in the Minnesota organization 
after his retirement. He was a scout from 1962–64, the third-base coach 
of the Twins from 1965 through May 27, 1968, and manager of their Triple-A 
affiliate, the Denver Bears, for the last half of the 1968 campaign. He 
succeeded Cal Ermer as Minnesota's big-league manager following the '68 
season. The Twins won the 1969 American League West title (both leagues 
now had two divisions after expanding from 10 teams to 12) in Martin's 
only season as their manager. However, they were swept by the Baltimore 
Orioles in the first ever American League Championship Series. Martin was 
fired after the season following an August 1969 fight in Detroit with one 
of his pitchers, 20-game winner Dave Boswell, and outfielder Bob Allison 
in an alley outside the legendary Lindell A.C. bar. After knocking out 
Allison with one punch, Boswell was in turn knocked out by Martin; the 
pitcher received a cut that required 20 stitches. Martin spent the 1970 
season out of baseball. Martin managed the Detroit Tigers from 1971 to 
1973. He guided the team to a first-place finish in 1972. During the 1972 
American League Championship Series, Oakland Athletics shortstop Bert Campaneris 
threw his bat at Detroit pitcher Lerrin LaGrow after being hit by a pitch. 
In the ensuing brawl, an infuriated Martin had to be restrained by umpires 
and teammates to prevent him from going after Campaneris. The Tigers lost 
the series three games to two, the first year that the ALCS went the full 
five games (It was the first such year for the NLCS as well.) While posing 
for a baseball card as the manager for the Detroit Tigers in 1972, Martin 
gave photographers the middle finger. The gesture went unnoticed until 
after the card's release. Martin also played a key role in the discovery 
of Ron LeFlore in a Michigan state prison. Martin was lured to Michigan 
State Prison by another inmate who knew Martin. The unorthodox Martin witnessed 
LeFlore's speed and strength. Martin helped LeFlore get permission for 
day-parole and a tryout at Tiger Stadium. In the summer of 1973, the Tigers 
signed him to a contract, which enabled LeFlore to meet the conditions 
for parole. Later that year, Martin brazenly told the press that he had 
ordered his pitchers to throw spitballs and shine balls, reportedly because 
Gaylord Perry was frequently throwing spitballs when the Tigers faced him. 
American League president Joe Cronin suspended him for three days, but 
just as he was due to come off the suspension, the Tigers fired him.[1] 
Martin's next managerial job was with the Texas Rangers, where he took 
the club from last place to second place in 1974, but was fired in 1975. 
He was hired by owner Bob Short replacing Whitey Herzog at the end of the 
1973 season. He surprised the baseball world in 1974 by helping the Rangers 
to an 84-76 record after they had two consecutive 100+ loss seasons. But 
after the 1975 team went 44-51 under Martin, and after a confrontation 
with new Rangers owner Brad Corbett, Martin was fired on July 20 and Frank 
Lucchesi, one of Martin's coaches and a man who Martin thought was undermining 
him to Corbett so he could take the managerial position himself, was named 
as his replacement. Martin was not out of work for very long, as the Yankees 
had also fired their manager, Bill Virdon. The former Yankee second baseman 
was hired to take his place, marking Martin's first time in a Yankee uniform 
since the 1957 trade. With Martin at the helm, the Yankees went 30-26 in 
their final 56 games of the 1975 season; he then managed them to the World 
Series in 1976 (their first pennant since 1964) and 1977, winning in 1977. 
He feuded publicly with both Yankee owner George Steinbrenner and star 
outfielder Reggie Jackson. In one especially infamous incident, on June 
18, 1977, in the middle game of what would prove to be a three-game series 
sweep by the Boston Red Sox at Fenway Park, Martin pulled Jackson off the 
field (replacing him with Paul Blair) in mid-inning for failing to hustle 
and catch a shallow outfield fly ball by Jim Rice, allowing Rice to reach 
second base. The extremely angry and highly animated Martin had to be restrained 
by coaches Elston Howard and Yogi Berra from getting into a fight with 
Jackson in the dugout during the nationally-televised Saturday afternoon 
game. In 1978, Martin had another major incident with Jackson and it eventually 
led to him losing his position. On July 17 against the Kansas City Royals, 
Jackson came to the plate in the bottom of the tenth inning with Thurman 
Munson on base and Martin put the bunt sign on. After Jackson fouled the 
first pitch off, the sign was taken off and Jackson was given the sign 
to swing away. Jackson bunted again, and then on the third pitch he bunted 
again and popped out. A furious Martin demanded Jackson be suspended for 
the remainder of the season after the game, but after conversing with upper 
management Martin agreed on a five-game suspension. Then, when Jackson 
returned, he told reporters that he did not know why Martin had suspended 
him. To make matters worse for Martin, he was accused of racism for demanding 
Jackson's suspension after word leaked to the press that Sparky Lyle, who 
was going through his own issues with team management, violated team rules 
that same day when he left the stadium and went home without permission 
after refusing to pitch a second full inning, yet received no punishment.[6] 
Then he learned that Steinbrenner was looking to trade his manager to the 
Chicago White Sox, and in return would receive White Sox manager Bob Lemon. 
Martin finally had enough, and following the July 23 game in Chicago Martin 
lashed out at his star player and his owner. Martin told reporters in Chicago, 
"They deserve each other. One's a born liar [Jackson], and the other's 
convicted [Steinbrenner]."[7] (Martin was referring to Steinbrenner's conviction 
for making illegal donations to Richard Nixon's 1972 election campaign, 
a conviction that resulted in Steinbrenner being suspended from baseball 
for 15 months). The next day, having thought over the impact of his words 
Martin resigned in a tearful press conference in Kansas City (it was said, 
including by Martin in his 1980 autobiography, that Steinbrenner had sent 
Al Rosen, who was the team president at the time, to fire Martin at the 
hotel but Martin resigned before he could). Steinbrenner replaced Martin 
with Lemon, who had lost his job with the White Sox approximately a month 
earlier despite winning AL Manager of the Year in 1977. Soon afterward, 
at the annual Old-Timers' Game at Yankee Stadium, in a grandstanding gesture 
and an overwhelming demand by the fans, the Yankees had public address 
announcer Bob Sheppard introduce an unemployed Martin as the Yankees' next 
manager for the 1980 season (with Lemon moving to the front office). Steinbrenner 
and Martin had apparently patched up their differences, but Lemon managed 
the team for 1978–1979. In 1979, the Yankees got off to a slow start under 
Lemon. Injuries to Reggie Jackson and Goose Gossage as well as the death 
of Thurman Munson mid-season had the Yankees reeling. Steinbrenner fired 
Lemon and brought back Martin earlier than previously planned. The Yankees 
failed to improve, however, and their streak of American League East division 
titles ended at three. After the 1979 season, Martin got into a fight with 
marshmallow salesman Joseph Cooper at a hotel in Minneapolis. According 
to Cooper, the fight started over a dispute on who should be "Manager of 
the Year", with Cooper saying Dick Williams or Earl Weaver. Martin reportedly 
egged Cooper on, offering a $500 bet and later sucker punching Cooper when 
he agreed.[8] Steinbrenner fired him after that and replaced him with Dick 
Howser for the 1980 season. Martin, an East Bay native born and raised 
in Berkeley, resurfaced with the Oakland Athletics, where he perfected 
a style of play that became known as "Billyball" (characterized as featuring 
aggressive base running). Martin won the American League West Division 
title in the split season of 1981, swept the Kansas City Royals in the 
special division series (due to a players' strike), and then met the Yankees 
in the 1981 ALCS where his A's were swept by the Yankees. Martin's early 
success with the A's led to his designation as the club's general manager—giving 
him control over the baseball operations of the entire Oakland organization 
in 1981. Martin was fired from both positions when the 1982 Athletics plummeted 
to a 68-94 record, largely because he'd overworked many of the pitchers 
from the 1981 team. Years later, Rob Neyer estimated that the four top 
starters from the 1981 team threw anywhere from 120-140 pitches per complete 
game—a heavy workload for pitchers as young as the members of the 1981 
staff were.[9] Martin returned to the New York Yankees in 1983, 1985, and 
1988, but never for more than one full season. During his years as a major 
league manager, Art Fowler usually served as his pitching coach. Each time, 
while his teams managed to make good accounts of themselves on the field, 
he was fired due to his behavior on and off the field. During the 1983 
season, Martin was involved in one of the most controversial regular season 
games, known as the Pine Tar Incident, where umpires nullified a go-ahead 
home run by Yankee nemesis, Kansas City Royals third baseman George Brett, 
when Martin protested that there was too much pine tar on his bat. Ultimately, 
American League President Lee MacPhail ruled in favor of the Royals' protest, 
reinstating the home run, and replaying the game from the point of the 
nullification. At the start of the replayed game, Martin tried to protest 
on the grounds that Brett had missed a base. The umpires working this game, 
however, had anticipated this, and had obtained an affidavit from the crew 
who had worked the original game saying that Brett had indeed touched all 
the bases. On September 22, 1985, while at a hotel bar in Baltimore, Maryland, 
Martin fought one of his pitchers, Ed Whitson, who was 4 inches (100 mm) 
taller and 40 pounds (18 kg) heavier. Martin suffered a broken arm, bruises, 
and cuts, while Whitson had a broken rib and a split lip.[10] He was fired 
after the 1985 season. At the time of his death, Martin was preparing to 
manage the Yankees a sixth time for the 1990 season, to the point of having 
assembled a coaching staff. On August 10, 1986, the Yankees retired Martin's 
uniform number 1 and dedicated a plaque in his honor for Monument Park 
at Yankee Stadium. The plaque contains the words, There has never been 
a greater competitor than Billy. Martin told the crowd, "I may not have 
been the greatest Yankee to put on the uniform, but I am the proudest." 
The baseball fields at Bushrod Park in Oakland California are named for 
baseball player and manager Billy Martin[12] Martin appeared on the 2011 
Baseball Hall of Fame ballot.[13] He did not receive enough votes for induction.[14] 
Many of his contemporaries have remarked on Martin's ability to surprise 
the opposition and his outside-the-box thinking. Commenting on Martin's 
strategy as a manager, Dave Winfield has stated that opposing players would 
often ask each other, "What's Billy doing now?" George Steinbrenner has 
stated that when Martin was in his best form, he was a "baseball genius." 
He has also been cited as an influence to other prominent managers, including 
Lou Piniella. Martin both preceded and succeeded Piniella as Yankees manager. 
In 1978, Martin played himself in the CBS TV movie One in a Million: The 
Ron LeFlore Story. On the comedy show Bizarre, Martin laid into Super Dave 
Osborne (albeit behind Martin's closed manager's office door at the Oakland 
Coliseum) after Osborne prodded him with insults such as "Your Billy Ball 
stinks" and "You're a stupid little Greek". Osborne then amended the latter 
to "stupid Italian", which caused Martin to thrash the stuntman some more. 
Martin was a guest celebrity ring announcer at the inaugural WrestleMania 
in March 1985, during his time as the manager of the Yankees, where he 
was referred to as 'New York's Number One'. The crowd gave him a standing 
ovation. Martin was the first baseball celebrity to appear at WrestleMania. 
On May 24, 1986, on the season finale of Saturday Night Live, co-host Martin 
was "fired" by executive producer Lorne Michaels for being "drunk" in a 
skit, slurring his lines. During the goodnights, Martin set the dressing 
room on fire in retaliation, a staged scene set as a cliffhanger for the 
following season.[15] In 1988, on Saturday Night Live's "Weekend Update", 
comedian Dennis Miller opened the sports with, "In Calgary tonight, Katarina 
Witt won the gold medal in figure skating, prompting Yankees owner George 
Steinbrenner to fire manager Billy Martin", as part of a continuous running 
gag on the segment where a recent sporting event "forces" Steinbrenner 
to fire whomever is managing the team in retaliation. Martin was played 
by John Turturro in the 2007 ESPN mini-series The Bronx is Burning, which 
follows the tumultuous summer of 1977 in New York City. Martin was married 
four times and had two children, a daughter named Kelly Ann and a son named 
Billy Joe. His first marriage was to Lois Berndt, by whom he had his daughter. 
She divorced him in 1955, after he had contested the action for more than 
a year on the grounds that he was Catholic.[16] He married Gretchen Winkler 
in 1961, by whom he had his son, and stayed married to her until 1979, 
when the two divorced.[16] He was married a third time, to Heather Ervolino, 
while he was managing in Oakland, but was never faithful to his third wife 
and eventually married his mistress, a woman named Jillian Guiver, in January 
1988.[17] In 1978, Martin and sports agent Doug Newton opened "Billy Martin's", 
a western wear boutique.[18] Newton bought out Martin in 1982, and the 
store remained open until 2010.[19] Martin was working as a special consultant 
to George Steinbrenner when he was killed in a low speed, single vehicle 
collision during an ice storm at the end of the driveway to his farm in 
Port Crane, north of Binghamton, New York, on Christmas Day 1989. He was 
pronounced dead at a hospital in Johnson City, New York, where efforts 
to revive him were unsuccessful.[20] Martin was eulogized by Cardinal John 
O'Connor at St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York, before his funeral at Gate 
of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, New York. His grave is located about 150 
feet (46 m) from the grave of Babe Ruth in Section 25. The following epitaph, 
said by Martin himself at his number retiring ceremony at Yankee Stadium 
in 1986, appears on the headstone: I may not have been the greatest Yankee 
to put on the uniform, but I was the proudest. Former United States President 
Richard Nixon and Yankee owner George Steinbrenner, along with many former 
