George William "Bill" James (born October 5, 1949) is an American baseball 
writer, historian, and statistician whose work has been widely influential. 
Since 1977, James has written more than two dozen books devoted to baseball 
history and statistics. His approach, which he termed sabermetrics in reference 
to the Society for American Baseball Research (SABR),[1] scientifically 
analyzes and studies baseball, often through the use of statistical data, 
in an attempt to determine why teams win and lose. His Baseball Abstract 
books in the 1980s are the modern predecessor to websites using sabermetrics 
such as Baseball Prospectus and Baseball Primer (now Baseball Think Factory).[2] 
In 2006, Time named him in the Time 100 as one of the most influential 
people in the world.[3] He is a Senior Advisor on Baseball Operations for 
the Boston Red Sox. James was born in Holton, Kansas; he never knew his 
mother, who died in 1954. His father was a janitor at a high school. After 
four years at the University of Kansas residing at Stephenson Scholarship 
hall, James joined the Army in 1971. He was the last person in Kansas to 
be sent to fight in the Vietnam War, although he never saw action there. 
Instead, he spent two years stationed in South Korea, during which time 
he wrote to KU about taking his final class. He was told he actually had 
met all his graduation requirements, so he returned to Lawrence in 1973 
with degrees in English and economics. He also finished an Education degree 
in 1975, likewise from the University of Kansas.[4] An aspiring writer 
and obsessive fan, James began writing baseball articles after leaving 
the United States Army in his mid-twenties. Many of his first baseball 
writings came while he was doing night shifts as a security guard at the 
Stokely-Van Camp's pork and beans cannery. Unlike most writers, his pieces 
did not recount games in epic terms or offer insights gleaned from interviews 
with players. A typical James piece posed a question (e.g., "Which pitchers 
and catchers allow runners to steal the most bases?"), and then presented 
data and analysis written in a lively, insightful, and witty style that 
offered an answer.[5] Editors considered James's pieces so unusual that 
few believed them suitable for their readers. In an effort to reach a wider 
audience, James self-published an annual book titled The Bill James Baseball 
Abstract beginning in 1977. The first edition of the book presented 80 
pages of in-depth statistics compiled from James's study of box scores 
from the preceding season and was offered for sale through a small advertisement 
in The Sporting News. Over the next three years James's work won respect, 
including a very favorable review by Daniel Okrent in Sports Illustrated.[6] 
New annual editions added essays on teams and players. By 1982 sales had 
increased tenfold, and a media conglomerate agreed to publish and distribute 
future editions. While writers had published books about baseball statistics 
before (most notably Earnshaw Cook's Percentage Baseball, in the 1960s), 
few had ever reached a mass audience. Attempts to imitate James's work 
spawned a flood of books and articles that continues to this day. In 1988, 
James ceased writing the Abstract, citing workload-related burnout and 
concern about the volume of statistics on the market. He has continued 
to publish hardcover books about baseball history, which have sold well 
and received admiring reviews. These books include three editions of The 
Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract (1985, 1988, 2001, the last entitled 
The New Bill James Historical Baseball Abstract.) James has also written 
several series of new annuals: In 2008, James launched Bill James Online. 
Subscribers can read James' new, original writing and interact with one 
another —- as well as with James —- in a question-and-answer format. The 
web site also offers new "profiles" of teams and players full of facts 
and statistics that hope to one day map what James has termed "the lost 
island of baseball statistics." Among the statistical innovations attributable 
to James are: Although James may be best known as an inventor of statistical 
tools, he has often written on the limitations of statistics and urged 
humility concerning their place amid other kinds of information about baseball.[12] 
To James, context is paramount: he was among the first to emphasize the 
importance of adjusting traditional statistics for park factors and to 
stress the role of luck in a pitcher's win-loss record.[13][14] Many of 
his statistical innovations are arguably less important than the underlying 
ideas. When he introduced the notion of secondary average, it was as a 
vehicle for the then-counterintuitive concept that batting average represents 
only a fraction of a player's offensive contribution. (The runs-created 
statistic plays a similar role vis-à-vis the traditional RBI.) Some of 
his contributions to the language of baseball, like the idea of the "defensive 
spectrum", border on being entirely non-statistical. In an essay published 
in the 1984 Abstract, James vented his frustration about Major League Baseball's 
refusal to publish play-by-play accounts of every game. James proposed 
the creation of Project Scoresheet, a network of fans that would work together 
to collect and distribute this information.[15] While the resulting non-profit 
organization never functioned smoothly, it worked well enough to collect 
accounts of every game from 1984 through 1991. James's publisher agreed 
to distribute two annuals of essays and data – the 1987 and 1988 editions 
of Bill James Presents The Great American Baseball Statbook (though only 
the first of these featured writing by James). The organization was eventually 
disbanded, but many of its members went on to form for-profit companies 
with similar goals and structure. STATS, Inc., the company James joined, 
provided data and analysis to every major media outlet before being acquired 
by Fox Sports in 2001.[16] Oakland Athletics general manager Billy Beane 
began applying sabermetric principles to running his low-budget team in 
the late 1990s, to notable effect, as chronicled in Michael Lewis' book 
Moneyball. In 2003, James was hired by a former reader, John Henry, the 
new owner of the Boston Red Sox. One point of controversy was in handling 
the relief pitching of the Red Sox.[17] James had previously published 
analysis of the use of the closer in baseball, and had concluded that the 
traditional use of the closer both overrated the abilities of that individual, 
and used him in suboptimal circumstances. He wrote that it is "far better 
to use your relief ace when the score is tied, even if that is the seventh 
inning, than in the ninth inning with a lead of two or more runs."[18] 
The Red Sox in 2003 staffed their bullpen with several marginally talented 
relievers.[19] Red Sox manager Grady Little was never fully comfortable 
with the setup, and designated unofficial closers and reshuffled roles 
after a bad outing. When Boston lost a number of games due to bullpen failures, 
Little reverted to a traditional closer approach and moved Byung-Hyun Kim 
from being a starting pitcher to a closer.[20] The Red Sox did not follow 
James' idea of a bullpen with no closer, but with consistent overall talent 
that would allow the responsibilities to be shared.[19] Red Sox reliever 
Alan Embree thought the plan could have worked if the bullpen had not suffered 
injuries.[20] During the 2004 regular season Keith Foulke was used primarily 
as a closer in the conventional model; however, Foulke's usage in the 2004 
postseason was along the lines of a relief ace with multiple inning appearances 
at pivotal times of the game.[21] Houston Astros manager Phil Garner also 
employed a relief ace model with his use of Brad Lidge in the 2004 postseason.[22] 
As of 2014[update], James is still employed by the Red Sox,[23] having 
published several new sabermetric books during his tenure (see Bibliography, 
below). Indeed, although James is typically tight-lipped about his activities 
on behalf of the Red Sox, he is credited with advocating some of the moves 
that led to the team's first World Series championship in 86 years, including 
the signing of non-tendered free agent David Ortiz, the trade for Mark 
Bellhorn, and the team's increased emphasis on on-base percentage. After 
the Red Sox suffered through a disastrous 2012 season, Henry stated that 
James had fallen "out of favor [in the front office] over the last few 
years for reasons I really don't understand. We've gotten him more involved 
recently in the central process and that will help greatly."[24] During 
his time with the Red Sox, Bill James has received three World Series rings 
for the team's 2004, 2007, and 2013 victories.[9] James was profiled on 
60 Minutes on March 30, 2008, in his role as a sabermetric pioneer and 
Red Sox advisor. In 2010, he was inducted into the Irish American Baseball 
Hall of Fame.[25] Michael Lewis, in his book Moneyball, dedicates a chapter 
to James' career and Sabermetrics as background for his portrayal of Billy 
Beane and the Oakland Athletics' unlikely success. James made a guest appearance 
on the The Simpsons episode "MoneyBART".[26] Steven Soderbergh's planned 
film adaptation of Moneyball would have featured an animated version of 
James as a "host".[27] This script was discarded when director Bennett 
Miller and writer Aaron Sorkin succeeded Soderbergh on the project. Ultimately, 
the film as produced mentions James several times. His unlikely bio is 
briefly recapped, and Billy Beane is depicted telling John Henry that Henry's 
hiring of James is the reason Beane is interested in the Red Sox general 
manager job. In his Baseball Book 1990, James heavily criticized the methodology 
of the Dowd Report, which was an investigation (commissioned by baseball 
commissioner Bart Giamatti) on the gambling activities of Pete Rose. James 
reproached commissioner Giamatti and his successor, Fay Vincent, for their 
acceptance of the Dowd Report as the final word on Rose's gambling. (James' 
attitude on the matter surprised many fans, especially after the writer 
had been deeply critical of Rose in the past, especially what James considered 
to be Rose's selfish pursuit of Ty Cobb's all-time record for base hits.) 
James expanded his defense of Rose in his 2001 book The New Historical 
Baseball Abstract, with a detailed explanation of why he found the case 
against Rose flimsy. James wrote "I would characterize the evidence that 
Rose bet on baseball as...well, not quite non-existent. It is extremely 
weak." This countered the popular opinion that the case against Rose was 
a slam dunk, and several critics claimed that James misstated some of the 
evidence in his defense of Rose. Derek Zumsteg of Baseball Prospectus wrote 
an exhaustive review of the case James made and concluded: "James' defense 
of Rose is filled with oversights, errors in judgment, failures in research, 
and is a great disservice to the many people who have looked to him for 
a balanced and fair take on this complicated and important issue."[28] 
In 2004, Rose admitted publicly that he had bet on baseball and confirmed 
the Dowd Report was correct. James remained steadfast, continuing to insist 
that the evidence available to Dowd at the time was insufficient to reach 
the conclusion that it did. On November 4, 2011, Jerry Sandusky was indicted 
for committing sex crimes against young boys, which brought the Penn State 
child sex abuse scandal to national attention. On December 11, 2011, James 
published an article called "The Trial of Penn State", depicting an imaginary 
trial in which Penn State defended itself against charges of "acting rashly 
and irresponsibly in the matter of Joe Paterno, in such a manner that [they] 
defamed, libeled and slandered Paterno, unfairly demolishing his reputation."[29] 
On July 12, 2012, the Freeh report was released, charging Paterno and three 
other University officials with covering up reports of sexual assaults 
and enabling the attacker to prey on other children for more than a decade, 
often in Penn State facilities. Soon afterwards, during an interview on 
ESPN radio, James claimed that the Freeh report's characterizations of 
Paterno as a powerful figure were wrong, and that it wasn't Paterno's responsibility 
to report allegations of child molestation to the police. "[Paterno] had 
very few allies. He was isolated and he was not nearly as powerful as people 
imagine him to have been."[30] When asked if he knew anyone who had showered 
with a boy they were not related to, James said it was a common practice 
when he was growing up. "That was actually quite common in the town I grew 
up in. That was quite common in America 40 years ago."[31] The July 2012 
interview comments were widely criticized.[32][33][34][35] Rob Neyer wrote 
in defense of James.[36] James' employer, the Boston Red Sox, issued a 
statement disavowing the comments James made and saying that he has been 
asked not to make further public comments on the matter.[37] James is a 
fan of the University of Kansas men's basketball team and has written about 
basketball. He has created a formula for what he calls a "safe lead" in 
the sport.[38] James has written a true crime book titled Popular Crime: 
