William Henry McGunnigle (January 1, 1855 in Boston, Massachusetts – March 
9, 1899 in Brockton, Massachusetts) was an American baseball manager for 
the Brooklyn Bridegrooms, Pittsburgh Pirates and Louisville Colonels. He 
was nicknamed "Gunner" or "Mac" during his playing days. After moving to 
East Stoughton as a child, McGunnigle began his career in the Massachusetts 
League with the Howard Juniors club of nearby Brockton. He went to the 
Fall River team in 1875, primarily pitching and catching, but also serving 
as a utility player for the club. In 1876, he left to play pitcher and 
catcher for a club in Buffalo which would eventually come to be known as 
the Bisons, winning the International Association pennant in 1878. The 
team became a professional club and joined the National League as the Buffalo 
Bisons in 1879.[1] McGunnigle had an abbreviated playing record in top 
professional leagues, tallying 58 games for the Buffalo Bisons (1879–80), 
Worcester Ruby Legs (1880) and Cleveland Blues (1882). McGunnigle won the 
Clipper Medal, the equivalent of an all-star selection, as a right fielder 
for the Bisons in 1879. Over his two years with Buffalo, he compiled an 
11–8 record in 18 starts, leading the league with the lowest per-inning 
rates of hits and strikeouts in 1879 and posting the fourth-best winning 
percentage. He was briefly the player/manager for the Bisons in 1880, but 
team management replaced him with infielder Sam Crane after 17 games. As 
a professional, McGunnigle was a career .173 hitter with a .900 fielding 
percentage as a part-time outfielder. McGunnigle was lured in 1883, along 
with other top Massachusetts players, to the newly formed Northwestern 
League since there were no high-level minor leagues in New England.[2] 
He played for the Saginaw Old Golds primarily as a pitcher and right fielder 
in 1883 (where he caught future Hall-of-Famer John Clarkson) and part of 
1884 before a midseason transfer to the Bay City Independents. He returned 
to the East Coast in 1885 and, as manager/captain, led the Brockton club 
to the New England League championship. McGunnigle's skull was fractured 
by pitcher Dick Conway on July 23 of that season, effectively ending his 
playing career. According to the Brockton Weekly Gazette: "[McGunnigle] 
dodged the first ball thrown at his head ... with the second [pitch] he 
needed to drop to all fours to save himself ... The unfortunate batsman 
could not avoid the [third] ball in time, and it struck him directly behind 
the left ear which caused a crash that was heard in every part of the grounds. 
Poor 'Mac' fell like an animal beneath the butcher's axe, and his quivering 
form was drawn up in agony as he lay upon the ground." The rules of organized 
baseball had recently been changed to allow overhand pitching, and at the 
time, the pitching rubber was only 50 feet from home plate (much closer 
than the modern standard of 60 feet, 6 inches). The Boston Globe, in writing 
about the incident, said "The only topic on the street tonight is the question 
of whether it was Conway's idea to frighten the batsman or if he was trying 
to get the balls as close to the batsman as possible"[3] After another 
year in Brockton, he moved to manage and captain the Lowell Browns, winning 
the 1887 pennant. McGunnigle took over as manager of the Brooklyn Bridegrooms 
in 1888, after the club had finished sixth in the American Association 
the previous year under owner/manager Charlie Byrne. McGunnigle guided 
the team to a second-place finish that year, four games behind perennial 
league champ St. Louis. The next season, McGunnigle's boys edged the Browns 
for the American Association pennant. Facing the New York Giants of the 
rival National League in the 1889 World Series, the Bridegrooms were outscored 
by more than 20 runs and bowed, 6–3, in the exhibition. The team was admitted 
to the National League the following year, and McGunnigle again led the 
team to a pennant, helping the Bridegrooms become the first team in any 
professional sports league to win two championships in consecutive years. 
Despite back-to-back pennant runs (and tying the 1890 World Series 3-3-1), 
McGunnigle was let go after the season and replaced by John Montgomery 
Ward. After the 1891 Pittsburg Pirates got off to a 31–47 start on the 
heels of a 23–113 season, the club demoted captain/manager Ned Hanlon and 
hired McGunnigle. (Relatedly, Hanlon would later be a successful manager 
for the Brooklyn club at the turn of the century.) McGunnigle managed the 
Pittsburg club to a modest 24–33 record over the remainder of the year. 
He was not brought back for the following season. During 1891, McGunnigle 
also managed the Providence team in the amateur Eastern League, playing 
in the first Sunday organized baseball game ever played in New England 
on August 9, 1891, in Rhode Island. At the time, custom and law forbade 
Sunday baseball, but it was allowed by officials in Warwick, Rhode Island 
for games at the Rocky Point Resort. When the New England League was re-formed 
in 1892, McGunnigle again became the player/manager of the Brockton club. 
He joined the team at midseason, immediately spurring Brockton on a 12-game 
winning streak and vaulting the team into first place. However, the club 
could not retain their spot in the standings. He helped Fred Doe organize 
the first professional baseball game to ever be played on a Sunday in New 
England. The Brockton club won the game at Rocky Point Resort, 7–6, over 
Woonsocket on July 10, 1892. The game eventually led to a change of Massachusetts 
law, which forbade Sunday baseball, in 1928.[4] McGunnigle returned to 
Lowell in 1893, and spent 1894 and 1895 involved in the game of polo. In 
1896, the NL's Louisville Colonels started 2–17 under manager John McCloskey, 
who was subsequently let go. McGunnigle came on board and managed the Colonels 
to a 36–76 record the rest of the way, finishing last in the league, two 
games behind St. Louis. McGunnigle was not asked to manage the team further, 
being "roughly handled" in his dismissal, according to the Brockton Times. 
His career professional managerial record in 586 games with Brooklyn, Pittsburgh, 
and Louisville was 327–248 (.569). An automobile struck a carriage carrying 
McGunnigle and other men in an 1897 accident, throwing them out of the 
vehicle. McGunnigle was chronically ill thereafter, and homeridden for 
the last months of his life. He died at age 44 and is buried at St. Patrick's 
