Bill Holden (born 1948 in Elgin, Illinois), is a teacher who embarked on 
a 2,100 mile (3,400 km) walk, from Arizona to Chicago, during 2005, hoping 
to raise $250,000 dollars to be donated to the American Diabetes Association 
so that a cure for juvenile diabetes can be found. Holden made national 
headlines with his walk. Bill Holden grew up at the beginning of the television 
era in the United States. His father was a die-hard baseball fan. In 1957, 
Holden had his first in-person baseball experience, going to a Chicago 
Cubs home game. Holden became a lifetime Cubs fan instantly. Ron Santo 
became Holden's favorite player. Holden has followed the Cubs his whole 
life since seeing them play in person for the first time. He chose to become 
a teacher instead of a baseball player, however, and, in 1966, he enrolled 
at Southern Illinois University, graduating in 1970. Holden got his first 
job as a teacher in 1973. He has been working as a teacher since. He became 
interested in teaching Native American children, so, after many years teaching 
in the Illinois public schools system, he relocated to Camp Verde, Arizona. 
At Camp Verde, he became aware of the alarming incidence of diabetes among 
Indian children. He started teaching groups of children that suffered from 
the disease. On New Year's Eve 2004, his son presented him with the docu-film 
This Old Cub, based on Santo's experience as a diabetic player in MLB. 
After watching the film seven times before going to bed that morning, Holden 
became inspired and convinced that he needed to do something to help find 
a cure for diabetes. On January 11, 2005, Holden began his walk, hoping 
to cover at least 12 miles each day. Holden crossed over six states, including 
New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma and Missouri, apart from Arizona and Illinois. 
Among the things he had to battle along the way were wearyness and the 
summer heat. According to his own account, Holden had a brush with death 
when he was about to get run over by a car, but the drivers recognized 
him and waved. Holden had told Santo about the fund raising walk before 
it took place, gaining Santo's admiration. On June 29, Holden arrived at 
Harry Caray's restaurant in Rosemont, Illinois. He overnighted there, as 
he had previously done in several odd places and small hotels. After arriving 
at the famous Cubs baseball stadium, Wrigley Field, on July 1, Holden, 
who was joined by Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich during the final steps 
of his walk, threw that day's symbolic first pitch to Kerry Wood, as the 
Cubs played the Washington Nationals. During the game's seventh inning 
stretch, he and Santo sang the Take me Out to the Ballgame baseball hymn. 
Bill Holden has arthritis in both of his knees. His fund-raising walk made 
headlines in newspapers across his home country, including The Arizona 
Republic and many others. Ron Santo told reporters that When he mentioned 
the fact that he was going to walk from Arizona to Wrigley Field to raise 
money for diabetes, I couldn't believe it! Then, when I heard he was 20 
miles away, I'm saying 'get in the car and drive it. You've made it!' But 
he said, 'Nope, I'm going to walk'. I mean, think about that. It's Amazing! 
