William Clarke Bordley (born January 9, 1958) is a former Major League 
Baseball pitcher. In 2011, he was named chief of security for Major League 
Baseball. Bordley attended Bishop Montgomery High School in Torrance, California. 
While there, he set school records in innings pitched, strikeouts, wins 
and earned run average that still stand as of 2010. His baseball jersey 
was retired by the school. Upon graduation, Bordley was selected by the 
Milwaukee Brewers in the first round of the 1976 Major League Baseball 
Draft. Bordley was drafted ahead of future Major League Baseball All-Stars 
such as Ken Landreaux, Leon Durham, Pat Tabler, Bruce Hurst, Mike Scioscia, 
Alan Trammell and Rickey Henderson. Bordley elected to forego the Majors, 
however, to attend the University of Southern California. In his freshman 
year with the USC Trojans baseball team, Bordley went undefeated with a 
14-0 win-loss record and led the Pacific-10 Conference in strikeouts. His 
freshman strikeout record would stand until broken by Tim Lincecum in 2004. 
Bordley led the Trojans to the 1978 College World Series and subsequently 
the NCAA Division I Baseball Championship in the same year.Bordley won 
the final game of the 1978 college World Series holding Arizona State University 
scoreless into the 8th inning. Bordley also received American Baseball 
Coaches Association All-American honors. After his collegiate career, Bordley 
signed as an amateur free agent with the San Francisco Giants in 1979. 
Bordley spent one total year at the Major League level with the Giants 
in 1980. He appeared in his final Major League game on September 9, 1980. 
Bordley's finest performance came in his debut with the Giants on June 
30, 1980. He appeared in the game as the Giants starting pitcher against 
the Cincinnati Reds. He registered a strike out against the first batter 
faced, Reds outfielder Dave Collins. Bordley would go on to give up 3 runs 
over 6 innings to earn the win over Reds pitcher and future Hall of Famer 
Tom Seaver. Bordley would also tally a strike out against Johnny Bench, 
another future Hall of Famer. Bordley was released by the Giants in October 
1982 after developing arm problems throughout 1979 and 1980. Surgery resulted 
in Bordley sitting out the 1981 season. He was released following a comeback 
attempt in the Giants minor league system in 1982. After his baseball career 
came to an end, Bordley returned to USC where he earned his finance degree. 
In 1988, he joined the United States Secret Service. He spent 5½ years 
on former President Bill Clinton's detail.Mr. Bordley was compelled to 
testify through the Office of Independent Counsel headed by Ken Starr in 
the matter concerning the President and White House intern Monica Lewinsky. 
He served as the Resident Attaché Agent in charge for the Secret Service 
in Russia. Shortly after the World Series in 2011, Major League Baseball 
named Bordley its chief of security, officially Vice President of Security 
