The Binghamton Bearcats are an NCAA Division I athletics program at Binghamton 
University. They are one of four Division I programs in the SUNY system 
and a member of the America East Conference. In three sports not sponsored 
by the America East, Binghamton has separate conference memberships. The 
men's golf team is a member of the Big Sky Conference effective with the 
2014–15 school year, the men's tennis team is a member of the Mid-American 
Conference as of 2014–15, and the wrestling team competes in the Eastern 
Intercollegiate Wrestling Association. Binghamton has competed in the NCAA 
since joining the SUNY system in 1950. During the 1946–1950 era, there 
were no particular affiliations or mascots. When, in fact, they joined 
SUNY and adopted the new name Harpur College, the school also adopted their 
first mascot: a donkey named Harpo. In transitioning to SUNY Binghamton, 
they also developed their athletics program further, adopting the new school 
nickname and mascot: The red, white, and blue Colonials. With the impending 
move to Division I, the school adopted the new nickname, the Bearcats, 
beginning with the 1999–2000 school year.[citation needed] The mascot, 
Baxter the Bearcat, was unveiled in the fall of 1999.[citation needed] 
In the fall of 2001, Binghamton athletics formally entered the NCAA Division 
I and also became a member of the America East Conference in all sports 
other than wrestling and golf, which is not sponsored by the America East 
Conference. The wrestling program actually preceded the jump to Division 
I by becoming a provisional member of the now-defunct East Coast Wrestling 
Association[2] beginning with the 1999–2000 season. They made the transition 
from a Division III school to Division II for three years and then entered 
Division I.[citation needed] Binghamton has 21 intercollegiate sports. 
Binghamton's wrestling team is a member of the Eastern Intercollegiate 
Wrestling Association since the America East does not sponsor wrestling. 
Former Director of Health, Physical Education, and Athletics, Dr. Joel 
Thirer oversaw the transition from NCAA Division III to NCAA Division II 
to NCAA Division I. Hired in 1989, Dr. Thirer resigned on September 30, 
2009, amid controversy surrounding the Men's Basketball program.[3] More 
recently, the university has hosted a number of conference championships, 
including the 2005, 2006 and 2008 men's basketball championships, as well 
as, other championships from other sports. In a Sept. 29, 2009 statement, 
Jim Norris had been named Interim Athletic Director. The Director of Athletics 
reports directly to the current interim President McGraff.[4] Patrick Elliott 
was introduced as Binghamton’s director of athletics on October 6, 2011 
and began his appointment on November 14. Binghamton University, SUNY sponsors 
teams in eleven men's and ten women's NCAA sanctioned sports:[5] Men's 
Intercollegiate Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports In October 2009, 
Broadus was suspended with pay and replaced by Mark Macon on an interim 
basis.[7] Main Article: Binghamton Bearcats wrestling Binghamton has 20 
other sports that successful Division I program although the media focuses 
primarily on men's basketball. They include women's basketball, golf, baseball, 
softball, men's lacrosse, women's lacrosse, men's soccer, women's soccer, 
men's cross country, women's cross country, men's swimming & diving, women's 
swimming & diving, men's tennis, women's tennis, women's volleyball, wrestling, 
men's indoor track, women's indoor track, men's outdoor track and women's 
outdoor track. The program posted an overall 3.1 APR for all 21 sports 
and has been recognized for its scholar athletes. The men's tennis program 
posted an overall 3.69 GPA for the 2010 spring semester. The Events Center 
plays host to both men and women basketball games. It has a capacity of 
nearly ten thousand for non-sporting events and approximately 5,222 for 
basketball games. With recent capacity issues, the Athletic Department 
will be looking at various existent options for expanding capacity in the 
2009–2010 season. The facilities has an indoor track where the track and 
field teams practice and compete, indoor tennis courts for both men and 
women tennis teams, as well as the primary weight and fitness equipment, 
sports medicine and uniform issuance facilities. The facility also includes 
a 150-person private lounge donated by a Binghamton University fraternity, 
Tau Alpha Upsilon (TAU). It is known as the TAU Bearcat Clubroom. Even 
though the building looks good on you he outside, the building was poorly 
designed as many of the teams do not have enough lockers for the amount 
of players that are on the team. Opened in the Fall of 2007, the Bearcat 
Sports Complex features two artificial turf fields for soccer and lacrosse. 
One field is intended primarily for competition and the other for practice. 
Additional features include night lighting, over 2,500 seats for the competition 
field and 1,000 for the practice field, a concession stand and bathrooms. 
In 2009, the Tau Alpha Upsilon [TAU] fraternity sponsored the naming of 
both the press box and the scoreboard. A plaque was dedicated in their 
honor at the entrance of the new sports complex. A recent announcement 
unveiled plans to moved the Softball competition field to the complex. 
A new field along with a modestly sized stadium and pressbox will be added 
immediately behind the current concession stand. The West Gym is an Athletic 
facility that hosts the weight, practice and competition facilities for 
the wrestling team. Also, the varsity pool is home to both men and women 
swim and diving teams. The gymnasium is used for volleyball, basketball 
practice, basesball practice( has batting cages on the inside) and wrestling 
matches. Home to the varsity baseball team, Varsity Field features a diamond 
with dugouts and bleachers. It was recently announced that Varsity field 
will undergo major renovations set for completion by the 2012 season. The 
project was supposed to be for an artificial turf field along with light 
and many other updates including bathrooms in the dugouts. However, the 
state would not allow them to get turf so the team did receive a new field 
but did not receive all of the promises they were originally told. Home 
to the softball team. A 2,000 seat stadium, athletic field, outdoor track 
and field facilities. While it has previously hosted the lacrosse teams, 
it is primarily used for the track and field teams. The track was resurfaced 
