Vaughan Pallmore "Bing" Devine (March 1, 1916 – January 27, 2007) was an 
American front office executive in Major League Baseball. In the prime 
of his career, as a general manager, the executive who is responsible for 
all baseball operations, Devine was a major architect of four National 
League champions and three World Series champions in the six years between 
1964 and 1969. Specifically, Devine served as general manager of the St. 
Louis Cardinals from November 1957 through August 17, 1964, and was directly 
responsible for putting the 1964 world champion Cardinals on the field 
– even though he had been fired with six weeks remaining in the season, 
one of the most bizarre events in baseball annals. Many of the players 
Devine acquired led the Cardinals to the 1967 world title and the 1968 
NL championship, the latter occurring during Devine's second tour (1968–78) 
as St. Louis general manager. In between those terms, from 1965–67, Devine 
was assistant to the president, and then president (and de facto general 
manager), of the New York Mets, where he helped put together the organization 
that would turn the franchise from baseball's laughingstocks to 1969 world 
champions as the "Miracle Mets." During the 1980s, he also served as president 
of the St. Louis football Cardinals of the National Football League. Devine 
was born in St. Louis, and attended University City High School and Washington 
University in St. Louis. He played college basketball and semiprofessional 
baseball, then joined the Cardinals in 1939 as an office boy and batting 
practice pitcher. In 1941, he became business manager of the Class D Johnson 
City Cardinals. During a roster shortage, Devine activated himself as a 
second baseman for 27 games and 93 at bats, but he garnered only 11 hits 
for a .118 batting average. Thereafter, he hung up his uniform and concentrated 
on his work in the front office.[1] As pioneers of the farm system concept, 
the Cardinals had as many as 40 affiliated or owned teams in their minor 
league system before World War II. With time out for U.S. Navy service 
during the war, Devine rose rapidly through the ranks as a business manager 
of Cardinal farm teams, finally becoming the general manager of the Rochester 
Red Wings of the Triple-A International League in 1949. After six seasons 
at the helm of the Redbirds' top farm team, he joined the St. Louis front 
office in the autumn of 1954. The Cardinals, recently purchased by brewery 
magnate August "Gussie" Busch, were in rebuilding mode under trade-happy 
general manager "Frantic" Frank Lane. The team finished second in the NL 
in 1957, but Lane had worn out his welcome; he moved on to run the Cleveland 
Indians and was replaced in St. Louis by the steadier hand of Devine. Devine 
began to add talent and depth to the St. Louis roster, including African 
American and Latin American players. He was seen as being very progressive 
when it came to signing or trading for black and Latin ballplayers, whereas 
other teams (most notably the New York Yankees) showed a great deal of 
reluctance in this area. In the first five years of his reign, he traded 
for or promoted players such as Bob Gibson, Bill White, Curt Flood, and 
Julián Javier. But the Cardinals were mired in the middle of the pack of 
a very powerful National League. In 1963—a season also marked by the final 
campaign of the Cardinals' longtime superstar, Stan Musial—the Redbirds 
surged into contention, sparked by the acquisition of shortstop Dick Groat 
from the Pittsburgh Pirates, 18-win seasons from pitchers Gibson and Ernie 
Broglio, the comeback of left-handed starter Curt Simmons (who had been 
signed off the scrap heap by Devine), and the strong campaign of young 
catcher Tim McCarver. The Cardinals challenged the eventual world champion 
Los Angeles Dodgers into mid-September before finishing second, the club's 
highest showing since '57. Devine was chosen as Major League Executive 
of the Year by The Sporting News for his efforts in returning the Cards 
to contending status. However, when the 1964 season began, the Philadelphia 
Phillies took a stranglehold on first place. The Cardinals were trying 
a variety of young players in Musial's old left-field position, and none 
were taking hold. At the June 15 trading deadline, Devine sprung. The second-division 
Chicago Cubs had Lou Brock, a 25-year-old outfielder with great speed who 
was not living up to his projected potential. Devine offered the Cubs Broglio, 
his 18-game winner from the previous year, plus outfielder Doug Clemens 
and pitcher Bobby Shantz for Brock and two marginal pitchers. The Cubs 
agreed, and one of the most significant (and one-sided) trades in baseball 
history was made. Brock would hit .348 for the remainder of the season, 
and would lead the Cardinals to their three pennants and two world titles 
over the next five years. He would play the rest of his career with St. 
Louis (retiring in 1979), steal 938 bases (breaking Ty Cobb's record, and 
currently second all-time to Rickey Henderson), exceed the 3,000 hit mark 
(with 3,023 career hits), and become a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame. 
Ironically, Brock's impact on the Cardinals' won-lost mark or position 
in the standings was not felt immediately. The team continued to trail 
the Phillies by a large margin and it looked to all as though the club's 
pennant drought would extend to 18 years. Owner Busch was bitterly disappointed, 
and decided in the middle of August to clean out his front office. On the 
advice of his special assistant, legendary Branch Rickey, Busch fired Devine 
and business manager Art Routzong, and accepted the resignation of assistant 
general manager Eddie Stanky. Manager Johnny Keane was to be fired at the 
end of the season, with Dodgers' coach Leo Durocher secretly negotiating 
with Busch to take over then.[2] Meanwhile, Devine's old job went to Rickey 
protégé Bob Howsam. But as events unfolded, Busch had acted in haste. The 
Cardinals began to win, while the Phillies suffered an epic September collapse, 
losing a 6½-game lead with a dozen games to play, sparking a wild, four-team, 
11th hour scramble for the pennant. On the final day of the season, after 
sweeping the Phillies to take first place, the Cardinals prevailed, clinching 
the NL championship for the first time since 1946 by beating the lowly 
Mets after losing the first two games of the series. Led by Gibson, the 
undisputed ace of the staff since Broglio's trade, and McCarver, the Cardinals 
then defeated the New York Yankees in a seven-game World Series. Even though 
he had been on the sidelines since August 17, Devine again was cited as 
the top executive in baseball by The Sporting News. Meanwhile, Keane resigned 
after the World Series triumph (and became skipper of the Yankees). Instead 
of Durocher, Cardinal coach Red Schoendienst was named as manager for 1965. 
Devine's departure was a cause-celebre in St. Louis, but the damage had 
been done. Although he landed on his feet as the successor to George Weiss, 
president of the Mets, Devine was forced to leave his hometown and the 
only team he had ever worked for at the pinnacle of his career. But, while 
Devine never moved his family to New York, he tackled his new job with 
gusto. On his watch, the Mets began to strengthen their farm system, signing 
and developing young pitching talent who would form the core of the 1969 
world champions: Tom Seaver, Jerry Koosman, Nolan Ryan, Gary Gentry and 
Jim McAndrew. Meanwhile, Howsam left the Cardinals in January 1967 to become 
general manager of the Cincinnati Reds and Musial was named his successor. 
In 1967, the Cardinals won 101 games and ran away with the National League 
race, winning the pennant by 10½ games, then bested the Boston Red Sox 
in a seven-game World Series. The core of the team was Devine's, but Howsam 
had contributed significantly to the roster with his 1966 acquisitions 
of NL MVP first baseman Orlando Cepeda and right fielder Roger Maris. At 
the other extreme, the Mets—most of their young pitching talent still ripening 
in the minors—lost 101 games and finished dead last. Baseball people took 
note of Devine's accomplishments in New York, however, and when Musial, 
a world champion GM in his maiden season, decided he did not want to continue 
in the role, Busch was able to secure Devine's release from the Mets, and 
brought him back to the Cardinals as executive vice president and general 
manager on December 2, 1967. In 1968, led by Gibson's all-time record 1.12 
earned run average, the Cardinals repeated as NL champions and held a three 
games to one lead in the World Series against the Detroit Tigers, but lost 
the final three contests to be denied back-to-back world titles. Suddenly, 
Devine was faced with retooling an aging roster. Brock and Gibson would 
remain Cardinal mainstays, but Devine traded Cepeda to the Atlanta Braves 
after the 1968 season, then dealt Flood and McCarver to Philadelphia following 
the 1969 season. In the Cepeda deal, Devine acquired Joe Torre, who would 
win the 1971 NL batting average championship and the league's Most Valuable 
Player award. But the Cardinals would suffer long-term damage when Busch 
ordered Devine to trade star left-handed pitcher Steve Carlton in 1972 
after a salary dispute. Carlton, coming off his first 20-win season, was 
sent to the Phillies for pitcher Rick Wise, an uneven swap that would help 
turn the last-place Phillies into contenders. Meanwhile, the Cardinals 
became NL East also-rans. In 1978, Devine was again replaced as Cardinals' 
general manager (this time by John Claiborne) and again he departed the 
organization, working for the Montreal Expos as a player development official 
and the Phillies as a scout. From 1981 to 1986, he was club president of 
the St. Louis football Cardinals (now the Arizona Cardinals) of the National 
Football League. But eventually he returned to baseball and the baseball 
Cardinals, where he served as a special scout and advisor to the then-GM 
