The Birmingham Black Barons played professional baseball for Birmingham, 
Alabama, in the Negro Leagues from 1920 to 1960 when the Major Leagues 
successfully integrated. They alternated home stands with the Birmingham 
Barons in Birmingham's Rickwood Field, usually drawing larger crowds and 
equal press. Drawing largely from a successful American Cast Iron Pipe 
Company Industrial League team, the Black Barons were organized in 1920 
for the inaugural season of Rube Foster's Negro Southern League, which 
operated mainly as a minor league. They played in that league for three 
years before making the leap to the larger Negro National League, which 
operated as a major league. They were unable to keep their position due 
to irregularities with the team finances and returned to the Southern League 
for three more years. Their return to the National League in 1927 was marked 
by the emergence of star pitcher Satchel Paige, who led the Black Barons 
to the second half pennant. They lost the Negro National League title to 
the Chicago American Giants in four straight games. For the next decade 
or so they alternated leagues before being bought by Memphis, Tennessee, 
funeral home director Tom Hayes and joined the Negro American League in 
1940. Early in the decade the team was sold again to Abraham Saperstein 
who also owned the Harlem Globetrotters basketball team. In 1943 and 1944 
they won back-to-back pennants. Starting in 1945, they became full members 
of the Negro American League and continued their success, winning a third 
pennant in 1948 with the help of teenage outfielder Willie Mays. They ended 
up losing three Negro World Series to the Homestead Grays that decade, 
forging a notable rivalry. As the Major Leagues started signing talented 
African American players, the Black Barons tried to form a new Negro Southern 
League with three other Southern teams.[citation needed] The franchise 
was owned by William Bridgeforth from 1952 to 1955, and by Sid Lynor and 
Floyd Meshac in 1955. Dr. Anderson Ross purchased the franchise in 1956 
and renamed the team the Birmingham Giants.[1] The Black Barons played 
their last game in 1960. The 1999 Rickwood Classic honored the Black Barons, 
with the Birmingham Barons and Huntsville Stars wearing throwback uniforms. 
Some 35 former Negro Leagues players, including former Black Baron Charley 
Pride attended. On February 26, 2006, ESPN Classic broadcast a throwback 
game from Rickwood Field featuring amateur players in the uniforms of the 
Birmingham Black Barons and fictitious "Bristol Barnstormers". The style 
of play, the equipment and the umpires all reflected the 1940s game. Willie 
Mays and Charley Pride were both in attendance. The Black Barons rallied 
to break an eighth inning tie and win the game, 9–8. In addition to Satchel 
Paige, Willie Mays also played as center fielder during both the 1948 and 
1949 seasons. Mule Suttles was a member of the Black Barons in 1924 and 
1925 seasons. Suttles was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2006. 
Other players, like Artie Wilson, Bill Greason, and Jay Heard also saw 
