Blackman High School is a high school located in Murfreesboro, Tennessee, 
United States which is operated by the Rutherford County Schools. The school 
was established in 2000 to complement the existing Blackman Elementary 
School. The school has grown at a large rate over the last several years, 
and the school has a student body of over 2,000. Blackman High School was 
established in 2000 to provide a primary school for the residents living 
in western Rutherford County. It celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2010 
with the graduating class of 2010. Blackman set a school record for enrollment 
at 2,396 students. All classes at Blackman High have a minimum of one computer 
for every six students. Computers are available in the media center, foreign 
language lab, and technology lab. Each teacher at the school has a multimedia 
center that includes a TV, computer with TV out, computer network connection, 
and a printer.[2] Recent additions to Blackman High include the construction 
of a new classroom wing, the "G" hall, a large band room and a field area 
near the cafeteria. The athletics facilities have had recent upgrades. 
The baseball program built a fieldhouse in 2005 and the football program 
has just finished construction on a fieldhouse as of 2010.[2] In 2010, 
Blackman High School teachers and staff, through a grant from Home Depot, 
constructed a memorial to Army Spc. Russell Hercules, who was killed in 
action in Afghanistan during the War against Terrorism. It was built to 
be a place of peace and solace, providing an open garden for any who need 
it.[citation needed] Blackman has been recognized as a Pacesetter School. 
It was only one of twenty five schools to receive this award out of over 
1200 schools. The test scores are recorded below the state and federal 
average nearly every year.[citation needed] The 2010 Blackman football 
team had a record of 10-1 and advanced the furthest ever in the playoffs, 
losing to Smyrna High School in the third round, for the second time that 
season. Running Back I'tavius Mathers had over 2,600 yards and was the 
Gatorade Player of the Year in the State of Tennessee.[3] In 2013, the 
Blackman football team reached the TSSAA Class 6A semifinals before falling 
28-16 to eventual state champion Maryville. Blackman finished 11-3 and 
notched wins over Smyrna (42-0), Ravenwood (47-14), and Oakland (17-3) 
in the first, second, and quarterfinal rounds.[4] David Price was the first 
