The Black Sox Scandal was a sports betting scandal in American professional 
baseball, in which eight players of the Chicago White Sox were accused 
of intentionally losing the 1919 World Series against the Cincinnati Reds 
in exchange for money from gamblers. The fallout from the scandal resulted 
in the appointment of Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis as the first Commissioner 
of Baseball, granting him absolute control over the sport in order to restore 
its integrity. Despite their being acquitted in a public trial in 1921, 
Judge Landis permanently banned all eight men from professional baseball. 
Despite requests for reinstatement in the decades that followed (particularly 
in the case of Shoeless Joe Jackson), the ban remains in force as of 2016. 
White Sox club owner Charles Comiskey was widely disliked by the players 
and was resented for his miserliness. Comiskey long had a reputation for 
underpaying his players, even though they were one of the top teams in 
the league and had already won the 1917 World Series. Because of baseball's 
reserve clause, any player who refused to accept a contract was prohibited 
from playing baseball on any other professional team. Because of the clause, 
players were prevented from changing teams without permission from their 
team, and without a union the players had no bargaining power. Comiskey 
was probably no worse than most owners—in fact, Chicago had the largest 
team payroll in 1919. In the era of the reserve clause, gamblers could 
find players on many teams looking for extra cash—and they did.[1][2] In 
addition, the clubhouse was divided into two factions. One group resented 
the more straitlaced players (later called the "Clean Sox"), a group that 
included players like second baseman Eddie Collins, a graduate of Columbia 
College of Columbia University, catcher Ray Schalk, and pitcher Red Faber. 
By contemporary accounts, the two factions almost never spoke to each other 
on or off the field, and the only thing they had in common was a resentment 
of Comiskey.[3] A meeting of White Sox ballplayers—including those committed 
to going ahead and those just ready to listen—took place on September 21, 
in Chick Gandil's room at the Ansonia Hotel in New York. It was a meeting 
that would eventually shatter the careers of eight ballplayers, although 
whether all eight were actually in attendance is a matter of dispute. George 
Daniel "Buck" Weaver was the only player to attend the meetings who did 
not receive money. Nevertheless, he was later banned with the others for 
knowing about the fix but not reporting it. Although he hardly played in 
the series, utility infielder Fred McMullin got word of the fix and threatened 
to report the others unless he was in on the payoff. As a small coincidence, 
McMullin was a former teammate of "Sleepy" Bill Burns, who had a minor 
role in the fix. Both played for the Los Angeles Angels of the Pacific 
Coast League.[4] Star outfielder "Shoeless" Joe Jackson was mentioned as 
a participant, though his involvement is disputed. The scheme got an unexpected 
boost when the straitlaced Faber could not pitch due to a bout with the 
flu. Years later, Schalk said that if Faber had been available, the fix 
would have likely never happened, since Faber would have almost certainly 
gotten starts that went to Cicotte and/or Williams.[5] October 2, there 
were rumors amongst gamblers that the series was fixed, and a sudden influx 
of money being bet on Cincinnati caused the odds against them to fall rapidly. 
These rumors also reached the press box where a number of correspondents, 
including Hugh Fullerton of the Chicago Herald and Examiner and ex-player 
and manager Christy Mathewson, resolved to compare notes on any plays and 
players that they felt were questionable. However, most fans and observers 
were taking the series at face value. On October 2, the day of Game One, 
the Philadelphia Bulletin published a poem which would quickly prove to 
be ironic: After throwing a strike with his first pitch of the Series, 
Eddie Cicotte's second pitch struck Cincinnati leadoff hitter Morrie Rath 
in the back, delivering a pre-arranged signal confirming the players' willingness 
to go through with the fix.[5] Claude Williams, one of the "Eight Men Out", 
lost three games, a Series record. Dickie Kerr, who was not part of the 
fix, won both of his starts. But the gamblers were now reneging on their 
promised progress payments (to be paid after each game lost). The gamblers 
claimed that all the money was let out on bets, and was in the hands of 
the bookmakers. After Game 5, the players who were in on the fix went back 
to their normal way of playing and won Games 6 and 7 of the best-of-9 Series. 
Before Game 8, threats of violence were made on the gamblers' behalf.[6] 
Williams started Game 8, but gave up four straight one-out hits for three 
runs before manager Kid Gleason relieved him. The White Sox lost Game 8 
(and the series) on October 9, 1919.[7] The rumors dogged the White Sox 
throughout the 1920 season as they battled the Cleveland Indians for the 
American League pennant, and stories of corruption touched players on other 
clubs as well. At last, in September 1920, a grand jury was convened to 
investigate; Eddie Cicotte and Shoeless Joe Jackson confessed their participation 
in the scheme to the grand jury on September 28.[8] On the eve of their 
final season series, the White Sox were in a virtual tie for first place 
with the Indians. The Sox would need to win all three of their remaining 
games and then hope for Cleveland to stumble, as the Indians had more games 
left to play than the White Sox. Despite the season being on the line, 
Comiskey suspended the seven White Sox still in the majors (Chick Gandil 
had not returned to the team in 1920 and was playing semi-pro ball). He 
said that he had no choice but to suspend them, even though this action 
likely cost the White Sox any chance of winning that year's American League 
pennant. The White Sox lost two of the three games in the final series 
against the St. Louis Browns and finished in second place, two games behind 
Cleveland. The grand jury handed down its decision on October 22, 1920, 
and eight players and five gamblers were implicated. The indictments included 
nine counts of conspiracy to defraud.[9] The ten players not implicated 
in the gambling scandal, as well as manager Kid Gleason, were each given 
bonus checks in the amount of $1,500 by Comiskey in the fall of 1920, the 
amount equaling the difference between the winners' and losers' share for 
participation in the 1919 World Series.[10] The trial began on June 27, 
1921 in Chicago, though author Pietrusza has its beginning date at July 
18, 1921.[9][11] Player Shano Collins was named as the wronged party in 
the indictments, accusing his corrupt teammates of having cost him $1,784 
as a result of the scandal.[12] Before the trial, key evidence went missing 
from the Cook County courthouse, including the signed confessions of Cicotte 
and Jackson, who subsequently recanted their confessions. Some years later, 
the missing confessions reappeared in the possession of Comiskey's lawyer.[13] 
The jury deliberated for less than three hours before returning verdicts 
of not guilty on all charges for all of the accused players.[9] Long before 
the scandal broke, many of baseball's owners had nursed longstanding grievances 
with the way the game was then governed by the National Commission. The 
scandal and the damage it caused to the game's reputation gave owners the 
resolve to make major changes to the governance of the sport. The owners' 
original plan was to appoint the widely respected federal judge and noted 
baseball fan Kenesaw Mountain Landis to head a reformed National Commission. 
When Landis made it clear to the owners that he would only accept an appointment 
as the game's sole Commissioner, and even then only on the condition that 
he be granted essentially unchecked power over the sport, the owners agreed 
to appoint him as the first Commissioner of Baseball with virtually unlimited 
authority over every person in both the major and minor leagues. Upon taking 
office prior to the 1921 Major League Baseball season, one of Landis' first 
acts as Commissioner was to use the unprecedented powers granted to him 
by the owners to place the eight accused players on an "ineligible list," 
a decision that effectively left them suspended indefinitely from all of 
professional baseball. Following the players' acquittals, Landis was quick 
to quash any prospect that he might reinstate the implicated players. On 
August 3, 1921, the day after the players were acquitted, the Commissioner 
issued his own verdict: Regardless of the verdict of juries, no player 
who throws a ball game, no player who undertakes or promises to throw a 
ball game, no player who sits in confidence with a bunch of crooked ballplayers 
and gamblers, where the ways and means of throwing a game are discussed 
and does not promptly tell his club about it, will ever play professional 
baseball.[14] Making use of a precedent that had previously seen Babe Borton, 
Harl Maggert, Gene Dale, and Bill Rumler banned from the Pacific Coast 
League for match fixing,[15] Landis made it clear that all eight accused 
players would remain on the "ineligible list," banning them from organized 
baseball. The Commissioner took the line that while the players had been 
acquitted in court, there was no dispute they had broken the rules of baseball, 
and none of them could ever be allowed back in the game if it were to regain 
the trust of the public. Comiskey supported Landis by giving the seven 
who remained under contract to the White Sox their unconditional release. 
Following the Commissioner's statement it was universally understood that 
all eight implicated White Sox players were to be banned from Major League 
Baseball for life. Two other players believed to be involved were also 
banned. One of them was Hal Chase, who had been effectively blackballed 
from the majors in 1919 for a long history of throwing games and had spent 
1920 in the minors. He was rumored to have been a go-between for Gandil 
and the gamblers, though it has never been confirmed. Regardless of this, 
it was understood that Landis' announcement not only formalized his 1919 
blacklisting from the majors, but barred him from the minors as well. Landis, 
relying upon his years of experience as a Federal Court Judge and attorney, 
used this decision (this “case”) as the founding precedent (of the reorganized 
league) for the Commissioner of Baseball, to be the highest, and final 
authority over this organized professional sport in the United States. 
He established the precedent, that the Commissioner of Baseball was invested 
by the league with Plenary power; and the responsibility, to determine 
the fitness or suitability of anyone, anything, or any circumstance, to 
be associated with professional baseball, past, present, and future. Eight 
members of the White Sox baseball team were banned by Landis for their 
involvement in the fix: Also banned was Joe Gedeon, second baseman for 
the St. Louis Browns. Gedeon placed bets since he learned of the fix from 
Risberg, a friend of his. He informed Comiskey of the fix after the Series 
in an effort to gain a reward. He was banned for life by Landis along with 
the eight White Sox, and died in 1941.[18] The indefinite suspensions imposed 
by Landis in relation to the Black Sox Scandal remain the most to be imposed 
simultaneously in the history of organized baseball, and were the most 
suspensions of any duration to be simultaneously imposed until 2013 when 
thirteen player suspensions of between 50 and 211 games were announced 
following the doping-related Biogenesis scandal. The extent of Joe Jackson's 
part in the conspiracy remains controversial. Jackson maintained that he 
was innocent. He had a Series-leading .375 batting average – including 
the Series' only home run – threw out five baserunners, and handled 30 
chances in the outfield with no errors. However, he batted far worse in 
the five games that the White Sox lost, with a batting average of .286 
in those games. Though this was still an above-average batting average 
(the National and American Leagues hit a combined .263 in the 1919 season),[19] 
Jackson hit .351 for the season, fourth best in the major leagues (his 
.356 career batting average is the third best in history, surpassed only 
by his contemporaries Ty Cobb and Rogers Hornsby).[20] Three of his six 
RBIs came in the losses, including the aforementioned home run, and a double 
in Game 8 when the Reds had a large lead and the series was all but over. 
Still, in that game a long foul ball was caught at the fence with runners 
on second and third, depriving Jackson of a chance to drive in the runners. 
But statistics also show that in the five games the White Sox lost, Jackson 
batted .385 (5/13) without runners in scoring position (bases empty or 
a runner just on first) but one for eight with runners in scoring position, 
the one hit- a two-run double- coming in the bottom of the eight inning 
of the Series finale with the White Sox already trailing 10-1. One play 
in particular has been subjected to much scrutiny. In the fifth inning 
of Game 4, with a Cincinnati player on second, Jackson fielded a single 
hit to left field and threw home. Chick Gandil, another leader of the fix, 
later admitted to yelling at Cicotte to intercept the throw. The run scored 
and the White Sox lost the game 2–0.[21] Cicotte, whose guilt is undisputed, 
made two errors in that fifth inning alone. Another argument, presented 
in the book Eight Men Out, is that because Jackson was illiterate, he had 
little awareness of the seriousness of the plot, and thus he consented 
to it only when Risberg threatened him and his family. Years later, all 
of the implicated players said that Jackson was never present at any of 
the meetings they had with the gamblers. Lefty Williams, Jackson's roommate, 
later said that they only brought up Jackson in hopes of giving them more 
credibility with the gamblers.[5] After being banned, Risberg and several 
other members of the Black Sox tried to organize a three-state barnstorming 
tour. However, they were forced to cancel those plans after Landis let 
it be known that anyone who played with or against them would also be banned 
from baseball for life. They then announced plans to play a regular exhibition 
game every Sunday in Chicago, but the Chicago City Council threatened to 
cancel the license of any ballpark that hosted them.[5] With seven of their 
best players permanently sidelined, the White Sox crashed into seventh 
place in 1921 and would not be a factor in a pennant race again until 1936, 
five years after Comiskey's death. They would not win another American 
League championship until 1959 (a then-record 40-year gap) nor another 
World Series until 2005, prompting some to comment about a Curse of the 
Black Sox. Rumors also surfaced that some of the players later played minor 
league baseball under assumed names. In the final scene of the movie Eight 
Men Out, Buck Weaver is shown to be in the stands watching a minor league 
game in New Jersey in 1925. The center fielder for Hoboken, a player named 
"Brown," is playing well above the level of the others and a spectator 
near Weaver openly believes him to be Joe Jackson. While also not revealing 
himself, Weaver, who recognised his former team mate, kept Jackson's cover 
by telling the fan that while Jackson was the best player he had seen, 
he wasn't Brown.[22] Although many believe the Black Sox name to be related 
to the dark and corrupt nature of the conspiracy, the term "Black Sox" 
may already have existed before the fix. There is a story that the name 
"Black Sox" derived from parsimonious owner Charles Comiskey's refusal 
to pay for the players' uniforms to be laundered, instead insisting that 
the players themselves pay for the cleaning. As the story goes, the players 
refused and subsequent games saw the White Sox play in progressively filthier 
uniforms as dust, sweat and grime collected on the white, woolen uniforms 
until they took on a much darker shade. Comiskey then had the uniforms 
washed and deducted the laundry bill from the players' salaries.[23] On 
the other hand, Eliot Asinof in his book Eight Men Out makes no such connection, 
mentioning the filthy uniforms early on but referring to the term "Black 
