Details of the history of black players in American professional football 
depend on the professional football league considered: the National Football 
League (NFL) or the American Football League, (AFL), a rival league from 
1960 through 1969, which eventually merged with the NFL. • Origins of American 
football • Close relations: • Black players in American professional football 
• Homosexuality in American football • Concussions in American football 
• Rugby union comparison • Rugby league comparison • Canadian football 
comparison • Pro Football Hall of Fame • College Football Hall of Fame 
• Years in American football Charles Follis is believed to be the first 
black professional football player, having played for the Shelby Steamfitters 
from 1902 to 1906. Follis, a two sport athlete, was paid for his work beginning 
in 1904. From its inception in 1920 as a loose coalition of various regional 
teams, the American Professional Football Association had comparatively 
few African-American players; a total of nine black people suited up for 
NFL teams between 1920 and 1926, including future attorney, black activist, 
and internationally acclaimed artist Paul Robeson. Fritz Pollard and Bobby 
Marshall were the first black players in what is now the NFL in 1920. Pollard 
became the first (and until 1989, only) black coach in 1921; during the 
early-to-mid-1920s, the league used player-coaches and did not have separate 
coaching staffs. After 1926, all five of the black players that were still 
in the subsequent National Football League left the league. Several teams 
were kicked out of the league that year, and with a large number of available, 
talented white players, black players were generally the first to be removed, 
never to return again. For the next few years, a black player would sporadically 
pop up on a team: Harold Bradley Sr. played one season with the Chicago 
Cardinals in 1928, and David Myers played for two New York City-based teams 
in 1930 and 1931. In contrast, ethnic minorities of other races were fairly 
common. Thanks to the efforts of the Carlisle Indian School football program, 
which ended with the school's closure in 1918, there were numerous native 
Americans in the NFL through the 1920s and 1930s, most famously Jim Thorpe. 
The Dayton Triangles also featured the first two Asian-Americans in the 
NFL, Chinese-Hawaiian running back Walter Achiu and Japanese-Scottish quarterback 
Arthur Matsu, both in 1928, and the first Hispanic players in the NFL, 
Cuban immigrant Ignacio Molinet of the 1927 Frankford Yellow Jackets and 
Jess Rodriguez of the 1929 Buffalo Bisons, played in the NFL during this 
time frame. In 1933, the last year of integration, the NFL had two black 
players, Joe Lillard and Ray Kemp. Both were gone by the end of the season: 
Lillard, due largely to his tendency to get into fights, was not invited 
back to the Chicago Cardinals[1][2] despite in 1933 being responsible for 
almost half of the Cardinals' points, while Kemp quit on his own accord 
to pursue a coaching career (one that turned out to be long and successful).[3][4] 
Many observers will attribute the subsequent lockout of black players to 
the entry of George Preston Marshall into the league in 1932. Marshall 
openly refused to have black athletes on his Boston Braves/Washington Redskins 
team, and reportedly pressured the rest of the league to follow suit. Marshall, 
however, was likely not the only reason: the Great Depression had stoked 
an increase in racism and self-inflicted segregation across the country, 
and internal politics likely had as much of an effect as external pressure.[3] 
Marshall's hostility was specifically directed at the black race; he openly 
allowed (and promoted) Native Americans on his team, including his first 
head coach, Lone Star Dietz, widely believed to be a Native American at 
the time. The choice of Redskins as his team name in 1933 was in part to 
maintain the native connotations that came with the previous team's name, 
the Boston Braves.[5] Another reason for Marshall's anti-black sentiment 
was to curry favor in the Southern United States; Marshall's Redskins had 
a strong following in that part of the country, which he vigorously defended, 
and he stood up against the NFL's efforts to put expansion teams in the 
South until Clint Murchison, Jr.'s successful extortion attempt (Murchison 
acquired the rights to the Redskins' fight song and threatened not to let 
Marshall use the song unless he got an expansion team in Dallas) led to 
the establishment of the Dallas Cowboys in 1960.[6] By 1934, there were 
no more black players in the league.[7][8] The NFL did not have another 
black player until after World War II. Most black players either ended 
up in the minor leagues (six joined the American Association and several 
others found their way into the Pacific Coast Professional Football League) 
or found themselves onto all-black barnstorming teams such as the Harlem 
Brown Bombers. Unlike in baseball, where the Negro Leagues flourished, 
no true football Negro league was known to exist until 1946, and by this 
time, the major leagues had begun reintegrating.[9] In 1939, UCLA had one 
of the greatest collegiate football players in history, Kenny Washington,[10] 
a senior.[11] Washington, an African American,[12] was very popular,[13][14] 
and his team had garnered national attention in the print media.[15] After 
he played in the College All-Star game in August 1940, George Halas asked 
him not to return to Los Angeles immediately because Halas wanted to sign 
him to a contract with the Chicago Bears. After a week or so, Washington 
returned to Los Angeles without an NFL contract.[16][17][18][19] Washington 
spent the majority of the early 1940s in the Pacific Coast League with 
the Hollywood Bears, even during World War II, during which he managed 
to avoid military service, thanks in part to a timely injury that forced 
him to miss the 1942 season but likely rendered him ineligible for service. 
Washington, after his injuries were healed, was a rarity in that he was 
a healthy, available athlete during a time when the NFL was resorting to 
using partially handicapped players ineligible for service, but received 
no interest from any NFL teams at the time. (Washington would ultimately 
serve a tour of duty in the armed forces in 1945.) In 1946, after the Rams 
had received approval to move to Los Angeles and Washington returned from 
the war, members of the African American print media made the Los Angeles 
Coliseum commission aware the NFL did not have any African American players[20] 
and reminded the commission the Coliseum was supported with public funds. 
Therefore, its commission had to abide by an 1896 Supreme Court decision, 
Plessy v. Ferguson, by not leasing the stadium to a segregated team.[21] 
Also, they specifically suggested the Rams should give Washington a tryout. 
The commission advised the Rams that they would have to integrate the team 
with at least one African American in order to lease the Coliseum, and 
the Rams agreed to this condition.[16][21][22][23] Subsequently, the Rams 
signed Washington on March 21, 1946.[24][25][26] The signing of Washington 
caused "all hell to break loose" among the owners of the NFL franchises.[27] 
The Rams added a second black player, Woody Strode, on May 7, 1946, giving 
them two black players going into the 1946 season. Even after this incident, 
racial integration was slow to come to the NFL. No team followed the Rams 
in re-integrating the NFL until the Detroit Lions signed Mel Groomes and 
Bob Mann in 1948. No black player was selected in the NFL draft until 1949 
when George Taliaferro was selected in the 13th round; Taliaferro signed 
instead with the rival All-America Football Conference.[28] The AAFC, which 
formed in 1946, was more proactive in signing black players; in 1946, the 
Cleveland Browns signed Marion Motley and Bill Willis, and by the time 
the AAFC merged with the NFL in 1950, six of the league's eight teams had 
signed black players, most by the league's second season in 1947. In comparison, 
only three of the ten NFL teams (the Rams, Lions and New York Giants) signed 
a black player before 1950. The Green Bay Packers followed in 1950, but 
the bulk of NFL teams did not sign a black player until 1952, by which 
time every team but the Washington Redskins had signed a black player.[29] 
Marshall was quoted as saying "We'll start signing Negroes when the Harlem 
Globetrotters start signing whites." The Redskins had no black players 
until Interior Secretary Stewart Udall threatened to evict them from D. 
C. Stadium unless they signed a black player. The Redskins first attempted 
to comply by drafting Ernie Davis, who refused to play under Marshall; 
the Redskins in turn traded Davis to the Cleveland Browns. The Redskins 
eventually signed Bobby Mitchell and two other African American players 
by 1962. Quotas limiting the number of black players were commonplace, 
and black players were often stacked into the same positions to allow them 
to be eliminated as a matter of competition.[30] Reportedly, black players 
routinely received lower contracts than whites in the NFL, while in the 
American Football League there was no such distinction based on race.[31] 
Position segregation was also prevalent at this time. According to several 
books, such as the autobiography of Vince Lombardi, black players were 
stacked at "speed" positions such as defensive back but excluded from "intelligent" 
positions such as quarterback and center.[citation needed] However, despite 
the NFL's segregationist policies, after the league merged with the more 
tolerant AFL in 1970, more than 30% of the merged league's players were 
African American.[citation needed] The American Football League had the 
first black placekicker in U.S. professional football, Gene Mingo of the 
Denver Broncos (Mingo's primary claim to fame, however, was as a running 
back, and was only secondarily a placekicker); and the first black regular 
starting quarterback of the modern era, Marlin Briscoe of the Denver Broncos.[32] 
Willie Thrower was a back-up quarterback who saw some action in the 1950s 
for the Chicago Bears. At the start of the 2014 season, NFL surveys revealed 
that the league was approximately 68% African-American[33] and about 28% 
white, with the remaining 4% comprising Asian/Pacific Islander, non-white 
Hispanics, and those preferring a Mixed Race category.[34] These statistics 
are in contrast to the general population of the United States, which is 
about 28% non-white, although among the demographic that plays in the NFL 
(men approximately 21 to 35 years of age), the proportion of the American 
population that is non-white is somewhat greater. Scout.com national recruiting 
analyst Greg Biggins said: "I honestly think it’s harder for a white wide 
receiver than it is a black quarterback to get recruited at a high level 
in this day and age," Biggins said. "Unless you have an extreme skill set 
that jumps out."[35] In recent decades the cornerback position has been 
played exclusively by black players, and the halfback/tailback position 
overwhelmingly so. There are currently no white cornerbacks in the NFL 
and there have not been since New York Giants cornerback Jason Sehorn played 
his final season for the team in 2002, before moving to safety with the 
St. Louis Rams in 2003.[30][36] Since the 2010 season, out of well over 
100 halfbacks in the NFL in that time frame, only four have been white: 
Toby Gerhart, Danny Woodhead, Peyton Hillis and Brian Leonard.[37] As recently 
as 2005, no white halfbacks received a single carry,[38] and no white running 
back rushed for 1,000 rushing yards in a season between Craig James in 
1985 and Hillis in 2010.[39][40] Gerhart alleged race was a factor in why 
four running backs were drafted ahead of him in the 2010 NFL Draft.[41] 
There are also allegations that racial profiling exists at the lower levels 
of the game that discourages white players from playing halfback.[42] At 
the quarterback position, 23 of the 32 starting quarterbacks in the NFL 
were white at the start of the 2013 season. Whites slightly outnumber blacks 
in the makeup of offensive linemen (49% vs 46%) yet the center position 
is 82% white.[43] In contrast, of the 32 starting kickers in the NFL in 
2013, only one was black. Also, there were two African American punters, 
Reggie Hodges for the Cleveland Browns and Marquette King for the Oakland 
Raiders. Outside of playing, the first black head coach in the NFL since 
the end of the player-coach era did not come until 1989, when Art Shell 
took over the then-Los Angeles Raiders; he was followed three years later 
by Dennis Green of the Minnesota Vikings. An affirmative action policy 
known as the Rooney Rule was implemented in 2003 requiring teams to interview 
racial minorities for head coaching positions and, since 2009, other senior 
management and player personnel positions. (Such minorities need not specifically 
be black; Hispanics of any race and persons of any nonwhite race are also 
eligible to qualify under the rule.) The league has never had a black franchise 
owner, and only two of the league's owners (Korean-born Kim Pegula of the 
Buffalo Bills, and Punjabi Shahid Khan of the Jacksonville Jaguars) are 
