Black Canadians is a designation used for people of Black African descent, 
who are citizens or permanent residents of Canada.[2][3] The majority of 
Black Canadians are of Caribbean origin, though the population also consists 
of African American immigrants and their descendants (including Black Nova 
Scotians), as well as many African immigrants.[4][5] Black Canadians and 
other Canadians often draw a distinction between those of Afro-Caribbean 
ancestry and those of other African roots. The term African Canadian is 
sometimes used by Black Canadians who trace their heritage to the first 
slaves brought by British and French colonists to the North American mainland;[3] 
thousands of Black Loyalists and an estimated ten to thirty thousand fugitive 
slaves settled in Canada after the American Revolutionary War. Many Blacks 
of Caribbean origin in Canada reject the term African Canadian as an elision 
of the uniquely Caribbean aspects of their heritage,[6] and instead identify 
as Caribbean Canadian.[6] Unlike in the United States where African American 
has become a widely used term, due to controversies associated with proper 
designation of African or Caribbean heritage, the term "Black Canadian" 
is accepted in the Canadian context.[7] Black Canadians have contributed 
to many areas of Canadian culture.[8] Many of the first visible minorities 
to hold high public offices have been Black, including Michaëlle Jean, 
Donald Oliver, Stanley G. Grizzle, Rosemary Brown and Lincoln Alexander, 
in turn opening the door for other minorities.[9] Black Canadians form 
the third-largest visible minority group in Canada, after South Asian and 
Chinese Canadians.[10] According to the 2006 Census by Statistics Canada, 
783,795 Canadians identified as black, constituting 2.5% of the entire 
Canadian population.[10] Of the black population, 11% identified as mixed-race 
of "white and black".[11] The five most black-populated provinces in 2006 
were Ontario, Quebec, Alberta, British Columbia, and Nova Scotia.[10] The 
ten most black-populated census metropolitan areas were Toronto, Montreal, 
Ottawa, Calgary, Vancouver, Edmonton, Hamilton, Winnipeg, Halifax, and 
Oshawa.[12] Preston, in the Halifax area, is the community with the highest 
percentage of blacks, with 69.4%; it was a settlement where the Crown provided 
land to Black Loyalists after the American Revolution.[13] According to 
the 2011 Census, a total of 949,665 Black Canadians were counted, comprising 
2.9% of Canada's population.[1] At times, it has been claimed that Black 
Canadians have been significantly undercounted in census data. Writer George 
Elliott Clarke has cited a McGill University study which found that fully 
43% of all Black Canadians were not counted as black in the 1991 Canadian 
census, because they had identified on census forms as British, French 
or other cultural identities which were not included in the census group 
of Black cultures.[14] Although subsequent censuses have reported the population 
of Black Canadians to be much more consistent with the McGill study's revised 
1991 estimate than with the official 1991 census data, no recent study 
has been conducted to determine whether some Black Canadians are still 
substantially missed by the self-identification method. One of the ongoing 
controversies in the Black Canadian community revolves around appropriate 
terminologies. Many Canadians of Afro-Caribbean origin strongly object 
to the term "African Canadian", as it obscures their own culture and history, 
and this partially accounts for the term's less prevalent use in Canada, 
compared to the consensus "African American" south of the border. Black 
Nova Scotians, a more distinct cultural group, of whom some can trace their 
Canadian ancestry back to the 1700s, use both terms, African Canadian and 
Black Canadian. For example, there is an Office of African Nova Scotian 
Affairs and a Black Cultural Centre for Nova Scotia. "Caribbean Canadian" 
is often used to refer to Black Canadians of Caribbean heritage, although 
this usage can also be controversial because the Caribbean is not populated 
only by people of African origin, but also includes large groups of Indo-Caribbeans, 
Chinese Caribbeans, European Caribbeans, Syrian or Lebanese Caribbeans, 
Latinos and Amerindians. The term "West Indian" is often used by those 
of Caribbean ancestry, although the term is more of a cultural description 
than a racial one, and can equally be applied to groups of many different 
racial and ethnic backgrounds. The term "Afro-Caribbean-Canadian" is occasionally 
used in response to this controversy, although as of 2016, this term is 
still not widely seen in common usage. More specific national terms such 
as "Jamaican Canadian", "Haitian Canadian" or "Ghanaian Canadian" are also 
used. As of 2016, however, there is no widely used alternative to "Black 
Canadian" that is accepted by the Afro-Caribbean population, those of more 
recent African extraction, and descendants of immigrants from the United 
States as an umbrella term for the whole group.[7] One increasingly common 
practice, seen in academic usage and in the names and mission statements 
of some Black Canadian cultural and social organizations but not yet in 
universal nationwide usage, is to always make reference to both the African 
and Caribbean communities.[15] For example, one key health organization 
dedicated to HIV/AIDS education and prevention in the Black Canadian community 
is now named the African and Caribbean Council on HIV/AIDS in Ontario, 
the Toronto publication Pride bills itself as an "African-Canadian and 
Caribbean-Canadian news magazine", and G98.7, a Black-oriented community 
radio station in Toronto, was initially branded as Caribbean African Radio 
Network.[16] One of the more noted aspects of Black Canadian history is 
that while the majority of African Americans trace their presence in the 
United States through the history of slavery, the Black presence in Canada 
is rooted almost entirely in voluntary immigration.[17] Despite the various 
dynamics that may complicate the personal and cultural interrelationships 
between descendents of the Black Loyalists in Nova Scotia, descendents 
of former American slaves who viewed Canada as the promise of freedom at 
the end of the Underground Railroad, and more recent immigrants from the 
Caribbean or Africa, one common element that unites all of these groups 
is that they are in Canada because they or their ancestors actively chose 
of their own free will to settle there.[6] The first recorded black person 
to set foot on land now known as Canada was a free man named Mathieu de 
Costa. Travelling with navigator Samuel de Champlain, de Costa arrived 
in Nova Scotia some time between 1603 and 1608 as a translator for the 
French explorer Pierre Dugua, Sieur de Monts. The first known black person 
to live in what would become Canada was a slave from Madagascar named Olivier 
Le Jeune, who may have been of partial Malay ancestry. As a group, black 
people arrived in Canada in several waves. The first of these came as free 
persons serving in the French Army and Navy, though some were enslaved 
or indentured servants. At the time of the American Revolution, inhabitants 
of the United States had to decide where their future lay. Those loyal 
to the British Crown were called United Empire Loyalists and came north. 
Many White American Loyalists brought their African-American slaves with 
them, numbering approximately 2,500 individuals. During the war, the British 
had promised freedom to slaves who left rebel masters and worked for them; 
this was announced in Virginia through Lord Dunmore's Proclamation. Slaves 
also escaped to British lines in New York City and Charleston, and their 
forces evacuated thousands after the war. They transported 3,000 to Nova 
Scotia.[18][19] This latter group was largely made up of merchants and 
labourers, and many set up home in Birchtown near Shelburne. Some settled 
in New Brunswick. Both groups suffered from discriminatory treatment by 
white settlers and prominent landowners who still held slaves. Some of 
the refugees had been free blacks prior to the war and fled with the other 
refugees to Nova Scotia, relying on British promises of equality. Under 
pressure of the new refugees, the city of Saint John amended its charter 
in 1785 specifically to exclude blacks from practising a trade, selling 
goods, fishing in the harbour, or becoming freemen; these provisions stood 
until 1870, although by then they were largely ignored.[20] In 1782, the 
first race riot in North America took place in Shelburne; white veterans 
attacked African-American settlers who were getting work that the former 
soldiers thought they should have. Due to the failure of the British government 
to support the settlement, the harsh weather, and discrimination on the 
part of white colonists, 1,192 Black Loyalist men, women and children left 
Nova Scotia for West Africa on 15 January 1792. They settled in what is 
now Sierra Leone, where they became the original settlers of Freetown. 
They, along with other groups of free transplanted people such as the Black 
Poor from England, became what is now the Sierra Leone Creole people, also 
known as the Krio. Although difficult to estimate due to the failure to 
differentiate slave and free Black populations, it is estimated that by 
1784 there were around 40 Black slaves within Montreal, compared to around 
304 slaves within the Province of Quebec.[21] By 1799, vital records note 
75 entries regarding Black Canadians, a number which doubled by 1809.[21] 
On 26 June 1796, Jamaican Maroons, numbering 543 men, women and children, 
were deported on board the three ships Dover, Mary and Anne from Jamaica, 
after being defeated in an uprising against the British colonial government. 
Their initial destination was Lower Canada, but on 21 and 23 July, the 
ships arrived in Nova Scotia. At this time Halifax was undergoing a major 
construction boom initiated by Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn's 
efforts to modernize the city's defences. The many building projects had 
created a labour shortage. Edward was impressed by the Maroons and immediately 
put them to work at the Citadel in Halifax, Government House, and other 
defence works throughout the city. Funds had been provided by the Government 
of Jamaica to aid in the resettlement of the Maroons in Canada.[22] Five 
thousand acres were purchased at Preston, Nova Scotia, at a cost of £3000. 
Small farm lots were provided to the Maroons and they attempted to farm 
the infertile land. Like the former tenants, they found the land at Preston 
to be unproductive; as a result they had little success. The Maroons also 
found farming in Nova Scotia difficult because the climate would not allow 
cultivation of familiar food crops, such as bananas, yams, pineapples or 
cocoa. Small numbers of Maroons relocated from Preston to Boydville for 
better farming land. The British Lieutenant Governor Sir John Wentworth 
made an effort to change the Maroons’ culture and beliefs by introducing 
them to Christianity. From the monies provided by the Jamaican Government, 
Wentworth procured an annual stipend of £240 for the support of a school 
and religious education.[23] The Maroons were not interested in converting 
from their own religion to Christianity. Strong-willed and opinionated 
people, they refused to work for less money than was paid to white workers. 
After suffering through the harsh winter of 1796–1797, Wentworth reported 
the Maroons expressed a desire that "they wish to be sent to India or somewhere 
in the east, to be landed with arms in some country with a climate like 
that they left, where they may take possession with a strong hand."[23]:260 
The British Government and Wentworth opened discussions with the Sierra 
Leone Company in 1799 to send the Maroons to Sierra Leone. The Jamaican 
Government had in 1796 initially planned to send the Maroons to Sierra 
Leone but the Sierra Leone Company rejected the idea. The initial reaction 
in 1799 was the same, but the Company was eventually persuaded to accept 
the Maroon settlers. On 6 August 1800 the Maroons departed Halifax, arriving 
on 1 October at Freetown, Sierra Leone.[23][24] Upon their arrival in West 
Africa in 1800, they were used to quell an uprising among the black settlers 
from Nova Scotia and London. After eight years, they were unhappy with 
their treatment by the Sierra Leone Company. The Canadian climate made 
it uneconomic to keep slaves year-round,[25] unlike the plantation agriculture 
practised in the southern United States and Caribbean. Slavery within the 
colonial economy became increasingly rare. Not all owners were white. For 
example, the powerful Mohawk leader Joseph Brant bought an African American 
named Sophia Burthen Pooley, whom he kept for about 12 years before selling 
her for $100.[26][27] In 1772, prior to the American Revolution, Britain 
outlawed the slave trade in the British Isles followed by the Knight v. 
Wedderburn decision in Scotland in 1778. This decision, in turn, influenced 
the colony of Nova Scotia. In 1788, abolitionist James Drummond MacGregor 
from Pictou published the first anti-slavery literature in Canada and began 
purchasing slaves' freedom and chastising his colleagues in the Presbyterian 
church who owned slaves.[28] In 1790 John Burbidge freed his slaves. Led 
by Richard John Uniacke, in 1787, 1789 and again on January 11, 1808, the 
Nova Scotian legislature refused to legalize slavery.[29][30] Two chief 
justices, Thomas Andrew Lumisden Strange (1790–1796) and Sampson Salter 
Blowers (1797–1832) were instrumental in freeing slaves from their owners 
in Nova Scotia.[31][32] These justices were held in high regard in the 
colony. In 1793, John Graves Simcoe, the first Lieutenant-Governor of Upper 
Canada, attempted to abolish slavery. That same year, the new Legislative 
Assembly became the first entity in the British Empire to restrict slavery, 
confirming existing ownership but allowing for anyone born to a female 
slave after that date to be freed at the age of 25.[33] Slavery was all 
but abolished throughout the other British North American colonies by 1800. 
The Slave Trade Act outlawed the slave trade in the British Empire in 1807 
and the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833 outlawed slave-holding altogether 
in the colonies (except for India). This made Canada an attractive destination 
for many refugees fleeing slavery in the United States, such as minister 
Boston King. The next major migration of blacks occurred between 1813 and 
1815. Refugees from the War of 1812, primarily from the Chesapeake Bay 
and Georgia Sea Islands, fled the United States to settle in Hammonds Plains, 
Beechville, Lucasville, North Preston, East Preston, and Africville. An 
April 1814 proclamation of Black freedom and settlement by British Vice-Admiral 
Alexander Cochrane led to an exodus of around 3,500 Black Americans by 
1818.[34] The settlement of the refugees was initially seen as a means 
of creating prosperous agricultural communities; however, poor economic 
conditions following the war coupled with the granting of infertile farmland 
to refugees caused economic hardship.[34] Social integration would prove 
difficult in the early years, as the prevalence of enslaved Africans in 
the Maritimes caused the newly freed Black Canadians to be viewed on the 
same level of the enslaved.[34] Militarily, a Black Loyalist named Richard 
Pierpoint, who was born about 1744 in Senegal and who had settled near 
present-day St. Catharines, Ontario, offered to organize a Corps of Men 
of Colour to support the British war effort. This was refused but a white 
officer raised a small black corps.[18] This "Coloured Corps" fought at 
Queenston Heights and the siege of Fort George, defending what would become 
Canada from the invading American army.[18] Many of the refugees from America 
would later serve with distinction during the war in matters both strictly 
military, along with the use of freed slaves in assisting in the further 
liberation of African Americans slaves.[34] There is a sizable community 
of Black Canadians in Nova Scotia[19] and Southern Ontario who trace their 
ancestry to African-American slaves who used the Underground Railroad to 
flee from the United States, seeking refuge and freedom in Canada. From 
the late 1820s until the American Civil War began in 1861, the Underground 
Railroad brought tens of thousands of fugitive slaves to Canada. The refugee 
slaves who settled in Canada did so primarily in South Western Ontario, 
with significant concentrations being found in Amherstburg, Colchester, 
Chatham, Windsor, Sandwich. These settlements acted as centers of abolitionist 
thought, with Chatham being the location of abolitionist John Brown's constitutional 
convention which preceded the later raid on Harper's Ferry.[35] While the 
first newspaper published by a black woman was founded in North Buxton 
by the free Black Mary Ann Shadd which pressed for Black emigration to 
Canada as the best option for fleeing African Americans.[35] The settlement 
of Elgin was formed in 1849 with the royal assent of Governor-General of 
the time James Bruce as a settlement for Black Canadians and escaped slaves 
based upon social welfare and the prevention of moral decay among the Black 
community there. Led by the Elgin Association and preacher William King, 
the settlement flourished as a model of a successful predominantly African 
settlement which held close to 200 families by 1859.[36] Following the 
end of the American Civil War and subsequent emancipation of enslaved African 
Americans, a significant population remained, concentrated both within 
settlements established in the decades preceding the Civil War, and existing 
urban environments like Toronto.[37][38][39] The Anti-Slavery Society of 
Canada estimated in its first report in 1852 that the "coloured population 
of Upper Canada" was about 30,000, of whom almost all adults were "fugitive 
slaves" from the United States.[40] St. Catharines, Ontario had a population 
of 6,000 at that time; 800 of its residents were "of African descent".[41] 
Many slaves sought refuge in Toronto which was known as a tolerant city. 
Black Canadians integrated in many areas of society, but the influence 
of slavery in the south still impacted these citizens. James Mink, an African 
Canadian who married his daughter to a white man, had his daughter sold 
into slavery during their honeymoon in the Southern States. She was freed 
after a large sum of money was paid and this behaviour was characterized 
as “a villainy that we are pleased to say characterizes few white [Toronto] 
men.”[42] In 1858, James Douglas, the governor of the British colony of 
Vancouver Island, replied to an inquiry from a group of blacks in San Francisco 
about the possibilities of settling in his jurisdiction. They were angered 
that the California legislature had passed discriminatory laws to restrict 
blacks in the state, preventing them from owning property and requiring 
them to wear badges. Governor Douglas, whose mother was a "free coloured" 
person of mixed black and white ancestry from the Caribbean,[43] replied 
favourably. Later that year, an estimated 600 to 800 black Americans migrated 
to Victoria, settling on Vancouver Islands and Salt Island. At least two 
became successful merchants there: Peter Lester and Mifflin Wistar Gibbs. 
The latter also entered politics, being elected to the newly established 
City Council in the 1860s. Gibbs returned to the United States with his 
family in the late 1860s after slavery had been abolished following the 
war; he settled in Little Rock, Arkansas, the capital of the state. He 
became an attorney and was elected as the first black judge in the US. 
He became a wealthy businessman who was involved with the Republican Party; 
in 1897 he was appointed by the President of the US as consul to Madagascar. 
In the late nineteenth century, the Canadian government had an unofficial 
policy of restricting immigration by blacks. The huge influx of immigrants 
from Europe and the United States in the period before World War I included 
few blacks, as most immigrants were coming from eastern and southern Europe. 
This policy was formalised in 1911 by Prime Minister Wilfrid Laurier: "His 
excellency in Council, in virtue of the provisions of Sub-section (c) of 
Section 38 of the Immigration Act, is pleased to Order and it is hereby 
Ordered as follows: For a period of one year from and after the date hereof 
the landing in Canada shall be and the same is prohibited of any immigrants 
belonging to the Negro race, which race is deemed unsuitable to the climate 
and requirements of Canada."[26] (Compare with the White Australia policy.) 
The flow between the United States and Canada continued in the twentieth 
century. A wave of immigration occurred in the 1920s, with blacks from 
the Caribbean coming to work in the steel mills of Cape Breton, replacing 
those who had come from Alabama in 1899.[44] Some Black Canadians trace 
their ancestry to people who fled racism in Oklahoma, Texas, and other 
southern states in the early 1900s as part of the Great Migration out of 
the rural South, and continued up to Alberta and Saskatchewan.[45] (See 
for example those buried in the Shiloh Baptist Church cemetery in Saskatchewan.)[46] 
Many of them were disappointed to encounter racism when they arrived in 
Canada, which they had regarded as a kind of Promised Land.[47] Many of 
Canada's railway porters were recruited from the U.S., with many coming 
from the South, New York City, and Washington, D.C. They settled mainly 
in the major cities of Montreal, Toronto, Winnipeg and Vancouver, which 
had major rail connections. The railroads were considered to have good 
positions, with steady work and a chance to travel.[48] A noted cause célèbre 
in the 1920s was the case of Matthew Bullock. He fled to Canada to avoid 
a potential lynching in North Carolina and fought extradition to the US.[49] 
Canada maintained its restrictions of immigration until 1962, when racial 
rules were eliminated from the immigration laws. This coincided with the 
dissolution of the British Empire in the Caribbean. By the mid-1960s, approximately 
15,000 Caribbean immigrants lived in Toronto.[50] Over the next decades, 
several hundred thousand Afro-Caribbeans came from that region, becoming 
the predominant black population in Canada. Since then, an increasing number 
of new immigrants from Africa have been coming to Canada;[5] they have 
also immigrated to the United States and Europe. This includes large numbers 
of refugees, but also many skilled and professional workers pursuing better 
economic conditions. Today's Black Canadians are largely of Caribbean origin, 
with some of recent African origin, and smaller numbers from the United 
States, Europe and Latin America. However, a sizable number of Black Canadians 
who descend from freed American slaves can still be found in Nova Scotia 
and parts of Southwestern Ontario. Some descendants of the freed American 
slaves, many of whom were of mixed race descent, have mixed into the white 
Canadian community and have mostly lost their ethnic identity. Some descendants 
returned to the United States. Bangor, Maine, for example, received many 
Black Canadians from the Maritime provinces.[51] Like other recent immigrants 
to Canada, Black Canadian immigrants have settled preferentially in provinces 
matching the language of their country of origin. Thus, in 2001, 90% of 
Canadians of Haitian origin lived in Quebec,[52] while 85% of Canadians 
of Jamaican origin lived in Ontario.[53] In 1975, a museum telling the 
stories of African Canadians and their journeys and contributions was established 
in Amherstburg, Ontario, entitled the Amherstburg Freedom Museum.[54] In 
Atlantic Canada, the Black Cultural Centre for Nova Scotia was established 
in Cherrybrook. Below is a list of provinces, with the number of Black 
Canadians in each province and their percentage of population.[57] Source: 
Canada 2011 Census[1] National average: 2.9% (945,665) Although many Black 
Canadians live in integrated communities, a number of notable Black communities 
have been known, both as unique settlements and as Black-dominated neighbourhoods 
in urban centres. The most historically documented Black settlement in 
Canadian history is the defunct community of Africville, a district located 
at the North End of peninsular Halifax, Nova Scotia. Its population was 
relocated and it was demolished in the 1960s to facilitate the urban expansion 
of the city. Similarly, the Hogan's Alley neighbourhood in Vancouver was 
largely demolished in 1970, with only a single small laneway in Strathcona 
remaining. The Wilberforce Colony in Ontario was also a historically Black 
settlement. It evolved demographically as Black settlers moved away. It 
became dominated by ethnic Irish settlers, who renamed the village Lucan. 
A small group of Black American settlers from San Francisco were the original 
inhabitants of Saltspring Island in the mid-19th century. Other notable 
Black settlements include North Preston in Nova Scotia, Priceville, Shanty 
Bay, South Buxton and Dresden in Ontario, the Maidstone/Eldon area in Saskatchewan[58] 
and Amber Valley in Alberta. North Preston currently has the highest concentration 
of Black Canadians in Canada, many of whom are descendants of Africville 
residents. One of the most famous Black-dominated urban neighbourhoods 
in Canada is Montreal's Little Burgundy, regarded as the spiritual home 
of Canadian jazz due to its association with many of Canada's most influential 
early jazz musicians. In present-day Montreal, Little Burgundy and the 
boroughs of Côte-des-Neiges–Notre-Dame-de-Grâce, LaSalle, Pierrefonds-Roxboro, 
and Montréal-Nord have large Black populations, the latter of which has 
a large Haitian population. In Toronto, many Blacks settled in St. John's 
Ward, a district which was located in the city's core.[59][60] Others preferred 
to live in York Township, on the outskirts of the city. By 1850, there 
were more than a dozen Black businesses along King Street;[59] the modern-day 
equivalent is Little Jamaica along Eglinton Avenue, which contains one 
of the largest concentrations of Black businesses in Canada.[61] Several 
urban neighbourhoods in Toronto, including Jane and Finch, Rexdale, Malvern, 
Weston, St. James Town, and Lawrence Heights, are popularly associated 
with Black Canadians, although all are much more racially diverse than 
is commonly believed. The Toronto suburbs of Brampton and Ajax also have 
sizable Black populations, which have migrated outward from Toronto over 
the past decade. (Ajax has the highest percentage of Blacks of any municipality 
of 5,000 or more in Canada, with 16%.) The Greater Toronto Area is home 
to a highly educated middle to upper middle class Black population who 
continue to migrate out of the city limits, into surrounding suburbs.[62] 
Media representation of Blacks in Canada has increased significantly in 
recent years, with television series such as Drop the Beat, Lord Have Mercy! 
and Da Kink in My Hair focusing principally on Black characters and communities. 
The films of Clement Virgo, Sudz Sutherland and Charles Officer have been 
among the most prominent depictions of Black Canadians on the big screen. 
Notable films have included Sutherland's Love, Sex and Eating the Bones, 
Officer's Nurse.Fighter.Boy and Virgo's Rude and Love Come Down. In literature, 
the most prominent and famous Black Canadian writers have been Josiah Henson, 
George Elliott Clarke, Lawrence Hill, Dionne Brand and Dany Laferrière, 
although numerous emerging writers have gained attention in the 1990s and 
2000s. Since the late 19th century, Black Canadians have made significant 
contributions to the culture of sports, starting with the founding of the 
Coloured Hockey League in Nova Scotia.[63] In North America's four major 
professional sports leagues, several Black Canadians have had successful 
careers, including Ferguson Jenkins (Baseball Hall of Fame member), Grant 
Fuhr (Hockey Hall of Fame member), Jarome Iginla, Russell Martin, and Jamaal 
Magloire; most recently, Andrew Wiggins and P. K. Subban have achieved 
a high level of success. In athletics, Harry Jerome, Ben Johnson, and Donovan 
Bailey were Canada's most prominent Black sprinters in recent decades; 
the current generation is led by Andre De Grasse. The largest and most 
famous Black Canadian cultural event is the Scotiabank Toronto Caribbean 
Carnival (also known as Caribana), an annual festival of Caribbean Canadian 
culture in Toronto which typically attracts at least a million participants 
each year.[64] The festival incorporates the diversities that exist among 
the Canadians of African and Caribbean descent. Black Canadians have had 
a major influence on Canadian music, helping pioneer many genres including 
Canadian hip hop, Canadian blues, Canadian jazz, R&B, Caribbean music, 
pop music and classical music.[65] Some of the earliest musical influences 
include Robert Nathaniel Dett, Portia White, Oscar Peterson and Charlie 
Biddle.[citation needed] Some Black Canadian musicians have enjoyed mainstream 
worldwide appeal in various genres, such as Dan Hill, Glenn Lewis, Tamia, 
Deborah Cox, and Kardinal Offishall. While African American culture is 
a significant influence on its Canadian counterpart, many African and Caribbean 
Canadians reject the suggestion that their own culture is not distinctive.[6] 
In his first major hit single "BaKardi Slang", rapper Kardinal Offishall 
performed a lyric about Toronto's distinctive Black Canadian slang: Because 
the visibility of distinctively Black Canadian cultural output is still 
a relatively recent phenomenon, academic, critical and sociological analysis 
of Black Canadian literature, music, television and film tends to focus 
on the ways in which cultural creators are actively engaging the process 
of creating a cultural space for themselves which is distinct from both 
mainstream Canadian culture and African American culture.[6] For example, 
most of the Black-themed television series which have been produced in 
Canada to date have been ensemble cast comedy or drama series centred around 
the creation and/or expansion of a Black-oriented cultural or community 
institution.[6] The Book of Negroes, a CBC Television miniseries about 
slavery based on Lawrence Hill's award-winning novel, was a significant 
ratings success in January 2015.[66] In a 2013 survey of 80 countries by 
the World Values Survey, Canada ranked among the most racially tolerant 
societies in the world.[67] Nevertheless, according to Statistics Canada's 
"Ethnic Diversity Survey", released in September 2003, when asked about 
the five-year period from 1998 to 2002 nearly one-third (32%) of respondents 
who identified as black reported that they had been subjected to some form 
of racial discrimination or unfair treatment 'sometimes' or 'often'.[68] 
From the late 1970s to the early 1990s, many unarmed Black Canadian men 
in Toronto were shot or killed by Toronto Police officers.[69][70] In response, 
the Black Action Defence Committee (BADC) was founded in 1988. BADC's executive 
director, Dudley Laws, claimed that Toronto had the "most murderous" police 
force in North America, and that police bias against Blacks in Toronto 
was worse than in Los Angeles.[70][71] In 1990, BADC was primarily responsible 
for the creation of Ontario's Special Investigations Unit, which investigates 
police misconduct.[70][72] Since the early 1990s, the relationship between 
Toronto Police and the city's Black community has improved;[70] in 2015, 
Mark Saunders became the first Black police chief in the city's history. 
However, carding remains an issue as of 2016.[73] Throughout the years, 
high-profile cases of racism against Black Canadians have occurred in Nova 
Scotia.[74][75][76] The province in Atlantic Canada continues to champion 
human rights and battle against racism, in part, with an annual march to 
end racism against people of African descent.[77][78] Additionally, Black 
Canadians have historically faced incarceration rates disproportionate 
to their population. In 1911, Black Canadians comprised .22% of the population 
of Canada while 3.21 of every 1000 Black Canadians were in prison. Comparatively, 
White Canadians were incarcerated at a rate of .18 per 1000 people. By 
1931 this number would grow to 3.85 per 1000 Black Canadians compared to 
.35 per 1000 White Canadians.[79] Contemporary rates of incarcaration of 
Black Canadians have continued to be disproportionate to their percentage 
of the general population, with 1 in 10 federal prisoners being Black while 
