In broadcasting, the term blackout refers to the non-airing of television 
or radio programming in a certain media market.[1] It is particularly prevalent 
in the broadcasting of sports events, although other television or radio 
programs may be blacked out as well. Most blackout policies serve to protect 
local broadcasters (primarily regional sports networks) from competition 
by "out-of-market" networks that carry different teams, by only allowing 
viewers to watch non-national telecasts of teams within their designated 
markets (with television providers blacking out regional telecasts of teams 
that are outside of their market; in turn, encouraging viewers to purchase 
subscription-based out-of-market sports packages), and by allowing teams 
to black out national telecasts of games that are also being shown by a 
local broadcaster. By contrast, the blackout policies of the National Football 
League serve to encourage attendance to games instead—by only allowing 
them to be broadcast on television in a team's designated market if a certain 
percentage of their tickets are sold prior to the game. Perhaps the most 
notable non-sports-related blackout in television was the blackout of Canadian 
federal election coverage. Because there are six time zones across Canada, 
polls close in different parts of the country at different times. Section 
329 of the Canada Elections Act outlawed disseminating election results 
from other ridings in constituencies where polls were still open, ostensibly 
to prevent the results from the East from influencing voters in western 
ridings[2] However, in the federal election in 2000, Paul Charles Bryan 
published results from Atlantic Canada online despite being told not to 
by the authorities. Bryan was charged before the Provincial Court of British 
Columbia, but fought the charges as unconstitutional under section 2 of 
the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which protects freedom of 
expression and freedom of association. Bryan's victory before the British 
Columbia Supreme Court meant that voters in British Columbia and the rest 
of Canada legally learned of election results in other ridings during the 
federal election in 2004. However, Elections Canada appealed, and Bryan 
lost his case before the British Columbia Court of Appeal. Bryan further 
appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada, but in a ruling made on March 
15, 2007 (R. v. Bryan), in a 5-4 ruling, the Court ruled that Section 329 
of the Canada Elections Act is constitutional and justified under section 
1 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Stephen Harper, who later 
became Prime Minister, labelled Elections Canada "jackasses" and tried 
to raise money for Bryan. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation also supported 
Bryan, hoping to "make election night a bigger event that it already is."[3] 
Before the 2000 election, Elections Canada moved to reduce the effects 
of the blackout and the influence of unauthorized knowledge of election 
results in Western ridings by altering the times that polls close, so that 
polls no longer close at the same local time throughout the country. Polls 
in Atlantic Canada close at 9 p.m. Atlantic (9:30 in Newfoundland), polls 
from Alberta to Quebec close an hour later (9 p.m. Eastern, 8 p.m. Central 
and 7 p.m. Mountain) and finally, polls in British Columbia close an hour 
after that (7 p.m. Pacific). Historically, the results of the election 
are often not decisively known until more than an hour after polls close 
in the Eastern Time Zone, but are usually known within two hours of these 
polls closing. Provincial elections are not subject to blackout restrictions 
– in provinces that have two time zones, the vast majority of the population 
lives in one time zone or the other. Election laws in these provinces stipulate 
that all polls are to close at the same time – this time invariably being 
8:00 p.m. (or 9:00 p.m. in Ontario beginning with the 2007 provincial election) 
in the time zone of the majority. On August 17, 2011, Elections Canada 
Chief Electoral Officer Marc Mayrand suggested improvements of the voting 
system to Parliament; among them were a proposal to remove the blackout 
rule, citing the expanded use of social media to disseminate results outside 
of radio and television.[4] Mayrand stated that "the growing use of social 
media puts in question not only the practical enforceability of the rule, 
but also its very intelligibility and usefulness in a world where the distinction 
between private communication and public transmission is quickly eroding. 
The time has come for Parliament to consider revoking the current rule."[4][5] 
On January 13, 2012, it was announced that the federal government would 
introduce legislation that would repeal the blackout rule, citing the increased 
use of social media. The blackout rule was officially repealed in October 
2015, prior to the 2015 Canadian federal election.[2][6] All Canadian Football 
League games on TSN are subject to local blackouts. For example, Edmonton 
Eskimos home games are not broadcast in Edmonton or the immediate surrounding 
area to ensure that fans buy tickets. In the case of Saskatchewan Roughriders 
home games, the blackout zone covers the entire province of Saskatchewan, 
largely because that team relies more than the others on province-wide 
support. The home team has the option of lifting a blackout for games that 
sell out. Unlike in the NFL however, the home team is not obliged to lift 
a blackout in such cases.[7] As in the U.S., National Hockey League games 
that are not scheduled as national telecasts by Sportsnet or TVA Sports 
are broadcast by regional feeds of either Sportsnet, TSN, or RDS (French), 
and are blacked out for viewers outside of the team's home market. Sportsnet's 
four regional feeds correspond with each of its NHL teams' designated markets; 
the East, Ontario, and Pacific feeds are designated to one team each (the 
Montreal Canadiens, Toronto Maple Leafs, and Vancouver Canucks), while 
Sportsnet West and its corresponding market (which includes all of Alberta 
and Saskatchewan) is shared by the Edmonton Oilers and Calgary Flames. 
Although West is also the main feed for Manitoba, Flames and Oilers games 
are blacked out there to protect the Winnipeg Jets. As of August 2014, 
TSN is similarly structured, with the Ottawa Senators on TSN5 (East), Maple 
Leafs on TSN4 (Ontario), and Jets on TSN3 (Manitoba and Saskatchewan). 
The Canadiens and Senators share the same market, which includes parts 
of Eastern Ontario, Quebec, and Atlantic Canada, while Saskatchewan is 
shared by the Jets, Flames, and Oilers.[8][9] Until the 2014-15 season, 
all French-language broadcasts of the Montreal Canadiens were available 
nationally on RDS, who was also the national French-language rightsholder 
of the NHL in Canada. As RDS was, until 2011, the only French-language 
cable sports channel in Canada,[10] the team forwent a separate regional 
rights deal and allowed all of its games to be broadcast as part of the 
national package. As of the 2014-15 season, Quebecor Media and TVA Sports 
is the national French rightsholder as part of a sub-licensing agreement 
with Rogers Communications.[11][12][13] RDS negotiated a 12-year deal with 
the team for regional rights to the Canadiens: games are now blacked out 
for viewers outside of Quebec, Atlantic Canada, and parts of Eastern Ontario.[9][14] 
Out-of-market games can be viewed using the subscription-based NHL Centre 
Ice and Rogers NHL GameCentre Live services, although in-market games are 
blacked out from both services to protect local broadcasters. GameCentre 
Live allows streaming of in-market teams if the user authenticates themselves 
as a subscriber to Sportsnet and/or TSN.[15][16][17] Many programs carried 
on Internet television in other parts of the world are not available in 
Canada because the major broadcast networks in Canada secure the rights 
to them and prevent Internet television aggregators from distributing them 
in Canada. The National Football League, for example, sold worldwide Internet 
broadcast rights to a package of its Thursday Night Football games to Twitter; 
however, Rogers Media forced Twitter to block the streams in Canada by 
virtue of its holding of terrestrial television rights in the country.[18] 
Numerous organizations have attempted to establish workarounds that route 
Canadians' Internet traffic through the United States, workarounds that 
aggregators such as Netflix have actively fought against.[19] Major League 
Baseball and the National Hockey League have very similar blackout rules. 
Unlike the National Football League, the blackout of games has nothing 
to do with attendance, but instead is implemented to protect broadcasters 
with contracts to air games. Unless a national broadcaster such as ESPN 
has exclusive rights to a certain regular season game (as they do on Sunday 
nights), the local broadcaster of a game (such as a Fox Sports regional 
network for example) has priority over a national broadcaster—so if Fox 
Sports 1, MLB Network, or TBS is airing a game that is also being aired 
by the local broadcaster, the national feed would be blacked out in markets 
where a local broadcaster is also showing coverage.[20][21] As of the 2014 
MLB season, ESPN's coverage of Monday and Wednesday night games is allowed 
to co-exist with that of a regional broadcaster, and thus no longer has 
to be blacked out in the participating teams' markets.[22] The NHL utilizes 
a similar policy of exclusive and non-exclusive national games; NBCSN has 
an exclusive national window on Wednesday nights, and NBC typically shows 
a Sunday-afternoon game during the later portion of the season, along with 
several other "marquee" games such as the Thanksgiving Showdown, Winter 
Classic, and Stadium Series. Typically, no other games involving U.S. teams 
are scheduled to occur at the same time. NHL Network and NBCSN typically 
broadcast non-exclusive national games outside of these windows which are 
blacked out in the participating teams' markets to protect local broadcasts. 
All games in the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs, outside of those 
designated for exclusive broadcast by NBC, are non-exclusive national games, 
and are blacked out in local markets (the national rightsholders hold exclusivity 
for all games thereafter). Out-of-market games can be viewed using the 
subscription-based MLB Extra Innings, MLB.tv, NHL Center Ice, and NHL.tv 
services, although in-market games are blacked out from all four services 
to protect local broadcasters, and they do not offer nationally-televised 
games. In Major League Baseball, there are no radio blackouts. However, 
for many years, the radio networks of the two participating ballclubs in 
the World Series were not allowed to air games, forcing flagship stations, 
if they wanted to broadcast the Series, to simulcast the network broadcast. 
As an example, while Boston Red Sox radio flagship WHDH and St. Louis Cardinals 
flagship station KMOX both broadcast the 1967 World Series, both stations 
had to simulcast the NBC Radio Network broadcast along with Boston's WCOP 
and St. Louis' KSD, the nominal NBC Radio affiliates in those cities. This 
changed after 1980, as fans of the Philadelphia Phillies were angry that 
they could not hear their popular broadcasting team of Harry Kalas and 
Richie Ashburn call the team's run to the title. Since then, only the flagship 
stations of the two participating ballclubs can originate coverage, though 
their broadcasts are also available on XM Satellite Radio. Flagship stations 
are required to make mention of the presenting sponsor of the national 
ESPN Radio broadcasts as also sponsoring the team's own broadcasts during 
the World Series. XM is required to broadcast the home, away, and both 
English and Spanish national feeds of the World Series. All other network 
affiliates of the two clubs must carry the feed from MLB's national partner 
(currently ESPN Radio). If another ESPN Radio affiliate exists in the same 
market, that station can claim exclusivity, forcing a blackout of the team 
network affiliate from carrying the game, though this is rarely done as 
listener pushback against the ESPN Radio affiliate blocking the local play-by-play 
would likely be untenable. Additionally, radio stations (including flagships) 
may not include MLB games in the live Internet streams of their station 
programming. MLB itself offers radio feeds as a pay service via the league 
and team websites, along with being a part of the monthly premium fee service 
from streaming provider TuneIn. Some stations will simply stream the station's 
regularly scheduled programming that is being pre-empted by the game. The 
NHL has neither radio blackouts nor national terrestrial coverage. All 
games are streamed online and home game feeds are broadcast on XM and TuneIn.[23] 
Prior to the 1998-99 NBA lockout, the NBA and the WNBA used to black out 
nationally televised games on cable television within 35 miles (56 km) 
of the home team's market; however, these are now restricted to games on 
NBA TV, WatchESPN and other streaming providers. In the NFL, any broadcaster 
that has a signal that hits any area within a 75 miles (121 km) radius 
of an NFL stadium may only broadcast a game if that game is a road game 
(also known as an away game), or if the game sells out 72 hours or more 
before the start time for the game.[24][25] If sold out in less than 72 
hours, or is close to being sold out by the deadline, the team can sometimes 
request a time extension. Furthermore, broadcasters with NFL contracts 
are required to show their markets' road games, even if the secondary markets 
have substantial fanbases for other teams (like in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, 
officially a Baltimore Ravens secondary market, but home to many Pittsburgh 
Steelers fans[citation needed]). Sometimes[when?] if a game is within a 
few hundred tickets of selling out, a broadcaster[examples needed] with 
rights to show the nearly sold out game will buy the remaining tickets 
(and give them to local charities) so it can broadcast the game. Other 
teams elect to close off sections of their stadium, but cannot sell these 
tickets for any game that season if they choose to do so.[26] As a result, 
if the home team's game is a Sunday day game, both networks can air only 
one game each in that market (until 2001, this rule applied whether or 
not the game was blacked out, however, this was changed because some markets 
virtually never aired doubleheaders as a result). Usually, but not always, 
when each network can show only one game each in a market, the two stations 
work out between themselves which will show an early game and which will 
show a late game. This only affects the primary market, and not markets 
in a 75-mile (121 km) radius, which always get a doubleheader each Sunday. 
There have been two exceptions to the rule, of which one has never been 
implemented and the other no longer applies. The first is for the Green 
Bay Packers, which have two overlapping 75-mile blackout zones – one surrounding 
the team's stadium in Green Bay and another surrounding Milwaukee. The 
team's radio flagship station is in Milwaukee, and the Packers played part 
of their home schedule in Milwaukee from 1953 through 1994. However, this 
policy has never been implemented in the Packers' case, as they have sold 
out every home game in Green Bay since 1960 and have a decades-long season-ticket 
waiting list (games in Milwaukee also sold out during this period). The 
second exception was for the Bills Toronto Series; by a technicality, Rogers 
Communications (the team's lessee) owned all tickets to those games and 
resold them to potential fans. Even when Rogers failed to sell all of the 
tickets, they were still technically defined to be sellouts by the league 
since Rogers was said to have "bought" the tickets. The technicality came 
into play for both Toronto Series preseason games, and again for the last 
two regular season games of the series.[27][28]The Bills Toronto Series 
was cancelled after the 2013 season, largely due to the aforementioned 
lackluster attendance. The NFL blackout is considered to be detrimental 
to financially struggling teams. For instance, most notably, the Los Angeles 
Rams were unable to sell-out their home games during their last years of 
their original tenure in that city (a notable exception being the 1994 
game against their then-crosstown rivals the Raiders). So a blackout further 
robbed the franchise of potential revenue and alienated its remaining fans. 
The Rams relocated to St. Louis before the 1995 season (the Raiders also 
left L.A., going back to their original home in Oakland, leaving Los Angeles 
without an NFL team until the Rams returned to L.A. 21 years later). For 
other games, no station within the 75-mile (121 km) radius of an NFL stadium 
may broadcast a game unless it has an affiliation deal with one of the 
local teams involved. One instance of the practice of this rule was over 
Hartford, Connecticut CBS affiliate WFSB trying to air a New England Patriots-New 
York Giants game for December 29, 2007, which would be carried only on 
the NFL's cable network NFL Network that at the time was available only 
on a sports tier of cable provider Comcast in the immediate viewing areas 
of the Patriots and Giants.[29] On December 12, 2007, Broadcasting & Cable 
reported that Senator John Kerry and Rep. Ed Markey, both of the state 
of Massachusetts and fans of the New England Patriots team, wrote to the 
NFL as well as Comcast and Time Warner Cable to request that the Patriots-Giants 
game be aired at least on basic cable in order to reach the highest possible 
number of television-viewing fans, as at the time the Patriots were undefeated, 
and Kerry and Markey viewed the game as "potentially historic", according 
to John Eggerton of B&C.[30] Kerry clarified the next week that he did 
not intend to interrupt current negotiations between the cable operators 
and NFL.[31] On December 19, 2007, representative Joe Courtney (D-CT) and 
other members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation wrote to NFL 
commissioner Roger Goodell to try to have the NFL allow wider broadcast 
access to the game.[29] Consequently, on December 26, the NFL approved 
the game to be simulcast from NFL Network to both the CBS and NBC networks, 
along with WCVB-TV in the Boston market and WWOR-TV in the New York City 
market.[32] In June 2012, NFL blackout regulations were revised in which, 
for the first time in NFL history, home games will no longer require a 
total sellout to be televised locally; instead, teams will be allowed to 
set a benchmark anywhere from 85 to 100 percent of the stadium's non-premium 
seats. Any seats sold beyond that benchmark will be subject to heavier 
revenue sharing.[33] However, four teams, the Buffalo Bills, the Cleveland 
Browns, the Indianapolis Colts and the San Diego Chargers, have opted out 
of the new rules, as it would require the teams to pay a higher percentage 
of gate fees to the NFL's revenue fund.[34] In the 2015 NFL season, the 
league, after no games were blacked out at all in the 2014 season, voted 
to "suspend" the blackout policy as an experiment.[35] The suspension will 
continue into the 2016 season (a season that includes the return of the 
Rams to the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on a temporary basis until the 
team's new stadium is built - Memorial Coliseum has had long-standing issues 
with NFL sell-outs); commissioner Roger Goodell stated that the league 
needed to further investigate the impact of removing the blackout rules 
before such a change is made permament.[36] Per NFL policies, all games 
that are exclusively televised on cable, including ESPN's Monday Night 
Football and Thursday Night Football games that are only shown on NFL Network, 
are syndicated to over-the-air broadcasters in the markets of the teams 
involved. For radio broadcasts, the NFL follows a nearly identical policy 
to MLB. There are no radio blackouts, but only each team's flagship station 
can carry local broadcasts during the conference championships or Super 
Bowl. All other markets must carry the NFL on Westwood One feed for those 
games. For all other weeks, within 75 miles of a team's stadium, only stations 
the team or its flagship station contracts with can carry those games, 
regardless if the team is home or away. Thus, any competing station that 
carries Westwood One broadcasts cannot air those games. Like MLB, the NFL 
makes local broadcasts (except for those of the Tennessee Titans) available 
on NFL's Game Pass service and Sirius Satellite Radio; as a result, radio 
stations that carry NFL games, from any source, and stream on the Internet 
are prohibited from streaming games online, although it seems this provision 
is loosely enforced in some cases; WBBM in Chicago regularly airs live 
broadcasts of Chicago Bears games over their Internet stream, as does WTMJ 
in Milwaukee with the Packers, though both stations went to a desktop-only 
streaming policy in 2015 due to the introduction of GamePass and the absorption 
of the NFL Audio Pass streaming system into Game Pass. Major League Soccer 
applies local blackout rights for the broadcasts of the following teams 
as a part of MLS Direct Kick: MLS Direct Kick contains MLS games originating 
from either a regional sports network (RSN) or a local over-the-air station 
and delivers these games to customers who purchase this subscription. These 
games are not otherwise available to DirecTV subscribers because they are 
broadcast outside of a subscriber's local area. Further, MLS games shown 
nationally on ESPN, ESPN2, UniMás and FOX are not included as part of this 
sports subscription. The television broadcast of the Indianapolis 500 is 
usually blacked out in the Indianapolis area in order to encourage central 
Indiana residents to attend the race. Thus WRTV, the ABC affiliate in Indianapolis, 
carries the race tape-delayed in primetime instead.[37] In May 2016, as 
that year's edition neared a complete sell-out, IMS announced that it would 
consider lifting the blackout if all tickets were sold out. On May 25, 
2016, it was officially announced that all tickets had been sold, and that 
the race would air live in the Indianapolis market for the first time since 
1950. As is traditional, WRTV will still carry a primetime encore of the 
