The Bleacher Creatures are a group of fans of the New York Yankees who 
are known for their strict allegiance to the team and their merciless attitude 
to opposing fans. The group's nickname was used by New York Daily News 
columnist Filip "Flip" Bondy, who spent the 2004 season sitting with the 
Creatures for research on his book about the group, Bleeding Pinstripes: 
A Season with the Bleacher Creatures of Yankee Stadium, which was published 
in 2005.[1] A prominent aspect of the Bleacher Creatures is their use of 
chants and songs. The most distinguished of these is the Roll Call, which 
is done at the beginning of every home game. Often, the opposing team's 
right fielder, who stands right in front of the Creatures, is a victim 
of their jeers and insults. For the last two decades of the original Yankee 
Stadium, the Creatures occupied sections 37 and 39 of the bleachers. In 
2009, When the Yankees' new stadium was built, they were relocated and 
currently sit in Section 203 of the right-field bleachers. The founding 
of the Bleacher Creatures is often credited to Ali Ramirez. Ramirez rang 
a cowbell to inspire the fans to cheer (much like Freddy Sez's efforts 
in the Stadium's main grandstand) during the team's limited success in 
the early 1980s and 1990s. He died on May 8, 1996, and was given a tribute 
by the Yankees front office before the May 14 game against the Seattle 
Mariners, a game in which Dwight Gooden pitched a no-hitter. There was 
a plaque where he sat, in section 39, row A, seat 29 which read "This seat 
is taken. In memory of Ali Ramirez, 'The Original Bleacher Creature.'"[2] 
A similar plaque was added to the new stadium,.[3] and is cleaned by a 
Creature at the start of every game. The plaque is located at section 203, 
row 7, seat 25.[4] It was also during this period of drought that regular 
fans in the right field bleachers started chanting Dave Winfield's name.[5] 
When Winfield left the team, they began cheering for Bernie Williams. During 
one game in the 1990s, the fans started chanting the name of Yankees first 
baseman Tino Martinez. Martinez responded to the chanting fans with a wave, 
shocking the cheering fans; this started the tradition of Roll Call where 
the Bleacher Creatures chant the name of each starting fielder (except 
the pitcher and catcher). Roll Call has become one of the trademarks of 
Yankee Stadium.[6] In 1996, New York Daily News columnist Filip "Flip" 
Bondy was asked to write a story from the fan's perspective. Bondy approached 
what he called "a core group of the most rabid, passionate fans", and wrote 
from their perspective. To make sure it was known that he was not truly 
the one writing, he attributed authorship to "the Bleacher Creature", coining 
the nickname in relation to the Yankee Stadium inhabitants. Because of 
the rowdiness of the fans, and the fact that many families began sitting 
in the more affordable bleachers, alcoholic beverages were banned from 
the bleachers in 2000.[7] Yankees Program Vendor Ted Banks commented that 
"There wasn't any special reason for that, it just got out of hand. Those 
people used to get wild when Jose Canseco played for the A's. A few people 
threw things at Ken Griffey Jr."[8] On April 5, 2002, pitcher David Cone 
spent the season's home opener with the Bleacher Creatures in Section 39, 
and even participated in their chants.[9] He was also invited to start 
the roll call, and did so with a shout of "Yo, Bernie!" to Bernie Williams. 
The Creatures cheered derisively to the right field box seats "We got Cone! 
We got Cone!" After the final game played at Yankee Stadium on September 
21, 2008, Tino Martinez revealed that he had sat with the Creatures during 
the game the day before. Martinez said he wore a Yankees jacket, glasses 
and a hat, and that no one recognized him. Jim Leyritz expressed interest 
in sitting with the creatures on an episode of the YES Network show Ultimate 
Road Trip. He was spotted in the bleachers taking pictures during the final 
game at Yankee Stadium, but it is unknown whether he actually sat and watched 
the game from the bleachers. In 2004, Bondy spent the season among the 
Creatures and wrote a book about his experience, entitling it Bleeding 
Pinstripes: A Season with the Bleacher Creatures of Yankee Stadium, which 
was published in 2005. In the blurb, Bondy called it "a unique, anthropological 
view of this most dedicated tribe of rooters—their rituals, their personal 
tribulations, their uncanny commitment to the Bronx ball club and to each 
other." The foreword was written by David Cone.[1] The Yankees and NYPD 
security personnel started to impose stricter anti-obscenity rules in the 
Bleachers during the 2007 season. Some Creatures expressed dissatisfaction 
with this by wearing T-shirts with the sarcastic phrase "Section 39 Fun 
Police" on them, and chanting "No fun allowed!" in place of the oft-said 
"Box Seats Suck!" chant that the section had long been accustomed to. In 
2009, the Yankees lifted the 9-year alcohol ban in the bleachers in the 
New Yankee Stadium, where the Bleacher Creatures were relocated to Section 
203. While no beer vendors come through to the bleachers, fans are permitted 
to purchase beer in the stadium and take them back to their seats.[11] 
A few Creatures have admittedly stated they can now desist in their beer 
smuggling efforts, which they were able to do for years with the help of 
local delis who used to wrap up sandwiches with beer cans. Other sources 
of previous smuggling included "a guy who would sell those airline-size 
liquor bottles out of a bathroom stall, like a drug dealer."[11] An April 
2009 segment on ABC World News Tonight revealed that the end of the beer 
ban is a temporary experiment, and if things get out of hand in the section, 
the Yankees' management might reinstate it.[12] A prominent aspect of the 
Bleacher Creatures atmosphere is their use of a variety of chants and songs 
used during the game that are unique to their section. These chants can 
sometimes be heard throughout the Stadium. The Creatures' most famous and 
long-standing chant is known as the roll call. In the top of the first 
inning, when the Yankees are on the field and their starting pitcher is 
getting ready to throw the first pitch, everyone in the section stands 
and begins clapping. After the pitch is thrown, Creature "Bald" Vinny Milano 
gestures for the crowd to calm down, then cups his hands around his mouth 
and shouts out the name of the center fielder (e.g.: "Yo, Jacoby!", for 
Jacoby Ellsbury). The whole group proceeds to chant the name until there 
is a response, usually in the form of a wave or a point; some Yankees respond 
with extra enthusiasm, such as Johnny Damon (who typically dropped to one 
knee and pointed at the Creatures with both hands) and Nick Swisher (who 
came to attention, faced the Creatures, and saluted). The Creatures move 
through the lineup, going from the center fielder to the left fielder, 
right fielder, first baseman, second baseman, shortstop and third baseman, 
in that order. (With the exception of a few rare instances, the pitcher 
and the catcher are not a part of the roll call.) Anti-obscenity laws were 
exercised in 2007, but are not always strictly enforced; if they are able, 
the Creatures will turn to the right field box seats at the completion 
of the Roll Call and chant "Box seats suck!" During the days of the bleachers' 
no-alcohol-sales policy, fans in the right-field box seats occasionally 
replied with a chant of "We've got beer!" If the Yankees are playing the 
Red Sox, the intensity of the Yankees – Red Sox rivalry takes hold; the 
Creatures then cut the 'box seats' chant short and instead chant "Boston 
sucks!" until that dissipates. If police cut this short, the Creatures 
resort to chanting "No fun allowed!", or nothing at all. If a non-pitcher 
is replaced in a defensive position, the replacement is given the same 
chant. Sometimes, after a long rain delay, the Creatures will start another 
Roll Call just for fun. Also, until the Red Sox won the World Series in 
2004, the Creatures would chant "1918!" and hold up signs saying "CURSE 
OF THE BAMBINO!" and pictures of Babe Ruth to remind the Red Sox of the 
last time they won a championship.[13] Former Yankee third baseman Scott 
Brosius was notorious for not responding immediately to the roll call, 
as other players on the diamond would. Sometimes he would even wait as 
long as a minute to respond, getting a kick out of the persistence of the 
Creatures. In Hideki Matsui's first game at the Stadium in 2003, the chant 
of "MAT-SU-I!" went on for approximately two minutes, because he did not 
know what was going on or how to react. In a 2009 press conference, former 
Yankees first baseman Jason Giambi said that "The biggest thing I miss 
is (the Bleacher Creatures') roll call. There's no doubt about it, it's 
the best thing in baseball."[14] In 1999, when David Wells made his first 
appearance at Yankee Stadium after having been traded to the Toronto Blue 
Jays, his name was chanted. In his tenure with the Yankees, he was the 
only Yankee pitcher to be included in the Roll Call every time he pitched.[citation 
needed] Alfonso Soriano's name was chanted when he made his first appearance 
after being traded to the Texas Rangers.[15] In the 2006 home opener against 
the Kansas City Royals, the Bleacher Creatures chanted the name of long-time 
Yankee outfielder Bernie Williams, who was the designated hitter that day, 
right after the rest of the defensive lineup. Williams, whose future in 
baseball was uncertain in the offseason, was in the clubhouse at the time 
and did not hear the Creatures. The chants continued for around 5 minutes 
until Williams came out and waved.[16] At the beginning of the 2007 season 
opener, the Creatures started a chant of "We want Bernie!", a reference 
to the fact that Williams was no longer with the team.[17] On July 16, 
2010 the Bleacher Creatures elected to not do the roll call out of respect 
for the recent passing of both Bob Sheppard (public address announcer) 
and George Steinbrenner (principal owner). Michael Kay of the YES Network 
acknowledged this during the top of the first inning during his play-by-play 
details of the game against the Tampa Bay Rays.[18] The Creatures have 
done the call in memoriam for former players Phil Rizzuto on August 14, 
2007, and Bobby Murcer at the 2008 MLB All Star Game. On May 15, 2011, 
the Bleacher Creatures chanted Jorge Posada's name after his recent feud 
with Yankee management, despite Posada not playing in the game. Posada 
acknowledged them from the dugout.[19] On June 25, 2012, former Yankee 
center fielder Johnny Damon was greeted by a Roll Call chant when he returned 
to Yankee Stadium as a member of the Cleveland Indians. Damon, who played 
for the Yankees from 2006–09, acknowledged that he may have been the first 
Yankee player to answer the Bleacher Creature Roll Call with a signature 
pose, a tradition continued by other Yankee players, including Nick Swisher, 
Curtis Granderson, and Brett Gardner.[20] On June 3, 2013, former Yankee 
right fielder Nick Swisher returned to Yankee Stadium and was called on 
roll call, even though he was now a member of the Cleveland Indians.[21] 
On September 22, 2013, both Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera were included 
in the roll call, despite Pettitte being the starting pitcher and Rivera 
being a relief pitcher. On April 29, 2014, former Yankee second basemen 
Robinson Cano returned to Yankee Stadium and was third in the lineup for 
the Seattle Mariners. After being booed by the crowd at the top of the 
first inning, he acknowledge the roll call in the bottom of the inning, 
however this was followed by chants of "you sold out."[22] During the 2015 
American League Wild Card Game, C. C. Sabathia was included in the roll 
call to support him, as he had left the team to fight his alcoholism. After 
the death of Ali Ramirez, the original Cowbell Man, the bell was given 
to Creature Milton Ousland. As the official "Cowbell Man", nobody else 
is authorized to use it, although it was agreed upon by the group that 
other Creatures could take over the duties when he couldn't attend. This 
agreement was reached due to the many fans who were disappointed that the 
tradition was not carried out at every game. The cowbell is primarily used 
to initiate a chant during a Yankees rally. After rapidly banging on the 
cowbell, and getting the attention of the Bleacher Creatures, Ousland plays 
a few notes on it, which the Creatures then imitate with claps. After repeating 
this several times, Ousland begins banging another few notes more rapidly, 
and the Creatures begin shouting "Oh-Ohhh!" in unison and moving their 
arms in a repetitive pointing motion. At the end, Ousland hits the cowbell 
three times, and the Creatures say "Yankee baseball. Mets suck. (visiting 
team) sucks. (Visiting team's right fielder) sucks. Box Seats Suck. Everybody 
sucks." The Creatures also have an assortment of other chants which they 
use at most games. In 2001, some Creatures, led by Japanese Creature, Hiro, 
learned Japanese so that they could yell obscenities at former Mariners 
right fielder Ichiro Suzuki. Japanese curses were chanted whenever Ichiro 
came to town.[23] Ichiro was traded to the Yankees in July 2012.[24] During 
his first game as a Yankee he was unaware of the roll call and did not 
respond to the calls.[25] Among other chants, the Creatures sometimes scream, 
"Jump!" at fans in the upper deck who are standing near the railing,[8] 
or "Down in front!" to fans who are standing up in the section, often for 
a picture opportunity.[citation needed] At times they turn to their own 
members and banter with them, chanting "Eagles suck!" if one of them is 
a known Philadelphia Eagles fan, or "You sell drugs!".[8] Their most famous 
chant besides the Roll Call is the "Box Seats Suck!" chant, which was outlawed 
by stadium security in 2007, but allowed back in 2009 when the Yankees 
moved to the new Stadium. For many years the Bleacher Creatures would pick 
a fan of the opposite team and during the singing of YMCA between the 6th 
and 7th inning and instead chant "Why are you gay?" In 2010 however, at 
the request of the Yankees, several key Bleacher Creatures agreed to discontinue 
the chant.[26] Creatures are also known to chant "Asshole!" when there 
is a known Red Sox or Mets fan, or a fan of an opposing team present in 
the bleachers. Bobby Bonilla was affectionately called Bobby BlowMea while 
playing for the Baltimore Orioles in 1996. [27] In the new stadium, the 
Creatures occupy Section 203 of the stadium's right field bleachers.[28] 
Before the start of the 2008 MLB Season, several creatures publicly expressed 
their anger with the move out of the old stadium. Roll Caller Vinny Milano 
was one of them in particular:[29] The Yankees organization did work closely 
with the Creatures to ensure that they sat together again, and designated 
a total of 136 season-ticket packages for them in section 203.[4] The move 
was monitored by long-time Creature Teena Lewis, known as the "Queen of 
the Bleachers", and Marc Chalpin, who organized a list of about 50+ Creatures 
to ensure they would all be sitting together again in the new stadium.[4] 
Despite the Creatures' concerns over how the Yankees management would handle 
the move, Lewis said that, "The Yankees helped us because I calmed everybody 
down over the years. We behaved ourselves, took away some of the chants, 
and they pretty much paid us back."[4] Unlike Section 39 in the old stadium, 
Section 203 and the rest of the bleachers have access to the entire park. 
In reference to this new lack of seclusion, and the fact that beer sales 
are now legal in the section, New York Daily News sports columnist Filip 
Bondy summed up the new situation by saying, "At this new-fangled stadium, 
the golden liquid flows like soda and the walls are down that once protected 
the aristocracy from the bleacher proletariat. This is bound to create 
some class warfare down the road, some storming of the Legends suites." 
Bondy also praised the Creatures for "handling the transition with commendable 
grace and flexibility."[4] Since the inception of the Bleacher Creatures, 
many people have held a negative viewpoint towards the section for their 
notorious attitude towards opposing fans and players, and their raucous 
nature in general. Seattle Post-Intelligencer Reporter Dan Raley called 
the Creatures "oblivious to the outside world. Demanding, relentless and 
venomous" in a 2001 article. He also claimed that "They have thrown batteries, 
coins and a knife at opposing players" and that "They throw punches at 
one another."[8] Longtime stadium usher Michael Swann, who used to work 
in Section 39 of the old stadium, also had a negative recollection of them:[8] 
On occasion, one or more Creatures are asked to leave the stadium by police. 
The bleacher beer ban in 2000 was blamed on the Creatures, which they regard 
as a false accusation.[6] They have also been accused of heckling rattled 
musicians in high school bands, which they do not deny.[6] Despite all 
of negative attention that they receive, the Creatures have been shown 
in a more positive light in recent years. They have been praised for their 
loyalty and dedication in numerous articles and features from Filip Bondy, 
and in his book as well. On April 3, 2009, ABC World News Tonight did a 
segment on the Creatures, calling them "the most loyal fans any team could 
want."[12] When Vinny Milano was repeatedly asked, via Twitter, whether 
the Creatures would still include Alex Rodriguez in the roll call despite 
his recent struggles and suspension, Milano insisted that A-Rod will still 
be part of the roll call and that no Yankee would ever be intentionally 
