Bless You Boys: Diary of the Detroit Tigers' 1984 Season is a book written 
in 1984 by Sparky Anderson with Dan Ewald.[1] The phrase "Bless You Boys" 
was the catchphrase adopted by Detroit sportscaster Al Ackerman for the 
1984 Detroit Tigers team that started the year with a 35-5 start.[2] The 
book was published by Contemporary Books and contains Anderson's diary 
account of the first 151 games of the 1984 Detroit Tigers World Series 
championship season. The team started the year on a remarkable 35-5 pace 
and became the first American League team since the 1927 New York Yankees 
to "lead the race from wire-to-wire" and win the World Series.[2][3] The 
book was written with the help of Tigers' public relations director Dan 
Ewald. Anderson noted that he wrote the book by recording his immediate 
reactions after each game: "It was fun. Every night before I went to bed, 
I'd put the game on tape. This is easy -- you just sit and talk."[4] Bless 
You Boys was released as an "insta-book" in October 1984 to captalize on 
the publicity that followed the Tigers' World Series championship. It was 
an instant best-seller in the Detroit area. Anderson conducted a week-long 
book signing tour that opened at the Hudson's store at Northland Mall. 
The Detroit Free Press reported that the crowd waiting to have Sparky sign 
the book "stretched through most of Hudson's basement, snaking back through 
the carpet and furniture departments, all the way back to fine furniture."[4] 
The Detroit Free Press described the public reaction to the book this way: 
"Hundreds of fans -- some wearing three-piece business suits, some wearing 
diapers and seated in strollers, many sporting Detroit Tigers caps -- lined 
up in Hudson's Northland basement to have Sparky autograph his new book. 
... It's going faster than World Series tickets, which could make Sparky 
something of a threat to Norman Mailer in this writing business."[4] Near 
the end of the book-signing tour, Anderson noted that his hand was "very 
sore." He added: "We're over 100,000 printed now. They say it's the greatest 
thing they've ever had. They said in New York it was even outselling Iacocca."[5] 
When U.S. Vice Presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro visited Detroit 
on a campaign stop in late October, she opened her remarks by saying, "I 
just want to start off by saying, bless you, boys -- and girls."[6] One 
bookstore owner noted there was a mob scene at his store when Anderson 
showed up to sign his book: "There never was anything like it."[7] The 
book also drew attention for Sparky's colorful manner of speech. The Los 
Angeles Times noted that Sparky needed to read a bit more about the Websters 
(Noah and Daniel) based on Sparky's statement in the book: "I've heard 
or read all of the adjectives old Daniel Webster put in his dictionary, 
