In baseball, blocking the plate is a technique performed by a catcher to 
prevent a runner from scoring. The act of blocking the plate accounted 
for most of the physical contact in Major League Baseball prior to the 
2014 season, when it was outlawed except when the catcher already has possession 
of the ball. By the rules of baseball, a runner has the right to an unobstructed 
path to a base. However, this right is not granted if the fielder guarding 
the base possesses the ball or is in the process of catching the ball. 
The fielders guarding first base through third base are unlikely to risk 
physical harm and will generally place themselves out of the path of the 
runner. The catcher guarding home plate, however, wears padding and a face 
mask and often placed his body as an obstacle between the runner and home 
plate, even prior to receiving the ball. Since the runner did not have 
to worry about remaining on home plate, only tagging it, he typically ran 
at full speed in an effort to reach the plate. The speed of the runner 
combined with the fact that the catcher still had to tag him (unless the 
bases were loaded and a force play at home was still available) often resulted 
in violent collisions. Since the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, 
there have been rules established, mainly in amateur levels of baseball, 
against home plate collisions between runners and catchers to make the 
obstruction (defense) and interference (offense) rules consistent at the 
plate with the three bases. The rules, long enforced at lower levels, were 
implemented at the professional level in 2014.[1] Any time there is a close 
play at home plate, meaning the ball and runner reach the plate at roughly 
the same time, the catcher will often squat in front of the plate to block 
the runner's clear path to the plate. Unless he is willing to be tagged 
out, the runner who is faced with a blocked plate has two choices. He can: 
If the runner slides, the catcher will often make a sweeping motion with 
his glove to quickly tag the runner out. Otherwise, the catcher must brace 
for impact and keep the ball in his glove or hand in order to tag the runner 
out. Both players place themselves at risk of injury when there is a close 
play at home plate. Though they wear protective equipment, catchers are 
more likely to be injured than runners. Catchers often have bad knees due 
to the squatting stance they take at the plate. A catcher's knees are also 
his closest body parts to an incoming runner, and there is a chance of 
an ACL injury to the catcher. Other injuries include broken bones, bruises, 
and concussions. In one infamous incident, Cleveland Indians catcher Ray 
Fosse suffered a separated shoulder when Pete Rose intentionally collided 
with him on a play at the plate during the 1970 Major League Baseball All-Star 
Game. Rose was roundly criticized because the game was an exhibition and 
also because he could have easily slid around Fosse rather than collide 
with him. Ultimately, the incident served to help build Rose's "Charlie 
Hustle" reputation and Fosse, who had been having a phenomenal rookie season, 
was never quite the same after the play. Different levels of baseball have 
instituted different rules in regards to collisions at home plate or on 
the bases, in part because of the Fosse-Rose collision and other instances 
where athletes have been injured or suffered concussions as a result of 
violent contact between runner and fielder. In high school, the "malicious 
contact" rule prevents collisions at home plate or elsewhere on the field. 
The defense is prohibited from initiating flagrant contact with the base 
runner while the offense, in turn, is required to attempt to avoid significant 
contact, often through the use of a slide. If the defense violates, the 
ball is dead and the offender ejected as the umpire awards penalties that 
in his/her judgment will nullify the act of malicious contact. If the offense 
violates, the ball is dead, the offender declared out and then ejected 
from the game. In college, the "flagrant collision" rule discourages, but 
does not prohibit, collisions at home plate and on the bases. Instead, 
only "unnecessary and violent" collisions are outlawed. While defensive 
players are allowed to block the plate/base with clear possession of the 
ball, offensive players must take steps to ensure contact with the fielder 
is legal—for instance, it must be below the waist. Violations of this rule 
carry similar penalties to the high school malicious contact rule. In professional 
baseball—MLB—collisions at home plate have been legal and were unaddressed 
since the game's inception until a series of serious player injuries and 
also former catchers who were MLB managers recommending changes. In 2011, 
San Francisco catcher Buster Posey suffered a season-ending injury in a 
collision, and that sparked plans to reinterpret Rule 7.08 (b). On December 
11, 2013, the MLB Rules Committee proposed a rules change that would outlaw 
the plate collision by dictating what both the defensive and offensive 
players may and may not do in such a situation by adjusting the said rule.[2] 
This establishes home plate with similar regulations as other bases in 
regards to obstruction (for the catcher) and interference (for the runner). 
On February 24, 2014, Major League Baseball and the MLBPA jointly announced 
an experimental rule—rule 7.13—intended to increase player safety by eliminating 
"egregious" collisions at home plate. The rule went into effect starting 
with the 2014 season. Some highlights of rule 7.13 include: In Finnish 
baseball, the runner is considered tagged and out when he has not arrived 
at a target base and the defending player is holding the ball while touching 
that base. No physical contact is necessary and the base umpire will call 
the runner out by raising a sign with the letter X and whistling twice. 
