Charles Edgar "Blondy" Wallace (died March 5, 1937) was an early professional 
football player. He was a 240-pound, former Walter Camp second-team All-American 
tackle from the University of Pennsylvania. He also played two years at 
Peddie Institute, in New Jersey, winning state championships in 1896 and 
1897. During his professional playing career he was involved in almost 
every major event in professional football between 1902 and 1907. Over 
that timespan he played for the independent Philadelphia Athletic Club, 
the Philadelphia Athletics of the first National Football League, the "New 
York" team and the Syracuse Athletic Club in the 1902 World Series of Football, 
the Franklin Athletic Club and the Canton Bulldogs of the Ohio League. 
In 1902, Col. John Rogers, owner of the National League's Philadelphia 
Phillies, decided to bankroll the Philadelphia Athletic Club football team. 
Upon hearing of this, Wallace approached Ben Shibe of the rival American 
League's Philadelphia Athletics to see whether the Athletics would be following 
suit and fielding a football team. Not wanting his rivals to be unchallenged, 
Shibe decided to form a team with Wallace as the team's player-coach. The 
Athletics baseball manager, Connie Mack, was then named the team's manager. 
The football Philadelphia Athletics finished the 1902 NFL season with a 
5–2–2 record for a controversial second-place finish behind the Pittsburgh 
Stars. The league then folded immediately after the season.[1] After the 
NFL season, Wallace played in the World Series of Football in 1902 at Madison 
Square Garden. He played on a team that consisted of former players from 
the football Athletics and the football Philadelphia Phillies of the NFL. 
The name of their team was simply called the "New York" team by Series 
organizer, Tom O'Rourke, expected to give his patrons the pleasure of watching 
a "home team" win. Syracuse defeated Wallace and the "New York" club in 
what has been called the first indoor pro football game. However Blondy 
would get a second chance winning the series after Glenn "Pop" Warner of 
the Syracuse Athletic Club suffered a head injury and was replaced by Wallace. 
Syracuse would go on to win the series championship by a score of 36-0.[2] 
In 1903, Bill Prince, the manager of the Franklin Athletic Club, loaded 
his team with every star football player available. That year, Wallace 
became the team's captain.[3] That year Franklin posted a 12-0 record and 
won the 1903 World Series of Football. This accomplishment makes Blondy 
a winner on both the 1902 and 1903 World Series teams.[2] In 1905 Wallace 
became the second coach of the Canton Athletic Club (renamed the Canton 
Bulldogs in 1906). That year Wallace, signed an agreement with the Latrobe 
Athletic Association, led by quarterback John Brallier, to play against 
Canton in Latrobe. Latrobe, under Brallier, was not only the current Pennsylvania 
football champion, but were undefeated for the last three seasons. They 
were also considered the only professional team capable of competing at 
the same level as Canton and the Massillon Tigers. Canton would go on to 
lose the game to Latrobe, however the team was the runner-up in the Ohio 
League standings for the 1905 season. Wallace added four former Massillon 
players to his team in 1906. That year the Bulldogs was able to win their 
first game against Massillon, during a 2-game home-and-home series at Canton, 
however they lost the second game at Massillon, and the Tigers again claimed 
the Ohio championship. Shortly afterward that second game, a Massillon 
newspaper charged Wallace with fixing the 1906 championship game. The Bulldogs 
and Wallace denied the charges, maintaining that Massillon only wanted 
to ruin the club's reputation before their final game against Latrobe. 
Wallace later filed a libel lawsuit against the Massillon paper. However, 
Wallace was in need of money, and the case was reportedly settled out of 
court.[4] Wallace also held the job of referee. In 1904 he served as a 
Head Linesman for a game between Lafayette College and Swarthmore College. 
Lafayette would go on to win the game 4-0.[5] Wallace later became a bootlegger 
in Atlantic City. Harry March his 1934 a book titled Pro Football: Its 
Ups and Downs, which documented the Canton-Massillon betting scandal, called 
Wallace "The King of the Bootleggers".[4] In 1933 he was convicted of evading 
income tax payments and sentenced to one year in a federal penitentiary. 
He was formally accused of evading payment to the government of $4,196.72 
in 1929 and $1,953.52 in 1930.[6] He was indicted when books and records 
from the Egg Harbor Brewery which disclosed, according to the government, 
income tax evasions in 1929 and 1930.[7] Wallace died on March 5, 1937 
while he was rushed by ambulance to a hospital in Atlantic City. He had 
