Bloomington is the fourth largest city in the U.S. state of Minnesota. 
It is located in Hennepin County on the north bank of the Minnesota River, 
above its confluence with the Mississippi River. Bloomington lies 10 miles 
(16 km) south of Minneapolis.[6] The city's population is 86,435, according 
to the 2015 United States Census estimates.[4] Established as a post–World 
War II housing boom suburb connected to the urban street grid of Minneapolis 
and serviced by two major freeways, Interstate 35W and Interstate 494, 
Bloomington's residential areas include upper-tier households in the western 
Bush Lake area and traditional middle-class families in its rows of single-family 
homes in the central to eastern portions. Large-scale commercial development 
is concentrated along the Interstate 494 corridor. Besides an extensive 
city park system, with over 1,000 square feet (93 m2) of parkland per capita,[7] 
Bloomington is also home to Hyland Lake Park Reserve in the west and Minnesota 
Valley National Wildlife Refuge in the southeast. Bloomington has more 
jobs per capita than either Minneapolis or Saint Paul, due to the United 
States' largest enclosed shopping center, the Mall of America.[8] The headquarters 
of Ceridian, Donaldson Company, HealthPartners and Toro, and major operations 
of Express Scripts, Seagate Technologies and Wells Fargo Bank are also 
based in the city. The city was named after Bloomington, Illinois.[9] In 
1839, with renewed conflict with the Ojibwa nation, Chief Cloud Man relocated 
his band of the Mdewakanton Dakota from Lake Calhoun, Bde Maka Ska in Minneapolis 
to an area named Oak Grove in southern Bloomington, close to present-day 
Portland Avenue.[10] In 1843, Peter and Louisa Quinn, the first European 
settlers to live in Bloomington, built a cabin along the Minnesota River 
in this area.[11] The government had sent them to teach farming methods 
to the Native Americans. Gideon Hollister Pond, a missionary, who had been 
following and recording the Dakota language from Cloud Man's band, relocated 
later that year, establishing Oak Grove Mission, his log cabin. Pond and 
his family held church services and taught the local Dakota school subjects 
and farming. Passage across the Minnesota River in Bloomington came in 
1849 when William Chambers and Joseph Dean opened the Bloomington Ferry. 
The ferry remained operational until 1889, when the Bloomington Ferry Bridge 
was built. Following the Treaty of Traverse des Sioux in 1851, the territory 
west of the Mississippi River, including Bloomington, was opened to settlers. 
A group of pioneers settled Bloomington, including the Goodrich, Whalon, 
and Ames families. They named the area Bloomington after the city they 
were from, Bloomington, Illinois, which means "flowering field." Most early 
jobs were in farming, blacksmithing, and flour milling.[12] The Oxborough 
family, who came from Canada, built a trading center on Lyndale Avenue 
and named it Oxboro Heath. Today, the Clover Shopping Center rests near 
the old trading center site and the nearby Oxboro Clinic is named after 
them. The Baliff family opened a grocery and general store at what is today 
Penn Avenue and Old Shakopee Road, and Hector Chadwick, after moving to 
the settlement, opened a blacksmith shop near the Bloomington Ferry. In 
1855, the first public school for all children was opened in Miss Harrison's 
house with the first school, Gibson House, built in 1859.[12] On May 11, 
1858, the day the state of Minnesota was admitted into the union and officially 
became a state, 25 residents incorporated the Town of Bloomington. By 1880, 
the population had grown to 820.[13] In 1892 the first town hall was built 
at Penn and Old Shakopee Road. By then, the closest Dakota to Minneapolis 
lived at the residence of Gideon Pond.[10] After 1900, the population surpassed 
a thousand and Bloomington began to transform into a city. With rising 
population came conflict among citizens over social issues. Among the major 
issues during this period were parents' unwillingness to dissolve the individual 
schools for a larger, consolidated school, and the fear of mounting taxes. 
By 1900, there were already six rural schools spread throughout the territory 
with over 200 students enrolled in grades first through eighth. By 1917, 
the school consolidation issue had been settled. That year voters approved 
the consolidation of the schools and a year later secondary education and 
school bus transportation began throughout the city. Telephone service 
and automobiles appeared. From 1940 to 1960, the city's population increased 
to nine times that of the population at the turn of the century. During 
the 1940s the city's development vision was low-cost, low-density housing, 
each with its own well and septic system. The rapid growth in population 
was in part due to the post-World War II boom and subsequent birth of the 
baby boomer generation. In 1947, the first fire station was constructed 
and equipped at a cost of $24,000 and the Bloomington Volunteer Fire Department 
was established with 25 members. The 1950s saw a considerable expansion 
of the city and its infrastructure, with the city shifting away from its 
small-town atmosphere and feel. In 1950, because of the increasing population, 
the first elementary school, Cedarcrest, was built. It was evident that 
one consolidated school could no longer serve the growing population, and 
ten new schools would be built in this decade as the school system expanded 
to meet the needs of the citizens. In 1952, the first large business Toro 
Manufacturing Company, moved to Bloomington. The significance of this can 
be seen in Bloomington today, which is home to hundreds of businesses of 
all types. In 1953, Bloomington changed from a township to a village form 
of government. This more professional approach to government was accompanied 
by open council meetings, land use plans, and published budgets. The effects 
of this new form of government began immediately, first with the formation 
of the city police department (at a cost of $2 per taxpayer) and secondly 
with the first park land acquisition. Both Bush Lake Beach and Moir Park 
were established at a cost of one dollar to each residence. Today, about 
1/3 of the city's land area is devoted to city and regional parks, playgrounds, 
and open space.[14] In 1956, the first city land-use plan was initiated 
with the construction of Interstate 35W and Metropolitan Stadium. In 1958, 
the city changed from a village government to a council-manager form. One 
of the first policies adopted by the council was the encouragement of commercial 
and industrial development, low-cost housing, and shopping centers. Due 
to the rapid population increase during this time, police and fire departments 
changed to a 24-hour dispatching system, and the fire department (now made 
up of 46 members) converted a garage into the second fire station. The 
1960s saw accelerated school and business growth throughout the city. On 
November 8, 1960, Bloomington officially became a city as voters approved 
the city's organizing document, the City Charter. The city charter provides 
for a Council-Manager form of government in which the city council exercises 
the legislative power of the city and determines all city policies (see 
City of Bloomington Government). In 1967, a second and third official fire 
station were approved and built to more effectively combat fires in the 
increasingly large city. In 1968, Normandale State Junior College opened 
with an initial enrollment of 1,358 students. In 1974, it changed to its 
present name, Normandale Community College, to reflect expanded courses 
of study. From 1961 to 1981, the city of Bloomington was home to all the 
major sports teams of Minnesota. In 1961, after the completion of Metropolitan 
Stadium in 1956, both the Minnesota Twins and Minnesota Vikings began regular-season 
play. Although Metropolitan Stadium was originally built for the American 
Association Minneapolis Millers, a minor league baseball team, Metropolitan 
stadium was renovated and expanded for Major League Baseball and Football. 
The first Twins game was held on April 21 (Washington 5, Twins 3) and the 
first Vikings game was held on September 17 (Vikings 37, Chicago Bears 
13). On August 21, 1965, The Beatles played Metropolitan Stadium, their 
only stop ever in the Minneapolis-St. Paul Metropolitan Area. In 1967, 
with the expansion of the National Hockey League, the Metropolitan Sports 
Center was built near the site of the Metropolitan Stadium and the Minnesota 
North Stars began play later that year. A number of new city buildings 
were constructed in the 1970s. In 1970, Jefferson High School, Bloomington 
Ice Garden rink one, and a fourth fire station were built. In 1971, school 
enrollment peaked with 26,000 students, and the fire department had grown 
to a force of 105 men. (In 1974, after a six-hour city council meeting, 
women were allowed to join the Bloomington Fire Department, but the city's 
first female firefighter, Ann Majerus Meyer, would not join the department 
until 1984; she retired in 2013). In 1975 a second rink was added to the 
Bloomington Ice Garden and a fifth fire station built, and subsequently 
a sixth in 1979. The 1980s brought a radical change to Bloomington with 
the departure of the Minnesota Twins and Vikings. On September 30, 1981, 
the last baseball game was played at Metropolitan Stadium (Kansas City 
Royals 5, Twins 2) as the Twins and Vikings moved to the newly constructed 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome in downtown Minneapolis. In 1985, the Bloomington 
Port Authority purchased the 86-acre (350,000 m2) Met Stadium site and 
in less than two years approved first site plans for Mall of America. Two 
years later, ground breaking took place for the new megamall, and in 1992, 
it was opened to the public. Today, tenants of Mall of America, when combined, 
constitute the largest private-sector employer in Bloomington, employing 
about 13,000 people. In 1993, the Minnesota North Stars hockey team moved 
to Dallas, and a year later the Metropolitan Sports Center was demolished. 
In 2004, an IKEA store opened on the west end of the former Met Center 
site. The remainder of the property is planned to be the site for Mall 
of America Phase II. In May 2006 the Water Park of America opened, the 
ninth largest indoor waterpark in the United States. According to the United 
States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 38.42 square miles (99.51 km2), 
of which 34.68 square miles (89.82 km2) is land and 3.74 square miles (9.69 km2) 
is water.[2] There are three primary land types in the city. The northeastern 
part of the city is a sand plain, low hills dominate the western portion 
of the city, and the far south lies within the valley of the Minnesota 
River. About one third of the city is permanently reserved for park purposes, 
including two large natural areas – the Minnesota Valley's wetlands (controlled 
by the City and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service) and the Hyland 
Lake Park Reserve (controlled by the Three Rivers Park District). Water 
bodies within the city include Bush Lake, Long Meadow Lake, Lake Normandale, 
Marsh Lake (Hennepin), Nine Mile Creek, Penn Lake and about 100 small lakes 
and ponds with their wetland habitats. Locally, the city is informally 
divided by Interstate 35W into "West Bloomington" and "East Bloomington." 
West Bloomington is mostly residential with newer housing stock, along 
with multi-story office high-rises along Interstate Highway 494 in the 
north, whereas East Bloomington contains more industry, destination retail 
centers, and the majority of Bloomington's less expensive housing. Many 
locals will refer to themselves as either from "East" or "West" Bloomington. 
The dividing line may be placed as far west as France Avenue, where the 
high school attendance boundaries meet.[16] The city is home to a large 
contingent of employers, providing more than 100,000 jobs. Benefiting from 
its location near major transportation routes and the Minneapolis–Saint 
Paul International Airport, Bloomington is a major hospitality center with 
nearly 8,000 hotel rooms.[17] Ceridian, Donaldson Company, the Evangelical 
Free Church of America, Great Clips, HealthPartners, Holiday Stationstores, 
Thermo King and Toro have their headquarters in Bloomington.[18] According 
to the City's 2014 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[19] the top employers 
in the city are: Other major employers include Sick Inc., Emerson Electric, 
the Minnesota Masonic Home, and Cypress Semiconductor. ISD 271 has served 
the K–12 education of the city since the 1960s with an operating fund revenue 
of $94.6 million in 2007.[20] 15 public schools in Bloomington are operated 
by the district and is governed by a seven-member elected school board, 
appointing current Superintendent Les Fujitake in 2006.[21] The previous 
Superintendent Gary Prest won the Superintendent of The Year for 2005 in 
Minnesota.[22] The city's first public charter school, Seven Hills Classical 
Academy, opened in 2006. As many families remain or continue to move into 
the city, there has been support for levy increases. In 1999 they approved 
the then-largest school bond issue in Minnesota history, funding a $107 
million school expansion and renovation project.[23] The two high schools 
are John F. Kennedy High School in the east and Thomas Jefferson High School 
in the west. The determining boundary for high school attendance runs near 
the center of Bloomington on France and Xerxes Avenues, though both schools 
have open enrollment.[24] Bloomington's third high school, Abraham Lincoln 
High School (originally Bloomington High School), was closed in 1982 and 
was sold to the Control Data Corporation in the mid-1980s. Bloomington 
Stadium, located next to the former high school, is still used by both 
Kennedy High School and Jefferson High School for home football, lacrosse 
and soccer games. Mindquest, the first online public high school in the 
United States, operated between 1995 and 2003 through the Bloomington Public 
Schools.[25] As of the 2005–2007 American Community Survey conducted by 
the U.S. Census Bureau, White Americans made up 82.7% of Bloomington's 
population; of which 80.9% were non-Hispanic whites. Blacks or African 
Americans made up 6.6% of Bloomington's population. American Indians made 
up 0.3% of the city's population. Asian Americans made up 5.1% of the city's 
population. Pacific Islander Americans were non-existent in the city (0.0%). 
Individuals from some other race made up 3.9% of the city's population; 
of which 0.8% were non-Hispanic. Individuals from two or more races made 
up 1.4% of the city's population; of which 1.3% were non-Hispanic. In addition, 
Hispanics and Latinos made up 5.0% of Bloomington's population. As of the 
census[3] of 2010, there were 82,893 people, 35,905 households, and 21,618 
families residing in the city. The population density was 2,390.2 inhabitants 
per square mile (922.9/km2). There were 37,641 housing units at an average 
density of 1,085.4 per square mile (419.1/km2). The racial makeup of the 
city was 79.7% White, 7.2% African American, 0.4% Native American, 5.9% 
Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 3.7% from other races, and 3.1% from two 
or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 6.8% of the population. 
There were 35,905 households of which 24.7% had children under the age 
of 18 living with them, 46.6% were married couples living together, 9.7% 
had a female householder with no husband present, 3.9% had a male householder 
with no wife present, and 39.8% were non-families. Of all households 32.2% 
were made up of individuals and 12.2% had someone living alone who was 
65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.28 and the average 
family size was 2.89. The median age in the city was 42.7 years. 19.7% 
of residents were under the age of 18; 7.9% were between the ages of 18 
and 24; 25.1% were from 25 to 44; 28.9% were from 45 to 64; and 18.4% were 
65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 48.4% male 
and 51.6% female. Bloomington, Minnesota is governed by a seven-member 
part-time City Council. Members include the mayor and six Council members, 
of whom four are elected from districts and two elected at-large. Members 
are elected to four-year terms, except during redistricting when all district 
council members have a two-year term. Elections are non-partisan. City 
operations are controlled by three interrelated entities: the City itself, 
the Port Authority, and the Housing and Redevelopment Authority (HRA). 
The Port Authority is responsible for managing development in the South 
Loop district, located in the easternmost portion of the city, in which 
the Mall of America is located. The HRA handles low-income housing in the 
city and manages the city's redevelopment activities. Membership on the 
boards of the Port Authority and HRA is controlled by the City Council. 
The city's organizing document, the City Charter, was approved by voters 
on November 8, 1960. Bloomington has one of the largest volunteer fire 
departments in the country with 150 firefighters. They provide fire protection 
that has resulted in a Class 3 fire rating. The department operates six 
fire stations and utilizes the latest in fire fighting equipment. The department 
has a total of 30 fire fighting vehicles including pumpers, hook and ladder 
and specialty units (one vehicle compact enough to navigate the Mall of 
America's parking ramps), all of which are equipped with Opticom System 
equipment, which automatically switches traffic signals to expedite emergency 
runs. The average response time is four minutes.[30] Public safety is protected 
by Bloomington's 120 officer police force. The officers have sophisticated 
Ford Police Interceptor squad cars that assist them in their round-the-clock 
patrol: each contains a computer-assisted dispatching center that contains 
a computerized records system, mobile digital terminals that allow officers 
direct access to warrant information and state motor vehicle and driver's 
license records, and Opticom System equipment, which automatically switches 
traffic signals. The police force is also supported by six canine teams: 
four dual-purpose patrol dogs, a single-purpose narcotics dog, and a single-purpose 
explosives-detection dog assigned to the Mall of America. The police department 
has one of only four bomb squads in Minnesota and a highly trained 20 member 
SWAT team.[31] Bloomington Human Services helps to improve the lives of 
residents by identifying needs and problems. They provide services to youth, 
families, older adults, and people with disabilities.[32] Bloomington is 
located in Minnesota's 3rd congressional district. It is represented in 
the House of Representatives by Republican Erik Paulsen, and in the Senate 
by Democrats Al Franken and Amy Klobuchar. The Works is an experiential 
technology learning museum for youth. The Bloomington History Museum focuses 
on the history of Bloomington, ranging from the prehistoric period through 
present day. The NWA History Museum documents the history of Northwest 
Airlines. Artistry is a theater program which presents approximately 10 
productions annually in the 300 seat Schneider Theater. The Theater program 
at Normandale College presents five productions during the academic year.[33] 
The high school theater companies at Jefferson and Kennedy each stage two 
full length productions annually. Artistry programs two gallery spaces 
in the Center for the Arts. Mhiripihri Gallery features Zimbabwean sculpture 
in a 3,000 sq ft (280 m2) gallery.[34] Noted muralist Erik Pearson's[35] 
2007 work "Creating Together" adorns the flyloft of the theater at Bloomington 
Center for the Arts. Pearson also created the mural "Science and Nature" 
in the city's South Loop district. 2015 also marked the unveiling of "Convergence", 
by sculptor James Brenner[36] Comcast provides access to four Bloomington 
cable television stations for Public, educational, and government access 
(PEG) programming. They include The Bloomington Channel 14 link, a comprehensive 
source of Bloomington information and programming. The Government-access 
television (GATV) channel features City Council and school board meetings, 
a weekly news magazine show called "Bloomington Today", "Roll Call", a 
weekly update on public safety news produced by the Bloomington Police 
Department, arts events, and sports. Bloomington Educational Cable Television 
(BEC-TV)[1] highlights educational and school-based programs from the Bloomington's 
public and private schools. Programming on this channel includes Educational-access 
television content, concerts, choir shows, graduations, and sporting events. 
Two student produced shows are also on BEC-TV. Tomorrow's Voices Today 
(TVT) is a teen news show that highlights the good things teens are doing 
around the city and talks about teen related issues. YRU-Up is a late night 
call-in Public-access television cable TV talk show. Skits for the show 
are produced by students and the show is live every Friday night (Sat. 
Morning) at 12:30am on TBC (Channel 14). A third channel, BCAT, (Bloomington 
Cable Access Television)[2] is a Public-access channel that allows individuals 
and organizations to learn video production and create television shows. 
The schedules for these channels can be found on a channel called the B.R.A.I.N. 
The PEG channels are funded by Cable television franchise fees collected 
in the city. Parts of the Coen brothers film A Serious Man were filmed 
in an East Bloomington neighborhood. The neighborhood was chosen for its 
original suburban ranch-style houses and young trees (due to a storm knocking 
older ones down), giving it a 1960s new-development look.[37] Hyland Park 
includes both a ski area and Nordic ski jumps. The Nordic ski jumps are 
maintained by the Minneapolis Ski Club Minneapolis Ski Club and are some 
of the most urban ski jumps in the U.S. Several U.S. Olympic ski jumpers 
have come from this ski club. The Minneapolis Ski Club will be hosting 
the 2013 Junior National competition. Bloomington was the point of growth 
for Pickleball in Minnesota, beginning about 2005 when retirees brought 
the sport back from their southern-states retirement homes. From the Westwood 
Athletic Fields in southern Bloomington, other groups formed and grew to 
an active statewide player population in excess of 1,500. Bloomington is 
also the home of PickleballMinnesota [3], the Pickleball website serving 
