Johnny Lee "Blue Moon" Odom (born May 29, 1945) is an American former professional 
baseball player. He played as a pitcher in Major League Baseball, most 
notably for the Oakland Athletics. Odom won three consecutive World Series 
championships with the Athletics in 1972, 1973 and 1974. Odom was nicknamed 
Blue Moon in grade-school by a classmate who thought Odom's round face 
resembled the moon.[1] Odom led Ballard-Hudson High School in Macon, Georgia 
to two consecutive state championships while amassing a 42-2 record and 
pitching eight no-hitters.[2] He signed with the Kansas City Athletics 
upon graduation. Odom began his professional baseball career with the Birmingham 
Barons of the Southern League. After one season in Birmingham, he received 
a September call-up to the Athletics in 1964, and made his major league 
debut at just nineteen years old on September 5 at Municipal Stadium in 
Kansas City. Odom lasted just two innings against the New York Yankees, 
giving up a three-run home run in the first inning to Mickey Mantle and 
surrendered three more runs in the second before giving way to the bullpen.[3] 
Odom spent the entire 1965 season with the Lewiston Broncs of the Northwest 
League. His debut for the Broncs is locally legendary and was one of the 
most spectacular in baseball history. In the bottom of an inning with no 
outs, Odom came to the mound in relief. He not only struck out three in 
a row, he threw all strikes and left the mound to a rousing ovation (from 
an eye-witness account). For the season, he went 11-14 with a 4.27 earned 
run average, and led the league in games started (29) and innings pitched 
(198). He only made one appearance at the major league level all season, 
pitching one inning and allowing one earned run against the Washington 
Senators on September 22.[4] Odom split the 1966 season between Kansas 
City and the double A Mobile A's, going 5-5 with a 2.49 ERA at the major 
league level. He began the 1967 season in Kansas City, but was demoted 
in July with a 2-4 record and 5.15 ERA. He beat the Yankees 2-1 in his 
return.[5] For the season, he went 3-8 with a 5.04 ERA. Odom's arrival 
as a quality major league starter seemed to have coincided with his franchise's 
arrival in Oakland, California, as he improved to 16-10 with a 2.45 ERA 
the season after A's owner Charles O. Finley moved his franchise. He had 
a no-hitter against the Baltimore Orioles broken up by a Davey Johnson 
single with two out in the ninth on June 7, 1968.[6] Baltimore scored a 
run in the first on three walks as Odom walked eight in the game.[7] He 
finished third in the American League with 98 walks and tied Frank Bertaina 
for the league lead in wild pitches with seventeen. He was also named to 
his first All-Star Game, and pitched two scoreless innings.[8] Odom was 
simply dominant in the first half of the 1969 season, going 14-3 with a 
2.41 ERA heading into the All-Star break. He also showed himself to be 
one of the league's better hitting pitchers as he went 3-for-3 with a home 
run and six runs batted in against the Seattle Pilots on May 4.[9] He was 
named to his second consecutive All Star team, but was tagged for five 
runs (four earned) in just a third of an inning as the National League 
cruised to a 9-3 victory.[10] His numbers tailed off considerably following 
the All-Star break, as he went 1-3 with a 4.09 ERA in the second half of 
the season. After finishing second to the Minnesota Twins two years in 
a row in the newly realigned American League West, the A's finally won 
their division in 1971. Odom did not get the opportunity to pitch in the 
post-season as they were swept by the Orioles in the 1971 American League 
Championship Series. Prior to the start of the 1972 season, Odom was shot 
twice by a burglar while trying to prevent a burglary at his neighbor's 
house.[11] Odom went 15-6 with a 2.50 ERA in a rotation that also included 
Catfish Hunter, Ken Holtzman and Vida Blue as the A's cruised to their 
second consecutive division title in 1972. In his first post-season start, 
Odom shutout the Detroit Tigers, holding to just three hits in the second 
game of the 1972 American League Championship Series to give Oakland a 
2-0 series lead.[12] The Tigers came back to tie the series as Odom took 
the mound for game five of the ALCS. He held the Tigers to just one unearned 
run in five innings, and Vida Blue pitched the final four innings as the 
A's beat the Tigers 2-1.[13] Despite the fact that both pitchers pitched 
well, and their team was now headed to the World Series, a fight broke 
out between the two men after the game. After going 24-8 with a 1.82 ERA 
and winning the Cy Young Award in 1971, Vida Blue had a disappointing 1972 
season in which he went 6-10. As a result, manager Dick Williams decided 
to use Blue as a reliever in the post-season. Blue was unhappy with this 
decision, and made his feelings known. During the team's post-game celebration 
on October 12, Blue joked with Odom that he choked, and needed to be rescued 
by him. At some point, the joking turned serious, and nearly came to blows.[14] 
Oakland held a 2-0 game lead against Cincinnati's "Big Red Machine" in 
the 1972 World Series as Odom faced Jack Billingham in game three. Odom 
had allowed just one hit and two walks while striking out ten in six innings 
before giving up his first post-season earned run in the seventh inning. 
Unfortunately for Odom, Billingham was even more dominant, as he pitched 
eight scoreless innings to lead the Cincinnati Reds to a 1-0 victory.[15] 
Odom and Billingham were again embroiled in a pitchers' duel in game seven 
of the World Series, this time with Odom leading 1-0 before both pitchers 
gave way to their bullpens. The A's won the game 3-2,[16] giving the franchise 
their first world championship since moving to Oakland. For the post-season, 
Odom was 2-1 with a 0.71 ERA and eighteen strikeouts in 25.1 innings pitched. 
Though Odom fell to 5-12 with a 4.49 ERA in 1973, his A's returned to the 
post-season. Odom was used in relief by Dick Williams during the 1973 post-season. 
He made just one appearance in the 1973 American League Championship Series, 
pitching five innings and giving up just one earned run in their 6-0 loss 
to the Orioles in game two.[17] Odom made two appearances in the World 
Series against the New York Mets. In game two, he pitched two scoreless 
innings.[18] Odom entered game four of the series with only one out, two 
men on and three runs already on the board in the first inning. Odom got 
Don Hahn to ground into a double play to end the inning. He left the game 
in the fourth without giving up a run, however, Darold Knowles allowed 
both base runners he inherited from Odom to score.[19] Odom was used in 
relief in the 1974 season, earning his only career save on August 30 against 
the Detroit Tigers.[20] The A's once again faced the Baltimore Orioles 
in the ALCS, beating them in four games. Odom's only appearance came in 
their game one loss.[21] Just prior to the start of the World Series against 
the Los Angeles Dodgers, Odom and fellow A's reliever, Rollie Fingers got 
into a fight in the A's locker room after Odom made a comment about Fingers' 
wife. The incident lasted less than a minute, however, Fingers required 
six stitches on his head, and Odom sprained his ankle and had a noticeable 
limp.[22] Regardless of his injury, Odom pitched a scoreless ninth inning 
in game two,[23] and earned the win in game five. Odom faced just one batter, 
Davey Lopes, in the fifth and final game of the World Series. Lopes grounded 
out to end the seventh inning with the score tied, 2-2. Joe Rudi led off 
the following inning with a home run to put Oakland up 3-2, and give Odom 
the win.[24] Odom made just seven appearances for the A's in 1975 before 
a May 20 trade sent him to the Cleveland Indians for Dick Bosman and Jim 
Perry.[25] Odom was unhappy in Cleveland, and after just a month there, 
Odom was traded again, this time to the Atlanta Braves with Rob Belloir 
for Roric Harrison. It was the worst season of Odom's career, as he went 
just 2-9 with a 7.22 ERA for his three clubs. Odom began the 1976 season 
playing minor league ball for the Atlanta Braves, and did not see any major 
league experience until a June 15 trade sent him to the Chicago White Sox 
for Pete Varney. In just his second start for the ChiSox on July 28, Odom 
combined with reliever Francisco Barrios to pitch a no-hitter against his 
former team, the Oakland A's. Odom pitched the first five innings, Barrios 
the last four, in what would be his last big-league victory.[26] Odom pitched 
six games for Oakland's triple A affiliate, the San Jose Missions in 1977 
before retiring. He was asked to represent the Athletics at the 2008 First 
Year Player Draft, June 5 in Lake Buena Vista, Florida. An excellent athlete, 
Odom was used quite often as a pinch-runner. He also wielded a strong bat 
(for a pitcher), hitting twelve home runs with a .195 career batting average. 
Odom had a 3-1 career record in the post-season with a 1.13 ERA and 27 
strikeouts. Odom was arrested twice in 1985. The first time was for selling 
cocaine to a co-worker. Then, during the trial, he was arrested a second 
time on December 11, for assault with a deadly weapon as he held his wife, 
Gayle, at gunpoint with a shotgun, holding police at bay for six hours.[27] 
He ended up spending six weeks in alcohol rehabilitation and another 55 
days in jail for the drug conviction. Odom was inducted into the Georgia 
