Vincent Edward "Bo" Jackson (born November 30, 1962) is a former baseball 
and American football player. He is one of the few athletes to be named 
an All-Star in two major sports, and the only one to do so in both baseball 
and football.[1] He is widely considered one of the greatest athletes of 
all time. While at Auburn University, Jackson won the 1985 Heisman Trophy, 
annually awarded to the outstanding collegiate football player in the United 
States. In 1989 and 1990, Jackson's name became known beyond just sports 
fans through the "Bo Knows" advertising campaign, a series of advertisements 
by Nike, starring Jackson alongside Rock and Roll Hall of Fame musician 
Bo Diddley, promoting a cross-training athletic shoe named for Jackson.[2] 
After a 1991 hip injury on the field ended his football career, Jackson 
focused on baseball, and expanded into other pursuits, including the completion 
of his Bachelor of Science degree in Family and Child Development at Auburn.[citation 
needed] In addition, Jackson appeared in small roles as an actor, in TV 
shows such as The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air[3] and Married... with Children,[4] 
and films such as The Chamber. Jackson, the eighth of ten children, was 
born and raised in Bessemer, Alabama, and was named after Vince Edwards, 
his mother's favorite actor. His family described him as a "wild boar hog", 
as he would constantly get into trouble. He attended school in McCalla, 
where he rushed for 1175 yards as a running back as a high school senior. 
Jackson hit twenty home runs in 25 games for McAdory's baseball team during 
his senior season. He was a two-time state champion in the decathlon.[5] 
Both times that he was the decathlon state champion, he built up such a 
commanding points lead before the 1500 meters that he never competed in 
that event. "Distance is the only thing I hate about track", he said.[6] 
In 1982, Jackson set state school records for indoor high-jump (6'9") and 
triple-jump (48'8").[7] In June 1982, Jackson was selected by the New York 
Yankees in the second round of the 1982 Major League Baseball draft, but 
he instead chose to attend Auburn University on a football scholarship 
because he promised his mother he would be the first in the family to go 
to a major college.[8] He was recruited by head coach Pat Dye and then 
Auburn assistant coach Bobby Wallace. At Auburn, he proved to be a tremendous 
athlete in both baseball and football. He shared the backfield with quarterback 
Randy Campbell, Lionel "Little Train" James and Tommie Agee. Jackson missed 
much of his senior season after being ruled ineligible by the NCAA following 
a visit with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, whom he believes tried to sabotage 
his baseball career.[9] In his report, the scout stated that his only weakness 
was a lack of baseball experience. The scout said that he could be one 
of the all-time greats barring any injuries. He had a minor shoulder injury 
in the beginning of his collegiate football career, which didn't cause 
him issues in the long term. The scout also noted that this was his first 
year playing baseball and he seemed to be a "do it all type of player" 
and also stated he was "the best pure athlete in America today". This was 
in April 1985 when Bo was a 22-year-old walk-on at the Auburn University 
trying to make an even bigger name for himself than he already had in his 
football career. In this scouting report Jackson's worth to an MLB team 
was listed at only $200,000, much less than what he would end up taking 
home later on in his short-lived careers.[10] [11] During his time playing 
for the Auburn Tigers football team, he ran for 4,303 career yards,[12] 
which was the fourth best performance in SEC history. Jackson finished 
his career with an average of 6.6 yards (6.0 m) per carry, which set the 
SEC record (minimum 400 rushes).[13] In 1982, Jackson's freshman year, 
Auburn played Boston College in the Tangerine Bowl, where Jackson made 
a one-handed grab on an option pitch. Auburn went on to win the game 33–26 
as Jackson rushed 14 times for 64 yards and 2 TDs.[14] In 1983, as a sophomore, 
Jackson rushed for 1,213 yards (1,109 m) on 158 carries, for an average 
of 7 yards per carry, which was the 2nd best single-season average in SEC 
history (minimum 100 rushes). In the 1983 Auburn-Alabama game, Jackson 
rushed for 256 yards on 20 rushes (12.8 yards per carry), which at the 
time was the sixth-most rushing yards gained in a game in SEC history and 
the 2nd best yard-per-rush average in a game (minimum 20 attempts) in SEC 
history. Auburn finished the season by winning the Sugar Bowl, where Jackson 
was named Most Valuable Player. In 1984, Jackson's junior year (most of 
which Jackson missed due to injury), he earned Most Valuable Player honors 
at the Liberty Bowl.[15] In 1985, Jackson rushed for 1,786 yards which 
was the second best single-season performance in SEC history. That year, 
he averaged 6.4 yards per rush, which at the time was the best single-season 
average in SEC history. For his performance in 1985, Jackson was awarded 
the Heisman Trophy in what was considered the closest margin of victory 
ever in the history of the award, winning over University of Iowa quarterback 
Chuck Long.[12] Jackson finished his career at Auburn with 4,675 all-purpose 
yards and 45 total touchdowns, 43 rushing and 2 receiving, with a 6.6 yards 
per carry average. Jackson's football number 34 was officially retired 
at Auburn in a halftime ceremony on October 31, 1992. His is one of only 
three numbers retired at Auburn. The others are 1971 Heisman Trophy winner 
Pat Sullivan's number 7, and the number 88 of Sullivan's teammate and favorite 
receiver, Terry Beasley. In 2007, Jackson was ranked #8 on ESPN's Top 25 
Players In College Football History list. On November 27, 1982, Jackson 
and the Auburn Tigers found themselves embattled with their heated in-state 
rival, Alabama (7-3), in the Iron Bowl in Birmingham, Ala. Auburn held 
a 14-13 halftime lead when Alabama's RB Paul Ott Carruth scored on an 8-yard 
TD run—and then the Crimson Tide added a field goal to make it a 22-14 
Alabama lead going into the 4th quarter. Auburn responded as Al Del Greco 
made a 23-yard FG to make it a 22-17 score in the 4th quarter. From Auburn's 
own 34-yard line, Bo Jackson and company began a long drive as he converted 
on a 4th-and-1 at the Alabama 42. Jackson, who ran 17 times for 114 yards 
during this Iron Bowl, continued marching his team downfield as he caught 
an 8-yard pass from QB Randy Campbell down to the Alabama 1-yard line. 
On fourth down with 2:26 left in the game, Jackson completed the drive 
by going over the top for a 1-yard TD run as Auburn (finished 9-3 in '82) 
pulled off a 23-22 victory over Alabama and its legendary coach, Paul "Bear" 
Bryant.[16] While at McAdory High School, Jackson competed as a sprinter, 
hurdler, jumper, thrower and decathlete. His best 100-meter time in high 
school was 10.44 seconds, but he would later run a 10.39 at Auburn. He 
also ran the 100-yard dash in 9.54 seconds. As a hurdler, he recorded times 
of 7.29 seconds in the 55m hurdles and 13.81 seconds in the 110m hurdles. 
In decathlon, he reached 8340 points. In the jumping events, he had personal-best 
jumps of 2.06 meters in the high jump, 7.52 meters in the long jump and 
14.85 meters in the triple jump. As a thrower, he got top-throws of 15.27 
meters in the shot put and 45.44 meters in the discus throw.[17] Jackson 
qualified for the NCAA nationals in the 100-meter dash in his freshman 
and sophomore years. He considered a career in track and field, but sprinting 
would not gain him the financial security of the MLB or NFL, nor would 
he have sufficient time to train, given his other commitments. Going into 
the 1986 NFL Draft, Jackson ran a 4.12 40-yard dash time. This dash was 
officially hand-timed because the NFL Combine didn't start electronically 
timing athletes until 1990.[18] Jackson was selected with the first overall 
pick of the 1986 NFL Draft by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, but he refused 
to play for them because a visit to team facilities they said was NCAA-approved 
was actually not, causing him to miss the remainder of his final college 
baseball season. This was designed to get him to play football instead 
of baseball. He vowed not to sign with Tampa Bay should they draft him, 
but they proceeded anyway. He kept his vow and opted to play baseball for 
the Kansas City Royals, the defending World Series champions, who had drafted 
him in the fourth round in the 1986 amateur draft. He spent 53 games[20] 
with the Memphis Chicks,[21] the Royals' Class AA minor league affiliate, 
and was called up to the majors in September 1986. He made the Royals' 
roster in 1987 and hit 22 home runs, with 53 RBIs and 10 stolen bases as 
a left fielder. Jackson began to show his true potential in 1989, when 
he was voted to start for the American League All-Star team, and was named 
the game's MVP for his play on both offense and defense. In the top of 
the first inning, he caught Pedro Guerrero's 2-out line drive to left-center 
field to save two runs.[22] Then he led off the bottom of the first—his 
first All-Star plate appearance—with a monstrous 448-foot (137 m) home 
run off Rick Reuschel of the San Francisco Giants. NBC-TV announcer Vin 
Scully exclaimed, "Look at that one! Bo Jackson says hello!" Wade Boggs 
followed with his own home run, making them the first pair in All-Star 
history to lead off their sides first with back-to-back home runs.[23] 
In the 2nd inning, he beat out the throw on a potential double play to 
drive in the eventual winning run. He then stole second base, making him 
the second player in All-Star Game history to hit a home run and steal 
a base in the same game (the first was Willie Mays). Jackson finished the 
game with two hits in four at-bats, one run scored, and two RBI. On June 
5, 1989, Jackson ran down a long line-drive deep to left field on a hit-and-run 
play against the Seattle Mariners. With speedy Harold Reynolds running 
from first base on the play, Scott Bradley's hit would have been deep enough 
to score him against most outfielders. But Jackson, from the warning track, 
turned flat footed and fired a strike to catcher Bob Boone, who tagged 
the sliding Reynolds out. Jackson's throw reached Boone on the fly. Interviewed 
for the "Bo Jackson" episode of ESPN Classic's SportsCentury, Reynolds 
admitted that he thought there was no way anyone would throw him out on 
such a deep drive into the gap in left-center, and was shocked to see his 
teammate telling him to slide as he rounded third base.[citation needed] 
On July 29, 1988, against the Baltimore Orioles, Jackson, batting against 
Jeff Ballard, turned to the home plate umpire and attempted to call time 
out as Ballard was delivering the ball. The time-out wasn't granted, but 
Jackson recovered to swing and hit the pitch over the left-field wall for 
a home run despite only really seeing the ball as it was on its way to 
the plate.[24] Jackson's 171 strikeouts in 1989 tied him for 10th most 
strikeouts in a season for a right-handed batter since 1893. On July 11, 
1990, against the Orioles, Jackson performed his famous "wall run", when 
he caught a ball approximately 2–3 strides away from the wall. As he caught 
the ball at full tilt, Jackson looked up and noticed the wall and began 
to run up the wall, one leg reaching higher as he ascended. He ran along 
the wall almost parallel to the ground, and came down with the catch, to 
avoid impact and the risk of injury from the fence.[citation needed] During 
the 1990 season, Jackson hit HRs in 4 consecutive at-bats tying a Major 
League record (held by several). His fourth came off of Randy Johnson after 
hitting his first three before a stint on the DL. Unwilling to pay his 
$2.375 million salary in 1991 to rehabilitate his football injury, the 
Royals released Jackson on March 18, 1991.[25] He played two seasons with 
the Chicago White Sox, appearing in 23 games in 1991 and 85 games in 1993. 
It was with the White Sox that he made his only post-season appearance, 
in the 1993 American League Championship Series, which Chicago lost to 
the Toronto Blue Jays in six games. While with the Sox, Jackson promised 
his mother that once he returned from his hip replacement surgery he would 
hit a home run for her. Before he could return, his mother died. In his 
first at-bat after surgery, he hit a home run to right field. Jackson had 
the ball encased in acrylic and bolted to the dresser in her room, according 
to an interview on ESPN. Jackson finished his career in 1994 with the California 
Angels. That season was cut short by the 1994–95 baseball strike and Jackson 
decided to retire at age 32. "I got to know my family" he said, "That looks 
better to me than any $10 million contract."[26] In his eight baseball 
seasons, Jackson had a career batting average of .250, hit 141 home runs 
and had 415 RBIs, with a slugging average of .474. His best year was 1989, 
with his effort earning him All-Star status. In 1989, Jackson ranked fourth 
in the American League in both home runs, with 32, and RBI, with 105.[27] 
Jackson was drafted first overall in the 1986 NFL Draft by the Tampa Bay 
Buccaneers. Controversy abounded before then that resulted in Jackson never 
playing for the team. In addition to giving Jackson an ultimatum to pick 
between sports, Buccaneers management took Jackson on owner Hugh Culverhouse's 
private jet to visit with the team during his senior baseball season. Jackson 
was told by the Buccaneers that the trip, which could have cost Jackson 
his remaining collegiate eligibility, had been cleared by the NCAA. Jackson 
was later told by his baseball coach at Auburn that the trip was considered 
to be a violation of NCAA rules and that he was immediately ruled ineligible 
to play the remainder of the baseball season. Jackson, upset that Culverhouse 
lied to him, insisted that he would never play for the Buccaneers and that 
they could draft him if he wanted to, but he would not sign if he was drafted. 
It was said that Jackson, who was having what he called his best year playing 
baseball in school, made the Buccaneers nervous and that by getting him 
somehow ruled ineligible to play baseball, he would be forced to focus 
on football.[28] Jackson held true to his threat not to sign, and the Buccaneers 
forfeited his rights before the 1987 draft. Jackson was in spring training 
with the Royals when someone informed him that he had a chance to play 
football again. Inquiring who it was, Jackson found out that he was taken 
in the seventh round of the draft with the 183rd pick by the Los Angeles 
Raiders. Initially Jackson had said he would continue to focus on baseball 
and would not sign, but his interest was piqued.[29][30] Raiders owner 
Al Davis was a fan of Jackson and was receptive the idea of Jackson playing 
both baseball and football. Thus, a contract was negotiated where Jackson 
would be permitted to play the entire baseball season with the Royals and 
would report to the Raiders once the season was finished. In addition to 
this, Davis gave Jackson a salary that was in line with what a top-flight 
starter at halfback would make. Jackson joined the Raiders in time for 
their Week 8 match-up against the New England Patriots, where he rushed 
for a total of 37 yards on eight carries. Jackson shared the backfield 
with Marcus Allen, himself an All-Pro and former Heisman Trophy winner, 
but eventually supplanted him as the featured running back despite being 
listed as the team's fullback. Perhaps his most notable performance in 
his rookie season came on Monday Night Football against the Seattle Seahawks 
in Week 12. Prior to the game Seahawks linebacker Brian Bosworth insulted 
Jackson and promised in a media event before the game to contain Jackson. 
Jackson responded by running over Bosworth on his way to a touchdown near 
the goal line. He also made a 91-yard run in the 2nd quarter, to the outside, 
untouched down the sideline. Jackson was running so fast that his momentum 
carried him into the tunnel leading to the locker rooms and his teammates 
had to retrieve him. Jackson rushed for 221 yards that night and two touchdowns. 
He added a third with a reception. The 221 yards was a single-game record 
for the Raiders until it was broken in 1997, when Napoleon Kaufman rushed 
for 227 yards in a win over Denver. In his rookie season, Jackson rushed 
for a total of 554 yards on only 81 carries for a 6.8 yards per carry average. 
He played in seven games, starting five, and scored a total of six touchdowns 
(four rushing, two receiving). The next year, Jackson played in ten of 
the Raiders' sixteen games with nine starts, recording a total of 580 yards 
and three touchdowns. Jackson's 1989 season was his best in the league. 
In eleven games, with nine starts, Jackson rushed for a total of 950 yards 
with a 5.5 yards per carry average and four touchdowns. In his abbreviated 
1990 campaign, Jackson rushed for 698 yards and was selected to the only 
Pro Bowl of his career. Jackson suffered a NFL career-ending hip injury 
from a seemingly routine tackle at the end of a 34-yard run in a playoff 
game on January 13, 1991, against the Bengals.[31][32][33] In his four 
seasons in the NFL, Jackson rushed for 2,782 yards and 16 touchdowns with 
an average yards per carry of 5.4. He also caught 40 passes for 352 yards 
and two touchdowns. Jackson's 221 yards on November 30, 1987, just 29 days 
after his first NFL carry, is still a Monday Night Football record. As 
noted above, Jackson's sports career was affected by an injury to his left 
hip. In his last game, the aforementioned playoff victory over Cincinnati 
in January 1991, Jackson suffered a dislocated hip following a tackle. 
In the film You Don't Know Bo, Jackson claimed that after he discovered 
the injury, he physically popped his hip back into the socket and in the 
process damaged the blood vessels supplying blood to the area.[34] While 
doctors did not find proof that Jackson physically reset his hip, they 
did discover that there was a fracture of one of Jackson's hip bones. Within 
a month of the injury, Jackson had been diagnosed with avascular necrosis 
of the hip joint. He also was found to have lost all of the cartilage supporting 
his hip.[35] He would be forced to retire from football, and was then cut 
by the Royals in spring training. Jackson would return to competition with 
the White Sox toward the end of the 1991 baseball season Jackson became 
a popular figure for his athleticism in multiple sports through the late 
1980s and early 1990s. He endorsed Nike and was involved in a popular ad 
campaign called "Bo Knows" which envisioned Jackson attempting to take 
up a litany of other sports, including tennis, golf, luge, auto racing, 
and even playing blues music with Bo Diddley, who scolded Jackson by telling 
him, "You don't know Diddley!"[36] This "Bo Knows" marketing campaign was 
for the release of the Nike Air Trainer I, a cross-training shoe, the first 
of its kind.[37] The CHIKARA professional wrestling tag team the Throwbacks 
(Dasher Hatfield and "Mr. Touchdown" Mark Angelosetti) have a finishing 
move called "Bo Jackson".[38][39] Called "the greatest athlete in video 
game history",[40] Jackson's digital counterpart was nicknamed by fans 
as "Tecmo Bo" since being featured in the 1989 video game Tecmo Bowl for 
the Nintendo Entertainment System.[41][42] Referencing his video game character, 
Jackson was featured in a 2016 advertisement for the Kia Sorento, with 
Jackson driving the car into a virtual stadium.[43] He had his own video 
game for the original Game Boy portable gaming system, Bo Jackson's Hit 
and Run. The game featured both baseball and football. Released around 
the same time was Bo Jackson Baseball for the NES system and IBM compatible 
computers. Jackson can be unlocked as a player in ESPN NFL Football. Jackson 
made an appearance in the 2004 video game NFL Street 2.[44] Jackson also 
made his first appearance in the modern Madden series, Madden 15 and Madden 
16. Jackson was a character in ProStars, an NBC Saturday morning cartoon 
show which also featured Wayne Gretzky and Michael Jordan fighting crime 
and helping children, although neither he, Gretzky, nor Jordan voiced their 
respective characters. He did however play the character Calvin Farquhar 
a sports radio jockey on the TV show Married...with Children. He also appeared 
in an episode of the TV series Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman 
in which he plays a basketball game with Clark Kent/Superman. In 2007, 
Nike released a set of Nike Dunk shoes honoring Bo Jackson.[45] The set 
featured three color-ways based on previously released Nike shoes: the 
"Bo Knows" Trainer I, Trainer 91 and Medicine Ball Trainer III.[46] Bo 
Jackson's number 34 jerseys are still sold by the Oakland Raiders.[47] 
Before Royals games, Jackson used to shoot at a target with a bow and arrow 
in the Royals clubhouse.[48] In 1995, Jackson completed his Bachelor of 
Science degree in Family and Child Development at Auburn[49] to fulfill 
the promise he made to his mother.[12] Through the 1990s, Jackson dabbled 
in acting, having made several television guest appearances first on The 
Fresh Prince of Bel-Air in 1990 as well as Lois & Clark: The New Adventures 
of Superman and Married... with Children. He later appeared in small roles 
in the films The Chamber, The Pandora Project and Fakin' Da Funk.[50] Jackson 
served as the President of the HealthSouth Sports Medicine Council, part 
of Birmingham, Alabama based HealthSouth Corporation.[citation needed] 
Jackson is married to Linda, a clinical psychologist, and has three children 
– sons Garrett and Nicholas, and a daughter, Morgan.[51] Jackson and his 
family live in Burr Ridge, Illinois. He is among a group of investors who 
own The Burr Ridge Bank and Trust in the Chicago suburbs. He is one of 
the bank's advisory directors and is said to be "rolling up his sleeves" 
and working along with everyone else to make sure that the small bank becomes 
a success during tough financial times. According to Jackson: "we have 
no type of debt, like all the other banks. We're a small community bank 
and one thing we all decided, is that if we are going to do a bank in our 
community, it needs to be owned by the people who live in the community." 
The Chicago White Sox chose Jackson to throw the ceremonial first pitch 
before Game Two of the 2005 World Series. The White Sox went on to win 
that game on a 9th inning walk-off home run, then swept Houston Astros 
for their first championship in 88 years. In 2006, Jackson appeared on 
the Spike TV sports reality show, Pros vs. Joes. In his second appearance, 
he easily defeated amateur athletes in a home run-hitting contest. When 
he bunted instead of swinging on his final try for a home run, the announcer 
stated: "Bo knows taunting."[citation needed] In 2007, Jackson came together 
with John Cangelosi to form the Bo Jackson Elite Sports Complex, an 88,000-square-foot 
(8,200 m2) multi-sports dome facility in Lockport, Illinois. He is part-owner 
and CEO of the facility. He has been successful with other investments, 
including a food company, N'Genuity. He often says that while he may have 
been great for sports, sports were no doubt greater for him considering 
the post-career opportunities that have been afforded to him.[52] On May 
9, 2009 Jackson delivered the commencement speech at Auburn University's 
graduation ceremony. His speech was centered on the benefits of stepping 
out of one's comfort zone.[53] On July 12, 2010 Jackson threw the ceremonial 
first pitch before the 2010 Home Run Derby at Angel Stadium and participated 
in the celebrity softball game. After 20 years since his famous "Bo Knows" 
campaign, Jackson returned to do commercials for Nike in the fall of 2010 
for their "BOOM" campaign. In this commercial, he playfully taunted New 
York Yankees star Robinson Canó during batting practice before being impressed 
by a hit, responding to it by saying "Boom!"[citation needed] In December 
2010, he was named a 2011 winner of the NCAA Silver Anniversary Award, 
given annually to six former NCAA student-athletes for distinguished career 
accomplishment on the 25th anniversary of their college graduation.[54] 
In April 2012, Jackson participated in Bo Bikes Bama, a 300-mile cycling 
trip in support of victims of the April 25–28, 2011 tornado outbreak in 
Alabama. On January 22, 2014, Jackson rejoined the Chicago White Sox as 
an ambassador to the team joining the ranks of Frank Thomas, Minnie Miñoso, 
