Robert Ferris Prince (July 1, 1916 – June 10, 1985) was an American radio 
and television sportscaster and commentator best known for his 28-year 
stint as the voice of the Pittsburgh Pirates Major League Baseball club, 
with whom he earned the nickname "The Gunner" and became a cultural icon 
in Pittsburgh. Prince was one of the most distinct and popular voices in 
sports broadcast history, known for his gravel voice, unabashed style and 
clever nicknames and phrases, which came to be known as "Gunnerisms." His 
unique manner influenced a number of broadcasters after him, including 
Pittsburgh Penguins voice Mike Lange and Pittsburgh Steelers color analyst 
Myron Cope. Prince called Pirates games from 1948 to 1975, including the 
World Series championship years of 1960 and 1971. Nationally, Prince broadcast 
the 1960, 1966, and 1971 World Series and the 1965 All-Star Game for NBC, 
as well as the first year (1976) of ABC's Monday Night Baseball. He also 
broadcast at different times for other Pittsburgh-area sports teams, including 
Steelers football and Penguins hockey. Prince was born in Los Angeles. 
His father was a former West Point football player and a career military 
man. An Army brat, he attended many schools before graduating from Schenley 
High School in Pittsburgh. An athlete himself, he lettered in swimming 
at the University of Pittsburgh. Prince worked for radio station WJAS, 
then landed a sports show on KDKA-TV. Prince joined Rosey Rowswell in the 
Pirates' broadcast booth as a commentator in 1948, and he was promoted 
to the top spot shortly after Rowswell's death in February 1955. He also 
broadcast Pittsburgh Steelers and Penn State football in the 1950s.[1] 
As a result of his distinct voice, knowledge of baseball, and high-profile 
persona, Prince was very popular among Pirates supporters. Prince was a 
fixture on team broadcasts for three decades on KDKA-AM, a clear channel 
radio station that could be heard throughout the eastern United States 
after sundown. A regular smoker and social drinker, the fun-loving Prince 
jumped from the third floor of the Chase Hotel in St. Louis into a swimming 
pool in 1957, on a dare by Pirates third baseman Gene Freese. Many veteran 
observers believe Prince did his best work while paired with longtime sidekick 
Jim "The Possum" Woods and vice versa in the 1960s, which coincided with 
the rise of the Pirates as a championship-caliber team. It was Woods who 
first referred to Prince as "The Gunner." Some say this was because of 
his staccato, rapid-fire style, others claim it was the result of an incident 
with a jealous, gun-toting husband.[1] Woods allegedly recounted to an 
interviewer in Cleveland that two decades ago, during Woods' first spring-training 
with the Pirates in Fort Myers, Florida (1958), Prince had had a narrow 
escape from an encounter with a jealous husband who was packing a gun. 
To be sure, no one bled black and gold like Prince did before or since. 
Invariably, when his Buccos were trailing in the late innings by two runs, 
he'd say, "We need a bloop and a blast!" If calling for three runs, he 
would say, "We need a bleeder, a bloop and a blast!" His partisanship slipped 
over into Woods' style as well, and by the mid-'60s, The Possum would be 
announcing the presence of pinch-hitter (and reserve catcher) Jesse Gonder 
with, "Let's go up yonder with Jesse Gonder." (The two would continue working 
together through the 1969 season, after which the flagship station KDKA 
refused to match a higher salary offer from KMOX in St. Louis for Woods 
to join Jack Buck in the Cardinals' booth; that partnership only lasted 
two seasons.) Prince was more of a rooter than a homer, in that he always 
showed respect to opponents and the game alike. Like the vast majority 
of broadcasters of his time, he rarely second-guessed players or managers. 
He was especially close friends with Milwaukee Braves pitchers Warren Spahn 
and Lew Burdette. In 1966, Prince popularized a good-luck charm known as 
the Green Weenie, a plastic rattle in the shape of an oversized green pickle 
that Pirates fans used to jinx opponents. "Never underestimate the power 
of the Green Weenie[2] ", he liked to assure listeners. At the height of 
the term's popularity in 1966, Prince often punctuated the last out of 
a Bucs' victory by exclaiming, "The Great Green Weenie has done it again!" 
The pin's shape and color is derived from the pickle shaped pins distributed 
to schoolchildren when they toured the H. J. Heinz Company factory in Pittsburgh. 
By late season, with the Pirates in a terrific pennant race with the Dodgers 
and Giants, some fans would parade a giant replica of the Green Weenie 
through the grandstand as a rally symbol. The hex symbol had started in 
the dugout with trainer Danny Whelan. Prince picked up on it and began 
talking about it on the broadcasts. No one thought to trademark the Green 
Weenie, so tens of thousands were sold in 1966, but Prince, Whelan and 
the Pirates didn't profit from it. Soon after control of the broadcasts 
changed from Atlantic Richfield to Westinghouse Broadcasting in 1969, Prince 
had personal conflicts with Westinghouse management. Pirates management 
often interceded to quell tensions between Prince and KDKA executives. 
Finally, in 1975, Prince and sidekick Nellie King were fired, a decision 
that Pirates management did not try to reverse. Pirates fans were shocked 
by the news. Egged on by competing radio station WEEP, hundreds of supporters 
held a parade and downtown rally. Several Pirates players also went to 
bat for him, but rehiring Prince was never a consideration. KDKA hired 
Milo Hamilton in December and distributed press kits at a news conference 
that had a cover sticker proclaiming, "The New Voice of the Pirates." After 
his time with the Pirates, Prince had stints calling Houston Astros baseball, 
Pittsburgh Penguins hockey and ABC's Monday Night Baseball. He was frustrated 
that ABC wouldn't let him employ his usual style, and was removed from 
the primary Monday night broadcast team during his first season before 
being dropped altogether after the season. He also was released by the 
Astros after a one-year stay; he later said that Houston didn't agree with 
him. His work with the Penguins was a cause of consternation for hockey 
fans because he didn't understand the game and didn't know the Penguins' 
personnel. Eventually he was taken off play-by-play and re-cast as an intermission 
interviewer. Eventually, he returned to baseball in 1982, calling a limited 
number of Pirates games for a cable station. Three years after his return, 
KDKA and the Pirates decided to make Prince a member of the regular radio 
broadcast team in 1985. Broadcaster Lanny Frattare suggested that KDKA 
should launch a campaign to have Prince recognized with the Hall of Fame's 
Ford Frick Award. At about the same time, independently, station executives 
Rick Starr and Chris Cross decided Prince should have a role on the radio 
broadcasts. The announcement came days after he had been released from 
a hospital for cancer treatments. Prince returned to the Pirates broadcast 
booth on May 3, 1985 to announce three innings of the game between the 
Pirates and the Los Angeles Dodgers. Weakened from mouth cancer, Prince 
was able to announce only two innings but was given three standing ovations. 
The Pirates scored 9 runs in the first inning that Prince announced, one 
for each year of his absence from the booth. In the next inning Prince 
called for first baseman Jason Thompson to park one "so we'll have a little 
bit of everything", and Thompson homered. The 1985 Pirate team went on 
to lose 104 games. Willie Stargell had retired three years earlier, and 
most of the 1979 Championship Team had disbanded. The fourth inning broadcast 
announced by Prince on May 3, 1985, was the fifth most runs scored in any 
one inning in Pirates franchise history. A commentator on KDKA-TV (Channel 
2) referred to it on the 6:00 p.m. news as the "last revival of the Green 
Weenie", Prince's good luck charm from 1966. Prince announced a few following 
homestands. Weeks later he reported to the park for another game, but his 
illness forced him to go home after waiting through a long rain delay. 
Prince was unable to report for work again and was re-admitted to the hospital. 
He died on June 10. Prince was posthumously awarded the Ford C. Frick Award 
by the Baseball Hall of Fame as a broadcaster in 1986.[3] He also was a 
1986 inductee in the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association 
Hall of Fame. Even today, his name remains synonymous with Pirates baseball 
including the naming of the new "Gunner's Lounge" at PNC Park in 2012.[4] 
In 1999, Prince was selected for the Pride of the Pirates award, a lifetime 
