Robert A. Elson (March 22, 1904 – March 10, 1981[1]) was a pioneering American 
sportscaster. Born in Chicago, Elson got into broadcasting by accident. 
While vacationing in St. Louis in 1928, he took a tour of radio station 
KWK. A receptionist saw him among 40 men in line for an audition, and thought 
he was going to audition as well. He became a finalist, and was hired after 
a vote by listeners. A few days later, officials at Chicago's WGN heard 
about Elson's victory and wondered what a Chicago native was doing broadcasting 
for a St. Louis station. They quickly hired him. Starting in 1929, he began 
calling all the home games of the Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox. Such 
double duty would be impossible today, but in those days the Cubs and White 
Sox almost never played at home on the same day and most teams "recreated" 
"away" games in the studio using telegraphed messages from the ballpark 
rather than sending out their broadcasting crew with the team for road 
play-by-play, to save money. In 1930, he called his first World Series 
for the Mutual Broadcasting System, the first of 12 in a row. He also called 
Chicago Bears football games in the 1930s and early 1940s. An article in 
Radio and Television Mirror's December 1940 issue called Elson the top 
football announcer for Mutual.[2] In 1942, he enlisted in the United States 
Navy and served four years in World War II—a stint which earned him the 
nickname "The Ol' Commander." But none other than President and Commander-in-Chief 
Franklin D. Roosevelt himself had him called home to announce the 1943 
World Series. Also, when Major League Baseball began making annual films 
of the World Series in 1943, Elson was chosen to narrate them, and narrated 
the official World Series film from 1943 through 1948. From 1946 to 1970, 
Elson broadcast for the White Sox exclusively. He missed out on calling 
the 1959 World Series—the Chisox' first since 1919 and Elson's first since 
1943—on the national NBC broadcast because NBC Sports president Tom Gallery 
(who'd grown up with him in Chicago) just didn't like him. He was, however, 
allowed to call the Series on the White Sox' flagship radio station, WCFL. 
He called games for the Oakland Athletics in 1971[3] before returning to 
Chicago, where he teamed with Lloyd Pettit on Chicago Black Hawks NHL broadcasts. 
(He had previously called Black Hawks games in the late 1930s.) His style 
was often described as "relaxed", not easily succumbing to emotion or hyperbole, 
although he could certainly get excited in describing dramatic plays favorable 
to the team he was broadcasting for. He was one of the leading play-by-play 
men in his heyday. He was one of the first broadcasters to do on-field 
interviews, but in later years he felt uncomfortable with announcers who 
frequently criticized on-field performances, having grown up in an era 
where sportscasters were regular drinking buddies of players and managers. 
His style inspired several other broadcasters who grew up in the Midwest, 
such as the Cubs' Jack Brickhouse, Earl Gillespie, Bert Wilson, Gene Elston, 
his Chisox partner Milo Hamilton, the Phillies' Harry Kalas, the Brewers' 
Bob Uecker, Harry Caray of the Cardinals and later the Cubs, and the Mariners' 
Dave Niehaus. Elson received the Ford C. Frick Award from the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in 1979. Elson's broadcasting achievements went beyond sports. 
His broadcasts from Chicago's Pump Room brought him recognition "as the 
interviewer who drew secrets from celebrities in all fields."[1] For five 
years, he also did Bob Elson on Board the Century, which (in contrast to 
the title) he broadcast from LaSalle Street Station in Chicago. Elson caught 
celebrities for spontaneous interviews while they were in the station.[4] 
In a similar vein, he did Bob Elson on the Flagships on KNX, interviewing 
people who were traveling on American Airlines.[5] Elson was co-host of 
An Hour With Elson and Anson, a daily variety program that began October 
13, 1941, on WGN.[6] Elson had a wife, Jeanne, who died in 1975.[7] He 
