Robert José Watson (born April 10, 1946) is an American sports executive. 
He was a first baseman and left fielder who played for the Houston Astros, 
Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees and Atlanta Braves from 1966 to 1984. 
In his playing career, Watson batted .295 with 184 home runs and 989 runs 
batted in and he was selected to two All-Star teams. He batted .371 in 
17 post-season games while striking out just twice. Watson was thought 
to have scored the millionth run in baseball history, though this was later 
found to be incorrect. Watson coached baseball after retiring as a player. 
After a return to the Yankees serving as general manager (GM), they won 
the World Series in 1996. He served as Major League Baseball's (MLB) vice 
president in charge of discipline and vice president of rules and on-field 
operations until 2010. Nicknamed "Bull," Watson was originally a catcher 
in the minor leagues, however, he converted to first base and the outfield 
by the time he made his major league debut with the Astros on September 
9, 1966. Watson was a dependable hitter whose home run numbers were somewhat 
hurt by the fact that he played the majority of his career in the Astrodome. 
Watson was credited with scoring the 1,000,000th run in major league history 
on Sunday, May 4, 1975 at 12:32 in the afternoon. Watson scored from second 
base on a three-run homer by teammate Milt May at San Francisco's Candlestick 
Park. It was known that the 999,999th run had already scored, with sponsored 
updates being provided by and to every ballpark. Despite the lack of in-game 
urgency, Watson ran at full speed, reaching home plate approximately four 
seconds before Dave Concepción, who had just homered in Cincinnati and 
was also racing around the basepaths. "I never ran so fast in my entire 
life," said Concepcion. But it was Watson who won $10,000 and one million 
Tootsie Rolls provided by the event's sponsor. The 1,000,000th run total 
only included runs scored in the National and American Leagues (not "3rd" 
major leagues, such as the Federal League). Watson joked that in the aftermath 
of the event, his fan mail doubled—from 4 letters to 8. Later, more accurate 
recalculations of baseball's record-keeping showed that neither Watson 
nor Concepcion scored baseball's actual millionth run, and it is not known 
who did.[1][2] On June 13, 1979, Watson was traded to the Red Sox. His 
first season in Boston, he hit for the cycle on September 15. Having already 
hit for the cycle with the Astros in 1977, he became the first player to 
accomplish this feat in both the National League and American League.[3] 
Following the season, he signed as a free agent with the New York Yankees. 
With the Yankees, he reached the post-season for the first time in his 
career, losing to the Kansas City Royals in the 1980 American League Championship 
Series. A year later, Watson reached the World Series for the only time 
in his career. Watson hit two home runs and batted .319 with seven runs 
batted in, but the Yankees lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games. 
On April 23, 1982, Watson was traded to the Atlanta Braves for a prospect 
named Scott Patterson, who later became an actor best known for Gilmore 
Girls.[4] Watson helped propel the Braves to the 1982 National League West 
title. In 1983, he hit .309 mostly as a pinch hitter. He retired after 
the 1984 season. After retirement, Watson moved into coaching and was the 
hitting coach on the Oakland A's 1988 pennant winning team. At the end 
of the 1993 season, he was named general manager of the Houston Astros, 
becoming the second African American to serve as a GM in the major leagues.[5] 
He served as GM for the New York Yankees from October 23, 1995 to February 
2, 1998. The 1996 team won the World Series, the first Yankee team to do 
so since 1978. He became the first African American GM to win a World Series 
championship. After the 1997 season, Watson retired from the Yankees. He 
served as Major League Baseball's vice president in charge of discipline 
and vice president of rules and on-field operations. He was under consideration 
for the Astros general manager position, but the position was given to 
Ed Wade, the Philadelphia Phillies' former GM. Watson drew criticism late 
in the 2007 season. Under his watch, Major League Baseball mandated that 
managers could no longer wear a team issued pullover instead of a uniform 
jersey top. This caused particular friction between MLB and Red Sox manager 
Terry Francona, who prefers to wear a pullover due to circulation problems. 
During game action of the second inning of a Red Sox-Yankees game on August 
28, an MLB representative was sent to verify that Francona was wearing 
a uniform jersey. The Boston media saw this as frivolous, or even biased, 
due to the public's indifference toward the issue, the specific use of 
Francona as an example, and the fact that the representative appeared during 
an important in-division matchup.[6] Watson retired from his position with 
Major League Baseball in 2010.[7] Watson was diagnosed with prostate cancer 
in March 1994 which was successfully treated. Watson writes about his experience 
with prostate cancer in his 1997 book Survive To Win and speaks regularly 
at cancer awareness conferences and with players and staff in Major League 
baseball. Watson's advocacy has been credited with detecting and treating 
