Robert "Balkin' Bob" Allan Davidson (born August 3, 1952) is a former umpire 
for Major League Baseball. Davidson was on the full-time umpiring staff 
for Major League Baseball (MLB) in the National League (NL) from 1982 to 
1999. He resigned in 1999 as part of a labor negotiation strategy, then 
later returned to professional umpiring and rejoined the MLB staff several 
years later. He wore uniform number 31 during his career in the NL. Number 
31 was worn by umpire Mike Reilly in the American League (AL), and it was 
assigned to Reilly when the AL and NL merged their umpiring staffs in 2000, 
so when Davidson later returned to MLB he was assigned 61 as his new number. 
For the 2011 season, he wore number 6, later changing back to 61. Davidson 
officiated in the 1992 World Series, as well as the National League Championship 
Series in 1988, 1991 and 1996. He also worked in the National League Division 
Series in 1995, 1998 and 2009, and in the 1987, 1993, and 2014 All-Star 
Games. Nicknamed "Balkin' Bob" or "Balk-a-day-Bob" due to his frequent 
balk calls,[1] Davidson was voted by players and managers as one of the 
worst umpires in MLB, placing fourth-worst in a Sports Illustrated poll 
in 2011.[2] During the baseball off-season and during his late 1990s hiatus 
from baseball, Davidson was a part-time talk show host for 850 KOA in Denver 
(the radio broadcast partner of the Colorado Rockies).[3] He also did a 
semi-regular stint about once a week being interviewed about umpiring as 
part of Rockies pre-game shows prior to his resignation (see below). Davidson 
resigned from the NL staff in 1999 as part of a failed mass resignation 
during labor negotiations. He was out of professional baseball until 2003, 
when he resumed umpiring in minor league baseball, including the A-level 
Midwest League. In December 2004, he and fellow resignees Tom Hallion and 
Ed Hickox were guaranteed three of the next five positions on the Major 
League umpire staff, with Davidson reportedly guaranteed the first vacancy. 
Davidson returned in 2007 to umpiring Major League Baseball games after 
the retirement of Joe Brinkman.[4] On May 15, 2012 during a game in Philadelphia, 
Davidson and the Phillies' catcher bumped into each other during a play 
involving a strike 3 wild pitch. The Astros' runner was able to safely 
make it to first base on the play. Davidson yelled into the Philadelphia 
dugout "You think I wanted to block his ass?"[5] During the argument, Philadelphia 
manager Charlie Manuel was ejected by Davidson. Three days later, Major 
League Baseball suspended Davidson from umpiring one game because of "repeated 
violations of the Office of the Commissioner's standards for situation 
handling". According to MLB, the suspension resulted from a "culmination 
of several incidents" as well as Davidson's conduct during the argument 
with Manuel. Manuel was also suspended for one game.[2] In the top of the 
eighth inning of a second-round tie game against the United States, Team 
Japan's Tsuyoshi Nishioka was at third base when Akinori Iwamura hit a 
pop fly to left field off of Joe Nathan. This was easily fielded by American 
fielder Randy Winn. Nishioka started from third base on the sacrifice fly. 
Winn did not catch Nishioka at home, giving Japan a 4–3 lead. The American 
team executed an appeal play, arguing that Nishioka had not properly tagged 
up at third base. As third base umpire Neil Poulton had gone out to left 
field for the catch/no catch call, home plate umpire Davidson became responsible 
for making calls on the runner on third base. Second base umpire Brian 
Knight ruled that Nishioka was safe. American manager Buck Martinez argued 
that Nishioka had left third base too early and that the wrong umpire had 
made the call on the appeal play. Davidson met with the other umpires and 
then ruled Nishioka out. Video replay showed that Nishioka had properly 
tagged up at third base. Japan lost the game by one run on an Alex Rodriguez 
double in the bottom of the ninth inning. Davidson is a graduate of Duluth 
East High School in Duluth, Minnesota, and he played baseball at the University 
of Minnesota-Duluth before pursuing a professional umpiring career. He 
spent eight years in the minors before being promoted to the majors. He 
is married to Denise and has two daughters, Amber and Andrea, and two grandchildren, 
Alana and Brock. He resides in Colorado. In 2010, Davidson was elected 
into the University of Minnesota-Duluth Athletic Hall of Fame.[11] Davidson 
