Robert J. "Bob" Lorenz (October 2, 1963 in Los Angeles County)[1] is an 
American TV anchor. He is the primary studio host on the YES Network and 
hosts the New York Yankees Pre-Game Show and the New York Yankees Post-Game 
Show for Yankees telecasts, as well as the pregame and postgame shows for 
New Jersey Nets cablecasts. Lorenz also hosts other shows on YES, including 
Yankees Hot Stove, a show that tracks the offseason movement of the Yankees 
and the rest of the teams in MLB. Lorenz has done play-by-play of YES Network's 
coverage of NCAA football as well as Staten Island Yankees games. Lorenz 
worked for KIEM-TV in Eureka and WPTV-TV in West Palm Beach.[2] He later 
joined CNN Sports Illustrated. Also he worked for TBS and TNT hosting various 
sporting event studio shows. Lorenz hosted CNN's weekly baseball show, 
CNN's College Football Preview, College Basketball Preview, College Coach's 
Corner, and CNN's NFL Preview. He was also a back-up host on Inside the 
NBA on TNT. He hosts the New York Yankees Pre-Game Show and the New York 
Yankees Post-Game Show for New York Yankees telecasts on YES, as well as 
pregame and postgame shows for Brooklyn Nets cablecasts. Lorenz also hosts 
other shows on YES, including Yankees Hot Stove, a show that tracks the 
offseason movements of the Yankees and the rest of the teams in the major 
leagues. He has also done play-by-play of Staten Island Yankees games and, 
in 2008, began working play-by-play on Yankees spring training games, which 
he continued in March 2009. During the 2010 season, Lorenz worked play-by-play 
for the first time during the regular season, against the Toronto Blue 
Jays and Seattle Mariners. He now fills in for Michael Kay when he is unavailable. 
Lorenz previously hosted Yogi and a Movie, where he watched baseball-related 
movies with Hall of Fame catcher Yogi Berra. Lorenz hosted This Week in 
Football, a show focusing on the New York Giants and New York Jets, as 
well as the rest of the NFL, for six years. He has also been a fill-in 
host on the interview show CenterStage. Lorenz briefly attended California 
State Polytechnic University, Pomona where he played baseball[3] before 
transferring to the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. He 
