Robert Alfred Lurie (born 1929) is a real estate magnate, philanthropist, 
and former owner of the San Francisco Giants franchise of Major League 
Baseball from March 2, 1976 until January 12, 1993. Lurie was born to a 
Jewish family[1] in San Francisco. In 1972, he took over the real estate 
company founded in 1922 by his father, Louis Lurie, whose name is synonymous 
with San Francisco real estate development during the middle part of the 
20th century. The company built a number of properties along Montgomery 
Street over the years, including a building Bank of America bought and 
tore down for its world headquarters at 555 California St., and it still 
owns many of them. Other notable local properties owned by Lurie are the 
Mark Hopkins Hotel and the Curran Theatre. Lurie's real estate company 
has also upgraded some older properties in San Francisco. For example, 
Lurie invested $20 million in 901 Market St. and brought in retailers Copeland's 
Sports and Marshalls, transforming the 200,000-square-foot (19,000 m2) 
mid-Market Street eyesore into a winner. In 1975, Giants owner Horace Stoneham 
agreed in principle to sell the team to a group headed by the Labatt Brewing 
Company, which intended to move the team to Toronto. Mayor George Moscone 
won an injunction to stop the sale, and then persuaded Lurie, a Giants 
minority owner and board member, to put together a group that would buy 
the team and keep it in San Francisco. In February 1976, Lurie announced 
he was putting together a bid to buy the Giants for $8 million.[2] Although 
Toronto was awarded its own expansion team, the Blue Jays, in 1977, it 
would not be the last time that San Francisco's baseball fans would fear 
the possibility of losing their team. The 1970s was a generally disappointing 
decade for the Giants and the trend continued throughout Lurie’s ownership. 
In 1985, a year which saw the Giants lose 100 games (the most in franchise 
history), Lurie responded by hiring Al Rosen as general manager. Under 
Rosen's tenure, the Giants promoted promising rookies such as Will Clark 
and Robby Thompson, and made canny trades to acquire such players as Kevin 
Mitchell, Dave Dravecky, Candy Maldonado, and Rick Reuschel. The Giants 
would not have a better influx of young position players since that period 
until the mid-2000s. Meanwhile, in both 1987 and 1989, San Francisco voters 
rejected two stadium referenda to replace the notoriously unaccommodating 
Candlestick Park as the home of the Giants, despite the franchise's offer 
to pick up most of the tab for a new downtown park. Worse still, a plan 
to improve the existing stadium failed by an even wider margin. Frustrated, 
Lurie looked south toward Silicon Valley, only to see San Jose and Santa 
Clara voters reject three more proposals to build a Giants ballpark. Finally, 
in October 1992, Lurie announced that he would sell the Giants, claiming 
that he could no longer sustain the financial losses (averaging about $2–7 
million annually) that had accumulated over the last few years. During 
his announcement, Lurie appeared visibly emotional, his voice breaking 
as he explained his hopes for turning the business side around when he 
bought the team in 1976. Nonetheless, losing teams and poor weather conditions 
at Candlestick Park kept many fans away, and at the time of Lurie's announcement, 
the team had finished with a 72-90 record. Originally, Lurie had agreed 
to sell the Giants for $115 million to an ownership group headed by Vince 
Naimoli (original owner of the Tampa Bay Rays) with plans to move the club 
to St. Petersburg, Florida. However, the National League nixed the deal, 
pressuring Lurie to sell the club to Bay Area investors. In an 11th hour 
effort to save the team from moving, a group of local investors headed 
by ex-Safeway magnate, Peter Magowan, offered Lurie $100 million for the 
Giants.[3] Since selling the Giants, Lurie has focused his efforts on his 
real estate firm, the Lurie Co., buying and selling properties and branching 
out beyond its core office holdings totalling over 4,000,000 square feet 
(370,000 m2), not including two hotels, a theater and a parking facility 
it owns. He is also involved in various philanthropic activities, which 
include the $20 million Louis R. Lurie Foundation. Lurie is an adviser 
