Robert Quinlan "Bob" Costas (born March 22, 1952) is an American sportscaster, 
on the air for NBC Sports television since the early 1980s. He has been 
the prime-time host of twelve Olympic Games since 1992. In addition to 
his Olympic work, Costas currently does play-by-play for MLB Network, hosts 
an interview show called Studio 42 with Bob Costas, and serves as the host 
of NBC's Football Night in America. Bob Costas was born in Queens, New 
York City, the son of Jayne (Quinlan), of Irish descent, and John George 
Costas, an electrical engineer of Greek descent. His father's family roots 
are from the island of Kalymnos in the Aegean Sea in Greece. Costas grew 
up primarily in Commack, New York, graduating from Commack High School 
South. Following high school, Costas majored in Communications at Syracuse 
University, Syracuse, New York; however, he left school prior to graduating, 
to accept a job at radio giant, KMOX, in St. Louis, Missouri.[1] Later, 
he received an honorary degree from the S. I. Newhouse School of Public 
Communications at Syracuse University.[2] Costas' sportscasting career 
began while attending Syracuse University, serving as an announcer for 
the Syracuse Blazers minor-league hockey team playing in the Eastern Hockey 
League and North American Hockey League. At age 22, he went to KMOX, calling 
play-by-play for the Spirits of St. Louis of the American Basketball Association 
in 1974. Later he would call Missouri Tigers basketball and co-host KMOX's 
Open Line call-in program. He was a prominent contributor to the ABA book 
Loose Balls: The Short, Wild Life of the American Basketball Association. 
He is extensively quoted on many topics. The book includes his reflections 
of ABA life during his tenure as radio voice of the Spirits of St. Louis. 
Costas later did play-by-play for Chicago Bulls broadcasts on WGN-TV during 
the 1979–1980 NBA season.[3][4] He was also employed by CBS Sports as a 
regional CBS NFL and CBS NBA announcer from 1976 to 1979, after which he 
moved to NBC. When Costas was hired by NBC, Don Ohlmeyer, who at the time 
ran the network's sports division, told the then 28-year-old Costas that 
he looked like a 14-year-old. Costas would recite this anecdote during 
an appearance on Late Night with Conan O'Brien. Ohlmeyer based his reaction 
on Costas' modest stature (Costas is 5'7"in height) and boyish, baby-faced 
appearance. For many years, Costas hosted NBC's National Football League 
coverage and NBA coverage. He also did play-by-play for National Basketball 
Association and Major League Baseball coverage. With the introduction of 
the NBC Sports Network, Costas also became the host of the new monthly 
interview program Costas Tonight.[5] On March 30, 2015, it was announced 
Costas would join forces with Marv Albert (blow-by-blow) and Al Michaels 
(host) on the April 11, 2015 edition of NBC's primetime PBC on NBC boxing 
series.[6] Costas was added to serve as a special contributor for the event 
from Barclays Center in Brooklyn. He would narrate and write a feature 
on the storied history of boxing in New York City. He has also hosted NBC's 
coverage of the U.S. Open golf tournament.[7] For baseball telecasts, he 
teamed with Sal Bando[8] (1982), Tony Kubek (from 1983 to 1989), and Joe 
Morgan and Bob Uecker (from 1994 to 2000). One of his most memorable broadcasts 
occurred on June 23, 1984 (in what would go down in baseball lore as "The 
Sandberg Game").[9] Costas, along with Tony Kubek, was calling the Saturday 
baseball Game of the Week from Chicago's Wrigley Field. The game between 
the Chicago Cubs and St. Louis Cardinals in particular was cited for putting 
Ryne Sandberg (as well as the 1984 Cubs in general, who would go on to 
make their first postseason appearance since 1945) "on the map". In the 
ninth inning, the Cubs, trailing 9–8, faced the premier relief pitcher 
of the time, Bruce Sutter. Sandberg, then not known for his power, slugged 
a home run to left field against the Cardinals' ace closer.[9] Despite 
this dramatic act, the Cardinals scored two runs in the top of the tenth. 
Sandberg came up again in the tenth inning, facing a determined Sutter 
with one man on base. Sandberg then shocked the national audience by hitting 
a second home run, even farther into the left field bleachers, to tie the 
game again.[9] The Cubs went on to win in the 11th inning.[10] When Sandberg 
hit that second home run, Costas said, "Do you believe it?!" The Cardinals' 
Willie McGee hit for the cycle in the same game. While hosting Game 4 of 
the 1988 World Series between the Los Angeles Dodgers and Oakland Athletics 
on NBC, Costas angered many members of the Dodgers (especially the team's 
manager, Tommy Lasorda) by commenting before the start of the game that 
the Dodgers quite possibly were about to put up the weakest-hitting lineup 
in World Series history.[11] That comment ironically fired up the Dodgers' 
competitive spirit. Later (while being interviewed by NBC's Marv Albert), 
after the Dodgers had won Game 4 (en route to a 4–1 series victory), Lasorda 
sarcastically suggested the MVP of the 1988 World Series should be Bob 
Costas. Besides calling the 1989 American League Championship Series for 
NBC, Costas also filled-in for a suddenly ill Vin Scully, who had come 
down with laryngitis, for Game 2 of the 1989 National League Championship 
Series. Game 2 of the NLCS took place on Thursday, October 5, which was 
an off day for the ALCS. NBC then decided to fly Costas from Toronto to 
Chicago to substitute for Scully on Thursday night. Afterward, Costas flew 
back to Toronto, where he resumed work on the ALCS the next night. Bob 
Costas anchored NBC's pre- and post-game shows for NFL broadcasts and the 
pre and post-game shows for numerous World Series and Major League Baseball 
All-Star Games during the 1980s (the first being for the 1982 World Series). 
Costas did not get a shot at doing play-by-play (as the games on NBC were 
previously called by Vin Scully) for an All-Star Game until 1994 and a 
World Series until 1995 (when NBC split the coverage with ABC under "The 
Baseball Network" umbrella), when NBC regained Major League Baseball rights 
after a four-year hiatus (when the broadcast network television contract 
moved over to CBS, exclusively). It was not until 1997 when Costas finally 
got to do play-by-play for a World Series from start to finish. Costas 
ended up winning a Sports Emmy Award for Outstanding Sports Personality, 
Play-by-Play. In 1999, Costas teamed with his then-NBC colleague Joe Morgan 
to call two weekday night telecasts for ESPN. The first was on Wednesday, 
August 25 with Detroit Tigers playing against the Seattle Mariners. The 
second was on Tuesday, September 21 with the Atlanta Braves playing against 
the New York Mets. When NBC gained the NBA network contract from CBS in 
1990, Costas hosted the telecasts and was teamed in the studio with ex-Lakers 
coach Pat Riley. He also hosted the studio program Showtime and did play-by-play 
for the 1991 All-Star Game. In 1997, Costas began a three-year stint as 
the lead play-by-play man for The NBA on NBC. Costas teamed with Isiah 
Thomas and Doug Collins for NBA telecasts (from 1997 to 2000). NBC enlisted 
Costas' services after they were forced to (temporarily) remove Marv Albert 
from their broadcasts due to lingering personal and legal problems at the 
time. Costas stepped aside following the 2000 NBA Finals in favor of a 
returning Marv Albert. Costas returned to call some games of the 2002 NBA 
Playoffs after Albert was injured in a car accident two days before the 
playoffs. While this, in essence, ended his active role on the NBA on NBC 
program (by this point, Hannah Storm and briefly Ahmad Rashād had replaced 
Costas on studio anchoring duties), Costas would return to do play-by-play 
for selected playoff games. Costas also co-anchored (with Hannah Storm) 
NBC's NBA Finals coverage in 2002, which was their last to-date. In 2006, 
Costas returned to studio hosting duties on The NFL on NBC (under the Football 
Night in America banner), which was returning after a near ten-year hiatus. 
Costas last hosted NFL telecasts for NBC in 1992 before being replaced 
in the studio by Jim Lampley and subsequently, Greg Gumbel. Before becoming 
the studio host for The NFL on NBC in 1984, Costas did play-by-play of 
NFL games with analyst Bob Trumpy. Costas is nicknamed "Rapping Roberto" 
by New York City's Daily News sports media columnist Bob Raissman.[12] 
Al Michaels also called him "Rapping Roberto" during the telecast between 
the Indianapolis Colts and the New York Giants on September 10, 2006, in 
response to Costas calling him "Alfalfa".[13] In 2016 Costas is scheduled 
to host Thursday Night Football on NBC/NFL Network. He is currently taking 
a leave of absence from NBC for unknown reasons. Costas hosted NBC's coverage 
of the 2008, 2009, and the 2010 NHL Winter Classic.[14] He was scheduled 
to host coverage of the 2011 event as well but, due to the game's postponement, 
Costas only hosted pre-game coverage before leaving to go to Seattle for 
his duties with NBC's NFL coverage the next night. He hosted the event 
in 2012 as well as a post-game edition of NHL Live on the NBC Sports Network. 
Costas has frontlined many Olympics broadcasts for NBC. They include the 
Olympics in Barcelona in 1992, Atlanta in 1996, Sydney in 2000, Salt Lake 
City in 2002, Athens in 2004, Torino in 2006, Beijing in 2008, Vancouver 
in 2010, London in 2012, Sochi in 2014 and Rio in 2016.[15] He discusses 
his work on the Olympic telecasts extensively in a book by Andrew Billings 
entitled Olympic Media: Inside the Biggest Show on Television. A personal 
influence on Costas has been legendary ABC Sports broadcaster Jim McKay, 
who hosted many Olympics for ABC from the 1960s to the 1980s.[16] During 
the 1992 Barcelona and 1996 Atlanta Opening Ceremonies, Costas' remarks 
on China's teams' possible drug use caused an uproar among the American 
Chinese and international communities. Thousands of dollars were raised 
to purchase ads in The Washington Post and Sunday The New York Times, featuring 
an image of the head of a statue of Apollo and reading: "Costas Poisoned 
Olympic Spirit, Public Protests NBC".[17][18] However, Costas' comments 
were made subsequent to the suspension of Chinese coach Zhou Ming after 
seven of his swimmers were caught using steroids in 1994. Further evidence 
of Chinese athletes' drug use came in 1997 when Australian authorities 
confiscated 13 vials of Somatropin, a human growth hormone, from the bag 
of Chinese swimmer Yuan Yuan upon her arrival for the 1997 World Swimming 
Championships. At the World Championships, four Chinese swimmers tested 
positive for the banned substance Triamterene, a diuretic used to dilute 
urine samples to mask the presence of anabolic steroids. Including these 
failed drug tests, 27 Chinese swimmers were caught using performance-enhancing 
drugs from 1990 through 1997; more than the rest of the world combined.[19] 
Along with co-host Meredith Vieira and Matt Lauer, Costas' commentary of 
the 2012 Summer Olympics Opening Ceremonies came under fierce criticism, 
with Costas being described as making "a series of jingoistic remarks, 
including a joke about Idi Amin when Uganda's team appeared"[20] and the 
combined commentary as being "ignorant" and "banal".[21][22][23] Following 
the Olympics, Costas appeared on Conan O'Brien's talk show and jokingly 
criticized his employer for its decision to air a preview of the upcoming 
series Animal Practice over a performance by The Who during the London 
closing ceremonies. "So here is the balance NBC has to consider: The Who, 
'Animal Practice.' Roger Daltrey, Pete Townshend -- monkey in a lab coat. 
I'm sure you'd be the first to attest, Conan, that when it comes to the 
tough calls, NBC usually gets 'em right," Costas said, alluding at the 
end to O'Brien's involvement in the 2010 Tonight Show conflict.[24] An 
eye infection Costas had at the start of the 2014 Winter Olympics forced 
him, on February 11, 2014, to cede his Olympic hosting duties to Matt Lauer 
(four nights) and Meredith Vieira (two nights), the first time Costas has 
not done so at all since the 1998 Winter Olympics (in which Jim Nantz was 
the primetime host for CBS) and the first time Costas has not done so at 
all since the 1988 Summer Olympics (Bryant Gumbel was the primetime host 
for NBC's 1988 Summer Olympics coverage, while Costas hosted the late night 
portion).[25] He returned to host the primetime coverage for the 2016 Summer 
Olympics in Rio de Janeiro in August of that year. Since 2001, Costas has 
co-hosted the Kentucky Derby.[26] In 2009, he hosted Bravo's coverage of 
the 2009 Kentucky Oaks.[27] Costas also hosted the syndicated radio program 
Costas Coast to Coast from 1986 to 1996, which was revived as Costas on 
the Radio. Costas on the Radio, which ended its three-year run on May 31, 
2009, aired on 200 stations nationwide each weekend and syndicated by the 
Clear Channel owned Premiere Radio Networks. During that period, Costas 
also served as the imaging voice of Clear Channel-owned KLOU in St. Louis, 
Missouri during that station's period as "My 103.3".[28] Like Later, Costas' 
radio shows have focused on a wide variety of topics and have not been 
limited to sports discussion. Costas hosted Later with Bob Costas on NBC 
from 1988 until 1994. This late night show created by Dick Ebersol, coming 
on at 1:30 a.m. as the third program in NBC's nightly lineup after The 
Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and Late Night with David Letterman, 
was something of a break from the typical TV talk show format of the era, 
featuring Costas and a single guest conversing for the entire half hour, 
without a band, opening monologue or studio audience. On several occasions, 
Costas held the guest over for multiple nights, and these in-depth discussions 
won Costas much praise for his interviewing skills. The show was taped 
in GE Building's studios 3B or 8H at the Rockefeller Plaza, with Costas 
interviewing the guest for 45 minutes to an hour before turning the material 
over to editors who condensed it down to 22 minutes plus commercial breaks.[29] 
More popular guests were given two or three part interviews that ran consecutive 
nights. In August 1991, Mel Brooks became the only guest for four consecutive 
nights in the series' history. The program was critically acclaimed, and 
twice nominated for Emmy's during its 5 1⁄2-year run, with Costas as host. 
It won the Emmy Award for Best Informational Series in 1993. In June 2005, 
Costas was named by CNN president Jonathan Klein as a regular substitute 
anchor for Larry King's Larry King Live for one year. Costas, as well as 
Klein, have said Costas was not trying out for King's position on a permanent 
basis. Nancy Grace was also named a regular substitute host for the show.[30] 
On August 18, 2005, Costas refused to host a Larry King Live broadcast 
where the subject was missing teenager Natalee Holloway. Costas said that 
because there were no new developments in the story, he felt it had no 
news value, and he was uncomfortable with television's drift in the direction 
of tabloid type stories.[31] Beginning in October 2011, Costas was a correspondent 
for Rock Center with Brian Williams. He gained acclaim for his November 
2011 live interview of former Pennsylvania State University assistant coach 
Jerry Sandusky concerning charges of sexual abuse of minors, in which Sandusky 
called in to deny the charges.[32] Costas hosts a monthly talk show Costas 
Tonight on NBC Sports Network.[33] In 2001, Costas was hired by HBO to 
host a 12-week series called On the Record with Bob Costas.[34] On the 
Record with Bob Costas was similar to the format of the old Later program 
as they both concentrated on in-depth interviews. In 2002, Costas began 
a stint as co-host of HBO's long-running series Inside the NFL. Costas 
remained host of Inside the NFL through the end of the 2007 NFL season. 
He hosted the show with Cris Collinsworth and former NFL legends Dan Marino 
and Cris Carter. The program aired each week during the NFL season. In 
2005, On the Record with Bob Costas was revamped to become Costas Now, 
a monthly issue oriented sports program that occasionally employed a town 
hall style format. Costas left HBO to sign with MLB Network in February 
2009. At the channel's launch on January 1, 2009, he hosted the premiere 
episode of All Time Games, a presentation of the recently discovered kinescope 
of Game 5 of the 1956 World Series. During the episode, he held a forum 
with Don Larsen, who pitched MLB's only postseason perfect game during 
that game, and Yogi Berra, who caught the game. Costas joined the network 
full-time on February 3, 2009. He hosts a regular interview show titled 
MLB Network Studio 42 with Bob Costas as well as special programming, and 
provides play-by-play for select live baseball game telecasts.[35] As aforementioned, 
Costas will be hosting Thursday Night Football on NBC and NFL Network, 
pending what happens to his current absence from his current duties. Costas 
provided significant contributions to the Ken Burns, PBS mini series Baseball 
as well as its follow-up The 10th Inning. He also appears in another PBS 
film, A Time for Champions, produced by St. Louis' Nine Network of Public 
Media.[36] Costas is a devoted baseball fan. He's been suggested as a potential 
commissioner and wrote Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball in 2000. For 
his 40th birthday, then Oakland Athletics manager Tony La Russa allowed 
Costas to manage the club during a spring training game. The first time 
Costas visited baseball legend Stan Musial's St. Louis eatery, he left 
a $3.31 tip on a ten dollar tab in homage to Musial's lifetime batting 
average (.331). Costas delivered the eulogy at Mickey Mantle's funeral. 
In eulogizing Mantle, Costas described the baseball legend as "a fragile 
hero to whom we had an emotional attachment so strong and lasting that 
it defied logic". Costas has even carried a 1958 Mickey Mantle baseball 
card in his wallet. Costas also delivered the eulogy for Musial after his 
death in early 2013. Costas was outspoken about his disdain for Major League 
Baseball instituting a playoff wild card. Costas believed it diminishes 
the significance and drama of winning a divisional championship. He prefers 
a system in which winning the wild card puts a team at some sort of disadvantage, 
as opposed to an equal level with teams who outplayed them over a 162-game 
season. Or, as explained in his book Fair Ball, have only the three division 
winners in each league go to the postseason, with the team with the best 
record receiving a bye into the League Championship Series. Once, on the 
air on HBO's Inside the NFL, he mentioned that the NFL regular season counted 
for something, but baseball's was beginning to lose significance. With 
the advent of the second wild card, Costas has said he feels the format 
has improved, since there is now a greater premium placed on finishing 
first. He has suggested a further tweak: Make the wild card round a best 
two of three, instead of a single game, with all three games, if necessary, 
on the homefield of the wild card of the better record. Costas serves as 
a member of the advisory board of the Baseball Assistance Team, a 501(c)(3) 
non-profit organization dedicated to helping former Major League, Minor 
League, and Negro League players through financial and medical difficulties. 
On May 26, 2007, Costas discussed the presidency of George W. Bush on his 
radio show, stating he liked Bush personally, and had been optimistic about 
his presidency, but said the course of the Iraq war, and other mis-steps 
have led him to conclude Bush's presidency had "tragically failed" and 
considered it "overwhelmingly evident, even if you're a conservative Republican, 
if you're honest about it, this is a failed administration."[37] The following 
summer, Costas would interview Bush during the president's appearance at 
the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing.[38] During a segment on the Sunday 
Night Football halftime show on December 2, 2012, Costas paraphrased Fox 
Sports columnist Jason Whitlock in regards to Jovan Belcher's murder-suicide 
the day prior, stating that the United States' gun culture was causing 
more domestic disputes to result in death, and that it was likely Belcher 
and his girlfriend would not have died had he not possessed a gun.[39] 
Critics interpreted his remarks as support for gun control, resulting in 
mostly negative reactions. Many (including former Republican Presidential 
candidates Mike Huckabee and Herman Cain)[40] felt that Costas should not 
have used a program typically viewed as entertainment to publicize political 
views on sensitive topics, Lou Dobbs criticized his remarks for supporting 
the abolishment of the Second Amendment by quoting a sports writer, while 
Andrew Levy remarked that he had been given a civics lecture by someone 
who had "gotten rich thanks in part to a sport that destroys men’s bodies 
and brains."[41] However, liberal reporter Erik Wemple of The Washington 
Post praised Costas for speaking out for gun control on the broadcast, 
feeling that the incident's connection to the NFL provided him with an 
obligation to acknowledge the incident during the halftime show, stating 
that "the things that [NFL players] do affect the public beyond whether 
their teams cover the point spread. And few cases better exemplify that 
dynamic as powerfully as the Belcher incident."[42] During the following 
week, Costas defended his remarks in an appearance on MSNBC's program The 
Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell, where he stated that the remarks were 
related to the country's gun culture, and not about gun control as critics 
had inferred. Costas did suggest that more regulation be placed on America's 
gun culture:[40] "Now, do I believe that we need more comprehensive and 
more sensible gun control legislation? Yes I do. That doesn't mean repeal 
the Second Amendment. That doesn't mean a prohibition on someone having 
a gun to protect their home and their family. It means sensible and more 
comprehensive gun control legislation. But even if you had that, you would 
still have the problem of what Jason Whitlock wrote about, and what I agree 
with. And that is a gun culture in this country."[40] During his coverage 
of the 2014 Winter Olympics, Costas was criticized by some conservative 
members of the media, including Michelle Malkin and Glenn Beck for supposedly 
praising Vladimir Putin’s role in defusing tensions surrounding Syria, 
and Iran.[43] Several media commentators, including Bill O’Reilly and Bernard 
Goldberg, defended Costas’ remarks as factually correct and pointed out 
that Costas had also voiced considerable criticism of both Russia and Putin 
while broadcasting from Sochi. During an interview on Fox News Goldberg 
said "... the idea that Costas somehow portrayed Vladimir Putin as a benign 
figure is ridiculous."[44][45] Costas defended himself on O'Reilly's broadcast 
on March 3, reiterating that he criticized Putin immediately preceding, 
and following, the statements that were questioned. O'Reilly then aired 
a portion of an Olympic commentary in which Costas was pointedly critical 
of the Russian leader. Costas also indicated that Senator John McCain, 
who had been among those who had initially criticized Costas, had called 
Costas to apologize after hearing the full segment in context.[46] Costas 
was married from 1983 to 2001 to Carole "Randy" Randall Krummenacher. They 
had two children, son Keith (born 1986) and daughter Taylor (born 1989). 
Costas once jokingly promised Minnesota Twins center fielder Kirby Puckett 
that, if he was batting over .350 by the time his child was born, he would 
name the baby Kirby. Kirby was hitting better than .350, but Bob's son 
initially was not given a first (or second) name of Kirby. After Puckett 
reminded Costas of the agreement, the birth certificate was changed to 
"Keith Michael Kirby Costas".[47] On March 12, 2004, Costas married his 
second wife, Jill Sutton. Costas and his wife now reside primarily in New 
York, but he has often said he thinks of St. Louis as his hometown.[48] 
Costas's children have also won Sports Emmys; Keith has won two as an associate 
producer on MLB Network's MLB Tonight[49][50] and Taylor as an associate 
producer on NBC's coverage of the 2012 Summer Olympics.[50] Costas has 
won eight National Sportcaster of the Year awards from the National Sportscasters 
and Sportswriters Association. He was inducted into that organization's 
Hall of Fame in 2012. He has also won four Sportscaster of the Year awards 
from the American Sportscasters Association and well over twenty Sports 
Emmy Awards for outstanding sports announcing. He is the only person in 
television history to have won Emmys for Sports, News (Sandusky interview), 
and Entertainment (Later). In 1999, he was a recipient of the Curt Gowdy 
Media Award from the Basketball Hall of Fame, which is awarded to members 
of the electronic and print media for outstanding contributions to the 
sport. In 1995, he received a star on the St. Louis Walk of Fame.[51] In 
2000, he won a TV Guide Award for Favorite Sportscaster.[52] He was selected 
as the Dick Schaap Award for Outstanding Journalism recipient in 2004. 
In 2006, he was also awarded an honorary doctorate in humane letters from 
Loyola College in Maryland. In 2012, he was awarded the Walter Cronkite 
Award for Excellence in Broadcast Journalism. He is an honorary trustee 
of Webster University, a private college located in Webster Groves, Missouri. 
He is a frequent supporter of the school, to include numerous radio commercials. 
He is also an honorary board member of the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation. 
In 1994, Costas appeared as the play-by-play announcer for the World Series 
(working alongside Tim McCarver) in the movie The Scout. In 1998, he appeared 
as himself along with his rival/counterpart Al Michaels (who now works 
for NBC) from ABC in the movie BASEketball. In 2006, Costas voiced the 
animated character Bob Cutlass, a race announcer, in the movie Cars. He 
also appeared as himself in the 2001 movie Pootie Tang, where he remarks 
that he saw "the longest damn clip ever". Costas' voice appeared in the 
2011 documentary film Legendary: When Baseball Came to the Bluegrass, which 
detailed the humble beginnings of the Lexington Legends, a minor league 
baseball team located in Lexington, Kentucky. Costas has been alluded to 
several times in popular music. The songs "Mafioso" by Mac Dre, "We Major" 
by Domo Genesis and "The Last Huzzah" by Mr. Muthafuckin' eXquire, all 
refer to Costas. He was also mentioned in a Ludacris song after Costas 
mentioned the rapper on the late night talk show Last Call with Carson 
Daly. In June 2013, Costas provided the voice of "God" in the Monty Python 
musical Spamalot at The Muny Repertory in St. Louis. Apart from his normal 
sportscasting duties, Costas has also presented periodic sports blooper 
reels, and announced dogsled and elevator races, on Late Night with David 
Letterman. In 1985, Costas appeared on the The War to Settle the Score, 
a pre-WrestleMania program that the World Wrestling Federation aired on 
MTV. In 1993, Costas hosted the "pregame" show for the final episode of 
Cheers. Costas once appeared on the television program, NewsRadio, as himself. 
He hosted an award show and later had some humorous encounters with the 
crew of WNYX. Costas also once appeared as a guest on the faux talk show 
cartoon Space Ghost Coast to Coast. Costas has been impersonated several 
times by Darrell Hammond on Saturday Night Live.[53] Costas was "supposed" 
to appear in the fourth season premiere of Celebrity Deathmatch (ironically 
titled "Where is Bob Costas?") as a guest-commentator, but about halfway 
through the episode it was revealed that John Tesh had killed him before 
the show to take his place. On June 13, 2008, Costas appeared on MSNBC's 
commercial-free special coverage of Remembering Tim Russert (1950~2008). 
On January 30, 2009, Costas guest-starred as himself on the television 
series Monk in an episode titled "Mr. Monk Makes the Playoffs"'. He mentions 
to Captain Stottlemeyer about how Adrian Monk once helped him out of a 
problem several years ago with regards to a demented cat salesman. He apparently 
sold Costas a cat that allegedly tried to kill him with a squeeze toy (in 
fact, when he signs off, he says "The cat was definitely trying to kill 
me"). Costas guest-voiced as himself in 2010 Simpsons episode, "Boy Meets 
Curl", when Homer and Marge make the U.S. Olympic curling team. Costas 
also guest-voiced as himself on the Family Guy episode "Turban Cowboy" 
in an interview with Peter after he wins the Boston Marathon by hitting 
everyone with his car. On February 11, 2010, Stephen Colbert jokingly expressed 
his desire to stab Costas with an ice pick at the upcoming 2010 Winter 
Olympics in Vancouver so that Colbert could take over as host. Costas later 
made a cameo appearance on the February 25, 2010 edition of Colbert's show. 
In January 2013, Costas appeared as himself in Go On episode, "Win at All 
Costas" with Matthew Perry, where Ryan King auditions with him for a TV 
Show. Real footage of Costas from NBC's pregame show before Game 5 of the 
1994 NBA Finals was used in the second episode of The People v. O.J. Simpson: 
American Crime Story. In 2002, Costas was the play-by-play announcer, alongside 
Harold Reynolds, for Triple Play 2002 during the ballgame for PlayStation 
