Robert George "Bob" Uecker (/ˈjuːkər/ EWK-ər; born January 26, 1934[1]) 
is a retired American Major League Baseball player, later a sportscaster, 
comedian and actor. Facetiously dubbed "Mr. Baseball" by TV talk show host 
Johnny Carson, Uecker has served as a play-by-play announcer for Milwaukee 
Brewers radio broadcasts since 1971. He was honored by the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame with its 2003 Ford C. Frick Award in recognition of his broadcasting 
career. Though he has sometimes joked that he was born on an oleo run to 
Illinois, Uecker was born and raised in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.[2] He grew 
up watching the minor-league Milwaukee Brewers at Borchert Field. He signed 
a professional contract with his hometown Milwaukee Braves in 1956 and 
made his Major League Baseball debut as a catcher with the club in 1962. 
A below-average hitter, he finished with a career batting average of .200. 
He was generally considered to be a sound defensive player and committed 
very few errors in his Major League career as a catcher, completing his 
career with a fielding percentage of .981. However, in 1967, despite playing 
only 59 games, he led the league in passed balls and is still on the top 
10 list for most passed balls in a season. At least a partial explanation 
is that he spent a good deal of the season catching knuckleballer Phil 
Niekro.[3] He often joked that the best way to catch a knuckleball was 
to wait until it stopped rolling and pick it up.[4] Uecker also played 
for the St. Louis Cardinals (and was a member of the 1964 World Champion 
club) and Philadelphia Phillies before returning to the Braves, who had 
by then moved to Atlanta. His six-year Major League career concluded in 
1967. Perhaps the biggest highlight of Uecker's career was when he hit 
a home run off future Hall of Famer Sandy Koufax after which Uecker joked 
that he always thought that home run would keep Koufax from getting into 
the Hall of Fame. After retiring as a player, Uecker returned to Milwaukee. 
In 1971, he began calling play-by-play for the Milwaukee Brewers' radio 
broadcasts, a position he holds to this day. For several years he also 
served as a color commentator for network television broadcasts of Major 
League Baseball, helping call games for ABC in the 1970s and NBC in the 
1990s. During that time, he was a commentator for several League Championship 
Series and World Series. As of 2016, Uecker teams with Jeff Levering to 
call games on WTMJ in Milwaukee and the Brewers Radio Network throughout 
Wisconsin, save for some road trips which he skips; for those games Lane 
Grindle substitutes for Uecker on the radio broadcasts.[5] Uecker is well 
known for saying his catchphrase "Get up! Get up! Get outta here! Gone!" 
when a Brewers player hits a home run.[6] Uecker's sports expertise extends 
beyond baseball. He hosted two syndicated television shows, Bob Uecker's 
Wacky World of Sports and Bob Uecker's War of the Stars. The former has 
since become known as The Lighter Side of Sports (albeit with a different 
host, Mike Golic) and remains one of the longest-running syndicated sports 
programs in American television history. Uecker also appeared in a series 
of commercials for the Milwaukee Admirals of the American Hockey League 
in the mid-1990s, including one in which he re-designed the team's uniforms 
to feature a garish plaid reminiscent of the loud sports coats synonymous 
with Uecker in the 1970s and 1980s. In February 2006, the Admirals commemorated 
those commercials with a special event in which the players wore the plaid 
jerseys during a game. The jerseys were then auctioned off to benefit charity.[7] 
In March 1987, Uecker appeared at World Wrestling Federation's (now known 
as WWE) WrestleMania III in Pontiac, Michigan, as the ring announcer for 
the pay-per-view's main event of Hulk Hogan versus André the Giant. He 
returned in 1988 at WrestleMania IV as a ringside announcer, commentator 
during the opening Battle Royal and backstage interviewer. One famous WrestleMania 
segment saw André the Giant choking Uecker.[8] His introduction of Andre 
from WrestleMania III can be heard in WWE's signature introduction during 
each of the organization's television broadcasts and home video releases. 
Known for his humor, particularly about his undistinguished playing career, 
Uecker actually became much better known after he retired from playing. 
He made some 100[9] guest appearances on Johnny Carson's Tonight Show, 
and appeared in a number of humorous commercials, most notably for Miller 
Lite beer, as one of the "Miller Lite All-Stars". During one Tonight Show 
appearance Carson asked him what the biggest thrill of his professional 
baseball career was and with his typical dry wit Uecker replied, "Watching 
a fan fall out of the upper deck in Philadelphia." Uecker authored two 
books, an autobiography entitled Catcher in the Wry, and Catch 222. On 
April 27, 2010, Uecker announced that he was going to miss 10–12 weeks 
of the 2010 baseball season because of heart surgery. His aortic valve 
and a portion of his aortic root were successfully replaced four days later, 
and he returned to broadcasting for the Brewers on July 23.[10][11] On 
October 14, 2010, the Brewers announced Uecker would again undergo heart 
surgery, this time to repair a tear at the site of his valve replacement.[12] 
The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association named Uecker as 
Wisconsin Sportscaster of the Year five times (1977, 1979, 1981, 1982, 
1987),[13] and inducted him into its Hall of Fame in 2011.[14] Uecker was 
inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2001. In 2003, he received 
the Ford C. Frick Award, bestowed annually by the Baseball Hall of Fame 
to a broadcaster for "major contributions to baseball." His humorous and 
self-deprecating speech was a highlight of the ceremony.[15] In 2005, Uecker's 
50th year in professional baseball, the Milwaukee Brewers placed a number 
50 in his honor in their "Ring of Honor", near the retired numbers of Robin 
Yount and Paul Molitor. Four years later, on May 12, 2009, Uecker's name 
was also added to the Braves Wall of Honor inside Miller Park.[16] Uecker 
was inducted into the Celebrity Wing of the WWE Hall of Fame in 2010,[8] 
honored for his appearances at WrestleMania III and WrestleMania IV. On 
August 31, 2012, the Brewers erected the Uecker Monument outside Miller 
Park[17] alongside statues of Hank Aaron, Robin Yount and Bud Selig. Uecker 
has had a number of acting roles in ads, TV shows and movies. He played 
the recurring character of father and sportswriter George Owens on the 
1985-1990 sitcom Mr. Belvedere, appearing regularly.[18] He also appeared 
in a series of Miller Lite commercials starting in the 1980s. In one commercial 
from that decade, Uecker was seen preparing to watch a baseball game when 
an usher informs him he is in the wrong seat. Uecker pompously remarks, 
"I must be in the front row", which became another of his catchphrases. 
The punch line was that Uecker's seat was actually in the nosebleed section. 
Since then, the farthest seats from the action in some arenas and stadiums 
have been jokingly called "Uecker seats".[19] There is a section of $1 
seating called the "Uecker seats" at Miller Park, which is an obstructed-view 
area in the upper grandstand above home plate where the stadium's roof 
pivot comes together (in reference to one of his Miller Lite commercials). 
Another of Uecker's catchphrases from the aforementioned Miller Lite 'front 
row' commercial is, "He missed the tag!"[19] Uecker made cameo appearances 
as himself in the films O.C. and Stiggs[20] and Fatal Instinct'[21] and 
in episodes of the sitcoms Who's the Boss?,[22] D.C. Follies[23] and LateLine.[24] 
He was the voice of the "head of Bob Uecker" in the Futurama episode "A 
Leela of Her Own."[25] Another prominent role was as Harry Doyle, the broadcaster 
for the Cleveland Indians, in the Major League film trilogy.[26][27][28] 
In the movies, Uecker's character is known for his witticisms and his tendency 
to become intoxicated from drinking during losing games, as well as downplaying 
poor play by the team for the radio audience: for example, in the first 
film he also coins another popular sports phrase "Juuust a bit outside", 
to downplay an extremely bad wild pitch from Ricky "Wild Thing" Vaughn. 
Uecker received the role not because of his broadcasting history with the 
