Robert Michael "Bob" Ojeda (born December 17, 1957) is a former Major League 
Baseball left-handed pitcher. Ojeda is best remembered as an anchor in 
the 1986 World Series Champion New York Mets starting rotation (along with 
Dwight Gooden and Ron Darling), and for being the lone survivor of a March 
22, 1993 boating accident that killed fellow Cleveland Indians pitchers 
Steve Olin and Tim Crews. He is also a former pre- and post-game studio 
analyst for Mets broadcasts. Ojeda attended Redwood High School and College 
of the Sequoias in Visalia, California. Upon graduation, he was signed 
as an undrafted free agent by the Boston Red Sox in 1978. Though his first 
professional season with the New York–Penn League's Elmira Pioneers went 
poorly (1–6 with a 4.81 ERA), in 1979, as a starting pitcher for the Winter 
Haven Red Sox of the Florida State League, Ojeda went 15–7 in 29 games 
started earning a promotion to the triple A Pawtucket Red Sox for 1980. 
With a good earned run average, Ojeda was called up to the majors in July 
1980. He made his major league debut on July 13 at Fenway Park against 
the Detroit Tigers, and was winning, 4–1, until the sixth inning when the 
Tigers scored three runs to tie the score, and knock Ojeda out of the game. 
The Red sox eventually won, 8–4.[1] Ojeda's first victory was on August 
2 against the Texas Rangers.[2] Ojeda gave up no runs with four strikeouts 
over six innings. Two starts later, on August 11, he was removed from the 
game after having faced only three batters without getting an out, and 
was sent back to Pawtucket.[3] On June 23, 1981, Ojeda was the winning 
pitcher in the longest professional baseball game in history. The game 
between Pawtucket and the Rochester Red Wings started on April 18 but was 
suspended after 32 innings. Ojeda started the 33rd when play was resumed 
two months later and got credit for the win when Pawtucket won in the bottom 
of the inning after eighteen minutes. The first 32 innings had taken over 
eight hours. Ojeda compiled a 12-9 record with a 2.13 ERA in 1981 for Pawtucket, 
and was voted the International League's Most Valuable Pitcher of the year.[4] 
When the 1981 Major League Baseball strike ended, Ojeda's stellar ERA earned 
him a recall to the majors. He responded with a complete game seven-hit 
victory. This time, his stay in the majors was permanent, as he pitched 
well in all but his last two starts for Boston. 1982 went poorly for Ojeda 
in his first full season in the majors. After a couple of poor starts in 
May, he started splitting his time between starting and relief pitching 
and was shut down in mid-August with an ERA near six. When Ojeda returned 
home during the off-season, he was frustrated with his performance during 
the season and took up karate, saying that "I ever get back to the big 
leagues and get beat around like I got beat around, somebody's going to 
pay."[5] In 1983, Ojeda turned things around for a Boston team that finished 
near the bottom of the division. As the fourth starter, he posted a 12–7 
record and a 4.04 ERA which were both tops in the rotation. In 1984, Ojeda 
and Bruce Hurst were the number-one starters and Ojeda posted another 12 
wins (to go with 12 losses) which included a Major League lead-tying five 
shutouts. The Red Sox improved in the standings but Ojeda's numbers – including 
an ERA again near four – mostly stayed the same. When 1985 started, the 
Red Sox were overstocked on starting pitchers, including a young Roger 
Clemens, so Ojeda was relegated to the bullpen. He pitched so well in that 
capacity that he was moved back into the rotation at the end of May, but 
his ERA again ballooned over four, prompting the Red Sox to trade him after 
the season. The eight-player trade seemed minor at the time but would have 
repercussions the following year as it sent Ojeda to the New York Mets 
and Calvin Schiraldi to the Red Sox. Both would play important roles in 
the 1986 World Series. In 1986, Ojeda was fantastic for the Mets almost 
from day one. Despite starting in the bullpen and then being only the fourth 
starter, he finished with an 18–5 record, 2.57 ERA (second-best in the 
league) and 148 strikeouts – all career-bests. He got through the fifth 
inning in all but two of his starts and allowed zero earned runs in eight 
different starts. His lone blemish occurred off the field when, on July 
19, he and teammates Ron Darling, Rick Aguilera, and Tim Teufel were arrested 
outside a bar in Houston, Texas for fighting with security guards (who 
were also off-duty police officers). All four were released in time for 
the following game and the worst repercussions were $200 fines. The incident 
fueled the 1986 Mets' reputation as a rowdy crew. The team cruised through 
the 1986 regular season, building a double-digit lead before July that 
only widened in the second half of the season. After the Mets dropped the 
opening game of the 1986 National League Championship Series to the Houston 
Astros, Ojeda pitched a complete game to easily win Game 2. He also started 
Game 6, but gave up three runs in the first inning. The Mets recovered 
to tie the game in the ninth, and won in sixteen innings to earn a trip 
to the World Series. The Mets' opponents in the World Series were Ojeda's 
old team, the Boston Red Sox. While the Mets won the NLCS in six games, 
the Red Sox had to overcome a three-games-to-one deficit to squeak by the 
California Angels in the 1986 American League Championship Series. Despite 
being heavy underdogs in the WOrld Series, the Red Sox shocked the Mets 
by winning the first two games of the World Series at Shea Stadium. With 
the Mets back in Boston staring at disaster, Bob Ojeda pitched in Game 
3 and cruised to a 7–1 victory. When Mets ace Dwight Gooden again faltered 
in Game 5, they needed another big performance in Game 6. They turned to 
Ojeda, but this time, he was less than perfect, giving up two early runs. 
The Mets recovered later to tie and Ojeda left the game with a no-decision. 
When the Red Sox scored again to take the lead, they turned to the pitcher 
they traded Ojeda for, Calvin Schiraldi, to close out the World Series. 
Instead, Schiraldi gave up the lead after just five batters. With another 
chance to close out the first Boston championship since 1918, Schiraldi 
let the tenth inning turn into a legendary comeback and nightmare for Bill 
Buckner and the Red Sox. Ojeda had surgery in May 1987 and missed most 
of that season. He pitched well in 1988 and in September The Mets clinched 
the NL East. This victory marked a point where Ojeda's luck would change 
as he was involved in a bizarre incident where the tip of his left middle 
finger was severed by an electric hedge trimmer.[6] After microsurgery 
to reattach his fingertip (and save his career), he missed the playoffs 
and the Mets lost the NLCS. Ojeda did not recover well, declining in 1989 
and spending most of 1990 pitching out of the bullpen. After 1990, he was 
traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers for Hubie Brooks. In his first season 
with the Dodgers, Ojeda pitched well as their only left-handed starter. 
He won an important game in the heat of a pennant race but the Dodgers 
lost three of their last four games and missed the playoffs. In 1992, his 
numbers sank some and he became a free agent after the season. After six 
weeks as a free agent, he was signed by the Cleveland Indians. The Indians 
were in Winter Haven for spring training on March 22, 1993 when Ojeda went 
on a boat ride with new teammates Steve Olin and Tim Crews at Crews's home 
in Clermont, Florida. Crews was legally drunk and it was nearly dark when 
the boat struck a pier on Little Lake Nellie, killing Crews and Olin. It 
was the first death of active major league players since Thurman Munson 
in 1979. Ojeda suffered major head lacerations and sat out most of the 
season to recuperate both physically and mentally. He attributed the fact 
that he was slouching in his seat at the time of the accident for saving 
his life.[7] He returned late that season and had a 4.40 ERA in 43 innings..[8] 
Ojeda became a free agent after the 1993 season. He was signed by the New 
York Yankees for 1994 but pitched poorly in two games and was soon released. 
He retired as a player soon after. Since retiring, Bob Ojeda was out of 
the public eye until 2001 when he was hired as the pitching coach for the 
Mets A-level Brooklyn Cyclones. After two seasons in Brooklyn, he was promoted 
to be the pitching coach of the AA Binghamton Mets for 2003. In 2003, the 
major league Mets suffered with terrible pitching throughout the year, 
resulting in pitching coach Vern Ruhle being fired. While they were searching 
for a new coach, Ojeda's name was mentioned as a possibility but the job 
ultimately went to Rick Peterson who was Mets' manager Art Howe's former 
coach with the Oakland Athletics. Not long after, Ojeda left the Mets, 
criticizing the organization as a whole but saying his unsuccessful candidacy 
for pitching coach was not a factor.[9] In 2005, Ojeda was named the pitching 
coach for the Can-Am League's Worcester Tornadoes under Worcester manager 
and Ojeda's former batterymate, Rich Gedman, helping the team win the Can-Am 
championship in its first year. After the 2007 season, Ojeda left the coaching 
staff to join the front office.[10] In 2008, Ojeda joined the Rumson-Fair 
Haven Regional High School baseball coaching staff as a pitching instructor. 
In 2009, Ojeda joined SportsNet New York as a Pre-Game and Post-Game studio 
analyst for New York Mets Broadcasts with Chris Carlin. [11] Ojeda left 
SportsNet NY after the 2014 season.[12] In May 2012, Ojeda wrote an article 
for The New York Times titled "My Left Arm". He talks about the pain he 
went through pitching in the Major Leagues. Ojeda has a wife, a son and 
