""I always say my designs have won two World Series, two Stanley Cups and 
a national championship." Robert Gessner (born 1933) is an American freelance 
artist, from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, who created many of the logos for 
the city's athletic teams. In addition to producing logos, Gessner also 
provided the artwork for the local teams' programs. After studying at the 
Art Institute of Pittsburgh, Duquesne University and the University of 
Pittsburgh, Gessner fought in the Korean War with the U.S. Army before 
returning to Pittsburgh to begin his freelance artist career. He is credited 
for providing logos to the Pittsburgh Penguins, Pittsburgh Pirates, Pittsburgh 
Hornets and the Pitt Panthers. He designed the University of Pittsburgh's 
script "Pitt" logo first used on their football helmets in 1973. Pitt's 
script logos became the most dominant logo for the university and athletic 
teams starting with its adoption onto the football helmets of the university 
in 1973. While earning his degree at Pitt, Gessner became friends with 
Beano Cook, the University's sports information director. Cook gave Gessner 
some freelance illustration jobs for athletic programs, newspapers and 
other Panthers’ publications. Gessner's "Pitt" script logo is actually 
a stylized version of the signature of William Pitt, the British Secretary 
of State during the French and Indian War, and later Prime Minister, for 
whom Fort Pitt and later Pittsburgh were named. In 1961, Beano Cook helped 
Gessner get the job for creating the new logo for the Pittsburgh Hornets 
of the American Hockey League. He was hired to make the Hornets logo look 
tougher, since the team suspended operations from 1955-1960. In addition, 
he also did all of the artwork for the team's programs. Gessner work with 
the Hornets carried over to him getting the logo job for the expansion 
Pittsburgh Penguins in 1967. In 1967 Gessner created the first logo for 
the Pittsburgh Penguins of the National Hockey League. He was paid $1,500 
for providing the Penguins with their logo. The first logo featured a skating 
penguin with a scarf holding a hockey stick in front of a golden triangle 
symbolic of the city’s Golden Triangle. The team's original colors were 
to be black and white. However a protest from the Boston Bruins, who claimed 
that the black and white colors were owned by the Bruins, forced the Penguins 
to change their colors to Columbia blue, white and navy blue. The logo 
changed in 1968 to allow for the skating penguin to look meaner. Gessner's 
"skating penguin" was used until 1992, however it was revived in 2000 and 
is still the basis of the team's current logo, only with different colors. 
On September 27, 2010 it was announced that the original scarf-wearing 
version of the skating penguin will be featured on the Penguins new alternate 
jersey that the team will debut at the 2011 NHL Winter Classic, to be held 
at Heinz Field. This marks the first time, the scarf penguin will be featured 
on a jersey.[1] Gessner also drew the "friendly pirate" emblem used by 
the Pittsburgh Pirates of baseball's National League from 1968 until 1987. 
Gessner retired in 1996 and is currently living in St. Augustine, Florida. 
