Robert Daniel Emslie (January 27, 1859 – April 26, 1943) was a Canadian 
pitcher in Major League Baseball (MLB) who went on to set numerous records 
for longevity as an umpire.[1] Born in Guelph, Ontario, Canada, Emslie 
had a brief professional playing career with the Baltimore and Philadelphia 
clubs in the American Association. His professional umpiring career began 
in 1888, and after spending a couple of seasons in the minor leagues, he 
was promoted to the major leagues as an umpire in 1890. Emslie was nicknamed 
"Wig" due to his premature receding hairline, which was a result of the 
stress of umpiring games single-handedly in the rough-and-tumble 1890s; 
he was derisively called "Blind Bob" by the New York Giants following his 
role in the infamous "Merkle's Boner" play during the 1908 National League 
pennant race.[2] The play involved a force out when a Giants player stopped 
running to second base upon seeing that the game's winning run would score. 
When "Merkle's boner" occurred, Emslie had already worked more major league 
games than any umpire in MLB history, then later served as the National 
League's chief of umpires upon retiring from active umpiring. He retired 
to St. Thomas, Ontario and died there on Monday, April 26, 1943. In 1986 
he was named to the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame. Emslie began his professional 
career playing for several semi-professional teams in Ontario until signing 
on with the Camden, New Jersey team of an early version of the Interstate 
League for the 1882 season. He pitched for them until middle of the 1883 
season when he joined the Baltimore Orioles of the American Association.[2] 
The first season with the Orioles, he had a 9–13 record, with 3.17 earned 
run average (ERA), 21 complete games, and one shutout. His best season 
was in 1884, when he had a 32–17 record, completed all 50 of his starts, 
and had a 2.75 ERA.[1] In 1885, Emslie's numbers greatly decreased with 
Baltimore, reportedly due to a sore arm, attributed to his excessive use 
of the curveball, at which he was moved to the Philadelphia Athletics also 
of the American Association. He pitched in only four games for the A's; 
his major league playing career was over, and by 1887 his minor league 
career was through as well.[2] After his playing career finished he was 
attending an International League game and was asked to officiate this 
game between Toronto and Hamilton when the assigned umpire fell ill. He 
umpired with the International League for the 1888 and 1889 seasons, then 
began his Major League Baseball career umpiring American Association games 
in 1890. He began the 1891 season in the Western League, but was back in 
the majors by August 17, working for the National League.[2] Emslie was 
involved in many of the game's highlights, including calling four no-hitters. 
The first one was on August 16, 1893, when Bill Hawke of the Orioles tossed 
his; the second was Deacon Phillippe's of the Louisville Colonels on May 
25, 1899. The third no-hitter came on September 18, 1903 by Chick Fraser 
of the Philadelphia Phillies, and the fourth was tossed on May 8, 1907, 
by Francis "Big Jeff" Pfeffer of the Boston Doves.[3] He also officiated 
on July 13, 1896 when Ed Delahanty become only the second player to hit 
four home runs in one game. [4] By the end of the 1909 season, he began 
to work the bases almost exclusively instead of calling games from behind 
the plate.[1] In all, Emslie umpired for 33 years before retiring at the 
end of the 1924 season, after which he then served as NL chief of umpires, 
with the responsibilities of inspecting, scouting, and coaching new umpires.[2] 
Emslie was the base umpire on September 23, 1908, when controversy erupted 
at the end of the New York Giants–Chicago Cubs game at the Polo Grounds. 
With the score tied and two outs in the bottom of the ninth inning, the 
Giants had Moose McCormick on third base and Fred Merkle on first base; 
Al Bridwell smashed a single to center to drive home McCormick with the 
apparent winning run, but Merkle failed to touch second base. Cubs second 
baseman Johnny Evers noticed this error, and tagged second base and appealed 
to Emslie. Emslie claimed that he had to duck out of the way of Bridwell's 
line drive and did not see the play, and home plate umpire Hank O'Day declared 
Merkle out and the game a tie. New York manager John McGraw, with whom 
Bob had a long and tempestuous history, bestowed upon Emslie his nickname 
"Blind Bob" after the controversy. The incident is often referred to as 
"Merkle's Boner."[5] Notably, Emslie and O'Day were the two most experienced 
umpires in Major League Baseball history at that point, with Emslie having 
worked nearly 2,500 games and O'Day nearly 1,700. Later, Emslie showed 
up at a Giants' practice with a rifle, placed a dime on the pitching mound 
and shot it from behind home plate, sending the coin spinning into the 
outfield. Reportedly, McGraw never again challenged his eyesight. He retired 
to St. Thomas, Ontario, where he coached youth baseball and enjoyed curling, 
bowling, and golf.[2] Emslie died at age 84 in St. Thomas, Ontario, and 
was interred at the St. Thomas West Avenue Cemetery.[1] He was inducted 
into the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame in 1986.[2][6] Emslie Field in 
