Robert P. "Bob" Ryan (born February 21, 1946) is an American sportswriter 
formerly for The Boston Globe. He has been described as "the quintessential 
American sportswriter" and a basketball guru[1] and is well known for his 
coverage of the sport including his famous stories covering the Boston 
Celtics in the 1970s. After graduating from Boston College, Ryan started 
as a sports intern for the Globe on the same day as Peter Gammons,[2] and 
later worked with other Globe sports writing legends Will McDonough and 
Leigh Montville. Ryan announced in early 2012 his retirement from sports 
writing after 44 years once the 2012 Olympic Games concluded. His final 
column in The Boston Globe was published August 12, 2012. Born in Trenton, 
New Jersey, Ryan grew up in a house, "that revolved around going to games"[3] 
and went to high school at the Lawrenceville School from 1960 to 1964. 
He graduated from Boston College as a history major in 1968. Ryan and his 
wife Elaine have a daughter Jessica, and a son Keith who died in 2008. 
They are grandparents of triplets. They have been married since 1969. Today, 
Ryan lives in Hingham, Massachusetts.[4] The dedication page in Forty Eight 
Minutes, one of Ryan's books, says, "To Elaine Ryan: In the next life, 
maybe you'll get a nine-to-five man who makes seven figures." Ryan has 
also done humanitarian fundraisers for years to help inner-city teenagers 
with their educations. On January 28, 2008 his 37-year-old son Keith, was 
found dead in his home in Islamabad, Pakistan. Initial reports indicated 
that his death was an apparent suicide, however reports in the Pakistani 
newspapers Dawn and The News International indicated that Ryan's death 
may be investigated as a murder. A State Department spokesperson would 
only say the death was under investigation.[5] Bob Ryan released the following 
statement: "Everyone is devastated. I am well aware of these reports and 
we are very concerned about that. (But) we have no reason at this time 
to doubt the official version".[6] Keith had been working in Pakistan since 
December 2006 as an attache for the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
agency. Keith was a 1988 graduate of Hingham High School, Trinity College, 
the London School of Economics and Boston College Law School. He had previously 
worked for the U.S. Border Patrol, LAPD and the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service, where he was assigned to the violent gang task force. Keith was 
married to Kate and had three children, Conor, John, and Amelia, who live 
in Silver Spring, Maryland.[7][8][9] In the fall of 1969 a vacancy on the 
Globe's Celtics beat was created, and Ryan got the job. While covering 
the Celtics, Ryan developed a close relationship with the Celtics organization. 
Ryan would even go out to dinner with the team.[2] Ryan sat at the press 
table 8 seats from the Celtics' bench, where colleagues referred to him 
as the "Commissioner", not unlike Peter Gammons's nickname. Boston Sports 
Media critic Bruce Allen[10] has said, "His passion is not faked."[11] 
One night Hue Hollins, the referee, went to the press table to explain 
a call to Ryan during a time-out even though he was not obligated to. Another 
time Ryan wrote a column about the Washington Bullets' Rick Mahorn and 
how he played dirty under the hoop. When Mahorn was called for a foul Gene 
Shue, the Bullets' coach, turned around and said, "That's your fault, Bob 
Ryan, your fault!" Dennis Johnson was often annoyed with Ryan and would 
go up to the press table and say, "Hey, Bob, keep it down. We got a game 
going on here" when Ryan sideline coached.[12] From Ryan's first column 
on Larry Bird headlined "Celtics draft Bird for oh what a future" to his 
last "Larry! Larry! Larry!" Ryan was always a fan of his and eventually 
co-authored a book with him.[13] In Tom (Tommy) Heinsohn's book Give 'em 
the Hook, Heinsohn is negative towards Ryan. Ryan, who began writing for 
the Globe in Heinsohn's rookie season as a coach, would make friends with 
the players and vent their feelings towards Heinsohn, their fans, and their 
teammates, claims Heinsohn. Heinsohn didn't like how he didn't feel in 
control of his team. Heinsohn believes that Ryan started to "think of himself 
as another member of the family" and that he even started coaching the 
team through his beat stories. Heinsohn goes on to talk about Ryan's bloated 
ego and the fact that he was then thinking of himself as a basketball guru. 
Heinsohn also says while noting disapproval of Ryan that at the time anyone 
who lived in Boston and even remotely followed basketball read Bob Ryan.[14] 
In recent years Ryan has been less critical of Celtics coaches, including 
Doc Rivers, of whom he said, "I'm a Doc guy." In 1982 Ryan would hand the 
torch of the Globe Celtics beat to then-not well known Dan Shaughnessy, 
and later Jackie MacMullan. He did this in order to go to WCVB for a couple 
of years. Ryan ended up hating it and moved back to the Celtics beat in 
1984 for two more seasons before getting promoted to general sports columnist 
in 1989.[15] Ryan would cover 20 NBA finals, 20 Final Fours, nine World 
Series, five Super Bowls, the last seven Olympics and many other events. 
In recent times Ryan has become less basketball-oriented and more general 
sports-oriented. He continues to write for Basketball Times. Ryan votes 
for the Baseball Hall of Fame.[16] At 60, Ryan wanted his retirement from 
the job to be graceful: "I’m not bitter. I enjoy my job and I still think 
I do it well, but they are chipping away, chipping away and they are making 
it far less pleasurable. I want to get out when I feel like getting out. 
If you stay around too long, there is no way you can dictate your terms," 
he said. Ryan also asked, "How do you explain to Stephen A. Smith that 
he has no idea of the game and how much fun it was? He thinks he knows 
everything, but he will never know what I know about the Celtics."[2] On 
February 14, 2012, during a podcast with Bill Simmons on Grantland.com, 
Ryan announced that he would retire after the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. 
Said Ryan, "I really and truly believe that my time has come and gone; 
that the dynamics of the business, of what it takes, what it means to be 
involved in the sports business with all the Tweeting and the blogging 
and all the stuff, and an audience with a different taste - it's not me 
anymore. I'm not comfortable." Ryan indicated that he would stay involved 
with sports in a part-time capacity after retirement, but is not interested 
in continuing at the pace he does now. Ryan's last day as a Red Sox reporter 
was July 16, 2012.[20] Ryan's final column in The Boston Globe was published 
August 12, 2012. He will remain columnist emeritus and write on a part-time 
basis. He also will remain on ESPN's "Around The Horn" and occasionally 
guest hosts ESPN's "Pardon the Interruption" with Michael Wilbon or Tony 
Kornheiser. On June 26, 2007 Bob Ryan's show, Globe 10.0, made its premiere 
on the New England Sports Network. The half hour show, which airs every 
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, features Ryan interviewing different Boston 
Globe sports writers on ten issues related to New England sports.[21][22] 
It was canceled by NESN in December 2008, but continued on the Boston Globe 
website. In addition Bill Simmons has called him "the best basketball writer 
ever." Paul Silas joked on Cold Pizza while Ryan was a guest, that all 
Bob Ryan's success was due to him.[24] In May 2003, Ryan appeared on Sports 
Final, a local sports talk show airing on WBZ-TV. At that time, Ryan said 
that Joumana Kidd, then-wife of then-New Jersey Nets guard Jason Kidd needed 
someone to "smack" her for taking her son T.J., then four years old, to 
NBA playoff night games where they could be taunted.[25] He accused Joumana 
of being an exhibitionist and using the child as a prop to get television 
time. The show's host, Bob Lobel, asked Ryan to retract his statement immediately: 
The comments struck a chord because in 2001, Joumana Kidd had been the 
victim of domestic violence by then-husband Jason.[27] Ryan returned to 
Boston to meet with executives at the Globe. Ryan publicly apologized, 
but the Globe still suspended him and barred him from television for one 
month. "Four weeks took my breath away. But I’ll abide by it," he later 
said.[26] Then Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney chastised Ryan for his 
comments.[28] Gerry Callahan of the Boston Herald defended Ryan while Herald 
ombudsman Jim Baker did not.[26] The Boston Phoenix called it a "moment 
of temporary insanity."[29] Ryan later said, "I'm angry with myself forgetting 
in the heat of battle that the woman had been hit."[4] Ryan made a mistake 
in 2006 when he wrote a column promoting the Final Four matchup of Louisiana 
State University and George Mason University, and recommending fans tune 
to see two of the biggest players in college basketball, LSU's Glen Big 
Baby Davis (a former Boston Celtic) and George Mason's Jai Lewis. However, 
LSU and George Mason were on different sides of the NCAA Bracket and were 
not scheduled to play one another. The Globe did not find this error and 
the inaccurate column was run in the Globe.[30] Ryan referred to this incident 
on ESPN's Around the Horn, when discussing a topic about making mistakes, 
on April 27, 2010. However, he would not reveal what the incident was, 
saying that any viewers who wanted to know about his March Madness error 
could check Wikipedia and find out for themselves. Ryan had a run-in with 
Red Sox GM Theo Epstein. In November 2006 he had a small unfriendly exchange 
with Epstein saying "on behalf of an eager constituency, I hope the rumor 
(of a J. D. Drew deal) isn't true."[31] Curt Schilling would call into 
Dennis and Callahan and criticize Ryan,[32] but NBC Sports's Tom Curran 
