Robert Leo Sheppard (October 20, 1910 – July 11, 2010) was the long-time 
public address announcer for numerous New York area college and professional 
sports teams, in particular the New York Yankees of Major League Baseball 
(1951–2007), and the New York Giants (1956–2006) of the National Football 
League. Sheppard announced more than 4,500 Yankees baseball games over 
a period of 56 years, including 22 pennant-winning seasons and 13 World 
Series championships; he called 121 consecutive postseason contests, 62 
games in 22 World Series, and six no-hitters, including three perfect games. 
He was also the in-house voice for a half-century of Giants football games, 
encompassing nine conference championships, three NFL championships (1956, 
1986, 1990), and the game often called "the greatest ever played", the 
classic 1958 championship loss to Baltimore.[1] Sheppard's smooth, distinctive 
baritone and precise, consistent elocution became iconic aural symbols 
of both the old Yankee Stadium and Giants Stadium. Reggie Jackson famously 
nicknamed him "The Voice of God",[2] while Carl Yastrzemski once said, 
"You're not in the big leagues until Bob Sheppard announces your name."[3] 
Sheppard was secretive about his age throughout his life, but according 
to New York voter records he was born October 20, 1910,[4] in Richmond 
Hill, Queens, New York City. He graduated from Saint John's Preparatory 
School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn in 1928, and attended St. John's 
University on an athletic scholarship, where he earned seven varsity letters 
from 1928 to 1932; three in baseball as the starting first baseman, and 
four in football as the left-handed starting quarterback. He was also elected 
president of his senior class.[5] In 1933, he received a Master's degree 
in Speech Education from Columbia University. Sheppard began his career 
playing semiprofessional football on Long Island with the Valley Stream 
Red Riders and the Hempstead Monitors, earning $25 a game,[6] and teaching 
speech at Grover Cleveland High School in Ridgewood, Queens, New York.[7] 
During World War II he served in the Navy as a gunnery officer aboard cargo 
ships, both in convoys and on independent missions in the Pacific Theater.[8] 
After the War he became Chairman of the Speech Department at John Adams 
High School in Queens, and taught evening courses in public speaking at 
his alma mater, St. John's University. He also served as speech and debate 
coach for Sacred Heart Academy's Forensic Team in Hempstead, New York.[9] 
His multiple teaching jobs overlapped more than 25 years into his announcing 
career, and he always maintained that his academic work was far more important 
than his accomplishments as an announcer. "My sports activity", he said,"...cut 
down on what I really contributed to society, and that's teaching...when 
I hear from former students and they say I helped them achieve their goals, 
I feel I have contributed to society more than all I have done in sports."[7] 
As an announcer, he said, "All I have to recommend is longevity."[10] Sheppard 
first worked as a public address announcer for St. John's football and 
basketball games after World War II, a job he kept well into the 1990s. 
In the late 1940s he also became the announcer for the Brooklyn Dodgers 
of the All-America Football Conference, at Ebbets Field. He came to the 
attention of the Yankees when a front-office official heard him deliver 
a tribute to Babe Ruth at a Dodgers football game in 1948. He was offered 
the Yankees announcing job, but did not accept it until three years later 
when the Yankees agreed to hire an understudy, so his duties with the team 
would not interfere with his teaching responsibilities.[10] He debuted 
at Yankee Stadium on April 17, 1951 with the Yankees' home opener, a 5–0 
win over the Boston Red Sox. In 1956, when the New York Giants football 
team moved from the Polo Grounds to Yankee Stadium, he began announcing 
their games as well, and remained with them when they moved to Giants Stadium 
in East Rutherford, New Jersey in 1976. Sheppard's first year as the Yankees' 
announcer was the only one in which Joe DiMaggio and Mickey Mantle shared 
the outfield. His first game featured eight future Hall of Famers: DiMaggio, 
Mantle, Johnny Mize, Yogi Berra, and Phil Rizzuto for the Yankees, and 
Ted Williams, Bobby Doerr, and Lou Boudreau for the Red Sox. The first 
player he introduced was the Yankee Clipper's brother, Dominic DiMaggio. 
His 1951 salary was $15 per game, $17 for a doubleheader.[11] "A public-address 
announcer should be clear, concise, correct. He should not be colorful, 
cute or comic." Sheppard's distinctive announcing style became an integral 
component of the Yankee Stadium experience. For more than half a century 
each game began with his trademark cadence – "Good afternoon (evening)...ladies 
and gentlemen...and welcome...to Yankee Stadium" – his words reverberating 
around the massive structure. Each in-game announcement began: "Your attention 
please, ladies and gentlemen." He introduced every player, Yankee or visitor 
(as described on his Monument Park plaque), "with equal divine reverence." 
He communicated the players' position, uniform number, name, and repeated 
the number, during his first at-bat ("Now batting for the Yankees, the 
first baseman, number 23, Don Mattingly, number 23"), while announcing 
the players' position and name during each succeeding at-bat ("The first 
baseman, Don Mattingly").[13] He eschewed flamboyant nicknames; Dennis 
Boyd was never introduced as "Oil Can", nor Jim Hunter as "Catfish."[14] 
He once listed (in order) his favorite names to announce: Mickey Mantle, 
Shigetoshi Hasegawa, Salomé Barojas, José Valdivielso and Álvaro Espinoza; 
and he expressed his special affection for the natural resonance of many 
Latino players' names. "Anglo-Saxon names are not very euphonious", he 
said. "What can I do with Steve Sax? What can I do with Mickey Klutts?"[10] 
But Mickey Mantle remained his favorite; Sheppard said Mantle once told 
him, "'Everytime Bob Sheppard introduced me at Yankee Stadium, I got shivers 
up my spine.' And I said to him, 'So did I.'"[10] Sheppard took great pride 
in pronouncing every name correctly, and made certain to check directly 
with a visiting player if he had any doubt on the correct or preferred 
pronunciation.[15] Minnie Miñoso, for example, preferred a precise Spanish 
pronunciation of his name, complete with tilde (Meen-YO-so), and Sheppard, 
unlike many announcers, obliged.[5] He admitted that early in his career, 
whenever the Senators were in town he particularly feared tripping over 
Wayne Terwilliger's name. "I worried that I would say ‘Ter-wigg-ler’", 
he recalled, "but I never did."[15] He did stumble on at least one rookie's 
name: Jorge Posada was called up from Columbus late in the 1995 season, 
and made his first appearance as a Yankee in Game 2 of the 1995 American 
League Division Series against Seattle, as a pinch runner for Wade Boggs.[16] 
Sheppard, who had not yet met Posada, announced the substitution, Posada's 
major league debut, in extra innings of one of the greatest games in Division 
Series history, with an "o" at the end of his last name. Posada's friend 
Derek Jeter noticed immediately, with amusement, and has called him "Sado" 
ever since.[17] Sheppard made another rare professional error in October 
1976 at the Giants' first home game in New Jersey, against the Cowboys, 
which he commenced with the startling announcement, "Ladies and gentlemen, 
welcome to Yankee Stadium."[15] His other famous faux pas occurred in 1982 
at Yankee Stadium, when he inadvertently left his microphone on as Shane 
Rawley gave up a double on his first pitch in relief, instantly turning 
a 3–2 lead into a 4–3 deficit. Over the stadium speakers came Sheppard's 
familiar voice: "Boy, what relief pitchinginginging!" Sheppard, ever the 
gentleman, went to the locker room after the game and apologized to Rawley.[14] 
Throughout his career, Sheppard famously refused to reveal his age, once 
abruptly ending an interview when Jim Bouton asked the question a second 
time.[18] He readily disclosed his birth month and day, October 20 (possibly 
because he shared it with Mickey Mantle[19]), but never publicly acknowledged 
the year. For years, there was conjecture that his compulsive secretiveness 
stemmed from a fear that Yankees owner George Steinbrenner would think 
him too old and replace him, but Sheppard denied it. "[Steinbrenner] never 
questioned how old I was", he said. "He knew I was there every day for 
57 years or so."[20] In fact, it has been said that Sheppard may have been 
the only Yankees employee never criticized by Steinbrenner, who called 
him "the gold standard."[21] Over the years, Sheppard also served as announcer 
for multiple other teams and venues, among them Adelphi College (predecessor 
of Adelphi University); the New York Titans of the American Football League, 
and the International Soccer League, both at the Polo Grounds; the WFL 
New York Stars at Downing Stadium on Randall's Island; the All-America 
Football Conference's New York Yankees at Yankee Stadium; the NASL New 
York Cosmos at Yankee Stadium, Downing Stadium, and Giants Stadium; Army 
Black Knights football games at Michie Stadium and Giants Stadium; and 
multiple Army-Navy games at the Polo Grounds, Giants Stadium, and Veterans 
Stadium in Philadelphia.[22] "You name it, I did it", he said.[7][9] In 
later years, the many baseball honors bestowed on him overshadowed his 
work in other sports. Phil Rizzuto once asked him to name the greatest 
Yankee Stadium game he had ever announced, probably expecting to hear a 
good baseball story. "The day Pat Summerall kicked the field goal in the 
snow in 1958", Sheppard replied, referring to the legendary December 14 
Giants victory over Cleveland.[23] Sheppard retired from his position with 
the Giants, a fifty-year handshake agreement with Giants owner Wellington 
Mara, at the end of the 2005 season, when the commute from his home on 
Long Island to East Rutherford, New Jersey became too strenuous.[24] His 
final game was the Giants' playoff loss to the Carolina Panthers on January 
8, 2006. He was succeeded by his long-time understudy, former debate student, 
and colleague in the Speech Department at St. John's University, Jim Hall.[9] 
At age 95, health issues began to take their toll: In 2006, Sheppard missed 
his first Yankees home opener since 1951 after injuring his hip. He was 
back in time for the next homestand, but it marked the beginning of a slow 
but inexorable deterioration of his health over the next two seasons. He 
called what turned out to be his final game, a 10–2 win over Seattle, on 
September 5, 2007.[25] The following week he was hospitalized with a bronchial 
infection, forcing him to miss the final homestand and the AL Division 
Series against Cleveland, thus ending his streak of 121 consecutive postseason 
games at Yankee Stadium.[26] Although he signed a new two-year contract 
with the Yankees in March 2008,[15] and he particularly looked forward 
to announcing the 2008 All-Star Game, which was played at Yankee Stadium, 
he missed the entire 2008 season.[27][28] He also reluctantly admitted 
that he lacked sufficient strength to call the final game at the original 
ballpark on September 21, 2008. "I don't have my best stuff", he said. 
Sheppard's recorded voice did announce the starting lineups for that final 
game, a 7–3 victory over the Orioles.[29][30] Jim Hall replaced him for 
the 2008 season, and Paul Olden took over when the Yankees moved to the 
new ballpark in 2009.[31] Two weeks after his 99th birthday in 2009, the 
day after the Yankees defeated Philadelphia to win their 27th World Series,[32] 
Sheppard officially announced his retirement as the Yankees' public address 
announcer. "I have no plans of coming back", he told MLB.com. "Time has 
passed me by, I think. I had a good run for it. I enjoyed doing what I 
did. I don't think, at my age, I'm going to suddenly regain the stamina 
that is really needed if you do the job and do it well."[33] He died at 
his home in Baldwin, New York on July 11, 2010, three months and nine days 
shy of his 100th birthday.[34] In announcing his father's death, Sheppard's 
son Paul said, "I know St. Peter will now recruit him. If you’re lucky 
enough to go to Heaven, you’ll be greeted by a voice saying, ‘Good afternoon, 
ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Heaven!’"[15] In 2000, during his 50th 
year with the Yankees, Sheppard donated the microphone he used for a half-century 
of Yankee Stadium announcements to the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, 
New York.[7] May 7 of that 50th year was designated "Bob Sheppard Day", 
and a plaque honoring him was unveiled in Yankee Stadium's Monument Park. 
At the pre-game ceremony Walter Cronkite read the inscription, which states 
in part that his voice was "...as synonymous with Yankee Stadium as its 
copper facade and Monument Park."[15] The media dining room in the new 
stadium is named "Sheppard's Place".[6] The Yankees' first home game after 
Sheppard's death, a 5–4 victory over the Tampa Bay Rays on July 16, 2010, 
was played with an empty public address booth and no announcements.[35] 
The Yankees wore a Bob Sheppard commemorative patch on the left sleeve 
of their home and road jerseys for the remainder of the 2010 season.[36] 
The United States House of Representatives passed a resolution "commending 
Bob Sheppard for his long and respected career" by voice vote on November 
16, 2010. It was introduced by Carolyn McCarthy from New York's 4th congressional 
district, where Sheppard lived for 70 years.[37] In 2008 Derek Jeter asked 
Sheppard to record his at-bat introductions.[38] The recordings were used 
to introduce Jeter's home at-bats from the beginning of the 2008 season 
until his final game at Yankee Stadium on September 25, 2014.[39] Sheppard 
was flattered: "It has been one of the greatest compliments I have received 
in my career of announcing. The fact that he wanted my voice every time 
he came to bat is a credit to his good judgment and my humility."[40] Sheppard's 
recorded voice also introduced Jeter at the 2010 All-Star Game in Anaheim 
two days after Sheppard's death.[41][42] Sheppard voices the introduction 
to The Baseball Experience at the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown.[18] 
On September 26, 2013, a recording of Sheppard's introduction, followed 
by Metallica's Enter Sandman, were played as Mariano Rivera stepped to 
the mound at Yankee Stadium for the final time.[43] Sheppard was elected 
to the St. John's University Sports Hall of Fame, the Long Island Sports 
Hall of Fame, and the New York Sports Hall of Fame. He was awarded honorary 
doctorates from St. John's University (Pedagogy) and Fordham University 
(Rhetoric), and in 2007, received St. John's’ Medal of Honor, the highest 
award that the university can confer on a graduate.[6] St. John's University 
annually awards the Sheppard Trophy, one of its highest awards, to the 
most outstanding student-athlete.[9] The National Association of Sports 
Public Address Announcers presents the Bob Sheppard P.A. Announcer of the 
Year Award annually.[44] In 1998, Sheppard was presented with the prestigious 
William J. Slocum "Long and Meritorious Service" Award by the Baseball 
Writers' Association of America, and the "Pride of the Yankees" award by 
the Yankees organization.[6] Sheppard is one of only two people ever awarded 
both a World Series ring and a Super Bowl ring. The other was Bill King, 
the long-time radio play-by-play voice of the Oakland Raiders and Oakland 
Athletics, and another man famously secretive about his age.[8] Sheppard 
was married twice. He had two sons, Paul and Chris; and two daughters, 
Barbara and Mary; four grandchildren; and (as of 2008) nine great-grandchildren. 
His first wife, Margaret, the mother of all four of his children, died 
in 1959. He and his second wife, Mary, were married from 1961 until his 
death.[15][45] Sheppard was deeply religious, "...as strong in his Roman 
Catholic faith as anybody I knew", wrote his longtime friend, George Vecsey. 
"[In old age] he hated to admit he could no longer serve as a lector. His 
faith never wavered in the trying days. His daughter [Mary] is a nun. He 
referred to [his wife] Mary as 'my archangel,' meaning she saved his life, 
day by day." [19] Sheppard's voice can be heard on three episodes of Seinfeld: 
"The Letter", "The Masseuse", and "The Chaperone".[citation needed] Sheppard 
appeared in the films The Scout, Anger Management, For Love of the Game, 
as a voice welcoming kids from the Bronx in the movie It could happen to 
you, and 61*, as well as ESPN mini-series The Bronx Is Burning.[citation 
needed] Sheppard's voice and traditional greeting, "Good Evening, Welcome 
To Yankee Stadium", were used in the Bugler's Dream television commercial 
for New York City's bid for the 2012 Olympic Games.[46] New York-born comedian 
Robert Klein's imitation of Sheppard, complete with simulated echo, was 
