Robert Lee Howsam (February 28, 1918 – February 19, 2008) was an executive 
in American professional sport who, in 1959, played a key role in establishing 
two leagues—the American Football League, which succeeded and merged with 
the National Football League, and baseball's Continental League, which 
never played a game but forced expansion of Major League Baseball from 
16 to 20 teams in 1961–62. Howsam later became further well known in baseball 
as the highly successful general manager and club president of the Cincinnati 
Reds during the "Big Red Machine" dynasty of the 1970s. Born in Denver, 
Colorado, Howsam served as a U.S. Navy pilot during World War II. He was 
the son-in-law of United States Senator and two-term Colorado Governor 
Edwin C. Johnson.[1] Johnson also was involved with professional baseball 
as founder and first president of the postwar Class A Western League, an 
upper-level minor league that played from 1947 to 1958. Howsam first made 
a name for himself as a highly successful baseball executive. He led the 
family-owned Denver Bears of the Class A Western League and Triple-A American 
Association from 1947 to 1962. For building one of the most successful 
minor league franchises of the 1950s, Howsam was twice (1951 and 1956) 
named Minor League Executive of the Year by The Sporting News. The Howsams 
also built Bears Stadium, a minor league baseball park which, after renovation 
and expanded capacity, became famous as the Denver Broncos' noisy, raucous 
and perpetually sold-out home from 1960 to 2001, Mile High Stadium. While 
the Bears achieved great success as a Triple-A farm team of the New York 
Yankees in the late 1950s, their earlier tie-up with the Pittsburgh Pirates 
(1952–54) served to introduce Howsam to Pirates' general manager Branch 
Rickey, the Baseball Hall of Fame executive, who had revolutionized baseball 
in his earlier career with the St. Louis Cardinals and Brooklyn Dodgers. 
Rickey would play an influential role later in Howsam's career. In an attempt 
to bring Major League Baseball to Denver, Howsam was one of the founders 
of the Continental League, which in 1959 planned to become the "third Major 
League" following the epidemic of franchise shifts during the 1950s. MLB 
magnates, nervous about the possible rescinding of baseball's antitrust 
exemption by the U.S. Congress after the National League abandoned New 
York, agreed to study (and perhaps support) the formation of the new loop. 
Howsam was slated to become owner of the Denver franchise, one of the league's 
eight charter members. Howsam even went as far as to expand Bears Stadium 
to over 34,000. Rickey, meanwhile, was elected president of the new circuit. 
As events unfolded, the new league never got off the drawing board; it 
was doomed once three of its key cities gained Major League franchises 
in 1961–62 (New York and Houston got expansion National League franchises, 
while the American League Washington Senators moved to Minneapolis-St. 
Paul). Howsam was now in a bind. He had taken on a large amount of debt 
in hopes of bringing the majors to Denver. However, there was little prospect 
of retiring it in the foreseeable future, as he was now saddled with a 
stadium far too big for a Triple-A team. He concluded the only way to get 
additional revenue was to extend his stadium's season by bringing in a 
football team. Howsam first sought an expansion NFL team for Denver. When 
that bid was turned down, Howsam, his brother Earl and his father Lee founded 
the Denver Broncos—one of the eight charter members of the AFL. (The Howsams 
and the seven other original owners called themselves the "Foolish Club" 
for daring to take on the established NFL.) The Broncos played in the AFL 
from 1960 to 1969 and then joined the NFL with completion of the NFL/AFL 
merger in 1970. After a disastrous 4-9-1 season in 1960, the Howsam family 
sold controlling interest in the Broncos and Bears to Gerald and Alan Phipps 
in May 1961. The team would only get as high as .500 only three times its 
first 17 years, including when it joined the NFL in 1970. But it was developing 
a loyal fan base, and since its first Super Bowl appearance in 1977, the 
Broncos have become one of the most successful operations in the NFL. After 
selling the Broncos, Howsam returned to baseball. In the wake of the Continental 
League's demise, Rickey, then 80, returned to the Cardinals in 1962 as 
a part-time but influential advisor to the Redbirds' owner, Gussie Busch. 
In mid-August 1964, with the Cardinals seemingly about to finish well behind 
the first-place Philadelphia Phillies, Busch fired general manager Bing 
Devine and replaced him with Howsam[2]—reputedly at Rickey's urging. However, 
the team Howsam inherited ended up winning the NL pennant after the Phils 
collapsed in late September, and defeated the New York Yankees in the World 
Series. During the victory celebration after the clinching seventh game, 
Howsam claimed the Redbirds' turnaround only happened after he took the 
reins. This rankled several of the players, most of whom felt Devine's 
acquisition of Lou Brock in June provided the final piece of the puzzle.[2] 
Howsam's two full years as Cardinals' general manager (1965–66) were not 
successful. The team fell back to .500 and many St. Louisans felt that 
Devine, a well-liked hometown figure, had been wrongly fired. Howsam installed 
popular Red Schoendienst as manager and he rebuilt the Redbird infield, 
trading away veterans Ken Boyer,[3] Bill White and Dick Groat in a bid 
for more pitching help. Howsam later said that he included White in the 
trade because he had evidence White was six years older than he claimed 
to be. Years later, in his book, Uppity: My Untold Story About the Games 
People Play, White claimed that Howsam's real motivation was White's giving 
Devine credit for their unexpected World Series win a year earlier.[4] 
In 1966, he acquired future Hall of Fame first baseman Orlando Cepeda from 
the San Francisco Giants in midseason and right fielder Roger Maris[5] 
from the New York Yankees (in exchange for third baseman Charley Smith, 
who had been acquired as part of the Boyer trade) during the winter interleague 
trading period. The Cardinals were poised to win back-to-back pennants 
in 1967–68. But in December 1966 a 13-member Cincinnati-based ownership 
syndicate led by Francis L. Dale purchased the Reds; one month later, in 
January 1967, Howsam accepted its offer to become the club's new general 
manager.[2] In Cincinnati, Howsam flourished. During his 11 years (1967–77) 
as general manager, he was one of the key figures (along with his predecessor, 
Bill DeWitt, and his manager, Sparky Anderson) behind "The Big Red Machine", 
which captured NL titles in 1970 and 1972 and world championships in 1975 
and 1976. Although many key parts of the dynasty—such as Pete Rose, Johnny 
Bench, Tony Pérez, Lee May and Tommy Helms—were already in place or in 
the organization in 1966, Howsam boldly promoted young pitchers such as 
Gary Nolan, Don Gullett and Wayne Simpson to the Major Leagues. He replaced 
a popular incumbent manager, Dave Bristol, with a then-unproven but a future 
Hall-of-Fame skipper in Anderson. He ensured that the fruitful Cincinnati 
farm system continued to churn out young position players, such as Dave 
Concepción, Ken Griffey, Ray Knight and Bernie Carbo. He also acquired 
two talented young outfielders, Bobby Tolan and Alex Johnson, from the 
Cardinals. It was the second time that Howsam had traded for Johnson (the 
first was in 1965 while still with the Cardinals), and he would ultimately 
trade Johnson away for pitcher Jim McGlothlin (who would go on to win 14 
games for the 1970 Reds).[2][6] Then, in two masterful 1971 trades, Howsam 
acquired second baseman Joe Morgan (in a deal that included May and Helms) 
from the Houston Astros and outfielder George Foster from the Giants (for 
utility infielder Frank Duffy). In Cincinnati, Morgan would win consecutive 
NL Most Valuable Player awards in 1975–76 and earn credentials as a member 
of the Hall of Fame. Foster would hit 52 home runs for the Reds in 1977—the 
only player to crack the half-century HR mark in the 1970s or 1980s. The 
1976 Cincinnati club, which won 102 regular season games, then swept both 
the Phillies in the 1976 National League Championship Series and the Yankees 
in the 1976 World Series, is considered one of the strongest in baseball 
history. The Sporting News named Howsam Major League Executive of the Year 
for 1973—ironically, a season in which the powerhouse Reds dropped the 
NLCS to the underdog New York Mets. Howsam reportedly had considerably 
more authority than most general managers of the time. The team's owners 
during his tenure (first Dale, then Louis Nippert) largely left the team's 
day-to-day operations in his hands, and he added the title of team president 
in 1973. He even represented the Reds at owners' meetings. Under his watch, 
the Reds were known for their strict policies on player appearance. Reds 
players were not allowed to have facial hair (a policy that continued long 
after Howsam left the team) and were required to wear their uniform pants 
and socks in a specific fashion. However, Howsam was especially known for 
his conservatism regarding labor relations; under him, the Reds were among 
the hardliners during the 1972 strike.[2] Approaching his 60th birthday 
at the close of the 1977 season, Howsam turned over his general manager 
responsibilities to a longtime assistant, Dick Wagner. But the Reds' success 
ended when Howsam stepped aside. With the free agent era dawning, and with 
the Reds' stubborn refusal to play the big-money game, "The Big Red Machine" 
began to lose key players. Howsam had already traded Pérez to the Montreal 
Expos in the months following the 1976 title. Gullett, Rose and Morgan 
were allowed to leave via free agency. Nolan developed arm problems. Wagner 
fired Anderson after Sparky refused to scapegoat his coaching staff when 
the Reds finished second in the NL West in both 1977 and 1978. Howsam resigned 
as president in 1978, and Wagner was blamed by many for the team's decline, 
although Howsam, one of the most conservative voices in the game at that 
point, helped set fiscal policy for the club. Howsam returned to the club 
presidency in 1983 after Wagner's firing, with the team in last place. 
He hired Rose as player-manager, and helped restore the Reds to respectability. 
Howsam was elected to the Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame in 2004. In retirement, 
Howsam served on the Colorado Baseball Commission, which succeeded in bringing 
the Colorado Rockies to Denver as an MLB expansion team in 1993—thus fulfilling 
his dream of bringing MLB to his hometown three decades later. He had been 
elected to his home state's Sports Hall of Fame in 1971. He died from a 
heart ailment at age 89 on February 19, 2008, in his Sun City, Arizona, 
