Robert Alfred Wolff[2] (born November 29, 1920) is an American sportscaster. 
He was the radio and TV voice of the Washington Senators from 1947 to 1960, 
continuing with the team when they relocated and became the Minnesota Twins 
in 1961. In 1962, he joined NBC-TV. Wolff began his professional career 
in 1939 on CBS in Durham, North Carolina while attending Duke University. 
He is a graduate of Duke University with Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta 
Kappa honors. Wolff is currently seen and heard on News 12 Long Island, 
on MSG Network programming and doing sports interviews on the Steiner Sports' 
Memories of the Game show on the YES Network. He is a longtime resident 
of South Nyack, New York. His son Rick Wolff is an author, radio host for 
WFAN and former baseball player and coach.[3] Bob Wolff is the longest 
running broadcaster in television and radio history.[citation needed] He 
and Curt Gowdy are the only two broadcasters to be honored by both the 
Baseball and Basketball Halls of Fame. Wolff has also been honored with 
induction into Madison Square Garden's Walk of Fame, the National Sportscasters 
and Sportswriters Hall of Fame, Sigma Nu Fraternity Hall of Fame and many 
others. Wolff has been a professional broadcaster in nine decades and is 
still going strong. Seen and heard on two ESPN TV specials in 2008, he's 
been on the Madison Square Garden Network since 1954 and on Cablevision's 
News 12 Long Island since 1986. Wolff became the pioneer TV voice of the 
Washington Senators Baseball Club in 1947, moved with the team to Minnesota 
in 1961 and then joined NBC as the play-by-play man on the TV Baseball 
Game-of-the-Week in 1962. Also heard on Mutual's Game-of-the-Day, Wolff 
was selected to be a World Series broadcaster in 1956 and that year called 
the Don Larsen perfect game across the country on the Mutual Broadcast 
System and around the world on the Armed Forces radio. He also was on NBC 
Radio for the World Series in 1958 and 1961. Wolff has been seen and heard 
doing play-by-play on all the major TV networks. Another of his classic 
broadcasts was the NY Giants / Baltimore Colts 1958 NFL Championship Game 
called, "The Greatest Game Ever Played". On the collegiate scene, he's 
broadcast the Rose Bowl, Sugar Bowl, Gator Bowl and many others. Wolff 
was television play-by-play voice of the Detroit Pistons for multiple seasons. 
Wolff was also the 33-year play-by-play announcer of the Westminster Kennel 
Club Dog Show,[4] and the National Horse Show, the Garden's college and 
pro basketball and hockey games, men and women's tennis, track and boxing 
events as well as gymnastics and bowling. He did soccer games for the old 
Tampa Bay Rowdies. Wolff became known regionally as television's play-by-play 
voice for eight teams in five different sports – the New York Knicks and 
Detroit Pistons of the NBA as well as the New York Rangers of the NHL, 
the Washington Senators/Minnesota Twins of MLB, the Baltimore Colts, Washington 
Redskins, and Cleveland Browns of the NFL, and soccer's Tampa Bay Rowdies 
of the initial North American Soccer League, thus being one of very few 
American play-by-play announcers to have covered each of the four major 
team sports leagues as well as soccer with Dale Arnold being the other, 
calling Boston Bruins, Celtics, Red Sox, Patriots, and Revolution. For 
many years Wolff was the play-by-play telecaster for all events originating 
from Madison Square Garden. His broadcast partner with the Knicks for many 
years was Cal Ramsey. In addition to the Don Larsen perfect World Series 
call, and the Colts first overtime championship title win over the New 
York Giants, Wolff also called Jackie Robinson's last major league hit 
which won game six of the World Series in 1956 and he was also the TV voice 
