Leonard Davids (March 19, 1926 – February 10, 2002), known as Bob Davids 
or L. Robert Davids, was an American baseball researcher and writer and 
the founder of SABR, the Society for American Baseball Research.[1][2] 
He wrote numerous freelance articles on baseball for the The Sporting News 
between 1951 and 1965. When TSN cut its baseball coverage, Davids began 
his own short-lived baseball publication, Baseball Briefs. He contributed 
baseball fact boxes to several newspapers, including The Washington Post 
and Chicago Sun-Times. In 1971, Davids identified approximately 35 others 
with similar interests in baseball statistics and history – he called them 
"stathistorians" – and invited them to meet in Cooperstown, New York at 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. Sixteen attended the meeting, 
and agreed to the formation SABR. Davids was elected the group's first 
president, an office he held on two other occasions. He also served two 
5-year terms on SABR's board of directors, and was actively involved in 
producing many of the organization's early publications. Davids was also 
active in SABR's first regional chapter, based in Baltimore and Washington, 
which was named in his honor.[1] Born in Kanawha, Iowa,[1] Davids moved 
to San Diego during World War II where he worked in an aircraft factory. 
He later enlisted in the Army Air Corps and served two years, including 
a tour as a B-24 nose gunner in the Pacific. After leaving the military, 
he attended the University of Missouri where he earned a Bachelor's degree 
in Journalism and a Masters in History. He subsequently earned a Ph.D. 
from Georgetown University in International relations. In 1951 Davids began 
a 30-year career in federal service, mainly working the field of public 
information for agencies including the Departments of Defense and Energy, 
the Atomic Energy Commission, and several members of Congress. During that 
period, he also contributed numerous articles on Congressional history 
to Roll Call, a newspaper covering Capitol Hill. Davids was married to 
the former Yvonne Revier, and had one daughter. He died of cancer in Washington, 
