A bobblehead, also known as a nodder, wobbler or bobble head, is a type 
of collectible toy. Its head is often oversized compared to its body. Instead 
of a solid connection, its head is connected to the body by a spring or 
hook[1] in such a way that a light tap will cause the head to bobble, hence 
the name. Bobbleheads are sometimes given out to attendees at sporting 
events as a promotion. Corporations including Taco Bell (the 'Yo Quiero 
Taco Bell' Chihuahua), McDonald's (Ronald McDonald), and Empire Today (The 
Empire Man) have also produced popular bobbleheads of the characters used 
in their advertisements. The earliest known reference to a bobblehead is 
thought to be in Nikolai Gogol's 1842 short story "The Overcoat", in which 
the main character's neck was described as "like the necks of plaster cats 
which wag their heads". The modern bobblehead first appeared in the 1950s. 
By 1960, Major League Baseball had gotten in on the action and produced 
a series of papier-mache bobblehead dolls, one for each team, all with 
the same cherubic face. The World Series held that year brought the first 
player-specific baseball bobbleheads, for Roberto Clemente, Mickey Mantle, 
Roger Maris, and Willie Mays, still all with the same face. Over the next 
decade, after a switch in materials from papier-mache to ceramic, bobbleheads 
would be produced for other sports, as well as cartoon characters. One 
of the most famous bobbleheads of all time also hails from this era: The 
Beatles bobblehead set, which is a valuable collectible today. By the mid-1970s, 
though, the bobblehead craze was in the process of winding down. It would 
take nearly two decades before bobbleheads returned to prominence. Although 
older bobbleheads like the baseball teams and The Beatles were sought after 
by collectors during this period, new bobblehead dolls were few and far 
between. What finally prompted their resurgence was cheaper manufacturing 
processes, and the main bobblehead material switched, this time from ceramic 
to plastic. It was now possible to make bobbleheads in the very limited 
numbers necessary for them to be viable collectibles. On Aug. 2, 1997, 
the minor league Birmingham Barons gave away Barons Bobblehead Doll bobbleheads 
at a game.[2] The first major league baseball team to offer a bobblehead 
giveaway was the San Francisco Giants, which distributed 35,000 Willie 
Mays head nodders at their May 9, 1999 game.[3] To date, there have been 
nearly 7,000 bobblehead giveaways from teams at all levels.[citation needed] 
The variety of bobbleheads on the market rose exponentially to include 
even relatively obscure popular culture figures and notable people. The 
new millennium would bring a new type of bobblehead toy, the mini-bobblehead, 
standing just two or three inches tall and used for cereal prizes and such. 
On November 18, 2014, it was announced that the National Bobblehead Hall 
of Fame and Museum would open in 2016 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.[4] The National 
Bobblehead HOF and Museum held a preview exhibit at RedLine Milwaukee from 
January 7, 2016 through April 30, 2016, which showcased the largest public 
display of bobbleheads in history. January 7, 2015 marked the inaugural 
National Bobblehead Day.[5] On January 7, 2016, National Bobblehead Day 
was the number one trending topic on Twitter for a significant portion 
of the day. Thanjavur Dolls of India bobblehead dolls are of a class known 
as "Thanjavur Thalayatti Bommai" in the Tamil language, meaning "Tanjore 
Head-Shaking Doll". They are a native art form in the Thanjavur region 
of Tamil Nadu state in South India. These dolls are usually 6" to 12" tall 
(15 to 30 cm). They are made of clay or wood and painted over in bright 
colors, and are often dressed up in fancy clothes. They form a part of 
an elaborate display of dolls known as "Golu (kolu)", exhibited in Indian 
houses during the "Dasara (Navaratri)" festival in Sep-Oct. Another type 
of Thanjavur Doll is the Tanjore Roundpot Rocking Doll (in Tamil, "Thanjavur 
Gundusatti Bommai"). The 2000's saw the rise of a competitive market for 
personalized, on-demand bobbleheads, typically 6–7 inches tall, from a 
number of on-line vendors. To order, a customer uploads one or more facial 
color photos (with front view required, profile view optional) and chooses 
from a catalog of "stock bodies". Other order information includes color 
choices (e.g., of eyes, clothing), quantity desired, and billing and shipping. 
Available stock bodies span both popular and niche themes. These include 
professions, sports and hobbies, adult and child fashions (and plus-sized), 
weddings, graduations, awards, super-heroes,[13] sexy (e.g., dominatrix,[14] 
topless[15]), holiday, zombie,[15][16] and funny.[17] Sports regalia may 
be generic or licensed.[18] Poses are standing, with some exceptions (e.g., 
astride a motorcycle,[19] on a toilet). Besides statues of individuals, 
poses of couples include two adults (e.g., wedding-cake toppers) or parent-child. 
Family or small-team groups are possible. Statue bases are generally simple, 
but elaborations allow words or logos,[18] or represent vehicles, sport 
playing areas,[15] or bookends.[20] Personalized bobblehead production 
lends itself to low-volume manufacturing, and, as with other figurines 
and vinyl toys, typically occurs in Asia. To create a “stock body”, a master 
is first designed, with elongated neck pillar. It is then sculpted by an 
artisan with a modeling compound. A mold of this is taken, for casting 
mono-color polyresin end units (just-in-time or for inventory). These are 
custom painted for appropriate skin tone, and for desired (or default) 
colors of clothing, accessories, props, and base. (At a higher price, a 
customer can have a “custom body” designed, through companies like BobbleHeads.com,[21] 
which might become a future stock item.) The head may also be done by the 
foregoing method, particularly for volume orders wanting identical deliverables. 
An alternative, especially for single pieces, is to directly sculpt the 
end-unit head from “polymer clay”, a colorized modeling material.[22] The 
artisan uses one color of polymer clay for skin, another for hair. Painting 
if any is limited to eyes and feature enhancements. Finally, a less-common, 
higher-tech approach is to computer-design the head and generate it on 
an industrial 3D printer.[23] This may then be painted, or, if the printer 
allows, texture-mapped from features derived from the original photos.[19] 
