Robert Thomas "Bobby" Thigpen (born July 17, 1963) is a former relief pitcher 
in Major League Baseball. He is noted for setting the major league record 
of 57 saves during the 1990 season, which has since been broken by former 
Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim pitcher Francisco Rodríguez.[1] He is the 
former pitching coach of the Winston-Salem Dash. He is currently bullpen 
coach for the Chicago White Sox. Thigpen was a three sport star at Aucilla 
Christian Academy near Monticello, FL. As a member of the baseball team 
he played for longtime Aucilla coach, Ray Hughes. A pitcher and shortstop 
in high school, he led the Warriors to the 1981 Class A state championship 
game. He played two years at Seminole Community College, after which he 
moved on to pitch and play the outfield for Mississippi State University 
and coach Ron Polk. Among his teammates were future major-leaguers Will 
Clark, Rafael Palmeiro and Jeff Brantley. Thigpen was part of MSU's 1985 
College World Series team, recording a .305 batting average and saving 
seven games during the season. Thigpen was selected by the Chicago White 
Sox in the fourth round of the 1985 amateur draft. He made the major leagues 
the next August and moved into the White Sox's closer role. After two straight 
30-save seasons, Thigpen had the best season of his career in 1990, setting 
the then-major league record of 57 saves. He also maintained a 1.83 ERA 
and was named to the AL All-Star team. He also blew eight saves that season, 
including two three-run leads. He later began to battle injuries, starting 
with a back problem developed after the 1990 season, when some players 
went on an exhibition tour of Japan. Thigpen's effectiveness waned and 
he was supplanted in the closer role by Roberto Hernández. During the 1993 
season, Thigpen was traded to the Philadelphia Phillies for José DeLeón, 
and pitched in the NLCS and World Series for Philadelphia. The following 
season, he signed with the Seattle Mariners, who released him on April 
29. He joined the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks and attempted to return to the majors 
in 1996, only to be derailed by back problems. Thigpen's 201 career saves 
rank him 46th on the all-time saves list. In 2003, Thigpen was leaving 
a Stanley Cup playoff game at the St. Pete Times Forum when he tripped 
and fell on the stairs, triggering massive internal bleeding. "He had about 
a gallon of blood in his abdomen", said Dr. Kevin Hirsch, a trauma surgeon 
at Bayfront Medical Center who operated on Thigpen. "He had significant 
bleeding in and around his pancreas and kidney that we had to go in and 
