as Player as Manager As coach Robert Randall Bragan (October 30, 1917 – 
January 21, 2010) was an American shortstop, catcher, manager, and coach 
in Major League Baseball. He also was an influential executive in minor 
league baseball. He was born in Birmingham, Alabama. On August 16, 2005, 
Bragan came out of retirement to manage the independent Central League 
Fort Worth Cats for one game, making him — at 87 years, nine months, and 
16 days old — the oldest manager in professional baseball annals (besting 
by one week Connie Mack, the manager and part-owner of the Philadelphia 
Athletics). Always known as an innovator with a sense of humor — and an 
umpire-baiter — Bragan was ejected in the third inning of his "comeback", 
thus also becoming the oldest person in any capacity to be ejected from 
a professional baseball game. Bragan died on January 21, 2010 of a heart 
attack at his home in Fort Worth.[1][2][3] During his Major League managerial 
career, Bragan never skippered a game past his 49th birthday. He managed 
the Pittsburgh Pirates (1956–57), Cleveland Indians (1958),[4] and Milwaukee/Atlanta 
Braves (1963–66),[5] each time getting fired in the mid-season of his final 
campaign. In Cleveland, he lasted a total of only 67 games of his maiden 
season before his dismissal — at the time of his firing, his was the shortest 
stint for a Cleveland Indians manager.[6] His career big-league managerial 
win-loss record was below .500: 443–478 (.481)[7] and he was the first 
manager of the Braves when they relocated to Atlanta. Despite his lack 
of success in the majors, Bragan was highly respected as a minor league 
manager, winning championships in 1948–49 at Fort Worth of the Double-A 
Texas League during a successful five-year run, and with the 1953 Hollywood 
Stars of the Open-Classification Pacific Coast League. A photograph of 
Bragan lying at the feet of an umpire who had ejected him, still arguing, 
was published in Life magazine at the time. Bragan also was a Major League 
coach for the Los Angeles Dodgers (1960) and Houston Colt .45s (1962). 
Bragan began his seven-year (1940–44; 1947–48) Major League playing career 
as a shortstop for the Philadelphia Phillies, but by 1943, his first season 
with the Brooklyn Dodgers, he had learned how to catch and was for the 
most part a backup receiver for the Dodgers for the remainder of his MLB 
playing days. A right-handed batter, Bragan hit .240 in 597 games, with 
15 career home runs. He was listed as 5 feet 10 inches (1.78 m) tall and 
175 pounds (79 kg). Bragan was a protégé of Branch Rickey, the Hall of 
Fame front office executive, who hired him as an unproven young manager 
at Fort Worth when both were with Brooklyn and then brought Bragan to Hollywood 
and the Pittsburgh organization, where Rickey was general manager from 
1951–55. Bragan started the 1948 season with Brooklyn, but Rickey wanted 
to bring up Roy Campanella from the minors. Rickey offered Bragan the managerial 
job with the Fort Worth Cats and he took over in July of ’48, remaining 
with the Cats for five years. Bragan had clashed with Rickey in 1947 over 
the Dodgers' breaking of the baseball color line after the big-league debut 
of Jackie Robinson. Bragan — the Dodgers' second-string catcher at the 
time — was one of a group of white players, largely from the American South, 
who signed a petition against Robinson's presence. He even asked Rickey 
to trade him. But Bragan quickly relented. "After just one road trip, I 
saw the quality of Jackie the man and the player", Bragan told mlb.com 
in 2005. "I told Mr. Rickey I had changed my mind and I was honored to 
be a teammate of Jackie Robinson." When Bragan attended Rickey's funeral 
in 1965, he stated that he decided to attend because, "Branch Rickey made 
me a better man." [8] Furthermore, as a manager, Bragan earned a reputation 
for fairness and "color-blindedness." When he was the skipper of the Dodgers' 
Triple-A Spokane Indians PCL farm club in 1959, Bragan played an influential 
role in helping Maury Wills, a speedy African-American shortstop whose 
baseball career had stalled until he learned to switch hit under Bragan. 
Said former Dodger general manager Buzzie Bavasi, "Bobby would call six 
times a day and tell me over again how Wills had learned to switch-hit 
and how he was a great team leader, off and on the field, and how I was 
absolutely nuts if I didn't bring him up right away."[9] Wills would fashion 
a 14-year MLB career, play on three world champions, make seven NL All-Star 
teams, and in 1962 win the National League Most Valuable Player Award and 
set a new record for stolen bases in a season, with 104 thefts, breaking 
Ty Cobb's 47-year-old mark. In 1969, Bragan, a Fort Worth resident, began 
a new career chapter when he became president of the Texas League.[10] 
He was so successful, in 1975 he was elected president of the minor leagues' 
governing body, the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues. 
Upon completion of his three-year term as president of the minor leagues, 
Bobby and his wife, Gwenn, returned home to Fort Worth, where they had 
lived since Rickey assigned him to manage the Fort Worth Cats in 1948. 
Bragan joined the Texas Rangers' front office in 1979 and continued to 
make appearances and speaking engagements on behalf of the ballclub well 
into his 80s. After Gwenn Bragan's death in 1983, Bobby married Roberta 
Beckman. It was Roberta who suggested to Bobby that he establish a scholarship 
foundation to encourage youth to do well in school and go on to college. 
With the financial seed money provided by Roberta, the Bobby Bragan Youth 
Foundation (BBYF) was established in 1991. Roberta Beckman Bragan died 
in 1993. Bobby married Betty Bloxam in 1995 and the two stayed together 
until his death. As he passed his 90th birthday, Bragan continued an active 
schedule, as the Chairman of the Bobby Bragan Youth Foundation and making 
numerous appearances for civic organizations and businesses, including 
his beloved Fort Worth Cats as well as in schools, where he enjoyed entertaining 
and motivating students. Each year, the Bobby Bragan Youth Foundation honors 
outstanding athletes and executives for the achievements on and off of 
the playing field at the annual Bobby Bragan Gala to raise funds for the 
scholarships. Honorees have included Joe DiMaggio, Hank Aaron, Larry King, 
Tommy Lasorda, Bobby Valentine, Bud Selig, Willie Mays, Lou Brock and Brooks 
Robinson. Bragan came from a baseball family. Five of the six Bragan boys 
played baseball professionally. His late brother Jimmy was a minor league 
player and longtime coach and scout in Major League Baseball who himself 
was president of the AA Southern League during the 1980s. His brother Peter 
has owned and operated the Jacksonville Suns of the Southern League for 
over 25 years, and his late son, Bobby Bragan, Jr., operated the Elmira 
