As player As Manager MLB NPB Robert John Valentine (born May 13, 1950), 
nicknamed "Bobby V", is a former American professional baseball player 
and manager. He is currently the athletic director at Sacred Heart University. 
Valentine played for the Los Angeles Dodgers (1969, 1971–72), California 
Angels (1973–75), New York Mets (1977–78), and Seattle Mariners (1979) 
in MLB. He managed the Texas Rangers (1985–92), the New York Mets (1996–2002), 
and the Boston Red Sox (2012) of MLB, as well as the Chiba Lotte Marines 
of Nippon Professional Baseball (1995, 2004–09). Valentine has also served 
as the Director of Public Safety & Health for the city of Stamford, Connecticut 
and an analyst for ESPN Sunday Night Baseball.[1] In February 2013, CBSSports.com 
hired Bobby Valentine to represent its Fantasy Sports business,[2] including 
running a viral marketing campaign in which he made fun of the many times 
he was fired in his career and gave fans a chance to "Hire or Fire Bobby 
V" one more time.[3] Valentine was born in Stamford, Connecticut, to Joseph 
and Grace Valentine. Valentine was recruited out of Rippowam High School 
in Stamford, Connecticut by the University of Nebraska, Duke University, 
the University of Notre Dame and the University of Southern California 
as a star in football and baseball. He attended USC where he became a member 
of the Sigma Chi Fraternity. The Los Angeles Dodgers drafted him number 
five overall in the 1968 Major League Baseball draft. After winning the 
Pioneer League's MVP award with the Ogden Dodgers in 1968, Valentine debuted 
with the Dodgers as a September call-up in 1969 at 19 years old. Though 
he never recorded a major league at-bat that season, he did score three 
runs as a pinch runner. Back in the Pacific Coast League for 1970, Valentine 
was again his league's MVP after batting .340 with fourteen home runs for 
the Spokane Indians. Led by Valentine and manager Tommy Lasorda, Spokane 
won the league championship over a legendary Hawaii Islanders powerhouse. 
Valentine made the Dodgers out of spring training in 1971, and batted .249 
with one home run and 25 runs batted in. The following season, he managed 
to play in 119 games by playing many different positions—including shortstop, 
second base, third and all three outfield positions. His batting average 
improved to .274 in 1972, but he was not showing his early promise as a 
major leaguer, and following the season, he was packaged in a trade along 
with Frank Robinson, Billy Grabarkewitz, Bill Singer and Mike Strahler 
to the California Angels for Andy Messersmith and Ken McMullen. Valentine 
batted .302 his first season with the Angels before falling victim to a 
multiple compound leg fracture at Anaheim Stadium when his spikes got caught 
in the outfield's chain link fence while attempting to catch a home run 
ball hit by Dick Green. Valentine missed the remainder of the 1973 season 
and Valentine never regained his speed. In 1974, Valentine made 414 plate 
appearances in the utility role, the second most of his career, and batted 
.261 with three home runs. At the end of the 1975 season, he was traded 
to the San Diego Padres. Valentine only appeared in 66 games for the Padres 
when he was part of New York's infamous "Midnight Massacre." On Wednesday, 
June 15, 1977, the New York Mets traded Dave Kingman to the San Diego Padres 
for minor league pitcher Paul Siebert and Valentine, sent Tom Seaver to 
the Cincinnati Reds for Pat Zachry, Doug Flynn, Steve Henderson, and Dan 
Norman, and Mike Phillips to the St. Louis Cardinals for Joel Youngblood. 
Valentine's role with the Mets became even more limited, and he was released 
in spring training, 1979. He signed with the Seattle Mariners shortly afterwards, 
and made his debut as a catcher that season. Following the season, he retired 
from baseball at 29 years of age. Valentine was serving as a member of 
the Mets coaching staff when he was tapped by the Texas Rangers to take 
over managing duties from Doug Rader 32 games into the 1985 season. He 
was not able to turn the team's fortunes around right away and the Rangers 
went 53–76 the rest of the way, finishing with an overall record of 62–99. 
The following season the Rangers finished second in the American League 
West with a record of 87–75.[4] Valentine also finished second for AL Manager 
of the Year that year. Hopes were high in Arlington after the 1986 season, 
but his Rangers fell back into sixth place the following two seasons. Unable 
to replicate his early success, Valentine was fired by managing partner 
George W. Bush[5] halfway through the 1992 season with a record of 45–41.[4] 
Toby Harrah took over as manager, and led the Rangers to a 77–85 record 
and a fourth-place finish. He finished his Rangers' managerial career with 
a record of 581 wins and 605 losses with no post–season appearances.[4] 
In Texas Rangers, while still manager of the Rangers, Valentine worked 
as an on-the-field analysts for NBC's 1989 ALCS coverage[6] alongside Bob 
Costas and Tony Kubek. In 1994, Valentine managed the Mets' Triple-A affiliate, 
the Norfolk Tides. Bobby led the Tides to a 67-75 record, which was good 
for fourth in the five-team West Division of the International League. 
In 1995, Valentine began his first stint as manager of the Chiba Lotte 
Marines in the Japanese Pacific League. That season, the team surprised 
most Japanese baseball fans by finishing in second place (69–58–3), a remarkable 
feat for the Marines who had not won the Japanese Pacific league pennant 
since 1974. However, he was fired abruptly due to the personal conflict 
with general manager Tatsuro Hirooka,[7] despite having a two-year contract. 
Bobby returned to the U.S. and the Norfolk Tides in 1996, managing them 
to an 82–59 record and second place in the International League's West 
Division. He then was promoted to manager of the Mets with 31 games left 
in the 1996 season, and led them to a 12–19 record the rest of the way. 
Over the next two seasons, with Valentine at the helm, the Mets began a 
resurgence, finishing 14 games over .500 (88–74) both years. Valentine's 
most memorable game as a manager occurred on June 9, 1999. In the 12th 
inning of a 14 inning marathon with the Toronto Blue Jays, Mike Piazza 
was called for catcher's interference on Craig Grebeck. Valentine was ejected 
by home plate umpire Randy Marsh for arguing the call, and returned to 
the dugout an inning later in a disguise (a fake moustache). Unamused, 
Major League Baseball fined Valentine $5,000 and suspended him for two 
games. The Mets went on to win the game 4–3.[8] Valentine led the Mets 
to a record of 97–66 and a wild card playoff berth that season. The Mets 
beat the Arizona Diamondbacks in four games (3–1) en route to the National 
League Championship Series, where they eventually lost to their division 
rival the Atlanta Braves in six games (4–2). In early 2000, Valentine was 
at the center of what would be called "The Whartongate Affair", in which 
he allegedly mentioned to students at the University of Pennsylvania's 
Wharton School of Business somewhat cynical, insider comments regarding 
a handful of Mets players and the organization as a whole.[9] The Mets 
returned the following season, finishing the year with a 94–68 record and 
another wild card playoff berth. This time, the Mets would not be denied 
the pennant, winning the 2000 National League Championship Series by defeating 
the St. Louis Cardinals in five games (4–1). The Mets run would end during 
the 2000 World Series as they were beaten by their crosstown rival New 
York Yankees in five games (4–1). Valentine won the 2002 Branch Rickey 
Award for his donations and personal work with survivors of the September 
11 attacks.[10] Valentine had an uneasy, if not volatile relationship with 
general manager Steve Phillips, who fired three of Valentine's coaches[11] 
and selected the replacements himself during the 1999 season (in a move 
many observers felt was an attempt to get Valentine to quit)[citation needed] 
and eventually fired him after the 2002 season. Valentine was hired by 
the network soon afterwards.[citation needed] He finished his Mets managerial 
career with a record of 536 wins and 467 losses.[4] In 2004, Valentine 
began his second stint as manager of the Chiba Lotte Marines. On October 
17, 2005, he led the Marines to their first Pacific League pennant in 31 
years after emerging victorious in a close playoff with the Fukuoka SoftBank 
Hawks. Nine days later on October 26, the Marines won the Japan Series 
in a four-game sweep of the Hanshin Tigers for the first time since 1974. 
On October 27, 2005, Valentine issued a challenge to the World Series champion 
Chicago White Sox on behalf of the Chiba Lotte Marines. Valentine called 
for a seven-game World Series to be played between the American and Japanese 
championship teams. Unlike the World Baseball Classic, a competition featuring 
sixteen national all-star teams, a World Series-styled tournament between 
the winners of both the American and Japanese championships has never been 
played. Following their Japan Series championship, the Marines won the 
inaugural Asia Series by defeating the Samsung Lions of the Korea Baseball 
Organization in November 2005. Valentine was also involved in bringing 
innovative promotional efforts to Japan, which doubled Marine attendance 
during his tenure. Some of these gimmicks, like allowing children to run 
the bases after games or dedicated autograph sessions, are common in America 
but were unseen in Japan: others, such as Valentine hosting dance classes 
for female fans, played on the manager's personal appeal (and his history--Valentine 
was a competition ballroom dancer in his youth). In 2008, Valentine was 
the subject of the ESPN Films documentary "The Zen of Bobby V." The film 
followed Valentine and his 2007 Chiba Lotte Marines team. "The Zen of Bobby 
V." was an official selection at the 2008 Tribeca Film Festival. The Marines 
decided to let Valentine go after the 2009 season after an extensive smear 
campaign led by club president Ryuzo Setoyama, which ironically backfired 
and resulted in an overflow of support for Valentine by local fans. In 
the end, Valentine was fired, even though a petition to extend his contract 
was presented to the organization with 112,000 signatures.[12] Valentine 
accepted a position as a baseball analyst for ESPN. He had previously appeared 
on the cable network's Baseball Tonight show in 2003. He made his broadcasting 
debut for the 2009 American and National League Championship Series and 
World Series.[13] In late 2009, Valentine was a candidate to replace Eric 
Wedge as manager of the Cleveland Indians, however the job went to Manny 
Acta.[14] Bobby continued working with ESPN for the 2010 MLB season. He 
was interviewed for the Baltimore Orioles managerial position after manager 
Dave Trembley was fired in early June; Valentine later withdrew his name 
from consideration. Valentine was considered a front runner for the Florida 
Marlins managerial position that opened after Manager Fredi González was 
fired in late June. However, Valentine confirmed he was no longer a candidate 
for the position after the Florida Marlins owner, Jeffrey Loria stated 
that Edwin Rodriguez, the interim manager they summoned to replace Gonzalez, 
will manage the team through the 2010 season.[15] With the firing of the 
New York Mets Manager Jerry Manuel at the end of the 2010 season, Valentine 
had been speculated by the local New York sports media of returning to 
the team. It was also reported that the Toronto Blue Jays and Seattle Mariners 
had interviewed Valentine for their open managerial job. Valentine was 
interviewed by the Milwaukee Brewers for their managerial opening in October 
2010. He was believed to be a finalist along with Bob Melvin, Joey Cora, 
and Ron Roenicke.[16] The position eventually went to Angels bench coach 
Roenicke. On December 1, 2010, Valentine, Orel Hershiser and Dan Shulman 
were named as ESPN's new Sunday Night Baseball crew for the 2011 MLB season. 
As recently as June 19, 2011, news outlets reported that Valentine was 
once again a candidate for the Florida Marlins managerial position after 
the ballclub free fell in the standings.[17] That did not come to fruition, 
however, as the Marlins hired former White Sox manager Ozzie Guillén. On 
November 21, 2011, Bobby met with the Boston Red Sox for a formal interview 
for the open manager's position, and on November 29, it was reported that 
he would be the new Red Sox manager and the successor to Terry Francona.[18] 
Valentine was introduced by Red Sox General Manager Ben Cherington on December 
2, 2011, and chose to wear number 25 in honor of the late Tony Conigliaro, 
with whom he briefly roomed during spring training 1976 with the San Diego 
Padres.[19][20] Valentine's first and only season with Boston was marred 
by injuries, in-fighting, clubhouse drama, public disagreements with players, 
and a tumultuous relationship with his fellow coaches.[21] Under Valentine's 
management, the 2012 Red Sox finished 69–93[4] (last in AL East), their 
worst record in 47 years.[22] Valentine was fired by the Red Sox on October 
4, 2012, just one day after the conclusion of the regular season. On February 
22, 2013, Valentine was named athletic director at Sacred Heart University 
in Fairfield, Connecticut. Valentine officially began his new career as 
athletic director on July 1, 2013. Valentine has helped to raise the visibility 
of Pioneer athletics over his tenure, with appearances on ESPN, SNY and 
other national and regional media outlets. In just 24 short months, he 
has spearheaded numerous projects to better Pioneer Athletics, including 
the hiring of the program's first-ever strength and conditioning coach, 
the construction of a brand new Student-Athlete Enhancement Center and 
the addition of women's rugby to varsity status. In support of the new 
strength and conditioning coach, Valentine directed a $150,000 renovation 
of the weight room with state-of-the-art Hammer Strength equipment for 
use by varsity athletes and the general student population. Under his watch, 
Valentine has overseen the replacement of the playing surface on Campus 
Field, as well as its surrounding track. The lobby of the Pitt Center boasts 
a brand new look, with a trophy case containing the numerous trophies the 
Pioneers have won over the years, and new athletic branding. The basketball 
court, named in Dave Bike's honor in February 2014, as well as the Pioneer 
tennis courts and Pitt Center lobby have been rebranded as well. The football 
team received a locker room renovation preceding the 2014 campaign, and 
this summer both the men's and women's lacrosse locker rooms are getting 
a facelift. In addition, the Pioneers have seen success in the athletic 
realm during Valentine's tenure. SHU won its NEC-best eighth Joan Martin 
Commissioner's Cup for excellence in women's athletics in 2015. The Pioneers 
have captured 13 conference championships since he has taken the helm. 
Programs have garnered national acclaim in that time, with the football 
team finishing the 2014 season nationally ranked, and the fencing squad 
finishing 11th in the NCAA at the 2014 championship.[23] Since 1980, Valentine 
has owned and operated Bobby Valentine's Sports Gallery Cafe, a sports 
bar that is located in his hometown of Stamford, with franchises slated 
to open in Norwalk, Connecticut, Arlington, Texas, and Middletown, Rhode 
Island.[citation needed] In 2010, Valentine started the production company, 
Makuhari Media, with producing partner Andrew J. Muscato. The company produces 
sports themed documentaries.[24] In 2011, Mayor Michael Pavia named Valentine 
Director of Public Safety for the city of Stamford, Connecticut. Valentine 
was paid a token $10,000 salary for this position, which he pledged to 
donate to city charities.[25] Valentine left the position 11 months later 
to manage the Red Sox. In 2013, on the twelfth anniversary of the September 
11 attacks, Valentine made comments that accused the New York Yankees of 
not contributing support to the New York community in the wake of the attacks. 
He was widely criticized for the inaccuracy of his comments, as many media 
sources documented several occasions on which the Yankees visited victims 
and workers after the attacks, and for the untimeliness of trying to take 
credit for helping.[26] TBS had originally planned to feature Valentine 
as a studio analyst during its MLB on TBS coverage for the 2013 postseason, 
but reportedly declined to do so after the negative publicity his comments 
attracted.[27] Valentine is married to Mary Branca, the daughter of former 
Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher Ralph Branca, and together they have a son Bobby 
