New York City, in the U.S. state of New York, is composed of five boroughs. 
They are Manhattan, the Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. Each 
borough is coextensive with a county of New York State. The county governments 
were dissolved when New York City consolidated in 1898, along with all 
city, town, and village governments within each county. If the boroughs 
were each independent cities, four of the boroughs (Brooklyn, Queens, Manhattan, 
and the Bronx) would be among the ten most populous cities in the United 
States; these same boroughs are coextensive with the four most densely 
populated counties in the United States (New York [Manhattan], Kings [Brooklyn], 
Bronx, and Queens). The term borough was adopted to describe a form of 
governmental administration for each of the five fundamental constituent 
parts of the newly consolidated city in 1898. Under the 1898 City Charter 
adopted by the New York State Legislature, a "borough" is a municipal corporation 
that is created when a county is merged with populated areas within it.[1] 
This system, in which New York City's borough governments are inferior 
to the powers of the city-wide government, differs significantly from borough 
forms of government used in Connecticut, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, in 
which a borough is an independent level of government, as well as other 
borough forms used in other states and Greater London.[2] New York City 
is often referred to collectively as the five boroughs; the term is used 
to refer to New York City as a whole unambiguously, avoiding confusion 
with any particular borough or with the Greater New York metropolitan area. 
The term is also used by politicians to counter a frequent focus on Manhattan 
and thereby to place all five boroughs on equal footing. In the same vein, 
the term outer boroughs refers to all of the boroughs excluding Manhattan, 
even though the geographic center of the city is along the Brooklyn–Queens 
border. All of the boroughs were created in 1898 during consolidation, 
when the city's current boundaries were established. The Bronx originally 
included parts of New York County outside of Manhattan that had previously 
been ceded by neighboring Westchester County in two stages; in 1874 and 
then following a referendum in 1894. The separate present-day Bronx County 
was not created until 1914, and is the last created county in the State 
of New York. The borough of Queens consists of what formerly was only the 
western part of a then-larger Queens County. In 1899, the three eastern 
towns of Queens County that had not joined the city the year before—the 
towns of Hempstead, North Hempstead and Oyster Bay—formally seceded from 
Queens County to form the new Nassau County.[3] The borough of Staten Island 
was officially the borough of Richmond until the name was changed in 1975 
to reflect its common appellation, while leaving the name of the county 
unchanged as Richmond.[4] There are hundreds of distinct neighborhoods 
throughout the five boroughs of New York City, many with a definable history 
and character to call their own. Since 1914, each of New York City's five 
boroughs has been coextensive with a county of New York State – unlike 
most U.S. cities, which lie within a single county or extend partially 
into another county, constitute a county in themselves, or are completely 
separate and independent of any county. Each borough is represented by 
a borough president. Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island each have a Borough 
Hall. The Manhattan Borough President's office is situated in the Manhattan 
Municipal Building. The Bronx Borough President's office used to be in 
its own Bronx Borough Hall but has been in the Bronx County Courthouse 
for decades. Since the abolition of the Board of Estimate in 1990 (due 
to a 1989 ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court[17]), the borough presidents 
have minimal executive powers, and there is no legislative function within 
a borough. Executive functions in New York City are the responsibility 
of the Mayor of New York City, while legislative functions reside with 
the New York City Council. The borough presidents primarily act as spokesmen, 
advocates, and ceremonial leaders for their boroughs, have budgets from 
which they can allocate relatively modest sums of money to community organizations 
and projects, and appoint the members of the 59 largely advisory community 
boards in the city's various neighborhoods. The Brooklyn and Queens borough 
presidents also appoint trustees to the local public library systems in 
those boroughs. Because they are counties, each borough also elects a district 
attorney, as does every other county of the state. While the district attorneys 
of Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island are popularly referred to as 
such by the media (e.g., "Manhattan D.A. Cyrus Vance, Jr.", or "Brooklyn 
D.A. Kenneth P. Thompson"), they are technically and legally the district 
attorneys of New York County, Kings County and Richmond County, respectively. 
There is no such distinction made for the district attorneys of the other 
two counties, Queens and the Bronx, since these boroughs share the respective 
counties' names. Because the five district attorneys are, technically speaking, 
state officials (since the counties are considered to be arms of the state 
government), rather than officials of the city government, they are not 
subject to the term limitations that govern other New York City officials 
such as the mayor, the New York City Public Advocate, members of the city 
council, or the borough presidents. Some civil court judges also are elected 
on a borough-wide basis, although they generally are eligible to serve 
throughout the city. The term sixth borough is used to describe any of 
a number of places that have been metaphorically called a part of New York 
City because of their geographic location, demographics - including large 
numbers of former New Yorkers, special affiliation, or cosmopolitan character. 
They have included adjacent cities and counties in the New York metropolitan 
area as well as in other states, U.S. territories, and foreign countries.[18][19][20] 
In 2011, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg referred to the city's waterfront 
and waterways as a composite sixth borough during presentations of planned 
rehabilitation projects along the city's shoreline,[21][22][23][24][25][26] 
including Governor's Island in the Upper New York Bay.[27] The Hudson Waterfront 
in the U.S. state of New Jersey lies opposite Manhattan on the Hudson River, 
and during the Dutch colonial era, was under the jurisdiction of New Amsterdam 
and known as Bergen. Jersey City and Hoboken in Hudson County, New Jersey, 
are sometimes referred to as the sixth borough, given their proximity and 
connections by rapid transit PATH trains.[28][29][30][31] Fort Lee, New 
Jersey, in Bergen County, opposite Upper Manhattan and connected by the 
George Washington Bridge, has also been called the sixth borough.[32][33][34]Miami 
and nearby areas in Florida,[35][36] Philadelphia[37] and China[38] are 
locales entirely outside the city's metropolitan area which have been called 
