Coordinates: 40°43′04″N 74°00′43″W﻿ / ﻿40.71768°N 74.01188°W﻿ / 40.71768; 
-74.01188 The Borough of Manhattan Community College (BMCC) is one of seven 
two-year colleges within the City University of New York (CUNY) system. 
Founded in 1963, BMCC originally offered business-oriented and liberal 
arts degrees for those intending to enter the business world or transfer 
to a four-year college. Its original campus was scattered all over midtown 
Manhattan, utilizing office space wherever available. In the mid-1970s 
CUNY began scouting for suitable property on which to erect a new campus 
of its own. The current campus has been in use since 1983. Currently, with 
an enrollment of over 26,000 students,[1] BMCC grants associate's degrees 
in a wide variety of vocational, business, health, science, and continuing 
education fields. Advertising itself to potential students under the motto 
"Start Here. Go Anywhere," its student body is nearly two-thirds female 
and has a median age of 24, with attending students hailing from over 100 
different countries. Another 10,000 students are enrolled in distance education 
programs. BMCC has a faculty of nearly 1,000 full-time and adjunct professors. 
Borough of Manhattan Community College is in the heart of TriBeCa and occasionally 
plays host to the Tribeca Film Festival's ceremonies and films.[2] The 
four main campuses rest between New York City Hall and the Financial District 
near the Hudson River in Downtown Manhattan. Fiterman Hall was a 15-story 
building on the campus of this college at 235 Greenwich Street (also called 
81 Barclay Street and 30 West Broadway and 82 Park Place, the building 
occupies the entire block bounded by these four streets with entrances 
on the SE corner of Greenwich Street and Park Place and the NW corner of 
Barclay Street and West Broadway) in Lower Manhattan. It opened in 1959 
as an office building before owner Miles Fiterman, whom the building was 
named after, donated it to BMCC in 1993, which at the time was the largest 
private donation to a community college in U.S. history. It was renovated 
in 2000 to receive new windows and infrastructure. The building was owned 
by the State of New York Dormitory Authority.[3][4] It was heavily damaged 
during the September 11 attacks in 2001, when debris from the collapse 
of 7 WTC compromised the structure. It became unsafe to occupy due to mold 
growth and asbestos exposure. Because traditional demolition would result 
in an unacceptable environmental impact, the building was scheduled for 
deconstruction and decontamination as part of the Lower Manhattan redevelopment 
project.[5] Fiterman Hall was to have been replaced by a new building designed 
by the architectural firm Pei Cobb Freed & Partners.[6] Deconstruction 
was scheduled to be complete by February 2007; however, environmental impact 
concerns and funding issues caused numerous delays in completing the project. 
At a press conference, which took place at BMCC on November 13, 2008, city 
and state officials announced a new agreement which solidified demolition 
and reconstruction plans through a funding agreement with New York City, 
New York State, and the City University of New York. In addition, approximately 
$80 million will come from an insurance settlement. Under the plan, the 
new Fiterman Hall was completed in 2012.[7][8] BMCC suffers from many of 
the same problems that plague all community colleges such as an alarming 
rise in remedial education,[9] lack of freshman retention,[10] and overcrowding. 
A diverse student base,[11] some of whom are only recent arrivals in America[12] 
also makes tailoring a viable solution difficult. Improving the retention 
and graduation rate as well as the increased financial and academic burdens 
of a remedial program still remain a considerable problem. The Center for 
Career Development (CCD) provide students with comprehensive career planning 
services. Its professional career counselors assist students in making 
informed decisions about an area of study; research occupations that match 
their personal interests; write a resume; practice interviewing, and help 
them prepare as candidates for internships and employment. Students also 
learn to clarify their career goals; develop effective communication and 
interpersonal skills; conduct job searches; and develop an electronic portfolio 
for employers to view as evidence of their skills, accomplishments and 
professional qualifications. In addition, CCD partners with New York Needs 
You, the New York office of America Needs You, to host career-oriented 
events and seminars to bring industry insights to its students.[13] Borough 
of Manhattan Community College teams participate as a member of the National 
Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA). The Panthers are a member 
of the community college section of the City University of New York Athletic 
Conference (CUNYAC). Men's sports include baseball, basketball, soccer 
and swimming; while women's sports include basketball, soccer, swimming 
and volleyball. BMCC offers a large state-of-the-art recreation facility 
including a regulation basketball court, swimming pool, and weight room. 
There are active teams in many sports such as handball, bowling, baseball, 
soccer, and basketball. Sports teams compete in both the CUNY athletic 
system and the local NJCAA collegiate sports system. The women's basketball 
team has won numerous championships including the CUNY basketball championship 
and the regional Division III championships including placing third nationally 
in 2000 with a 21–3 regular season record.[14] The chess team has won national 
awards. One of the most successful programs at BMCC is the men’s soccer 
team with 6 consecutive wins at cuny soccer championships, 1 regional DIII 
championship and placing 3rd in the NJCAA national championship in 2005. 
