Borough Park (also spelled Boro Park) is a neighborhood in the southwestern 
part of the borough of Brooklyn, in New York City in the United States. 
The neighborhood covers an extensive grid of streets between Bensonhurst 
to the south, Bay Ridge to the southwest, Sunset Park to the west, Kensington 
to the northeast, Flatbush to the east, and Midwood to the southeast. Borough 
Park is home to one of the largest Orthodox Jewish communities outside 
of Israel, with one of the largest concentrations of Jews in the United 
States, and Orthodox traditions rivaling many insular communities.[4] As 
the average number of children in Hasidic and Hareidi families is 6.72, 
Borough Park is experiencing a sharp growth in population.[5] It is an 
economically diverse neighborhood.[6] Originally, the area was called Blythebourne, 
a small hamlet composed of cottages built and developed in 1887 by Electus 
Litchfield,[note 1] and then expanded with more housing by developer William 
Reynolds.[7][8] It was served by the Brooklyn, Bath and Coney Island, a 
steam railroad that is today's elevated BMT West End Line; the line ran 
from Greenwood Cemetery to Coney Island when it was built in the 1860s. 
This line was put on an elevated structure in 1917.[9] The Sea Beach Railroad 
was another steam railroad. This railroad was named after the Sea Beach 
Palace Hotel, its southern terminal in 1879. In 1913, it was electrified 
and placed in an open cut.[9] In 1902, State Senator William H. Reynolds 
bought the land northeast of Blythebourne. The new area was then named 
Borough Park. Blythebourne was absorbed into Borough Park by the 1920s.[10] 
Jewish immigrants began populating Borough Park at the turn of the 20th 
century, beginning in 1904–05.[11] Through the 1930s, 13th Avenue was lined 
with pushcart vendors[12] and pickle sellers.[13] In the late 1930s the 
city opened a public market on 42nd Street to force an end to the pushcart 
trade. Thirteenth Avenue gentrified into an avenue of specialty shops interspersed 
with regular merchandise stores, and the avenue itself turned into a place 
"to see and be seen".[14] In the 1980s, the neighborhood changed demographically 
from one of Italian, Irish, and Modern Orthodox Jewish to Hasidic Jewish 
families. By 1983, an estimated 85 percent of the residents of Borough 
Park were Jewish.[15]:101 New shops and restaurants opened on 13th Avenue 
to serve the expanding Haredi community. In 1987, two of the most popular 
stores debuted: Eichler's Judaica bookstore and Kosher Castle Dairy Cafeteria. 
New stores also opened selling imported goods and computer technology.[15]:108–109 
At the end of the 1990s, businesses began selling electronics and Jewish 
books, music and videos to overseas customers via the Internet.[11] The 
area continued developing into a very large Jewish enclave around that 
time period.[4] In a 2000 Census study, it was reported that an estimated 
76,600 Jews lived in Borough Park.[16] Since that time, Borough Park has 
grown significantly, and has earned the title of "baby boom capital" of 
New York City because of its high birth rate. The population in 2011 was 
140,000. The neighborhood recorded 4,523 births in 2004,[17] the highest 
in the city. The closest Brooklyn neighborhood in terms of population growth 
was Williamsburg, home to many Satmar Hasidim, which reported 3,839 births. 
Borough Park's birth rate, 24.4 per 1,000 residents, has translated into 
major growth in the neighborhood. Many of these births occur at Maimonides 
Medical Center, a hospital in the Borough Park area. The Maimonides Infants 
& Children’s Hospital of Brooklyn is fully accredited as a "children’s 
hospital within a hospital", one of three such facilities in New York City.[18] 
Here, at The Stella and Joseph Payson Birthing Center, Maimonides handles 
more births than any other hospital in New York State.[19] The size of 
many Hasidic families often requires larger homes, and this has fueled 
construction and renovation projects across the neighborhood. The vast 
majority of these projects involve larger bedrooms and kitchens. Since 
1990, the Building Department has issued more permits for private construction 
projects - new homes and additions - in the Borough Park area than in any 
other residential neighborhood in Brooklyn."[6] These construction projects 
were aided with a new law passed in 1992, which established Borough Park 
as a special zoning district where residents could build on 65% of their 
lot.[citation needed] This reduced the size of setbacks and backyards tremendously. 
Thirteenth Avenue, a commercial strip roughly one mile in length from 39th 
street to about 55th street, is packed with storefronts supplying Jewish 
households. Many Hasidic Jews shop loyally at these stores, coming from 
all parts of the city, other states, and even other countries to buy kosher 
items. Businesses have benefited from the growing Jewish population, the 
increasing density of the neighborhood, and the use of entrepreneurial 
spirit on the Internet.[20] The community receives many visitors, especially 
among Israeli expatriates and tourists. In 1987, The Park House Hotel opened 
its doors between 12th and 13th Avenues on 48th Street as the first kosher 
Hotel in Borough Park. In 1999, a kosher hotel called "The Avenue Plaza 
Hotel" opened on 13th Avenue, becoming the first hotel to appear in the 
neighborhood in more than a decade. These hotels are popular attractions 
for visitors to New York City, and they are among the few hotels that can 
accommodate the needs of many Hasidim. Banks include HSBC (formerly Republic 
National Bank formerly Bank Leumi), Washington Mutual (formerly Dime Bancorp, 
and now part of JPMorgan Chase), and Citibank, all with local branches 
for decades. A booming economy has brought in others including Apple, North 
Fork now Capital One, Sovereign Bank (formerly Independence Community, 
now part of Santander), JP Morgan Chase, Berkshire, Liberty Pointe, Astoria, 
TD Bank, formerly Commerce Bank, Dime Savings Bank of Williamsburgh, Metropolitan 
National Bank, Valley National Bank, and Bank of America. The New York 
City Department of Education operates Borough Park's public schools; NYCDOE's 
District 20 covers Borough Park.[21] P.S./I.S. 180 Homewood School, a zoned 
public K-8 school, receives many bused-in students from other neighborhoods, 
including Bay Ridge and Bensonhurst. Many elementary schools have had mixed 
results from this student drain; for example, in 2004, a New York Times 
reporter stated that Public School 164 was "at only 89 percent of capacity 
because many children in the community attend yeshivas. Classes are small, 
the hallways quiet, the principal and assistant principal know every student 
by name."[22] Subsequently, the percentage of children reading at or above 
the grade level has increased to 55% in 2004 from 40% in 1998 in an otherwise 
unchanged school. Most Borough Park neighborhood parents send children 
to Jewish private schools (called yeshivot).[23] In fact, virtually all 
the large population of school-children born into Borough Park's Hasidic 
families attend local yeshivas for boys and Bais Yaakov-type schools for 
girls. This had diminished the student population of local schools, such 
as The Montauk Intermediate School. The New York City Department of Education 
hoped to take advantage of the empty space and construct a small school, 
called the Kingsborough Early College School, inside Montauk.[24] The Hasidic 
community was not pleased by the prospect of a new public school because 
it would bring "a bad element" (a supposed euphemism for immodestly attired 
girls), and protested the decision. The Community Educational Council heard 
these complaints and decided against expanding its public school system. 
Instead, an all girls 6-12 school, the Urban Assembly for School for Criminal 
Justice moved in, and occupies part of the 3rd floor and the entire 4th 
floor of the building with its over 500 girls. In addition, The Montauk 
School now serves mostly Asian students; and nearly a third of its nearly 
1000 students are English as a New Language students. Together, the schools 
service nearly 1600 students, above the target capacity of 1422 students.[25][26] 
The Hasidic community has developed a network of residents to handle emergencies 
in the neighborhood. Hatzolah is a volunteer ambulance group composed of 
emergency medical technicians and paramedics.[27] Brooklyn South Safety 
Patrol Shomrim is a citizens watch group that is sanctioned by the New 
York City Police Department (NYPD) community affairs division. They respond 
to security related calls in the area, and are called upon by the NYPD 
to assist in searches for missing persons. The Hasidic community has been 
able to form ties with the local authorities. The neighborhood is under 
the 66th Precinct of the NYPD.[28] Borough Park is home to many Hasidic 
groups, the largest being the Hasidic Bobov sect; the Belz, Ger, Satmar, 
Stolin, Vizhnitz, Munkacz, Spinka, Klausenburg, Skver, and Puppa communities 
also reside here, among others. There is a minority of Hareidi non-Hasidic 
Lithuanian Jews (typically called Litvish or Yeshivish), with a smaller 
number of Modern Orthodox Jews. There is also a large population of Yemenite 
Jews, many of whom immigrated in the early 1920s. In Brooklyn, about 37% 
of Jews consider themselves Orthodox,[29] and Borough Park is often referred 
to as the "heartland" or "home" for New York's Orthodox Jewish population.[30] 
The neighborhood became largely Orthodox in the last 40 years, making a 
transformation sometimes referred to as "suburb to shtetl."[31] During 
much of the early 1900s, the Jewish population in Borough Park, and Brooklyn 
as a whole, was part of a much more liberal-leaning voting block. However, 
many of these early Jewish families moved to the suburbs or other places 
around the city while more conservative Hasidic Jews (many of them survivors 
of the Holocaust and immigrant families from Eastern Europe) joined their 
neighborhoods. As a result, the overwhelming majority of the Hasidic population 
in Borough Park and Brooklyn introduced a more traditional Jewish religious 
lifestyle. A 2002 study by the UJA Federation-New York revealed that only 
2% of Borough Park's Jews identified themselves as Reform Jews and nearly 
three-fourths identified themselves as Orthodox Jews.[32] The Hasidic population 
adheres strongly to halakha (Jewish law) and the Shulkhan Arukh (halakhic 
code), following many Judaic laws in their daily lives. Saturday is the 
Shabbos (Yiddish pronunciation of Hebrew shabbat, Jewish Sabbath), a day 
of rest, which is strictly observed by most members of the community. In 
some areas, a siren is sounded on Friday before sundown to indicate the 
arrival of the Shabbos. Culturally and religiously, the Jewish population 
of the neighborhood is considered one of the most Orthodox in the world, 
as "[m]any families do not own televisions or attend movies. The children 
attend yeshivas instead of public schools. Adolescent girls do not leave 
the house without making certain that their knees and elbows are covered, 
and at weddings and funerals alike, women and men sit separately to avoid 
physical contact, as required by religious law."[33] Additionally, most 
stores in Borough Park sell or prepare only kosher food made under rabbinical 
supervision. There was a large controversy surrounding the erection of 
an eruv in Borough Park, because of differing interpretations of the application 
of Jewish law. An eruv was built in 1999-2000 and encompasses about 225 
blocks in Borough Park. Its use is still the subject of controversy. Mikvah's 
(Jewish ritual baths) are scattered across the neighborhood as it is considered 
a vital part of Orthodox Jewish life. It is rather difficult to identify 
as it is not usually explicitly advertised to promote privacy among its 
users. Borough Park is home to the headquarters of Hasidic Judaism's large 
Bobov community, numbering an estimated several thousand families.[34] 
It is one of Brooklyn's largest Hasidic communities and has followers in 
Canada, England, Belgium and Israel. In 2005, the Bobover Rebbe, Rabbi 
Naftali Zvi Halberstam, died. A quarrel ensued over who should succeed 
him. The dispute was resolved by an arbitration panel known as a beth din, 
which decided that Rabbi Ben Zion Aryeh Leibish Halberstam, the former 
Rebbe's half-brother, retains all Bobov institutions. The faction that 
split created their own institutions and is headed by the former Rebbe's 
second son in law, Rabbi Mordechai Dovid Unger; the name of their institution 
is Bobov-45. In August 2014, the Beth Din prohibited the Bobov-45 group 
from using the name Bobov without an accompanying name, as in Bobov-45. 
The B8, B9, B11, B16, B35 New York City Bus routes serve the area, as well 
as the private B110 bus route to the predominantly Jewish neighborhood 
of Williamsburg. The New York City Subway's BMT West End Line, serving 
the D train, is at 55th Street, 50th Street, and Fort Hamilton Parkway. 
The IND Culver Line, serving the F train, runs along McDonald Avenue, the 
eastern border of Borough Park. The BMT Sea Beach Line on the N service 
also serves the neighborhood at Fort Hamilton Parkway.[35] Borogh Parks 
major avenues run north south, and run against Greenwood Cemetery. Its 
major shopping districts are 13th Avenue, 16th Avenue and 18th Avenue. 
Maimonides Medical Center has 679 beds, a full ER with a level 2 trauma 
center, maturity wards, and Psychiatric services. It includes a large outpatient 
clinics program and is a major teaching hospital in the state of New York. 
Coordinates: 40°38′01″N 73°59′34″W﻿ / ﻿40.6335°N 73.9929°W﻿ / 40.6335; 
