Boston Royal Giants was a Negro league baseball team in Boston. The team 
was also known as the Boston Giants, Quaker Giants, Philadelphia Giants 
and Boston Colored Giants. The Royal Giants served as a farm team of sorts 
for the league. They played as far north as Canada's Cape Breton League, 
and games against mill or industrial teams in Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire. 
Black baseball in Boston started in the 1870s, when the City League formed 
teams of men. Though the Boston Giants were never among the most nationally 
popular black semi-pro teams, Boston was a hotbed of black baseball in 
the 1930s and 1940s. In 1923, Negro league veteran Danny McClellan organized 
a team that had been playing as the Quaker Giants into a Boston-based contingent 
called, for marketing purposes, the Philadelphia Giants. Black sports teams 
often named themselves after cities that would immediately identify them 
as African American to white fans and media (such as the Harlem Globetrotters, 
who were founded in Chicago). The Boston Royal Giants sometimes played 
in famed Boston Park League. Venues that hosted the Giants were often small 
public parks such as Medford's Playstead Park and Boston's Lincoln Park, 
but Braves Field (now Boston University's Nickerson Field) rented to African 
American owners as early as 1938, and Fenway Park was used for heavily-promoted 
games after 1942. On July 13, 2002 the Boston Red Sox dressed in 1948 Boston 
Royal Giants uniforms to honor the Negro league. The shirts were modeled 
after a uniform Herb Holmes' great-grandson found in a foot locker. Players 
included Texan sidearm pitcher Will "Cannonball" Jackman and catcher Burlin 
White. Over the 1920s Giants came and went, and the team adopted the names 
Boston (Colored) Giants and Boston Royal Giants, but Jackman and White 
were mainstays. Jackman threw a blazing fastball that dropped as it approached 
the plate — legendary New York Giants manager John McGraw coveted him so 
that he called Jackman a great pitcher and hitter who would help bring 
a pennant to any major league team, but for his complexion. Negro league 
superstar Bill Yancey, later a Yankees scout, said Jackman was the greatest 
all-around ballplayer he ever saw. According to James A. Riley's "Biographical 
Encyclopedia of the Negro Leagues," Jackman was "52-2 one season with the 
Giants and bested Satchel Paige twice in two outings." Longtime Negro league 
pitcher "Pud" Flournoy pitched for the team when he was past his prime, 
and centerfielder Gene Benson told a Black baseball author the Royal Giants 
left him stranded in Michigan during a road trip (Benson went on to a distinguished 
career with the Philadelphia Stars, and was such a respected player he 
was asked to room with a young Jackie Robinson in the Venezuelan Winter 
League in hopes Robinson's notorious temper would cool off enough to allow 
him to be a prime candidate to integrate the major leagues). Newark Eagle 
first baseman Frannie Matthews, a Cambridge, Mass. native, also saw time 
