"Boston Strong" is a slogan that was created as part of the reaction to 
the Boston Marathon bombing in April 2013. It is a variation on the term 
Livestrong, which was created in 2004. It has been placed on various kinds 
of merchandise after the phrase became popular, as well as gained criticism 
from various entities.[1] The use of the term in Boston has led to similar 
phrases entering public discourse, such as America Strong.The slogan was 
used nearly a decade previous to the Boston Marathon bombings by Bobby 
Alford, a member of (now former) the HAMC. Bobby printed BOSTON STRONG 
t-shirts in 2004 after a funeral in Ventura. The person being buried was 
said to use terms such as "that's not just tough, that's Chevy tough. That's 
not just strong, that's Chevy strong". Alford owned a company called STREET 
TUFF and printed t-shirts declaring that things were as tuff as the streets 
of Boston. Street Tuff Football and Street Tuff Poker. He then started 
making shirts that stated STRONG, the first of which was Boston Strong. 
Alford never attempted to gain any fame or financial gain when Boston Strong 
became famous after the bombings. In an ironic twist, Alford was recovering 
from surgery at the time of the bombings and just hours before the bombings 
was let go from the ambulance company where he worked as an Advanced EMT. 
that same ambulance company had several units dispatched to the scene. 
In the hours after the Boston Marathon bombing on April 15, 2013, the slogan 
"Boston Strong" appeared as a highly popular hashtag on Twitter and rapidly 
spread around the world. It was a T-shirt campaign created by Christopher 
Dobens and Nicholas Reynolds, students at Emerson College. Although Reynolds 
and Dobens are given credit, the slogan was actually created by Bobby Alford 
nearly a decade earlier and printed on his STREET TUFF shirts. "Not just 
TUFF...STREET TUFF" was turned into "Not just STRONG...BOSTON STRONG ". 
An expression of Boston's unity after the bombings, the slogan showed up 
on T-shirts and other products, and was emblazoned on the "Green Monster" 
wall at Boston's Fenway Park.[2][3] The Boston Bruins displayed the slogan 
on their helmets at their game two days after the bombings,[4] and at the 
first baseball game in Fenway Park after the bombings, the stadium announcer 
told the crowd: "We are one. We are strong. We are Boston. We are Boston 
strong."[2] On April 17, two days after the bombings, a T-shirt vendor 
(NOT ALFORD) and another private individual submitted separate trademark 
registration applications to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, seeking 
to obtain ownership of the "Boston Strong" slogan for use on commercial 
products.[3] One of the applicants said he wanted the trademark in order 
to prevent people from outside the Boston area from benefiting from it. 
A trademark attorney was quoted in the Huffington Post as predicting that 
the government office would deny the registration on the grounds that the 
slogan was already in the public domain and could not be linked to any 
specific entity.[3] On July 17, 2013, Boston Strong Bostonstrong.com LLC 
submitted trademark application to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 
the first for "Charitable Fundraising to Support Disaster Relief", and 
failed to receive registration in April 2014. Boston Strong bostonstrong.com 
was created 11/29/2012, well before anyone was interested in the mark, 
and was used as a man-made and natural disaster safety awareness advertising 
and disaster news campaign created by a North East and New England documentary 
news journalist reporting on the Appalachian Thrust and Lower Atlantic 
Region. VTstrong.com "Don't Drive into Water" campaign began in 2011 when 
Hurricane Irene's 5" rain which caused historic downhill water rapids and 
Valley flooding that devastated Vermont. The goods manufactured by the 
micro small business inventor sold via bostonstrong.com to create Boston 
Strong Disaster Relief, Inc., bostonstrong.org, a MA non-profit, on March 
17, 2015. The non-profit is an IRS 501c3 approved charity and is administrating 
the MassDOT MA State Boston Strong licence plate. Boston Strong Disaster 
Relief, Inc. is a registered service mark trademark in the State of MA 
as of 4/13/2015. The organization is 100% volunteer and benefits Boston 
bombing survivors long term medical needs not covered by insurance. The 
One Fund Boston, a trademark that received registration, collected and 
distributed over $80 million, is closed in 2015. In late May, a concert, 
Boston Strong: An Evening of Support and Celebration, was held at TD Garden 
with performances by Aerosmith, James Taylor, Bell Biv Devoe, New Kids 
on the Block J. Geils Band, Boston, Godsmack, Extreme, Jason Aldean, Jimmy 
Buffett, Carole King, Dane Cook and Steven Wright.[5] The Boston Strong 
entertainment industry concert videos online and money they generate is 
not associated with bostonstrong.org charity. The term has also made its 
way into many publications since the bombings, as well.[6] The roots of 
Boston Strong can be traced back to the Livestrong bracelets marketed by 
the Livestrong Foundation in 2003. The phrase can also be traced back to 
the United States Army's Army Strong motto, as well as Jersey Strong (Work 
Out World gym), which became popular in New Jersey following the destruction 
of Hurricane Sandy.[1] Man-Made and Natural disaster non-entertainment 
news affiliates Boston Strong bostonstrong.com was created 11/29/2012, 
15 months after affiliate VTstrong.com was created in 2011 following Hurricane 
Irene mountain floods. NewJerseyStrong.com was created 10/2012 as Hurricane 
Sandy struck the lower Atlantic. Photojournalist created media followed 
volunteering the "Before and After 911" historic photo exhibit since 2002. 
Wesley Lowery, then a reporter then at The Boston Globe, tweeted in October 
2013 that he thought the phrase had become overly commercialized, a view 
which drew criticism though Lowery's tweet specified he was "still inspired 
by the resilience of so many of those wounded in the marathon bombings."[7][8] 
A few weeks later, Bill Maher criticized the term, referring to a moment 
when he said: "You know again it was a bad day. Three people died that's 
terrible, more were maimed that's horrible, but unfortunately that happens 
every day in car accidents and everything else. I mean your city was not 
leveled by Godzilla." The remarks came in response to the 2013 World Series 
celebration, when Boston Red Sox players Jarrod Saltalamacchia and Jonny 
Gomes walked to the finish line of the Boston Marathon and placed the World 
Series Trophy on the line, while the crowd sang "God Bless America". Former 
Mayor Thomas Menino later called Maher's comments "irresponsible."[9] In 
February 2014, a charitable organization in El Paso, Texas considered taking 
possible legal action against the Red Sox due to their using a variation 
of the slogan, "B Strong", which it started using seven years earlier.[10] 
