The Boston Brahmin or Boston elite are members of Boston's traditional 
upper class.[1] They form an integral part of the historic core of the 
East Coast establishment, and are often associated with the distinctive 
Boston Brahmin accent, Harvard University, and traditional Anglo-American 
customs and clothing. Descendants of the earliest English colonists, such 
as those who came to America on the Mayflower or the Arbella, are often 
considered to be the most representative of the Boston Brahmins.[2] The 
term was coined by the physician and writer Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., 
in an 1860 article in the Atlantic Monthly.[3] The term Brahmin refers 
to the highest ranking caste of people in the traditional Hindu system 
of castes. In the United States, it has been applied to the old, wealthy 
New England families of British Protestant origin which were influential 
in the development of American institutions and culture. The term effectively 
underscores the strong conviction of the New England gentry that they were 
a people set apart by destiny to guide the American experiment as their 
ancestors had played a leading role in founding it. The term also illustrates 
the erudite and exclusive nature of the New England gentry as perceived 
by outsiders, and may also refer to their interest in Eastern religions, 
fostered perhaps by the impact in the 19th century of the transcendentalist 
writings of New England literary icons such as Ralph Waldo Emerson and 
Walt Whitman, and the enlightened appeal of Universalist Unitarian movements 
of the same period. The nature of the Brahmins is hinted at by the doggerel 
"Boston Toast" by Holy Cross alumnus John Collins Bossidy: While some 19th-century 
Brahmin families of large fortune were of bourgeois origin, others were 
of aristocratic origin. The new families were often the first to seek, 
in typically British fashion, suitable marriage alliances with those old 
aristocratic New England families that were descended from landowners in 
England to elevate and cement their social standing. The Winthrops, Dudleys, 
Saltonstalls, Winslows, and Lymans (descended from English magistrates, 
gentry, and aristocracy) were, by and large, happy with this arrangement. 
All of Boston's "Brahmin elite", therefore, maintained the received culture 
of the old English gentry, including cultivating the personal excellence 
that they imagined maintained the distinction between gentlemen and freemen, 
and between women and ladies. They saw it as their duty to maintain what 
they defined as high standards of excellence, duty, and restraint. Cultivated, 
urbane, and dignified, a Boston Brahmin was supposed to be the very essence 
of enlightened aristocracy.[6][7] The ideal Brahmin was not only wealthy, 
but displayed what was considered suitable personal virtues and character 
traits. The Brahmin was expected to maintain the customary English reserve 
in his dress, manner, and deportment, cultivate the arts, support charities 
such as hospitals and colleges, and assume the role of community leader.[8]:14 
Although the ideal called on him to transcend commonplace business values, 
in practice many found the thrill of economic success quite attractive. 
The Brahmins warned each other against avarice and insisted upon personal 
responsibility. Scandal and divorce were unacceptable. The total system 
was buttressed by the strong extended family ties present in Boston society. 
Young men attended the same prep schools, colleges, and private clubs,[9] 
and heirs married heiresses. Family not only served as an economic asset, 
but also as a means of moral restraint. Most belong to the Unitarian or 
Episcopal churches, although some were Congregationalists or Methodists. 
Politically they were successively Federalists, Whigs, and Republicans. 
They were marked by their manners and once distinctive elocution, the Boston 
Brahmin accent, a version of the New England accent. Their distinctive 
Anglo-American manner of dress has been much imitated and is the foundation 
of the style now informally known as preppy. Many of the Brahmin families 
trace their ancestry back to the original 17th- and 18th-century colonial 
ruling class consisting of Massachusetts governors and magistrates, Harvard 
presidents, distinguished clergy and fellows of the Royal Society of London 
(a leading scientific body), while others entered New England aristocratic 
society during the 19th century with their profits from commerce and trade, 
often marrying into established Brahmin families such as the Welds, Saltonstalls, 
Lymans, Sargents, Emersons, Winslows, Warrens and Winthrops. Adams Family 
Amory Family Appleton Family Patrilineal line:[10] Other notable relatives:[11][12][13] 
Bacon Family Bates family Originally from Boston and Britain: Boylston 
Family Bradlee Family Direct line:[17][18][19] Chaffee Family Originally 
of Hingham, Massachusetts:[20] Choate Family Coffin Family Originally of 
Newbury and Nantucket: Crowninshield Family Descendants by marriage: Cushing 
Family Originally of Hingham, Massachusetts:[21] Descendant by marriage: 
Dana Family Delano Family Dudley Family Dwight Family Eliot Family Descendant 
by marriage: Emerson Family Endicott Family Salem: Dedham: Of Marblehead 
and Salem:[22] Forbes Family Gardner Family Originally of Essex county: 
Holmes Family Jackson Family Lawrence Family Descendant by marriage: Abbott 
Lawrence Lowell (1856–1943): president of Harvard University Lodge Family 
Minot Family Norcross Family Original from Watertown, Massachusetts Otis 
Family Parkman Family Peabody Family Perkins Family Phillips Family Other 
notable relatives: Putnam Family Quincy Family Rice Family Originally of 
Sudbury, Massachusetts: Saltonstall Family Sears Family Tarbox Family Thorndike 
