Boules (French pronunciation: ​[bul]) is a collective name for a wide range 
of games in which the objective is to throw or roll heavy balls (called 
boules in France, and bocce in Italy) as close as possible to a small target 
ball. Boules-type games are traditional and popular in France, Italy, Malta 
and Croatia, and are also popular in some former French colonies. Boules 
games are often played in open spaces (town squares and parks) in villages 
and towns. Dedicated playing areas for boules-type games are typically 
large, level, rectangular courts made of flattened earth, gravel, or crushed 
stone, enclosed in wooden rails or back boards. In the south of France, 
the word boules is also often used as a synonym for pétanque. Boules games 
may be sub-divided into two categories based on typical throwing technique: 
Boules games may also be subdivided into two other categories based on 
typical throwing technique: Alternatively, boules games may be subdivided 
into categories based on the structure and material of the ball: Alternatively, 
boules games may be subdivided into categories based on the shape of the 
ball: There may be other variations as well, for instance in the way the 
ball is launched, in the dimensions of the playing area, whether obstacles 
(such as trees) are considered in-bounds or out-of-bounds, and whether 
it is legal to play balls off of enclosing boards or obstacles. Finally, 
some boules games (bocce, pétanque) began as variations of earlier games, 
deliberately created and designed to accommodate the needs of players with 
physical disabilities. Such variations produce a wide variety of boules-type 
games played all over the world. In Italian bocce, balls may be thrown 
in three ways: punto, raffa and volo.[1] There is a wide variation in the 
size and materials of the balls used in boules-type games. Originally, 
in ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome, the balls were probably made of stone. 
Gallic tribes, which were introduced to boules by the Romans, used wooden 
boules. In the 1800s in France, boules were typically made of a very hard 
wood, boxwood root. In the mid-1800s techniques were developed for the 
mass production of iron nails. Following this technological improvement, 
boxwood balls studded with nails (boules cloutées) were introduced in an 
effort to improve the durability of the balls. This eventually lead to 
the development of balls that were completely covered in nails, creating 
a ball that appeared almost to be made of metal. By the 1920s, the growing 
popularity of boules in France created a demand that could not be satisfied 
using the available supplies of natural boxwood root, which were beginning 
to disappear. Paul Courtieu and Vincent Miles had the idea of manufacturing 
a ball made entirely of metal. Avoiding steel-based alloys (which were 
too hard and rust-prone) they developed an alloy based on aluminum and 
bronze, and (in 1923) patented a metal ball made of two welded-together 
hemispheres. A year later, in 1924, they filed a patent for a ball that 
was cast in a single piece -- La Boule intégrale. Other companies began 
manufacturing metal balls in a variety of metals and metal alloys, including 
bronze.[2] Today, some boules sports (e.g. bocce) still use wooden (or 
epoxy composite) balls, while others (e.g. pétanque) use metal balls. The 
wooden balls used in bocce tend to be bigger than the smaller (but denser) 
metal balls used in pétanque. The same game can be known by different names 
in different languages and locations or the same name can be used for different 
local variations of a game. The category of boules games includes The Confédération 
Mondiale des Sports de Boules - CMSB - was created (on December 21, 1985 
in Monaco) by three international boules organizations for the purpose 
of lobbying the Olympic committee to make boules sports part of the summer 
Olympics. To date, its efforts have been unsuccessful.[4] The organizations 
