Bowie Kent Kuhn (/ˈbuːi ˈkjuːn/; October 28, 1926 – March 15, 2007) was 
an American lawyer and sports administrator who served as the fifth Commissioner 
of Major League Baseball from February 4, 1969, to September 30, 1984. 
He served as legal counsel for Major League Baseball owners for almost 
20 years prior to his election as commissioner. Kuhn was inducted into 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2008. Kuhn was born in Takoma Park, 
Maryland, the son of Alice Waring (Roberts) and Louis Charles Kuhn, a fuel 
company executive. His father was a Bavarian (German) immigrant, and his 
mother had deep roots in Maryland.[1] He grew up in Washington, D.C., and 
graduated from Theodore Roosevelt High School. He then attended Franklin 
and Marshall College in the V-12 Navy College Training Program before going 
to Princeton University in 1945. He graduated from Princeton with honors 
in 1947 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics. He then received his 
law degree in 1950 from the University of Virginia where he served on the 
editorial board of the law review. Following his graduation from law school, 
Kuhn became a member of the New York City law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher 
because the firm represented the National League. While working in baseball's 
legal affairs, Kuhn served as a counselor for the NL in a lawsuit brought 
against it by the City of Milwaukee when the Milwaukee Braves moved to 
Atlanta following the 1965 season. After the owners forced out William 
Eckert in 1968, Kuhn seemed like a logical replacement for the job of commissioner. 
He, unlike Eckert, was very aware of the inner workings of Major League 
Baseball before taking office. Kuhn's closest challengers to the commissionership 
were Mike Burke, president of the New York Yankees; and San Francisco Giants 
head of baseball operations Chub Feeney, who instead became president of 
the National League.[2] Kuhn was the youngest (42), tallest (6-foot-5), 
and heaviest (240 pounds, 109 kg) commissioner in history. His tenure was 
marked by labor strikes (most notably in 1981), owner disenchantment, and 
the end of baseball's reserve clause, yet baseball enjoyed unprecedented 
attendance gains (from 23 million in 1968 to 45.5 million in 1983) and 
television contracts during the same time frame. Kuhn suspended numerous 
players for involvement with drugs and gambling, and took a strong stance 
against any activity that he perceived to be "not in the best interests 
of baseball." In 1970, he suspended star Detroit Tigers pitcher Denny McLain 
indefinitely (the suspension was later set at 3 months) due to McLain's 
involvement in a bookmaking operation, and later suspended McLain for the 
rest of the season for carrying a gun. He barred both Willie Mays (in 1979) 
and Mickey Mantle (in 1983) from the sport due to their involvement in 
casino promotion; neither was directly involved in gambling, and both were 
reinstated by Kuhn's successor Peter Ueberroth in 1985. Also in 1970, Kuhn 
described Jim Bouton's Ball Four as "detrimental to baseball" and demanded 
that Bouton retract it. The book has been republished several times and 
is now considered a classic. On October 13, 1971, the World Series held 
a night game for the first time. Kuhn, who thought that baseball could 
attract a larger audience by featuring a prime time telecast (as opposed 
to a mid-afternoon broadcast, when most fans either worked or attended 
school), pitched the idea to NBC. An estimated 61 million people watched 
Game 4 on NBC; TV ratings for a World Series game during the daytime hours 
would not have approached such a record number. Through the rest of the 
1970s and into the 1980s, weekday World Series games were played at night 
while most weekend games continued to be scheduled in the daytime. An exception 
came in 1976, when Game 2 was played on a Sunday night to avoid conflicts 
with NBC's NFL coverage; Kuhn responded to criticism of the scheduling 
by attending the game, held at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium, without 
an overcoat in spite of the chilly nighttime weather.[3] Kuhn's primetime 
vision has been fulfilled, however, as all World Series games are now shown 
in prime time. In 1980, during the Iranian hostage crisis, Kuhn sat at 
a baseball game with Jeremiah Denton, a Navy admiral and former POW in 
Vietnam who would be elected U.S. Senator later that year from the state 
of Alabama. Recalling the event to The Washington Post, Kuhn believed that 
"that afternoon...the idea of a lifetime baseball pass was discussed," 
and upon their return from Iran, each of the 52 hostages was given one 
of these unique passes.[4] On October 7, 1969, the St. Louis Cardinals 
traded Curt Flood, catcher Tim McCarver, outfielder Byron Browne, and left-handed 
pitcher Joe Hoerner to the Philadelphia Phillies for first baseman Dick 
Allen, second baseman Cookie Rojas, and right-handed ace relief pitcher 
Jerry Johnson. However, Flood refused to report to the moribund Phillies, 
citing the team's poor record and the fact that they played in dilapidated 
Connie Mack Stadium and played in front of racist fans. Flood forfeited 
a relatively lucrative US$100,000 contract by his refusal to be traded 
to the Phillies. In a letter to Kuhn, Flood demanded that the commissioner 
declare him a free agent. December 24, 1969 It is my desire to play baseball 
in 1970, and I am capable of playing. I have received a contract offer 
from the Philadelphia Club, but I believe I have the right to consider 
offers from other clubs before making any decisions. I, therefore, request 
that you make known to all Major League Clubs my feelings in this matter, 
and advise them of my availability for the 1970 season. Kuhn denied his 
request, citing the propriety of the reserve clause, which was language 
in contracts that essentially prevented a player from playing with another 
team even after his contract expired. In response, Flood filed a lawsuit 
against Kuhn and Major League Baseball on January 16, 1970, alleging that 
Major League Baseball had violated federal antitrust laws. Flood likened 
the reserve clause to slavery. It was a controversial analogy, even among 
those who opposed the reserve clause. The case, Flood v. Kuhn (407 U.S. 
258) eventually went to the Supreme Court. Flood's attorney, former Supreme 
Court Justice Arthur Goldberg, asserted that the reserve clause depressed 
wages and limited players to one team for life. Major League Baseball's 
counsel countered that Commissioner Kuhn acted under the way he did '"for 
the good of the game." Ultimately, the Supreme Court, acting on stare decisis 
"to stand by things decided", ruled 5–3 in favor of Major League Baseball, 
upholding a 1922 ruling in the case of Federal Baseball Club v. National 
League, (259 U.S. 200.) Though he had a reputation as an owners' commissioner, 
Kuhn did not avoid confronting at least one owner whom he disliked. He 
was a major adversary of Oakland Athletics owner Charles O. Finley. A major 
embarrassment for baseball resulted from Finley's actions during the 1973 
World Series. Finley forced player Mike Andrews to sign a false affidavit 
saying he was injured after the reserve infielder committed two consecutive 
errors in the 12th inning of Oakland's Game 2 loss to the New York Mets. 
Andrews' teammates as well as manager Dick Williams rallied to his defense. 
Kuhn in return forced Finley to reinstate Andrews. In 1976, when Finley 
attempted to sell several players to the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees 
for $3.5 million, Kuhn blocked the deals on the grounds that they would 
be bad for the game. Some[who?] believe that Kuhn's actions were simply 
a revenge tactic aimed at Finley after he attempted to force an owners' 
vote to remove Kuhn as commissioner in 1975. At the start of the 1974 season, 
Kuhn inadvertently got into the middle of a small controversy during Hank 
Aaron's pursuit of Babe Ruth's record of 714 career home runs. Aaron's 
Atlanta Braves opened the season on the road in Cincinnati with a three-game 
series against the Cincinnati Reds. Braves management wanted him to break 
the record at home in Atlanta. Therefore, they were going to have Aaron 
sit out the first three games of the season. But Kuhn ruled that Aaron 
had to play two out of three. The result was that Aaron tied Ruth's record 
in his very first at bat, but did not hit another home run in the series. 
Kuhn did not attend the game where Aaron broke the record, citing a previous 
engagement. In 1977, Kuhn battled the brash new owner of the Atlanta Braves, 
Ted Turner. Turner admitted that he had made remarks at a cocktail party 
about acquiring San Francisco Giants star Gary Matthews, at a time when 
Kuhn had ordered owners not to speak about potential free agents. Kuhn 
concluded that Turner's statement was not in the "best interest of baseball" 
and fined Turner, suspended him from baseball for one year, and penalized 
his club with the loss of a draft choice. Turner sued but both the trial 
and appellate courts refused to grant Turner relief, emphasizing the limited-extent 
of judicial review over baseball and the commissioner's office. In 1977, 
Melissa Ludtke, a reporter for Sports Illustrated, sued Kuhn and the baseball 
commission for access to the locker room of the New York Yankees. She was 
denied access to the Yankees clubhouse during the 1977 World Series and 
asserted her 14th amendment right was violated. She won her suit. The court 
stated her fourteenth amendment right was violated since the Yankees clubhouse 
was controlled by New York City. The court also stated that her fundamental 
right to pursue a career was violated based on her sex.[5][6] When baseball 
writers came out in support of inducting Negro League players into the 
Hall of Fame, Kuhn supported recognizing the players in the Hall, but was 
unable to garner sufficient support from the Hall of Fame board of directors. 
As a compromise, Kuhn established a committee to select the greatest Negro 
Leaguers, to be honored with a display at the museum in Cooperstown.[7] 
Satchel Paige was selected as the initial inductee for the Negro Leagues 
display.[8] The decision to honor the Negro Leaguers with a separate exhibit 
received significant criticism. Sportswriter Jim Murray of the Los Angeles 
Times wrote, "They segregated the Hall of Fame! ... To have kept Satchel 
Paige from playing in the white leagues for 24 years and then bar him from 
the pearly gates on the grounds he didn't play the required 10 years [in 
the major leagues] is a shocking bit of insolent cynicism, a disservice 
to America. What is this – 1840? Either let him in the front of the hall – 
or move the damn thing to Mississippi."[9] Larry Doby, the first black 
player in the American League, commented, "With another wing ... whatever 
good they've done, they've torn it down."[10] Kuhn, in his autobiography, 
claimed that he "knew that the furor would be heard by the board of directors 
and that the public outcry would be hard to resist. That is exactly what 
happened."[7] Within a few months, the Hall of Fame board of directors 
changed its mind and agreed to give Paige, and future honorees of the Negro 
Leagues selection committee, full membership in the Hall.[11] Bill James, 
in his book The Politics of Glory: How Baseball's Hall of Fame Really Works, 
wrote that Kuhn seemed "very proud of how he handled the affair, doing 
an end run around the Hall of Fame board of directors by exposing the Hall – 
and himself – to public criticism. Perhaps this does reflect some personal 
courage, and he was able to see that the right thing was done. But the 
Hall of Fame was also damaged. ... The message that got through to the 
public, loosely translated, was that the Hall of Fame was a racist institution. 
... Bowie Kuhn would have been a better friend to the Hall of Fame if he 
had led them to come to terms with their institutional racism in private, 
rather than leading them to expose it to the public."[12] After being in 
office for over ten years, Kuhn had grown a strong reputation for being 
hard on players who abused drugs. Kuhn was quick to punish players who 
used drugs with heavy fines and suspensions. Kansas City Royals catcher 
Darrell Porter told the Associated Press that during the winter of 1979–1980 
he became paranoid, convinced that Kuhn knew about his drug abuse, was 
trying to sneak into his house, and planned to ban him from baseball for 
life. Porter found himself sitting up at night in the dark watching out 
the front window, waiting for Kuhn to approach, clutching billiard balls 
and a shotgun. Ironically, when Porter was named the most valuable player 
of the 1982 World Series while playing for the Cardinals, Kuhn was on hand 
to congratulate him. In 1983, four players from the Kansas City Royals – 
Willie Wilson, Jerry Martin, Willie Mays Aikens, and Vida Blue – were found 
guilty of cocaine use. In addition, such established stars as Ferguson 
Jenkins, Keith Hernandez, Dave Parker, and Dale Berra admitted to having 
problems with drugs. In 1980, during a customs search in Toronto, Ferguson 
Jenkins was found possessing 3.0 grams cocaine, 2.2 grams hashish, and 
1.75 grams marijuana. In response, on September 8, Kuhn suspended him indefinitely. 
However, Jenkins' suspension lasted only two weeks before, in an unprecedented 
action, an independent arbiter reinstated him and he returned to the league.[13] 
Jenkins was not further punished by MLB for the incident, as he remained 
active until his retirement following the 1983 season. Kuhn was both praised 
and attacked for the firm stand that he levied against offenders. However, 
his hardline stand on PEDs and the 1981 strike caused most of the MLB owners 
to turn against him.[citation needed] In 1983, Kuhn and his supporters 
made a last-ditch effort to renew his contract but ultimately failed. Kuhn, 
though, was allowed to stay for the 1984 regular season before being replaced 
by Peter Ueberroth. Following baseball, Kuhn returned to the law firm of 
Willkie Farr & Gallagher and assumed presidency of the Kent Group, a business, 
sports and financial consulting firm. Kuhn left Willkie, Farr & Gallagher 
to join with Harvey D. Myerson, a former senior partner in the firm of 
Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Underberg, Manley, Myerson & Casey, to form the 
firm of Myerson & Kuhn.[14] He also became an adviser and board member 
for Domino's Pizza and the Ave Maria Foundation. Kuhn had been a longtime 
resident of Ridgewood, New Jersey.[15] According to an AP wire story,[16] 
he partnered in a law firm with Harvey Myerson which subsequently went 
bankrupt and then sold his New Jersey home and moved to Ponte Vedra Beach, 
Florida, because his home and other assets were shielded from the bankruptcy. 
Kuhn became the Chairman of the Catholic Advisory Board of the Ave Maria 
Mutual Funds upon the inception of their first mutual fund, Ave Maria Catholic 
Values Fund, in May 2001. During a telecast of the 2004 World Series, broadcaster 
Joe Buck announced that just prior to his 78th birthday, Kuhn was scheduled 
to undergo open-heart surgery.[17] He died on March 15, 2007 at St. Luke's 
Hospital in Jacksonville, Florida after being hospitalized for several 
weeks with pneumonia.[15] Kuhn was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame 
in 2008, after having been elected by the Veterans Committee nine months 
