In baseball, the statistical summary of a game is reported in a box score. 
An abbreviated version of the box score, duplicated from the field scoreboard, 
is the line score. The Baseball Hall of Fame credits Henry Chadwick with 
the invention of the box score. The line score is a two-line chart that 
reports each team's run totals by inning, and total runs, total hits, and 
total errors on a line. The visiting team is on the top line and the home 
team on the bottom line. The terms top of the inning and bottom of the 
inning are derived from their positions in the line score. Sometimes, the 
winning team is bolded or colored for quick-reference. If the home team 
is already leading and does not bat in the bottom of the 9th inning, that 
position in the line score will have an "X" instead of a number of runs 
scored. Line score for the Brooklyn Dodgers–New York Giants pennant-winning 
game of October 3, 1951: The box score lists the line score as well as 
individual and team performance in the game. The statistics used are those 
recorded by the official scorer of each game. The following box score is 
of a notable game in baseball history, game 6 of the 1991 World Series. 
(All game references below refer to the box score above.) At the top of 
the box score, the editor of a publication may list the time, date, and/or 
place of the game. In the example, the stadium's name (the Hubert H. Humphrey 
Metrodome) and city (Minneapolis) are listed. The line score is always 
listed as part of the box score, usually near the top; it lists the total 
runs scored in each inning. (The Atlanta Braves scored two runs in the 
fifth inning and one in the seventh. The Minnesota Twins scored two runs 
in the first inning, one in the fifth, and one in the eleventh. ) Innings 
are normally grouped in sets of three for ease of reading. The team totals 
of runs, hits, and errors are listed last, after a separating character 
such as a dash. The actual score of the game is represented by the first 
column after the dash; (the Twins won this game four runs to three.) The 
batting performances of each player in the game are grouped by team, with 
the visiting team listed first. Players are listed by last name in the 
order in which they were listed on the lineup card for the game, showing 
all players who enter the game at any point whether they make a plate appearance 
or not. Their fielding positions or batting roles are normally listed next 
to their last name. Typically only last names are used, unless two players 
with the same name appear in the game, in which case a distinctive first 
initial is also used. When a player switches fielding position, both positions 
are listed. (Brian Hunter, in the sixth position of the Braves' batting 
order, started at left field but also served as the first baseman.) Substitute 
players are listed where they were placed in the batting order (in cases 
such as a double switch, not necessarily in the position of the player 
they replaced). Players who had an offensive role only are listed by that 
role: "ph" if they entered as a pinch hitter or "pr" if as a pinch runner. 
Substitutes who enter for defensive purposes and do not make a plate appearance 
have their fielding position shown and their batting line score shown as 
zeros. When a pinch hitter or pinch runner remains in the game, his fielding 
position is also listed. Some box scores will indent substitutes' names 
to indicate their spot in the order was the same as the non-indented starter's 
name above it; others will leave all names left-justified. (The Twins' 
Brian Harper pinch hit for Junior Ortiz and then remained in the game as 
catcher.) Batting statistics are displayed to the right of the names in 
the lineup. At minimum are shown each batter's at bats, runs, hits, and 
runs batted in. Some box scores show other player statistics such as home 
runs, stolen bases, bases on balls, strikeouts, fielding errors, times 
left on base, home runs, or season batting average. At the bottom of the 
lineup are the team totals for each category. Additional batting, fielding, 
and base-running statistics are listed in non-tabular form normally below 
the batting order summaries: Below the batting orders and line score, the 
pitching summary is listed. Each pitcher used in the game is listed, along 
with any decision awarded to that pitcher. A pitcher can be credited with 
a win, a loss, a save, or a hold. Cumulative totals for pitching decisions 
are also shown, for either regular season or post-season play. To the right 
of each pitcher's name are recorded the total innings pitched, hits given 
up, runs allowed, earned runs allowed, bases on balls issued, and strikeouts 
made. More elaborate statistics may also be displayed, such as home runs 
allowed, pitch count, or the pitcher's cumulative earned run average. Other 
pitching events are shown below the summary. Other overall game information 
is shown at the bottom of the box score. Most box scores also give the 
temperature, weather, and wind speed/direction. Other events not shown 
in the example but recorded in most box scores include sacrifice hits ("S"), 
triple plays ("TP"), balks ("BK"), blown saves ("BS"), and passed balls 
("PB"). Many box scores, to save space, do not list any categories where 
none of that event occurred in the game. Others will list the category 
followed by " – None". In a baseball game, the number of plate appearances 
for each team must be equal to the number of batters put out, scored, and 
left on base. A box score is in balance (or proved) when the total of the 
team's times at bat, bases on balls received, hit batters, sacrifice bunts, 
sacrifice flies and batters awarded first base because of interference 
or obstruction equals the total of that team's runs, players left on base 
and the opposing team's putouts. In other words, the box score is accounting 
for the number of batters and what became of them (scored, left on base, 
or put out). If a box score is unbalanced, then there is a logical contradiction 
and thus an error somewhere in the box score. The first box scores tended 
to be vaguely related to Cricket scorekeeping, in that only two offense-oriented 
figures were presented for each batter: "O" and "R", meaning "number of 
times put out" and "number of runs scored", respectively. As fan interest 
in all aspects of the game increased, the box scores were revised and expanded 
to include the offensive categories At-Bats, Runs, Hits and sometimes Total 
Bases; and the defensive categories Put-Outs, Assists and Errors for each 
batter, as well as a statistical summary underneath the lineups listing 
extra-base hits, innings pitched, earned runs, etc. In baseball, if the 
team scheduled to bat last is leading after 8½ innings, there is no turn 
at bat for that team, as it would not affect the outcome of the game, so 
the last of the ninth is usually marked with an "X" as a placeholder in 
the line score. Some newspapers (and some scoreboards) in those days showed 
the home team in the top line, resulting in the peculiarity of an "X" placed 
in what appeared to be the "top" of the ninth. This practice was a carryover 
from the time when the home team had the choice of whether to bat first 
or last, another similarity with Cricket. Teams would often choose to bat 
first, counting on their ability to "get the jump" on the visiting team 
(as with football teams that win the coin toss), but the potential for 
the visitors scoring the winning run in the last of ninth was clearly an 
unsatisfying situation for the fans. The rules eventually required the 
home team to bat last, but the practice of listing the home team first 
was carried on for a while, in some places, even when it did not square 
with the actual events of the game. The offensive statistic Runs Batted 
In was developed in the early 1900s, and was soon being carried in the 
lineup portion of the box scores. As relief pitching became more common, 
a separate "lineup" section for the pitchers was developed, carrying individual 
Innings Pitched; the number of Hits, Runs, Earned Runs, and Bases on Balls 
allowed; and Strike-Outs achieved. By the late 1960s or so, in the interest 
of space, most newspapers dropped the defensive stats from the lineups, 
just carrying the list of errors (if any) in the game summary. For a special 
event, such as World Series play (especially if a local team is involved), 
