Brännboll (Swedish pronunciation: [ˈbrɛnːbɔlː]) (brennball or slåball ("hitball") 
in Norway; rundbold ("roundball") in Denmark) is a game similar to rounders, 
baseball, lapta and pesäpallo played on amateur level throughout Sweden, 
Norway, Denmark and Germany, mostly on fields and in public parks, but 
it is also part of the PE curriculum in some areas. The name is derived 
from the act of catching a player between two bases at the end of a batting 
round, referred to as burning them (bränna), roughly equivalent to being 
out in baseball. The world championship, called Brännbollscupen, is an 
annual event in the Swedish city of Umeå. The rules of brännboll differ 
between different areas and there is no governing body. Nevertheless, this 
section outlines some rules and traditions which are commonly upheld. In 
contrast to baseball and cricket, there is no pitcher/bowler, but the batsman 
himself throws or bounces the ball (usually a tennis ball) and hits it 
with his bat. A selection of bats is sometimes available, with a regular 
wooden or metallic baseball bat usually present, and a paddle-like bat 
resembling a cricket bat available for less experienced batsmen. On some 
occasions, there is also a stiff racket. The valid area for a successful 
batting is usually delimited by natural features such as trees, or simply 
an agreed upon imaginary border, this rule only restricts how widely the 
batter can hit, but not how far. The proportions of the field and positioning 
of the players are arbitrary, albeit usually adjusted according to the 
batting and running ability of the players, as well as the player count. 
When the batsman successfully hits the ball, they drop the bat and make 
their way around the four bases (usually counter-clockwise), while the 
players in the catching team catch and throw the ball back to the designated 
catcher positioned by the outing base (brännplatta), who announces the 
end of the batting round with "out" (bränd, "burned") when the catcher 
has made contact with the outing base whilst holding the ball. If a player 
from the batting team is caught between two bases at the end of the batting 
round, they move back to either the last visited base or first base (depending 
on the local rules) and the catching team scores a point. If a batsman 
is unsuccessful at batting after the three attempts allowed, they move 
to the first base and will run when the next batsman bats a valid hit. 
There are no restrictions on the number of players at each base. If all 
players on the batting team fail to reach the fourth base (and thus rejoin 
the queue) and no batsmen remain in the queue, the inner team is caught 
out ("utebrända"), and depending on local rules extra points may be awarded 
to the opposing team in return for the safe passage on the players to the 
queue. Alternatively, the inner team gets to switch sides as batting is 
often more lucrative for scoring points. Each team get to play as both 
sides, usually one or two times, and sides are shifted at predetermined 
time intervals. Score and time is kept by a score keeper, who also has 
the final say in whether inner team players are caught out at the end of 
a batting round. Generic scoring system (Due to the lack of a professional 
organisation governing brännboll, many local varieties exist): Generic 
penalty system (Several varieties exist) While not being an organized sport 
with teams and a league, it is appreciated by children of all ages during 
school or after, and friends after work play for fun. Since 1974 an annual 
Students World Championship tournament has been held in the northern city 
of Umeå, whereby some standardized rules are followed. The world championship 
is called Brännbollscupen, which is followed by the festival Brännbollsyran. 
Branboll is enjoyed by elementary schoolchildren in the American Upper 
Midwest (particularly Minnesota), due to the area's large Scandinavian 
influence.[1][2] A similar game, brennball, is popular in PE classes at 
German schools. It is usually played indoors, with a larger ball (such 
as a volleyball or a basketball) and without a bat; batting is replaced 
by throwing. The bases are usually far larger than in baseball and more 
than one player can be on the same base at the same time. German brennball 
is rarely played outside a PE setting. In Norway another similar game, 
called dødball (deadball or deathball), is common. The game has six or 
five rings (approximately one meter in diameter) marked on the ground instead 
of four bases, limiting the number of players secured by a given ring to 
the amount that can fit within it. The term "dead" (død) is used instead 
of "burnt" or "out". When the catcher gets the ball he or she also has 
to bounce it on the ground (usually on a predetermined square called døboksen, 
"the death box") and shout "dø" ("die"). A dead player is exempt from play 
for the rest of the round unless a home run is achieved; in which case 
a set number of dead players (usually either one or all of them, depending 
on the rule-set) are "saved" and allowed to rejoin the queue. To complete 
a run a player has to reenter the "in" side of the field rather than just 
reaching the last base. Scoring- and win-conditions varies widely from 
rule-set to rule-set. Points can be determined by runs, just by home runs, 
by rounds won (usually determined by reaching set numbers of home runs 
for the in-team or dead players for the out-team) or by combinations of 
the above. Sometimes points are not used at all and a game ends with no 
formal winner after a set amount of time. Another version of the game, 
popular among students, is called ölbrännboll (beer-brännball), where beercases 
are used as bases so the players of the batting team, waiting to run can 
drink freely. It is however not mandatory to drink while waiting. One version 
of the game where drinking is mandatory is vinbrännboll (wine-brännball), 
where you take a glass of wine after passing the fourth base and thus being 
