Coordinates: 51°24′58″N 0°44′56″W﻿ / ﻿51.416°N 0.749°W﻿ / 51.416; -0.749 
Bracknell is a town and civil parish in the Borough of Bracknell Forest 
in Berkshire, England. It lies 11 miles (18 km) to the east of Reading, 
9 miles (14 km) south of Maidenhead, 10 miles (16 km) southwest of Windsor, 
16 miles (26 km) northwest of Guildford and 34 miles (55 km) west of central 
London. The town has a population of 77,256 and is twinned with the German 
city of Leverkusen. The town is surrounded, on the east and south, by Swinley 
Woods and Crowthorne Woods. The urban area has absorbed parts of many local 
outlying areas including Warfield, Winkfield and Binfield, and is itself, 
along with Binfield, a component of the Greater London Urban Area as defined 
by the ONS. The name Bracknell is first recorded in a Winkfield Boundary 
Charter of AD 942 as Braccan heal, and may mean "Nook of land belonging 
to a man called Bracca", from the Old English Braccan (genitive singular 
of a personal name) + heal, healh (a corner, nook or secret place).[1] 
An early form of the town's name, Brakenhale, still survives as the name 
of one of its schools. The town covers all of the old village of Easthampstead 
(though not all of the old parish) and the hamlet of Ramslade. There is 
a Bronze Age round barrow at Bill Hill. Easthampstead Park was a favoured 
royal hunting lodge in Windsor Forest and Catherine of Aragon was banished 
there until her divorce was finalised.[2] It was later the home of the 
Trumbulls who were patrons of Alexander Pope from Binfield.[2] To the north-east 
of the town is to be found the Quelm Stone, a standing stone,[3] and to 
the south-west, just over the border in Crowthorne, is Caesar's Camp, an 
Iron Age hill fort.[4] One of the oldest buildings in the town is the 'Old 
Manor' public house, a 17th-century brick manor house featuring a number 
of priest holes.[5] Next door once stood the 'Hind's Head' coaching inn, 
where it is said Dick Turpin used to drink.[5] It is believed that there 
were once underground tunnels between the two, along which the famous highwayman 
could escape from the authorities.[5] Other surviving old pubs are the 
Red Lion and the Bull, all timber-framed and dating from before the 18th 
century. The oldest place of worship in the town is the parish church of 
St Michael and St Mary Magdalene in Easthampstead. There has been a church 
there since Saxon times, although the present building dates from the mid 
19th century, except for the lower portions of the Tudor tower.[6] Holy 
Trinity Church near the town centre was built in 1851.[7] Bracknell was 
designated a new town in 1949,[8] in the aftermath of the Second World 
War. The site was originally a village cum small town in the civil parish 
of Warfield in the Easthampstead Rural District. Very little of the original 
Bracknell is left. The location was preferred to White Waltham, which was 
also considered, because the Bracknell site avoided encroaching on good 
quality agricultural land. It also had the additional advantage of being 
on a railway line. The new town was planned for 25,000 people; it was intended 
to occupy over 1,000 hectares (about 6 square miles) of land in and around 
'Old Bracknell' in the area now occupied by Priestwood, Easthampstead, 
Bullbrook and Harmans Water. The existing town centre and industrial areas 
were to be retained with new industry brought in to provide jobs.[9] However, 
the town has since expanded far beyond its intended size into farmland 
to the south, and major expansion is now, as of 2008, under way (Jennett's 
Park[10]) to the west of the town at Peacock Farm and The Parks on the 
site of the former RAF Staff College.[11] At the heart of most Bracknell 
neighbourhoods is a church, a small parade of shops, a primary school, 
a community centre and a pub. The neighbourhoods varied in population from 
3,000 to 9,000. The plans included pedestrianisation, the construction 
of a ring road, and segregation of industrial areas from residential areas.[12][13] 
A slightly confusing feature of some of the estates is that streets only 
have names, not titles – in Birch Hill, Crown Wood, Great Hollands and 
others there is no 'Road', 'Avenue', 'Street', just 'Frobisher', 'Jameston', 
'Juniper', 'Jevington'. The residential streets are, however, named in 
alphabetical order in Great Hollands and Wildridings, with As, through 
Ds, such as Donnybrook, in Hanworth, Js, such as 'Jameston', 'Juniper' 
and 'Jevington' in Birch Hill. Because of Bracknell's age, it was decided 
that it should undergo renovation. Designs and plans were submitted and 
rejected first time round. The council went for a second attempt and were 
accepted, work was due to commence early in 2008 but due to the global 
credit crises plans have been postponed. The cost is estimated at around 
£750 million. It is hoped that the regeneration will provide brand new 
services, a completely redeveloped town centre, 1,000 new homes and new 
police and bus stations.[14][15] A major refurbishment of the town centre 
is taking place with the Borough Council working in partnership with the 
Bracknell Regeneration Limited Partnership a registered company in Jersey, 
Channel Islands (Legal & General and Schroders) to regenerate the town 
centre with new shops and facilities. The first stage of the redevelopment 
began with the opening of a new Waitrose store in December 2011. By June 
2013 shops in the northern part of the town in Broadway and Crossway had 
been vacated. Demolition of this area then began in September 2013, and 
was completed in December 2013. Construction of new shops, restaurants, 
and a Cineworld cinema began in April 2015, with a completion date of September 
2017.[16] On 4 September 2015 it was announced that the new development 
would be known as 'The Lexicon' [17] According to the 2011 Census.[18] 
94% of Bracknell residents can speak English. The second language being 
Nepalese, at 0.90%, followed by Polish at 0.70%, Tagalog/Filipino at 0.30% 
and French and Spanish, both at 0.30%.[19] 61% of residents identify themselves 
as Christian. The second most common belief is 'none', with 35% of residents 
choosing this in the census, in third place is Hinduism at 1.61%, followed 
by Islam at 1.13% and Buddhism at 0.73%.[citation needed][20] The town 
is home to companies such as Panasonic, Fujitsu (formerly ICL), Dell, Hewlett-Packard, 
Brocade Communications Systems, Siemens (originally Nixdorf), Riverbed, 
Honeywell, Cable and Wireless, Intercall, Broadcom, Avnet Technology Solutions, 
Novell, Vodafone and WorkForce Software. The Royal Warrant Holders as chimney 
sweepers are based in Neuman Crescent.[21] The Southern Industrial Area 
houses the head office of Waitrose.[22] The 70-acre (280,000 m2) site which 
houses the Waitrose head office also houses the central distribution centre. 
Waitrose has operated from the town since the 1970s. Manufacturing industry 
has largely disappeared since the 1980s. Former significant sites included 
Clifford's Dairy in Downshire Way and British Aerospace (originally Sperry 
Gyroscope) now occupied by Arlington Square, a 22-acre (8ha) business park[23] 
of which the first stage was completed in 1995. The Thomas Lawrence brickworks 
on the north side of the town was famous for 'red rubber' bricks to be 
found in the Royal Albert Hall and Westminster Cathedral, and in restoration 
work at 10 Downing Street and Hampton Court Palace. In the town centre 
was the 12-storey Winchester House, formerly owned by 3M who moved to new 
premises in Farley Wood on the town's northern edge in 2004. The building 
was demolished and is to be replaced with blocks of flats[24] The town 
was also the home of Racal and Ferranti Computer Systems Ltd. The Met Office 
maintained a large presence in the town until 2003, when it relocated to 
Exeter in Devon; however, the junction of the A329 and A3095 is still named 
the "Met Office Roundabout". Many businesses are located on the town's 
three industrial areas. Easthampstead Park in the southern suburb of Easthampstead 
is now a conference centre owned by Bracknell Forest Borough Council. Bracknell 
was made a civil parish in its own right in 1955. Under the Local Government 
Act 1972, the entire Easthampstead Rural District became the Bracknell 
District on 1 April 1974. In 1988, it was granted borough status, and it 
changed its name to Bracknell Forest. When Berkshire County Council was 
abolished on 1 April 1998 (and the non-metropolitan county was reclassified 
as a ceremonial county), Bracknell Forest became one of the six unitary 
authorities which together make up Berkshire. The town covers areas previously 
in the parishes of Easthampstead, Warfield, Binfield and Winkfield. The 
town's centre lies just north of the railway station with completely pedestrianised 
and much undercover shopping around Princess Square, Charles Square and 
the Broadway. There are 'out-of-town' shops, a multiscreen cinema and ten 
pin bowling complex at the Peel Centre. Just to the west are the Western 
and Southern industrial estates, either side of the railway line. There 
are many residential suburbs (see settlement table below) of varying dates, 
the oldest being Priestwood and, of course, Easthampstead village. The 
former RAF Staff College buildings in Harmans Water, now closed, was part 
of the Joint Services Command and Staff College. This site is now, as of 
2008, being redeveloped for housing by Wimpey, with an estimated 730 houses 
on the college's former site. The south-western corner of the town remains 
rural around Easthampstead Park and the wooded Yew Tree Corner. However, 
a new housing development called Jennett's Park is currently being built 
(from 2007) at Peacock Farm and on part of what was historically the grounds 
of Easthampstead Park. There are large ponds at Farley Wood and the Easthampstead 
Mill Pond between Great Hollands and Wildridings, and two lakes at South 
Hill Park. The Bull Brook emerges above ground just within the bounds of 
the suburb of Bullbrook. In the south of the town is South Hill Park, a 
mansion dating from 1760, although much rebuilt, that now houses a large 
arts centre. The Wilde Theatre was opened in 1984, named after Oscar Wilde 
who created the character 'Lady Bracknell' in his play The Importance of 
Being Earnest. South Hill Park has been home to a number of major music 
festivals over the years:[25] Bracknell has been used in the filming of 
many TV shows and films, such as Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone 
(Martins Heron) and Time Bandits (Birch Hill).[26] Bracknell is given the 
name 'Laxton' in the TV detective series Pie in the Sky and Waterside Park 
was used for the exterior of the police HQ in the same series. Bracknell 
has also featured in the 1991 Roger Daltrey film Buddy's Song. The Offence 
(1972), a psychological thriller with Sean Connery and Ian Bannen, was 
filmed in Bracknell. There are scenes in the town centre, on Broadway, 
Charles Square and Market Street. The flat for Connery's character was 
filmed at the listed Point Royal, and the bulk of the outdoor scenes were 
taken around Wild Ridings, specifically Arncliffe, Crossfell, Mill Pond 
and Mill Lane. The wages snatch scene in Villain (1971), a gangster film 
with Richard Burton, was filmed in Ellesfield Avenue on the Southern Industrial 
Estate outside the former Clark Eaton glass factory,[27] with the ICL tower 
block (under construction at the time) visible in the background; after 
the robbery the gang make their getaway along Peacock Lane nearby and hijack 
a car at the junction with the footpath from Tarmans Copse (now Osprey 
Avenue on the Jennett's Park estate). Bracknell is featured in the PlayStation 
3 title Resistance: Fall of Man set in 1951, as the location at which power 
conduits travel deep underground South East England to power the Chimeran 
fortresses. It also featured in the sequel Resistance:2 with a similar 
role. The BBC show The Wrong Mans is set almost entirely in Bracknell. 
Tracy Beaker actress Dani Harmer was brought up in Bracknell. The town 
of Bracknell has two railway stations, Bracknell and Martins Heron, both 
of which are on the Waterloo to Reading Line, built by the London and South 
Western Railway and now operated by South West Trains. Bracknell is a commuter 
centre with its residents travelling in both directions (westwards to Reading 
and eastwards to London Waterloo). The town has good road links and is 
situated at the end of the A329(M), midway between Junction 3 of the M3 
and Junction 10 of the M4 motorways. A proposed motorway link between the 
M3 and the M4 – to be called the M31 – would have passed to the west of 
the town centre, but only the section that is now the A329(M) and the A3290 
was built.[28] Bracknell bus station serves the town of Bracknell. The 
bus station is on The Ring in the Town Centre across the road from Bracknell 
railway station. The bus station consists of three long shelters each with 
three stands. Bus services go from Bracknell as far afield as Crowthorne, 
Camberley, Wokingham, Reading, Windsor and Slough. Local bus services are 
provided by Courtney Buses, Reading Buses and Stagecoach. There are coach 
services provided by Green Line (towards London Victoria) and National 
Express. Bus services to London are operated by Green Line. Bracknell Town 
F.C. are members of the Hellenic Football League Premier Division, and 
play their home matches at Larges Lane. The Bracknell Bees Ice Hockey Club 
are former national champions, who currently play in the English Premier 
League. The Bracknell Blazers are the 2009 BBF National League champions. 
The town is also represented by teams playing rugby, Bracknell RFC[29] 
hockey[30] and cricket.[31] The town has a large leisure centre, which 
includes swimming and athletics facilities, whilst there is also the Coral 
Reef Water Park, the Downshire Golf Complex, the Bracknell Lawn Tennis 
Club,[32] and Esporta, the Royal County of Berkshire Club. The John Nike 
Leisuresport Complex houses a dry ski slope and an ice rink, and there 
are 2,600 acres (11 km2) of Crown Estate woodland at the Look Out Discovery 
Centre.[33] A number of organisations are active in the area. These consist 
of an Army Cadet Force detachment(7 Platoon Bracknell)[34] and an Air Training 
Corps (2211 Squadron) which are both located on the same site, Saint Johns 
Ambulance Cadets, other youth groups that involve a younger crowd including 
several troops of Scouts and the Bracknell Forest Lions Club, which was 
formed in 1968 to help those in need.[35] The area has various schools 
including St Joseph's Catholic Primary School, Brakenhale Academy, Easthampstead 
Park School, Garth Hill College and Ranelagh Church of England School. 
Bracknell and Wokingham College of further education is also based in the 
area. The Silwood Park campus of Imperial College London is 5 miles (8.0 km) 
to the east of Bracknell town centre. The University of Reading is 8 miles 
(13 km) to the northwest, and Royal Holloway College 8 miles (13 km) to 
