Brampton (/ˈbræmptən/ or /ˈbræmtən/) is a city in Southern Ontario, Canada. 
It is a suburban city in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and the seat of 
Peel Region. The city has a population of 523,911 as of the Canada 2011 
Census, and is Canada's ninth-most populous municipality.[2] Brampton was 
incorporated as a village in 1853, taking its name from the market town 
of Brampton, in Cumbria, England. The city was once known as The Flower 
Town of Canada, a title based on its large greenhouse industry. Today, 
Brampton's major economic sectors include advanced manufacturing, retail 
administration and logistics, information and communication technologies, 
food and beverage, life sciences and business services. Prior to the 1800s, 
all real business in Chinguacousy Township took place at Martin Salisbury's 
tavern. One mile distant at the corner of Main and Queen streets, now the 
recognised centre of Brampton, William Buffy's tavern was the only significant 
building. At the time, the area was referred to as "Buffy's Corners". By 
1834, John Elliott laid out the area in lots for sale, calling it "Brampton", 
which was soon adopted by others.[3] In 1853, a small agricultural fair 
was set up by the newly initiated County Agricultural Society of the County 
of Peel, and was held at the corner of Main and Queen streets. Grains, 
produce, roots, and dairy products were up for sale. Horses and cattle, 
along with other lesser livestock, were also sold at market. This agricultural 
fair eventually became the modern Brampton Fall Fair. In that same year 
Brampton was incorporated as a village.[3] By 1869, Brampton, with a population 
of 1800, was the county town of Peel in the Township of Chinguacousy. It 
was a Station of the Grand Trunk Railway. The County buildings were erected 
c. 1869 of freestone and white brick.[4] A federal grant allowed the village 
to found its first public library in 1887, which included 360 volumes from 
the Mechanic's Institute (est 1858). In 1907, the library received a grant 
from the Carnegie Foundation, set up by United States steel magnate and 
philanthropist Andrew Carnegie, to build a new, expanded library; it serves 
several purposes, featuring the Brampton Library. The Carnegie libraries 
were built on the basis of communities coming up with matching funds and 
guaranteeing maintenance. A group of regional farmers in Brampton had trouble 
getting insurance from city-based companies. After several meetings in 
Clairville Hall, they decided to found the County of Peel Farmers Mutual 
Fire Insurance Company. In 1955, when the company moved to its third and 
current location, 103 Queen Street West, it took the new name of Peel Mutual 
Insurance Company. It reigns as the longest-running company in modern Brampton. 
Harmsworth Decorating Centre was established in 1890, as Harmsworth and 
Son, operated out of the family's house on Queen Street West. The current 
location was purchased on September 1, 1904, after a fire destroyed their 
original store. Purchased for $1,400, the 24 Main Street South location 
is the longest-operating retail business in what is now Brampton. Edward 
Dale, an immigrant from Dorking, England, established a flower nursery 
in Brampton[5] shortly after his arrival in 1863.[6] Dale's Nursery became 
the town's largest[5] and most prominent employer, developed a flower grading 
system,[6] and established a global export market for its products.[5] 
The company chimney was a town landmark,[6] until Brampton Town Council 
allowed it to be torn down in 1977.[6] At its height, the company had 140 
greenhouses,[7] and was the largest cut flower business in North America,[8] 
producing 20 million blooms and introducing numerous rose and orchid varietals 
and species to the market.[8] It also spurred the development of other 
nurseries in the town. Forty-eight hothouse flower nurseries once did business 
in the town.[6][8] In 1974, the two townships of Chinguacousy and Toronto 
Gore were incorporated into Brampton. The small pine added to the center 
of the shield on the Brampton city flag represents Chinguacousy, honouring 
the Chippewa chief Shinguacose, "The Small Pine." After this merger, outlying 
communities such as Bramalea, Heart Lake and Professor's Lake, Snelgrove, 
Tullamore, and Mayfield, were developed. In 1963, the town established 
The Flower Festival of Brampton, based on the Rose Festival of Portland, 
Oregon in the United States. It began to market itself as the Flower Town 
of Canada.[6] In a revival of this theme, on 24 June 2002, the City Council 
established the "Flower City Strategy",[9][10] to promote a connection 
to its flower-growing heritage.[11] The intention was to inspire design 
projects and community landscaping to beautify the city, adopt a sustainable 
environmental approach, and to protect its natural and cultural heritage.[11] 
The Rose Theatre was named in keeping with this vision and is to serve 
as a cultural institution in the city.[6] In addition, the city participates 
in the national Communities in Bloom competition as part of that strategy. 
The Old Shoe Factory, located on 57 Mill Street North, once housed the 
Hewetson Shoe Company. It was listed as a historical property under the 
Ontario Heritage Act in 2008. Today it is occupied by various small businesses. 
The lobby and hallways retain details from 1907. Walls are decorated with 
pictures and artifacts of local Brampton history and old shoe making equipment.[12] 
A self-guided historical walking tour of downtown Brampton called "A Walk 
Through Time"[13] is available at Brampton City Hall and online free of 
cost. Developed as an innovative "new town", Bramalea was constructed approximately 
40 kilometres northwest of Toronto. Located in the former Chinguacousy 
Township, it was Canada's first satellite community developed by one of 
the country's largest real estate developers, Bramalea Limited. The name 
"Bramalea" was created by the farmer William Sheard, who combined "BRAM" 
from Brampton, "MAL" from Malton (then a neighbouring town which is now 
part of the city of Mississauga), and "LEA", an Old English word meaning 
meadow or grassland. He sold the land to Brampton Leasing (the former name 
of the developer) and built one of Bramalea's first houses on Dixie Road. 
The community was developed according to its detailed master plan, which 
included provisions for a parkland trail system and a "downtown" to include 
essential services and a shopping centre. The downtown's centrepiece was 
the Civic Centre, built in 1972 to include the city hall and library. Directly 
across Team Canada Drive, a shopping centre named Bramalea City Centre 
was built. These developments were connected by a long underground tunnel, 
planned to provide protection from winter weather. But, the tunnel has 
long since been closed due to safety issues. Urbanists have also found 
that pedestrians at street level make for much livelier and safer streets. 
Other features included a police station, fire hall, bus terminal, and 
a collection of seniors' retirement homes. Each phase of the new city was 
marked with progressing first letters of street names. Development started 
with the "A" section, with street names such as Argyle, Avondale, and Aloma. 
Developers then created a "B" section, "C" section, and so forth. Children 
on the boundaries of these divisions would regularly compete in street 
hockey games, pitting, for example, the "D" section versus the "E" section. 
The community was initially developed with a large number of recreational 
facilities, including tennis courts, playgrounds, hockey/lacrosse rinks 
and swimming pools. An extensive parkland trail and sidewalk system connects 
the entire community. In 1974, the Ontario provincial government decided 
to update Peel County's structure. It amalgamated a series of villages 
into the City of Mississauga. In addition, it created the new City of Brampton 
from the greater portion of the Townships of Chinguacousy and Toronto Gore, 
including Bramalea and the other communities such as Claireville, Ebenezer, 
Victoria, Springbrook, Churchville, Coleraine, and Huttonville. While only 
Huttonville and Churchville still exist as identifiable communities, other 
names like Claireville are re-emerging as names of new developments. The 
province converted Peel County into the Regional Municipality of Peel. 
Brampton retained its role as the administrative centre of Peel Region, 
which it already had as county seat. The regional council chamber, the 
Peel Regional Police force, the public health department, and the region's 
only major museum, the Peel Art Gallery, Museum and Archives, are all located 
in Brampton. This change had its critics among those with a strong sense 
of local identities. Bramptonians feared urban sprawl would dissolve their 
town's personality. Bramalea residents took pride in the built-from-scratch 
and organised structure that had come with their new city and did not want 
to give it up. Others in Bramalea accept they are part of Brampton, and 
they make up the tri-city area: Brampton, Heart Lake, Bramalea. In 1972, 
Bramalea had built its civic centre. Two years later, when Brampton and 
Bramalea merged, the new city's council chambers and other facilities were 
installed in the Bramalea building. They were moved from Brampton's modest 
downtown locale. The library systems of Brampton and Bramalea were joined, 
resulting in a system of four locations. Some have questioned the future 
of Peel Region as encompassing all of Brampton, Mississauga, and Caledon. 
The Mississauga council, led by Mayor Hazel McCallion, voted to become 
a single-tier municipality and asked the provincial government to be separated 
from Peel Region. They argued the city has outgrown the need for a regional 
layer of government, and that Mississauga is being held back by supporting 
Brampton and Caledon with its municipal taxes. The early 1980s brought 
new residential development, as Brampton released large tracts of land 
to developers. In 1995 the large new suburban community of Springdale was 
developed, contributing to what people consider urban sprawl. This area 
had its largest boom in 1999, when development started to appear as far 
north as the city's border with Caledon. The region has designated this 
border as the line of demarcation for urban development until 2021. Neighbouring 
communities not part of Peel Region have also been dramatically affected 
by the city's sudden spurt. The end of Brampton and start of Georgetown, 
for example, has no identifiable boundary. In the early 1980s, Cineplex 
Odeon closed the Capitol Theatre in Brampton. The City bought the facility 
in 1981 under the leadership of councillor Diane Sutter. It adapted the 
former vaudeville venue and movie house as a performing arts theatre, to 
be used also as a live music venue. It was renamed the Heritage Theatre. 
Renovations and maintenance were expensive. In 1983, Toronto consultants 
Woods Gordon reported to the City that, rather than continue "pouring money" 
into the Heritage, they should construct a new 750-seat facility with up-to-date 
features. This recommendation was adopted, and the city designated the 
2005/06 as the Heritage Theatre's "grand finale" season. The city funded 
construction of the new Rose Theatre, which opened in September 2006. Carabram 
was founded in 1984, the result of volunteers from different ethnic communities 
wanting to organise a festival celebrating diversity and cross-cultural 
friendship. The name was loosely related to Toronto's Caravan Festival 
of Cultures. Carabram's first event featured Italian, Scots, Ukrainian, 
and West Indian pavilions. By 2003, the fair had 18 pavilions attracting 
45,000 visitors. The national government of Canada had an anchor pavilion 
in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and for Carabram's 25th Anniversary 
in 2009. Responding to a growing multi-cultural population, the Peel Board 
of Education introduced evening English as a Second Language (ESL) classes 
at high schools. Originally taught by volunteers, the classes eventually 
were scheduled as daytime courses taught by paid instructors. In the 1980s, 
the public and Catholic board expanded its languages programs, offering 
night classes in 23 languages. These were introduced due to requests by 
parents, who wanted their children to learn their ancestral languages and 
heritage. Brampton has a very large South Asian population, which is expected 
to grow at a high rate. In the early 1990s, Mayor Ken Whillans gained approval 
and funding for construction of a new city hall in Brampton's downtown. 
The facility was designed by local architects and constructed by Inzola 
Construction. Whillians did not get to see the opening of the new hall 
because of his death in August of that same year. With the return of city 
government to downtown Brampton, politicians and businesses allied to revitalize 
the core. Changes continue to reflect the growth of the city. In 1992 the 
City purchased the Brampton Fair Grounds, to be used for other development. 
The Agricultural Society relocated in 1997 outside the boundaries of the 
city to Heart Lake and Old School roads. In 1997 the Health Services Restructuring 
Commission (HSRC) decided to amalgamate Georgetown and District Memorial 
Hospital, Etobicoke General Hospital, and Peel Memorial Hospital as the 
William Osler Health Centre. It became what is now the province's 6th-largest 
hospital corporation. Brampton's 2003 Sesquicentennial celebrations boosted 
community spirit, reviving the tradition of a summer parade (with 100 floats), 
and creating other initiatives. To commemorate the town's history, the 
city under Mayor Fennell reintroduced floral projects to the community. 
These have included more plantings around town, the revival in 2005 of 
the city Parade, and participation in the Canada Communities in Bloom project. 
Set to open in 2017, The New Peel Memorial Centre for Integrated Health 
and Wellness will provide Health and Wellness services to the community. 
Some of these services include Senior Services, Day-surgery services, Mental 
Health Services, and Diabetes Services. Erin Oaks Kids Center for Treatment 
and Development's 121,000 SQ FT campus is set to open in 2017. The new 
Brampton facility will serve children with disabilities and their families. 
In 2015, the province announced funding for the Hurontario Light Rail Transit 
project along Hurontario Street from Port Credit in Missisauga to Steeles 
Avenue in Brampton. This is a 1.6 Billion Dollar Investment. Construction 
expected to start in 2018. In 2015, the new City Hall Expansion (West Tower) 
was completed. Its purpose was to meet the needs and demands of new and 
future administration space for the city. It is connected to old city hall 
by the pedestrian bridge over George Street. In 2014, the province announced 
a massive expansion and redevelopment project to the existing highway #410 
in Brampton. The project includes widening the highway, resurfacing the 
highway, new overhead signs, lighting, medians, an HOV lane, new guardrails, 
landscaping and ponds. 2010-2014 saw the creation and expansion of the 
ZUM transit system. ZUM services connect Brampton residents within major 
destinations in the City, as well as outside the city with Routes heading 
to employment corridors in Woodbridge, York University (Toronto), Humber 
College (Toronto), and Square One (Mississauga). ZUM is expected to further 
expand into 2016 and 2017. In 2010, The Bramalea City Center underwent 
a massive expansion, renovation, and new higher end retail. This was a 
$165,000,000 investment. In September 2007, the new Rose Theatre opened 
its doors in downtown Brampton. By 2008, the facility had attracted over 
137,000 patrons, surpassing its five-year goal in its first season. As 
hoped, the theatre has been a catalyst for downtown revitalization. Since 
its opening, new businesses have opened, established businesses have renovated 
their storefronts, and several high-rise residential condominium projects 
are either under construction or in the planning phases. In December 2007, 
the Toronto Star published an article entitled, "Brampton comes alive," 
which documents the latest in the city's revitalisation plans and progress. 
In May 2012, the Brampton City Council voted unanimously in favour of a 
secondary bid as a hosting city for the 2015 Pan Am Games being held in 
Toronto. The initial plan had the City of Brampton as one of the hosting 
venues for the summer games. But, following a venue plan change, it appeared 
that was not likely. Ian Troop, the CEO of the organisation committee, 
said that changes needed to be made as "the benefits of clustering are 
that you create economies of scale, the goal for our refined and improved 
venue plan is to reduce the operational complexities of the event, save 
costs, deliver an athlete-centred Games that facilitates great performance 
and create a much richer spectator experience."[citation needed] Brampton 
has a total land area of 265 square kilometres (102 sq mi). The City of 
Brampton is bordered by Highway 50 (Vaughan) to the East, Winston Churchill 
Boulevard (Halton Hills) to the West, Mayfield Road (Caledon) to the north 
(except for a small neighbourhood, Snelgrove, which is part of Brampton 
despite extending somewhat north of Mayfield Road) and the hydro corridor 
(Mississauga) to the south except at Finch Avenue (at this point, Finch 
Avenue serves as the border between the two cities). Brampton features 
a continental climate (Köppen climate classification Dfb) which is typical 
to much of Peel Region and the rest of the Greater Toronto Area. [16][17] 
50.5 percent of Brampton's population claimed various Christian denominations. 
The largest was Catholicism (26.0%), followed by various Protestant denominations, 
including Anglican, United Church, Lutheran, Baptist, and Reformed, while 
the remaining numbers of Christians consists mostly of the Eastern Orthodox 
rite. Other religions with a notable presence include Sikhism (18.8%), 
Hinduism (12.1%), and Islam (7.1%). Nearly 10 percent of the population 
does not identify with a particular religion.[15] The Toronto Ontario Temple 
for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is located 
in Brampton.[20] Religion in Brampton (2011) With a population of 523,911,[2] 
Brampton is the third-largest city in the Greater Toronto Area, and the 
ninth-largest city in Canada. With the median age at 33.7, it is the youngest 
community in the GTA. Due to a number of converging factors in Toronto, 
including an exponential rise in the cost of real estate, and high property 
and corporate taxes, it is an increasingly expensive place to live. Brampton 
has attracted residents and businesses due to its proximity to the Pearson 
International Airport and road infrastructure, population growth, cost 
of land, and more favourable corporate tax structure. It is becoming a 
prime location for corporate head offices, factories, warehouses, etc., 
as well as the typical domestic goods and services required to provide 
for the population. The 2011 census found that English was spoken as mother 
tongue by 51.71% of the population. The next most common language was Punjabi, 
spoken by 17.51% of the population, followed by Urdu at 2.79%, and Portuguese 
and Gujarati at 2.12% each.[21] Companies with headquarters in Brampton 
include Loblaw Companies Ltd., among the largest employers.[22] Others 
of the largest include Rogers Communications Inc., Chrysler Canada Brampton 
Assembly Plant, Maple Lodge Farms, Canadian Tire Corp, and formerly Zellers 
(offices and distribution), Coca-Cola Bottling Company Ltd., Gamma-Dynacare 
Medical Laboratories, and Olymel L.P. The international companies of Bacardi, 
Brita, and Clorox have their Canadian national headquarters in the city. 
It is also the location of the Canadian Forces Army Reserve unit The Lorne 
Scots (Peel, Dufferin and Halton Regiment). Other major companies operating 
in Brampton include: CN Rail Brampton Intermodal Terminal, IKO Industries, 
Best Buy (and Future Shop), Brafasco, Ford, Rogers Communications, Nortel, 
Para Paints, Nestlé, Chrysler Canada Ltd., Sofina Foods Inc, Hudson's Bay 
Company (HBC), Frito Lay Canada, MDA Space Missions, Goemans Appliances, 
and Parkinson Coach Line.[citation needed] An automobile manufacturing 
facility was opened by American Motors (AMC) in 1960 as the Brampton Assembly 
Plant. In 1986, AMC developed a new, state-of-the-art operation at Bramalea. 
After AMC was acquired by Chrysler in 1987, AMC's Canadian division and 
its plants were absorbed; the older facility in Brampton closed in 1992. 
The newest factory was renamed Brampton Assembly; it is one of the city's 
largest employers, with over 4,200 workers when running at capacity.[citation 
needed] Brampton's only public higher education institution is Sheridan 
College, which also has a campus in Oakville. Founded in 1967, the local 
campus focuses on business training. The Oakville branch is the second-largest 
school of Art and Design in North America. Algoma University @ Brampton 
offers some courses at Market Square Business Centre, 24 Queen Street East. 
The closest universities to Brampton include York University and University 
of Toronto Mississauga. Two main school boards operate in Brampton: the 
Peel District School Board, which operates secular anglophone public schools, 
and Dufferin-Peel Catholic District School Board, which operates Catholic 
anglophone public schools. Under the Peel District School Board, the secondary 
schools are Bramalea, Brampton Centennial, Central Peel, Chinguacousy, 
Fletcher's Meadow, Harold M. Brathwaite, Heart Lake, Louise Arbour, Mayfield, 
North Park, Judith Nyman, Sandalwood Heights, Turner Fenton, David Suzuki, 
and Castlebrooke Secondary School, one of the newest. A total of 85 elementary 
and middle schools feed these high schools in the city. Under the Dufferin-Peel 
Catholic District School Board, the secondary schools are Cardinal Leger, 
Holy Name of Mary, Notre Dame, St. Augustine, St. Edmund Campion, St. Roch, 
St. Marguerite d'Youville, St. Thomas Aquinas, and Cardinal Ambrozic. A 
total of 44 Catholic elementary and middle schools feed these high schools 
in the city. The Conseil scolaire Viamonde operates secular Francophone 
schools serving the area. The Conseil scolaire de district catholique Centre-Sud 
operates Catholic Francophone schools serving the area. Several cultural 
entities in the city operate under the umbrella of the Brampton Arts Council. 
Located in the city is the Peel Art Gallery, Museum and Archives (PAMA, 
formerly the Peel Heritage Complex), which is run by the Region of Peel.[23] 
The Rose Theatre (originally the Brampton Performing Arts Centre), opened 
in September 2006. The City had expected the facility to generate $2.7 
million in economic activity the first year, growing to $19.8 million by 
the fifth year. The Rose Theatre far surpassed projections, attracting 
more than 137,000 patrons in its inaugural year, which exceeded its five-year 
goal. The arrival of so many new patrons downtown has stimulated the development 
of numerous new businesses nearby. A new Fountain Stage was unveiled in 
June 2008 at the nearby Garden Square. Brampton has six library locations 
to serve its half-million residents. With a ratio of one library per more 
than 80,000 residents, it has the lowest library ratio among major Canadian 
cities.[citation needed] The City of Brampton's long-standing heritage 
conservation program was recognised with the 2011 Lieutenant Governor's 
Ontario Heritage Award for Community Leadership. In 2010 the City received 
an 'honourable mention' under the same provincial awards program. Major 
shopping areas include Bramalea City Centre, Shoppers World, and "big box 
centre" Trinity Common Mall. The downtown area has some retail; the Centennial 
Mall and the Brampton Mall are also of note. Brampton was one of the first 
areas where Rogers Cable offered its service. The city started a community 
access channel in the 1970s, which still operates. While some programs 
on the channel are produced in its Brampton studios, most are based in 
its Mississauga location. Christian specialty channel Vertical TV is based 
in Brampton. The Brampton Guardian is the community's only newspaper. The 
city's first newspaper, The Daily Times, stopped circulation in the early 
1980s. For a little over a year, The Brampton Bulletin attempted to challenge 
the Guardian, but it was dismantled after a series of editor changes. Brampton 
is the official city of license for two radio stations, CIAO and CFNY. 
Both stations address their programming toward the entire Greater Toronto 
Area rather than exclusively to Brampton. Brampton is home to one professional 
sports franchise, the Brampton Beast of the ECHL, which plays at the Powerade 
Centre. From 2013 to 2015, the Powerade Center was also the home of the 
Brampton A's in the National Basketball League of Canada, however, they 
relocated to Orangeville, Ontario to decrease costs of operations of switching 
the arena floor from ice hockey to basketball. The numerous sporting venues 
and activities includes the outdoor ice path for skating through Gage Park. 
Chinguacousy Park includes a ski lift, a Curling Club, and Tennis Centre 
for multi-season activities. In the summer, amateur softball leagues abound. 
Crowds line the beaches at Professor's Lake for the annual outdoor "shagging" 
display. Every year since 1967, the Brampton Canadettes have hosted the 
Brampton Canadettes Easter Tournament in hockey.[28] Women's and girls' 
hockey teams invade Brampton for 3½ days of head-to-head competition. Teams 
of all ages and categories from across Canada and the United States compete 
in this annual tournament. Teams from England, Switzerland, Japan, Kazakhstan 
and Russia attend this international tournament. Thousands of players and 
spectators pass through the doors during the tournament. There is no limit 
on the number of teams in a division. The Intermediate AA and Midget AA 
divisions are highly scouted by local and United States colleges and universities 
seeking recruits for varsity teams. Teams from as far as Alaska and Calgary, 
Quebec and Carolina, Michigan and Minnesota, as well as virtually all hockey 
centres in Ontario, will compete in a minimum of 3 games each over the 
course of the tournament. Including championship finals, over 600 games 
are played in 3½ days. Grenville & William Davis Courthouse, Ontario Court 
of Justice, is located in Brampton at 7755 Hurontario Street (Hurontario 
Street at County Court). Local transit is provided by Brampton Transit, 
with connections to other systems such as MiWay, York Region Transit, Go 
Transit, and Toronto Transit Commission. Brampton also has a new Bus Rapid 
Transit system, "Züm" (pronounced Zoom), previously known as AcceleRide 
along Main St./Hurontario, Steeles Avenue and Queen Streets, which would 
form the backbone to its bus network. Züm received funding from the provincial 
government in 2006 to begin implementation of this system. The cash fare 
is $3.75 for single adult transfer, which is valid for 2 hours. There is 
GO Bus service to York University and subway stations at Yorkdale Mall 
and York Mills in Toronto. There are three GO Train stations in Brampton: 
Bramalea, Brampton and Mount Pleasant. Both Canadian National Railways 
and the Orangeville-Brampton Railway short line (formerly part of the Canadian 
Pacific Railway line) run through the city. CN's Intermodal Yards are located 
east of Airport Road between Steeles and the former Highway 7/Queen Street 
East. The CN Track from Toronto's Union Station, is the Georgetown GO Transit 
Rail Corridor providing commuter rail and bus services to and from Toronto 
with rail station stops at Bramalea, Downtown Brampton, and Mount Pleasant. 
Via Rail connects through Brampton as part of the Quebec City-Windsor Corridor. 
Canada's busiest airport, Toronto Pearson International Airport (CYYZ), 
is located near Brampton, in Mississauga.[29] For general aviation the 
city is served by the privately owned Brampton Airport (CNC3), located 
to the north of the city in neighbouring Caledon. Brampton is served by 
several major transportation routes: Highway 401 from Toronto is a short 
distance south in Mississauga, and can be reached by Highway 410, which 
runs north-south through the middle of the city. Highway 407 runs along 
the southern portion of the city, just north of the boundary with Mississauga. 
Steeles Avenue, which runs north of the 407, is another thoroughfare from 
Toronto. The former Highway 7 (now Regional Road 107 in Brampton) is another 
east-west corridor, (actually two, as it incorporates the eastern part 
of Queen Street and the western part of Bovaird Drive). Four people from 
Brampton have received the Order of Canada: Robert William Bradford, former 
Director of the National Aviation Museum; Michael F. Clarke, director at 
Evergreen, the Yonge Street Mission for street youth in Toronto; Howard 
Pawley, professor and former Premier of Manitoba; and William G. Davis, 
former Premier of Ontario. Three Canadian premiers got their start in Brampton; 
Premiers T.C. Norris and Howard Pawley OC of Manitoba, and "Brampton Billy", 
Ontario premier William Grenville Davis CC. Other notable politicians include 
John Coyne, and Conservative opposition leader Gordon Graydon. Alberta 
politician and businessman Sir James A. Lougheed was born in Brampton, 
and served 30 years in Senate; Regina mayor David Lynch Scott was born 
here. President of the Treasury Board Tony Clement spent time as a Brampton 
MPP. John McDermid held various cabinet positions under Brian Mulroney, 
Bal Gosal Minister of State-Sport, and current Mayor Linda Jeffrey held 
cabinet positions at the provincial level. Ruby Dhalla represented the 
riding of Brampton—Springdale in the Canadian House of Commons from 2004-2011 
as a member of the Liberal Party. Dhalla and British Columbia Conservative 
MP Nina Grewal were the first Sikh women to serve in the Canadian House 
of Commons. Parm Gill was elected as the member of parliament from the 
Conservative Party of Canada for the riding of Brampton-Springdale in 2011, 
who was also appointed as the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of 
Veteran Affairs in 2013. Authors born in or living in Brampton include 
Rohinton Mistry and Edo Van Belkom. Beaux Arts Brampton, VAB, and PAMA 
are of interest for artists wishing to integrate into the artistic community. 
Visual arts notables from Brampton include Curtis Albert Williamson, co-founder 
of the Canadian Art Club (1907),[32] etcher Caroline Helena Armington,[33] 
Ronald Bloore, Member of the Order of Canada; Organiser and member of the 
"Regina Five",(1960)[34] watercolourist Jack Reid, and William Ronald, 
who was raised in town. Norman Mills Price. Animators David Feiss and Jay 
Stephens grew up here. Music acts from Brampton include Punk band The Flatliners, 
R&B singer Keshia Chanté, country singer Johnny Reid, "Metal Queen" Lee 
Aaron, pop singer Alyssa Reid, and rapper D-Pryde. Country singer and "World 
Champion Yodeler" Donn Reynolds lived here from 1969 to 1997.[35] Barry 
Stock, guitarist from Three Days Grace was raised in Brampton, and currently 
resides in Caledon. Singer Alessia Cara was also born in Brampton. Crystal 
Lori Boyd is a New Abstract Artist in Brampton. Her work can be found in 
Studio 4 at Beaux Arts Brampton. Two notable comedians hail from Brampton, 
Scott Thompson and Russell Peters. Comedic actor Michael Cera was born 
and raised in Brampton. Shawn Ashmore, Aaron Ashmore (Smallville) are Brampton-raised. 
Tyler Labine locally raised actor is currently the star of (Mad Love). 
Other Brampton-born or affiliated actors include Paulo Costanzo, Jordan 
Gavaris, Gemini Award winner Kris Lemche and his younger brother Matt Lemche, 
Sabrina Grdevich, Nicole Lyn, Dulé Hill, film director Mark Penney, actor 
and producer David J. Phillips, and Gemini Award-winner George R. Robertson. 
Of those best known as voice actors, Brenna O'Brien (InuYasha, Zixx: Level 
Two). On-air media personalities Cassie Campbell, Chris Connor, Chris Cuthbert 
and Scott McGillivray have connections to the town. Brampton has two formal 
