As player As manager As general manager Wesley Branch Rickey (December 
20, 1881 – December 9, 1965) was an innovative Major League Baseball (MLB) 
executive elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1967. He was perhaps 
best known for breaking Major League Baseball's color barrier by signing 
African American player Jackie Robinson, for drafting the first Afro-Hispanic 
superstar, Roberto Clemente, for creating the framework for the modern 
minor league farm system, for encouraging the Major Leagues to add new 
teams through his involvement in the proposed Continental League, and for 
introducing the batting helmet. Rickey played in MLB for the St. Louis 
Browns and New York Highlanders from 1905 through 1907. After struggling 
as a player, Rickey returned to college, where he learned about administration 
from Philip Bartelme. Returning to MLB in 1913, Rickey embarked on a successful 
managing and executive career with the St. Louis Browns, the St. Louis 
Cardinals, Brooklyn Dodgers and Pittsburgh Pirates. The Cardinals elected 
him to their team Hall of Fame in 2014. Rickey also had a career in the 
sport of American football, as a player for the professional Shelby Blues 
and as a coach at Ohio Wesleyan University and Allegheny College. His many 
achievements and deep Christian faith[1] earned him the nickname "the Mahātmā." 
Rickey was born in Stockdale, Ohio, the son of Jacob Frank Rickey and Emily 
(née) Brown. Rickey was a relative of Beth Rickey, a Louisiana political 
activist.[2] He graduated from Valley High School in Lucasville, Ohio, 
in 1899, and he was a catcher on the baseball team at Ohio Wesleyan University, 
where he obtained his B.A. Rickey was a member of Delta Tau Delta International 
Fraternity.[3] Sir Knight Branch Rickey was a brother and Master Mason 
in Tuscan Lodge #240 in Saint Louis. After arriving in Brooklyn, Rickey 
joined Montauk Masonic Lodge #286 in Brooklyn.[4] Stricken with tuberculous, 
he took the "cure" in Saranac Lake, New York in 1908 and 1909 at the Trudeau 
Sanatorium. Later, he moved into the Jacob Schiff cottage. Before his front 
office days, Rickey played both football and baseball professionally. He 
played in both baseball's minor and major leagues. In 1902, Rickey played 
professional football for the Shelby Blues of the "Ohio League", the direct 
predecessor to the modern National Football League (NFL.) Rickey often 
played for pay with Shelby while he was attending Ohio Wesleyan. During 
his time with Shelby, Rickey became friends with his teammate Charles Follis, 
who was the first black professional football player. He also played against 
him on October 17, 1903, when Follis ran for a 70-yard touchdown against 
the Ohio Wesleyan football team. After that game Rickey praised Follis, 
calling him "a wonder."[5] It is also possible that Follis' poise and class 
under the pressures of such racial tension, as well as his exceptional 
play in spite of it, could have inspired Rickey to sign Jackie Robinson 
decades later.[6] In 1903, Rickey signed a contract with Terre Haute, Indiana 
of the Class B Central League, making his professional debut on June 20. 
Rickey was assigned to Le Mars, Iowa of the Class D Iowa–South Dakota League. 
During this period, Rickey also spent two seasons–1904 and 1905—coaching 
baseball, basketball and football and teaching at Allegheny College in 
Pennsylvania where he also served as Athletic Director. Rickey debuted 
in the major leagues, with the St. Louis Browns in 1905. Sold to the New 
York Highlanders in 1907, Rickey could neither hit nor field while with 
the club, and his batting average dropped below .200. One opposing team 
stole 13 bases in one game while Rickey was behind the plate, setting a 
record which still stands a century later. Rickey also injured his throwing 
arm and retired as a player after just one year. Rickey attended the University 
of Michigan, where he received his LL.B. While at Michigan, Rickey applied 
for the job as Michigan's baseball coach. Rickey asked every alumnus he 
had ever met to write letters to Philip Bartelme, the school's athletic 
director, on his behalf. Bartelme recalled, "Day after day those letters 
came in."[7] Bartelme was reportedly impressed with Rickey's passion for 
baseball and his idealism about the proper role of athletics on a college 
campus.[8] Bartelme convinced the dean of the law school that Rickey could 
handle his law studies while serving as the school's baseball coach.[9] 
Bartelme reportedly called Rickey into his office to tell him he had the 
job if only "to put a stop to those damn letters that come in every day."[10] 
The hiring also marked the beginning of a lifelong friendship and business 
relationship between Rickey and Bartelme. Bartelme and Rickey worked together 
for most of the next 35 years, and in 1944 a California newspaper noted: 
"He and Rickey have had a close association in baseball ever since Bartelme 
was head of the athletic department of the University of Michigan where 
Rickey took to baseball just as a means to build up his failing health." 
During his four years as head baseball coach from 1910 - 1913 his record 
was 68-32-4.[11] Rickey returned to the big leagues in 1913, as a front 
office executive with the Browns. He was responsible for signing young 
George Sisler. Rickey became the team's manager for the final 12 games 
of the season, and managed the team for two more full seasons. But the 
Browns finished under .500 both years. Rickey served as an officer in the 
U.S. Army in France during World War I. He commanded a chemical training 
unit that included Ty Cobb and Christy Mathewson.[12] Rickey served in 
the 1st Gas Regiment during the war, and spent over four months as a member 
of the Chemical Warfare Service.[13] He then returned to St. Louis in 1919, 
but clashed with new Browns owner Phil Ball and jumped to the crosstown 
rivals Cardinals, to become team president and manager. In 1920, Rickey 
gave up the team presidency to the Cards' new majority owner, Sam Breadon. 
The Cardinals wore uniforms for the first time that featured the two familiar 
cardinal birds perched on a baseball bat over the name "Cardinals" with 
the letter "C" of the word hooked over the bat in 1922. The concept of 
this pattern originated in a Presbyterian church in Ferguson, Missouri, 
at which Rickey was speaking. He noticed a colorful cardboard arrangement 
featuring two cardinal birds perched on a branch on a table. The arrangement's 
designer was a woman named Allie May Schmidt. Schmidt's father, a graphic 
designer, assisted Rickey in creating the logo that is part of a familiar 
staple on Cardinals uniforms.[14] Under Rickey's leadership as on-the-field 
manager for six relatively mediocre years, the Cardinals posted winning 
records from 1921 to 1923. Breadon fired him early in the 1925 season. 
However, he could not deny Rickey's acumen for player development, and 
offered to let him stay to run the front office. An embittered Rickey stated, 
"You can't do this to me, Sam. You are ruining me." "No", Breadon responded. 
"I am doing you the greatest favor one man has ever done to another."[14] 
Rickey had wisely invested in several minor league baseball clubs, using 
them to develop future talent and supplement the Cardinals major league 
roster. At 43 years of age upon his firing, he had been a player, manager 
and executive in the Major Leagues. However, there had been little indication 
to this point that he would ever belong in the Baseball Hall of Fame. Although 
he was not the first executive titled as a general manager in Major League 
Baseball history — his actual title was business manager — through his 
activities, including inventing and building the farm system, Rickey came 
to embody the position of the baseball operations executive who mastered 
scouting, player acquisition and development and business affairs, which 
is the definition of the modern GM. Second baseman Rogers Hornsby, winner 
of two Major League Baseball Triple Crowns, replaced Rickey to become a 
player-manager, and in 1926, his first full year as manager, Hornsby then 
led the Cardinals to their first World Series championship. By 1930, Rickey's 
Cardinals, known as the "Gashouse Gang", were the class of the National 
League. They won 101 games in 1931 and won the World Series in seven games. 
The star of the 1931 World Series was rookie Pepper Martin, one of the 
first Cardinal stars that came from Branch's minor league system. Soon, 
other minor league graduates joined the team, among them future hall of 
famers Dizzy Dean and Joe Medwick, nicknamed "Ducky", and Dean's brother 
Paul "Daffy" Dean. The Deans and Medwick were integral parts of the 1934 
Cardinals, who won the franchise's third World Series title. Kenesaw Mountain 
Landis, the Commissioner of Baseball, was concerned that Rickey's minor 
league system was going to ruin baseball by destroying existing minor league 
teams, and he twice released over 70 Cardinal minor leaguers. Despite Landis' 
efforts, Rickey's minor league system stayed in existence, and similar 
systems were adopted by every major league team within a few years. Arguably, 
the farm system saved the minor leagues, by keeping them necessary after 
the television age began and minor league attendance figures declined. 
Rickey continued to develop the Cardinals up until the early 1940s. In 
his final year at St. Louis, 1942, the Cardinals had their best season 
in franchise history, winning 106 games and the World Series title. The 
team was led by a new crop of players developed by the Cardinals, two of 
whom, Enos Slaughter and Stan Musial, became Hall of Famers; and several 
others, among them future MVP Marty Marion, who were among the best at 
their position during their eras. Even their manager Billy Southworth was 
a product of their farm system. Rickey was a good friend of Brooklyn Dodgers 
general manager Larry MacPhail, himself a sound baseball man. MacPhail 
enlisted in the army to serve in World War II after the 1942 season, and 
the Dodgers hired Branch Rickey to replace him as President and GM, ending 
a tenure of over two decades with the Cardinals. Rickey continued to innovate 
in his time with Brooklyn. He was responsible for the first full-time spring 
training facility, in Vero Beach, Florida, and encouraged the use of now-commonplace 
tools such as the batting cage, pitching machines, and batting helmets. 
He also pioneered the use of statistical analysis in baseball (what is 
now known as sabermetrics), when he hired statistician Allan Roth as a 
full-time analyst for the Dodgers in 1947. After viewing Roth's evidence, 
Rickey promoted the idea that on-base percentage was a more important hitting 
statistic than batting average.[15] While working under Rickey, Roth was 
also the first person to provide statistical evidence that platoon effects 
were real and quantifiable. Rickey's most memorable act with the Dodgers 
involved signing Jackie Robinson, thus breaking baseball's color barrier, 
which had been an unwritten rule since the 1880s. This policy had continued 
under a succession of baseball leaders, including Landis, who was openly 
opposed to integrating Major League Baseball for what he regarded as legitimate 
reasons. Landis died in 1944, but Rickey had already set the process in 
motion, having sought (and gained) approval from the Dodgers Board of Directors 
in 1943 to begin the search for "the right man." On August 28, 1945, Rickey 
signed Robinson to a minor league contract. Robinson had been playing in 
the Negro leagues for the Kansas City Monarchs. On October 23, 1945, it 
was announced that Robinson would join the Montreal Royals, the Dodgers' 
International League affiliate, for the 1946 season. He would end up as 
the league's batting champion, and led the Royals to a dominant league 
championship.[16] There was no statute officially banning blacks from baseball, 
only a universally recognized unwritten rule which no club owner was prepared 
to break that was perpetuated by culturally entrenched racism and a desire 
by club owners to be perceived as representing the values and beliefs of 
everyday American white men.[16] The service of black Americans in the 
Second World War, and the celebrated pre-war achievements of black athletes 
in American sports, such as Joe Louis in boxing and Jesse Owens in track, 
paved the way for the cultural shift necessary to break the barrier. Rickey 
knew that Robinson would face racism and discrimination.[17] Rickey made 
it clear in their momentous first meeting[18] that he anticipated wide-scale 
resistance both inside and outside baseball to opening its doors to Negroes. 
As predicted by Rickey, right from the start Robinson faced obstacles among 
his teammates and other teams' players. No matter how harsh the white people 
were towards Robinson, he could not retaliate. Robinson had agreed with 
Rickey[19] not to lose his temper and jeopardize the chances of all the 
blacks who would follow him if he could help break down the barriers. Red 
Barber recounted in Ken Burns's documentary Baseball that Rickey's determination 
to desegregate Major League Baseball was born out of a combination of idealism 
and astute business sense. The idealism was at least partially rooted in 
an incident involving a team for which Rickey worked early on. While managing 
at Ohio Wesleyan University, a black player, Charles Thomas, was extremely 
upset at being refused accommodation at the hotel where the team stayed 
because of his race. Though an infuriated Rickey managed to get him into 
the hotel for the night, he never forgot the incident and later said, "I 
may not be able to do something about racism in every field, but I can 
sure do something about it in baseball." The business element was based 
on the fact that the Negro Leagues had numerous star athletes, and logically, 
the first Major League team to hire them would get first pick of the players 
at an attractive price. At the time, Mexican brewery czar Jorge Pasquel 
was raiding America for black talent (e.g., Satchel Paige), as well as 
disgruntled white players, for the Mexican League with the idea of creating 
an integrated league that could compete on a talent level with the U.S. 
major leagues. However idealistic, Rickey did not compensate Monarchs ownership 
for the rights to obtain Robinson,[20]:p.37 nor did he pay for rights to 
Don Newcombe, who would also join the Dodgers from a Negro leagues club. 
Rickey also attempted to sign Monte Irvin but Newark Eagles business owner 
Effa Manley refused to allow Irvin to leave her club without compensation. 
When she threatened to sue him in court, Rickey stopped the pursuit of 
Irvin, who would later sign with the New York Giants.[21]:p.277 Amid much 
fanfare, Jackie debuted, and turned out to be a success. Robinson was baseball's 
first rookie of the year, and while he was often jeered by opposing baseball 
players, managers, and fans, he became extremely popular with the American 
public. His success became the crowning achievement of Rickey's illustrious 
career. His Dodgers would make the World Series that year. Although they 
lost in seven games to the New York Yankees, Rickey's vision and action 
had set the stage for the Dodgers to be contenders for decades to come. 
And it opened the door for other leaders like Larry Doby of the Cleveland 
Indians, who integrated the American League in 1947, as well. In 1950, 
there were four owners of the Dodgers, each with one quarter of the franchise. 
When one of the four (John L. Smith) died, Walter O'Malley took control 
of that quarter. Also in 1950, Branch Rickey's contract as Dodger president 
expired, and Walter O'Malley decided that were Rickey to retain the job, 
almost all of Rickey's power would be gone; for example, he would no longer 
take a percentage of every franchise sale; Rickey declined a new contract 
as President. Then, in order to be a majority owner, O'Malley offered to 
buy Rickey's portion. Seeing no reason to hold on to the club, Rickey decided 
to comply. However, in a final act of retaliation against O'Malley, Rickey 
instead offered the club percentage to a friend for one million dollars. 
His chances at complete franchise control at risk, O'Malley was forced 
to offer more money, and Rickey finally sold his portion for $1,050,000. 
After leaving the Dodgers, Rickey was offered the position of general manager 
for the Pittsburgh Pirates. During the 1953 season, the Pirates became 
the first team to permanently adopt batting helmets on both offense and 
defense. These helmets resembled a primitive fiberglass "miner's cap". 
This was the mandate of Rickey, who also owned stock in the company producing 
the helmets. Under Rickey's orders, all Pirate players had to wear the 
helmets both at bat and in the field. The helmets became a permanent feature 
for all Pirate hitters, but within a few weeks the team began to abandon 
their use of helmets on defense, partly because of their awkwardly heavy 
feel. Once the Pirates discarded the helmets on defense, the trend disappeared 
from the game.[22] Health problems forced Branch Rickey to retire in 1955; 
however, his contributions would help lead to a World Championship for 
Pittsburgh in 1960. This includes the drafting of Roberto Clemente.[citation 
needed] On October 29, 1962, Rickey returned to the Cardinals exactly 20 
years to the day he left to become general consultant on production and 
development of Cardinal players. He had previously worked as a field manager, 
business manager, and vice president for the Cardinals from 1917 until 
1942. He returned to be closer to home after suffering a heart attack in 
Canada a year earlier and after the death of his son Branch Rickey, Jr.[23] 
A public speaker in his later years, on November 13, 1965, Rickey collapsed 
in the middle of a speech in Columbia, Missouri, as he was being elected 
to the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame. He had told a story of physical courage 
and was about to relate an illustration from the Holy Bible. "Now I'm going 
to tell you a story from the Bible about spiritual courage," he said. Rickey 
murmured he could not continue, collapsed and never spoke again. He faltered, 
fell back into his seat and slipped onto the floor. He never regained consciousness. 
His brain was damaged when his breathing stopped momentarily, though his 
heart picked up its rhythm again. Through the next 26 days, hospitalized 
in a coma, there was little change. On December 9, at about 10 p.m. he 
died of heart failure at Boone County Memorial Hospital in Columbia, Missouri, 
11 days before his 84th birthday. Branch Rickey was interred at Rush Township 
Burial Park in Rushtown, Ohio, near where his parents, his widow Jane (who 
died in 1971), and three of his children (including his son, Branch Rickey 
Jr., who died from complications of diabetes in 1961) also rest. Rickey's 
grave overlooks the Scioto Valley, about three miles from his boyhood home 
in Lucasville, Ohio.[citation needed] In addition to Rickey's election 
to the Baseball Hall of Fame as a contributor in 1967, in 1997 he was inducted 
into the St. Louis Walk of Fame,[24] in 2009 he was elected the College 
Baseball Hall of Fame.[25] In January 2014, the Cardinals announced Rickey 
among 22 former players and personnel to be inducted into the St. Louis 
Cardinals Hall of Fame Museum for the inaugural class of 2014.[26] A ballpark 
in Portsmouth, Ohio, once used by the Portsmouth Explorers, a charter member 
of the Frontier League before the club folded in 1996, is named in Rickey's 
honor.[27] The Branch Rickey Arena at Ohio Wesleyan University is also 
named in his honor. In 1992, Rotary International of Denver, Colorado, 
created the Branch Rickey Award, which is given annually to a Major League 
Baseball player in recognition of exceptional community service. Outside 
of Coors Field in Denver is a monument to Rickey by the sculptor George 
Lundeen, dedicated in 2005, with this simple inscription: It is not the 
honor that you take with you but the heritage you leave behind. Another 
quotation attributed to Rickey is: Luck is the residue of design.[28] His 
descendants also became involved in baseball: his son, Branch Jr., who 
died four years before his father, and Branch Rickey III, a president of 
