Brandon Allen Backe (/ˈbæki/; born April 5, 1978) is a former pitcher in 
Major League Baseball. He played for the Tampa Bay Devil Rays and Houston 
Astros during his career. He was originally a position player, having played 
in the outfield as a minor leaguer, and having been originally drafted 
as a second baseman. Backe starred for Ball High School in Galveston, Texas[1] 
where he was a two-time team MVP in baseball and earned all-district honors. 
He was selected by the Milwaukee Brewers in the 36th round of the 1996 
Major League Baseball Draft, but chose to stay close to home and played 
his collegiate baseball at Galveston College where he earned third-team 
All-America honors in 1998. Primarily an infielder, he pitched only 26 
total innings for the Whitecaps. Other notable Whitecap players on Backe's 
team included Pete Orr and Seth Foreman. Backe was selected by the Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays in the 18th round of the 1998 Major League Baseball Draft. 
During his first three seasons in the minor leagues, he played every infield 
and outfield position. In fact, the two innings that he pitched for the 
rookie league Princeton Devil Rays in 1998 were the only time he spent 
on the mound during that time. In spite of his steady glove and versatility, 
it was clear that a light-hitting utility player had a very small chance 
of making the major leagues. In 2001, he changed positions to pitcher and 
found immediate success. He rose through the ranks of the pitching-depleted 
Tampa Bay system climbing from Single-A to the major leagues in just a 
season and a half. In just his second season as a pitcher, Backe was recalled 
on July 16, 2002 from the Double-A Orlando Rays and pitched nine times 
for the Devil Rays. He posted a 6.92 ERA giving up 10 runs in 13 innings, 
however 7 of those runs came in one outing - the first game of a July 23 
doubleheader at Fenway Park, a game the Rays lost 22-4 and in which Backe 
allowed a pair of home runs to Nomar Garciaparra in one inning. Backe began 
the season in the minor leagues, but was recalled on May 16 when John Rocker 
was optioned. He earned his first big league win on August 1 at Kansas 
City with four scoreless innings of relief. He had a 9-outing stretch from 
July 22 to August 21 in which he pitched to a 1.42 ERA over 19 innings, 
lowering his ERA from 6.06 to a season-low 3.60. In December 2003, his 
hometown team, the Houston Astros, acquired Backe from the Devil Rays for 
Geoff Blum. In 2004, Backe shuffled between Triple-A and the majors, pitching 
out of the bullpen when he was with the Astros. On August 21, Backe was 
called up for his first major league start, where he ended up limiting 
the Chicago Cubs to four hits and no runs over seven innings. After that 
start, Backe became a permanent member of the Astros rotation, going 4-2 
over the final two months of the season. Entering their final regular-season 
game against the Colorado Rockies on October 3, the Astros needed a win 
to clinch a playoff spot. Although Roger Clemens was scheduled as the starting 
pitcher for that game, he was sidelined by a stomach virus, forcing manager 
Phil Garner to press Backe into starting duty the morning of the game. 
Backe performed well on his short notice, surrendering only 2 runs over 
5 innings as the Astros beat the Rockies 5-3 and edged out the San Francisco 
Giants for the team's first playoff berth since 2001. Backe's star continued 
to rise during the 2004 playoffs. After earning a win in Game 3 of the 
NL Division Series against the Atlanta Braves, Backe gained national attention 
with an eight-inning, one-hit performance against the St. Louis Cardinals 
in Game 5 of the NL Championship Series. Going toe-to-toe with Cardinals 
starter and Houston native Woody Williams, Backe carried a perfect game 
into the 5th inning and a no-hitter into the 6th inning, surrendering only 
a bloop single to St. Louis second baseman Tony Womack. Backe's pitching 
performance set the stage for Jeff Kent's walk-off home run in the ninth 
inning, giving the Astros a 3-2 series advantage headed back to St. Louis, 
however the Astros lost both subsequent games and the series. Backe started 
the 2005 season in the Astros starting rotation, going 10-8 with a 4.76 
ERA in his first full season as a starter. Backe performed well in the 
Astros second-consecutive postseason appearance, including a five-hit, 
seven-strikeout performance in Game 4 of the 2005 World Series. In the 
2006 season, Backe was the Astros No. 4 starter. But after two starts he 
went onto the disabled list for three months. He returned in late July, 
but on August 19 he sprained a ligament in his right elbow was placed on 
the disabled list again. This injury required Tommy John surgery, which 
was successfully performed on September 7, 2006. Although Backe's recovery 
time was slated at 12–18 months, he rehabbed aggressively and made his 
return on September 4. In his return, he gave up 4 runs (3 earned) in 5.2 
innings, taking the loss, but won his last 4 starts of the season for an 
ERA of 3.77. During the 2008 season, Backe was totally healthy and made 
31 starts for the Astros, although it turned out to be a disappointing 
year for him, as he went just 9-14 with a 6.05 ERA. He led the majors in 
home runs allowed, with 36, in home-runs-per-9 innings (with 1.9), in home 
runs per plate appearance (with 4.8%), and in highest-slugging-percentage-against 
(.544) and OPS-against (.920).[1][2][3] On October 5, 2008, Backe was arrested, 
along with nine others, after being involved in a fight at a wedding.[2] 
He was charged with interfering with a police officer and resisting arrest,[2] 
but a grand jury declined to indict him.[3] On October 18, 2008, it was 
reported that Backe's attorney filed a complaint with the FBI, claiming 
that Backe's and the other arrested citizens' civil rights had been violated 
by the officers.[4] In 2014, in a federal lawsuit that he and others who 
were injured at the wedding brought against several Galveston, Texas police 
officers, Backe testified that he heard a cry referring to Cole O'Balle, 
the brother of the bride: Backe said he ran to the sound and encountered 
O'Balle face down on the ground and surrounded by police, his face bloody 
and the prongs from a stun gun stuck in his back. O'Balle was flown by 
helicopter to a Houston hospital. Backe said officer Nicholas McDermott 
"screamed, 'back the f--- up." Backe said he could back up no farther and 
told the officer, "Chill out, we can't back up. You've got enough room." 
At that point several officers attacked him, he said, striking him as he 
fell to the ground and continuing to beat him until his face was bloody. 
One kicked him in the face, he said. Backe was designated for assignment 
on June 26, 2009. Backe had an ERA of over 10 for the Astros in 2009, including 
7 relief appearances and one start. The young Felipe Paulino replaced him 
on the roster as he was recovering from an injury. On June 29, 2009 Backe 
