Wesley Branch Rickey, Jr. (January 31, 1914 – April 10, 1961) was an American 
front office executive in Major League Baseball. The son of Baseball Hall 
of Fame club executive Branch Rickey, who among his many achievements invented 
the farm system and led the movement within baseball to break the color 
line, Branch Jr. — called "The Twig" by many — was a highly respected farm 
system director, but never led his own organization. He was the father 
of Branch Barrett Rickey, widely known as "Branch Rickey III", a longtime 
baseball executive and the current president of the Pacific Coast League. 
After graduating from Ohio Wesleyan University, Branch Rickey Jr. entered 
baseball in 1935 as business manager of the Albany, Georgia Travelers of 
the Class D Georgia–Florida League, one of the many farm clubs in his father's 
St. Louis Cardinals organization. In 1939, he joined the archrival Brooklyn 
Dodgers as farm director, recruited by the then-Brooklyn president, Larry 
MacPhail. However, in a strange turn of events, when MacPhail resigned 
at the end of the 1942 season to rejoin the armed forces, he was replaced 
by Branch Sr., who eventually became a co-owner of the Brooklyn club. The 
younger Rickey then worked with his father as the Dodgers' farm director, 
and, after 1947, assistant general manager, until the end of the 1950 season, 
when Walter O'Malley acquired controlling interest in the team and forced 
Rickey Sr., his former partner, out of the Brooklyn organization. Rickey 
Sr. then moved to the Pittsburgh Pirates as executive vice president and 
general manager, with Branch Jr. as the Pirates' vice president and farm 
system director. The younger Rickey held that post until his premature 
death in Pittsburgh at age 47 on April 10, 1961. He had long been troubled 
by diabetes, and hepatitis and pneumonia were also factors in his passing. 
Although the 1951–55 reign of Branch Sr. as GM of the Pirates has been 
widely viewed as a failure, he and Branch Jr. put into place the successful 
Pittsburgh organization of the 1960s and 1970s. Led by the great Roberto 
Clemente, drafted by the Rickeys from the Dodgers, the Bucs won the 1960 
World Series and the 1971 World Series. Pittsburgh contended through the 
