Branford is a shoreline town located on Long Island Sound in New Haven 
County, Connecticut, 8 miles (13 km) east of New Haven. The population 
was 28,026 at the 2010 census.[1] According to the United States Census 
Bureau, the town has a total area of 28.0 square miles (73 km2); 22.0 square 
miles (57 km2) are land and 6.0 square miles (16 km2) (21.5%) are water, 
including the Branford River, Queach Brook and the Branford Supply Ponds. 
There are two harbors, the more central Branford Harbor and Stony Creek 
Harbor on the east end, and one town beach at Branford Point. Much of the 
town's border with East Haven to the west is dominated by Lake Saltonstall, 
a reservoir owned by the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority, 
and Saltonstall Mountain, part of the Metacomet Ridge, a mountainous trap 
rock ridgeline that stretches from Long Island Sound to nearly the Vermont 
border. The southern terminus of the Metacomet Ridge, Beacon Hill, is located 
in Branford. The town of Branford includes the Thimble Islands. Neighboring 
towns are North Branford to the north, Guilford to the east, and East Haven 
to the west. An area called "Totoket", which became Branford, was part 
of the land bought from the Mattabesech Indians in 1638 by the first settlers 
of New Haven. The Dutch set up a trading post at the mouth of the Branford 
River in the 17th century, the source of the name "Dutch Wharf".[2] The 
town's name is said to be derived from the town of Brentford, England. 
The town in early maps was actually called Brentford before being shortened 
to Branford. Established in 1644, Branford grew during the 18th and 19th 
centuries. In the late 18th century, the first shoreline community, Stony 
Creek, was settled. Indian Neck and Pine Orchard were also settled, but 
neither of those settlements was permanent until the mid-19th century.[2] 
In 1852, the railroad helped bring new business, including Branford Lockworks, 
Malleable Iron Fittings Company, and the Atlantic Wire Company. The Stony 
Creek granite quarries also rose to prominence as a direct consequence 
of railroad construction.[2] During the mid-19th century, Branford became 
a popular resort area. Approximately twenty hotels opened, including Indian 
Point House in Stony Creek, Montowese House in Indian Neck, and Sheldon 
House in Pine Orchard.[2] During the mid-20th century, Branford shed its 
resort image and subsequently took on many characteristics typically associated 
with northeastern suburbs. In 1974, Connecticut Hospice was founded in 
Branford, the first hospice in the United States. Branford has six historic 
districts that are listed on the United States National Register of Historic 
Places (NRHP).[citation needed] These include buildings in Federal, Arts 
and Crafts, and Queen Anne styles of architecture. Five NRHP-listed districts 
are Branford Center Historic District, Branford Point Historic District, 
Canoe Brook Historic District, Route 146 Historic District, and Stony Creek-Thimble 
Islands Historic District. More than 20 historic homes and other properties 
are separately listed on the National Register. In total, 30 properties 
or districts in Branford appear in New Haven County's NRHP listings. One 
example is Harrison House and Museum, a 1724 structure, which has period 
furnishings, local historical items, archives, a barn and an herb garden.[4] 
Cruises of the Thimble Islands depart from the Stony Creek dock, and seal-watch 
cruises take place in March.[4] Branford's recreational facilities include 
several town-maintained parks and beaches owned by private foundations, 
hiking trails along Lake Saltonstall and a stretch of the Shoreline Greenway 
Trail, and 20 miles (32 km) of coastline with more than 12 marinas. As 
of the census[7] of 2000, there were 28,683 people, 12,543 households, 
and 7,663 families residing in the town. The population density was 1,305.2 
people per square mile (503.8/km²). There were 13,342 housing units at 
an average density of 607.1 per square mile (234.4/km²). The racial makeup 
of the town was 94.05% white, 1.35% African American, 0.10% Native American, 
2.72% Asian, 0.06% Pacific Islander, 0.53% from other races, and 1.20% 
from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.57% of the 
population. There were 12,543 households out of which 25.7% had children 
under the age of 18 living with them, 47.9% were married couples living 
together, 9.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 38.9% 
were non-families. 32.4% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 11.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.26 and the average family size was 2.90. In 
the town the population was spread out with 20.7% under the age of 18, 
5.4% from 18 to 24, 30.5% from 25 to 44, 26.6% from 45 to 64, and 16.9% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41 years. For every 
100 females there were 88.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 85.2 males. The median income for a household in the town was 
$58,009, and the median income for a family was $69,510. Males had a median 
income of $46,927 versus $35,947 for females. The per capita income for 
the town was $32,301. About 3.3% of families and 4.1% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 3.9% of those under the age of 18 
and 4.0% of those 65 and older. Branford Center is home to many small stores, 
restaurants, and coffee houses, which line Main Street, with the Green 
at the center. The Branford Green has churches as well as the town hall 
and other government facilities and hosts concerts and other events, such 
as the annual Branford Festival. Traditionally, the graduating class from 
Branford High School graduates in front of the Town Hall, weather permitting. 
Branford Hills sits on the western end of town and centers on the heavily 
commercialized strip of U.S. Route 1. Fast-food and sit-down restaurants, 
auto dealers, grocery stores, and several strip malls are located there. 
The more southern section features less dense areas with woodlands and 
farm featuring trails that the Branford Land Trust preserves that connect 
the Shoreline Greenway trail from New Haven to Madison. The northern section 
also features a less dense area with woodlands that surround Lake Saltonstall 
which also feature trail systems maintained by the Regional Water Authority, 
as the Lake is a reservoir for Branford. Branford Hills features many condominium 
and apartment complexes. The original site of Connecticut Hospice (now 
the Monastery of the Glorious Cross - a semi-cloistered community of Benedictine 
nuns) is located in this area, on Burban Drive. Also on Burban Drive is 
St. Elizabeth of Hungary Roman Catholic Church, which was originally located 
in Short Beach. Indian Neck is in the south-central section of Branford, 
dominated by a peninsula bordering Branford Harbor. Both Foote Park and 
John B. Sliney Memorial Park are located within Indian Neck. Back in the 
early to mid 20th century Indian Neck was a tourist destination. Trolley 
service came down to Sybil and Limewood avenues, which had its own commercial 
area. These included Harry's General Store, Bud's Bait Box, and on Limewood 
Ave the Waverly Inn, Madelyn's Restaurant, Surfside Restaurant, a news, 
comics, candy, variety store named Lounsberry's, and Dairy Joy Ice Cream. 
Much of the area contained second homes, so the beach was an active place. 
As the area became more year-round the commercial business slowly shut 
down. The Montasco Inn, owned/operated for many years by the Poirot's was 
torn down in the 60's. The landmark Waverly Inn burned to the ground in 
the early 1970s truly marking the end of an era. Indian Neck - Pine Orchard 
Volunteer Fire Company 9 is located here. In February 2015, Stony Creek 
Brewery, named after the Stony Creek area of Branford, opened its doors 
here.[9] Pine Orchard is situated between Indian Neck and Stony Creek. 
The Pine Orchard Yacht and Country Club (P.O.Y.C.C.), the Pine Brook School 
(formerly Wightwood School), a private institution, and Francis Walsh Intermediate 
School are found here. Notable residents include Dr. Nicholas Perricone 
and Edward M. Kennedy, Jr. Stony Creek is a shore front neighborhood in 
the southeastern section of Branford, centered on a harbor on Long Island 
Sound. An eclectic community, Stony Creek has the ambiance of a small seaside 
village with a blend of various architectural style buildings and a few 
small retail establishments, sandwich shops, galleries and antique shop 
Stony Creek Depot Just offshore from Stony Creek is an intriguing archipelago 
of islands known as the Thimble Islands. The Thimbles are a jumble of glacial 
rocks, ranging from 17 acres (6.9 ha) down to stepping-stone size, at the 
mouth of the harbor. Despite their small size, they possess a wealth of 
history and local lore, as well as providing pleasant scenery for a summer 
cruise. Stony Creek is home to the all-male Stony Creek Fife & Drum Corps, 
and the only all-female fife and drum corps, Totoket Ancient Fife & Drum 
Corps. A large quarry is still working and supplied the distinctive pink/orange 
Stony Creek granite for the Brooklyn Bridge, the base of the Statue of 
Liberty, and the newest House Office Building in Washington, D.C. Stony 
Creek Fire and Rescue Company 5 is located here. Short Beach is a beach 
neighborhood in the western end of town, south of Branford Hills. It is 
home to many small private islands, the largest being Kelsey Island, which 
has a handful of small cabins used as summer homes. There is no public 
access (except for public tidal zones) to Kelsey Island and trespassing 
is not allowed. Short Beach is home to half of the famous Shore Line Trolley 
Museum, which is also in neighboring East Haven. Also in Short Beach are 
the Yale Corinthian Yacht Club (YCYC), Short Beach Union Church and three 
parks, the largest being Pardee Park. Short Beach's population is about 
1,500 and features a three-day festival at the end of summer called Short 
Beach Days. Short Beach is known for the population of monk parakeets that 
live there (referred to as the "Short Beach Parrots"), a non-native bird. 
Short Beach Hose, Hook and Ladder Company 4, founded in 1911, is located 
here. Hotchkiss Grove of Branford is located between Indian Neck and Pine 
Orchard and consists of First through Ninth avenues, as well as parts of 
Hotchkiss Grove Road, Seaview Avenue, and Dudley Avenue. It has a small 
beach used for swimming and mooring boats and features a raft to swim out 
to. Bay Point Park (The Point) is a grassy peninsula going out into the 
water where there used to be a small pier. Occasionally residents of Hotchkiss 
Grove can rent the Point to host parties. Every first Saturday of August, 
Hotchkiss Grove Day is held, with the day starting with a costume parade, 
games, and prizes. In the afternoon there are beach games in which kids 
compete with one another on the beach, a clam bar, and live music. Dinner, 
a raffle, auction, and dancing close out the evening. Historically Hotchkiss 
Grove was a summer community with beach cottages and dirt roads; over the 
past two decades most of the cottages have been converted into permanent, 
year round residences. Other minor communities and geographic features 
in the town are Branford Point, Brocketts Point, Brushy Plain, Cherry Hill, 
Clam Island, Double Beach, Goodsell Point, Granite Bay, Haycock Point, 
High Island, Jepson Island, Johnson's Point, Kidd's Island, Killam's Point, 
Lanphier Cove, Little Pumpkin, Money Island, Pawson Park, Potato Island, 
Rockland Park, Sagamore Cove, Scotch Cap, Sumac Island, Summer Island, 
Sunset Beach, Thimble Islands, Todd's Hill, Vedder's Point, and Wheeler 
Island. Now that Malleable Iron Fittings has been largely demolished and 
the site turned into housing, Branford is known for high-technology and 
pharmaceutical companies such as 454 Life Sciences and Durata Therapeutics, 
an innovative new pharmaceutical company focused on the development and 
commercialization of differentiated therapeutic solutions for physicians 
and providers to advance patient care in infectious disease and acute illnesses. 
Also with offices and manufacturing space in Branford is American Polyfilm, 
Inc., which specializes in the manufacture of polyurethane film for a number 
of industries including industrial and high performance fabrics and medical 
products to name a few. Wilson Arms is in Branford, a company that produces 
small-caliber rifles and parts. Branford is currently home to three privately 
owned beer breweries: Stony Creek Brewery, Thimble Island Brewing Co, and 
Duvig Brewing Company.[10] Within the town are also two large glazing and 
window construction companies, Massey's Plate Glass & Aluminum and Cherry 
Hill Glass. Schools in Branford: The main artery through the town is Interstate 
95, running along the eastern coast of the United States. The town has 
a station on the Shore Line East commuter rail line from New London to 
New Haven. The Branford Steam Railroad carries quarried trap rock from 
North Branford to barges at Juniper Point near Stony Creek. Tweed New Haven 
Regional Airport is located 3 miles (5 km) west of Branford. One of the 
largest events in Branford every year is the Branford Festival on Father's 
Day weekend, which features food, crafts, children's rides, music and a 
