Brantford is a city in southwestern Ontario, Canada, founded on the Grand 
River. Modern Highway 403 connects it to Woodstock in the west and Hamilton 
in the east; and Highway 24 connects to Cambridge to the north and Simcoe 
to the south. It is the seat of Brant County, but it is politically separate 
with a government independent of the county. Brantford is sometimes known 
as the "Telephone City": former city resident Alexander Graham Bell invented 
the telephone at his father's home, the Bell Homestead. In 1876 he conducted 
the first long-distance telephone call, making it from Brantford to Paris, 
Ontario. Brantford is also the birthplace of hockey player Wayne Gretzky, 
comedian Phil Hartman, as well as Group of Seven member Lawren Harris. 
Brantford is named after Joseph Brant, an important Mohawk chief during 
the American Revolutionary War and later, who led his people in their first 
decades in Upper Canada. Many of his and other First Nations citizens live 
on the neighbouring reserve of Six Nations of the Grand River First Nation, 
the most populous reserve in Canada. The Iroquoian-speaking Attawandaron, 
known in English as the Neutral Nation, lived in the Grand River valley 
area before the 17th century; their main village and seat of the chief, 
Kandoucho, was identified by 19th-century historians as having been located 
on the Grand River where present-day Brantford developed. This town, like 
the rest of their settlements, was destroyed when the Iroquois declared 
war in 1650 over the fur trade and exterminated the Neutral nation.[3] 
In 1784, Captain Joseph Brant and the Six Nations Indians of the Iroquois 
Confederacy left New York State for Canada. As a reward for their loyalty 
to the British Crown, they were given a large land grant, referred to as 
the Haldimand Tract, on the Grand River. The original Mohawk settlement 
was on the south edge of the present-day city at a location favourable 
for landing canoes. Brant's crossing of the river gave the original name 
to the area: Brant's ford. By 1847, European settlers began to settle further 
up the river at a ford in the Grand River and named their village Brantford. 
The Mohawk Chapel, built in the original Mohawk settlement, is Ontario's 
oldest Protestant church. Brantford was incorporated as a city in 1877.[4] 
The history of the Brantford region from 1793 to 1920 is described at length 
in the book At The Forks of The Grand. In the late 19th and early 20th 
centuries, both the United States and Canadian governments encouraged education 
of First Nations children at Indian boarding schools, which were intended 
to teach them English and European-American ways and assimilate them to 
the majority cultures. These institutions in Western New York and Canada 
included the Thomas Indian School, Mohawk Institute Residential School 
(also known as Mohawk Manual Labour School and Mush Hole Indian Residential 
School) in Brantford, Southern Ontario, Haudenosaunee boarding school, 
and the Carlisle Indian Industrial School in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. Decades 
later and particularly since the late 20th century, numerous scholarly 
and artistic works have explored the detrimental effects of the schools 
in destroying Native cultures. Examples include: the film Unseen Tears: 
A Documentary on Boarding School Survivors,[5] Ronald James Douglas' graduate 
thesis titled Documenting Ethnic Cleansing in North America: Creating Unseen 
Tears,[6] and the Legacy of Hope Foundation's online media collection: 
"Where are the Children? Healing the Legacy of the Residential Schools".[7] 
Brantford's First Nations and European-Canadian development began in the 
18th century with the arrival of the Six Nations tribes from New York State, 
and the later arrival of colonists and European immigrants. A number of 
historic monuments have been erected within the city marking those events 
and Brantford's contributions to the Commonwealth's defense of the realm. 
Her Majesty's Royal Chapel of the Mohawks is located in Brantford and is 
an important reminder of the original agreements made with Queen Anne in 
1710. After the American Revolution, in 1784, Sir Frederick Haldimond granted 
the Six Nations their land treaty which was six miles on each side of the 
river from the mouth to the source. Joseph Brant led a group of Six Nations 
members to new settlement called the Mohawk Village. The Mohawk Chapel 
was built in 1785 as a reminder of the original agreements made with the 
British. In 1904 the Mohawk Chapel received Royal status for the longstanding 
alliance between the British and Six Nations. Her Majesty's Royal Chapel 
of the Mohawks is still in use today as one of two royal Chapels in Canada 
and the oldest Protestant Church in Ontario Among the Anglo-Canadian residents 
were Alexander Graham Bell and his family, whose first residence in North 
America was a farmhouse on Tutela Heights (named after the First Nations 
tribe which settled the area[8] and later absorbed into Brantford.) Bell 
invented the telephone here in July 1874, later building his first working 
model in Boston. He developed early improvements to it in 1876. As part 
of the invention and development of the telephone, Canada's first telephone 
factory was built here, and the city was called "Brantford, The Telephone 
City". Associated with those events in the present day are the Bell family's 
museum home on Tutela Heights Road, Melville House, now called the Bell 
Homestead National Historic Site, and the Bell Telephone Memorial (below), 
dedicated by the Governor General of Canada in 1917 to mark the invention 
of the telephone in Brantford. Brantford generated controversy in 2010 
when its city council took the controversial step of expropriating and 
demolishing 41 historic downtown buildings on the south side of its main 
street, Colborne Street. These buildings constituted one of the longest 
blocks of pre-Confederation architecture in Canada. Included in the list 
of demolitions were one of Ontario's first grocery stores and an early 
1890s office of the Bell Telephone Company of Canada, now Bell Canada. 
This decision was highly controversial and was widely criticized by Ontario's 
heritage preservation community.[9][10] The electric telephone was invented 
here, leading to the establishment of Canada's first telephone factory 
here in the 1870s. Brantford developed as an important Canadian industrial 
centre for the first half of the 20th century, and it was once the third-ranked 
Canadian city in terms of cash-value of manufactured goods exported. The 
city developed at the deepest navigable point of the Grand River. Because 
of existing networks, it became a railroad hub of Southern Ontario. The 
combination of water and rail helped Brantford develop from a farming community 
into an industrial city with many blue-collar jobs, based on the agriculture 
implement industry. Major companies included S.C. Johnson Wax, Massey-Harris, 
Verity Plow, and the Cockshutt Plow Company. This industry, more than any 
other, provided the well-paying and steady employment that allowed Brantford 
to sustain economic growth through most of the 20th century. By the 1980s 
and 1990s, the economy of Brantford was in steady decline due to changes 
in heavy industry and its restructuring. Numerous companies suffered bankruptcies, 
such as White Farm Equipment, Massey-Ferguson (and its successor, Massey 
Combines Corporation), Koering-Waterous, Harding Carpets, and other manufacturers. 
The bankruptcies and closures of the businesses left thousands of people 
unemployed and created one of the most economically depressed areas in 
the country. It took a long time for the economy to recover and rebuild 
in new directions. In the early 21st century, an influx of new companies 
moving to the area has brought the unemployment rate down to 7.4%, which 
is below the national rate.[11] The Brantford-to-Ancaster section of Highway 
403 was completed in 1997, in part to create an increased incentive for 
businesses to locate in Brantford because of easy access to Hamilton and 
Toronto. This was along the quickest route through southern Ontario between 
Detroit and Buffalo. In 2004 Procter & Gamble and Ferrero SpA chose to 
locate in the city. Though Wescast Industries, Inc. recently closed their 
local foundry, their corporate headquarters will remain in Brantford. SC 
Johnson Canada has their headquarters and a manufacturing plant in Brantford, 
connected to the Canadian National network. On February 16, 2005, Brant, 
including Brantford, was added to the Greater Golden Horseshoe along with 
Haldimand and Northumberland counties. Brantford's 2011 population was 
93,650 people according to the 2011 census.[13] Brantford has been used 
as a filming location for TV and films. Statistics from the Federal 2006 
Census indicated that 72% of Brantford's adult residents had earned either 
a certificate, diploma, or university degree.[20] Several post-secondary 
institutions have facilities in Brantford. Public education in the area 
is managed by the Grand Erie District School Board, and Catholic education 
is managed by the Brant Haldimand Norfolk Catholic District School Board. 
Public education in the area is managed by the Grand Erie District School 
Board, and Catholic education is managed by the Brant Haldimand Norfolk 
Catholic District School Board and the Conseil Scolaire de District Catholique 
Centre-Sud. Brantford is located within the County of Brant; however, it 
is a single-tier municipality, politically separate from the County. Ontario's 
Municipal Act, 2001 defines single-tier municipalities as "a municipality, 
other than an upper-tier municipality, that does not form part of an upper-tier 
municipality for municipal purposes".[27] Single-tier municipalities provide 
for all local government services.[28] At the federal and provincial levels 
of government, Brantford is part of the Brant riding. The current Brantford 
City Council was elected in the 2014 municipal election[29] and is headed 
by Mayor Chris Friel, who had previously served as mayor from 1994 to 2003 
and was re-elected in 2010. The council, in addition to Friel, includes 
Larry Kings and Rick Weaver (Ward 1), John Sless and John Utley (Ward 2), 
Greg Martin and Dan McCreary (Ward 3), Richard Carpenter and Cheryl Antoski 
(Ward 4), and David Neumann and Brian Van Tilborg (Ward 5).[30] The Brantford 
Expositor, started in 1852, is published six days per week (excluding Sundays) 
by Sun Media Corp. The Brant News is a weekly paper (delivered Thursday); 
it publishes breaking news online at their website,[31] and is published 
by Metroland Media Group. The Two Row Times, a Free weekly paper started 
in 2013, is published on Wednesdays, delivered to every reservation in 
Ontario and globally online at their website,[32] published by Garlow Media. 
BScene, a Free community paper founded in 2014, is published monthly and 
distributed locally throughout Brantford and Brant County via local businesses 
and community centers, It can also be viewed online at their website.[33] 
Independently published. Brantford's only local television service comes 
from Rogers TV (cable 20), a local community channel on Rogers Cable. Otherwise, 
Brantford is served by stations from Toronto, Hamilton and Kitchener. Brantford 
Municipal Airport is located west of the city. It hosts an annual air show, 
featuring the Snowbirds. The John C. Munro Hamilton International Airport 
in Hamilton is located about 35 km east of Brantford. Toronto Pearson International 
Airport is located in Mississauga, about 100 km northeast of Brantford. 
The train station is located just north of downtown Brantford. Via Rail 
has daily passenger trains on the Quebec City-Windsor Corridor. Trains 
also stop at Union Station in Toronto. Street rail began in Brantford in 
1886 with horse-drawn carriages; by 1893 this system had been converted 
to electric. The City of Brantford took over these operations in 1914. 
Around 1936 it began to replace the electric street car system with gas-run 
buses, and by the end of 1939 the change-over was complete.[34] Local museums 
include the Bell Homestead, Brant Museum and Archives,[35] Canadian Military 
Heritage Museum[36] and the Personal Computer Museum. Annual events include 
the "Brantford International Villages Festival" in July;[37] the "Brantford 
Kinsmen Annual Ribfest" in August;[38] the "Chili Willy Cook-Off" in February; 
the "Frosty Fest", a Church festival held in winter;[39] Brantford is the 
home of several community theatre groups including Stage 88, ICHTHYS Theatre, 
Brantford Theatre Workshops and Whimsical Players. Brantford has a casino, 
Brantford OLG Casino. The Sanderson Centre for the Performing Arts is a 
local performance venue.[40] Brantford Public Library's central branch 
is located downtown on Colborne Street. It has an additional branch on 
St. Paul Avenue.[41] It has been automated since 1984.[42] In 2000, the 
library was the first in North America to join the UNESCO model library 
