June 26, 2016 Turner Field, ATL The Braves–Mets rivalry is a rivalry between 
the Atlanta Braves and New York Mets. Both clubs are members of Major League 
Baseball's National League (NL) East division. The rivalry between the 
two clubs was particularly fierce during the late 1990s and early 2000s.[1] 
The Mets joined the NL in 1962 as an expansion team, before the leagues 
were split into divisions, and when the Braves were still in Milwaukee. 
Due to Major League Baseball wishing to keep the Cardinals and Cubs together 
in the same division when each league was split into divisions in 1969, 
Atlanta was forced to join the National League West and were led by Hank 
Aaron. In 1966, pitching prospect Tom Seaver signed a contract with the 
Braves when they drafted him in the first round of the secondary June draft 
(20th overall). But the contract was voided by Baseball Commissioner William 
Eckert because Seaver's college team had played two exhibition games already 
that year, despite the fact that Seaver himself did not play in the games. 
Seaver intended, then, to finish the college season, but because he had 
signed a pro contract, the NCAA ruled him ineligible. After Seaver's father 
complained to Eckert about the unfairness of the situation and threatened 
with a lawsuit, Eckert ruled that other teams could match the Braves' offer. 
The Mets were subsequently awarded his signing rights in a lottery drawing 
among the three teams (the Philadelphia Phillies and Cleveland Indians 
being the two others) that were willing to match the Braves' terms. Seaver 
went on to have a Hall of Fame career with the Mets and currently is the 
only player (the other two being managers) to have had his jersey retired 
by the organization. Seaver's impact was heavy as he led a staff that boasted 
excellent pitching, including then prospect Nolan Ryan in 1969. Perennial 
losers, the Mets came back to win the division and face off against the 
Braves in the NLCS. The "Miracle Mets" swept the Braves in the series, 
en route to their first World Series championship against the Baltimore 
Orioles in the 1969 World Series. The series against the Braves was the 
first playoff appearance and series win by an expansion team and their 
World Series win by extension was the first won by an expansion team. Despite 
the early confrontation, the rivalry did not become especially heated until 
the 1990s, when division realignment put the Mets and Braves in the same 
division.[2][3] During this time period, the Braves became one of the most 
dominant baseball teams in professional baseball. The rivalry came to a 
visible head with the John Rocker controversy, where Atlanta pitcher Rocker 
made a number of derogatory comments about residents of New York City in 
1999.[4] This led to incidents of items such as full cups of beverages, 
and even batteries being thrown at Braves players, namely Rocker, when 
visiting the Mets.[5] With the end of the Braves' fourteen-season National 
League East winning streak in 2006, when the Mets won their first division 
title since 1988,[6] the rivalry hit a cooling period.[7][8] The main cause 
of the rivalry was division realignment. With the Colorado Rockies and 
Florida Marlins entering play as expansion teams in the National League 
in 1993, MLB Commissioner Fay Vincent ordered realignment of the league,[9] 
ordering the Braves and the Cincinnati Reds moved to the NL East, and the 
Chicago Cubs and rival St. Louis Cardinals to the NL West to rectify the 
geographical anomaly MLB created when realigning in 1969.[9][10][11] However, 
the Mets and the Cubs voted against the plan.[9][11] Although Vincent's 
vision never really came into fruition, as he resigned shortly after announcing 
plans to realign the NL,[12] MLB did in fact realign in 1994, albeit in 
the form of three divisions in each league, and the addition of an expanded 
playoff format.[13] When agreeing on the realignment, the Pittsburgh Pirates 
switched to the newly created Central Division and gave up their spot in 
the NL East to the Braves.[2][3] The Braves had already established themselves 
as one of the dominant teams in baseball prior to realignment with appearances 
in two World Series prior to the move. The Mets had a reverse of fortune 
from their dominance in the late 1980s to one of the worst teams in baseball 
during the early 1990s. In 1995, the Braves won the National League East 
by 21 games,[14] and were the only team in the division to post a winning 
record.[14] However, the Mets were the only team in the league to post 
a winning record against the eventual champions, posting an 8-5 record 
with a 5-1 mark at Shea Stadium,[15] propelled by a sweep on the final 
weekend of the season, helping the Mets finish the season tied for second 
with the Philadelphia Phillies (Mets won the tie-breaker, having won the 
season series against the Phillies.[15]).[16][17] Just a year after realignment 
the Braves won their first championship in Atlanta by defeating the Cleveland 
Indians in the 1995 World Series. It was the franchise's first World Series 
victory in Atlanta and allowed the franchise to become the first ever to 
win a World Series in three different cities, having previously done so 
in Boston (1914) and Milwaukee (1957). The Braves' dominance over the National 
League would continue as they would go on to win the pennant again in 1996 
behind the pitching of Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine and John Smoltz. With the 
exception of 1996, when the Mets were near the bottom of the National League 
East, both franchises fielded contenders until deep into each season during 
this period. In 1997, the Mets overcame a shaky start to the season and 
were a wild card contender until the final week of the season.[18] Ultimately, 
though, they finished third place in the NL East and thirteen games back 
of Atlanta.[19] From 1998 to 2000, the Mets finished second in the standings 
to the Braves,[20] eighteen,[21] six and a half,[22] and one game behind 
in those respective seasons.[20][23] With the St. Louis Cardinals sweeping 
the Braves in the NLDS, it made the Mets run to their first World Series 
appearance since their championship season of 1986 much easier.[20][24] 
The Braves had eliminated the Mets from wild-card contention on the final 
day of the 1998 season and in six games in the 1999 NLCS.[20] The NLCS 
was along the backdrop of Atlanta power hitter Chipper Jones cementing 
his MVP award that year by crushing Mets pitching for 4 home runs in three 
games, and 5 walks in the last days of the regular season the Braves swept 
the series and moved 4 games ahead of the Mets with 9 games to play to 
their eventual division crown. Thinking that the Braves had eliminated 
the Mets from playoff contention as they had the year before, Chipper Jones 
infamously remarked: "now all the Mets fans can go home and put their Yankee 
stuff on."[25] Despite the setback, the Mets made the playoffs for the 
first time since 1988. Both had moved forward in the NLDS to see each other 
for the first time in post-season history since division realignment and 
the first time since their initial post-season meeting during the 1969 
NLCS and the "Miracle Mets." The Braves took an early series lead of 3 
games to 0, and looked poised to sweep the Mets out of the playoffs. However, 
the Mets rallied late in Game 4 off Braves' closer and perpetual Mets' 
nemesis John Rocker to win Game 4. The drama of the series was intensified 
in Game 5 when Robin Ventura hit a walk-off Grand Slam Single to win the 
game. The Grand Slam Single was ranked the third Greatest Moment in Mets 
history, behind only the team's two World Series Championships, which included 
Game 6 in 1986.[26] The Braves, however, would go on to win the series 
from the Mets to win their 5th National League pennant of the decade. At 
the end of the 1999 NLCS, Bob Costas closed out his NBC telecast by saying, 
"It was closing night for the greatest Mets show since (their championship 
season of) 1986." Despite their hard fought win against the Mets, the Braves 
would go on to get swept by the Mets' cross-town rivals, the New York Yankees, 
who had beaten their biggest nemesis, Boston Red Sox, in the ALCS, in the 
1999 World Series. With the exception of Game 1, all the games were decided 
by 1 run. Game 1 was decided by 2 runs. For a story published in the January 
2000 issue of Sports Illustrated, Braves' closer John Rocker made a number 
of allegations stemming from his experiences in New York City and answering 
a question about whether he would ever play for the New York Yankees or 
the New York Mets. Rocker's response was considered racist, homophobic, 
and sexist: During the interview, he also spoke of his opinion of the New 
York Mets and their fans: The interview was conducted while driving to 
a speaking engagement in Atlanta. The reporter wrote that during the interview 
session, Rocker spat on a Georgia 400 toll machine and mocked Asian women. 
Also, he supposedly referred to black teammate Randall Simon as a "fat 
monkey". Although Rocker later apologized after speaking with Braves legend 
and Hall of Famer Hank Aaron and former Atlanta mayor and congressman Andrew 
Young, he continued to make controversial remarks.[28] For his comments, 
he was suspended without pay for the remainder of spring training and the 
first 28 games of the 2000 season, which on appeal was reduced to 14 games 
(without a spring-training suspension). In June 2000, the Mets achieved 
a 10 run comeback,[29] In 2000, both the Mets and the Braves defeated each 
other at Shea Stadium to clinch playoff spots in successive days. First, 
the Braves won the NL East, defeating the Mets.[5] The next day, the Mets 
beat the Braves to win the wild card, eliminating the Los Angeles Dodgers.[30] 
While both the Mets and the Braves were favorites to face each other in 
the National League Championship Series for a second straight year, the 
Braves ended up losing to the Cardinals in the 2000 NLDS. On October 7 
during game 3 of NLDS at Shea Stadium, Met fans cheered as the scoreboard 
showed the Braves loss and elimination at the hands of the Cardinals. This 
assured Met fans their biggest and toughest rival would not impede their 
playoff run that year. The Mets easily defeated the Giants to move on to 
the 2000 National League Championship Series, where they defeated the Cardinals 
to move on to the World Series. In defeating the Cardinals, the Mets clinched 
their first pennant since winning the 1986 World Series. The Mets would 
go on to lose the 2000 World Series to the Yankees in the first ever post-season 
Subway Series since the 1956 World Series. Twice during the 2001 season, 
the rivalry saw peace. The Mets opened the 2001 season playing the Braves 
at Turner Field. When the Mets walked into their clubhouse prior to their 
workout before opening day, officials at the stadium greeted them by writing 
on the clubhouse message board: "Welcome to the National League champion 
New York Mets."[8] A week later, the Mets hosted the Braves at Shea Stadium 
when they raised their 2000 National League Champions banner.[31] During 
pre-game festivities on September 21, 2001 at Shea Stadium, both the Braves 
and Mets paused to remember the victims of the terrorist attacks in New 
York and Washington ten days before.[32] This was the first professional 
sporting event held in New York since the attacks.[32] With the Mets down 
2-1 in the bottom of the eighth inning, Piazza hit a two-run home run to 
help the Mets win. The significance of his spirit-lifting home run has 
been cited as one of the greatest moments in Major League Baseball history.[33] 
In 2003, the Mets signed legendary Braves pitcher Tom Glavine for four 
years, $42.5 million. Glavine had poor success in his first year with the 
team, but did help the Mets reach the 2006 NLCS against the St. Louis Cardinals 
where they fell in the 7th game. Towards the end of his tenure with the 
Mets, Glavine started to make grumblings about signing with them and not 
staying in Atlanta. In his final appearance as a Met on the last day of 
the 2007 New York Mets season, Glavine would give up 7 runs in the first 
inning of a loss to the Florida Marlins. This would cause the Mets to lose 
the game and the division to the Philadelphia Phillies, forcing them to 
miss a playoff spot despite being in first place by 7 games as late as 
September. Glavine would leave the Mets following that season back for 
the Braves. The Braves collapsed in a similar way in 2011, for the National 
League Wild Card, blowing a 8 1⁄2 lead for the National League Wild Card 
in September and losing the wild card by one game to the eventual champion 
St. Louis Cardinals.[34] The Mets took two out of three in a late September 
series at Turner Field to contribute to the collapse. In 2004, Chipper 
Jones named his child "Shea" after the Mets' home Shea Stadium, citing 
