Brent Woody Musburger (/ˈmʌsbɜːrɡər/; born May 26, 1939) is an American 
sportscaster for the ESPN and ABC television networks. Formerly with CBS 
Sports and one of the original members of their program The NFL Today, 
Musburger has also covered the NBA, MLB, NCAA football and basketball, 
and NASCAR. Musburger has also served as a studio host for games, a play-by-play 
man, and halftime host. He has also performed post game wrap up segments 
and covered championship trophy presentations. He is a member of the Montana 
Broadcaster's Association Hall of Fame.[1] Musberger voices Brent Mustangburger 
in Cars 2, Planes and Planes: Fire & Rescue. Musburger was born in Portland, 
Oregon and raised in Billings, Montana, the son of Beryl Ruth (Woody) and 
Cec Musburger.[2][3] He was an umpire for minor league baseball during 
the 1950s. He was also a boyhood friend of former Major League pitcher 
Dave McNally. His brother, Todd Musburger, is a prominent sports agent. 
Musburger's youth included some brushes with trouble: when he was 12, he 
and his brother stole a car belonging to their mother's cleaning lady and 
took it for a joy ride. His parents sent him to the Shattuck-St. Mary's 
School in Faribault, Minnesota.[3] Educated at Northwestern University's 
Medill School of Journalism, he was kicked out for a year for owning and 
operating a car without a license.[3] Musburger began his career as a sportswriter 
for the now-defunct Chicago's American newspaper, where he worked with 
legendary sportswriter Warren Brown. In 1968, Musburger penned a column 
regarding Tommie Smith and John Carlos's protest of racial injustice in 
the United States with a Black Power salute on the medal stand during the 
1968 Summer Olympics. In it he stated "Smith and Carlos looked like a couple 
of black-skinned storm troopers" who were "ignoble," "juvenile," and "unimaginative." 
In a 1999 article in The New York Times, Musburger stated that comparing 
the two to the Nazis was "harsh", but he stood by his criticism of the 
pair's action: Did [Smith and Carlos' action] improve anything?... Smith 
and Carlos aside, I object to using the Olympic awards stand to make a 
political statement.[4] According to Carlos, Musburger never apologized: 
We are talking about someone who compared us to Nazis. Think about that. 
Here we are standing up to apartheid and to a man in Avery Brundage who 
delivered the Olympics to Hitler’s Germany. And here’s Musburger calling 
us Nazis. That got around. It followed us. It hurt us. It hurt my wife, 
my kids. I’ve never been able to confront him about why he did this. Every 
time I’ve been at a function or an event with Brent Musburger and I walk 
towards him, he heads the other way.[5] In 1968, Musburger began a 22-year 
association with CBS, first as a sports anchor for WBBM radio and later 
for WBBM-TV. In the mid-1970s, Musburger moved to Los Angeles and anchored 
news and sports for KNXT (now KCBS-TV); there he worked alongside Connie 
Chung as a co-anchor on KNXT's evening newscasts from 1978 until 1980, 
when he joined CBS Sports full-time. Beginning in late 1973, Musburger 
was doing play-by-play for CBS Sports. He started out doing regular season 
National Football League games (future The NFL Today co-host Irv Cross 
was also doing NFL games at that time as well). Musburger was paired with 
Tommy Mason or Bart Starr, who provided the color commentary. A year later, 
Wayne Walker would be paired with Musburger in the booth. By 1975 at CBS, 
Musburger went from doing NFL play-by-play (and other items, mostly on 
CBS' Sports Saturday/Sunday programs) to rising to prominence as the host 
of the network's National Football League studio show, The NFL Today. Suddenly, 
Musburger began to cover many assignments for CBS Sports. Among the other 
events he covered, either as studio host or play-by-play announcer, were 
college football and basketball, the National Basketball Association, horse 
racing, the U.S. Open (tennis) tournament, and The Masters golf tournament. 
He would even lend his talents to weekend afternoon fare such as The World's 
Strongest Man contests and the like. Musburger also called Major League 
Baseball games for CBS Radio. But it was Musburger's association with The 
NFL Today that made him famous. During his tenure, CBS' NFL pregame show 
was consistently the #1 rated pregame show. One of the signatures of the 
program was Musburger's show-opening teases to the various games CBS would 
cover, along with live images from the various stadiums. Musburger's accompanying 
intro to each visual, "You are looking live at..." became one of his catch 
phrases. In promoting the network, his voice often tailed off on the last 
letter of "CBS" ("C.B. eeezz"), creating another catch phrase. Musburger 
made headlines when he got into a fist-fight with The NFL Today's betting 
analyst Jimmy "The Greek" Snyder in a Manhattan bar on October 27, 1980. 
However, the fist-fight incident was quickly regarded as water under the 
bridge as the two cheerfully appeared on The NFL Today the following week 
wearing boxing gloves on camera.[citation needed] By the late 1980s, Musburger 
was CBS's top sportscaster. He was the main host and play-by-play announcer 
for the NBA Finals, college basketball, college football, the Belmont Stakes, 
and the College World Series. He also hosted a New Year's Eve countdown 
for CBS. Musburger is regarded as the first broadcaster to apply the term 
March Madness to the annual NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Championship 
tournament.[citation needed] Early in 1990, CBS underwent a significant 
management change. During the early morning hours of April 1, 1990, Musburger 
was fired from CBS. His final assignment for CBS came the following evening, 
doing play-by-play for the 1990 NCAA men's basketball final, which was 
Duke versus UNLV. When the game was completed, Musburger thanked the audience 
and CBS Sports, and the analysts that he had worked with through the years 
like Billy Packer, who was standing next to him.[6] At the time of his 
firing, Musburger had been set to handle play-by-play duties for CBS's 
television coverage of Major League Baseball later that month; he was replaced 
by Jack Buck in that capacity. His position at The NFL Today was filled 
by Greg Gumbel. His position as the lead play-by-play announcer for college 
basketball was filled by Jim Nantz. Following his dismissal from CBS, Musburger 
considered several offers – including one to return to Chicago and work 
at WGN-TV. Musburger settled at ABC. With Al Michaels entrenched as ABC's 
top broadcaster, Musburger focused on college football and basketball. 
After his hiring, ABC's merger with ESPN under the Disney umbrella allowed 
him[7] to work on ESPN and ABC Sports divisions in 2006, including Major 
League Baseball, NBA games, ESPN Radio, golf tournaments, horse racing, 
the Indianapolis 500, Little League World Series, soccer games, college 
football, and even some NFL games (including hosting halftime duties for 
Monday Night Football and Wild Card round games). Musburger was also the 
main studio host during ABC's coverage of the 1998 World Cup and the 2006 
World Cup, and was the studio host for ESPN and ABC's NASCAR coverage. 
Musburger's college football duties for ESPN and ABC have included calling 
seven BCS National Championship games: in 2000, 2004, 2010, 2011, 2012, 
2013, and 2014. Musburger has also covered the Tour de France for ABC. 
Beginning in 2006, Musburger called ABC Sports' college football prime 
time series, along with analysts Bob Davie and Kirk Herbstreit. Musburger 
called the 2007 Rose Bowl, taking over for the retired Keith Jackson. He 
also called some games on ESPN. On September 17, 2005, after broadcasting 
the Nebraska Cornhuskers vs. Pittsburgh Panthers game, Musburger was cited 
for having an open container in a motor vehicle.[8] On September 18, 2006, 
University of Southern California Sports Information Director Tim Tessalone 
sent a letter to ESPN, complaining that Musburger revealed privileged information 
during his broadcast of the September 16, 2006, football game between USC 
and Nebraska. Musburger disclosed that he had learned a signal used by 
Trojans quarterback John David Booty in a pre-game conversation with the 
quarterback. USC claimed this information was for private purposes only. 
ESPN and Musburger released separate statements, saying they regretted 
the confusion. Musburger also appeared on ESPN Radio's Dan Patrick Show, 
saying that there was never an intention of putting team secrets on the 
air.[9] During the 2013 BCS National Championship Game between Alabama 
and Notre Dame, a camera turned to Katherine Webb, who was in the stands 
cheering for her boyfriend, Alabama quarterback, A.J. McCarron. Musburger, 
impressed with Webb's beauty, remarked, "I'm telling you, you quarterbacks 
get all the good-looking women. What a beautiful woman. Wow!" and continued 
commenting in a similar fashion.[10] The next day, ESPN apologized for 
his comments, saying they "went too far".[11] The controversy died down 
quickly afterwards largely due to Webb stating that she was not bothered 
at all by Musburger's comments. On March 12, 2014, ESPN named Musburger 
and Jesse Palmer as the lead game commentators for college football coverage 
on the SEC Network, ending his involvement with Saturday Night Football. 
Also, he would not be participating in the College Football Playoff championship. 
Musburger has infrequently returned to ESPN for select games, such as the 
2014 Iron Bowl, the 2015 Las Vegas Bowl, and the 2016 Rose Bowl.[12][13][14][15][16] 
Musburger has a down-to-earth manner of speaking, often addressing his 
viewers as "folks." In a Sports Illustrated profile done on Musburger in 
January 1984, he stressed his hesitance to "pontificate" during his broadcasts. 
CNN Sports Illustrated's Stewart Mandel selected him as the second-best 
college football announcer, behind Ron Franklin. Mandel said of Musburger, 
"His voice will always be associated with some of the sport's most memorable, 
modern moments." Musburger has a reputation for pointing out attractive 
women in the crowds of the games he calls; among those who later rose to 
fame in part because of Musburger's attention include Susan “Busty Heart” 
Sykes,[17] Jenn Sterger,[18] and Katherine Webb.[19] Musburger was a reporter 
in Rocky II and had his role immortalized in a 1979 action figure.[20] 
He also made cameo appreances in The Main Event and The Waterboy. In Cars 
2 and Planes, he played Brent Mustangburger, a fictionalized version of 
himself. He appeared as himself in the episode "Lying Around" on the ABC 
