Brett Allen Myers (born August 17, 1980) is an American former professional 
baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Philadelphia 
Phillies, Houston Astros, Chicago White Sox, and Cleveland Indians. Born 
and raised in Jacksonville, Florida, Myers began his baseball career at 
the high school level. From there he progressed to the professional ranks 
and made his debut in 2002 for the Phillies. He pitched with the Phillies 
from 2002–2009, mostly as a starter, but did also close for a time. He 
was a World Series champion in 2008 with the Phillies. After the Phillies, 
he went on to the Houston Astros and the Chicago White Sox. On New Year's 
Day 2013, Myers signed with the Cleveland Indians. Myers was born and raised 
in Jacksonville, Florida. As a senior at Englewood High School, he posted 
an 8–2 record and an 0.80 ERA in 78.0 innings pitched. He was an amateur 
boxer when he was a teenager.[1] Myers made his major league debut in the 
summer of 2002, starting on July 24 against the Chicago Cubs at Wrigley 
Field.[2] He finished his rookie season 4–5 with an earned run average 
of 4.25, pitching 72 innings. Myers also pitched the 2003 season with the 
Phillies, posting 14 wins in 32 starts.[3] He threw his first career shutout 
in June 2003 against the Boston Red Sox.[4] Expectations for Myers were 
high entering the 2004 season; however, these were tempered somewhat by 
his 11–11 record.[3] He pitched his second career shutout in May and recorded 
a five-game losing streak from June 22 to July 23, receiving minimal run 
support from the Phillies offense.[5] 2004 was Myers' strongest year on 
offense, posting a .196 batting average and tying for the team lead in 
sacrifice hits with Randy Wolf.[5] The 2005 season was a strong one for 
Myers, as he posted 13 wins and a career-low ERA of 3.72. He struck out 
208 batters in 215⅓ innings and threw two complete games over the course 
of the season.[3][6] Building on his performance from 2005, Myers was the 
Phillies' staff ace in 2006, leading the team in wins, ERA, starts, innings 
pitched, strikeouts and winning percentage.[7] He became the first visiting 
pitcher to win a 1–0 game at Coors Field in Colorado, beginning a streak 
of ten consecutive games where he pitched at least six innings.[7] On June 
23, Myers was arrested and charged with assault after witnesses saw him 
punching his wife Kim on a downtown Boston street after an argument.[8] 
The Phillies received criticism from some media members and women's organizations 
for not benching Myers.[9] Myers took a short leave of absence from the 
team.[7] During a pre-trial hearing on October 5, 2006, Kim Myers indicated 
that she did not want her husband prosecuted, and despite the prosecutor's 
insistence of filing charges, the case was dismissed.[citation needed] 
On February 1, 2007, the Phillies announced they had agreed to a three-year, 
$25.75 million contract extension with Myers. He was also slated to start 
Opening Day for the Phillies. However, because of general ineffectiveness 
and injuries to other pitchers, Myers was moved to the bullpen on April 
18, after only three starts. When then-closer Tom Gordon was sent to the 
disabled list because of rotator cuff inflammation on May 2,[10] Myers 
took over in the closer role for the team. Following Gordon's return from 
the DL, Myers remained in the closer role due to his effectiveness in the 
position. On May 25, 2007, Myers went on the disabled list for the first 
time in his career with a strained right shoulder. However, he returned 
in July to finish the year with 21 saves, remaining as the Philadelphia 
closer for the rest of the season. As the Opening Day starter and then 
the closer, Myers threw the first and last pitches of the 2007 season, 
and was on the mound as the Phillies clinched their first playoff spot 
in 14 years.[11] He proved to be a successful reliever, going 5–5 with 
a 2.87 ERA in 48 relief appearances.[11] On August 25, 2007, Myers was 
involved in an altercation with The Philadelphia Inquirer beat writer Sam 
Carchidi after Myers gave up two home runs against the San Diego Padres. 
Comments made by both the player and the reporter sent Myers into a profanity-laced 
verbal tirade with Carchidi in which Myers called him a "retard"[12] and 
threatened to knock him out, while other members of the Phillies and Philadelphia 
media tried to separate the two.[12] In the off-season, the Phillies had 
announced that Myers would return to the rotation in 2008, since they had 
traded for all-star closer Brad Lidge. Though Myers expressed a desire 
to remain in the bullpen, he was willing to fulfill whatever role the team 
required. "I liked having the chance to pitch every day or every other 
day as opposed to every fifth day", said Myers. "I'll do whatever the team 
needs. I've started my whole career so I'm ready to get back to it."[13] 
During spring training 2008, Myers spearheaded an elaborate prank on Kyle 
Kendrick involving a fake trade to Japan. The prank was notably successful, 
with manager Charlie Manuel, then-assistant general manager Rubén Amaro, 
Jr., the Phillies clubhouse, Kendrick's agent, and the press corps all 
in on the joke. Kendrick was completely fooled until Myers jumped in from 
behind, shouting "You know what I say? You just got punk'd!"[14] Myers 
was the Opening Day starter for the Phillies in 2008. Myers opened the 
2008 season weakly; though he pitched deep into games, he did not receive 
enough run support to cover the number of runs he surrendered. Through 
the first two months of the season, Myers posted only three wins, as opposed 
to six losses. His statistics went into a downward spiral as the season 
progressed, posting a 3–2 record in March and April, a 1–4 record in May, 
and not winning a single game in June; he went nearly a month without notching 
a single victory. On July 1, Myers agreed to be optioned down to the minors 
to address his mechanical issues and focus on pitching. It was reported 
that he would make at least three starts for the Phillies' Triple-A affiliate, 
the Lehigh Valley IronPigs, in Allentown, Pennsylvania.[15] He did make 
one start for the Phillies AA affiliate, the Reading Phillies,[16] and 
one start for the class-A Clearwater Threshers, to maintain his five-day 
pitching schedule. He returned to the Phillies and started against the 
New York Mets on July 23,[17] but did not factor in a decision until his 
second game back against the Washington Nationals on July 29, where he 
won his fourth game of the year.[18] Myers pitched strongly through the 
second half of the season, posting a 7–2 record and a 1.80 ERA heading 
into the final month of the season. On September 19, he gave up five runs 
to the first five batters of the game. On October 2, Myers won his first 
playoff start by pitching seven innings against the Milwaukee Brewers, 
giving up two earned runs. His key contribution in that game, however, 
was when he drew a two-out walk against CC Sabathia in the second inning 
that set the stage for Shane Victorino's clutch grand slam.[19] Myers' 
next playoff start highlighted his batting skills, as he posted three RBIs 
and won the game.[19] In the 2008 World Series, he lost his only start 
in Game 2. Myers complained of pain in his right hip during a May 27 game 
against the Florida Marlins. Tests revealed a torn labrum in the hip, which 
required surgery. Myers underwent the procedure in June and was placed 
on the disabled list. On August 15, 2009, Myers was forced to miss his 
rehab start after an eye injury. The Phillies originally said Myers injured 
his eye while playing catch with his four-year-old son, but Myers changed 
the story and stated that he slipped out of his truck and hit his face.[20] 
He returned to the Phillies on September 4 and pitched out of the bullpen 
the following day.[21] It was speculated in the media that Myers would 
be used in the closer's role again because of Brad Lidge's struggles. However, 
the possibility was shot down by Phillies manager Charlie Manuel who said 
Myers "has soreness, which is kind of normal because he missed so much 
time."[22] After the 2009 World Series, Myers filed for free agency after 
the Phillies informed him that they would not be pursuing a new contract 
with him.[23] On January 8, 2010, Myers agreed to a one-year deal with 
the Houston Astros.[24][25] On August 1, 2010, Myers agreed to a two-year 
extension. The contract included a club option for the 2013 season. Myers 
finished 10th in the 2010 NL Cy Young Voting. With the Astros in 2011, 
Myers led the league in quality starts. On February 28, 2012, Myers was 
moved once again to the closer role, after previous closer Mark Melancon 
was traded to the Boston Red Sox. His vesting option for 2013 was changed 
from starts because of his new role.[26] On July 21, 2012, Myers was traded 
to the Chicago White Sox for pitching prospects Matthew Heidenreich and 
Blair Walters, as well as a player to be named later, which eventually 
became Chris Devenski. On January 1, 2013, Myers agreed to a one-year contract, 
with an option for a second year, with the Cleveland Indians, pending a 
physical examination.[27] The deal was made official January 4, 2013.[28] 
Myers spent most of the 2013 season on the disabled list and was released 
on August 29. After 12 seasons playing Major League Baseball, Brett Myers 
retired to his Florida hometown. What baseball fans didn't realize, is 
for years Myers had been playing guitar and writing songs in the offseason. 
From the time he was a young boy, Myers always had a love for country, 
classic and hard rock. However, with his rigorous baseball schedule, he 
never had a chance to pursue songwriting in a serious manner. One day while 
playing golf, he shared some ideas with his musician friend and producer 
Damien Starkey (Puddle of Mudd, Burn Season). The two began collaborating 
and crafting songs in Starkey's studio. The result is Myers debut EP album 
Backwoods Rebel, a blend of Southern Rock and Country with lyrics about 
