Brian Patrick Bannister (born February 28, 1981) is an American former 
professional baseball starting pitcher. He played for the New York Mets 
and Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball from 2006 through 2010 
and is currently the assistant pitching coach for the Boston Red Sox. Bannister 
is a devout Christian [1] and the oldest son of former Major League All-Star 
pitcher Floyd Bannister, who pitched from 1977–1992 with Houston, Seattle, 
Chicago (AL), Kansas City, California, and Texas. His uncle, Greg Cochran, 
also played in the Yankees' and Athletics' minor league systems. His brother 
Brett spent time as a pitcher in the Mariners' system, and his brother 
Cory pitched at Stanford. Brian and Brett are both members of Lambda Chi 
Alpha Fraternity. He is married and has one daughter, Brynn, who was born 
in the 2008 offseason. Bannister was born in Scottsdale, Arizona. He had 
a remarkable high school career at Chaparral High School, former home of 
Chicago White Sox star Paul Konerko, as he was named All-Region and All-City 
in 1997, 1998 and 1999. Chaparral was the runner-up to the state title 
in 1997 and 1998, but in Bannister's senior year, he helped take home the 
state championship by striking out seven of the nine batters he faced in 
the championship game. He began his college career as a walk-on at the 
University of Southern California. Entering as a second baseman, he became 
a full-time pitcher before the start of his freshman season. He posted 
an ERA of 4.35 in ten games out of the bullpen in his freshman year. Acting 
as the team closer during his 2001 sophomore campaign, he compiled a 2.80 
ERA in thirty-five relief appearances. Bannister helped the Trojans to 
the College World Series in both 2000 and 2001 while pitching alongside 
former Major Leaguers Mark Prior and Anthony Reyes. He redshirted in 2002, 
due to arthroscopic elbow surgery to remove impinged scar tissue in his 
elbow. He was drafted by the Boston Red Sox in 2002, but did not sign. 
He returned to the Trojans in 2003 to play his junior year, which was also 
his first year as a starter. In eighteen games (fourteen starts), Bannister 
compiled a 6–5 record with an ERA of 4.53. Bannister was drafted by the 
Mets in the seventh round of the 2003 amateur draft and, after signing, 
was assigned to the Class-A Brooklyn Cyclones. There he put together a 
strong season, posting a 4–1 record with an ERA of 2.15 in twelve games 
(nine starts) and was named a New York–Penn League Postseason All-Star. 
In 2004, Bannister was assigned to play for High-A St. Lucie in the Florida 
State League, where he put together a 5–7 record with a 4.24 ERA in twenty 
starts and was a Florida State League All-Star. His experimentation with 
throwing a two-seam fastball and circle changeup led to this decline in 
numbers, but prepared him for the competition at higher levels of professional 
baseball. Bannister was then promoted to AA Binghamton following the trade 
of Scott Kazmir to the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, where he had a 3–3 record 
and an ERA of 4.08 in a mere eight starts. After the 2004 season, Bannister 
played for the Peoria Saguaros of the Arizona Fall League. He posted strong 
numbers, going 2–0 with a 3.77 ERA against the top prospects in the minor 
leagues. More importantly, he developed his cut fastball while in the AFL, 
which would develop into one of his strongest pitches. The next year, Bannister 
began the 2005 season in Double-A Binghamton, where he posted numbers that 
reflected the quality of his newly developed pitches: a 9–4 record with 
a 2.56 ERA in eighteen starts. This earned him an All-Star selection for 
the third consecutive season, and the honor of starting pitcher for the 
Double-A All-Star Game. This display caused Bannister to earn a promotion 
to AAA Norfolk, where he showed further promise against better competition. 
He finished his AAA campaign with a 4–1 record and an ERA of 3.18 in eight 
starts. At 25 years old, Bannister made his Major League debut against 
the Washington Nationals. His first major league win came in his second 
start, also against Washington, on April 11, 2006. A former second baseman, 
Bannister also excelled at the plate, acquiring four hits in his first 
ten at-bats, including three doubles. After making five starts, Bannister 
was put on the 15-day disabled list with a strained right hamstring which 
he injured while running the bases in the fifth inning of an April 26 game 
against San Francisco. Bannister was later moved to the 60-day DL. Bannister 
made 5 starts for the Mets and had a record of 2–0 with a 2.89 ERA. Bannister 
spent a month on a Minor League rehab assignment, pitching for the St. 
Lucie Mets and the Norfolk Tides. When Orlando Hernández was unable to 
pitch in late August, Bannister made a spot start against the Phillies, 
giving up 4 runs in 6 innings in a 4–3 loss. The game was Bannister's first 
major league defeat. Immediately after the game, Bannister was optioned 
to AAA Norfolk to allow Óliver Pérez to make a spot start the following 
day. Bannister returned to the Mets for the month of September and made 
two relief appearances. On September 6, 2006, the Brooklyn Cyclones honored 
Bannister with his own bobblehead and retired his number, 19. Bannister 
was the first pitcher from the Cyclones to make his Major League debut 
with the Mets. Because his hamstring injury reduced the number of innings 
pitched in 2006, Bannister joined the Tomateros de Culiacán in the Mexican 
Pacific League. He won in his debut, pitching five innings against the 
Algodoneros de Guasave. After completing the first half of the season with 
the Tomateros, Bannister returned home with a 3–2 record and a 3.68 ERA. 
On December 5, 2006, during the MLB Winter Meetings, Bannister was traded 
from the New York Mets to the Kansas City Royals for relief pitcher Ambiorix 
Burgos. In spring 2007, Bannister's high school jersey number, 15, was 
retired alongside former Chaparral High School players Darryl Deak, Brian 
Deak, coach Mark Miller, and former Chicago White Sox star Paul Konerko. 
On April 24, 2007, Bannister made his debut with the Royals against the 
Chicago White Sox. He gave up 4 runs, 3 of them earned runs, in 4 and 1/3 
innings, and was not involved in the decision. In June 2007, Bannister 
was one of two major league pitchers to win 5 games, going 5–1 with a 2.75 
ERA in six starts, including a streak of 18 innings without an earned run, 
and was named AL Rookie of the Month. He also received the same award in 
August after winning 4 games in the month. On August 16, 2007, Bannister 
threw his first career complete game, a four-hitter against the A's. He 
threw 111 pitches, 73 for strikes. Bannister finished 3rd in the 2007 American 
League Rookie of the Year voting, after finishing 12–9 with a 3.87 ERA. 
He received 1 first place vote, 8 second place votes, and 7 third place 
votes. Bannister was selected to the 2007 Topps Major League Rookie All-Star 
Team. The selection was the result of the 49th annual Topps balloting of 
Major League managers.[2] In 2008 he was named the Royals' number-2 starter 
behind Gil Meche. He led the majors in grand slams allowed, with four.[2] 
He regressed from his 2007 form, and saw his ERA spike from 3.87 to 5.76. 
He finished with among the highest loss totals for starting pitchers that 
year, finishing 9–16. [3] On 8/17/2008 against The Yankees, Bannister gave 
up 10 earned runs on 10 hits (3 homeruns) and 3 walks while pitching only 
one complete inning. After a poor 2008, Bannister started the 2009 season 
with AAA Omaha before promptly being called up a week later to fill the 
number 5 spot in the rotation. After adding a new changeup to his repertoire, 
his ground ball rate increased and he had a 7–7 record and a 3.59 ERA into 
early August, ranking in the Top 10 in the American League in ERA and being 
the subject of numerous trade deadline rumors. Unfortunately, he suffered 
a season-ending right rotator cuff tear in a 117 pitch game August 3 against 
Tampa Bay. After attempting to pitch with the injury and losing five consecutive 
starts, he was placed on the disabled list for the rest of the season. 
He finished the year compiling a record of 7–12 with a 4.73 ERA. Bannister 
spent the winter rehabilitating his shoulder and returned to what would 
be his last MLB season. His ineffectiveness was obvious, and he struggled 
with giving up home runs and pitching deep into games. On June 23, 2010, 
Bannister and the Royals handed Washington Nationals phenom Stephen Strasburg 
his first career loss in a 1–0 victory in Washington. His season finished 
with a miserable loss at Cincinnati, a minor league rehab stint, and a 
loss to the Minnesota Twins. In 2010, he was chosen as "honorable mention" 
in a list of the smartest athletes in sports by Sporting News.[3] In January 
2011, Bannister signed a two-year contract to play for Japan's Yomiuri 
Giants. In March, Bannister retired following the earthquake and tsunami 
in Northern Japan, stating he had no further plans to play in either Japan 
or the United States. He currently runs a fund that supports non-profit 
organizations for families in crisis in the San Francisco Bay Area. During 
has pitching career, Bannister became known in baseball for his interest 
in scouting and player analysis and evaluation. He became interested in 
statistical analysis and "Sabermetrics" such as FIP and UZR as means of 
determining a player's true value.[4] On January 13, 2015, Bannister joined 
the Boston Red Sox as a member of its professional scouting department. 
Then, eight months later, he was promoted by new Red Sox president/baseball 
operations Dave Dombrowski to a new position: director of pitching analysis 
and development.[5] On July 6, 2016, Bannister was promoted to assistant 
pitching coach[6] Bannister is an avid photographer and photography supporter. 
He is the founder of Loft 19 Studios in Phoenix, Arizona, a full-service 
photography studio complex and equipment rental house. Bannister graduated 
Cum Laude from the University of Southern California with a Bachelor of 
Arts degree from the School of Fine Arts. His work has been featured in 
