Louis Brian Piccolo (October 31, 1943 – June 16, 1970) was a professional 
American football player, a running back for the Chicago Bears of the National 
Football League (NFL) for four years. He died at age 26 from embryonal 
cell carcinoma, an aggressive form of germ cell testicular cancer, first 
diagnosed after it had spread to his chest cavity. Piccolo was the subject 
of the 1971 TV movie Brian's Song, with a remake (of the same title) TV 
movie filmed in 2001. He was portrayed in the original film by James Caan 
and by Sean Maher in the 2001 remake. Born in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, 
Piccolo was the youngest of three sons of Joseph and Irene Piccolo. The 
family moved south to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, when Piccolo was three, 
due to his parents' concerns for his brother Don's health. Piccolo and 
his brothers were athletes, and he was a star running back on his high 
school football team although he considered baseball his primary sport.[1] 
He graduated from the former Central Catholic High School (now St. Thomas 
Aquinas High School) in Fort Lauderdale in 1961.[1] Piccolo played college 
football at Wake Forest in Winston-Salem, North Carolina; his only other 
scholarship offer was from Wichita State. He led the nation in rushing 
and scoring during his senior season in 1964,[2] and was named the Atlantic 
Coast Conference (ACC) Player of the Year, yet went unselected in the both 
the AFL and NFL drafts.[3][4] In 1963, Darryl Hill of the University of 
Maryland was the first and only African-American football player in the 
ACC. According to Lee Corso, a Maryland assistant coach at that time, Wake 
Forest had "the worst atmosphere" of any campus the Maryland football team 
visited. Piccolo went over to the Maryland bench, walked Hill over to the 
area in front of the student section and put his arm around him, silencing 
the crowd.[5] Following his spectacular senior season Piccolo married his 
high school sweetheart, Joy Murrath, on December 26, 1964.[6] They had 
three daughters: Lori, Traci, and Kristi.[1] Because he was not selected 
in the 1965 NFL draft or AFL draft,[6] Piccolo tried out for the Chicago 
Bears as a free agent.[7] He made the team for the 1965 season, but only 
on the taxi squad (known today as the practice squad), meaning he could 
practice but not suit up for games. In 1966, he made the main roster but 
his playing time was primarily on special teams. In 1967 he got more playing 
time backing up superstar starting tailback Gale Sayers, which increased 
after Sayers' knee injury in November 1968.[8][9][10] Piccolo's biggest 
statistical year was 1968, during which he posted career bests with 450 
yards on 123 carries (a 3.7 average), two touchdowns, and 28 receptions 
for 291 yards (a 10.4 average).[11] In 1969, Piccolo was moved up to starting 
fullback, with Sayers returning as tailback, placing the two in the same 
backfield on offense. Players at that time were still segregated by race 
for hotel-room assignments. At the suggestion of the Bears' captain, the 
policy was changed and each player was reassigned by position, so that 
wide receivers would room together, quarterbacks would room together, etc. 
Running back was the only position on the 1969 Bears with one black and 
one white player, Sayers and Piccolo, respectively. The Bears were in the 
midst of a 1–13 season in 1969, the worst record in their history.[12] 
Piccolo had finally earned a place in the starting lineup as an undersized 
fullback. Their first win came in the eighth game on November 9, a 38–7 
home win over struggling Pittsburgh and Piccolo opened the scoring at Wrigley 
Field with a 25-yard touchdown reception.[13] The next week in Atlanta, 
he scored a fourth quarter touchdown on a one-yard run,[14] and then voluntarily 
removed himself from the game, something he had never done,[15] raising 
great concern among his teammates and coaches. Breathing while playing 
had become extremely difficult for him, so when the team returned to Chicago 
he was promptly sent for a medical examination and diagnosed with embryonal 
cell carcinoma.[16] Soon after initial surgery at Sloan-Kettering in New 
York City to remove the tumor, he underwent a second procedure in April 
1970 to remove his left lung and pectoral muscle. Bothered by chest pain 
afterward, he was re-admitted to the hospital in early June and doctors 
determined the cancer had spread to other organs, particularly his liver. 
He died in the early morning of June 16 at the age of 26.[15][17] The month 
before Piccolo's death, Gale Sayers was accepting the George S. Halas Award 
for Most Courageous Player and told the crowd that they had selected the 
wrong person for the award. He said, "I love Brian Piccolo, and I'd like 
all of you to love him, too. Tonight, when you hit your knees to pray, 
please ask God to love him, too."[18] Sayers and Dick Butkus were among 
the six Bears teammates who served as pallbearers at Piccolo's funeral 
at Christ the King Catholic Church in Chicago on June 19.[19][20] He was 
buried at Saint Mary Catholic Cemetery in Evergreen Park, Illinois.[21] 
The film Brian's Song, loosely based on Gale Sayers' autobiography, tells 
the story of the friendship between Brian Piccolo and Gale Sayers and their 
time together while playing football for the Chicago Bears, up until Piccolo's 
death.[24] It first aired in 1971 on ABC on Tuesday, November 30, less 
than 18 months after his death, and starred James Caan as Piccolo and Billy 
Dee Williams as Sayers. It was such a success on television that it was 
later shown in theaters. A remake aired in 2001 on ABC's The Wonderful 
World of Disney and starred Mekhi Phifer and Sean Maher. Piccolo's biography, 
Brian Piccolo: A Short Season, was written by Jeannie Morris (the wife 
of Chicago Bear teammate Johnny Morris) and featured passages written by 
