Clarence Bernard "Brick" Owens (March 31, 1885 – November 11, 1949) was 
an American umpire in Major League Baseball who worked in the National 
League in 1908 and 1912–1913, and in the American League from 1916 through 
1937. He officiated in the World Series in 1918, 1922, 1925, 1928 and 1934, 
serving as crew chief for the last two Series. He also worked the All-Star 
Game in 1934, calling balls and strikes for the game's second half. Born 
in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Owens hoped to pursue a baseball career, but accidentally 
shot himself in the left hand while celebrating the Fourth of July in 1901; 
instead of staying at home and resting, he went to the sandlot game in 
which he had intended to play, and replaced the umpire who quit after an 
early dispute in the game. His family moved to Chicago the following year, 
and he continued to umpire games for 50 cents each; he soon raised his 
rate to $1 a game, and upon being noticed by minor league executive Al 
Tearney, became an umpire in major local contests for $5 a game. By age 
17 he was offered a position on the staff of the Northern League at a monthly 
salary of $75, but minor league games proved more contentious than sandlot 
events, and he accumulated so many scars from various altercations that 
when he was hired by the NL, league president Harry Pulliam asked if Owens 
had been in a train wreck. In one instance, he called three straight strikes 
on a batter for Crookston to end a game when the team was mounting a comeback 
against visiting Winnipeg; the batter dropped his bat and got into a fight 
with Owens, whereupon a fan jumped from the stands, picked up the bat and 
hit Owens over the head. After local authorities began the process of bringing 
charges, the batter's father offered Owens $750 to drop the matter, and 
he agreed as the amount was double his annual salary. On another occasion, 
Owens was attacked at his hotel by a player who he had ejected in that 
day's game, after which the team had refused to replace him and forfeited 
to the local Fargo team; the player was arrested and suspended.[1] By mid-1903 
Owens had moved to the Western League, and he joined the Missouri Valley 
League when the Western League reorganized in 1904. He acquired his nickname 
after a game in Pittsburg, Kansas in which an unpopular call instigated 
fans to begin throwing bricks from the stands, with one hitting Owens in 
the head; when he miraculously returned days later with no serious injury, 
a player named Charley Lyons gave him the nickname, which he said he found 
more acceptable than some other things he had been called. He moved on 
to the American Association in 1905–1906, then the Eastern League in 1907 
before returning to the American Association from 1908 to 1912. After a 
1906 game, local Minneapolis officials tried to get an injunction to overturn 
a call he made to end the contest, which brought on the ejections of seven 
Minneapolis Millers players. The next day, Owens was the target of fans 
throwing eggs and cabbages from the stands, and a mob followed him to his 
hotel, which they threatened to attack if he was not turned over; police 
had to evacuate him over the rooftops and to the railway station. In a 
1908 game in Milwaukee, he fought off 50 fans after a game-ending decision 
before being rescued by police. Another Milwaukee incident saw a rescuing 
policeman get his finger bitten off.[1] After briefly working in the NL 
in 1908, he had an offer from Pulliam to join the NL staff in 1909, but 
the offer fell through due to Pulliam's subsequent illness. After Pittsburgh 
Pirates owner Barney Dreyfuss took exception to one of Owens' decisions, 
he had the umpire followed by a private detective and accused him of visiting 
gambling houses. The league released Owens to satisfy the Pirates owner, 
and Owens worked in the International League (the renamed Eastern League) 
in 1913 before returning to the American Association in 1914–1915. American 
League president Ban Johnson hired him for the 1916 season, one year after 
the death of umpire Jack Sheridan. After his minor league experiences, 
the relatively calm environment cultivated by Johnson was a relief, and 
Owens only had few notable confrontations before retiring due to illness 
after 22 AL seasons.[1] Owens is perhaps best known for the game of June 
23, 1917, in which Babe Ruth was the starting pitcher for the Boston Red 
Sox. Ruth walked the first batter for the Washington Senators in four pitches, 
and was promptly ejected by Owens for disputing his calls; Ruth was so 
incensed by the ejection that he punched Owens. Ernie Shore replaced Ruth 
as the Red Sox pitcher, and not only picked the runner off first base but 
went on to retire the next 26 Washington batters; long regarded as a perfect 
game by Shore for retiring 27 men without permitting anyone to reach base, 
the game is now officially regarded as a combined no-hitter by Ruth and 
Shore. Owens was also the home plate umpire on June 15, 1925 when the Philadelphia 
Athletics scored 13 runs in the bottom of the eighth inning, coming back 
from a 15-4 deficit to defeat the Cleveland Indians 17-15, and tying the 
major league record for the greatest deficit overcome to win a game.[2] 
Owens died at age 64 in Chicago after suffering a heart attack at the wholesale 
meat distributor where he had worked as a salesman since leaving baseball. 
He was buried in Fairmount-Willow Hills Memorial Park in Willow Springs, 
