Navy blue, teal, silver, white The Bridgeport Bluefish is an American professional 
baseball team based in Bridgeport, Connecticut. The team is a member of 
the Liberty Division of the Atlantic League of Professional Baseball, which 
is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. They play their home games 
at The Ballpark at Harbor Yard. The game of baseball was first played in 
Bridgeport, Connecticut soon after the Civil War ended. Teams that called 
the city home included the Victors, Soubrettes, Orators, Crossmen, Mechanics, 
Hustlers, Bolts, Americans, Bees and the Bears. Bridgeport was the home 
of Major Leaguer James "Orator" O'Rourke, who signed the first African-American 
to play for a professional baseball team in 1895. Visiting Major League 
and Negro League teams often played exhibition games in the shadow of the 
Bridgeport's smokestacks. The last affiliated minor league baseball team, 
the Bridgeport Bees, played in the Interstate League and the Colonial League 
from 1941 to 1950. Professional baseball would not be played in Bridgeport 
for about another half-century, until the arrival of the Bluefish in 1998. 
The first game of the Bridgeport Bluefish was May 21, 1998, and the team 
has had many winning seasons. The team has been to five Atlantic League 
Championship Series, and won in 1999 versus the Somerset Patriots. They 
lost to Atlantic City (1998), Newark (2002) Lancaster (2006) and to York 
(2010). The Bluefish, and the Atlantic League itself, tend to attract veteran 
minor leaguers as well as the occasional Major Leaguer at the end of their 
careers. Some of the former major-leaguers who have sported Bluefish jerseys 
include Endy Chávez, Shea Hillenbrand, Alex Hinshaw, José Offerman, Edgardo 
Alfonzo, Deivi Cruz, Junior Spivey, Quinton McCracken, Antonio Alfonseca, 
Willy Mo Pena, Joey Gathright, Adam Greenberg and Mariano Duncan. The Bluefish 
won their first league championship in 1999, and have won the most games 
in Atlantic League history. The land under The Ballpark at Harbor Yard 
was purchased by the city of Bridgeport from Donald Trump for $1 and with 
the forgiveness of back taxes owed on the property. The Jenkins Valve plant 
was demolished to make way for the stadium. The success of the Bluefish 
led to major redevelopment of the South End, including construction of 
the Arena at Harbor Yard and a multi-use parking garage.[1] In many ways, 
the renaissance of Bridgeport was started by the Bluefish.[2] The original 
founders of the Bluefish were Mickey Herbert, Jack McGregor, Mary-Jane 
Foster, and the Bridgeport Waterfront Investors. Herbert anchored the team 
through a mayoral scandal and difficult financial circumstances. Prior 
to the 2006 season, the franchise was purchased by Get Hooked, LLC, a group 
of investors from Fairfield County that included McGregor and Foster. However, 
Get Hooked dropped the Bluefish prior to the 2008 season in favor of seeking 
a new ballpark for the city of Yonkers, New York. The Bluefish were purchased 
by Frank Boulton, who is also the owner of the Long Island Ducks and the 
founder of the Atlantic League. The Bluefish became the first team in Atlantic 
League history to record 1,000 victories as a franchise in 2012. On June 
27, 2012 the Bluefish defeated the York Revolution 2-1 at the Ballpark 
at Harbor Yard to capture the victory.[3][4] For one day in May 2016 Jennie 
Finch was a guest manager for the Bluefish, thus becoming the first woman 
to manage a professional baseball team.[5] The team played and won one 
game that day.[5] The official colors of the Bridgeport Bluefish are navy 
blue, teal, and silver. The primary logo consists of the "Bluefish" wordmark 
in navy blue with white and teal outline superimposed over a depiction 
of a cartoon bluefish holding a baseball bat. The primary cap is navy blue 
with a teal brim and button, with the cap logo depicting a bluefish interwoven 
with a capital "B" centered on the front. The home jersey is white with 
traditional navy blue piping below the collar and around the sleeves. The 
"Bluefish" wordmark is centered across the front in navy blue with white 
outline and teal drop shadow. The away jersey is grey with navy blue piping, 
and the "Bridgeport" wordmark centered across the front in navy blue with 
white and teal outline. The Bluefish also have a teal alternate jersey, 
with navy piping with the "fishhook" wordmark centered across the front. 
Division: def. Long Island Ducks 2-0; Championship: lost to Lancaster Barnstormers 
3-0 Division: def. Southern Maryland Blue Crabs 3-1; Championship: lost 
to York Revolution 3-0 The Bridgeport Bluefish contend with the Long Island 
Ducks over the Ferry Cup, which is sponsored by the Bridgeport & Port Jefferson 
Steamboat Company. The two teams border on Long Island Sound, and many 
fans of both teams regularly cross it to support them. The Ducks currently 
hold the Ferry Cup by winning the 2011 season series 12-6. As of 2011 the 
Bluefish-Ducks rivalry record is 114-112, in favor of Bridgeport.[7] One 
of the Bridgeport Bluefish official mascots is an anthropomorphic bluefish 
named B.B. He wears the team's alternate jersey (number 98) with black 
sneakers. B.B. was born on May 29, 1997 in Cape Hatteras. He later migrated 
to the Long Island Sound, and joined the Bluefish soon after. The mascot's 
name alludes to the initials of the team and its nickname.[8] Captain L.I 
Sounder is another source of entertainment at the Harbor Yard. He wears 
a uniform of a sailor. L.I Sounder's name referred to the nautical rank 
of captain and a name for a Long Island Sound resident. Sounder occasionally 
appears at Bluefish home games. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders 
Manager Coaches Disabled list ‡ Inactive list § Suspended list Roster updated 
November 5, 2016 Transactions On several occasions, the Bluefish have had 
promotional nights in which former baseball players and managers, as well 
