British baseball, sometimes called Welsh baseball, or in the areas where 
it is popular simply baseball, is a bat-and-ball game played primarily 
in Wales and England. It is closely related to the game of rounders, and 
indeed emerged as a distinct sport when governing bodies in Wales and England 
agreed to change the name of the game from "rounders" in 1892. As a traditional 
bat-and-ball game, its roots go back much further, and literary references 
to baseball and rounders date back many centuries. The sport differs in 
a number of ways from the internationally known game of North American 
baseball. Despite these similarities with cricket, the game is much more 
like North American baseball in style and operates on a near identical, 
but smaller, diamond. There are also many similarities to rounders, which 
is often considered a transitional game between cricket and baseball. The 
basic concepts of British baseball cross-blend the basic concepts of cricket 
and the more standard versions of rounders. The modern rules of British 
baseball were codified in 1892, when the term 'rounders' ceased to be the 
sport's official name. During the same time, the South Wales Baseball Association 
was established to govern the sport which was popular in Cardiff and Newport.[1] 
The first recognised international match was held between England and Wales 
on 3 August 1908 at the Harlequins Ground in Cardiff, Wales winning 122 
– 118.[2] Playing in the 1908 international were three former players from 
Cardiff RFC, the local rugby union club, one of whom, Viv Huzzey, was also 
a former Wales international and professional rugby league player.[3] The 
International Baseball Board was founded in 1927 and is the international 
governing body. The only members are the English Baseball Association and 
the Welsh Baseball Union. Men's representative teams from England and Wales 
still meet annually in an international match. The centenary international 
was also held in Cardiff in 2008 with Wales winning. As well as the full 
international, a similar game is held for 'B' teams and for juniors. The 
game has maintained a strong following only in two areas – Merseyside in 
Northwest England and South Wales, especially Cardiff and Newport.[4] By 
2006 participation levels in Liverpool had slumped considerably to a point 
where only four clubs remained active – All Saints, Anfield, Breckside 
and Townsend. The game in Wales is in a much healthier state and playing 
participation in the women's game has actually grown in recent years. Local 
league and cup competitions have been organised in both countries for many 
years and an annual international match between England and Wales has been 
held since 1908. A crowd of 10,000 watched the 1948 match played at the 
Cardiff Castle grounds. Internationals were also held at Cardiff Arms Park 
and Goodison Park, Liverpool. Crowds have declined in the last quarter 
of a century but the England-Wales match can still draw 1,000–2,000 spectators. 
Particularly, the game is often played during physical education classes 
in high schools and primary schools, as it allows the inclusion of a high 
number of pupils at once, and can quickly and easily be played. Several 
players who became notable in other sports have played British baseball. 
In Wales, these include association football players John Toshack, George 
Whitcombe, Terry Yorath, Nathan Blake and Phil Dwyer, and rugby's Terry 
Holmes, Mark Ring, David Bishop,and Wigan Rugby League legend and record 
points scorer Jim Sullivan. In England, the most famous sportsman to have 
played British baseball was Everton and England football star Dixie Dean. 
Among those who achieved fame as British baseball players were Welshman 
Ted Peterson, whose international appearances stretched from the 1930s 
to 1960s, and Irish-born Richard Paddy Hennessey, renowned for his fast 
bowling. The sport is the subject of a song, "The Baseball Song", by The 
