The British Baseball Federation (BBF) is the national governing body of 
baseball within the United Kingdom, founded in 1890. BBF is a federated 
member of both the Confederation of European Baseball and the International 
Baseball Federation. BBF is the joint owner (with the British Softball 
Federation) of BaseballSoftballUK (BSUK), a sports development agency. 
The voting members of BBF are the affiliated baseball clubs, life members 
and the umpires, scorers and coaches associations. The BBF holds an annual 
general meeting each spring at which the voting members elect an executive 
board of 11 officials to oversee the body and the sport. All participants 
(players, coaches, managers, umpires, scorers, etc.) with affiliated clubs 
and the associations are members of the BBF. Youth Baseball: There are 
organised leagues at 10 – 13 (Bronco) and 14 to 16 (Pony) age ranges. Additionally, 
British Baseball supports the Play Ball programme run by BaseballSoftballUK 
which introduces children from 8 to 12 to bat and ball games, usually through 
school or a local Play Ball scheme. There are also GB national teams for 
youth players (Cadets under 16s, and Juniors under 19s), as well as an 
off-season British Baseball Academy for youth players and coaches. Adult 
Baseball: There are a number of leagues and divisions, split by ability 
and geographical location. These range from the highly competitive to the 
recreational.[1] In 2008 there were 38 clubs, with 67 league teams, as 
members of the BBF.[2] There are also a number of non-league clubs and 
teams affiliated to British Baseball. British Baseball also oversees the 
national team of Great Britain. The BBF board is elected at AGMs held each 
March. The current board is comprised as follows: Affiliated clubs may 
enter as many teams as they wish to play in the BBF baseball leagues. There 
is a senior bracket for adults, and two youth brackets (10 to 13 and 14 
to 16). The season runs from April to September each year and ends in the 
National Baseball Championships (previously referred to as 'Final 4s'). 
National Youth Baseball Championships are also held for the two youth-age 
brackets Bronco (U13) and Pony (U16). Championships are hosted by different 
clubs around the country each year chosen through a competitive bidding 
