Broad Channel is a neighborhood in the New York City borough of Queens. 
It occupies the southern portion of Rulers Bar Hassock (known colloquially 
as "Broad Channel Island"), which is the only inhabited island in Jamaica 
Bay, with three thousand inhabitants. The neighborhood stands on Big Egg 
Marsh, an area of fill approximately 20 blocks long and 4 blocks wide; 
the community is an inholding within the Gateway National Recreation Area, 
a unit of the U.S National Park Service. The area comprises several artificial 
canals separating dead-end residential blocks. It is connected to the rest 
of Queens by road and subway bridges. Prior to European settlement, the 
Jameco and Canarsie bands of Lenape Native Americans frequented this area. 
During the 17th century, Dutch settlers established a community on the 
island and began harvesting oysters, clams, shrimp, and fish. Broad Channel 
remained a parcel within the town of Jamaica until the consolidation of 
New York City in 1898. The northern (and larger) portion of the island 
is part of Gateway National Recreation Area and is managed as part of the 
Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge, the only wildlife refuge in the National Park 
System. The waters and marsh islands of the refuge entirely surround the 
community. In 1915, the city leased the island to the Broad Channel Corporation, 
which in turn leased properties to private individuals for the development 
of summer bungalows and houses. The island prospered as an exclusive retreat 
for city residents. After the construction of the Cross Bay Boulevard in 
1923, Broad Channel underwent a surge in popularity. In 1938, Parks Commissioner 
Robert Moses wanted to build a park on the island. His plan was for recreation 
on the shore with a wildlife sanctuary on the north end of the island. 
In 1939 the Cross Bay Parkway Bridge opened. That same year, the Broad 
Channel Corporation declared bankruptcy. The city acquired the island's 
property titles but, for many years, denied residents the right to purchase 
the land under their houses. The city made many attempts to alter the island's 
purpose, but the local community resisted them all. Proposed changes included 
the construction of a commercial port and the extension of John F. Kennedy 
International Airport. In 1982, New York City granted Broad Channel residents 
the right to purchase their property. In 1998, Broad Channel's Labor Day 
parade received negative media attention after video of a float that parodied 
the racially motivated dragging death of an African American man was made 
public. The float carried white men wearing blackface and Afro wigs, and 
was entitled "Black to the Future - Broad Channel in 2098". Three white 
participants on the float, two city firefighters and a city police officer, 
were later fired from their jobs as a result of the parade incident.[1] 
They sued the city for wrongful termination, and had their claims upheld 
in federal district court in 2003. Local residents expressed support for 
and relief at the ruling, hoping that an end to the court battle would 
help to rehabilitate the image of the town.[2] The United States Court 
of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed the ruling in 2006, holding 
that the firings could stand.[3] St. Virgilius School closed in 2006;[4] 
in 2008, upon the retirement of its administrator, Rev. John P. Maloney, 
St. Virgilius Parish of Broad Channel merged with St. Camillus Parish of 
Rockaway Park, New York. Rev. Richard J. Ahlemeyer, pastor of St. Camillus, 
remains pastor of the new "Parish Family of Saint Camillus - St. Virgilius 
Roman Catholic Church."[5] In August 2011, Broad Channel faced its first 
mandatory evacuation, due to Hurricane Irene. In the aftermath, two homes 
on Church Road between East 12 and 14th Road collapsed into Jamaica Bay 
due to the high storm tide. In October 2012, Broad Channel faced another 
mandatory evacuation; it sustained heavy damage from Hurricane Sandy, with 
widespread flooding affecting most homes in the area.[6] In subsequent 
days, widespread prolonged power cuts and shortages of food and water were 
reported.[7] Press reports indicated that at least parts of the neighborhood 
were flooded from time to time by high tides. The city has proposed steps 
(such as raising the streets and sidewalks by three feet), but work has 
not yet begun.[8] Based on data from the 2010 United States Census, the 
population of the combined area of Breezy Point/Belle Harbor/Rockaway Park/Broad 
Channel was 28,018, an increase of 1,307 (4.9%) from the 26,711 counted 
in 2000. Covering an area of 2,033.88 acres (823.08 ha), the four neighborhoods 
had a population density of 13.8 inhabitants per acre (8,800/sq mi).[9] 
The racial makeup of the neighborhoods was 78.3% (21,946) White, 7.5% (2,095) 
African American, 0.1% (29) Native American, 2.1% (595) Asian, 0.0% (8) 
Pacific Islander, 0.2% (66) from other races, and 0.9% (259) from two or 
more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 10.8% (3,020) of the population.[10] 
The IND Rockaway Line has a subway station in Broad Channel, serving the 
A train and Rockaway Park Shuttle. From the 1950s to the 1970s, some mapmakers 
have shown the streets of Broad Channel numbered along the same continuum 
found in the rest of Queens besides the Rockaways, with the numbers of 
"Streets" increasing from west to east, the numbers of "Avenues" increasing 
from north to south, etc.[11] However, Broad Channel streets have always 
had their own numbering format, including "East" and "West" prefixed "Roads" 
numbered north to south, independent of those used elsewhere in the borough. 
The directional prefixes ensured no duplication with any other "Road" in 
Queens, and there are no north-south streets in Broad Channel suffixed 
"Street". Broad Channel has four bridges: the tolled, vehicular Cross Bay 
Veterans Memorial Bridge to the south; the free, vehicular Joseph P. Addabbo 
Memorial Bridge to the north; and the two IND Rockaway Line swing bridges. 
Cross Bay Boulevard, the island's only through road, traverses the two 
vehicular bridges, both of which also carry bicycle and pedestrian traffic.[12] 
Lying between Howard Beach and the Rockaway Peninsula, it is connected 
to those communities by these bridges, at either end of the island. Following 
the construction of the Cross Bay Parkway bridge in 1939, a drawbridge 
connecting Broad Channel with the Rockaway Peninsula, the island became 
easily accessible by car. However, the drawbridge opened up many times 
per day, and whenever it opened, traffic would back up to Howard Beach, 
as well as on the Rockaway Peninsula. In the mid-to-late 1960s, a new bridge 
was constructed. It opened on May 28, 1970. It was renamed the Cross Bay 
Veterans Memorial Bridge in 1977. It is maintained by MTA Bridges and Tunnels, 
and a $3.75 toll ($2 with E-ZPass) must be paid to use the bridge. The 
Joseph P. Addabbo Memorial Bridge connects Broad Channel to Howard Beach 
and the mainland. Opening in 1993, it was formerly known as the North Channel 
Bridge. It replaced an older North Channel Bridge built in 1924, which 
was deteriorated to the point where it was beyond repair. It is maintained 
by the New York City Department of Transportation, and is free. Like all 
areas of New York City, Broad Channel is served by the New York City Department 
of Education. Elementary school students attend P.S 47. The school has 
pre-kindergarten through eighth grades; the school facilities were completely 
remodeled during the 1990s. Broad Channel was also home to St. Virgilius 
School, a Roman Catholic School that was part of the Diocese of Brooklyn. 
However, after a lengthy battle between parents and the Diocese, the school 
closed in 2006, as part of Bishop Nicholas DiMarzio's effort to close, 
en masse, Catholic schools with low enrollment. The school, a staple of 
the community for over sixty years, fell just a few students shy of the 
minimum number required by the Diocese. The school building is currently 
being used as a parish office and meeting area. The non-profit Broad Channel 
Athletic Club was established in 1961. The baseball teams are registered 
with Little League and host an in-house baseball league, and participate 
in the Catholic Youth Organization. The football league plays in the Nassau 
and Suffolk Football League. The soccer league is completely run by the 
organization and participates in the Catholic Youth Organization. The swimming 
team participates in the Police Athletic League and the Catholic Youth 
Organization. The basketball league also participates in the Catholic Youth 
Organization.[13] The Broad Channel Historical Society was founded in 1994. 
Their mission is to document and preserve the history of Broad Channel, 
often referred to as the "Venice" of New York. The committee was initiated 
by then President of the Civic Association Danny Mundy, who came up with 
the idea from reading the "Glimpse of the Past" column in the town newsletter, 
Channel News. With seed money from New York State Senator Ada Smith, loose-leaf 
notebooks with plastic sleeves were purchased in order to begin documenting 
the colorful history of "The Channel". After one year of articles, written 
memories, and videotaped interviews, they held their first Annual Historical 
Day in June 1995. This event brings out the townspeople and folks from 
the surrounding area to enjoy the collection, usually housed in the Broad 
Channel Public Library.[14] The Queens Borough Public Library has been 
the home for the historical collection. The collection was microfilmed 
in 1997. The microfilm is available for viewing at the Central Branch in 
Jamaica, Queens. Also in 1997 the first annual Historical Calendar was 
published. The calendars feature old pictures of Broad Channel and tidal 
information. The department originally started in 1905 as bucket brigade 
to help minimize property loss due to fires. In 1907, this brigade was 
formally organized into the Broad Channel Volunteer Fire Association under 
its first Chief, Edward H. Schleuter. The current firehouse at 15 Noel 
Road was opened in the summer of 1908. In 1913, Chief Chris Hoobs died 
of a heart attack responding to a fire. The association received their 
fire charter from the state of New York in 1917 and were known from then 
on as the Broad Channel Volunteers. In 1956, then-Deputy Chief Robert H. 
Russell, Sr. added volunteer ambulance services to provide first aid and 
ambulatory care to the residents of Broad Channel. He would also go on 
to be elected to the rank of Chief of Department twenty-one times from 
1957–1973, 1975–1977, and again in 1984. By the early 1960s, the department 
was growing rapidly in both stature in the community and as an organization 
as a whole. On summer weekends during the 1950s and 1960s, the FDNY would 
send a spare engine and a crew detailed from other firehouses, known as 
Engine Company No. 341, to the Broad Channel Volunteers' quarters to assist 
in answering alarms on the island. The bridges at the northern and southern 
ends of the island were draw bridges and were frequently opened for large 
passing ships. The southern bridge was particularly active due to the numerous 
tankers carrying fuel to nearby Idlewild Airport (now John F. Kennedy International 
Airport). On average it took from 30 to 45 minutes from the lowering of 
the traffic barriers, the opening and closing of the lift bridge, and the 
raising of the traffic barriers before traffic could again move. Occasionally, 
the bridge would get stuck in the open position effectively closing Cross 
Bay Boulevard for extended periods. This would impede responses by FDNY 
apparatus, EMS & NYPD companies to the island for any type of emergency. 
Also, Cross Bay Boulevard, then 4 lanes in each direction, would be jammed 
by beach goers and those looking to vacation at Rockaway's bungalows and 
hotels and its famous Rockaway Playland. Often the FDNY firefighters would 
leave their apparatus parked on the Boulevard and join the volunteers on 
their apparatus because they were smaller than the FDNY apparatus and could 
maneuver down the very narrow streets. Over the years, the Broad Channel 
Volunteers have been in service, they have created a close working relationship 
with the local FDNY companies as well as the volunteer companies from Nassau 
& Suffolk Counties. The Broad Channel Volunteers are also dues paying members 
of many organizations such as the Southern New York Volunteer Firemans 
Association, the Firemans Association of the State of New York, and along 
with the 9 other volunteer fire departments in the 5 boroughs of New York 
City, they are members of Volunteer Firemans Association of the City of 
New York. In the late 1970s, The Broad Channel Junior Fire Department was 
organized to help train young teens in the aspects of the fire and EMS 
service as well as dispatching and clerical duties while still cleaning 
the firehouse and its apparatus. When its members turned 18, they were 
allowed to begin riding the apparatus as firefighters or start training 
as EMTs. The benefit was these teens were already knowledgeable in the 
operations of the department and it became a breeding ground for the departments 
future firefighters, officers and chiefs. They would later become a Boy 
Scout Explorer Post, #3069. In 1994, under Chief Dan McIntyre, the volunteer 
ambulance corps was granted their New York State Certification. Since then, 
the department took the initiative to require all its firefighters to be 
New York State Certified in all aspects of the fire service as well as 
EMS. In 1994, Chief Dan McIntyre also started the departments Marine Company 
which is still in service to present day. The department operates a small 
Coast Guard-like Zodiac as a swift water rescue team with certified EMTs 
on board and in some instances certified divers as well. In 2012, as a 
result of Hurricane Sandy, the fire department lost many resources, including 
both of its fire trucks and both of its ambulances. Therefore, a replacement 
fire truck from Chanhassen, Minnesota, was loaned to the Broad Channel 
Volunteer Fire Department.[15] In addition, neighboring Minnesota towns 
sent resources, including extra boots and helmets from Victoria and Carver; 
four air monitors, one Jaws of Life apparatus, and two power generators 
from Chaska; and a truck with resources worth about $20,000 from the Sioux 
community there.[15] The Broad Channel Volunteers, Inc., is a 501(c)3 not-for-profit 
organization that relies solely on door to door fundraising, grants from 
politicians and from the state, and since 1905 has been operated by 100% 
volunteers. Broad Channel Park opened in May 1995, located at the southernmost 
end of Broad Channel, sits along Jamaica Bay. The park features two grass 
baseball fields, one asphalt baseball field, benches, water fountains, 
a parking area, four basketball standards, and a small play area. The flagpole 
area is surrounded by a nautically themed sitting area. The park was given 
its present name in March 1998.[16] This playground is named in honor of 
Broad Channel community activist Eugene Gray (1927–1973). Gray was born 
on March 14, 1927 in Park Slope, Brooklyn and later moved to Hell's Kitchen 
in Manhattan. After attending college, Gray married Lorraine Baker (1929–1977) 
with whom he had three children: Michael, Gary and Gregory. Gray later 
moved to Broad Channel and became involved in various neighborhood youth 
programs, including the Broad Channel Athletic Club, an organization for 
which he served as president. A community football coach for more than 
twenty years, Grey also helped to shape and maintain the Broad Channel 
football league and assisted in the creation of the local Teen Club, which 
provided safe recreational activities for the area’s youth. Before his 
death on September 14, 1973, Eugene Gray also supported the construction 
of this site, the first adventure playground to be built in Broad Channel. 
In recognition of his dedication to the playground’s construction and lifetime 
of work for the neighborhood’s youth, the Broad Channel Civic Association 
and Queens Community Board 14 motioned to have the playground named in 
Gray's honor. Their undertaking was successful in 1987, when a local law 
passed naming the park Gene Gray Playground. Located on the corner of Cross 
Bay Boulevard and East 9th Road, Gene Gray Playground opened on November 
12, 1987 and was built at a cost of $457,688. In honor of Broad Channel's 
seafaring past, award-winning architect Richard Dattner incorporated a 
nautical fortress theme into the park's wooden play equipment. The playground 
contains a walkway bridge intended to resemble a sailing ship, complete 
with bow, stern, and gangplank-like ramp. The park also contains a 75-year-old 
willow tree (Salix spp.), nine red maple trees (Acer rubrum), and ninety 
burning bushes (Euonymus atropurpureus) along the perimeter. Coordinates: 
