Brockville, formerly Elizabethtown, is a city in Eastern Ontario, Canada 
in the Thousand Islands region. Although it is the seat of the United Counties 
of Leeds and Grenville, it is politically independent of the county. It 
is included with Leeds and Grenville for census purposes only. Known as 
the "City of the 1000 Islands", Brockville is located on the north shore 
of the Saint Lawrence River opposite Morristown, New York, about halfway 
between Ontario's Cornwall to the east and Kingston to the west. It is 
roughly a 50-minute drive south of the national capital of Ottawa. It is 
one of Ontario's oldest European-Canadian communities and is named after 
the British general Sir Isaac Brock. Indigenous peoples lived along both 
sides of the St. Lawrence River for thousands of years. The first people 
known to have encountered the Europeans in the area were the St. Lawrence 
Iroquoians, a group distinct from and preceding the Iroquois nations of 
the Haudenosaunee, based further to the south. While the explorer Cartier 
recorded about 200 words in their Laurentian language and the names of 
two villages, the people had disappeared from the area by the late 16th 
century. Anthropologists believe they may have been driven out or defeated 
by the powerful Mohawk people of the Iroquois Confederacy (Haudenosaunee), 
who by then reserved the St. Lawrence Valley as a hunting ground. This 
area of Ontario was first settled by English speakers in 1785, when thousands 
of American refugees arrived from the American colonies after the American 
Revolutionary War. They were later called United Empire Loyalists because 
of their continued allegiance to King George III. The struggle between 
Britain and the 13 American colonies occurred in the years 1776 to 1783, 
and seriously divided loyalties among people in some colonies such as New 
York and Vermont. In many areas traders and merchants, especially in the 
coastal cities or the northern border regions, had stronger business ties 
and allegiance to the Crown than did the frontiersmen of the interior. 
During the 6-year war, which ended with the capitulation of the British 
in 1782, many colonists who remained loyal to the crown were frequently 
subject to harsh reprisals and unfair dispossession of their property by 
their countrymen. Many Loyalists chose to flee north to the British colony 
of Quebec. Great Britain opened the western region of Canada (known as 
Upper Canada and now Ontario), purchasing land from First Nations to allocate 
to the mostly English-speaking Loyalists in compensation for their losses, 
and helping them with some supplies as they founded new settlements. The 
first years were very harsh as they struggled on the frontier. Some exiles 
returned to the United States. The St. Lawrence River was named by French 
explorers in the 18th century to honour the martyred Roman Christian, Saint 
Laurentis. In 1785 the first U.E. Loyalist to take up land in Brockville 
was William Buell Sr. (1751–1832), an ensign disbanded from the King's 
Rangers, from the state of New York. Residents commonly called the first 
settlement "Buell's Bay." Around 1810 government officials of Upper Canada 
designated the village as Elizabethtown. About 1812 leading residents of 
the village suggested that the village be renamed to differentiate it from 
the township of Elizabethtown. The commanding British General in Upper 
Canada and temporary administrator of the province was Major-General Isaac 
Brock. He was celebrated as the "Hero and Saviour" of Upper Canada because 
of his recent success in securing the surrender by Americans of Fort Detroit 
during the War of 1812. Perhaps to curry favour with Gen. Brock, certain 
leading citizens of the village, including Charles Jones, proposed the 
name of Brockville. They began using this name in their correspondence 
and dealings with Isaac Brock. Gen. Brock was soon involved in other battles 
on the Niagara Peninsula. On October 13, 1812, he was fatally wounded while 
leading troops up the heights near the village of Queenston, then held 
by American militia. A raid on Elizabethtown occurred on February 7, 1813, 
when Benjamin Forsyth and 200 of his American forces crossed the frozen 
St. Lawrence River to occupy the settlement and seize military and public 
stores, free American prisoners, and capture British military prisoners.[4] 
General Brock had learned of the honour being offered by the residents 
of Elizabethtown, but had no chance to give it his official blessing before 
his death. Provincial officials accepted the new name, which was soon commonly 
used by residents and visitors. In 1830 the population of Brockville exceeded 
the 1000 mark. This entitled it to be represented by its own elected member 
in the House of Assembly. Henry Jones, the village postmaster, was elected 
in October 1830 to the 11th Parliament of the Province. Brockville became 
Ontario's first incorporated self-governing town on January 28, 1832, two 
years before the town of Toronto. By means of the Brockville Police Act 
passed by the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada, Brockville was granted 
the right to govern its own affairs, pass laws, and raise taxes. The first 
elections for the new Board of Police were held on April 2, 1832 to elect 
four members to the Board. These four in turn chose a fifth member, Daniel 
Jones, who became the first Police Board president or Mayor of Brockville. 
In March 1836 he became the first native Upper Canadian to receive a knighthood 
for services to the Crown; he was known as "Sir Daniel Jones". In the 19th 
century the town developed as a local centre of industry, including shipbuilding, 
saddleries, tanneries, tinsmiths, a foundry, a brewery, and several hotels. 
By 1854, a patent medicine industry had sprung up in Brockville and in 
Morristown, New York, across the St. Lawrence River, featuring such products 
as "Dr Morse's Indian Root Pills", "Dr. McKenzie's Worm Tablets," and later, 
"Dr. Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People". In 1855, Brockville was chosen 
as a divisional point of the new Grand Trunk Railway between Montreal and 
Toronto. This contributed to its growth, as it could offer jobs in railway 
maintenance and related fields. At the same time, the north–south line 
of the Brockville and Ottawa Railway was built to join the timber trade 
of the Ottawa Valley with the St. Lawrence River ship route. A well-engineered 
tunnel for this railway was dug and blasted underneath the middle of Brockville. 
The Brockville Tunnel was the first railway tunnel in Canada. Brockville 
and many other towns in Canada West were targets of the threatened Fenian 
invasion after the American Civil War ended in 1865. In June 1866 the Irish-American 
"Brotherhood of Fenians" invaded Canada. They launched raids across the 
Niagara River into Canada West (Ontario) and from Vermont into Canada East 
(Quebec). Canadian Prime Minister Sir John A. Macdonald called on the volunteer 
militia companies in every town to protect Canada. The Brockville Infantry 
Company and the Brockville Rifle Company (now The Brockville Rifles) were 
mobilized. The unsuccessful Fenian Raids were a catalyst that contributed 
to the creation of the new confederated Dominion of Canada in 1867. By 
1869, Brockville had a population of 5000 and a station on the Grand Trunk 
Railway. It was the County Town of the United Counties of Leeds and Grenville 
and a Port of Entry. Steamboats stopped in Brockville daily while plying 
among Montreal, Kingston, Toronto and Hamilton. The Brockville and Ottawa 
Railway connected Brockville with Smith's Falls, Perth, Almonte, Carleton 
Place and Sandy Point. During the summer, a steam ferry plied every half-hour 
between Brockville and Morristown, New York.[5] In 1962 Brockville was 
granted official status as a city. Its coat of arms featured a beehive 
surrounded by a golden chain and bears the motto Industria, Intelligentia, 
Prosperitas. This is an official heraldic design. Brockville is one of 
the few Canadian cities to have a recognized heraldic flag. --> Brockville 
experiences a Humid continental climate (Dfb). The highest temperature 
ever recorded in Brockville was 103 °F (39.4 °C) on 31 July 1917 and 4 
June 1919.[6] The coldest temperature ever recorded was −37 °F (−38.3 °C) 
on 4 February 1886 and 28 January 1925.[6] Brockville is midway between 
Toronto and Montreal (330 kilometres (210 mi) northeast of Toronto and 
210 kilometres (130 mi) southwest of Montreal) and less than one hour from 
Ottawa. Highway 401 runs through Brockville, with exits at Leeds & Grenville 
County Road 29 and North Augusta Road. There are several daily Via Rail 
connections to Montreal, Toronto and Ottawa along the Corridor. The town 
has a municipal airport (Brockville Regional Tackaberry Airport) in the 
neighbouring Elizabethtown-Kitley Township. The Ottawa Macdonald-Cartier 
International Airport is approximately 100 km away. The Thousand Islands 
Bridge and the Ogdensburg–Prescott International Bridge, both of which 
cross the St. Lawrence River into New York, are located 35 kilometres (22 mi) 
south-west and 25 kilometres (16 mi) north-east from Brockville, respectively. 
Brockville Transit is the city-operated public transit system which covers 
the urban area, providing three regular scheduled bus routes and paratransit 
services, from Monday to Saturday. Brockville has high band/high speed 
telecommunication capability provided by both Bell Canada and AT&T fibre 
lines. Citywide Wi-Fi is also available by various retail outlets, including 
Starbucks and McDonalds (Bell Wi-Fi). Brockville is home to several large 
industrial manufacturers. 3M operates two factories in Brockville, manufacturing 
tape and occupational health and safety products. Procter & Gamble manufactures 
dryer sheets and cleaning products, employing 600. Other industries include 
ceiling fan manufacturer Canarm, pharmaceutical manufacturer Trillium Canada, 
and the oil-blending plant of Shell Canada. Canadian retailer Giant Tiger 
has also opened a distribution centre for frozen food in Brockville. Abbott 
Laboratories previously operated a manufacturing plant in Brockville, making 
infant formula and adult nutritionals for the domestic and overseas markets, 
but it closed in 2012, resulting in a loss of 150 jobs.[8] Many area residents 
are employed at the Invista Canada facility (formerly DuPont Canada Ltd.) 
located in Maitland, just east of Brockville. Transcom WorldWide (formerly 
NuComm International) also operates a large call centre employing roughly 
200 people. Brockville is also the main administrative, health-care and 
commercial centre for Leeds—Grenville county. Major public-sector employers 
include the Upper Canada District School Board, which has its headquarters 
in Brockville; and the Brockville Mental Health Centre, locally referred 
to as the "psych", short for Psychiatric Hospital. The community is dominated 
by the St. Lawrence River and is known as The City of the Thousand Islands. 
The city has revitalized its downtown area, enhancing a waterfront open 
to the public with parks and walking trails, and numerous shopping locations 
are found throughout the city. The city's architecture consists of many 
stately mansions and elaborate fountains, carefully preserved as reminders 
of Canadian history. The historic Fulford Place house museum is located 
in the east end of Brockville at 287 King St. E. This was the palatial 
home of Senator George Taylor Fulford, whose success in marketing "Dr. 
Williams' Pink Pills for Pale People" around the world made him one of 
the area's richest industrialists before his death in 1905. The house owned 
and operated by the Ontario Heritage Trust is open for public tours on 
a seasonal schedule. The Brockville Museum, situated in the historic downtown 
core, features exhibits and artifacts related to Brockville's rich Loyalist 
history and the city's development as a waterfront community.[19] The Maritime 
Discovery Centre, a $12-million dollar (estimated) tourism and waterfront 
education attraction, has been approved by the city. It will be part of 
developer Simon Fuller's $60-million Tall Ships Landing condominium project 
located on Broad Street. St. Lawrence River tour boats offers scenic trips 
on the river. The Brockville area is the launching point for some of the 
best fresh-water wreck diving in the world. Numerous sunken ships have 
been discovered below the waters of the St. Lawrence, and a number of dive 
operators with fully equipped boats are ready to take divers to these sites.(Since 
the early 1990s underwater visibility had increased, due to effects of 
the invasive species zebra mussels.)[20] Brockville has been awarded one 
of Canada's safest communities by the World Health Organization.[21] Brockville 
also offers excellent boating resources, with a large, deep-water municipal 
marina, a yacht club and several commercial marinas. Just upstream on the 
mighty St. Lawrence River is the Brockville Islands group, which contain 
some city island parks, and an island park belonging to the St. Lawrence 
Islands National Park system. Brockville is at the downstream end of the 
world-famous Thousand Islands, which extend as far as Kingston, Ontario 
(at the mouth of the St. Lawrence River at Lake Ontario), 80 km away. The 
next closest commercial boating facilities are each about a half-day boat-trip 
away (at displacement speeds), downstream at Prescott, Ontario and upstream 
at Rockport, Ontario. So, many boaters come to Brockville during their 
boating vacations, to re-fuel, have repairs done, and re-provision, before 
casting off again for home. The city has several music, art and dance organizations, 
such as Brockville Artists Studio Association, Brockville Community Choir, 
Brockville Concert Association, Brockville Musicians' Association, Brockville 
Operatic Society, City of Brockville Pipe Band, and the Thousand Islanders 
Chorus. The Brockville Concert Band arises from a long tradition of community 
and military bands in Brockville. Civic bands provided entertainment at 
public venues such as community picnics and outdoor skating rinks. The 
Brockville Rifles Reserve Band entertained "on the green" in the 1930s 
and 40s. Military band members returning from the Second World War formed 
the Brockville Civic Band. Re-organized as the Brockville Concert Band 
in 1974, it inherited a musical tradition (and sheet music) from civic 
and military bands dating back to the turn of the 20th century. The Brockville 
Concert Band plays a series of summer concerts every second Tuesday in 
Hardy Park in Brockville within view of the St. Lawrence River. The band 
also plays for various civic functions and entertains at charitable fundraising 
events. Since 1995, the band's musical director and conductor has been 
trumpeter and music teacher Lance Besharah. St. Lawrence College in Brockville 
is home to the Music Theatre - Performance Program which trains students 
to enter the professional world of musical theatre. SLC Stage produces 
three professional-quality musicals each season at the Brockville Arts 
Centre. The Brockville Arts Centre is a 710-seat, newly refurbished theatre 
venue with a full season of entertainment offerings.[22] Several festivals 
occur each year. Riverfest, a four-day entertainment event, was an annual 
attraction until 2011.[23] The city's main daily newspaper is The Recorder 
& Times. There is a free weekly newspaper, St Lawrence EMC. A new free 
monthly newspaper called Snap Brockville is now being distributed free 
to residents of Brockville. Several local clubs, organizations and high 
schools have achieved success on provincial, national, and international 
levels, such as the Brockville Rowing Club,[24] one of the oldest and most 
successful rowing clubs in Canada. The Rowing Club has captured the Royal 
Canadian Henley Championships several times. The club has also sent crews 
to London, England where they have won several Henley Women's Regatta titles. 
This success often comes by competition against clubs from much larger 
Canadian centers such as Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver. Close to 50 
Brockville Area Youth are offered an opportunity to participate in a national 
level rowing program annually. The club has also sent athletes to cities 
across Europe and Asia to compete at international regattas as part of 
the Canadian National Team. Thousand Islands Secondary School is home to 
a strong high school track & field and cross-country running program. The 
Pirates have captured numerous Canadian championships and have won 5 straight 
overall provincial (OFSAA) Ontario championships in track & field and cross 
country running in an association of over 1000 schools since 2004. With 
over 15 former students currently on NCAA athletic track & field scholarships 
in the United States, TISS has been awarded over $1,000,000 in student 
athletic scholarships. The TISS team travels all over North America including 
Ohio, Florida, New Hampshire, and British Columbia, consistently winning 
major international championships. The accomplishments of the school have 
inspired the community to construct a $1.5 million athletic centre at the 
school. The Brockville Braves are a Tier I Junior "A" ice hockey team from 
Brockville, Ontario, Canada. They are a part of the Central Junior A Hockey 
League. Founded in 1963, the Braves are the second oldest team that has 
never ceased operation in CJHL history—second only to Pembroke. In the 
1979, the teams was the focus of national attention when they were left 
homeless due to their arena collapsing. This did not stop the Braves though, 
playing their home games out of Cardinal and Rockland, Ontario, the Braves 
did not miss a beat. It took until 1986 for the Brockville Braves to win 
a CJHL championships. They clinched the Bogart Cup on a late April night, 
defeating their nemesis Pembroke Lumber Kings 8-7 in the finals. Braves' 
goalie Jacques Breault was the hero, as with 22 seconds to go in the game, 
turned away a penalty shot by the league's all-time leading scorers Luc 
Chabot. Although losing to Orillia, Ontario in the Ontario playdowns, the 
team was a memorable one. Notable members of this team were all-time Braves 
leading scorer Larry Mitchell, Breault, Paul Duford, Tim Dubas, Dan Nummikoski, 
Steve Rachwal, Chad Badawey and Rob White. Since that championship, the 
team has experienced more bad times than good. The late 80's and early 
90's were not good to the Braves, who failed to make the playoffs multiple 
times. In 1997, times began to change for the better again. The Braves 
were given the duty of hosting the Fred Page Cup, the Eastern Canadian 
Junior "A" championship. This allowed for their team to compete in the 
event and give them the experience they needed for the next season. The 
Braves regained their league title in 1998, bringing the club around full 
circle. The team will host the 2010 Fred Page Cup. 3 star graduates Bryan 
Murray (Barry's Bay, Ontario) Mike Daoust (Brockville, Ontario) and Guy 
Come (Iroquois Falls, Ontario)of the Brockville Braves won the 2001 NCAA 
National Championship with the Plattsburgh Cardinals vs the RIT Tigers. 
Brockville Bunnies Youth Baseball Program is also an elite level program 
that operates out of this small city, with provincial championships and 
several pro and Olympic graduates. The Brockville youth basketball teams, 
the Brockville Blues and the Brockville Blazers, provide basketball coaching 
and training for boys and girls across the area. The Blues and Blazers 
have repeatedly placed in the Ontario Baseball Association (OBA) championships. 
A female basketball player, Stacey Dales (a graduate of Thousand Islands 
Secondary School), has gone on to play for the University of Oklahoma Sooners, 
coming in a close second for the NCAA title in her graduating year. She 
also has the highest Canadian woman's draft pick for the WNBA, where she 
has played for the Washington Mystics and Chicago Sky. She currently works 
for ESPN. Upper Canada Swim Club is another local youth organization that 
operate at a high level of competition. There are several golf courses 
in the Brockville area for a variety of skill levels. Sunnidel Golf is 
a par three course designed for an easy going round. The Brockville Highlands 
is a full length 18 hole course. The course has a small membership and 
is open to patrons willing to pay green fees. The Brockville Country Club 
poses greater difficulty to the average golfer. The membership comprises 
an older demographic and is semi-private. The course is open to green fees 
however certain playing restrictions are imposed. The Brockville Ontario 
Speedway (The BOS) is a clay oval track located just north of the city 
on Highway 29 in Forthton. The track races every Saturday night from May 
to September. Classes that race every week include Rookies, Street Stock, 
Sportsman, Modified and Vintage. The Brockville Privateers R.F.C. was formed 
in 1993, reestablishing a local rugby club in the area. Rugby has been 
played in Brockville area as far back as 1899. The original Brockville 
Rugby Football Club eventually became part of Brockville Collegiate Institute 
(BCI). Brockville Rugby now includes multiple men's and women's teams along 
with a strong junior age grade program. Brockville is associated with one 
college campus, four high schools, and several elementary schools. St. 
Lawrence College (Brockville Campus) has an enrolment of around 800. St. 
Lawrence College was recently ranked number one in Ontario for graduate 
employment rate.[25] Thousand Islands Secondary School has an enrolment 
of approximately 1000 and is both a university and college preparatory 
school with strong technology facilities. It is also known for its athletics 
programs including: track and field, women's basketball, men's soccer, 
and cross country running. St. Mary Catholic High School is the English 
Catholic school and has around 600 students. Brockville Collegiate Institute 
has an enrolment of approximately 560 and has strong theatre, rowing, and 
football programs. Académie catholique Ange-Gabriel is a French Catholic 
school (Grades JK-12) and has an enrolment of approximately 282 students.[26] 
Fulford Academy is a private boarding school for international students 
grades 7-10.[27] Public elementary schools in the city include: Commonwealth 
Public School, Prince of Wales Public School, Westminster Public School, 
Toniata Public School, and Vanier Public School. The Catholic English elementary 
schools are: St. Francis Xavier, St. John Bosco and James L. Jordan. Académie 
Catholique Ange-Gabriel is a French language Catholic school serving JK 
- Grade 12.[26] Heritage Community Christian School located 20 minutes 
from downtown Brockville is a privately funded Christian school offering 
