The Bronx River Parkway (sometimes abbreviated as the Bronx Parkway) is 
a 19.12-mile (30.77 km) long parkway in downstate New York in the United 
States. It is named for the nearby Bronx River, which it parallels. The 
southern terminus of the parkway is at Story Avenue near Bruckner Expressway 
in the Bronx neighborhood of Soundview. The northern terminus is at the 
Kensico Circle in North Castle, Westchester County, where the parkway connects 
to the Taconic State Parkway and, via a short connector, New York State 
Route 22 (NY 22). Within the Bronx, the parkway is maintained by the New 
York State Department of Transportation and is designated New York State 
Route 907H (NY 907H), an unsigned reference route. In Westchester County, 
the parkway is maintained by the Westchester County Department of Public 
Works and is designated unsigned County Route 9987 (CR 9987). Most of the 
exits on the parkway, including the traffic light-controlled intersections 
in Westchester County, have interchange numbers. The term "Bronx River 
Parkway" originally referred to the Bronx River Reservation, New York's 
first linear park, of which the road is a portion, from the Bronx–Westchester 
county line to Kensico Dam Plaza. Current usage of the term is confined 
to the roadway, but extends it to the portion which now continues southward 
beyond the Reservation.[3] The southern third of the parkway, in the Bronx, 
is exclusively limited-access. It serves as a commuter route, intersecting 
several major east-west routes. Halfway through the borough it begins to 
closely parallel the Harlem Line of Metro-North Railroad, a pairing which 
continues to the road's northern terminus. In Westchester County, the road 
continues to have the same character until the Sprain Brook Parkway splits 
off at Bronxville, allowing most through traffic to bypass White Plains. 
The stretches north of that junction have more of the original park character, 
and are still used that way. North of White Plains the exits take the form 
of at-grade intersections with traffic lights. The parkway begins at Story 
Avenue in the Bronx neighborhood of Soundview, where two roadways merge 
near Metcalf and Morrison Avenues. Immediately to the north is the cloverleaf 
interchange at the Bruckner Expressway (Interstate 278 or I-278), where 
most traffic enters the parkway.[4] Basketball courts and baseball fields 
flank the highway in the strip of parkland as the road leads to the north, 
slightly northwestward. North of Watson Avenue, within a half-mile (1 km) 
of the southern terminus, an on-ramp carries northbound traffic from Metcalf. 
The corresponding offramp for southbound traffic merges onto Harrod Avenue 
north of Westchester Avenue.[5] Now in West Farms, another onramp joins 
the southbound lanes from East 174th Street. North of it is exit 4, the 
interchange with the Cross Bronx Expressway (I-95). The single ramp of 
exit 5 allows southbound traffic to follow East 177th Street to the northern 
terminus of the Sheridan Expressway (I-895) and the Triborough Bridge.[5] 
North of the interchange the road veers to the northeast slightly and crosses 
the railroad tracks of Amtrak's Northeast Corridor line.[6] At East 180th 
Street, the linear park ends temporarily. The road becomes elevated to 
cross the East 180th Street Yard along the former IRT White Plains Road 
Line, which carries the 2 and 5 subways.[7] After crossing the yard, wooded 
surroundings resume as the parkway follows the eastern edge of the Bronx 
Zoo in the Bronx Park neighborhood and the Bronx River, which gives the 
road its name, begins to follow it on the west.[8] On the northbound side, 
as it enters the park, is an unnumbered exit allowing authorized vehicles 
(like those of people working at the NYC Parks Department) access to local 
streets via Birchall Avenue.[9] A quarter-mile to the north is the main 
exit for the zoo at Boston Road, with access to Boston Road (U.S. Route 1 
or US 1 northbound) for northbound traffic, then the full cloverleaf at 
Pelham Parkway, where traffic can join US 1 southbound on Fordham Road. 
Past the exit the large wooded area on the west is the New York Botanical 
Garden,[8] a National Historic Landmark (NHL).[10] One half-mile (1 km) 
further north, exit 8 allows access to the Mosholu Parkway and Allerton 
Avenue.[11] At the next exit, Gun Hill Road, the Williamsbridge station 
serving that neighborhood on Metro-North Railroad's Harlem Line, which 
closely parallels the parkway from this point on, is located immediately 
west of the highway.[12] The railroad tracks join the river and the parkland 
in paralleling the road north as it continues straight along the east edge 
of Woodlawn Cemetery,[13] another NHL.[14] Almost a mile and a half (2.4 km) 
to the north, the Woodlawn station is located at the northeast corner of 
the cemetery next to the East 233rd Street exit.[15] The highway bends 
left and then right again, crossing the river and the railroad, near the 
split along the tracks between the Harlem and New Haven lines immediately 
north of the station. After the curves, the Bronx River Parkway crosses 
the county line into Westchester County at the McLean Avenue/Nereid Avenue 
overpass and leaves the Bronx.[16] Once across the county line the parkway 
is in Yonkers, close to its boundary with Mount Vernon.[17] A southbound 
exit, 10C, serves Bronx River Road at Wakefield Avenue near that train 
station a quarter-mile (500 m) north of the county line, even though the 
station is in the Bronx and the Harlem Line enters Westchester north of 
it.[18] Northound traffic has 10A, for Mount Vernon Avenue and Yonkers 
Avenue at the Mount Vernon West station three-quarters of a mile (1.21 km) 
to the north.[19] Another southbound exit, 10B, serves Bronx River Road 
just to the north at its Mile Square Road and Winfred Avenue intersections.[4] 
The park widens around the highway as it bends slightly, heading even more 
to the northeast. Just past this is exit 11, the Cross County Parkway, 
where the road swings toward the east to allow space for the complex of 
onramps that also allow access to Broad Street and the Fleetwood station.[20] 
A half-mile north of that junction, the parkland and the roadway narrow 
as Bronxville becomes the community on the opposite side of the Bronx River.[21] 
The road then turns sharply to the northwest, away from the Harlem Line. 
Vehicles continuing are now on the Sprain Brook Parkway, for which this 
is the southern terminus; traffic for the BRP must exit. The exit numbers 
reset; the new exit 1, Paxton Avenue in Bronxville, is on the northbound 
lanes just north of the split (exit 1A allows southbound traffic to leave 
the parkway for Desmond Avenue just before merging). Exit 2, West Pondfield 
Road, also northbound-only, is a thousand feet (300 m) to the north as 
the highway curves around downtown Bronxville to the east. Here, the road 
runs though the Armour Villa neighborhood until it runs under the Tuckahoe 
Road bridge. Almost a mile (1.6 km) separates it from the next exit, at 
Elm Street in Tuckahoe. The park continues to parallel the parkway, with 
paved bike paths and a large pond. A thousand feet to the north, Scarsdale 
Road is the first at-grade interchange, and the parkway then turns sharply 
to the east, then back to the northeast more gradually. Exit 8, Thompson 
Street, serves the nearby Crestwood station as the Harlem Line's tracks 
begin to parallel the road again. Another three-quarter mile north, after 
the road has resumed its northeast course, comes the next at-grade exit, 
Leewood Drive, on the northbound side. A quarter-mile (500 m) to the north 
are abandoned parking lots on both sides that were once gas stations. One-tenth 
of a mile (150 m) to the north, the roadways diverge and the river runs 
between them. Just beyond this is another at-grade interchange, Strathmore 
and Harney roads. The roadways remain apart through a wooded section as 
they curve westward for the next three-quarter mile, returning to the highway's 
northeastern heading as it leaves Yonkers and briefly enters Greenburgh 
south of the southbound Ardsley Road exit east of downtown Scarsdale. Just 
after it curves eastward again and crosses the Harlem Line, entering Scarsdale, 
northbound traffic can enter and exit at Crane Road and East Parkway. In 
the next 2.2-mile (3.5 km) stretch, there are exits for Ogden and Butler 
roads from the northbound lanes. Fenimore Road, just east of the Hartsdale 
and its train station, is a northbound exit with southbound entry. Just 
to its north, southbound traffic can exit onto Greenacres Avenue. The parkway 
begins heading even more to the northeast, the tracks immediately adjacent, 
past northbound exits for River and Claremont roads. Just north of the 
latter exit, the highway enters White Plains, the Westchester county seat. 
After the northbound Walworth crossing exit, it turns northwest across 
the river and the tracks and then resumes its northeasterly course. A half-mile 
(1 km) north it reaches the Main Street (NY 119) northbound exit/southbound 
entrance, just west of the White Plains station on the west side of heavily 
developed downtown White Plains. It bends north and then northwest to the 
first of several at-grade intersections with traffic lights, also signed 
and numbered as exits, with Central Avenue (NY 100), at the Westchester 
County Center. From here parkway traffic is also directed toward the nearby 
Cross-Westchester Expressway (I-287) via NY 119, as the parkway has no 
direct interchange with it. The two roadways once again diverge, becoming 
almost 400 feet (120 m) apart in the half-mile (1 km) before they converge 
again as they reach the Old Tarrytown Road intersection just north of the 
expressway. Beyond it the parkway goes due north before curving slightly 
into the Fisher Lane intersection just west of the last Metro-North station 
along the parkway, North White Plains. The Maryton and Virginia Road intersections 
follow, spaced roughly a thousand feet (300 m) apart. Another thousand 
feet from that intersection, the highway turns to the northeast again as 
the roadways diverge and cross the Harlem Line and the Bronx River for 
the last time. Northbound traffic has the last exit, exit 27, onto Washington 
Avenue. Kensico Dam is visible in the distance as the parkway reaches its 
northern terminus at Kensico Circle, southern terminus of the Taconic State 
Parkway, also listed on the Register. A seven-mile (11 km) section of the 
Bronx River Parkway in Westchester County south of White Plains is closed 
to motorist traffic from 10 AM to 2 PM select Sundays in May, June and 
September (with the exception of Memorial and Labor Day weekends), allowing 
bicyclists to venture along the scenic road. Another section north of the 
one reserved for bicyclists is reserved for inline skating.[22] Construction 
began in Westchester County in 1907, making it the earliest limited-access 
automobile highway to start construction.[23] However, although construction 
on the Long Island Motor Parkway began a year later, a section of the Long 
Island road opened for traffic before the end of 1908, opening before the 
Bronx River as the first limited access automobile highway to be put into 
use.[24] Neither was up to modern freeway standards, utilizing left turns 
across the opposing direction at access points.[24][25] The Bronx River 
Parkway was the first highway to utilize a median strip to separate the 
opposing lanes, the first highway constructed through a park, and the first 
highway where intersecting streets crossed over bridges.[26][27] The Westchester 
section of the Bronx River Parkway first opened to traffic in 1922 and 
was completed in 1925.[28][29] A new roadway in the New York City borough 
of the Bronx including an extension south of the former Botanical Gardens/Burke 
Avenue terminus opened in 1951.[30] That extension diverges eastward from 
the river. From 1953 to 1955, a 2.6-mile (4.2 km) segment of the parkway 
between Bronxville and the Bronx was closed to straighten and widen the 
road. During this reconstruction period, a new overpass was also built 
for the Cross County Parkway.[31][32][33] During the 1960s and since then 
an entrance and exit on the northbound side between current exits 5 and 6 
in the Bronx, and an associated U-turn from southbound to northbound, formerly 
open to general traffic, were reserved for official use by police and the 
Parks Dept. which maintains an office there. This was around the time other 
U-turns were being eliminated from various parkways in New York City. A 
gas station in the wide median between Bronx exits 7 and 8, north of the 
pedestrian overpass to the Botanical Garden, was closed due to fire in 
the early 1980s and has since been razed and the median relandscaped.[34] 
Of a pair of former gas stations on the outer margins of the roadway in 
Westchester near Crestwood, the southbound one is currently being used 
as a Westchester County Police Sub-Station, and the northbound used only 
as a tourist information stand.[35] The interchange with the Cross County 
Parkway did not provide direct access to and from both directions of the 
latter until extra ramps and an extra overpass were provided beginning 
in the 1970s. The original interchange is now exit 11W. In 2009 the northbound 
exit ramp to Oak St., Yonkers was replaced by an exit to Yonkers Ave., 
a block to the south. The Bronx River Parkway originally went beyond its 
northern terminus at Kensico Circle to NY Route 22 northbound. Today, the 
most obvious route through the circle leads motorists directly to and from 
the Taconic State Parkway, and the way to NY 22 northbound is considered 
to be a little spur off the circle. This spur from the Kensico Circle to 
NY 22 is unsigned CR 68. Prior to heightened security measures enacted 
post-September 11 motorists could take the road that leads towards NY 22 
and then drive across the top of the Kensico Dam and eventually re-connect 
with the Taconic State Parkway.[36] An extension from the southern terminus 
in the Bronx into Soundview Park was proposed until the 1970s. The southernmost 
portion of the parkway in Westchester, south of the Sprain, is internally 
designated as NY 907G, an unsigned reference route,[37] in apparent violation 
of the numbering standard. Ordinarily, the second digit should be the region. 
New York City and Long Island, regions 10 and 11, share 0; Westchester 
is region 8 (the Hutchinson River Parkway also shares this oddity). The 
section south of here is marked only with reference markers, and the section 
north only with county mileposts. This middle section has county mileposts 
in the middle, and reference markers with state mileposts (counting from 
the southern terminus in the Bronx, not the city line) alongside. However, 
Reference Route 907G is no longer listed in the NYSDOT traffic counts[1] 
and the entirety of the parkway in the county is considered a county route 
by Westchester County.[38] The parkway was documented by the Historic American 
Engineering Record in 2001. Drawings and photographs from the documentation 
project were made available through the Westchester County Archives, winning 
an award of excellence from the Lower Hudson Conference.[39] Route map: 
