The Brooklyn Dodgers were a football team that played one season in the 
minor Continental Football League in 1966. They were not related to the 
former National Football League or All-America Football Conference clubs 
of that name. The franchise was originally known as the Providence Indians 
(aka Rhode Island Indians), a newly-formed team in the Continental League's 
first season in 1965. The ContFL's other nine squads were taken from the 
Atlantic Coast Football League and the defunct United Football League; 
the Indians replaced an incarnation of the Providence Steam Roller that 
had played in the ACFL from 1962 to 1964. After a disastrous 3-11 season 
played before tiny crowds, the franchise was shifted to Brooklyn and renamed 
after the famous baseball team. (There was precedent for this: there was 
a Brooklyn Dodgers team in the NFL from 1930–43 and another club of that 
name in the All-America Football Conference (AAFC) from 1946–48; still, 
the Los Angeles Dodgers were not amused, suing the new Dodgers for copyright 
infringement for using their former name.) Although a completely different 
organization from the baseball Dodgers, the football Dodgers did hire hardball 
legend Jackie Robinson as their general manager, featuring him in their 
promotional materials.[1] Robinson, who briefly played professional football 
in the old Pacific Coast League in the 1940s, was actually hired as a figurehead 
with little say over the day-to-day actions of the team; his role was mostly 
limited to public appearances, such as attending "Jackie Robinson Day" 
when the Dodgers played in Montreal, where he had played for the minor-league 
Montreal Royals in 1946. Andy Robustelli was the Dodgers' head coach, while 
Tom Kennedy, who also played with the club when it was in Providence in 
1965, was the starting quarterback. After Kennedy led the Continental in 
passing (191-for-316, 2559 yards and 18 TDs), he was signed by the New 
York Giants;[2] afterwards, ex-TCU star Sonny Gibbs took over behind center.[3] 
Actually finding a place to play in Brooklyn proved to be a challenge, 
as Ebbets Field had been demolished in 1960. An attempt to use Shea Stadium 
also failed, as the NFL New York Jets were not interested in sharing the 
facility; the Dodgers then brought suit to abrogate the Jets' "exclusive 
rights" to play at Shea. Finally, the club inked a deal to play their home 
games at Downing Stadium on Randall's Island—quite a distance from Brooklyn. 
(Ironically, the football Dodgers wound up playing under the Ebbets Fields 
lights anyway; they had been moved to Downing after the older stadium was 
torn down.) Even at Downing, the Dodgers apparently had trouble securing 
dates; a season-ticket application showed only five home games[4] in a 
fourteen-game schedule. In any event, small crowds (only 30,702 combined 
for four games, including 12,000 for an exhibition contest) caused the 
franchise to become a league-operated "road club" in October; one home 
game against Hartford was moved to Connecticut, and their final "home" 
contest was shifted to Memorial Stadium in Mount Vernon, New York.[5] The 
football Dodgers finished with a 5-9 record, last place in the five-team 
Eastern Division. Flanker Bob Reed and defensive tackle Dick Herzig earned 
all-league honours.[6] Several ContFL teams established farm team relationships 
with semi-pro clubs in 1966; the Dodgers affiliated with the Liberty Football 
Conference's Long Island Jets.[7] The remnants of the football Dodgers 
were sold to Frank Hurn, who moved the team to Akron, Ohio as the Akron 
Vulcans. Hurn used Chicago Outfit funding to buy the team and swindled 
numerous businessmen into providing lavish benefits for his team for which 
he would never pay. Under Hurn, the team lost $100,000 after just three 
weeks of play, forcing his big-budget head coaches, Doak Walker and Lou 
Rymkus, to front their own money to keep the team afloat; Hurn never paid 
the players for their services, and the Wheeling Ironmen ended up paying 
the Vulcans' salaries for what would be the Vulcans' fourth and final game 
in order to avoid a strike. Hurn would later amass a long track record 
