Brooklyn Technical High School, commonly referred to as Brooklyn Tech, 
and administratively designated as High School 430, is a New York City 
public high school that specializes in science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics. It is one of three original specialized high schools operated 
by the New York City Department of Education, the other two being Stuyvesant 
High School and Bronx High School of Science. Brooklyn Tech is considered 
one of the most prestigious and selective high schools in the United States.[4][5] 
Admission to Brooklyn Tech is highly competitive, with an acceptance rate 
around 8%. Brooklyn Tech is noted for the large number of its graduates 
attending prestigious universities, such as the Ivy League universities, 
MIT, NYU, Johns Hopkins University, Caltech and Stanford University among 
others, for undergraduate or graduate studies. Brooklyn Tech counts top 
scientists, inventors, innovators, CEOs and founders of Fortune 500 companies, 
high-ranking diplomats, scholars in academia, literary and media figures, 
professional athletes, National Medal recipients, Nobel laureates, and 
Olympic medalists among its alumni. Admission to Brooklyn Tech is based 
exclusively on an entrance examination, known as the Specialized High Schools 
Admissions Test (SHSAT), open to all eighth and ninth grade New York City 
students. The test covers math (word problems and computation) and verbal 
(reading comprehension, logical reasoning, unscrambling paragraphs) skills. 
Out of the approximately 30,000 students taking the entrance examination 
for the September 2011 admission round, (with 23,085 students listing Brooklyn 
Tech as a choice on their application), about 1,951 offers were made (the 
most out of any of the specialized high schools, partly due to its size), 
making for an acceptance rate of 8.5%.[6][7] In 1918, Dr. Albert L. Colston, 
chair of the Math Department at Manual Training High School, recommended 
establishing a technical high school for Brooklyn boys. His plan envisioned 
a heavy concentration of math, science, and drafting courses with parallel 
paths leading either to college or to a technical career in industry. By 
1922, Dr. Colston's concept was approved by the Board of Education, and 
Brooklyn Technical High School opened in a converted warehouse at 49 Flatbush 
Avenue Extension, with 2,400 students. This location, in the shadow of 
the Manhattan Bridge, is the reason the school seal bears that bridge's 
image, rather than the more obvious symbol for the borough, the Brooklyn 
Bridge. Brooklyn Tech would occupy one more location before settling into 
its site at 29 Fort Greene Place, for which the groundbreaking was held 
in 1930.[8] Atypical for American high schools, Brooklyn Tech uses a system 
of college-style majors. The curriculum consists of two years of general 
studies with a technical and engineering emphasis, followed by two years 
of a student-chosen major. The curriculum remained largely unchanged until 
the end of Dr. Colston's 20-year term as principal in 1942. Upon his retirement, 
Tech was led briefly by acting principal Ralph Breiling, who was succeeded 
by Principal Harold Taylor in 1944. Tech's modernization would come under 
Principal William Pabst, who assumed stewardship in 1946 after serving 
as chair of the Electrical Department. Pabst created new majors and refined 
older ones, allowing students to select science and engineering preparatory 
majors including Aeronautical, Architecture, Chemical, Civil, Electrical 
(later including Electronics and Broadcast), Industrial Design, Mechanical, 
Structural, and Arts and Sciences. A general College Preparatory curriculum, 
would be added later. Principal Pabst retired in 1964. A railroad club 
was established by the late Vincent Gorman, a social studies teacher, and 
students attended fan trips, tours of rail repair facilities and participated 
in the restoration of steam engine #103 and a historic rail passenger car 
at the former Empire State Railroad Museum. In August 1965, a ten-year-old 
boy named Carl Johnson drowned in the swimming pool at Brooklyn Tech while 
swimming with his day-camp group.[citation needed] The next year, more 
than 30 graduating Seniors in the school (including many student leaders) 
complained that Tech's curriculum was old and outdated. Their primary complaint 
was that the curriculum was geared toward the small minority of students 
who were not planning on attending college.[citation needed] In 1967 the 
schools of New York City got to view television in the classrooms for the 
first time, thanks to the station WNYE-TV, then located in the transmitter 
center on top of Brooklyn Tech. For the school year beginning in the last 
half of 1970, females began attending;[9] all three NYC specialized and 
test-required science high schools were now coeducational. In 1972, Brooklyn 
Tech, Bronx Science, Stuyvesant High School, and High School for Performing 
Arts become incorporated by the New York State Legislature as specialized 
high schools of New York City. The act called for a uniform exam to be 
administered for admission to Brooklyn Tech, Bronx Science, and Stuyvesant. 
The exam would become known as the Specialized High Schools Admissions 
Test (SHSAT) and tested students in math and English. With its statewide 
recognition, the school had to become co-educational. In 1973, Tech celebrated 
its 50th anniversary with a dinner-dance at the Waldorf Astoria. To further 
commemorate the anniversary, a monument was erected, with a time capsule 
beneath it, in the north courtyard. The monument has eight panels, each 
with a unique design representing each of Tech's eight majors at that point.[citation 
needed] In 1976, the school added the Graphic Communications major.[citation 
needed] In 1983, Matt Mandery's appointment as principal made him the first 
Tech alumnus to hold that position.[citation needed] The following year, 
Tech received the Excellence in Education award from the U.S. Department 
of Education.[citation needed] The Alumni Association was formally created 
during this time,[citation needed] and coalitions were formed with the 
New York City Department of Transportation.[citation needed] Mandery oversaw 
the addition of a Bio-Medical major to the curriculum. John Tobin followed 
as principal in 1987 and abolished the Materials Science department and 
closing the seventh-floor foundry.[citation needed] In the mid-1980s, a 
violent street gang known as the Decepticons were founded at Brooklyn Tech.[10][11] 
As well, in 2000, the city issued a special report concerning the lack 
of notification to law enforcement during a string of robberies within 
the high school, including armed robbery with knives and stun guns.[12] 
The Brooklyn Tech Cheerleading Squad appeared in the 1988 Spike Lee film 
School Daze,[13] and a video for the movie, entitled "Da Butt", was shot 
at Brooklyn Tech.[13][14] Lee also used the first floor gymnasium as a 
shooting location for Jesus Shuttlesworth's, played by Ray Allen, Sportscenter 
preview in He Got Game.[citation needed] In March 1998, an alumni group 
led by Leonard Riggio, class of 1958, announced plans for a fund-raising 
campaign to raise $10 million to support their alma mater financially through 
facilities upgrades, establishment of curriculum enhancements, faculty 
training, and a university-type endowment.[15] The endowment fundraiser, 
the first of its kind for an American public school, received front-page 
attention in The New York Times and sparked a friendly competition amongst 
the specialized high schools, with both Bronx Science and Stuyvesant announcing 
their own $10 million campaigns within weeks of the Brooklyn Tech announcement. 
In November 2005, the Brooklyn Tech Alumni Association announced the completion 
of the fundraising phase of what they had termed the Campaign for Brooklyn 
Tech.[16] In April 2008, the Brooklyn Tech Alumni Foundation launched a 
second endowment campaign.[17] Since 2001, Brooklyn Tech has undergone 
such refurbishing as the renovation of the school's William L. Mack Library 
entrance, located on the fifth-floor center section. As well, two computer 
labs were added. The school also reinstated a class devoted to the study 
of Shakespeare, which students can elect to take in their senior year. 
Dr. Lee D. McCaskill, appointed principal in 1992, served for 14 years, 
during which Tech saw the installation of more computer classrooms and 
the switch from traditional mechanical drawing by hand to teaching the 
use of computer-aided design programs. McCaskill also presided over the 
elimination of long-standing hallmark academic concentrations at Tech such 
as aerospace engineering. In 2000, the Special Commissioner of Investigation 
for the NYC School District wrote a report condemning Brooklyn Technical 
High School administrators for failing to report several armed robberies 
that took place in the bathrooms and stairwells.[18] In 2003, The New York 
Times published an investigative article that noted "longstanding tensions" 
between the faculty and Principal McCaskill, "spilled into the open in 
October, with news reports that several teachers accused him of repeatedly 
sending sexually explicit e-mail messages from his school computer to staff 
members." While the article praised him for his addition of music and sports 
programs, it mostly described the principal as autocratic, controlling 
the school "largely through fear and intimidation," and documented acts 
of personal vindictiveness toward teachers; severe censorship of the student 
newspaper and of assigned English texts, including the refusal to let the 
Pulitzer Prize-finalist novel Continental Drift by Russell Banks be used 
for a class; and of bureaucratic mismanagement.[19] A follow-up column 
in 2004 found that there was increased teacher exodus, specifically documenting 
Principal McCaskill's campaign against Alice Alcala, who described as one 
of the city's leading Shakespeare teachers. Alcala had won Brooklyn Tech 
a $10,000 grant and brought in the Royal National Theatre of Great Britain 
for student workshops, but after Alcala had done so, McCaskill repeatedly 
denied her access to the auditorium and gave her low performance rankings. 
Shortly after, Alcala left for Manhattan's Murry Bergtraum High School, 
where she brought in $1,800 in grants for Shakespeare education; meanwhile, 
at Brooklyn Tech, there was no longer any course solely devoted to Shakespeare, 
according to the column.[20] In two newspaper articles in 2005, it was 
revealed that a $10,000 grant obtained by Dr. Sylvia Weinberger in 2001 
to refurbish the obsolete radio room remained unused. New classroom computers 
were covered in plastic rather than installed because the classrooms had 
yet to be wired for them.[21][22] The Office of Special Investigations 
of the New York City Department of Education launched an investigation 
of McCaskill on February 2, 2006, concerning unpaid enrollment of New Jersey 
resident McCaskill's daughter in New York City public school, which is 
illegal for non-residents of the city. Dr. McCaskill produced a lease claiming 
that he rented an apartment in Brooklyn, but the copyright date on the 
lease was after the date the lease had been signed.[23] On February 6, 
McCaskill announced his resignation from Brooklyn Tech and agreed to pay 
$19,441 in restitution.[citation needed] After retiring from Brooklyn Tech, 
McCaskill became principal of Hillside High School in New Jersey, where 
In 2013, he resigned following accusations he spanked a female student.[24] 
On February 7, 2006, the Department of Education named Randy Asher, founding 
principal of the High School for Math, Science and Engineering (HSMSE), 
as interim acting principal.[25] Asher had previously served as Tech's 
assistant principal in mathematics from 2000–2002 before leaving to become 
founding principal of High School for Math, Science and Engineering; in 
2015, Asher was sued on the grounds that he was aware of math teacher Sean 
Shaynak's sexual harassment of students.[26] Special commissioner Richard 
J. Condon rebuked the Department of Education a week later for allowing 
McCaskill to retire, still collecting $125,282 in accrued vacation time, 
just days before the OSI completed its investigation. Condon also recommended 
that Cathy Furman McCaskill, the principal's wife, be dismissed from her 
position as a teacher at Boys and Girls High School in Brooklyn for her 
part in submitting fake leases and other fraudulent documents to indicate 
the family lived in the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn.[27][28] The next 
day, the Department of Education announced that it would fire her.[29] 
The school, built on its present site from 1930-33 at a cost of $6 million, 
is 12 stories high, and covers over half a city block. Brooklyn Technical 
High School is directly across the street from Fort Greene Park. Facilities 
at BTHS include: Tech uses a college-style system of majors, unusual for 
an American high school. As of June 2008, majors include:[34] Students 
apply for majors in sophomore year, and take ten semesters of major classes 
throughout junior and senior year. Tech also has a Bio-Chemistry major 
as part of its "Gateway to Medicine" program, to which, unlike the other 
majors, students apply to as incoming freshmen. Gateway to Medicine is 
the only 4 year major at Tech. All Advanced Placement science courses are 
taught as double periods to accommodate the large lab requirement. Brooklyn 
Tech fields 30 junior-varsity and varsity teams in the Public School Athletic 
League (PSAL). The school's historic team name has been the Engineers. 
The school colors are navy blue and white. The school's more than 100 organizations 
include the Brooklyn Tech Amateur Radio Club (club station call sign W2CXN), 
Civil Air Patrol Brooklyn Tech Cadet Squadron, chess,[36] debate, football, 
wrestling, forensics (speech), hockey, mock trial, robotics, and rowing[37] 
teams and clubs, and a news website, BTHSNews.org.[3] Tech also has an 
award-winning literary art journal, Horizons, for those who want to express 
themselves through art, poetry, photography, and prose. The Model United 
Nations provides students with a venue for discussing foreign affairs. 
Other clubs cater to a wide range of topics such as anime, the Stock Market, 
Dance Dance Revolution, ultimate Frisbee, politics, quilting, fashion, 
debate, which offers both Lincoln Douglas And Policy, table tennis and 
animal rights. The cheerleading squad is named the Enginettes. S.I.N.G. 
is an annual tradition that pits seniors against juniors against freshmen 
and sophomores in a competition to create the best student-produced play. 
In 2012, Tech students created a Junior State of America Chapter at their 
school. Additionally, Tech students put on a musical each spring. Brooklyn 
Tech has also started its own student union, to address issues on a student 
level. Tech also has a variety of community service clubs, such as Key 
Club, Red Cross Club, and BETA. Brooklyn Tech's Muslim Student Association 
has also participated in the Muslim Interscholastic Tournament as Tech 
Taqwa since 2011 and has won 3rd place in 2012. There are two step teams, 
Lady Dragons and Organized C.H.A.O.S. The school has a Coordinator of Student 
Activities (COSA). Beginning with the class of 2010, each student must 
meet the following requirements by the end of their senior year to receive 
a Brooklyn Technical High School diploma: I. A minimum of 50 hours of community 
service outside of the school or through specified club activities. II. 
A minimum of 32 service credits earned through participation in Tech clubs, 
teams, and/or participation in designated school related events. A. Service 
Credits are earned as follows: 1. 8 service credits per term to all students 
in BETA, NHS, JSA, Student Government, student productions, stageworks, 
cheerleading, and PSAL teams. 2. 6 service credits per term to all students 
participating student leadership, who work on office squads, or compete 
in non-PSAL teams. 3. 4 service credits per term to all students who participate 
in all other clubs not referred to above. 4. 2 service credits for participation 
in specified school events Brooklyn Tech is one of the most elite, prestigious 
and selective high schools in the United States.[38][39] Together with 
Stuyvesant High School and Bronx High School of Science, it is one of three 
original specialized high schools, operated by the New York City Department 
of Education, all three of which were cited by The Washington Post in 2006 
as among the best magnet schools in the United States (a category the school 
is often placed in, though its founding pre-dates the concept of "magnet 
school" and whose intended purpose was not the same).[40] Admission is 
by competitive examination though, as a public school, there is no tuition 
fee and only residents of the City of New York are eligible to attend.[a] 
Brooklyn Tech appears as #63 in the 2010 ranking of the annual U.S. News 
& World Report "Best High Schools" list.[41] Newsweek in 2008 listed Brooklyn 
Tech among five public high schools that were not in the magazine's 13 
"Public Elite" ranking, explaining, "Newsweek 's Challenge Index is designed 
to recognize schools that challenge average students, and not magnet or 
charter schools that draw only the best students in their areas. These 
[...] were excluded from the list of top high schools because [...] their 
sky-high SAT and ACT scores indicate they have few or no average students".[42] 
In 2014 the Brooklyn Tech FIRST robotics team (The TechKnights - Team 334) 
won the New York Regional Tournament (as well as the Creativity award).[43] 
In the 2014 U.S. News ranking, Brooklyn Tech was top 10 in all of New York 
State as well as 60th in the entire nation.[44] Brooklyn Tech is a founding 
member of the National Consortium for Specialized Secondary Schools of 
Mathematics, Science and Technology. Brooklyn Tech is noted for its famous 
alumni[45] (including two Nobel Laureates), its academics, and the large 
number of graduates attending prestigious universities. Routinely, more 
than 98% of its graduates are accepted to four-year colleges[46] with the 
2007 graduating class being offered more than $1,250,000 in scholarships 
and grants.[47] It appears as #63 in the 2009 ranking of the annual U.S. 
News & World Report "Best High Schools" list.[41] In 2011, Brooklyn Tech 
was ranked by U.S. News & World Report among the top 50 of the nation’s 
Best High Schools for Mathematics and Science.[48] Hall of Fame inductees 
listed separately, by year. Inductions held 1998–2000, 2003, and 2005. 
Hall of Fame inductees are meant to represent a sampling of the many graduates 
who are leaders in their respective fields, including top scientists, inventors, 
innovators, CEOs and founders of Fortune 500 companies, high-ranking diplomats, 
scholars in academia, literary and media figures, professional athletes, 
National Medal recipients, Nobel laureates, and Olympic medalists.[45] 
1998 Hall of Fame inductees (Inaugural year) 1999 Hall of Fame inductees 
2000 Hall of Fame inductees 2003 Hall of Fame inductees 2005 Hall of Fame 
