In 1860, Excelsior was leading 8–6 and had men on base, but was forced 
to withdraw by a rowdy crowd of Atlantic partisans and gamblers. The game 
was declared a draw, and the championship retained by Atlantic.. The Atlantic 
Base Ball Club of Brooklyn ("Atlantic" or the "Brooklyn Atlantics") was 
baseball's first champion and its first dynasty. Established in 1855, Atlantic 
was a founding member of the National Association of Base Ball Players 
in 1857. In 1859, with a record of 11 wins and 1 loss, Atlantic emerged 
as the recognized champions of baseball. Atlantic held the championship 
through the 1861 season, albeit in controversial fashion. In a third and 
deciding game with Excelsior of Brooklyn, Excelsior was leading 8–6 and 
had men on base, but was forced to withdraw by a rowdy crowd of Atlantic 
partisans and gamblers. The game was declared a draw, and the championship 
retained by Atlantic. Atlantic held the championship again through the 
1861 season, which was shortened due to the American Civil War, before 
finally surrendering it to archrival Eckford of Brooklyn in 1862. Atlantic 
recaptured the pennant in 1866 with a season record of twenty wins, no 
defeats, and a single tie as the only blemish on its record. Atlantic went 
undefeated again in 1865 with an 18–0 record, sweeping series against chief 
rivals Mutual of New York and Athletic of Philadelphia. Great players of 
this era included Joe Start, Dickey Pearce, Charlie Smith, Fred Crane, 
and Tom Pratt. Atlantic's 36-game winning streak was finally broken in 
June, 1866 by Irvington, NJ. Atlantic retained the pennant that year by 
splitting a two-game series with Athletic of Philadelphia and declining 
to schedule a series with Union of Morrisania. Atlantic did surrender the 
title to Union in 1867. When Atlantic defeated Eckford to regain the pennant 
in 1869, Atlantic had already lost to the Cincinnati Red Stockings. This 
allowed Atlantic to claim the championship over the undefeated Cincinnati 
club under the "challenge" format of the National Association of Base Ball 
Players, which resembled modern boxing championship rules rather than a 
league or tournament format. This outcome undoubtedly contributed to the 
tremendous anticipation when Cincinnati came to Brooklyn with an 89-game 
winning streak to meet the Atlantics on June 14, 1870 at Atlantic's home 
Capitoline Grounds. An estimated crowd of fifteen thousand paid 50 cents 
a piece to see Atlantic win 8–7 in extra innings in one of the most significant 
games in baseball history. Atlantic surrendered the title later in the 
year, though, to Mutual. Atlantic had been among the first clubs to declare 
themselves professional when allowed to do so in 1869. However, when the 
major professional clubs formed the National Association of Professional 
Base Ball Players in 1871, Atlantic declined to field a team. As a result, 
their best players, including George Zettlein, Bob Ferguson, Joe Start 
and Lip Pike, jumped to other clubs. When Atlantic did join the professional 
circuit in 1872, it was unable to reestablish itself as a leading club, 
suffering losing records in each of its four seasons in the league. Atlantic 
was not invited to join the National League when that circuit was formed 
in 1876, but continued to play an independent schedule until at least 1882. 
A remnant Atlantic was invited to join the upstart American Association 
in 1882 but failed to satisfy the requirements for doing so. For many years 
afterwards, the term Atlantic batting referred to a big inning, especially 
late in the game. Source for season records: Wright (2000) has published 
records for dozens of NABBP teams each season, relying on a mix of game 
and season records in contemporary newspapers and guides. Dozens of leading 
clubs by number of matches are included, as are many others. The records 
do not consistently cover either all games played or all championship matches 
between NABBP members. The 1865 Atlantics are said to have been on the 
first ever baseball card. The only known card was archived at the Library 
of Congress since the 1880s, when the photographer Charles Williamson submitted 
the photo for copyright. It remained the only "card" known to exist until 
2013, when another card was found in an old photo album at a yard sale. 
The 148-year-old team photo was sold to an unnamed bidder for $92,000.00 
