The Town of Brookhaven is the most populous of the ten towns of Suffolk 
County, New York, United States. Part of the New York metropolitan area, 
it is located approximately 50 miles from Manhattan. It is the only town 
in the county that stretches from the North Shore to the South Shore of 
Long Island. It is the largest of New York State's 932 towns (by area with 
water), and the second most populous, exceeded only by the Town of Hempstead.[1] 
Brookhaven is the anglicized name of its first settlement, Setauket. Founded 
as a group of agricultural hamlets in the mid-17th century, Brookhaven 
first expanded as a major center of shipbuilding in the 19th century. Its 
proximity to New York City facilitated the establishment of resort communities 
and then a post-war population boom. In the 2010 census record Brookhaven 
contained 486,040 people.[2] The township is home to two renowned research 
centers, Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Laboratory. Tourism 
is also a part of the local economy. The largest traditional downtowns 
are located in Port Jefferson, a regional transportation hub, and Patchogue. 
The area has long been serviced by the Long Island Railroad and Bridgeport 
& Port Jefferson Ferry. The first known inhabitants were Algonquian-speaking 
Native Americans, of the Setauket and Unkechaug tribes. The first English 
settlers arrived around 1640, and in 1655, several purchased Brookhaven's 
land from its tribal inhabitants. The latter founding year was recognized 
in 1976, when the Brookhaven Town Bicentennial Commission proposed setting 
the date on the seal to 1655 in line with this first deed of settlement 
of the Town of Brookhaven at Setauket on April 14, 1655. Considering this 
founding year of 1655, Brookhaven is the fifth English township on Long 
Island following Southampton, Southold, Huntington, and East Hampton. The 
first English settlement was named Setauket after the Native American tribe. 
Brookhaven is the anglicized version of the Algonquin name Setauket. These 
terms were initially used interchangeably to describe the village or the 
town. The verbal division between the smaller hamlet of Setauket and township 
of Brookhaven was not set until well into the 19th century. A point of 
confusion is the existence of the hamlet named Brookhaven, which was in 
fact named for the township in 1879. Other names used in the settlement's 
first decades were Ashford, after Ashford, Kent in England, and Cromwell 
Bay, for English Protestant leader Oliver Cromwell. The original land purchase 
from the native Setalcott tribe that took place in 1655 encompassed the 
land making up present-day Setauket, Stony Brook, and Port Jefferson. A 
second purchase in 1664 expanded this tract eastward along the North Shore 
to additionally include all lands from the Old Mans area (Mount Sinai and 
Miller Place) to Wading River. Another land purchase in the same year expanded 
Brookhaven to the South Shore of Long Island. Brookhaven was integrated 
into the Province of New York following that colony's establishment in 
1664, and in 1666 Governor Richard Nicolls granted a patent for the town 
which confirmed title to the lands purchased. Governor Thomas Dongan issued 
a patent in 1686 which granted powers to the town and established a representative 
form of government.[3] The town seal was authorized at this time. The central 
element of the town seal, the letter “D”, was designated to the Town of 
Brookhaven as its official cattle earmark by the Duke’s Laws of 1665. Although 
no records exist dating to the town seal's original design plan, it is 
generally thought that the seal's olive branch signified peace and the 
whaling tools signified the most lucrative business in the Town of Brookhaven 
at the time. The current seal is a redesign, retaining the original elements, 
but adding the Town of Brookhaven and its 1655 date of settlement. Early 
English settlers farmed, fished, and hunted whales. Brookhaven was largely 
agrarian, with each hamlet being limited to a handful of families yet containing 
miles of land. This economy was supplemented in coastal sections with fishing. 
A major commercial center did non exist in Brookhaven until the early 19th 
century. Brookhaven was founded primarily by English colonists that partook 
in the settlement of Southold, New York, and was likewise under the jurisdiction 
of the theocratic New Haven Colony in the modern state of Connecticut. 
Brookhaven was transferred to the more secular Hartford-led Connecticut 
Colony in 1662. Following the English takeover of New Netherland in 1664, 
the new English colony of New York laid claim to Long Island and brought 
Brookhaven into its jurisdiction. During the early stages of the American 
Revolutionary War, Brookhaven and the rest of Long Island were captured 
by British forces, and many residents sided with the British as loyalists 
to the English crown. Nevertheless, Brookhaven had multiple episodes of 
celebrated American activity during the war. This included the actions 
of the Culper Spy Ring, a spy network working for George Washington that 
largely consisted of Brookhaveners working in occupied territory. Another 
episode was Benjamin Tallmadge's successful raid from across Long Island 
to the British stronghold at the Manor St. George, wherein his raiding 
party rowed from Connecticut to Cedar Beach and marched across Long Island, 
culminating in the Battle of Fort St. George and burning of the defensive 
structure. A more minor skirmish occurred within the settlement of Setauket, 
where the British had repurposed the local Protestant church as a fortress. 
Gunshots were fired and some bullet holes remain within the walls of the 
adjacent Caroline Church. In the mid-19th century, several communities 
in Brookhaven prospered as shipbuilding ports. The most successful of these 
are the villages of Port Jefferson and Patchogue, which remain the township's 
most bustling traditional downtowns. Whaling and cordwood industries also 
developed in Brookhaven. Railroads reached Brookhaven in the mid-19th century, 
beginning in 1843 with trains reaching inland to Ronkonkoma. The earliest 
equivalent to the North Shore's present-day Port Jefferson Branch began 
operation in 1873. The Bridgeport & Port Jefferson Ferry has been operating 
between Port Jefferson and Bridgeport, Connecticut since 1888 and was partly 
founded by legendary circus-master P.T. Barnum. From the end of the late 
19th century until the middle of the 20th, many communities along the North 
Shore and South Shore became successful resort towns. These hosted many 
urban residents from nearby New York City, including numerous celebrities 
of the era, during the summer months. Meanwhile many rural sections across 
Brookhaven served as campgrounds for youth clubs. During the Gilded Age, 
Brookhaven underwent some of the same changes that affected Long Island's 
Gold Coast. Waterfront areas along the North Shore, including Belle Terre 
and Old Field, transformed from small fishing communities into fashionable 
and exclusive enclaves of the moneyed elite. A variety of notable research 
occurred in Brookhaven around the turn of the 20th century. Inventor Nikola 
Tesla had a research center in Shoreham, which featured the large Wardenclyffe 
Tower. As of 2016 this site is being renovated as the Tesla Science Center 
at Wardenclyffe. Guglielmo Marconi opened one of the world's largest radio 
facilities, known as RCA's Radio Central, in Rocky Point. In the post-war 
era, Brookhaven experienced a massive population boom. This was partly 
due to its proximity to New York City along the Long Island Rail Road and 
the highway system of Robert Moses. The township's most internationally 
renowned institutions, Stony Brook University and Brookhaven National Lab, 
both date to the years following World War II. During the mid-century, 
a number of major transformations were conducted by philanthropist Ward 
Melville in the Three Village area (The Setaukets, Stony Brook, and Old 
Field). Melville, an Old Field resident and owner of what later became 
CVS Corporation, used his fortune to transform Northwestern Brookhaven 
to his vision of an idealized New England-style region. To this end, he 
ordered the construction in 1939 of the Stony Brook Village Center, a picturesque 
commercial center set on village green in Stony Brook, with clapboard buildings 
designed to look as if they had colonial origins. In 1962, Ward Melville 
donated 400 acres of land for the relocation of now-named Stony Brook University 
from Oyster Bay. Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL) sits on the site 
of Camp Upton, a United States army installation that was used as a training 
ground in World War I and World War II by thousands of soldiers including 
composer Irving Berlin. In 1946 ownership of the grounds was transferred 
for use by the new national laboratory, which began operating the following 
year. Brookhaven researchers have since made such diverse contributions 
as patenting Maglev, designing one of the first video games, detecting 
the first solar neutrinos, designing pollutant-eating bacteria, creating 
the first PET scan, and various contributions to particle physics. The 
laboratory contains the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) and the 
National Synchrotron Light Source. Noted physicist and Nobel laureate I.I. 
Rabi was instrumental in the national laboratory's establishment. Brookhaven 
is located centrally on the geographic Long Island and extends from the 
North Shore to the South Shore. According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the town has a total area of 531.5 square miles (1,376.6 km²), of which 
259.3 square miles (671.6 km²) is land and 272.2 square miles (705.1 km² 
or 51.22%) is water. It is the largest town in New York in terms of total 
area. Excluding water, however, there are four towns in the state with 
more land area: Webb in Herkimer County, Long Lake in Hamilton County, 
Arietta in Hamilton County, and Ohio in Herkimer County. Brookhaven is 
bounded to the north and south by the Long Island Sound and the Atlantic 
Ocean. Riverhead and Southampton lie to the east, and Smithtown and Islip 
lie to the west. A large part of Fire Island (accessible by a bridge at 
Smith Point) and the Great South Bay are in the town. Bald Hill, a large 
hill in the hamlet of Farmingville, marks where the glacier which formed 
Long Island stopped. At the top of Bald Hill is a Vietnam veterans memorial. 
Telescope Hill, to the west of Bald Hill Cultural Park, is slightly taller 
at 334 feet (102 m) above sea level and the highest point in the town. 
As of the census[6] of 2000, there were 448,248 people, 146,828 households, 
and 112,910 families residing in the town. The population density was 1,728.8 
people per square mile (667.5/km²). There were 155,406 housing units at 
an average density of 599.4 per square mile (231.4/km²). The racial makeup 
of the town was 68.43% White, 24.33% Black or African American, 0.23% Native 
American, 2.90% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 2.21% from other races, 
and 1.87% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 8.04% 
of the population. There were 146,828 households out of which 38.9% had 
children under the age of 18 living with them, 62.3% were married couples 
living together, 10.6% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 23.1% were non-families. 17.9% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 7.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.97 and the average family size was 3.37. In 
the town, the population was spread out with 26.7% under the age of 18, 
8.9% from 18 to 24, 31.5% from 25 to 44, 22.7% from 45 to 64, and 10.1% 
who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 35 years. For every 
100 females there were 96.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, 
there were 93.8 males. According to a 2006 estimate, the median income 
for a household in the town was $73,566, and the median income for a family 
was $84,705.[10] Males had a median income of $48,601 versus $32,157 for 
females. The per capita income for the town was $24,191. About 3.9% of 
families and 5.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 
6.5% of those under age 18 and 6.6% of those age 65 or over. According 
to Brookhaven's 2009 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, the top employers 
in the town are:[11] Brookhaven is the home of Stony Brook University, 
which moved to Stony Brook from its original Oyster Bay campus in 1962; 
the university has since become the town's largest employer. The town is 
also home to the first and largest campus of Suffolk County Community College, 
located in Selden. Patchogue was the town seat of Brookhaven until 1986, 
when it moved to Medford and then its current location near Bald Hill in 
Farmingville. Brookhaven is led by a town Supervisor and a six-member Town 
Council, which are all two-year term elected positions. Council members 
are elected by district.[12] Prior to 2002, the Town of Brookhaven Republican 
Party controlled the majority of the town board for several decades, except 
for a four-year period in the mid-1970s when Democrats held a majority 
under Supervisor John Randolph.[13] This one-party domination, and a series 
of scandals, led to a tarnished reputation of local politics accorded the 
nickname "Crookhaven".[14][15] In 2002, a voter proposition was passed 
to create council districts, replacing the prior system of electing the 
six town council members at-large.[1] Steve Fiore-Rosenfield became the 
first Democrat to be elected since the 1970s in 2003.[16] In 2005, Brian 
X. Foley, a Democratic county legislator, won the Town Supervisor race.[17] 
Constance Kepert and Carol Bissonette were also elected to the town board. 
As a result, the Democrats gained control of the Brookhaven town board.[18] 
Following the election of 2007, the Republican Party regained a majority 
on the Brookhaven Town Board, and elected Councilman Tim Mazzei as majority 
leader.[19] In 2008, Brian X. Foley was elected to the State Senate. He 
was replaced as Supervisor by Democrat Mark Lesko.[20] In late 2012, Lesko 
resigned and was replaced by Edward Romaine, a Republican who had previously 
been Suffolk County Legislator and county clerk. Brookhaven has nine villages: 
Brookhaven includes all or part of approximately 50 hamlets. One of those 
hamlets is also named Brookhaven. Long Island Rail Road has three lines 
running through the Town of Brookhaven. The Main Line includes Ronkonkoma, 
which not only serves as a major transportation hub, but is also located 
on the Islip-Brookhaven Town Line. It also contains stations in Medford, 
and Yaphank. The Montauk Branch includes stations in Patchogue, North Bellport, 
Mastic, and also had one in Center Moriches until 1998. On the opposite 
side of the town, the Port Jefferson Branch contains two stations as it 
enters from the Town of Smithtown; One in Stony Brook along the northern 
edge of SUNY at Stony Brook and one along Main Street in Port Jefferson 
where the line terminates. The Town of Brookhaven is served primarily by 
Suffolk County Transit bus routes, although the Village of Patchogue has 
its own bus service. The town of Brookhaven contains three minor reliever 
airports, all of which are in south shore communities. The first one is 
the Brookhaven Calabro Airport in Shirley. East of this is the Spadaro 
Airport and Lufker Airport both of which are in East Moriches, and both 
of which share a taxiway. Coram Airport was operational until 1984. The 
primary ferry within the Town of Brookhaven is the Bridgeport-Port Jefferson 
Ferry, which takes vehicles and passengers across the Long Island Sound 
to and from Port Jefferson to Bridgeport, Connecticut. On the Great South 
Bay, passenger ferries take vacationers to and from Fire Island. The ferry 
terminals in Patchogue lead to the communities of Davis Park a popular 
vacation communities for LGBT New Yorkers, and Watch Hill Visitor's Center, 
on the western edge of the Otis Pike Fire Island High Dune Wilderness Area. 
Bellport also has a ferry leading to Bellport Beach on Fire Island. From 
Fire Island itself, communities have ferries from Fire Island Pines and 
Cherry Grove, both of which are also popular vacation spots for LGBT tourists 
as well as the Sailors Haven Visitor's Center,[21] which is located within 
the Sunken Forest Visitor's Center.[22] All three ferries lead to Sayville 
in the Town of Islip. Ocean Bay Park is the westernmost community in the 
Town of Brookhaven, and ferries from there lead to Bay Shore. Coordinates: 
