Brooklyn Italians is an American soccer team based in Brooklyn, New York 
City, New York, United States. Founded in 1949, the team plays in the National 
Premier Soccer League (NPSL), a national amateur league at the fourth tier 
of the American Soccer Pyramid, in the Northeast Atlantic Division. The 
team plays its home games at the stadium on the campus of John Dewey High 
School. The team's colors are white and blue. The Brooklyn Italians are 
generally regarded as one of the most successful semi-pro teams in the 
United States, with a linear history that now stretches back over 60 years. 
Founded in 1949 by John DeVivo, an Italian immigrant to the New York area, 
the team was originally part of the Metropolitan Soccer League in the early 
1950s, before joining the American Soccer League prior to the 1956–57 season. 
The Italians finished seventh in their first season in the ASL behind champions 
New York Hakoah.[1] The Italians changed their name to the Inter-Brooklyn 
Italians when they merged with a local rival club in 1961, became Inter 
SC in 1962, and before the 1963 season the team changed its name again 
and became Boca Juniors, named after the famous club in Argentina, but 
played just one season with this name before resigning from the ASL in 
1964. For the next 20 years or so the team continued to play in amateur 
leagues under various names – at one time or another were they known as 
Palermo Football Club and the Brooklyn Dodgers (after the former Brooklyn 
baseball team) – before reverting to their original name in 1991.[2] They 
were also regular participants in the US Open Cup, winning the title twice 
during the pre-MLS all-amateur era, in 1979 (when they were still called 
the Dodgers) and 1991, and reaching the final in 1981 and 1990. As a result 
of their success in the 1991 tournament, the Italians played in the qualifying 
rounds of the 1991 CONCACAF Cup Winners Cup and the 1991 CONCACAF Champions' 
Cup. They lost 6–1 on aggregate to Club Universidad de Guadalajara in the 
Cup Winners Cup, but fared much better in the CONCACAF Champions' Cup, 
beating Bermudian side Dandy Town Hornets 4–3 in the first round before 
losing 4–1 to eventual champions Puebla. The Italians joined the National 
Premier Soccer League in 2010, with head coach Joe Barone calling it "a 
new adventure".[3] In addition to the new NPSL side, the Italians continue 
to field a number of teams in the New York-based Cosmopolitan Soccer League. 
The Italians also regularly compete in various amateur tournaments world-wide, 
including the Memorial Claudio Sassi in Italy, the Dallas Cup, the President's 
Day Tournament in Phoenix, and college showcases across the country. International 
travel is encouraged, and teams have trained with many of the elite teams 
from Italy. Leon Del Gaudio Thai Nguyen Gary Thompson David Evans Fodos 
