The Brooklyn Eagle, originally The Brooklyn Eagle, and Kings County Democrat,[1] 
was a daily newspaper published in the city and later borough of Brooklyn, 
in New York City, for 114 years from 1841 to 1955. At one point it was 
the most popular afternoon paper (with the largest daily circulation in 
the nation) in the United States. Walt Whitman, the 19th Century poet, 
was its editor for two years. Other notable editors of the Eagle included 
Thomas Kinsella, St. Clair McKelway, Cleveland Rogers, Frank D. Schroth, 
and Charles Montgomery Skinner. The paper, renamed The Brooklyn Daily Eagle 
and Kings County Democrat on June 1, 1846,[2] was again renamed, on May 
14, 1849, the name being shortened to The Brooklyn Daily Eagle.[3] On September 
5, 1938, the name was further shortened, to Brooklyn Eagle.[4] The paper 
ceased publication in 1955 due to a prolonged strike and was briefly revived 
from the bankrupt estate between 1960 and 1963, and later, with its former 
name now in the public domain, in the later 1990s in association with another 
local newspaper in the borough. A new version of the Brooklyn Eagle as 
a revival of the old newspaper's traditions began publishing in 1996. It 
has no business relation to the original Eagle, although it publishes a 
daily historical/nostalgia feature called "On This Day in History," made 
up of much material from the pages of the old original Eagle. The Brooklyn 
Public Library maintains an online archive of the original Brooklyn Daily 
Eagle issues encompassing the years 1841 through 1955, a virtual encyclopedic 
survey of the history of the City and the later Borough of Brooklyn for 
more than a century. The Brooklyn Daily Eagle was first published on October 
26, 1841. Its address at this time, and for many years afterwards, was 
at 28 Old Fulton Street, Brooklyn (today the site of a landmark building 
known as the "Eagle Warehouse"). From 1846 to 1848, the newspaper's editor 
was the poet Walt Whitman.[5] During the American Civil War, the Eagle 
supported the Democratic Party; as such, its mailing privileges through 
the United States Post Office Department were once revoked due to a forged 
letter supposedly sent by the 16th President Abraham Lincoln. The Eagle 
played an important role in shaping Brooklyn's civic identity,[6] even 
after the once-independent city which had become the third largest city 
in America at that time, across the East River and New York Bay from old 
New York on the island of Manhattan to become a borough as part of the 
annexation and merger campaign and process in the late 1890s which resulted 
in the formation of the City of Greater New York in 1898, which the newspaper 
had editorially tried to forestall and stop. In August 1938, Frank D. Schroth 
bought the newspaper from M. Preston Goodfellow. In addition to dropping 
the word "Daily" from the paper's tile, Schroth increased the paper's profile 
and readership with more active local coverage focused on the borough as 
opposed to the other competing dailies at that time in Manhattan, such 
as the New York Times, New York Herald-Tribune, New York Daily News, New 
York Post, New York World-Telegram & Sun, New York Daily Mirror, and, later, 
Newsday, further out in the Long Island suburbs.[7] On June 22, 1953, a 
newspaper boy, collecting for the Brooklyn Eagle, at an apartment building 
at 3403 Foster Avenue in Brooklyn, was paid with a nickel that felt funny 
to him. When he dropped it on the ground, it popped open and contained 
microfilm inside. The microfilm contained a series of numbers. He told 
the New York City Police Department, who in two days told a Federal Bureau 
of Investigation (FBI) agent about the strange nickel. But it wasn't until 
a KGB (Committee on State Security of the Soviet Union) agent, Reino Häyhänen, 
wanted to defect to the West and America in May 1957, that the FBI would 
be able to link the nickel to KGB agents, including Vilyam Genrikhovich 
Fisher (aka Rudolph Ivanovich Abel) in the Hollow Nickel Case. In the face 
of the continued economic pressure brought on by a strike by the local 
reporters' trade union, The Newspaper Guild, and latter attempting to sell 
the Eagle, the paper published its last edition on January 28, 1955, and 
shut down for good on March 16, 1955.[8] Thomas N. Schroth, the publisher's 
son, served as the newspaper's managing editor in the last three years 
of its existence, before moving on to become editor of the Congressional 
Quarterly and founder of the The National Journal in Washington, D.C., 
which covered the activities and actions of the United States Congress 
in the Quarterly, and national capital political events in the Journal 
which endure into the 21st Century.[9] This occurred around the same time 
as the National League baseball team, the Brooklyn Dodgers (formerly the 
"Trolley Dodgers"), who played at Flatbush's Ebbets Field shocked the city 
and joined the rival New York Giants at the old Polo Grounds in The Bronx 
in moving to the West Coast and becoming the Los Angeles Dodgers and the 
San Francisco Giants. The loss of both primary national icons of the town's 
identity within two and a half years sent Brooklyn into a psychological 
slump, which even the replacement New York Mets in 1962 couldn't quite 
resurrect. In 1960, former comic book publisher Robert W. Farrell acquired 
the Eagle's assets in bankruptcy court, five years later after its closing,[10] 
publishing five Sunday editions of the paper in 1960. In 1962–1963, under 
the corporate name Newspaper Consolidated Corporation, Farrell and his 
partner Philip Enciso briefly revived the Brooklyn Eagle newspaper as a 
daily. During the 1962–63 New York City newspaper strike, the paper saw 
circulation grow from 50,000 to 390,000 until the strike ended.[11] The 
final edition appeared on June 25, 1963.[12] A smaller newspaper also focused 
on the borough, The Brooklyn Daily Bulletin began publishing when the original 
Eagle folded in 1955. In 1996, it merged with a newly revived Brooklyn 
Daily Eagle, and now publishes a morning paper five days a week under the 
title of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle name. This revived Brooklyn Eagle has 
no business relationship with the original Eagle; it adopted the Eagle 
name (adding it to its Bulletin title) after the Eagle name fell into the 
public domain, and following a dispute with another Brooklyn publisher 
over ownership of the Eagle name.[13] As of 2014, it is one of three English-language 
daily newspapers published in the borough of Brooklyn (the others are the 
New York Daily Challenge[14] and Hamodia). As an homage to the original 
Eagle it publishes a daily feature called "On This Day in History," made 
up of much material from the original Eagle. It is published by J. Dozier 
Hasty under the auspices of Everything Brooklyn Media. The Eagle editorial 
staff includes 25 full-time reporters, writers and photographers.[citation 
needed] Its coverage has grown to include the Bay Ridge section in western 
Brooklyn, where a weekly version of the paper, The Bay Ridge Eagle, is 
published. Several exhibits have been held regarding the role of the paper 
in creating the identity of Brooklyn and its citizens at the Brooklyn Historical 
Society, including extensive mention and documentation in several histories 
