The Brooklyn Cyclones are a minor league baseball team based in Brooklyn, 
New York that plays in the Short-Season A classification New York–Penn 
League, affiliated with the New York Mets. The Cyclones play at MCU Park 
just off the Coney Island boardwalk in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. 
In its entire franchise history, the team has won seven division titles. 
As the Brooklyn Cyclones, the team has won 5 division titles, made the 
playoffs eight times and in 2001, the Cyclones were declared co-league 
champions with the Williamsport Crosscutters, being forced to prematurely 
end their championship series due to the September 11 attacks, despite 
the Cyclones leading the series one game to none. The Cyclones began as 
the St. Catharines, Ontario-based St. Catharines Blue Jays (later St. Catharines 
Stompers) in 1986 as a team in the New York–Penn League. They were named 
for their parent club, the Toronto Blue Jays. In 1995, the team was sold 
by the city of Toronto to a group of local investors which included former 
Toronto catcher Ernie Whitt. In 1999, New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani announced 
a deal that would bring two minor league baseball teams to the boroughs 
outside Manhattan. New ballparks would be constructed for the Staten Island 
Yankees and the Cyclones. Prior to the 2000 season, the team was bought 
and moved to Queens, New York, becoming known as the Queens Kings. The 
club played its 2000 season at St. John's University in Jamaica, New York, 
in the borough of Queens, remaining a Blue Jays affiliate for one last 
season. A "name-the-team" contest was held to determine a new name for 
the franchise. The winning selection, Cyclones, refers to the famous Coney 
Island Cyclone roller coaster at nearby Astroland amusement park on Coney 
Island. The team's new park, which was then called KeySpan Park, was completed 
in time for the 2001 season. Brooklyn had been without professional baseball 
since the Brooklyn Dodgers left Ebbets Field for Los Angeles, California 
in 1958. After approximately three weeks of play, additional seats had 
to be added to the stadium to accommodate fans. The Cyclones managed by 
Edgar Alfonzo played well in their opening season with the best record 
in the league, 52–24 where the led the NY Penn-League with a 2.35 team 
ERA. They defeated the Staten Island Yankees in a classic NYPL opening 
playoff round. The deciding game won by the Cyclones 4 to 1 featured trickery 
by Catcher Brett Kay who faked giving up on a play only to receive a laser 
throw from John Toner to tag out a runner at the plate. advancing to the 
championship series against the Williamsport Crosscutters. The Cyclones 
traveled to Bowman Field in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, winning the series 
opener on September 10, 2001 by a score of 8-4. The potential championship 
clincher was scheduled for September 11 in Brooklyn. However, due to the 
September 11 attacks, all minor league baseball playoffs were canceled. 
The Cyclones and Crosscutters were declared co-champions. The 2002 season 
was filled with inconsistent play and questionable pitching decisions by 
manager Howard Johnson[citation needed] leading to a .500 season. Scott 
Kazmir pitched to a 0.50 ERA in five starts and had 34 strikeouts in only 
18 innings pitched. In 2003, the Cyclones managed by Tim Teufel won the 
McNamara division title with brilliant pitching led by starters, soon to 
be Major Leaguers, Matt Lindstrom and Brian Bannister and by relievers 
Robert Paulk and Carlos Muñiz. Despite a drop in run production, the Cyclones 
pitching staff willed their way into the playoffs, beating the Oneonta 
Tigers 2 games to 1 only to lose in the NYPL Championship to the Williamsport 
Crosscutters 2 games to none. The 2004 season brought the most complete 
Cyclones team ever. Managed by Tony Tijerina, three batters hit over .300 
and five starting pitchers made their starts in rotation for the last 55 
games of the season except one game. The Cyclones won the McNamara division 
title only to lose to the Tri-City ValleyCats in controversial fashion. 
With the series tied, the Cyclones were leading 3-0 in the 3rd inning when 
the games was held up and eventually cancelled by rain, which wiped out 
the score. After another rainout, Game 3 was played from the beginning 
where the Cyclones lost the deciding game 7-1. A new rule was placed by 
the NY-Penn League that any games suspended because of rain, if a team 
or teams have scored runs in the game, the suspended game will be picked 
from the inning when the game was called. The 2005 season managed by Mookie 
Wilson was hampered by inconsistent relief pitching that hampered games 
in the later innings despite a good offense. The Cyclones finished third 
and missed the playoffs. On August 23, 2005, The Cyclones and KeySpan Park 
hosted the first-ever New York–Penn League All-Star Game, which was won 
by the National League-affiliated team 5–4. Also that year, the Cyclones 
became a major partner of Brooklyn's High School of Sports Management, 
a small school located down the block from MCU Park on West 19th Street 
and Mermaid Ave. The 2006 season managed by George Greer mirrored the team 
name. A 7-game losing streak to start the season was followed by a 10-game 
winning streak which led the streaky Cyclones to the NYPL Playoffs in a 
dramatic extra-inning victory against the Vermont Lake Monsters in the 
final game of the season. The Cyclones would lose to the SI Yanks in the 
NYPL opening playoff round 2 games to none. On July 20, 2006, the Cyclones 
and the Oneonta Tigers took part in the longest game in the history of 
the New York–Penn League, a 26-inning marathon that the Cyclones lost, 
6–1. The game took 6 hours and 40 minutes to complete. The Cyclones scored 
their lone run in the first inning; Oneonta tied the game in the fourth 
and then did not score again until they scored five runs in the top of 
the 26th inning. Cyclones manager George Greer was ejected from the contest 
in the first inning for arguing an umpire's call on a force play at second 
base.[1] The 2007 season managed by Edgardo Alfonzo had the second most 
successful season in team history with a 49–25 record. With a consistent 
offense, great pitching and the best defense in the league, the Cyclones 
powered their way to winning its fourth McNamara division title and sweeping 
the SI Yankees in two straight games in the NYPL opening playoff round. 
Game One produced the best road win in team history when the Cyclones beat 
the SI Yanks, 8–4. However, the Cyclones went on to getting swept in disappointing 
fashion by the Auburn Doubledays for the NYPL Championship. After giving 
up a leadoff home run to shortstop Matt Bouchard, current Toronto Blue 
Jays starting pitcher Brett Cecil pitched one hit ball in 7 innings as 
the Doubledays won the game 4-1. On September 7, 2007, during the final 
regular season game (a 5–4 victory over the Lowell Spinners), the Cyclones 
set an all-time single-game attendance record of 10,073—2,573 more than 
the stadium's seating capacity in 2001. That season, the team won its fourth 
McNamara division title. The 2008 season managed again by Edgar Alfonzo 
was marred by a poor start but recovered with a torrid finish at 45–30, 
narrowly missing the playoffs after losing the final game of the season 
to the Aberdeen Ironbirds 5-3 in extra innings. The team produced Major 
Leaguers and current New York Mets Ike Davis and Jenrry Mejía. But the 
team was marred with an inconsistent offense with less than average results 
with runners in scoring position. On August 23, 2009, Cyclones pitcher 
Brandon Moore threw a 7-inning no-hitter in the first game of a doubleheader 
against the Aberdeen IronBirds, 5–0, at Ripken Stadium. Moore walked three 
and hit one batter, with only one IronBird reaching second base. This came 
seven years to the day Miguel Pinango threw a nine-inning one-hitter for 
the Cyclones, pitching 8 ⅔ innings of no-hit ball. On February 4, 2010, 
the team announced that the new name of their home would be called Municipal 
Credit Union (MCU) Park. (From 2001 to 2009 the stadium was known as KeySpan 
Park.) In addition to the naming rights, MCU and the Cyclones entered into 
a comprehensive 11-year marketing partnership that launches the Cyclones’ 
10th season in Brooklyn. The partner agreement is scheduled to last until 
2020. The Cyclones' main rival are the Staten Island Yankees, a rivalry 
often called the "Battle of the Boroughs", after the boroughs of Brooklyn 
and Staten Island, or the "Battle for the Bridge", after the Verrazano-Narrows 
Bridge which separates the two teams. Only 13 miles (21 km) apart, the 
two teams have the closest proximity in Minor League Baseball. The two 
teams generally sell out the games which pit them against each other. A 
major contribution to this intense rivalry is the fact that both parent 
teams are also based in New York (the Mets in Queens, and the Yankees in 
the Bronx). Other regional rivals include the Hudson Valley Renegades and 
the Tri-City ValleyCats. The first Cyclone to break into the major leagues 
was infielder Danny Garcia, who made his debut with the New York Mets on 
September 2, 2003 at Shea Stadium. Scott Kazmir, who played with Brooklyn 
in 2002, made his major league debut with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in 2004. 
Still with the Rays in 2008, Kazmir was tagged with the loss in Game 1 
of the 2008 World Series. He is the first former Cyclone to reach the World 
Series, though Lenny DiNardo, who pitched with the Cyclones in 2001, won 
a World Series ring with the Boston Red Sox in 2004 while on the Disabled 
List. Mike Jacobs, who was a member of the inaugural 2001 Cyclones team, 
made his Mets debut on August 21, 2005, hitting a three run pinch-hit home 
run off Washington Nationals pitcher Esteban Loaiza. In 30 games with 100 
at bats for the Mets, Jacobs hit 11 home runs and had 23 RBI before being 
traded to the Florida Marlins after the season. In April 2006, Brian Bannister 
became the first Cyclone pitcher to make his debut with the Mets in a game 
against the Washington Nationals at Shea. The following April, sidearm 
reliever Joe Smith, who pitched for the Cyclones in 2006, made his major 
league debut on opening day for the Mets against the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Smith pitched a scoreless third of an inning in the Mets win. First baseman/outfielder 
Nick Evans was called up on May 24, 2008 as an injury replacement. Evans, 
who played with the Cyclones in 2005, had 3 doubles in his first major 
league game. Ike Davis, who played for the Cyclones in 2008, is now the 
first baseman for the Oakland Athletics. As of 2016, the Cyclones had sent 
60 players to the Major Leagues. The current Major Leaguers who are former 
Brooklyn Cyclones are: Lost to Williamsport (2-0) Wild Card Winner Lost 
to Auburn Doubledays 2-0 Wild Card Winner Lost to Tri-City ValleyCats (2-1) 
Wild Card Winner Wild Card Winner Dave LaRoche David Davalillo NOTES: Ojeda, 
Johnson, Teufel, Wilson, and Backman all played on the 1986 World Champion 
NY Mets. Viola & Edgardo Alfonzo also played for the Mets. Malek, Garcia, 
& Ratliff all played for the Brooklyn Cyclones. Edgar & Edgardo Alfonzo 
are brothers. Edgardo Alfonzo is officially a NY Mets Ambassador, but also 
serves as a Cyclones coach. In 2014 he coaches primarily home games & a 
few road games. In 2015, he did all games. Tom Signore left the team in 
July 2014 due to a concussion & was replaced by Dave LaRoche. Signore was 
named the pitching coach in 2015, but missed the season due to the concussion. 
David Davalillo joined the Cyclones late in the 2014 season after the DSL 
Mets finished their season. A total of 10 numbers hang on the press level 
of MCU Park. Brooklyn Dodgers: 4: Duke Snider; 14: Joan & Gil Hodges 17: 
Carl Erskine; 36: Don Newcombe; 42: Jackie Robinson; Brooklyn Cyclones: 
6: Danny Garcia; 19: Brian Bannister; 20: Dillon Gee; 35: Ángel Pagán; 
NOTE: A Cyclones player may still wear these numbers, with the exception 
of 14, & 42. Additionally, no Cyclone may wear 31 (Mike Piazza), 37 (Casey 
Stengel) or 41 (Tom Seaver) due to the numbers being retired by the Mets. 
On August 22, 2011, the Brooklyn Cyclones also honored Pia Toscano, who 
sang the anthem prior to a game in 2003 by putting a plaque on the press 
level. On August 15, 2014, the Cyclones added Joan Hodges, the widow of 
Gil Hodges, to the ring of Honored Numbers. The Cyclones have two mascots, 
Sandy the Seagull and Pee-Wee. Sandy, the primary mascot, has been with 
the team since the inaugural Cyclones season in 2001. Pee-wee was introduced 
in 2003 as Sandy's adopted son. Sandy is named for Brooklyn/Los Angeles 
Dodgers pitcher Sandy Koufax, while Pee-Wee was named after Brooklyn Dodgers 
shortstop Pee Wee Reese. Even though Hurricane Sandy damaged MCU Park and 
Coney Island, the Cyclones kept the name Sandy on their mascot. In 2006, 
the team introduced a new unnamed mascot: a blow-up "ZOOperstars!" type 
pelican. Despite a contest to name the character, it was never given an 
official name. The Pelican has not made an appearance since the 2006 season. 
In 2008, Maverick the Wonder Dog was introduced. He was a real Chocolate 
Labrador Retriever who was owned by one of the Cyclones staff members. 
The goal was to have Maverick learn tricks like picking up baseballs and 
bats. Like the Pelican, Maverick lasted only one season. A Hot Dog race 
is held at every game at MCU Park, which is sponsored by Nathan's Famous. 
The first Nathan's store is located two blocks away from the ballpark. 
The three hot dogs currently racing are Ketchup, Mustard, and Relish. For 
many years Relish has become the loveable loser because he either wins 
very few races or none at all during the season. MCs 2001–2003: "Party 
Marty" Haber, a member of the Cyclones front office. 2003–present: King 
Henry A local entertainer. In 2013, King Henry became the main on field 
entertainer. 2007–2010: Jay Moran, who had served as PA Announcer in 2006. 
2011: Jason Negron 2012: Dan the Man Pecoraro, a member of the Cyclones 
front office. In 2013, Bucky the Buccaneer was introduced. Every time the 
Brooklyn Cyclones would score a run, this pirate themed mascot would run 
around the field from one dugout to the next, waving his rally flags in 
excitement. Bucky was played by a first year intern, Daniel DePasquale. 
He worked with the Brooklyn Cyclones for 2 seasons. BEACH BUMS The original 
"Cyclones Beach Bums" were a promotional team of men and women who entertained 
the ballpark from 2003 through 2008, were seen all over the ballpark dancing, 
interacting with fans, and handing out promotional items. In 2009, the 
team decided to hire an all women dance team to replace the Beach Bums, 
but still retaining the Beach Bum name. The dance team is similar to that 
of the New York Knicks, New York Dragons and New York Islanders. 2001–2005: 
Dom Alagia. 2006: Sean Howard for 1 month, replaced by Jay Moran a PA Announcer 
at St. John's. 2007 – July 2010: David Freeman, who had served as PA Announcer 
for the Queens Kings. Freeman left to become an MLB Scorer with the Mets 
& Yankees. July 2010 – Present: Mark Fratto, the former Director of Athletic 
Communications for St. John's. Fratto is also the PA Announcer for NYC 
FC, the Brooklyn Bolts & the Westchester Knicks August 2013: Siddique "Sid" 
Farooqi filled in for Fratto, who was with St. John's in Europe. He still 
fills in when Fratto has other events. WKRB (90.3 FM) is the official radio 
station of the Cyclones. It served as radio home for every Cyclones season 
except 2012. WSOU was named the official radio station of the Cyclones 
on June 15, 2012 for the 2012 season, following the death of Warner Fusselle. 
Cyclones games will air occasionally on BCAT & SNY. 2001–2011: Warner Fusselle 
served as radio voice of the Brooklyn Cyclones from their inception until 
his death on June 10, 2012, a week prior to the 2012 Cyclones season. 2012: 
David Rind, Vincent Coughlin and Chris Paizis, who all called Seton Hall 
baseball, split the broadcasting duties, with Rind serving as the road 
announcer. 2013: David Greenwald served as the radio voice of the Cyclones 
for 1 year on WKRB. 2014–present: Stu Johnson. In addition to Brooklyn 
Cyclones games, Stu also announced Brooklyn Bolts games on WKRB. Pitchers 
Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day disabled list * On 
New York Mets 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ Reserve list ‡ Restricted 
list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list Roster updated September 
1, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → New York Mets minor league players 
