The Brooklyn Nets are an American professional basketball team based in 
the New York City borough of Brooklyn. The Nets compete in the National 
Basketball Association (NBA) as a member club of the Atlantic Division 
of the Eastern Conference. The team plays its home games at the Barclays 
Center. They are one of two NBA teams located in New York City; the other 
are the New York Knicks. The team was established in 1967 as a charter 
franchise of the NBA's rival league, the American Basketball Association 
(ABA). They played in New Jersey as the New Jersey Americans during their 
first season, before moving to Long Island in 1968 and changing their name 
to the New York Nets. During this time, the Nets won two ABA championships 
(in 1974 and 1976). In 1976, the ABA merged with the NBA, and the Nets 
were absorbed into the NBA along with three other ABA teams (the San Antonio 
Spurs, Indiana Pacers and Denver Nuggets, all of whom remain in the league 
today). In 1977, the team returned to New Jersey and played as the New 
Jersey Nets from 1977 to 2012. During this time, the Nets won two consecutive 
Eastern Conference championships (in the 2001–02 and 2002–03 seasons), 
but failed to win a league title. In the summer of 2012, the team moved 
to the Barclays Center, and took its current geographic name.[6] The Brooklyn 
Nets were founded in 1967 and initially played in Teaneck, New Jersey, 
as the New Jersey Americans. In its early years, the team led a nomadic 
existence, moving to Long Island in 1968 and playing in various arenas 
there as the New York Nets.[7] Led by Hall of Famer Julius "Dr. J" Erving, 
the Nets won two ABA championships in New York before becoming one of four 
ABA teams to be admitted into the NBA as part of the ABA–NBA merger in 
1976. The team then moved back to New Jersey in 1977 and became the New 
Jersey Nets. During their time in that state, the Nets saw periods of losing 
and misfortune intermittent with several periods of success, which culminated 
in two consecutive NBA Finals appearances in the 2001–02 and 2002–03 seasons 
by teams led by point guard Jason Kidd. After playing 35 seasons in New 
Jersey, the team moved back to the state of New York, changed its geographic 
name to Brooklyn, and began playing in the new Barclays Center, starting 
with the 2012–13 NBA season.[6][8] The Boston Celtics were once rivals 
of the Nets during the early 2000s because of their respective locations 
and their burgeoning stars. The Nets were led by Jason Kidd and Kenyon 
Martin, while the Celtics were experiencing newfound success behind Paul 
Pierce and Antoine Walker. The rivalry began to heat up in the 2002 Eastern 
Conference Finals, which was preceded by trash-talking from the Celtics[9] 
who claimed Martin was a "fake" tough guy. Things progressed as the series 
started, and on-court tensions seemed to spill into the stands. Celtic 
fans berated Kidd and his family with chants of "Wife Beater!"[10] in response 
to Kidd's 2001 domestic abuse charge. When the series returned to New Jersey, 
Nets fans responded, with some brandishing signs that read "Will someone 
please stab Paul Pierce?"[11] referring to a night club incident in 2000 
in which Pierce was stabbed 11 times. When asked about the fan barbs being 
traded, Kenyon Martin stated, "Our fans hate them, their fans hate us." 
Bill Walton said at the time that Nets-Celtics was the "beginning of the 
next great NBA rivalry" during the Eastern Conference Finals in 2002 with 
the Nets advancing to the NBA Finals, though New Jersey would go on to 
sweep Boston in the 2003 playoffs. In 2012, there were indications that 
the rivalry might be rekindled when an altercation occurred on the court 
on November 28, resulting in the ejection of Rajon Rondo, Gerald Wallace, 
and Kris Humphries. Rondo was suspended for two games in the aftermath, 
while Wallace and Kevin Garnett were fined.[12] The story was revisited 
on December 25, when Wallace grabbed Garnett's shorts and the two had to 
be broken up by referees and players alike. However, the rivalry between 
the Nets and the Celtics appeared significantly cooled off by the June 
2013 blockbuster trade that dealt Celtics stars Garnett and Paul Pierce 
to the Nets in exchange for Wallace, Humphries, and others. This move was 
billed as a merger of the two Atlantic Division teams.[13] Celtics announcer 
Sean Grande said "It's almost as if you found a great home for these guys. 
You couldn't have found a better place. These guys will be in the New York 
market, they'll be on a competitive team, they'll stay on national TV. 
It's funny, because the enemy of my enemy is my friend. So with Celtics 
fans feeling the way they do about the Heat, feeling the way they do about 
the Knicks, the Nets are going to become almost the second [Boston] team 
now."[14] The Knicks–Nets rivalry has historically been a geographical 
one, with the Knicks playing in Madison Square Garden in the New York City 
borough of Manhattan and the Nets playing in the New York City suburbs 
of Long Island and in New Jersey, and since 2012, at Barclays Center in 
the New York City borough of Brooklyn. Media outlets have noted the Knicks–Nets 
rivalry's similarity to those of other New York City teams, such as the 
Major League Baseball (MLB) Subway Series rivalry between the American 
League (AL)'s New York Yankees and the National League (NL)'s New York 
Mets, and the National Football League (NFL) rivalry between the National 
Football Conference (NFC)'s New York Giants and the American Football Conference 
(AFC)'s New York Jets, the result of the boroughs' proximity through the 
New York City Subway. Historically, the boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn 
competed via the Dodgers–Giants rivalry, when the two teams were known 
as the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants. Like the Knicks and Nets, 
the Giants and Dodgers played in Manhattan and Brooklyn, respectively, 
and were fierce divisional rivals.[15] The rivalry between the New York 
Islanders and New York Rangers of the National Hockey League has also taken 
on a similar dimension since the Islanders moved to Barclays Center in 
2015.[16] Due to the Knicks being located in Manhattan and the Nets being 
located in Brooklyn, some media outlets have dubbed this rivalry "Clash 
of the Boroughs".[17][18] A rivalry with the Toronto Raptors had begun 
in 2004, when then-Raptors guard/forward Vince Carter had been traded to 
the then-New Jersey Nets.[19][20] However, the two teams would not meet 
in the playoffs until 2007, when the Nets defeated the Raptors in the first 
round series, 4–2, after a go-ahead shot by Richard Jefferson with 8 seconds 
left in Game 6 led to a 98–97 victory.[21] Seven years later, the two teams 
would meet once again in the First Round, where the series would end in 
Game 7, after a game-winning block by Paul Pierce, giving the Nets the 
104–103 victory.[22] The series was also noted for controversy when Toronto 
Raptors general manager Masai Ujiri made derogatory remarks towards Brooklyn 
at a fan rally outside Maple Leaf Square in Toronto before Game 1. Ujiri 
later apologized at halftime.[23] The mascot of the New Jersey Nets was 
Sly the Silver Fox, who debuted on October 31, 1997 as part of the rebranding 
of the Nets for the 1997–98 season.[24] Prior to that, the Nets' mascot 
was an anthropomorphic dragon named Duncan the Dragon.[25] After the Nets' 
move to Brooklyn, the team introduced a new superhero mascot named BrooklyKnight 
(a pun on the demonym "Brooklynite") on November 3, 2012. In his first 
appearance, he was lowered from the ceiling of the Barclays Center amid 
sparks and fanfare and introduced by Nets PA announcer David Diamante: 
"Here to defend Brooklyn, he's the BrooklyKnight." The mascot was co-created 
by Marvel Entertainment, a sister company to NBA broadcasters ABC and ESPN. 
The character also starred in 32-page comic book published by Marvel titled 
BrooklyKnight #1, written by Jason Aaron with art by Mike Deodato.[26][27] 
After the Nets' second season in Brooklyn, the BrooklyKnight mascot was 
retired.[28] On November 3, 2012, the Nets introduced a new team anthem 
titled "Brooklyn: Something To Lean On", written and recorded by Brooklyn-born 
musician John Forté.[29] The song is notable for its refrain, which features 
the "Brooklyn" chant that has been popular with fans in Barclays Center.[30] 
The Nets' front office in 2016 included Mikhail Prokhorov (Principal Owner), 
Brett Yormark (CEO, Brooklyn Nets), Sean Marks (General Manager), and Jeff 
Gewirtz (Executive Vice President, Business Affairs & Chief Legal Officer).[31] 
The original owner of the Nets franchise was trucking magnate Arthur J. 
Brown, who was the founder of the American Basketball Association team 
that was then known as the New Jersey Americans in 1967. The next year, 
Brown renamed the franchise to the New York Nets following a move to Long 
Island, and sold the team for $1.1 million to entrepreneur Roy Boe.[32] 
Due to financial losses suffered while the team was in Long Island, Boe 
moved the team back to New Jersey in 1977 and sold the team a year later 
to a group of seven local businessmen led by Alan N. Cohen and Joseph Taub, 
who became known as the "Secaucus Seven".[33] After a lengthy ownership 
of the franchise and numerous attempts to improve the financial situation 
of the team, the "Secaucus Seven" finally sold the team in 1998 to a group 
of local real estate developers led by Raymond Chambers and Lewis Katz,[34] 
who called themselves the "Community Youth Organization" (CYO) and wanted 
to move the team to Newark, New Jersey. The next year the group signed 
an agreement with New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner to form YankeeNets, 
a holding company that would own the two teams, and later also the New 
Jersey Devils, and increase leverage in future broadcast contracts by negotiating 
together. After receiving offers from numerous broadcast partners, including 
what was then their current rights holder Cablevision, YankeeNets decided 
to launch its own regional sports television called the YES Network. YankeeNets 
would ultimately fail in its attempts to secure a deal with Newark to construct 
a new arena in the city. By that point in time, tensions between the management 
of the Yankees, Nets, and the Devils had cause a rift between them, and 
a decision was made to split the group up.[35] With their plan to move 
the Nets now dead, the CYO placed the team on sale. After a short bidding 
process, the group secured a deal with real estate developer Bruce Ratner 
to buy the team for $300 million, defeating a similar offer by Charles 
Kushner and Senator Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey. Ratner had purchased 
the team with the intent of moving it to a new arena in Brooklyn, which 
was to be a centerpiece of the large-scale Atlantic Yards development.[36] 
On September 24, 2009, Mikhail Prokhorov, Russia's third-richest man according 
to Forbes, confirmed his intention to become majority owner of the Nets. 
Prokhorov sent an offer to the team owners requesting that the control 
shareholding of the basketball club be sold to his company, Onexim, for 
a symbolic price. In return, Prokhorov would fund a loan for the construction 
of a $700 million arena in Brooklyn and attract additional funds from Western 
banks. Prokhorov stated that he initiated the deal to help push Russian 
basketball to a new level of development.[37] On May 11, 2010, following 
approval from the other owners of the NBA, Prokhorov had become a principal 
owner of the Nets.[38] The Nets' practice facility and headquarters for 
the team's basketball operations are located at the Hospital for Special 
Surgery Training Center (HSS Center) in the Industry City complex in the 
Sunset Park neighborhood of Brooklyn. The facility opened on February 17, 
2016 and is built on the roof of an empty warehouse in the complex, occupying 
70,000 square feet of space in total. The renovation project cost roughly 
$50 million.[39] The opening of the training center completed the Nets' 
move to Brooklyn. The team's previous practice facility was at the 65,000-square-foot 
PNY Center in East Rutherford, New Jersey, which opened in 1998.[40] Prior 
to that, the team practiced at the APA Recreation Center in North Bergen, 
New Jersey, sharing their lockers and practice courts with truck drivers 
who used the facility.[40] In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy in November 
2012, PNY Center suffered power outage and extensive water damage due to 
flooding, and for several months, the team used the smaller training spaces 
and practice courts inside the Barclays Center instead.[41] Roster • Transactions 
Last transaction: 2016–11–09 The Nets hold the draft rights to the following 
unsigned draft picks who have been playing outside the NBA. A drafted player, 
either an international draftee or a college draftee who isn't signed by 
the team that drafted him, is allowed to sign with any non-NBA teams. In 
this case, the team retains the player's draft rights in the NBA until 
one year after the player's contract with the non-NBA team ends.[42] This 
list includes draft rights that were acquired from trades with other teams. 
Bold denotes still active with the team. Italics denotes still active, 
but not with the team. "Name*" includes points scored for the team while 
in the ABA. The Nets signed an agreement with the Springfield Armor to 
become its exclusive NBA Development League affiliate starting in the 2011–12 
season. This made the Nets the second team to opt for a D-League "hybrid 
affiliation", the first being the Houston Rockets with the Rio Grande Valley 
Vipers. Springfield ownership maintained control over business, marketing, 
and day-to-day operations, with the Nets having control over coaching and 
player decisions. This hybrid model was well received by GMs and owners.[46] 
However, after three seasons, the Pistons purchased the Armor from its 
former owners, and moved and renamed the team the Grand Rapids Drive.[47] 
On November 6, 2015, the Nets announced that they had purchased a new D-League 
team to be called the Long Island Nets. The team will play their home games 
during the 2016–17 season at the Barclays Center and then at the Nassau 
Coliseum in Uniondale, New York after renovations are complete for the 
2017–18 season. The Long Island Nets became the twelfth D-League team to 
be owned by an NBA team.[48] The television home of the Nets is currently 
the YES Network, which the team helped create while they were under the 
corporate umbrella of YankeeNets LLC, a merger of business operations between 
the Nets and the New York Yankees. After the dissolution of YankeeNets 
and Bruce Ratner's purchase of the team, YES signed a long-term deal to 
keep broadcasting Nets games. The sale to the Ratner group did not include 
the percentage of YES that was previously owned by the Nets, which remains 
with the pre-merger Nets owners. Prior to that, the Nets' TV home was Fox 
Sports Net New York and SportsChannel New York. The team's local broadcast 
partner is WWOR-TV, and games have aired on WLNY-TV in the past as well. 
The current flagship radio station of the Nets is WFAN, which took over 
the radio rights to the Nets after losing their basketball contract with 
the Knicks (who moved to WEPN). Prior to that, Nets games aired on WNEW, 
WMCA, WVNJ, WNBC, WQEW, and WOR. In the club's early ABA years, some Sunday 
road games were televised in a package carried by WPIX. The team's later 
ABA tenure featured more frequent road telecasts on their current broadcast 
partner, WWOR-TV. Known then as WOR-TV, it continued airing road games 
for a time once the team joined the NBA in 1976. Ian Eagle has television 
duties for the Nets after the departure of Marv Albert in 2011. Eagle became 
the lead television voice for the team in 1995 after serving as the team's 
radio voice for one year, while Albert joined the Nets following his firing 
by MSG Network in 2005 after four decades as the lead voice of the New 
York Knicks. When Albert joined the broadcast team, he became the lead 
broadcaster with Eagle as his substitute; beginning in the 2009–10 season, 
due to Albert's advancing age and his other commitments, Eagle once again 
assumed the lead play-by-play spot. As of the 2011–12 season, Eagle is 
the sole lead announcer after Albert decided to move to CBS Sports for 
both NFL and NCAA basketball, in addition to his work on the NBA on TNT. 
Ryan Ruocco substitutes for Eagle during the latter's CBS NFL and NCAA 
commitments. Joining Eagle in the booth for 2013 are former NBA player 
and ex-Net Donny Marshall and longtime Nets analyst Jim Spanarkel. Marshall 
replaced Mike Fratello as the lead analyst following the 2012–13 season 
and Spanarkel shares duties with him as he has in the past with other announcers. 
WFAN is the Nets' current radio flagship, the station having assumed radio 
rights from WOR following the 2003–04 season. Chris Carrino and Tim Capstraw 
comprise the broadcast team, Carrino on play-by-play and Capstraw as the 
analyst. Other broadcasters who have worked for the Nets include Howard 
David, Bob Papa, Bill Raftery, Kelly Tripucka, Albert King, Mike O'Koren, 
Spencer Ross, Mel Proctor, Joe Tait, John Sterling, Mike DiTomasso, WFAN 
update man John Minko and Mark Jackson. Nets games have also aired on WNEW 
and WQEW in the past. During the club's ABA years, announcers included 
Marty Glickman, Marv Albert's brothers Al Albert and Steve Albert, baseball 
Hall of Fame pitcher Bob Gibson, Bob Goldsholl, as well as Sterling and 
