Bryant Charles Gumbel (born September 29, 1948) is an American television 
journalist and sportscaster, best known for his 15 years as co-host of 
NBC's Today. He is the younger brother of sportscaster Greg Gumbel. Since 
1995, he has hosted HBO's acclaimed investigative series Real Sports with 
Bryant Gumbel, which has been rated as "flat out TV's best sports program" 
by the Los Angeles Times.[1] It won a Peabody Award in 2012.[2] Gumbel 
was hired by NBC Sports in the fall of 1975 as co-host of its National 
Football League pre-game show GrandStand with Jack Buck. From 1975 until 
January 1982 (when he left to do The Today Show), he hosted numerous sporting 
events for NBC including Major League Baseball, college basketball and 
the National Football League. He returned to sportscasting for NBC when 
he hosted the prime time coverage of the 1988 Summer Olympics from Seoul 
and the PGA Tour in 1990. NBC News made Gumbel the principal anchor of 
Today beginning September 27, 1982, and broadcast from Vietnam, Vatican 
City, Europe, South America, and much of the United States followed between 
1984 and 1989. Gumbel's work on Today earned him several Emmys and a large 
fanbase. He is the third longest serving co-host of Today, after current 
host Matt Lauer and Katie Couric. He stepped down from the show on January 
3, 1997, after 15 years. Gumbel moved to CBS, where he hosted various shows 
before becoming co-host of the network's morning show The Early Show on 
November 1, 1999. Gumbel was hosting The Early Show on the morning of September 
11, 2001. He was the first to announce the September 11 attacks to CBS 
viewers. Gumbel was born in New Orleans. He is the son of Rhea Alice (née 
LeCesne), a city clerk, and Richard Dunbar Gumbel, a judge.[3] He attended 
and graduated from De La Salle Institute in Chicago, while growing up on 
the South Side of the city. He graduated from Bates College in 1970 with 
a degree in Russian history. In 1971, he became editor of Black Sports 
Magazine, leaving the following year.[4][5][6] He began his television 
career in October 1972, when he was made a sportscaster for KNBC-TV out 
of Los Angeles. Gumbel was hired by NBC Sports in the fall of 1975 as co-host 
of its National Football League pre-game show GrandStand with Jack Buck. 
From 1975 until January 1982 (when he left to do The Today Show), he hosted 
numerous sporting events for NBC including Major League Baseball, college 
basketball and the National Football League. He returned to sportscasting 
for NBC when he hosted the prime time coverage of the 1988 Summer Olympics 
from Seoul and the PGA Tour in 1990. One of Gumbel's more memorable moments 
during his time at NBC Sports occurred in 1982, when he was on-site for 
the "Epic in Miami" NFL playoff game between the San Diego Chargers and 
Miami Dolphins. At the end of the game, he told the viewers, "If you didn't 
like this football game then you don't like football!" Gumbel began his 
affiliation with Today as the program's chief sports reporter contributing 
twice-weekly features to the program, including a regular series entitled 
"Sportsman of the Week," featuring up-and-coming athletes. In June 1981, 
NBC announced that Tom Brokaw would depart Today to anchor the NBC Nightly 
News with Roger Mudd beginning in the spring of 1982. The search for Brokaw's 
replacement was on, and the initial candidates were all NBC News correspondents, 
including John Palmer, Chris Wallace, Bob Kur, Bob Jamieson, and Jessica 
Savitch. The candidates auditioned for Brokaw's job throughout the summer 
of 1981 when he was on vacation. Gumbel became a candidate for the job 
just by chance when he served as a last-minute substitute for Today co-anchor 
Jane Pauley in August 1981. He so impressed executive producer Steve Friedman 
and other NBC executives that he quickly became a top contender for the 
Today anchor position. While Friedman and other NBC executives favored 
Gumbel as Brokaw's replacement, another contingent within the NBC News 
division felt strongly that he should be replaced by a fellow news correspondent, 
not a sports reporter. Wallace was the favored candidate of then-NBC News 
president Bill Small. NBC News decided to split the difference, selecting 
Gumbel as the program's anchor and Wallace as the Washington-based anchor. 
Pauley would remain co-anchor in New York. Brokaw signed off of Today on 
December 18, 1981, and Gumbel replaced him on January 4, 1982. The Gumbel-Pauley-Wallace 
arrangement, known internally as the "Mod Squad," lasted only nine months. 
It was an arrangement that proved intriguing on paper but unwieldy on television. 
Gumbel served as the show's traffic cop, opening and closing the program 
and conducting New York-based interviews, but Pauley and Wallace handled 
newsreading duties, and Wallace conducted all Washington-based hard news 
interviews. With ABC's Good Morning America in first place and expanding 
its lead, NBC News made Gumbel the principal anchor of Today beginning 
September 27, 1982, with Pauley as his co-anchor. Wallace became chief 
White House correspondent covering President Reagan, and John Palmer, previously 
a White House correspondent, became Today's New York-based news anchor. 
Gumbel and Pauley had a challenging first two years together as Today anchors 
as they sought to find a rhythm as a team. Good Morning America solidified 
its lead over Today in the ratings during the summer of 1983, and Pauley's 
departure for maternity leave sent Today into a ratings tailspin. But when 
she returned in February 1984, they began to work well together as a team. 
NBC took Today on the road in the fall of '84, sending Gumbel to the Soviet 
Union for an unprecedented series of live broadcasts from Moscow. He won 
plaudits for his performance there, erasing any doubts about his hard-news 
capabilities. That trip began a whirlwind period of travel for Today. Remote 
broadcasts from Vietnam, Vatican City, Europe, South America, and much 
of the United States followed between 1984 and 1989. Today began to regain 
its old ratings dominance against Good Morning America throughout 1985, 
and by early 1986, the NBC program was once again atop the ratings. In 
1989, Gumbel, who was already known for his strong management style as 
Today anchor, wrote a memo to the executive producer Marty Ryan, on Ryan's 
request, critiquing the program and identifying its shortcomings. Many 
of his criticisms were directed at fellow Today staffers. It was leaked 
to the press. In the memo, Gumbel commented that Willard Scott "holds the 
show hostage to his assortment of whims, wishes, birthdays and bad taste...this 
guy is killing us and no one's even trying to rein him in". He commented 
that Gene Shalit's movie reviews "are often late and his interviews aren't 
very good."[7] There was enough negative backlash in regard to Gumbel's 
comments toward Scott that he was shown making up with Scott on Today.[8] 
Following Pauley's departure from Today in December 1989, Gumbel was joined 
by Deborah Norville in a short-lived partnership that lasted just over 
a year. Today dropped to second place in the ratings during this period 
as a result of intensely negative publicity surrounding Norville's replacement 
of Pauley, and Gumbel's feud with Scott. Norville was replaced by Katie 
Couric in April 1991, and the Gumbel-Couric team helped refocus Today as 
the morning news program on public affairs during the 1992 presidential 
campaign. The program returned to first place in the ratings in December 
1995. Gumbel's work on Today earned him several Emmys and a large group 
of fans. He is the third longest serving co-host of Today, after current 
host Matt Lauer and Couric. He stepped down from the show on January 3, 
1997, after 15 years. Since his departure, Gumbel has made occasional appearances 
on Today. He appeared for the show's 60th anniversary and hosted along 
with Lauer and Pauley on December 30, 2013.[9] After 15 years on Today, 
Gumbel moved to CBS to host a new prime time news-magazine called "Public 
Eye with Bryant Gumbel" during the 1997–1998 television season. The episode 
"The Reckoning" won a Peabody Award in 1998.[10] It lasted just one season 
before being cancelled. It aired on Wednesday nights at 9pm ET before moving 
to Tuesdays at 9pm ET.[11][12] After leaving the Today and Dateline NBC 
in 1997, Gumbel moved to CBS, where he hosted various shows before becoming 
co-host of the network's morning show The Early Show on November 1, 1999. 
Gumbel left The Early Show (and CBS that same year) in May 2002. He returned 
to his morning television roots when, in the spring and summer of 2010, 
he served as special guest moderator of ABC's "The View" for multiple days. 
Gumbel was hosting The Early Show on the morning of September 11, 2001. 
He was the first to announce the September 11 attacks to CBS viewers. A 
CBS camera caught a disgusted Gumbel blurting out "What a fucking idiot" 
just after he had finished a hostile interview with Robert Knight of the 
Family Research Council (FRC). The incident occurred at about 7:15 a.m. 
ET on Thursday, June 29, 2000 following Knight's appearance to defend the 
Boy Scout policy of excluding gays from being leaders. The Media Research 
Center reported that he uttered those words; Gumbel openly admitted to 
saying so when guest-hosting a June 2007 episode of Live with Regis and 
Kelly.[13] Gumbel has concentrated most of his energy recently on his duties 
as host of HBO's acclaimed investigative series Real Sports with Bryant 
Gumbel (a show that he has hosted since 1995). HBO's web page claims that 
Real Sports has been described as "flat out TV's best sports program" by 
the Los Angeles Times.[1] It won a Peabody Award in 2012.[2] In February 
2006, Gumbel made remarks regarding the Winter Olympics and the lack of 
African-American participation.[14] On the August 15, 2006 episode of Real 
Sports with Bryant Gumbel, Gumbel made the following remarks about former 
NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue and Players' Union president Gene Upshaw 
and directed these comments to new commissioner Roger Goodell: In response, 
Tagliabue said: On the October 18, 2011 episode, Gumbel evoked slavery 
in his criticism of NBA Commissioner David Stern over the league's lockout.[16] 
In a Rolling Stone article dated January 20, 2015, Gumbel said: "There 
are a few things I hate more than the (National Rifle Association). I mean 
truly. I think they're pigs. I think they don't care about human life. 
I think they are a curse upon the American landscape. So we got that on 
the record."[17] Gumbel made a cameo appearance alongside Nicolas Cage 
and Michael Caine in The Weather Man, a film directed by Gore Verbinski. 
In it, he cohosts a morning show entitled Hello America for which Cage's 
character, a depressed weatherman, auditions. Gumbel made a cameo appearance 
on the NBC sitcom Seinfeld during which he interviewed Jerry Seinfeld on 
Today while Jerry was wearing the puffy pirate shirt in the episode "The 
Puffy Shirt". In April 2006, NFL Network announced that Gumbel, along with 
Cris Collinsworth and Dick Vermeil, would comment on its new package of 
NFL games. Unlike Greg, he had never called play-by-play[18][19] for live 
sporting events in his career. Before his first game commentary for the 
network, his status was brought into question after he stirred up controversy 
in his closing remarks on his HBO program on August 15, 2006, in which 
he criticized NFL Players Association head Gene Upshaw and outgoing NFL 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue. He would later reconcile with the NFL and 
retained his play-by-play job with the NFL Network.[20] On December 29, 
2007, he had a reunion of sorts as he called the Patriots-Giants game on 
the NFL Network, CBS, and NBC. This is the first 3-network simulcast NFL 
game and coincidentally he has worked for all three networks during his 
career. He also had a strong affiliation with NFL films. Gumbel was stepped 
down as play-by-play announcer in April 2008, prior to the 2008 NFL season. 
He would be replaced on the NFL Network telecasts by Bob Papa. Gumbel raised 
two children with his wife, June, in semi-rural Waccabuc, north of New 
York City. In 2001, he divorced her to marry Hilary Quinlan.[21] In October 
2009, he had surgery to remove a malignant tumor near one of his lungs. 
