Watch live (1, UK only) Watch live (2, UK only) Watch live (3, UK only) 
BT Sport is a group of sports television channels provided by BT Consumer; 
a division of BT Group in the United Kingdom and Ireland that was launched 
on 1 August 2013. The channels are based at the former International Broadcast 
Centre at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London.[1][2] BT Sport is 
available on the BT TV, Sky and Virgin Media television platforms in the 
UK. BT Sport holds exclusive live UK TV rights to 42 Barclays Premier League 
matches per season as well as exclusive rights to the UEFA Champions League, 
UEFA Europa League, National League, Serie A, the Bundesliga, Ligue 1, 
the Primeira Liga, the FA Community Shield, the FA Trophy, MotoGP and the 
Aviva Premiership. BT Sport also holds shared rights to the FA Cup with 
the BBC, the Scottish Professional Football League with Sky Sports and 
BBC Alba, and the Rugby Champions and Challenge Cups with Sky Sports. On 
2 May 2013, BT Sport 1 and 2 were added to the BT TV EPG, followed by Sky 
the next day along with an on-screen message that the channel was coming 
soon. On Sky, the channels replaced BT's placeholders, Sailing 1 and 2.[3] 
The BT-owned terrestrial feeds of Sky Sports 1 and 2, which were also used 
for Top Up TV, were dropped on 1 July in favour of BT Sport 1 and 2.[4] 
The terrestrial feeds were only available to BT TV subscribers in non-BT 
Infinity enabled areas. These were removed from the platform in 2015. BT 
signed a wholesale deal with Virgin Media on 15 August 2013 bringing the 
channels free of charge to customers in the TV XL package.[5] In Ireland 
BT Sport is bundled with eir Sports subscriptions.[6][7] The deal means 
BT Sport 1, 2, 3 & ESPN is part of the eir Sports Pack in Ireland, along 
with eir Sports 1 and eir Sports 2. An interactive service, BT Sport Extra, 
launched in September 2014, broadcasting additional content at selected 
times.[8] One video stream was available at launch which expanded to seven 
in August 2015. BT Sport Extra can be accessed directly from the EPG on 
BT TV and from the red button on Sky and Virgin Media. On 1 August 2015, 
BT launched three new channels - BT Sport Europe, a dedicated channel for 
its coverage of European football and rugby union including the UEFA Champions 
League, Europa League and rugby challenge and champions cups. BT Sport 
Showcase, a free-to-air channel which will show a number of sporting events 
unencrypted via Freeview, and BT Sport Ultra HD, the UK's first 4K television 
channel which will broadcast a number of events in ultra-high-definition 
exclusively on BT TV.[9] On 4 August 2016, BT Sport Europe was renamed 
BT Sport 3 and BT Sport Ultra HD to BT Sport 4K UHD. BT Sport 1 is currently 
offered for free for BT's broadband subscribers as 'BT Sport Lite', who 
may elect to view the channels via Sky, whether or not they have a Sky 
subscription, by having their viewing card activated. Customers who wish 
to view the remaining channels can subscribe to the 'BT Sport Pack' for 
£6 per month.[10] BT also provide broadband subscribers access to the channels 
via the BT Sport online player and mobile app.[11] Sky customers in the 
UK who subscribe to the 'BT Sport Pack' also have exclusive access to the 
AMC from BT channel. Plans for the channels launch came about when it was 
announced in June 2012 that the broadcast rights to the Premier League 
from the 2013–14 to 2015–16 season were awarded to BT and BSkyB, outbidding 
existing broadcaster ESPN for the rights.[12] BT showed 38 live matches 
from the Premier League each season, including 18 first pick matches, from 
the 2013/14 season to the end of the 2015/16 season. In October 2012 BT 
announced it had also agreed deals to air Serie A, Ligue 1, Brasileirão 
and Major League Soccer, all of which were previously broadcast on ESPN,[13] 
as well as Premiership Rugby.[14] In January 2013 BT announced they will 
also broadcast Women's Tennis Association matches from 21 tournaments.[15] 
On 25 February 2013, BT announced that it had acquired ESPN's UK channels 
and their sports broadcasting rights, including rights to the FA Cup, UEFA 
Europa League, Scottish Premier League, Bundesliga and NASCAR.[16] This 
led to the shutting down of ESPN Classic and ESPN America in favour of 
the BT Sport channels. On 7 May 2013, BT Sport acquired the rights to air 
Ultimate Fighting Championship events and taped programming in the UK and 
Ireland for three years, from 1 August.[17] Two days later it was announced 
that BT Sport had acquired an exclusive five-year deal to broadcast MotoGP 
races from the 2014 season, including free practices and qualifying as 
well as full coverage of Moto2 and Moto3.[18] BT Sport also broadcasts 
the FA WSL, A-League and programming from Red Bull Media House.[4][19] 
On 9 May 2013, BT announced that they had acquired the exclusive UK TV 
rights to MotoGP along with the Moto2 and Moto3 championships. Later in 
May BT Sport acquired rights to the Football Conference for two years with 
25-30 live games a season, including the end-of-season play offs. On 9 
November 2013, BT announced a £897 million deal with UEFA to broadcast 
the Champions League and Europa League exclusively on BT Sport from the 
2015–16 season for three years. The deal will end two decades of the competition 
being broadcast free-to-air on ITV, although BT stated that the finals 
of both competitions and at least one match per season involving each participating 
British team would still be broadcast free-to-air.[20][21] In January 2014, 
it was reported that BT Sport had acquired the rights to broadcast the 
World Rally Championship for the 2014 season.[22][23] On 10 February 2015, 
BT Sport announced they had won the rights for 42 live Premier League games 
for 2016/17 - 2018/19 (packages B and F)[24][25][26] BT Sport currently 
has the rights to show 42 Premier League matches live from the 2016/17 
- 2018/19 seasons. Their packages (B and F) give BT the rights for 12 1st 
pick matches. The coverage for the current rights period see BT Sport showing 
28 live matches on Saturday evenings at 5:30pm. A further 6 live matches 
will be broadcast in midweek rounds and another 8 matches are spread across 
Saturday 12:30pm, Saturday 5:30pm or Sunday 12:00pm. The rights to the 
Premier League are shared with Sky Sports who have 126 live matches and 
BBC Sport who have highlights on Match of the Day. Jake Humphrey is the 
main presenter of Football on BT Sport, hosting action from Premier League, 
FA Cup and UEFA Europa League. The main studio pundits and co-commentators 
include Owen Hargreaves, Michael Owen, Steve McManaman, Rio Ferdinand, 
Paul Scholes, Steven Gerrard, Robbie Savage, Glenn Hoddle and Ian Wright, 
while Darren Fletcher and Ian Darke are the main match commentators. Des 
Kelly is the main touchline reporter. As of a result of the new kick-off 
time for live Premier League fixtures on BT Sport, the channel revealed 
a new schedule on Saturdays starting with a live game from either the National 
League or SPFL kicking off at 12:15pm. This will be followed by BT Sport 
Score, hosted by Mark Pougatch and with expert analysis from pundits including 
Jermaine Jenas, Harry Kewell, Harry Redknapp, Robbie Savage, David James 
and Howard Webb, which will keep viewers updated with the latest scores 
across the UK including the Women's Super League before moving on to Premier 
League Tonight starting at 5pm, which will broadcast a live premier league 
game kicking off at 17:30pm. As a result of this Aviva Premiership matches 
will be moved to BT Sport 2.[27] BT Sport has exclusive live coverage of 
the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League from 2015 until 2018. 
Gary Lineker fronts all of the Champions League action with Jake Humphrey, 
Lynsey Hipgrave, Matt Smith and Paul Dempsey also presenting coverage. 
James Richardson hosts the Goals Show every Champions League matchday which 
keeps viewers up to date of all the scores and they can watch every goal 
go in live. Pundits include Julien Laurens, Raphael Honigstein, James Horncastle 
and Andy Brassell. Howard Webb is also on hand to offer expert opinion 
on any controversial refereeing decisions. In May 2016, BT announced that 
they will stream the 2016 UEFA Champions League and 2016 UEFA Europa League 
finals live on YouTube for free, as well as showing them on BT Sport Europe 
and BT Sport Showcase.[28] BT have rights to the Scottish Premiership with 
30 live games per season. Darrell Currie presents coverage of Scottish 
football with Derek Rae and Chris Sutton as commentators. Stephen Craigan 
and Mark Guidi complete the Scottish football coverage line-up. The rights 
is shared with Sky Sports and BBC Alba, who also have 30 and 3 live games 
per season respectively with highlights of the SPFL on BBC Scotland. BT 
Sport also have exclusive rights to show the National League with Matt 
Smith hosting 30 live games per season along with coverage of the Play-Offs 
and the Play-Off Final live from Wembley. BT Sport also shows live matches 
from Italy's Serie A, Germany's Bundesliga, France's Ligue One and Australia's 
A-League. Paul Dempsey and James Richardson are hosts of foreign football 
coverage on BT Sport. Pundits have included Julien Laurens, Raphael Honigstein, 
James Horncastle and Andy Brassell. BT Sport has exclusive live rights 
to the Aviva Premiership and Anglo-Welsh Cup and shares live coverage of 
the Champions Cup and Challenge Cup with Sky Sports. The original Aviva 
Premiership coverage deal ran until the 2016/17 season and allowed BT Sport 
to broadcast up to 69 live games per season. The Aviva Premiership's viewing 
figures rose by 40% in TV audiences in its first season with BT Sport.[29] 
A new deal was signed in March 2015 to cover the Aviva Premiership until 
2021 covering up to 80 matches a season.[30] Craig Doyle is the main presenter 
of the coverage whilst Lawrence Dallaglio acts as the main match analyst. 
Doyle and Dallaglio present a review of the weekend's action after the 
last live game of the weekend every Sunday afternoon. Sarra Elgan and Martin 
Bayfield also present live action whilst further reporting comes from Tim 
Cocker and Chris Hollins. Austin Healey, Brian O'Driscoll, Ben Kay and 
Ugo Monye provide further punditry and co-commentary. BT Sport usually 
have one forward and one back acting as co-commentators on every match 
so one of Dallagio or Kay, along with one of Healey, Monye or O'Driscoll 
join Nick Mullins or Alastair Eykyn in the commentary box. Occasionally 
guest pundits and guest co-commentators are used. In August 2015, it was 
announced that BT Sport had claimed the rights for Australia's home matches 
for five years starting in the Australian 2016-17 season. This means that 
BT will show the Ashes Clash between England and Australia in 2017-18 with 
the deal also including Big Bash League fixtures as well as the Women's 
Ashes and Women's T20 Big Bash League.[31] In January 2013, BT Sport signed 
a deal with the WTA to show 21 live tournaments from the women's tennis 
tour. The coverage can consist of up to 800 live hours of coverage every 
year until 2016, each season ending with the TEB BNP Paribas WTA Championships. 
Coverage is presented by Lynsey Hipgrave with Martina Navratilova. Former 
Wimbledon champion Marion Bartoli, Anne Keothavong, David Mercer, Nick 
Mullins, Sam Smith and Alastair Eykyn are the commentators. BT Sport has 
rights to numerous British, European, American and global motorsport series 
both in live and highlights form. MotoGP is BT Sport's flagship motorsports 
event and in addition to the main MotoGP event, BT shows the Moto2, Moto3, 
Red Bull Rookies and CEV Repsol championships. Suzi Perry, Craig Doyle 
and Gavin Emmett hosts alongside pundits Jeremy McWilliams, Colin Edwards, 
James Toseland and Neil Hodgson. Commentary is provided by Keith Huewen 
and Julian Ryder with additional commentary from Colin Edwards, James Toseland, 
Gavin Emmett and Neil Hodgson during practice and qualifying. BT also produces 
a highlights programme which is broadcast on ITV4 on the Monday evening 
following the race. Gavin Emmett, former World Feed commentator, would 
take up the role of BT Sport's MotoGP reporter. Iwan Thomas hosted an analysis 
show called Chequered Flag aired after the MotoGP race has finished. IndyCar 
Series coverage on BT Sport is just world feed pictures and commentary 
usually from either ABC or NBC Sports. For ABC as of 2014, Allen Bestwick 
is the lap-by-lap commentator while former IndyCar drivers Scott Goodyear 
and Eddie Cheever serve as colour commentators. Then for NBC Sports Leigh 
Diffey is the lap-by-lap commentator with the other commentators being 
Townsend Bell and Paul Tracy Other live series include the World Rally 
Championship, Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters and V8 Supercars where the world 
feed is taken directly from the host broadcaster. For World Series by Renault, 
BT Sport take world feed images but produce their own commentary, usually 
from Ben Evans and a journalist or racing driver. Highlights packages are 
also shown on BT Sport for series such as BRDC Formula 4 Championship, 
FIA European Formula Three Championship and the British Formula Three Championship. 
BT Sport shows extensive coverage of American sports, including Major League 
Baseball, NBA, American College Sports, Major League Lacrosse, and X Games. 
Also ESPN-produced American sports magazines, such as College Gameday and 
Baseball Tonight, are shown, often live. The majority of American sports 
coverage is broadcast on BT Sport ESPN apart from the NBA which is usually 
shown on one of the main channels. BT Sport's weekday daytime schedules 
often include sporting action from yesteryear. Football features heavily 
and includes league matches from the 1970s and 1980s from both the ITV 
Sport and the BBC's Match of the Day archives. Also featured are FA Cup 
finals from the 1970s to the present day and UEFA Champions League matches. 
Other sporting action includes boxing matches from the ESPN archives as 
well as old MotoGP races. Here is a list of the major sports rights BT 
