Bucks County is a county located in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As 
of the 2010 census, the population was 625,249,[2] making it the fourth-most 
populous county in Pennsylvania and the 98th-most populous county in the 
United States. The county seat is Doylestown.[3] The county is named after 
the English county of Buckinghamshire. Bucks County is included in the 
Philadelphia–Camden–Wilmington, PA–NJ–DE–MD Metropolitan Statistical Area, 
more commonly known as the "Delaware Valley". It is located immediately 
northeast of Philadelphia and forms part of the southern tip of the eastern 
state border. Bucks County is one of the three original counties created 
by colonial proprietor William Penn in 1682. Penn named the county after 
Buckinghamshire, the county where he lived in England. He built a country 
estate called Pennsbury Manor in Falls Township, Bucks County. Some places 
in Bucks County were named after locations in Buckinghamshire, including 
Buckingham Township, named after the county town of Buckinghamshire; Chalfont, 
named after Chalfont St Giles, the parish home of William Penn's first 
wife and the location of the Jordans Quaker Meeting House, where Penn is 
buried; Solebury Township, named after Soulbury, England; and Wycombe, 
named after the town of High Wycombe. Bucks County was originally much 
larger than it is today. Northampton County was formed in 1752 from part 
of Bucks County, and Lehigh County was formed in 1812 from part of Northampton 
County. General George Washington and his troops camped in Bucks County 
as they prepared to cross the Delaware River to take Trenton, New Jersey, 
by surprise on the morning of December 26, 1776. Their successful attack 
on Britain's Hessian forces was a turning point in the American War of 
Independence. The town of Washington Crossing, Pennsylvania and Washington 
Crossing Historic Park were named to commemorate the event. According to 
the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 622 square miles 
(1,610 km2), of which 604 square miles (1,560 km2) is land and 18 square 
miles (47 km2) (2.8%) is water.[4] The southern third of the county between 
Philadelphia and Trenton, New Jersey, often called Lower Bucks, resides 
in the Atlantic Coastal Plain, and is flat and near sea level, and the 
county's most populated and industrialized area. Bucks County shares a 
western border with Montgomery County, and also borders Philadelphia to 
the southwest, and Northampton and Lehigh Counties to the north. From north 
to south, it is linked to Warren, Hunterdon, Mercer and Burlington Counties 
in New Jersey by bridges. Tohickon Creek and Neshaminy Creek are the largest 
tributaries of the Delaware in Bucks County. Tohickon Creek empties into 
the river at Point Pleasant and Neshaminy at Croydon (Bristol Township). 
As of the 2010 census, there were 625,249 people. The population density 
was 1,034.7 people per square mile. The racial makeup of the county was 
86.6% White non-Hispanic, 3.9% Black or African American, 0.3% Native American, 
4.1% Asian (2.1% Indian, 1.1% Chinese, 0.7% Korean, 0.5% Filipino, 0.3% 
Vietnamese, 0.1% Japanese, 0.4% other Asian) 0.1% Pacific Islander, 1.7% 
were of two or more races, and 1.5% were of other races. 4.4% of the population 
were Hispanic or Latino of any race. As of the census[10] of 2000, there 
were 218,725 households, and 160,981 families residing in the county. There 
were 225,498 housing units at an average density of 371 per square mile 
(143/km²). 20.1% were of German, 19.1% Irish, 14.0% Italian, 7.5% English 
and 5.9% Polish ancestry, according to Census 2000. There were 218,725 
households, out of which 35.30% had children under the age of 18 living 
with them, 61.20% were married couples living together, 8.80% had a female 
householder with no husband present, and 26.40% were non-families. 21.50% 
of all households were made up of individuals and 8.10% had someone living 
alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 
2.69 and the average family size was 3.17. In the county, the population 
was spread out with 25.70% under the age of 18, 7.00% from 18 to 24, 30.70% 
from 25 to 44, 24.30% from 45 to 64, and 12.40% who were 65 years of age 
or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females there were 
96.30 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 93.40 males. 
The median income for a household in the county is $59,727, and the median 
income for a family is $68,727. Males had a median income of $46,587 versus 
$31,984 for females. The per capita income for the county was $27,430. 
About 3.10% of families and 4.50% of the population were below the poverty 
line, including 4.80% of those under age 18 and 5.50% of those age 65 or 
over. Like the rest of the Philadelphia region, Bucks County has experienced 
a rapid increase of immigrants since the 2000 census. Known for its very 
large and established Eastern European population, most notably the Russian 
community, but also for its Ukrainian and Polish communities, Bucks County 
is now seeing a rapid surge of other immigrant groups. A 2005 population 
estimate of Bucks showed that the Indian and Mexican populations had already 
doubled since 2000. Bucks County is one of only two counties in Pennsylvania 
where Mexicans are the largest Hispanic community, the other being Montgomery 
County. Bucks County also is home to large and very prominent Roman Catholic 
and Jewish populations. The 2013 population estimate of Bucks County Pennsylvania 
was 626,976. This ranked the county fourth in the state, well behind (more 
than 10%) the counties of Philadelphia with 1,553,165 (247% of Bucks), 
Allegheny with 1,231,527 (196%), Montgomery with 812,376 (130%), and well 
ahead of Delaware with 561,973 (89.6%).[2] Growth began in the early 1950s, 
when William Levitt chose Bucks County for his second "Levittown". Levitt 
bought hundreds of acres of woodlands and farmland, and constructed 17,000 
homes and dozens of schools, parks, libraries, and shopping centers. By 
the time the project ended, the population of Levittown had swelled to 
almost 74,000 residents. At the time, only whites could buy homes. This 
rule however, was soon overturned. Other planned developments included 
Croydon and Fairless Hills. This rapid sprawl continued until the mid-1960s. 
In the 1970s, a second growth spurt began. This time, developers took land 
in townships that were mostly untouched. These included Middletown, Lower 
Makefield Township, Northampton Township and Newtown Township. Tract housing, 
office complexes, shopping centers, and sprawling parking lots continued 
to move more and more towards Upper Bucks, swallowing horse farms, sprawling 
forests, and wetlands. At this time, the Oxford Valley Mall was constructed 
in Middletown, which would become the business nucleus of the county. Growth 
has somewhat stabilized since the 1990s, with smaller increases and less 
development. However, the main reason for this is not a lack of population 
growth, but loss of land. Lower Bucks now lacks large parcels of land to 
develop. Smaller residential and commercial projects must now be constructed. 
However, redevelopment is now a leading coalition in Lower Bucks. Many 
areas along the Delaware River have surpluses of abandoned industry, so 
many municipalities have granted building rights to luxury housing developers. 
Also, as the regions that began the suburban boom in Bucks, such as Levittown, 
begin to reach their 50th anniversaries, many commercial strips and other 
neglected structures are being torn down to be replaced with new shopping 
plazas and commercial chains. Also, with rising property values, areas 
with older construction are beginning to have a "rebirth". At the same 
time, Central and Upper Bucks are still seeing rapid growth, with many 
municipalities doubling their populations. The boroughs of Bristol and 
Morrisville were prominent industrial centers along the Northeast Corridor 
during World War II. Suburban development accelerated in Lower Bucks in 
the 1950s with the opening of Levittown, Pennsylvania, the second such 
"Levittown" designed by William Levitt. Among Bucks' largest employers 
in the twentieth century were U.S. Steel in Falls Township, and the Vulcanized 
Rubber & Plastics and Robertson Tile companies in Morrisville. Rohm and 
Haas continues to operate several chemical plants around Bristol. Waste 
Management operates a landfill in Tullytown that is the largest receptacle 
of out-of-state waste in the USA (receiving much of New York City's waste 
following the closure of Fresh Kills landfill in Staten Island, NY 40 miles 
(64 km) away).[citation needed] Bucks is also experiencing rapid growth 
in biotechnology, along with neighboring Montgomery County. The Greater 
Philadelphia area has become the second largest area of biotechnology in 
the United States, only behind Boston. It recently pushed San Francisco 
and Washington, D.C. to lower rankings. It is projected by 2020 that one 
out of four people in Bucks County will work in biotechnology.[11] Another 
important asset of the county is tourism. The county's northern regions 
(colloquially referred to as Upper Bucks) are renowned for their natural 
scenery, farmland, colonial history, and proximity to major urban areas 
(particularly Philadelphia, but New York City, Allentown, Reading and Atlantic 
City are also within a two-hour radius). Bucks County is home to ten covered 
bridges that are still open to vehicular traffic. Two other bridges, both 
located in parks, are open only to non-vehicular traffic. All Bucks County 
bridges use the Town truss design. The Schofield Ford Bridge, in Tyler 
State Park, was reconstructed in 1997 from the ground up after arsonists 
destroyed the original in 1991.[12] Popular attractions in Bucks County 
include the shops and studios of New Hope, Peddler's Village (in Lahaska), 
Washington Crossing Historic Park, New Hope and Ivyland Railroad , and 
Bucks County River Country. Rice's Market near Lahaska is a popular destination 
on Tuesday mornings. Quakertown Farmer's Market (locally called "Q-Mart") 
is a popular shopping destination on weekends. The county seat of Doylestown 
is also home to several points of interest for tourists, and also is home 
to Fordhook Farms, the famous trial farm of the Warminster-based Burpee 
Seeds, which also serves as a bed & breakfast inn. Doylestown also has 
the trifecta of concrete structures built by Henry Chapman Mercer, including 
the Moravian Pottery and Tile Works, the Mercer Museum and Fonthill, Mercer's 
personal home. Southern Bucks (colloquially referred to as Lower Bucks) 
is home to two important shopping centers, Neshaminy Mall and Oxford Valley 
Mall, and Sesame Place, a family theme park based on the Sesame Street 
television series. Also within Lower Bucks County is the newly constructed 
Parx Casino in Bensalem. The casino was built on the grounds of the Philadelphia 
Park Racetrack, a renowned horse-racing park. The complex includes the 
expansive casino, a dance club, and numerous dining options. The complex 
will soon include a shopping district, and 1200+ housing units. Parx is 
soon expected to rival the casinos in nearby Atlantic City. The Bucks County 
public schools listed above are served by a regional educational service 
agency called the Bucks County Intermediate Unit #22 located in the county 
seat of Doylestown. There are 11 public cyber charter schools in Pennsylvania 
that are available for free statewide, to children K–12. See: Education 
in Pennsylvania. Many artists and writers based in New York City have called 
Bucks County home, settling mainly in the small stretch between Doylestown 
and New Hope and along the Delaware River. Notable residents have included 
Margaret Mead, Pearl S. Buck, Oscar Hammerstein, II, Stephen Sondheim, 
Charlie Parker, Moss Hart, George S. Kaufman, James Michener, Dorothy Parker, 
S. J. Perelman, Stan and Jan Berenstain, Daniel Garber, Alfred Bester, 
Annie Haslam, and Jean Toomer. Bucks County has been the home of writer/musician 
James McBride, Academy Award-winning film composer Joe Renzetti, musician 
Gene Ween of Ween, painter Christopher Wajda, photographer Michael Barone, 
and furniture designer George Nakashima. James Gould Cozzens lived in Lambertville, 
New Jersey, just across the river from Bucks County, and used Doylestown 
as the model for the setting of two novels; he is considered a Bucks County 
artist. The county boasts many local theater companies, including the long-established 
and recently reopened Bucks County Playhouse in New Hope, Town and Country 
Players in Buckingham, ActorsNET in Morrisville, and the Bristol Riverside 
Theatre, a professional Equity theater in Bristol. The Bucks County Symphony, 
founded in 1953, performs in Doylestown throughout the year. The Wild River 
Review, an online magazine that publishes in-depth reporting, works of 
literature, art, visual art, reviews, interviews, and columns by and about 
contemporary artists, photographers, and writers, is based out of Doylestown. 
The seemingly autobiographical novel The Fires of Spring by James Michener 
takes place in and around Doylestown. Alecia Moore, more commonly known 
as Pink, was born in Doylestown, as was motion picture writer and director 
Stefan Avalos. Three American Idol contestants live in Bucks County: Justin 
Guarini, who was born in Atlanta, but moved to Bucks County; Jordan White, 
who was born in Cranford, New Jersey and moved to Bucks County, and Anthony 
Fedorov, who was born in Ukraine and was from Trevose, in Lower Southampton 
Township. Singer/actress Irene Molloy and classical tenor David Gordon 
were born in Doylestown. Musician Asher Roth was born in Morrisville. The 
Tony Award-winning Broadway play Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike is 
set in the county. M. Night Shyamalan's 2002 film Signs, starring Mel Gibson, 
was filmed and takes place in Bucks County. The town scenes were filmed 
on State Street in Newtown Borough, and the drugstore scene was filmed 
at Burns' Pharmacy on Pennsylvania Avenue in Morrisville. The house was 
built on farmland privately owned and leased to Delaware Valley College 
in Doylestown Township. A stage set for some interior shots was created 
in a warehouse on State Road in Bensalem Township. Shyamalan's film Lady 
in the Water was shot across the street from the Bloomsdale section of 
Bristol Township. In addition, Shyamalan's 2008 film, The Happening, was 
filmed in Upper Bucks County, including Plumsteadville.[14][15] With the 
exception of the footage filmed in the New Jersey Pine Barrens, all of 
The Last Broadcast was shot in Bucks County (though the name was changed). 
A short scene from Stephen King's The Stand is based in Pipersville. The 
producer Fred Bauer, the director Steve Rash and composer Joseph Renzetti 
of The Buddy Holly Story all live in Bucks County, where the film was conceived, 
and written by Bob Gittler. Although filmed in California, one of Steven 
Spielberg's earliest films, Something Evil, is set in Bucks County. The 
film Law Abiding Citizen, starring Gerard Butler and Jamie Foxx, was filmed 
partially in New Hope.[16] The NBC pilot episode for Outlaw, starring Jimmy 
Smits, filmed in the Andalusia section of Bensalem Township March 22–23, 
2010.[17][18] The feature film The Discoverers[19] was filmed in a variety 
of locations in Bucks County, including Croydon, Bristol, Newtown, New 
Hope, and Tyler State Park.[20][21] The Central Bucks West football team 
was followed during the 1999 season for the documentary The Last Game. 
It was directed by T. Patrick Murray and Alex Weinress.[22] The County 
Fair scene in Charlotte's Web was filmed at the Southampton Days fair in 
Southampton, Bucks County. The majority of the independent Titanic film 
The Last Signals by Tom Lynskey was filmed in Bucks County.[23] The 1942 
film George Washington Slept Here was set chiefly in Bucks County, although 
most of the filming took place in the studio. Safe, starring Jason Statham, 
filmed at the Parx Casino and Racing in Bensalem Township.[24] Bucks County 
has been mentioned multiple times on the popular Freeform TV series Pretty 
Little Liars. Local publications include Bucks County Courier Times, The 
Intelligencer, The Advance of Bucks County, Bucks County Herald, Bucks 
County Town and Country Living, LifeStyle Magazine, Nouveau, "Radius Magazine", 
Latitude Magazine" and BUCKS Magazine. The Bucks County Sharks rugby league 
team played in the AMNRL from 1997 to 2010 season.[25] They returned to 
play in the AMNRL in 2011, until the league's fold in 2014, when they subsequently 
joined the USARL.[26] The county has a considerable history of producing 
Little League baseball contenders. Since its inception in 1947, four of 
the seven Pennsylvania teams to compete in the Little League World Series 
in Williamsport, Pennsylvania have come from Bucks County: Morrisville 
(1955), Levittown American (1960 and 1961), and Council Rock-Newtown (2005). 
Two of these squads, Morrisville and Levittown (1960), went on to win the 
World Series title. In 2007, Council Rock Northampton won the PA State 
championship, and lost in the finals of regionals. The county is a part 
of PIAA's District I, and has seen many schools capture multiple state 
titles. In 1996, Yardley Western Post 317 won the American Legion National 
Championship. Bristol Legion Post 382 recently won the 2011 American Legion 
State Championship. There are six commonwealth-owned parks in Bucks County: 
As of January 2010, there are 430,557 registered voters in Bucks County.[29] 
Like most of the Philadelphia suburbs, Bucks County was once a stronghold 
for the Republican Party. However, in recent years it has become more of 
a swing county, like Pennsylvania at large. In presidential elections, 
Bucks has been swept up in the overall Democratic trend that has swept 
the Philadelphia area, although the trend in Bucks has been somewhat less 
pronounced than in Delaware and Montgomery. It has gone Democratic in every 
presidential election since 1992. Nonetheless, Republicans hold most county 
offices. As in most suburban Philadelphia counties, Republicans tend to 
be conservative on fiscal matters and moderate on social and environmental 
matters. All four statewide winners (Barack Obama for President, Rob McCord 
for Treasurer, Jack Wagner for Auditor General, and Tom Corbett for Attorney 
General) carried Bucks in November 2008. Earlier in 2008, Democrats took 
a plurality of registered voters. The GOP statewide candidates in the 2010 
midterms, Tom Corbett for Governor and Pat Toomey for Senate, both won 
Bucks. Bucks County is represented in U.S. Congress by Pennsylvania's 8th 
congressional district. (map). While concerns about gerrymandering are 
on the rise, the 8th District remains one of the few districts in the United 
States that is almost fully encompassed by a single county. In order to 
comply with population requirements, the Bucks County-dominated 8th Congressional 
district also includes slightly over 100,000 residents of upper Montgomery 
County. The executive government is run by a three-seat board of commissioners, 
one member of which serves as chairperson. Commissioners are elected through 
at-large voting and serve four-year terms. In cases of vacancy, a panel 
of county judges appoints members to fill seats. The current commissioners 
are Charles H. Martin (R) (Chairman), Robert G. Loughery (R) (Vice-Chairman), 
and Diane M. Ellis-Marseglia (D). The current terms expire in January 2016.[30] 
In 2012, four county employees were sentenced for compensating public employees 
for political work.[31] Under Pennsylvania law, there are four types of 
incorporated municipalities: cities, boroughs, townships, and, in at most 
two cases, towns. The most populous borough in the county is Morrisville 
with 10,023 as of the 2000 census. The following boroughs and townships 
are located in Bucks County: Census-designated places are geographical 
areas designated by the U.S. Census Bureau for the purposes of compiling 
demographic data. They are not actual jurisdictions under Pennsylvania 
law. Other unincorporated communities, such as villages, may be listed 
here as well. The population ranking of the following table is based on 
the 2010 census of Bucks County.[32] † county seat The traditional seal 
of Bucks County, Pennsylvania takes its design from the inspiration of 
the county's founder, William Penn. The center of the seal consists of 
a shield from the Penn family crest with a tree above and a flowering vine 
surrounding it in symmetric flanks. The seal has a gold-colored background 
and a green band denoting Penn as the county's first proprietor and governor. 
In 1683, Penn's council decreed that a tree and vine be incorporated into 
the emblem to signify the county's abundance of woods. The seal was used 
in its official capacity until the Revolutionary War. The county government 
has since used the official Pennsylvania state seal for official documents. 
Today, the Bucks County seal's use is largely ceremonial. It appears on 
county stationery and vehicles as a symbol of the county's heritage. The 
gold emblem is also the centerpiece of the official Bucks County flag, 
which has a blue background and gold trim. Coordinates: 40°20′N 75°07′W﻿ 
