Bucknell University is a private liberal arts college located alongside 
the West Branch Susquehanna River in the town of Lewisburg, in central 
Pennsylvania, United States. The university consists of the College of 
Arts and Sciences, School of Management, and the College of Engineering. 
Bucknell was founded in 1846, and features programs in the arts, humanities, 
sciences, social sciences, engineering, management, education, and music, 
as well as programs and pre-professional advising that prepare students 
for study in law and medicine. It offers nearly 50 majors and over 60 minors. 
It is primarily an undergraduate school (with about 3,600 students), and 
has about 50 graduate students. Students come from all 50 states and from 
more than 66 countries.[7] Bucknell has nearly 200 student organizations 
and a large Greek presence. The school's mascot is Bucky the Bison and 
the school is a member of the Patriot League in NCAA Division I athletics. 
Founded in 1846 as the University at Lewisburg, Bucknell traces its origination 
to a group of Baptists from White Deer Valley Baptist Church who deemed 
it "desirable that a Literary Institution should be established in Central 
Pennsylvania, embracing a High School for male pupils, another for females, 
a College and also a Theological Institution."[8] The group’s efforts for 
the institution began to crystallize in 1845, when Stephen William Taylor, 
a professor at Madison University (now Colgate University) in Hamilton, 
New York, was asked to prepare a charter and act as general agent for the 
development of the university. The charter for the University at Lewisburg, 
granted by the Pennsylvania General Assembly and approved by the governor 
on February 5, 1846, carried one stipulation–that $100,000 ($2,638,148 
today) be raised before the new institution would be granted full corporate 
status. More than 4,000 subscribers ultimately contributed, including a 
small boy who gave 12 cents ($3 today). In 1846, the "school preparatory 
to the University" opened in the basement of the First Baptist Church in 
Lewisburg. Known originally as the Lewisburg High School, it became in 
1848 the Academical and Primary Department of the University at Lewisburg.[9] 
In 1850, the department moved into the first building completed on campus, 
now called Taylor Hall. Built for $8,000 ($227,936 today), the building 
housed both women's and men’s studies until the opening of the Female Institute 
in 1852. While studying together, women were required to face east while 
men faced west. The school’s first commencement was held on August 20, 
1851, for a graduation class of seven men. Among the board members attending 
was James Buchanan, who would become the 15th President of the United States. 
Stephen Taylor officiated as his last act before assuming office as president 
of Madison University. One day earlier, the trustees had elected Howard 
Malcom as the first president of the university, a post he held for six 
years. Although the Female Institute began instruction in 1852, it wasn’t 
until 1883 that college courses were opened to women. Bucknell, though, 
was committed to equal educational opportunities for women. This commitment 
was reflected in the words of David Jayne Hill of the Class of 1874, and 
president of the university from 1879 to 1888: "We need in Pennsylvania, 
in the geographical centre of the state, a University, not in the German 
but in the American sense, where every branch of non-professional knowledge 
can be pursued, regardless of distinction of sex. I have no well-matured 
plan to announce as to the sexes; but the Principal of the Female Seminary 
proposes to inaugurate a course for females equal to that pursued at Vassar; 
the two sexes having equal advantages, though not reciting together."[10] 
Within five years of opening, enrollment had grown so sharply that the 
university built a new hall–Larison Hall–to accommodate the Female Institute. 
Women could venture into town only in the company of a female teacher who 
had a minimum of six years’ experience in handling girls. In 1881, facing 
dire financial circumstances, the university turned to William Bucknell, 
a charter member of the board of trustees, for help. His donation of $50,000 
($1,228,103 today) saved the university from ruin. In 1886, in recognition 
of Bucknell's support of the school, the trustees voted unanimously to 
change the name of the University at Lewisburg to Bucknell University. 
Bucknell Hall, the first of several buildings given to the university by 
Bucknell, was initially a chapel and for more than a half century the site 
of student theatrical and musical performances. Today, it houses the Stadler 
Center for Poetry.[11] The 40 years from 1890 until 1930 saw a steady increase 
in the number of faculty members and students. When the Depression brought 
a drop in enrollment in 1933, several members of the faculty were "loaned" 
to found a new institution: Bucknell Junior College in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. 
Today, that institution is a four-year university, Wilkes University, independent 
of Bucknell since 1947. Significant new construction in the 1970s included 
the Elaine Langone Center, the Gerhard Fieldhouse, and the Computer Center. 
During the early 1980s, the capacity of the Bertrand Library was doubled 
and facilities for engineering were substantially renovated. In 1988, the 
Weis Center for the Performing Arts was completed. New facilities for the 
sciences included the renovation of the Olin Science Building, the construction 
of the Rooke Chemistry Building in 1990 and the completion of a new Biology 
Building in 1991. The McDonnell Residence Hall and Weis Music Building 
were completed in 2000. In addition, the O'Leary Building for Psychology 
and Geology opened in the fall of 2002 and the new Kenneth Langone Recreational 
Athletic Center opened during the 2002–03 academic year.The most recent 
facility, the Breakiron Engineering Building, opened in 2004.[12] On April 
29, 2006, the Board of Trustees unanimously approved "The Plan for Bucknell," 
which calls for improvement in five areas: strengthening the academic core 
curriculum, deepening the residential learning experience, enhancing diversity, 
building bridges with the local community, and securing Bucknell's financial 
future.[13] Bucknell has a 450-acre (180 ha) campus comprising more than 
100 buildings. New facilities for the sciences included the renovation 
of the Olin Science Building (which is located across from the Dana Engineering 
building), the construction of the Rooke Chemistry Building in 1990, and 
the completion of a new Biology Building in 1991. The McDonnell Residence 
Hall and Weis Music Building were completed in 2000. In addition, the O'Leary 
Building for Psychology and Geology opened in the fall of 2002. The Breakiron 
Engineering Building opened in 2004. Academic West, the newest facility, 
opened in fall 2013. It added 70,000 square feet (6,500 m2) of academic 
space; 16,200 square feet (1,510 m2) of which are classroom and hearth 
spaces. Academic West is home to the economics, geography, international 
relations, Latin American studies, political science, sociology/anthropology, 
and Environmental Studies Program.[14] The University’s first building, 
Taylor Hall, was constructed in 1848.[citation needed] It currently houses 
the School of Management.[15] The Kenneth Langone Athletics and Recreation 
Center was completed in 2003. It and houses a state-of-the-art fitness 
center, Olympic-size pool, and the 4,000-seat Sojka Pavilion, home of the 
men's and women's basketball teams and named for Dr. Gary Allan Sojka, 
a former president of the university who remained at the university after 
the end of his term as a professor of biology, until his retirement in 
2006. Designed in Georgian colonial style, Rooke Chapel is the setting 
for campus worship, weddings, and celebrations. Attached to the chapel 
is a one-story wing which houses the meditation chapel and OCRL offices.[citation 
needed] The chapel was dedicated on October 25, 1965.[citation needed] 
The chapel was a gift of the late Robert L. Rooke, an alumnus of the class 
of 1913 and a member of the University's Board of Trustees. The chapel 
is named in memory of Mr. Rooke's parents.[citation needed] The main portion 
of the chapel includes the narthex, sanctuary, chancel area, organ chamber, 
choir rooms, and balconies that surround the sanctuary on three sides. 
Approximately 850 persons can be seated in the sanctuary and balconies.[16] 
Christy Mathewson-Memorial Stadium is a 13,100-seat multi-purpose stadium 
in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. Originally built in 1924, the stadium was renovated 
and renamed in honor of Mathewson in 1989. It is home to the Bucknell University 
Bison football team and the Lewisburg High School Green Dragons football 
team. It is named for Christy Mathewson, a Bucknell alumnus who went on 
to become a Hall of Fame pitcher for the New York Giants in the early 20th 
century.[citation needed] Bucknell offers 44 majors and 70 minors.[17] 
The College comprises the three traditional liberal arts divisions: humanities, 
social sciences, and natural sciences and mathematics with over 275 faculty 
members in 31 departments.[citation needed] Undergraduate research opportunities 
are available to students in all of the disciplines taught on campus. The 
overall curriculum of the College is the College Core Curriculum.[18] The 
Bucknell Environmental Center (BUEC) sponsored a symposium series on sustainability 
and the global environment and has major initiatives focused on the art, 
culture, and ecology of the Susquehanna River basin and the greening of 
the Bucknell Campus.[citation needed] In April, 2013, Bucknell partnered 
with nearby Geisinger Health System to create the Geisinger-Bucknell Autism 
and Developmental Medicine Institute (ADMI). This facility combines clinical 
treatment and interdisciplinary research on neurodevelopmental disorders. 
Bucknell has recently[when?] received a Solar Scholars grant and is building 
an experimental student housing unit that will rely primarily on renewable 
energy, including photovoltaics. Forty-five percent of Bucknell students 
study abroad.[19] The University sponsors semester-long programs in multiple 
locations. Among American schools that do not offer a Ph.D. in engineering, 
Bucknell ranks tied for 8th for 2016, according to U.S. News & World Report.[6] 
The same report ranked the Electrical Engineering program tied for 2nd, 
the Computer program 3rd, the Civil Engineering program 4th, and the Mechanical 
Engineering program tied for 7th.[6] There are two main engineering buildings 
on the Bucknell University campus. The two buildings are the Charles A. 
Dana Engineering Building and the Breakiron Engineering Building. Referred 
to by most students and faculty solely as "Dana" the Charles A. Dana Engineering 
Building was built in 1940 and expanded in 1985, while the fairly new Breakiron 
Engineering Building was built in 2003. Students can choose from four tracks, 
leading to the B.S.B.A. degree: managing for sustainability, markets innovation 
and design, global management or accounting. Students are admitted to the 
program as incoming first-year students or through a competitive selection 
process during the first semester of their sophomore year. A five-year, 
dual degree in Engineering and Management is available for engineers with 
management career goals. Bucknell ranks first among 213 baccalaureate liberal 
arts colleges for graduates who have earned Ph.D.s in Business and Management.[20] 
In its 2016 edition, U.S. News & World Report ranked Bucknell tied for 
32nd in the "National Liberal Arts Colleges" category.[6] In 2016, Forbes 
rated Bucknell 49th in its "America's Best Colleges" list.[24] For 2016, 
Kiplinger's Personal Finance ranked Bucknell 40th in terms of "Best Value 
among Liberal Arts Colleges in the U.S.," which took into account academic 
quality, cost and financial aid measures.[25] It is named one of the "Hidden 
Ivies", an institution that is claimed to provide an education comparable 
to that of Ivy League institutions.[26] The Princeton Review included Bucknell 
in its annual Best Value Colleges for 2012.[27] Bucknell is ranked 18th 
on Payscale's 2015-2016 list of Top Liberal Arts Colleges by Salary Potential.[28] 
On January 26, 2013, Bucknell officials admitted that the SAT scores that 
they had provided to the public had been inflated by 16 points, on average, 
between 2006 and 2012. "Enrollment management leadership no longer with 
the university prepared these inaccurate numbers," school president John 
Bravman wrote in an email to alumni.[29] As a result of the falsification 
of data, Forbes penalized Bucknell by removing it from the "America's Top 
Colleges" list for two years.[30] For the same reason, Kiplinger's Personal 
Finance removed Bucknell from its 2012 "Best Values in Private Colleges" 
list.[31] U.S. News & World Report classifies Bucknell's selectivity as 
"more selective."[6] For the Class of 2019 (enrolled fall 2015), Bucknell 
received 10,967 applications and accepted 2,718 (24.8%), with 938 enrolling.[32] 
The middle 50% range of SAT scores for the enrolled freshmen was 590-680 
for critical reading, 620-710 for math, and 590-690 for writing, while 
the ACT Composite range was 28–32.[32] The average high school Grade Point 
Average (GPA) of enrolled freshmen was 3.54.[32] On April 17, 1849, the 
trustees approved the current Bucknell seal. The seal shows the sun, an 
open book, and waves. The sun symbolizes the light of knowledge while the 
book represents education surmounting the storms and "waves" of life.[33] 
Bucknell's colors are orange and blue, being approved by a committee of 
students in 1887.[34] The bison is the current mascot of Bucknell University. 
In 1923, Dr. William Bartol suggested the animal due to Bucknell's location 
in the Buffalo Valley.[35] ’Ray Bucknell, ’Ray Bucknell, ’Ray for the Orange 
and the Blue, ’Ray, ’Ray, ’Ray, ’Ray, ’Ray for the Orange and the Blue.[36] 
Bucknell is a member of the Patriot League for Division I sports, (Division 
I FCS in football). Bucknell's traditional opponents include Lafayette 
College, Holy Cross, Lehigh University, Colgate University, and American 
University. The Bucknell football team won the first Orange Bowl 26–0, 
over the Miami Hurricanes on January 1, 1935. Bucknell won the first Division 
II NCAA swimming and diving championships in 1964. It is also the alma 
mater of baseball pitcher Christy Mathewson, who requested burial in a 
cemetery adjoining Bucknell's campus. In 2005, the men's basketball team 
went to the NCAA men's basketball tournament and became the first Patriot 
League team to win an NCAA tournament game, upsetting Kansas (64–63). The 
victory followed a year that included wins over #7 Pittsburgh and Saint 
Joseph's. They lost to Wisconsin in the following round but received the 
honor of "Best Upset" at the 2005 ESPY Awards.[37] First-year undergraduates 
are required to live on campus. The school guarantees on-campus housing 
for all four years. Some students choose to live off campus after their 
first year. The campus is roughly divided into "uphill" and "downhill" 
areas by a large slope between Moore Avenue and Dent Drive. The uphill 
area flanks U.S. Route 15 and the West Branch Susquehanna River and features 
many of the academic buildings, including the main academic quadrangle, 
the Observatory, and library as well as some dormitories, Christy Mathewson–Memorial 
Stadium, and Fraternity Road. Downhill borders the Victorian-era neighborhoods 
of downtown Lewisburg and features mainly residential buildings, including 
the majority of first-year dormitories, the Gateway apartment complex, 
the President's house, many of the indoor athletic facilities, and Hunt 
Hall, home to the school's sororities. Bucknell West, which is separated 
from the rest of campus by Route 15, features some housing, athletic fields, 
art and psychology/animal behavior laboratories, and an 18-hole golf course. 
All on-campus students must purchase a campus meal plan. There are several 
dining options on campus for students, including the Bostwick Cafeteria, 
Bison snack bar, and Terrace Room in the Langone Student Center, and the 
Library and 7th Street Cafe. In spring 2012, Bucknell unveiled their first 
food truck, the Flying Bison.[38] The menu includes lunch items and a special 
late night (Midnight - 3:00 a.m.) menu.[39] Because of its rural location 
and lack of nearby large cities (Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is located about 
one hour south), Bucknell may seem fairly isolated. However, its more than 
130 student organizations, a historical downtown movie theater, many student 
performances, and year-end formal ball provide students with a wide array 
of activities. Downtown Lewisburg is a short walking distance from the 
campus and features a variety of shops, museums, galleries, and restaurants 
in addition to old-fashioned gingerbread houses. Spratt House is the home 
of the University's Army Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program. 
Bucknell's student newspaper, The Bucknellian, is printed weekly. Its radio 
station is WVBU-FM. Bucknell has active religious life involvement on campus. 
Groups such as Bucknell University Catholic Campus Ministry, Rooke Chapel 
Congregation, Muslim Students' Association, and Hillel are available to 
students for spiritual and personal growth. The university also has a lively 
Greek life. Students cannot "rush" until the first semester of their sophomore 
year, but approximately 50 percent of eligible students join the school's 
13 fraternities and 9 sororities. Active Fraternities: Active Sororities: 
Alumni of Bucknell University include world-renowned novelist Philip Roth 
(class of 1954), actors Ralph Waite (1952) and Edward Herrman (1965), CBS 
Television CEO Leslie Moonves (1971), longtime New Jersey congressman Rob 
Andrews (1979), and 2016 Pulitzer Prize winner for Poetry, Peter Balakian. 
Notable Bucknell University attendees include National Baseball Hall of 
