George Daniel "Buck" Weaver (August 18, 1890 – January 31, 1956) was an 
American shortstop and third baseman in Major League Baseball who played 
his entire career for the Chicago White Sox. Weaver played for the 1917 
World Series champion White Sox, then was one of the eight players banned 
from the Major Leagues for his connection to the 1919 Black Sox Scandal. 
Weaver was born in Pottstown, Pennsylvania and began his major league career 
on April 11, 1912 as a shortstop for the White Sox. Weaver switched to 
third base in 1917 after Swede Risberg joined the team. An excellent fielder, 
Weaver was known as the only third baseman in the league against whom Ty 
Cobb would not bunt.[1] He led the majors in sacrifice hits in 1915 and 
1916. In the famous 1919 World Series, Weaver batted .324, tallying 11 
hits. He also played errorless ball, lending credence to his lifelong claim 
that he had nothing to do with the fix. After the Series was over, many 
suspicious reporters made allusions to a possible fix. However some sportwriters 
praised Weaver for his efforts all along during the World Series. Ross 
Tenney of the Cincinnati Post wrote: Though they are hopeless and heartless, 
the White Sox have a hero. He is George Weaver, who plays and fights at 
third base. Day after day Weaver has done his work and smiled. In spite 
of the certain fate that closed about the hopes of the Sox, Weaver smiled 
and scrapped. One by one his mates gave up. Weaver continued to grin and 
fought harder….Weaver's smile never faded. His spirit never waned….The 
Reds have beaten the spirit out of the Sox all but Weaver. Buck's spirit 
is untouched. He was ready to die fighting. Buck is Chicago's one big hero; 
long may he fight and smile.[2][3] Despite this, Weaver was banned by Commissioner 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis for having knowledge of the fix and failing to 
tell team officials. Weaver successfully sued White Sox owner Charles Comiskey 
for his 1921 salary. When Shoeless Joe Jackson did the same, the jury voted 
11–1 in favor of Jackson. However, the judge set aside the jury verdict 
after Comiskey produced Jackson's grand jury testimony about the fix. Despite 
this success, however, Comiskey made no attempt to offer the confessions 
as evidence to obtain a similar ruling against Weaver. Weaver applied six 
times for reinstatement to baseball before his death from a heart attack 
on January 31, 1956, at age 65. One notable attempt to get reinstated came 
in 1927 in the wake of Tris Speaker/Ty Cobb betting scandal.[2] After this 
attempt failed, Weaver returned to Chicago and decided to play in the minor 
leagues again.[2] Later in life, Weaver contacted a New York City attorney 
who vowed to get him reinstated.[2] Weaver sent his legal papers and correspondence 
to New York, however, they were never returned;[2] to this day, baseball 
historians have been unable to find Buck's legal files.[2] Weaver was the 
third of the eight suspended "Black Sox" (after Shoeless Joe Jackson in 
1951 and Fred McMullin in 1952) to die. Many parts of the story portrayed 
in the 1988 movie Eight Men Out are told from Buck Weaver's point of view, 
with Weaver being played by John Cusack. Harry Stein also used Weaver as 
a co-narrator in his critically acclaimed Black Sox novel Hoopla (1983), 
where Stein's Weaver reiterates that his loyalty to his teammates compelled 
him not to inform baseball authorities about the Series fix. With the 2005 
World Series set to begin and the White Sox about to capture their first 
championship since 1917, Chicago Tribune columnist Mike Downey implored 
commissioner Bud Selig to rescind Weaver's ban. His column of October 20, 
2005 cited catcher Ray Schalk's condemnation of "the seven" Sox in on the 
fix, not eight. Weaver's niece, Pat Anderson, told Downey: "You can't understand 
why someone else would be so obtuse. Some of these commissioners, it's 
like they put a brown paper bag over their heads." Another niece, Marge 
Follett, came to the 2003 All-Star Game at the White Sox park to personally 
appeal to the commissioner for her uncle's reinstatement. The Tribune reported 
a quote from Weaver: "There are murderers who serve a sentence and then 
get out. I got life." Weaver is buried at Mt. Hope Cemetery near 115th 
Street on Chicago's South Side. His grave marker reads, simply: "HUSBAND 
