Thomas Joseph "Buck" O'Brien (May 9, 1882 – July 25, 1959) was a starting 
pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Boston Red Sox and 
Chicago White Sox. O'Brien got a late start in professional baseball. However, 
as a spitballer, he did have tremendous success for a few years. In 1910, 
when he was 28 years old, he went 20–10 for Hartford of the Connecticut 
State League.[1] In 1911, he was 26–7 for the Western League's Denver Grizzlies, 
leading the league in winning percentage and strikeouts. The Grizzlies 
won 111 games en route to the league championship.[2] In September of that 
year, O'Brien made his major league debut with the Red Sox and went 5–1 
with a 0.38 earned run average. The next season, he was in the starting 
rotation, including the first game ever played at Fenway Park on April 
20, 1912.[3] In 34 starts and 275 innings pitched, O'Brien won 20 games 
with a 2.58 ERA and 115 strikeouts; he finished in the top 10 in the American 
League in all five categories. The Red Sox went 105–47 to win the AL pennant. 
O'Brien started Game 3 of the 1912 World Series against the New York Giants, 
but lost. Boston eventually took a 3–1 series lead, with ace pitcher Smokey 
Joe Wood slated to start Game 6. However, club owner Jimmy McAleer wanted 
the series to go back to Boston so he could get the gate receipts; he ordered 
manager Jake Stahl to start O'Brien instead of Wood. Buck, not knowing 
that he was going to pitch, was hungover the day of the game.[2] He gave 
up three earned runs in the first inning, and Boston lost. Despite this, 
the Red Sox ended up defeating the Giants. By the next season, hitters 
seemed to have O'Brien's spitball figured out. He went 4–9 before being 
sold to the White Sox, and just one year after winning 20 games, his major 
league career ended. O'Brien died in Boston at age 77. Buck had five sons, 
Thomas "Buck" O’Brien, Billy O’Brien who was killed in the Battle of the 
Bulge, Robert O’Brien (who was killed in an accident as a child), Francis, 
and John (Bucky) O’Brien. He also had three daughters Rose Moran, Marguerite 
O’Brien, and Joan Murray. John O’Brien had six children, Jacqueline Levangie 
(three children Philip, Shannon, and Tara); Kathleen Johnson (one child 
Sean, and Sean's daughter Calla); Joseph O’Brien[4] (hall of fame member 
at Boston College for pitching and quarterback, two sons Joseph and Michael), 
GiGi Green (three sons Joe, Patrick, and Brendan); John O’Brien (three 
girls Genevieve, KellyRose, and Brenna); and Thomas J. O’Brien (daughter 
Brehan and son Jake who was captain of BU's basketball team.) Rose Moran 
had four children, Billy, Brian, Maureen, and Nancy. Joan Murray had three, 
