Negro leagues Other Walter Fenner "Buck" Leonard (September 8, 1907 – November 
27, 1997) was an American first baseman in Negro league baseball and in 
the Mexican League. After growing up in North Carolina, he played for the 
Homestead Grays between 1934 and 1950, batting fourth behind Josh Gibson 
for many years. The Grays teams of the 1930s and 1940s were considered 
some of the best teams in Negro league history. Leonard never played in 
Major League Baseball (MLB); he declined a 1952 offer of an MLB contract 
because he felt he was too old. Late in life, Leonard worked as a physical 
education instructor and was the vice-president of a minor league baseball 
team. He and Gibson were elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1972. 
In 1999, he was ranked number 47 on the 100 Greatest Baseball Players list 
by The Sporting News. Born in Rocky Mount, North Carolina,[1] Leonard's 
father worked as a railroad fireman while his mother was a homemaker who 
cared for the six Leonard children. Leonard's parents called him "Buddy", 
but his younger brother began mispronouncing it "Bucky". Family members 
began calling him "Buck", a name which stuck with him throughout his life.[2] 
When Leonard was about seven years old, he would sneak over to the baseball 
field of the local white team and watch games through the fence. Local 
police even once arrested Leonard and his friends when they were caught 
peeking through the fence at the segregated field.[3] Leonard's father 
died when he was eleven and Leonard picked up jobs after school to help 
his family. There was no black high school in Rocky Mount, so Leonard finished 
the eighth grade and went to work shining shoes for a rail station.[4] 
He also worked in a hosiery mill and for the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad. 
He later earned a GED by correspondence. He began playing semiprofessional 
baseball while working for the railroad, then decided to pursue his living 
with the sport.[5] He began his Negro league career in 1933 with the Brooklyn 
Royal Giants, then moved to the legendary Homestead Grays in 1934, the 
team he played for until his retirement in 1950. The Grays of the late 
1930s through the mid-1940s are considered one of the greatest teams of 
any race ever assembled. The team won nine league pennants in a row during 
that time.[6] Leonard batted fourth in their lineup behind Josh Gibson. 
He led the Negro leagues in batting average in 1948 with a mark of .395, 
and usually either led the league in home runs or finished second in homers 
to teammate Gibson. Since Gibson was known as the "Black Babe Ruth" and 
Leonard was a first baseman, Buck Leonard was inevitably called the "Black 
Lou Gehrig." Together, the pair was colloquially known as the "Thunder 
Twins" or "Dynamite Twins".[7] In fact, Negro league star Monte Irvin said 
that if Leonard had been allowed in the major leagues, baseball fans "might 
have called Lou Gehrig the white Buck Leonard. He was that good."[6] The 
Monarchs disbanded after 1950.[8] Beginning in 1951, Leonard went to the 
Mexican League. Teams played three games per week in this league, a pace 
that worked well for the aging player.[9] Leonard said that he got sick 
from the water every year that he returned to Mexico, but he otherwise 
enjoyed the league. For much of his time in Mexico, he was managed by Cuban 
baseball star Martín Dihigo. Leonard was impressed by Dihigo's baseball 
knowledge. In 1952, Leonard was offered a major league contract, but he 
believed that at age 45 he was too old and might embarrass himself and 
hurt the cause of integration. He stayed in Mexico through 1955, playing 
for teams in Torreón, Xalapa, Durango and Obregón.[10] After retiring as 
a player, Leonard worked as a truant officer, served as a physical education 
instructor and started a realty company. He was vice president of the Rocky 
Mount Leafs, a minor league baseball team.[5] In the 1970s, the Leafs were 
a Class A farm team for the Detroit Tigers.[11] Leonard was elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1972 along with Gibson. At his induction ceremony 
on August 7 of that year, Leonard said, "We in the Negro leagues felt like 
we were contributing something to baseball, too, when we were playing. 
We played with a round ball and we played with a round bat. And we wore 
baseball shoes and wore baseball uniforms and we thought we were making 
a contribution to baseball. We loved the game and we liked to play it. 
If we didn't, we wouldn't have played because there wasn't any money in 
it."[8] Leonard was also inducted into the North Carolina Sports Hall of 
Fame in 1974.[5] He suffered a stroke in the 1980s.[5] In 1994, the Major 
League Baseball All-Star Game was held in Pittsburgh, hometown of the Grays, 
and the 88-year-old Leonard was named an honorary captain. He appeared 
wearing a model of a Grays uniform. Shortly before his death in 1997, Leonard 
was the subject of a North Carolina General Assembly proclamation recognizing 
his contributions to baseball. His death late that year stemmed from complications 
of his earlier stroke.[5] In 1999, he ranked Number 47 on The Sporting 
News' list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, one of five players so 
honored who played all or most of their careers in the Negro leagues, and 
was nominated as a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team. 
Leonard's contemporaries, including catcher Roy Campanella and pitcher 
Dave Barnhill, cited his quick bat as one of his greatest strengths. "You 
could put a fastball in a shotgun and you couldn't shoot it by him," Barnhill 
said.[6] Negro league pitcher Leon Day said that he would have rather pitched 
against Gibson than Leonard.[6] Grays owner Cumberland Posey described 
Leonard as one of the most talented clutch hitters in the Negro leagues.[6] 
The first official statistics for the Negro leagues were compiled as part 
of a statistical study sponsored by the National Baseball Hall of Fame 
and supervised by Larry Lester and Dick Clark; a research team collected 
statistics from thousands of boxscores of league-sanctioned games.[12] 
The first results from this study were the statistics for Negro league 
Hall of Famers elected prior to 2006, which were published in Shades of 
Glory by Lawrence D. Hogan. These statistics include the official Negro 
