John W. "Bud" Fowler (March 16, 1858 – February 26, 1913) was an African-American 
baseball player, field manager, and club organizer. He is the earliest 
known African-American player in organized professional baseball; that 
is, the major leagues and affiliated minor leagues. He played more seasons 
and more games in organized baseball than any African American until Jackie 
Robinson played his 11th season in 1956. The son of a fugitive hop-picker 
and barber, Bud Fowler was christened John W. Jackson.[1] His father had 
escaped from slavery and migrated to New York. In 1859, his family moved 
from Fort Plain, New York, to Cooperstown. He learned to play baseball 
during his youth in Cooperstown. It is unknown why he adopted the name 
"Bud Fowler", although biographer L. Robert Davids claims he was nicknamed 
"Bud" because he called the other players by that name. Fowler first played 
for an all-white professional team based out of New Castle, Pennsylvania 
in 1872, when he was 14 years old.[2] He is documented as playing for another 
professional team early in 1878, when he was 20.[3] On April 24, 1878, 
he pitched a game for the Picked Nine, who defeated the Boston Red Caps, 
champions of the National League in 1877.[4] He pitched some more for the 
Chelsea team, then finished that season with the Worcester club. Largely 
supporting himself as a barber, Fowler continued to play for baseball teams 
in New England and Canada for the next four years. He moved into the Midwest. 
In 1883, Fowler played for a team in Niles, Ohio; in 1884, he played for 
Stillwater, Minnesota, in the Northwestern League; Keokuk Indians in Iowa, 
1885 and, in 1888, he played for a team in Terre Haute, Indiana. Keokuk, 
Iowa had not had a professional baseball team since 1875. However, in 1885, 
local businessman R. W. "Nick" Curtis was the chief force behind starting 
a new team and hired Bud Fowler for it. Johnny Peters, the manager of the 
then-disbanded Stillwater, Minnesotateam, helped Fowler get connected with 
the new team in Keokuk. Fowler became the most popular player on the Keokuk 
team. The local newspaper, the Keokuk Gate City and Constitution, said 
of him, "a good ball player, a hard worker, a genius on the ball field, 
intelligent, gentlemanly in his conduct and deserving of the good opinion 
entertained for him by base ball admirers here." He also commented to the 
local newspaper on issues with the "reserve clause," the contractual mechanism 
that allowed teams to hold on to players for their entire career. Fowler 
stated, "...when a ball player signs a league contract they can do anything 
with him under its provisions but hang him."[5] The Western League folded 
that season due to financial reasons, leaving Keokuk without a league. 
Fowler was released and moved to play with a team in Pueblo, Colorado. 
In 1886 he played for a team in Topeka, Kansas. That team won the pennant 
behind Fowler's .309 average. He also led the league in triples. Eventually, 
Fowler moved to Binghamton, New York and played on a team there. Racial 
tensions arose and his teammates refused to continue playing with him. 
In 1895, he and Home Run Johnson formed the Page Fence Giants in Adrian, 
Michigan.[6] From 1894-1904, Fowler played and/or managed the Page Fence 
Giants,[7] Cuban Giants, the Smoky City Giants, the All-American Black 
Tourists, and the Kansas City Stars. Fowler died in Frankfort, New York, 
on February 26, 1913. In his last years, he suffered from illness and poverty 
