Allan Huber "Bud" Selig[2][3][4] (/ˈsiːlᵻɡ/; born July 30, 1934) is an 
American baseball executive who currently serves as the Commissioner Emeritus 
of Baseball. Previously, he served as the ninth Commissioner of Baseball. 
He initially served as the acting commissioner beginning in 1992 before 
being named the official commissioner in 1998.[5] Selig oversaw baseball 
through the 1994 strike, the introduction of the wild card, interleague 
play, and the merging of the National and American Leagues under the Office 
of the Commissioner. He was instrumental in organizing the World Baseball 
Classic in 2006.[5] Selig also introduced revenue sharing.[6] He is credited 
for the financial turnaround of baseball during his tenure with a 400 percent 
increase in the revenue of MLB and annual record breaking attendance.[5] 
Selig enjoys a high level of support from baseball owners. Jerome Holtzman, 
MLB's official historian from 1999 until his death in 2008, believed Selig 
to be the best commissioner in baseball history.[6] During Selig's term 
of service, the use of steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs became 
a public issue. The Mitchell Report, commissioned by Selig, concluded that 
the MLB commissioners, club officials, the Players Association, and the 
players all share "to some extent in the responsibility for the steroid 
era."[7] Following the release of the Mitchell Report, Congressman Cliff 
Stearns called publicly for Selig to step down as commissioner, citing 
his "glacial response" to the "growing stain on baseball."[5] Selig has 
pledged on numerous occasions to rid baseball of performance-enhancing 
drugs, and has overseen and instituted many rule changes and penalties 
to that end.[8][not in citation given] Selig was previously the team owner 
and team president of the Milwaukee Brewers. As a Milwaukee native, he 
is credited for keeping baseball in Milwaukee. In 1970, he purchased the 
Seattle Pilots in bankruptcy court and renamed them the Milwaukee Brewers 
after the minor league team of the same name he had watched in his youth, 
which existed until the arrival of the Braves in Milwaukee in 1953. The 
Brewers went to the 1982 World Series and won seven organization of the 
year awards during his tenure. Selig remains a resident of Milwaukee. On 
January 17, 2008, Selig's contract was extended through 2012, after which 
he planned to retire,[9] but he then decided to stay as commissioner until 
the end of the 2014 season, a move approved by the owners on January 12, 
2012,[10] which would take his leadership past his 80th birthday. Selig 
made $14.5 million in the 12-month period ending October 31, 2005.[5] Selig 
announced on September 26, 2013, that he would retire in January 2015.[11] 
On January 22, 2015, MLB announced that Selig would formally step down 
from the office when his current term expired on January 24, 2015.[12][13] 
Selig was born in Milwaukee, and grew up in a Jewish family. His father, 
Ben Selig, had come to the United States from Romania with his family when 
he was four years old.[14] Selig graduated from the University of Wisconsin-Madison 
with a B.A. in American history and political science in 1956.[15] He served 
two years in the U.S. Army before working with his father who owned a car 
leasing business in Milwaukee.[15][16] Selig continues to be involved in 
the automotive industry, serving as president of the Selig Executive Lease 
Company.[15] Selig's interest in baseball came from his mother. An immigrant 
from Ukraine, Marie Selig attended college, a rare accomplishment for a 
woman in the early 20th century, and became a school teacher. When Selig 
was only three, Marie began taking him and his older brother, Jerry, to 
Borchert Field, where the minor league Milwaukee Brewers played. When the 
Boston Braves relocated to Milwaukee in 1953, Selig switched allegiances, 
and eventually became the team's largest public stockholder. Selig was 
devastated when he learned that the Braves were going to leave Milwaukee 
in favor of Atlanta. In 1965, when the Braves left Milwaukee, he divested 
his stock in the team. As a youngster, Selig's favorite player was Hershel 
Martin. As a minority owner of the Milwaukee Braves, Selig founded the 
organization Teams, Inc, in an attempt to prevent the majority owners (based 
out of Chicago) from moving the club to a larger television market. This 
was challenged legally on the basis that no prior team relocations (in 
the modern era) left a city without a team. Prior movements had all originated 
in cities which were home to at least two teams. When his quest to keep 
the team in Milwaukee finally failed after the 1965 season, he changed 
the group's name to Milwaukee Brewers Baseball Club, Inc., after the minor 
league baseball team he grew up watching, and devoted himself to returning 
Major League Baseball to Milwaukee. Selig arranged for major league games 
to be played at Milwaukee County Stadium. The first, a pre-season match-up 
between the Chicago White Sox and Minnesota Twins, drew more than 51,000 
spectators. Selig followed this up by hosting nine White Sox regular-season 
games in 1968 and eleven in 1969. One of the games played in Milwaukee 
that year was against the expansion Seattle Pilots, the team that would 
become the Brewers. Those Milwaukee "home" games were phenomenally successful, 
with the handful of games accounting for about one-third of total White 
Sox home attendance. To satisfy that fan base, Selig decided to purchase 
the White Sox (with the intention of moving them to Milwaukee) in 1969. 
He entered into an agreement to buy the club, but the American League vetoed 
the sale, preferring to keep an American League team in Chicago, which 
at the time was still America's second largest city. Selig turned his attention 
to other franchises. In 1970, he purchased the bankrupt Seattle Pilots 
franchise, moving them to his hometown and officially renaming the team 
the Brewers. During Selig's tenure as club president, the Brewers participated 
in postseason play in 1981, when the team finished first in the American 
League East during the second half of the season, and in 1982, when the 
team made it to the World Series, under the leadership of future Hall of 
Famers Robin Yount and Paul Molitor. Under Selig's watch, the Brewers also 
won seven Organization of the Year awards, although they posted one of 
the worst winning percentages in the history of Major League Baseball, 
over periods of ten years or more.[citation needed] Selig was part of the 
owners' collusion in 1985–1987, resulting in the owners paying US$280 million 
in damages to the players. Upon his assumption of the commissioner's role, 
Selig transferred his ownership interest in the Brewers to his daughter 
Wendy Selig-Prieb in order to remove any technical conflicts of interest, 
though it was widely presumed he maintained some hand in team operations. 
Although the team has been sold to Los Angeles investor Mark Attanasio, 
questions remain regarding Selig's past involvement. Selig's defenders 
point to the poor management of the team after Selig-Prieb took control 
as proof that Selig was not working behind the scenes. Selig was elected 
to the Wisconsin Athletic Hall of Fame in 2001. On August 24, 2010, a statue 
of Selig, commissioned by Brewers owner Mark Attanasio and designed by 
artist Brian Maughan, was unveiled outside Miller Park in Milwaukee. Selig 
became an increasingly vocal opponent of Commissioner Fay Vincent, and 
soon became the leader of a group of owners seeking his removal. Selig 
has never stated that the owners colluded, while Vincent has: The Union 
basically doesn't trust the ownership because collusion was a US$280 million 
theft by Selig and Jerry Reinsdorf of that money from the players. I mean, 
they rigged the signing of free agents. They got caught. They paid $280 
million to the players. And I think that's polluted labor relations in 
baseball ever since it happened. I think it's the reason MLBPA executive 
director Donald Fehr has no trust in Selig.[17] Following an 18-9 no-confidence 
vote, Vincent resigned. Selig had by this time become chairman of the Executive 
Council of Major League Baseball, and as such became de facto acting commissioner. 
His first major act was to institute the Wild Card and divisional playoff 
play, which has created much controversy amongst baseball fans. Those against 
the Wild Card see it as diminishing the importance of the pennant race 
and the regular season, with the true race often being for second rather 
than first place, while those in favor of it view it as an opportunity 
for teams to have a shot at the playoffs even when they have no chance 
of a first-place finish in their division, thus maintaining fan interest 
later in the season. Selig suspended Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott 
for a year in 1993 for repeated racially insensitive and prejudicial remarks 
and actions. The same year, New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner 
was reinstated from a lifelong suspension that was instituted by Selig's 
predecessor Fay Vincent. Pete Rose has claimed that he applied for reinstatement 
over the years and received no such consideration. Rose, along with his 
close friend and former teammate Mike Schmidt (who is a strong supporter 
of Rose's reinstatement into baseball), met with Selig in 2002, where Rose 
privately admitted to Selig (two years before going public with his admission) 
about betting on baseball. Bud Selig was a close friend of the late Bart 
Giamatti, who was the commissioner when Rose was first banned from the 
sport in 1989. As acting commissioner, Selig represented MLB during the 
1994 players strike and cancelled the World Series, marking the first time 
the annual event had not been staged since 1904. After a six-year search 
for a new commissioner, the owners voted to give Selig the title on a permanent 
basis midway through the 1998 season. During his tenure the game avoided 
a third work stoppage in 2002, and has seen the implementation of interleague 
play. Whereas in the past, the National and American leagues had separate 
administrative organizations (which, for example, allowed for the introduction 
of different rules such as the designated hitter), under Selig, Major League 
Baseball consolidated the administrative functions of both leagues into 
the Commissioner's Office in 2000. The last official presidents of the 
NL and AL were Leonard S. Coleman Jr. and Dr. Gene Budig respectively. 
On September 11, 2001, Selig ordered all baseball games postponed for a 
week because of the terror attacks on New York and Washington. The games 
were postponed not only out of respect and mourning for the victims, but 
also out of concern for the safety and security of fans and players. After 
the conclusion of the 2001 World Series, Selig held a vote on contracting 
two teams, reportedly the Minnesota Twins and Montreal Expos.[18] This 
action led to Selig (along with former Expos owner Jeffrey Loria) being 
sued for racketeering and conspiring with Loria to deliberately defraud 
the Expos minority owners.[19][20] If found liable, the league could have 
been ordered to pay as much as $500 million in total damages.[21] The judge 
also ruled that the Expos could not be moved or contracted until the case 
was over.[22] The case eventually went to arbitration and was settled out 
of court for an undisclosed sum.[23][24] A week after Selig’s announcement, 
Hennepin County Judge Harry Seymour Crump issued a temporary restraining 
order that forced the Twins to honor their lease and play the 2002 season 
at the Metrodome.[25] In August 2002, the effort to contract the Twins 
officially fizzled as players and owners reached a consensus on a new labor 
agreement which extended the team's Metrodome lease.[25] The 2002 All-Star 
Game, played in Selig's hometown of Milwaukee, was tied 7-7 after 9 innings, 
and remained tied after the bottom of the 11th inning. Due to the recent 
managerial trend of granting playing time to as many available players 
as possible within the regulation nine innings, both managers had used 
their entire roster. Concerned for the arms of the pitchers currently on 
the mound, Selig made the controversial decision to declare the game a 
tie,[26] to the dissatisfaction of the Milwaukee fans. Selig later said 
that this call was "embarrassing" and that he was "tremendously saddened" 
by the outcome of the game.[26] Since 2002, Selig subsequently tried to 
reinvigorate the All-Star Game by awarding the winning league home-field 
advantage in the World Series. The 2003 All-Star Game had the same U.S. 
viewership as 2002 (9.5 rating; 17 share) and the ratings declined in 2004 
(8.8 rating; 15 share) and 2005 (8.1 rating; 14 share).[27] The American 
television audience increased in 2006 (9.3 rating; 16 share).[28] On July 
1, 2005, Selig suspended Texas Rangers pitcher Kenny Rogers for 20 games 
and fined him US$50,000. Rogers got in trouble when on June 29, 2005, he 
purposely grabbed the camera of a cameraman, resulting in one camera falling 
to the ground. When the cameraman proceeded to pick up his camera, Rogers 
went back to him in an arguably threatening way. One of the reporters then 
resumed filming and Rogers knocked him down again.[29] While an appeal 
of his suspension was pending, Rogers appeared at the 2005 All-Star Game 
in Detroit, where fans loudly booed him. On July 22, 2005, Selig heard 
Rogers' appeal of his suspension. Selig decided to uphold the 20 games, 
however, an independent arbitrator ruled that Selig had exceeded his authority 
and reduced it to 13 games, but upheld the fine. In 2005, Selig faced Congress 
on the issue of steroids. After the Congressional hearings in early 2005, 
and with the scrutiny of the sports and national media upon this issue, 
Selig put forth a proposal for a stricter performance-enhancing drug testing 
regime to replace the current system. This proposal also included the banning 
of amphetamines, a first for the major North American sports leagues. The 
MLB Players Association and MLB reached an agreement in November on the 
new policy.[30] Selig's testimony on the subject has been contradictory. 
In 2005, Selig told reporters, "I never even heard about them [steroids] 
until 1998 or 1999. I ran a team and nobody was closer to their players 
and I never heard any comment from them. It wasn't until 1998 or ’99 that 
I heard the discussion."[31] But a year later, testifying to Congress in 
2006, Selig claimed personal credit for spotting the problem early: "In 
1994, before anybody was really talking about steroids in baseball, we 
proposed a program of testing for such substances to the MLBPA. As early 
as 1998, I began formulating a strategic plan to eliminate the use of performance-enhancing 
substances from the game."[32] During the 1988 ALCS, Oakland's Jose Canseco 
had been repeatedly taunted by Boston fans with a chant of "ster-oids, 
ster-oids, ster-oids."[33] Speaking at the 2013 All-Star Game, Selig complained, 
"People say, ‘Well, you were slow to react.’ We were not slow to react. 
In fact, I heard that this morning, and it aggravated me all over again."[34] 
By early 2006, Selig was forced to deal with the issue of steroid use. 
On March 30, 2006, as a response to the controversy of the use of performance-enhancing 
drugs and the anticipated career home run record to be set by Barry Bonds, 
Selig asked former U.S. Senator George J. Mitchell to lead an independent 
investigation into the use of steroids in baseball's recent past. Joe Sheehan 
from Baseball Prospectus wrote that the commission has been focusing "blame 
for the era exclusively on uniformed personnel", and failing to investigate 
any role played by team ownership and management.[35] Much controversy 
surrounded Selig and his involvement in Bonds' all-time home run record 
chase. For months, speculation surrounded Selig and the possibility that 
he and Henry Aaron would not attend Bonds' games as he closed in on the 
record. Selig announced in July 2007 when Bonds was near 755 home runs 
that he would attend the games. Selig was in attendance for Bonds' record-tying 
home run against the San Diego Padres, sitting in Padres owner John Moores' 
private suite. When Bonds hit his 755th home run, Selig refused to applaud 
Bonds' accomplishment, instead choosing to keep his hands in his pockets 
and have a look of disdain on his face. Bud Selig also did not attend the 
San Francisco Giants' game on August 7 when Barry Bonds hit his record-breaking 
756th home run against the Washington Nationals; after the event, Selig 
released a statement congratulating Bonds. On December 13, 2007, former 
senator Mitchell released his report on the use of performance-enhancing 
substances by MLB players. The report names many current and former players 
who allegedly used performance-enhancing drugs during their career. Selig 
has been widely criticized for not taking an active enough role to stem 
the tide of steroid use in baseball until it had blossomed into a debilitating 
problem for the industry. Chicago Sun-Times columnist Jay Mariotti called 
Selig the "The Steroids Commissioner."[36] Selig has been called to Congress 
several times to testify on performance-enhancing drug use. Congressman 
Cliff Stearns said in December 2007 that Selig should resign because of 
use of performance-enhancing drugs in baseball during his tenure.[5] Selig's 
decision to extend the traditional post-season schedule into November in 
an attempt to increase Nielsen ratings was met with widespread disdain, 
both inside and outside the baseball community. Mike Scioscia, manager 
of the American League West Division Champion Los Angeles Angels, dismissed 
the decision as "Ridiculous. I don’t know. Can I say it any clearer than 
that? We should have never had a day off last Wednesday. We should never 
have three days off after the season. You shouldn’t even have two days 
off after the season."[37] Related to the contraction controversy in 2001, 
Rob Dibble posted an open letter to Bud Selig, criticizing his actions 
for benefiting only the Milwaukee Brewers.[38] Dibble cites that the contraction 
of the Twins would benefit the Brewers, as they would potentially claim 
the Twins' share of the upper Midwest market. Selig has made some decisions 
involving the Houston Astros that were unpopular with their supporters. 
He ordered the roof at Minute Maid Park to be opened for games three and 
four of the 2005 World Series, pre-empting the authority held by the Astros. 
The roof was closed for all prior playoff games and similar weather conditions.[39] 
For Hurricane Ike in 2008, Selig mandated that the Astros play two home 
games against the Chicago Cubs in his hometown of Milwaukee despite proximity 
to the visiting Cubs; the home ballparks for the Texas Rangers and Atlanta 
Braves were both available to host the games. The Astros subsequently were 
victims of a no-hitter by Carlos Zambrano and recorded a single hit in 
the following game.[40] In the midst of the playoff race, this decision 
and its impact deeply affected the playoff race and seedings with eight 
teams holding winning records at the moment. The Milwaukee Brewers benefited 
from these events by qualifying in the playoffs as a Wild Card team, only 
to lose in the NLDS to the Philadelphia Phillies, the eventual World Series 
winner. In 2011, Selig also demanded that the Astros move to the American 
League West as a condition of the sale of the franchise to businessman 
Jim Crane; the team switched leagues in 2013 in return for $70 million 
discount in the purchase price.[41] United States bankruptcy judge Kevin 
Gross rendered a stern warning to Selig in regards to the 2011 Los Angeles 
Dodgers ownership dispute. Treating other teams differently in regards 
to their media contracts drew accusations that Selig did not act in good 
faith with respect to the Los Angeles Dodgers. Selig rejected the television 
deal that Frank McCourt negotiated that intended to bring the franchise 
out of bankruptcy, claiming McCourt violated the Baseball Agreement. In 
comparison, no action was taken against New York Mets owner Fred Wilpon 
despite being in a similar position. Gross stated, "Should the Commissioner 
falter in proving alleged wrongdoing, the Court may allow LAD (Los Angeles 
Dodgers) to take further, limited discovery."[42] Some critics have used 
Selig's handling of the Dodgers to point out a double standard in treatment 
of MLB owners. More specifically in regards to the Mets, critics point 
out that with Selig's personal relationship with Wilpon has motivated him 
to stall any possible removal of Wilpon as that club's principal owner. 
Selig also notably failed to resolve a 6-year conflict between the San 
Francisco Giants and the Oakland Athletics regarding the Athletics' proposed 
move to San Jose.[43] Selig established a blue-ribbon panel in 2009 to 
resolve the dispute;[44] however, despite years to find a resolution, the 
blue-ribbon panel completely failed to make any progress toward resolving 
the issue, leading San Jose to sue MLB. The lawsuit, which is currently 
ongoing, questions the league's anti-trust exemption and its ability to 
enforce particular clubs' geographic territories.[45] On December 1, 2006, 
Selig announced that he would be retiring as commissioner of baseball upon 
the expiration of his contract in 2009. Selig earned $14.5 million from 
MLB over the timespan October 31, 2005 to October 31, 2006.[46] However, 
in January 2008, Selig agreed to a three-year contract extension, announcing 
he planned to retire after the 2012 season.[47] He further decided against 
retirement, and after a two-year extension for the previous deal was agreed 
to on January 12, 2012, it was announced that Selig would remain commissioner 
until the end of the 2014 season.[10] Bud Selig has overseen the following 
changes in Major League Baseball: During Selig's terms as Executive Council 
Chairman (from 1992–1998) and Commissioner, new stadiums have opened in 
Arizona, Atlanta, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Colorado, Detroit, Houston, Milwaukee, 
Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, San Diego, San Francisco, Seattle, Arlington, 
St. Louis, Washington, D.C., New York City (Flushing, Queens and the Bronx), 
Minneapolis, and Miami. Selig and his family served a supportive role on 
the Advisory Board of the Israel Baseball League during its inaugural season 
in 2007. In response to issues with the league's financial management, 
after the season, the Selig family requested that their names be removed 
from the list of board members.[49] This last season the Milwaukee Brewers 
honored Bud Selig with the unveiling of the Selig Experience. The Selig 
Experience is a fifteen-minute documentary showing Bud Selig's life and 
work for the Milwaukee Brewers. For more information visit [1] In 2009, 
Selig began teaching as an adjunct professor of sports law and policy at 
Marquette University Law School.[50] His classes have covered numerous 
topics, including "the history of collective bargaining and free agency, 
baseball's antitrust exemption, revenue sharing – as well as finer points 
of sports law like intellectual property rights, ambush marketing, and 
why baseball does not allow game footage on YouTube."[51] In 2010, Selig 
endowed the Allan H. Selig Chair in the History of Sport and Society in 
the United States, as well as a Distinguished Lecture Series in Sport and 
Society at his alma mater, the University of Wisconsin – Madison. The inaugural 
lecture was given by Adrian Burgos[52] and Prof. Sean Dinces has held the 
Chair since 2013.[53] In February 2016, Selig joined the Sandra Day O'Connor 
College of Law at Arizona State University.[54] Selig was awarded the U.S. 
Department of the Army Outstanding Civilian Service Award in April 2015 
for supporting soldiers, veterans and their families through his work in 
Major League Baseball.[55] On April 6, 2015, the Milwaukee Brewers retired 
