As player As manager Derrel McKinley "Bud" Harrelson (born June 6, 1944) 
is a former Major League Baseball shortstop who played for the New York 
Mets, Philadelphia Phillies and Texas Rangers from 1965 to 1980. After 
retiring, he served as a coach for the World Champion 1986 Mets, and as 
manager of the Mets in 1990 and 1991. He was inducted into the New York 
Mets Hall of Fame in 1986. Harrelson remains the only person in New York 
Mets history to win two world series with the Mets, both of which are the 
first two in franchise history. He won in 1969 as a player and in 1986 
as a coach. He is currently the owner of the Long Island Ducks, in Islip, 
New York. Harrelson anchored the Mets' infield for thirteen seasons, including 
their 1969 season, and 1973 pennant-winning season. Harrelson was typical 
of shortstops of his era: good fielder, poor hitter. He had a lifetime 
batting average of .236 and hit a total of seven home runs during his fifteen-year 
major league career, but had a lifetime .969 fielding percentage, and won 
a Gold Glove at his position in 1971. He was a National League All-Star 
in 1970 and received Most Valuable Player Award consideration despite batting 
only .243 for the season. On May 28, after a five-game losing streak that 
saw the Mets fall into fourth place in the newly aligned National League 
East, Jerry Koosman and the San Diego Padres' Clay Kirby engaged in a pitchers' 
duel at Shea Stadium. After nine scoreless innings by Kirby and ten by 
Koosman, the game was turned over to the bullpens for extra innings. The 
game finally ended after eleven innings when Harrelson hit a single to 
drive in Cleon Jones.[1] This led to an eleven-game winning streak that 
brought them back into second place, seven games back of the Chicago Cubs. 
On September 10 the Mets swept a double header against the Montreal Expos. 
Coupled with a loss by the Cubs, the Mets jumped into first place for the 
first time in franchise history. On September 24, the New York Mets clinched 
the NL East with a 6-0 victory over Steve Carlton and the St. Louis Cardinals.[2] 
The Mets won 39 of their last 50 games, and finished the season with 100 
wins against 62 losses, eight games over the second place Cubs. For his 
part, Harrelson batted .248 with no home runs, 24 runs batted in and 42 
runs scored. He had a .969 fielding percentage in 119 games at shortstop. 
Harrelson had only two hits in the 1969 National League Championship Series 
against the Atlanta Braves, however, they were a go-ahead triple in the 
fourth inning of the first game,[3] and an RBI double in game two of the 
Mets' three game sweep.[4] Harrelson's light hitting became the subject 
of controversy during the 1973 National League Championship Series. Mets 
starter Jon Matlack held the Cincinnati Reds to two hits in his 5-0 complete 
game victory in game two of the series at Riverfront Stadium.[5] Following 
the game, Harrelson commented, "He made the Big Red Machine look like me 
hitting today."[6] Inadvertently providing the Reds with bulletin board 
material, Harrelson was confronted by Reds second baseman Joe Morgan during 
pregame warm-ups for game three. During this confrontation, he received 
the warning that 1973 batting champion Pete Rose was unhappy with the quote. 
In the fifth inning, Morgan hit a double play ball to Mets first baseman 
John Milner with Rose on first. Whether Rose slid hard into second attempting 
to break up the double play or if Harrelson was overly sensitive due to 
the warning he received is a matter of debate. Regardless, a fight between 
the two erupted, resulting in a bench-clearing brawl. The game was nearly 
called off when, after the Reds took the field, the Shea Stadium crowd 
threw objects from the stands at Rose, causing Reds manager Sparky Anderson 
to pull his team off the field until order was restored. Mets Manager Yogi 
Berra and players Willie Mays, Tom Seaver, Cleon Jones, and Rusty Staub 
were actually summoned by NL President Chub Feeney out to left field to 
calm the fans.[7] When order was restored, the Mets went on to defeat the 
Reds handily in game three by a score of 9-2. Although the Reds forced 
a deciding game five when Pete Rose hit the game-winning home run in the 
12th inning of game 4, the Mets ultimately won the pennant after the game 
five win. After reacquiring former #1 overall pick Tim Foli, the Mets dealt 
Harrelson to the Philadelphia Phillies prior to the start of the 1978 season. 
Rose and Harrelson actually became teammates when Rose signed with the 
Phillies as a free agent prior to the start of the 1979 season. After two 
seasons with the Phillies, Harrelson spent one season with the Texas Rangers 
before retiring. In 1986, Harrelson was inducted into the New York Mets 
Hall of Fame.[8] After his retirement, Harrelson managed the Little Falls 
Mets in 1984 and the Columbia Mets in 1985. When Mets third base coach 
Bobby Valentine accepted a managerial position with the Texas Rangers part 
way through the 1985 season, Harrelson replaced him on Davey Johnson's 
coaching staff. Harrelson was a coach with the Mets during their 1986 World 
Series championship season, and eventually replaced Johnson following his 
dismissal as Mets manager 42 games into the 1990 season. He led the Mets 
to their seventh consecutive winning season, finishing at 91-71 and earning 
another season as manager. Although the Mets were contenders for most of 
the first half of the 1991 season and were as close as 2.5 games behind 
the eventual division winning Pittsburgh Pirates, the team collapsed in 
the second half and Harrelson was fired with a week remaining in the season 
and replaced by his third base coach, Mike Cubbage. His second season ended 
with a 74-80 record; the Mets finished at 77-84, one-half game behind the 
fourth place Chicago Cubs. During the 1991 season, Harrelson hosted his 
own radio show in New York but ended it prematurely during the season because 
of the team's poor record.[citation needed] Harrelson was born on D-Day: 
June 6, 1944. He grew up in Hayward, California where he attended Sunset 
High School, graduating in 1962.[9][10] He married his first wife, Yvonne, 
on December 17, 1965.They later divorced, and Harrelson married Kim in 
1975. Bud's children are: Kimberly Jessica, TJ, Michael, Kassandra, and 
Troy Joseph.[11] Harrelson currently resides in Hauppauge, New York, and 
is co-owner, Senior Vice President for Baseball Operations and first base 
coach of the Long Island Ducks, an unaffiliated minor league baseball team. 
He appeared as himself in a 1999 episode of Everybody Loves Raymond along 
