American Football League (1960–1969) National Football League (1970–present) 
Royal Blue, Red, White, Navy Blue[2] League championships (2) Conference 
championships (4) Division championships (10) The Buffalo Bills are a professional 
American football team based in the Buffalo–Niagara Falls metropolitan 
area. The Bills compete in the National Football League (NFL), as a member 
club of the league's American Football Conference (AFC) East division. 
The team plays their home games at New Era Field in Orchard Park, New York. 
The Bills are the only NFL team that plays its home games in the state 
of New York (the New York Giants and New York Jets play at MetLife Stadium, 
located in East Rutherford, New Jersey). The Bills conduct summer training 
camp at St. John Fisher College in Pittsford, New York, an eastern suburb 
of Rochester.[3] The Bills began play as an original franchise of the American 
Football League (AFL) in 1960. The club joined the NFL as a result of the 
AFL–NFL merger for the 1970 season. The 1964 and 1965 Bills were the only 
teams representing Buffalo that won major league professional sports championships 
("back-to-back" American Football League Championships). The Bills are 
the only team to win four consecutive conference championships and are 
the only NFL team to lose four consecutive Super Bowls. The team was owned 
by Ralph Wilson from the team's founding in 1960, until his death in 2014 
at the age of 95. After his death, Wilson's estate reached an agreement 
to sell the team to Terry and Kim Pegula, which was approved by the other 
NFL team owners on October 8, 2014.[4] The Bills have the longest active 
playoff drought in any major professional sport: they have not qualified 
to play in the NFL playoffs since 1999 and are the only team that has not 
appeared in the playoffs so far in the 21st century.[5] The Bills began 
competitive play in 1960 as a charter member of the American Football League 
led by head coach Buster Ramsey and joined the NFL as part of the AFL–NFL 
merger in 1970.[6] The Bills won two consecutive American Football League 
titles in 1964 and 1965, but the club has yet to win a league championship 
since. Once the AFL–NFL merger took effect, the Bills became the second 
NFL team to represent the city; they followed the Buffalo All-Americans, 
a charter member of the league. Buffalo had been left out of the league 
since the All-Americans (by that point renamed the Bisons) folded in 1929; 
the Bills were no less than the third professional non-NFL team to compete 
in the city before the merger, following the Indians/Tigers of the early 
1940s and another team named the Bills in the late 1940s. Buffalo's team 
in the All-America Football Conference (AAFC) in 1946 was the Bisons. In 
1947 a contest was held to rename the team, which was owned by James Breuil 
of the Frontier Oil Company. The winning entry suggested Bills, reflecting 
on the famous western frontiersman, Buffalo Bill Cody. Carrying the "frontier" 
theme further, the winning contestant further offered the team was being 
supported by Frontier Oil and was "opening a new frontier in sports in 
Western New York." When Buffalo joined the new American Football League 
in 1960, the name of the city's earlier pro football entry was adopted.[7] 
After being pushed to the brink of failure in the mid-1980s, the collapse 
of the United States Football League and a string of high draft picks allowed 
the Bills to rebuild into a perennial contender in the late 1980s through 
the mid-1990s, a period in which the team won four consecutive AFC Championships; 
the team nevertheless lost all four subsequent Super Bowls, records in 
both categories that still stand. The rise of the division rival New England 
Patriots under Tom Brady, along with numerous failed attempts at rebuilding 
in the 2000s and 2010s, have prevented the Bills from reaching the playoffs 
since 1999, a 16-year drought that is the longest active playoff drought 
in all major professional sports. On October 8, 2014, Buffalo Sabres owners 
Terry and Kim Pegula received unanimous approval to acquire the Bills during 
the NFL owners' meetings.[8] The Bills' uniforms in its first two seasons 
were based on those of the Detroit Lions at the time.[9][10] The team's 
original colors were Honolulu blue, silver and white, and the helmets were 
silver with no striping. There was no logo on the helmet, which displayed 
the players' numbers on each side. In 1962, the standing red bison was 
designated as the logo and took its place on a white helmet.[9] In 1962, 
the team's colors also changed to red, white, and blue. The team switched 
to blue jerseys with red and white "LSU" stripes on the shoulders. the 
helmets were white with a red center stripe.[9] The jerseys again saw a 
change in 1964 when the shoulder stripes were replaced by a distinctive 
stripe pattern on the sleeves consisting of four stripes, two thicker inner 
stripes and two thinner outer stripes all bordered by red piping. By 1965, 
red and blue center stripes were put on the helmets.[11] The Bills introduced 
blue pants worn with the white jerseys in 1973, the last year of the standing 
buffalo helmet. The blue pants remained through 1985.[12] The face mask 
on the helmet was blue from 1974 through 1986 before changing to white. 
The standing bison logo was replaced by a blue charging one with a red 
slanting stripe streaming from its horn. The newer emblem, which is still 
the primary one used by the franchise, was designed by aerospace designer 
Stevens Wright in 1974.[13][14] In 1984, the helmet's background color 
was changed from white to red, primarily to help Bills quarterback Joe 
Ferguson distinguish them more readily from three of their division rivals 
at that time, the Baltimore Colts, the Miami Dolphins, and the New England 
Patriots, who all also wore white helmets at that point. Ferguson said 
"Everyone we played had white helmets at that time. Our new head coach 
Kay Stephenson just wanted to get more of a contrast on the field that 
may help spot a receiver down the field."[15] (The Patriots now use a silver 
helmet, the Colts have since been realigned to the AFC South, and the New 
York Jets, who switched to green helmets after the 1977 season, have since 
switched back to white helmets.) In 2002, under the direction of general 
manager Tom Donahoe, the Bills' uniforms went through radical changes. 
A darker shade of blue was introduced as the main jersey color, and nickel 
gray was introduced as an accent color. Both the blue and white jerseys 
featured red side panels. The white jerseys included a dark blue shoulder 
yoke and royal blue numbers. The helmet remained primarily red with one 
navy blue, two nickel, two royal blue, two white stripes, and white face 
mask. A new logo, a stylized "B" consisting of two bullets and a more detailed 
buffalo head on top, was proposed and had been released (it can be seen 
on a few baseball caps that were released for sale), but fan backlash led 
to the team retaining the running bison logo. The helmet logo adopted in 
1974—a charging royal blue bison, with a red streak, white horn and eyeball—remained 
unchanged. In 2005, the Bills revived the standing bison helmet and uniform 
of the mid-1960s as a throwback uniform. The Bills usually wore the all-blue 
combination at home and the all-white combination on the road when not 
wearing the throwback uniforms. They stopped wearing blue-on-white after 
2006, while the white-on-blue was not worn after 2007. For the 2011 season, 
the Bills unveiled a new uniform design, an updated rendition of the 1975–83 
design. This change includes a return to the white helmets with "charging 
buffalo" logo, and a return to royal blue instead of navy.[16][17] Buffalo 
sporadically wore white at home in the 1980s, but stopped doing so before 
their Super Bowl years. On November 6, 2011, against the New York Jets, 
the Bills wore white at home for the first time since 1986. Since 2011, 
the Bills have worn white for a home game either with their primary uniform 
or a throwback set. The Bills' uniform received minor alterations as part 
of the league's new uniform contract with Nike. The new Nike uniform was 
unveiled on April 3, 2012.[18] On November 12, 2015, the Bills and the 
New York Jets became the first two teams to participate in the NFL's Color 
Rush uniform initiative, with Buffalo wearing an all-red combination for 
the first time in team history.[19] The Buffalo Bills have retired two 
numbers in franchise history: No. 12 for Jim Kelly and No. 78 for Bruce 
Smith. Despite the fact that the Bills have only retired two jersey numbers 
in franchise history, the team has other numbers no longer issued to any 
player or in reduced circulation.[21][22] Since the earliest days of the 
team, the number 31 was not supposed to be issued to any other player. 
The Bills had stationery and various other team merchandise showing a running 
player wearing that number, and it was not supposed to represent any specific 
person, but the 'spirit of the team.' In the first three decades of the 
team's existence, the number 31 was only seen once: in 1969, when reserve 
running back Preston Ridlehuber damaged his number 36 jersey during a game, 
equipment manager Tony Marchitte gave him the number 31 jersey to wear 
while repairing the number 36. The number 31 was not issued again until 
1990 when first round draft choice James (J.D.) Williams wore it for his 
first two seasons. Number 15 was historically only issued sparingly after 
the retirement of Jack Kemp,[21] but is apparently now in general circulation; 
Brandon Tate currently wears the number. → Coaching Staff → Management 
→ More NFL staffs Running backs Wide receivers Tight ends Defensive linemen 
Defensive backs Special teams Practice squad Rookies in italics Roster 
updated November 4, 2016 Depth Chart • Transactions 53 Active, 11 Inactive, 
10 Practice Squad → AFC rosters → NFC rosters The Buffalo Bills Radio Network 
is flagshipped at WGR, AM 550 in Buffalo. John Murphy is the team's current 
play-by-play announcer; he was a color commentator alongside, and eventually 
succeeded, longtime voice Van Miller after Miller's retirement at the end 
of the 2003 NFL season. Mark Kelso serves as the color analyst. The Bills 
radio network has approximately seventeen affiliates in upstate New York 
and one affiliate, CJCL 590AM (The Fan) in Toronto. As of early 2012, it 
is composed mostly of WGR, Entercom's sister stations WCMF (96.5 FM) and 
WROC-AM 950 in Rochester, and a fleet of independent AM and FM stations 
across upstate New York from Jamestown east to Albany. Previous flagship 
Citadel Broadcasting was purchased by Cumulus Media, who in turn ceased 
carrying Bills games at the end of the 2011 season, leaving the network 
without affiliates in Syracuse, Binghamton, and Erie. (The Syracuse affiliations 
were later picked up by Galaxy Communications.) Buffalo is one of ten teams 
contracted with Compass Media Networks to syndicate selected games nationwide. 
During the preseason, most games are televised on Buffalo's ABC affiliate, 
WKBW-TV channel 7, with several other affiliates in western New York. These 
games are simulcast on sister stations WTVH in Syracuse, WICU in Erie, 
WHAM-TV in Rochester, and for a period, CITY-TV in Toronto. CBS analyst 
and former Bills special teams player Steve Tasker does color commentary 
on these games; the play-by-play position is rotated between his CBS partner 
Andrew Catalon and Rob Stone. WHAM-TV sports anchor Mike Catalana is the 
sideline reporter. Since 2008, preseason games have been broadcast in high 
definition. Beginning in the 2016 season, as per a new rights deal which 
covers rights to the team as well as its sister NHL franchise, the Buffalo 
Sabres, most team-related programming, including studio programming and 
the coach's show, was re-located to MSG Western New York—a joint venture 
of MSG and the team ownership. Preseason games will continue to air in 
simulcast on WKBW.[26] In the event regular season games are broadcast 
by ESPN, WKBW-TV will also hold the broadcast rights to that contest, with 
the station having won back the rights to cable games after WBBZ-TV held 
the rights for 2012 and 2013.[27] [28] The Bills' official mascot is Billy 
Buffalo, an eight-foot tall, anthropomorphic blue American bison who wears 
the jersey "number" BB. The Bills currently do not have cheerleaders. The 
Bills employed the Buffalo Jills, an independent organization, from 1967 
to 2013; the Jills suspended operations prior to the 2014 season due to 
legal actions.[29] The Bills are one of six teams in the NFL to designate 
an official marching band or drumline (the others being the Baltimore Ravens, 
Washington Redskins, New York Jets, Carolina Panthers and Seattle Seahawks). 
Since the last game of the 2013 season, this position has been served by 
the Stampede Drumline, known outside of Buffalo as Downbeat Percussion.[30][31] 
The Bills have also used the full marching bands from Attica High School, 
the University of Pittsburgh and Syracuse University at home games in recent 
years. The Bills have several theme songs associated with them. One is 
a variation of the Isley Brothers hit "Shout", recorded by Scott Kemper,[32] 
which served as the Bills' official promotional song from 1987 through 
1990s. It was officially replaced circa 2000 with "The Power of the Bills", 
although "Shout" remains in use. The Bills' unofficial fight song, "Go 
Bills", was penned by Bills head coach Marv Levy in the mid-1990s on a 
friendly wager with his players that he will write the song if the team 
won a particular game.[33] The Bills Backers are the official fan organization 
of the Buffalo Bills. It has over 200 chapters across North America, Europe 
and Oceania.[34] Also notable is the Bills Mafia, a collection of Bills 
fans organized via Twitter beginning in 2010.[35] The Bills are one of 
the favorite teams of ESPN announcer Chris Berman, who picked the Bills 
to reach the Super Bowl nearly every year in the 1990s. Berman often uses 
the catchphrase "No one circles the wagons like the Buffalo Bills!" Berman 
gave the induction speech for Bills owner Ralph Wilson when Wilson was 
inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2009. The Bills were also 
the favorite team of late NBC political commentator Tim Russert, a South 
Buffalo native, who often referred to the Bills on his Sunday morning talk 
show, Meet the Press. (His son, Luke, is also a notable fan of the team.) 
CNN's Wolf Blitzer, also a Buffalo native, has proclaimed he is also a 
fan.[36] ESPN anchor Kevin Connors is also a noted Bills fan, dating to 
his time attending Ithaca College. Actor Nick Bakay, a Buffalo native, 
is also a well-known Bills fan; he has discussed the team in segments of 
NFL Top 10. Character actor William Fichtner, raised in Cheektowaga, is 
a fan, and did a commercial for the team in 2014.[37] In 2015, Fichtner 
also narrated the ESPN 30 for 30 documentary on the Bills four Super Bowl 
appearances, "Four Falls of Buffalo". Buffalo's rivalry with the Miami 
Dolphins is referenced on Steve Martin's 1979 album Comedy Is Not Pretty! 
on the track "How To Meet A Girl." On the track, Martin simulates chatter 
about football at a party and one "partier" expresses disbelief Buffalo 
could beat Miami – at the time of the album's release, the Dolphins had 
won 18 straight games over the Bills. In the 1996 X-Files episode "Musings 
of a Cigarette Smoking Man", the titular character, a member of a shadowy 
government cabal, states the Buffalo Bills will not win a Super Bowl while 
he lives. The Buffalo Bills were featured on the direct-to-TV movie Second 
String, and in the Vincent Gallo drama Buffalo 66. Actor Dean Cain was 
briefly a member of the Bills. Because of this, references to the Bills 
have appeared in the television series Lois & Clark: The New Adventures 
of Superman, in which Cain played the title character. The first episode 
of season four, titled "Lord of the Flys", Clark picks up a blue Buffalo 
Bills hat with the Charging Buffalo emblem in the center and uses it to 
help disguise himself. In a later episode, he lets it be known the Metropolis 
Mammoths were playing the Bills. In an April 2011 episode of the television 
series 30 Rock, titled "100", Alec Baldwin's character Jack Donaghy discovers 
that, in an alternate future, he would not only be wealthier and more successful, 
but he would also be the owner of a "New York football team." He later 
is disappointed to learn the team is not the New York Giants or New York 
Jets, but the Buffalo Bills. The Bills are the team that eventually unseats 
the Orlando Breakers, the fictional NFL team that serves as the focus of 
the sitcom Coach in later seasons, in the playoffs. In a March 2014 episode 
of the television series Family Guy entitled "3 Acts of God", Peter Griffin—along 
with his family and friends—attends a game between the Buffalo Bills and 
New England Patriots at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts, 
which the Bills win. The episode also features Bills players Mario Williams 
and C.J. Spiller guest starring as themselves.[38] Several former Buffalo 
Bills players have earned a name in politics after their playing careers 
had ended, almost always as members of the Republican Party. The most famous 
of these was quarterback Jack Kemp, who was elected to the U.S. House of 
Representatives from Western New York in 1971—two years after his playing 
career ended and remained there for nearly two decades, serving as the 
Republican Party nominee for Vice President of the United States under 
Bob Dole in 1996. Kemp's backup, Ed Rutkowski, served as county executive 
of Erie County from 1979 to 1987. Former tight end Jay Riemersma, defensive 
tackle Fred Smerlas and defensive end Phil Hansen have all run for Congress, 
though all three either lost or withdrew from their respective races. Quarterback 
Jim Kelly and running back Thurman Thomas have also both been mentioned 
as potential candidates for political office, although both have declined 
