Coca-Cola Field (1988–present) The Buffalo Bisons are a professional minor 
league baseball team based in Buffalo, New York. They play in the International 
League (IL) and are the Triple-A affiliate of the Toronto Blue Jays. The 
Bisons play at Coca-Cola Field in downtown Buffalo. The Bisons have existed 
in some form since 1877, most of that time playing in professional baseball's 
second tier; exceptions have included the 1879–85 Bisons, who played in 
the major leagues as a member of the National League, and the 1979–84 Bisons, 
who played at the third-tier Double-A level. The Bisons did not play from 
June 1970 through the 1978 season. In 2016, Forbes listed the Bisons as 
the 15th-most valuable Minor League Baseball team with a value of $34 million.[1] 
Organized baseball in Buffalo had been around since at least 1859, when 
the Niagara baseball club of the National Association of Base Ball Players 
played its first season. The first professional team to play in Buffalo 
began in 1877; it was this team that was invited to become a major league 
club, the Buffalo Bisons of the National League, who played from 1879 to 
1885. In 1886, the Bisons moved into minor league baseball as members of 
the original International League, then known as the Eastern League. (An 
"outlaw" team also known as the Buffalo Bisons also played in the Players' 
League, an upstart third major league, in 1890, but that team is not considered 
part of the Bisons history.) This team joined the Western League in 1899, 
and was within weeks of becoming a major league team when the Western League 
announced it was changing its name to the American League in 1900. However, 
by the start of the 1901 season, Buffalo had been bumped from the league 
in favor of the Boston Americans; the Bisons returned to the minors and 
the Eastern League that year. This franchise continued in the Eastern/International 
League through June 1970, when it transferred to Winnipeg, Manitoba as 
the Winnipeg Whips, due to poor attendance, stadium woes, and an increasingly 
saturated Buffalo sports market that saw the Buffalo Sabres of the NHL 
and Buffalo Braves of the NBA established the same year. (The team had 
narrowly avoided relocation in 1956, but an intervention led by local broadcaster 
Stan Barron prevented the team from leaving;[2] it nonetheless was forced 
to move into a football venue, Buffalo War Memorial Stadium, a few years 
later, after its existing ballpark closed.) In 1969, Héctor López became 
the first black manager at the Triple-A level while managing Buffalo Bisons—six 
years before Frank Robinson became the first black manager in Major League 
Baseball.[3] After stops in Winnipeg and Hampton, Virginia, the team was 
suspended after the 1973 season to make way for the Memphis Blues, who 
were moving up from Double-A. In 1979, by which point the Braves had left 
town, the Double-A Eastern League's Jersey City A's were forced to leave 
their city due to the decrepitude of that city's Roosevelt Stadium and 
opted to move to Waterbury, Connecticut, a city that already had an Eastern 
League team. Again with Barron leading the effort, the league awarded the 
extra franchise to Buffalo, and the Bisons (taking on the previous team's 
name and history) returned to the field. After six seasons in the Eastern 
League, the Bisons rejoined the Triple-A ranks in 1985, joining the American 
Association when the Wichita Aeros' franchise rights were transferred to 
Buffalo. When, as part of a reorganization of Triple-A baseball, the American 
Association folded after the 1997 season, Buffalo joined the International 
League. Since their return to Triple-A baseball in 1985, the Bisons have 
qualified for the playoffs several times. In 2004, although the Bisons 
were 10 games behind the first-place team in June, the Bisons won their 
division. Buffalo won its first-round playoff, against the Durham Bulls, 
and advanced to the Governors' Cup Finals, in which they had home field 
advantage over the Richmond Braves. The remnants of Hurricane Ivan caused 
major flooding problems in Richmond and the entire series was played in 
Buffalo. The Bisons defeated the Braves in four games and won the Governors' 
Cup for the second time since 1998. In 2005, Buffalo won the North Division 
and played the Indianapolis Indians in the first round, winning the first 
two games in Indianapolis, but losing all three remaining games. With many 
of its players shuffled to the Cleveland Indians throughout the final months 
of the season, the Bisons failed to qualify for the playoffs in 2006. In 
2007, Buffalo again failed to clinch a playoff spot, marking the first 
time since Buffalo was parented with the Pittsburgh Pirates that the Bisons 
missed the playoffs in back-to-back seasons. After the 2008 season, Buffalo 
parted ways with Cleveland, as the Indians signed an affiliation agreement 
with the Columbus Clippers beginning in 2009. The Bisons then signed a 
two-year agreement to be the top home for New York Mets prospects.[4] On 
December 16, 2008, the Mets officially announced that Ken Oberkfell would 
be the Bisons new manager for 2009. At the same press conference, the Bisons 
also unveiled their new logo. The logo paid homage to baseball's history 
in the city of Buffalo with the city's skyline in the background. The logo, 
along with the new colors of blue and orange, closely resemble that of 
the team's new parent club, the Mets.[5] In the 2009–2010 off-season, the 
Bisons were chosen to host the 2012 Triple-A All-Star Game to celebrate 
25 years at Coca-Cola Field. The game was played on Wednesday, July 11, 
2012. In late July 2010, the Bisons and Mets agreed on a two-year extension 
that carried their agreement through the 2012 season.[6] The 2010–2011 
off-season saw changes to the Bisons coaching staff. Ken Oberkfell was 
replaced by Tim Teufel, who was a member of the 1986 Mets team. Teufel 
was introduced on Friday January 21, 2011, as the 16th manager in the Bisons' 
modern era.[7] The 2011–2012 off-season once again saw coaching changes. 
Tim Teufel was replaced by Wally Backman.[8] He was introduced on November 
17, 2011. The Bisons' agreement with the Mets ended after the 2012 season 
due to Bisons' management being dissatisfied with their drop in attendance 
and poor performance during the Mets era. The Bisons enjoyed only one winning 
season out of the four years that they were affiliated with the Mets.[9] 
Consequently, the Bisons signed a player development contract with the 
Toronto Blue Jays on September 18, 2012.[10][11] The Blue Jays are geographically 
the closest MLB team to Buffalo and such a partnership would build on other 
international fan base efforts in the region, such as the now defunct Bills 
Toronto Series in football. As part of the rebuilding efforts, the Bisons 
announced a new uniform (a throwback uniform using a modernized variant 
of their 1980s logo and colors) and the return of former Bisons manager 
Marty Brown in November 2012. On April 18, 2013 the Bisons scored 27 runs 
on 29 hits against the Syracuse Chiefs, setting records for the most runs 
and hits in an International League game since 1973.[12][13] In 2016, the 
Bisons and Blue Jays agreed to again extend their player development contract, 
extending their relationship through the 2018 season.[14] The Bisons have 
won the Governors' Cup, the championship of the IL, 6 times, including 
the inaugural Cup, and played in the championship series 10 times. Since 
1998 the Bisons have won the IL North Division four times (1998, 2001, 
2004, and 2005). They have also won the Thruway Cup, a regular-season competition 
between Buffalo, Rochester, and Syracuse, six times since its inception 
in 1998. Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 7-day 
disabled list * On Toronto Blue Jays 40-man roster # Rehab assignment ∞ 
Reserve list ‡ Restricted list § Suspended list † Temporary inactive list 
Roster updated November 9, 2016 Transactions → More MiLB rosters → Toronto 
Blue Jays minor league players Players named to the Bisons' "All 25 Seasons 
Team" are indicated by a double dagger () The main mascots of the team 
have traditionally been Buster T. Bison along with his cousin Chip, but 
as of 2006, a new mascot named Belle the Ballpark Diva has appeared, along 
with flamboyant reporter Johnny Styles. Buster and Belle pursued a love 
interest, and were married following a game on August 26, 2007, against 
the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees. Buster and Chip wear Bisons jerseys 
and caps. Buster's number was the last two numbers of the season up to 
2009, however, as of the 2010 season his number is 83, signifying the year 
Buster first appeared as the team's mascot. Chip's number has always been 
1⁄2. The Bisons have had a number of other mascots in the past. MicroChip, 
who was smaller and presumably "younger" than Buster and Chip, wore a Bisons 
jersey as well. His number was 1⁄4. Loudmouth, a mime played by actress 
Tracey B. Wilson, was another mascot for the team. The other official mascot 
of the Bisons was Howie the Ump. He wore a costume much like Buster and 
Chip, but it was a costume of a human umpire, with an umpire's uniform 
and mask. He was very short-lived, existing only during the 1995–1997 seasons, 
and was played by local improvisational comedian Randy Reese. The Bisons 
also run their own version of the mascot races at each home game, with 
costume characters representing a plain chicken wing, an extra-spicy "atomic" 
wing, a tub of bleu cheese and a stalk of celery. The celery mascot never 
wins and is often the victim of foul play from the other contestants. The 
beer and snack vendors that have worked the Bisons' ballparks often earned 
reputations as entertainers themselves. These include Conehead, a beer 
vendor who wears a rubber cone-head hat, and The Earl of Bud (entertainer 
Earl Howze, Jr., currently of Chattanooga, Tennessee), another beer vendor, 
who would climb on the dugout and dance at some point during the game.[17] 
The Earl of Bud made an appearance at the 20th Anniversary game for Dunn 
Tire Park in August 2007. He also made appearances at the ballpark in July 
and August 2012. The Bisons Baseball Network, consisting of flagship WWKB 
in Buffalo, WGGO in Salamanca, and WOEN in Olean, broadcasts all Buffalo 
Bisons games. Select games are broadcast on CJCL, the flagship station 
of the Toronto Blue Jays. Time Warner Cable Sports Channel provides telecasts 
of select games. Ben Wagner has served as play-by-play announcer since 
2007, and is teamed with color commentator Duke McGuire, who has been with 
the Bisons since 1979. Pat Malacaro is teamed with Wagner on select road 
games, and serves as radio play-by-play announcer when Wagner and McGuire 
work the television broadcasts.[18] Jim Rosenhaus, a Bisons broadcaster 
for 11 years, is now a Cleveland Indians broadcaster. His predecessor Pete 
Weber, who was the Bisons play-by-play broadcaster for 13 years, currently 
serves in that role for the Nashville Predators. Stan Barron spent many 
years as the Bisons' broadcaster and was a major factor in preventing a 
proposed relocation in 1956 and returning the team to Buffalo in 1979. 
