As Player As Manager Charles Wilber "Bullet" Rogan, also known as "Bullet 
Joe" (July 28, 1893 – March 4, 1967), was an American pitcher and outfielder 
for the Kansas City Monarchs in the Negro baseball leagues from 1920 to 
1938. Renowned as a two-way player who could both hit and pitch successfully, 
one statistical compilation shows Rogan winning more games than any other 
pitcher in Negro leagues history and ranking fourth highest in career batting 
average.[1] He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1998. Rogan's 
early baseball career took place in the U.S. Army, where he played for 
a famous team in the all-black 25th Infantry. After joining the Kansas 
City Monarchs, he was the top pitcher and one of the best hitters on a 
team that won three pennants from 1923 to 1925 and the Negro League World 
Series in 1924. He became a playing manager in 1926 and led his team to 
another league title in 1929. "Charleston was everything—but Rogan was 
more", said William "Big C" Johnson, one of Rogan's Army teammates. "Rogan 
could do everything, everywhere."[2] "He was the onliest pitcher I ever 
saw, I ever heard of in my life, was pitching and hitting in the cleanup 
place", said Satchel Paige.[3] According to Rogan's longtime catcher Frank 
Duncan, "If you had to choose between Rogan and Paige, you'd pick Rogan, 
because he could hit. The pitching, you'd as soon have Satchel as Rogan, 
understand? But Rogan's hitting was so terrific. Get my point?"[4] Casey 
Stengel called Rogan "one of the best—if not the best—pitcher that ever 
lived."[5] Wilber Rogan was born in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. After the 
death of his mother and his father's remarriage, he moved with his family 
to Kansas City, Kansas. He began his baseball career there in 1911 as a 
catcher with Fred Palace's Colts, a semipro team composed mostly of teenagers. 
Also joining the Colts that season was Dick Whitworth, who would, like 
Rogan, go on to pitch for many years in the Negro leagues.[6] Friction 
with his stepmother and unhappiness with the segregated high school he 
attended led Rogan to drop out of school before graduation and enlist in 
the Army on October 19, 1911. He lied about his age to do so.[7] This would 
cause later confusion about Rogan's age, as some records (along with his 
Hall of Fame plaque) give his birth year as 1889, others as 1893; recent 
histories, such as Phil Dixon's, conclude that the latter date is correct.[8] 
Rogan served in the Philippines with the 24th Infantry, an all-black regiment, 
for three years. He was honorably discharged in 1914. Before returning 
to the United States, Rogan reenlisted, this time with the 25th Infantry, 
another African American unit, at that time stationed at Schofield Barracks 
in Hawaii. He was specifically recruited to play for the regiment's famous 
baseball team, known as the "Wreckers."[9] He made his debut with the Wreckers 
on July 4, 1915.[10] His Army teammates included a number of later Negro 
league stars, such as Dobie Moore, Heavy Johnson, Bob Fagan, Lemuel Hawkins, 
and William "Big C" Johnson. Over the next three seasons, the Wreckers 
won the Post League championship, the United States Army Series, and the 
Oahu League.[11] In February 1917 Rogan twice defeated the Portland Beavers 
of the Pacific Coast League, who were visiting the islands for spring training.[12] 
On furlough for several months in 1917, Rogan played professionally for 
the Los Angeles White Sox, the Kansas City, Kansas, Giants, and J. L. Wilkinson's 
All Nations Club, but returned to the army for three more years.[13] In 
August 1918 Rogan and the rest of the 25th Infantry were moved to Camp 
Stephen D. Little in Nogales, Arizona. Researchers John Holway and James 
Riley report that in 1919, Casey Stengel played against Rogan in Arizona, 
and subsequently recommended him to Wilkinson for his new Negro National 
League team, the Kansas City Monarchs.[14] However, Rogan had already played 
in the California Winter League and for Wilkinson's All-Nations team in 
1917, and had already been noted by Negro sports reporters as early as 
1916.[15] In July 1920, Rogan and Dobie Moore joined the Monarchs. Rogan 
quickly became the premier pitcher and biggest box-office draw in the young 
league. By his third season with the Monarchs, 1922, he hit .390, and his 
13 home runs were good for second in the league.[16] On August 6, 1923, 
Rogan combined with teammate and manager José Méndez to pitch a no-hitter 
against the Milwaukee Bears, Méndez pitching the first five innings and 
Rogan the last four. That season he hit .364 with a league-leading 16 wins 
and 151 strikeouts to lead the Monarchs to their first pennant.[17] In 
1924 Rogan hit .395 while compiling an 18–6 record and leading the Monarchs 
to their second league title.[16] He starred in the first Black World Series, 
leading the Monarchs with 13 hits and winning two games as Kansas City 
defeated the Eastern Colored League champion Hilldales.[18] That winter 
he led the 1924/25 Cuban League with nine victories for the champion Almendares 
club.[19] Rogan may have reached his peak in 1925, leading Kansas City 
to its third straight league championship with a 17–2 record and a .381 
batting average.[16] In the playoffs against the St. Louis Stars he hit 
.450 and won three more games, including one shutout.[20] However, before 
the World Series rematch with Hilldale, Rogan suffered a knee injury while 
playing with his young son. Forced to undergo surgery, he missed the series. 
Without their star, the Monarchs went down to defeat in six games.[21] 
The following season, Rogan took over from José Méndez as manager of the 
Kansas City Monarchs. In that season's NNL playoffs against the Chicago 
American Giants, he pitched and lost both games of a series-deciding doubleheader 
to the younger Bill Foster.[22] As late as 1928 at the age of 34, Bullet 
Rogan was the best hitter (.358) and arguably the best pitcher (10–2) on 
the Monarchs.[16] That year he slammed three home runs in a game against 
the Detroit Stars.[23] Rogan continued at the Monarchs' helm in 1929 when 
they won their fourth NNL championship and recorded the best record (62–17) 
in the history of the league.[24] On April 29, 1930, in Enid, Oklahoma, 
Rogan played for the Monarchs in baseball's first night game.[25] In August 
he was hospitalized with an undisclosed illness. He remained out of the 
lineup for more than a year, finally returning on September 28, 1931.[26] 
When Wilkinson did not organize a Kansas City Monarchs team for 1932, Rogan 
joined a white independent team in Jamestown, North Dakota, where he played 
until August. He batted .315 and went 20–3 as a pitcher before returning 
to the reorganized Monarchs in September.[27] In the winter of 1933 and 
1934, Rogan returned to Hawaii and the Philippines as a member of the Philadelphia 
Royal Giants, a black all-star team. The Royal Giants toured Japan and 
China as well.[28] In 1936, at the age of 43, Rogan appeared in the East-West 
All-Star Game.[29] Relatively small (5 foot 7, 180 pounds (82 kg)), Rogan 
was solidly built and strong, with thin legs and a narrow waist but broad 
shoulders.[30] He threw and batted right-handed, and used an unusually 
heavy bat. "You saw Ernie Banks hit in his prime, then you saw Rogan", 
said Buck O'Neil. "He could hit that ball...He was the type of guy that 
stood a long way from the plate. Not too close, because they'd jam you."[31] 
According to his longtime teammate Frank Duncan, "Rogan was one of the 
best low-ball hitters I ever saw, and one of the best curve-ball hitters. 
Rogan taught Bob and Irish Meusel how to hit curve balls."[4] While not 
extremely fast, he ran the bases well and stole when necessary. As a pitcher, 
Rogan used a no-windup delivery and both overhand and sidearm motions, 
and relied on an array of curveballs, a spitball, a palmball, a forkball, 
and the fastball that gave him his nickname.[32] According to the sportswriter 
A.S. "Doc" Young, "Joe Rogan possessed as much natural ability as Smokey 
Joe or Satch, but his control was not up to theirs."[5] Frank Duncan, who 
caught both Paige and Rogan, said, Satchel was easier to catch. He could 
throw it in a quart cup. But Rogan was all over the plate—high, low, inside, 
outside. He'd walk five-six men, but he didn't give up many runs. Bullet 
had a little more steam on the ball than Paige—and he had a better-breaking 
curve. The batters thought it was a fastball heading for them and they 
would jump back from the plate and all of a sudden, it would break sharply 
for a strike. I would rank him with today's best. I have never seen a pitcher 
like him, and I have caught some of the best pitchers in the business.[33] 
Another Monarchs teammate, George Carr, said, Rogan was the greatest pitcher 
that ever threw a ball. He had not only an arm to pitch with but a head 
to think with. Rogan was a smart pitcher with a wonderful memory. Once 
Rogan pitched to a batter, he never forgot that batter's weaknesses and 
strong points. And don't think Rogan was nicknamed "Bullet" for nothing. 
That guy had a ball that was almost too fast to catch. He would really 
burn 'em in there.[5] As a manager, he was a strict disciplinarian, possibly 
a result of his military background. Carroll "Dink" Mothell maintained 
that "Rogan wanted to run the ball club like they did it in the army. He 
liked to give orders too much, even before he was managing. He used to 
bawl players out for different things. I could take it, but we had ball 
players, when he'd get on them, they'd go into a shell, resented it, and 
didn't give him their best." Another Monarchs pitcher, Chet Brewer, said 
that "Rogan wasn't the best manager because he was such a great ball player 
himself. He couldn't teach pitchers much, because he'd say, 'All you have 
to do is go out and throw the man what I threw'."[34] According to historian 
Phil Dixon, "In Rogan's first few years as manager he was reluctant to 
pinch-hit for many of the veterans on his roster because they were his 
friends." He didn't trust younger players, often inserting himself to pitch 
or pinch-hit for them.[35] He sometimes treated rookies harshly.[36] Eventually 
Rogan "discarded his distant approach" and became increasingly known for 
teaching and developing less experienced players.[37] On October 22, 1922, 
Wilber Rogan married Kathrine McWilliams, a Colorado farm girl. Their son 
Wilber Rogan, Jr., was born right after the 1924 World Series.[38] Between 
the 1923 and 1924 seasons, it was reported that Rogan spent the winter 
writing life insurance.[39] After his retirement as a player, Rogan became 
an umpire in the Negro American League until 1946, then worked in the post 
office.[40] He died in Kansas City, Missouri on March 4, 1967 at age 73. 
The Baseball Hall of Fame first admitted Negro league players in the 1970s, 
but did not honor Bullet Rogan until 1998, 31 years after his death. Batting 
Pitching Rogan spent five seasons in the integrated California Winter League 
between 1920 and 1930 against teams of white major and minor leaguers. 
Rogan's team won the championship every year.[41] Source:[19] Historian 
Phil Dixon puts Rogan's lifetime totals against all competition, including 
semipro and Army teams, at more than 350 games won, 2000 strikeouts, 2500 
