Bull Durham is a 1988 American romantic comedy sports film. It is partly 
based upon the minor-league baseball experiences of writer/director Ron 
Shelton and depicts the players and fans of the Durham Bulls, a minor-league 
baseball team in Durham, North Carolina. The film stars Kevin Costner as 
"Crash" Davis, a veteran catcher brought in to teach rookie pitcher Ebby 
Calvin "Nuke" LaLoosh (Tim Robbins) about the game in preparation for reaching 
the major leagues. Baseball groupie Annie Savoy (Susan Sarandon) romances 
Nuke but finds herself increasingly attracted to Crash. Also featured are 
Robert Wuhl and Trey Wilson, as well as popular baseball "clown" Max Patkin. 
Baseball movies were not considered a viable commercial prospect at the 
time and every studio passed except for Orion Pictures, which gave Shelton 
a USD $9 million budget, an eight-week shooting schedule, and creative 
freedom. Even so, many cast members accepted salaries lower than their 
usual requirements due to their enthusiasm for the material. Costner was 
cast because of his natural athletic ability. During filming, Costner was 
able to hit two home runs while the cameras were rolling. Bull Durham was 
a commercial success, grossing over $50 million in North America, well 
above its estimated budget, and was a critical success as well. Sports 
Illustrated ranked it the #1 Greatest Sports Movie of all time. The Moving 
Arts Film Journal ranked it #3 on its list of the 25 Greatest Sports Movies 
of All-Time. In addition, the film is ranked #55 on Bravo's "100 Funniest 
Movies." It is also ranked #97 on the American Film Institute's "100 Years...100 
Laughs" list, and #1 on Rotten Tomatoes' list of the 53 best-reviewed sports 
movies of all time. "Crash" Davis (Costner), a veteran of 12 years in minor 
league baseball, is sent down to the single-A Durham Bulls for a specific 
purpose: to educate hotshot rookie pitcher Ebby Calvin LaLoosh (Robbins, 
playing a character loosely based on Steve Dalkowski)[2][3] about becoming 
a major-league talent, and to control Ebby's haphazard pitching. Crash 
immediately begins calling Ebby by the degrading nickname of "Meat", and 
they get off to a rocky start. Thrown into the mix is Annie (Sarandon), 
a "baseball groupie" and lifelong spiritual seeker who has latched onto 
the "Church of Baseball" and has, every year, chosen one player on the 
Bulls to be her lover and student. Annie flirts with both Crash and Ebby 
and invites them to her house, but Crash walks out, saying he's too much 
a veteran to "try out" for anything. Before he leaves, Crash further sparks 
Annie's interest with a memorable speech listing the things he "believes 
in", ending with "I believe in long, slow, deep, soft, wet kisses that 
last three days... Good night". Despite some animosity between them, Annie 
and Crash work, in their own ways, to shape Ebby into a big-league pitcher. 
Annie plays mild bondage games, reads poetry to him, and gets him to think 
in different ways (and gives him the nickname "Nuke"). Crash forces Nuke 
to learn "not to think" by letting the catcher make the pitching calls 
(memorably at two points telling the batters what pitch is coming after 
Nuke rejects his calls), and lectures him about the pressure of facing 
major league hitters who can hit his "heat" (fastballs). Crash also talks 
about the pleasure of life in "The Show" (Major League Baseball), which 
he briefly lived for "the 21 greatest days of my life" and to which he 
has tried for years to return. Meanwhile, as Nuke matures, the relationship 
between Annie and Crash grows, until it becomes obvious that the two of 
them are a more appropriate match, except for the fact that Annie and Nuke 
are currently a couple. After a rough start, Nuke becomes a dominant pitcher 
by mid-season. By the end of the movie, Nuke is called up to the majors. 
This incites jealous anger in Crash, who is frustrated by Nuke's failure 
to recognize all the talent he was blessed with. Nuke leaves for the big 
leagues, Annie ends their relationship, and Crash overcomes his jealousy 
to leave Nuke with some final words of advice. The Bulls, now having no 
use for his mentor, release Crash. Crash then presents himself at Annie's 
house and the two consummate their attraction with a weekend-long lovemaking 
session. Crash then leaves Annie's house to seek a further minor-league 
position. Crash joins another team, the Asheville Tourists, and breaks 
the minor-league record for career home runs. We see Nuke one last time, 
being interviewed by the press as a major leaguer, reciting the clichéd 
answers that Crash had taught him earlier. Crash then retires as a player 
and returns to Durham, where Annie tells him she's ready to give up her 
annual affairs with "boys". Crash tells her that he is thinking about becoming 
a manager for a minor-league team in Visalia. The film ends with Annie 
and Crash dancing in Annie's candle-lit living room. The film's name is 
based on the nickname for Durham, North Carolina, which has been called 
"Bull Durham" since the 1800s, when W. T. Blackwell and Company named its 
product "Bull" Durham tobacco, which soon became a well-known trademark. 
In 1898, James B. Duke purchased the company and renamed it the American 
Tobacco Company. By this time, the nickname Bull Durham had already stuck. 
The film's writer and director, Ron Shelton, played minor league baseball 
for five years after graduating from Westmont College in Santa Barbara, 
California. Initially playing second base for the Baltimore Orioles' farm 
system, he moved from the Appalachian League to California and then Texas 
before finally playing AAA baseball for the Rochester Red Wings in the 
International League. Shelton quit when he realized he would never become 
a major league player. "I was 25. In baseball, you feel 60 if you're not 
in the big leagues. I didn't want to become a Crash Davis", he said.[4] 
He returned to school and earned a Master of Fine Arts in sculpture at 
the University of Arizona before moving to Los Angeles to join the city's 
art scene. However, he felt more kinship in telling stories than in creating 
performance art. His break into filmmaking came with scriptwriting credits 
on the films Under Fire and The Best of Times .[4] According to Shelton, 
"I wrote a very early script about minor league baseball; the only thing 
it had in common with Bull Durham was that it was about a pitcher and a 
catcher."[5] That script was titled, The Player To Be Named Later; a single 
anecdote from that script made it into Bull Durham.[4] For Bull Durham, 
Shelton "decided to see if a woman could tell the story" and "dictated 
that opening monologue on a little micro-recorder while I was driving around 
North Carolina."[5] Crash was named after Lawrence "Crash" Davis but was 
modeled after Pike Bishop, the lead character William Holden played in 
The Wild Bunch: a guy who "loved something more than it loved him."[5] 
Annie Savoy's name was a combination of the nickname ("Annies") that baseball 
players gave their groupies and the name of a bar; she was a "High Priestess 
[who] could lead us into a man's world, and shine a light on it. And she 
would be very sensual, and sexual, yet she'd live by her own rigorous moral 
code. It seemed like a character we hadn't seen before."[5] After Shelton 
returned to Los Angeles from his road trip, he wrote the script for Bull 
Durham in "about twelve weeks."[5] When Shelton pitched Bull Durham, he 
had a hard time convincing a studio to give him the opportunity to direct.[4] 
Baseball movies were not considered a viable commercial prospect at the 
time and every studio passed except for Orion Pictures who gave him a $9 
million budget (with many cast members accepting lower-than-usual salaries 
because of the material), an eight-week shooting schedule, and creative 
freedom.[4] Shelton scouted locations throughout the southern United States 
before settling on Durham in North Carolina because of its old ballpark 
and its location, "among abandoned tobacco warehouses and on the edge of 
an abandoned downtown and in the middle of a residential neighborhood where 
people could walk".[6] Shelton cast Costner because of the actor's natural 
athleticism. Costner was a former high school baseball player and was able 
to hit two home runs while the cameras were rolling and, according to Shelton, 
insisted "on throwing runners out even when they (the cameras) weren't 
rolling".[7] He cast Robbins over the strong objections of the studio, 
who wanted Anthony Michael Hall instead.[8] Shelton had to threaten to 
quit before the studio backed off.[5] Producer Thom Mount (who is part-owner 
of the real Durham Bulls) hired Pete Bock, a former semi-pro baseball player, 
as a consultant on the film. Bock recruited more than a dozen minor-league 
players, ran a tryout camp to recruit an additional 40 to 50 players from 
lesser ranks, hired several minor-league umpires, and conducted two-a-day 
workouts and practice games with Tim Robbins pitching and Kevin Costner 
catching.[4] Bock made sure the actors looked and acted like ballplayers 
and that the real players acted convincingly in front of the cameras. He 
said, "the director would say, 'This is the shot we want. What we need 
is the left fielder throwing a one-hopper to the plate. Then we need a 
good collision at the plate.' I would select the players I know could do 
the job, and then we would go out and get it done".[9] Bull Durham debuted 
on June 15, 1988 and grossed $5 million in 1,238 theaters on its opening 
weekend. It went on to gross a total of $50.8 million in North America, 
well above its estimated $9 million budget.[10] "A few months after it 
came out, I was having dinner at a restaurant called The Imperial Gardens. 
A man came up and asked if I was Ron Shelton. I said yes, and he said, 
'Somebody would like to meet you.' So I followed him—I didn't realize at 
the time it was Stanley Donen, the director—and he brought me over to his 
best friend, Billy Wilder. Wilder looked up and said, 'Great fuckin' picture, 
kid!' I said, 'Mr. Wilder, that's the best review I've ever had!'" The 
film was well-received critically. It currently has a rating of 97% on 
Rotten Tomatoes. Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 73 
out of 100, based on 16 reviews. In David Ansen's review for Newsweek magazine, 
he wrote that the film "works equally as a love story, a baseball fable 
and a comedy, while ignoring the clichés of each genre".[4] Vincent Canby 
praised Shelton's direction in his review for the New York Times; "he demonstrates 
the sort of expert comic timing and control that allow him to get in and 
out of situations so quickly that they're over before one has time to question 
them. Part of the fun in watching Bull Durham is in the awareness that 
a clearly seen vision is being realized. This is one first-rate debut".[11] 
Roger Ebert praised Susan Sarandon's performance in his review for the 
Chicago Sun-Times: "I don't know who else they could have hired to play 
Annie Savoy, the Sarandon character who pledges her heart and her body 
to one player a season, but I doubt if the character would have worked 
without Sarandon's wonderful performance".[12] In his review for Sports 
Illustrated, Steve Wulf wrote, "It's a good movie and a damn good baseball 
movie".[13] Hal Hinson, in his review for the Washington Post, wrote, "The 
people associated with Bull Durham know the game ... and the firsthand 
experience shows in their easy command of the ballplayer's vernacular, 
in their feel for what goes through a batter's head when he digs in at 
the plate and in their knowledge of the secret ceremonies that take place 
on the mound".[14] Richard Corliss, in his review for Time, wrote, "Costner's 
surly sexiness finally pays off here; abrading against Sarandon's earth-mama 
geniality and Robbins' rube egocentricity, Costner strikes sparks".[15] 
Bull Durham was named Best Screenplay of 1988 by New York Film Critics' 
Circle.[16] The film became a minor hit when released, and is now considered 
one of the best sports movies of all time.[17] In 2003, Sports Illustrated 
ranked Bull Durham as the "Greatest Sports Movie".[18] In addition, the 
film is ranked number 55 on Bravo's "100 Funniest Movies."[19] It is also 
ranked #97 on the American Film Institute's "100 Years...100 Laughs" list, 
and #1 on Rotten Tomatoes' Top Sports Movies[20] list of the 53 best reviewed 
sports movies of all time. Entertainment Weekly ranked Bull Durham as the 
fifth best DVD of their Top 30 Sports Movies on DVD.[21] The magazine also 
ranked the film as the fifth best sports film since 1983 in their "Sports 
25: The Best Thrill-of-Victory, Agony-of-Defeat Films Since 1983" poll[22] 
and #5 on their "50 Sexiest Movies Ever" poll.[23] In June 2008, AFI revealed 
its "Ten top Ten"—the best ten films in ten "classic" American film genres—after 
polling over 1,500 people from the creative community. Bull Durham was 
acknowledged as the fifth best film in the sports genre.[24][25] In 2003, 
a 15th anniversary celebration of Bull Durham at the National Baseball 
Hall of Fame was canceled by Hall of Fame president Dale Petroskey. Petroskey, 
who was on the White House staff during the Reagan administration, told 
Robbins that the actor's public opposition to the US-led war in Iraq helped 
to "undermine the U.S. position, which could put our troops in even more 
danger."[26] Costner, a self-described libertarian, defended Robbins and 
Sarandon, saying, "I think Tim and Susan's courage is the type of courage 
that makes our democracy work. Pulling back this invite is against the 
whole principle about what we fight for and profess to be about."[26] For 
years, Ron Shelton has contemplated making a sequel and remarked, "I couldn't 
figure out in the few years right after it came out, what do you do? Nuke's 
in the big leagues, Crash is managing in Visalia. Is Annie going to go 
to Visalia? I've been to Visalia. That will test a relationship ... It 
was not a simple fable to continue with – not that we don't talk about 
continuing it, now that everyone's in their 60s".[6] Actor Trey Wilson, 
who played Durham manager Joe Riggins, died of a cerebral hemorrhage at 
age 40, seven months after this film's release. Academy Awards Golden Globe 
Awards Writers Guild of America Award Boston Society of Film Critics Los 
Angeles Film Critics Association National Society of Film Critics 1988 
New York Film Critics Circle Awards In 2000, the American Film Institute 
placed the film on its 100 Years...100 Laughs list, where it was ranked 
#97.[27] And in 2008, AFI included Bull Durham on its Top 10 Sports Films 
list as the #5 sports film.[28] Bull Durham was originally released on 
DVD on October 27, 1998 and included an audio commentary by writer/director 
Ron Shelton.[29] A Special Edition DVD was released on April 2, 2002 and 
included the Shelton commentary track from the previous edition, a new 
commentary by Kevin Costner and Tim Robbins, a Between The Lines: The Making 
Of Bull Durham featurette, a Sports Wrap featurette, and a Costner profile.[30] 
A "Collector's Edition" DVD celebrating the film's 20th anniversary was 
released on March 18, 2008 and features the two commentaries from the previous 
edition, a Greatest Show on Dirt featurette, a Diamonds in the Rough featurette 
that explores minor league baseball, The Making of Bull Durham featurette, 
