In baseball, the bullpen (or simply the pen) is the area where relief pitchers 
warm-up before entering a game. A team's roster of relief pitchers is also 
metonymically referred to as "the bullpen". These pitchers usually wait 
in the bullpen if they have not yet played in a game, rather than in the 
dugout with the rest of the team. The starting pitcher also makes his final 
pregame warm-up throws in the bullpen. Managers can call coaches in the 
bullpen on an in-house telephone from the dugout to tell a certain pitcher 
to begin his warm-up tosses. Each team generally has its own bullpen consisting 
of two pitching rubbers and plates at regulation distance from each other. 
In most Major League Baseball parks, the bullpens are situated out-of-play 
behind the outfield fence. There are currently four MLB parks with bullpens 
in playable foul territory: Wrigley Field, AT&T Park, Oakland Coliseum 
and Tropicana Field. The origin of the term bullpen, as used in baseball, 
is debated, with no one theory holding unanimous, or even substantial, 
sway. The term first appeared in wide use shortly after the turn of the 
20th century[1] and has been used since in roughly its present meaning. 
According to the Oxford English Dictionary the earliest recorded use of 
"bullpen" in baseball is in a 1924 Chicago Tribune article from October 
5. The earliest known usage of the term "bull pen" relating to an area 
of a baseball field is in a New York Times article from June 24, 1883.[2] 
The earliest known relief pitching related usage of "bullpen" in the New 
York Times is in an article dated September 18, 1912.[3] There are numerous 
examples—some historical, some speculative—about the possible origin of 
the term bullpen. During the Civil War in the United States, the notorious 
Andersonville prison camp was referred to, by the inmates, as a bullpen. 
Though conditions were initially a vast improvement over Richmond detention 
centers, problems grew in proportion to the number of inmates. By late 
summer 1864, the prison population made Andersonville one of the largest 
cities in the Confederacy. At its peak in August, the "bullpen", built 
to lodge up to 10,000 enlisted men, held 33,000 grimy, gaunt prisoners, 
each one crammed into a living area the size of a coffin. Their only protection 
from the elements were "shebangs", hand built shelters low to the ground 
created by driving forked branches into the sandy soil four to eight feet 
apart and a piece of limb laid in the two forks creating the center pole. 
Planks or limbs were laid from the center pole to the ground creating what 
is also known as a "lean-to". The planks or limbs were covered with tent 
shelter halves, gum sheets, overcoats, or blankets as the owner could afford. 
If no woven material was available, then the shelter was covered in broad 
leaves giving the owner some shade but little protection from the rain.[4] 
[5][6][7] This wartime usage in the United States has occurred as recently 
as World War II. Tokio Yamane described conditions in Japanese relocation 
camps, referring to a "bull pen" within a stockade at Tule Lake, California. 
Prisoners in the stockade lived in wooden buildings which, although flimsy, 
still offered some protection from the severe winters of Tule Lake. However, 
prisoners in the "bull pen" were housed outdoors in tents without heat 
and with no protection against the bitter cold. The bunks were placed directly 
on the cold ground, and the prisoners had only one or two blankets and 
no extra clothing to ward off the winter chill. And, for the first time 
in our lives, those of us confined to the "bull pen" experienced a life 
and death struggle for survival, the unbearable pain from our unattended 
and infected wounds, and the penetrating December cold of Tule Lake, a 
God Forsaken concentration camp lying near the Oregon border, and I shall 
never forget that horrible experience.[8] Temporary holding facilities 
for rebellious workers trying to organize into unions were referred to 
as bullpens.[9] These military prisons were sometimes literally pens normally 
used for cattle which were pressed into service by stringing barbed wire, 
establishing a guarded perimeter, and keeping large numbers of men confined 
in the enclosed space. These "bullpens" have been considered early versions 
of concentration camps,[10] and were used by the national guard during 
the Colorado Labor Wars of 1903-04, and in Idaho in 1892 and 1899 during 
union miners' uprisings near Coeur d'Alene. Author Emma Langdon described 
these as the first use of the bullpen in the West.[11] In his autobiography 
Bill Haywood described Idaho miners held for, ...months of imprisonment 
in the bull-pen, a structure unfit to house cattle, enclosed in a high 
barbed-wire fence.[12] Penned up in bullpens as a response to violence, 
many hundreds of union men had been imprisoned without trial. Peter Carlson 
wrote in his book Roughneck, Haywood traveled to the town of Mullan, where 
he met a man who had escaped from the bullpen. The makeshift prison was 
an old grain warehouse that reeked of excrement and crawled with vermin. 
Overcrowding was so severe that some two hundred prisoners had been removed 
from the warehouse and quartered in railroad boxcars.[13] In most major 
league stadiums, the bullpens are located out-of-play just behind the outfield 
fences. Commonly, the bullpens are separated from each other and each team's 
is located on the side of the field corresponding with the same team's 
dugout. However, there are exceptions. In a few ballparks, the team's bullpens 
are opposite their own dugouts which allows the manager to more easily 
watch the pitchers warming up from his dugout. A recent trend is the installation 
of mesh outfield walls in front of the bullpen to allow the bullpen to 
be more-easily seen by both fans and the manager in the dugout, as well 
as to allow the players in the bullpen to more easily see what is occurring 
on the field. Four major league stadiums current have their bullpens in 
foul territory: Wrigley Field (Chicago Cubs), O.co Coliseum (Oakland Athletics), 
AT&T Park (San Francisco Giants), Tropicana Field (Tampa Bay Rays). This 
was more common in the past and most new stadiums have opted to move the 
bullpens to the outfield where the ongoing play is less likely to interfere 
with the bullpen. In parks with foul-territory bullpens, the relief pitchers 
and bullpen staff generally sit in chairs or benches along the wall between 
the field and the stands. The bullpen pitching area is in foul territory 
and in some of the stadiums, is right up against the foul line. It is therefore 
not uncommon for batted balls to head towards the bullpen requiring pitchers 
warming up (and even those sitting along the wall) to move to avoid interfering 
with a live play or being hit by the ball. There is commonly a ballboy 
at the end of the bullpen nearest to home plate to attempt to protect the 
players from foul balls hit in that direction. Certain ballparks have their 
outfield bullpens in unusual configurations. Petco Park features the home 
bullpen behind the outfield fence and the visitor's bullpen behind that 
and one level higher. The visitor's bullpen was moved to this location 
from foul territory after the 2012 season. Between 1951 and 1995, varying 
numbers of MLB teams used vehicles to transport pitchers from the bullpen 
to the mound. These vehicles ranged from golf carts to full-sized cars. 
The 1951 Chicago White Sox were the first to use a bullpen cart. The last 
use of a bullpen vehicle was a motorcycle and sidecar used by the 1995 
