Burlington (Canada 2011 Census population 175,779), is a city located in 
the Regional Municipality of Halton at the northwestern end of Lake Ontario. 
Along with Milton to the north, Burlington forms the west end of the Greater 
Toronto Area, while its metropolitan census area is part of the neighbouring 
city of Hamilton. Physically, Burlington lies between the north shore of 
Lake Ontario and the Niagara Escarpment. Economically, Burlington is strategically 
located near the geographic centre of the Golden Horseshoe, a densely populated 
and industrialized region home to over 8 million people. Before pioneer 
settlement in the 19th century, the area was covered by the primeval forest 
that stretched between the provincial capital of York and the town of Hamilton, 
and was home to various First Nations peoples. In 1792, John Graves Simcoe, 
the first lieutenant governor of Upper Canada, named the western end of 
Lake Ontario "Burlington Bay" after the town of Bridlington in the East 
Riding of Yorkshire, England.[3] By the time land beside the bay was deeded 
to Captain Joseph Brant at the turn of the 19th century, the name "Burlington" 
was already in common use. With the completion of the local survey after 
the War of 1812, the land was opened for settlement. Early farmers prospered 
in the Burlington area because of the fertile soil and moderate temperatures. 
Produce from the farms was shipped out via the bustling docks of the lakeside 
villages of Port Nelson and Wellington Square, as well as Brown's Wharf 
in the nearby village of Port Flamborough (which was to become Aldershot). 
Lumber taken from the surrounding forests also competed for space on the 
busy docks. However, in the latter half of the 19th century, increased 
wheat production from Western Canada convinced local farmers to switch 
to fruit and vegetable production. In 1874, Wellington Square and Port 
Nelson were incorporated into the Village of Burlington. However, the arrival 
of large steamships on the Great Lakes made the small docks of the local 
ports obsolete, and the increased use of railway to ship goods marked the 
end of the commercial wharves. Farming still thrived though, and the resultant 
growth resulted in continued prosperity. By 1906, the town boasted both 
its own newspaper—the Burlington Gazette—as well as a town library and 
a local rail line that connected Burlington to nearby Hamilton. During 
the First World War, 300 local men volunteered for duty in the Canadian 
Expeditionary Force—38 did not return. In 1915, Burlington was incorporated 
into a town. As more settlers arrived and cleared the land, cash crops 
replaced subsistence farming. Gradually, mixed farming and market gardens 
became the dominant form of agriculture, and in the early 20th century 
the area was declared the Garden of Canada. The first peaches grown in 
Canada were cultivated in the Grindstone Creek watershed, which is located 
in the south-west part of the city. The farming tradition has passed down 
through the generations. Today over forty percent of the Grindstone Creek 
watershed is still devoted to farms, orchards and nurseries.[4] Following 
the Second World War, cheap electricity from nearby Niagara Falls and better 
transportation access due to the new (1939) Queen Elizabeth Way encouraged 
both light industry and families to move to Burlington. The population 
skyrocketed as new homes were built, encouraging developers to build even 
more new homes. On 1 January 1958, Burlington officially annexed most of 
the Township of Nelson, as well as Aldershot, formerly a part of East Flamborough 
Township. By 1967, the last cash crop farm within the city had been replaced 
by the Burlington Mall.[5] By 1974, with a population exceeding 100,000, 
Burlington was incorporated as a city. The extremely high rate of growth 
continued, and between 2001 and 2006, the population of Burlington grew 
by 9%, compared to Canada's overall growth rate of 5.4%. By 2006, the population 
topped 160,000. Continued high rates of growth are forecast as farmland 
north of Dundas Street (former Highway 5) and south of Highway #407 is 
developed into more suburban housing. Burlington is located at the southwestern 
end of Lake Ontario, just to the north of Hamilton and the Niagara Peninsula, 
roughly in the geographic centre of the urban corridor known as the Golden 
Horseshoe. Burlington has a total land area of 187 km2 (72 sq mi). The 
main urban area is located south of the Parkway Belt and Hwy. 407. The 
land north of this, and north Aldershot is used primarily for agriculture, 
rural residential and conservation purposes. The Niagara Escarpment, Lake 
Ontario and the sloping plain between the escarpment and the lake make 
up the land area of Burlington. The city is no longer a port; sailing vessels 
in the area are used for recreational purposes and moor at a 215 slip marina 
in LaSalle Park. The 2.2 km long Skyway Bridge is a prominent landmark. 
Burlington’s climate is humid continental (Köppen climate classification 
Dfa) with warm, humid summers and cold, somewhat drier winters. The climate 
is moderated by its proximity to Lake Ontario. Monthly mean temperatures 
range from 22.3 °C (72.1 °F) in July to −4.2 °C (24.4 °F) in January. The 
average annual precipitation is 878 millimetres (34.6 in) of rain and 109 
centimetres (43 in) of snow. Although it shares the temperate climate found 
in Southern Ontario, its proximity to Lake Ontario moderates winter temperatures 
and it also benefits from a sheltering effect of the Niagara Escarpment, 
allowing the most northerly tracts of Carolinian forest to thrive on the 
Escarpment that runs through western sections of city. Several species 
of flora and fauna usually found only in more southern climes have their 
only Canadian presence here including paw-paw, green dragon (Arisaema dracontium), 
tuckahoe (Peltandra virginica), American columbo (Frasera carolinensis), 
wall-rue (Asplenium ruta-muraria), plus the Louisiana waterthrush, the 
hooded warbler, the southern flying squirrel and the rare eastern pipistrelle. 
Near the visible promontory of Mount Nemo that rises some 200 m (650 ft) 
above the lake level, a "vertical forest" of white cedar clinging to the 
Escarpment face includes many small trees that are more than a thousand 
years old.[6] Hamilton Harbour, the western end of Lake Ontario, is bounded 
on its western shore by a large sandbar, now called the Beach strip, that 
was deposited during the last ice age. A canal bisecting the sandbar allows 
ships access to Hamilton Harbour, which lies behind the sandbar. The Burlington 
Bay James N. Allan Skyway (part of the Queen Elizabeth Way), and the Canal 
Lift Bridge allow access over the canal. According to the 2011 census, 
Burlington's population was 175,779. As of the 2006 census, 48% of residents 
were male and 52% female. Minors (individuals under the age of 18) made 
up 24.5% of the population (almost identical to the national average of 
24.4%), and pensioners (age 65+) numbered 15.4% (significantly higher than 
the national average 13.7%). This older population was also reflected in 
Burlington's average age of 40.3, which was higher than the Canadian average 
of 39.5.[8] As recorded in the same census, 91.04% of the population was 
white. Other groups include South Asian: 3.1%, mixed race: 1.5%, black: 
1.5%, and Chinese: 1.3%.[10] The top eight ethnic origins from the 2006 
census are listed in the accompanying table. Percentages add up to more 
than 100% because respondents were able to choose more than one ethnicity. 
According to the 2011 Census,[11] English is the mother tongue for 80.7% 
of the residents of Burlington, followed by French (1.8%), Polish (1.3%), 
Spanish (1.2%), German (1.1%) and Italian (1.1%). However, Statistics Canada 
warned that "data users are advised to exercise caution when evaluating 
trends related to mother tongue and home language that compare 2011 census 
data to those of previous censuses," due to the discontinuation of the 
mandatory long census form by the federal government.[12] In the 2001 Canadian 
census, 78% of Burlington residents identified themselves as Christian. 
Of these, approximately 41% claimed adherence to one of the mainstream 
Protestant churches or were Anglican, 32% were Roman Catholic, and the 
remaining 27% belonged to other denominations such as the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter Day Saints (Mormons), the Ukrainian Catholic Church, and 
various Orthodox denominations.[13] Of the remaining 22% of the population 
that did not identify themselves as Christian, 16.6% identified themselves 
as following no religion, 1.0% were Muslim, 0.7% Sikh, 0.5% Hindu, 0.4% 
Jewish, 0.3% Buddhist, and 0.1% Pagan.[13] Burlington's economic strength 
is the diversity of its economic base, mainly achieved because of its geography, 
proximity to large industries in southern Ontario (Canada's largest consumer 
market), its location within the Greater Toronto and Hamilton Area (GTHA) 
and proximity to Hamilton, and its transportation infrastructure. This 
diversity has allowed for sustained growth with regards to the economy.[14] 
The city has a robust economy with potential for future growth - it is 
located at the hub of the Golden Horseshoe, is largely driven by both the 
automotive and manufacturing sectors. The city has historically been a 
destination with a high quality of life, being most recently named the 
2nd best city in Canada in which to live.[15] No single employer or job 
sector dominates Burlington’s economy. The leading industrial sectors, 
in terms of employment, are food processing, packaging, electronics, motor 
vehicle/transportation, business services, chemical/pharmaceutical and 
environmental. The top five private sector employers in Burlington are 
Fearmans Pork Inc, Cogeco Cable, Evertz Microsystems, Boehringer Ingelheim 
and EMC2. Other notable business include The EBF Group, ARGO Land Development, 
and The Sunshine Doughnut Company.[16] [17]The largest public sector employers 
in the city are the City of Burlington, the Halton District School Board, 
the Halton Catholic District School Board and Joseph Brant Hospital. The 
Burlington Mall and Mapleview Centre are popular malls within the city. 
The many summer festivals in the city, include Canada's Largest Ribfest, 
and the Burlington Sound of Music Festival which also attract many visitors. 
Burlington is primarily served by media based in Toronto (other than those 
noted below), as it is geographically located in the Greater Toronto and 
Hamilton Area (GTHA). One radio station, FM 107.9 CJXY, is licensed to 
Burlington and another, FM 94.7 CHKX, to "Hamilton/Burlington." Both presently 
broadcast from studios in Hamilton; CJXY, indeed, brands itself "Hamilton's 
ONLY Rock Station." Burlington listeners are also served by stations licensed 
to Toronto and Hamilton and other nearby radio markets like Buffalo, NY. 
The following publications are either published in or around Burlington, 
or have Burlington as one of their main subjects: Burlington's public elementary 
and secondary schools are part of the Halton District School Board. Burlington's 
Catholic elementary and secondary schools are part of the Halton Catholic 
District School Board. French public elementary and secondary schools are 
part of the Conseil scolaire Viamonde and French catholic elementary and 
secondary schools are part of the Conseil scolaire de district catholique 
Centre-Sud (CSDCCS). Several private schools are also available in the 
city. There are 29 public elementary schools and 14 Roman Catholic elementary 
schools in Burlington. There are eight public high schools and three Catholic 
high schools in Burlington. There are 13 private schools in Burlington. 
Burlington Transit, the public transport provider in the city, provides 
service on a transportation grid centred on three commuter GO Train stations: 
Appleby, Burlington and Aldershot. Major transportation corridors through 
the city include the Queen Elizabeth Way, Highway 403, Highway 407, and 
Dundas Street (former Highway 5). Commuter and travel rail service is provided 
by both GO Transit and Via Rail. Rail cargo transportation is provided 
by both Canadian National Railway and Canadian Pacific. On 26 February 
2012, a Via Rail train traveling from Niagara Falls to Toronto Union Station 
derailed in Burlington, with three fatalities.[20] The city is divided 
into six wards, each represented by a city councillor. The mayor, who chairs 
the city council, is Rick Goldring. Federally, the city is represented 
by three MPs whose ridings cover parts of the city: Provincially, the city 
is represented by two MPPs, whose ridings were geographically contiguous 
with their federal counterparts before federal electoral redistribution 
in 2015. (Current provincial ridings will be re-distributed to match current 
federal ridings for the scheduled provincial election in 2018):[22] There 
are 115 parks and 580 ha of parkland within the city. On the shore of Lake 
Ontario, Spencer Smith Park features an expansive shoreline walking path. 
The park is newly renovated, with an observatory, outdoor pond, water jet 
play area and restaurant. Many annual free festivals take place in Spencer 
Smith Park, including Canada's Largest Ribfest and the Sound of Music Festival, 
Canada Day, Children's Festival and Lakeside Festival of Lights. There 
is also the semi-annual prix fixe Taste of Burlington dining event. The 
Brant Street Pier officially opened in Spencer Smith Park during the Sound 
of Music Festival on Father’s Day weekend, 2013.[23] Thousands of people 
from Burlington and beyond flocked to the pier to enjoy sunshine and scenic 
views. The pier extends 137 metres over Lake Ontario and provides views 
of the lake and Burlington’s shoreline. The Art Gallery of Burlington is 
located adjacent to Spencer Smith Park, and contains diverse permanent 
and changing exhibits. The Gallery houses a prominent collection of Canadian 
ceramics. The Gallery’s exhibition spaces, which feature new exhibitions 
every eight to ten weeks, are fully accessible and are free of charge to 
visitors.[24] "Royal Canadian Naval Association Naval Memorial (1995)" 
by André Gauthier is a 6’4” high cast bronze statue of a WWII Canadian 
sailor in the position of attention saluting his lost shipmates, which 
was erected in Spencer Smith Park. The model for the statue was a local 
Sea Cadet wearing Mike Vencel's naval service uniform.[25] On the black 
granite base, the names of Royal Canadian Navy and Canadian Merchant Marine 
ships sunk during WWII are engraved. On the granite wall, the names of 
all Royal Canadian Navy ships and Canadian Merchant Marine vessels which 
saw service in WWII are engraved.[26] A monument commemorating the Korean 
War was erected in the summer of 2014 to mark the 61st anniversary of the 
armistice to end the war.[27] Burlington is home to the Royal Botanical 
Gardens, which has the world’s largest lilac collection. Ontario's botanical 
garden and National Historic Site of Canada features over 2,700 acres (11 km2) 
of gardens and nature sanctuaries, including four outdoor display gardens, 
the Mediterranean Garden under glass, three on-site restaurants, the Gardens' 
Gift Shop, and festivals. Lasalle Park, located in the Burlington neighbourhood 
of Aldershot, is owned by the city of Hamilton but is leased by Burlington, 
which also assumes responsibility for maintenance. Several conservation 
areas are minutes away and feature year round activities. Mount Nemo Conservation 
Area is the only area in Burlington that is operated by Conservation Halton. 
Bronte Creek Provincial Park is located along the eastern boundary of the 
city and features a campground and recreational activities and events year-round. 
The local sections of the Bruce Trail and the Niagara Escarpment, which 
is a UNESCO designated World Biosphere Reserve, provide excellent hiking 
opportunities. Kerncliff Park, in an abandoned quarry on the boundary with 
Waterdown, is a naturalized area on the lip of the Niagara Escarpment. 
The Bruce Trail runs through the park, at many points running along the 
edge of the cliffs, providing a clear overlook of Burlington, the Burlington 
Skyway Bridge, Hamilton, and Oakville. On a clear day, one can see the 
CN Tower in Toronto, approximately 50 kilometres (31 mi) from the park. 
The Joseph Brant Museum and Ireland House are also popular attractions. 
Joseph Brant Museum has ongoing exhibits on the history of Burlington, 
the Eileen Collard Costume Collection, Captain Joseph Brant and the visible 
storage gallery. Ireland House at Oakridge Farm is a history museum depicting 
family life from the 1850s to the 1920s. Burlington offers four indoor 
and two outdoor pools, four splash pads, nine ice pads, four community 
centres and nine golf courses. The Appleby Ice Centre is a 4-pad arena, 
used year-round for skating and ice hockey.[28] The Burlington Performing 
Arts Centre opened in 2011. This 940-seat facility is located on Locust 
Street in the downtown core. It contains two theatres for theatrical and 
musical performances.[29] Burlington Mall City Hall, on Brant Street Brant 
Street, downtown Joseph Brant Memorial Hospital, downtown The Burlington 
Teen Tour Band has operated in the city since 1947, including members between 
the ages of 13 and 21. The marching band goes by the nickname The Redcoats 
due to the colour of its uniforms, and are regular participants in major 
international parades. They are also referred to as "Canada's Musical Ambassadors" 
and have represented Canada all over the world. One such occasion was during 
the 2008 Tournament of Roses Parade, where the band represented Canada 
for the fourth time in the band's history. The band is currently led by 
Rob Bennett, managing director, along with Sir William Hughes, musical 
director. The Junior Redcoats are the younger version of the Teen Tour 
Band. The band includes children between the ages of 9 to 12. The Junior 
Redcoats' major performances are most commonly at the Burlington Santa 
Claus Parade, the Waterdown Santa Claus Parade, Hamilton Place (along with 
the Teen Tour Band) and the Sound of Music Parade. The Junior Redcoats 
are currently directed by Bill Rolfe. The Burlington Concert Band has been 
in operation since 1908. The band, composed of local volunteer musicians, 
plays a wide variety of musical styles and repertoire. It primarily performs 
to raise money for charitable causes. The Burlington Concert Band is a 
participating member of Performing Arts Burlington as well as the Canadian 
Band Association. The band maintains an open membership policy, allowing 
anyone who feels they can handle the music competently to join without 
an audition. Its primary venue has been the Burlington Performing Arts 
Center since it opened in 2011. The Burlington Concert Band is currently 
directed by Zoltan Kalman and led by an elected board currently headed 
by Jane Lemke. Since 1961, 715 "Mohawk" Squadron of the Royal Canadian 
Air Cadets has been a fixture in the city. The Royal Canadian Air Cadets 
is only one of the three branches of the Canadian Cadet Movement. The CCM 
is a partnership between the Department of National Defence, and each of 
the three cadet leagues: The Air Cadet League of Canada, The Army Cadet 
League of Canada, and the Navy League. The CCM is the largest federally 
funded youth program in Canada, and is open to youth ages 12–18 who are 
interested in leadership, citizenship, physical fitness, the Canadian Forces, 
and personal discipline. The Army Cadet Corps is 2379 Royal Hamilton Light 
Infantry Army Cadet Corps. Burlington Area Scout traces its organization 
back to 1910 when the town's population was about 1,000. The first local 
Scoutmaster was Archie McGibbon, who remained in his position for more 
than a year, after which there was a succession of leaders including Hughes 
Cleaver and William Gilbert. The original enrolment of 25 boys was considered 
excellent for the small population of Burlington. In approximately 1918, 
Rev. George W. Tebbs took over the troop. It was in the 1920s when Scoutmaster 
Tebbs and the local troop met Robert Baden-Powell in Burlington. The founder 
was motoring to Toronto and broke his trip for a short while when he saw 
the Scouts lined up at Gore Park on the waterfront. For many years, Rev. 
Tebbs led the boys as they marched out of town, hauling the trek cart to 
a distant camping location. It wasn't until 1958 that the Scouts' combined 
group committees were able to buy the 90-acre (360,000 m2) camping grounds 
in North Burlington at Camp Manitou. The current Burlington Area Scouts 
came into existence in 1958 as "Burlington District" with amalgamation 
of several groups from Burlington and surrounding area. There are 17 active 
groups within the Area, providing Scouting to over 700 members. The Area 
stretches outside the city limits of Burlington and encompasses the additional 
communities of Waterdown, Kilbride, and Carlisle.[30] Burlington Cougars—formerly 
the Burlington Mohawks—are an Ontario Provincial Junior A Hockey League 
Team. The following are the names associated with Burlington sport teams: 
The Burlington Soccer League is the organization behind most men's league 
soccer in Burlington. The Burlington Youth Soccer Club is the second-largest 
youth soccer club in North America, after the Oakville Youth Soccer Club. 
Soccer Club Organization of Burlington Youth (Scooby Soccer) is a unique 
youth soccer club with ties to DPS ACADEMY. NEXXICE is a synchronized skating 
team associated with the Burlington Skating Club (and the Kitchener Waterloo 
Skating Club). They are the reigning Canadian Senior champions, and were 
the first (and only) Canadian team to win a world championship. An ill-fated 
proposal existed to move the Hamilton Tiger-Cats to Burlington as part 
of a stadium construction plan in conjunction with a bid for the 2015 Pan 
Am Games.[31] Also, Burlington, Ontario founded the Burlington International 
Games (B.I.G.). The games were first held in 1969 " to offer an athletic 
and cultural exchange experience for the youth of Burlington." Until recently, 
the games took place between Burlington, Ontario and Burlington, Vermont, 
United States. But, other cities from places such as Quebec, Japan, the 
Netherlands, and the U.S. have all had athletes compete since 1998.[32] 
The games celebrated their 40th anniversary in 2009 and this competition 
ceased in 2010 due to limited participation in recent years. Other City 
