Bushwick is a working-class neighborhood in the northern part of the New 
York City borough of Brooklyn. The neighborhood, historically a community 
of Germanic immigrants and their descendants, has been predominantly Hispanic 
in the late 20th century. The neighborhood, formerly Brooklyn's 18th Ward, 
is now part of Brooklyn Community Board 4. It is policed by the NYPD's 
83rd Precinct and is represented in the New York City Council as part of 
Districts 34 and 37.[4][5][6] Bushwick shares a border with Ridgewood, 
Queens, to the northeast, and is bound by the Brooklyn neighborhoods of 
Williamsburg to the northwest; East New York and the cemeteries of Highland 
Park to the southeast; Brownsville to the south; and Bedford-Stuyvesant 
to the southwest.[7] It is served by ZIP codes 11206, 11207, 11221, and 
11237.[8] Bushwick was once an independent town and has undergone various 
territorial changes throughout its history. Neighborhoods in New York do 
not have official boundaries; informal boundaries are often contested, 
and this has been the case with Bushwick. However, the boundaries of Bushwick 
are often given as those of Brooklyn Community Board 4, which is delineated 
by Flushing Avenue on the north, Broadway on the southwest, the border 
with Queens to the northeast, and the Cemetery of the Evergreens on the 
southeast. The industrial area north of Flushing Avenue, east of Bushwick 
Avenue, and south of Grand Street is also commonly included in Bushwick, 
occasionally with the modifier "Industrial Bushwick".[9][10] Bushwick's 
population in 2010 was 129,239.[2][3] 38.9% of that population was foreign 
born.[11] Though an ethnic neighborhood, Bushwick's population is, for 
a New York City neighborhood, relatively heterogeneous, scoring a 0.5 on 
the Furman Center's racial diversity index, making it the city's 35th most 
diverse neighborhood in 2007. Most residents are Latinos from the Caribbean 
island of Puerto Rico and from the Dominican Republic, but more recent 
years have seen an increase in native-born Americans as well as other Latino 
groups, particularly immigrants from Mexico and El Salvador. In 2008 the 
neighborhood's median household income was $28,802. 32% of the population 
falls under the poverty line, making Bushwick the 7th most impoverished 
neighborhood in New York City. Over 75% of children in the neighborhood 
are born in poverty.[12] Only 40.3% of students in Bushwick read at grade 
level, making it the 49th most literate neighborhood in the city in 2007. 
58.2% of students do math at grade level in Bushwick, 41st in the city. 
In 2007, Bushwick averaged 25 felonies per 1,000 persons, making it the 
25th most felonious of the city's 55 community districts.[11] Bushwick 
is the largest hub of Brooklyn's Hispanic-American community, although 
Sunset Park is also very large. Like other neighborhoods in New York City, 
Bushwick's Hispanic population is mainly Puerto Rican and Dominican, with 
a sizable South American population as well. As nearly 70% of Bushwick's 
population is Hispanic, residents have created many businesses to support 
their various national and distinct traditions in food and other items. 
The neighborhood's major commercial streets are Knickerbocker Avenue, Myrtle 
Avenue, Wyckoff Avenue, and Broadway. Based on data from the 2010 United 
States Census, the population of Bushwick North was 57,138, an increase 
of 1,045 (1.9%) from the 56,093 counted in 2000. Covering an area of 570.78 
acres (230.99 ha), the neighborhood had a population density of 100.1 inhabitants 
per acre (64,100/sq mi; 24,700/km2).[2] The racial makeup of the neighborhood 
was 10.7% (6,098) White, 9.7% (5,533) African American, 0.1% (82) Native 
American, 6.0% (3,417) Asian, 0.0% (11) Pacific Islander, 0.7% (380) from 
other races, and 1.0% (582) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 71.8% (41,035) of the population.[13] Based on data from 
the 2010 United States Census, the population of Bushwick South was 72,101, 
an increase of 7,484 (11.6%) from the 64,617 counted in 2000. Covering 
an area of 923.64 acres (373.78 ha), the neighborhood had a population 
density of 78.1 inhabitants per acre (50,000/sq mi; 19,300/km2).[3] The 
racial makeup of the neighborhood was 9.5% (6,819) White, 28.1% (20,281) 
African American, 0.2% (155) Native American, 2.4% (1,734) Asian, 0.0% 
(21) Pacific Islander, 0.4% (268) from other races, and 1.1% (809) from 
two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 58.3% (42,014) of 
the population.[14] As mentioned in the section before, Bushwick as well 
as neighboring East New York are the center for the Hispanic community 
in Brooklyn.[15] This history dates back to the post World War II period, 
when at that time, Bushwick was still a predominantly Irish and Italian 
American community, when the great migration of Puerto Ricans lead to the 
growth of enclaves in Brooklyn, East Harlem, the Upper West Side and the 
Bronx. Originally, Puerto Ricans were located in neighboring Williamsburg, 
also known as Los Sures, due to the proximity to jobs at the now defunct 
Domino Sugar Refinery as well as the Brooklyn Navy Yard, but expanded their 
enclave further into Brooklyn.[16] [17] The sounds of Salsa, corner bodegas 
and Latin cuisine proliferate the dynamic of the Bushwick community.[18] 
It is the largest concentration of Hispanic Americans in the entire borough, 
followed closely behind by Sunset Park. Politically, Bushwick is part of 
New York's 7th congressional district and is represented in Congress by 
Puerto Rican born Nydia Velázquez, whose office is in neighboring Williamsburg 
as well as in Downtown Brooklyn.[19] Nydia Velázquez was the very first 
woman of Hispanic and Puerto Rican descent to be ever elected to the United 
States Congress. Bushwick was the birthplace of Rosie Perez, of Puerto 
Rican descent; best known for her role in In Living Color and on The View 
, as well as for making her own documentary Yo Soy Boricua, Pa'Que Tu Lo 
Sepas!.[20] Rosie Perez as well as Jackie Gleason have their faces painted 
in a mural at the NYPD's 83rd Precinct in Bushwick.[21] Bushwick is also 
the childhood home of Hollywood actor Rick Gonzalez. [22] The Williamsburg 
and Bushwick communities are home to their own local Puerto Rican Day Parade 
.[23] The parade board usually meets at the Orocovis Social Club, located 
off Myrtle Avenue. A popular place with the Hispanic community is La Isla 
Restaurant, located off Myrtle Avenue and Knickerbocker, where Puerto Rican 
and Dominican cuisine and flavors keep the restaurant packed at all hours 
of the day.[24] [25][26] On the corner of Broadway, Flushing Avenue and 
Graham Avenue, where Bushwick, Williamsburg and Bedford–Stuyvesant meet, 
in the shadow of Woodhull Medical Center, Graham Avenue becomes the Avenue 
of Puerto Rico.[27] Located here is a campus of Boricua College and a branch 
of Puerto Rico based Popular Community Bank. This territory is disputed 
with local residents claiming that it falls within Bushwick itself, while 
others claim that it is in fact Williamsburg. Make the Road New York, a 
Latino community group also has a chapter in the neighborhood.[28] So important 
is the activism of Latinos in the community that in 2016, presidential 
candidate Bernie Sanders campaigned in Bushwick order to win over Hispanic 
votes.[29][30] Furthermore, a web show, East Willy B was created to display 
the struggles of the local Latino community. Another infamous spot is the 
Kikiriki Vivero, located on Myrtle Avenue, a Puerto Rican style butcher 
shop that sells live poultry, and is notable for its multi-color neon light 
signs.[31] In both the New York State Senate and City Council Bushwick 
is represented by Latinos, Martin Malave Dilan of Puerto Rican descent 
in the State Senate and Antonio Reynoso of Dominican American descent. 
in City Council. [32] [33] In addition to this Diana Reyna, who formerly 
represented the area in City Council went on to become deputy borough President 
of Brooklyn, under Eric Adams.[34] Bushwick's diverse housing stock includes 
six-family apartment buildings and two- and three-family townhouses. The 
median age of the housing stock is 76 years. Over 91% of housing units 
are within a quarter mile of a park, and over 97% of housing units are 
within half a mile of a subway. Bushwick is also home to many public housing 
projects, that house many lower income residents and are run by the New 
York City Housing Authority, including the Bushwick Houses, Hope Gardens 
which has many subsections, as well as Borinquen Plaza, The Palmetto Gardens 
and Bushwick II just to name a couple.[35][36] Median rent in 2007 was 
$795, the 40th-highest in the city. About one in six rental units is subsidized, 
and greater than one in three units is rent regulated. 4% of renters live 
in severely overcrowded conditions. Vacant land fills 4.1% of Bushwick, 
rating it the 21st most vacant neighborhood in the city. In 2007, the neighborhood 
had an 18.7% homeownership rate, though roughly 1 in 20 owners of 1–4 unit 
buildings received a notice of foreclosure.[11] Between 1990 and 2014, 
Bushwick has seen a 44% increase in average rent costs, the fourth highest 
rise in New York City.[37] In 1638, the Dutch West India Company secured 
a deed from the local Lenape people for the Bushwick area, and Peter Stuyvesant 
chartered the area in 1661, naming it Boswijck, meaning "little town in 
the woods" or "heavy woods" in 17th-century Dutch.[38][39] Its area included 
the modern-day communities of Bushwick, Williamsburg, and Greenpoint. Bushwick 
was the last of the original six Dutch towns of Brooklyn to be established 
within New Netherland. The community was settled, though unchartered, on 
February 16, 1660, on a plot of land between the Bushwick and Newtown Creeks[38] 
by fourteen French and Huguenot settlers, a Dutch translator named Peter 
Jan De Witt,[40] and one of the original eleven slaves brought to New Netherland, 
Franciscus the Negro, who had worked his way to freedom.[41][42] The group 
centered their settlement on a church located near today's Bushwick and 
Metropolitan Avenues. The major thoroughfare was Woodpoint Road, which 
allowed farmers to bring their goods to the town dock.[43] This original 
settlement came to be known as Het Dorp by the Dutch, and, later, Bushwick 
Green by the British. The English would take over the six towns three years 
later and unite them under Kings County in 1683. Many of Bushwick's Dutch 
records were lost after its annexation by Brooklyn in 1854.[44] Contemporary 
reports differ on the reason: T. W. Field writes that "a nice functionary 
of the [Brooklyn] City Hall ... contemptuously thrust them into his waste-paper 
sacks",[45] while Eugene Armbruster claims that the movable bookcase containing 
the records "was coveted by some municipal officer, who turned its contents 
upon the floor".[46] At the turn of the 19th century, Bushwick consisted 
of four villages: Green Point, Bushwick Shore[47] (later known as Williamsburg), 
Bushwick Green, and Bushwick Crossroads (at the spot where today's Bushwick 
Avenue turns southeast at Flushing Avenue).[48] Bushwick's first major 
expansion occurred after it annexed the New Lots of Bushwick, a hilly upland 
originally claimed by Native Americans in the first treaties they signed 
with European colonists granting the settlers rights to the lowland on 
the water. After the second war between the natives and the settlers broke 
out, the natives fled, leaving the area to be divided among the six towns 
in Kings County. Bushwick had the prime location to absorb its new tract 
of land in a contiguous fashion. New Bushwick Lane (Evergreen Avenue), 
a former Native American trail, was a key thoroughfare for accessing this 
new tract, which was suitable mostly for potato and cabbage agriculture.[49] 
This area is bounded roughly by Flushing Avenue to the north and Evergreen 
Cemetery to the south. In the 1850s, the New Lots of Bushwick area began 
to develop. References to the town of Bowronville, a new neighborhood contained 
within the area south of Lafayette Avenue and Stanhope Street, began to 
appear in the 1850s.[50][51] The area known as Bushwick Shore was so called 
for about 140 years. Bushwick residents called Bushwick Shore "the Strand", 
another term for "beach".[52] Bushwick Creek, in the north, and Cripplebush, 
a region of thick, boggy shrubland extending from Wallabout Creek to Newtown 
Creek, in the south and east, cut Bushwick Shore off from the other villages 
in Bushwick. Farmers and gardeners from the other Bushwick villages sent 
their goods to Bushwick Shore to be ferried to New York City for sale at 
a market located at the present-day Grand Street. Bushwick Shore's favorable 
location close to New York City led to the creation of several farming 
developments. Originally a 13-acre (53,000 m2) development within Bushwick 
Shore, Williamsburgh rapidly expanded during the first half of the 19th 
century and eventually seceded from Bushwick to form its own independent 
city in 1852.[53] Both Bushwick and Williamsburgh were annexed to the City 
of Brooklyn in 1854.[44] When Bushwick was founded, it was primarily an 
area for farming food and tobacco. As Brooklyn and New York City grew, 
factories that manufactured sugar, oil, and chemicals were built. The inventor 
Peter Cooper built a glue manufacturing plant, his first factory, in Bushwick. 
Immigrants from western Europe joined the original Dutch settlers. The 
Bushwick Chemical Works, at Metropolitan Avenue and Grand Street on the 
English Kills channel, was another early industry among the lime, plaster, 
and brick works, coal yards, and other factories that developed along English 
Kills, which was dredged and made an important commercial waterway.[54] 
In October 1867, the American Institute awarded Bushwick Chemical Works 
the first premium for commercial acids of the greatest purity and strength.[55] 
The Bushwick Glass Company, later known as Brookfield Glass Company, established 
itself in 1869, when a local brewer sold it to James Brookfield.[56] It 
made a variety of bottles and jars. In the 1840s and 1850s, a majority 
of the immigrants were German, which became the dominant population. Bushwick 
established a considerable brewery industry, including "Brewer's Row"—14 
breweries operating in a 14-block area—by 1890.[57] Thus, Bushwick was 
dubbed the "beer capital of the Northeast". The last Bushwick brewery closed 
its doors in 1976.[58] As late as 1883, Bushwick maintained open farming 
land east of Flushing Avenue.[59] A synergy developed between the brewers 
and the farmers during this period, as the dairy farmers collected spent 
grain and hops for cow feed. The dairy farmers sold milk and other dairy 
products to consumers in Brooklyn. Both industries supported blacksmiths, 
wheelwrights, and feed stores along Flushing Avenue.[60] In 1868, the Long 
Island Rail Road built the Bushwick Branch from its hub in Jamaica via 
Maspeth to Bushwick Terminal, at the intersection of Montrose and Bushwick 
avenues,[61] allowing easy movement of passengers, raw materials, and finished 
goods. Routes also radiated to Flushing, Queens. The first elevated railway 
("el") in Brooklyn, known as the Lexington Avenue Elevated, opened in 1885. 
Its eastern terminus was at the edge of Bushwick, at Gates Avenue and Broadway.[62] 
This line was extended southeastward into East New York shortly thereafter. 
By the end of 1889, the Broadway Elevated and the Myrtle Avenue Elevated 
were completed, enabling easier access to Downtown Brooklyn and Manhattan 
and the rapid residential development of Bushwick from farmland. With the 
success of the brewing industry and the presence of the els, another wave 
of European immigrants settled in the neighborhood. Also, parts of Bushwick 
became affluent. Brewery owners and doctors commissioned mansions along 
Bushwick and Irving Avenues at the turn of the 20th century. New York mayor 
John Francis Hylan kept a townhouse on Bushwick Avenue during this period.[63] 
Bushwick homes were designed in the Italianate, Neo Greco, Romanesque Revival, 
and Queen Anne styles by well-known architects. Bushwick was a center of 
culture, with several Vaudeville-era playhouses, including the Amphion 
Theatre, the nation's first theatre with electric lighting.[64] The wealth 
of the neighborhood peaked between World War I and World War II, even when 
events such as Prohibition and the Great Depression were taking place. 
After WWI, the German enclave was steadily replaced by a significant proportion 
of Italian Americans. By 1950, Bushwick was one of New York City's largest 
Italian American neighborhoods, although some German Americans remained.[65] 
The Italian community was composed almost entirely of Sicilians, mostly 
from the Palermo, Trapani, and Agrigento provinces in Sicily. In particular, 
the Sicilian townsfolk of Menfi, Santa Margherita di Belice, Trapani, Castelvetrano, 
and many other paesi had their own clubs (clubbu) in the area. Il Circolo 
di Santa Margherita di Belice, founded in Bushwick, remains the oldest 
operating Sicilian organization in the United States. These clubs often 
started as mutual benevolence associations or funeral societies but transformed 
along with the needs of their communities from the late 1800s until the 
1960s, when many began to fade away. St. Joseph Patron of the Universal 
Church Roman Catholic Parish was the hub of the Sicilian community, and 
held five feasts during the year, complete with processions of saints or 
Our Lady of Trapani. St. Joseph opened in 1923 because the Italian community 
had been rapidly growing in Bushwick since 1900. This Sicilian community 
first was centered in Our Lady of Pompeii parish on Siegel Street in Williamsburgh. 
But as industry expanded along Flushing Avenue, the Sicilian population 
expanded with the growing need for labor by factory operators. St. Leonard's 
parish was the large German Catholic parish in the area, but the Italian 
community was not welcome there and was thus compelled to open its own 
parish. St. Leonard's closed in 1973. St. Joseph's is now a large and vibrant 
Latino parish run by the Scalabrini Order of priests, an Italian missionary 
order that caters to migrants. The demographic transition of Bushwick after 
WWII was similar to that of many Brooklyn neighborhoods. The U.S. Census 
records show that the neighborhood's population was almost 90% white in 
1960, but dropped to less than 40% white by 1970.[66] These newer residents 
tended to be poorer than their longstanding counterparts. As middle-class 
families fled Bushwick, working-class African American and Puerto Rican 
and other Caribbean American families moved into homes in the southeastern 
edge of the neighborhood, that closest to Eastern Parkway. By the mid-1950s, 
migrants began settling into central Bushwick. A strong proclivity among 
these new residents to homeownership and block associations helped the 
neighborhood survive the economic and social distress of the 1970s.[66][dead 
link][clarification needed] This change in demographics coincided with 
changes in the local economy. Rising energy costs, advances in transportation, 
and the invention of the steel can encouraged beer companies to move out 
of New York City. As breweries in Bushwick closed, the neighborhood's economic 
base eroded. Discussions of urban renewal took place in the 1960s, but 
never materialized, resulting in the demolition of many residential buildings 
with nothing new built in its place. Another contribution to the change 
in the socioeconomic profile of the neighborhood was the John Lindsay administration's 
policy of raising rent for welfare recipients. Since these tenants now 
brought higher rents than ordinary tenants would pay on the open market, 
Bushwick landlords actively began to fill vacant units with such tenants. 
By the mid-1970s, half of Bushwick's residents were on public assistance.[67] 
According to the New York Times, "In a five-year period in the late 1960's 
and early 70's, the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn was transformed from 
a neatly maintained community of wood houses into what often approached 
a no man's land of abandoned buildings, empty lots, drugs and arson."[68] 
On the night of July 13, 1977, a major blackout occurred in New York City. 
Arson, looting, and vandalism occurred in low-income neighborhoods across 
the city. Bushwick saw some of the most devastating damage and losses. 
While local owners in the predominantly Puerto Rican Knickerbocker Avenue 
and Graham Avenue shopping districts were able to defend their stores with 
force, suburban owners with stores on the Broadway shopping district saw 
their shops looted and burned. Twenty-seven stores, some of which were 
of mixed use, along Broadway were burned (Goodman 104). Looters (and residents 
who bought from looters) saw the blackout as an opportunity to get what 
they otherwise could not afford. Fires spread to many residential buildings 
as well. After the riots were over and the fires were put out, residents 
saw "some streets that looked like Brooklyn Heights, and others that looked 
like Dresden in 1945" (Goodman 181): unsafe dwellings and empty lots among 
surviving buildings. The business vacancy rate on Broadway reached 43% 
in the wake of the riots.[69] Bushwick was now left without a commercial 
retail hub. After the blackout, more middle-class residents who could afford 
to leave did so, in some cases abandoning their homes. New immigrants continued 
to move to the area, many of whom were from Puerto Rico, the Dominican 
Republic, and, more recently, Central America. However, apartment renovation 
and new construction did not keep pace with the demolition of unsafe buildings, 
forcing overcrowded conditions at first. As buildings came down, the vacant 
lots made parts of the neighborhood look and feel desolate, and more residents 
left. With a lack of job opportunities, Bushwick became an epicenter for 
the illegal drug trade. Author Jonathan Mahler described the social and 
economic hardships of Bushwick after the blackout in his book "Ladies and 
Gentlemen, the Bronx is Burning", explaining how the majority of neighborhood 
residence were living on less than $4,000 a year, relying on some form 
of public assistance. The neighborhood was a hotbed of poverty and crime 
by the 1980s. During this period, the Knickerbocker Avenue shopping district 
was nicknamed "The Well" for its seemingly unending supply of drugs.[70] 
In the 1990s, it remained a poor and relatively dangerous area, with 77 
murders, 80 rapes, and 2,242 robberies in 1990.[71] Starting in the mid-2000s, 
the City and State of New York began pouring resources into Bushwick, primarily 
through a program called the Bushwick Initiative. The Bushwick Initiative 
was a two-year pilot program spearheaded by the New York City Department 
of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD), the Ridgewood Bushwick Senior 
Citizens Council (Ridgewood Bushwick), and the Office of Assemblyman Vito 
Lopez. The program's goal was to improve the lives of Bushwick residents 
in the twenty-three square blocks surrounding Maria Hernandez Park through 
various housing and quality-of-life programs. The Bushwick Initiative's 
objectives included addressing deteriorated housing conditions, increasing 
economic development opportunities, reducing drug dealing activities, and 
enhancing the quality of life in the 23 square blocks surrounding Maria 
Hernandez Park.[72] A dog park was completed in Maria Hernandez Park in 
October 2012. A flourishing artist community, which has existed in Bushwick 
for decades, now is a main demographic of Bushwick; dozens of art studios 
and galleries are scattered throughout the neighborhood. There are several 
open studios programs that help the public visit artist studios and galleries[74] 
and a number of websites dedicated to promoting neighborhood art and events. 
Bushwick artists display their works in galleries and private spaces throughout 
the neighborhood. The borough's first and only trailer park, a 20-person 
art collective established by founder, Hayden Cummings[75] and ZenoRadio's 
Baruch Herzfeld [76] [77]for creatives to reside and work was established 
within a former nut roasting factory. [78] Major subway services running 
through the area include the J Z trains on the BMT Jamaica Line, the M train 
on the BMT Myrtle Avenue Line, and the L train on the BMT Canarsie Line. 
The Myrtle–Wyckoff Avenues bus and subway hub was renovated into a state-of-the-art 
transportation center in 2007. Bus lines serving Bushwick include the B13, 
B26, B38, B52, B54, B60 During the 1960s, under the direction of Robert 
Moses, there were plans to build an extension of I-78 through Bushwick, 
to connect lower Manhattan with the southern shore of Long Island.[96] 
The extension was to be called the Bushwick Expressway, but was never built, 
due to then Mayor John V. Lindsay's concerns that traffic leaving Manhattan 
should bypass it via the Verrazano Bridge.[96] All parks are operated by 
the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. Bushwick has a robust 
educational infrastructure of thirty-three public and private, primary 
and secondary schools.[105] This includes 14 public elementary schools, 
one charter school, four parochial schools, seven high schools, and one 
secondary school. Coordinates: 40°41′39″N 73°55′07″W﻿ / ﻿40.69417°N 73.91861°W﻿ 
