Robert Stanbury "Buster" Olney III (born February 17, 1964) is an American 
columnist for ESPN: The Magazine, ESPN.com, and covered the New York Giants 
and New York Yankees for The New York Times. He is also a regular analyst 
for the ESPN's Baseball Tonight. He also hosts ESPN's Baseball Tonight 
daily podcast. Olney grew up on a dairy farm in Randolph Center, Vermont, 
which came in handy when he served as the "Cow Insider" for Mike Greenberg's 
milking of a cow on Mike and Mike in the Morning on June 21, 2007. He was 
educated at Northfield Mount Hermon School and Vanderbilt University, where 
he majored in history. As a child Buster was an avid baseball fan. At age 
8, he developed an affinity for the Los Angeles Dodgers after reading a 
book about Sandy Koufax. Buster would later attribute his fanship as a 
reason for his journalistic career. After graduation, Olney began covering 
baseball in 1989, as the Nashville Banner's beat reporter assigned to the 
Triple-A Nashville Sounds. While in Nashville, he formed a close relationship 
with the legendary Don Meyer, Head Coach of the men's basketball program 
at David Lipscomb University. He later worked at the San Diego Union-Tribune 
and Baltimore Sun. He arrived at the Times in 1997 and in his first year 
won an Associated Press award. During one of his first assignments in Nashville, 
the Sounds hosted the Columbus Clippers who, at the time, were the AAA 
affiliate of the New York Yankees. Olney almost had a minor confrontation 
with a Yankee prospect at the time known more for his football play, Deion 
Sanders. Olney had attempted to do a piece on Sanders, but was blown off. 
In return, Olney wrote what he called later in his career an unflattering 
piece on Sanders. Sanders replied to Olney by writing on a baseball "Keep 
writing like that your whole life and you'll always be a loser." [1] In 
2004, Olney published The Last Night of the Yankee Dynasty, ISBN 0-06-051506-6, 
a nonfiction account of the Yankees' run of championships in the 1990s.[2] 
The book also considered why the team lost to the Arizona Diamondbacks 
in the 2001 World Series and why it didn't win a championship between 2001 
and 2003. Since leaving the Times, Olney has become a constant on the ESPN 
family of networks. In 2010, Olney wrote How Lucky You Can Be: The Story 
of Coach Don Meyer, an account of how a car crash and cancer diagnosis 
affected the life of the highly accomplished college basketball coach. 
In 2013, Olney delivered the May Commencement Speech at Northern State 
University, where Meyer coached until 2010, and was still a member of the 
faculty until his death on May 18th, 2014.[citation needed] Olney resides 
