Emil Joseph "Buzzie" Bavasi (/bəˈveɪzi/; December 12, 1914 – May 1, 2008) 
was an American executive in Major League Baseball who played a major role 
in the operation of three franchises from the late 1940s through the mid-1980s. 
He was best known as the general manager of the Brooklyn and Los Angeles 
Dodgers from 1951 to 1968, during which time the team captured eight National 
League pennants and its first four World Series titles. He was previously 
a key figure in the integration of minor league baseball in the late 1940s 
while working for the Dodgers organization. He went on to become the first 
general manager of the San Diego Padres (1968–77), and between 1977 and 
1984 he assembled the California Angels teams which made that franchise's 
first two postseason appearances. His sons Peter Bavasi and Bill Bavasi 
have also served as big league general managers. Born Emil Joseph Bavasi 
in Manhattan, New York City, his sister Iola ("Lolly") nicknamed him Buzzie 
because his mother said he was "always buzzing around."[1] Bavasi was raised 
in Scarsdale, New York by Joseph and Sue Bavasi. Joseph, his immigrant 
father, was a newspaper distributor.[2] He went to high school at Fordham 
Preparatory School, in the Bronx, with Fred Frick, the son of Ford Frick, 
president of the National League.[2] He attended DePauw University, in 
Greencastle, Indiana, where he was a catcher. At DePauw he roomed with 
Fred Frick, and Ford Frick recommended Bavasi for office boy position for 
the Dodgers to Larry MacPhail.[1] Bavasi was hired by Dodger general manager 
Larry MacPhail in 1938, for $35 a week, to become a front office assistant 
with the Brooklyn Dodgers, and after one year was named the business manager 
of the Dodgers' Class D minor league team in Americus, Georgia, where he 
spent three seasons. In 1941 he moved to Durham, North Carolina Class B 
team of the Dodgers and married his wife, Evit.[2] After being drafted, 
he won a Bronze Star Medal in the Italian Campaign of World War II as machine-gunner 
in the United States Army.[1][2] In late 1945, after serving 18 months, 
Staff Sergeant Bavasi returned to Georgia to rest with his family. While 
there, Dodgers president Branch Rickey telephoned and asked Bavasi to become 
business manager of a new minor-league baseball team in the New England 
League, and to find a suitable city in which to place the club. Although 
Bavasi did not know for certain, he suspected that Rickey, who had started 
to integrate the Dodgers' farm system with the signing of Jackie Robinson 
the previous October, might be planning to sign more African Americans 
to contracts. If that was the case, the Dodgers needed a low-level minor-league 
team outside the American South to which to assign these players. Ultimately, 
Bavasi chose Nashua, New Hampshire. With fewer than 35,000 people, Nashua 
would be the smallest market in the New England League, and fewer than 
fifty African Americans resided in the community. However, the Nashua Dodgers 
were assured of a predominantly French Canadian fan base, a fact which 
both Rickey and Bavasi believed would help in the integration of African 
Americans into minor league baseball. Additionally, Nashua was home to 
the relatively new Holman Stadium, which Bavasi was able to lease from 
the city. In March 1946, Bavasi received word that Brooklyn had signed 
former Negro League ballplayers Roy Campanella and Don Newcombe, and that 
they would be sent to Nashua for the season. Bavasi spent nearly a month 
planning for their arrival, naming Nashua Telegraph publisher Fred Dobens 
to the position of President of the Nashua Dodgers to ensure the newspaper's 
support for the integration project; Dobens's newspaper did not release 
any word of the signings until April. Bavasi also publicly linked the team 
to Clyde Sukeforth, who had scouted Campanella, Newcombe, and Jackie Robinson 
for Rickey and who had played minor-league baseball in Nashua in the mid-1920s. 
He promoted the team's French Canadian connection through his team's Quebec-born 
players, and even attempted to hire Frenchy Bordagaray to manage the team 
(eventually he settled on Walter Alston). The 1946 season was a successful 
one. The Nashua Dodgers placed second in the league and won the Governor's 
Cup, defeating the Lynn Red Sox. In terms of attendance, Nashua also proved 
successful, in part because of Bavasi's imaginative promotional skills. 
The league saw few racially motivated incidents, with two exceptions. Campanella 
has claimed that Manchester Giants catcher Sal Yvars threw dirt in his 
face during a game at Manchester Athletic Field (Gill Stadium), but the 
incident was resolved on the field (though Yvars has denied that the incident 
took place). More seriously, players and the manager of the Lynn Red Sox 
hurled racial slurs and insults at Campanella and Newcombe, particularly 
late in the season when the two clubs were locked in a tight pennant race. 
On one occasion, Bavasi was so enraged by the comments of the Red Sox that 
he met Lynn's manager and players in the Holman Stadium parking lot and 
challenged them to a fight. Players restrained Bavasi and the Lynn manager, 
and the Lynn team boarded their bus without further incident. As a result 
of their success in Nashua, Bavasi, Campanella, and Alston all were promoted 
to teams in higher-level leagues in 1947, and Newcombe followed in 1948. 
In 1948, Bavasi became general manager of the Montreal Royals, one of the 
Dodgers' top two Triple-A farm teams. Around that time, as a result of 
continued prejudice against Brooklyn's African American ballplayers during 
spring training, the Dodgers sent Bavasi to find property at which to establish 
a permanent spring training facility. Bavasi chose a site outside Vero 
Beach, Florida, at which to establish Dodgertown, anchored by the newly 
constructed Holman Stadium. The Dodgers continued to train there virtually 
without interruption through 2008 before moving to a new facility in Glendale, 
Arizona. During Bavasi's term in Montreal, disagreements over the operation 
of the parent team in Brooklyn intensified between Rickey and vice president 
and club secretary Walter O'Malley, who, like Rickey, owned 25 percent 
of Dodger stock. In 1950, the illness and death of another equal partner, 
pharmaceutical executive John L. Smith, coincided with the pending expiration 
of Rickey's contract as the Dodgers' president and general manager. With 
Smith and, later, his widow both siding with O'Malley, Rickey's contract 
was not renewed. O'Malley then acquired Rickey's stock to assume 50 percent 
ownership, took over as team president, and named Bavasi the Dodgers' new 
general manager on November 3, 1950. (O'Malley acquired Mrs. Smith's 25 
percent share in 1958, then became sole owner in 1975 when he bought out 
the heirs of Dearie Mulvey's one-quarter stake in the team.) In Bavasi's 
nearly 18 years as GM, the Dodgers won eight National League pennants (1952, 
1953, 1955, 1956, 1959, 1963, 1965 and 1966)—including the first four World 
Series titles in franchise history (1955, 1959, 1963 and 1965). Three world 
championships occurred after the team's move to Los Angeles in 1958, a 
move that Bavasi was not in favor of.[3] The Dodgers also finished in a 
dead heat twice with the Giants, necessitating tie-breaking, best-of-three 
series in both 1951 and 1962. But they dropped the clinching playoff games 
in the ninth innings of each contest. While the nucleus of the Brooklyn-based 
team was in place when Bavasi took over in 1951, he and O'Malley remained 
committed to the Dodgers' extensive scouting and player development system 
that Rickey had constructed after the war. That system contributed players 
such as Jim Gilliam, Johnny Podres (hero of the 1955 World Series), Don 
Drysdale, Sandy Koufax, Charlie Neal and Don Zimmer to the Dodgers before 
their move to California. In the late 1950s, it began to churn out the 
core regulars of the Dodgers' 1960s dynasty, such as Tommy Davis, Willie 
Davis, Ron Fairly, Frank Howard, John Roseboro and Maury Wills. Bavasi 
also made strategic acquisitions of veteran players who proved pivotal 
to pennant-winning teams, like Sal Maglie (1956), Wally Moon (1959), Bill 
Skowron (1963), Claude Osteen (1965–66), Lou Johnson (1965–66) and Phil 
Regan (1966). In 1960, he acquired (in a trade for Zimmer) a minor-league 
left-handed relief pitcher from the Chicago Cubs, Ron Perranoski, who would 
anchor the Dodgers' bullpen through 1967. Then, in the days surrounding 
his June 1968 departure from the Dodgers, the club enjoyed what has been 
called the best amateur draft in baseball history. The regular and secondary 
phases of the 1968 June lottery, also supervised by Fresco Thompson and 
Al Campanis, the team's top minor league and scouting officials who would 
be Bavasi's immediate successors as GM, netted Steve Garvey, Davey Lopes, 
Ron Cey, Bill Buckner, Bobby Valentine, Joe Ferguson, Doyle Alexander and 
others.[4] After the Dodgers won the 1959 Series in only their second year 
in Los Angeles, The Sporting News named Bavasi the Major League Executive 
of the Year. In June of 1968, Bavasi resigned from the Dodgers to become 
president and part owner of the San Diego Padres, an expansion team set 
to debut in 1969. Bavasi selected Dodger third-base coach Preston Gómez 
as the Padres' first manager and added former Dodgers (or Dodger farmhands) 
Moon, Roger Craig and Sparky Anderson as coaches for their maiden season. 
While the pickings in the National League expansion draft were slim, Bavasi 
managed to select slugger Nate Colbert and hard-hitting outfielders Ollie 
Brown and Cito Gaston, who provided punch to the Padre lineup during the 
team's early history. As was typical for expansion teams before free agency, 
the Padres struggled on the field. They finished last in the National League 
West Division for their first six years of existence and lost over 100 
games four times (and 99 games once); the team's high-water mark during 
Bavasi's nine-year term as club president was 73 wins (1976). Poor attendance 
forced majority owner C. Arnholdt Smith to put the Padres up for sale in 
1973 and almost drove them to transfer to Washington, D.C. But fast-food 
magnate Ray Kroc stepped in and saved the Padres for San Diego, and attendance 
perked up beginning in 1974, Kroc's first season as owner. Although veteran 
minor league executive Eddie Leishman held the title of general manager 
during the team's early seasons, Bavasi was integrally involved in baseball 
decisions. After the 1972 season, he promoted his son Peter from farm system 
director to GM, and the younger Bavasi drafted future Hall of Famer Dave 
Winfield with the club's first-round pick in the 1973 Major League Baseball 
Draft. Peter left the Padres after the 1976 campaign to become the first 
president in the history of the expansion Toronto Blue Jays, and in 1977, 
the Bavasis became the first father-and-son duo to serve as chief executives 
of two different MLB teams at the same time. After the 1977 season, California 
Angels owner Gene Autry hired the elder Bavasi as executive vice president 
and general manager. During his seven years in the post, the Angels captured 
American League West Division titles in 1979 and 1982, the club's first-ever 
appearances in the baseball postseason. But each time the Angels failed 
to advance to the World Series, dropping the 1979 American League Championship 
Series to the Baltimore Orioles and the 1982 ALCS to the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Through trades, free agency and the club's farm system, Bavasi acquired 
players such as Rod Carew, Reggie Jackson, Carney Lansford, Bob Boone, 
Fred Lynn, Mike Witt and Don Aase. But there were setbacks: the shocking 
loss of star free agent outfielder Lyman Bostock, who was murdered late 
during the 1978 season in a case of mistaken identity, and the failure 
to retain future all-time strikeout king Nolan Ryan when he became a free 
agent after the 1979 campaign. Nearing age 70, Bavasi retired during the 
closing days of the 1984 season, when the Angels finished at the .500 mark. 
His son Bill is the former general manager of the Seattle Mariners and 
California Angels; son Peter held president or general manager positions 
with the Padres, Blue Jays and Cleveland Indians during the 1970s and 1980s; 
and another son, Chris, formerly served as mayor of Flagstaff, Arizona, 
and with his wife, Evit, the couple had a fourth son Bob, the former owner 
of the Everett Aquasox.[1] Bavasi was inducted into the San Diego Padres 
Hall of Fame in 2001.[5] In 2007, he was also inducted by the San Diego 
Hall of Champions into the Breitbard Hall of Fame honoring San Diego's 
finest athletes both on and off the playing surface.[1] Bavasi died on 
May 1, 2008 in San Diego, California, near his home in La Jolla, aged 93.[1][2] 
In November 2011, Bavasi was placed onto the Golden Era Veterans Committee 
list for consideration into the Hall of Fame. The voting will take place 
