Byrum Fred "By" Saam, Jr. (September 11, 1914 – January 16, 2000) was an 
American sportscaster. He was best known as the first full-time voice of 
baseball in Philadelphia. Saam was born in Fort Worth, Texas, where he 
attended high school with Ben Hogan. He was the public address announcer 
at high school football games and began calling them on the radio even 
before he graduated. While at Texas Christian University (where he was 
a classmate of Sammy Baugh), he broadcast Southwest Conference football 
games, many of which aired on CBS Radio's College Football Roundup. Ted 
Husing, CBS's main sportscaster, heard some of Saam's work and suggested 
that Saam apply for a job at WCCO in Minneapolis in 1934. The station asked 
him to do a baseball audition. While Saam had played baseball in high school, 
he'd never broadcast it before. However, he did well enough to get the 
job and soon became the station's lead sportscaster. He called the Triple 
A Minneapolis Millers, re-created the 1935 World Series, and called University 
of Minnesota football. Moving to WCAU in Philadelphia in 1937, he called 
Temple, University of Pennsylvania and Villanova football games. He was 
soon noticed by the owners of both major league ballclubs in Philadelphia, 
the Athletics and the Phillies. In 1938, Saam became the first full-time 
voice of the Athletics; he added the Phillies the next year and continued 
this double duty for 12 seasons. This was possible since both teams shared 
Shibe Park and almost never played at home on the same day. For most of 
Saam's tenure, the A's and Phillies were also-rans; indeed, he didn't call 
a winning team until 1947, with the A's. He was behind the microphone for 
over 4,000 losses—by one estimate, the most of any baseball announcer ever. 
His descriptive play-by-play flair earned Saam the nickname "The Man of 
a Zillion Words." Although he lived in the Delaware Valley for the rest 
of his life, he always spoke with a soft Texas accent. After both Philadelphia 
teams began airing road games live in 1950, Saam was forced to drop one 
team since no radio station could handle the full load. He chose to drop 
the Phillies, since he and Athletics owner/manager Connie Mack had been 
longtime friends. As luck would have it, the 1950 Phillies won their first 
National League pennant in 35 years, while the A's finished with the worst 
record in baseball. Saam and partner Claude Haring did Athletics games 
until the team left for Kansas City after the 1954 season. After the Athletics 
moved to Kansas City, Saam returned to the Phillies in 1955. He was joined 
by Bill Campbell in 1962; the pair was joined by former Phillies outfielder 
Richie Ashburn a year later. Campbell left in 1970 and was replaced by 
Harry Kalas. They broadcast Phillies games until Saam's retirement in 1975. 
Ironically, the year after Saam retired, the Phillies won the National 
League East, their first postseason appearance of any kind since 1950—meaning 
that for the second time in his career, a case of bad timing had cost Saam 
a chance at calling a pennant or division winner. For this reason, Kalas 
and Ashburn invited Saam into the booth for the division-clinching game 
and let him call the last half-inning. The Phillies also added him to the 
broadcast team during the NLCS.[1][2] Ashburn later said, "Thirty-eight 
years and no winner. Damn right he deserved a title." Despite having never 
called a pennant or division winner in Philadelphia, Saam did call 13 no-hitters, 
including Jim Bunning's perfect game in 1964. He also broadcast the World 
Series for NBC Radio in 1959 and 1965. While most announcers of his era 
were unabashed "homers", Saam rarely rooted for the Phillies and A's from 
the booth. In a book that he started but never finished before his death, 
he said that he "never felt it would serve any constructive purpose" to 
criticize umpires, even when it was obvious they'd missed a call. Campbell 
recalled that Saam's philosophy in life was "rolling along"; his composure 
never changed during big wins or losing streaks that seemed to last forever.[1] 
Away from baseball, he worked games for the Philadelphia Eagles of the 
NFL and Philadelphia Warriors of the NBA. He was one of the broadcasters 
during Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point game in 1962. Saam was also the first 
announcer of a nationally-televised NFL game on Thanksgiving: he was at 
the microphone in Detroit on November 26, 1953 when the Lions beat the 
Green Bay Packers, 34-15. The game was carried on the now-defunct DuMont 
Network. Saam was also called games of the Eastern Hockey League's Philadelphia 
Ramblers: on January 8, 1961, the Ramblers visited the New York Rovers 
at the Long Island Arena with Saam broadcasting the third period and overtime 
back to Philadelphia. Saam was known for the occasional slip-up on the 
air. For example, he once opened a game by saying, "Hello, Byrum Saam, 
this is everybody speaking." (This goof has also been credited to other 
announcers, including Lindsey Nelson and Phil Rizzuto.) Prior to Game 5 
of the 1959 World Series, when Mel Allen introduced the NBC Radio audience 
to "amiable, affable, able Byrum Saam", a distracted Saam unthinkingly 
replied, "Right you are, Mel Allen." Once, Saam created a beheading when 
Alex Johnson, the Phillies' left fielder, chased a fly ball: "Alex Johnson 
is going back. He's going back, back. His head hits the wall. He reaches 
down, picks it up, and throws into second base."[3] (Jerry Coleman made 
a similar statement about Dave Winfield in a San Diego Padres broadcast.) 
In 1990, Byrum Saam was awarded the Ford Frick Award by the Baseball Hall 
of Fame for excellence in broadcasting. Ashburn was later honored by the 
Hall of Fame as a player, and Kalas won the Frick Award in 2002. By Saam 
was inducted into the Philadelphia Broadcast Pioneers Hall of Fame in 1993. 
