Byung-Hyun Kim (Hangul: 김병현; hanja: 金炳賢; born January 21, 1979) is a South 
Korean professional baseball pitcher for the KIA Tigers of Korea Baseball 
Organization. He is best known for his years with the Arizona Diamondbacks 
and the Boston Red Sox. In 2001, Kim took over mid-season as the Diamondbacks' 
closer and saved 19 games, then saved 3 games while giving up no runs in 
the first two rounds of the playoffs. In the 2001 World Series, however, 
Kim twice gave up ninth-inning leads, taking the loss in Game 4 and leading 
to an extra-innings loss for the Diamondbacks in Game 5, though the Diamondbacks 
rebounded to win the Championship in 7 games. Kim went on to save 36 games 
for the Diamondbacks in 2002 and 16 for the Red Sox in 2003, and played 
in the 2002 All Star Game. Kim has also played for the Colorado Rockies 
and Florida Marlins in Major League Baseball. Kim is a 1997 graduate of 
Gwangju-Jaeil High School. Jae Seo and Hee-seop Choi were Kim's teammates 
in 1996 and they are very close friends.[citation needed] Named both the 
Most Valuable Player and Most Valuable Pitcher for the National High School 
championships in Korea, Kim was selected to the 1996 National Junior Team, 
then named to the National Team in both 1997 and 1998. In that year, he 
pitched against the US Olympic team, striking out 15 batters in 6 2⁄3 innings. 
Later, he helped Korea claim the gold medal in the Asian Games held in 
Bangkok, Thailand. Kim attended Sungkyunkwan University's Faculty of Law 
until 1999.[citation needed] Kim was signed by the Arizona Diamondbacks 
on February 19, 1999. Kim went 2–0 with 32 strikeouts in 21.1 innings in 
El Paso (AA) and then went to Tucson Sidewinders (AAA), where he posted 
2-0 with 21 strikeouts in 17.1 innings. His ability to strike out batters 
caught the attention of Diamondbacks coaching staff. He was the youngest 
player in MLB at the time he debuted on May 29 at Shea Stadium. He came 
in to pitch in the bottom of the ninth inning, and after retiring Edgardo 
Alfonzo and John Olerud, struck out Mike Piazza and got the save in the 
Diamondbacks' 8-7 victory over the New York Mets. In the 2000 season, Kim 
got the closer role when incumbent Matt Mantei opened the season on the 
disabled list. For the year, Kim struck out 111 hitters in just 70.2 innings 
pitched (14.14 per nine innings), including 11 out of 12 batters over five 
games, and twice struck out eight consecutive batters. After his 14 saves 
and a 1.82 ERA over his first 28 appearances, he was demoted to Triple-A 
Tucson at the end of July. Mostly used as a starter to restore his confidence, 
Kim returned to Arizona a month later. With Mantei reinserted as the closer, 
Kim pitched as a setup man and also started a game after recording 84 relief 
appearances. Arizona turned to Kim again as a closer after Mantei was lost 
to injury for the remaining 2001 season. Kim responded with 19 saves, a 
2.94 ERA, and 113 strikeouts in 98 innings. He made his first career postseason 
appearance in the NLDS Game 3 at Busch Stadium to protect the Diamondbacks’ 
5-3 lead against the Cardinals with the go-ahead run at the plate in the 
8th inning. After a walk to Albert Pujols that loaded the bases, Kim ended 
the inning with a center-field flyout. In the 9th inning, Kim saved the 
game with the game-ending double play off Mark McGwire's bat. In the NLCS 
against the Atlanta Braves, Kim worked a scoreless inning in Game 2, in 
which the Diamondbacks lost. Kim then picked up saves in Games 4 and 5 
for the Diamondbacks. Kim entered Game 4 in the 8th inning with the Diamondbacks 
leading 7-3. However, prior to Kim entering the game, The D-backs had worked 
themselves into a bases loaded jam with no one out. Kim pitched masterfully 
in the inning, ending the bases loaded jam with a double play and a lineout. 
He then retired the next three batters in the 9th inning and picked up 
the save. The next night, Kim pitched another two shut-out innings and 
earned the two-inning save that clinched the Diamondbacks’ ticket to the 
World Series. Kim became the first pitcher since Goose Gossage to earn 
two-inning saves on back-to-back days in the postseason. In the 2004 postseason, 
Houston Astros closer Brad Lidge matched Gossage and Kim's feat.[1] With 
the Diamondbacks up two games to one going into Game 4 of the World Series, 
Kim relieved Curt Schilling in the eighth inning with the Diamondbacks 
leading 3-1. Kim struck out Shane Spencer, Scott Brosius, Alfonso Soriano, 
and Bernie Williams and grounded out Derek Jeter. But Paul O'Neill hit 
a single off Kim before Williams' plate appearance and Tino Martinez's 
two-out, two-run home run tied the game in the bottom of the ninth inning. 
With another home run hit off Kim by Jeter in the bottom of the tenth, 
the Yankees won the game and tied the Series. Kim threw more than 60 pitches 
and was charged with the loss. The night after, in Game 5, Diamondbacks 
manager Bob Brenly sent Kim again to the mound to protect the Diamondbacks' 
2-0 lead. Jorge Posada hit a leadoff double off Kim, and after retiring 
Spencer and Chuck Knoblauch on a groundout and strikeout, Brosius then 
hit a two-run home run to tie the score. Later, Soriano hit a single in 
the bottom of the 12th to win the game. Despite Kim's performances in Games 
4 and 5, the Diamondbacks clinched the World Series Championship in Game 
7 at Bank One Ballpark. Kim later revealed in an interview how he felt 
during the 2001 World Series. "We went through the whole season, 25 guys 
and then the coaching staff. That time it was like old people. They said, 
'OK, we got last chance.'Some people said if we don't win, next year everybody's 
gone." Kim continued, "Then I gave up a home run. I didn't feel good. But 
we won."[2] In 2002, Kim set a single-season franchise record for saves 
(36), breaking the old mark set by Gregg Olson in 1998 (30). Kim finished 
the season with an 8-3 record, 92 strikeouts, and a career-best 2.04 ERA 
in a team-high 72 appearances. On May 11, 2002, Kim struck out Scott Rolen, 
Mike Lieberthal, and Pat Burrell on nine pitches in the eighth inning of 
a ten-inning 6-5 win over the Philadelphia Phillies.[3] Kim became the 
23rd National League pitcher and the 32nd pitcher in Major League history 
to pitch an immaculate inning. On June 12, 2002, Kim pitched two shut-out 
innings with four strikeouts and saved the Diamondbacks' 9-5 win over the 
New York Yankees at Yankee Stadium.[4] In 2002, Kim converted 36 of 42 
save opportunities,[5] eighth-best in the NL. Kim was selected for the 
All-Star Game. When Matt Mantei returned from the disabled list and became 
the Arizona Diamondbacks' closer, Kim joined the starting rotation. As 
a Diamondbacks starter, he compiled a record of 1-5 with a 3.56 ERA. On 
May 29, Kim was traded to Boston for Shea Hillenbrand. Kim remained as 
a starter through June, but the Red Sox needed him as their closer because 
the Red Sox's closer-by-committee approach implemented following the advice 
of statistician and Red Sox adviser Bill James was failing. On June 27, 
Kim made his final start for the 2003 season in Boston's 25-8 win against 
the Florida Marlins at Fenway Park. Kim became the Red Sox closer in July, 
converting 16 out of 19 save opportunities despite pitching through lingering 
ankle and shoulder pain caused by the injury he sustained in April. Although 
he did not give up an earned run in September, by the time the postseason 
started Kim was not healthy enough to be effective on the pitching mound. 
Kim was pulled in the bottom of the ninth inning with two outs in his only 
ALDS appearance in Game 1 against the Oakland Athletics. During the lineup 
announcement in Game 3 at Fenway Park, Red Sox fans intensely booed him. 
Thinking that he did not deserve the booing after he pitched despite being 
in pain to advance the Red Sox to the postseason, Kim gave them the middle 
finger, but later issued an apology. Because of shoulder stiffness, Kim 
was left off the ALCS roster. As a starter, Kim went 3–6 with a 3.38 ERA 
in 12 appearances in 2003. In the beginning of 2004, however, problems 
with his balance—a lingering effect of the 2003 ankle injury—made him ineffective 
and cost him a spot in the starting rotation after going 1–1 with a 6.17 
ERA in three starts. Bronson Arroyo took Kim's starting rotation spot and 
Kim was optioned to Triple-A Pawtucket in May. Kim rejoined the Red Sox 
in September. He was assigned to the bullpen and won one game in 5⅔ innings 
of work. Kim briefly became a subject of talks between high-ranking U.S. 
and South Korean diplomats in August 2004. Upon his arrival in Seoul as 
the new U.S. Ambassador to Korea in August 2004, Christopher R. Hill spoke 
with his Korean diplomatic counterparts about Kim and the Red Sox, along 
with the U.S.-Korea relationship and other diplomatic and geopolitical 
issues surrounding the Korean peninsula.[6] Ambassador Hill is one of the 
high-ranking "Red Sox fan" diplomats in the predominantly Red-Sox U.S. 
Department of State[7] and watched the Red Sox win the World Series while 
stationed in Seoul. Before the 2005 season, the Red Sox sent Kim to the 
Colorado Rockies, with general manager Theo Epstein calling the two-year 
deal given to him in 2004 "a mistake." Kim was traded for left-handed pitcher 
Chris Narveson, who was optioned to Triple-A Pawtucket, and catcher Charles 
Johnson, who was immediately designated for assignment and released. As 
part of the trade, Colorado sent Boston $2.6 million to equalize the salaries. 
Rockies manager Clint Hurdle gave Kim the choice of taking a spot in the 
bullpen (Kim posted 0-3 with 7.84 ERA as a middle reliever for the Rockies 
that season) or a starter position in the Rockies' Triple-A team Colorado 
Springs Sky Sox. Just 20 minutes later, Hurdle was told that Rockies starter 
Shawn Chacón was injured and had to go to the disabled list,[8] opening 
a spot in the Rockies starting rotation for Kim. On August 8, Sunny Kim, 
another South Korean starting pitcher who had just joined the Rockies from 
the Washington Nationals, and Kim started doubleheader games at Coors Field 
against the Florida Marlins. They became the first two pitchers with same 
last name to start both ends of doubleheader since Gaylord and Jim Perry 
for the Cleveland Indians in 1974.[9] The Rockies won both games and Kim 
collected a win. [10] [11] Kim finished the season 5-9 with a 4.37 ERA 
as a starter. He filed for free agency on November 1, 2005 and re-signed 
with the Rockies. He earned $1.25 million in 2006 with a club option worth 
$2.5 million in 2007 (with a $250,000 buyout). Kim represented Korea in 
the World Baseball Classic, a tournament held during spring training before 
the 2006 season. Kim was credited with solid shutout middle relief performances 
during the tournament in Korea's wins against Taiwan in the first round 
and Japan[12] and the United States.[13] in the second round. Kim collected 
a relief-win against Japan in the second round. In the semifinal game against 
Japan, Kim relieved Jun Byung-doo in the 7th inning and then allowed a 
two-run home run to Kosuke Fukudome. Kim intentionally hit the next batter 
Michihiro Ogasawara. Korea lost the semifinal game and finished third in 
the tournament. Kim began the 2006 campaign with the Colorado Rockies on 
the disabled list. Upon his successful rehabilitation, he made his season 
debut on April 30, 2006, against the Florida Marlins in Miami. Kim pitched 
impressively, giving up only one run on five hits while striking out nine 
batters. Kim established himself in the Rockies starting rotation for the 
season. On May 22, 2006, Kim and his former high school teammate and then-Los 
Angeles Dodgers' starter Jae Seo started against each other. This game 
was the first game in which two Korean pitchers started against each other 
in the Major League history. Both pitchers had quality starts, with Seo 
getting the win.[14] [15] On May 28, Barry Bonds hit his 715th home run 
off Kim at SBC Park and surpassed Babe Ruth's 714 career home runs and 
put himself in sole possession of second place on the all-time career home 
runs list. After a three-minute delay, Kim struck out the next two batters 
and pitched 5 1⁄3 innings to collect a win.[16] On July 28, 2006, Kim had 
five consecutive strikeouts against the San Diego Padres, tying the Rockies 
record for consecutive strikeouts. In four different starts, he recorded 
nine strikeouts each against the Florida Marlins, Houston Astros, Pittsburgh 
Pirates and Washington Nationals. Kim became the only pitcher in Major 
League history to pitch shutout wins in consecutive starts at Coors Field 
by beating the Oakland Athletics on June 19 and the Texas Rangers on June 
25.[citation needed] Kim began the 2007 season with the Colorado Rockies 
as a reliever after he lost his starting rotation spot to Josh Fogg. The 
Rockies' decision to move Kim to the bullpen was controversial. Kim contended 
that he was not given a fair opportunity during Spring training to compete 
for a starting spot and asked to be traded.[17] After a spot start on April 
15, Kim was placed on the disabled list with an injured thumb. He was assigned 
to the Rockies' Triple-A team, the Colorado Springs Sky Sox, for a rehab 
assignment. Kim was concerned that his rehab assignment was longer than 
necessary and changed his agent to Scott Boras in an effort to get a quicker 
trade.[18] On May 13, 2007, he was traded to the Florida Marlins for Jorge 
Julio. As a Marlin, he proved himself as a dependable starter.[19] On August 
1, Kim collected his 50th career win with a career-high ten strikeouts 
in his starting matchup against Colorado Rockies' Josh Fogg.[20] Two days 
later, Kim was claimed off waivers by the Arizona Diamondbacks. Kim's return 
to Arizona lasted two starts; the Diamondbacks designated him and Joe Kennedy 
for assignment on August 14.[21] Shortly after Kim left the team, Diamondbacks 
closer José Valverde broke Kim's franchise single-season save record. On 
August 25, 2007, the Florida Marlins re-signed Kim as a free agent.[22] 
On September 28, Kim collected his tenth win of the season against the 
Mets at Shea Stadium[23] and became the second South Korean pitcher after 
Chan Ho Park to win ten games in a Major League season.[24] On February 
24, 2008, Kim signed a contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates. The Pirates 
had planned to use Kim exclusively in the bullpen.[25][26] Kim made his 
first spring training appearance on March 10, 2008.[27] After a disappointing 
spring training performance, Kim was released by the Pirates on March 25.[28] 
On February 1, 2010, Kim agreed to a minor league contract with the San 
Francisco Giants.[29] On March 20, 2010, the Giants granted him his release 
after he appeared in just one minor league game.[30] Kim later played with 
the Orange County Flyers of the Golden Baseball League in 2010. On January 
25, Kim signed a one-year deal with the Tohoku Rakuten Golden Eagles of 
the Japanese Pacific League.[31] On January 18, 2012, it was announced 
that Kim signed a one-year deal with Seoul-based team Nexen Heroes of Korea 
Baseball Organization.[32] On April 10, he was traded to the Kia Tigers. 
Usually described as a submarine pitcher, Kim is a side-arm and under-arm 
hard thrower who uses a great variety of deliveries. Kim possesses a four-seam 
fastball with tailing movement frequently hitting the low 90's, a Frisbee 
slider with sweeping motion across the plate, an up-shoot slider with a 
rising motion, and a circle-changeup which he usually uses to strike out 
left-handed hitters. Nevertheless, during the three seasons between 2004 
and 2006, his main problem had been the loss of right pitching balance 
which caused difficulty in ball control and reduced ball velocity. During 
that time, he also struggled against left-handed batsmen.[citation needed] 
In 2014, perennially award-winning third baseman Adrián Beltré named Kim 
as the toughest pitcher he had ever faced, due in large part to his pitching 
motion.[33] Kim owns a Japanese restaurant named Umi Sushi Restaurant in 
