Calvin Alexander McVey (August 30, 1849 – August 20, 1926) was a professional 
baseball player during the 1860s and 1870s. McVey's importance to the game 
stems from his play on two of the earliest professional baseball teams, 
the original Cincinnati Red Stockings and the National Association Boston 
Red Stockings. He also played on the inaugural National League pennant-winning 
team, the 1876 Chicago White Stockings. He has the NA record for most career 
RBIs (276). Cal McVey was born in rural Montrose, Iowa and moved to Indianapolis 
at eleven, where he learned baseball and soon excelled at the game, playing 
for the Western and Active clubs in the National Association of Base Ball 
Players (NABBP). With McVey usually pitching, the Actives in 1868 defeated 
local rivals, lost to the three strong Eastern teams that toured the West, 
and won one game in six against Cincinnati teams. Despite a lopsided 7–54 
defeat by the Cincinnati Red Stockings, that club later hired him to play 
in 1869 for $700 and he served as the regular right fielder for both of 
its storied seasons.[1] The Cincinnati Daily Times described Cal McVey 
in this way: "He is powerfully built, with broad shoulders and barrel chest...handsome 
though shy, and is a favorite of the ladies. He is very conscientious and 
a hard worker...a good fielder, but his strength is with the ash in his 
hands...he is a long...good thrower...and he doesn't drink."[2] McVey was 
directly in the middle of the most controversial game of the Red Stockings' 
reported 84-game winning streak, 1869 and 1870. Playing the Troy Haymakers, 
with the game tied 17 to 17, McVey fouled off a pitch the catcher claimed 
to have caught on the first bounce. That would have been an out but the 
umpire disagreed. In the ensuing argument, Troy left the field and the 
game was awarded to Cincinnati on forfeit. With the Red Stockings going 
out of business, manager Harry Wright signed to organize and lead a team 
in Boston. He hired McVey, Charlie Gould, and George Wright to join him, 
composing almost half the team that just missed winning the first National 
Association pennant. With some personnel changes, the Boston Red Stockings 
won the other four NA pennants, dominating so severely in 1875 that they 
helped provoke a new league. McVey served Boston two seasons as the first 
catcher, otherwise in the outfield, followed by one season managing in 
Baltimore and two more seasons in Boston, now an outfielder and second 
catcher.[3] During the summer of 1875, Boston's four Western stars agreed 
to play next season for the Chicago White Stockings: McVey, Deacon White, 
Ross Barnes, and Albert Spalding. Partly because the rules forbade such 
tampering, Chicago led the founding of a new National League of Professional 
Base Ball Clubs (NL). The Big Four and Cap Anson led the team to an easy 
win on the field, McVey serving as regular first baseman, second pitcher 
to Spalding, and second catcher to White. Few pieces remained in place 
for the second season, when McVey worked as first catcher and second pitcher 
and the team slumped out of the picture. On July 22 and 25, 1876, McVey 
became the only player in MLB history to record six hits in two straight 
games. In 1878 McVey returned to Cincinnati where he completed his major 
league career in two seasons as manager and infielder. The new Cincinnati 
Reds finished a close second in his first year but slipped to fifth in 
1879 (.538) but ahead of three new teams only. The reserve rule was adopted 
that fall, maybe a factor in his move to California, which he had visited 
on the 1869 Red Stockings tour. He was still a star batsman at the major 
league level. In San Francisco during the 1880s, McVey played for, managed, 
or organized several teams. He retired there and died in 1926, just short 
