Native languages as of 2007 California (i/ˌkælᵻˈfɔːrnjə/ KAL-ə-FORN-yə, 
/ˌkælᵻˈfɔːrniə/ KAL-ə-FAWR-nee-ə) is the most populous state in the United 
States. It is also the third most extensive by area. Los Angeles, in southern 
California, is the state's most populous city and the country's second 
largest after New York City. California also includes the nation's most 
populous county, Los Angeles County, and the largest county by area, San 
Bernardino County. Geographically located in the western part of the United 
States, California is bordered by the other United States states of Oregon 
to the north, Nevada to the east, and Arizona to the southeast. California 
shares an international border with the Mexican state of Baja California 
to the south and the Pacific Ocean is on the state's western coastline. 
The state capital is Sacramento, which is located in the northern part 
of the state. A majority of California's cities are located in either the 
San Francisco Bay Area or the Sacramento metropolitan area in northern 
California; or the Los Angeles area, the Riverside-San Bernardino-Inland 
Empire, or the San Diego metropolitan area in Southern California. What 
is now California was first settled by various Native American tribes before 
being explored by a number of European expeditions during the 16th and 
17th centuries. It was then claimed by the Spanish Empire as part of Alta 
California in the larger territory of New Spain. Alta California became 
a part of Mexico in 1821 following its successful war for independence, 
but was ceded to the United States in 1848 after the Mexican–American War. 
The western portion of Alta California was organized as the State of California, 
which was admitted as the 31st state on September 9, 1850. The California 
Gold Rush starting in 1848 led to dramatic social and demographic changes, 
with large-scale emigration from the east and abroad with an accompanying 
economic boom. California's diverse geography ranges from the Sierra Nevada 
in the east to the Pacific Coast in the west, from the redwood–Douglas 
fir forests of the northwest, to the Mojave Desert areas in the southeast. 
The center of the state is dominated by the Central Valley, a major agricultural 
area. California contains both the highest point (Mount Whitney) and the 
lowest point (Death Valley) in the contiguous United States. Earthquakes 
are common because of the state's location along the Pacific Ring of Fire. 
About 37,000 earthquakes are recorded each year, but most are too small 
to be felt.[12] California is regarded as a global trendsetter in both 
popular culture and politics, and is the birthplace of the film industry, 
the hippie counterculture, the Internet,[13] and the personal computer. 
The state's economy is centered on finance, government, real estate services, 
technology, and professional, scientific and technical business services; 
together comprising 58% of the state's economy.[14] Three of the world's 
largest 20 firms by revenue, Chevron, Apple, and McKesson, are headquartered 
in the state.[15] Although only 1.5% of the state's economy,[14] California's 
agriculture industry has the highest output of any United States state.[16] 
If it were a country, California would be the 6th largest economy in the 
world[17] and the 35th most populous. The word California originally referred 
to the entire region composed of the Baja California Peninsula of Mexico, 
the current United States states of California, Nevada, and Utah, and parts 
of Arizona, New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming.[citation needed] The name California 
is surmised by some writers to have derived from a fictional paradise peopled 
by Black Amazons and ruled by Queen Calafia,[18][19] who fought alongside 
Muslims and whose name was chosen to echo the title of a Muslim leader, 
the Caliph, fictionally implying that California was the Caliphate.[20] 
The story of Calafia is recorded in a 1510 work The Adventures of Esplandián, 
written as a sequel to Amadis de Gaula by Spanish adventure writer Garci 
Rodríguez de Montalvo.[21][22][23] The kingdom of Queen Calafia, according 
to Montalvo, was said to be a remote land inhabited by griffins and other 
strange beasts, and rich in gold. Know ye that at the right hand of the 
Indies there is an island called California, very close to that part of 
the Terrestrial Paradise, which was inhabited by black women without a 
single man among them, and they lived in the manner of Amazons. They were 
robust of body with strong passionate hearts and great virtue. The island 
itself is one of the wildest in the world on account of the bold and craggy 
rocks. When Spanish explorer Francisco de Ulloa was exploring the western 
coast of North America, his initial surveys of the Baja Peninsula led him 
to believe that it was an island rather than part of the larger continent, 
so he dubbed the "island" after the mythical island in Montalvo's writing.[25] 
Shortened forms of the state's name include CA, Cal., Calif. and US-CA. 
Settled by successive waves of arrivals during the last 10,000 years, California 
was one of the most culturally and linguistically diverse areas in pre-Columbian 
North America. Various estimates of the native population range from 100,000 
to 300,000.[26] The Indigenous peoples of California included more than 
70 distinct groups of Native Americans, ranging from large, settled populations 
living on the coast to groups in the interior. California groups also were 
diverse in their political organization with bands, tribes, villages, and 
on the resource-rich coasts, large chiefdoms, such as the Chumash, Pomo 
and Salinan. Trade, intermarriage and military alliances fostered many 
social and economic relationships among the diverse groups. The first European 
effort to explore the coast as far north as the Russian River was a Spanish 
sailing expedition, led by Portuguese captain Juan Rodríguez Cabrillo, 
in 1542. Some 37 years later English explorer Francis Drake also explored 
and claimed an undefined portion of the California coast in 1579. Spanish 
traders made unintended visits with the Manila galleons on their return 
trips from the Philippines beginning in 1565.[27] The first Asians to set 
foot on what would be the United States occurred in 1587, when Filipino 
sailors arrived in Spanish ships at Morro Bay.[28] Sebastián Vizcaíno explored 
and mapped the coast of California in 1602 for New Spain. Despite the on-the-ground 
explorations of California in the 16th century, Rodríguez's idea of California 
as an island persisted. That depiction appeared on many European maps well 
into the 18th century.[29] After the Portolà expedition of 1769–70, Spanish 
missionaries began setting up 21 California Missions on or near the coast 
of Alta (Upper) California, beginning in San Diego. During the same period, 
Spanish military forces built several forts (presidios) and three small 
towns (pueblos). Two of the pueblos grew into the cities of Los Angeles 
and San Jose. The Spanish colonization brought the genocide of the indigenous 
Californian peoples. Imperial Russia explored the California coast and 
established a trading post at Fort Ross. Its early 19th-century coastal 
settlements north of San Francisco Bay constituted the southernmost Russian 
colony in North America and were spread over an area stretching from Point 
Arena to Tomales Bay.[31] In 1821 the Mexican War of Independence gave 
Mexico (including California) independence from Spain; for the next 25 
years, Alta California remained a remote northern province of the nation 
of Mexico. Cattle ranches, or ranchos, emerged as the dominant institutions 
of Mexican California. After Mexican independence from Spain, the chain 
of missions became the property of the Mexican government and were secularized 
by 1834.[32] The ranchos developed under ownership by Californios (Spanish-speaking 
Californians) who had received land grants, and traded cowhides and tallow 
with Boston merchants. From the 1820s, trappers and settlers from the United 
States and Canada arrived in Northern California. These new arrivals used 
the Siskiyou Trail, California Trail, Oregon Trail and Old Spanish Trail 
to cross the rugged mountains and harsh deserts in and surrounding California. 
Between 1831 and 1836, California experienced a series of revolts against 
Mexico;[33] this culminated in the 1836 California revolt led by Juan Bautista 
Alvarado, which ended after Mexico appointed him governor of the department.[34] 
The revolt, which had momentarily declared California an independent state, 
was successful with the assistance of American and British residents of 
California,[35] including Isaac Graham;[36] after 1840, 100 of those residents 
who did not have passports were arrested, leading to the Graham affair 
in 1840.[35] One of the largest ranchers in California was John Marsh. 
After failing to obtain justice against squatters on his land from the 
Mexican courts, he determined that California should become part of the 
United States. Marsh conducted a letter-writing campaign espousing the 
California climate, soil and other reasons to settle there, as well as 
the best route to follow, which became known as "Marsh's route." His letters 
were read, reread, passed around, and printed in newspapers throughout 
the country, and started the first wagon trains rolling to California.[37] 
He invited immigrants to stay on his ranch until they could get settled, 
and assisted in their obtaining passports.[38] After ushering in the period 
of organized emigration to California, Marsh helped end the rule of the 
last Mexican governor of California, thereby paving the way to California's 
ultimate acquisition by the United States.[39] In 1846 settlers rebelled 
against Mexican rule during the Bear Flag Revolt. Afterwards, rebels raised 
the Bear Flag (featuring a bear, a star, a red stripe and the words "California 
Republic") at Sonoma. The Republic's only president was William B. Ide,[40] 
who played a pivotal role during the Bear Flag Revolt. The California Republic 
was short lived;[41] the same year marked the outbreak of the Mexican–American 
War (1846–48).[42] When Commodore John D. Sloat of the United States Navy 
sailed into Monterey Bay and began the military occupation of California 
by the United States, Northern California capitulated in less than a month 
to the United States forces.[43] After a series of defensive battles in 
Southern California, the Treaty of Cahuenga was signed by the Californios 
on January 13, 1847, securing American control in California.[44] Following 
the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo that ended the war, the western territory 
of Alta California, became the United States state of California, and Arizona, 
Nevada, Colorado and Utah became United States Territories. The lightly 
populated lower region of California, the Baja Peninsula, remained in the 
possession of Mexico. In 1846 the non-native population of California was 
estimated to be no more than 8,000, plus about 100,000 Native Americans 
down from about 300,000 before Hispanic settlement in 1769.[45] After gold 
was discovered in 1848, the population burgeoned with United States citizens, 
Europeans, Chinese and other immigrants during the great California Gold 
Rush. By 1854 over 300,000 settlers had come.[46] Between 1847 and 1870, 
the population of San Francisco increased from 500 to 150,000.[47] On September 
9, 1850, as part of the Compromise of 1850, California was admitted to 
the United States undivided as a free state, denying the expansion of slavery 
to the Pacific Coast. California's native population precipitously declined, 
above all, from Eurasian diseases to which they had no natural immunity.[48] 
As in other states, the native inhabitants were forcibly removed from their 
lands by incoming miners, ranchers, and farmers. And although California 
entered the union as a free state, the "loitering or orphaned Indians" 
were de facto enslaved by Mexican and Anglo-American masters under the 
1853 Act for the Government and Protection of Indians.[49] There were massacres 
in which hundreds of indigenous people were killed. Between 1850 and 1860, 
California paid around 1.5 million dollars (some 250,000 of which was reimbursed 
by the federal government)[50] to hire militias whose purpose was to protect 
settlers from the indigenous populations. In later decades, the native 
population was placed in reservations and rancherias, which were often 
small and isolated and without enough natural resources or funding from 
the government to sustain the populations living on them.[49] As a result, 
the rise of California was a calamity for the native inhabitants. Several 
scholars and Native American activists, including Benjamin Madley and Ed 
Castillo, have described the actions of the California government as a 
genocide.[51] The seat of government for California under Spanish and later 
Mexican rule was located at Monterey from 1777 until 1845.[32] Pio Pico, 
last Mexican governor of Alta California, moved the capital to Los Angeles 
in 1845. The United States consulate was also located in Monterey, under 
consul Thomas O. Larkin. In 1849, the Constitutional Convention was first 
held in Monterey. Among the tasks was a decision on a location for the 
new state capital. The first legislative sessions were held in San Jose 
(1850–1851). Subsequent locations included Vallejo (1852–1853), and nearby 
Benicia (1853–1854); these locations eventually proved to be inadequate 
as well. The capital has been located in Sacramento since 1854[52] with 
only a short break in 1861 when legislative sessions were held in San Francisco 
due to flooding in Sacramento. Initially, travel between California and 
the rest of the continental United States was time consuming and dangerous. 
A more direct connection came in 1869 with the completion of the First 
Transcontinental Railroad through Donner Pass in the Sierra Nevada mountains. 
Once completed, hundreds of thousands of United States citizens came west, 
where new Californians were discovering that land in the state, if irrigated 
during the dry summer months, was extremely well suited to fruit cultivation 
and agriculture in general. Vast expanses of wheat, other cereal crops, 
vegetable crops, cotton, and nut and fruit trees were grown (including 
oranges in Southern California), and the foundation was laid for the state's 
prodigious agricultural production in the Central Valley and elsewhere. 
Migration to California accelerated during the early 20th century with 
the completion of major transcontinental highways like the Lincoln Highway 
and Route 66. In the period from 1900 to 1965, the population grew from 
fewer than one million to become the most populous state in the Union. 
In 1940, the Census Bureau reported California's population as 6.0% Hispanic, 
2.4% Asian, and 89.5% non-Hispanic white.[53] To meet the population's 
needs, major engineering feats like the California and Los Angeles Aqueducts; 
the Oroville and Shasta Dams; and the Bay and Golden Gate Bridges were 
built across the state. The state government also adopted the California 
Master Plan for Higher Education in 1960 to develop a highly efficient 
system of public education. Meanwhile, attracted to the mild Mediterranean 
climate, cheap land, and the state's wide variety of geography, filmmakers 
established the studio system in Hollywood in the 1920s. California manufactured 
8.7 percent of total United States military armaments produced during World 
War II, ranking third (behind New York and Michigan) among the 48 states.[54] 
After World War II, California's economy greatly expanded due to strong 
aerospace and defense industries,[55] whose size decreased following the 
end of the Cold War.[55][56] Stanford University and its Dean of Engineering 
Frederick Terman began encouraging faculty and graduates to stay in California 
instead of leaving the state, and develop a high-tech region in the area 
now known as Silicon Valley.[57] As a result of these efforts, California 
is regarded as a world center of the entertainment and music industries, 
of technology, engineering, and the aerospace industry, and as the United 
States center of agricultural production.[58] Just before the "Dot Com 
Bust" California had the 5th largest economy in the world among nations.[59] 
Yet since 1991, and starting in the late 1980s in Southern California, 
California has seen a net loss of domestic migrants most years. This is 
often referred to by the media as the California exodus.[60] However, during 
the 20th century, two great disasters happened in California. The 1906 
San Francisco earthquake and 1928 St. Francis Dam flood remain the deadliest 
in U.S history.[61] California is the 3rd largest state in the United States 
in area, after Alaska and Texas.[63] California is often geographically 
bisected into two regions, Southern California, comprising the 10 southernmost 
counties,[64][65] and Northern California, comprising the 48 northernmost 
counties.[66][67] In the middle of the state lies the California Central 
Valley, bounded by the Sierra Nevada in the east, the coastal mountain 
ranges in the west, the Cascade Range to the north and by the Tehachapi 
Mountains in the south. The Central Valley is California's productive agricultural 
heartland. Divided in two by the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta, the 
northern portion, the Sacramento Valley serves as the watershed of the 
Sacramento River, while the southern portion, the San Joaquin Valley is 
the watershed for the San Joaquin River. Both valleys derive their names 
from the rivers that flow through them. With dredging, the Sacramento and 
the San Joaquin Rivers have remained deep enough for several inland cities 
to be seaports. The Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta is a critical water 
supply hub for the state. Water is diverted from the delta and through 
an extensive network of pumps and canals that traverse nearly the length 
of the state, to the Central Valley and the State Water Projects and other 
needs. Water from the Delta provides drinking water for nearly 23 million 
people, almost two-thirds of the state's population as well as water for 
farmers on the west side of the San Joaquin Valley. The Channel Islands 
are located off the Southern coast. The Sierra Nevada (Spanish for "snowy 
range") includes the highest peak in the contiguous 48 states, Mount Whitney, 
at 14,505 feet (4,421 m).[5][6][7] The range embraces Yosemite Valley, 
famous for its glacially carved domes, and Sequoia National Park, home 
to the giant sequoia trees, the largest living organisms on Earth, and 
the deep freshwater lake, Lake Tahoe, the largest lake in the state by 
volume. To the east of the Sierra Nevada are Owens Valley and Mono Lake, 
an essential migratory bird habitat. In the western part of the state is 
Clear Lake, the largest freshwater lake by area entirely in California. 
Though Lake Tahoe is larger, it is divided by the California/Nevada border. 
The Sierra Nevada falls to Arctic temperatures in winter and has several 
dozen small glaciers, including Palisade Glacier, the southernmost glacier 
in the United States. About 45 percent of the state's total surface area 
is covered by forests,[68] and California's diversity of pine species is 
unmatched by any other state. California contains more forestland than 
any other state except Alaska. Many of the trees in the California White 
Mountains are the oldest in the world; an individual bristlecone pine is 
over 5,000 years old.[69][70] In the south is a large inland salt lake, 
the Salton Sea. The south-central desert is called the Mojave; to the northeast 
of the Mojave lies Death Valley, which contains the lowest and hottest 
place in North America, the Badwater Basin at −279 feet (−85 m).[9] The 
horizontal distance from the bottom of Death Valley to the top of Mount 
Whitney is less than 90 miles (140 km). Indeed, almost all of southeastern 
California is arid, hot desert, with routine extreme high temperatures 
during the summer. The southeastern border of California with Arizona is 
entirely formed by the Colorado River, from which the southern part of 
the state gets about half of its water. Along the California coast are 
several major metropolitan areas, including the Greater Los Angeles Area, 
the San Francisco Bay Area, and the San Diego metropolitan area. As part 
of the Ring of Fire, California is subject to tsunamis, floods, droughts, 
Santa Ana winds, wildfires, landslides on steep terrain, and has several 
volcanoes. It has many earthquakes due to several faults running through 
the state, in particular the San Andreas Fault. Although most of the state 
has a Mediterranean climate, due to the state's large size, the climate 
ranges from subarctic to subtropical. The cool California Current offshore 
often creates summer fog near the coast. Farther inland, there are colder 
winters and hotter summers. The maritime moderation results in the shoreline 
summertime temperatures of Los Angeles and San Francisco being the coolest 
of all major metropolitan areas of the United States and uniquely cool 
compared to areas on the same latitude in the interior and on the east 
coast of the North American continent. Even the San Diego shoreline bordering 
Mexico is cooler in summer than most areas in the contiguous United States. 
Just a few miles inland, summer temperature extremes are significantly 
higher, with downtown Los Angeles being several degrees warmer than at 
the coast. The same microclimate phenomenon is seen in the climate of the 
Bay Area, where areas sheltered from the sea experience significantly hotter 
summers than nearby areas that are close to the ocean. Northern parts of 
the state have more rain than the south. California's mountain ranges also 
influence the climate: some of the rainiest parts of the state are west-facing 
mountain slopes. Northwestern California has a temperate climate, and the 
Central Valley has a Mediterranean climate but with greater temperature 
extremes than the coast. The high mountains, including the Sierra Nevada, 
have an alpine climate with snow in winter and mild to moderate heat in 
summer. California's mountains produce rain shadows on the eastern side, 
creating extensive deserts. The higher elevation deserts of eastern California 
have hot summers and cold winters, while the low deserts east of the Southern 
California mountains have hot summers and nearly frostless mild winters. 
Death Valley, a desert with large expanses below sea level, is considered 
the hottest location in the world; the highest temperature in the world,[71][72] 
134 °F (56.7 °C), was recorded there on July 10, 1913. The lowest temperature 
in California was −45 °F (−43 °C) in 1937 in Boca. The table below lists 
average temperatures for August and December in some of the major urban 
areas of California. Since extremes like the cool summers of the Humboldt 
Bay and the extreme heat of Death Valley do not effect any major urban 
areas these are not listed. California is one of the richest and most diverse 
parts of the world, and includes some of the most endangered ecological 
communities. California is part of the Nearctic ecozone and spans a number 
of terrestrial ecoregions.[74] California's large number of endemic species 
includes relict species, which have died out elsewhere, such as the Catalina 
ironwood (Lyonothamnus floribundus). Many other endemics originated through 
differentiation or adaptive radiation, whereby multiple species develop 
from a common ancestor to take advantage of diverse ecological conditions 
such as the California lilac (Ceanothus). Many California endemics have 
become endangered, as urbanization, logging, overgrazing, and the introduction 
of exotic species have encroached on their habitat. California boasts several 
superlatives in its collection of flora: the largest trees, the tallest 
trees, and the oldest trees. California's native grasses are perennial 
plants.[75] After European contact, these were generally replaced by invasive 
species of European annual grasses; and, in modern times, California's 
hills turn a characteristic golden-brown in summer.[76] Because California 
has the greatest diversity of climate and terrain, the state has six life 
zones which are the lower Sonoran (desert); upper Sonoran (foothill regions 
and some coastal lands), transition (coastal areas and moist northeastern 
counties); and the Canadian, Hudsonian, and Arctic Zones, comprising the 
state's highest elevations.[77] Plant life in the dry climate of the lower 
Sonoran zone contains a diversity of native cactus, mesquite, and paloverde. 
The Joshua tree is found in the Mojave Desert. Flowering plants include 
the dwarf desert poppy and a variety of asters. Fremont cottonwood and 
valley oak thrive in the Central Valley. The upper Sonoran zone includes 
the chaparral belt, characterized by forests of small shrubs, stunted trees, 
and herbaceous plants. Nemophila, mint, Phacelia, Viola, and the California 
poppy (Eschscholzia californica) – the state flower – also flourish in 
this zone, along with the lupine, more species of which occur here than 
anywhere else in the world.[77] The transition zone includes most of California's 
forests with the redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) and the "big tree" or giant 
sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteum), among the oldest living things on earth 
(some are said to have lived at least 4,000 years). Tanbark oak, California 
laurel, sugar pine, madrona, broad-leaved maple, and Douglas-fir also grow 
here. Forest floors are covered with swordfern, alumnroot, barrenwort, 
and trillium, and there are thickets of huckleberry, azalea, elder, and 
wild currant. Characteristic wild flowers include varieties of mariposa, 
tulip, and tiger and leopard lilies.[78] The high elevations of the Canadian 
zone allow the Jeffrey pine, red fir, and lodgepole pine to thrive. Brushy 
areas are abundant with dwarf manzanita and ceanothus; the unique Sierra 
puffball is also found here. Right below the timberline, in the Hudsonian 
zone, the whitebark, foxtail, and silver pines grow. At about 10,500 feet 
(3,200 m), begins the Arctic zone, a treeless region whose flora include 
a number of wildflowers, including Sierra primrose, yellow columbine, alpine 
buttercup, and alpine shooting star.[77][79] Common plants that have been 
introduced to the state include the eucalyptus, acacia, pepper tree, geranium, 
and Scotch broom. The species that are federally classified as endangered 
are the Contra Costa wallflower, Antioch Dunes evening primrose, Solano 
grass, San Clemente Island larkspur, salt marsh bird's beak, McDonald's 
rock-cress, and Santa Barbara Island liveforever. As of December 1997[update], 
85 plant species were listed as threatened or endangered.[77] In the deserts 
of the lower Sonoran zone, the mammals include the jackrabbit, kangaroo 
rat, squirrel, and opossum. Common birds include the owl, roadrunner, cactus 
wren, and various species of hawk. The area's reptilian life include the 
sidewinder viper, desert tortoise, and horned toad. The upper Sonoran zone 
boasts mammals such as the antelope, brown-footed woodrat, and ring-tailed 
cat. Birds unique to this zone are the California thrasher, bushtit, and 
California condor.[77][80][81][82] In the transition zone, there are Colombian 
black-tailed deer, black bears, gray foxes, cougars, bobcats, and Roosevelt 
elk. Reptiles such as the garter snakes and rattlesnakes inhabit the zone. 
In addition, amphibians such as the water puppy and redwood salamander 
are common too. Birds such as the kingfisher, chickadee, towhee, and hummingbird 
thrive here as well.[77][83] The Canadian zone mammals include the mountain 
weasel, snowshoe hare, and several species of chipmunks. Conspicuous birds 
include the blue-fronted jay, Sierra chickadee. Sierra hermit thrush, water 
ouzel, and Townsend's solitaire. As one ascends into the Hudsonian zone, 
birds become scarcer. While the Sierra rosy finch is the only bird native 
to the high Arctic region, other bird species such as the hummingbird and 
Clark's nutcracker. Principal mammals found in this region include the 
Sierra coney, white-tailed jackrabbit, and the bighorn sheep. As of April 
2003[update], the bighorn sheep was listed as endangered by the US Fish 
and Wildlife Service. The fauna found throughout several zones are the 
mule deer, coyote, mountain lion, northern flicker, and several species 
of hawk and sparrow.[77] Aquatic life in California thrives, from the state's 
mountain lakes and streams to the rocky Pacific coastline. Numerous trout 
species are found, among them rainbow, golden, and cutthroat. Migratory 
species of salmon are common as well. Deep-sea life forms include sea bass, 
yellowfin tuna, barracuda, and several types of whale. Native to the cliffs 
of northern California are seals, sea lions, and many types of shorebirds, 
including migratory species.[77] As of April 2003, 118 California animals 
were on the federal endangered list; 181 plants were listed as endangered 
or threatened. Endangered animals include the San Joaquin kitfox, Point 
Arena mountain beaver, Pacific pocket mouse, salt marsh harvest mouse, 
Morro Bay kangaroo rat (and five other species of kangaroo rat), Amargosa 
vole, California least tern, California condor, loggerhead shrike, San 
Clemente sage sparrow, San Francisco garter snake, five species of salamander, 
three species of chub, and two species of pupfish. Eleven butterflies are 
also endangered[84] and two that are threatened are on the federal list.[citation 
needed] Among threatened animals are the coastal California gnatcatcher, 
Paiute cutthroat trout, southern sea otter, and northern spotted owl. California 
has a total of 290,821 acres (1,176.91 km2) of National Wildlife Refuges.[77] 
As of September 2010[update], 123 California animals were listed as either 
endangered or threatened on the federal list provided by the US Fish & 
Wildlife Service.[85] Also, as of the same year[update], 178 species of 
California plants were listed either as endangered or threatened on this 
federal list.[85] The vast majority of rivers in California are dammed 
as part of two massive water projects: the Central Valley Project, providing 
water to the agricultural central valley, the California State Water Project 
diverting water from northern to southern California. The state's coasts, 
rivers, and other bodies of water are regulated by the California Coastal 
Commission. The two most prominent rivers within California are the Sacramento 
River and the San Joaquin River, which drain the Central Valley and the 
west slope of the Sierra Nevada and flow to the Pacific Ocean through San 
Francisco Bay. Several major tributaries feed into the Sacramento and the 
San Joaquin, including the Pit River, the Tuolumne River, and the Feather 
River. The Eel River and Salinas River each drain portions of the California 
coast, north and south of San Francisco Bay, respectively, and the Eel 
River is the largest river in the state to remain in its natural un-dammed 
state. The Mojave River is the primary watercourse in the Mojave Desert, 
and the Santa Ana River drains much of the Transverse Ranges as it bisects 
Southern California. Some other important rivers are the Klamath River 
and the Trinity River in the far north coast, and the Colorado River on 
the southeast border with Arizona. The United States Census Bureau estimates 
that the population of California was 39,144,818 on July 1, 2015, a 5.08% 
increase since the 2010 United States Census.[4] Between 2000 and 2009, 
there was a natural increase of 3,090,016 (5,058,440 births minus 2,179,958 
deaths).[90] During this time period, international migration produced 
a net increase of 1,816,633 people while domestic migration produced a 
net decrease of 1,509,708, resulting in a net in-migration of 306,925 people.[90] 
The state of California's own statistics show a population of 38,292,687 
for January 1, 2009.[91] However, according to the Manhattan Institute 
for Policy Research, since 1990 almost 3.4 million Californians have moved 
to other states, with most leaving to Texas, Nevada, and Arizona.[92] California 
is the second-most-populous sub-national entity in the Western Hemisphere 
and the Americas, with a population second to that of State of São Paulo, 
Brazil.[93] California's population is greater than that of all but 34 
countries of the world.[94][95] The Greater Los Angeles Area is the second-largest 
metropolitan area in the United States, after the New York metropolitan 
area, while Los Angeles, with nearly half the population of New York City, 
is the second-largest city in the United States. Also, Los Angeles County 
has held the title of most populous United States county for decades, and 
it alone is more populous than 42 United States states.[96][97] Including 
Los Angeles, four of the top 15 most populous cities in the U.S. are in 
California: Los Angeles (2nd), San Diego (8th), San Jose (10th), and San 
Francisco (13th). The center of population of California is located in 
the town of Buttonwillow, Kern County.[note 1] The state has 482 incorporated 
cities and towns; of which 460 are cities and 22 are towns. Under California 
law, the terms "city" and "town" are explicitly interchangeable; the name 
of an incorporated municipality in the state can either be "City of (Name)" 
or "Town of (Name)".[99] Sacramento became California's first incorporated 
city on February 27, 1850.[100] San Jose, San Diego and Benicia tied for 
California's second incorporated city, each receiving incorporation on 
March 27, 1850.[101][102][103] Jurupa Valley became the state's most recent 
and 482nd incorporated municipality on July 1, 2011.[104][105] The majority 
of these cities and towns are within one of five metropolitan areas: the 
Los Angeles Metropolitan Area, the San Francisco Bay Area, the Riverside-San 
Bernardino Area, the San Diego metropolitan area and the Sacramento metropolitan 
area. Starting in the year 2010, for the first time since the California 
Gold Rush, California-born residents make up the majority of the state's 
population.[107] Along with the rest of the United States, California's 
immigration pattern has also shifted over the course of the late 2000s-early 
2010s.[108] Immigration from Latin American countries has dropped significantly 
with most immigrants now coming from Asia.[109] In total for 2011, there 
were 277,304 immigrants. 57% came from Asian countries vs. 22% from Latin 
American countries.[109] Net immigration from Mexico, previously the most 
common country of origin for new immigrants has dropped to zero/less than 
zero, since more Mexican nationals are departing for their home country 
than immigrating.[108] As a result it is estimated that Hispanics citizens 
will constitute 49% of the population by 2060, instead of the previously 
projected 2050, due primarily to domestic births.[108][110] The state's 
population of undocumenteds has been shrinking in recent years, due to 
increased enforcement and decreased job opportunities for lower-skilled 
workers.[111] The number of migrants arrested attempting to cross the Mexican 
border in the Southwest plunged from a high of 1.1 million in 2005 to just 
367,000 in 2011.[112] Despite these recent trends, illegal aliens constituted 
an estimated 7.3 percent of the state's population, the third highest percentage 
of any state in the country,[113][note 2] totaling nearly 2.6 million.[114] 
In particular, illegal immigrants tended to be concentrated in Los Angeles, 
Monterey, San Benito, Imperial, and Napa Counties – the latter four of 
which have significant agricultural industries that depend on manual labor.[115] 
More than half of illegal immigrants originate from Mexico.[114] According 
to the United States Census Bureau in 2015 the population self-identifies 
as (alone or in combination):[116] By ethnicity, in 2015 the population 
was 61.2% non-Hispanic (of any race) and 38.8% Hispanic or Latino (of any 
race).[116] As of 2011, 75.1% of California's population younger than age 
1 were minorities, meaning that they had at least one parent who was not 
non-Hispanic white (white Hispanics are counted as minorities).[117] In 
terms of total numbers, California has the largest population of White 
Americans in the United States, an estimated 22,200,000 residents. The 
state has the 5th largest population of African Americans in the United 
States, an estimated 2,250,000 residents. California's Asian American population 
is estimated at 4.4 million, constituting a third of the nation's total. 
California's Native American population of 285,000 is the most of any state.[118] 
According to estimates from 2011, California has the largest minority population 
in the United States by numbers, making up 60% of the state population.[88] 
Over the past 25 years, the population of non-Hispanic whites has declined, 
while Hispanic and Asian populations have grown. Between 1970 and 2011, 
non-Hispanic whites declined from 80% of the State's population to 40%, 
while Hispanics grew from 32% in 2000 to 38% in 2011.[119] It is currently 
projected that Hispanics will rise to 49% of the population by 2060, primarily 
due to domestic births rather than immigration.[110] With the decline of 
immigration from Latin America, Asian Americans now constitute the fastest 
growing racial/ethnic group in California; this growth primarily driven 
by immigration from China, India and the Philippines, respectively.[120] 
English serves as California's de jure and de facto official language. 
In 2010, the Modern Language Association of America estimated that 57.02% 
(19,429,309) of California residents age 5 and older spoke only English 
at home, while 42.98% spoke another primary language at home. According 
to the 2007 American Community Survey, 73% of people who speak a language 
other than English at home are able to speak English well or very well, 
with 9.8% not speaking English at all.[2] Unlike most United States States, 
California law enshrines English as its official language (rather than 
it being simply the most commonly used), since the passage of Proposition 
63 by California voters. Various government agencies do, and are often 
required to, furnish documents in the various languages needed to reach 
their intended audiences.[126][127][128] In total, 16 languages other than 
English were spoken as primary languages at home by more than 100,000 persons, 
more than any other state in the nation. New York State, in second place, 
had 9 languages other than English spoken by more than 100,000 persons.[129] 
The most common language spoken besides English was Spanish, spoken by 
28.46% (9,696,638) of the population.[110][108] With Asia contributing 
most of California's new immigrants, California had the highest concentration 
nationwide of Vietnamese and Chinese speakers, the second highest concentration 
of Korean, and the third highest concentration of Tagalog speakers.[2] 
California has historically been one of the most linguistically diverse 
areas in the world, with more than 70 indigenous languages derived from 
64 root languages in 6 language families.[130][131] A survey conducted 
between 2007 and 2009 identified 23 different indigenous languages of Mexico 
that are spoken among California farmworkers.[132] All of California's 
indigenous languages are endangered, although there are now efforts toward 
language revitalization.[note 3] As a result of the state's increasing 
diversity and migration from other areas across the country and around 
the globe, linguists began noticing a noteworthy set of emerging characteristics 
of spoken English in California since the late 20th century. This dialect, 
known as California English, has a vowel shift and several other phonological 
processes that are different from the dialects used in other regions of 
the country.[133] The culture of California is a Western culture and most 
clearly has its modern roots in the culture of the United States, but also, 
historically, many Hispanic influences. As a border and coastal state, 
Californian culture has been greatly influenced by several large immigrant 
populations, especially those from Latin America and Asia.[134] California 
has long been a subject of interest in the public mind and has often been 
promoted by its boosters as a kind of paradise. In the early 20th century, 
fueled by the efforts of state and local boosters, many Americans saw the 
Golden State as an ideal resort destination, sunny and dry all year round 
with easy access to the ocean and mountains. In the 1960s, popular music 
groups such as The Beach Boys promoted the image of Californians as laid-back, 
tanned beach-goers. The California Gold Rush of the 1850s is still seen 
as a symbol of California's economic style, which tends to generate technology, 
social, entertainment, and economic fads and booms and related busts. The 
largest religious denominations by number of adherents as a percentage 
of California's population in 2014 were the Catholic Church with 28 percent; 
Evangelical Protestants with 20 percent; and Mainline Protestants with 
10 percent. Those unaffiliated with any religion represented 27 percent 
of the population. The breakdown of other religions is 1% Muslim, 2% Hindu 
and 2% Buddhist.[135] This is a change from 2008, when the population identified 
their religion with the Catholic Church with 31 percent; Evangelical Protestants 
with 18 percent; and Mainline Protestants with 14 percent. In 2008, those 
unaffiliated with any religion represented 21 percent of the population. 
The breakdown of other religions in 2008 was 0.5% Muslim, 1% Hindu and 
2% Buddhist.[136] The American Jewish Year Book placed the total Jewish 
population of California at about 1,194,190 in 2006.[137] According to 
the Association of Religion Data Archives (ARDA) the largest denominations 
by adherents in 2010 were the Roman Catholic Church with 10,233,334; The 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints with 763,818; and the Southern 
Baptist Convention with 489,953.[138] The first priests to come to California 
were Roman Catholic missionaries from Spain. Roman Catholics founded 21 
missions along the California coast, as well as the cities of Los Angeles 
and San Francisco. California continues to have a large Roman Catholic 
population due to the large numbers of Mexicans and Central Americans living 
within its borders. California has twelve dioceses and two archdioceses, 
the Archdiocese of Los Angeles and the Archdiocese of San Francisco, the 
former being the largest archdiocese in the United States. A Pew Research 
Center survey revealed that California is somewhat less religious than 
the rest of the US: 62 percent of Californians say they are "absolutely 
certain" of their belief in God, while in the nation 71 percent say so. 
The survey also revealed 48 percent of Californians say religion is "very 
important", compared to 56 percent nationally.[139] California has twenty 
major professional sports league franchises, far more than any other state. 
The San Francisco Bay Area has seven major league teams spread in its three 
major cities: San Francisco, San Jose, and Oakland. While the Greater Los 
Angeles Area is home to ten major league franchises. San Diego has two 
major league teams, and Sacramento has one. The NFL Super Bowl has been 
hosted in California 11 times at four different stadiums: Los Angeles Memorial 
Coliseum, the Rose Bowl, Stanford Stadium, and San Diego's Qualcomm Stadium. 
A twelfth, Super Bowl 50, was held at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara on 
February 7, 2016.[140] California has long had many respected collegiate 
sports programs. California is home to the oldest college bowl game, the 
annual Rose Bowl, among others. California is the only US state to have 
hosted both the Summer and Winter Olympics. The 1932 and 1984 Summer Olympics 
were held in Los Angeles. Squaw Valley Ski Resort in the Lake Tahoe region 
hosted the 1960 Winter Olympics. Multiple games during the 1994 FIFA World 
Cup took place in California, with the Rose Bowl hosting eight matches 
including the final, while Stanford Stadium hosted six matches. Below is 
a list of major league sports teams in California: Public secondary education 
consists of high schools that teach elective courses in trades, languages, 
and liberal arts with tracks for gifted, college-bound and industrial arts 
students. California's public educational system is supported by a unique 
constitutional amendment that requires a minimum annual funding level for 
grades K–12 and community colleges that grows with the economy and student 
enrollment figures.[141] California had over 6.2 million school students 
in the 2005–06 school year. Funding and staffing levels in California schools 
lag behind other states. In expenditure per pupil, California ranked 29th 
(of the 50 states and the District of Columbia) in 2005–06. In teaching 
staff expenditure per pupil, California ranked 49th of 51. In overall teacher-pupil 
ratio, California was also 49th, with 21 students per teacher. Only Arizona 
and Utah were lower.[142] A 2007 study concluded that California's public 
school system was "broken" in that it suffered from over-regulation.[143] 
California's public postsecondary education offers three separate systems: 
California is also home to such notable private universities as Stanford 
University, the University of Southern California, the California Institute 
of Technology, and the Claremont Colleges. California has hundreds of other 
private colleges and universities, including many religious and special-purpose 
institutions. The economy of California is large enough to be comparable 
to that of the largest of countries. As of 2016[update], the gross state 
product (GSP) is about $2.514 trillion, the largest in the United States.[147] 
California is responsible for 13.9 percent of the United States' approximate 
$18.1 trillion gross domestic product (GDP).[147] California's GSP is larger 
than the GDP of all but 5 countries in dollar terms (the United States, 
China, Japan, Germany, and the United Kingdom),[148][149] larger than Brazil, 
France, Russia, Italy, India, Canada, Australia, Spain and Turkey. In Purchasing 
Power Parity,[150] it is larger than all but 10 countries (the United States, 
China, India, Japan, Germany, Russia, Brazil, France, the United Kingdom, 
and Indonesia), larger than Italy, Mexico, Spain, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, 
Canada and Turkey.[151] The five largest sectors of employment in California 
are trade, transportation, and utilities; government; professional and 
business services; education and health services; and leisure and hospitality. 
In output, the five largest sectors are financial services, followed by 
trade, transportation, and utilities; education and health services; government; 
and manufacturing.[152] As of September 2016[update], California has an 
unemployment rate of 5.5%. California's economy is dependent on trade and 
international related commerce accounts for about one-quarter of the state's 
economy. In 2008, California exported $144 billion worth of goods, up from 
$134 billion in 2007 and $127 billion in 2006.[153] Computers and electronic 
products are California's top export, accounting for 42 percent of all 
the state's exports in 2008.[153] Agriculture is an important sector in 
California's economy. Farming-related sales more than quadrupled over the 
past three decades, from $7.3 billion in 1974 to nearly $31 billion in 
2004.[154] This increase has occurred despite a 15 percent decline in acreage 
devoted to farming during the period, and water supply suffering from chronic 
instability. Factors contributing to the growth in sales-per-acre include 
more intensive use of active farmlands and technological improvements in 
crop production.[154] In 2008, California's 81,500 farms and ranches generated 
$36.2 billion products revenue.[155] In 2011, that number grew to $43.5 
billion products revenue.[156] The Agriculture sector accounts for two 
percent of the state's GDP and employs around three percent of its total 
workforce.[157] According to the USDA in 2011, the three largest California 
agricultural products by value were milk and cream, shelled almonds, and 
grapes.[158] Per capita GDP in 2007 was $38,956, ranking eleventh in the 
nation.[159] Per capita income varies widely by geographic region and profession. 
The Central Valley is the most impoverished, with migrant farm workers 
making less than minimum wage. According to a 2005 report by the Congressional 
Research Service, the San Joaquin Valley was characterized as one of the 
most economically depressed regions in the United States, on par with the 
region of Appalachia.[160] California has a poverty rate of 23.5%, the 
highest of any state in the country.[161] Many coastal cities include some 
of the wealthiest per-capita areas in the United States The high-technology 
sectors in Northern California, specifically Silicon Valley, in Santa Clara 
and San Mateo counties, have emerged from the economic downturn caused 
by the dot-com bust. In 2010, there were more than 663,000 millionaires 
in the state, more than any other state in the nation.[162] In 2010, California 
residents were ranked first among the states with the best average credit 
score of 754.[163] State spending increased from $56 billion in 1998 to 
$127 billion in 2011.[164][165] California, with 12% of the United States 
population, has one-third of the nation's welfare recipients.[166] California 
has the third highest per capita spending on welfare among the states, 
as well as the highest spending on welfare at $6.67 billion.[167] In January 
2011 the California's total debt was at least $265 billion.[168] On June 
27, 2013, Governor Jerry Brown signed a balanced budget (no deficit) for 
the state, its first in decades; however the state's debt remains at $132 
billion.[169][170] With the passage of Proposition 30 in 2012, California 
now levies a 13.3% maximum marginal income tax rate with ten tax brackets, 
ranging from 1% at the bottom tax bracket of $0 annual individual income 
to 13.3% for annual individual income over $1,000,000. California has a 
state sales tax of 7.5%, though local governments can and do levy additional 
sales taxes. Many of these taxes are temporary for a seven-year period 
(as stipulated in Proposition 30) and afterwards will revert to a previous 
maximum marginal income tax bracket of 10.3% and state sales tax rate of 
7.25%.[171] All real property is taxable annually; the tax is based on 
the property's fair market value at the time of purchase or new construction. 
Property tax increases are capped at 2% per year (see Proposition 13). 
Because it is the most populous United States state, California is one 
of the country's largest users of energy. However because of its high energy 
rates, conservation mandates, mild weather in the largest population centers 
and strong environmental movement, its per capita energy use is one of 
the smallest of any United States state.[172] Due to the high electricity 
demand, California imports more electricity than any other state, primarily 
hydroelectric power from states in the Pacific Northwest (via Path 15 and 
Path 66) and coal- and natural gas-fired production from the desert Southwest 
via Path 46.[173] As a result of the state's strong environmental movement, 
California has some of the most aggressive renewable energy goals in the 
United States, with a target for California to obtain a third of its electricity 
from renewables by 2020.[174] Currently, several solar power plants such 
as the Solar Energy Generating Systems facility are located in the Mojave 
Desert. California's wind farms include Altamont Pass, San Gorgonio Pass, 
and Tehachapi Pass. Several dams across the state provide hydro-electric 
power. It would be possible to convert the total supply to 100% renewable 
energy, including heating, cooling and mobility, by 2050.[175] The state's 
crude oil and natural gas deposits are located in the Central Valley and 
along the coast, including the large Midway-Sunset Oil Field. Natural gas-fired 
power plants typically account for more than one-half of state electricity 
generation. California is also home to two major nuclear power plants: 
Diablo Canyon and San Onofre, the latter having been shut down in 2013. 
Also voters banned the approval of new nuclear power plants since the late 
1970s because of concerns over radioactive waste disposal.[176][note 4] 
In addition, several cities such as Oakland, Berkeley and Davis have declared 
themselves as nuclear-free zones. California's vast terrain is connected 
by an extensive system of controlled-access highways ('freeways'), limited-access 
roads ('expressways'), and highways. California is known for its car culture, 
giving California's cities a reputation for severe traffic congestion. 
Construction and maintenance of state roads and statewide transportation 
planning are primarily the responsibility of the California Department 
of Transportation, nicknamed "Caltrans". The rapidly growing population 
of the state is straining all of its transportation networks, and California 
has some of the worst roads in the United States.[178][179] The Reason 
Foundation's 19th Annual Report on the Performance of State Highway Systems 
ranked California's highways the third-worst of any state, with Alaska 
second, and Rhode Island first.[180] The state has been a pioneer in road 
construction. One of the state's more visible landmarks, the Golden Gate 
Bridge, was once the longest suspension bridge main span in the world at 
4,200 feet (1,300 m) when it opened in 1937. With its orange paint and 
panoramic views of the bay, this highway bridge is a popular tourist attraction 
and also accommodates pedestrians and bicyclists. The San Francisco–Oakland 
Bay Bridge (often abbreviated the "Bay Bridge"), completed in 1936, transports 
about 280,000 vehicles per day on two-decks. Its two sections meet at Yerba 
Buena Island through the world's largest diameter transportation bore tunnel, 
at 76 feet (23 m) wide by 58 feet (18 m) high.[181] The Arroyo Seco Parkway, 
connecting Los Angeles and Pasadena, opened in 1940 as the first freeway 
in the Western United States.[182] It was later extended south to the Four 
Level Interchange in downtown Los Angeles, regarded as the first stack 
interchange ever built.[183] Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the 
6th busiest airport in the world, and San Francisco International Airport 
(SFO), the 21st busiest airport in the world, are major hubs for trans-Pacific 
and transcontinental traffic. There are about a dozen important commercial 
airports and many more general aviation airports throughout the state. 
California also has several important seaports. The giant seaport complex 
formed by the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach in Southern 
California is the largest in the country and responsible for handling about 
a fourth of all container cargo traffic in the United States. The Port 
of Oakland, fourth largest in the nation, also handles trade entering from 
the Pacific Rim to the rest of the country. The Port of Stockton is the 
easternmost port on the west coast of the United States.[184] The California 
Highway Patrol is the largest statewide police agency in the United States 
in employment with over 10,000 employees. They are responsible for providing 
any police-sanctioned service to anyone on California's state maintained 
highways and on state property. The California Department of Motor Vehicles 
is by far the largest in North America. By the end of 2009, the California 
DMV had 26,555,006 driver's licenses and ID cards on file.[185] In 2010, 
there were 1.17 million new vehicle registrations in force.[186] Intercity 
rail travel is provided by Amtrak California, which manages the three busiest 
intercity rail lines in the United States outside the Northeast Corridor, 
all of which are funded by Caltrans. This service is becoming increasingly 
popular over flying and ridership is continuing to set records, especially 
on the LAX-SFO route.[187] Integrated subway and light rail networks are 
found in Los Angeles (Metro Rail) and San Francisco (MUNI Metro). Light 
rail systems are also found in San Jose (VTA), San Diego (San Diego Trolley), 
Sacramento (RT Light Rail), and Northern San Diego County (Sprinter). Furthermore, 
commuter rail networks serve the San Francisco Bay Area (ACE, BART, Caltrain), 
Greater Los Angeles (Metrolink), and San Diego County (Coaster). The California 
High-Speed Rail Authority was created in 1996 by the state to implement 
an extensive 700 miles (1,100 km) rail system. Construction was approved 
by the voters during the November 2008 general election, a $9.95 billion 
state bond will go toward its construction.[188] Nearly all counties operate 
bus lines, and many cities operate their own city bus lines as well. Intercity 
bus travel is provided by Greyhound and Amtrak Thruway Coach. California's 
interconnected water system is the world's largest, managing over 40,000,000 
acre feet (49 km3) of water per year, centered on six main systems of aqueducts 
and infrastructure projects.[189] Water use and conservation in California 
is a politically divisive issue, as the state experiences periodic droughts 
and has to balance the demands of its large agricultural and urban sectors, 
especially in the arid southern portion of the state. The state's widespread 
redistribution of water also invites the frequent scorn of environmentalists. 
The California Water Wars, a conflict between Los Angeles and the Owens 
Valley over water rights, is one of the most well-known examples of the 
struggle to secure adequate water supplies.[190] Former California Governor 
Arnold Schwarzenegger said: "We've been in crisis for quite some time because 
we're now 38 million people and not anymore 18 million people like we were 
in the late 60s. So it developed into a battle between environmentalists 
and farmers and between the south and the north and between rural and urban. 
And everyone has been fighting for the last four decades about water."[191] 
The state's capital is Sacramento. California is organized into three branches 
of government – the executive branch consisting of the Governor and the 
other independently elected constitutional officers; the legislative branch 
consisting of the Assembly and Senate; and the judicial branch consisting 
of the Supreme Court of California and lower courts. The state also allows 
ballot propositions: direct participation of the electorate by initiative, 
referendum, recall, and ratification. Before the passage of California 
Proposition 14 (2010), California allowed each political party to choose 
whether to have a closed primary or a primary where only party members 
and independents vote. After June 8, 2010 when Proposition 14 was approved, 
excepting only the United States President and county central committee 
offices,[192] all candidates in the primary elections are listed on the 
ballot with their preferred party affiliation, but they are not the official 
nominee of that party.[193] At the primary election, the two candidates 
with the top votes will advance to the general election regardless of party 
affiliation.[193] If at a special primary election, one candidate receives 
more than 50% of all the votes cast, they are elected to fill the vacancy 
and no special general election will be held.[193] The California executive 
branch consists of the Governor of California and seven other elected constitutional 
officers: Lieutenant Governor, Attorney General, Secretary of State, State 
Controller, State Treasurer, Insurance Commissioner, and State Superintendent 
of Public Instruction. They serve four-year terms and may be re-elected 
only once.[194] The California State Legislature consists of a 40-member 
Senate and 80-member Assembly. Senators serve four-year terms and Assembly 
members two. Members of the Assembly are subject to term limits of three 
terms, and members of the Senate are subject to term limits of two terms. 
California's legal system is explicitly based upon English common law[195] 
(as is the case with all other states except Louisiana) but carries a few 
features from Spanish civil law, such as community property. California's 
prison population grew from 25,000 in 1980 to over 170,000 in 2007.[196] 
Capital punishment is a legal form of punishment and the state has the 
largest "Death Row" population in the country (though Texas is far more 
active in carrying out executions).[citation needed] California's judiciary 
system is the largest in the United States (with a total of 1,600 judges, 
while the federal system has only about 840). At the apex is the seven 
Justices of the Supreme Court of California, while the California Courts 
of Appeal serve as the primary appellate courts and the California Superior 
Courts serve as the primary trial courts. Justices of the Supreme Court 
and Courts of Appeal are appointed by the Governor, but are subject to 
retention by the electorate every 12 years. The administration of the state's 
court system is controlled by the Judicial Council, composed of the Chief 
Justice of the California Supreme Court, 14 judicial officers, four representatives 
from the State Bar of California, and one member from each house of the 
state legislature. California is divided into 58 counties. Per Article 
11, Section 1, of the Constitution of California, they are the legal subdivisions 
of the state. The county government provides countywide services such as 
law enforcement, jails, elections and voter registration, vital records, 
property assessment and records, tax collection, public health, health 
care, social services, libraries, flood control, fire protection, animal 
control, agricultural regulations, building inspections, ambulance services, 
and education departments in charge of maintaining statewide standards.[197][198] 
In addition, the county serves as the local government for all unincorporated 
areas. Each county is governed by an elected board of supervisors.[199] 
Incorporated cities and towns in California are either charter or general-law 
municipalities.[99] General-law municipalities owe their existence to state 
law and are consequently governed by it; charter municipalities are governed 
by their own city or town charters. Municipalities incorporated in the 
19th century tend to be charter municipalities. All ten of the state's 
most populous cities are charter cities. Most small cities have a council-manager 
form of government, where the elected city council appoints a city manager 
to supervise the operations of the city. Some larger cities have a directly-elected 
mayor who oversees the city government. In many council-manager cities, 
the city council selects one of its members as a mayor, sometimes rotating 
through the council membership—but this type of mayoral position is primarily 
ceremonial. The Government of San Francisco is the only consolidated city-county 
in California, where both the city and county governments have been merged 
into one unified jurisdiction. The San Francisco Board of Supervisors also 
acts as the city council and the Mayor of San Francisco also serves as 
the county administrative officer. About 1,102 school districts, independent 
of cities and counties, handle California's public education.[200] California 
school districts may be organized as elementary districts, high school 
districts, unified school districts combining elementary and high school 
grades, or community college districts.[200] There are about 3,400 special 
districts in California.[201] A special district, defined by California 
Government Code § 16271(d) as "any agency of the state for the local performance 
of governmental or proprietary functions within limited boundaries", provides 
a limited range of services within a defined geographic area. The geographic 
area of a special district can spread across multiple cities or counties, 
or could consist of only a portion of one. Most of California's special 
districts are single-purpose districts, and provide one service. The state 
of California sends 53 members to the House of Representatives,[202] the 
nation's largest congressional state delegation. Consequently California 
also has the largest number of electoral votes in national presidential 
elections, with 55. California's U.S. Senators are Dianne Feinstein, a 
native and former mayor of San Francisco, and Barbara Boxer, a former congresswoman 
from Marin County. As of the beginning of the 114th Congress this is the 
current longest continuous representation of a state by the same senators, 
dating from Boxer's accession in 1993.[203] California has an idiosyncratic 
political culture compared to the rest of the country, and is sometimes 
regarded as a trendsetter.[205] In socio-cultural mores and national politics, 
Californians are perceived as more liberal than other Americans, especially 
those who live in the inland states. Among the political idiosyncrasies 
and trendsetting, California was the second state to recall their state 
governor, the second state to legalize abortion, and the only state to 
ban marriage for gay couples twice by voters (including Proposition 8 in 
2008). Voters also passed Proposition 71 in 2004 to fund stem cell research, 
and Proposition 14 in 2010 to completely change the state's primary election 
process. California has also experienced disputes over water rights; and 
a tax revolt, culminating with the passage of Proposition 13 in 1978, limiting 
state property taxes. The state's trend towards the Democratic Party and 
away from the Republican Party can be seen in state elections. From 1899 
to 1939, California had Republican governors. Since 1990, California has 
generally elected Democratic candidates to federal, state and local offices, 
including current Governor Jerry Brown; however, the state has elected 
Republican Governors, though many of its Republican Governors, such as 
Arnold Schwarzenegger, tend to be considered moderate Republicans and more 
centrist than the national party. The Democrats also now hold a majority 
in both houses of the state legislature. There are 56 Democrats and 24 
Republicans in the Assembly; and 26 Democrats and 12 Republicans in the 
Senate. The trend towards the Democratic Party is most obvious in presidential 
elections; Republicans have not won California's electoral votes since 
1988. Additionally, both the state's current Democratic United States Senators, 
Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, have held onto their seats since they 
were first elected in 1992. In the United States House, the Democrats held 
a 34–19 edge in the CA delegation of the 110th United States Congress in 
2007. As the result of gerrymandering, the districts in California were 
usually dominated by one or the other party, and few districts were considered 
competitive. In 2008, Californians passed Proposition 20 to empower a 14-member 
independent citizen commission to redraw districts for both local politicians 
and Congress. After the 2012 elections, when the new system took effect, 
Democrats gained 4 seats and held a 38–15 majority in the delegation. In 
general, Democratic strength is centered in the populous coastal regions 
of the Los Angeles metropolitan area and the San Francisco Bay Area. Republican 
strength is still greatest in eastern parts of the state. Orange County 
also remains mostly Republican. One study ranked Berkeley, Oakland, Inglewood 
and San Francisco in the top 20 most liberal American cities; and Bakersfield, 
Orange, Escondido, Garden Grove, and Simi Valley in the top 20 most conservative 
cities.[206] In October 2012, out of the 23,802,577 people eligible to 
vote, 18,245,970 people were registered to vote.[207] Of the people registered, 
the three largest registered groups were Democrats (7,966,422), Republicans 
(5,356,608), and Decline to State (3,820,545).[207] Los Angeles County 
had the largest number of registered Democrats (2,430,612) and Republicans 
(1,037,031) of any county in the state.[207] California is considered generally 
liberal in its policies regarding the LGBT community, and the rights of 
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people have received greater recognition 
since 1960 at both the state and municipal level. California is home to 
a number of gay villages such as the Castro District in San Francisco, 
Hillcrest in San Diego, and West Hollywood. Through the Domestic Partnership 
Act of 1999, California became the first state in the United States to 
recognize same-sex relationships in any legal capacity. In 2000, voters 
passed Proposition 22, which restricted state recognition of marriage to 
opposite-sex couples. This was struck down by the California Supreme Court 
in May 2008, effectively legalizing same-sex marriage; however, this was 
overruled later that same year when California voters passed Proposition 
8. After further judicial cases, in 2013 the U.S. Supreme Court rendered 
the law void, allowing same-sex marriages in California to resume. In California, 
as of 2009[update], the U.S. Department of Defense had a total of 117,806 
active duty servicemembers of which 88,370 were Sailors or Marines, 18,339 
were Airmen, and 11,097 were Soldiers, with 61,365 Department of Defense 
civilian employees. Additionally, there were a total of 57,792 Reservists 
and Guardsman in California.[208] In 2010, Los Angeles County was the largest 
origin of military recruits in the United States by county, with 1,437 
individuals enlisting in the military.[209] However, as of 2002, Californians 
were relatively under-represented in the military as a proportion to its 
population.[210] In 2000, California, had 2,569,340 veterans of United 
States military service: 504,010 served in World War II, 301,034 in the 
Korean War, 754,682 during the Vietnam War, and 278,003 during 1990–2000 
(including the Persian Gulf War).[211] As of 2010[update], there were 1,942,775 
veterans living in California, of which 1,457,875 served during a period 
of armed conflict, and just over four thousand served before World War 
II (the largest population of this group of any state).[212] California's 
military forces consist of the Army and Air National Guard, the naval and 
state military reserve (militia), and the California Cadet Corps. California 
has a twinning arrangement with  Catalonia, Spain[213] Coordinates: 37°N 
