The California Golden Bears are the athletic teams that represent the University 
of California, Berkeley. Referred to in athletic competition as California 
or Cal, the university fields 30 varsity athletic programs and various 
club teams in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)'s Division 
I primarily as a member of the Pac-12 Conference, and for a limited number 
of sports as a member of the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation (MPSF). 
Over the course of the school's history, California has won team national 
titles in 13 men's and 3 women's sports and 103 team titles overall. Cal 
athletes have also competed in the Olympics for a host of different countries. 
Notable facilities used by the Bears include California Memorial Stadium 
(football) and Haas Pavilion (basketball and other indoor sports). Cal 
finished the 2010–11 athletic season with 1,219.50 points, earning third 
place in the Director's Cup standings, the Golden Bears' highest finish 
ever. Cal did not receive any points for its national championships in 
rugby and men's crew because those sports are not governed by the NCAA.[2] 
Cal finished 12th in the 2014-15 standings.[3] In 2014, Cal instituted 
a strict academic standard for an athlete's admission to the university. 
By the 2017 academic year 80 percent of incoming student athletes will 
need to comply with the University of California general student requirement 
of having a 3.0 or higher high school grade point average.[4] Cal Berkeley 
sponsors varsity teams in 14 men's and 16 women's sports:[5] Men's Intercollegiate 
Sports Women's Intercollegiate Sports Men's Programs Women's Programs As 
of June 5, 2016, the California Golden Bears had 103 team national championships 
(35 awarded by the NCAA). At the end of 2014, 156 individual national championships, 
14 tennis doubles national championships, 40 relay national championships 
(37 swimming, 3 track), and 47 national championship boats had been accomplished 
by University of California athletes. The California football team began 
play in 1885 and with its home games at California Memorial Stadium (since 
1923), except for in 2011 while Memorial Stadium was being renovated; the 
team played at San Francisco's AT&T Park. The team also has produced two 
of the oddest and most memorable plays in college football: Roy "Wrong 
Way" Riegels' fumble recovery and run toward the Cal goal line in the 1929 
Rose Bowl, and The Play in the 1982 Big Game with the winning kickoff return 
after five laterals. The program has also produced numerous NFL stars, 
including Aaron Rodgers, Ryan Longwell, Marshawn Lynch, DeSean Jackson, 
Desmond Bishop, and Jahvid Best. Tony Gonzalez, the NFL's all-time receptions 
leader among tight ends, played both football and basketball at Cal. Head 
coach Sonny Dykes began his tenure in 2012. The California men's basketball 
team has represented the University of California intercollegiately since 
1907 and subsequently began full conference play in 1915. Cal basketball's 
home court is Haas Pavilion, which was constructed atop of the old Harmon 
Gymnasium using money donated in the late 1990s in part by the owners of 
Levi-Strauss.[11] The program has seen success throughout the years culminating 
in a national championship in 1959 under legendary coach Pete Newell and 
have reached the final four two other times in 1946 and 1960. The 1926–27 
team finished the season with a 17–0 record[12] and was retroactively named 
the national champion by the Premo-Porretta Power Poll.[13] The current 
head coach of the California men's basketball program is Cuonzo Martin. 
Martin scored a significant recruiting coup when star high school players 
Ivan Rabb and Jaylen Brown signed with the team.[14] Some notable NBA players 
that spent time playing in Berkeley include Jason Kidd, Kevin Johnson, 
and Darrall Imhoff. Final Fours (3): 1946 • 1959 • 1960 The Cal baseball 
team plays at Evans Diamond, located between Haas Pavilion, the Recreational 
Sports Facility, and Edward's Track Stadium. Cal has appeared in the post-season 
a total of nine times, including five times in the College World Series; 
Cal won the title in 1947 and 1957. Perhaps the most famous Cal player 
was second baseman Jeff Kent, who led the Golden Bears to the 1988 World 
Series, and would go on to be named the 2000 National League Most Valuable 
Player as a member of the San Francisco Giants. Shortstop Geoff Blum of 
Cal's 1992 College World Series team hit the game-winning home run in the 
14th inning of a 2005 World Series game for the Chicago White Sox. In September 
2010, the university announced that baseball would be one of five sports 
cut as a cost-cutting measure.[15] However, in April 2011, after receiving 
more than $9 million in pledges from supporters of the program, the program 
was reinstated.[16] College World Series appearances (6): 1947 • 1957 • 
1980 • 1988 • 1992 • 2011 Men's bowling was a varsity-level intercollegiate 
sport at the University of California in the 1970s and won a national championship 
in 1979, governed by the ABC (now the U.S. Bowling Congress).[6] The first 
significant coach in Cal men's crew was Carroll "Ky" Ebright, who guided 
the Bears for 36 years from 1924 to 1959. During his tenure, Cal crew became 
known for success on both the collegiate and the international levels. 
In 1928, Cal fielded one of the most dominant crews of the time as the 
Bears went undefeated in the United States to win the national championship, 
earned the right to compete as the United States entry in the Amsterdam 
Olympics, and won the gold medal. Cal would represent the United States 
at two other Olympic games and winning the gold each time: the 1932 and 
1948 Summer Games. Ebright ultimately led the Bears to nine conference 
championships and six Intercollegiate Rowing Association championships 
(i.e., Varsity 8s), with the 1939 squad setting (as of 2006) the best still-standing 
four mile course record at the IRA. Cal maintained its success during the 
1960s under coach Jim Lemmon, who in seven years, led the Bears to three 
more conference and national championships. In the early 1970s, Cal's lightweight 
men formed their own club team, California Lightweight Crew, while still 
rowing out of the same boathouse. The earlier success of the Cal men's 
crew dimmed somewhat in the 1970s and 1980s, but the Bears did win another 
national title (1976) and three more conference titles. Steve Gladstone's 
second stint as coach (his first was from 1973–1980) began in 1997 when 
he and then-freshman coach Craig Amerkhanian resurrected the men's crew 
program. The Bears then won seven conference titles, consisting of five 
straight conference championships from 1998–2002 along with 2005 and 2006. 
They have also won seven Intercollegiate Rowing Association titles since 
1997, four in a row in 1999–2002, again in 2006, also in 2010 under current 
head coach Mike Teti (who replaced Gladstone in 2008) and most recently 
in 2016. The University of California's intercollegiate cross country team 
is under the direction of head coach Tony Sandoval who is in his 30th year 
at the university and 20th season as the cross country head coach. The 
University of California's golf team has won one team national championship 
in 2004 and won two conference championships in 2012 and 2013. They also 
have one individual national champion, Max Homa, in 2013. The team's home 
course is at the Orinda Country Club in Orinda, they currently practice 
at the Metropolitan Golf Links in Oakland, and the head coach (in his 33rd 
season) is Steve Desimone. Individual National Championships (1): 2013 
Men's gymnastics began intercollegiate competition at the University of 
California in 1922 and has won 4 national championships and 21 conference 
championships. The Men's Gymnastics team has also produced 30 individual 
championships with the most recent being won by Glen Ishino on the pommel 
horse in 2012. The team's home is the Haas Pavilion and the head coach 
(in his 3rd season) is Brett McClure. Men's rifle began intercollegiate 
competition at the University of California in the 19th century[9][10][17][18][19] 
and won 5 national championships in the 1950s.[7] At that time, the national 
event required five firing members per team, one alternate, a team captain 
and a coach. The national championship competition consisted of ten shots 
per firing member at 50 feet, indoors. Cal has been the dominant team in 
college rugby. From 1980, the Golden Bears have won 26 championships, including 
consecutive championships from 1991 to 2002 (twelve) and 2004 to 2008 (five). 
Head coach and Cal alumnus Jack Clark has led the team since 1984. Cal 
Rugby's home is 5,000-seat Witter Rugby Field, located near California 
Memorial Stadium in Strawberry Canyon. Cal also competes in the Collegiate 
Rugby Championship (CRC), the highest profile college rugby sevens tournament 
in the US. The CRC is held every June at PPL Park in Philadelphia and is 
broadcast live on NBC. Cal reached the finals of the 2010 CRC, losing to 
Utah in the finals in sudden death extra time, and finished third in the 
2012 CRC.[20] Cal won the 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 CRC titles. In September 
2010, the university announced that rugby would be one of five varsity 
sports cut as a cost-cutting measure, though the team would have continued 
to represent the university as a "varsity club sport." A large group of 
rugby supporters organized to oppose the relegation.[15] On February 11, 
2011, the administration reversed its decision on rugby and two other sports, 
thus continuing them as sponsored varsity sports.[21] Rugby union began 
play at Cal in 1882 and continued until 1886, when it was discontinued 
in favor of American Football. Rugby made a return in 1906 after football 
was deemed too dangerous to play. From 1906 to 1914, Cal rugby garnered 
a respectable 78–21–10 record. 1914, however, saw the return of football, 
and Cal would not field a rugby team for almost 20 years. In 1931, rugby 
returned under alumnus Ed Graff. 1938 began the era of Miles "Doc" Hudson, 
who guided the Bears for 37 years and an incredible record of 339–84–23. 
His successor was Ned Anderson, an alumnus and former rugger for the Bears. 
Men's soccer began intercollegiate competition at the University of California 
in 1906 and has won no national championships and 4 conference championships. 
The team currently plays its home games at Edwards Stadium and the head 
coach (in his 12th season) is Kevin Grimes. Steve Birnbaum was the #2 pick 
in the first round in the 2014 MLS SuperDraft. Men's swimming and diving 
has been extremely successful over the years. Intercollegiate competition 
at the University of California began in 1914 and has won 5 national championships 
and 2 conference championships. The Men's Swimming and Diving team has 
also had 49 individual championships and 23 relay national championships. 
The team's home is currently the Spieker Aquatics Complex near Haas Pavilion 
and the head coach (in his 5th season) is David Durden. The California 
men's swimming and diving team won back to back team national championships 
in 2011 and 2012. The Men's outdoor tennis team began intercollegiate competition 
at the University of California in 1925, winning national championships 
in its first and second seasons, although these team titles were unofficial 
by virtue of sweeping both the collegiate individual and doubles crowns 
of the U.S. Lawn Tennis Association. Other schools accomplished this feat 
only 3 times after 1926 and before the inception of the NCAA team championship 
in 1946. In addition, the California tennis team has won 6 conference championships, 
2 individual championships, and 9 doubles national championships. On the 
indoor courts, the men's tennis team has won 2 national titles in the Intercollegiate 
Tennis Association championships in 1980 and 1989. The team currently plays 
at the Hellman Tennis Complex and the head coach (in his 19th season) is 
Peter Wright. Men's track and field is the oldest athletic program at the 
university and began intercollegiate competition at the University of California 
in 1872 and has produced 1 team, and 26 individual, and 3 relay national 
championships. The team's current home is the historic Edwards Stadium 
and the director of track and field (in his 30th season) is Tony Sandoval. 
Men's water polo began intercollegiate competition at the University of 
California in 1918 and has won 13 national championships and 35 conference 
championships. The team currently plays its home games at the Spieker Aquatics 
Complex and the head coach (in his 10th season) is Kirk Everist. Cal volleyball 
is coached by Rich Feller. In 2010, he was named the American Volleyball 
Coaches Association (AVCA) National Coach of the Year as Cal finished as 
NCAA runners-up. Cal completed its most successful season in 2010, as they 
won the Pac-10 title for the first time in school history and advanced 
to the 2010 NCAA Championship final, where they fell to Penn State. Senior 
setter Carli Lloyd was named the 2010 AVCA National Player of the Year 
and Feller was named the National Coach of the Year. In 2007, Cal reached 
the final four for the first time in school history before falling to eventual 
national champion Penn State in the semifinals. Not only did they reach 
the final four, in their run they were able to defeat defending champion 
and #2 seed Nebraska, who were the favorites to repeat as champions, in 
the regional final round, in a sweep (3–0). In 2007, Senior outside hitter 
Angie Pressey, the daughter of NBA player Paul Pressey, garnered AVCA First 
Team All-American honors, and was the only Cal player in history to be 
named to the Pac-10 All-Conference team all four years. Hana Cutura was 
named the 2007 regional MVP for her helping Cal reach the final four. The 
first season of women's basketball at Cal was played from 1972–1973, right 
after Title IX went into effect. The longest tenured coach in Cal history 
was Gooch Foster, who captained the team from 1979 to 1996 to two conference 
championships and 11 winning seasons. Up to the 2005–2006 season the Bears 
have had only three winning seasons. Lindsay Gottlieb is the head coach, 
hired in 2011 from the University of California, Santa Barbara. The Cal 
women's basketball began a resurgence in 2006–2007 when it had a 20-game 
winning season (the last was in 1992) and a second straight trip to the 
NCAA Women's Tournament, beating Stanford and ending their 50-game Pac-10 
winning streak at Maples Pavilion, a No. 25 ranking in the final USA Today–ESPN 
women's basketball poll, and Boyle and Devannei Hampton receiving Pac-10 
Coach and Player of the Year trophies, respectively. In 2007–08, Cal tied 
the 1983–84 Bears for the most wins in school history (24–4, with one game 
remaining in the regular season). The Bears have been ranked as high as 
8th in the national polls and set a Pac-10 record attendance in women's 
basketball with 10,525 witnessing Cal's 60–58 loss to Stanford at Haas 
Pavilion. 2008–09 was the best season for Cal women, as the team led by 
seniors Ashley Walker and Devanei Hampton completed a successful 15–3 conference 
record. They had reeled off 11 straight wins to open the season, including 
a home win over rival Stanford (their first home win against the Cardinal 
in over 20 years), but fell to the Cardinal in the rematch on the road, 
and later suffered back to back losses towards the end of the season that 
took them out of the running for the conference title. Despite a heartbreaking 
early exit from the Pac-10 tournament at the hands of Southern California, 
the Bears completed a successful tournament run as the Bears saw their 
first Sweet 16 in school history. They went up against the undefeated UConn 
Huskies and even had a nice lead in the opening minutes but ultimately 
fell to the eventual national champions. In 2009–10 the Bears brought in 
a top 10 recruiting class to make up for the losses of Walker and Hampton. 
The young Bears (the starting lineup during conference play featured four 
freshmen along with star senior Alexis Gray-Lawson) had an up and down 
year, going 6–5 in non-conference play including a home loss to nearby 
San Jose State. After an 0–3 conference start that left them two games 
under .500, the Bears started to find their form, going 12–5 the rest of 
the way including the Pac-10 tournament. However, the second half success 
was not enough for an NCAA tournament bid and Cal wound up settling for 
the WNIT. Although Alexis Gray-Lawson had to sit out the NIT opener because 
of an injury suffered in the Pac-10 tournament, the Bears edged UC Davis 
in overtime. Gray-Lawson returned for round 2, and the Bears romped through 
the remaining games against Utah, Oregon, BYU, Illinois State and finally 
Miami (FL) in the championship game at home to win the tournament. (It 
was the first ever championship game held at Haas Pavilion.) Gray-Lawson 
ended her career as the all-time Cal leader in three points made and games 
played.[22] In 2012–13, the Cal women reached a record AP and USA Today 
Coach's Poll #6 ranking at the end of the season, and a 2 seed in the Spokane 
region of the 2013 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament. The Bears 
reached the first Final Four in school history.[23] Final Fours (1): 2013 
In 2002, the Cal softball team won its first National Championship against 
Arizona. Some notable players include Candace Harper, third baseman, and 
Jocelyn Forest, pitcher, both of whom were team captains. The 2002 Women's 
College World Series took place in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Softball began 
intercollegiate competition at the University of California in 1972. The 
team has won one national championship and 6 conference championships. 
The team currently plays at the 1,204 seat Levine-Fricke Field in Strawberry 
Canyon, and the head coach (in her 25th season) is Diane Ninemire. Women's 
College World Series appearances (14):[24] 1980 • 1981 • 1982 • 1986 • 
1992 • 1996 • 1999 • 2000 • 2001 • 2002 • 2004 • 2005 • 2011 • 2012 Note: 
Both Cal and the NCAA consider appearances at the AIAW women's final tournament 
(which was also named and promoted as the "Women's College World Series"), 
prior to the first NCAA softball WCWS on May 27–30, 1982, to be equivalent 
to NCAA WCWS appearances. Women's crew began at Cal with a bang, as the 
Bears won four straight conference titles under Daig O'Connell followed 
with a national championship in 1980 under Pat Sweeney. However, Cal could 
not keep up its early success and saw average success for almost the next 
20 years. Cal's second renaissance began in the fall of 1998, when coach 
Dave O'Neill assumed control of the program. Under O'Neill Cal has been 
invited to the NCAA Rowing Championship every year and has placed among 
the top three teams at least ten times since 2002. Cal finished third in 
2008, 2011 and 2012, and second in 2009, 2010 and this season[when?]. Cal 
won the NCAA team title in 2005, 2006 and 2016. On at least two occasions, 
Cal won the Varsity 8 race, the premier event at the championship. Since 
2004 the Cal women also have won at least seven Pac-10 Championships, including 
the Varsity 8 race at least six times. Cal's 2010 team will be remembered 
for the courage and determination of Jill Costello, who coxed the V8 to 
victory at the Pac-10 Championship while battling lung cancer. Two weeks 
later Costello and the Cal women narrowly missed winning the NCAA Championship 
and finished second. Less than a month after NCAA's, Costello lost her 
battle against lung cancer and died at the age of twenty-two. Costello 
is remembered each year during Cal's annual dual race against Stanford, 
the Big Row. The University of California's intercollegiate cross country 
team is under the direction of head coach Tony Sandoval who is in his 30th 
year at the university and 20th season as the cross country head coach. 
Women's field hockey began intercollegiate competition at the University 
of California in 1976 and has won no national championships (runner-up 
in the 1980 AIAW championship) and 15 conference championships. The team 
currently plays at Maxwell Family Field near California Memorial Stadium 
and the head coach (in her 19th season) is Shellie Onstead, a California 
Hall of Fame inductee and Cal's first All-American in field hockey. Cal 
was a member of the Northern Pacific Field Hockey Conference (NorPac) from 
the league's founding in 1982 until its demise at the end of the 2014 season. 
The four NorPac members from California (Cal, Pacific, Stanford, and UC 
Davis) became single-sport members of the America East Conference starting 
with the 2015 season.[25] The University of California's intercollegiate 
golf team has produced 1 individual national champion. Also, California 
women's golf has won two conference championships in 2003, and more recently 
in 2012. The team's home course is at the Orinda Country Club in Orinda, 
they currently practice at the Metropolitan Golf Links in Oakland, and 
the head coach (in her 17th season) is Nancy McDaniel. The University of 
California's intercollegiate women's gymnastics team began competition 
in 1974 and is currently under the direction of head coach Justin Howell 
who is in his second year at the university. The home of Cal women's gymnastics 
is Haas Pavilion. Women's lacrosse began intercollegiate competition at 
the University of California in 1999 and has won no national championships 
and 1 conference championship. The team currently plays at California Memorial 
Stadium (Witter Rugby Field during the renovation and retrofit) and the 
head coach (in her 2nd season) is Brooke Eubanks. Women's soccer began 
intercollegiate competition at the University of California in 1982 and 
has won no national championships and 1 conference championship. The team 
currently plays at Edwards Stadium and the head coach (in his 5th season) 
is Neil McGuire. Genessee Daughetee (Banks) is one of the team's starting 
defensive players. Genessee is known for her speed and finesse style of 
play.[26] The women's swimming and diving began intercollegiate competition 
at the University of California in 1978 and has won 4 national championships 
and 7 conference championships. The Women's Swimming and Diving team has 
also produced 35 individual, and 14 relay national championships. The team's 
current home is the Spieker Aquatics Complex and the head coach (in her 
20th season) is Teri McKeever who is also the U.S. Olympic team's coach. 
The California women's swimming and diving team won back to back team national 
championships in 2011 and 2012, and has won three of the last four team 
national championships. Women's tennis began intercollegiate competition 
at the University of California in 1973 and has won one indoor national 
championship, one team Conference Championship, and 1 singles conference 
championship. The Women's Tennis team has also produced 2 individual, and 
5 doubles national championships. The team currently plays at Hellman Tennis 
Complex and the head coach (in her 5th season) is Amanda Augustus. The 
University of California's intercollegiate women's track and field team 
has won 3 indoor individual national championships, and 7 outdoor individual 
national championships. The program is under the direction of Tony Sandoval 
who is in his 30th year as he director of California track and field. Women's 
Water Polo began intercollegiate competition at the University of California 
in 1996 and has won no national championships and 2 conference championships. 
The team currently plays at the Spieker Aquatics Complex near Haas Pavilion 
and the head coach (in his 7th season) is Richard Corso. California has 
won 35 NCAA team national championships.[27] Below are 68 national team 
titles in current and former California varsity sports that were not bestowed 
by the NCAA: Below are 56 national team titles won by California club sports 
teams at the highest collegiate level in non-NCAA sports: The Cal Sailing 
Team competes in the PCCSC (Pacific Coast College Sailing Conference) which 
sanctions collegiate racing on the Pacific Coast and is part of the larger 
ICSA (Intercollegiate Sailing Association). Cal races against schools such 
as Stanford, USC, University of Hawaii, UC Santa Barbara, and California 
Maritime Academy. The team is entirely student-run. California Club Tennis 
Team plays at the club level as part of USTA's Tennis on Campus. The team 
has had very good recent success, capturing national titles out of 64 total 
teams in 2010, 2012, 2014 and 2015, with 3rd and 6th-place finishes in 
2011 and 2013 respectively. California Ice Hockey Team plays at the ACHA 
Division II club level as a member of the Pacific 8 Intercollegiate Hockey 
Conference.[31] The team is coached by Cyril Allen, who took over as head 
coach in 2001.[32] The Big Freeze is a bi-annual bay area rival between 
California and Stanford University. It is the fourth most attended event 
at Cal behind only to its football and men's and women's basketball programs. 
California Ice Hockey currently plays at Oakland Ice Center in Oakland, 
Ca. Berkeley Iceland is currently being repurchased through the community 
with efforts being led by Cal's Coach, Cyril Allen.[33] The University 
of California department of athletics sponsors a varsity women's volleyball 
program without a men's equivalent program at the NCAA/varsity level; therefore, 
California only competes in intercollegiate men's volleyball at the club 
level. Along with the men's club volleyball program, there is also a women's 
club team separate from the women's varsity team. According to the UC Berkeley 
Recreational Sports page, the club men's volleyball program has won a total 
of six national championships.[34] Occasionally, members of the club volleyball 
team will help the women's varsity volleyball team with practices and open 
scrimmages.[35][36] The California taekwondo team has won 29 national team 
championships from 1976 through 2016 (includes 3 men's and one women's 
team titles prior to the adoption of overall scoring).[37] This includes 
winning the national team championship in every year from 1990 through 
2015, except for 2003 and 2013. Known as the "Cal Lightweights" or "Cal 
Lights," the team is a member of the Western Intercollegiate Rowing Association. 
In the western United States, Cal Lightweight Crew is one of three lightweight 
women's rowing teams and remains the sole lightweight men’s rowing team. 
The alpine skiing team participates in the United States Collegiate Ski 
and Snowboard Association (USCSA). The eSports at Berkeley competitive 
video game club won the Heroes of the Dorm Heroes of the Storm (HotS) competition 
whose grand finals were aired on ESPN2.[38] The team beat Arizona State 
University in the grand finals and each player won gaming equipment and 
full four-year college tuition paid for by game publisher Activision Blizzard 
and national collegiate gaming student network TeSPA.[39] California Memorial 
Stadium is the home field for California's football program. The venue 
opened in 1923 and seated between 72,000 and 80,000 fans until the 2010 
football season (its final configuration before the renovation seated 71,799), 
making it northern California's largest football stadium in terms of seating 
capacity;[40] however, the stadium's capacity dropped to 62,467 seats after 
the renovation was completed. Memorial Stadium was funded from public contributions, 
as a memorial to Californians who lost their lives in World War I (1917–18). 
The chair of the architectural committee was John Galen Howard, the university's 
chief architect, and his influence is evident in the stadium's neoclassical 
motif. In addition to its unique architecture, the stadium's position at 
the foot of the Berkeley hills provides top-row spectators on the east 
side with panoramic views of San Francisco Bay and west-side viewers with 
views of the Berkeley Hills and Strawberry Canyon. This has earned it a 
reputation as one of the most scenic venues in college football.[citation 
needed] The Simpson Center (known as the Student Athlete High Performance 
Center or SAHPC during construction) is the new high-performance center 
for California's student athletes, located right next to California Memorial 
Stadium on Piedmont Avenue. The new center opened in the fall of 2011 and 
by January 2012, the final team (football) had moved into the facility. 
The Simpson Center is home to 13 of California's 32 intercollegiate athletic 
programs, including football, Men's Rugby, Women's Lacrosse, Men's and 
Women's Gymnastics, Men's and Women's Golf, Men's and Women's Soccer, Men's 
and Women's Crew, Women's Field Hockey, and softball. According to the 
University of California, the facility is a 142,000-square-foot (13,200 m2) 
complex that will provide "year round access for over 450 student athletes."[41] 
Walter A. Haas, Jr. Pavilion is the home of California's men's and women's 
basketball, women's volleyball, and men's and women's gymnastics teams. 
The arena is located in the middle of the main University of California 
sports complex, overlooking Evans Diamond (baseball) and Edwards Stadium 
(track/soccer). The arena was originally constructed in 1933 as the Men's 
Gym. It was renamed, in 1959, Harmon Gym after Oakland financier A.K.P. 
Harmon, who in 1879 donated the funds to build Cal's first indoor athletic 
facility. The playing surface, after being known as simply "Room 100" when 
the arena opened, was renamed Pete Newell Court in 1987 in honor of Pete 
Newell, who led Cal to the national championship in 1959. Proposals for 
replacing the old gym were bandied about from the 1970s onward, but sentiment 
was strongly in favor of its reconstruction. As a result, the arena was 
heavily renovated from 1997 to 1999 after a donation of about $11 million 
from Walter A. Haas, Jr. of Levi Strauss & Co., constructing a new seating 
bowl within the existing walls. The Recreational Sports Facility is a 100,000 
square foot athletics center that is attached to Haas Pavilion and is located 
on Bancroft Avenue. The RSF features many different rooms for many different 
activities including, but not limited to: basketball, weight lifting, racquetball, 
handball, squash, volleyball, and badminton. Attached to the facility is 
the RSF Field House which is home to many of California's club and intramural 
teams and has, in the past, hosted the Cal women's volleyball team while 
Haas Pavilion was under construction. Also attached to the RSF is the Spieker 
Aquatics Complex, which is home to the California men's and women's water 
polo and men's and women's swimming and diving programs.[42][43] Evans 
Diamond is California's baseball stadium, it opened in 1933 and currently 
has a seating capacity of 2,500. Evans Diamond is located in the UC sports 
complex in the southwest corner of campus, pressed between Edwards Stadium 
to the west (right field) and Haas Pavilion to the east. Originally named 
Edwards Field, it was renamed after Clint Evans, the Cal head coach from 
1930–54. The stadium was renovated in 1992 at a cost of $275,000, paid 
for by the donations of UC alumni. Construction was done by RNT Landscaping, 
a San Leandro landscaping company.[44] The stadium is considered inadequate 
to host regional and super regional games for the NCAA tournament because 
of its lack of lights. Blue and gold have been Cal’s official colors since 
1875. The dark blue represents California’s sky and ocean, as well as Yale 
University, the alma mater of several of the university’s founders, including 
its first president, Henry Durant. Gold is a reference to the state of 
California’s nickname, the “Golden State.” [45][46] The shade of gold varies 
from a more metallic gold on the university seal, and a yellow-gold (also 
known as California Gold) that is in use by the athletic department. Because 
of the university's use of blue and gold, the state of California's de 
facto colors were blue and gold from around 1913 to 1951 and became the 
official state colors in 1951.[47] The bear has been a symbol of the state 
of California dating back to the 24-day California Republic in 1846; the 
state flag displays the image of a bear. The bear, therefore, was seen 
as a fitting mascot for the University of California. One of the first 
times the bear was used as a symbol of the university was in 1895 when 
the California track team went east to compete against the national powers 
of Princeton, Yale, Pennsylvania and Chicago. The track team brought along 
a blue banner with an outline of a bear in gold; it became a good luck 
symbol when the "upstart" team from California triumphed at the meet. Charles 
Mills Gayley was inspired to write the song "The Golden Bear", which is 
currently the oldest song in the University of California Marching Band's 
repertoire. Since that time, the athletic teams of the University of California 
have officially been known as the "California Golden Bears."[48] In the 
early twentieth century, Ursae, Bruins and just Bears were common. The 
use of "Grizzlies" waned because of then-conference opponent Montana Grizzlies 
and the 1924 extinction of the California grizzly, and Bruins ceased to 
be used to describe Cal athletic teams when the southern branch of the 
university (now UCLA) adopted the Bruin as their mascot. The university 
at times had a live bear cub on the field to serve as the mascot of the 
university; however, that proved to be unpredictable. The 1941 season saw 
the debut of Oski, Cal's official mascot. The University of California 
Marching Band, usually shortened to Cal Band, is the marching band for 
the University of California, Berkeley. While the Cal Band is student-run, 
it is administered under the auspices of the university and represents 
Cal at sporting events and social gatherings. The name of the band is "The 
University of California Band" by the constitution, but is typically called 
"The University of California Marching Band" or "The Cal Band". When the 
band marches out of Memorial Stadium's North Tunnel for football pre-games, 
it is referred to as "The Pacesetter of College Marching Bands, the Pride 
of California". When in attendance at basketball games or other small sporting 
events, a smaller subset known as the "Straw Hat Band" represents the UC 
Marching Band. Fight for California Primary fight song Lyrics: Our sturdy 
Golden Bear is watching from the sky Looks down upon our colors fair And 
guards us from his lair Our banner Gold and Blue The symbol on it too Means 
Fight! for California For California through and through. Stalwart girded 
for the fray Will strive for victory Their all at Mater's feet will lay 
That brain and brawn will win the day. Our mighty sons and true Will strive 
for us anew And Fight (WIN)! for California For California through and 
through. Big C Secondary fight song Lyrics: On our rugged eastern foothills 
Stands our symbol clear and bold Big C means to fight and strive And win 
for Blue and Gold Golden Bear is ever watching Day by day he prowls And 
when he hears the tread Of lowly Stanford red From his lair he fiercely 
growls Grr-ah! Grr-ah! Grrrrr—ah! We are sons of California Fighting for 
the Gold and Blue Palms of glory we will win For Alma Mater true Stanford's 
men will soon be routed By our dazzling "C" And when we serpentine Their 
red will turn to green In our hour of victory! Sons of California Secondary 
fight song Lyrics: We are Sons of California A loyal company; All shout 
for California While we strive for victory. All sing the joyful chorus, 
As her colors we unfold; Then hurrah for California, And for the Blue and 
Gold. C--- A--- L--- I--- F-O-R- N-I-A- CALIFORNIA CALIFORNIA CALI-FORRRRRRRRR-NIA! 
We're Sons of California Fair mistress of the sea; And we'll win for California, 
Her glorious destiny. Then raise the joyful chorus, As her colors we unfold 
For we'll win for California, And for the Blue and Gold. All Hail Blue 
and Gold Campus Alma Mater Lyrics: All Hail, Blue and Gold Thy colors unfold 
O'er loyal Californians, Whose hearts are strong and bold, All Hail, Blue 
and Gold Thy strength ne'er shall fail; For thee we'll die, All Hail! All 
Hail! All Hail, Blue and Gold To thee we shall cling; O'er golden fields 
of poppies, Thy praises we shall sing. All Hail, Blue and Gold On breezes 
ye sail; Thy sight we love, All Hail! All Hail! Hail to California UC System 
Alma Mater Lyrics: Hail to California, Alma Mater dear; Sing the joyful 
chorus, Sound it far and near. Rallying round her banner, We will never 
fail; California, Alma Mater, Hail! Hail! Hail! Hail to California, Queen 
in whom we’re blest; Spreading light and goodness Over all the West. Fighting 
‘neath her standard, We shall sure prevail; California, Alma Mater, Hail! 
Hail! Hail! Other Cal Songs: Stanford Jonah • California Indian Song • 
California Drinking Song The University of California Rally Committee, 
usually shortened to Rally Comm, is the official guardian of the University 
of California's spirit and traditions. The committee is in charge of the 
protection of the Stanford Axe (while Cal is in possession of it), the 
Bonfire Rally, the Cal flags, the California Victory Cannon, Homecoming 
Rally, the upkeep of the Big C, and many other spirit related activities. 
Rally Comm is completely student-run and can be found at almost every major 
sporting event and many other events throughout the Bay Area and country. 
The most distinguishing feature of the University of California Rally Committee 
are the blue and gold striped rugby shirts that serve as the official uniform 
of the committee. The University of California Mic Men, (formerly yell 
leaders) are a group of four or five individuals who lead Cal cheers and 
make sure Cal pride is present at all Cal events. The mic men can usually 
be found leading cheers at California home football and men's basketball 
games and also MCing rallies such as Noon Rallies on Fridays before every 
home football game, the Homecoming Rally, and the Bonfire Rally. In the 
past, the head yell leader as an elected position, however, students now 
have to audition and apply to become a mic man. The University of California 
Dance Team, (also known as the Cal Dance Team) is a group of young women 
who perform at Cal athletic events. The dance team is present at football 
and basketball games from start to finish, performing both on the sidelines 
and during halftimes. This spirit institution has represented Cal for decades 
at various sport and alumni events, performing over 55 different pieces 
of choreography each year. Annual tryouts, usually in April, are required 
for current, former and potential new team members. The team was joined 
with the Cal Cheer Team in 2012. The Bench is the student cheering section 
for the University of California men's basketball team. Located inside 
Haas Pavilion, The Bench holds up to 900 students who rowdily cheer on 
their California Golden Bears at home basketball games. Students who sit 
on The Bench receive an annual Bench T-shirt each year and continue to 
make Haas Pavilion one of the loudest basketball arenas in the Pac-12 Conference.[49] 
The Bench prides itself on standing the entire game and ensuring that the 
arena is a hostile place for any opposing team to play.[50] Although exact 
dates are not known, the tradition of The Bench was drastically changed 
in October 2000 when renovations on Haas Pavilion were completed and put 
a row of portable chairs between the student section and the court. University 
officials called the move necessary for the protection of referees and 
players, but students were angry at the move because it further removed 
them from the action.[51] The Victoria Prank – On March 4, 2006, The Bench 
undertook one of the most elaborate and successful basketball pranks in 
all of NCAA history.[citation needed] Weeks before the game between the 
University of Southern California and the University of California, Berkeley, 
began, a number of members of The Bench and the UC Rally Committee began 
instant message conversations with USC's star Gabe Pruitt.[52] The Cal 
students posed as a UCLA coed named "Victoria" and convinced Pruitt to 
send pictures, phone numbers, and make a date after the game. During the 
game, The Bench began chanting "VIC-TOR-IA, VIC-TOR-IA" and completely 
destroyed Gabe Pruitt's game.[49] He ended up shooting a dismal 3 for 13 
from the field.[53] The Bench has become infamous for its "(Un)official 
Guide to Heckling," which is a student produced profile of the opposing 
team. The Guide highlights interests, facts, or other things that can easily 
be used to heckle the opposing team. California shares a traditional sports 
and academic rivalry with nearby Stanford University. Both schools operate 
in the San Francisco Bay Area with the University of California in the 
East Bay and Stanford in Santa Clara County. While the schools have a rich 
athletic rivalry with the football programs meeting 114 times, they also 
share an academic rivalry: the University of California, Berkeley, is commonly 
considered the best public university nationally while Stanford University 
is thought of as being one of the best private universities in the country. 
Athletic events between the two schools are usually signified by being 
the "Big whatever", examples include: the Big Game (football), Big Tip 
Off (basketball), Big Spike (Volleyball), Big Splash (Water Polo), Big 
Meet (Track & Field), Big Freeze (Club Ice Hockey), et cetera. Women's 
basketball does not follow the normal naming template for games between 
the two schools and is simply known as "The Battle of the Bay." The annual 
football game features both teams vying for the Stanford Axe. The Stanford 
Axe is a trophy awarded to the winner of the annual Big Game, a college 
football match-up between the University of California Golden Bears and 
the Stanford University Cardinal. The trophy consists of an axe-head mounted 
on a large wooden plaque, along with the scores of past Big Games. Stanford 
is currently in possession of the Axe after beating Cal 31–28 on November 
19, 2011 at Stanford Stadium in Palo Alto, California. California was last 
in possession of the Axe from November 22, 2008 to November 20, 2010 after 
winning the 2008 and 2009 Big Games in Berkeley and Palo Alto respectively. 
The World Cup is awarded to the winner of the annual rugby union series 
between the University of California Golden Bears and the University of 
British Columbia Thunderbirds. In rugby, California's traditional rival 
is British Columbia, not Stanford, which led to the creation of the World 
Cup. California was the 2013 World Cup winner, defeating UBC 28–18 in Berkeley 
on February 16, 2013 and 38–6 in Vancouver on March 24, 2013.[54][55] Although 
California's main rival in rugby is British Columbia, the rivalry between 
California and Stanford in rugby has been going on for more than a century. 
The trophy awarded to the winner of the California-Stanford rugby match 
is known as the "Scrum Axe", which is a play on the "Stanford Axe", the 
trophy awarded to whichever school wins the annual rugby contest. California 
retained its hold on the Scrum Axe on January 26, 2013, in Berkeley, winning 
their 17th straight meeting over the Cardinal 176–0.[56] Throughout the 
years, the University of California has been well represented in the Summer 
Olympic games with Cal athletes winning 90 gold medals, 40 silver medals, 
and 28 bronze medals. Despite the fact that the university sponsors no 
sports that compete in the Winter Olympics, California does have 1 gold 
medalist from the 1928 Winter Games. At the 2016 Summer Olympics, California's 
at the time enrolled students won at total of 18 medals, including 9 gold 
