Calvin Drew Schiraldi (born June 16, 1962) is a former Major League Baseball 
pitcher. He is best remembered as the losing pitcher of Game 6 and Game 
7 of the 1986 World Series. Schiraldi was born in Houston, Texas and attended 
Westlake High School in Austin, Texas. He was drafted after high school 
by the Chicago White Sox in the 17th round of the 1980 Major League Baseball 
draft, but chose instead to attend the University of Texas. Schiraldi, 
along with future Boston Red Sox teammate Roger Clemens, pitched the 1983 
Texas Longhorns baseball team to a 1983 College World Series championship. 
Schiraldi was named the College World Series Most Outstanding Player and 
to the All-Tournament Team. Following his performance in the College World 
Series, Schiraldi was selected by the New York Mets in the first round 
(27th pick) of the 1983 Major League Baseball draft. After going 17–4 with 
a 2.59 earned run average for the Jackson Mets and Tidewater Tides in 1984, 
Schiraldi received a September call-up to the Mets. He made his major league 
debut on September 1, starting the second game of a double header against 
the San Diego Padres, and gave up five runs (four earned) in 3.1 innings.[1] 
Schiraldi did not figure in the decision in that game. He made two more 
starts for the Mets that year, losing both. Schiraldi split 1985 between 
the Mets and Tidewater, earning his first major league win on April 22 
against the St. Louis Cardinals.[2] Following the season, Schiraldi was 
traded to the Red Sox along with John Christensen, Wes Gardner and La Schelle 
Tarver for Bob Ojeda, Tom McCarthy, John Mitchell and Chris Bayer. With 
the International League's Pawtucket Red Sox, Schiraldi was converted to 
a reliever. He made his debut with the big league club on July 20, 1986. 
With no outs, runners on first and third, and the Red Sox already down 
6-3 to the Seattle Mariners in the Kingdome, Schiraldi replaced Jeff Sellers 
in the sixth inning. He allowed both inherited base runners to score, and 
gave up an earned run of his own in the sixth, however, pitched a perfect 
seventh.[3] He pitched again the next day, striking out four in 2 2⁄3 innings 
without giving up a run.[4] He earned manager John McNamara's trust with 
similarly impressive performances on July 26 and August 1, and on August 
3, with the Red Sox leading the Kansas City Royals, 5–3, Schiraldi entered 
in the ninth inning with runners on first and second and no outs. He struck 
out the first two batters he faced and retired the third for his first 
career save.[5] Whereas closing duties had been split between Bob Stanley 
and Joe Sambito up to that point, Schiraldi emerged as the Bosox's closer 
for the remainder of the season. He ended the season with a 4–2 record, 
nine saves, a 1.41 ERA and 55 strikeouts in 51 innings. Schiraldi appeared 
in four of the seven games of the 1986 American League Championship Series 
against the California Angels.[6] Although he took the loss in game four, 
he pitched respectably in the series, striking out five in the final two 
innings of game seven. After saving game one of the World Series, Schiraldi 
entered game six in the bottom of the eighth after Roger Clemens was lifted 
for a pinch hitter. The Red Sox were ahead, 3–2, but he gave up a game-tying 
sacrifice fly to Mets catcher Gary Carter. Schiraldi allowed the first 
two batters to reach base in the ninth but retired the next three. The 
Sox gave him a two-run lead when he took the mound in the tenth, three 
outs away from what would have been their first World Series title since 
1918. Schiraldi retired the first two batters but allowed three straight 
singles to Carter, Kevin Mitchell and Ray Knight. Knight's hit knocked 
in Carter to cut the Red Sox lead to 1 run. Schiraldi was replaced by Bob 
Stanley who threw a wild pitch, which allowed Mitchell to score the tying 
run. Mookie Wilson followed by hitting a ground ball that rolled between 
the legs of Bill Buckner, scoring Knight and giving the Mets an improbable 
victory.[7] With the score tied, 3–3, in the seventh inning of game seven, 
Schiraldi gave up a leadoff home run to Knight, the series MVP. He gave 
up two more earned runs in just one-third of an inning to take the loss 
in the series clincher. His ERA for the World Series was 13.50. In 1987, 
Wes Gardner, who also came over from the Mets in the Ojeda trade, emerged 
as the primary closer for the Red Sox, though Schiraldi did have six saves. 
Following the season, he and Al Nipper were traded to the Chicago Cubs 
for Lee Smith. With the Cubs, Schiraldi was converted back into a starter, 
and went 9-13 with a 4.38 ERA in 1988. The Cubs shifted him back to the 
bullpen in 1989 before sending him to the San Diego Padres just before 
the August 30 traded deadline, with Darrin Jackson and a player to be named 
later for Luis Salazar and Marvell Wynne. Schiraldi made four starts with 
the Padres in 1989, going 3–1 with a 2.53 ERA. Though he did make eight 
starts with the Padres in 1990, he found himself in the bullpen for most 
of the season. Schiraldi went 3–8 with one save and a 4.41 ERA in 1990. 
The Padres released him during Spring training the following season. He 
hit two home runs during his stint with the Padres. Schiraldi caught on 
with the Houston Astros following his release from the Padres. He was assigned 
to their triple A Pacific Coast League affiliate, the Tucson Toros, with 
whom he went 3–2 with a 4.47 ERA before being dealt to the Texas Rangers. 
He made three appearances with the Rangers in 1991, spending most of the 
season with their American Association affiliate, the Oklahoma City 89ers. 
Calvin Schiraldi is the head coach of the baseball team at St. Michael's 
Catholic Academy in Austin, Texas, and coaches the 17U Texas Fire travel 
team. He is married to Debbie Murphy Schiraldi, whom he met in 1984 in 
Jackson, Mississippi, while pitching for the Jackson Mets, a Texas League 
Class AA affiliate of the New York Mets. That year Schiraldi went 14-3 
for the championship squad. Calvin and Debbie Schiraldi have two children, 
Samantha and Lukas. Calvin's son Lukas is a professional baseball pitcher 
for the Bakersfield Blaze in the Seattle Mariners minor league system.[8] 
Lukas played four years of baseball under coach and father Calvin at St. 
Michael's Academy, seeing time at catcher, first base, third base and pitcher; 
was named to the All-State team as a pitcher his senior season; and also 
played football and basketball.[9] As had his father had before him, Lukas 
pitched baseball in 2014 for the University of Texas Longhorns, going 9-4 
