Cameron Hubert Bonifay (born 1952, St. Petersburg, Florida) is a former 
major league baseball executive and scout, best known as general manager 
of the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1993 to 2001. Bonifay's father was a minor 
league general manager for several teams in the farm systems of the Detroit 
Tigers and Cincinnati Reds. His own career in sports began as a football 
placekicker and third baseman at Georgia Tech in the early 1970s. While 
at Georgia Tech, Bonifay set and tied many records in football as well 
as baseball as well as being named an All-American Honorable Mention in 
baseball. Bonifay was not drafted but signed on as an undrafted free agent 
with the St. Louis Cardinals and played two years of Minor League Baseball. 
Bonifay stopped playing after he was plagued with knee problems. Bonifay 
went back to Georgia Tech and became an assistant coach under Jim Morris 
beginning in 1985. In 1989, Bonifay was inducted into the Georgia Tech 
Sports Hall of Fame for his achievements in baseball. Bonifay is still 
the youngest person ever inducted into the Georgia Tech Sports Hall of 
Fame. In late 1987, Bonifay became a scout with the Cincinnati Reds starting 
his stint working in several major league baseball front offices. In 1993, 
he became general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates and in 1997, he was 
named general manager of the year. Bonifay is most remembered by Pirates 
fans for giving out large contracts to washed up players. Perhaps his most 
infamous moment came in 2000, when he signed catcher Jason Kendall to a 
6-year $60 million contract, a move that would have severe financial ramifications 
on the Pirates in later years. [1] Bonifay was also heavily criticized 
for the two-year, $10-million contract given to Derek "Operation Shutdown" 
Bell in 2001.[1] Bonifay was responsible for a few good trades such as 
trading Ricardo Rincon for Brian Giles before the 1999 season. During his 
tenure as GM with the Pirates, Bonifay never compiled a winning season, 
however in 1997 the team remained competitive until the final week of the 
season and finished in 2nd place with a 79–83 record on just a $9 million 
payroll. At the beginning of the 1997 season, most analysts picked the 
Pirates to finish last with over 100 losses. After he was fired in 2001 
by Pirates owner Kevin McClatchy, Bonifay signed with the Tampa Bay Devil 
Rays as their director of player development and scouting. He was released 
from that position in the offseason of 2005 when the Rays were sold into 
new ownership. Bonifay signed on with the St. Louis Cardinals as a pro 
scout for two years starting in the 2007 season. Now, Bonifay works for 
the Cincinnati Reds as a special assistant to the general manager. His 
sons Johnathan and Josh both played baseball in college. Johnathan played 
for Wake Forest and Josh played for UNC Wilmington. Josh played seven years 
in Minor League Baseball for the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Houston Astros. 
Josh is now a hitting coach for the Pittsburgh Pirates minor league system. 
