Camagüey (Spanish pronunciation: [kamaˈɣwej]) is a city and municipality 
in central Cuba and is the nation's third largest city with more than 321,000 
inhabitants. It is the capital of the Camagüey Province. After almost continuous 
attacks from pirates the original city (founded as Santa María del Puerto 
del Príncipe around 1515 on the northern coast) was moved inland in 1528. 
The new city was built with a confusing lay-out of winding alleys. There 
are many blind alleys and forked streets that lead to squares of different 
sizes. One explanation is that this was done by design, to make the city 
easier to defend from any raiders; by the same version, the reason that 
there is only one exit from the city was that should pirates ever return 
and succeed in entering the city, it would be possible for local inhabitants 
to entrap and kill them. However, locals dispute this reasoning as a myth, 
asserting that in truth the city developed without planning, and that winding 
streets developed out of everybody wanting to stay close to their local 
church (the city has 15 of them). Located on a plain in the middle of its 
province, the municipality borders with Vertientes, Florida, Esmeralda, 
Sierra de Cubitas, Minas, Sibanicú and Jimaguayú. The symbol of the city 
of Camagüey is the clay pot or tinajón, used to capture rain water to be 
used later, keeping it fresh. Clay pots are everywhere, some as small as 
a hand, some large enough for two people to stand up in, either as monuments 
or for real use. Local legend has it that if you drink water from a girl's 
personal tinajón, you will fall in love with the girl and never leave her. 
The main secondary education institutions are the University of Camagüey 
and the Instituto Pedagógico de Camagüey. In July 2008, the old town was 
designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 2004, the municipality of Camagüey 
had a population of 324,921.[2] With a total area of 1,106 km2 (427 sq mi),[1] 
it has a population density of 293.8/km2 (761/sq mi). The old city layout 
resembles a real maze, with narrow, short streets always turning in a direction 
or another. After Henry Morgan burned the city in the 17th century, it 
was designed like a maze so attackers would find it hard to move around 
inside the city. Camagüey has its own international airport, Ignacio Agramonte 
International Airport. Most tourists going to or leaving the Beach of Santa 
Lucía do so through the airport. Although it is not the only high school 
in the City, the Pre-Universitario, sometimes referred to as "Vocational 
School" but formally known as "Instituto Pre-Universitario Vocacional de 
Ciencias Exactas" (IPVCE) Máximo Gómez Báez es:Instituto Preuniversitario 
Vocacional de Ciencias Exactas - or, in English, Vocational Pre-University 
Institute of Exact Sciences Máximo Gómez Báez- is the largest of its kind 
in the province of Camagüey. The size of the institution qualifies it as 
a "learning city". This center is homologous to others existing in the 
rest of the country's provinces. Students usually form close bonds and 
lasting friendships while at the institution, but family bonds sometimes 
suffer and "traditional" moral attitudes tend to shift as teenagers spend 
weeks away from their family. To be admitted into the IPVCE, students must 
take an entrance exam after completing the preparation of the Basic Secondary 
Education (7th to 9th grade). During the following 3 years they receive 
intensive preparation in order to gain acceptance to College. In Camagüey 
City, there are other high schools, as well as schools for athletes (ESPA, 
and EIDE), for artists ( The School of Art ), and the Military High School 
"Camilo Cienfuegos" ( also known as "Camilitos", in honor of Camilo Cienfuegos, 
hero of the Cuban Revolution ). The University of Camagüey, is located 
in the city, with engineering and basic and humanitarian sciences programs. 
There are separate university colleges for Medical education (Carlos J 
Finlay University of Medical Science) and Pedagogical Science. According 
to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Camagüey has a tropical savanna 
climate, abbreviated "Aw" on climate maps.[3] Camagüey counts an important 
railway station on the main Havana-Santiago line with connections to minor 
lines. The station lies in the central "Avenida Van Horne", at the corner 
with "Avenida Finlay". The city is crossed by the Carretera Central highway 
and counts a beltway. The A1 motorway, that will link Havana to Guantánamo, 
and partly built, is in project phase in the city area. The "Ignacio Agramonte 
International Airport" is located in the north-eastern suburb. The local 
baseball club is Camagüey, nicknamed Alfareros, and its home ground is 
the Cándido González Stadium. The association football club is the FC Camagüey 
and its home ground is the Patricio Lumumba Stadium. Camagüey is the birthplace 
of Ignacio Agramonte (1841), an important figure of the Ten Years' War 
against Spain in 1868–1878. Agramonte drafted the first Cuban Constitution 
in 1869, and later, as a Major General, formed the fearsome Camagüey cavalry 
corps that had the Spaniards on the run. He died in combat on May 11, 1873; 
his body was burned in the city because the Spanish feared the rebels would 
attack the city to recover his body. The outline of Ignacio Agramonte's 
horseback statue in the Park that bears his name is a symbol of Camagüey. 
It was set there in 1911, uncovered by his widow, Amalia Simoni. Artists 
include José Iraola, a contemporary painter who was born in Camagüey, on 
September 19, 1961, and sculptor Roberto Estopiñán, born in Camagüey, in 
1921. The city is the birthplace of Major League Baseball Hall of Fame 
member Atanasio Perez Rigal (Tony Pérez), who won two World Series titles 
with the Cincinnati Reds and was the 1967 All Star Game MVP. The city is 
also the birthplace of the Cuban national poet Nicolás Guillén; also of 
Carlos J. Finlay, an outstanding physician and scientist, who first identified 
the Aedes aegyptis mosquito as the vector of the Yellow Fever. Camagüey 
is also the hometown of volleyball player Mireya Luis, Gertrudis Gomez 
de Avellanada (poet), Silvestre de Balboa (1563–1649, writer), Salvador 
Cisneros Betancourt, Marqués de Santa Lucia (Cuban patriot, signatory of 
the Guaimaro Constitution of 1869 and President of the Cuban Republic in 
Arms). Father José Olallo Valdés worked there, and was beatified in the 
city on November 29, 2008. Olympic champion amateur boxer at 75 kg in Sydney 
2000 was Jorge Gutiérrez Espinosa, born 18 September 1975 in Camagüey. 
Birthplace of the Cuban writer, Severo Sarduy—a member of the European 
intellectual community that consolidated in the 1960s behind the journal 
of critical thought, Tel Quel. Sarduy, censored in Cuba throughout the 
20th century, lived in Paris as an exile from 1960 until his death in 1993. 
He holds the position within literary history of having reformulated the 
transatlantic reconfigurations of the Hispanic Baroque aesthetic under 
