Cambridge (2011 population 126,748) is a city located in Southern Ontario 
at the confluence of the Grand and Speed rivers in the Regional Municipality 
of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. It is an amalgamation of the City of Galt, 
the towns of Preston and Hespeler, and the hamlet of Blair.[2] Galt covers 
the largest portion of Cambridge, making up the southern half of the city. 
Preston and Blair are located on the western side of the city, while Hespeler 
is in the most northeasterly section of Cambridge. Cambridge began as a 
composite city in 1973, when the City of Galt, Towns of Preston and Hespeler, 
and the hamlet of Blair were amalgamated. There was considerable resistance 
among the local population to this "shotgun marriage" arranged by the provincial 
government and a healthy sense of rivalry had always governed relations 
among the three communities. Even today, though many residents will tell 
the outside world that they call Cambridge home, they will often identify 
themselves to each other as citizens of Galt or Preston or Hespeler. Each 
unique centre has its own history that is well documented in the Cambridge 
City Archives.[3] The first mayor of Cambridge was Claudette Millar, who 
at the time was one of the few female mayors and, at 35, the youngest mayor 
in Canada. As Cambridge has developed and the open spaces between the original 
municipalities have been filled in, a fourth commercial core, entirely 
modern in its construction, has emerged. The Macdonald-Cartier Freeway 
Highway 401 runs through its midst.[4] On May 17, 1974, flooding on the 
Grand River was so intense it filled city streets with water to a depth 
of about four feet. Hundreds of businesses and homes were severely damaged. 
In 1784 the British Crown granted to the Six Nations Indians, in perpetuity, 
all the land along the Grand River six miles (10 km) deep on each side 
of the river from its source to Lake Erie. The First Nations, led by Joseph 
Brant, had the land surveyed in 1791 and divided into Indian Reserve lands 
as well as large tracts which they intended to sell to land developers. 
One such developer was the Honourable William Dickson who, in 1816, came 
into sole possession of 90,000 acres (360 km2) of land along the Grand 
River that was later to make up North and South Dumfries Townships. Mr. 
Dickson decided that a new name was needed for the Post Office and consequently 
the settlement. He chose Galt in honour of the Scottish novelist and Commissioner 
of the Canada Company, John Galt. The settlers resisted the introduction 
of the new name preferring the more familiar Shade's Mills. However, after 
Mr. Galt visited Mr. Dickson in the settlement in 1827 the name Galt received 
more widespread acceptance. In its early days Galt was an agricultural 
community serving the needs of the farmers in the surrounding countryside. 
By the late 1830s, however, the settlement began to develop an industrial 
capacity and reputation for quality products. Galt was the largest town 
in the area until the beginning of the 20th century when it was overtaken 
by Kitchener. The town continued its steady if unspectacular growth and 
reveled in its reputation as an industrial town whose products reached 
all over the globe.[5] The story of Preston, Ontario begins in the early 
1800s with the arrival of a group of German-speaking Mennonites from Pennsylvania. 
The land upon which they settled was acquired from the Six Nations Indians 
through a land speculator named Richard Beasley. Among the first settlers 
to arrive in what was later to become Preston was John Erb who acquired 
7,500 acres (30 km2) including land at the confluence of the Grand and 
Speed Rivers. Mr. Erb and his wife settled on his Speed River lands in 
1805 and built a sawmill on the banks of the river in 1806. A gristmill 
followed in 1807. The sawmill has long since disappeared but the gristmill 
was the beginning of a flour milling business that has operated continuously 
on that spot to the present day. The site is recognized as the oldest continuously 
operating industrial site in the region. It was around Mr. Erb's mills, 
known locally as Cambridge Mills, that the settlement that grew into Preston 
began and began to attract a significant number of tradesmen, artisans 
and craftsmen primarily young German immigrants who had recently arrived 
in North America. By the middle of the nineteenth century European travellers 
were being joined in increasing numbers by people who were attracted to 
the town's mineral springs which were thought to possess remarkable curative 
powers in the treatment of a variety of ailments and discovered accidentally. 
The water, with its high sulphur content, was well named "stinky water" 
and was initially thought to be worthless. It was not long, however, before 
some enterprising businessmen and medical practitioners let it be known 
that the mineral springs, while not heated like that of some European health 
spas, could offer relief if not an outright cure for a number of ailments 
including arthritis and rheumatism. While the town became an important 
destination for those seeking to renew their sometimes fragile health, 
the well-being of the town itself was in question. It was not until 1900 
that the population broke through the 2,000 barrier. Part of the reason 
for this turnaround can be traced to the coming of the electric railway 
systems that began to serve the community in 1894. The idea of an electric 
railway to connect Preston with Galt, its larger neighbour to the southeast, 
was first proposed in 1890. At first, Preston's town council was not eager 
to get the town involved in a potentially hazardous railway scheme and 
it was not until 1893 that Preston council decided to enter negotiations. 
In many ways, the building of the electric railway marked Preston's emergence 
from its well earned identity as a "sleepy German town" where very little 
happened to a much more energetic presence in the region. A steady growth 
followed and the decades of the 1950s and the 1960s saw the continuing 
growth of Preston's industrial base and the gradual expansion of the town 
toward the borders of its nearest neighbours Galt and Hespeler.[6] The 
area that eventually came to be occupied by the town of Hespeler was originally 
part of the land granted to the Six Nations Indians by the British Crown 
in 1784. The Indians led by Joseph Brant decided to sell a part of their 
grant and had the land surveyed. In 1798 a block of land, known as Block 
2 and measuring over 90,000 acres (360 km2) was sold to Richard Beasley 
and his partners who looked to resell the land in small parcels. This land 
came to the attention of a group of Mennonites in Pennsylvania who were 
looking for land on which to settle. The first of the Pennsylvanian Mennonites 
to own land in the Hespeler area was Abraham Clemens who arrived in 1809 
having purchased 515 acres (2.1 km2) from Mr. Beasley. The following year 
Cornelius Pannabecker, said to be Hespeler's first blacksmith, arrived 
and sometime thereafter built a forge on his farm in the Beaverdale area. 
The settlement's first name, Bergeytown, commemorates the arrival of the 
first inhabitants, Susanna Bergey and her husband Michael around 1830. 
This name did not last long, however, and by the mid-1830s the settlement 
was known as New Hope. It was to the settlement of New Hope that Jacob 
Hespeler, for whom the town was later renamed, brought many of his hopes 
and ambitions in 1845. That year Mr. Hespeler purchased a total of 145 
acres (0.59 km2) fronting on the Speed River. He then proceeded to build 
an industrial complex that would provide the footings for the settlement's 
later industrial strength. Over the following years the community continued 
its slow but steady growth and in January 1901, Hespeler attained a new 
status when it was incorporated as a town. The town's industrial strength 
continued throughout the 20th century and successfully attracted new businesses 
after World War II even though the population remained small reaching the 
6,000 level only in the late 1960s.[7] The settlement of the area around 
what was to become Blair began in 1800 with the arrival of Samuel D. Betzner, 
one of a group of German-speaking Mennonites who originated in Pennsylvania. 
Although he was the first settler in Blair and Cambridge, Samuel D. Betzner 
had little influence on the development of the community. The land they 
settled on had recently been acquired from the Six Nations Indians through 
a land speculator named Richard Beasley. It was the Bowman and Bechtel 
families who are credited with initiating the development of the village 
of Blair. In about 1876 the Sheaves Tower, sometimes known as the Power 
Tower, was built by Allan Bowman to provide extra power for the flour-mill. 
The tower was erected on Bowman Creek and was located two hundred and forty 
feet from the mill. The Sheaves Tower is particularly significant because 
it represents a unique method of the mechanical transfer of power and may 
be the only early example of this technology still extant. The name chosen 
was Blair around 1858, selected in honour of Adam Johnston Fergusson-Blair, 
the first judge of Wellington District and a colonel in the local militia. 
He won election to the Upper Canada legislature in 1850 and won re-election 
by acclamation in both 1854 and 1857. The village of Blair had a number 
of other names in its early history. One was Durham or Durhamville, derived 
from the Durham Flour Mill built by Henry Bechtel in the early 1830s. Another 
name was Lamb's Bridge, which was used for a short time in the early 1850s 
in recognition of John Lamb's Tavern and store, located at the village 
end of the bridge that spanned the Grand River. The first recorded name 
for the settlement was Shinglebridge, from the shingle-roofed covered bridge 
that crossed the Grand River at the settlement as early as 1835.[8] Cambridge 
City Council consists of a mayor and eight councillors, each representing 
a ward. City councillors by ward: The City of Cambridge also has seats 
on Region of Waterloo council. Cambridge is represented by 3 members: Cambridge 
is represented in Ottawa by Bryan May (Liberal), who defeated the previous 
incumbent MP (Gary Goodyear, Conservative – 2004 to 2015) in the October 
2015 election. The MPP for Cambridge is Kathryn McGarry (Ontario Liberal 
Party), who was first elected to this position in 2014. The city is responsible 
for Community Services, Economic Development, Transportation & Public Works, 
Corporate Services, Fire Department and Planning Services. Many municipal 
services are provided through the Regional Municipality of Waterloo (often 
referred to as Waterloo Region or the Region of Waterloo), which consists 
of the cities of Cambridge, Kitchener, and Waterloo, and the townships 
of Woolwich, Wilmot, Wellesley, and North Dumfries. Region of Waterloo 
responsibilities include Social Services, Community Health Services, Grand 
River Transit and Community Policing through Waterloo Regional Police Service. 
The climate in Cambridge is typical of southwestern Ontario, and has a 
humid continental climate under the Köppen climate classification (Köppen 
Dfb) with mostly moderate winters but the occasional deep freeze. In summer, 
the temperatures tend to be in the high twenties on the Celsius scale, 
and like most of southern Ontario, there can be stretches of high humidity 
creating some discomfort. On most days, Cambridge tends to be slightly 
warmer than Kitchener and Guelph, just to the north.[citation needed] The 
last frost date of the season is around May 11,[9] though most gardeners 
plant on the May 24 long weekend to be safe. Environment Canada issues 
frost warnings for the area from October 30 through to May 9.[10][11] In 
1988, Toyota Motor Manufacturing Canada opened a plant in Cambridge, which 
employs approximately 4,500 people and is the city's largest employer. 
Several other industrial companies also have locations in Cambridge, including 
Rimowa, Gerdau, ATS Automation Tooling Systems, Loblaw Companies Limited, 
Frito-Lay Canada (formerly Hostess), Babcock & Wilcox, Rockwell Automation 
and COM DEV International in addition to service companies such as Coronation 
Dental Specialty Group.[13] Public English-language schooling is provided 
by the Waterloo Region District School Board, which operates 26 elementary 
and five secondary schools in Cambridge. High schools in the city include 
the 150-year-old Galt Collegiate Institute and Vocational School; Southwood 
Secondary School; Glenview Park Secondary School; Preston High School; 
Monsignor Doyle Catholic Secondary School, St. Benedict Catholic Secondary 
School and Jacob Hespeler Secondary School. Publicly funded Catholic education 
is available through schools operated by the Waterloo Catholic District 
School Board. The WCDSB runs 15 elementary and two secondary schools in 
the city. Cambridge is also home to École secondaire Père-René-de-Galinée, 
the only French Catholic High School in the region. The University of Waterloo 
School of Architecture campus is located in Cambridge in the Riverside 
Silk Mill, also known as the Tiger Brand Building. Inside there is a theatre, 
a fitness room, and the gallery "Design at Riverside", which is one of 
two publicly funded galleries dedicated to architecture in Canada. The 
School of Architecture is home to 380 students who live, study, and learn 
within the Cambridge community. As of 2009, Conestoga College Institute 
of Technology and Advanced Learning set up a new School of Engineering 
Technology specializing in advanced technology programs related to: Robotics, 
Process Automation, Electronics, Communications, Engineering, and Information 
Technology. With over 200,000 square feet (19,000 m2) of applied learning 
and research space.[14] Cambridge is home to many cultural events and activities, 
including the Mill Race Festival and the Rock the Mill music festivals 
in downtown Galt. Cambridge also has the Cambridge Highland Games in Churchill 
Park in July. There's also Cambridge Butterfly Conservatory the annual 
dragon boat festival, the Cambridge fall fair which has been entertaining 
locals and visitors alike for over 100 years. The Cambridge Santa Claus 
Parade is one of the first city parades in Ontario to go to the night-time 
format. There is also the festive 'Christmas in Cambridge' winter festival 
at Christmas featuring events like Unsilent Night, which began in New York 
City by Phil Kline. The City of Cambridge's take on this event uniquely 
involves other aspects of the community such as Christie digital projection 
technology. University of Waterloo School of Architecture Cambridge students 
in Dr. Jeff Lederer’s Urban Revitalization and Design class designed the 
spectacular light installations. The Cambridge Farmers’ Market has been 
in operation in the original building on the original site circa 1830; 
making it the third oldest market in the country. The Cambridge Farmers’ 
Market is now ranked as one of the top 10 markets in the country by Best 
Health Magazine. All the vendors come from within a 100 km radius to sell 
fresh fruits, cheese, vegetables, baked goods and more. The Cambridge Centre 
of the Arts is a municipally operated community Arts Centre that is available 
to area residents, artists and organizations. The Arts Centre officially 
opened May 2001. Cambridge Galleries are a part of the Cambridge Public 
Library system with art exhibition spaces at Queen's Square, Preston and 
the new Design at Riverside location. Together, the three galleries host 
approximately 23 exhibitions per year. In June 2008, the new Cambridge 
City Hall facility opened as the first city hall in Canada to achieve the 
ranking of gold in the LEED from the Canada Green Building Council. The 
$30 million project was completed on time and on budget, and financed through 
a settlement of a loan with the city’s hydro utility. A conservative estimate 
comparing a standard 85,000-square-foot (7,900 m2) building to the new 
City Hall LEED standard building results in a $160,000 savings on energy 
per year or some $1.6 Million over 10 years. The open concept of the facility 
allows for greater air flow, reducing cooling costs and increasing the 
penetration of natural light to offset other light sources. A four-story 
"living wall" of tropical plants is located in the atrium and cleanses 
the air of pollutants such as formaldehyde, volatile organic compounds, 
dust, and spores. Behind the living wall is a running water supply that 
provides humidity during the winter months and a soothing sound for employees 
and visitors to enjoy all year round. The historic city hall in Cambridge 
was built in 1858 by local architect H.B. Sinclair for $3,650, replacing 
the original structure built in 1838. Built of granite and white limestone, 
locally-found blue granite was used as a decorative feature. The Historic 
City served as the community's town hall and market place. Today, the Historic 
City Hall and the New City Hall are connected by a hallway constructed 
shortly after the New City Hall was built. In the tradition of environmental 
stewardship, Cambridge preserves over 365 hectares of parkland which make 
up more than 80 parks in the city, as well as over 140 km of on-road cycling 
lanes. Cambridge has been characterized by rapid growth in recent years. 
According to recent Economic Development estimates, the projected population 
for 2031 is 180,000. According to the Canada 2006 Census, Cambridge is 
populated by people of a European ethnic background – 90.2%,[15] mostly 
those of English (31,400), Scottish (20,625), Irish (19,040), German (14,110), 
Portuguese (10,685) and French (10,040) origins.[16] Many Newfoundlanders 
(mostly from the Conception Bay and Bell Island area) have migrated to 
Cambridge, mostly due to the closure of the iron ore mines on Bell Island.[17] 
The city is largely Christian at 80.2%, followed by non-religious people 
who number 15%. Muslims, Hindus and other faiths make a little over 5% 
of the population. Over the last few years the numbers of Indians, Pakistanis 
and Afghans moving in from other urban areas or immigrating from their 
respective countries, has doubled and tripled. Cambridge is also much younger 
than the national average. 21.6% of the population are under 14 years of 
age. Only 11% of the population is over 65, resulting in an average age 
of 35.2, slightly lower than the national average. The Galt and Preston 
Street Railway was the first name of an interurban streetcar service, that 
commenced service in 1890.[18] The service was extended to Hespeler in 
1896. Eventually service was extended to Berlin (now Kitchener), Brantford 
and Port Dover. There are two main arterial roads that form an 'X' through 
the city. The intersecting point is colloquially referred to as the Delta. 
The Delta is adjacent to a Canadian Pacific Rail spur and the Babcock & 
Wilcox plant, and at peak rush hour times traffic will back up for miles 
radiating outwards from the Delta. A number of strategies were investigated 
to alleviate delays caused by trains and as of December 2012 construction 
of a bridge over Hespeler Road commenced, and was completed 18 months later. 
Highway 8 (Ontario) travels through the city as Shantz Hill Road, King 
Street in Preston, Coronation Boulevard, and Dundas Street, linking Cambridge 
to Kitchener and Waterloo in the west, and Hamilton in the east. Highway 
24 runs through Cambridge as Hespeler Road, Water Street, and Ainslie Street, 
connecting to Guelph in the northeast and Brantford in the south. Cambridge 
has some of the most historic bridges in Waterloo Region. The Black Bridge 
Road Bridge (1916) is Cambridge’s only truss bridge and has been designated 
a heritage site since 1997. It is still driven upon, though it is prone 
to major flooding and subsequent closure in the spring. The Main Street 
Bridge (1931) is a bowstring arch bridge made of concrete and is set over 
the Grand River. Also in Cambridge is the Park Hill Road Bridge (2002), 
formally known as the Queen Street Bridge (1933). This bridge was one of 
the three bridges credited with contributing to the development of early 
Galt. The bridge was reconstructed and widened to four lanes in 2002 retaining 
much of the original appearance. The Mill Creek Bridge (1837) in Cambridge 
is the oldest remaining bridge structure in Ontario[citation needed] and 
one of only two stone masonry arch bridges in the Region of Waterloo. In 
2007, the Region of Waterloo completed the first pedestrian/cycling bridge 
to cross the 401. This bridge connects Morningside Drive (Cambridge) with 
Doon Valley Drive (Kitchener) and is an integral part of the Grand River 
Trails. Since 2000, public transport throughout the Region of Waterloo 
has been provided by Grand River Transit, which was created by a merger 
of the former Cambridge Transit and Kitchener Transit. GRT operates a number 
of routes in Cambridge, four of which travel outside of the city: presently 
the 52, 61, 72, and 111 buses run to southern Kitchener, while the iXpress 
limited-stop express route runs from the Ainslie St. Transit Terminal through 
Kitchener to the north end of Waterloo. Intercity service is served by 
Greyhound Lines, from a terminal near Highway 401 and Hespeler Road. Commuter 
service to and from Toronto is the key routing, and no local trips are 
permitted to or from Kitchener. On October 31, 2009, Go Transit started 
service with a line from Square One shopping centre in Mississauga to the 
University of Waterloo, therefore allowing a trip to Kitchener from a terminal 
outside the Wal-Mart Power Centre. Coach Canada run almost every two hours 
during the daytime between Hamilton and Kitchener, and connecting to Niagara 
Falls. In June 2009 Regional Council voted to approve a plan to construct 
a light rail line, which has been named the Ion rapid transit.[19] The 
first phase would run from Conestoga Mall in the north of Waterloo, to 
Fairview Park Mall in the south of Kitchener. The second phase of the line 
would run from Fairview Mall to Cambridge. Cambridge mayor Doug Craig has 
been a determined opponent of the plan.[20][21] Although freight trains 
serving the Toyota factory are a common sight in Cambridge, the city at 
present has no passenger rail service. The nearest Via Rail stations in 
the Quebec City-Windsor Corridor are Kitchener station, Guelph station, 
and Brantford. The most easily accessible GO Transit railway station is 
Milton station. GO bus service between Mississauga, Cambridge, and Kitchener 
was introduced in 2009 as a forerunner to GO train service to Kitchener. 
Greyhound Lines has been reported to be a major player in the proposed 
bus links between Cambridge and the GTA. The nearest airport to Cambridge 
is the Region of Waterloo International Airport in neighboring Breslau, 
Ontario. While it is a thriving general-aviation field, the airport serves 
three destinations in Canada and one seasonal international destination. 
Cambridge has 365 ha of parkland, 99 parks, over 140 sports fields, and 
many golf courses. As well, the city has over 70 km of urban and natural 
trails, 18 km of which run along the Grand and Speed Rivers. Cambridge 
is the home of the Greater Ontario Junior Hockey League's Cambridge Winterhawks. 
The Winterhawks have been the winners of the 2006 and 2007 Sutherland Cup. 
Cambridge also was the home of the four-time Allan Cup winning Cambridge 
Hornets of the Original OHA Senior A League, the last OHA Senior A Hockey 
League, and Major League Hockey. The team folded in 2006 after a dispute 
with the Ontario Hockey Association involving the use of the phrase "get 
the puck off the ice."[citation needed] As well, the Cambridge Turbos (Girls' 
Ringette) won the 2009 Tim Hortons Canadian ringette championships held 
in April in Charlottetown, PEI. The Scorpions Youth Volleyball Club was 
formed in 2009 and has over 400 youth registered in their indoor and beach 
volleyball programs. The Scorpions have 8 competitive indoor teams. In 
September 2012 the Scorpions have the City of Cambridge 1st every boys 
competitive team (15U team) playing in the Ontario Volleyball Association. 
The club is a member of the Ontario Volleyball Association, with Learn 
to Play and House League programs for girls and boys Grades 3–12. They 
also have one of the largest youth beach volleyball programs in Ontario.[22] 
The Cambridge Aquajets are a competitive swim team that was originally 
founded in the early 1950s. The club practices at all of the City of Cambridge 
pools throughout the year. Cambridge also has had back-to-back competitive 
football championships in the "Ontario Varsity Football League". , "Southwestern 
Ontario Football Association of Leagues".  and the "Ontario Minor Football 
League". . These Football teams are either named The Cambridge Lions or 
the Cambridge Wolverines. Outstanding athletic achievement has been honoured 
in Cambridge every November at the Cambridge Sports Awards banquet since 
1974. The Galt Red Wings were a junior ice hockey team based in Galt that 
played in the Ontario Hockey Association from 1944 to 1947. They were operated 
as an affiliate of the Detroit Red Wings of the National Hockey League. 
During the 1944–45 season, the Red Wings were led by Gordie Howe. They 
reached the league finals for the J. Ross Robertson Cup in 1945, but lost 
to Toronto St. Michael's Majors in four games. Their home arena was the 
Galt Arena Gardens. The City of Cambridge has 6 public skating arenas: 
Dickson Centre, Duncan McIntosh Arena, Galt Arena Gardens, Hespeler Memorial 
Arena, Karl Homuth Arena, and Preston Auditorium; and 2 private skating 
areas: Cambridge Ice Centre and Ice Park. As well, the city has 2 public 
indoor pools (John Dolson Centre and W.G. Johnson Centre) and 3 public 
outdoor pools (Edward Newland Pool, George Hancock Pool, and Kinsmen – 
Soper Pool), in addition to the indoor pool at the Chaplin Family YMCA.[23] 
Cambridge has one lawn bowling club: the Preston Lawn Bowling Club is on 
Queenston Road in the Preston area of the city. This club is open to the 
public and caters to all age groups and are members of District 7 of the 
Ontario Lawn Bowling Association.[24] On October 24, 2008, the city completed 
the COM DEV Indoor Soccer Park. The $2.8 million project was funded by 
the City of Cambridge, COM DEV, and the Cambridge Youth Soccer Club, and 
will help accommodate the large number of kids playing soccer in the Waterloo 
Region. 14 "Hall of Fame Members | City of Cambridge, Ontario, Canada". 
http://www.cambridge.ca/cs_pubaccess/hall_of_fame.php Retrieved 2010-11-23. 
