Camilo Cienfuegos Gorriarán (Spanish: [kaˈmilo sjeɱˈfweɣoz ɣorjaˈɾan]; 
6 February 1932 – 28 October 1959) was a Cuban revolutionary born in Havana. 
Along with Fidel Castro, Che Guevara, Juan Almeida Bosque, and Raúl Castro, 
he was a member of the 1956 Granma expedition, which launched Fidel Castro's 
armed insurgency against the government of Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista. 
He became one of Castro's top guerilla commanders, known as the "Hero of 
Yaguajay" after winning a key battle of the Cuban Revolution. He was appointed 
head of Cuba's armed forces shortly after the victory of Castro's rebel 
army in 1959. He was presumed dead when a small plane he was traveling 
in disappeared during a night flight from Camagüey to Havana later that 
year. Cienfuegos is revered in Cuba as a hero of the Revolution, with monuments, 
memorials, and an annual celebration in his honor. Camilo Cienfuegos was 
born on 6 February 1932, in Havana's Lawton district. He was raised in 
a working-class family that had emigrated from Spain prior to the Spanish 
Civil War. His father, a tailor who worked a small shop in Havana, had 
left-wing political principles.[1] Artistically inclined since early youth, 
Camilo enrolled in the Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes "San Alejandro" 
in 1950, but left his studies soon after due to financial problems. During 
this period he started working as a tailor apprentice in the "El Arte" 
fashion store in downtown Havana. Around 1948 he became involved in political 
issues, taking part in popular protests against rising bus fares. In April 
1953, Cienfuegos and a friend traveled to the U.S. on 29-day visitors' 
visas in search of work. They spent several months working low-paying jobs 
in New York City, Chicago, and San Francisco until they were taken into 
custody by immigration officials and returned to Cuba via Mexico. While 
in New York Cienfuegos became involved with a Cuban political exile group 
and wrote a few articles for its newspaper, La Voz de Cuba.[2] In personality, 
writes one historian, Cienfuegos "exemplified the quintessential native, 
male, urban Cuban with his sense of humor, great interest in dancing and 
baseball, good looks, love of women, and overall joie de vivre".[1] Rufo 
López-Fresquet, who served as Minister of the Treasury for the first fourteen 
months of the revolutionary regime, described him as "a gay, happy-go-lucky, 
adventuresome sort".[3][4] In 1954 Cienfuegos became an active member of 
the underground student movement against autocratic President Fulgencio 
Batista. On 5 December 1955, the eve of the anniversary of the death of 
19th-century Cuban independence hero Antonio Maceo, Cienfuegos and other 
students were shot and wounded in Havana while returning to the university 
after placing a wreath on Maceo's monument.[5] He later described this 
as the moment in which he pledged himself to freeing Cuba from the Batista 
dictatorship. Jobless and harassed by police, he left Cuba in March 1956 
and again travelled to the US, where he worked in Miami and San Francisco 
for a few weeks before heading to Mexico, intent on joining a small Cuban 
rebel army being organized by Fidel Castro.[2] On arriving in Mexico, Cienfuegos 
befriended Castro and began training with the rebels. He was one of the 
82 revolutionaries who set sail for Cuba aboard the Granma in November 
1956. Allegedly, Cienfuegos was the last one to board the boat and was 
only allowed to join because of his slight build.[citation needed] Cienfuegos 
was not as "politically sophisticated" as the Castros or Guevara,[1] and 
has been described as "ideologically an unknown quantity".[4] He "sympathized 
with socialism",[6][page needed] but was not particularly dogmatic.[7] 
On the question of tactics, he departed from many others in the revolutionary 
movement in rejecting violence and revenge. In October 1958, when a Cuban 
Masonic organization expressed concern that someone captured by the rebels 
might be tortured and killed, he replied:[8] Your petition is unnecessary, 
because under no condition would we put ourselves at the same moral level 
as those we are fighting.... We cannot torture and assassinate prisoners 
in the manner of our opponents; we cannot as men of honor and as dignified 
Cubans use the low and undignified procedures that our opponents use against 
us. The spirit of nobility and chivalry inculcated in each one of our soldiers, 
with respect for prisoners and for the military, is the reason why more 
than seven hundred of them, after twenty-three months of struggle against 
the tyranny, find themselves today in the bosom of their families. The 
Granma arrived in Cuba on 2 December. After a three-day nightmare of swamps 
and mangroves, the rebels were surprised by Batista's forces at Alegría 
de Pío. The surviving rebels escaped in small dispersed groups and wandered 
for weeks in the Sierra Maestra mountains. Cienfuegos was one of the twelve 
who survived to rejoin Castro a month later. In 1957 he became one of the 
top leaders of the revolutionary forces, appointed to the rank of Comandante. 
In 1958, with the defeat of Operation Verano, Cienfuegos was put in command 
of one of three columns which headed west out of the mountains with the 
intention of capturing the provincial capital city of Santa Clara. Che 
Guevara was in command of another column and Jaime Vega was in command 
of the third. Vega's column was ambushed and defeated by Batista's forces. 
Cienfuegos' and Guevara's columns reached the central provinces, where 
they combined their efforts with several other groups. Cienfuegos' column 
attacked an army outpost at Yaguajay and, after a tough fight, forced the 
garrison to surrender on 30 December 1958. This earned him the nickname 
"The Hero of Yaguajay". Cienfuegos' column then advanced against Santa 
Clara in conjunction with Guevara's forces, and the other non-Castro forces 
from the Escambray front. Together, the two columns captured Santa Clara 
on 31 December. Most of the defenders surrendered without firing their 
weapons. Batista fled Cuba the next day, leaving the guerrilla fighters 
victorious.[9] At a rally on 8 January 1959, Castro interrupted his speech 
to ask Cienfuegos "¿Voy bien, Camilo?" (Am I doing all right, Camilo?) 
His response "Vas bien, Fidel" (You're doing fine, Fidel) was taken up 
by the crowd and became a slogan of the revolution.[10] For the next several 
months, Cienfuegos served as Chief of Staff of the Cuban Army, helped defeat 
several anti-Castro uprisings, and played a role in implementing the regime's 
agrarian reforms.[11] Huber Matos, military chief of Camagüey province, 
had complained to Fidel Castro that communists were being allowed to occupy 
leadership positions in the revolutionary government and the army. Finding 
Castro unwilling to discuss his concerns, on 19 October Matos sent a letter 
to Castro resigning his command. Castro replied the next day denouncing 
Matos. He sent troops to occupy key positions in Camagüey, anticipating 
incorrectly that Matos would lead a revolt, and named Cienfuegos to take 
command and to arrest Matos. Cienfuegos arrested Matos on 21 October.[12] 
On 28 October 1959, Cienfuegos' Cessna 310 ('FAR-53') disappeared over 
the Straits of Florida during a night flight, returning from Camagüey to 
Havana. An immediate search lasted several days, but the plane was not 
found. By November the search was called off and Cienfuegos was presumed 
lost. He quickly became a hero for the Cuban revolution.[13] Cienfuegos' 
disappearance remains unexplained. There is some debate in regard to Cienfuegos 
death, although most historians do not believe that there was any foul 
play by the government.[11] The suggestion that Fidel was responsible is 
refuted by Cienfuegos' exceptional loyalty to Castro and his vigorous support 
for the arrest of Matos only days earlier.[13] Che Guevara, who was close 
to Cienfuegos and named his son Camilo in his honor, dismissed the notion 
of Castro's involvement. Others offer the possibility that a Cuban air 
force fighter plane mistook Cienfuegos' plane for a hostile intruder and 
shot it down.[14] In the judgment of U.S. Ambassador Philip Bonsal, Cienfuegos 
enjoyed Havana's nightlife and he "may have had a penchant for friendships 
and associations deemed undesirable by some of his more austere revolutionary 
comrades".[4] At the time of his death, Cienfuegos had asked his wife for 
a divorce so he could marry a wealthy woman.[15] Che Guevara paid him tribute 
saying:[16] Few men have succeeded in leaving on every action such a distinctive 
personal mark. He had the natural intelligence of the people, who had chosen 
him out of thousands for a privileged position on account of the audacity 
of his blows, his tenacity, his intelligence, and unequalled devotion. 
Camilo practiced loyalty like a religion. Cuba has named a socialist award, 
the Order of Cienfuegos, after him. On 28 October school children throughout 
Cuba throw flowers into the sea or a river to honor Camilo Cienfuegos, 
repeating the spontaneous tribute of the Cubans who tossed flowers into 
the ocean when they heard his plane had been lost over the Cuba Florida 
Strait.[17] Camilo is also remembered on the 20 Cuban peso bill and the 
20 Cuban convertible peso bill. He was also pictured on the 40-cent coins, 
now discontinued. The University of Matanzas bears the name "Camilo Cienfuegos". 
There are six military high schools named "Camilo Cienfuegos", which provide 
pre-military training to students aged 11 to 17.[18] The neighborhood known 
until 1950 as Central Hershey, in the municipality of Santa Cruz del Norte, 
Havana, was renamed Central Camilo Cienfuegos.[19] A museum dedicated to 
Cienfuegos–the Monumento y MuseoCamilo Cienfuegos–was built after his death 
in Yaguajay, at the site of the barracks defended by Batista's forces during 
the 1958 battle. The museum includes a diorama of the battle, as well as 
material relating to Cienfuegos' life before, during, and after the revolution. 
A large statue of him stands in front of the museum.[20] In the 2008 film 
Che, he was "played with great verve" by Santiago Cabrera.[21] On 28 October 
2009, to note the 50th anniversary of his death, a 100-ton steel outline 
of Cienfuegos' face and the words Vas bien, Fidel was added to the side 
of the Ministry of Informatics and Communications building on the Plaza 
