The Canada national cricket team is the team that represents Canada in 
international cricket matches. The team is organised by Cricket Canada, 
which became an associate member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) 
in 1968. With the United States, Canada was one of the two participants 
in the first international cricket match, played in New York City in 1844. 
An annual Canada–U.S. fixture has continued to this day, now known as the 
Auty Cup. Canada's first international match against a team other than 
the U.S. came only in 1932, when Australia toured.[1] As with the ICC associate 
members, the team's first major international tournament was the 1979 ICC 
Trophy in England, where they qualified for the 1979 World Cup after placing 
second to Sri Lanka. After that, Canada did not make another World Cup 
until 2003, although they remained one of the leading associate teams. 
From 2006 to 2013, Canada had both One Day International (ODI) and Twenty20 
International status, making appearances at the 2007 and 2011 World Cups. 
However, since the introduction of the new World Cricket League divisional 
structure, the team has been less successful – they placed amongst the 
bottom teams at the 2014 World Cup Qualifier and the 2015 WCL Division 
Two tournaments, and were consequently relegated to the 2017 Division Three 
event. It is generally thought that cricket was introduced to Canada by 
British soldiers after the Battle of the Plains of Abraham in 1759, although 
the earliest confirmed reference to cricket is of matches played on Saint 
Helen's Island, Quebec in 1785 on what later became the site of Expo 67. 
The roots of modern Canadian cricket though come from the regions of Upper 
Canada, in particular Toronto, then known as York. During the early years 
of the nineteenth century, a schoolmaster by the name of George Anthony 
Barber encouraged the game there, and founded the Toronto Cricket Club 
in 1827. Barber instigated a game played between the Toronto Cricket Club 
and the cricket team of Upper Canada College in 1836, a game won by the 
college team.[2] This game has been played annually ever since. As already 
mentioned, Canada played its first international against the USA in 1844 
in New York at St George's Cricket Club, now the site of the New York University 
Medical Center. George Parr led an English team to Canada in 1859, which 
was the first ever international cricket tour. A product of the tour was 
a book by Fred Lillywhite entitled The English Cricketers' Trip to Canada 
and the United States, published the following year. On the tour, which 
also ventured into the USA, the team won all five official matches against 
a 22 of Lower Canada (by 8 wickets at Montreal, Quebec on 26 October – 
27 September), a 22 of the United States (by an innings and 64 runs at 
Hoboken, New Jersey on 3–5 October), a different 22 of the United States 
(by 7 wickets at Philadelphia on 10–12 October), a 22 of Lower Canada (by 
10 wickets at Hamilton, Ontario on 17–19 October) and a further 22 of the 
United States (by an innings and 68 runs at Rochester, New York on 21–25 
October). There were also some exhibition matches and two excursions to 
view the Niagara Falls. When Canada became a nation in 1867, cricket was 
so popular it was declared the national sport by John A. Macdonald, the 
first Prime Minister of Canada.[3][4] The influence of baseball from the 
United States saw a decline in the popularity of cricket, despite tours 
from English and Australian teams. The third tour by an English team in 
1872 featured none other than the famous W. G. Grace. The first Australian 
team to tour came in 1877, and they returned in 1893 beating Canada by 
an innings.[5] Three games were played against Ireland between 1888 and 
1890, Ireland winning one, with the other two drawn. A tour of North America 
by the Australians in 1913 saw two first-class games (both won by the tourists) 
against a combined Canada–USA team.[6][7] The second of these, played at 
Rosedale, Toronto, was the first first-class match played in Canada. After 
an unofficial tour in 1880, which saw the Canadian captain arrested during 
a game against Leicestershire and the tour abandoned, the first official 
tour of the United Kingdom by a Canadian team took place in 1887. The tour 
started with two matches against Ireland, against whom Canada drew one 
game and lost the other, followed by two matches against Scotland with 
the same result. The tour then ventured into the north east of England 
with a defeat against the Gentlemen of Northumberland and a draw against 
Durham. The tour then continued with various matches against county sides 
and others, with wins coming against the Gentlemen of Derbyshire and the 
Gentlemen of Warwickshire. The Canadian team finished the tour with a win/loss 
record of 2/5 with the remaining twelve games all drawn. The Marylebone 
Cricket Club visited Canada in 1951, the highlight of which was the first 
first-class game played by the Canadian national team, played in Armour 
Heights, Toronto, which was won by the visiting side. This was followed 
in 1954 by a tour to England on which Canada played eighteen games, four 
of which were given first class status, including one against Pakistan 
who were also touring England at the same time.[8] The MCC again visited 
Canada in 1959 under Dennis Silk, and played a 3-day game against a Canada 
XI in Toronto which they won by 10 wickets. They were undefeated throughout 
the tour, winning most of their matches by wide margins, but had a closely 
fought draw against the Toronto Cricket Club. This was the decade when 
"The Imperial Cricket Conference" had serious plans to grant Canada "Test 
status", However Canada themselves postponed the idea as they felt that 
the Canadian national team was not of sufficient Test standard, and that 
competing against full-members sides needed some time as they wanted to 
improve their cricket even domestically. However, things did not go as 
planned and it would be fifty years before Canada next played a first class 
cricket match. The annual series of matches between Canada and the USA 
continued, alternating between the countries. In the 1963 match in Toronto, 
Ray Nascimento scored 176, then a record for the series. Canada drew a 
game against Ireland in 1973,[9] and the following year again embarked 
on a tour of England. The tour was a much lower profile than the 1954 tour, 
with the games being against club sides, county second XIs, and minor counties. 
Canada had a 4/6 win/loss record on the tour, with a further six games 
being drawn.[10] In 1979, Canada participated in the first ICC Trophy. 
They reached the final of the competition, which qualified them for the 
1979 World Cup, where they played their first One Day Internationals. The 
World Cup was not a successful tournament for the Canadians though, and 
they failed to progress beyond the first round, losing all three games. 
Canada participated in the ICC Trophy again in 1982 and 1986. They could 
not repeat their success of 1979 though, and failed to progress beyond 
the first round on both occasions. Other internationals in the 1980s include 
a no result game against Ireland in 1981,[11] and a 3 wicket loss to Barbados.[12] 
The 1990s saw Canada progress up the international ladder, playing in three 
further ICC Trophy tournaments, their best being a seventh-place finish 
in 1997. They also began competing in West Indian domestic one-day cricket 
in 1996, and competed in the Commonwealth Games cricket tournament in 1998, 
though they did not progress beyond the first round. 2000 saw Canada host 
the first ICC Americas Championship, a tournament which they won. The following 
year they embarked on a tour to Sri Lanka, but the highlight of 2001 was 
their hosting of the ICC Trophy. They finished third in the tournament, 
which qualified them for the 2003 World Cup. It was this ICC Trophy tournament 
that first saw the emergence of John Davison, who was to become one of 
Canada's most successful players. Canada played various matches in the 
buildup to the World Cup, visiting Argentina in April 2002, finishing as 
runners up to longtime rivals the USA in the Americas Championship, swiftly 
followed by a fifth-place finish in the ICC 6 Nations Challenge in Namibia. 
The West Indian A team toured Canada later in the year, and Canada won 
the one-day series 2–1, and drew a two-day game. This was followed by Canada's 
best performance to date in West Indian domestic one-day cricket, winning 
two games in their first round group, just missing out on qualification 
for the semi finals. The World Cup itself was a tournament of contrasting 
fortunes for the Canadians. They started with their first ODI win, over 
Bangladesh. Two games later saw them dismissed for 36 against Sri Lanka, 
then the lowest score in One Day International history. The next game against 
the West Indies saw John Davison score the fastest ever World Cup century, 
although Canada lost that game, and did not progress past the first round. 
2004 started badly for Canada, with a last place finish in the Six Nations 
Challenge in the United Arab Emirates after Canada lost all their games. 
They had improved significantly by the time of the ICC Americas Championship 
in Bermuda, which they won. Also in 2004, Canada participated in the first 
ICC Intercontinental Cup, finishing as runners up to Scotland. The highlight 
of this tournament was the game against the USA in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 
when John Davison recorded the best match bowling figures since Jim Laker's 
19 wickets against Australia in 1956. In 2005, Canada again finished third 
in the ICC Trophy, which gained them official ODI status from 2006 until 
the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier, as well as qualifying them for the 2007 
World Cup. Their performance in the Intercontinental Cup that year was 
not as good as in 2004 however, as they did not make it past the first 
round. In 2006, Canada put in good performances in the four-day ICC Intercontinental 
Cup, beating Kenya by 25 runs and Bermuda by nine wickets, but their one-day 
form was a complete reversal, losing three times to Bermuda and Kenya, 
and a further loss to Zimbabwe. In August, Canada took part in the first 
Division of the Americas Championship. They beat Argentina and longtime 
rivals the USA, but lost to the Cayman Islands and eventual winners Bermuda, 
and finished third, their worst performance so far in this tournament. 
In June and July 2008, Canada hosted Bermuda for three ODIs and Intercontinental 
Cup matches against Bermuda and Scotland. In August, Canada travelled to 
Ireland for the World Twenty20 Qualification Tournament. Canada did not 
qualify for the World Twenty20, finishing 5th ahead of Bermuda. The ODIs 
and an Intercontinental Cup match were hampered by rain. In late summer 
of 2008, West Indies and Bermuda came to Canada to play in the Scotiabank 
One-Day Series against Canada. Canada defeated Bermuda, to face West Indies 
in the Final. West Indies captain Chris Gayle smashed his sixteenth ODI 
century and led his side to an easy seven-wicket victory against Canada 
in the finals of the Scotiabank ODI Series at King City. During the Scotiabank 
Series the talents of Rizwan Cheema were discovered – he would become the 
star of the first Al-Barakah T20 Canada. The tournament involved Canada, 
Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe. Canada lost both and tied one match, 
however in the tie with Zimbabwe, Canada lost by points in a bowl-out. 
Sri Lanka were eventual winners, defeating Pakistan in the Final. The tournament 
was expected to be played annually for the following four years. In late 
November 2008, Canada participated in the Americas Championship in Florida, 
USA. The United States, after years of disarray, pulled together and won 
the championship. Canada finished 3rd on Net Run Rate behind Bermuda, as 
their match was washed out by rain. In April 2009 Canada participated in 
the 2009 ICC Cricket World Cup Qualification Tournament. Assembling the 
best Canadian team in many years, Canada rolled through the opening stages 
of the event and eventually finished second in the tournament. The impressive 
display earned Canada a berth in the 2011 ICC Cricket World Cup. The ICC 
announced that the 2015 Cricket World Cup will only have 10 participating 
teams – this makes it difficult for the Associate Countries to qualify 
for the world cup. Cricket Canada expressed its unhappiness with the reduced 
world cup[13] In January 2014, Canada lost ODI & T20I status and with no 
prospect of big-stage international cricket to come until next qualifier, 
owing to a poor performance at the World Cup Qualifier in New Zealand. 
2015: ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier and ICC Americas team in the Nagico 
Super50 The big event for Canada to make a mark in the year 2015 was the 
ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier in Ireland and Scotland. Unfortunately, Canada 
failed to win a single match and finished at the bottom of Group B. In 
the first match, against Kenya in the picturesque Edinburgh, Canada put 
together 143 runs in 20 overs with the loss of 5 wickets. In response, 
Irfan Karim's 54-ball 74 led Kenya to a convincing seven-wicket win.[14] 
The second match for Canada was against the relative newcomers to the scene, 
Oman, and was played in Stirling, Scotland. This game was reduced to 13 
overs a side, down from 20 due to inclement weather. Canada's batting, 
after Oman opted to bowl first, was largely put together courtesy of a 
25-ball 52 from Nitish Kumar, who scored four fours and three sixes. In 
response, Zeeshan Maqsood's unbeaten 86, powered Oman to a seven-wicket 
win with 10 balls to spare.[15] Canada played their third match of the 
tournament at the same venue in Stirling, Scotland against United Arab 
Emirates. UAE got off to the ideal start. Aside from winning the coin-toss, 
they decided to bowl first. Canada, batting first, lost their first 2 wickets 
in the first 8 balls bowled. It was followed by a solid partnership between 
Hiral Shah and Nitish Kumar who plundered 58 runs between them. But the 
tide turned again in UAE’s favor as they picked up a heap of wickets to 
reduce Canada down to 109 for the loss of 9 wickets. But Navneet Dhaliwal 
came to the rescue with an unbeaten 39 to raise the total to 132 runs at 
the end of 20 overs. In response, UAE lost their first wicket in the third 
over but good partnerships for the second (25 runs), third (40 runs) and 
fourth (19 runs) wickets kept them on track. The match seemed level when 
the target was whittled down to 33 runs required in three overs which came 
down to 25 runs required off 12 balls. But, Shakoor and Patil brought UAE 
home in the last over after plundering Cecil Parvez for 21 runs in his 
final over.[16] Canada shifted back to Edinburgh for their fourth match 
of the tournament against hosts Scotland. Canada had lost the coin-toss 
again in this match and the home team inserted Canada into batting first. 
They got off to a quick start, racing to 24 in 2.3 overs before Alasdair 
Evans dismissed Ruvindu Gunasekara. The other bowlers too did not allow 
any meaningful partnerships to develop between any of the Canadian batsmen, 
reducing them to 87 for the loss of 8 wickets by the 16th over. A 48-run, 
ninth-wicket partnership between Navneet Dhaliwal (34*) and No. 10 Junaid 
Siddiqui, who scored 28 off 16, took them past the triple-figure mark to 
help them finish on 135 for 8. In response, Scotland started off brightly 
- at a stunning rate of 10 runs per over till the sixth over - even as 
Satsimranjit Dhindsa got rid of Calum MacLeod for a 15-ball 29. The wicket 
didn't cost Scotland much as they went about with the same momentum despite 
losing Matthew Cross to Dhindsa as well, and cruised to a comfortable win 
with 32 balls to spare.[17] Canada played their fifth and final match of 
the tournament at the same venue in Edinburgh against Netherlands. They 
lost the toss again and were inserted to bat again. This time though, the 
batting showed resilience and the team put together a total of 172 for 
the loss of 8 wickets which came on the back of a half-century from Ruvindu 
Gunasekera (51) and late blitzes from team captain Rizwan Cheema and wicket-keeper 
batsman Hamza Tariq. In response, the Netherlands batsmen, particularly 
Steven Myburgh, Wesley Barresi and Michael Swart led an attacking display 
of powerful batting to record a solid win for their team with 15 balls 
to spare. Thus, ending a dismal 2015 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier for the 
Canada national cricket team.[18] Following the dismal performance at the 
2015 ICC World Twenty20 qualifier, some positive news followed for the 
Canada national cricket team players. Twenty one players from Canada along 
with USA, Bermuda and Suriname were shortlisted to play for an ‘ICC Americas’ 
regional team to take part in West Indies' Nagico Super50 tournament in 
January 2016.[19] By the end of the process, Jeremy Gordon was the only 
Canada bowler to be included and Canadian Hamza Tariq was brought in as 
a specialist wicket keeper in the final 15 man ICC Americas squad declared 
to participate in West Indies' Nagico Super50 in January 2016.[20] International 
Match Summary – Canada[21][22] Most ODI runs for Canada[23] Most ODI wickets 
for Canada[24] ODI record versus other nations[21] Most T20I runs for Canada[25] 
