The Canadian Baseball League was an independent minor league that operated 
in 2003. The league's only Commissioner was Major League Baseball Hall 
of Famer and Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame member Ferguson Jenkins. The 
league featured former major league players such as Francisco Cabrera, 
Floyd Youmans, Rich Butler, Steve Sinclair. The CBL was based in Vancouver, 
British Columbia. The championship trophy was the Jenkins Cup, named after 
the commissioner of the league, Ferguson Jenkins. The CBL was the brainchild 
of Tony Riviera, a former major league scout, and the face of the league. 
It was backed by former Microsoft product developer Charlton Lui, and later 
by former Yahoo! president, and part owner of the San Francisco Giants, 
Jeff Mallett.[1] Canadian Baseball Hall of Famer Ferguson Jenkins was brought 
in to act as the league's Commissioner. Riviera's vision had big goals, 
and he followed suit by making big promises. Riviera stated that the CBL 
would be "AAA quality",[2] He was rumoured to have approached the Winnipeg 
Goldeyes about switching leagues, and even nominated Pete Rose for the 
Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame.[3] The big plans initially appeared to 
be possible. The league announced a national television deal with sports 
channel The Score,[4] while a crowd of 5,100 took in the league's inaugural 
game in London, Ontario.[5] However, despite early promises that the league 
could, and would, average over 2,000 fans per game, it was clear that the 
CBL was not remotely close to projections. Only two markets averaged over 
1,000 fans per game: Victoria at 1,700 and Calgary at 1,000.[6] Four teams 
averaged fewer than 300 per game: Kelowna (271), Saskatoon (256), Welland 
(181) and Trois-Rivières (163).[5] The national TV deal was cancelled after 
only six weeks after the CBL was unable to find enough sponsors to cover 
the production costs.[6] The Montreal franchise never played a game in 
Montreal due to a lack of a playing field. Their home games were played 
at Stade Amedee Roy in Sherbrooke. The CBL's swan song was the All-star 
game, held at Calgary. Unwilling to absorb any more losses, Mallett pulled 
the plug on the entire operation, suspending operations following the game. 
A crowd of over 5,700 watched the final game in CBL history end in a tie. 
Following the game, a home run derby was held that produced a combined 
total of zero home runs. Despite losing as much as $4 million on the CBL,[6] 
Mallett initially promised to bring the league back in 2004. However, the 
remaining assets of the league were quietly auctioned off on December 1, 
2003 in Vancouver and the league never returned. The eight teams that played 
in the CBL, and their record at the time the league was suspended. The 
Calgary Outlaws were declared the Jenkins Cup champions on the basis of 
