Victor Dodig, CEO and President The Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce 
(French: Banque Canadienne Impériale de Commerce), commonly referred to 
as CIBC, is one of the Big Five banks in Canada. The bank is headquartered 
at Commerce Court in Toronto, Ontario.[1] CIBC's Institution Number (or 
bank number) is 010, and its SWIFT code is CIBCCATT. The bank's two strategic 
business units, CIBC World Markets and CIBC Retail Markets, also have international 
operations in the United States, the Caribbean, Asia and Europe. Globally, 
CIBC serves more than eleven million clients, and has over 40,000 employees. 
The company ranks at number 172 on the Forbes Global 2000 listing.[2] CIBC 
was named the strongest bank in North America and the 3rd strongest bank 
in the world, by Bloomberg Markets magazine.[3] The Canadian Imperial Bank 
of Commerce, as it is known today, came into being in 1961. The bank was 
formed through the merger of the Canadian Bank of Commerce and the Imperial 
Bank of Canada. At the time, they were two of Canada's largest banks. The 
Honourable William McMaster founded the Canadian Bank of Commerce which 
opened on May 15, 1867, in Toronto as competition for the Bank of Montreal; 
by 1874 it had 24 branches. The Imperial Bank of Canada opened in Toronto 
on March 18, 1875, founded by former Commerce Vice-president Henry Stark 
Howland. By the end of 1895, the Canadian Bank of Commerce had grown to 
58 branches and the Imperial Bank of Canada to 18. The 1896 gold strike 
in the Yukon prompted the Dominion Government to ask the Canadian Bank 
of Commerce to open a branch in Dawson City. Acquisitions in the 1920s 
caused the Commerce Bank to become one of the strongest branch networks 
in Canada with over 700 local branches; and the bank opened international 
branches in Cuba, Jamaica, Barbados and Trinidad during the same period. 
Wood, Gundy & Company, the precursor of CIBC's investment banking arm, 
opened its doors on February 1, 1905. During World War I, it took a prominent 
and active role in the organization of Victory Loans. The Canadian Bank 
of Commerce opened its new head office in Toronto in 1931. An observation 
gallery on the 32nd floor attracted visitors who could get an aerial view 
of the city. In 1936, the Commerce was the first Canadian bank to establish 
a personal loans department. Following World War II, both banks opened 
new branches. Although the banks had been barred from the mortgage business 
since 1871, the Canadian government now called upon them to provide mortgage 
services. So, in 1954, Canadian banks started offering mortgages for new 
construction. In 1960, Imperial chairman Stuart Mackersy approached Neil 
McKinnon the President of the Commerce with a proposal to merge the two 
banks. This followed a decade of expansion in the Canadian economy and 
Canada's capitalization of the industrialization of its natural resources. 
They quickly reached a deal between the two banks. On June 1, 1961, the 
Canadian Bank of Commerce and the Imperial Bank of Canada merged to form 
the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce with over 1,200 branches across 
Canada. The new bank possessed the greatest resources and the most branches 
of any bank in the country. Following the merger, the new bank commissioned 
a new head office. While planning to retain Commerce Court North, the bank 
hired architect I. M. Pei to design a three-building complex. The result 
was Commerce Court consisting of a landscaped courtyard complementing the 
existing building and included the newly built 786 feet (240 m) Commerce 
Court West. When completed in 1973, the 57-storey building was the tallest 
in Canada, and the largest stainless-steel-clad building in the world. 
In 1967, both Canada and CIBC celebrated their centenaries and CIBC was 
the only chartered bank to have a branch on-site at Expo 67. Also at this 
time computerization began to change banking services and the Yonge and 
Bloor branch in Toronto was the first Canadian bank branch to update customer 
bank books via computer. This also marked the introduction of inter-branch 
banking. Before the decade was out, CIBC had introduced the first 24-hour 
cash dispenser, which would eventually become the ATM. Changes to federal 
and provincial regulations ending the separation of banks, investment dealers, 
trust companies and insurance companies came in 1987. CIBC quickly took 
advantage of this and became the first Canadian bank to operate an investment 
dealer, CIBC Securities, offering services to the public. In 1988, CIBC 
acquired a majority interest in Wood Gundy which brought a well-respected 
name and reputation in underwriting. Shortly thereafter, the corporation 
merged Wood Gundy and CIBC Securities under the name CIBC Wood Gundy which 
became CIBC Oppenheimer in 1997[5] and later, CIBC World Markets. In 1992, 
CIBC introduced automated telephone banking; in 1995 the bank launched 
its website, and shortly thereafter began offering banking services online. 
In 1998, CIBC joined with Loblaws to create President's Choice Financial 
which it launched in 28 Ottawa area stores. CIBC agreed to merge with the 
Toronto-Dominion Bank in 1998. However the Government of Canada, at the 
recommendation of then Finance Minister Paul Martin, blocked the merger 
– as well as another proposed by the Bank of Montreal with the Royal Bank 
of Canada – as not in the best interest of Canadians.[6] CIBC sold its 
corporate and purchasing credit card business to U.S. Bank Canada in October 
2006 which joined it with business charge cards it previously acquired 
from Royal Bank of Canada. In 2006, the stock ticker symbol on the New 
York Stock Exchange changed from BCM to CM to bring it in line with the 
ticker symbol on the Toronto Stock Exchange. In December 2006, CIBC acquired 
majority control of its publicly held joint venture FirstCaribbean International 
Bank for just over US$1 billion, (Bds$2 billion), when it purchased the 
43.7% stake owned by Barclays Bank.[7] CIBC rebranded the division CIBC 
FirstCaribbean International Bank in 2011.[8] On February 12, 2009, the 
Trinidad and Tobago Express reported that CIBC was pursuing discussions 
to buy CL Financial's stake in the Republic Bank of Trinidad and Tobago.[9] 
As part of a "bail out" agreement of CL Financial by the government of 
Trinidad and Tobago during the Global financial crisis of 2008–2009, the 
corporation was required to sell Republic and other assets. As of February 
2011, CL Financial had yet to agree to a sale.[10] In February, 2010 CIBC 
became the first chartered bank in Canada to launch a mobile banking iPhone 
App. It surpassed 100,000 downloads in just over one month following launch, 
with over 1 million client logins to CIBC Mobile Banking since its introduction.[11][12] 
Four months later, the bank announced it signed a deal to buy a C$2.1-billion 
credit card portfolio from Citigroup's Citibank Canada Master Card business.[13] 
Finally in October of that year, CIBC announced that it would be the first 
bank in Canada to introduce the internationally used Visa-branded debit 
card.[14] In April 2013, CIBC reached an agreement with Invesco to acquire 
Atlantic Trust, the company's based wealth management unit for US$210 million.[15] 
CIBC announced in June 2016 that it would acquire the Chicago-based commercial 
bank PrivateBancorp for US$3.8 billion.[16] In 1920, Canadian Bank of Commerce 
established its first branches in the West Indies in Bridgetown, Barbados 
and in Kingston, Jamaica. That same year it also opened branches in Port 
of Spain, Trinidad and Havana, Cuba. Its first branch in Mexico City opened 
in 1910. In 1957, the bank opened a branch in Nassau, the Bahamas, and 
in the subsequent years expanded its operations in Jamaica. Between 1963 
and 1988, the bank expanded its branch network in Barbados opened branches 
in St. Vincent, Antigua, and St Lucia. In 1988, CIBC sold 45% of its shares 
in CIBC Jamaica via a public share issue. Between 1993 and 1996, the bank 
restructured its holdings in the Caribbean, with the incorporation of CIBC 
West Indies Holdings Limited and CIBC Caribbean Limited. CIBC West Indies 
Holdings then sold 30% of its shares to the public. In 1997, CIBC issued 
5 million shares in CIBC Bahamas Limited to the public. On October 31, 
2001, Barclays and CIBC agreed to combine their Caribbean operations to 
establish FirstCaribbean International Bank. CIBC bought Barclays' stake 
in 2006 to give it control of approximately 92% of FirstCaribbean, which 
was rebranded as CIBC FirstCaribbean International Bank.[8] In 2010, CIBC 
acquired a 22.5% equity of Butterfield Bank of Bermuda.[17] Li Ka Shing, 
Hong Kong billionaire was the largest foreign shareholder in the bank for 
over two decades, but in early 2005 he sold his portion (est. C$1.2 billion) 
to establish a Canadian charity, the Li Ka Shing Foundation. CIBC was Mr. 
Li's choice for financing many of his Canadian ventures, like Husky Energy. 
Mr. Li had reportedly backed personal and commercial banking head Holger 
Kluge to succeed Al Flood as CEO of CIBC in 1999. CIBC is well known for 
its publicized battles of succession to the top position of President and 
CEO (formerly styled chairman and CEO until 2003 when the positions were 
separated). When Al Flood became CEO, one of his first acts was to fire 
his chief rival Paul Cantor. In 1999, the company saw a competition between 
Wood Gundy (now CIBC World Markets) chief John S. Hunkin and Personal/Commercial 
banking head Holger Kluge, with Kluge retiring after Hunkin became chairman. 
In February 2004, Hunkin forced his friend and heir-apparent, David Kassie, 
to resign as chairman and CEO of World Markets after several scandals in 
the US. Both men had waived their bonuses in 2002 after that year produced 
the worst results in the history of the bank. Kassie afterwards founded 
Genuity Capital and was alleged to have raided 20 key employees from World 
Markets for his new startup, causing CIBC to file suit.[19] Gerald T. McCaughey 
became Kassie's replacement heading World Markets and in February 2004, 
was promoted to President and chief operating officer, assuring his succession 
as CEO.[20] Shortly after assuming his position, McCaughey reportedly dismissed 
Jill Denham, Vice Chair of Retail Markets and a potential rival for the 
CEO post. Denham was reportedly a close ally of Hunkin and Kassie and McCaughey 
wanted to build his own senior executive team.[21] Current senior executive 
team: Current members of the board of directors:[22] As a founding partner 
of the Toronto Blue Jays baseball club, CIBC was the team's official bank 
until selling its ownership stake in 2000.[24] CIBC partnered with Air 
Canada in 1991 to offer credit cards as part of the airline's loyalty program, 
Aeroplan. In 2009, the program announced that a new agreement with Toronto-Dominion 
Bank would be effective January 1, 2014.[25] As part of its purchase of 
MasterCard from Citibank Canada in 2010, CIBC acquired the co-branded Petro-Canada 
rewards credit card and continues to jointly market the card.[13] On October 
27, 2011, CIBC announced a partnership with the PANAM Toronto 2015 Organizing 
Committee to become lead partner of the 2015 Pan American Games and 2015 
Parapan American Games[26] CIBC is an industry partner of the University 
of Waterloo Stratford Campus.[27] On October 26, 2012, rating agency Moody's 
Investors Service announced it would review the long-term ratings of CIBC 
along with other Canadian banks, because of concerns about consumer debt 
levels, housing prices, a sizable exposure to capital markets and more. 
The review resulted in a downgrade from Aa2 to Aa3 on January 28, 2013.[28] 
On December 22, 2003, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
fined CIBC US$80 million for its role in the manipulation of Enron financial 
statements. This consists of $37.5 million to repay ill-gotten gains, a 
$37.5 million penalty and $5 million in interest. The money is intended 
to be returned to Enron fraud victims pursuant to the Fair Fund provisions 
of Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.[29] The SEC also sued 
three of CIBC's executives. CIBC Executive Vice President Daniel Ferguson 
and former CIBC Executive Director Mark Wolf agreed to settle for US$563,000 
and US$60,000, respectively. Ian Schottlaender, former managing director 
in CIBC's corporate leveraged finance group in New York initially contested 
the charges[30] but on July 12, 2004 he agreed to pay US$528,750 as well 
as be barred from serving as an officer or director of a publicly traded 
company for a period of five years.[31] Under these agreements the individuals 
neither admit nor deny wrongdoing. The SEC complaint charges that "CIBC 
and the three executives with having helped Enron to mislead its investors 
through a series of complex structured finance transactions over a period 
of several years preceding Enron's bankruptcy." The agreement reached between 
the SEC and CIBC permanently enjoins CIBC from violating the antifraud, 
books and records, and internal control provisions of the federal securities 
laws.[29][30] On August 2, 2005, CIBC paid US$2.4 billion to settle a class 
action lawsuit brought by a group of pension funds and investment managers, 
including the University of California, which claims that "systematic fraud 
by Enron and its officers led to the loss of billions and the collapse 
of the company."[32] On July 25, 2005 CIBC confirmed it would pay US$125 
million to settle an investigation into its role in the 2003 Mutual-fund 
scandal. Linda Chatman Thomsen, director of the SEC's division of enforcement, 
said, "by knowingly financing customers' late trading and market timing, 
as well as providing financing in amounts far greater than the law allows, 
CIHI and World Markets boosted their customers' trading profits at the 
expense of long-term mutual fund shareholders."[33] Under the settlement, 
CIBC neither admitted nor denied the allegations.[34] On August 27, 2004, 
CIBC confirmed that it would settle a class-action lawsuit on behalf of 
CIBC Visa cardholders. The plaintiffs alleged that the conversion of foreign-currency 
transactions resulted in an undisclosed or inadequately disclosed mark-up. 
After approval by an Ontario Superior Court judge, CIBC announced October 
15, 2004, that the settlement would result in the bank paying C$13.85 million 
to its cardholders, $1 million to the United Way, $1.65 million to the 
Class Action Fund of the Law Society of Upper Canada, and $3 million in 
legal fees. The bank also announced that it has not admitted any liability 
and is settling to avoid further litigation with its cardholders.[35] On 
May 20, 2004, CIBC announced that it would refund C$24 million to some 
of its customers as a result of erroneous overdraft and mortgage charges 
which were discovered in the course of an internal review. "This is being 
done as part of CIBC's effort to correct its error and to ensure that it 
distributes to customers all of the money it received in error," the bank 
said.[36] In a similar incident, CIBC announced April 27, 2006 that it's 
refunding an additional C$27 million to about 200,000 clients who were 
overcharged for certain overdraft fees and other borrowing transactions, 
some of which date back to 1993. In cases where clients were undercharged, 
the bank decided not to seek reimbursement.[37] On April 18, 2005 the Privacy 
Commissioner of Canada expressed disappointment in the way CIBC dealt with 
incidents involving the bank misdirecting faxes containing customers' personal 
information.[38] One involved misdirecting faxes to a scrap yard operator 
in West Virginia from 2001 to 2004. The misdirected faxes contained the 
social security numbers, home addresses, phone numbers, and detailed bank 
account data of several hundred bank customers.[39] The second incident 
involved a Dorval businessman and allegedly took place from 2000 to 2004. 
In both cases, the commissioner noted that the bank did not inform the 
affected clients, whose personal information was compromised, until the 
incidents became public and an investigation was underway.[40] Within days 
of reports by CTV News and The Globe and Mail, CIBC management announced 
a directive that banned employees from using fax machines to transmit any 
documents containing confidential customer information.[41] On January 
18, 2007, CIBC Asset Management announced that the personal information 
of about 470,000 current and former clients of Talvest Mutual Funds, a 
CIBC subsidiary, had gone missing. The information may have included client 
names, addresses, signatures, dates of birth, bank account numbers, beneficiary 
information and/or Social Insurance Numbers.[42] The incident stemmed from 
the disappearance of a hard drive containing information on "the process 
used to open and administer" customer accounts as it was traveling between 
the bank's Montreal and Toronto offices.[43] The Privacy Commissioner of 
Canada stated, "Although I appreciate that the bank notified us of this 
incident and that it is working cooperatively with my Office, I am nevertheless 
deeply troubled, especially given the magnitude of this breach, which puts 
at risk the personal information of hundreds of thousands of Canadians." 
She immediately launched a privacy investigation.[44] In June 2007, Dara 
Fresco, a Toronto teller, named CIBC in a $600 million class-action lawsuit 
regarding the lack of overtime pay to its customer service staff. Fresco 
v. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce is a class action brought on behalf 
of current and former non-management, non-unionized employees of CIBC in 
Canada who are or were tellers or other front-line customer service employees 
working at CIBC retail branch office across Canada. The lawsuit alleges 
that class members are assigned heavier workloads than could be completed 
within their standard working hours. They were required or permitted to 
work overtime to meet the demands of their jobs and CIBC failed to pay 
for the overtime work in direct contravention of the Canada Labour Code 
under which they are regulated.[45] The Ontario Superior Court dismissed 
the suit June 18, 2012, stating the evidence '"provides no basis in fact 
that there is a systemic practice of unpaid overtime at CIBC."'[46] An 
employee of the Bank of Nova Scotia (Scotiabank) filed a similar suit which 
the Superior Court certified. Fresco and Scotiabank each appealed their 
adverse, and contradictory, rulings and the Ontario Court of Appeal ruled 
that both cases could proceed.[47] Both banks appealed to the Supreme Court 
of Canada which on March 21, 2013, denied their requests and allowed the 
lawsuits to proceed.[48] The cases are awaiting further action as of late 
2013. Commerce Court in Toronto CIBC Tower in Downtown Montreal CIBC on 
Sparks Street in Downtown Ottawa CIBC FirstCaribbean's regional head office, 
Warrens, St. Michael, Barbados CIBC building in Halifax 750 Lawrence, Toronto 
CIBC in Montreal Commerce Place, Hamilton Two Bloor West, Toronto Toronto 
