The Canadian national baseball team is the baseball team which represents 
Canada in international tournaments. They are currently ranked sixth in 
the world.[1] Their manager is Ernie Whitt, a former Major League Baseball 
catcher for the Toronto Blue Jays. In June 2005, Major League Baseball 
announced the formation of the World Baseball Classic (WBC), an international 
competition to be held in March 2006 for the first time. Canada was one 
of the sixteen teams invited to play in the inaugural classic. Because 
the event will be held in March, before the North American baseball season 
traditionally starts, players active in Major League Baseball or any minor 
league affiliates are eligible to play in the WBC, making the team markedly 
different from the teams which represented Canada in the 2005 World Cup 
or the 2004 Olympics. Several high-profile Canadian players declined the 
opportunity to participate, including Ryan Dempster, Shawn Hill, Danny 
Klassen, Éric Gagné and Rich Harden, who were injured. Los Angeles Dodgers' 
prospect Russell Martin was named to the team, but pulled out in favor 
of reporting to Spring training. In addition, Larry Walker, who retired 
after the 2005 season, opted not to participate, choosing instead to serve 
in a coaching capacity. Before being eliminated after the first round, 
Canada played in Pool B of the tournament with Mexico, South Africa and 
the United States. vs. South Africa Team Canada was heavily favoured to 
win their first game against South Africa, a team made up almost entirely 
by amateurs. However, South Africa put up a tough challenge to the Canadian 
team. South African starter, Carl Michaels pitched outstandingly; Canada 
could not get a run until the 5th inning, when they scored 3. However, 
the South Africans shockingly scored 4 runs of their own in the bottom 
of the 5th against Paul Quantrill. It was back and forth from then on. 
It looked like South Africa might pull off a monumental upset as they went 
into the 9th with an 8-7 lead. However, in the top of the 9th, the Canadians 
scored 4 times to win the game 11-8. vs. the United States After almost 
being upset by a surprising South African team, Canada pulled off an upset 
of its own with an 8-6 victory over the star-studded United States team. 
Scoring in each of the first five innings, the Canadians built an 8-0 lead 
using a combination of timely, patient hitting, steady pitching and clutch 
fielding. In the bottom of the fifth, the United States threatened a comeback, 
exploding for 6 runs, capped off by a Jason Varitek grand slam. The Canadian 
team held off the US the rest of the way, as neither team crossed the plate 
again in the game. Adam Stern had a strong outing, going 3 for 4, a double 
shy of the cycle, with an inside-the-park home run, as well as making several 
spectacular plays in center field to keep his team ahead. vs. Mexico After 
Canada's victory over the United States, they got shocked by the Mexican 
team in a 9-1 resounding defeat. Unfortunately for the Canadian side, this 
victory would eventually cost them the trip to the 2nd round of the tournament 
after the United States beat South Africa 17-0 and clinched the second 
place in Pool B. Canada, USA, and Mexico each finished with a 2-1 record 
in the pool, but Canada lost the tie-breaker based on runs allowed. Round 
One Canada also competed in the 2009 World Baseball Classic, hosting the 
Pool C games at Rogers Centre in Toronto. The Canadians lost a close game 
against the United States by a 6-5 score in the Pool C opener. Canada was 
eliminated from the tournament after losing 6-2 to underdog Italy. Canada 
exited the WBC with an 0-2 record and 6.35 runs allowed per 9 innings, 
to secure thirteenth place overall. Canada won a qualifying tournament 
in Armin-Wolf-Arena in Regensburg, Germany, in September 2012, that also 
featured the Czech Republic, Germany and Great Britain. Canada moved on 
to the 1st Round.[2] The Canadian team was placed in 2013 World Baseball 
Classic – Pool D against Italy, Mexico and the United States. On March 
8, Canada lost to the Italian baseball team 14-4 after the game ended in 
the 8th inning due to the mercy rule in place after Italy scored five additional 
runs during the bottom of the 8th inning. On March 9, Canada faced off 
against Mexico. With Canada already leading the game, third baseman Luis 
Cruz motioned the pitcher Arnold Leon to bean the next batter, Rene Tosoni, 
which resulted in a bench clearing brawl. Seven players from both teams 
ejected from the game. Despite this, they clinched a 10-3 win over Mexico. 
They lost the final game against the United States 9-4, thus eliminating 
Canada from the tournament. The Canadian team missed out on advancing to 
the next round for the third time, but still managed to claim their automatic 
qualification for the 2017 World Baseball Classic. Canada has qualified 
for two Olympic Games, in 2004 and 2008. Canadian teams also competed twice 
when baseball was a demonstration sport, in 1984 and 1988. In the 1984 
Summer Olympics, the team finished third in their pool, the equivalent 
of a tie for fifth overall. In the 1988 Summer Olympics, the team finished 
seventh. In the 2004 Summer Olympics, the team finished fourth. Canada 
qualified for the 2008 Summer Olympics by finishing 1st place in the final 
qualifying tournament. They finished the tournament in 6th. Canada has 
competed at 9 World Cups and 8 more times in its predecessor the Amateur 
World series. Their best finish was a bronze at the 2009 World Cup and 
at the 2011 World Cup. At the 2011 Pan American Games, Canada beat the 
USA 2-1 to win Canada's first ever baseball gold medal. Canada won their 
second consecutive gold medal at the 2015 Pan American Games, defeating 
