The Canadian American Association of Professional Baseball, commonly known 
as the Can-Am League, is a professional, independent baseball league with 
teams in the Northeast United States and Eastern Canada, founded in 2005 
as a reorganization of its predecessor, the Northeast League. The Can-Am 
League operates in cities not directly served by Major or Minor League 
teams and is not affiliated with either. The league office is in Durham, 
North Carolina. The Canadian-American Association was created when the 
Northeast League was renamed in 2005. The Northeast League was formed in 
1995 and played four seasons as an independent league. At the end of the 
1998 season, the Northeast League was merged with the Northern League and 
became that league's East Division. Although the East Division did not 
play the teams that were already in the Northern League during the regular 
season, the respective divisions played each other in an all-star game 
every summer and in a league championship series every fall from 1999 until 
2002. The Northeast League became its own entity again for the 2003 season 
and continued play for one additional year before the renaming of the league. 
The Allentown Ambassadors folded days before the 2004 season began, forcing 
the Northeast League to field a traveling team called the Aces. For the 
2005 season, the Northeast League accepted the Worcester Tornadoes as a 
new eighth team. However, three weeks before the start of the 2005 season, 
the Bangor Lumberjacks folded, forcing the team to create another traveling 
team, this time called The Grays. The league has operated a traveling team 
whenever necessary to provide an even number of teams. However, doing so 
forces the other franchises to host more home games to provide a season 
of the same length. To obviate such disruptive last-minute schedule changes 
in the future, the Northeast League adopted a new charter, giving the league 
new powers to ensure that its franchises are solvent, and renamed itself 
the Canadian-American Association. For 2006, the Can-Am League added two 
teams. The new Sussex Skyhawks replaced the Elmira Pioneers, which moved 
into the amateur New York Collegiate Baseball League; and the Nashua Pride 
joined the league from the Atlantic League. There were now eight teams 
without a traveling team. For 2007, the Atlantic City Surf joined from 
the Atlantic League, and the league re-established The Grays, after a year 
of dormancy, as a tenth team. At the end of that season, both the New Haven 
County Cutters and the North Shore Spirit suspended operations, reducing 
the league to eight teams. Many New Haven player contracts were sold to 
Nashua, while many Spirit players were placed on waivers. For 2008, Ottawa, 
which had lost its franchise in the International League, joined the Can-Am 
League as the Rapidz, an eighth franchise, displacing the Grays. After 
the 2008 season, Rapids management declared bankruptcy. The league declared 
its intention to operate the Ottawa franchise in 2009. The league changed 
the team's name back to Rapids, a spelling used during the team's founding 
(Rapides in French).[1] Later, however, the Commissioner stated the need 
for a "fresh start" and opened a contest to select a new name for the team.[2] 
The winning name was "Voyageurs", as seen above. Still later, the Atlantic 
City franchise was terminated, as a sale fell through. On March 30, 2009, 
the league announced that it would shrink to six teams rather than having 
two league-operated teams.[3] The Nashua Pride franchise was sold and was 
known in 2009 as the American Defenders of New Hampshire because of the 
military tie-ins of its new ownership group. During the 2009 season the 
Defenders were locked out of Holman Stadium and forced to play their last 
home games on the road, bringing doubt to the future of baseball in Nashua. 
The Quebec Capitales would go on to win their second League Championship. 
On December 19, 2009 league directors preliminarily gave approval to transfer 
the membership of the American Defenders of New Hampshire from Nashua, 
New Hampshire, to Pittsfield, Massachusetts for play in the 2010 season. 
Final approval was granted by the city for use of Wahconah Park on February 
1.[4] The ownership group headed by Buddy Lewis had a lease on Wahconah 
Park for a team in the New England Collegiate Baseball League, and transferred 
the current lease for play in the Can-Am League. Dan Duquette, current 
Executive Vice-President of Baseball Operations for the Baltimore Orioles, 
is also part of the ownership group, which is known as Boston Baseball 
All-Stars LLC.[5] The team was renamed the Pittsfield Colonials. After 
the 2010 season the Sussex franchise was folded after its ownership group 
decided to focus its resources on the New Jersey Jackals, their primary 
team, and could not find a buyer. In its place, the league awarded the 
Rockland Boulders a franchise, added the Newark Bears from the Atlantic 
League, and formed the New York Federals as a traveling team. Pittsfield's 
franchise charter was rescinded after the 2011 season and the Colonials 
folded after ownership could not find partners. The Brockton Rox moved 
to the Futures Collegiate Baseball League after the 2011 season. At the 
end of the 2012 season the Worcester charter was rescinded and the league 
decided to try to find new owners for the Tornadoes, but failed to do so 
and awarded the franchise instead to a Trois-Rivières, Quebec group. Beginning 
in 2012, Can-Am League clubs played 18 to 20 games against opponents from 
the American Association of Independent Professional Baseball, with which 
it shares a commissioner, per season. After the 2013 season, Newark announced 
it would not compete in the 2014 season and the team was eventually folded 
altogether. In 2014, the Can-Am League announced that a fifth team, based 
in Ottawa, would join the league for 2015. The league later announced it 
would be returning to Sussex County, New Jersey as well, and announced 
that a traveling team would join the Ottawa Champions and the Sussex County 
Miners to create a balanced schedule, and continued to include matchups 
with the American Association. This arrangement ended after the 2015 season, 
with the two leagues agreeing to feature Can-Am League players in the American 
Association's 2016 All-Star Game in St. Paul, Minnesota. In its inaugural 
season, the Can-Am League kept the two-division setup and half-season format 
that the Northeast League had. The two teams that were leading their respective 
divisions, designated North and South, at the end of the first half of 
the season automatically qualified for the playoffs. Two additional playoff 
spots would be made available. Once again, these went to division winners 
if the first half champions failed to repeat. Otherwise, one or more wild 
card spots would be given based on the team's overall record in both halves. 
If absolutely necessary, a one-game playoff would be played in case of 
a tie. Beginning in 2006, the league abandoned divisional play. The first 
half-season leader automatically qualified for the playoffs, as did the 
second half-season leader if there was a second. To round the field out 
at four, two or more wild-card spots were given to teams with the best 
overall season record. The four qualifiers for the playoffs would meet 
in two separate best of five series with the winners advancing to the League 
Championship Series, which was also best of five. Beginning in 2012, the 
league stopped using the half-season format. From 2012 through 2014, the 
teams with the two best records in the league advanced to the League Championship 
Series. The series was expanded from a best of five to a best of seven. 
This changed in 2015 when Ottawa and Sussex County joined the league, which 
enabled it to have enough teams to return to its previous playoff format. 
The league now awards playoff spots to the teams with the four best records 
at the end of the regular season. A league salary cap is a maximum amount 
that can be spent on the entire player roster. Teams may apportion it among 
players as they see fit. Certain players are given coaching duties, by 
which to earn additional pay. The maximum salary cap for a rostered player 
is about US$4,000 every one to two months, depending on the roster size. 
However most players make about $2–3,000 every month. There are some rostered 
players that make the max every two months. There are no players in the 
league that make more than $4,000 per month. Rosters are limited to 22 
players once the regular season begins. An additional two players can be 
on the disabled list (which is referred to on some published rosters as 
the disabled/inactive list, and is sometimes used to ensure that a player 
under contract that a team does not wish to use is unavailable to opponents). 
League roster rules give each player an LS (Length of Service) rating, 
based on the number of full years the player has played professionally: 
Rookie, LS-1 through LS-5, and Veteran. Teams can carry at most four veterans 
and must carry at least five rookies. Some published rosters state the 
LS rating of each player.[6] The Can-Am League plays 100 regular-season 
games. In years when one of the teams is a league-operated traveling team, 
the franchises play an increased number of home games to keep the total 
length of the regular season constant. All games a franchise plays against 
the traveling team are played at the franchise's ballpark. However, half 
of those games are designated "home games" for the traveling team, which 
takes the field first and bats last as though the game were played at the 
traveling team's "home." Opponents play a series of from three to five 
games on consecutive days. There are no doubleheaders in the original schedule, 
but doubleheaders are played after weather postpones or suspends a game. 
Occasionally, for clubs near to one another, the original schedule does 
not put all the games of a series at the same ballpark. For example, the 
teams may travel to the visitors' ballpark for the middle game of a series. 
In 2014, the Can-Am League adopted the IBAF's international tiebreaker 
rule. If a game goes beyond the tenth inning, each half-inning begins with 
a runner on second base. The runner is the batter who made the last out 
in the team's previous turn at bat, or the batter immediately preceding 
the leadoff man for the inning if that player has been substituted out. 
Play continues as normal otherwise. If the game remains tied, the process 
repeats until one team wins. The first use of the rule came on June 2, 
2014 in an interleague matchup between the St. Paul Saints and the Quebec 
Capitales, and the American Association has also adopted the rule. Can-Am 
