Canadian online media is content aimed at a Canadian audience through the 
medium of the Internet. Presently, online media can be accessed by computers, 
smart-phones, gaming consoles, Smart TVs, MP3 players, and tablets. The 
characteristics of Canadian online media are strongly shaped by the Canadian 
communications industry, even though their statistics and findings are 
more often than not associated with American research. Large media companies 
are increasingly on the move to start up online platforms for news and 
television content. The exponential growth of Canadians’ dependency on 
online content for entertainment and information has been evident in the 
recent decades. However, it has proven slow for Canadian online media to 
catch up with the constant increase of American online media. Regardless 
of medium, entertainment and information hubs are not solely focusing on 
satisfying the audience they have, but are also heavily expanding their 
reach to new global audiences. As information is increasingly going digital, 
the Newspaper Audience Databank (NADbank) claims online readership for 
most Canadian newspapers have surpassed the numbers in print readership.[1] 
However, there is also lack of evidence that newspapers are coming to an 
end in Canada. For some of Canada’s larger newspapers, readership has increased 
in both print and online formats. After The Globe and Mail’s redesign, 
they claim to have fueled a 10.2% increase in both their print and online 
readers.[2] Highlights from a 2010 study conducted by NADbank revealed 
the national newspaper readership remains high. Though the migration from 
print to online newspapers is still ongoing, print editions are still the 
most popular amongst Canadians.[3] Many news writers are beginning to have 
an active Twitter presence to communicate with their audiences. Large newspapers[which?] 
are urging writers to have a public persona on blogs or Twitter. Instant 
connection is becoming more substantial, as journalists are encouraged 
to interact with the public. Canadians are also becoming active participants 
in the journalistic process as journalists are realizing citizens' ability 
to perform fragments of journalism, such as taking on-the-scene pictures, 
tweeting, commenting online or simply editing a Wikipedia entry. Alfred 
Hermida of the University of British Columbia asserts that participatory 
journalism reinforces the public sphere, while news specialization ironically 
undermines it.[4] Openfile.ca was an online-only newspaper that concentrated 
on community-powered news, with the intent of connecting people with reporters 
to cover specific communities. Launched in May 2010, OpenFile aimed to 
promote citizen journalism by enabling anyone to suggest a story to cover, 
and then a paid journalist would conduct research and produce a polished 
piece. Stories were also geotagged to improve accessibility to citizens 
who wanted stories in their immediate neighbourhoods.[5] By 2012, the site 
saw about 400,000 unique visitors per month, but it was suddenly shuttered 
in September of that year due to reported financial problems.[6] As of 
2014, the Openfile website simply states, "on hiatus". Though news and 
magazine companies are increasing their presence online, publications such 
as Dose magazine have discontinued their print editions, but have gone 
on to develop their news website as it strategically targets a younger 
demographic. Rabble.ca, another online-only news site, is a non-profit 
organization that publishes a mixture of original content and those of 
alternative publications. In 2008, they created rabbletv in an effort to 
branch out their multi-media presence. Rabble also hosts Babble, a forum 
pertaining mostly to political discussions, and most recently the Activist 
Toolkit, a wiki project that aims to enable members of the rabble community 
to engage in collaborative writing of content.[7] The Canoe Network is 
an online-only news site in Canada with a network of French and English 
news content, as well as sub-divisions of a job-listing site, TV programs, 
e-commerce and others.[8] In the digital age, large media conglomerates 
are taking the opportunity to broaden their audiences by pushing to start 
up their own online platforms for multimedia content. Rogers, one of Canada’s 
largest communication companies, made the move in 2009 to create its version 
of Hulu.com, a popular on-demand streaming video service from the US. The 
concept was to provide free television programs in pursuance of promoting 
online content in Canada. It has also been noted as a way to secure Canada’s 
future in broadcasting, as major cable companies were already losing customers 
to service cancellations in the United States. Much of the efforts to promote 
Canadian online content have proven to be difficult as the federal broadcast 
regulators are still in uncharted territories.[9] Many satellite companies 
in Canada also own TV stations. In September 2011, the Canadian Radio-television 
and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) decided against the hoarding of 
specific televised programs by such companies for fair competition. Bell 
Canada has made such offerings with NFL games on Bell’s Mobile TV package, 
as well as select NHL and CFL games on TSN.ca. Many communications companies[which?] 
compete to provide instant entertainment content.[10] Launched in June 
2011, Shaw Communications have received legal complaints that their online 
video-streaming consists of movies from major film studios, some of which 
aren’t licensed to be broadcast through their video-streaming platform. 
The objective was to work towards a development that would adjust to the 
shifting viewer trends.[11] Microsoft Corporation plans to launch its on-demand 
and live TV service for the Xbox 360 gaming console in the winter of 2011. 
The Canadian service would include MLSE, UFC, Vevo, Rogers on Demand, Telus 
OPtik, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, MSN Canada and the involvement of other 
companies.[12] Rogers Communications have started targeting specific Toronto 
Blue Jays fans by supplying them with the major league team’s live games 
online, regardless if they have cable or not.[13] On November 2011, Amazon 
released the Kindle Fire, but it has not yet been released in Canada.[14] 
For four days in October, the Canadian company Research in Motion’s BlackBerry 
Internet Service experienced a service outage.[15] Research has also revealed 
more than 50% of Canadians are banking and shopping online. The demographics 
for these statistics no longer side with the younger generation, as older 
people are finding instant online transactions convenient.[16] American 
online content is popular in Canada. In the spring of 2011, the Canadian 
federal election was dubbed the "Twitter election",[by whom?] as the result 
of the wide usage of online social media for citizen discussions and for 
candidates’ exposure. It was not possible to prevent the transmission of 
poll results to a district (in a different time zone) whose polls had yet 
to close. This objective is nearly impossible with the vast amount of instant 
blogging and sharing of information on the election. Hashtags along the 
lines of #tweettheresults were being used by tweeters. Citizens discussed 
and deliberated that certain laws had to be changed to adjust to present 
day conditions.[17][18] No person shall transmit the result or purported 
result of the vote in an electoral district to the public in another electoral 
district before the close of all of the polling stations in that other 
electoral district.[19] The 73-year-old law became the subject of debate 
with the advent of instant social media. Meant to prevent influencing citizens 
of the West coast whose time zone is about four and a half hours behind 
the East coast, bloggers had the possibility of receiving a fine of $25,000 
for prematurely releasing the election results before all polls close. 
Under the Canada Elections Act, Section 329 applies to all forms of transmission 
regardless of the medium. In earlier days the Act was only directed towards 
television and radio outlets. Though a large amount of violation was anticipated 
in the 2011 Federal Election, only one case was prosecuted with a minimal 
fine.[citation needed] While some Tweeters and bloggers[who?] believe this 
is a violation of their freedom of expression, Elections Canada noted that 
results could be sent between individuals without breaching Section 329, 
though it was illegal to broadcast them on social media such as a Facebook 
Wall.[20] Information technology specialists from Sequentia Environics 
and the Social Media Group have stated that people would not be able to 
conform to the policy conscientiously, and that enforcing confidentiality 
with the likes of Facebook and Twitter is nearly impossible.[20] Other 
professionals[who?] have even stated there is no use of a law that cannot 
be enforced effectively. The numerous links and components to all growing 
social media platforms would necessite detailed examination of acceptable 
and prohibited sharing of election data. A recent study conducted by the 
Print Measurement Bureau (PMB) on Canadians’ social media usage patterns 
showed that one third of Canadian social networkers are under the age of 
25. Compared with the rest of the nation, social networkers are also twice 
as likely to visit online magazines, newspapers, television and radio.[21] 
As a consequence of increased online audience, the Canadian online ad revenue 
rose to $2.2 billion in 2010.[citation needed] Advertisers are now aiming 
to measure the attention of online users via clickthrough rate. The Interactive 
Advertising Bureau of Canada reported that the online ad revenue surpassed 
newspapers ad revenues dramatically.[19] Newspapers have always made revenue 
from advertisements, and not subscriptions,[citation needed] and in recent 
years, this has not changed. Online newspapers are keen on increasing their 
readership to be more valuable to advertising. In Canada, immigrant minorities' 
access to ethnic media online serves as a source of news from their home 
countries. Multicultural marketing is growing in Canada,[citation needed] 
with advertisers hoping to reach the country's hundreds of ethnic communities. 
In 2009, a study by Solutions Research Group revealed that the Internet 
has become the preferred medium amongst Chinese Canadians and South Asian 
Canadians, two of the country's largest cultural groups.[citation needed] 
Community portals in particular are popular amongst Canada's ethnic groups.[citation 
needed] Web portal 51.ca is an example of a common online networking site 
for the Chinese community. In Canada, advertisers place geo-targeted ads 
in foreign and online newspapers like TimesOfIndia.com to reach local audiences. 
Though there is abundant web activity amongst the minority population, 
they remain loyal to traditional media that communicate in their native 
languages.[22] The Canadian Radio and Television Commission (CRTC) had 
recently deliberated on revising broadcasting rights from the many incoming 
internet-based broadcasters from other countries. Video streaming sites 
such as Hulu are not available to Canadians because Canadian broadcasters 
have rights to programming, and controls on how they are broadcast.[23] 
The request to conduct a formal review on TV content on the internet was 
turned down. Companies like Netflix Inc. were criticized[by whom?] for 
posing a threat to the domestic broadcasting system, and accused of having 
a competitive advantage. Since the prolonged consultation revealed there 
is no evidence that these internet-based movie services are negatively 
affecting the Canadian broadcasting system, companies like Netflix aren’t 
compelled to follow the same rules and regulations, and don't have to fund 
Canadian broadcasting content or face the same regulations as cable and 
satellite distributors.[24][25] In the summer of 2011, a study by Angus 
Reid revealed that an approximate one half of online Canadians surveyed 
would give up cable service before they would give up the Internet. It 
is considered standard for digital home owners to spend over $100 per month 
for faster internet plans.[26] Fibre to the home replaces the traditional 
copper telephone wires with optical fiber cable, enabling it to surpass 
cable limitations. Well established in Asia, the infrastructure is being 
implemented in various parts of the United States but remains unrecognized 
to Canadians. In Ontario, Bell Canada has strategically started selling 
internet packages called Fibre 6,12,16, and 25, despite not being a FTTH 
service.[26] As usage of data and bandwidth is increasing due to the growing 
availability of high definition videos online, CRTC recently created a 
pricing model for ISP providers to follow. The model, which acts as a usage 
cap, allows for internet wholesalers to charge based on download speed 
and notby volume of data, the latter proposed by Bell and declined by CRTC.[27] 
Arctic communities in Canada have poor communication infrastructures. Due 
to the residents’ geographical isolation, proper access to web content 
can act as their window to domestic affairs and global matters.[28] Canadian 
telecommunications and media companies are also taking the opportunity 
to provide specialized content online as a means to cater to and attract 
specific audiences. Rogers Communications recently started making Toronto 
Maple Leafs hockey games accessible on the web for their cable subscribers 
as a television on-demand service. The media company acquired the Toronto 
Blue Jays baseball team in 2000, anticipating an increase in on-demand 
viewership.[29] In 2011 Arianna Huffington of The Huffington Post asserted 
that Canadians need to put more effort into producing online media content 
and not perceive it as a taboo. She claimed that news scoops that are posted 
immediately online have more effect than those being held for the front 
page the next day.[30] As viewership steadily overtakes readership, a survey 
conducted by Rogers has revealed that Canadians’ lives are continually 
becoming richer online and the sharing of photos are growing exponentially 
more popular. For the youth in Canada, digital media is the only media 
they have grown to know, and the Internet is the primary source of information 
and entertainment they have grown accustomed to.[31] The research of journalism 
professor Alfred Hermida at the University of British Columbia shows a 
total of 17 million Facebook users in Canada.[32] With social media, individuals 
tailor the news that comes to them as a means of efficiency, and share 
