The Canada Games is a high-level multi-sport event with a National Artists 
Program held every two years in Canada, alternating between the Canada 
Winter Games and the Canada Summer Games. Athletes are strictly amateur 
only, and represent their province or territory. The Games were first held 
in 1967 in Quebec City as part of Canada's Centennial celebrations. For 
the first time in Canada's history, 1,800 athletes from 10 provinces and 
two territories gathered to compete in 15 sports. Under the Games motto 
"Unity through Sport", these first Canada Winter Games paved the way to 
what is now Canada's largest multi-sport competition for young athletes. 
The governing body for the Canada Games is the Canada Games Council, a 
non-profit private organization incorporated in 1991.[1] The individual 
games are run by the local host society, a non-profit private organization 
created for the purpose, in accordance with an agreement between the local 
host society, the government of Canada, the government of the province 
or territory, the government of the municipality, and the Canada Games 
Council. For example, the 2011 Halifax games were run by the Halifax 2011 
Canada Games Host Society on the basis of an agreement between the host 
society and the Canada Games Council, Canada, Nova Scotia, and the city 
of Halifax. In 2015, for the first time, there was also a local host First 
Nation, Lheidli T'enneh. Funding for the games comes from the several levels 
of government together with donations and corporate sponsorships. A considerable 
portion of the work during the games is performed by local volunteers.[2] 
Held every two years, alternating between summer and winter, the Canada 
Games are a key event in the development of Canada's young athletes. As 
the best in their age group, these young competitors come to the Games 
having trained long and hard to be among those chosen to represent their 
respective province or territory and compete for the Canada Games Flag 
and Centennial Cup. With the Canada Games poised as a key step in the development 
of Canada's future stars, Canada Games athletes are Canada's next generation 
national, international and Olympic champions. The Canada Games and their 
lasting legacies continue to be the catalyst for the growth of sport and 
recreation across Canada. Since 1967, over 75,000 athletes have participated 
in the Games with hundreds of thousands having engaged in try-outs and 
qualifying events. Over 100,000 coaches, officials and volunteers have 
been directly involved in the planning and staging of the Games. Cumulatively, 
$250 million has been invested in the Canada Games, about half of it in 
capital projects in the various host communities. From the Saint John Canada 
Games Aquatic Centre (1985) to the Hillside Stadium and Aquatic Centre 
in Kamloops, B.C. (1993); from the Corner Brook Canada Games Centre and 
Annex (1999) to the TD Waterhouse Stadium in London, Ontario (2001), a 
legacy of sports facilities has been built in over 16 communities across 
Canada. The Canada Games, a celebration of youth, sport, culture and community, 
are the product of ongoing collaboration between the Government of Canada, 
provincial/territorial governments, host municipalities, the private sector 
and the Canada Games Council. The 2009 Canada Summer Games were hosted 
by the entire province of Prince Edward Island. The most recent games took 
place in Prince George, British Columbia, between February 13 and March 
1, 2015.[3] Since their inception in 1967, the Canada Games have played 
a prominent role in developing some of Canada's premier athletes. The Games 
have acted as a stepping stone for many of Canada's celebrated athletes. 
The Canada Games Council is the governing body for the Canada Games. As 
the Games move from one host community to the next, the Council provides 
the continuity, leadership and support to Host Societies in key areas such 
as sport technical, organizational planning, ceremonies and protocol, marketing 
and sponsorship. * The host cities have not been chosen for the games after 
2019 but the provinces through 2035 have.[5] Sports for the 2013 Canada 
Games in Sherbrooke, Quebec.[6] The winter games include some sports not 
associated with winter. Sports for the 2015 Canada Games in Prince George, 
British Columbia.[7] For per Games medal standings see List of Canada Games. 
