Canada competed at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece, from 13 
to 29 August 2004. Canadian athletes have competed in every Summer Olympic 
Games since 1900, except the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow because of 
the US-led boycott. The Canadian Olympic Committee sent a total of 263 
athletes, 130 men and 133 women, to take part in 28 sports. This was the 
nation's smallest delegation to the Games, since the nation boycotted the 
games in 1980. This had become a result of the COC changing its qualification 
standards, after a reduced medal showing at the 2000 Summer Olympics in 
Sydney, with the aim of sending fewer athletes but focusing its energy 
on those who have the best chance at winning medals. It has been suggested 
that the "logical response" of winning fewer medals was diverting funding 
away from sports where Canadians struggled (track and field) to ones where 
Canadians excelled (kayak and diving). Athletes that qualified for the 
Olympics would not be sent to Athens unless they had finished in the top 
twelve worldwide, a policy that was widely criticized as numerous Canadian 
Olympic medalists in past Games would have been excluded by such criteria, 
plus it was seen as a cynical ploy for the COC to save costs. Over 50 Canadian 
athletes, including two-time Olympian marathoner Bruce Deacon, did not 
make the COC's draconian “top 12” cutoff despite achieved the international 
qualifying standards in their respective sports. After 2004 the COC scrapped 
this policy but still maintains additional hurdles beyond international 
standards to ensure that athletes are in shape for the Olympics.[2] Canada 
left Athens with a total of 12 medals (3 golds, 6 silver, and 3 bronze), 
the lowest in Summer Olympic history since 1988.[3] Canada's overall medal 
count had been dropping in the recent editions of the Summer Olympics, 
along with the totals for most developed countries as the developing nations 
capture comparatively more medals. Many expected Canada to win a similar 
number of medals as they did in 2000. Most of these medals were awarded 
to the athletes in canoeing, cycling, diving, and gymnastics. Sprint kayaker 
Adam van Koeverden became the most decorated athlete of the Games with 
two Olympic medals, including a gold in the men's K-1 500 m.[4] The flag 
bearer was two-time Olympic medalist Nicolas Gill, a judoka. A mild controversy 
developed after it was revealed that Gill had made comments in favour of 
Quebec separatism, and had voted yes in the 1995 Quebec referendum.[1] 
Gill went on to lose his opening match and was eliminated from the tournament, 
which was seen as symbolic of Canada's 2004 Olympic woes. Two Canadian 
archers qualified each for the men's and women's individual archery. Canadian 
athletes have so far achieved qualifying standards in the following athletics 
events (up to a maximum of 3 athletes in each event at the 'A' Standard, 
and 1 at the 'B' Standard).[5][6] The team was selected based on the results 
of the 2004 Canadian Olympic Trials. Canada's baseball team did very well 
in the initial stages of the round-robin winning their four first games. 
Despite losses to Japan and Cuba, they rebounded in their final game vs. 
Australia. Most notable has been the performance of second baseman Richard 
"Stubby" Clapp. With a 5-2 record in the preliminary round, Canada finished 
in 3rd position, behind Japan and Cuba and ahead of Australia. In the semi-finals 
on August 24, Canada lost 8-5 to Cuba. Canada was leading Cuba 3-2 going 
into the bottom of the eighth inning but then gave up 6 runs. The game 
ended in dramatic fashion when Canadian Kevin Nicholson almost hit a game 
tying homer in the 9th. However, a heavy wind was blowing in from left 
field that night, which caused the ball to come down inches from the wall 
and was caught. Japan lost 1-0 to Australia in a surprising result in the 
other semifinal, almost ruining Canada's hopes for a medal in Baseball, 
which would later prove true as Canada lost to Japan on August 25 in the 
Bronze medal game, thereby finishing fourth. Manager: 12 – Ernie Whitt 
Coaches: 42 – Denis Boucher, 7 – Marty Lehn, 10 – Greg Hamilton, 21 – Tim 
Leiper. Boxing had witnessed much controversy over the COC higher qualifying 
standards. After an appeal it was decided that three more boxers could 
go to Athens. Canada's most notable success was Benoit Gaudet defeat of 
Thai former champion Somluck Kamsing and Andrew Kooner who made it to the 
quarter-final in the Bantamweight class. Qualification Legend: Q = Qualify 
to final; q = Qualify to semifinal Canadian divers qualified for seven 
individual spots at the 2004 Olympic Games. "#" indicates that the score 
of this rider does not count in the team competition, since only the best 
three results of a team are counted. Prior to 2004, Canada had never won 
an Olympic medal in artistic gymnastics, and hopes for a first seemed to 
be dashed when the main medal threat, double World Championships bronze 
medalist Kyle Shewfelt suffered an ankle injury in March. By the Games, 
though, Shewfelt's injury had healed to the point where it did not adversely 
affect his performance. Six Canadian judoka (two men and four women) qualified 
for the 2004 Summer Olympics. Two Canadian athletes qualified to compete 
in the modern pentathlon event. Canada's most heralded team going into 
Athens was its rowers, and there was considerable hope for success by Canadians 
with expectations of three medals or more. While the Canadians did well, 
with a number of finals appearances, only one group won medals the men's 
fours of Cam Baerg, Jake Wetzel, Tom Herschmiller and Barney Williams won 
the silver medal in the men's four rowing final, losing to Great Britain 
by only 0.08 seconds. Most disappointing was the men's eights who had been 
undefeated for two years before the Olympics, but to the surprise of many 
finished fifth in their event. Controversy broke out over the rowing team 
of Dave Calder and Chris Jarvis who were disqualified from the men's pairs 
semifinal race for entering another team's lane, and thus failed to qualify 
for the final. The COC appealed the decision, but it was upheld. Qualification 
Legend: FA=Final A (medal); FB=Final B (non-medal); FC=Final C (non-medal); 
FD=Final D (non-medal); FE=Final E (non-medal); FF=Final F (non-medal); 
SA/B=Semifinals A/B; SC/D=Semifinals C/D; SE/F=Semifinals E/F; R=Repechage 
Canadian sailors have qualified one boat for each of the following events. 
M = Medal race; OCS = On course side of the starting line; DSQ = Disqualified; 
DNF = Did not finish; DNS= Did not start; RDG = Redress given Two Canadian 
shooters qualified to compete in the following events: The Canadian softball 
team finished the preliminary round with the same record as China, but 
had lost to China 4-2 in head-to-head play and therefore received 5th place 
and did not advance to the semifinals while China placed 4th and moved 
on. For the first time in decades Canada did not win a single medal in 
swimming. This led to calls for the resignation of head coach Dave Johnson 
by a number of former swimmers, most notably Barcelona gold medallist Mark 
Tewksbury. Swim Canada focused on personal bests rather than medals, but 
even by that measure Canada fared poorly. This lack of medals also stood 
in sharp contrast to Canada's sibling dominion Australia which won many 
medals in swimming, as they did in Sydney. There were a few bright spots, 
including Rick Say making it to the finals of the 200 m freestyle, considered 
by many to be the premier event of the 2004 Olympics, and a number of Canadian 
records were set. Generally though, performances by the swim team were 
slower than the times they had swum at Canadian Olympic trials 2 weeks 
before. Rick Say created a minor controversy after the 4×200-metre freestyle 
relay immediately in the post-race interview which was aired live on national 
television, when he said that he was "pissed off at not being able to make 
up for my teammates' mistakes". The other three team members - Brent Hayden, 
Brian Johns, and Andrew Hurd - expressed disappointment not in the effort, 
which broke the Canadian record by over 3.5 seconds, but only in the 5th-place 
finish which was out of the medals.[7] Nine Canadian synchronized swimmers 
qualified a spot in the women's team. Four Canadian table tennis players 
qualified for the following events. Two Canadian taekwondo jin qualified 
for the following events. Canadian Tennis Association nominated two male 
tennis players to compete in the tennis tournament. Canada had a strong 
triathlon program, including the defending men's gold medallist Simon Whitfield, 
who won surprisingly in Sydney. The women's race was something of a disappointment, 
as top-ranked Canadian Jill Savege, who came out of the water in fifth 
place, crashed in the bicycle stage and only finished 39th. The two other 
Canadian women did not fare much better. In the men's triathlon a day later 
Whitfield finished a respectable 11th. Canada's women's water polo team 
fared poorly, despite beating the number one ranked team from the United 
States during the round robin. Losing the other two games in the preliminary 
round put Canada in last place in the pool and eliminated the team from 
medal contention. They would end up finishing seventh. The following is 
the Canadian roster in the women's water polo tournament of the 2004 Summer 
Olympics.[8] view · talk Head coach: Patrick Oaten Two Canadian weightlifters 
qualified for the following events: Key: The main network for Olympic coverage 
in Canada is the CBC which covers events live, and then replays highlights 
in prime time. Both the French and English CBC and Radio-Canada are covering 
different events. The cable channels TSN & RDS won the rights to broadcast 
some parts of the games, mostly team sports that CBC and Radio-Canada decided 
not to cover. The digital channel CBC Country Canada, only available to 
a minority of Canadians, covered equestrian events. Roots Canada was the 
official outfitter of clothing for members of the Canadian Olympic team. 
The same clothing was also sold at Roots stores in Canada. This was the 
last year for Roots, thereafter HBC was given the contract for official 
