The following is a list of games that have been canceled by the National 
Football League since 1933. While canceling games was extremely common 
prior to this date, since that year, the NFL has only seen four instances 
in which games have been canceled and not been rescheduled due to labor 
disputes between the league and the National Football League Players Association. 
In the first labor dispute (1974) and, to date, the most recent dispute 
(2011), only one preseason game each were lost while seven weeks of regular 
season games were canceled in 1982 and one week of regular season games 
was canceled in 1987. In addition only four other games (all exhibition) 
were canceled for reasons other than a labor dispute. The China Bowl, which 
was originally scheduled to take place in 2007, was postponed to 2009 and 
eventually canceled due to an economic recession. The three other canceled 
exhibition games were the result of unsafe playing fields: a 1995 NFL preseason 
game between the San Diego Chargers and the Houston Oilers [1] a 2001 preseason 
game between the Baltimore Ravens and the Philadelphia Eagles,[2] and the 
2016 Pro Football Hall of Fame Game.[3] Canceling games was far more common 
in the 1920s and early 1930s, in the founding years of the league. When 
a team did not want to play a game, they could cancel without any punishment 
or penalty. Several years after league schedules were standardized in 1933, 
cancellations were effectively banned, and teams would have to forfeit 
the game or postpone if a cancellation was due to issues outside the team's 
control. There have been no forfeits in the league's history; a 1921 game 
between the Rochester Jeffersons and the Washington Senators is occasionally 
listed as a forfeit, but because of the lax cancellation rules of the time, 
is listed in modern records as a cancellation. The last unpunished cancellation 
of a regular season NFL game is believed to have been a November 17, 1935 
contest between the Boston Redskins at Philadelphia Eagles game, which 
was canceled due to severe rain and snow. Several games were removed from 
the schedules of the NFL teams of the early 1940s, but because the issues 
(namely, World War II, the loss of marquee talent to the war effort, and 
restrictions on resource usage) were already foreseen by the start of the 
1942 season, the league was able to issue shortened schedules from the 
start without having to cancel already scheduled contests. The 1974 College 
All-Star Game, an exhibition game that pitted the most recent Super Bowl 
champion (Miami Dolphins) against a team composed entirely of rookies, 
was canceled as a result of a players' strike. The strike was resolved 
before any further games were canceled; the Pro Football Hall of Fame Game, 
along with the rest of the 1974 NFL season, went on as scheduled, although 
at least one game was held with the Denver Broncos using a squad of rookie 
replacement players.[4] In 1982, players began a 57-day strike following 
the completion of Week 2 of the regular season. As a result of the impasse, 
games were simply canceled until a settlement was reached (ultimately, 
Weeks 3-9). Upon reaching that settlement, the NFL announced that Weeks 
11–16 played would be played as scheduled, and the games originally scheduled 
for Week 3 of the season would be played following the completion of the 
resumed regular season (as a new week 17), with the playoffs being pushed 
back one week. Later, the NFL decided to use the final week 17 to hold 
various intra-division games from cancelled Weeks 3-9 instead of merely 
playing the week 3 games. This was done to increase attendance and to allow 
some teams to balance out home and away games, to the extent possible (either 
five home and four away, or four home and five away). Because the 1982 
shortened season would include only nine regular season contests played 
by each club, the NFL announced that the three divisions in each of the 
two conferences would be eliminated that year, and the regular season would 
be followed by an expansion of the playoffs from 10 to 16 teams. So each 
conference had 14 teams competing for 8 playoff spots, with no division 
standings, just overall conference standings. Each of the first three rounds 
of the playoffs was pushed back one week in order to make room for the 
new week 17 (which was originally supposed to be the Wild Card weekend). 
This was possible as there was an idle week between the Conference Championship 
games and the Super Bowl. The Super Bowl was held as originally scheduled. 
Note: Some of the games originally scheduled for Weeks 3-9 below were rescheduled 
to a new, final Week 17. In order to ensure maximal attendance, and to 
balance out home and away games for each team, to the extent possible (either 
five home and four away, or four home and five away), the NFL made 12 of 
the 14 games in the final week of the rescheduled season (Week 17) select 
intra-division games that were picked from cancelled Weeks 3-9, instead 
of merely playing out Week 3 games, as had originally been planned. This 
was the maximum number mathematically possible, since four of the six divisions 
at that time had an odd number of teams (the two games that were not intra-division 
were New York Jets at Kansas City Chiefs and Dallas Cowboys at Minnesota 
Vikings). The New York Giants at Philadelphia Eagles Monday Night game 
originally scheduled for Week 7 was moved to Sunday, while the Dallas Cowboys 
at Minnesota Vikings game originally scheduled for Week 3 on Sunday was 
moved to Monday. In 1987, the players went on strike for a second time 
in-season, again following the second week of the campaign. However, unlike 
1982, the owners took the bold step of using replacement players. After 
missing just one week of action, the NFL resumed with replacement players 
for Week 4. By the time Week 6 had rolled around, enough players had crossed 
the picket lines and forced an agreement. The canceled games of Week 3 
simply weren't made up, and the league counted the three weeks of game 
results featuring the replacement players as regular season games toward 
each team's final standings. By Week 7, the teams had all players back 
in action, with all teams completing a 15-game schedule. Also unlike 1982, 
there was no change to the playoff format that season. An August 19, 1995 
preseason game between the San Diego Chargers and the Houston Oilers was 
the first game in NFL history to be canceled because of turf problems. 
An NFL official canceled the preseason game before kickoff after determining 
the Astrodome's artificial turf endangered the players. [5] An August 13, 
2001 preseason game between the Baltimore Ravens and the Philadelphia Eagles 
was canceled because of an unplayable playing surface at Veterans Stadium. 
This was scheduled to be the first football game played at the stadium 
after a new artificial surface, NexTurf, was installed. Because the multi-purpose 
stadium was shared by both the Eagles and the Philadelphia Phillies baseball 
team, this surface (and the previous artificial turf installations before 
it) included cutouts that covered up the dirt infield around the bases. 
After examining the turf, Ravens coach Brian Billick refused to let the 
Ravens take the field for warm-ups when he discovered a trench around the 
area where third base was covered up by one of the cutouts. City crews 
unsuccessfully tried to fix the problem, forcing the game to be canceled. 
Later, players from both teams reported that they sank into the turf in 
locations near the infield cutouts. Team president Joe Banner was irate 
after the game, calling the stadium's conditions "absolutely unacceptable" 
and "an embarrassment to the city of Philadelphia."[6] City officials, 
however, promised that the stadium would be suitable for play when the 
regular season started. The Eagles would later move into Lincoln Financial 
Field in 2003, and the Phillies would move into its own separate ballpark, 
Citizens Bank Park, in 2004. In the wake of the September 11 attacks, the 
NFL postponed the games for Week 2 of the 2001 season (originally scheduled 
for September 16 – 17) until the end of the regular season. All playoff 
games following the 2001 regular season, including Super Bowl XXXVI, and 
the 2002 Pro Bowl were re-scheduled one week later. This was in contrast 
during the wake of the John F. Kennedy assassination in 1963 when the NFL 
went ahead and played its full slate of games that week, a decision that 
then-NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle would later regret,[7] though he also 
stated that Pierre Salinger, Kennedy's secretary, had urged him to allow 
the games to be played.[8] Meanwhile, the American Football League canceled 
week 12 of its 1963 season and later rescheduled those games. On July 22, 
2011, the NFL announced that that year's Pro Football Hall of Fame Game 
(originally set for August 7 of that year between Chicago and St. Louis) 
had been canceled, due to an ongoing lockout that had been in place since 
March of that year.[9] The league approved a new collective bargaining 
agreement on July 21, but at the same time announced the cancellation of 
the game, citing the fact that the players would not have enough time in 
training camp to prepare before the game.[10][11] The NFL also had contingency 
plans to cancel and/or postpone regular season games (up to eight) if a 
labor agreement could not be reached by the start of the regular season.[12][13] 
The league did not have to implement the plans, since the players association 
agreed to terms with the NFL on July 25, ending the lockout. The 2016 Pro 
Football Hall of Fame Game was canceled at the last minute due to poor 
playing conditions on the newly installed FieldTurf that had been placed 
at Tom Benson Hall of Fame Stadium in the off-season. Mike Silver of NFL.com 
reported that on the morning of game day, the logos on the field had been 
painted using "improper" paint which was not drying fast enough. The field 
was heated in an attempt to dry it, but this caused the turf's rubber to 
melt. These issues led to unfavorable play conditions; the affected areas 
were described as being slick and "like cement". Stadium officials attempted 
to address this by applying a solvent, reportedly paint thinner, to the 
turf. After noticing a label warning that skin contact with this substance 
could result in burns, a Green Bay Packers employee alerted others to the 
discovery. When officially cancelling the game, both the league and the 
Players Association cited safety concerns.[14][15] In the modern era, severe 
weather or natural disasters have affected some games, but none have been 
canceled outright – they were either switched to a different location, 
or to a different date in the schedule. The 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake 
damaged Candlestick Park, forcing the San Francisco 49ers to play their 
next home game against New England Patriots at Stanford University's Stanford 
Stadium.[16] In 1992, Hurricane Andrew forced the September 6 opening-day 
game between the New England Patriots and the Miami Dolphins at Joe Robbie 
Stadium to be rescheduled to October 18, when both teams originally had 
a bye week.[17] In the wake of the October 25, 2003 Cedar Fire, California 
Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger declared a state of emergency and activated 
the National Guard to assist in the disaster relief process. Because of 
the soot and particulate matter in the air from the fire two days earlier, 
the NFL was forced to move the Monday Night Football game on October 27 
between the San Diego Chargers and Miami Dolphins to Sun Devil Stadium 
in Tempe, Arizona.[18] In 2004, the Tennessee Titans at Miami Dolphins 
opening-day game, scheduled for Sunday, September 12 at 1 PM ET, was rescheduled 
to Saturday, September 11 at 1 PM ET due to Hurricane Ivan.[19] In 2004, 
the Pittsburgh Steelers at Miami Dolphins game was moved back on Sunday, 
September 26, from 1 PM ET to 8:30 PM ET due to Hurricane Jeanne.[20] Hurricane 
Katrina in 2005 damaged the Louisiana Superdome. The NFL decided that the 
New Orleans Saints' first regularly scheduled home game against the New 
York Giants be played in Giants Stadium in New Jersey, with the Saints 
the home team in name only.[21] For the rest of the season, the Saints 
home games were split between the Alamodome in San Antonio and Louisiana 
State University's Tiger Stadium. In 2005, the NFL moved up the Kansas 
City Chiefs at Miami Dolphins game from Sunday, October 23 at 1 PM ET to 
Friday, October 21 at 7 PM ET due to the upcoming Hurricane Wilma.[22] 
In 2010, a severe storm in Minnesota deposited over 17 inches (43 cm) of 
snow on the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome, which caused the roof to collapse 
about 24 hours later, early in the morning of December 12. The Minnesota 
Vikings had been scheduled to host the New York Giants that afternoon. 
Prior to the collapse, the game had already been postponed to Monday night, 
December 13, due to the concerns of stadium officials. The game was relocated 
to Ford Field in Detroit, still played Monday night.[23] The Vikings' December 
20 game against Chicago was moved to TCF Bank Stadium on the University 
of Minnesota campus.[24] The collapse affected no further NFL games, as 
the rest of the Vikings' 2010 season consisted of road games, and the team 
had already been eliminated from playoff contention. On December 26, 2010, 
a Sunday Night Football game between the Minnesota Vikings and Philadelphia 
Eagles in Philadelphia was postponed to Tuesday, December 28, due to a 
severe snowstorm. It was the first Tuesday NFL game in 64 years.[25] In 
2014, a severe snowstorm that hit the Buffalo area forced a New York Jets-Buffalo 
Bills game, originally scheduled for November 23, to be moved to Detroit's 
Ford Field on November 24.[26] There have also been rare occasions in which 
games had to be pushed back one night because of a last-minute scheduling 
conflict in the facility of those games, most notably when an NFL team 
has shared a home stadium with a team from Major League Baseball and the 
baseball team has needed the building for a post-season game. This was 
a frequent occurrence when there were several shared stadiums across the 
country, but since 2012 only one such venue remains: O.co Coliseum in Oakland, 
home of the NFL Raiders and the MLB Athletics; both teams are in the process 
of exploring a new stadium. Although NFL/MLB-shared stadiums are now rare 
instead of the norm, there are several current NFL stadiums that share 
the same parking lots and other ancillary facilities with an adjacent MLB 
ballpark, thus also preventing both teams from playing simultaneously. 
(This also occurs when two NFL franchises in different cities share a common 
geographic area, namely the Oakland Raiders and San Francisco 49ers, where 
the cities do not want the teams playing home games on the same day, due 
to Bay Area traffic concerns.) On October 12, 1964, the St. Louis Cardinals 
were forced to move their scheduled home game vs. the Baltimore Colts to 
Memorial Stadium, since St. Louis' Busch Stadium I was being used for the 
World Series by the baseball Cardinals. Even though game five of the World 
Series was played that day at Yankee Stadium, the football Cardinals could 
not use the stadium until the baseball team, the stadium's owner, had completed 
its season. The Atlanta Falcons were forced to move their October 5, 1969 
home game vs. the Colts from Atlanta Stadium to Grant Field at Georgia 
Tech due to the Atlanta Braves hosting the New York Mets in game two of 
the National League Championship Series. The same day, the Minnesota Vikings 
moved their home game vs. the Green Bay Packers from Metropolitan Stadium 
to Memorial Stadium at the University of Minnesota due to an American League 
Championship Series game between the Minnesota Twins and Baltimore Orioles. 
The 1973 New York Jets faced the same situation as the 1964 Cardinals. 
The New York Mets unexpectedly reached the World Series, and under the 
terms of the Jets' lease at Shea Stadium in place at the time, there could 
be no football games at the stadium in Queens until the Mets' season was 
complete. Thus, the Jets were forced to move their October 21 game vs. 
the Pittsburgh Steelers from Shea to Three Rivers Stadium, even though 
the final game of the Series at Shea was played October 18 (games six and 
seven were played at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum, home of the Oakland 
Athletics). In 1987, the Sunday, October 18 World Series Game 2 between 
St. Louis Cardinals andMinnesota Twins led to the Minnesota Vikings and 
Tampa Bay Buccaneers to switch home dates for their two games that season. 
In 1987, the next week, the Sunday, October 25 World Series Game 7 between 
the St. Louis Cardinals and Minnesota Twins led the NFL to reschedule the 
Denver Broncos at Minnesota Vikings) game to the following Monday night, 
October 26. In 1989, the Sunday, October 8 New Orleans Saints at San Francisco 
49ers game was postponed until Monday, November 6, due to MLB's National 
League Championship Series Chicago Cubs at San Francisco Giants games October 
7, 8, and 9. Instead, the San Francisco 49ers played at New Orleans that 
Sunday. In 1997, the Sunday, October 26 Cleveland Indians at Florida Marlins 
World Series game caused the NFL to reschedule the Chicago Bears at Miami 
Dolphins game for the following Monday night, October 27.[27] In 2001, 
a potential Oakland Athletics baseball playoff game forced the Oakland 
Raiders to play their contest against the Dallas Cowboys two weeks in advance 
to avoid a possible conflict, when both clubs originally had their bye 
week (as it turned out, the Athletics ended up getting eliminated a few 
days before the originally scheduled date of the Cowboys-Raiders game).[28] 
In 2009, the New York Giants–Philadelphia Eagles game at Lincoln Financial 
Field was moved from 4:15 pm to 1:00 pm to accommodate the Philadelphia 
Phillies hosting Game 4 of the 2009 World Series at adjacent Citizens Bank 
Park.[29] A 2013 baseball playoff game forced the Oakland Raiders to postpone 
their originally scheduled Sunday afternoon game against the San Diego 
Chargers from 4:25 pm Eastern/1:25 pm Pacific to a far late-night start 
