Candido Maldonado Guadarrama (born September 5, 1960) is a former Major 
League Baseball outfielder who played from 1981 to 1995 for the Los Angeles 
Dodgers, San Francisco Giants, Cleveland Indians, Milwaukee Brewers, Toronto 
Blue Jays, Chicago Cubs, and Texas Rangers. Chris Berman, a fellow ESPN 
analyst, nicknamed him the "Candyman". Maldonado holds the distinction 
of having struck the first game-winning hit outside the United States in 
World Series play,[1] and was the only Giant to hit a triple in the 1989 
World Series.[1] Maldonado, also known as "The Candyman" and "The 4th Out", 
was a major part of the Giants success in the late 1980s as a part of the 
1987 NL West Champions and the 1989 National League Champions. Although 
Maldonado had statistically good seasons in San Francisco, he was involved 
in one of the most infamous plays in Giants history. In game 6 of the 1987 
National League Championship Series, he lost Tony Pe침a's 2nd inning fly 
ball in the lights. This play resulted in a triple for Pe침a. Pe침a scored 
on a sacrifice fly for the only run of the game, which the Cardinals won 
to tie the series at 3 games each,[2] before going on to win Game 7. Over 
his career, Maldonado was a better hitter on the road than at home, with 
a batting average which was 51 points higher in road games than in home 
games. On May 4, 1987, he became only the 16th player in San Francisco 
Giants franchise history to hit for the cycle. I Then in 1994, Candy scored 
the first-ever run for the Cleveland Indians at Jacobs Field. In Game 3 
of the 1992 World Series, playing for the Toronto Blue Jays, he hit a walk-off 
hit off Atlanta Braves closer Jeff Reardon and also hit a solo home run 
in Game 6 of the series. Maldonado was noted as a good home run hitter 
who did not usually hit for a high batting average, finishing at .254 for 
his MLB career.[3] He played in eight different postseason series for three 
of his teams and won the World Series with the Blue Jays in 1992. Maldonado 
recently provided color commentary for ESPN Deportes' coverage of the World 
Baseball Classic and regular season games. He was named general manager 
of the Gigantes del Cibao of the Dominican Baseball League. Maldonado contributed 
a video to "La Esquina de Candy" (or "Candy's Corner").[1] Also, in 2011, 
Maldonado was inducted into the Caribbean Baseball Hall of Fame with former 
teammate and National Baseball Hall of Fame inductee Roberto Alomar, Carlos 
Baerga and Luis "Mambo" DeLe칩n for the 2011 Caribbean Series. He was also 
