William Arthur "Candy" Cummings (October 18, 1848 – May 16, 1924) was an 
American professional baseball player. He played as a pitcher in the National 
Association and National League. Cummings is credited with inventing the 
curveball. He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1939. Cummings 
was born in Ware, Massachusetts. He later said that he thought of the idea 
of the curveball when fooling around with clam shells as a teenager in 
Ware.[1] At the age of 17, Cummings made his professional baseball debut 
in the National Association of Base Ball Players with the Excelsior baseball 
club of Brooklyn.[2] His first game with the team was on August 14, 1866 
against the New York Mutuals. Ten days later he led his team to a 24-2 
win against the Newark Eurekas.[2] After the latter game, baseball writer 
Henry Chadwick commented on the skills of the young Cummings and his promising 
future with the Excelsior club.[3] Cummings played for the Excelsiors next 
season and continued as the main pitcher for the Stars of Brooklyn from 
1868 to 1871. Cummings, who stood 5'9" and weighed 120 pounds,[4] compiled 
a 145-94 career record and 2.49 ERA while playing for five different teams 
from 1872 to 1877. Between 1872 and 1875, Cummings pitched in the National 
Association (NA) with the New York Mutuals, Baltimore Canaries, Philadelphia 
White Stockings and Hartford Dark Blues. Cummings won between 28 and 35 
games in each of his NA seasons.[5] He spent only two seasons in the National 
League (NL), earning a 16-8 win-loss record with Hartford when the league 
began in 1876 and a 5-14 record with Cincinnati the next year.[4] Among 
other records, Cummings was the first player to record two complete games 
in one day: September 9, 1876 when he beat the Cincinnati Reds 14-4 and 
8-4.[6] Cummings left the NL after pitching only 19 games with the Cincinnati 
Reds to become the President of the new International Association for Professional 
Base Ball Players.[2] Cummings is often credited with being the first pitcher 
to throw a curveball, reportedly in 1867 at Worcester, Massachusetts while 
playing for the Brooklyn Excelsiors; some sources say later with the Brooklyn 
Stars.[7] It was not until the Stars acquired catcher Nat Hicks that Cummings 
was able to use his curveball. Most catchers of his era stood twenty to 
twenty-five feet behind the batter, which made it impossible to field a 
curveball. It was Hicks' catching technique of standing directly behind 
the batter that allowed Cummings to introduce his curveball.[7] The introduction 
of the curveball radically changed pitching, and also changed the way catchers 
fielded their position.[7] Cummings said that he discovered the idea of 
the curveball while studying the movement sea shells made when thrown. 
After noticing this movement, he began trying to make a baseball move the 
same way, and thus created the new pitch.[2] He would later recall from 
that game: "I became fully convinced that I had succeeded ... the batters 
were missing a lot of balls; I began to watch the flight of the ball through 
the air, and distinctly saw it curve." Another pitcher to claim inventing 
the curveball is New Haven, Connecticut-born Fred Goldsmith. Goldsmith 
is credited with the first publicly recorded demonstration of the pitch 
on August 16, 1870, at the Capitoline Grounds in Brooklyn, New York. Sportswriter 
Henry Chadwick covered that in the Brooklyn Eagle newspaper, August 17, 
1870.[2] According to a 2002 article by ESPN's Steve Wulf, Cummings was 
"fairly well-connected" in baseball, as evidenced by his position with 
the International Association, and this might explain why he received credit 
for inventing the pitch. Baseball leaders Chadwick, Harry Wright and Albert 
Spalding supported Cummings's contention.[1] After baseball, Cummings received 
a small royalty from the invention of a railway coupling device. He owned 
a paint and wallpaper shop in Athol, Massachusetts.[1] Cummings died in 
Toledo, Ohio.[8] He is buried at Aspen Grove Cemetery in Ware.[9] He was 
