The Canisius College Golden Griffins are composed of 16 teams representing 
Canisius College in intercollegiate athletics, including men and women's 
basketball, cross country, track, lacrosse, soccer, and swimming and diving. 
Men's sports include baseball, ice hockey, and golf. Women's sports include 
volleyball, soccer, and softball. The Golden Griffins compete in the NCAA 
Division I and are members of the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference (MAAC) 
for most sports, except for the men's ice hockey team, which competes in 
Atlantic Hockey. The 2008 Baseball team won the regular season MAAC championship 
for the first time in its history with a 41-13 record breaking the school 
record for wins in a season. One season later, the team advanced to its 
first MAAC Championship game in program history.[2] In 2008, Canisius men's 
lacrosse won the MAAC tournament and earned its first ever bid to the NCAA 
Men's Lacrosse Championship tournament.[3] Canisius again won the MAAC 
championship in 2012. Sitting at 2-7, The Griffs would win their final 
2 regular season games to advance to the MAAC championship as the 3 seed. 
From there Canisius would avenge regular season losses to Detroit 12-10 
and Siena 10-9 en route to their 2nd MAAC Championship and automatic qualifier. 
The Griffs would eventually fall to 2012 NCAA champion Loyola.[4] The Canisius 
College softball team recently won the 2009 Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference 
tournament, its 3rd consecutive title win, marking the team's 11th trip 
to the NCAA tournament in the last 15 years. The softball team is consistently 
the winner of the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference tournament.[5] The 
Canisius synchronized swim team has been the 3rd place team in the nation 
since 2008, fielding several national champions in several categories each 
year. The team has been ECAC champions since 1996. Canisius won the Canal 
Cup in 2008 and 2009. The cup commemorates the athletic rivalry between 
Canisius College and Niagara University. Canisius has won the trophy two 
times in the Canal Cup's three-year existence.[6] Canisius' mascot is the 
Golden Griffin. The college adopted it in 1932, after Charles A. Brady 
('33) wrote a story in a Canisius publication honoring Buffalo's centennial 
year as a city. Brady wrote about Rene-Robert LaSalle's Le Griffon, the 
first European ship to sail the upper Great Lakes, built here in Buffalo. 
The name stuck, and Canisius' mascot was born. According to GoGriffs.com, 
the griffin is a "mythical creature of supposed gigantic size that has 
the head, forelegs and wings of an eagle and the hindquarters, tail and 
ears of a lion." It represents values such as strength, vigilance, and 
intelligence, all of which befit a college and qualities that one would 
look for in students and athletes alike. The College was also the home 
field of the Buffalo All-Americans of the early National Football League. 
Around 1917, Buffalo manager, Barney Lepper, signed a lease for the team 
to play their home games at Canisius College. The All-Americans played 
several of their games at Canisius before relocating to Bison Stadium in 
