Ledell Titcomb (August 21, 1866 – June 8, 1950)—often erroneously referred 
to as "Cannonball" or "Cannon Ball" Titcomb—was an American pitcher in 
Major League Baseball who played for several teams in the National League 
and American Association. Born in West Baldwin, Maine, he pitched a total 
of five seasons, finishing with a 30-29 record and a 3.47 earned run average. 
Titcomb pitched a no-hitter on September 15, 1890, against the Syracuse 
Stars, a 7-0 victory. Also, in two games at third base, he fielded all 
five of his chances cleanly, while putting up a respectable 2.50 range 
factor. Titcomb died at the age of 83 in Kingston, New Hampshire, and was 
interred at Greenwood Cemetery in Kingston.[2] At the age of 18, Titcomb 
made his professional baseball debut for the Haverhill, Massachusetts, 
team of the Eastern New England League.[3] Titcomb made his Major League 
debut on May 5, 1886, for the Philadelphia Quakers in a game against the 
New York Giants. Philadelphia lost 4-2.[4] He would finish the 1886 season 
0-5 in 5 starts with a 3.73 earned run average. Titcomb would split the 
1887 with the Philadelphia Athletics (AA) of the American Association and 
the New York Giants. He also played for the Jersey City Skeeters of the 
International Association in 1887. He would stay with the Giants for the 
1888 and 1889 season. 1890 was his final Major League season, and he spent 
it with the Rochester Broncos. On September 15, Titcomb threw a no-hitter 
against the Syracuse Stars. He would finish his major league career with 
a 30-29 record, a 3.74 earned run average, and 283 strikeouts.[5] In 1890 
Titcomb played in the minors for the Rochester Hop Bitters of the Eastern 
Association. Titcomb pitched in one game for the Providence Clamdiggers, 
pitching in one inning.[6] Titcomb was the son of Joseph J. Titcomb, a 
carpenter, and Fanny M. Titcomb.[7] He was married to Margaret B. Titcomb, 
and they resided in both Massachusetts and New Hampshire.[8] Posthumous 
chronicles and reference works about Titcomb refer to him as "Cannonball" 
(or "Cannon Ball") Titcomb, thus assigning him a nickname which was never 
used during Titcomb's playing days and did not appear in newsprint until 
Titcomb was 82. SABR historian and author Bill Lamb[9] researched the origins 
of the nickname and in Fall 2016 published an article in the SABR quarterly 
newsletter Nineteenth Century Notes debunking the nickname. After analyzing 
between 600 and 700 newspaper articles mentioning Titcomb, Lamb discovered 
that, "For the most part, Titcomb was identified by last name only during 
his pro career. On at least 17 occasions, however, 'Ledell Titcomb' appeared 
in newsprint. At no time whatsoever during his professional playing career 
did the putative nickname 'Cannon Ball'/'Cannonball' appear in the newspapers 
that covered Titcomb." Lamb further wrote, "A search for the surname Titcomb 
in newspapers published from the start of Titcomb’s playing days in 1884 
until the day before his death in June 1950 via GenealogyBank yielded 10,458 
page hits. Linkage of the word 'Cannonball' with 'Titcomb' promptly reduced 
that number to zero." After his playing days, during which Titcomb worked 
in shoe manufacturing, reported Lamb, he was accorded "sparse newspaper 
attention. ... But on the odd occasion when his name did appear in print, 
it was always given as 'Ledell Titcomb,' never as 'Cannon Ball'/'Cannonball' 
Titcomb." The nickname first appears in print in 1948, two years before 
Titcomb's death. The Haverhill [Massachusetts] Gazette published a profile 
of the long-retired player, and the article included the following passage: 
“Those who remember Titcomb will recall that his pitches were so fast that 
the only fellow who could catch them was Bill (sic) Robinson, who later 
became manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers. His mates at Haverhill nicknamed 
him ‘Cannonball’ after he split a plank with a pitched ball.” However, 
the unsubstantiated claim was unattributed in the article. When Titcomb 
passed away in 1950, the Gazette repeated the nickname in an obit which 
included numerous biographical errors. Thereafter, obits appeared in the 
Associated Press and in The Sporting News, both of which drew upon the 
Gazette obit, repeating the erroneous nickname as well as the factual errors.[10] 
