The Canton Bulldogs–Massillon Tigers betting scandal was the first major 
scandal in professional football in the United States. It refers to a series 
of allegations made by a Massillon newspaper charging the Canton Bulldogs 
coach, Blondy Wallace, and Massillon Tigers end, Walter East, of conspiring 
to fix a two-game series between the two clubs. One account of the scandal 
called for Canton to win the first game and Massillon was to win the second, 
forcing a third game—with the biggest gate—to be played legitimately, with 
the 1906 Ohio League championship at stake. Another account accused Wallace 
and East of bribing Massillon players to throw a game in the series. Canton 
denied the charges, maintaining that Massillon only wanted to damage the 
club's reputation. Although Massillon could not prove that Canton had indeed 
thrown the second game and it remains unknown if there was ever a match-fixing 
agreement, the scandal tarnished the Bulldogs name and reportedly helped 
ruin professional football in Ohio until the mid-1910s. From 1905 until 
1906, the Bulldogs and Tigers were arguably the best two teams in the country. 
Located just 15 miles apart in Stark County, both teams were constantly 
fighting to recruit the best players in football. In fact the Bulldogs, 
or Canton Athletic Club as they were called at the time, formed their football 
team in 1905 with the sole objective of beating the Tigers, who had won 
every Ohio League championship since 1903. Both teams spent lavish amounts 
of money to bring in ringers from out-of-town. The very first Canton-Massillon 
game was played on November 30, 1905. The game was the season finale for 
both clubs. Up until that finale game, Massillon had posted an 8-0 record, 
while Canton posted an 8-1 record, with only a 6-0 loss against the Latrobe 
Athletic Association from Pennsylvania. Massillon went on to win the game 
14-4. The victory brought the Tigers the Ohio League championship for the 
third consecutive season.[1] In the off-season prior to the 1906 season, 
a news story in The Plain Dealer alleged that the Canton Athletic Club 
was financially broke and could not pay its players for the final game 
of 1905. The club denied the allegation and insisted that every dollar 
promised had indeed been delivered. Many Canton followers believed the 
story had originated in Massillon as a trick to discredit their team and 
make it tougher for Canton to recruit players for 1906. Massillon coach, 
Ed Stewart, who had newspaper connections, was believed by Canton to have 
planted the story. However, while Canton was in fact losing money in 1905, 
a group of area businessmen shouldered the losses. In a counter-charge, 
Canton insisted that the Tigers were also deeply in debt. However, a statement 
by the Tigers showed $16,037.90 in receipts and only $16,015.65 in expenditures. 
The only problem with Massillon's figures was that they only listed salaries, 
including railroad fare, at $6,740.95, which means the players were getting 
only about $50 per game. However, it is believed, like with Canton, that 
Massillon's area boosters picked up whatever losses the Tigers incurred 
during 1905.[2][3] For the 1906 season, Canton's coach Blondy Wallace signed 
the entire 1905 Massillon Tigers' backfield to play for Canton.[4] While 
in Massillion, Ed Stewart was promoted from head coach to manager, replacing 
J.J. Wise. Meanwhile, Sherburn Wightman, who played under Amos Alonzo Stagg, 
while attending the University of Chicago, was named the team's new coach.[3] 
An earlier agreement between the two clubs called for each home team to 
receive 60 percent of the gate admission and reserved seating rights. However, 
Massillon disliked the deal because Canton would receive more money for 
the games, since their stadium was larger, and the game at Canton would 
be played in October, instead of the November weather to be seen in Massillon. 
This led the Tigers to ask that the game, to be held in Massillon, be played 
on Thanksgiving Day, when every football fan would attend regardless of 
the weather. However that October, Wallace traveled to Pennsylvania to 
recruit players for the upcoming game against Massillon. There he scheduled 
a Thanksgiving Day game against the Latrobe Athletic Association, who was 
the top team in Pennsylvania, and one of the toughest squads in the country. 
The Latrobe squad featured star quarterback John Brallier, and dealt Canton 
a defeat in 1905. Finally, the teams agreed to play two games of football 
against other and share equally the gate receipts. Both games were to be 
played in November. The Canton home game was slated for Friday, November 
16; while the Massillon home game come on Saturday, November 24, the weekend 
before Thanksgiving. However, many Tigers followers felt that the allegedly 
scheduled Canton-Latrobe game was only scam to get Massillon to agree to 
lesser terms. Therefore, language was added to the agreement that if Massillon 
did anything to disrupt the Canton-Latrobe game, they'd lose all of their 
gate money from their first game at Canton to the Bulldogs. The money from 
the November 16 was held in a Canton bank. To ensure that the Thanksgiving 
Day game between Latrobe and Canton was legitimate, the gate money from 
the second Bulldogs-Tigers as also kept on hold, this time at Merchants' 
National Bank, in Massillon. If the Canton-Latrobe game never occurred, 
then Massillon would be entitled to all of Canton's gate money from the 
second Canton-Massillon game. Each team was also required to put up a $3,000 
bond, as insurance that each team would show on the game days.[3] To prepare 
for their series against Massillon, Blondy Wallace took his team on the 
campus of Penn State University to conduct drills and practices. There 
Nittany Lions coach, Tom Fennell, gave Canton, now officially called the 
"Bulldogs", special instructions in the use of the forward pass. Then much 
anticipated first Canton-Massillon game was finally held at Canton's Mahaffey 
Park. It was the biggest football game yet in Ohio, even bigger than the 
clubs' 1905 game. The Bell Telephone Company even had men stationed in 
the grounds observing. As fast as a play was made, it was telegraphed to 
every major city in the United States.[5] Big games, like these, always 
brought out theories of a fix. However, Massillon's Ed Stewart stated that 
it would be impossible to fix the coming game, stating that an entire team, 
not just certain players would have to be involved. "Big Bill" Edwards, 
a former player from Princeton officiated the game, and kept both teams 
in check. The first game went to Canton by a score of 10-5.[3] However 
things became more heated for second game. The Tigers vowed to defeat Canton 
with their same roster from November 16, while Bell Telephone again announced 
it would telegraph a play-by-play account of the second game. The only 
roster change occurred when the Bulldogs signed Eddie Wood, a regular end 
from the Latrobe Athletic Association, to play in the rematch for an injured 
player named Gilchrist. Meanwhile, Stewart announced that "Big Bill" Edwards 
would be unavailable to referee because he'd be officiating that year's 
Yale-Harvard game. Edward Whiting of Cornell University, who'd umpired 
the first game at Canton, agreed bring a replacement referee with him.[3][5] 
Prior to the start of the game, a disagreement over which ball to use occurred. 
Massillon showed up with a ball, several ounces lighter than the Spalding 
brand ball Canton was used to. Blondy Wallace protested that ball made 
by Spalding was the norm, however, Massillon was adamant about keeping 
the lighter ball, which was provided to the Tigers by Ed Stewart. Wallace's 
protest fell on deaf ears, and was told by game's officials that he could 
either accept the lighter ball or forfeit both the game and the $3,000 
guarantee. Historians believe that reason for Massillon's insistence for 
lighter ball was to help their kicking game. The Bulldogs, coming off of 
their 10-5 win a week ago, was favored to win the game. However, Massillon 
outplayed Canton and won the rematch 13-6 and was named the Ohio League's 
1906 champions for the fourth straight year.[3][4][5] Once the game was 
over, Canton's coach, Blondy Wallace, in a show of sportsmanship, joined 
the Massillon celebration and congratulated the Tigers on their championship. 
However the evening after the second game at the Courtland Hotel Bar, a 
brawl erupted among several of the Canton players and fans over allegations 
that the game had been fixed.[5] Jack Cusack, who would become the owner 
and manager of the Canton Bulldogs from 1912 until 1915, wrote in his book 
Pioneer in Pro Football that the fight was started by Cusack's neighbor, 
Victor Kaufmann, a physician who suffered heavy betting losses on the disputed 
contest. Cusack stated that he went with Kaufmann to the Courtland Hotel 
Bar, where Kaufman loudly made allegations of a fix. A large bar fight 
started in the hotel's bar area and quickly spread onto the street. Police 
were then called to break-up the disturbance, but Cusack and Kaufmann reportedly 
avoided arrest.[6] Meanwhile, Massillon's Ed Stewart, through his newspaper 
Massillon Independent, charged that an actual attempt was made to bribe 
some of the Tiger players into throwing the game and that Blondy Wallace 
had been involved.[5] One story suggested that Canton players had bet large 
amounts of money on themselves to win, while approaching the Massillon 
players and asking them to throw the game in exchange for a share of Canton's 
winnings. Some Canton followers then wondered if Wallace threw the game 
to Massillon in order to collect on some of the game's wagers. At first 
the play-calling strategy of Wallace was the focus of suspicion, but as 
the scandal grew, a number of contradictory allegations came out.[3] Canton 
denied the charges, maintaining that Massillon only wanted to ruin the 
club's reputation before their final game against the Latrobe Athletic 
Association on Thanksgiving Day. Canton's counter-charge was that the scandal 
was designed by the Tigers to cripple the Bulldogs financially by destroying 
the gate revenue for the Latrobe game. Massillon could not prove the charge, 
however, the stands were almost empty for the Thanksgiving Day Latrobe-Canton 
game, leaving Canton unable to pay their players.[4] In 1934 Pro Football: 
Its Ups and Downs, a historically inaccurate book documenting early professional 
football, was published. The book the documented the scandal and was used 
by sports historians for the next 70 years.[7] The author of this book 
was Dr. Harry A. March was a former player at Mount Union College, an executive 
for the New York Giants from 1925 to 1936 and later an organizer of the 
second American Football League. However, March also practiced medicine 
in Canton in 1906 and was named one of the Bulldogs team doctors.[3][8] 
Of the incident, March stated that Wallace persuaded an unnamed Canton 
player to deliberately throw the game. When accused by his teammates, this 
player said he had simply obeyed orders. The player then quickly left town, 
on the first available train, while still in his uniform. The Professional 
Football Researchers Association has identified this player, as Eddie Wood 
of Latrobe. March gave the impression that he was running for his life 
from angry fans and teammates. However, even before the second Canton-Massillon 
game began, it was announced that Wood would be on the first train back 
to Latrobe, once the game ended. Not to mention that when Wood returned 
on the following Thursday with the Latrobe team, he was not attacked by 
the fans or his ex-Canton teammates. Also Wood scored the Bulldogs only 
score of the game. As for following Wallace's orders, Wood often crashed 
the middle of the field on defense, allowing the Tigers to escape outside. 
However, Massillon was historically known for running up the middle of 
field.[3] Massillon manager Ed Stewart never stated that which Canton-Massillon 
game was fixed. Instead his accusation was that an attempt had been made 
to bribe some Massillion players before the first game. According to Stewart, 
Massillon players, Tiny Maxwell and Bob Shiring had been solicited to throw 
the first game by Walter East, a baseball player-turned end, who claimed 
to be backed by $50,000. Maxwell and Shiring then reported the offer to 
Tigers' coach Sherburn Wightman and the scandal ended before it began. 
East was then released by the Tigers. Only then was Wallace named by Stewart 
of being East's accomplice.[3] When East returned to Akron, he accused 
the Tiger's coach Sherburn Wightman of masterminding the scandal. According 
to East, Wightman had first asked him to solicit Maxwell and Shiring and 
have them throw the game, he then had East find a backer who would pay 
Wightman $4,000. However Wightman backed out of the deal at the last minute. 
He later went on to add that no member of the Bulldogs or their backers, 
as far as he knew, were connected with the deal. He finally stated that 
the only reason that Stewart went public on scandal was to ruin the attendance 
for the Canton-Latrobe game. East then gave the Akron Beacon-Journal a 
copy of a contract in which Wightman agreed to have the first Canton-Massillon 
game thrown for $4,000. The contract was signed by East, Wightman and John 
T. Windsor, one of the owners of East's Akron baseball team.[3] It should 
also be noted that East, boasted of fixing a college football game, as 
well as a baseball game in 1905. Meanwhile, Windsor admitted to his part 
in the scheme, backing up East's story. He said that he never even met 
Wallace.[3] In an interview to The Plain Dealer, Wightman stated that the 
contract signed by himself, East and Windsor was done in accordance with 
instruction from Ed Stewart and the backers of the Massillon team. He stated 
that he reported East's scheme to Stewart, and was told to go along with 
deal to see which Massillon players would agree to throwing the game and 
then remove them from the team. He then stated that he kept up the act 
until he had the signatures of East and Windsor down on paper. Only then 
was East released from the team. Stewart defended the coach, agreeing that 
Wightman had entered into the contract with East and Windsor at the behest 
of the Tiger backers in order to get the goods on the fixers.[3] Back in 
Akron, Walter East was seen as being the hapless victim of a crooked team. 
He was retained as manager of the Akron baseball team for the 1907 season. 
However he was later fired after the team began losing. The scandal caused 
Wallace to file a libel lawsuit against Stewart and the Massillon Independent 
for $25,000, with Wallace claiming that his good name and professional 
credit have been ruined due to the paper's story. However, his libel suit 
never came to trial, it is believed that he may have settled the case out 
of court. By this time, Wallace was too deep in debt to turn down any reasonable 
cash offer. He later became a bootlegger in Atlantic City and was, for 
a time, under federal indictment. As for the scandal, the lack of a trial 
left the details of the events still disputed by historians and football 
fans alike. Because Wallace possibly settled out of court, there was no 
real conclusion to the fix scandal—just charges and countercharges.[3] 
Due to Harry March's book, Wallace was seen as being responsible for the 
scandal for the next 70 years. The Bulldogs defeated Latrobe 16-0 in front 
of their smallest crowd in years, 1,200 fans. Canton blamed the scandal 
for the small crowd, however, some believe that once the Bulldogs lost 
to Massillon, many fans lost interest in football. Therefore, regardless 
of a scandal, the game's attendance still would have fallen well below 
expectations. Canton players were not paid as a result, in addition. To 
help pay for the Latrobe team's expenses an effort was established in Latrobe, 
which raised part of the team's $300 expense debt, and the balance of the 
money was borrowed by the YMCA so that it could be paid.[9] Meanwhile, 
the Tigers traveled to Chicago to beat the "All-Western" team. The attendance 
for that game was a mere 2,000 spectators.[3] The timing of the betting 
scandal being made public damaged Canton far more than Massillon. Many 
allegations stated that Canton threw the second game of series, however, 
if the story had broken after Massillon's earlier loss to Canton, the Tigers 
would have been more damaged. However, the scandal engulfed both teams 
and forced them to fold. Although Massillon could not prove that Canton 
had indeed thrown the game, it so tarnished Canton's name that virtually 
no one attended the Latrobe game. The Bulldogs, including Wallace, were 
now broke. A story by the Pittsburgh Post estimated that team still owed 
its players $6,000 for the 1906 season. A benefit game between Massillon 
and Canton to help pay the Bulldog players only drew 500 fans and resulted 
in a 5-5 tie.[3] The proceeds from the game was only enough to get the 
remaining Canton players a train ticket home. The Tigers were also financially 
broke. However, the team still had enough money to pay its players. The 
Massillon-area fielded a team of locals in 1907. The "All-Massillons" under 
Sherburn Wightman went on to win the 1907 Ohio league championship. Wightman 
and Stewart were still held in high regard in Massillon.[10] The scandal 
was thought to have ruined professional football in Ohio until the mid 
1910s. However the argument can be made that the expense of placing all-star 
teams on the field each week, also put a hamper on the sport. The Canton 
Morning News put a $20,000 price tag on the Massillon Tigers 1906 team, 
while many speculate that the cost of the Bulldogs probably even higher. 
Still others contend that the games involving top teams like Canton and 
Massilon were too one-sided and lacked excitement. Many towns in Ohio still 
fielded clubs over the next several years, and these new pros were consisted 
more of hometown talent, with only the occasional ringer.[3] Peggy Parratt, 
Massillon's quarterback, stayed in Massillon for the 1907 season, but he 
then began moving from team to team in the region, racking up Ohio League 
titles on a nearly annual basis. A second incarnation of the Bulldogs would 
be established in 1911 and would later go to win two championships in the 
National Football League. The diminished stature of Ohio pro football led 
to other areas of the country building top professional teams, including 
