The Capitoline Grounds, also known as Capitoline Skating Lake and Base 
Ball Ground,[2] was a baseball park located in Brooklyn, New York from 
1864 to 1880. It was built to rival nearby Union Grounds, also in Brooklyn. 
The park hosted local amateur teams in its early history, but later hosted 
professional and semi-professional games. The park's only season as the 
home field for an all-professional team occurred in 1872 when the Brooklyn 
Atlantics joined the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players. 
The park was flooded during the winter and used as an ice skating park. 
The grounds were used by local high schools and colleges as well, to play 
American football games, and ice rink football matches.[3][4] Many of organized 
baseball's earliest historical events took place at the park throughout 
the 1860s and early 1870s. The most notable event came on June 14, 1870, 
when the Atlantics defeated the Cincinnati Red Stockings to end their historic 
84-game winning streak. Fred Goldsmith successfully demonstrated his curve 
ball at the Grounds in 1870, a pitch previously thought to have been only 
an optical illusion. In an 1865 game, Ned Cuthbert is credited with inventing 
the slide when he tried avoiding a tag when attempting to steal a base 
against the Athletic of Philadelphia. In addition to baseball, The Grounds 
hosted various events and exhibitions; most notably in 1873, when Washington 
Donaldson and two reporters attempted to fly a hot-air balloon across the 
Atlantic Ocean. The attempt turned tragic when the balloon crashed in Connecticut 
killing one of the reporters. Reuben S. Decker inherited a portion of his 
grandfather's farm land and along with Hamilton A. Weed initially opened 
the Capitoline Skating pond, named in reverence to Capitoline Hill, one 
of the Seven Hills of Rome.[5] The location of the grounds were in the 
Bedford area of Brooklyn, New York, an area now known as the Bedford-Stuyvesant 
neighborhood.[6][7] The Grounds encompassed a city block bounded by Halsey 
Street, Marcy Street, Putnam Avenue, and Nostrand Avenue.[8] The pond area 
was first conceived as an ice skate park, which began in the Winter of 
1862-1863.[5] Designed to be a competitor to the nearby Union Grounds, 
where the first enclosed baseball field opened earlier in 1862.[5][6] With 
the success that the Union Grounds experienced by charging admission, Decker 
and Weed chose to enclose the Capitoline Grounds as well.[5] The Capitoline 
Grounds opened for baseball in 1864, now consisting of two sets of bleachers 
that were backed by Nostrand Avenue and Halsey Street, and had an approximate 
capacity of 5,000 people.[6] In right field stood a circular brick outhouse, 
and if any player hit a ball over the structure, they were presented with 
a bottle of Champagne.[6] Along Putnam Avenue, two rows of stables were 
established for the patrons' horses. Other amenities included a bandstand, 
clubhouses, and sitting rooms for the female patrons.[9] The Brooklyn Daily 
Eagle regarded the new park as "the finest, most extensive, and complete 
ball grounds in the country."[10] The business ran year around; flooding 
the area during the Winter season for skating, then draining the park in 
the spring for baseball matches.[6] The first team to use the grounds as 
their home field was the Atlantics of Brooklyn, baseball's most successful 
team since the formation of the National Association of Base Ball Players 
(NABBP) in 1857.[11] The club had won the most games in 1857, then won 
the league's first three championships from 1859 to 1861. On May 5, 1864, 
the first baseball game at Capitoline was a match between the Atlantics 
and a field of nine players from other Brooklyn teams chosen by sportswriter 
Henry Chadwick. The Atlantic club defeated the field of nine, 45-11. Later, 
Atlantic defeated Nassau of Princeton 42–7 in the field's first scheduled 
club match.[12] The Enterprise of Brooklyn used the Grounds as their home 
field 1864, and the Excelsior of Brooklyn later moved there in 1866. Both 
the Enterprise and the Excelsior clubs refused to play the Atlantics, but 
they did play a number of matches together, mixing their best nines and 
their "muffin" nines of club novices.[12] The Atlantics won the NABBP champtionship 
in 1864 with an undefeated record.[11] In early November 1865, the Atlantics 
played the Athletic of Philadelphia in a two-game, season-ending series. 
Brooklyn came into the series undefeated, and this was considered a play 
for the league's championship. The games were played one week apart, the 
first occurred in Philadelphia, which resulted in a 21-15 victory for Brooklyn. 
In the second game, played in Brooklyn in front of a crowd of approximately 
15,000 spectators, the Atlantics prevailed, this time 27-24.[13] The Atlantics 
won the championship again in 1866.[11] On June 28, 1869, a championship 
match between the Atlantic club and the New York Mutuals was played on 
the Capitoline Grounds before a crowd of 10‚000. The Atlantics were ahead 
in the seventh before the game was stopped due to rain.[14] Later, on September 
6, the Eckford Club began a championship series for the pennant with the 
Atlantic club at the Capitoline Grounds. With 8‚000 spectators on hand, 
the Atlantics defeated the Eckfords 45–25‚ supported by Joe Start's four 
home runs.[14] Due to other local competitors opening area that could hold 
more ballfields, the Capitoline Grounds split their field into two fields 
to accommodate more amateur clubs.[10] The first instance of two high profile 
teams to begin a season with a practice game happened at the Grounds on 
April 21, 1870. A crowd of 1‚200 paid $.25 apiece to watch the Atlantics 
and the Union of Morrisania play; the Atlantics won the game 24–10.[15] 
The game played at the Capitoline Grounds on June 14, 1870, a match described 
both as the "greatest game of the year," and "the finest game ever played" 
took place.[15] With approximately 20,000 people in attendance, Harry Wright 
and the Cincinnati Red Stockings attempted to extend their 84-game winning 
streak against the Atlantics in Brooklyn. The Red Stockings had been undefeated 
in 1869, with a record of 57–0, and had won their first 27 games of the 
1870 season.[16] The game was tied 5–5 at the end of the ninth inning, 
when the Atlantics offered to let the game end since the regulation nine 
innings had been played, but Wright turned down the proposal, wishing to 
take the game into extra innings.[16] In the top of the 11th inning‚ the 
Red Stockings scored two runs, giving themselves a 7–5 lead, but the Atlantics 
countered with three of their own in the bottom half of the 11th, winning 
the game.[16] Sportswriter Henry Chadwick wrote an account that on August 
16, 1870, Fred Goldsmith demonstrated a new pitch, the curve ball, at the 
Capitoline Grounds.[17] Chadwick observed: "That which had up to this point 
been considered an optical illusion and against all rules of philosophy 
was now an established fact."[17] By the 1930s, the established baseball 
community had given the discovery credit to Candy Cummings, and due to 
Chapman's age, determined that his demonstration has most likely occurred 
a few years later.[17] The only season of Major League Baseball at the 
Capitoline Grounds was in 1872. The Atlantics, then of the National Association, 
won the final major league game there 6-3 over Boston, but left for the 
Union Grounds in 1873.[6] The Capitoline Grounds continued to host lesser 
matches, as well such events as P.T. Barnum's circus. John B. Day, who 
owned the New York Metropolitans in 1880, was frustrated about having to 
play at the ill-kept Capitoline Grounds in Brooklyn, which was not yet 
a borough of New York City, and the construction of the Brooklyn Bridge 
had not yet been completed, so the fans of the Mets had to cross the East 
River by ferry to see their team play. Day's shoe shine boy suggested a 
site in Manhattan, a place where polo matches were being played. That piece 
of ground later became the future site of the Polo Grounds.[18] The Grounds 
were demolished in 1880.[6] In September 1873, Washington Donaldson, a 
professional balloonist who had formerly worked for P.T. Barnum as a circus 
performer, along with fellow balloonist John Wise, collaborated on an attempt 
to cross the Atlantic Ocean in a hot-air balloon. Sponsored by the Daily 
Graphic, the launch was to take place from the Capitoline Grounds, with 
Wise planning to use a balloon 49 meters (160 feet) tall with a two-compartment 
enclosed car, but decided to end his involvement with the project. Donaldson 
persisted, acquiring a smaller balloon with an open boat for the car.[19] 
Donaldson's Atlantic attempt, launched from the Capitoline Grounds accompanied 
by reporters Alfred Ford and George Lunt, ended up being forced down by 
a rainstorm, to land on a Connecticut farm.[20] Donaldson and Ford successfully 
abandoned the runaway balloon, but Lunt stayed with the balloon for a distance 
until he finally jumped into a tree, sustaining serious injuries from which 
he died six months later.[21] Donaldson later disappeared in 1875 when 
he tried to fly across Lake Michigan in a balloon, accompanied by a reporter 
named Newton Grimwood. The balloon never made it to the far shore; Grimwood's 
body washed up on shore weeks later, but Donaldson was never seen again.[19] 
In Darryl Brock's 1990 novel, If I Never Get Back: A Novel, the main character 
is transported back in time to 1869, where he joins the Cincinnati Red 
Stockings on their quest to remain undefeated. The Red Stockings travelled 
