In baseball, a captain is an honorary title sometimes given to a member 
of the team to acknowledge his leadership. In the early days of baseball, 
a captain was a player who was responsible for many of the functions now 
assumed by managers and coaches, such as preparing lineups, making decisions 
about strategy, and encouraging teamwork.[1] In amateur or youth baseball, 
a manager or coach may appoint a team captain to assist in communicating 
with the players and to encourage teamwork and improvement.[2] Major League 
Baseball's official rules only briefly mention the position of team captain. 
Section 4.01, which discusses the submission of a team's lineup to the 
umpire, notes that obvious errors in the lineup should be brought to the 
attention of the team's manager or captain.[3] In Major League Baseball, 
only a handful of teams now designate a player as captain. Jerry Remy, 
who was named as captain of the California Angels in 1977 at age 24, explains, 
"there's probably no need for a captain on a major league team. I think 
there are guys who lead by example. You could name the best player on your 
team as captain, but he may not be the guy other players will talk to or 
who will quietly go to other players and give them a prod."[4] David Wright 
of the New York Mets is currently the only captain of a Major League Baseball 
team.[5] He does not wear an NHL-style "C" on his jersey. Retired first 
baseman Mike Sweeney, former captain of the Kansas City Royals from 2003 
to 2007, wore the "C" patch, as did two other recently retired captains: 
John Franco of the Mets, and Jason Varitek of the Boston Red Sox. In the 
19th and early 20th century, the captain held most of the on-field responsibilities 
that are held by managers and coaches in modern baseball. For example, 
according to the 1898 official rules, the captain was responsible for assigning 
the players' positions and batting order, for appealing to the umpire if 
he observed certain violations (for example, if the other team intentionally 
discolored the ball or its players illegally left the bench), and for informing 
the umpire of any special ground rules. During a period when teams didn't 
carry full-time coaches, the captain and one or more other players could 
serve as "coachers" of the base runners; the lines setting off the section 
where they were allowed to stand were designated as "captain's lines." 
If the umpire made a decision that could "be plainly shown by the code 
of rules to have been illegal", the "captain alone shall be allowed to 
make the appeal for reversal." The rules state that the captain must be 
one of the nine players, implying that a non-playing manager would not 
have been allowed to act in the captain's role. In contrast with modern 
baseball, the 1898 rules do not mention the managers having any rights 
to interact with the umpires. The rules allowed managers to sit on the 
team's bench during the game, but were otherwise silent with respect to 
rights and responsibilities of managers.[6] In early baseball, many teams 
had playing managers who had both the off-field responsibilities of managers 
and the on-field responsibilities of captains. They held the title of "manager-captain."[7] 
In contrast, teams that had non-playing managers hired a player to serve 
as captain. For example, in early 1902 Jack Doyle was signed as captain 
and first baseman of the New York Giants while non-player Horace Fogel 
was manager.[8] Though the role of a captain has been significant in the 
histories of teams such as the New York Yankees, the Boston Red Sox, and 
the San Francisco Giants, other teams, such as the Milwaukee Brewers, have, 
