Caracas (Spanish pronunciation: [kaˈɾakas]; locally: [kaˈɾaːkaʰ]), officially 
Santiago de León de Caracas, is the capital, the center of the Greater 
Caracas Area, and the largest city of Venezuela. Caracas is located along 
the Guaire River in the northern part of the country, following the contours 
of the narrow Caracas Valley on the Venezuelan coastal mountain range (Cordillera 
de la Costa). Terrain suitable for building lies between 760 and 910 m 
(2,490 and 2,990 ft) above sea level. The valley is close to the Caribbean 
Sea, separated from the coast by a steep 2,200-metre-high (7,200 ft) mountain 
range, Cerro El Ávila; to the south there are more hills and mountains. 
The Metropolitan District of Caracas is made up of five municipalities: 
Libertador Municipality which is the only administrative division of the 
Venezuelan Capital District, and four other municipalities, which are within 
in Miranda State: Chacao, Baruta, Sucre, and El Hatillo. Libertador holds 
many of the government buildings and is the Capital District (Distrito 
Capital). The Distrito Capital had a population of 2,013,366 as of 2011[update],[3] 
while the Metropolitan District of Caracas was estimated at 3,273,863 as 
of 2013.[3] The Metropolitan Region of Caracas has an estimated population 
of 5,243,301. Businesses that are located in the city include service companies, 
banks, and malls, among others. It has a largely service-based economy, 
apart from some industrial activity in its metropolitan area.[4] The Caracas 
Stock Exchange and Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) are headquartered in 
Caracas. PDVSA is the largest company in Venezuela. Caracas is also Venezuela's 
cultural capital, with many restaurants, theaters, museums, and shopping 
centers. Some of the tallest skyscrapers in Latin America are located in 
Caracas. Venezuela and its capital, Caracas, are reported to both have 
among the highest per capita murder rates in the world, with 116 homicides 
per 100,000 inhabitants. Most murders and other violent crimes go unsolved. 
The low class neighborhoods that cover the hills around Caracas are dangerous 
at all times. At the time of the founding of the city in 1567,[5] the valley 
of Caracas was populated by indigenous peoples. Francisco Fajardo, the 
son of a Spanish captain and a Guaiqueri cacica, attempted to establish 
a plantation in the valley in 1562 after founding a series of coastal towns. 
Fajardo's settlement did not last long. It was destroyed by natives of 
the region led by Terepaima and Guaicaipuro. This was the last rebellion 
on the part of the natives. On 25 July 1567, Captain Diego de Losada laid 
the foundations of the city of Santiago de León de Caracas. The foundation 
− 1567 – "I take possession of this land in the name of God and the King" 
These were the words of Don Diego de Losada in founding the city of Caracas 
on 25 July 1567. In 1577 Caracas became the capital of the Spanish Empire's 
Venezuela Province under Governor Juan de Pimentel (1576–1583). During 
the 17th century, the coast of Venezuela was frequently raided by pirates. 
With the coastal mountains as a barrier, Caracas was relatively immune 
to such attacks. However, in 1595, around 200 English privateers including 
George Sommers and Amyas Preston crossed the mountains through a little-used 
pass while the town's defenders were guarding the more often-used one. 
Encountering little resistance, the invaders sacked and set fire to the 
town after a failed ransom negotiation.[6][7] As the cocoa cultivation 
and exports under the Compañía Guipuzcoana de Caracas grew in importance, 
the city expanded. In 1777, Caracas became the capital of the Captaincy 
General of Venezuela. José María España and Manuel Gual led an attempted 
revolution aimed at independence, but the rebellion was put down on 13 
July 1797. Caracas was ultimately the site of the signing of a Declaration 
of Independence on 5 July 1811. In 1812, an earthquake destroyed Caracas. 
The revolutionary war continued until 24 June 1821, when Bolívar defeated 
royalists in the Battle of Carabobo.[8] Caracas grew in economic importance 
during Venezuela's oil boom in the early 20th century. During the 1950s, 
Caracas began an intensive modernization program which continued throughout 
the 1960s and early 1970s. The Universidad Central de Venezuela, designed 
by modernist architect Carlos Raúl Villanueva and declared World Heritage 
by UNESCO, was built. New working- and middle-class residential districts 
sprouted in the valley, extending the urban area toward the east and southeast. 
Joining El Silencio, also designed by Villanueva, were several workers' 
housing districts, 23 de Enero and Simon Rodriguez. Middle-class developments 
include Bello Monte, Los Palos Grandes, Chuao, and El Cafetal. The dramatic 
change in the economic structure of the country, which went from being 
primarily agricultural to dependent on oil production, stimulated the fast 
development of Caracas, and made it a magnet for people in rural communities 
who migrated to the capital city in an unplanned fashion searching for 
greater economic opportunity. This migration created the rancho (slum) 
belt of the valley of Caracas. The flag of Caracas consists of a burgundy 
red field with the version of the Coat of Arms of the City (effective since 
the 1980s). The red field symbolises the blood spilt by Caraquenian people 
in favour of independence and the highest ideals of the Venezuelan Nation. 
Later, in the year 1994, presumably as a result of the change of municipal 
authorities, it was decided to increase the size of the Caracas coat of 
arms and move it to the centre of the field. This version of the flag is 
still in use today. The coat of arms of the City of Caracas was adopted 
by the Libertador Municipality to identify itself. Later, the Metropolitan 
Mayor Office assumed the lion, the scallop and Saint James' Cross for the 
same purpose. The anthem of the city is the Marcha a Caracas, written by 
the composer Tiero Pezzuti de Matteis with the lyrics by José Enrique Sarabia. 
The lyrics are said to be inspired by the heroism of the Caraquenian people, 
and the memory of the City of Red Roofs. Incidentally, the National Anthem 
of Venezuela, Gloria al Bravo Pueblo, includes the lines "...y si el despotismo 
levanta la voz, seguid el ejemplo que Caracas dio" ("...and if despotism 
raises its voice, follow the example that Caracas gave"), reflecting the 
fact that, in addition to generously providing many heroic fighters to 
the War of Independence, the junta established in Caracas (19 April 1810) 
served as inspiration for other regions to do the same—as did its declaration 
of independence a year later. Caracas has five municipalities: Baruta, 
El Hatillo, Chacao, Libertador and Sucre. Under the constitution of Venezuela, 
municipal governments have two branches: the executive (governed by a mayor) 
and the legislative (managed by a municipal council). On 8 March 2000, 
the year after a new constitution was introduced in Venezuela, it was decreed 
in Gaceta Official N° 36,906 that the Metropolitan District of Caracas 
would be created, and that some of the powers of these municipalities would 
be delegated to the Alcaldía Mayor, physically located in the large Libertador 
municipality, in the center of the city. Businesses that are located here 
include service companies, banks, and malls, among others. It has a largely 
service-based economy, apart from some industrial activity in its metropolitan 
area.[4] The Caracas Stock Exchange and Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA) 
are headquartered here. The PDVSA is the largest company in Venezuela,[9] 
and negotiates all the international agreements for the distribution and 
export of petroleum.[10] When the company existed, the airline Viasa had 
its headquarters in the Torre Viasa.[11][12] Caracas' central business 
district is Milla de Oro, which is located in the north of the Baruta municipality 
and the south of the Chacao municipality, it is one of largest financial 
districts of Latin America, it is home to many companies and is dominated 
by numerous high-rises. Other important business districts include Plaza 
Venezuela, Parque Central Complex and El Recreo. Small and medium-size 
industry contributes to the Caracas economy. The city provides communication 
and transportation infrastructure between the metropolitan area and the 
rest of the country. Important industries in Caracas include chemicals, 
textiles, leather, food, iron and wood products. There are also rubber 
and cement factories.[13] Its GDP(Nominal) is 69 billion $ and the GDP(PPP) 
per Capita is $24,000 [14] A 2009 United Nations survey reported that the 
cost of living in Caracas was 89% of that of its baseline city: New York.[15] 
However, this statistic is based upon a fixed currency-exchange-rate of 
2003 and might not be completely realistic, due to the elevated inflation 
rates of the last several years.[16][needs update] In 2013, the World Economic 
forum evaluated countries in terms of how successful they were in advertising 
campaigns to attract foreign visitors. Out of the 140 countries evaluated, 
Venezuela fell in the last place. There are multiple factors that contribute 
to the lack of tourism in Caracas, Venezuela. A major factor that has contributed 
to the lack of foreign visitors has been poor transport for tourists. Venezuela 
has limited railway systems and airlines. High crime rates and the negative 
attitude of the Venezuelan population towards tourism also contributed 
to the poor evaluation. In an attempt to attract more foreign visitors, 
the Venezuelan Ministry of Tourism invested in multiple hotel infrastructures. 
The largest hotel investment has been in the Hotel Alba Caracas. The cost 
for the general maintenance of the north and south towers of the hotel 
is approximately 231.5 million Venezuelan bolivars. Although the Venezuelan 
Ministry of Tourism has taken the initiative to recognize the importance 
of the tourism industry, the Venezuelan government has not placed the tourism 
industry as an economic priority. In 2013, the budget for the Ministry 
of Tourism was only 173.8 million bolivars, while the Ministry of the Youth 
received approximately 724.6 million bolivars. The tourism industry in 
Venezuela contributes approximately 3.8 percent of the country GDP. Venezuela’s 
current goal is to reach a GDP of 7.6 percent. The World Economic Forum 
predicts Venezuela’s GDP to rise to 4.2 percent by 2022. [17] Caracas is 
contained entirely within a valley of the Venezuelan central range, and 
separated from the Caribbean coast by a roughly 15 kilometres (9 miles) 
expanse of El Ávila National Park. The valley is relatively small and quite 
irregular, the altitude with respect to sea level varies from between 870 
and 1,043 meters (2,854 and 3,422 ft), with 900 meters (3,000 feet) in 
the historic zone. This, along with the rapid population growth, has profoundly 
influenced the urban development of the city. The most elevated point of 
the Capital District, wherein the city is located, is the Pico El Ávila, 
which rises to 2,159 meters (7,083 feet). The main body of water in Caracas 
is the Guaire River, which flows across the city and empties into the Tuy 
River, which is also fed by the El Valle and San Pedro rivers, in addition 
to numerous streams which descend from El Ávila. The La Mariposa and Camatagua 
reservoirs provide water to the city. The city is occasionally subject 
to earthquakes - notably in 1641 and 1967. Day view of El Avila National 
Park from Parque del Este Galipán, picturesque town atop El Ávila View 
of the Rio Guaire canyon, main body of water that passes through Caracas 
View of the Avila cable car starting from Caracas to Hotel Humboldt station 
Under the Köppen climate classification, Caracas has a tropical savanna 
climate (Aw). Caracas is also intertropical, with precipitation that varies 
between 900 and 1,300 millimeters (35 and 51 inches) (annual), in the city 
proper, and up to 2,000 millimeters (79 inches) in some parts of the Mountain 
range. While Caracas is within the tropics, due to its altitude temperatures 
are generally not nearly as high as other tropical locations at sea level. 
The annual average temperature is approximately 23.8 °C (75 °F), with the 
average of the coldest month (January) 22.8 °C (73 °F) and the average 
of the warmest month (July) 25.0 °C (77 °F), which gives a small annual 
thermal amplitude of 2.2 °C (4.0 °F). In the months of December and January 
abundant fog may appear, in addition to a sudden nightly drop in temperature, 
until reaching 8 °C (46 °F).[18] This peculiar weather is known by the 
natives of Caracas as the Pacheco. In addition, nightly temperatures at 
any time of the year are much (14 to 20 °C) lower than daytime highs and 
usually do not remain above 24 °C (75 °F), resulting in very pleasant evening 
temperatures. Hail storms appear in Caracas, although only on rare occasions. 
Electrical storms are much more frequent, especially between June and October, 
due to the city being in a closed valley and the orographic action of Cerro 
El Ávila. Caracas record extremes have been reported in other city's stations 
to reach a minimum of 6 °C (43 °F) and a maximum of 35.5 °C (95.9 °F)[19] 
According to the population census of 2011 the Caracas proper (Distrito 
Capital) is over 3.0 million inhabitants,[25] while that of the Metropolitan 
District of Caracas is estimated at 5.4 million as of 2011[update]. The 
vast majority of the population is composed from immigrants and their descendents 
primarily from Spain, Italy, Germany and Portugal. There is also a considerable 
Syrian and Lebanese population present in the country.[25][26] Venezuela 
and its capital, Caracas, are reported to both have among the highest per 
capita murder rates in the world, with 116 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants. 
Most murders and other violent crimes go unsolved. The low class neighborhoods 
that cover the hills around Caracas are dangerous at all times.[27][28] 
However, recent research has suggested that the government misreported 
the actual population of Caracas, which may have skewed crime figures higher.[29] 
Adjusted for population, the official 2010 homicide rate in Caracas falls 
to 71 per 100,000. Even though this is still a high number, it is 33% less 
than the figures usually reported by international media outlets; the discrepancy 
originates from the outdated population data that was held by the CICPC 
(a police agency) in Caracas.[29][better source needed] The Federal Capitol 
occupies an entire city block, and, with its golden domes and neoclassical 
pediments, can seem even bigger. The building was commissioned by Antonio 
Guzmán Blanco in the 1870s, and is most famous for its Salón Elíptico, 
an oval hall with a mural-covered dome and walls lined with portraits of 
the country's great and good. The nearby Palacio Municipal de Caracas dating 
from 1696 was renovated in the Neoclassical style in 1906 and now serves 
as the city hall and the Caracas Museum.[30] The Caracas East Park (Parque 
del Este, now officially Parque Generalísimo Francisco de Miranda) was 
designed by Brazilian architect Roberto Burle Marx. It is a green paradise 
in the middle of the city, and it contains a small zoo. A replica of the 
ship led by Francisco de Miranda, the Leander, is in the southern part 
of the park. Before there used to exist a replica of the Santa Maria ship, 
used by Christopher Colombus in his voyages to America. The Teresa Carreño 
Cultural Complex (Complejo Cultural Teresa Carreño), or more commonly the 
Teresa Carreño Theatre (Teatro Teresa Carreño), is by far the most important 
theater of Caracas and Venezuela. The theater presents symphonic and popular 
concerts, operas, ballet, and dramatic works. It is the second largest 
theater in South America, after the Teatro Colón of Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
Skyscrapers may loom overhead, but there is more than a hint of original 
colonial flavor in this neatly proportioned reconstruction of the house 
where Simón Bolívar was born on 24 July 1783. The museum's exhibits include 
period weapons, banners and uniforms. Much of the original colonial interior 
has been replaced by monumental paintings of battle scenes, but more personal 
relics can be seen in the nearby Bolivarian museum. The pride of the place 
goes to the coffin in which Bolívar's remains were brought from Colombia; 
his ashes now rest in the National Pantheon. Venezuela's most venerated 
building is five blocks north of Plaza Bolívar, on the northern edge of 
the old town. Formerly a church, the building was given its new purpose 
as the final resting place for eminent Venezuelans by Antonio Guzmán Blanco 
in 1874. At a short distance east of Plaza Bolívar is Parque Central, a 
concrete complex of five high-rise residential slabs of somewhat apocalyptic-appearing 
architecture, crowned by two 56-storey octagonal towers, one of them is 
under repair due to the fire which burnt the building on 17 October 2004. 
Parque Central is Caracas' art and culture hub, with museums, cinemas and 
the Teresa Carreño Cultural Complex. The West Tower balcony, on the 52nd 
floor, gives a 360° bird's-eye view of Caracas. El Hatillo is a colonial 
town that is located at the south-east suburbs of Caracas in the municipal 
area of the same name. This small town, which is one of Venezuela's few 
well-preserved typical colonial areas, gives an idea of what Caracas was 
like in centuries past. Cerro El Ávila (Mountain El Ávila) (Indigenous 
name: Waraira Repano), is a mountain in the mid-North of Venezuela. It 
rises next to Caracas and separates the city from the Caribbean Sea. It 
is considered the lungs of Caracas because there is a lot of vegetation 
on it. This zone contains restaurants with varied gastronomical specialties, 
along with pubs, bars, pools and art galleries. Altamira is a neighborhood 
in the Chacao municipality of Caracas. It has its own Metro Station, many 
hotels, malls and restaurants, and is an important business and cultural 
centre. The Francisco de Miranda avenue (a major avenue in Caracas) and 
the Distibuidor Altamira (a congested highway exit) are both in Altamira. 
The Iglesia de San Francisco is of historical value. Bolívar's funeral 
was held here twelve years after his death. Here he was proclaimed Libertador 
in 1813 by the people of Caracas. The church has gilded baroque altarpieces, 
and retains much of its original colonial interior, despite being given 
a treatment in the 19th century under the auspices of Antonio Guzmán Blanco, 
which was intended to be modernizing.[citation needed] It contains some 
17th-century masterpieces of art, carvings, sculptures and oil paintings. 
The Central University of Venezuela, established during the reign of Philip 
V, was lodged for centuries in the church cloisters next door, which today 
are the seat of the Language Academy, and the Academies of History, Physics, 
and Mathematics. Caracas Cathedral is the seat of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese 
of Caracas. The Mosque of Sheikh Ibrahim Al-Ibrahim is the second largest 
mosque in Latin America. For many years it was the biggest.[32] The Union 
Israelita de Caracas is the biggest Synagogue for the Jewish Ashkenazi 
community in Caracas. Its mission is to host the religious services and 
preserve the memory of the Jewish heritage in Venezuela. Similarly, Mariperez 
is the biggest Synagogue for the Jewish Sephardic community in Caracas. 
Parque del Este Lourdes Chapel Palacio de las Academias Paseo Los Proceres 
Basilica de Santa Teresa Historic Center Federal Capitol Parque Cristal 
Teresa Carreño Cultural Complex Aerial view of Plaza Altamira Caracas Cathedral 
The Central University of Venezuela (Universidad Central de Venezuela in 
Spanish) is a public University. Founded in 1721, it is the oldest university 
in Venezuela and one of the first in Latin America.[citation needed] The 
university campus was designed by architect Carlos Raúl Villanueva and 
it was declared World Heritage by UNESCO in 2000. The Ciudad Universitaria 
de Caracas, as the main Campus is also known, is considered a masterpiece 
of architecture and urban planning and it is the only university campus 
designed in the 20th century that has received such recognition by UNESCO.[citation 
needed] The Simón Bolívar University (Universidad Simón Bolívar, in Spanish, 
or USB) is a public institution in Caracas that focuses on science and 
technology. Its motto is "La Universidad de la Excelencia" ("University 
of Excellence"). There are professional association football, baseball 
and several other sports. Professional teams include Caracas Fútbol Club, 
Deportivo Petare, Atletico Venezuela, SD Centro Italo Venezolano, Estrella 
Roja FC and Real Esppor Club. The Deportivo Petare has reached the semifinals 
of international tournaments, such as the Copa Libertadores de America, 
while the Caracas Fútbol Club has reached the quarterfinals. Baseball teams 
Tiburones de La Guaira and Leones del Caracas play in the Estadio Universitario 
de la UCV, of the Central University of Venezuela, with a capacity of 26,000 
spectators. Another baseball team started in Caracas: the Navegantes del 
Magallanes. It was moved to Valencia, Carabobo in the 1970s. Association 
Football stadiums include: Caracas is the seat of the National Institute 
of Sports and of the Venezuelan Olympic Committee. Caracas hosted the 1983 
Pan American Games. Caracas is Venezuela's cultural capital, with many 
restaurants, theaters, museums, and shopping centers. The city is home 
to an array of immigrants from but not limited to: Spain, Italy, Portugal, 
the Middle East, Germany, China, and Latin American countries.[33][34][35][36] 
Caracas has a gastronomical heritage due to the influence of immigrants, 
leading to a choice of regional and international cuisine.[citation needed] 
There are a variety of international restaurants including American, French, 
Lebanese, Italian, Spanish, Indian, Chinese, Peruvian, Japanese, Mediterranean 
and Mexican. The district of La Candelaria contains Spanish restaurants, 
resulting from Galician and Canarian immigrants that came to the area in 
the mid-20th century. Caracas is twinned with:[citation needed] Caracas 
is part of the Union of Ibero-American Capital Cities[44] from 12 October 
