Cardinal Nation, or Redbird Nation, is a term sometimes used to describe, 
in aggregate, the fans of the St. Louis Cardinals baseball franchise. Cardinal 
Nation encompasses not just the area around St. Louis, but also a large 
portion of the Midwest and South. The team is traditionally popular in 
these regions and Cardinals games are broadcast on radio and television 
affiliates in ten states: Oklahoma, southern and central Illinois, southwest 
Indiana, Iowa, western Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas, west Tennessee and 
parts of northern Mississippi and Alabama. In addition, the team is also 
popular in other major league markets, most notably in Colorado, where 
the Cardinals were the team of choice until the creation of the Rockies 
franchise in 1993. To this day, the Cardinals have many fans in attendance 
at games on the road in Denver, as well as every other major league venue. 
Major League Baseball experienced a half-century of stability from 1902 
through 1952, during which no franchises moved and none were established 
or closed. During this time, The St. Louis Cardinals were the westernmost 
and southernmost major league franchise, and so geographically closest 
to anyone living southwest of a line stretching approximately from Savannah, 
Georgia through midstate Illinois into the Dakotas, which area encompasses 
much the greater portion of the United States. (The Cardinals shared this 
distinction with the St. Louis Browns, but the Browns were generally less 
successful and less popular.) Although some franchises were established 
at the outer periphery of this area beginning in the 1950s (The Braves 
in Milwaukee in 1953, teams in California beginning in 1958, the Twins 
in Minneapolis in 1961) it was not until the move of the A's from Philadelphia 
to Kansas City in 1955 followed by the establishment of the Houston Colt 
.45s in 1962, the shift of the Braves to Atlanta in 1966, creation of the 
Kansas City Royals in 1969 that significant inroads into this market began. 
(And the Browns left St. Louis after 1953, ending whatever competition 
they offered for this fan base.) During this period (1902 to 1962 and to 
some extent later) when the Cardinals were the closest team to a vast geographical 
area, baseball became firmly established as America's national pastime 
and by far its premier professional sport, commercial radio broadcasting 
– including broadcasting of baseball games – had been widely adopted and 
commonplace, and broadcasting at night and on television began. Also during 
this period the population of the Cardinals' mediashed grew considerably, 
even compared to the rest of the United States (the mean center of United 
States population moved from Indiana to the approximate location of St. 
Louis during this time). During the core of this period the Cardinals were 
generally successful on the field, often contending for the league title 
and winning two pennants in the 1920s, three in the 1930s, and four in 
the 1940s. And in the latter part of this period, the Cardinals' games 
were broadcast on the 50,000-watt clear-channel radio station KMOX, which 
has the power to reach the entire continental United States at night. All 
these factors combined such that for most of the 20th century the Cardinals' 
listening audience, and consequently fan base, extended throughout the 
American south and deep into the plains and Rocky Mountain states, a state 
of affairs that, although diminished, has persisted into the 21st century 
to some degree. St. Louis is regarded as one of the best baseball towns 
in the United States of America, where the game has enjoyed great popularity 
with a large fan base, who themselves are very baseball-savvy and loyal 
to their team.[1][2][3][4] The Cardinals have been one of the most successful 
baseball franchises in history with 19 National League pennants (second 
only to the San Francisco Giants) and a National League record 11 World 
Series Championships. They are second only to the New York Yankees (who 
have 27) in total World Series Championships. Cardinals fans are known 
for traveling to see their team on the road as well and fill nearly half 
of Wrigley Field in Chicago when the Cubs and Cardinals carry on their 
classic rivalry each season. (The converse is true when Cubs fans go to 
Busch Stadium in St. Louis when the Cubs visit.) When the Kansas City Royals 
play the Cardinals in Kansas City every season during interleague play, 
the games often sell out. Many fans around the nation grew up listening 
to two baseball broadcasters considered among the best in history, Jack 
Buck and Harry Caray, call Cardinals' games starting in the mid-1940s, 
into the 1950s and through the 1960s. Jack Buck (with Mike Shannon, starting 
1972), remained the voice of the Cardinals through 2001. KMOX dropped Cardinals' 
broadcasts after 2005, but resumed in 2011.[5] Like many other teams, Cardinals 
fans have a gathering of their own before the start of the regular season. 
During the Third week of January, Cardinals fans must gather together at 
the Hyatt Regency in Downtown St. Louis at a pre-season convention called 
"Winter Warm Up", which is run by Cardinals Care - the charity fundraising 
arm of the Cardinals' organization. The last day takes place on Martin 
Luther King Day. Cardinals fans are directed to the opportunity to get 
autographs from many of their favorite Cardinal players - past and present.[6] 
All proceeds from the event, including those derived from the sale of autograph 
tickets for certain players (though some of them sign for free), go directly 
