The Cardinals–Cubs rivalry, also called the Route 66 rivalry and The Downstate 
Illinois rivalry, refers to the rivalry between the St. Louis Cardinals 
and Chicago Cubs both of the National League (NL), one of the most bitter 
rivalries in Major League Baseball and in all of North American professional 
sports. The Cubs lead the regular season series 1,197–1,147, with 19 ties, 
through 2015, while the Cardinals are third in NL pennants with 19, to 
the Cubs' 16. However, the Cardinals have a clear edge when it comes to 
World Series success, having won 11 championships to the Cubs' 3. Games 
between the two clubs see numerous visiting fans in either St. Louis's 
Busch Stadium or Chicago's Wrigley Field. When the NL split into two, and 
then three divisions, the Cardinals and Cubs always remained together. 
This has added excitement to numerous pennant races over the years. In 
his book, Before They Were Cardinals, Jon David Cash speculates that the 
economic trade rivalry between the cities of Chicago and St. Louis led 
to the formation of the St. Louis Brown Stockings in 1875 to compete with 
the Chicago White Stockings.[2][3] The Brown Stockings would later fold 
and reemerge in 1882 when the Cardinals (as the Browns), met the Cubs (as 
the White Stockings), in a pair of pre-World Series matchups between American 
Association champion St. Louis and NL champion Chicago. The first series 
meeting between the two teams was actually played in four cities – not 
only St. Louis and Chicago, but also Pittsburgh and New York City. On October 
15, Browns manager Charles Comiskey pulled his team off the field in the 
6th inning in protest of umpire Dave Sullivan's call. The White Stockings 
were in the lead at the time 5-4 and were declared a winner on forfeit. 
Behind pitcher Dave Foutz, St. Louis defeated Chicago 13-4 in Game 7. The 
Browns claimed the Game 2 forfeit didn't count and therefore claimed the 
championship. The two clubs split the $1000 prize.[4] The first series 
played in 1885 ended in dispute with no winner making the rematch a year 
later more heated. Game 2 saw the Browns win in a 12-0 romp. Bob Caruthers 
pitched a one-hitter, and left fielder Tip O'Neill smacked two inside-the-park 
home runs. It was the first two-home-run game by a player in a World Championship 
game. Despite the win, the White Stockings had won Games 1 and 3 and took 
the series lead into St. Louis. Oddities happened in Game 5. With Jim McCormick 
and Jocko Flynn lame and John Clarkson tired‚ Chicago tried to use a minor 
league recruit in the pitcher's box‚ only to be refused by the Browns. 
Shortstop Ned Williamson and right fielder Jimmy Ryan ended up having to 
pitch. The Browns won easily 10-3. The sixth and final game began at an 
earlier time of 2:18 PM, so the full nine innings could be played. Pitching 
his fourth game in six days‚ Clarkson held St. Louis hitless for six innings 
as Chicago built a 3-0 lead. However, in the 8th, the Browns finally got 
to Clarkson to tie the game at 3, with Arlie Latham hitting a 2-run triple. 
In the 10th, Curt Welch scored on the "$15‚000 slide" after a wild pitch 
to win it in front of a fired-up St. Louis home crowd. After the dissolution 
of the American Association, the Browns franchise moved to the National 
League in 1892 and become known as the Cardinals in 1900. St. Louis would 
not achieve much success in its early years in the NL. On the other hand, 
the Cubs dominated, winning 3 straight pennants from 1906–1908 and two 
World Series during that time, losing the first World Series in that trio 
only to their cross-town rivals, the Chicago White Sox. The Cubs would 
also go on to win seven more pennants from then until 1945. The Cardinals 
would eventually put together a team to win the pennant and World Series 
in 1926. It would be their first National League pennant and first championship 
since defeating the White Stockings. Although the Cubs would also win a 
few pennants, their championship run stopped in 1908. Eventually, the Cubs' 
pennant wins would also stop in 1945. The Cardinals have won the World 
Series more times than any other National League team. Slugger Hack Wilson 
had a combative streak and frequently initiated fights with opposing players 
and fans. On June 22, 1928, a riot broke out in the ninth inning at Wrigley 
Field against the St. Louis Cardinals when Wilson jumped into the box seats 
to attack a heckling fan. An estimated 5,000 spectators swarmed the field 
before police could separate the combatants and restore order. The fan 
sued Wilson for $20,000, but a jury ruled in Wilson's favor.[5] One game 
in particular was cited for putting Cubs second baseman Ryne Sandberg, 
as well as the 1984 Cubs in general, "on the map", a NBC national telecast 
of a Cardinals–Cubs game on June 23, 1984.[6] The Cubs had been playing 
well throughout the season's first few months, but as a team unaccustomed 
to winning, they had not yet become a serious contender in the eyes of 
most baseball fans. Sandberg had played two full seasons in the major leagues, 
and while he had shown himself to be a top-fielding second baseman and 
fast on the basepaths (over 30 stolen bases both seasons), his .260-ish 
batting average and single-digit home run production were respectable for 
his position but not especially noteworthy, and Sandberg was not talked 
about outside Chicago. The Game of the Week, however, put the sleeper Cubs 
on the national stage against their regional rival, the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Both teams were well-established franchises with a strong fan base outside 
the Chicago and St. Louis area. In the ninth inning, the Cubs trailed 9–8, 
and faced the premier relief pitcher of the time, Bruce Sutter. Sutter 
was at the forefront of the emergence of the closer in the late 1970s and 
early 1980s: a hard-throwing pitcher who typically came in just for the 
ninth inning and saved around 30 games a season. (Sutter was especially 
dominant in 1984, saving 45 games.) However, in the ninth inning, Sandberg, 
not yet known for his power, slugged a home run to left field against the 
Cardinals' ace closer. Despite this dramatic act, the Cardinals scored 
two runs in the top of the tenth. Sandberg came up again in the tenth inning, 
facing a determined Sutter with one man on base. As Cubs' radio announcer 
Harry Caray described it: The Cubs went on to win in the 11th inning. The 
Cardinals' Willie McGee (who had hit for the cycle that day) had already 
been named NBC's player of the game before Sandberg's first home run. As 
NBC play-by-play man Bob Costas (who called the game with Tony Kubek) said 
when Sandberg hit that second home run, "Do you believe it?!" The game 
is sometimes called "The Sandberg Game". The winning run for the Cubs was 
driven in by a single off the bat of Dave Owen. In 1998, the teams were 
connected by the Mark McGwire-Sammy Sosa home run race, credited by many 
with revitalizing the sport following the players' strike which cancelled 
the 1994 World Series and the first part of the 1995 season.[7][8][9] In 
early September the teams met for a two-game series at Busch Memorial Stadium 
in St. Louis. In the first game, McGwire hit his record-tying 61st home 
run off pitcher Mike Morgan in the first inning as part of a 3–2 Cardinals 
victory. The following day, McGwire broke the record with #62 off Steve 
Trachsel in the fourth inning as part of a 6–3 victory against the Cubs. 
In a show of sportsmanship, Sammy Sosa was there to embrace and congratulate 
his home run rival and on-field opponent after McGwire rounded the bases. 
McGwire would finish the year with 70 home runs and Sosa with 66. However, 
the Cubs won the National League wild card, making the playoffs for the 
first time in nine years, while the Cardinals finished barely above .500. 
Sosa eventually became the NL MVP that season, even though Mark McGwire 
finished with 4 more home runs. Sosa dedicated each of his 66 home runs 
that season to the memory of Cubs (and former Cardinals) broadcaster Harry 
Caray, who died in February that year.[10] A somber showing of acknowledgment 
between the two teams happened in 2002 when Cubs catcher Joe Girardi addressed 
the fans at Wrigley Field in a choked up way that the game between the 
two teams had been cancelled and that the fans should pray for the St. 
Louis Cardinals family.[11] However, there were fans who booed.[11][12] 
Later, a press conference was held where an emotional Girardi addressed 
the death of Cardinals pitcher Darryl Kile. Girardi, who played for both 
the Cubs and the Cardinals, addressed the fans in a regional broadcast 
on Fox.[11] In 2005, the Cardinals and Cubs renewed their rivalry when 
first basemen Derrek Lee for the Cubs and Albert Pujols for the Cardinals 
were locked in an MVP race. Nabbing the NL batting title, Lee led the league 
in hits and batting average and bested Pujols in home runs. For his part, 
Pujols led the league in runs scored and had the edge on Lee in RBIs. Lee 
was awarded both the Gold Glove and Silver Slugger as the best NL first 
baseman on both defense and offense, respectively. However, with the Cardinals 
winning 100 games and the division and the Cubs finishing 21 games back 
in fourth place, Pujols took home the National League MVP honors. June 
4 and 5, 2011 had Pujols, in his last year with the Cardinals, win back 
to back games against the Cubs with walk-off home runs. In recent years, 
tragedies in the Cardinals organization have caused two games between these 
teams to be postponed. In 2002, after Cardinals pitcher Darryl Kile was 
found dead in a Chicago hotel room, a game between the teams in Wrigley 
Field was postponed.[11][13] Then in 2007, another Cardinals pitcher, Josh 
Hancock, was killed in a car crash while driving intoxicated, causing a 
game in St. Louis to be postponed.[14][15] Incidentally, both games were 
scheduled to air on one of MLB's major broadcast partners—the 2002 game 
was to air on Fox, and the 2007 game was planned for ESPN Sunday Night 
Baseball. Former Cubs shortstop Ryan Theriot, who was acquired by the Cardinals 
from the Los Angeles Dodgers on November 30, 2010, told a St. Louis radio 
station that he was "finally on the right side of the Cardinals-Cubs rivalry" 
and that he was happy to be with an organization that emphasized winning 
World Series championships instead of being "an afterthought". Cubs pitcher 
Carlos Zambrano called him "the enemy now."[16] The Cardinals won the World 
Series that season. The two clubs played each other in the postseason for 
the first time in the 2015 National League (NL) Division Series, as a result 
of the Cubs' 4–0 victory over the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 2015 NL Wild 
Card Game.[17] The Cubs defeated the Cardinals 3–1 to advance to the National 
League Championship Series. When the Tribune Company bought the Cubs, they 
immediately started pressing for night baseball, threatening to abandon 
Wrigley Field otherwise. Night baseball was finally added in 1988, and 
after some further negotiations with the city, in the winter of 2005–2006 
they expanded Wrigley's bleachers for the first time since 1938. Wrigleyville, 
a part of the Lakeview neighborhood, surrounds the Cubs' stadium, and comprises 
middle- and upper-middle-class housing, as well as many restaurants, bars 
and music venues for fans to visit before and after games. Busch Stadium 
(also referred to informally as "New Busch Stadium" or "Busch Stadium III") 
is the home of the St. Louis Cardinals, of MLB. The stadium has a seating 
capacity of 43,975, and contains 3,706 club seats and 61 luxury suites. 
The ballpark opened on April 4, 2006 with an exhibition between the minor 
league Memphis Redbirds and Springfield Cardinals, both affiliates of the 
St. Louis Cardinals, which Springfield won 5-3 with right-hander Mike Parisi 
recording the first win. The first official major league game occurred 
on April 10, 2006 as the Cardinals defeated the Milwaukee Brewers 6–4 behind 
an Albert Pujols home run and winning pitcher Mark Mulder. A commercial 
area, dubbed Ballpark Village, is being developed adjacent to the stadium 
over the remainder of the former stadium's footprint. In his book Three 
Nights in August, Buzz Bissinger compared the Cardinals–Cubs rivalry to 
another famous rivalry in American baseball: "The Red Sox and Yankees is 
a tabloid-filled soap opera about money and ego and sound bites. But the 
Cubs and Cardinals are about... geography and territorial rights."[18] 
One of the "territories" in question is central Illinois, which receives 
both radio broadcasts of Cardinals games on KMOX (restarting in 2011, and 
decades before, up to the 2006 season, when the Cardinals' owners moved 
the broadcasts to KTRS, a station they bought for the purpose) as well 
as WGN radio & WGN television,(including WGN-TV's superstation) broadcasts 
of Cubs games. Both KMOX and WGN radio are traditional "clear channel" 
AM radio stations, and both teams fought for fans in the Western states 
prior to Major League expansion. Also prior to Major League expansion, 
the Cardinals traditionally claimed huge parts of the Lower Midwest and 
the South in their territory, while the Cubs claimed the Upper Midwest. 
Loyalties to the two teams divided friends, families, and co-workers, and 
shaped the locals in various ways, as George Will noted in a 1998 commencement 
address at Washington University in St. Louis: "I grew up in Champaign, 
Illinois, midway between Chicago and St. Louis. At an age too tender for 
life-shaping decisions, I made one. While all my friends were becoming 
Cardinals fans, I became a Cub fan. My friends, happily rooting for Stan 
Musial, Red Schoendienst, and other great Redbirds, grew up cheerfully 
convinced that the world is a benign place, so of course, they became liberals. 
Rooting for the Cubs in the late 1940s and early 1950s, I became gloomy, 
pessimistic, morose, dyspeptic and conservative. It helped out of course 
that the Cubs last won the World Series in 1908, which is two years before 
Mark Twain and Tolstoy died. But that means, class of 1998, that the Cubs 
are in the 89th year of their rebuilding effort, and remember, any team 
can have a bad moment."[19] Many players have played for both teams, including 
Hall of Famer Rogers Hornsby, who holds several single season hitting records 
for both clubs. Notably, Hall of Famer Lou Brock was traded from the Cubs 
to the Cardinals early in his career for pitcher Ernie Broglio. This is 
widely considered one of the most one-sided trades in baseball history. 
Other Hall of Famers who played/managed with both clubs include Grover 
Cleveland Alexander, Clark Griffith, Burleigh Grimes, Bruce Sutter, Roger 
Bresnahan, Dizzy Dean, Dennis Eckersley, Rabbit Maranville, Hoyt Wilhelm, 
and Leo Durocher. Legendary announcer Harry Caray began his career in St. 
Louis, broadcasting on KMOX radio for 24 seasons, before moving to Chicago 
in 1971, announcing 11 seasons for the White Sox before moving to the North 
Side and becoming a staple of WGN radio and television broadcasts for the 
Cubs from 1982 until his death before the 1998 season. The rivalry between 
the two clubs intensified following the hiring of Dusty Baker to manage 
the Cubs following the 2002 season. In 2002, when Baker was managing the 
San Francisco Giants, he and Cardinals manager Tony La Russa had run-ins 
during that year's National League Championship Series, with the animosity 
carrying over to Baker's tenure with the Cubs. According to Baker, part 
of the intensity stems from the close relationship of the two. "It's very 
intense...When you play 18 times against a team that's had a long-time 
rivalry, and my former manager and my former confidant, that just increases 
things."[20] Baker played for La Russa in 1986 as a member of the Oakland 
Athletics. Some say that the feud between the two managers have added to 
the rivalry between the two teams. "Both managers are fiercely protective 
of their players. Both believe in old-school baseball protocol. Neither 
will sit by idly and watch an opponent show up their team. Both are fierce 
competitors with enormous pride…. Fans don’t usually buy tickets to watch 
managers manage . . . but this tactical showdown added something to the 
Cubs-Cards series."[21] After the Cubs fired Dusty Baker in 2006, the rivalry 
was raised by another notch as they replaced him with Lou Piniella. Coincidentally, 
Piniella and La Russa both grew up in Tampa and faced each other in the 
1990 World Series as managers of the Cincinnati Reds and Oakland Athletics, 
respectively. As of the end of the 2015 MLB Regular Season As of the 2015 
MLB Season As of the beginning of the 2017 MLB Season As of the beginning 
