The Cardinal Gibbons School, also referred to as Cardinal Gibbons, CG and 
most commonly as Gibbons, was a Roman Catholic high school and middle school 
for boys in Baltimore, Maryland, USA. A private institution for grades 
6–12, Gibbons drew its enrollment from the neighborhoods of southwest Baltimore 
City and the counties surrounding the Baltimore metropolitan area, with 
some as far away as Harford County, Carroll County and Frederick County. 
Named in honor of Baltimore's most distinguished churchman, James Cardinal 
Gibbons, the school was established in 1962 by the Archdiocese of Baltimore. 
Gibbons occupied the former site of St. Mary’s Industrial School, a reform 
school for boys and the Alma Mater of baseball great George Herman "Babe" 
Ruth. Following extensive renovations of the old St. Mary’s campus in the 
early 1960s, the Cardinal Gibbons School opened. The school grew to its 
peak enrollment of just over 1,000 students in the mid-1970s. In 1988, 
the school expanded its academic programs with the addition of a middle 
school. The middle school program ceased operation following the 2009 academic 
school year. Due to economic strains on the Archdiocese, in addition to 
declining enrollment at Gibbons, it was announced the school would close 
following the conclusion of the 2009–2010 school year. Gibbons was a college 
preparatory middle and high school, with core curriculum courses in literature, 
religious studies, mathematics, laboratory science, social sciences and 
history, fine arts, physical education, technology, and foreign language. 
Gibbons offered a variety of Advanced Placement courses, including joint 
courses with neighboring all-girls high school, Seton Keough to the south. 
Gibbons also offered dual enrollment courses in conjunction with the Community 
College of Baltimore County. All students at Gibbons were held to academic 
integrity through the use of an honor code. A long-standing rivalry existed 
between Cardinal Gibbons and nearby high school Mount Saint Joseph College 
in the Irvington neighborhood of southwest Baltimore. Due to their close 
proximity and frequent meetings in playoffs and tournaments in basketball, 
the rivalry intensified as Gibbons' basketball program established itself 
as a championship program in the 1970s.[2] The rivalry grew to include 
other sports and academics as well. Organizations have been established 
to make attempts to reopen the school, but the school continues to remain 
closed. The grounds are not used for academics, although local schools 
and sport programs have made use of the athletic facilities. In 2012, neighboring 
St. Agnes Hospital purchased the old Gibbons property and plans to incorporate 
the old campus into its growing medical facilities. Saint Mary’s Industrial 
School for Boys was opened in Baltimore City in 1866 by the Archdiocese 
of Baltimore.[3] The school served as both an orphanage and boarding school 
for boys, teaching them life and labor skills. Archbishop Martin Spalding 
at the time, called for the need of such a school, and enlisted the aid 
of the Xaverian Brothers to assist in running the school for the Archdiocese. 
As attendance at the school grew, the large original granite Victorian 
building was constructed and in use by 1868.[3] In 1874, the school took 
on a new role. The school continued to grow and enroll more young boys, 
fostering and building them into men. The curriculum consisted of academic 
classes, religious education, sports periods, and work in industrial areas. 
Some areas of instruction included basket-making, bottle-covering, baking, 
gardening, tailoring, and farming.[3] In 1902, a young boy named George 
Herman Ruth, later known as "the Babe," was enrolled at St. Mary’s by his 
parents.[4] He would become one of St. Mary’s most notable alumni, learning 
the game of baseball at St. Mary’s under the tutelage of Brother Matthias. 
In 1919, a fire destroyed much of the old Victorian styled campus. Alumnus 
Babe Ruth, who at the time was a member of the New York Yankees, asked 
to take the St. Mary's School band along on "road trips" to several major 
league ballparks around the Northeast, in an attempt to raise money to 
replace the main school building.[5] The industrial school continued to 
serve the community, but with declining numbers of pupils and orphans requiring 
such an environment, the school finally ceased operations in 1950. St. 
Mary’s has become known as "the House that built Ruth."[6] Although much 
of the original St. Mary’s campus was destroyed, one building remains from 
the original structure of 1866-1868 and another from the reconstruction 
after the 1919 fire. Both buildings were utilized by the Cardinal Gibbons 
School.[7] The athletic field that Babe learned to play baseball on was 
utilized by the Cardinal Gibbons baseball teams from 1962 until closing, 
affectionately calling their baseball diamond, "Babe Ruth Field."[8] When 
Cardinal Gibbons High School opened in September 1962, it was not totally 
unfamiliar to Baltimore as some new institutions are to their community. 
On the corner of Wilkens and Caton Avenues, where the large old Victorian 
styled stone walls of the old Industrial School once were, another Catholic 
institution was founded and constructed, to succeed St. Mary's Industrial 
School which had performed almost a century of service for the community 
of metropolitan Baltimore. In 1959, then Archbishop Francis Keough chose 
the ground of the vacant St. Mary's buildings for a new diocesan high school 
campus, with room for athletic fields and religious community housing. 
A considerable construction and renovation project ensued, utilizing buildings 
from the original and rebuilt St. Mary's campuses along with new buildings 
for the school. Archbishop Keough contacted the Marianists, who had previously 
taught at several local grammar schools in the diocese. The Marianists 
agreed to return to Baltimore and take charge of the new high school. Brother 
Matthew Betz, S.M., was appointed the first principal of the new school. 
In September 1962, the school was operating with a working faculty of nine, 
including a secretary, janitor, and 150 freshmen. On September 8, 1963, 
the Archbishop Lawrence Cardinal Shehan presided over the sealing of the 
main building's cornerstone and the dedication of the new school to Baltimore's 
and America's most distinguished churchman at the turn of the century, 
James Cardinal Gibbons, the former ninth Archbishop of Baltimore. Over 
the years, the Cardinal Gibbons High School continued to grow and develop. 
By the 1968–1969 school year, the "Crusaders" made sports headlines with 
the championship play of both the varsity basketball and baseball teams. 
Coach O. Ray Mullis established a Maryland Scholastic Association and later 
a Baltimore Catholic League basketball dynasty at Gibbons over the next 
decade. Gibbons would go on to make a name for itself as a powerhouse for 
academics and athletics in the southwest Baltimore region. In 1988, the 
Cardinal Gibbons School added a Middle School Program, enrolling students 
in grades 6 through 8. Formerly known as Cardinal Gibbons High School, 
the school adopted its final name, the Cardinal Gibbons School. In 2001, 
the Cardinal Gibbons School switched to the President-Principal model, 
naming Brother Kevin Strong, F.S.C. the first President of the school. 
That year, the school also joined the LaSallian Network of Schools. The 
middle school program continued successfully until the end of the 2009 
school year. The middle school graduated its last eighth grade class the 
following year. Due to decreased enrollment and financial strains on both 
the Archdiocese of Baltimore and the surrounding communities, Gibbons headed 
toward closing its doors. On March 3, 2010, the Archdiocese of Baltimore 
announced it would close Gibbons at the end of the 2009–2010 school year, 
as part of a broader consolidation of twelve other Baltimore parochial 
schools in the face of declining enrollment and reports of Archdiocesan 
financial losses.[7] Members of the Cardinal Gibbons board, alumni, students 
and staff expressed distress at the decision and, in April, explored possible 
ways to buy the property and continue the school independently, but were 
ultimately unsuccessful. Linda Ruth Tosetti, Babe Ruth's granddaughter, 
lamented the possible loss of another of the places important in her grandfather's 
history, on the heels of the recent razing and replacement of the old Yankee 
Stadium in 2009, affectionately known as the "House that Ruth Built".[5] 
At present, the school still sits vacant, with its athletic facilities 
being utilized by schools in the area. In response to the closing, alumni 
and supporters of Gibbons formed Gibbons Educational Services (G.E.S.), 
a non-profit organization devoted to fostering the memory of the school.[9] 
In March 2012, it was announced that next door St. Agnes Hospital reached 
an agreement with the Archdiocese to purchase the property. Currently, 
St. Agnes is beginning the planning phases for how it will utilize the 
property.[10] Works are also underway to preserve the baseball field, given 
its significance to Baltimore and American baseball history. Babe Ruth 
Field was home to the Cardinal Gibbons baseball team. Located on the site 
of the same grounds of the field that young George Herman Ruth learned 
to play the game on, the field was home to a storied and successful baseball 
program for over a century. Ruth Field was unique in its shape, with center 
field reaching to 442 feet. During the St. Mary's Industrial School era, 
home plate was in the present day outfield. According to local legend, 
while a student, young George Ruth hit a home run from there to Caton Avenue 
to the west, almost a 600-foot home run. The field was the center of the 
campus, and is still visible from Caton Avenue. As the only building to 
survive the fire of 1919 on campus, the Fine Arts building was part of 
the original structure of the old St. Mary's Industrial School. It was 
constructed during opening of St. Mary's.[11] In this building, Babe Ruth 
spent time working on the various trade and industrial requirements where 
he especially excelled at the trade of tailoring for the St. Mary's curriculum. 
Before closing, this building housed Cardinal Gibbons' fine arts classrooms 
for art and music, and student activities center, and the Justin Fisher 
Memorial weightroom in the bottom level. "The Grotto" was an area on the 
Cardinal Gibbons campus that held special meaning to alumni and the Gibbons 
community. In 1968, a plane crashed in the mountains of western Maryland. 
Three students and one teacher perished in the crash, Mike Slovatinek, 
Mark Mitchell, Paul Deminnis, and Brother Ben Borchers, respectively. All 
four were part of the Cardinal Gibbons School flying club, and were returning 
from a trip to Ohio to visit the United States Air Force Museum in Dayton.[12] 
In "The Grotto" was a statue of Mary and a plaque adorning the statue with 
the names of those lost in the crash. The statue was relocated from "The 
Grotto" to St. Augustine Roman Catholic Church in Elkridge, Maryland. The 
school required 28 credits to graduate, 15 hours of community service per 
year, and mandatory attendance in the school's campus ministry program, 
including retreats and service opportunities. The school, in joint partnership 
with the neighboring all-girls Seton Keough High School shared special 
classes between the two high schools. Gibbons also offered dual enrollment 
courses with the Community College of Baltimore County. While many Gibbons 
teams achieved success and won championships in their respective sports, 
perhaps the most notable success was that of the basketball program. For 
over 31 years, Gibbons basketball was led by local coaching legend, O. 
Ray Mullis. During his tenure as coach, Mullis and the Gibbons basketball 
program amassed over 600 career victories and 31 league or tournament championships, 
including a record 6 Baltimore Catholic League championships. Maryland 
Scholastic Association, (1964-1993); Baltimore Catholic League†, (1974-2010, 
Basketball only); Maryland Interscholastic Athletic Association, (1993-2010). 
In 2009, Cardinal Gibbons formed a Cricket Club, the first of its kind 
in any high school in the state of Maryland, to regularly play and compete 
in the English national sport.[26][27] A travel team would go on to play 
several youth teams in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area.[28][29] 
The director of the Gibbons cricket program, Jamie Harrison, would go on 
to found the United States Youth Cricket Association.[30][31] In over forty-eight 
years of Gibbons' existence, its alumni have charted many interesting and 
