Carl E. Stotz (February 20, 1910 – June 4, 1992) was the American founder 
of Little League Baseball. Stotz was born in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. 
He was the fourth of five children of Lulu Fisk Stotz, a direct descendant 
of Edward Fuller who signed the "Mayflower Compact" of 1620, and established 
with his wife (Ann) and son (Samuel) a cottage in Plymouth, Massachusetts 
(Plymouth Plantation at Plymouth Rock). Carl's father John, was the third 
child of a Kingdom of Württemberg, Germany immigrant (1862) named Kristjian 
and married first generation German-American Juliana Eddinger, in 1877 
in Williamsport, PA. He is honored and memorialized in Williamsport at 
the following places: Carl E. Stotz Memorial Little League Bridge which 
carries U.S. Route 15 across the West Branch Susquehanna River between 
Williamsport and South Williamsport; "Original League's" Field (a 1995 
PA historical Site & 2014 National Historical Site) on West 4th Street 
in Williamsport, PA; Carl's neighborhood park - Gardenview Carl E. Stotz 
Park; a statue donated by the Mason's organization placed at Volunteer 
Stadium of L.L.B. Inc. in South Williamsport, PA; and a 3 player statue 
on Memorial Ave. & Park Point. In the summer of 1938, at a location next 
to West 4th Street (at that time Carl could not get permission from the 
City of Williamsport to start league play at this location), Stotz started 
to discuss his dream with local children from the neighborhood. He was 
always set on adult supervision to stop bickering on the sandlot. In 1939, 
he officially started up the league. The bases were placed 60 ft apart 
and the pitcher's mound was placed 40 ft from home plate. The initial 1939 
games were played at Park Point. A field at Memorial and Demarest Street 
in Williamsport housed the 1940 & 1941 seasons. In 1942, "Original League" 
returned to the August 1938 area where Carl Stotz, his nephews (Major and 
Jimmy Gehron) and other boys experimented to determine the league's dimensions 
and rules. The nephews mother, Laura Belle Stotz Gehron, sewed the initial 
bases. Carl hand-carved with a penknife the first home plate and pitchers 
mound. The next step was for him to apply to local businesses for sponsorship 
and donations. He also looked to parents for help with the organization 
of the league. A year later in the summer of 1939 they had three teams 
set up. Each team was managed individually by Stotz (Lycoming Dairy) and 
brothers George (Lundy Lumber) and Bert Bebble (Jumbo Pretzel). The first 
game was played on June 6, 1939, with Lundy Lumber defeating Lycoming Dairy 
23–8. The first Little League World Series wasn't played until the summer 
of 1948 though. "Original League" on West Fourth Street is currently an 
unfranchised (from L.L.B. Inc.) and active league which hosted the first 
Little League Tournament (National Tournament) in 1947. The "Original League" 
Field was the venue for the 1948 through 1958 series' games. Its clubhouse 
contains numerous articles of historical interest worthy of viewing, and 
holds an Open House every day during the Little League World Series in 
August. The Little League Women's Auxiliary (1947) was organized by Grayce 
Stotz, Carl's wife and a great "Original League" supporter. Stotz was commissioner 
of Little League until 1955. Carl Stotz, a highly principled man, left 
Little League Baseball Inc. in late November 1955 over honest and valid 
philosophical differences centered on commercialization and central control 
issues with the management of L.L.B. Inc., of which Carl's conscience, 
would not permit him to remain. From that point on Carl continued an active 
