Carlton Ernest Fisk (born December 26, 1947),[1] nicknamed "Pudge" and 
"The Commander", is a retired Major League Baseball (MLB) catcher and a 
member of the Baseball Hall of Fame. During a 24-year baseball career, 
he played for both the Boston Red Sox (1969, 1971–1980) and Chicago White 
Sox (1981–1993). He was the first player to be unanimously voted American 
League Rookie of the Year (1972). Fisk is best known for "waving fair" 
his game-winning home run in the 12th inning of Game 6 of the 1975 World 
Series. At the time of his retirement, Fisk held the record for most home 
runs all-time by a catcher with 351 (since surpassed by Mike Piazza). He 
has held several age- or longevity-related records, including the record 
for most games played at the position of catcher with 2226 (later surpassed 
by Iván Rodríguez). Fisk still holds the American League record for most 
years served behind the plate (24). Fisk was voted to the All-Star team 
11 times and won three Silver Slugger Awards which is awarded annually 
to the best offensive player at each position. Fisk was elected to the 
Hall of Fame in 2000.[2] Fisk was born in Bellows Falls, Vermont, but according 
to Fisk, that was only because Vermont had the nearest hospital to his 
hometown, Charlestown, New Hampshire. He grew up in Charlestown, across 
the Connecticut River from Bellows Falls, and attended Charlestown High 
School, where he played baseball and basketball. Because his family is 
from New Hampshire, he insisted that the organization remove from his plaque 
in the Red Sox Hall of Fame its characterization of him as a Vermont native.[3] 
Fisk earned his longtime nickname, "Pudge", because he was a chubby youngster.[3] 
He played on the Charlestown High baseball team, appearing at third base, 
catcher and pitcher. Two of his teammates were his brothers Calvin and 
Conrad, who were drafted by the Baltimore Orioles and Montreal Expos, respectively, 
but never made it to the minors due to Calvin's being drafted and inducted 
into military service during the Vietnam War and Conrad hurting his arm. 
Since the high school baseball season was limited to 17 games annually 
due to the inclement New England weather, he also played in the American 
Legion baseball league in 1964, appearing with the team from Claremont, 
New Hampshire. In 1965, he played for the Legion Post 37 team in Bellows 
Falls that had won the 1964 Vermont State Championship.[3] Fisk excelled 
at basketball. His play in a 1965 high school basketball tournament in 
the Boston Garden drew the attention of Boston Celtics owner Walter Brown, 
who told a local reporter, "You have got to tell me--who is that kid?" 
He was awarded a basketball scholarship by the University of New Hampshire, 
where he started for the UNH Wildcats while also playing baseball. He met 
his wife Linda Foust while at UNH.[3] The freshman team that Fisk played 
for was undefeated for the 1965-66 season. In his sophomore year, the Red 
Sox drafted him in the first round of the January 1967 amateur draft, and 
his athletic future was set. Fisk gave up his dreams of basketball glory. 
"I could never be a six-foot-two power forward and play for the Celtics", 
he said.[3] Fisk joined the Army Reserve in 1967, as did many other major 
leaguers and prospects during the Vietnam War. After a short stint of active 
duty at Fort Dix, New Jersey, where Fisk finished his initial training, 
he served as a member of the 393rd Service and Supply Battalion in Chester, 
Vermont, completing monthly weekend drills and two-week annual training 
periods until 1971.[4] Drafted by the Boston Red Sox in 1967 as the fourth 
overall pick of the draft, Fisk got the call to the big leagues for two 
games in 1969. After some seasoning in the Boston minor league system, 
Fisk was back with the Red Sox in 1971, appearing in fourteen games. Fisk 
broke out for the Red Sox in his first full season in 1972. Fisk hit .293 
with 22 home runs, 28 doubles and a .909 OPS. He led the American League 
with nine triples (tied with Joe Rudi of the Oakland Athletics), and was 
the last catcher to lead the league in this statistical category. As the 
result of his 1972 season, Fisk won both the AL Gold Glove at catcher and 
the AL Rookie of the Year awards. In June 1974 Fisk suffered a devastating 
knee injury when Leron Lee of the Cleveland Indians collided with him at 
home plate, tearing several knee ligaments. After undergoing reconstructive 
knee surgery, Fisk was told he would never play again, yet the backstop 
returned just twelve months later to hit .331 in 1975. In the 12th inning 
of Game 6 of the 1975 World Series at Fenway Park, Fisk hit a pitch off 
of Cincinnati Reds pitcher Pat Darcy that went down the left field line 
and appeared to be heading into foul territory. The image of Fisk jumping 
and waving the ball fair as he made his way to first base is considered 
by many to be one of baseball's greatest moments. The ball struck the foul 
pole, giving the Red Sox a 7–6 win and forcing a seventh and deciding game 
of the Fall Classic. The image of him waving the ball fair changed the 
way baseball was televised. During this time, cameramen covering baseball 
were instructed to follow the flight of the ball. In a 1999 interview, 
NBC cameraman Lou Gerard said that he had been distracted by a nearby rat. 
Unable to follow the ball, he kept the camera on Fisk instead.[5] This 
play was perhaps the most important catalyst[6] in getting camera operators 
to focus most of their attention on the players themselves.[7] Fisk was 
among the top offensive catchers in the American League in his eight full 
seasons with the Boston Red Sox. Over that time, he averaged 20 home runs 
and 70 RBI per season. His best year in Boston was in 1977 when Fisk hit 
.315 with 26 HR and 102 RBI. Fisk was reportedly among a group of several 
Red Sox players who lobbied Boston management for players to be paid what 
they deserved, which made him none too popular with Haywood Sullivan, the 
Boston general manager. When Fisk's contract expired at the end of the 
1980 season, Sullivan in fact mailed him a new contract, but put it in 
the mail one day after the contractual deadline. As a result, Fisk was 
technically a free agent and he signed a $3.5 million deal with the Chicago 
White Sox, beginning with the 1981 season. Fisk was signed by the White 
Sox on March 18, 1981. At that time, his old number 27 was held on the 
White Sox by pitcher Ken Kravec. Fisk flip-flopped his old number and thus 
wore the unusual baseball number of 72 on his jersey. Although Kravec was 
traded just ten days later, Fisk retained the number 72 throughout his 
career with the White Sox. As the season got under way, Fisk was interviewed 
by the media concerning his switching teams, and joked that "after a decade 
with the Red Sox, it was time to change my sox!" On opening day 1981, Fisk 
started the season with the White Sox against his former team in Fenway 
Park. In the eighth inning, Fisk knocked a three-run homer to put his new 
team on top, 5-3.[8] After joining the White Sox, he helped the team win 
its first American League Western Division title in 1983. His .289 batting 
average, 26 home runs, and 86 RBI, as well as his leadership on the young 
team, helped him to finish third in the MVP voting (behind Baltimore Orioles 
teammates Cal Ripken, Jr. and Eddie Murray). Fisk also caught LaMarr Hoyt 
that season, the 1983 Cy Young Award winner. On May 16, 1984 Fisk accomplished 
the rare feat of hitting for the cycle in Comiskey Park against the Kansas 
City Royals. Fisk's triple in the bottom of the seventh inning off Dan 
Quisenberry was the only triple he hit in the season.[9] Injuries once 
again befell Fisk in the 1984 season, limiting him to just 102 games and 
a .231 average. The experience led him to begin a new training regimen 
which he used for the rest of his career. In his Hall of Fame induction 
speech, Fisk credited White Sox strength and conditioning coach Phil Claussen 
for his turnaround. Claussen introduced Fisk to a more scientific approach 
to physical conditioning which included long sessions of weight training. 
Fisk often credited the training program with extending his career.[10] 
In 1985, following the advent of his new training program, Fisk had the 
most productive offensive year of his career. He hit 37 home runs and drove 
in 107 runs, both career-high numbers; the home run numbers tied Dick Allen's 
13-year White Sox single-season record. At the age of 37, Fisk tied his 
career high for stolen bases (17). He was voted to the All-Star team, won 
the Silver Slugger award and finished 13th in the A.L. MVP voting.[11] 
On August 4, 1985 Fisk caught all nine innings of Tom Seaver's complete 
game 300th career victory, which was played in Yankee Stadium. Fisk caught 
Bobby Thigpen as he set the then-record for most saves in a season (57) 
in 1990. In 2005, Jack McDowell credited Fisk as being instrumental in 
his development into a pitcher who won the Cy Young Award in 1993.[12] 
On August 17, 1990 in the second game of a twi-night doubleheader in Arlington, 
Texas Fisk broke Johnny Bench's career home run record for catchers by 
hitting his 328th longball as a catcher off Charlie Hough in the top of 
the second inning.[13] He went on to end his career as the all-time leader 
in home runs by a catcher with 351. On May 5, 2004 Mike Piazza surpassed 
Fisk's record by belting his 352nd as a backstop.[14] Fisk still holds 
the American League record for homers by a catcher. A single in the 1991 
All-Star Game made him the oldest player in MLB history to collect a hit 
in an All-Star game. On June 22, 1993 Fisk broke Bob Boone's record for 
career games caught with his 2,226th game behind the plate. Fisk was passed 
on this list by Iván Rodríguez on June 17, 2009.[15] Six days after breaking 
Bob Boone's all-time games caught record, Fisk was abruptly released by 
the Chicago White Sox. Fisk was notified of his dismissal in his hotel 
room in Cleveland while on a road trip with the team. It is reported that 
he was ordered to turn in his equipment and fly back to Chicago immediately, 
and alone.[16] Fisk was one of two final active position players in the 
1990s who had played in the 1960s. The other was Nolan Ryan. He is one 
of only 29 players in baseball history to date to have appeared in MLB 
games in four decades. Fisk made mention of the fireworks between himself 
and Chicago owner Jerry Reinsdorf in his Hall of Fame induction speech.[17] 
To add insult to injury, Fisk was thrown out of the White Sox clubhouse 
later that season when he stopped by to wish his teammates good luck in 
the playoffs.[16] Fences began to be mended with the White Sox with the 
retirement of Fisk's number 72 on September 14, 1997 and the dedication 
of his statue in U.S. Cellular Field in 2005. In 2008, Fisk officially 
rejoined the White Sox team, becoming a team ambassador and part of the 
White Sox speaker's bureau.[18] After the 1985 season, the White Sox came 
close to trading Fisk to the New York Yankees for designated hitter Don 
Baylor. Baylor was unhappy with the Yankees since he did not play every 
day as he wanted (despite being the team's regular DH) and asked to be 
traded. The potential deal was complicated in that the White Sox would 
have to re-sign Fisk, a free agent, and that both players would have to 
agree to the trade. Negotiations between the two teams ended when they 
were unable to reach an agreement.[19] The White Sox re-signed Fisk, who 
remained with the club until the end of his career. During spring training 
in 1986, the Yankees traded Baylor to the Boston Red Sox for designated 
hitter Mike Easler. Fisk was known for his longstanding feud with New York 
Yankees catcher Thurman Munson. One particular incident that typified their 
feud, and the Yankees – Red Sox rivalry in general, occurred on August 
1, 1973 at Fenway Park. With the score 2-2 in the top of the ninth inning, 
Munson, attempting to score on Gene Michael's missed bunt attempt, barreled 
into Fisk, triggering a 10-minute bench-clearing brawl in which both catchers 
were ejected. As John Curtis let his first pitch go, Munson broke for the 
plate. Michael tried to bunt, and missed. With Munson coming, the scrawny 
Yankees shortstop tried to step in Fisk's way, but Fisk elbowed him out 
of the way and braced for Munson, who crashed into him as hard as he could. 
Fisk held onto the ball, but Munson tried to lie on top of him to allow 
Felipe Alou to keep rounding the bases. Fisk kicked Munson off him and 
into the air, and swiped at him with his fist. Michael grabbed Fisk, and 
as Curtis grabbed Munson—his former Cape Cod League roommate—Fisk threw 
Michael down with his left arm and fell to the ground. "Fisk had his left 
arm right across Stick's throat and wouldn't let up", said Ralph Houk, 
the Yankees' manager at the time. "Michael couldn't breathe. I had to crawl 
underneath the pile to try to pry Fisk's arm off his throat to keep him 
from killing Stick. All the while he had Michael pinned down, he was punching 
Munson underneath the pile. I had no idea Fisk was that strong, but he 
was scary."[20] In another incident typifying the Yankees-Red Sox rivalry, 
Fisk was involved in an altercation with Lou Piniella during a May 20, 
1976 game at Yankee Stadium. In the sixth inning of this game, Piniella 
barreled into Fisk trying to score on an Otto Vélez single. Fisk and Piniella 
shoved each other at home plate, triggering another bench-clearing brawl. 
After order appeared to be restored, Red Sox pitcher Bill Lee and Yankees 
third baseman Graig Nettles began exchanging words and punches, igniting 
the brawl anew.[21] Lee suffered a separated left shoulder in the altercation 
and missed much of the season. In another incident, NFL and MLB player 
Deion Sanders, then with the Yankees, hit a pop fly, and declined to run 
to first base, suspecting that the ball would be easily caught. Fisk yelled 
at Sanders to run the ball out and told Sanders during his next at-bat, 
"There is a right way and a wrong way to play this game. You're playing 
it the wrong way. And the rest of us don't like it. Someday, you're going 
to get this game shoved right down your throat."[22] Pudge works harder 
than anyone I know, because he sets goals for himself and then follows 
through. I think he's the ultimate professional.[23] Fisk was inducted 
into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2000, choosing the Boston Red Sox cap 
for his plaque, although he played for more seasons with the Chicago White 
Sox. The Chicago White Sox retired his uniform number 72 on September 14, 
1997. The Boston Red Sox retired his uniform number 27 on September 4, 
2000. He is one of eight people to have their uniform number retired by 
at least two teams.[25][26] In 1999, he was selected as a finalist for 
the Major League Baseball All-Century Team, and finished third in the balloting.[27][28] 
In 2000, Fisk was elected to the Chicago White Sox All-Century Team. In 
2004 he was named the greatest New Hampshire athlete of all time. In May 
2008, Fisk returned to the White Sox as a team ambassador, and a member 
of the team's speakers bureau.[29] The 2004 baseball-themed film Mickey 
features a character who, like Fisk, is a catcher, is known as Pudge, and 
hits a home run similar to Fisk's 1975 World Series home run.[citation 
needed] Footage of Fisk's home run appears in the 1997 film Good Will Hunting, 
during a scene in which the character Sean Maguire (Robin Williams) tells 
the story of how he met his wife on the same day the game occurred. On 
June 13, 2005, the Red Sox honored Carlton Fisk and the 12th-inning home 
run that won Game 6 of the 1975 World Series by naming the left field foul 
pole, which the famous home run contacted, the Fisk Foul Pole. In a pregame 
ceremony from the Monster Seats, Fisk was cheered by the Fenway Park crowd 
while the shot was replayed to the strains of Handel's Hallelujah Chorus, 
the song longtime Fenway Park organist John Kiley originally played following 
the home run. The Red Sox scheduled the ceremony to coincide with an interleague 
series against the Cincinnati Reds, who were making their first trip back 
to Fenway Park since the '75 Series. Thirty years later, the video of Fisk 
trying to wave the ball fair remains one of the game's enduring images. 
Game 6 is often considered one of the best games played in Major League 
history. The crowd remembered that magical moment at precisely 12:34 a.m. 
ET early on the morning of October 22, 1975, when Fisk drove a 1–0 fastball 
from Cincinnati right-hander Pat Darcy high into the air, heading down 
the left-field line. "The ball only took about two and half seconds", recalled 
Fisk. "It seemed like I was jumping and waving for more than two and a 
half seconds." Two and a half seconds later, the ball caromed off the bright 
yellow pole, ending one of the most dramatic World Series games ever played 
and giving the Red Sox a 7–6 win over the Reds in 12 hard-fought innings.[30] 
On the field, Fisk threw out the ceremonial first pitch to his former batterymate 
Luis Tiant.[31] From now on, like the Pesky Pole down the right-field line, 
the left-field pole will officially be called the Fisk Foul Pole. The idea 
was the inspiration of the countless fans who contacted the Red Sox about 
recognizing the historic moment.[30] Fenway's right field foul pole, which 
is just 302 feet from the plate, is named Pesky's Pole, for former Red 
Sox shortstop Johnny Pesky. Mel Parnell named the pole after Pesky in 1948 
when he won a game with a home run just inside the right field pole. After 
the June 13 ceremony in Boston, Fisk received an honorary World Series 
ring from the Red Sox commemorating their 2004 World Series victory.[31] 
On Saturday, August 12, 2006, the Chicago White Sox presented Fisk with 
another ring, this one in honor of the White Sox' 2005 championship.[32] 
The Chicago White Sox unveiled a life-sized bronze statue of Carlton Fisk 
on August 7, 2005. The statue is located inside U.S. Cellular Field on 
the main concourse in center field. It joined similar statues depicting 
Charles Comiskey, Frank Thomas and Minnie Miñoso and eventually Luis Aparicio, 
Nellie Fox, Billy Pierce and Harold Baines.[33] Fisk is a supporter of 
the Cancer Support Center. He and his wife Linda serve on the Honorary 
Board.[34] Fisk and his wife Linda have three children, and five grandchildren.[33] 
On October 22, 2012, Fisk was charged with a DUI in New Lenox, Illinois 
after he was found in the middle of a corn field, unconscious behind the 
wheel of his vehicle.[35] He pleaded guilty to the charge on December 27, 
