Carl William Mays (November 12, 1891 – April 4, 1971) was a right-handed 
pitcher in Major League Baseball from 1915 to 1929.[1] Although he won 
over 200 games, 27 in 1921 alone, and was a member of three world championship 
teams, Mays is primarily remembered for throwing the beanball that killed 
Ray Chapman of the Cleveland Indians on August 16, 1920. Chapman became 
the only Major League player to die as a direct result of an on-field injury.[2][3] 
According to his World War I draft card, Carl William Mays was born November 
12, 1892 in Atterson, Kentucky. His father was a Methodist minister named 
William Henry Mays. Carl had a strict upbringing as a child. Much like 
legendary pitcher Christy Mathewson, Mays refused to pitch on Sundays.[4] 
He was known for a habit of throwing inside to any batter who hugged the 
plate. Despite a stellar win/loss record, Mays was typically among the 
American League leaders in hit batsmen.[4] When Mays was 12, his father 
died. Mays internalized his grief, settling into a surly persona. He had 
very few friends in the baseball world. His best personal support group 
was a couple named Pierce and Genevieve Mays. Pierce may have been related 
to Carl, and the couple served as a surrogate uncle and aunt to Carl.[5] 
In 1915, while a member of the Boston Red Sox, Mays was in a heated confrontation 
with Ty Cobb of the Tigers. Mays threw at Cobb each time he came to bat. 
In the eighth inning, after a close pitch, Cobb threw his bat in Mays' 
direction, calling him a "no good son of a bitch." Mays responded by calling 
Cobb a "yellow dog."[6] After order was restored, Mays hit Cobb directly 
on the wrist. The Tigers won the game 6–1[6] and the incident cemented 
Mays' reputation as a head hunter.[6] The Yankees were trailing when Ray 
Chapman came to the plate in the fifth inning on August 16, 1920. Mays 
was pursuing his 100th career win that day. Chapman had a sacrifice bunt 
in the first inning and popped up to Yankee first baseman Wally Pipp in 
the third.[7] Angered that Chapman was crowding the plate, Mays let loose 
with a high fastball that he claimed was in the strike zone but that Chapman 
apparently never saw. The impact of the ball striking Chapman in the head 
was so loud that Mays thought it had hit Chapman's bat. Mays caught the 
ball as it bounced onto the field and threw it to Pipp at first base. Chapman 
fell to the ground twice trying to make his way to first base. Cleveland 
teammate and long-time friend Tris Speaker raced from the on deck circle 
to check on Chapman. He was joined by several players from the Indians 
and Yankees. Mays, however, never left the mound.[7] Chapman was taken 
to a hospital, where surgeons operated and discovered a skull fracture. 
He initially seemed to rally after the surgery but died early in the morning 
on the following day. Mays stayed in the game and continued to pitch until 
being replaced in the ninth inning. Cleveland won the game 4-3. The New 
York District Attorney determined that the incident was an accident, and 
no charges were filed.[8] Mays was nicknamed "Sub", a reference to his 
submarine pitching motion.[2] Mays was a notorious spitball pitcher; this 
pitch was legal at the time of the Chapman incident. The fatal incident 
was partly responsible for the subsequent banning of the pitch in Major 
League Baseball. In a 15-year career with the Boston Red Sox, New York 
Yankees, Cincinnati Reds, and New York Giants, Mays compiled a 207–126 
record with 29 shutouts, 862 strikeouts and a 2.92 earned run average when 
the league average was 3.48.[1] He won twenty or more games five times.[1] 
He was also noted for his skills with a bat, hitting five home runs, recording 
110 runs batted in, and sporting a lifetime .268 batting average—an unusually 
high mark for a pitcher. Mays is the only Red Sox pitcher to toss two nine-inning 
complete game victories on the same day, as he bested the Philadelphia 
Athletics 12–0 and 4–1 on August 30, 1918.[9] Those wins put the Red Sox 
one step from clinching the league championship, as they led Cleveland 
by 3 1/2 games with 4 remaining to play. Mays enjoyed his best season in 
1921, when he led the American League in wins (27), innings pitched (336.2), 
games pitched (49), and winning percentage (.750). However, that same season 
Mays, pitching then for the Yankees, played in a World Series that others 
later accused him of helping to throw, bringing back memories of the Black 
Sox scandal from just two years prior. These rumors were never proven, 
but they persisted long enough that, combined with an already negative 
reputation among other players both from the Chapman incident and from 
having a personality that few found agreeable, he was never elected to 
the Baseball Hall of Fame despite having lifetime statistics comparable 
to some other pitchers who were.[10] After his playing career, Mays served 
as a scout for Cleveland and Milwaukee clubs.[10] He died in El Cajon, 
California and is buried in River View Cemetery, Portland, Oregon (Sec. 
13, Lot 49, Sp. 7). His distant cousin, Joe Mays, was a recent Major League 
pitcher. In August 2008, Mays was one of the ten former players who began 
their careers before 1943 to be considered by the Veterans Committee for 
induction into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2009. He was named 
on only about 25 percent of the ballots, so he was not selected for induction. 
The book The Pitch That Killed, by Mike Sowell, is a history of the Chapman-Mays 
events. The historical novel, The Curse of Carl Mays, by Howard Camerik, 
also recounts the history of the incident. The children's book, Ray and 
Me by Dan Gutman, tells of Joe Stoshack and his journey to save Ray's life 
from Mays' "killer" pitch. The book 1921: The Yankees, the Giants, and 
the Battle for Baseball Supremacy in New York by Lyle Spatz, Steve Steinberg, 
Charles C. Alexander, takes a look at how Mays had social problems with 
his teammates and how that actually led him to be sold to the Yankees from 
