Coordinates: 40°26′36″N 79°56′37″W﻿ / ﻿40.443322°N 79.943583°W﻿ / 40.443322; 
-79.943583 Carnegie Mellon University (Carnegie Mellon or CMU; /ˈkɑːrnᵻɡi 
ˈmɛlən/ or /kɑːrˈneɪɡi ˈmɛlən/) is a private research university in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania. Founded in 1900 by Andrew Carnegie as the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, the university became the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 
1912 and began granting four-year degrees. In 1967, the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology merged with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research to 
form Carnegie Mellon University. The university's 143-acre (58 ha) main 
campus is 3 miles (4.8 km) from Downtown Pittsburgh. Carnegie Mellon has 
seven colleges and independent schools: the College of Engineering, College 
of Fine Arts, Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences, Mellon 
College of Science, Tepper School of Business, H. John Heinz III College 
and the School of Computer Science. The university also has campuses in 
Qatar and Silicon Valley, with degree-granting programs in six continents. 
Carnegie Mellon consistently ranks in the top 25 in the national U.S. News 
& World Report rankings.[7] It is home to the world’s first degree-granting 
Robotics and Drama programs,[8] as well as one of the first Computer Science 
departments.[9] The university spent over $703 million on research in 2015.[10] 
Carnegie Mellon counts 13,650 students from 114 countries, over 100,000 
living alumni and over 5,000 faculty and staff. Past and present faculty 
and alumni include 19 Nobel Prize Laureates, 19 Members of the American 
Academy of Arts & Sciences,[11] 72 Members of the National Academies, 114 
Emmy Award Winners, 43 Tony Award laureates, 7 Academy Award Winners, and 
12 Turing Award winners.[12] The Carnegie Technical Schools were founded 
in 1900 in Pittsburgh[13] by the Scottish American industrialist and philanthropist 
Andrew Carnegie, who wrote the time-honored words "My heart is in the work", 
when he donated the funds to create the institution. Carnegie's vision 
was to open a vocational training school for the sons and daughters of 
working-class Pittsburghers (many of whom worked in his mills). Carnegie 
was inspired for the design of his school by the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, 
New York founded by industrialist Charles Pratt in 1887.[14] In 1912 the 
institution changed its name to Carnegie Institute of Technology (CIT) 
and began offering four-year degrees. During this time, CIT consisted of 
four constituent schools: the School of Fine and Applied Arts, the School 
of Apprentices and Journeymen, the School of Science and Technology, and 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women. The Mellon Institute of 
Industrial Research was founded in 1913 by brothers Andrew Mellon and Richard 
B. Mellon in honor of their father, Thomas Mellon, the patriarch of the 
Mellon family. The Institute began as a research organization which performed 
work for government and industry on contract and was initially established 
as a department within the University of Pittsburgh. In 1927, the Mellon 
Institute incorporated as an independent nonprofit. In 1938, the Mellon 
Institute's iconic building was completed and it moved to its new, and 
current, location on Fifth Avenue. In 1967, with support from Paul Mellon, 
Carnegie Tech merged with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research to 
become Carnegie Mellon University. Carnegie Mellon's coordinate women's 
college, the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College closed in 1973 and merged 
its academic programs with the rest of the university.[15] The industrial 
research mission of the Mellon Institute survived the merger as the Carnegie 
Mellon Research Institute (CMRI) and continued doing work on contract to 
industry and government. CMRI closed in 2001 and its programs were subsumed 
by other parts of the university or spun off into independent entities.[16] 
Carnegie Mellon's 140-acre (57 ha) main campus is three miles (4.8 km) 
from downtown Pittsburgh, between Schenley Park and the Squirrel Hill, 
Shadyside, and Oakland neighborhoods. Carnegie Mellon is bordered to the 
west by the campus of the University of Pittsburgh. Carnegie Mellon owns 
81 buildings in the Oakland and Squirrel Hill neighborhoods of Pittsburgh. 
For decades the center of student life on campus was "Skibo Hall", the 
University's student union. Built in the 1950s, Skibo Hall's design was 
typical of Mid-Century Modern architecture, but was poorly equipped to 
deal with advances in computer and internet connectivity. The original 
Skibo was razed in the summer of 1994 and replaced by a new student union 
that is fully wi-fi enabled. Known as University Center, the building was 
dedicated in 1996. In 2014, Carnegie Mellon re-dedicated the University 
Center as the Cohon University Center in recognition of the eighth president 
of the university, Jared Cohon.[17] A large grassy area known as "the Cut" 
forms the backbone of the campus, with a separate grassy area known as 
"the Mall" running perpendicular. The Cut was formed by filling in a ravine 
(hence the name) with soil from a nearby hill that was leveled to build 
the College of Fine Arts building. The northwestern part of the campus 
(home to Hamburg Hall, Newell-Simon Hall, Smith Hall, and Gates Hillman 
Complex) was acquired from the United States Bureau of Mines in the 1980s. 
In 2006, Carnegie Mellon Trustee Jill Gansman Kraus donated the 80-foot 
(24 m)-tall sculpture Walking to the Sky, which was placed the lawn facing 
Forbes Ave between the Cohon University Center and Warner Hall. The sculpture 
was controversial for its placement, the general lack of input that the 
campus community had, and its aesthetic appeal.[18] In April 2015, Carnegie 
Mellon University, in collaboration with Jones Lang LaSalle, announced 
the planning of a second office space structure, alongside the Robert Mehrabian 
Collaborative Innovation Center, an upscale and full-service hotel, and 
retail and dining development along Forbes Avenue. This complex will connect 
to the Tepper Quadrangle, the Heinz College, the Tata Consultancy Services 
Building, and the Gates-Hillman Center to create an innovation corridor 
on the university campus. The effort is intended to continue to attract 
major corporate partnerships to create opportunities in research, teaching, 
and employment with students and faculty.[19] The campus began to take 
shape in the Beaux-Arts architecture style of Henry Hornbostel, winner 
of the 1904 competition to design the original institution and later the 
founder of what is now the Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture. There 
was little change to the campus between the first and second World War. 
A 1938 master plan by Githens and Keally suggested acquisition of new land 
along Forbes Avenue, but the plan was not fully implemented. The period 
starting with the construction of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
building (1952) and ending with Wean Hall (1971) saw the institutional 
change from Carnegie Institute of Technology to Carnegie Mellon University. 
New facilities were needed to respond to the University's growing national 
reputation in artificial intelligence, business, robotics and the arts. 
In addition, an expanding student population resulted in a need for improved 
facilities for student life, athletics and libraries. The campus finally 
expanded to Forbes Avenue from its original land along Schenley Park. A 
ravine long known as "The Cut" was gradually filled in to campus level, 
joining "the Mall" as a major campus open space. The buildings of this 
era reflect current attitudes toward architectural style. The International 
Style, with its rejection of historical tradition and its emphases on functionalism 
and expression of structure, had been in vogue in urban settings since 
the 1930s. It came late to the Carnegie campus because of the hiatus in 
building activity and a general reluctance among all institutions of higher 
education to abandon historical styles. By the 1960s, it was seen as a 
way to accomplish the needed expansion and at the same time give the campus 
a new image. Each building was a unique architectural statement that may 
have acknowledged the existing campus in its placement, but not in its 
form or materials. During the 1970s and 1980s, the tenure of University 
President Richard Cyert (1972–1990) witnessed a period of growth and development. 
The research budget grew from roughly US$12 million annually in the early 
1970s to more than US$110 million in the late 1980s. The work of researchers 
in new fields like robotics and software engineering helped the university 
build on its reputation. One example of this approach was the introduction 
of the university's "Andrew" computing network in the mid-1980s. This pioneering 
project, which linked all computers and workstations on campus, set the 
standard for educational computing and established Carnegie Mellon as a 
leader in the use of technology in education and research. On April 24, 
1984, cmu.edu, Carnegie Mellon's Internet domain became one of the first 
six .edu domain names. In the 1990s and into the 2000s, Carnegie Mellon 
solidified its status among American universities, consistently ranking 
in the top 25 in the national U.S. News & World Report rankings, and in 
the top 60 (ranking 55th in 2013) amongst universities worldwide.[21][22] 
Carnegie Mellon is distinct in its interdisciplinary approach to research 
and education. Through the establishment of programs and centers that are 
outside the limitations of departments or colleges, the university has 
established leadership in fields such as computational finance, information 
systems, cognitive sciences, management, arts management, product design, 
behavioral economics, energy science and economics, human-computer interaction, 
entertainment technology, and decision science. Within the past two decades, 
the university has built a new university center (Cohon University Center), 
theater and drama building (Purnell Center), business school building (Posner 
Hall), student union and several dormitories. Baker Hall was renovated 
in the early 2000s (decade), and new chemistry labs were established in 
Doherty Hall soon after. Several computer science buildings, such as Newell 
Simon Hall, also were established, renovated or renamed in the early 2000s 
(decade). The university has most recently completed building the Gates 
Hillman Complex and continues renovating historic academic and residence 
halls. The Gates Hillman Complex, opened for occupancy on August 11, 2009, 
sits on a 5.6-acre (2.3 ha) site on the university's West Campus, surrounded 
by Cyert Hall, the Purnell Center for the Arts, Doherty Hall, Newell-Simon 
Hall, Smith Hall, Hamburg Hall and the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation 
Center. It contains 318 offices as well as labs, computer clusters, lecture 
halls, classrooms and a 255-seat auditorium. The Gates Hillman Complex 
was made possible by a $20 million lead gift from the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation and an additional $10 million grant from the Henry L. Hillman 
Foundation. The Gates Hillman Complex and the Purnell Center for the Arts 
are connected by the Randy Pausch Memorial Footbridge.[23] On April 15, 
1997, Jared L. Cohon, former dean of the Yale School of Forestry & Environmental 
Studies, was elected president by Carnegie Mellon's Board of Trustees. 
During Cohon's presidency, Carnegie Mellon continued its trajectory of 
innovation and growth. His strategic plan aimed to leverage the University's 
strengths to benefit society in the areas of biotechnology and life sciences, 
information and security technology, environmental science and practices, 
the fine arts and humanities, and business and public policy. In 2006, 
following negotiations between President Cohon and South Australian Premier 
Mike Rann, CMU opened a campus of the Heinz College in the historic Torrens 
Building in Adelaide, Australia. President Cohon's term ended on June 30, 
2013, after which he returned to the faculty at Carnegie Mellon. On July 
1, 2003, Carnegie Mellon launched "Insp!re Innovation", a $1 billion comprehensive 
fundraising campaign. Half of the campaign goal is intended for the endowment 
to provide long-lasting support for faculty, students and breakthrough 
innovations. The campaign brought in a total of $1.19 billion, with $578.5 
million going toward Carnegie Mellon's endowment. It also enabled the university 
to establish 31 endowed professorships, 97 endowed fellowships and 250 
endowed scholarships.[24] On September 7, 2011, William S. Dietrich II, 
the former chairman of Dietrich Industries, Inc., a subsidiary of Worthington 
Industries, Inc., pledged a gift of $265 million, effective on October 
6, 2011, upon his death. In response to this gift, Carnegie Mellon renamed 
the College of Humanities of Social Sciences as the Marianna Brown Dietrich 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences after William Dietrich's mother.[25] 
New York's Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and New York University's President 
John Sexton on April 23, 2012, announced a historic agreement between New 
York City, New York's MTA, and a consortium of world-class academic institutions, 
and private technology companies, that will lead to the creation in New 
York of a Center for Urban Science and Progress (CUSP). The Center for 
Urban Science and Progress (CUSP) is an applied science research institute 
which will be a partnership of top institutions from around the globe, 
led by New York University with a consortium of world-class universities 
including: The University of Warwick, Carnegie Mellon University, the City 
University of New York, the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, and 
the University of Toronto. In September 2012, Carnegie Mellon announced 
the construction of the Sherman and Joyce Bowie Scott Hall on the Pittsburgh 
campus. The new building will be situated between Hamerschlag Hall, Roberts 
Hall, and Wean Hall and will house the university-wide Wilton E. Scott 
Institute for Energy Innovation, a new nanotechnology research center, 
the Institute for Complex Engineered Systems, and the Biomedical Engineering 
Department.[26] Further, in November 2013, Carnegie Mellon announced a 
$67 million gift from David Tepper, who previously donated $56 million, 
to develop the Tepper Quadrangle on the north campus. The Tepper Quad will 
include a new Tepper School of Business facility across Forbes Avenue from 
a renovated and expanded Heinz College[27] as well as other university-wide 
buildings and a welcome center which will serve as a public gateway to 
the university.[28] Alongside the Tepper Quad and Hamburg Hall, Carnegie 
Mellon will construct an innovation center with a $35 million gift from 
Tata Consultancy Services which will partner with Carnegie Mellon to develop 
technology and business solutions.[29] On February 5, 2013 Carnegie Mellon 
announced the selection of Subra Suresh, Director of the National Science 
Foundation and Dean of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology School 
of Engineering, as its ninth president effective July 1, 2013[30] Peer 
institutions of Carnegie Mellon's institutional research and analysis program 
include Caltech, Cornell, Duke, Emory, Georgia Tech, MIT, Northwestern, 
Princeton, Rice, RPI, Stanford, University of Pennsylvania and Washington 
University.[31] For the class of 2019, the acceptance rate was 24%.[32] 
The admission rates of the individual schools vary, ranging from the more 
selective School of Computer Science to the less selective Dietrich College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences.[33] In 2015, the most selective undergraduate 
college was the School of Computer Science, which admitted only 5% of total 
applicants.[34] The largest college, in terms of enrollment, is the College 
of Engineering with 400 students in the class of 2017, followed by the 
Dietrich College of Humanities & Social Sciences with 265, and the College 
of Fine Arts with 260. The smallest college in terms of total undergraduate 
enrollment is the Tepper School of Business, with 80. Carnegie Mellon enrolls 
students from all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and 15.6% of 
the students are citizens of countries other than the United States, representing 
more than 40 countries. About 96.3% of first-year students enrolled in 
2009 returned for their second year, and 72.7% of students in the class 
of 2010 graduated within four years. Undergraduate tuition is $49,610 and 
room and board is $12,830 plus additional costs.[35] Carnegie Mellon graduates 
62% of its undergraduate students in science, technology, engineering, 
and mathematics fields, the 13th highest percentage in the United States 
amongst national research universities.[36] Carnegie Mellon University 
is ranked 23rd in the world according to Times Higher Education, and 58th 
in the world by QS World University Rankings in their 2016–17 rankings. 
Nationally, U.S. News & World Report ranks Carnegie Mellon tied for 24th 
among American research universities in 2017.[45] U.S. News also ranked 
Carnegie Mellon 1st for graduate studies in computer science, 5th for graduate 
studies in engineering, 6th for graduate studies in fine arts, 13th for 
graduate studies in public affairs, 9th for graduate studies in statistics, 
19th for graduate studies in economics, 18th for graduate studies in business, 
and 21st for graduate studies in psychology in 2016.[45] The undergraduate 
business program is ranked 2nd for management information systems, 2nd 
for production/operations and quantitative analysis, 8th for supply chain 
management, and tied for 6th as an undergraduate business program overall.[45] 
The undergraduate engineering program at colleges that offer doctorates 
as the highest degree was ranked tied for 8th overall, 5th for computer 
engineering, 9th for environmental engineering, and 11th for mechanical, 
electrical, and civil engineering in 2017.[45] In 2013, the school was 
given a peer-assessed academic reputation score of 4.2, tying it with UCLA 
and University of North Carolina at 19th nationally.[46] Carnegie Mellon 
was named one of the "New Ivies" by Newsweek.[47] In 2010, the Wall Street 
Journal ranked Carnegie Mellon 1st in computer science, 4th in finance, 
7th in economics, 10th overall, and 21st in engineering according to job 
recruiters.[48] Carnegie Mellon University ranks ninth among "Best Engineering 
Colleges By Salary Potential (Bachelor's Only)" in the United States according 
to PayScale's 2014–15 study.[49] In 2014, the undergraduate school of business, 
the Tepper School of Business, placed 17th in an annual ranking of U.S. 
undergraduate business schools by Bloomberg Businessweek.[50] In 2014, 
The Hollywood Reporter ranked the School of Drama number three in the world 
among undergraduate drama schools.[51] In 2015, the same publication ranked 
the MFA program at the School of Drama number five in the world.[52] In 
2015, Carnegie Mellon University has been ranked The Best Information Technology 
School in the United States.[53] Carnegie Mellon is one of 62 elected members 
of the Association of American Universities and one of 25 members (one 
of 12 American members) of the World Economic Forum Global University Leaders 
Forum.[54] In addition to its Pittsburgh campus, Carnegie Mellon has a 
branch campus in the Middle East, Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar, 
which offers a full undergraduate curriculum with degree programs in computer 
science, business administration, biology, computational biology, and information 
systems. The campus is located in Doha’s Education City which is home to 
multiple other U.S. universities all of which are funded by the Qatar Foundation. 
The Qatari campus in particular has been the subject of criticism due to 
Qatar’s adherence to Sharia Law and lack of freedom of speech and intellectual 
freedoms. Questions have been raised about whether an American institution 
that values these ideas can provide an equal experience in a community 
that limits them.[55] Additionally, Carnegie Mellon and other U.S. Universities 
in Education City have been criticized for being essentially complicit 
in Qatar’s funding of terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda, ISIS and Hamas 
and their questionable human rights record by continuing to operate there 
despite these issues.[56][57][58][59] It also has graduate-level extension 
campuses in Mountain View, California in the heart of Silicon Valley (offering 
masters programs in Software Engineering and Software Management). The 
Tepper School of Business maintains a satellite center in downtown Manhattan 
and the Heinz College maintains one in Adelaide, Australia. The Heinz College, 
the Institute for Politics and Strategy, and the Department of Engineering 
and Public Policy host centers in Washington, DC as part of degree programs, 
research, and government affairs initiatives as well as being a part of 
the University of California, Washington Center. Carnegie Mellon also established 
the Integrative Media Program at Steiner Studios in Brooklyn, New York. 
Carnegie Mellon also maintains the Carnegie Mellon Los Angeles Center in 
North Hollywood, California where students in the Master of Entertainment 
Industry Management program are required to relocate to Los Angeles in 
their second year and attend classes at this facility. Carnegie Mellon's 
Information Networking Institute offers graduate programs in Athens, Greece 
and Kobe, Japan, in collaboration with Athens Information Technology and 
the Hyogo Institute of Information Education Foundation, respectively. 
In the fall of 2007, the cities of Aveiro and Lisbon, Portugal were added 
to the Information Networking Institute's remote locations. The Institute 
for Software Research International (ISRI) offers graduate programs in 
Coimbra, Portugal. The Entertainment Technology Center offers graduate 
programs in Portugal, Japan, and Singapore. The Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute offers a master's degree in conjunction with the University of 
Madeira, in Portugal. The College of Engineering has an international location 
in Kigali, Rwanda offering the Master of Science in Information Technology 
and the Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering. The Carnegie 
Mellon University campus in Pittsburgh has served as the locale for many 
motion pictures. Alumnus George A. Romero filmed Creepshow (1982) in and 
around Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall. Much of the on-campus scenes in 
the 2000 film Wonder Boys, starring Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire, 
were filmed in Carnegie Mellon's campus. Other movies filmed at Carnegie 
Mellon include The Mothman Prophecies, Dogma, Lorenzo's Oil, The Dark Knight 
Rises, and Flashdance. The university is also featured prominently in the 
films Smart People, Monkey Shines, and in the anime Summer Wars. It was 
also referenced on an episode of The Simpsons, Weeds, and in the television 
film Mean Girls 2. Carnegie Mellon was identified as the university "Rat" 
went to in the science fiction film The Core, as well as the university 
that one of the astronauts attended in the film Deep Impact.[60] The musical 
Pippin was originally conceived by Stephen Schwartz as a student musical 
performed by the Scotch'n'Soda student theatre troupe.[61] Schwartz also 
collaborated with drama student John-Michael Tebelak to expand his master's 
thesis project titled Godspell, created under the direction of Lawrence 
Carra, into a musical. While enrolled at Carnegie Mellon, acting students 
Michael McKean and David Lander (class of 1969) created the characters 
"Lenny & Squiggy". The pair continued performing the characters in live 
comedy routines before joining the cast of the TV series Laverne and Shirley. 
In 2008, Carnegie Mellon professor Randy Pausch's "Last Lecture" became 
a pop culture phenomenon. Based on a lecture he gave in September 2007 
– shortly after he learned his cancer had metastasized – his book quickly 
rose to the top of bestseller lists around the country. Named in Time Magazine's 
"Time 100" list of influential people, he died in July 2008 from pancreatic 
cancer.[62] In 2003, Carnegie Mellon established the Robot Hall of Fame 
in partnership with the Carnegie Science Center. The 68th Tony Awards in 
2014 announced Carnegie Mellon University as its first educational partner 
in jointly awarding the "Tony Honor for Excellence in Theatre Education", 
which will "honor kindergarten through high school (K-12) theatre educators."[63] 
Carnegie Mellon also runs the Integrative Design, Arts, and Technology 
(IDeATe) Network to provide university-wide arts and technology education 
to students from every college. IDeATe allows students to take minors or 
concentrations in Animation and Special Effects, Entrepreneurship for Creative 
Industries, Game Design, Intelligent Environments, Learning Media, Media 
Design, Physical Computing, and Sound Design. IDeAte will also offer graduate 
master's degrees in Emerging Media, Game Design, Integrative Innovation 
for Products and Services, Computational Data Science, Urban Design, and 
Production Technology and Management. IDeATe also manages the Entertainment 
Technology Center (ETC) in conjunction with the School of Computer Science 
and the College of Fine Arts. Each master's degree program has an option 
to study in the CMU Integrative Media Program (IMP) at Steiner Studios 
in New York City. IDeATe Network will be based on the Pittsburgh campus 
upon development of recently acquired property on Forbes Avenue west of 
Junction Hollow.[70] In addition to research and academic institutions, 
the University hosts several other educationally driven programs. The Pennsylvania 
Governor's School for the Sciences, a state-funded summer program that 
aims to foster interest in science amongst gifted high school students 
is run on campus every summer. The University also runs Pre-College, a 
6-week residential program for rising juniors and seniors in high school, 
with programs in Drama, Music, Art & Design, Architecture, Game Design 
& Development, Humanities & Sciences, Mathematics, and Computer Science. 
Additionally, the Carnegie Mellon Institute for Talented Elementary and 
Secondary Students program (C-MITES) is hosted on CMU campus. The Cyert 
Center for Early Education is a child care center for Carnegie Mellon faculty 
and staff, as well as an observational setting for students in child development 
courses. The Open Learning Initiative provides free courses online in a 
variety of fields to students globally. Carnegie Mellon University Libraries 
include Hunt Library, the Roger Sorrells Engineering & Science Library, 
the Mellon Institute Library, the Posner Center, and the Qatar Library. 
Additionally, the Libraries' Million Book Project (2001–) sparked development 
of the Universal Digital Library. The University Libraries host a number 
of full text special collections for public access, including the Andrew 
Carnegie Collection, Herbert A. Simon Collection, Allen Newell Collection, 
the H. John Heinz III Collection, the Pittsburgh Jewish Newspapers Project, 
and the Posner Memorial Collection. Carnegie Mellon students and faculty 
have access to the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh and some University of 
Pittsburgh libraries through consortial agreements with those institutions. 
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation (HIBD), a research division 
of CMU, has a significant research library and art holdings on the 5th 
floor of Hunt Library. The university's Software Engineering Institute 
also houses a research library. Carnegie Mellon also manages the Naval 
Reserve Officer Training Corps in Pittsburgh on which students throughout 
Pittsburgh's universities rely. Carnegie Mellon relies on the University 
of Pittsburgh to provide opportunities in Army Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps and Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps to its students. Carnegie 
Mellon University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher 
Education.[71] Carnegie Mellon University neighbors the campus of the University 
of Pittsburgh, and in some cases, buildings of the two universities are 
intermingled. This helps to facilitate myriad academic and research collaborations 
between the two schools,[72] including such projects as the Pittsburgh 
Supercomputing Center, the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, the Immune 
Modeling Center, the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, the University 
of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, as well as the National Science Foundation-supported 
Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center.[73][74] Further, the universities 
also offer multiple dual and joint degree programs such as the Medical 
Scientist Training Program, the Molecular Biophysics and Structural Biology 
Graduate Program, the Joint CMU-Pitt Ph.D. Program in Computational Biology, 
the Center for Neural Basis of Cognition, and the Law and Business Administration 
program. Some professors hold joint professorships between the two schools, 
and students at each university may take classes at the other (with appropriate 
approvals).[75] CMU students and faculty also have access to the University 
of Pittsburgh library system, as well as the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 
The two universities also co-host academic conferences, such as the 2012 
Second Language Research Forum.[76] In 2015, in conjunction with the University 
of Pittsburgh and UPMC, Carnegie Mellon became a partner of the Pittsburgh 
Health Data Alliance to leverage data analysis in health care.[77] [84] 
For the 2006 fiscal year, the University spent $315 million on research. 
The primary recipients of this funding were the School of Computer Science 
($100.3 million), the Software Engineering Institute ($71.7 million), the 
College of Engineering ($48.5 million), and the Mellon College of Science 
($47.7 million). The research money comes largely from federal sources, 
with federal investment of $277.6 million. The federal agencies that invest 
the most money are the National Science Foundation and the Department of 
Defense, which contribute 26% and 23.4% of the total university research 
budget respectively.[35] The recognition of Carnegie Mellon as one of the 
best research facilities in the nation has a long history, as early as 
the 1987 Federal budget CMU was ranked as third in the amount of research 
dollars with $41.5 million with only MIT and Johns Hopkins receiving more 
research funds from the Department of Defense.[85] The Pittsburgh Supercomputing 
Center (PSC) is a joint effort between Carnegie Mellon University, University 
of Pittsburgh, and Westinghouse Electric Company. PSC was founded in 1986 
by its two scientific directors, Dr. Ralph Roskies of the University of 
Pittsburgh and Dr. Michael Levine of Carnegie Mellon University. PSC is 
a leading partner in the TeraGrid, the National Science Foundation's cyberinfrastructure 
program.[86] The Robotics Institute (RI) is a division of the School of 
Computer Science and considered to be one of the leading centers of robotics 
research in the world. The Field Robotics Center (FRC) has developed a 
number of significant robots, including Sandstorm and H1ghlander, which 
finished second and third in the DARPA Grand Challenge, and Boss, which 
won the DARPA Urban Challenge. The Robotics Institute has partnered with 
a spinoff company, Astrobotic Technology, to land a CMU robot on the moon 
by 2016 in pursuit of the Google Lunar XPrize. The robot, known as Andy, 
is designed to explore lunar pits, which might include entrances to caves.[87] 
The RI is primarily sited at Carnegie Mellon's main campus in Newell-Simon 
hall.[88] The Software Engineering Institute (SEI) is a federally funded 
research and development center sponsored by the U.S. Department of Defense 
and operated by Carnegie Mellon University, with offices in Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA; Arlington, Virginia, and Frankfurt, Germany. The SEI 
publishes books on software engineering for industry, government and military 
applications and practices. The organization is known for its Capability 
Maturity Model[89][90] (CMM) and Capability Maturity Model Integration 
(CMMI), which identify essential elements of effective system and software 
engineering processes and can be used to rate the level of an organization's 
capability for producing quality systems. The SEI is also the home of CERT/CC, 
the federally funded computer security organization. The CERT Program's 
primary goals are to ensure that appropriate technology and systems management 
practices are used to resist attacks on networked systems and to limit 
damage and ensure continuity of critical services subsequent to attacks, 
accidents, or failures.[91] The Human-Computer Interaction Institute (HCII) 
is a division of the School of Computer Science and is considered one of 
the leading centers of human-computer interaction research, integrating 
computer science, design, social science, and learning science.[92] Such 
interdisciplinary collaboration is the hallmark of research done throughout 
the university. The Language Technologies Institute (LTI) is another unit 
of the School of Computer Science and is famous for being one of the leading 
research centers in the area of language technologies. Primary research 
focus of the institute is on machine translation, speech recognition, speech 
synthesis, information retrieval, parsing and information extraction.[93] 
Until 1996, the institute existed as the Center for Machine Translation 
that was established in 1986. From 1996 onwards, it started awarding graduate 
degrees and the name was changed to Language Technologies Institute. Carnegie 
Mellon is also home to the Carnegie School of management and economics. 
This intellectual school grew out of the Tepper School of Business in the 
1950s and 1960s and focused on the intersection of behavioralism and management. 
Several management theories, most notably bounded rationality and the behavioral 
theory of the firm, were established by Carnegie School management scientists 
and economists. Carnegie Mellon also develops cross-disciplinary and university-wide 
institutes and initiatives to take advantage of strengths in various colleges 
and departments and develop solutions in critical social and technical 
problems. To date, these have included the Cylab Security and Privacy Institute, 
the Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation, the BrainHub, the 
Simon Initiative, and the Disruptive Healthcare Technology Institute. Carnegie 
Mellon has made a concerted effort to attract corporate research labs, 
offices, and partnerships to the Pittsburgh campus. Apple Inc., Intel, 
Google, Microsoft, Disney, IBM, General Motors, Bombardier Inc., Yahoo!, 
Uber, Tata Consultancy Services, Ansys, Boeing, Robert Bosch GmbH, and 
the Rand Corporation have established a presence on or near campus. In 
collaboration with Intel, Carnegie Mellon has pioneered research into claytronics.[94] 
There are more than 100,000 Carnegie Mellon alumni worldwide with the graduating 
class of 2015.[95] Alumni and current/former faculty include 19 Nobel laureates, 
14 Members of NAS, 50 Members of NAE, 114 Emmy Award Recipients, 7 Academy 
Award Recipients, 43 Tony Award Recipients, and 12 Turing Award Recipients.[96] 
Famous alumni include Stephanie Kwolek, inventor of Kevlar; James Gosling, 
creator of the Java programming language; Andy Bechtolsheim, co-founder 
of Sun Microsystems; pop artists Andy Warhol and Burton Morris;[97] John-Michael 
Tebelak, co-author of Godspell; former General Motors CEO and Secretary 
of Defense, Charles Erwin Wilson; billionaire hedge fund investor David 
Tepper; Mountaineer and Author Aron Ralston; Charles Geschke, Chairman 
of Adobe Systems;[98] and astronauts Edgar Mitchell (of Apollo 14) and 
Judith Resnik, who perished in the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. A 
memorial to Judith Resnik can be found at the base of Hammerschlag Hall 
and is maintained by members of Tau Beta Pi, the National Engineering Honor 
Society.[99] Overall, Carnegie Mellon is affiliated with nineteen Nobel 
Laureates,[100] twelve Turing Awards winners, two winners of the Stockholm 
Prize in Criminology, eight Academy Award recipients, one hundred and one 
Emmy Award recipients (including ten time recipient Steven Bochco), and 
forty-one Tony Awards recipients. John Forbes Nash, a 1948 graduate and 
winner of the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics, was the subject of the book 
and subsequent film A Beautiful Mind. Alan Perlis, a 1943 graduate, was 
a pioneer in programming languages and recipient of the first ever Turing 
award. Pop art sensation Andy Warhol Inventor of Java, James Gosling Winner 
of the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics John Forbes Nash Billionaire hedge 
fund investor David Tepper Co-founder of Sun Microsystems Andreas Bechtolsheim 
Inventor of Kevlar Stephanie Kwolek Former US Secretary of Defense Charles 
Wilson Chairman of Adobe Systems Charles Geschke Ten-time Emmy award recipient 
Steven Bochco Author of "The Last Lecture" Randy Pausch Carnegie Mellon's 
student life includes over 225 student organizations, art galleries, and 
various unique traditions. Student organizations provide social, service, 
media, academic, spiritual, recreational, sport, religious, political, 
cultural, and governance opportunities. Carnegie Mellon's campus houses 
several galleries such as The Frame, a student-devoted gallery, and the 
Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, an art gallery that specializes in contemporary 
professional artists. The Carnegie Mellon School of Music, Carnegie Mellon 
School of Drama and the student-run theatrical organization Scotch'n'Soda 
provides campus with a variety of world-class performance arts events. 
The university has a strong Scottish motif inspired by Andrew Carnegie's 
Scottish heritage, as well as the Mellon family's Scots-Irish ancestry. 
Examples include Scotty, the Scottish Terrier mascot, The Tartan student 
newspaper, Skibo Gymnasium, The Thistle yearbook, and the Céilidh weekend 
every fall semester for homecoming. Carnegie Mellon offers conventional 
housing for its students through single-gender, coeducational, and special 
interest options. Students can choose from a variety of housing options. 
The three options for first-year students are standard, prime, and apartment-style 
living. Standard is a typical college dormitory setting, a long hallway 
with a series of double (two people to a room). Prime offers more privacy 
through suite-style rooms. Apartment-style living is available through 
the Residence on Fifth and Shirley apartments. Upperclassmen have additional 
options for housing which include town houses and a larger variety of one 
or two bedroom apartments. There are 20 residential buildings on campus 
and five off campus in the Oakland area of Pittsburgh.[102] First-year 
students are assigned to the dedicated first-year residence halls on campus 
including: Morewood E-Tower, Residence on Fifth, Shirley Apartments, as 
well as Boss, Donner, Hamerschlag, McGill, Mudge, Scobell, and Stever houses. 
Approximately a third of upperclassmen choose to continue living on campus 
through university housing. Options for upperclassmen include: Morewood 
Gardens, West Wing, Doherty, Fairfax, Margaret Morrison, Neville, Shady 
Oak, Shirley, and Woodlawn Apartments as well as Henderson, Resnik, Roselawn, 
Spirit, Tech, Webster, and Welch houses.[102] The Greek tradition at Carnegie 
Mellon University began over 100 years ago with the founding of the first 
fraternity on campus, Theta Xi, in 1912. The Panhellenic sorority community 
was founded in 1945, by Chi Omega, Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma, Kappa 
Alpha Theta, and Kappa Kappa Gamma. The Chi Omega chapter at Carnegie Mellon 
transformed into an independent sorority, Zeta Psi Sigma, and has since 
become Alpha Chi Omega. There is one Asian American interest sorority – 
alpha Kappa Delta Phi (colony), and one Asian American interest fraternity 
– Lambda Phi Epsilon. Currently, Carnegie Mellon University has thirteen 
active fraternities: Alpha Epsilon Pi, Alpha Sigma Phi, Delta Tau Delta, 
Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, Sigma Nu, 
Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Tau Gamma, Delta Upsilon (colony), Phi Delta Theta, 
and Lambda Phi Epsilon. In addition to participating in campus traditions 
such as Buggy and Booth, the fraternities and sororities hold an annual 
fundraiser called Greek Sing, one of the largest Greek events of the year. 
Each year, the organizations vote on a cause to support and raise money 
through ticket sales, ad sales, corporate sponsorships and donations. Each 
organization performs a 13-minute-long original show or a rendition of 
a popular show. In Spring 2010, Greek Sing raised over $42,000 for St. 
Jude Children's Research The Carnegie Mellon Tartans were a founding member 
of the University Athletic Association of NCAA Division III. Prior to World 
War II Carnegie Mellon (as Carnegie Tech) played with NCAA Division I teams. 
In 1936 the Carnegie Tech riflery team won the national intercollegiate 
championship.[103] Currently, varsity teams are fielded in basketball, 
track, cross country, football, golf, soccer, swimming & diving, volleyball, 
tennis, hockey, and rowing. In addition, club teams exist in ultimate frisbee,[104] 
rowing,[105] rugby, lacrosse, hockey,[106] baseball,[107] softball, skiing 
& snowboarding,[108] soccer, volleyball, water polo,[109] and cycling.[110] 
Carnegie Mellon Athletics runs a comprehensive and popular intramural system, 
maintains facilities (primarily Skibo Gymnasium, Cohon University Center, 
and Gesling Stadium), and offers courses to students in fitness and sports. 
Carnegie Mellon's primary athletic rivals are fellow UAA schools Case Western 
Reserve University and Washington University in St. Louis; the Tartans 
have an especially intense rivalry with the latter's football team. On 
November 28, 1926, the 6–2 Carnegie Tech football team shut out Knute Rockne's 
undefeated Notre Dame Fighting Irish 19–0 at Forbes Field. It would be 
the only loss for the Irish all season and only the second time they allowed 
a touchdown that season.[111] The game was ranked the fourth-greatest upset 
in college football history by ESPN.[112] In 1939 the Tartan football team 
earned a trip to the NCAA National Championship at the Sugar Bowl. That 
same year, Robert Doherty, university president at the time, banned the 
football team from competing in postseason bowl games. Since 2014, the 
Tartans play in the Presidents' Athletic Conference at the NCAA Division 
III level. In recent years, the varsity track and cross country programs 
have seen outstanding success on the Division III national level. The men's 
cross country team has finished in the top 15 in the nation each of the 
last three years, and has boasted several individual All-Americans. The 
men's track team has also boasted several individual All-Americans spanning 
sprinting, distance, and field disciplines. Recent All-Americans from the 
track team are Tommy Vandenberg (2014–2015), Brian Harvey (2007–2009), 
Davey Quinn (2007), Nik Bonaddio (2004, 2005), Mark Davis (2004, 2005), 
Russel Verbofsky (2004, 2005) and Kiley Williams (2005). With much of the 
team's support, Lauren Schmidt received the NCAA Pennsylvania Woman of 
the Year award (2003), was a two-time All-American (2001 and 2002), a four-time 
All-University Athletic Association selection (1999–2002), and the conference's 
Player of the Year (2001).[113] The Carnegie Mellon Cricket Club represents 
Carnegie Mellon in inter-collegiate competitions. CMU cricket club are 
regular participants in American College Cricket national championships. 
CMU were joint-runners up in the first-ever American College Cricket Tournament 
