Carolina (Spanish pronunciation: [kaɾoˈlina]) is a municipality located 
on the northeast coast of Puerto Rico. It lies immediately east of the 
capital San Juan and Trujillo Alto; north of Gurabo and Juncos; and west 
of Canóvanas and Loíza. Carolina is spread over 12 wards plus Villa Carolina 
(the downtown area and administrative center). It is part of the San Juan-Caguas-Guaynabo 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, and home to Puerto Rico's main airport, 
the Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport. The town was founded by Spanish 
colonists in 1816 as Trujillo Bajo ("lower Trujillo"), along with its counterpart 
Trujillo Alto after Trujillo, Spain. In 1857 it was renamed to San Fernando 
de la Carolina, later shortened to Carolina, after Charles II of Spain.[1] 
The city is known as Tierra de Gigantes (Land of Giants), not only for 
well-known Carolina resident Don Felipe Birriel González (who was 7'11"), 
but also in honor of other people from Carolina, including poet Julia de 
Burgos and most notably the first Latin American player named to baseball's 
Hall of Fame, Roberto Clemente. Carolina was also home to Jesús T. Piñero, 
the first Puerto Rican to be appointed as governor by the United States 
government. The City is also known as "El Pueblo de los Tumba Brazos" (The 
Arm Hackers Town). During the late 1800s, the town's major export was sugar 
cane. Sugar cane workers solved their issues by fighting with their machetes, 
therefore many their arms. (needs reference) Carolina is one of Puerto 
Rico's most important tourist centers. Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport, 
while incorrectly thought to be in San Juan, it is actually located in 
Isla Verde, which is geographically part of Carolina. Also located in Carolina 
are a large group of hotels, which sit by Carolina's large beach area. 
There are several well-known hotels on the coast of Carolina (Isla Verde 
area), including the El San Juan Resort and Casino, InterContinental San 
Juan Hotel and the Ritz-Carlton San Juan Hotel, Spa, and Casino. Carolina 
is the home of Plaza Carolina, one of Puerto Rico's largest shopping malls. 
Executive Airlines, an aircraft ground handling company and subsidiary 
of American Airlines, is headquartered on the grounds of Luis Muñoz Marín 
International Airport in Carolina.[3] Manufacturing (pharmaceutical, medical 
equipment and chemical) and commerce. In recent years, Carolina has seen 
the building of the Ciudad Deportiva Roberto Clemente or Roberto Clemente 
Sports City, a sports and recreation facility that aims to become a youth 
sports school, and the Roberto Clemente Stadium, host to many entertainment 
events and to the 2003 and 2007 Caribbean World Series. It has also played 
host to the Coliseo Guillermo Angulo, where the BSN's Gigantes de Carolina 
play, as well as the Gigantes of Puerto Rican women's professional basketball, 
the Gigantes of men's professional volleyball, and the Gigantes of women's 
professional volleyball. The Gigantes de Carolina professional baseball 
team use the Roberto Clemente Stadium as their home field. There is also 
another team with the same name, the Giants de Carolina, a professional 
soccer team that plays in the Puerto Rico Soccer League. That team also 
uses the Roberto Clemente Stadium as its home field. Professional horse 
jockey Emanuel Jose Sanchez was born in Carolina, Puerto Rico. Riding the 
mare Mark Me Special he captured the 7th race at Colonial Downs on June 
19, 2005. All municipalities in Puerto Rico are administered by a mayor, 
elected every four years. The current mayor of Carolina is José Aponte 
Dalmau, of the Popular Democratic Party (PPD). He was elected in 2007, 
after a special election, succeeding his late father, José Aponte de la 
Torre. Aponte de la Torre was elected mayor in 1984 and served for 23 years. 
The city belongs to the Puerto Rico Senatorial district VIII, which is 
represented by two Senators. In 2012, Pedro A. Rodríguez and Luis Daniel 
Rivera were elected as District Senators.[5] The Carolina Police Department, 
with most of its precincts in the northern half of the city due to the 
density of the population, handle law enforcement responsibilities. Puerto 
Rico Police Department also has jurisdiction in Carolina, especially for 
narcotics enforcement, with four precincts positioned on all four points 
of the city. Carolina created the first municipal fire department in Puerto 
Rico. The Carolina Fire Department in collaboration with the Carolina Municipal 
Emergency Management use two engine trucks, one ladder track and one special 
hazard engine truck. Their headquarters are located in the tourist district 
of Isla Verde. Also, the Puerto Rico Fire Department have a fire station 
and regional office in town, located on the Roberto Clemente Avenue. The 
flag consists of three vertical bands, the laterals white and the middle 
red. The laterals are seeded with black ermine tails in the heraldic way 
as for the coat of arms. The middle band of the flag shows a red field 
with the sword and crown of the coat of arms. The crown over the sword 
is the main attribute for royalty and for that reason it occupies a privileged 
position in the Coat of Arms. The sword is not only a symbol for military 
service, but also one of justice, recalling the virtues of San Fernando. 
The Coat of Arms has a wide edge of silver, a cultivated field of small 
tails of ermine shown in the conventional heraldic manner. The red symbolizes 
the first patriotic developments made for Puerto Rico's freedom under Spanish 
