Left – 340 ft. Left-Center – 370 ft. Center – 400 ft. Right-Center – 370 
ft. The Carpenter Complex is a complex of four baseball fields in Clearwater, 
Florida. It opened as 'Carpenter Field' in 1967. It is the Florida home 
of the Philadelphia Phillies baseball operations, spring training site 
for the Phillies’ minor league players, home to the Gulf Coast League Phillies, 
and adjacent to Bright House Field, spring training home of the Philadelphia 
Phillies and regular season home of the Clearwater Threshers. While the 
Complex is now adjacent to Bright House Field, the Phillies, until 2004, 
played spring training games a short drive away, which gave the Complex 
its own identity in the Phillies organizational structure and the team's 
recent history. The Complex has four fields, each named for Phillies Hall 
of Fame players (all of whom trained with the Phillies in Clearwater and 
also were the first four Phillies to have their uniform numbers retired), 
the Rich Ashburn Field, Robin Roberts Field, Mike Schmidt Field, and Steve 
Carlton Field. In 2004, the Phillies officially renamed the Complex, the 
Paul Owens Training Facility at Carpenter Complex, which honored Paul Owens' 
memory but also served to distinguish the training fields from the primary 
spring ballpark, Brighthouse Field, which is also at Carpenter Complex. 
The Carpenter Complex was dedicated on March 5, 1967 at which Clearwater 
Mayor Joe Turner surprised Phillies owner and president Bob Carpenter by 
naming the new field in his honor. The complex was financed by a no-interest 
$250,000 loan from the Phillies to the City of Clearwater which was to 
be repaid over a 10-year period.[1] The complex was built on the site of 
a former city trash dump. Through the years, settling garbage has left 
dips and holes in the field and has required repairs on the clubhouse buildings.[2] 
During the 1987–1988 off-season, the City of Clearwater renovated the Complex 
along with Jack Russell Stadium in exchange for the Phillies' commitment 
of an addition eight years in Clearwater. Improvements included the additions 
of four covered batting tunnels, new lockers, and new fencing for all four 
fields.[3] During the summer of 2009, the Carpenter Complex was gutted 
and reconstructed with new offices, new locker rooms, larger training room, 
and an elevated observation walkway that now allows coaches and scouts 
to walk around to any of the three fields. The major league Phillies enjoyed 
these new renovations for the first time during Spring Training 2010.[4] 
The Carpenter Complex is home to the Gulf Coast League Phillies. The GCL 
Phillies played some games at the Joe DiMaggio Complex in Clearwater in 
2009 while the Carpenter Complex was renovated.[5] In December 2010, the 
Penn State Nittany Lions practiced at the complex prior to their appearance 
in the 2011 Outback Bowl at nearby Raymond James Stadium.[6] Many Florida 
Winter Instructional League teams - both affiliated with and not affiliated 
with the Phillies - played their home games at the Complex at what was 
then called 'Carpenter Field in the late 1960s and 1970s. In December 2010, 
the Penn State Nittany Lions practiced at the complex prior to their appearance 
in the 2011 Outback Bowl at nearby Raymond James Stadium.[7] Paul Owens 
became increasingly identified with the Carpenter Complex due to his success 
with the franchise which coincided with the opening of the Complex in 1967 
through the 2003 season, the final season at Veterans Stadium, where his 
teams achieved so much success. His death has a particular resonance with 
those who had worked with and under Owens at the Complex. In 1955, Owens 
was named the Olean Oilers's playing manager. The following year, Oleans 
became a Phillies' affiliate and Owens moved into their organization. He 
eventually became director of the Philadelphia farm system. On June 3, 
1972, he replaced John Quinn as the Phillies' general manager. His farm 
system produced players including Mike Schmidt, Greg Luzinski, Bob Boone, 
Larry Bowa, Oscar Gamble, and Dick Ruthven. He remained with the Phillies 
as a senior adviser and special scout until his death, in 2003, at age 
79. He worked many hours at the Complex, sitting atop the fields, smoking 
cigarettes, and watching prospects. Coordinates: 27°58′18″N 82°43′54″W﻿ 
