As player As manager Charles Dillon "Casey" Stengel (/ˈstɛŋɡəl/; July 30, 
1890 – September 29, 1975), nicknamed "The Old Perfessor", was an American 
Major League Baseball right fielder and manager. He was elected to the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1966. Stengel was born in Kansas City, Missouri, 
and originally nicknamed "Dutch", a common nickname at that time for Americans 
of German ancestry. After his major league career began, he acquired the 
nickname "Casey", which originally came from the initials of his hometown 
("K. C."), which evolved into "Casey", influenced by the wide popularity 
of the poem Casey at the Bat. In the 1950s, sportswriters dubbed him with 
yet another nickname, "The Old Professor" (or "Perfessor"), for his sharp 
wit and his ability to talk at length on anything baseball-related. Although 
his baseball career spanned a number of teams and cities, he is primarily 
associated with clubs in New York City. Between playing and managing, he 
is the only person to have worn four of New York's major league clubs' 
uniforms. He was the first of four men to manage both the New York Yankees 
and New York Mets (Yogi Berra, Dallas Green, and Joe Torre are the others). 
Like Joe Torre, he also managed the Braves and the Dodgers. Stengel ended 
his baseball career as the beloved manager for the then expansion New York 
Mets, which won over the hearts of New York partly due to the unique character 
of their veteran leader. Stengel was born on July 30, 1890, in Kansas City, 
Missouri. He played sandlot baseball as a child, and also played baseball, 
football and basketball at Central High School. His basketball team won 
the city championship, while the baseball team won the state championship.[1] 
Stengel had no particular vision of sports as a long-term profession, but, 
rather, had aspirations of a career in dentistry. As described in his autobiography, 
on pages 58 and 75–76, he saved enough money from his early minor league 
experience in 1910–1911 to train to become a dentist. He had some problems 
due to the lack of left-handed instruments and the training was a struggle. 
Stengel signed a contract with the Kansas City Blues of the Class AAA American 
Association, considered the best minor league, in 1910. He struggled as 
a pitcher, leading manager Danny Shay to play Stengel as an outfielder. 
Kansas City optioned Stengel to the Kankakee Kays of the Class D Northern 
Association, a lower-level minor league, to gain experience as an outfielder. 
He had a .251 batting average with Kankakee when the league folded in July. 
He spent the remainder of the 1910 season with the Shelbyville Grays / 
Maysville Rivermen of the Class D Blue Grass League, batting .221.[1][2] 
Stengel attended Western Dental College in the offseason, which provided 
Stengel with enough negotiating leverage to receive a raise from Kansas 
City for the 1911 season. The Blues assigned Stengel to the Aurora Blues 
of the Class C Wisconsin–Illinois League. He led the league with a .351 
batting average.[1] Brooklyn Dodgers' scout Larry Sutton noticed Stengel, 
and the Dodgers signed Stengel in 1911. They assigned Stengel to the Montgomery 
Rebels of the Class A Southern Association for the 1912 season. Playing 
for manager Kid Elberfeld, Stengel batted .290 and led the league in outfield 
assists. He also developed a reputation as an eccentric player. Scout Mike 
Kahoe referred to Stengel as a "dandy ballplayer, but it's all from the 
neck down."[1] The Dodgers promoted Stengel to the major leagues after 
the Southern Association season concluded, and he made his MLB debut on 
September 17, 1912, as their starting center fielder.[1] Stengel played 
for the Brooklyn Dodgers from 1912 through 1917. Stengel routinely held 
out from the team before each season in contract disputes. Tired of these 
disputes, Dodgers' owner Charles Ebbets traded Stengel and George Cutshaw 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates for Burleigh Grimes, Al Mamaux, and Chuck Ward 
before the 1918 season.[1] In 1919, Stengel of the Pittsburgh Pirates was 
being taunted mercilessly by fans of the Brooklyn Dodgers, his old team. 
Somehow Casey got hold of a sparrow and used it to turn the crowd in his 
favor. With the bird tucked gently beneath his cap, Casey strutted to the 
plate amidst a chorus of boos and catcalls. He turned to the crowd, tipped 
his hat and out flew the sparrow. The jeers turned to cheers, and Stengel 
became an instant favorite.[1][3][4] On August 9, 1919, the Pirates traded 
Stengel to the Philadelphia Phillies for Possum Whitted.[1] On July 1, 
1921, the Phillies traded Stengel and Johnny Rawlings to the New York Giants 
for Lee King, Goldie Rapp, and Lance Richbourg. He threw left-handed and 
batted left-handed. His batting average was .284 over 14 major league seasons. 
He played in three World Series: in 1916 for the Dodgers and in 1922 and 
1923 for the Giants. He was a competent player, but by no means a superstar. 
On July 8, 1958, discussing his career before the United States Senate's 
Estes Kefauver committee on baseball's antitrust status, he made this observation: 
"I had many years that I was not so successful as a ballplayer, as it is 
a game of skill."[5] Nonetheless he had a good World Series in a losing 
cause in 1923, hitting two home runs (one of which was the first World 
Series home run in old Yankee Stadium) to win the two games the Giants 
won in that Series. He was traded to the perennial second-division-dwelling 
Boston Braves during the offseason with Dave Bancroft and Bill Cunningham 
for Joe Oeschger and Billy Southworth after the 1924 season.[6] This trade 
apparently stung him. Years later he made the pithy comment "It's lucky 
I didn't hit three home runs in three games, or [John] McGraw would have 
traded me to the Three-I League."[citation needed] In 1914 Stengel got 
in touch with his baseball and football coach from Kansas City, William 
L. Driver, who was the football, basketball and baseball coach at the University 
of Mississippi. Stengel worked as an assistant to Driver for two months 
before leaving for spring training in Augusta, Georgia. The Ole Miss baseball 
team finished the season with a 13–9 record. After getting to the Brooklyn 
spring camp Stengel regaled his teammates about his time at Ole Miss thereby 
earning the nickname "Professor" which later became "The Old Perfessor". 
Stengel's first managerial position came in 1925, as player-manager of 
the Worcester Panthers of the Eastern League. He also served as team president. 
For the 1926 season, the Panthers were slated to move to Providence, Rhode 
Island. However, McGraw, with whom Stengel had remained close over the 
years, wanted Stengel to take over as manager of their top affiliate, the 
Toledo Mud Hens of the American Association. He was still under contract 
to Boston, however. To solve this problem, Stengel fired himself as manager, 
released himself as a player and resigned as president. Braves owner Emil 
Fuchs briefly protested, but relented and let Stengel move to Toledo. In 
his second year, Stengel led a roster loaded with former major-leaguers 
to Toledo's first-ever pennant. His tenure was short-lived, however; the 
Mud Hens went bankrupt in 1931 and Stengel was out of a job. He then returned 
to the Dodgers as a coach under one of his former Pirate teammates, Max 
Carey. When Carey was fired shortly before the 1934 season, Stengel was 
named his successor. As manager of the Dodgers (1934–1936) and Boston Braves 
(1938–1943), Stengel never finished better than fifth in an eight-team 
league. As he said in 1958, "I became a major league manager in several 
cities and was discharged. We call it discharged because there is no question 
I had to leave."[5] Stengel demonstrated he could be successful as a manager 
of a team having worthy talent. In 1944, Stengel was hired as the manager 
of the minor league Milwaukee Brewers, over the strenuous objections of 
club owner Bill Veeck (who was serving in the South Pacific in the Marines 
at the time, and therefore unable to prevent the hiring). Stengel led the 
Brewers to the American Association pennant that year. In 1948 Stengel 
managed the Oakland Oaks to the Pacific Coast League championship. Stengel's 
success in Oakland caught the attention of the New York Yankees, who were 
looking for a new manager. Shortly after the PCL season, Stengel was hired 
as manager of the Yankees for 1949 by George Weiss, an old friend of Stengel's.[7][unreliable 
source?] Upon taking over, Stengel realized he finally had a chance for 
success at the major league level. He made this observation about his new 
squad: "There is less wrong with this team than any team I have ever managed." 
There was considerable skepticism about Stengel's hiring at first, given 
his poor record during his earlier stints in Brooklyn and Boston. However, 
he and the Yankees proceeded to win record numbers of championships. Stengel 
became the only man to manage a team to five consecutive World Series championships 
(1949–1953). After the streak ended with the Yankees failing to win the 
American League pennant in 1954, Stengel and the Yanks continued their 
dominance, going on to win two more World Championships (1956 and 1958), 
and five more American League pennants (1955–1958, 1960). As manager of 
the Yankees, Stengel gained a reputation as one of the game's sharpest 
tacticians: he platooned left and right-handed hitters extensively (which 
had become a lost art by the late 1940s),[8] was keen to bring in situational 
pitchers as evidenced in Game 7 of the 1952 World Series with Bob Kuzava 
to retire the Dodgers with bases loaded in the 7th, and sometimes pinch 
hit for his starting pitcher in early innings if he felt a timely hit would 
break the game open.[1] In the spring of 1953, after the Yankees had won 
four straight World Series victories, he made the following observation, 
which could just as easily have been made by The Professor's prize pupil, 
Yogi Berra (who would also become famous with many laughably quotable statements): 
"If we're going to win the pennant, we've got to start thinking we're not 
as smart as we think we are."[9] "I never saw a man who juggled his lineup 
so much and who played so many hunches so successfully." Although Stengel 
benefited from the Yankees' deep pockets and ability to sign players, he 
was a hands-on manager: The 1949 Yankees were riddled by injuries, and 
Stengel's platooning abilities played a major role in their championship 
run. Platooning also played a major role in the 1951 team's World Series 
run. With Joe DiMaggio declining rapidly and Mickey Mantle yet to become 
a powerhouse, Stengel, leaving his solid pitching alone, moved players 
in and out of the line-up, putting good hitters in the line-up in the early 
innings and benching them for superior fielders later. The Yankees beat 
the Cleveland Indians for the pennant and took the Series from the New 
York Giants four games to two.[10] After 1953, the Yankees' rate of success 
started dropping. The team continued their total domination of the AL and 
in 1960 achieved their tenth pennant in eleven seasons, but won the World 
Series only two more times, in 1956 and 1958, in spite of all-star talent 
such as Yogi Berra and Mickey Mantle. During the late '50s, Stengel increasingly 
began to quarrel with players and management. He was widely accused of 
being too old for the job and being unable to connect with his players, 
in particular Mickey Mantle, who showed very little regard for Stengel. 
At the start of the 1960 season, Stengel was hospitalized after suffering 
chest pains. He agreed to give up alcohol consumption for a few months 
and in one of his famous quips, told reporters "They examined all my organs. 
Some of them are quite remarkable and others are not so good. A lot of 
museums are bidding for them." In the 1960 World Series, the Yankees were 
downed by Pittsburgh after a ninth-inning game-winning home run by Bill 
Mazeroski. Stengel was fired immediately afterwards, with no particular 
reason given other than that the team needed a "change in direction". As 
reported in Ken Burns' PBS documentary series, Baseball, Stengel remarked 
that he had been fired for turning 70, and that he would "never make that 
mistake again." In his 1962 autobiography, Stengel wrote that he'd gotten 
the sense he would have been forced out even if the Yankees had won the 
World Series. John Rosenberg's book, Baseball (1963), described the press 
conference where Casey announced that his "services were no longer desired." 
Reporters implored him to say whether he was fired: "I was told my services 
were no longer desired. That was their excuse; the best they've got." Stengel 
was talked out of retirement after one season to manage the New York Mets, 
at the time an expansion team with no chance of winning many games. Mocking 
his well-publicized advanced age, when he was hired he said, "It's a great 
honor to be joining the Knickerbockers", a New York baseball team that 
had seen its last game around the time of the Civil War.[11] The lack of 
success for the Mets led Stengel to make many sarcastic comments to New 
York City newspaper writers. "Come see my "Amazin' Mets", Stengel said. 
"I've been in this game a hundred years, but I see new ways to lose I never 
knew existed before." On his three catchers: "I got one that can throw 
but can't catch, one that can catch but can't throw, and one who can hit 
but can't do either." Referring to the rookies Ed Kranepool and Greg Goossen 
in 1965, Stengel observed, "See that fellow over there? He's 20 years old. 
In 10 years he has a chance to be a star. Now, that fellow over there, 
he's 20, too. In 10 years he has a chance to be 30." Kranepool never quite 
became a star, but he did have an 18-year major league career, retiring 
in 1979 after playing his entire career with the Mets and becoming their 
all-time hits leader, before it was broken by David Wright in 2012. Goossen 
left the majors 5 years before his 30th birthday. One of his most famous 
comments was actually the work of Jimmy Breslin, who used it as the title 
of his book about the first-year Mets, Can't Anybody Here Play This Game?.[12] 
Though his "Amazin'" Mets finished last in a ten-team league all four years 
managed by him, Stengel was a popular figure with reporters nonetheless, 
partially due to his personal charisma. The Mets themselves somehow attained 
a "lovable loser" charm that followed the team around in those days. Fans 
packed the old Polo Grounds (prior to Shea Stadium being built), many of 
them bringing along colorful placards and signs with all sorts of sayings 
on them. Warren Spahn, who had briefly played under Stengel for the 1942 
Braves and for the 1965 Mets, commented: "I'm probably the only guy who 
worked for Stengel before and after he was a genius."[13] In the spring 
of 1965, although a few months from turning 75, Stengel showed no apparent 
desire to quit as he signed a contract extension with the team. He broke 
his wrist after slipping on wet pavement during spring training, but continued 
to manage the team with his arm in a sling and with increased calls from 
the sports media and some players to retire. On July 24, 1965, while attending 
a party at Toots Shor's restaurant in Manhattan, Stengel fell off a bar 
stool. Apparently unscathed, he then traveled to a friend's home in Queens 
and broke his hip while stepping out of a car. He was hospitalized and 
fitted for an artificial hip, and on August 30, announced his retirement 
from baseball.[14] Stengel had his uniform number, 37, retired by both 
the Yankees and the Mets. He is the first man in MLB history to have had 
his number retired by more than one team based solely upon his managerial 
accomplishments (Sparky Anderson became the second in 2011). Anderson referred 
to Stengel as "the greatest man" in the history of baseball.[16] 37 is 
the only number ever to have been issued only once by the Mets. The Yankees 
retired the number on August 8, 1970, and dedicated a plaque in Yankee 
Stadium's Monument Park in his memory on July 30, 1976. The plaque reads 
"Brightened baseball for over 50 years; with spirit of eternal youth; Yankee 
manager 1949 – 1960 winning 10 pennants and 7 world championships including 
a record 5 consecutive, 1949 – 1953." In addition to his election to the 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1966,[17] he was inducted into the New York Mets 
Hall of Fame in 1981. Stengel was the first man to have worn the uniform 
(as player or manager) of all four Major League Baseball teams in New York 
City in the 20th century: the New York Giants (as a player), the Brooklyn 
Dodgers (as both a player and a manager), the New York Yankees (as a manager), 
and the New York Mets (also as a manager). In addition, he is the only 
person to have played or managed for the home team in five New York City 
major league venues: Washington Park, Ebbets Field, Polo Grounds, Shea 
Stadium, and Yankee Stadium. As he often said, "You can look it up." In 
2009, in an awards segment on the MLB Network titled "The Prime 9", he 
was named "The Greatest Character of The Game." He received this award 
not only for his colorful personality and antics on the field, but also 
his off-field contributions to the community. Stengel was always friendly 
to the media and photographers who were willing to take a picture of him.[18] 
Stengel was a master publicist and promoter, especially for his teams. 
He became as much of a public figure as many of his star players, such 
as Mickey Mantle. He appeared on the cover of national, non-sports, magazines 
such as Time. His apparently stream-of-consciousness monologues on all 
facets of baseball history and tactics became known as "Stengelese" to 
sportswriters. They also earned him the nickname "The Old Professor". According 
to Dave Egan of the The Boston Record, Stengel was a "funny guy at somebody 
else's expense".[19] He was considered cruel, in his own way, to his players, 
and some of his players, most notably Joe DiMaggio, hated his personality.[19] 
DiMaggio called Stengel the most "bewildered guy" he ever met.[20] Zack 
Wheat once said of Stengel: "There was never a day around Casey that I 
didn't laugh".[21] Stengel ran afoul of longtime Dodgers foe Jackie Robinson, 
who claimed that he was a racist and that the Yankees did not sign an African-American 
player until eight years after he broke the color barrier in 1947. Robinson 
also claimed that he frequently slept through games. The first African-American 
to wear a Yankees uniform, left fielder Elston Howard, never recalled Stengel 
displaying any prejudice other than use of racial epitaphs which were commonplace 
in that era. By all accounts, Stengel had nothing but good things to say 
about African-American players such as Satchel Paige and Elston Howard.[22] 
Stengel was considered to have a "prodigious memory", remembering every 
relevant detail of an event.[23] His managing style was described as "intuitive", 
which according to Creamer was likely derived from Stengel's long experience 
in the game.[24] His American League rival Al López, who played for Stengel 
with the Dodgers and the Braves once said of Stengel "I swear I don't understand 
some of the things he does when he manages".[24] Stengel was inducted into 
the Baseball Hall of Fame a year after his retirement. He maintained an 
active schedule despite his advancing age, attending the Hall of Fame ceremony 
in Cooperstown every year. After the Mets won the 1969 World Series, the 
team presented Stengel with a championship ring. Stengel remained in good 
health past the age of 80, still attending the All Star game and the World 
Series every year. In 1973, his wife Edna experienced a stroke and was 
moved into a care facility, but he continued to live in his Glendale home 
with the help of his housekeeper June Bowdin. Stengel's health finally 
began to decline in early 1975 and he was admitted to Glendale Memorial 
Hospital in Glendale, California on September 14, 1975 after not feeling 
well. It was there that he learned he had cancer of the lymph glands. He 
died there of cancer 15 days later on September 29, 1975. Stengel was interred 
in the Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery, Glendale, California. His wife 
outlived him by 2-1/2 years and was buried next to him. A plaque at the 
cemetery reads in part "For over sixty years one of America's folk heroes 
who contributed immensely to the lore and language of our country's national 
pastime, baseball". The Casey Stengel Plaza outside Shea Stadium's Gate 
E was named after him, as is the New York City Transit's Casey Stengel 
Depot across the street from Shea Stadium at the time, and now Citi Field. 
A sculpture of Casey Stengel is part of the IUPUI Public Art Collection. 
The sculpture by Rhoda Sherbell can be found outside of courtyard of University 
