"Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888" is a 
baseball poem written in 1888 by Ernest Thayer. First published in The 
San Francisco Examiner (then called the The Daily Examiner) on June 3, 
1888, it was later popularized by DeWolf Hopper in many vaudeville performances.[1][2] 
It has become one of the best-known poems in American literature. The poem 
was originally published anonymously (under the pen name "Phin", based 
on Thayer's college nickname, "Phinney").[3] A baseball team from the fictional 
town of "Mudville" (implied to be the home team) is losing by two runs 
in its last inning. Both the team and its fans (a crowd of 5,000, according 
to the poem) believe they can win if Casey, Mudville's star player, gets 
to bat. However, Casey is scheduled to be the fifth batter of the inning, 
and the first two batters (Cooney and Barrows) fail to get on base. The 
next two batters (Flynn and Jimmy Blake) are perceived to be weak hitters 
with little chance of reaching base to allow Casey a chance to bat. Surprisingly, 
Flynn hits a single, and Blake follows with a double that allows Flynn 
to reach third base. Both runners are now in scoring position and Casey 
represents the potential winning run. Casey is so sure of his abilities 
that he does not swing at the first two pitches, both called strikes. On 
the last pitch, the overconfident Casey strikes out swinging, ending the 
game and sending the crowd home unhappy. The text is filled with references 
to baseball as it was in 1888, which in many ways is not far removed from 
today's version. As a work, the poem encapsulates much of the appeal of 
baseball, including the involvement of the crowd. It also has a fair amount 
of baseball jargon that can pose challenges for the uninitiated. This is 
the complete poem as it originally appeared in The Daily Examiner. After 
publication, various versions with minor changes were produced. No one 
imagines that 'Casey' is great in the sense that the poetry of Shakespeare 
or Dante is great; a comic ballad obviously must be judged by different 
standards. One doesn’t criticize a slice of superb apple pie because it 
fails to taste like crepes suzette. Thayer was only trying to write a comic 
ballad, with clanking rhymes and a vigorous beat, that could be read quickly, 
understood at once, and laughed at by any newspaper reader who knew baseball. 
Somehow, in harmony with the curious laws of humor and popular taste, he 
managed to produce the nation's best-known piece of comic verse—a ballad 
that began a native legend as colorful and permanent as that of Johnny 
Appleseed or Paul Bunyan. The outlook wasn't brilliant for the Mudville 
Nine that day; the score stood four to two, with but one inning more to 
play. And then when Cooney died at first, and Barrows did the same, a sickly 
silence fell upon the patrons of the game. A straggling few got up to go 
in deep despair. The rest clung to that hope which springs eternal in the 
human breast; they thought, if only Casey could get but a whack at that 
– they'd put up even money, now, with Casey at the bat. But Flynn preceded 
Casey, as did also Jimmy Blake, and the former was a lulu and the latter 
was a fake, so upon that stricken multitude grim melancholy sat, for there 
seemed but little chance of Casey's getting to the bat. But Flynn let drive 
a single, to the wonderment of all, and Blake, the much despised, tore 
the cover off the ball; and when the dust had lifted, and the men saw what 
had occurred, there was Jimmy safe at second and Flynn a-hugging third. 
Then from five thousand throats and more there rose a lusty yell; it rumbled 
through the valley, it rattled in the dell; it knocked upon the mountain 
and recoiled upon the flat, for Casey, mighty Casey, was advancing to the 
bat. There was ease in Casey's manner as he stepped into his place; there 
was pride in Casey's bearing and a smile on Casey's face. And when, responding 
to the cheers, he lightly doffed his hat, no stranger in the crowd could 
doubt 'twas Casey at the bat. Ten thousand eyes were on him as he rubbed 
his hands with dirt; five thousand tongues applauded when he wiped them 
on his shirt. Then while the writhing pitcher ground the ball into his 
hip, defiance gleamed in Casey's eye, a sneer curled Casey's lip. And now 
the leather-covered sphere came hurtling through the air, and Casey stood 
a-watching it in haughty grandeur there. Close by the sturdy batsman the 
ball unheeded sped-- "That ain't my style," said Casey. "Strike one," the 
umpire said. From the benches, black with people, there went up a muffled 
roar, like the beating of the storm-waves on a stern and distant shore. 
"Kill him! Kill the umpire!" shouted someone on the stand; and it's likely 
they'd have killed him had not Casey raised his hand. With a smile of Christian 
charity great Casey's visage shone; he stilled the rising tumult; he bade 
the game go on; he signaled to the pitcher, and once more the spheroid 
flew; but Casey still ignored it, and the umpire said: "Strike two." "Fraud!" 
cried the maddened thousands, and echo answered fraud; but one scornful 
look from Casey and the audience was awed. They saw his face grow stern 
and cold, they saw his muscles strain, and they knew that Casey wouldn't 
let that ball go by again. The sneer is gone from Casey's lip, his teeth 
are clenched in hate; he pounds with cruel violence his bat upon the plate. 
And now the pitcher holds the ball, and now he lets it go, and now the 
air is shattered by the force of Casey's blow. Oh, somewhere in this favored 
land the sun is shining bright; the band is playing somewhere, and somewhere 
hearts are light, and somewhere men are laughing, and somewhere children 
shout; but there is no joy in Mudville — mighty Casey has struck out. Thayer 
said he chose the name "Casey" after a non-player of Irish ancestry he 
once knew, and it is open to debate who, if anyone, he modeled the character 
after. One candidate is National League player Mike "King" Kelly, who became 
famous when Boston paid Chicago a record $10,000 for him. He had a personality 
that fans liked to cheer or jeer. After the 1887 season, Kelly went on 
a playing tour to San Francisco. Thayer, who wrote "Casey" in 1888, covered 
the San Francisco leg for the San Francisco Examiner. Thayer, in a letter 
he wrote in 1905, mentions Kelly as showing "impudence" in claiming to 
have written the poem. The author of the 2004 definitive bio of Kelly—which 
included a close tracking of his vaudeville career—did not find Kelly claiming 
to have been the author.[4][4]:9 A month after the poem was published, 
it was reprinted as "Kelly at the Bat" in the New York Sporting Times.[5] 
Aside from omitting the first five verses, the only changes from the original 
are substitutions of Kelly for Casey, and Boston for Mudville.[6] King 
Kelly, then of the Boston Beaneaters, was one of baseball's two biggest 
stars at the time (along with Cap Anson).[4]:9 In 1897, the magazine "Current 
Literature" noted the two versions and said, "The locality, as originally 
given, is Mudville, not Boston; the latter was substituted to give the 
poem local color."[7] Sportswriter Leonard Koppett claimed in a 1979 article 
that the published poem omits 18 lines penned by Thayer which change the 
entire theme of the poem. Koppett said the full version of the poem takes 
the pitch count on Casey to full as his uncle Arnold stirs up wagering 
action in the stands before a wink passes between them and Casey throws 
the game.[8] DeWolf Hopper gave the poem's first stage recitation on August 
14, 1888, at New York's Wallack Theatre as part of the comic opera Prinz 
Methusalem in the presence of the Chicago and New York baseball teams, 
the White Stockings and the Giants, respectively; August 14, 1888 was also 
Thayer's 25th birthday. Hopper became known as an orator of the poem, and 
recited it more than 10,000 times (by his count—some tabulations are as 
much as four times higher) before his death.[3] "It is as perfect an epitome 
of our national game today as it was when every player drank his coffee 
from a mustache cup. There are one or more Caseys in every league, bush 
or big, and there is no day in the playing season that this same supreme 
tragedy, as stark as Aristophanes for the moment, does not befall on some 
field."[3] On stage in the early 1890s, baseball star Kelly recited the 
original "Casey" a few dozen times and not the parody. For example, in 
a review in 1893 of a variety show he was in, the Indianapolis News said, 
"Many who attended the performance had heard of Kelly's singing and his 
reciting, and many had heard De Wolf Hopper recite 'Casey at the Bat' in 
his inimitable way. Kelly recited this in a sing-song, school-boy fashion." 
Upon Kelly's death, a writer would say he gained "considerable notoriety 
by his ludicrous rendition of 'Casey at the Bat,' with which he concluded 
his `turn’ [act] at each performance."[4]:229 During the 1980s, the magic/comedy 
team Penn & Teller performed a version of "Casey at the Bat" with Teller 
(the "silent" partner) struggling to escape a straitjacket while suspended 
upside-down over a platform of sharp steel spikes. The set-up was that 
Penn Jillette would leap off his chair upon finishing the poem, releasing 
the rope which supported Teller, and send his partner to a gruesome death 
if he wasn't free by that time. The drama of the performance was taken 
up a notch after the third or fourth stanza, when Penn Jillette began to 
read out the rest of the poem much faster than the opening stanzas, greatly 
reducing the time that Teller had left to work free from his bonds. On 
July 4, 2008, Jack Williams recited the poem accompanied by the Boston 
Pops during the annual Boston Pops Fireworks Spectacular at Boston's 4 
July Celebration. On July 14, 2013, the jam rock band Furthur performed 
the poem as part of a second-set medley in center field of Doubleday Field 
in Cooperstown, New York.[9] The first recorded version of "Casey at the 
Bat" was made by Russell Hunting, speaking in a broad Irish accent, in 
1893; an 1898 cylinder recording of the text made for the Columbia Graphophone 
label by Hunting can be accessed from the Cylinder Preservation and Digitization 
Project at the University of California, Santa Barbara Library. DeWolf 
Hopper's more famous recorded recitation was released in October 1906. 
In 1946, Walt Disney released a recording of the narration of the poem 
by Jerry Colonna, which accompanied the studio's animated cartoon adaptation 
of the poem (see below). In 1973, the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra commissioned 
its former Composer-in-Residence, Frank Proto, to create a work to feature 
Baseball Hall-of-Famer Johnny Bench with the orchestra. The result "Casey 
At The Bat – an American Folk Tale for Narrator and Orchestra" was an immediate 
hit and recorded by Bench and the orchestra. It has since been performed 
more than 800 times by nearly every major and Metropolitan orchestra in 
the U.S. and Canada. In 1980, baseball pitcher Tug McGraw recorded Casey 
at The Bat—an American Folk Tale for Narrator and Orchestra by Frank Proto 
with Peter Nero and the Philly Pops. In 1996, actor James Earl Jones recorded 
the poem with Arranger/Composer Steven Reineke and the Cincinnati Pops 
Orchestra.[10][11] In 2013, Dave Jageler and Charlie Slowes, both radio 
announcers for the Washington Nationals, each made recordings of the poem 
for the Library of Congress to mark the 125th anniversary of its first 
publication.[12] A rivalry of sorts has developed between two cities claiming 
to be the Mudville described in the poem.[13] Residents of Holliston, Massachusetts, 
where there is a neighborhood called Mudville, claim it as the Mudville 
described in the poem. Thayer grew up in nearby Worcester, Massachusetts, 
where he wrote the poem in 1888; his family owned a wool mill less than 
a mile from Mudville's baseball field. However, residents of Stockton, 
California—which was known for a time as Mudville prior to incorporation 
in 1850—also lay claim to being the inspiration for the poem. In 1887, 
Thayer covered baseball for Daily Examiner—owned by his Harvard classmate 
William Randolph Hearst—and is said to have covered the local California 
League team, the Stockton Ports. For the 1902 season, after the poem became 
popular, Stockton's team was renamed the Mudville Nine. The team reverted 
to the Mudville Nine moniker for the 2000 and 2001 seasons. The Visalia 
Rawhide, another California League team, currently keep Mudville alive 
by playing in Mudville jerseys on June 3 each year.[14] Despite the towns' 
rival claims, Thayer himself told the Syracuse Post-Standard that "the 
poem has no basis in fact."[3] The poem has been adapted to diverse types 
of media: For a relatively short poem apparently dashed off quickly (and 
denied by its author for years), "Casey at the Bat" had a profound effect 
on American popular culture. It has been recited, re-enacted, adapted, 
dissected, parodied and subjected to just about every other treatment one 
could imagine.[3] "Casey's Revenge", by Grantland Rice (1907), gives Casey 
another chance against the pitcher who had struck him out in the original 
story. It was written in 1906, and its first known publication was in the 
quarterly magazine The Speaker in June 1907, under the pseudonym of James 
Wilson.[17] In this version, Rice cites the nickname "Strike-Out Casey", 
hence the influence on Casey Stengel's name. Casey's team is down three 
runs by the last of the ninth, and once again Casey is down to two strikes—with 
the bases full this time. However, he connects, hits the ball so far that 
it is never found. Here is the original version of the poem: Of the many 
parodies made of the poem, some of the notable ones include: There are 
three known translations of the poem into a foreign language, one in French, 
written in 2007 by French Canadian linguist Paul Laurendeau, with the title 
Casey au bâton, and two in Hebrew. One by the sports journalist Menachem 
Less titled "התור של קייסי לחבוט" [Hator Shel Casey Lachbot],[20] and the 
other more recent and more true to the original cadence and style by Jason 
H. Elbaum called קֵיסִי בַּמַּחְבֵּט [Casey BaMachbayt].[21] Casey Stengel 
describes in his autobiography how his original nickname "K.C." (for his 
hometown, Kansas City, Missouri) evolved into "Casey". It was influenced 
not just by the name of the poem, which was widely popular in the 1910s, 
but also because he tended to strike out frequently in his early career 
so fans and writers started calling him "strikeout Casey".[22] The poem 
is referenced in the Super Nintendo Entertainment System game EarthBound, 
where a weapon is named the Casey Bat, which is the strongest weapon in 
the game, but will only hit 25% of the time. A one-time character in the 
Pokémon anime, a girl who is a very enthusiastic fan of baseball, is named 
"Casey" in the English version in reference to the poem.[23] On July 11, 
1996, the United States Postal Service issued a commemorative stamp depicting 
"Mighty Casey." The stamp was part of a set commemorating American folk 
heroes. Other stamps in the set depicted Paul Bunyan, John Henry, and Pecos 
