A baseball field, also called a ball field or a baseball diamond, is the 
field upon which the game of baseball is played. The term is also used 
as a metonym for baseball park. The starting point for much of the action 
on the field is home plate, which is a five-sided slab of whitened rubber, 
17 inches square with two of the corners removed so that one edge is 17 inches 
long, two adjacent sides are 8 1⁄2 inches and the remaining two sides are 
12 inches and set at an angle to make a point. Adjacent to each of the 
two parallel 8 1⁄2-inch sides is a batter's box. The point of home plate 
where the two 12-inch sides meet at right angles is at one corner of a 
ninety-foot square. The other three corners of the square, in counterclockwise 
order from home plate, are called first base, second base, and third base. 
Three canvas bags fifteen inches (38 cm) square mark the three bases. These 
three bags along with home plate form the four points at the corners of 
the infield. All the bases, including home plate, lie entirely within fair 
territory. Thus, any batted ball that touches those bases must necessarily 
be in fair territory. While the first and third base bags are placed so 
that they lie inside the 90-foot square formed by the bases, the second 
base bag is placed so that its center (unlike first, third and home) coincides 
exactly with the "point" of the ninety-foot infield square. Thus, although 
the "points" of the bases are 90 feet apart, the physical distance between 
each successive pair of base markers is closer to 88 feet.[2] The lines 
from home plate to first and third bases extend to the nearest fence, stand 
or other obstruction and are called the foul lines. The portion of the 
playing field between (and including) the foul lines is fair territory; 
the rest is "foul territory." The area in the vicinity of the square formed 
by the bases is called the infield; fair territory outside the infield 
is known as the outfield. Most baseball fields are enclosed with a fence 
that marks the outer edge of the outfield. The fence is usually set at 
a distance ranging from 300 to 420 feet (91 to 128 m) from home plate. 
Most professional and college baseball fields have a right and left foul 
pole. These poles are at the intersection of the foul lines and the respective 
ends of the outfield fence and, unless otherwise specified within the ground 
rules, lie in fair territory. Thus, a batted ball that passes over the 
outfield wall in flight and touches the foul pole is a fair ball and the 
batter is awarded a home run. First base is the first of four bases that 
must be touched by a player on the batting team in order to score a run. 
Unlike when an offensive player reaches second or third base, it is permissible 
for a batter-runner to overrun first base without being in jeopardy of 
being put out. After contact is made with the base, the batter-runner may 
slow down and return to first base at his leisure, so long as he makes 
no move or attempt to advance to second base. The runner cannot be tagged 
out if he is touching the base with any part of his body. The first baseman 
is the defensive player responsible for the area near first base. A professional 
first baseman is often a slow runner and tall.[citation needed] A tall 
first baseman presents a large target to which other fielders can throw, 
and his height gives him a larger range in reaching and catching errant 
throws. Players who are left-handed are marginally preferable for first 
base because: first, it is easier for a left-handed fielder to catch a 
pick-off throw from the pitcher and tag the baserunner; and, second, it 
is easier for a left handed thrower to make the throw to second base to 
start a 3-6-3, 3-6-4, or a 3-6-1 double play.[citation needed] Also, a 
right-handed first baseman must, when setting himself up to receive a throw 
from an infielder, execute a half-pivot near the base; this is a move that 
a left-hander need not make (this advantage is very marginal, however). 
There are three infield positions that can only effectively be occupied 
by right-handed players: 2nd base, 3rd base, and shortstop. This is because 
of the time it takes to pivot and set to throw. It takes a left-handed 
thrower more time to make that pivot and in the fast-paced major league 
game, that time is critical. As a result, there are fewer positions a left-handed 
player can occupy, and if that player is not fast, the outfield may not 
be a good fit. In the numbering system used to record defensive plays, 
the first baseman is assigned the number '3'. Second base is the second 
of four stations on a baseball diamond which must be touched in succession 
by a base runner in order to score a run for that player's team. Second 
base is typically defended by the second baseman and the shortstop. Second 
base is also known as the keystone sack. A runner on second base is said 
to be in "scoring position", owing to the high likelihood of reaching home 
plate and scoring a run from second base on most base hits. Since second 
is the farthest base from home plate, it is the most common target of base 
stealing. The runner can not be tagged out if he is touching the base with 
any part of his body. Ideally, the second baseman and shortstop possess 
quick hands and feet and the ability to release the ball rapidly and with 
accuracy. One will usually cover second base when the other attempts to 
field the ball. Both players must communicate well to be able to make a 
double play. Particular agility is required of the second baseman in double 
play situations, which usually forces the player to throw towards first 
while his momentum carries him in the opposite direction. In the numbering 
system used to record defensive plays, the second baseman is assigned the 
number 4, and the shortstop 6. Third base is the third of four bases a 
base runner must touch in a counterclockwise succession in order to score 
a run. Many batted balls that result in the batter being put out (such 
as a sacrifice fly) may nevertheless allow a runner to reach home plate 
and score a run from third base, provided that the third and final out 
is not recorded before he can do so. A runner on third base is therefore 
particularly valuable to the batting team when fewer than two outs have 
been recorded. The runner cannot be tagged out if he is touching the base 
with any part of his body. The third baseman is the defensive player whose 
responsibility is to defend the area nearest to third base. A third baseman 
ideally possesses quick reaction to batted balls and a strong arm to make 
the long throw to first base. In the numbering system used to record defensive 
plays, the third baseman is assigned the number 5. Home plate, formally 
designated home base in the rules, is the final base that a player must 
touch to score. Unlike the other bases, home plate is a five-sided slab 
of whitened rubber that is set at ground level. The use of rubber was developed 
by Robert Keating, who pitched one game for the 1887 Baltimore Orioles. 
Previously—and more dangerously—the plate was made of stone, iron, or wood.[3] 
The dimensions of home plate are 17" across the front, 8.5" down each side, 
with a triangular rear of two sides of 12". The rear edges are at 45 degrees 
to the sides, making a point at the back.[1] The plate is white and surrounded 
by a black strip 3/4" in width. The plate sits entirely in "fair" territory, 
with the two rear edges aligned with the right and left field foul lines. 
The length and angle requirements for home plate mandate that it is not 
a regular pentagon; it is a 17" by 8.5" rectangle with an isosceles triangle 
of base 17" and equal sides of 12" attached to the back. 50 to 100 feet 
(15 to 30 meters) behind home plate is the backstop, which is a wall/fence 
that will stop wild pitches, passed balls, and foul balls. In enclosed 
stadiums, the backstop is often composed of a lower part, which is like 
any other part of the wall, and an upper netting to protect spectators 
seated behind it; in recreational baseball fields, there is usually a tall 
chain-link fence, including an angled top section, composing the entire 
backstop. The batter's box is the place where the batter stands when ready 
to receive a pitch from the pitcher. It is usually drawn in chalk on the 
dirt surrounding home plate, and the insides of the boxes are watered down 
before each game. The chalk lines delineating the two Foul Lines are rarely 
extended through the batter's boxes. However, those lines exist conceptually 
for the purpose of judging a batted ball fair or foul. In addition, inside 
edges of the Batter's Boxes are often not laid-in with chalk. Similarly, 
though not marked, those lines continue to exist for the purpose of the 
rules pertaining to the batter's box and the batter's position relative 
thereto. There are two batter's boxes, one on each side of home plate. 
The batter's boxes are 4 feet wide and 6 feet long. The batter's boxes 
are centered lengthwise at the center of home plate with the inside line 
of each batter's box 6 inches from the near edge of home plate. A right-handed 
batter would stand in the batter's box on the left side of home plate from 
the perspective of the catcher and umpire. A left-handed batter would stand 
in the batter's box to their right. A batter may only occupy one batter's 
box at a time and may not legally leave the batter's box after the pitcher 
has come set or has started his windup. Should the batter wish to leave 
the batter's box once the pitcher has engaged the rubber, he must first 
ask the umpire for time-out. Time will not be granted if the pitcher has 
already started his pitching motion. For playing rules relating to the 
batter's box, see Rules 6.05 and 6.06 of the Official Baseball Rules. Foul 
poles, if present, help umpires judge whether a fly ball hit above the 
fence line is foul (out of play) or fair (a home run). The poles are a 
vertical extension of the foul lines at the edge of the field of play. 
The outer edge of the foul lines and foul poles define foul territory. 
Both the lines and the poles are in fair territory, in contrast to football 
and basketball, where the lines marking the playing boundaries are out 
of bounds. Prior to 1920,[citation needed] the foul lines extended indefinitely; 
a batter was awarded a home run only if a fly ball out of the field was 
fair where it landed, or "when last seen" by the umpire. Now, a batted 
ball that leaves the field in flight is judged fair or foul at the point 
it leaves the field. Thus, such a fly ball passing on the fair side of 
a foul pole, or hitting a foul pole, is a home run regardless of where 
the ball goes thereafter. Foul poles are typically much higher than the 
top of the outfield fence or wall, and often have a narrow screen running 
along the fair side of the pole. This further aids the umpires' judgment, 
as a ball that bounces off this screen is a home run. It can still be a 
difficult call, especially in ballparks with no outfield stands behind 
the poles to provide perspective. Wrigley Field is notorious for arguments 
over long, curving flies down a foul line (most notably in left field) 
that sail higher than the foul pole. At Major League Baseball fields, foul 
poles are usually yellow. Those at Citi Field are orange. At the Rogers 
Centre, there are no foul poles, but large nets suspended from the roof 
that serve the same purpose. At Petco Park, there is no foul pole in left 
field; the pole's function is served by a yellow metal strip along the 
corner of the Western Metal Supply Co. building. In roughly the middle 
of the square, equidistant between first and third base, and a few feet 
closer to home plate than to second base, is a low artificial hill called 
the pitcher's mound. This is where the pitcher stands when throwing the 
pitch. Atop the mound is a white rubber slab, called the pitcher's plate 
or pitcher's rubber. It measures 6 inches (15 cm) front-to-back and 2 feet 
(61 cm) across, the front of which is exactly 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m) 
from the rear point of home plate. This peculiar distance was set by the 
rule makers in 1893, not due to a clerical or surveying error as popular 
myth has it, but intentionally (further details in History section). In 
Major League Baseball, a regulation mound is 18 feet (5.5 m) in diameter, 
with the center 59 feet (18 m) from the rear point of home plate, on the 
line between home plate and second base. The front edge of the pitcher's 
plate or rubber is 18 inches (46 cm) behind the center of the mound, making 
the front edge's midpoint 60 feet 6 inches (18.44 m) from the rear point 
of home plate. Six inches (15.2 cm) in front of the pitcher's rubber the 
mound begins to slope downward. The top of the rubber is to be no higher 
than ten inches (25.4 cm) above home plate. From 1903 through 1968, this 
height limit was set at 15 inches, but was often slightly higher, sometimes 
as high as 20 inches (51 cm), especially for teams that emphasized pitching, 
such as the Los Angeles Dodgers, who were reputed to have the highest mound 
in the majors. A pitcher will push off the rubber with his foot in order 
to gain velocity toward home plate when pitching. In addition, a higher 
mound generally favors the pitcher. With the height advantage, the pitcher 
gains more leverage and can put more downward velocity on the ball, making 
it more difficult for the batter to strike the ball squarely with the bat. 
The lowering of the mound in 1969 was intended to "increase the batting" 
once again, as pitching had become increasingly dominant, reaching its 
peak the prior year; 1968 is known among baseball historians as "The Year 
of the Pitcher". This restrictive rule apparently did its job, contributing 
to the hitting surge of modern baseball. A pitcher's mound is difficult 
for groundskeepers to maintain. Usually before every game it is watered 
down to keep the dust from spreading. On youth and amateur baseball fields, 
the mound may be much different from the rule book definition due to erosion 
and repair attempts. Even in the major leagues, each mound gains its own 
character, as pitchers are allowed to kick away pieces of dirt in their 
way, thereby sculpting the mound a bit to their preference. The pitcher 
may keep a rosin bag on the rear of the mound to dry off his hands. Major 
League Baseball teams are also permitted cleat cleaners on the back of 
the mound. This may be a flat grate-style plate, or simply a hand tool 
such as a piece of wood used to remove mud and dirt from cleats. These 
items are allowed to remain on the backside of the mound at the discretion 
of the umpire, thus reducing the probability that they will affect a live 
play.[4] A baseline is the straight line between two adjacent bases. Baselines 
are not drawn on the field, although the foul lines serve to mark the baseline 
between home plate and first base, and between third base and home. Generally, 
base runners are not required to follow the baseline. A base runner seeking 
to advance more than one base typically "rounds" the base, following a 
more circular path. However, a base runner's left-right motion is constrained 
when the defense tries to tag him. At the moment the defense begins the 
attempt, the baserunner's running baseline is established as a direct line 
from his current position to the base he is trying for. A runner straying 
more than three feet (0.9 m) away from this baseline to avoid a tag may 
be called out. Beginning halfway between home and first base, and ending 
at first base, there is a second chalk line to the right of the foul line. 
This second line and the part of the foul line it runs parallel to, form 
the running lane that defines the path in which a batter must run as he 
is advancing to first base. Rule 6.05(k) of the Official Baseball Rules 
states that, if a batter running to first base runs outside the running 
lane, and "in doing so" interferes with the fielder taking the throw at 
first, then the batter is automatically out. First base itself is not located 
in the running lane, but Rule 6.05 lets the runner leave the running lane 
"by means of a step, stride or slide in the immediate vicinity of first 
base" to step on first base.[5] The grass line, where the dirt of the infield 
ends and the grass of the outfield begins, has no special significance 
to the rules of the game, but it can influence the outcome of a game. Dirt 
running paths between the bases (and, at one time and still in some parks, 
between the pitcher and the catcher) have existed since the beginning of 
the game, although they were not mentioned in the rule books until around 
1950, and their specifications are flexible. In addition to providing a 
running path, the grass lines act as a visual aid so that players, umpires 
and fans may better judge distance from the center of the diamond. Occasionally 
the ball may take a tricky bounce off the dirt area or the edge between 
the dirt and the grass. Multiple World Series championships (including 
1924, 1960 and 1986) have been decided or heavily influenced by erratic 
hops of ground balls. In artificial turf stadiums, infield dirt was originally 
only placed around the bases and around the pitcher's and batting areas, 
which are referred to as "sliding pits." In this configuration, the "grass 
line" is usually designated with a white arc. Among Major League Baseball 
fields, Rogers Centre was the last stadium to maintain this type of configuration 
and is reconfigured with a full dirt infield starting in the 2016 MLB season.[6] 
The outfield is made from thick grass or artificial turf. It is where the 
outfielders play. The positions to play in the outfield are right, center, 
and left field (named in relation to the batter's position; thus left field 
is beyond third base and right field is beyond first base). Outfields vary 
in size and shape depending on the overall size and shape of the playing 
field. The warning track is the strip of dirt at the edges of the baseball 
field (especially in front of the home run fence and along the left and 
right sides of a field). Because the warning track's color and feel differ 
from the grass field, a fielder can remain focused on a fly ball near the 
fence and measure his proximity to the fence while attempting to catch 
the ball safely. A warning track's width is not specified in the rules. 
It is generally designed to give about three steps of warning to the highest-level 
players using the field. Typical widths run from about six feet for Little 
League fields to about 10–15 feet for college- or professional-level play. 
A warning track this wide also lets groundskeepers avoid driving maintenance 
vehicles on the grass. The track can be composed of finely ground rock 
particles such as cinders, which is why announcer Bob Wolff called it the 
"cinder path" rather than the "warning track". The idea of a warning track 
originated in Yankee Stadium, where an actual running track was built for 
use in track and field events. When ballpark designers saw how the track 
helped fielders, it soon became a feature of every ballpark. Single-minded 
fielders often crash into a wall trying to make a catch despite the warning 
track. For this reason, outfield walls are typically padded for extra safety. 
Wrigley Field's brick wall is covered only by ivy, which is not especially 
soft. However, there are pads on the walls of the tight left and right 
field corners in foul ground. Warning-track power is a derogatory term 
for a batter who seems to have just enough power to hit the ball to the 
warning track for an out, but not enough to hit a home run. The term more 
generally refers to someone or something that is almost but not quite good 
enough for something. The outfield wall or outfield fence is the wall or 
fence that marks the outer boundary of the outfield. A ball passing over 
the wall is dead; if it passes over the wall in fair territory while in 
flight, it is a home run. The official rules do not specify the shape, 
height, or composition of the wall, or a specific mandatory distance from 
home plate (though Major League Baseball mandates a minimum distance of 
250 feet (76 m) and recommends a minimum distance of 320 feet (98 m) at 
the foul poles and 400 feet (120 m) at center field). As a result, baseball 
fields can vary greatly along those lines. The wall has numbers affixed 
or painted on it that denote the distance in feet from that point on the 
wall to home plate. In most modern major league ballparks, the wall is 
made of some hard material (e.g., concrete) with padding on the field side 
to protect players who may collide with the wall at high speed while trying 
to make a play. Chain link fencing may also be incorporated into the wall 
in areas where the wall needs to be transparent, e.g., an outfield bullpen, 
a spectator area behind the wall, or to protect a scoreboard incorporated 
into the wall. Many ballparks feature a yellow line denoting the top of 
the wall to aid umpires in judging whether the ball passed over the wall 
or if the ball is fair or foul. The bullpen (sometimes referred to as simply 
"the pen") is the area where pitchers warm up before entering a game. Depending 
on the ballpark, it may be situated in foul territory along the baselines 
or just beyond the outfield fence. Relief pitchers usually wait in the 
bullpen when they have yet to play in a game, rather than in the dugout 
with the rest of the team. The starting pitcher also makes his final pregame 
warmups in the bullpen. Managers can call coaches in the bullpen on an 
in-house telephone from the dugout to tell a certain pitcher to begin his 
warmup tosses. "Bullpen" is also used metaphorically to describe a team's 
collection of relief pitchers. There are two on-deck circles in the field, 
one for each team, positioned in foul ground between home plate and the 
respective teams' benches. They are technically known as next-batter's 
boxes. The on-deck circle is where the next scheduled batter, or "on-deck" 
batter, warms up while waiting for the current batter to finish his turn. 
The on-deck circle is either an area composed of bare dirt; a plain circle 
painted onto artificial turf; or often, especially at the professional 
level, a mat made from artificial material, with the team or league logo 
painted onto it. The coach's boxes, located behind first and third base, 
are where the first and third base coaches are supposed to stand, although 
coaches often stand outside the box. This is permissible as long as the 
coach does not interfere with play and the opposing team does not object 
(in which case the umpire shall ensure that all coaches on both teams must 
abide by the boundaries of the coach's boxes). The coach's boxes are marked 
with chalk or paint. In the early days of baseball, the term "coacher's 
box" was used, as "coach" was taken to be a verb. As the term "coach" evolved 
into a noun, the name of the box also changed. The basic layout of the 
diamond has been little changed since the original Knickerbocker Rules 
of the 1840s. The distance between bases was already established as 90 
feet, which it remains to this day. Through trial and error, 90 feet had 
been settled upon as the optimal distance. 100 feet would have given too 
much advantage to the defense, and 80 feet too much to the offense. The 
original Knickerbocker Rules did not specify the pitching distance explicitly. 
By the time major league baseball began in the 1870s, the pitcher was compelled 
to pitch from within a "box" whose front edge was 45 feet from the "point" 
of home plate. Although he had to release the ball before crossing the 
line, as with bowlers in cricket, he also had to start his delivery from 
within the box; he could not run in from the field as bowlers do. Furthermore, 
the pitcher had to throw underhand. By the 1880s, pitchers had mastered 
the underhand delivery—in fact, in 1880, there were two perfect games within 
a week of each other.[7] In an attempt to "increase the batting", the front 
edge of the pitcher's box was moved back 5 feet in 1881, to 50 feet from 
home plate. The size of the box was altered over the following few years. 
Pitchers were allowed to throw overhand starting in 1884, and that tilted 
the balance of power again. In 1887, the box was set at 4 feet wide and 
5 1⁄2 feet deep, with the front edge still 50 feet from the plate. However, 
the pitcher was compelled to deliver the ball with his back foot at the 
55 1⁄2 foot line of the box, thus somewhat restricting his ability to "power" 
the ball with his overhand delivery.[8]:96 In 1893, the box was replaced 
by the pitcher's plate, although "the box" is still used today as a slang 
term for the pitcher's location on the field. Exactly 5 feet was added 
to the point the pitcher had to toe, again "to increase the batting" (and 
hopefully to increase attendance, as fan interest had flagged somewhat), 
resulting in the seemingly peculiar pitching distance of 60 1⁄2 feet.[8]:230 
Many sources suggest that the pitching distance evolved from 45 to 50 to 
60 1⁄2 feet. However, the first two were the "release point" and the third 
is the "pushoff point", so the 1893 increase was not quite as dramatic 
as is often implied; that is, the 1893 rule change added only 5 feet to 
the release point, not 10 1⁄2 feet. Originally the pitcher threw from flat 
ground, but over time the raised mound was developed, somewhat returning 
the advantage to the pitchers. Prior to the mid-20th century, it was common 
for baseball fields to include a dirt pathway between the pitcher's mound 
and home plate. This feature is sometimes known as the "keyhole" due to 
the shape that it makes together with the mound. The keyhole was once as 
wide as the pitcher's box and resembled the "pitch" area used in the game 
of cricket. Sometimes this path extended through the batting area and all 
the way to the backstop. Once the rounded pitcher's mound was developed, 
the path became more ornamental than practical, and was gradually thinned 
before being largely abandoned by the 1950s. In recent years some ballparks, 
such as Comerica Park and Chase Field in the major leagues, have revived 
the feature for nostalgic reasons. The Sports Turf Managers Association 
(STMA) presents various awards each year. Starting in 2001, its Sports 
Turf Manager of the Year Awards have been presented annually in the Triple-A, 
Double-A, Class A, and Short-Season/Rookie divisions of Minor League Baseball 
and are chosen from the 16 league winners.[9] STMA also presents the Baseball 
Field of the Year Award, which includes Schools and Parks, College/University 
