Catcher is a position for a baseball or softball player. When a batter 
takes his/her turn to hit, the catcher crouches behind home plate, in front 
of the (home) umpire, and receives the ball from the pitcher. In addition 
to this primary duty, the catcher is also called upon to master many other 
skills in order to field the position well. The role of the catcher is 
similar to that of the wicket-keeper in cricket. Positioned behind home 
plate, the catcher can see the whole field, and is therefore in the best 
position to direct and lead the other players in a defensive play. The 
catcher typically calls for pitches using hand signals. The calls are based 
on the pitcher's mechanics and strengths, as well as the batter's tendencies 
and weaknesses. Foul tips, bouncing balls in the dirt, and contact with 
runners during plays at the plate are all events to be handled by the catcher, 
necessitating the use of protective equipment. This includes a mask, chest 
and throat protectors, shin guards, and a heavily padded catcher's mitt. 
Because the position requires a comprehensive understanding of the game's 
strategies, the pool of former catchers yields a disproportionate number 
of managers in both Major League Baseball and Minor League Baseball, including 
such prominent examples as Connie Mack, Steve O'Neill, Al López, Mike Scioscia, 
and Joe Torre.[1] The physical and mental demands of being involved on 
every defensive play can wear catchers down over a long season, and can 
have a negative effect on their offensive output.[2] Because of the strategic 
defensive importance of catching, if a catcher has exceptional defensive 
skills, teams are often willing to overlook their relative offensive weaknesses.[2] 
A knowledgeable catcher's ability to work with the pitcher, via pitch selection 
and location, can diminish the effectiveness of the opposing team's offense.[3] 
Many great defensive catchers toiled in relative anonymity, because they 
did not produce large offensive numbers. Notable examples of light-hitting, 
defensive specialists were; Ray Schalk, Jim Hegan, Jim Sundberg and Brad 
Ausmus. Schalk's career batting average of .253 is the lowest of any position 
player in the Baseball Hall of Fame.[4] That he was selected for enshrinement 
in 1955 was largely a tribute to his outstanding defensive skills.[4] Catchers 
are often able to play first base and less commonly third base. In the 
numbering system used to record baseball plays, the catcher is assigned 
the number '2'. (See Baseball scorekeeping.) In the middle of the nineteenth 
century, the game of baseball began to evolve from a sport played by amateurs 
for recreation into a more serious game played by professionals.[5] One 
of the most dramatic changes was the transition of the pitcher's delivery 
from an underhand motion to an overhanded throw.[5] Before the American 
Civil War, the pitcher's role was to initiate the action by offering an 
underhanded throw to the batter, in much the same way that a basketball 
referee offers up a jump ball to begin play.[5] Since this type of pitching 
often caused the batter to hit lazy, foul pop-ups, catchers played their 
position approximately twenty to twenty-five feet behind the batter, and 
wore no protective equipment.[5] As the game progressed towards professionals 
and became more serious, pitchers began to attempt to prevent the batter 
from hitting the ball by throwing faster pitches.[5] With the introduction 
of the called strike in 1858, catchers began inching closer to home plate 
due to the rules requirement that a strikeout could only be completed by 
a catch.[5] The rules governing the delivery of pitches proved to be hard 
to enforce, and pitchers continued to stretch the boundaries of the rules 
until the 1870s when the release point of pitches had reached the pitcher's 
waist level.[5] These developments meant that catchers began to take on 
a crucial defensive role, as a pitcher's deceptive deliveries could only 
be effective if the catcher was capable of fielding them.[5] The progression 
of the catcher positioning himself closer to the plate would lead to changes 
in pitching deliveries that would revolutionize the sport.[5] In the 1870s, 
pitcher Candy Cummings was able to introduce the curveball because his 
catcher, Nat Hicks, fielded his position in close proximity to home plate 
and was able to catch the deceptive pitch.[5] Other specialized pitches 
such as the spitball and the knuckleball followed, which further emphasized 
the defensive importance of the catcher's position.[5] The rising velocity 
of pitches in conjunction with catchers moving closer to home plate significantly 
increased the risk of injuries for catchers, especially face and hand injuries. 
By the late 1870s, catchers began to use padded, fingerless gloves to protect 
their hands, and in 1877 the first protective catcher's mask was used.[5] 
The first catchers to use protective masks sometimes had their courage 
called into question, but the effectiveness of the masks in preventing 
injuries meant that they became widely accepted.[5] In the 1880s, the first 
padded chest protectors came into use, and in 1888 specialized catcher's 
mitts used on the non-throwing hand began to be used.[5] At about the same 
time that catchers began fielding their position closer to home plate, 
baseball teams began using a less rubbery ball which led to a decline in 
the number of runs scored.[6] In the 1860s it was common for teams to score 
fifty or sixty runs in a game.[5] The combination of the new, harder ball 
and the continuation of the rise in pitcher's release points helped usher 
in what became known as the Dead-ball era.[5] The decrease in run production 
placed greater significance on stolen bases and bunts, which in turn emphasized 
the crucial defensive role played by catchers.[5] Together, the rules changes 
and the new protective equipment transformed the catcher's defensive role 
to the way that it is presently played.[5] The catcher is usually the first 
to notice the tendencies, quirks, and peculiarities of each home-plate 
umpire. Some umpires favor high strikes, pitched balls that are technically 
above the strike zone but appear, to the umpire, to be good. Conversely, 
some umpires will call low pitches strikes even when they are slightly 
below the knees. Other umpires have an inside bias or an outside bias; 
some umpires have more than one bias; some are uniformly lenient; some 
have very restricted notions of the strike zone, and the pitcher will constantly 
feel that his pitches are unfairly judged. The catcher can exploit an umpire's 
tendencies by taking him into account in how he chooses to receive the 
ball. The catcher can help his pitcher get more strike calls from the umpire 
by using a technique called "framing". This practice is a matter of a catcher 
keeping his mitt inside the strike zone, or making the pitch appear as 
close to the strikezone, when receiving the pitch, thereby giving the plate 
umpire the impression that the pitch is in the strike zone, even if it 
is not. When framing, a catcher will also hold his mitt still for a second 
or two so that the umpire has an opportunity to thoroughly consider his 
call (and, hopefully, let his innate biases influence his decision in a 
direction favorable to the catcher's team). The catcher, when receiving 
a borderline pitch, usually has several options in how he makes the catch. 
He can catch the pitch in the webbing of his mitt or in the heel; he can 
catch the pitch on his forehand or backhand, as necessary; he can catch 
a low pitch with the mitt pointed upward or downward. These choices help 
the catcher to create a favorable presentation (or frame) for the umpire. 
A variation on "framing" is called "pulling pitches". The general approach 
is to catch the half of the ball that is outside the strike zone and show 
the umpire only the half of the ball, lodged in the mitt, that is closer 
to the zone. The illusion is often enhanced with a slight 'tug' of the 
mitt (of an inch or two) toward the strike zone. By rule the catcher must 
station directly back of the plate (generally in the catcher's box) the 
moment a pitch is thrown but may leave at any time to catch a pitch or 
make a play. The moment an intentional ball leaves a pitcher's hand, the 
catcher must have both feet in the catcher's box.[7] The catcher is the 
only defensive player who is allowed to be in foul territory when a pitch 
is thrown.[8] Calling the game refers to the act of catchers to decide 
the type of pitch delivered to home plate.[1] Catchers comprise a high 
percentage of baseball managers. As of April 2011[update] 15 of 30 Major 
League Baseball managers were former catchers.[9] Because the catcher is 
considered a captain on the field (and some, such as Thurman Munson and 
Jason Varitek were in fact team captains), he is often in charge of planning 
defensive plays. The catcher will give signs to the pitcher for what pitch 
is to be thrown.[1] The majority of the time it is done through a number 
system. Each number will represent a different pitch, and then the pitcher 
can either agree or disagree with a shake of his or her head.[1] These 
signals get more complicated when a runner is on second base, because the 
runner's vantage point when he takes his lead gives him a direct view of 
the catcher's hand and a simple signal can be relayed by the runner to 
the batter. Signals are not always done by the number system. Varitek was 
known for giving signals by touching certain parts of his chest protector.[citation 
needed] The selection of which pitch to use can depend on a wide variety 
of situations such as; the type of hitter that is being faced, whether 
there are any base runners, how many outs have been made in the inning, 
or the current score, among others. The responsibility for selecting the 
type of pitch was traditionally made by the catcher.[1] However, current 
form is to have the manager or a coach relay the pitch selection to the 
catcher, via secret hand signals to prevent the opposing team from having 
the advantage of knowing what the next pitch will be. A catcher nearly 
always throws with his right hand. Since most hitters are right-handed 
and stand to the left side of the plate when batting, a catcher who throws 
left-handed is forced to take some time to sidestep (or otherwise avoid) 
the right-handed hitter when he throws from behind the plate. In addition, 
a lefty's throw would tend to come in on the shortstop side of the bag, 
while a righty's throw would be on the second base side of the bag, which 
is where the runner is coming in. Consequently, players who are left-handed 
rarely play catcher. Left-handed catchers have only caught eleven big-league 
games since 1902,[10] and Jack Clements, who played for 17 years at the 
end of the nineteenth century, is the only man in the history of baseball 
to play more than three hundred games as a left-handed catcher.[11] However, 
some observers, including the famed statistician Bill James and ESPN writer 
Rob Neyer,[12] have suggested that the real reason that there are no left-handed 
catchers is because left-handed players with strong throwing arms are almost 
always encouraged, at an early age, to become pitchers. Benny Distefano, 
the last lefty thrower to catch a big-league game (in 1989), noted that 
lefty catchers have difficulty on bunts up the third base line and on fielding 
throws home for plays at the plate.[13] To block balls that a pitcher throws 
on a bounce toward home plate (pitches that are said to be "in the dirt"), 
the catcher will slide his body to the left or right, as necessary, to 
place himself directly in the path of the ball. Once in position, he drops 
to his knees, places his mitt between his legs to prevent the ball from 
passing through, and leans forward to deaden the rebound when, and if, 
the ball bounces off his thigh or torso. Although inexperienced catchers 
may try to catch the errant pitch with his mitt, coaches often prioritize 
the catcher's ability to "keep the ball in front of him" than to make a 
catch with his mitt.[citation needed] Ideally, the catcher will be able 
to knock the ball to the ground where it will stop within arm's reach. 
To perform this properly, without the ball being deflected in an undesirable 
direction, the catcher must angle his body so that his chest is always 
leaning forward, toward home plate. This maneuver is often difficult, and 
its difficulty depends largely on how fast the ball is traveling, the angle 
at which the ball is thrown into the ground, where it first hits the ground, 
the firmness of the ground it hits, and the manner in which it is spinning. 
Unlike the other fielders, the catcher and pitcher must start every play 
in a designated area. The catcher must be behind home plate in the catcher's 
box, while the pitcher must be on the pitcher's mound, with one foot in 
contact with the pitcher's rubber. Once the ball is in play, however, the 
catcher and pitcher, like the other fielders, can respond to any part of 
the field necessary to make or assist in a defensive play.[14] The defensive 
plays expected of catchers, aside from managing the pitcher by calling 
for pitches and catching them, include: Preventing wild pitches and avoiding 
passed balls. Although the pitcher has a responsibility to throw with reasonable 
accuracy, catchers must be mobile enough to catch (or block) errant pitches. 
By doing so, a catcher prevents baserunners from advancing while the loose 
ball is retrieved. An errant pitch that eludes the catcher and allows a 
baserunner to take one or more additional bases is called a wild pitch. 
(Techniques for blocking wild pitches are described in the previous section.) 
A pitched ball which would require only ordinary effort to be caught or 
blocked by the catcher — but is nonetheless misplayed, allowing a base 
runner to advance — is called a "passed ball". Fielding high pop flies, 
often hit at unusual angles. Fielding weakly hit fair ground balls (including 
bunts) in front of home plate in order to throw to a base to complete a 
groundout or a fielder's choice play. The catcher must avoid hitting the 
batter-runner with the thrown ball, implying that he must move to a position 
in which he has a clear throw to the infielder at first base. Guarding 
home plate on plays in which a baserunner attempts to score a run. The 
catcher is often obliged to catch a ball thrown from a fielder and to tag 
out a runner arriving from third base. Naturally, the runner's objective, 
in this situation, is to elude the catcher's tag and touch the plate. Prior 
to 2014, the catcher's best strategy was to block the runner's path so 
as to prevent the runner from reaching the plate at all. Collisions between 
runners and catchers were common. Since the start of the 2014 season, a 
catcher may only obstruct a runner's path to home plate when he, the catcher, 
is in possession of the ball. Without the ball in hand, the catcher must 
allow the runner to score uncontested. If the catcher drops the ball while 
tagging the runner, the runner is safe. Although contact between a runner 
and a catcher was generally allowed in the major leagues until the beginning 
of the 2014 season, little league, high school, and college runners are 
encouraged or mandated to avoid significant contact.[15] Preventing stolen 
bases by throwing to second base or third base to allow an infielder to 
tag a baserunner attempting to reach the base. A catcher who is very good 
at preventing stolen bases is said to have a low stolen-base percentage; 
a poor one has many bases stolen while he catches. (A pitcher who is slow 
to deliver is often more at fault for stolen bases than the catcher is.) 
Ideally, a catcher should be able to get the ball from his glove to that 
of the player covering second base in under two seconds. This is referred 
to as a catcher's "pop time", the time elapsing between the popping sound 
of the pitch striking the catcher's mitt and the similar pop when the ball 
arrives at the glove of the fielder covering second base. Rarely, a catcher 
can make a successful pick-off throw to a base to surprise an inattentive 
or incautious baserunner. Especially at the higher levels of baseball (where 
this play almost never results in an out), the catcher's snap throws are 
mainly for psychological effect. If the runner knows that the catcher often 
attempts snap throws, the runner is likely to take a smaller lead from 
his base before each pitch, which will allow the infielders an extra fraction 
of a second to throw the runner out at the next base if he attempts to 
advance (as, for example, when a ground ball is hit). Yadier Molina of 
the St. Louis Cardinals is known for using pickoffs with success, particularly 
at first base.[16] Teams may sometimes call a deliberate play, the pitchout, 
wherein the pitcher intentionally throws the ball wide and high to the 
catcher, who comes out of his crouch to receive it and relays the ball 
quickly to a base to put a runner out. Rarely, a catcher will run to first 
base or third base to participate in rundown plays at those bases. In certain 
game situations, typically a ball batted to the shortstop or third baseman 
with no runners on base, the catcher may be expected to back-up first base 
in case the first baseman misses or mishandles a throw. In certain game 
situations, when a runner is on first and the batter bunts the ball or 
hits the ball softly, which causes the third baseman to rush in to get 
the ball and throw to first base, the catcher must cover third base so 
that the runner from first base does not advance to third base on the play 
and this then forces the third baseman to cover home plate. Any failure 
by the catcher can have dire consequences for his team. Passed balls are 
possible whenever one or more runners are on base. A failure to catch a 
ball thrown from the outfield on a play at home plate, or a failure to 
tag a runner, means that the defensive team fails to record an all-important 
out and, instead, it allows a run. On an attempt to prevent a stolen base, 
a catcher's bad throw might careen past the infielder and skip into the 
outfield, allowing an additional advance by the baserunner. Because of 
the close mental relationship and trust that a successful pitcher must 
have with his catcher, a number of catchers throughout history have become 
preferred by pitchers on their teams, to the point that that catcher will 
almost always (especially during the regular season) start along with the 
pitcher. The catcher is then informally referred to as that pitcher's personal 
catcher.[17] Naturally, the potential problem with this arrangement is 
that if the pitcher prefers to work with the team's backup catcher, then 
the regular catcher—presumably the better player—must be benched. However, 
this is somewhat leavened by the fact that, due to the physically grueling 
nature of the position, even "regular" catchers are normally asked to rest 
relatively frequently. Personal catchers are often used for pitchers that 
specialize in throwing knuckleballs, due to the difficulty of catching 
such an inconsistent and erratic pitch. Some personal catchers have included: 
The catcher is the most physically demanding position in baseball, more 
so than the pitcher. Despite being heavily padded, catchers routinely suffer 
some of the worst physical abuse in baseball. The catcher has the physically 
risky job of blocking the plate to prevent base runners from reaching home 
and scoring runs. Catchers also constantly get bruised and battered by 
pitches, foul balls, and occasionally the bat in an undisciplined follow-through 
of the batter's swing. Catchers also are prone to knee ailments stemming 
from the awkward crouching stance they assume. Because of this, catchers 
have a reputation of being slow baserunners; even if they have speed at 
the beginning of their careers, the eventual toll taken on their knees 
slows them down, although there are some exceptions, such as Manny Sanguillén 
and Alex Avila. Some players who begin their career as catchers are moved 
to other positions in order to preserve their running speed, increase their 
availability for games, and take advantage of their prowess with the bat. 
Prominent examples of catchers switching position in mid-career include 
Mike Napoli, Craig Biggio, B. J. Surhoff, Joe Mauer, Brandon Inge, and 
Dale Murphy (although Murphy was also known as a poor thrower to the pitcher 
and to second base, nearly hitting pitchers in the process).[24][25] As 
a result, catchers often have shorter careers than players at other positions; 
consequently, few catchers hold batting records that require many seasons 
of play to compile. Mike Piazza is the only catcher in history with more 
than 400 career home runs, and no catcher has amassed 3,000 career hits. 
Although 3,000 hit club member Craig Biggio played his first three full 
seasons as a catcher, he played his remaining sixteen seasons at second 
base and in the outfield. The larger or heavier the catcher, the greater 
the health risks associated with repeatedly assuming a crouching or squatting 
position; knees and backs are especially vulnerable to "wear-and-tear" 
injuries. Catchers also have an increased risk of circulatory abnormalities 
in the catching hand. A study of minor-league ballplayers showed that, 
of 36 players in various positions, all nine of the catchers had hand pain 
during a game, and several had chronic pain in the catching hand. Catching 
high-speed pitches can, in some cases, cause the index finger on the gloved 
hand to swell to twice the size of the other fingers. Ultrasound and blood-pressure 
tests showed altered blood flow in the gloved hand of five of the catchers, 
a far higher incidence than in the hands of players at other baseball positions.[26] 
Catchers in baseball use the following equipment to help prevent injury 
while behind the plate: Additionally, some catchers choose to use the following 
optional equipment: In addition to his protective equipment, a catcher 
usually also adopts practices that minimize his risk of injury. For instance, 
unlike fielders elsewhere on the field, a catcher tries, to the extent 
possible, to catch the ball with his gloved hand alone. An outfielder may 
catch a fly ball by covering the ball, once it strikes the pocket of his 
glove, with his bare hand in order to secure it. The catcher, however, 
tries to keep his bare hand, which is highly vulnerable to injury, out 
of harm's way by presenting the pitcher with a target (the large round 
glove) while hiding his unprotected throwing hand behind his back. By doing 
so, the bare hand cannot be struck by a foul tip. Many broken fingers, 
split fingernails, and grotesque dislocations are avoided by adherence 
to this simple expedient. Given the physical punishment suffered by catchers, 
the pieces of equipment associated with the position are often referred 
to as "the tools of ignorance". This is an ironic expression; the catcher 
typically has the most thorough understanding of baseball tactics and strategies 
of any player on his team.[citation needed] Catchers often experience knee 
tendonitis because of the constant squatting and bending of the knees while 
catching. Seventeen men who played primarily as catchers have been inducted 
