The Cathedral of Learning, a Pittsburgh landmark[2][6] listed in the National 
Register of Historic Places,[7][8] is the centerpiece of the University 
of Pittsburgh's main campus in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, United States. Standing at 535 feet (163 m),[9] the 42-story 
Late Gothic Revival Cathedral is the tallest educational building in the 
Western hemisphere and the second tallest university building (fourth tallest 
educationally-purposed building) in the world.[10] It is also the second 
tallest gothic-styled building in the world.[11] The Cathedral of Learning 
was commissioned in 1921 and ground was broken in 1926. The first class 
was held in the building in 1931 and its exterior finished in October 1934,[12] 
prior to its formal dedication in June 1937. Colloquially referred to as 
"Cathy" by Pitt students,[13][14] the Cathedral of Learning is a steel 
frame structure overlaid with Indiana limestone and contains more than 
2,000 rooms and windows. It functions as a primary classroom and administrative 
center of the university, and is home to the Dietrich School of Arts and 
Sciences and many of its departments, as well as the University Honors 
College. It served as home of the university's College of General Studies 
until its relocation to Posvar Hall in 2014. It houses many specialty spaces, 
including a studio theater, food court, study lounges, offices, computer 
and language labs, 30 Nationality Rooms, and a 1⁄2-acre (2,000 m2), 4-story-high, 
vaulted, gothic study and event hall. The building contains noted examples 
of stained glass, stone, wood, and iron work and is often used by the university 
in photographs, postcards, and other advertisements. The basement and floors 
up to (and including) floor 40 are used for educational purposes, although 
most floors above 36 house the building's mechanical equipment. These floors 
include theaters, computer laboratories, language laboratories, classrooms, 
and departmental offices. The basement contains a black box theater and 
the ground floor contains computer labs, language labs, classrooms, and 
the Cathedral Café food court.[15][16] The "lobby", comprising the first 
through third floors, contains a massive gothic "Commons Room" that is 
used as a general study area and for special events and is ringed by three 
floors of classrooms, including, on the first and third floors, the 30 
Nationality Rooms designed by members of the Pittsburgh community in the 
styles of different nations and ethnic groups. Twenty-eight of these serve 
as functional classrooms while more conventional classrooms are located 
on the second floor and elsewhere throughout the building. The first floor 
also serves as the home to the offices of the Chancellor, Executive Vice 
Chancellor, and other administration offices, as well as the Nationality 
Rooms Gift Shop. The fourth floor, which used to be home to the main stacks 
of the university's library, is now occupied by the McCarl Center for Nontraditional 
Student Success.[17] The fifth floor originally housed the main borrowing, 
reference, and reading rooms of the university library, and now houses 
the Department of English. The Pitt Humanities Center is housed on the 
sixth floor. Additionally, the University Honors College is located on 
the 35th and 36th floors. The Cathedral of Learning houses the Department 
of Philosophy,[18] considered one of the top five in the United States,[19] 
and the Department of History and Philosophy of Science,[20] consistently 
ranked at the top of the field.[21][22][23] Other departments in the Cathedral 
include English, Religious Studies, Statistics, Theatre Arts, and the School 
of Social Work which maintains the highest classrooms in the building located 
on the 23rd floor.[24][note 1] Floors 37–40 are closed to the general public, 
as they contain electrical wiring for the building, as well as the Babcock 
Room, a large conference room on the 40th floor used for meetings, seminars, 
and special events and which provides a panoramic view of downtown Pittsburgh 
and the rest of the university. The 40th floor balcony also houses a nesting 
pair of Peregrine falcons. A view from the top is available via a webcam.[25] 
Golden lights, dubbed "victory lights," surround the outside of the highest 
floors and are lit following Pitt football wins and other notable victories, 
giving the upper part of the Cathedral an amber glow.[26] The top of the 
building serves as the site for the transmitter of the student-run radio 
station WPTS-FM[27] as well as the amateur radio repeater W3YJ which is 
run by the Panther Amateur Radio club on a frequency of 443.45 MHz.[28][29] 
The building is also one of the host buildings of Pennsylvania's Mock Trial 
Competition. In 1921, John Gabbert Bowman became the tenth chancellor of 
the university. At that time, the school consisted of a series of buildings 
constructed along Henry Hornbostel's plan for the campus and included "temporary" 
wooden structures built during World War I. He then began to envision a 
"tall building", that would be later termed the Cathedral of Learning, 
to provide a dramatic symbol of education for the city and alleviate overcrowding 
by adding much needed space in order to meet present and future needs of 
the university. His reasoning is summarized in this quote: The building 
was to be more than a schoolhouse; it was to be a symbol of the life that 
Pittsburgh through the years had wanted to live. It was to make visible 
something of the spirit that was in the hearts of pioneers as, long ago, 
they sat in their log cabins and thought by candlelight of the great city 
that would sometime spread out beyond their three rivers and that even 
they were starting to build. Bowman looked at a 14-acre (5.7 ha) plot of 
land named Frick Acres. On November 26, 1921, with aid from the Mellon 
family, the university was given the $2.5 million plot, and began plans 
for a proper university building on the site.[30] One of the foremost Gothic 
architects of the time, Philadelphian Charles Klauder, was hired to design 
the tower. The design took two years to finish, with the final plan attempting 
to fuse the idea of a modern skyscraper with the tradition and ideals of 
Gothic architecture. The plans received strong resistance from the community 
and from some university officials, who felt it was too tall for the city. 
Local legend states that to counteract this resistance, Bowman ordered 
that the construction of the walls would start at the top floor and work 
its way down, so the project could not be canceled. This has been traced 
to an account in November 21, 1943, issue of At Ease, a tabloid related 
to local military personnel on campus, which stated that "the masonry was 
started from the top downward." Construction photographs show that this 
was not the case, and that some stonework was done on the first floor before 
any other stonework was begun. One engineer with the company working on 
the Cathedral[who?] explained that the exterior walls of the Cathedral 
are not load-bearing. Because of this, many similar buildings would start 
construction at the third or fourth floors. Practically, this makes sense, 
as it allows easy movement of building materials and equipment into and 
out of the building. Instead, in the Cathedral's case, the issue was one 
of the stone that would be used in lower stories. In fact, the quarry was 
not prepared to deliver the stone on schedule, so construction was delayed, 
and work began on the higher stories. ... "in the literal sense of the 
word, Late Gothic Revival architecture culminated in the University of 
Pittsburgh's skyscraping Cathedral of Learning". When construction started 
on the Cathedral of Learning in 1926, it was the tallest building in Pittsburgh, 
although the Gulf Tower (1932) was completed and surpassed it by the time 
the Cathedral of Learning was officially dedicated in June 1937. Today, 
it remains the tallest educational building in the Western hemisphere, 
the second tallest university building in the world behind the 36 story, 
240 m (including a 57 m spire) Moscow State University main building completed 
in 1953,[10] and the fourth tallest educational building in the world behind 
the Moscow State University and Mode Gakuen Cocoon (204 m)[32] and Spiral 
Towers (170 m),[33] both completed in 2008 and located in Japan. On July 
26, 1940 as World War II was starting, a bomb threat was made against the 
structure with extra guards being posted to secure it and the authorities 
not ruling out possible wartime sabotage.[34] During the war effort, the 
Cathedral was assigned to house, feed and instruct roughly 1,000 of the 
Army Air Corps (forerunner of today's U.S. Air Force) as well as dozens 
of Army engineers. The building had at least 12 floors dedicated for military 
use from 1943 until 1945.[35] Fundraising for this project came in many 
forms, including donations from industries, corporations, individuals and 
foreign governments. To raise public views of the Cathedral, and at the 
same time finance the construction, Bowman started a fundraising campaign 
in 1925. An important part of this campaign was a project reaching out 
to the children of the city entitled "Buy a Brick for Pitt". Each schoolchild 
sent a dime ($0.10) and a letter to the university, explaining how they 
earned the dime for the building. In exchange, the child received a certificate 
for one brick contained in the Cathedral. A total of 97,000 certificates 
were issued to children. The main part of the Cathedral's first floor is 
the Commons Room, called one of the "great architectural fantasies of the 
twentieth century", is a fifteenth-century English perpendicular Gothic-style 
hall that covers half an acre (2,000 m2) and extends upwards four stories, 
reaching 52 feet (16 m) tall.[36] The room was a gift of Andrew Mellon. 
It is a piece of true Gothic architecture; no steel supports were used 
in the construction of its arches. Each arch is a true arch, and they support 
their own weight. Each base for the arches weighs five tons, and it is 
said that they are so firmly placed that each could hold a large truck. 
The large central piers act only as screens for the structural steel that 
holds up the upper floors of the building. Despite its heavy use, the Commons 
Room is kept quiet by the use of Guastavino acoustical tiles as the stones 
between the ribs of vaulting.[36] This perfection was insisted upon by 
Chancellor Bowman. The architect, Klauder, objected due to the increased 
costs of this construction method. Bowman responded with the comment: "You 
cannot build a great University with fraud in it." Joseph Gattoni designed 
the stonework, much of which depicts western Pennsylvanian plant life. 
The walls are made of Indiana limestone and the floor is green Vermont 
slate. The wrought iron in the room, including the large gates leading 
to the elevators, was a gift from George Hubbard Clapp and were designed 
by the ironworker Samuel Yellin. Over the gates are two lines from an untitled 
poem by Robert Bridges: "Here is eternal spring; for you the very stars 
of heaven are new."[37] Also located in the corridors surrounding the Commons 
Room are plaques featuring calligraphy designed and hand-cut in slate by 
Edward Catich, including one featuring a poem by Lawrence Lee titled "The 
Cathedral,"[38] as well as stained glass windows by Charles Connick.[39] 
During finals in the winter, fires in the enormous fireplace are lit, to 
promote a comforting and pleasant atmosphere for the dozens of students 
typically found studying into the late hours. The Cathedral is home to 
30 Nationality Rooms located on the first and third floors: 28 working 
classrooms and two rooms used mostly for display or occasional special 
events. Each nationality room is designed to celebrate a different culture 
that had an influence on Pittsburgh's growth, depicting an era prior to 
(or in the singular case of the French Classroom, just after) 1787, which 
is year of the university's founding and the signing of the US Constitution. 
The Nationality Room programs began in 1926 when Bowman decided that he 
wanted to involve the community as much as he could in constructing the 
Cathedral, so he proposed that each nationality that had a significant 
number of people in Pittsburgh would be allowed to design their nationality's 
room for the Cathedral. Each group had to form a Room Committee, which 
would be responsible for all fundraising, designing, and acquisition. The 
university provided only the room and, upon completion, upkeep for perpetuity. 
All other materials, labor, and design were provided by the individual 
committees. These were sometimes aided by foreign governments and the rooms 
contain many authentic artifacts and materials from the country represented.[40] 
A typical room on the 1st floor (those built between 1938 and the 1957) 
took between three and ten years to complete, and cost the equivalent of 
US$300,000 in 2006 dollars. More recent rooms have cost in the range of 
$750,000 and up.[41] There are seven nationality rooms in various stages 
of planning to add to the current 30.[42] There are several other notable 
facilities and rooms within the Cathedral of Learning. In addition, these 
spaces do not fall under the auspices of the Nationality Rooms program. 
The Edward V. Babcock Memorial Room is a plush, carpeted, wood-paneled 
conference room constructed on the 40th floor for use as the University 
trustees' boardroom. Funded by a Babcock family grant of $327,000 ($2.69 million 
in 2016 dollars[50]) and dedicated in November 1958,[41] all of the room’s 
features are original, except for the lighting, furniture and carpeting.[51] 
The room's square shape is modified by four alcoves, in one of which is 
a portrait of Babcock by Malcolm Stevens Parcell. The walls, featuring 
intricate geometric patterns, are paneled in Appalachian white oak with 
burled walnut inlays and touches of rosewood.[52] The windows, adorned 
by leaf-patterned curtains, boast a spectacular panoramic view of the surrounding 
area.[51][53] The room is also adjoined by a kitchen.[54] Access to the 
room is limited to a spiral staircase and an elevator, both requiring a 
key, that originate on the 36th floor.[54] During the early 1970s at the 
height of student activism, a group of protesting students attempted to 
barricade the room during a trustees meeting.[41][55] Today, the trustees 
have outgrown the room and generally meet in the Assembly Room of the William 
Pitt Union. The Babcock room now serves as a seminar and meeting room and 
is also used for special events.[51] A pair of peregrine falcons nests 
on the balcony outside the room.[56] Following the opening of the Cathedral 
of Learning, the offices of the Dean of Women moved to the 12th floor of 
the Cathedral in 1938. The interior was unfinished but Dean Thyrsa Amos 
envisioned a dignified and beautiful space for women to meet. When Dean 
Amos died in 1941, the new quarters were still unfinished. The Alumnae 
Association created the Thyrsa W. Amos Fund to plaster the walls and to 
furnish Room 1217 in her name. Room 1217 was never finished, but after 
World War II the other rooms on the twelfth floor were completed including 
room 1201, now known as the Braun Room. Mrs. A. E. Braun donated the furnishings 
and floral carved mahogany wood paneling which she had purchased in 1941 
from the library of the home of Grant McCargo in the East End of Pittsburgh. 
The Braun Room was dedicated in 1946 and serves, along with its furniture, 
as an example of a modern reproduction of Louis XV design. Original blue 
carpeting was replaced in 1955 with a Persian rug, named "The Iron Rug 
of Persia", that was donated by the daughter and son-in-law of A. E. Braun. 
Restored in 2015, the rug was made for a regional Khan in the northern 
part of Iran around 1810.[57] Other features of the room include a low 
bookcase, bordered and topped with classic carving, that was crafted by 
university carpenters to replace the original fireplace whose inclusion 
was impractical on the 12th floor, along with two crystal drop chandeliers.[58] 
Dean Helen Pool Rush and her successor, Dean Savina Skewis, carried on 
the traditions of Dean Amos until the Dean of Women's Office was closed 
in 1969, and its functions and quarters were assumed by other departments.[59] 
The Braun Room is used for meetings and study abroad scholarship selection 
panels. The Croghan-Schenley room, situated on the first floor of the Cathedral 
in room 156, is actually two adjoining Greek Revival rooms, the Ballroom 
and the Oval Room, connected by a hidden passageway in the Ballroom's fireplace. 
The rooms were originally part of William Croghan Jr.'s mansion, known 
as the Picnic House, built in 1830 in the Stanton Heights area of Pittsburgh. 
The rooms themselves were created in 1835 by the Philadelphia carver Mordecai 
Van Horn, and they have been regarded as being among the most lavish examples 
of Greek Revival designs in America.[36] His daughter, Mary Elizabeth, 
went to boarding school in New York, but in 1842 at the age of fifteen 
she eloped with 43-year-old Edward Wyndham Harrington Schenley, a captain 
in the British military. The elopement caused a family schism. Mary would 
not visit often, and in an effort to convince her to move back to Pittsburgh, 
the new rooms were commissioned. Following the death of William Croghan 
in 1850, the mansion was run by caretakers with no permanent residents 
for some 60 years. William S. Miller, then president of Steelwood Corp., 
purchased the Croghan mansion following World War II and it was soon leveled 
for a new housing development, but the Croghan-Schenley rooms were spared.[60] 
In 1955, the rooms, donated by Miller, were dismantled and rebuilt in the 
Cathedral, except that the original ceilings had to be lowered about 8 inches 
to accommodate the available space. In 1982, the rooms were refurbished 
to their 19th century glory. Highlighting the ballroom are the hand-cut 
glass chandelier and four wooden, hand-carved Greek columns, surviving 
examples of western Pennsylvania’s Greek classical revival period popular 
with those of means in the 1830s. The Croghan-Schenley rooms are the last 
extant vestiges of the estate of Mary Schenley, who before she died gave 
much of her holdings and property to the city of Pittsburgh—including Schenley 
farms, where the Cathedral sits, and Schenley Park.[61] Stories tell of 
a ghost, speculated to be that of Mary Schenley, that is said to roam the 
Ballroom and Nationality Rooms. The doors to the rooms are locked every 
night, but furniture is sometimes said to be found rearranged by daylight 
staff. The swinging of the chandelier has been said to indicate her presence.[62][63][64] 
The Frick Auditorium is a lecture hall in room 324 of the Cathedral of 
Learning. Originally conceptualized as the Fine Arts Lecture Room intended 
to complement the Fine Arts Department then located on the seventh floor,[65] 
the room was completed in 1939[66] and features stone mullions, chambranle, 
and other trim as well as wooden lecture seating and a coffered ceiling. 
A centerpiece element in the room is a Nicholas Lochoff reproduction of 
The Resurrection by Piero della Francesca that was purchased for the lecture 
hall by Helen Clay Frick. Frick would later donate a large collection of 
Lochoff reproductions to the university which are on display in the Nicholas 
Lochoff Cloisture in the university's Frick Fine Arts Building.[67] The 
University of Pittsburgh's Humanities Center, part of School of Arts and 
Sciences, is housed in room 602 of the Cathedral of Learning which was 
a sixth-floor space formerly occupied by the Darlington Memorial Library. 
Following digitization and protective storage of the library's materials, 
its space was renovated by architect Rob Pfaffmann in 2009 in order to 
house the center which now includes office space for staff and visiting 
fellows.[68] The Humanities Center space retains much of the original character 
and many of the antique furnishings originally bequeathed to the university 
by the Darlington family, and features moldings and green walls that are 
duplicated from the 18th mansion Graeme Park, a Pennsylvania colonial-era 
governor’s residence.[69] The Center for Humanities was finished in time 
for an open house that was part a conference hosted by the center on November 
14–15, 2009.[70] The space served as the home of The Darlington Memorial 
Library from 1936 until its recent conversion to the Humanities Center.[71] 
The library was entered through a memorial vestibule and consisted of a 
central room with eight alcoves and contained, among other notable furnishings, 
a wrought iron entrance gate by Samuel Yellin.[69] The library had been 
given to the University of Pittsburgh by the daughters of William McCullough 
Darlington and Mary Carson Darlington. The initial gift of eleven thousand 
volumes was made in 1918 by Mary O'Hara Darlington and Edith Darlington 
Ammon. This was followed by Mary O'Hara Darlington's bequest in 1925 of 
the remainder of the family's library and a large part of the family estate. 
The Darlington family's tremendous interest in historical research was 
the force behind the creation of what was said to be the largest private 
library west of the Alleghenies. The library collection is particularly 
rich in material pertaining to the French and Indian War and to the history 
of Western Pennsylvania and the Ohio Valley as both William and Mary Darlington 
researched and published in these areas. While the main focus of the collection 
is American history and literature, other highlights of the collection 
include rare maps and atlases, works on ornithology and natural history, 
and early travel narratives. The Darlington's son, O'Hara Darlington, also 
amassed a collections of Victorian literature, sporting books and works 
of illustrators and caricaturists. The collection has been additionally 
enriched over the years by the donations of other individuals and organizations, 
particularly enhancing its content on the history of the Western Pennsylvania 
region.[72] Prior to the renovation of the original library space, these 
materials were digitized and placed on-line at The Darlington Digital Library.[73] 
The original, sometimes fragile, materials of the library were placed in 
storage for availability to researchers upon request.[74] A virtual tour 
of the Darlington Memorial Library as it existed previously in the Cathedral 
of Learning is available for the main entrance[75] and the main room.[76] 
Located on the fourth floor of the Cathedral of Learning, the current home 
of both the Cultural Studies and Gender, Sexuality, & Women's Studies (GSWS) 
programs,[77] was the prior home of the McCarl Center for Nontraditional 
Student Success until it moved to Wesley W. Posvar Hall in 2014.[78] The 
space occupies what once housed two levels of the main stacks of the University's 
library.[79] The 2,500-square-foot (230 m2) space was previously opened 
as the $537,000 McCarl Center in 2002.[80] Made possible by a gift from 
F. James and Foster J.J. McCarl,[80] it was designed by Alan J. Cuteri 
and his architectural firm Strada, LLC, and includes wood finishes, double-height 
spaces with high ceilings and windows, a main corridor conceived as an 
interior street, and many elements that refer to the Cathedral of Learning's 
Gothic architecture including decorative painted metal columns with contemporary 
buttress-style arches.[17] Today the space includes a resource library, 
offices, and seminar room, and class room that are used by the Cultural 
Studies and GSWSP programs.[77] Also hanging in a hallway on the fourth 
floor outside the space, three unsigned and undated 7-by-3-foot (2.1 by 
0.9 m) glass-encased murals that depict Renaissance painting styles and 
which have long belonged to the University but are of unknown origin.[81] 
Located in room 204, the walnut-paneled Mulert Memorial classroom was designed 
by Philadelphia architect Gustav Ketterer and university architect Albert 
Klimcheck.[82] The room features wood floors, fluted ionic columns, red 
velvet draperies, and student chairs with leather seats.[83] The room's 
doors have fluted jams and panelings of Greek rosettes. A Mulert family 
coat-of-arms and memorial inscription is located on the rear wall of the 
room.[84] The room was provided for in the will of the late Mt. Lebanon 
resident Justus Mulert, the room was dedicated on December 21, 1942, and 
serves as a memorial to Mulert's wife, Louise and his son Ferdinand Max, 
who died in 1912 during his senior year at Washington and Jefferson College.[85] 
The Studio Theatre, a facility utilized by the Department of Theatre Arts, 
is located in the basement of the Cathedral. The Studio Theatre is a black 
box space that can be configured for almost any set requirements. It is 
home to student-directed laboratory productions, play readings, Dark Night 
Cabaret, and plays host to Pittsburgh's longest-running theatre show, Friday 
Nite Improvs, started in 1989 by graduate theatre students.[86] The University 
Honors College, dedicated in 1986, is housed in a 2002-2003 renovated space 
on the 35th and 36th floors of the Cathedral. The Honors College provides 
support and enriched opportunities for scholarship among the university's 
undergraduates and offers a Bachelor of Philosophy (BPhil) degree.[87] 
The 2002-2003 renovation, by Rothschild Doyno Collaborative of Pittsburgh's 
Strip District, showcased an existing two-story arched window that is visible 
at night for miles around. The four-leaf medieval quatrefoil medallion 
at the top of the Cathedral is a central motif in the design of the Honors 
College. Stained glass behind the reception desk at the center of the space 
was designed by Glenn Greene Glass of Regent Square and centers on a design 
representing the four seasons, done in polished agate. Wrought ironwork 
was produced by Vic Reynaud of Technique Manufacturing in the spirit of 
Samuel Yellin who did the Commons Room ironwork.[88] In the early 2000s, 
there was some controversy over whether university funds should be used 
to illuminate the Cathedral at night, or to clean the building's façade. 
The cleaning was abandoned because it was too costly. Some Oakland residents 
spoke out against the cleaning, stating that the years of soot should stay 
as an homage to Pittsburgh's industrial past. However, the university approved 
nearly $5 million for cleaning and restoration of stonework on February 
28, 2007. The work was completed at the end of 2007, restoring the exterior 
of the building to its original condition. In the wake of the September 
11 attacks, the Cathedral was deemed "at risk" because no obstacles were 
in place to prevent a vehicle from driving into the entrances of the building. 
To address this concern, the university installed bollards that rise out 
of the sidewalk.[89] As of 2001[update], around 200 window air conditioners 
operated in the building. During the 2000s, the university focused upon 
providing air-conditioning to the first four floors, which contain many 
classrooms. The plan called for the complete central cooling of the entire 
Cathedral of Learning by the end of the decade.[90] In 2014 the Property 
and Facilities Committee approved a plan for a $10.4 million upgrade of 
the building's elevator system.[91] This is the second major upgrade of 
the elevators to have been implemented throughout the building's history. 
Originally manually controlled and later automated to Westinghouse Selectomatic 
in 1971, the system was completely modernized into Otis Compass destination 
dispatch in 2016. South face of the Cathedral from the Frick Fine Arts 
Building The Cathedral Lawn to the east Cathedral and the Stephen Foster 
Memorial from across Schenley Plaza Northwest side of the Cathedral from 
across the lawn of the Sailors and Soldiers Memorial Detail of top floors 
on the western face North face top floors Panther fountain on the west 
entrance East side Samuel Yellin ironwork lamp South entrance detail Exterior 
quatrefoil stonework detail prior to 2007 cleaning Charles Connick designed 
Class of 1940 Window in the Quo Vadis niche Lightwell containing the painted 
ceramic sculpture "Third Century" by Jerry Caplan Detail of Joseph Gattoni 
stonework on a first floor archway Detail of Commons Room furniture carvings 
Commons Room ceiling vaults Commons Room Commons Room Looking west from 
the Honors College Cathedral of Learning lit up with the victory lights 
