Coordinates: 42°14′N 78°41′W﻿ / ﻿42.24°N 78.68°W﻿ / 42.24; -78.68 Cattaraugus 
County is a county in the western part of the U.S. state of New York, with 
one side bordering Pennsylvania. As of the 2010 census, the population 
was 80,317.[1] The county seat is Little Valley.[2] The county was created 
in 1808 and later organized in 1817.[3] Cattaraugus County comprises the 
Olean, NY Micropolitan Statistical Area, which is included in the Buffalo-Cheektowaga, 
NY Combined Statistical Area. Within its boundaries are the Allegany Indian 
Reservation of the Seneca Nation of New York, and the Allegany State Park. 
The Allegheny River runs through the county. The largely unsettled territory 
was the traditional homeland of the now-extinct Wenrohronon Indians and 
later occupied by the Seneca people, one of the five Nations of the Haudenosaunee. 
During the colonial era, it was claimed by at least three territories: 
New York Colony, Massachusetts Bay Colony and Pennsylvania Colony, each 
of which extended their colonial claims to the west until after the Revolutionary 
War. When counties were established in the province of New York in 1683, 
the territory of Cattaraugus County was included within the very large 
Albany County. This was an enormous county, including the northern part 
of New York as well as all of the present state of Vermont and, in theory, 
extending westward to the Pacific Ocean. As additional areas were settled, 
this county was reduced on July 3, 1766 by the creation of Cumberland County, 
and on March 16, 1770 by the creation of Gloucester County, both containing 
territory now in Vermont. On March 12, 1772, what was left of Albany County 
was split into three parts, one remaining under the name Albany County. 
One of the other pieces, Tryon County, contained the western portion (and 
thus, since no western boundary was specified, theoretically still extended 
west to the Pacific). The eastern boundary of Tryon County was approximately 
five miles west of the present city of Schenectady. The county included 
the western part of the Adirondack Mountains and the area west of the West 
Branch of the Delaware River. The area then designated as Tryon County 
is represented in the 21st century by 37 counties of New York. The county 
was named for William Tryon, colonial governor of New York. In the years 
prior to 1776, most of the Loyalists in Tryon County fled across the Niagara 
Frontier into modern day Ontario, Canada. In 1784, following the peace 
treaty that ended the American Revolutionary War (and a treaty with Massachusetts 
that finally settled who owned Western New York), the name of Tryon County 
was changed to Montgomery County in honor of the general, Richard Montgomery, 
who had captured several places in Canada and died attempting to capture 
the city of Quebec. This replaced the name of the hated British governor. 
In practice, however, these counties did not cover modern Cattaraugus County 
or Western New York. Most of that area lay within the Indian Reserve established 
in the Treaty of Fort Stanwix by the British; it was intended to be reserved 
for Native Americans and was ruled off-limits to European settlement. The 
newly independent United States sought to extinguish native reserves after 
the British ceded their territory east of the Mississippi River and south 
of the Great Lakes to the United States. This included Iroquois territory 
in New York; the four nations that had been allies of the British mostly 
relocated to Ontario, where the Crown gave them land grants in some compensation 
for losses. The Treaty of Canandaigua, in 1794, extinguished what was left 
of native title, with the exception of several reservations, three of which 
were at least partially located in what is now Cattaraugus County. Ontario 
County was split from Montgomery County in 1789 as a result of the establishment 
of the Morris Reserve. In turn, Genesee County was split from Ontario County 
in 1802 as a result of the Holland Purchase. This period was the beginning 
of more significant European-American settlement of this western territory. 
Shortly afterward, Genesee County was reduced in 1806 by the creation of 
Allegany County. Cattaraugus County was formed in 1808, split off from 
Genesee County. At first there was no county government due to the sparse 
population. From 1812 to 1814, Cattaraugus County was incorporated in Allegany 
County; from 1814 to 1817, records of the county were divided between Belmont 
(Allegany County) and Buffalo (then in Niagara County). The name "Cattaraugus" 
derives from a Seneca word for "bad smelling banks," and was named for 
the "odor of natural gas leaking from rock seams." [4] In 1817, a county 
government was established for Cattaraugus County in the southwestern corner 
of the town of Hebe, now Ellicottville. Numerous towns in the county are 
named after agents of the Holland Land Company, including Ellicottville 
(Joseph Ellicott), Franklinville (William Temple Franklin, a speculator 
and grandson of Benjamin Franklin), and Otto and East Otto (Jacob Otto). 
The first settlement in the county was in Olean. After 1860, the county 
seat was moved to Little Valley. The Allegany Indian Reservation is within 
the county boundaries and is one of two controlled by the federally recognized 
Seneca Nation of New York in the western part of the state; the Seneca's 
other territories, Cattaraugus and Oil Springs, are both partially within 
county boundaries. South of Salamanca, New York, a small city located within 
the reservation, is Allegany State Park, which is contiguous with the Allegheny 
National Forest in Pennsylvania. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the 
county has a total area of 1,322 square miles (3,420 km2), of which 1,308 
square miles (3,390 km2) is land and 14 square miles (36 km2) (1.1%) is 
water.[5] Cattaraugus County is in the southwestern part of the state, 
immediately north of the Pennsylvania border. The southern part of Cattaraugus 
County is the only area of western New York that was not covered by the 
last ice age glaciation . It is noticeably more rugged than neighboring 
areas that had peaks rounded and valleys filled by the glacier. The entire 
area is a dissected plateau of Pennsylvanian and Mississippian age, but 
appears mountainous to the casual observer. The plateau is an extension 
of the Allegany Plateau from nearby Pennsylvania. Southern Cattaraugus 
County is part of the same oil field, and petroleum was formerly a resource 
of the area. It is now mostly played out, but natural gas continues to 
be extracted. A continental divide between the Mississippi River and Great 
Lakes watersheds runs through Cattaraugus County The northern border of 
the county is formed by Cattaraugus Creek and the Allegheny River arises 
in the county. Great Valley Airport is located in Cattaraugus County, one 
nautical mile (1.85 km) southeast of the central business district of Great 
Valley.[6][7] Cattaraugus County-Olean Airport is located outside of Olean 
located in the Town of Ischua. Intercity bus service is provided through 
Coach USA, which runs through the county on its twice-daily Jamestown to 
Olean route (with connections to Buffalo and New York City). Trailways 
offers a once-daily north-to-south run between Buffalo and points south 
in Pennsylvania. The county does not have a unified public transit system. 
The Seneca Nation serves much of the county through its own bus line, which 
connects its reservations; another service, the Olean Area Transit System, 
connects the cities of Salamanca and Olean. There is no regular passenger 
rail service in Cattaraugus County; Amtrak does not serve the county. The 
WNY & PA Railroad, based in Olean, provides freight service on most of 
the rail routes in Cattaraugus County; the New York and Lake Erie Railroad 
serves the northwest corner and the Buffalo and Pittsburgh Railroad runs 
a north-to-south route. As of the census[13] of 2000, there were 83,955 
people, 32,023 households, and 21,647 families residing in the county. 
The population density was 64 people per square mile (25/km²). There were 
39,839 housing units at an average density of 30 per square mile (12/km²). 
The racial makeup of the county was 94.63% White, 1.06% Black or African 
American, 2.60% Native American, 0.46% Asian, 0.02% Pacific Islander, 0.23% 
from other races, and 1.01% from two or more races. 0.94% of the population 
were Hispanic or Latino of any race. 26.8% were of German, 13.2% Irish, 
11.3% English, 9.1% Polish, 8.2% Italian and 7.4% American ancestry according 
to Census 2000. 95.2% spoke English and 1.4% Spanish as their first language. 
There were 32,023 households out of which 32.10% had children under the 
age of 18 living with them, 52.30% were married couples living together, 
10.80% had a female householder with no husband present, and 32.40% were 
non-families. 26.80% of all households were made up of individuals and 
11.60% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average 
household size was 2.52 and the average family size was 3.05. In the county 
the population was spread out with 26.20% under the age of 18, 9.30% from 
18 to 24, 26.50% from 25 to 44, 23.50% from 45 to 64, and 14.60% who were 
65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females 
there were 95.90 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
92.50 males. The median income for a household in the county was $33,404, 
and the median income for a family was $39,318. Males had a median income 
of $30,901 versus $22,122 for females. The per capita income for the county 
was $15,959. About 10.00% of families and 13.70% of the population were 
below the poverty line, including 18.60% of those under age 18 and 9.90% 
of those age 65 or over. Cattaraugus County is run by a unicameral legislature 
who appoint a county "administrator." This individual serves many executive 
duties of a county executive but has no legislative veto power and is not 
elected. The legislators are elected independently by districts (while 
some also serve as mayors of the villages they represent, their status 
as mayors does not affect in any way their seats on the legislature and 
thus it is not a Board of Supervisors). The votes of each legislator are 
counted in proportion to the number of people that said legislator represents 
(for example, if a legislator from Olean has 10,000 people in his/her district, 
and the legislator serving Lyndon only has 5,000, the Lyndon legislator's 
vote has only half the worth of the Olean legislator's). There are currently 
21 members of the legislature with 15 Republicans and 6 Democrats; the 
county is in the process of reducing that number to 17. Each legislator 
serves a four-year term, with a limit of three terms. A majority of the 
county council are Republicans. Norman L. Marsh of Little Valley serves 
as Chairman, and James J. Snyder of Olean serves as Vice-Chairman. Cattaraugus 
County is entirely within the boundaries of the 148th New York State Assembly 
District (served currently by Joseph Giglio), the 57th New York State Senate 
District (served currently by Catharine Young), and the U.S. House of Representatives 
29th district (served currently by Tom Reed). In the last of these, Cattaraugus 
County's votes proved pivotal in the 2008 elections: incumbent Republican 
Randy Kuhl, who had strongly carried the county in 2004 and 2006, lost 
Cattaraugus County to Democrat Eric Massa in the 2008 elections. The county 
is generally considered a "red county," with Republicans usually outvoting 
Democrats in most statewide and national offices (for instance, in 2004 
George W. Bush defeated John Kerry in Cattaraugus County by a 60-40 margin) 
although Bill Clinton won the Cattaraugus County very narrowly in 1996. 
In 2006, the county narrowly chose Eliot Spitzer over John Faso by a margin 
of about 1% in the governor's race, and Hillary Clinton defeated John Spencer 
in the county by a 10 percentage point margin. (That being said, in all 
other positions up for office that year, Republicans won—including all 
congressional and state legislature representatives.) In 2008 the county 
voted for the Republican presidential candidate, with John McCain defeating 
Barack Obama by a 55-44% margin. In 2010, Republican Carl Paladino carried 
Cattaraugus County over Democrat (and eventual winner) Andrew Cuomo 65% 
to 31%. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and Senator Chuck Schumer, both incumbent 
Democrats, carried the county by 51% to 46% and 54% to 43% margins, respectively. 
Despite largely being a non-factor in heavily Democratic New York's statewide 
elections, the county regularly has unusually high turnout for Presidential 
elections, with upwards of 70% of eligible voters typically voting in the 
county. An emerging trend among Cattaraugus County's villages has been 
consolidation with their surrounding towns. Limestone voters approved dissolution 
into the Town of Carrollton in September 2009; that took effect at the 
beginning of 2011. On March 18, 2010, three other villages (East Randolph, 
Randolph and Perrysburg) followed suit and approved dissolution into their 
surrounding towns (Town of Randolph for the first two, and Town of Perrysburg 
for the third); these three villages dissolved at the beginning of 2012. 
Two geological formations, both called "Rock City," have the appearance 
of a town laid out with streets. One is in Olean and the other is in Little 
Valley. Olean is the largest city in the county and is the major center 
for business. Ski country runs through Cattaraugus County; two ski resorts, 
popular with Canadians, lie in the town of Ellicottville: Holiday Valley 
Resort and HoliMont; Cattaraugus County once had numerous ski resorts within 
its bounds, scattered throughout the county, before contracting into Ellicottville 
alone by 1980. In addition, several snowmobile trails cross the county, 
including the Pat McGee Trail, a flagship for the county's trail system, 
and the North Country Trail. Cattaraugus County's current promotional nickname 
is the Enchanted Mountains. The county's heights are mostly described as 
hills; it has only two comparatively small "mountains" (Mount Seneca and 
Mount Tuscarora, both in Allegany State Park). During the 1980s, the county 
used the slogan Naturally Yours to Enjoy. Cattaraugus County is considered 
part of Appalachia, as well as Western New York, upstate New York, the 
Southern Tier, the Twin Tiers and the Buffalo-Niagara-Cattaraugus Combined 
Statistical Area. As a result of being at a geographic crossroads, the 
people of Cattaraugus County speak a variety of accents, ranging from mild 
variants of Appalachian English to Inland Northern American English, with 
a handful of people speaking in the more loud and nasal Buffalo English. 
The sales tax in Cattaraugus County is 8% (4% from New York, 4% from the 
county). A large Amish community is located in the western part of the 
county. A portion of this community maintains an exceptionally older order 
that eschews indoor plumbing, which, combined with a small number of Seneca 
who still live on traditional subsistence, gives the county a high rate 
of homes without indoor plumbing compared to nearby counties.[14] A branch 
of Jamestown Community College, in Olean provides higher education for 
residents. Olean Business Institute provided specialized education and 
is also in Olean; it closed in 2013 due to financial and enrollment declines. 
Jamestown Business College operates a satellite campus in Salamanca. Cornplanter 
College, a tribally controlled college, opened in 2014 in Salamanca. St. 
Bonaventure University is located in its own census-designated place just 
