In baseball, a runner is charged, and the fielders involved are credited, 
with a time caught stealing when the runner attempts to advance or lead 
off from one base to another without the ball being batted and then is 
tagged out by a fielder while making the attempt. A time caught stealing 
cannot be charged to a batter-runner, a runner who is still advancing as 
the direct result of reaching base. In baseball statistics, caught stealing 
is denoted by CS.[1] More specifically, a time caught stealing is charged 
when: Rickey Henderson is the all-time leader in getting caught stealing 
(335 times). The current active leader is Juan Pierre with 202 times caught, 
ranked fifth all-time (as of June 23, 2013).[3] A baserunner is "picked 
off" base when that runner takes a lead off his base and the pitcher (or 
catcher) makes a quick throw to a fielder manning that base, resulting 
in the runner being tagged out. In this circumstance, the baserunner is 
not considered to have been caught stealing. However, if, during the play, 
the runner made any feint or motion toward the next base, then the runner 
is caught stealing, even if he is eventually caught trying to re-assume 
the base which he originally occupied. If a runner is making no attempt 
to advance to the next base until there is a wild pitch or passed ball, 
and is then put out trying to advance to the next base, this runner is 
not caught stealing. The runner is put out on a fielder's choice, and a 
wild pitch/passed ball would not be charged to the pitcher or catcher. 
Rickey Henderson, the all-time stolen base leader with 1,406 steals, holds 
the major league and American League records for being caught stealing. 
Henderson was caught stealing 335 times in his career, including a record 
293 times in the American League. Lou Brock, who ranks second on the all-time 
stolen base list and holds the National League record for career steals 
with 938, also holds the National League record for times caught stealing. 
Brock, who spent his entire career in the National League, was caught stealing 
307 times.[4] Henderson also holds the major league and American League 
records for being caught stealing in a single season, when he was thrown 
out 42 times in the 1982 season, when he set the post-1900 record for steals 
in a season with 130. (Hugh Nicol set the all-time record for steals with 
138 in 1887 when he played for the Cincinnati Red Stockings of the American 
Association. Caught stealing records were not kept then.) Miller Huggins 
set the single season caught stealing record in the National League in 
1914, when he was thrown out 36 times (he stole 32 bases that year).[5] 
