CBS Sports is the sports division of the American television network CBS. 
Its headquarters are in the CBS Building on West 52nd Street in midtown 
Manhattan, New York City, with programs produced out of Studio 43 at the 
CBS Broadcast Center on West 57th Street. Its premier sports properties 
are the NFL, Southeastern Conference (SEC) football, NCAA basketball (including 
telecasts of the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament), and PGA golf, including 
The Masters, and the PGA Championship. The online arm of CBS Sports is 
CBSSports.com. CBS purchased SportsLine.com in 2004, and today CBSSports.com 
is part of CBS Interactive. CBS Sports was honored at the 59th Annual Technology 
& Engineering Emmy Awards for Outstanding Achievement in Advanced Media 
Technology for Synchronous Enhancement of Original Television Content for 
Interactive Use for its program March Madness on Demand. On August 31, 
2013, CBS Sports rolled out its previous graphics and animation package 
that was first used in the network's coverage of Super Bowl XLVII. Additionally, 
in compliance with the Active Format Description #10 code, CBS Sports switched 
to a 16:9 aspect ratio letterbox presentation used for all sports programming, 
including the SEC on CBS and the NFL on CBS broadcasts. On November 30, 
2015, CBS Sports released a new logo in order to coincide with the network's 
coverage of Super Bowl 50. The network also created a new on-air graphics 
package that debuted as part of the network's Super Bowl week programming. 
Following the game, the graphics package began to be utilized across all 
of their programming events, including their joint production of NCAA March 
Madness with Turner Sports.[1][2] The Masters, which retains heavy production 
control over their event, will continue to use the network's older graphical 
style originally unveiled in 2007. Also, the network's Thursday Night Football 
game broadcasts will continue to use the graphical style originally used 
since its debut in 2014. CBS Sports Network is a sports-oriented American 
digital cable and satellite channel that is operated by CBS Corporation 
through CBS Sports. Launched as the National College Sports Network in 
2002, then renamed as College Sports Television in 2003, CBS's then-parent 
company Viacom acquired the network in 2005 and later renamed it CBS College 
Sports Network in 2008. The network had always focused on college sports, 
but in 2011, CBS rebranded the network as CBS Sports Network as a move 
to reposition the network to include mainstream sports—including coverage 
of minor professional sports leagues such as the Arena Football League 
and Major League Lacrosse, although college sports are still aired frequently 
by the network. CBS Sports Radio is a sports radio network that launched 
on September 4, 2012 with hourly sports news updates. It began offering 
a full 24-hour schedule of sports talk programming on January 2, 2013.[9] 
CBS Sports Radio is owned and operated by CBS Radio, a division of CBS 
Corporation, with Cumulus Media Networks handling distribution and marketing 
of the network. Sports radio stations that are owned by CBS and Cumulus 
Media carry part of the full schedule of programming, while eight CBS-owned 
stations carry network programming throughout the day. In addition to carriage 
on terrestrial stations, CBS Sports Radio also streams its programming 
