CBS Radio, Inc., formerly known as Infinity Broadcasting Corporation, is 
one of the largest owners and operators of radio stations in the United 
States, fifth behind main rivals iHeartMedia (previously Clear Channel 
Communications, which owns many of the stations that were previously owned 
by former CBS parent Viacom before 1997), Cumulus Media, Townsquare Media, 
and Alpha Media. CBS Radio owns and operates 117 radio stations across 
the country. It is currently part of CBS Corporation, which also owns the 
CBS radio and television networks, and jointly owns The CW. CBS Radio is 
one of the oldest units within CBS Corporation, and has been around since 
1928. However, the actual CBS Radio Network (now CBS Radio News) was launched 
in 1927, when CBS itself was known as United Independent Broadcasters. 
Columbia Records later joined in and that company was renamed the Columbia 
Phonographic Broadcasting System. In September 1927, Columbia Records sold 
the company to William S. Paley and in 1928, Paley streamlined the corporate 
name to Columbia Broadcasting System. The company that would become CBS 
Radio was founded in 1972 as Infinity Broadcasting Corporation by Michael 
A. Wiener and Gerald Carrus, with the acquisition of KOME, an FM radio 
station that served the San Francisco Bay Area. It became a publicly traded 
company twice, in 1986, and again in 1992. Westinghouse Electric Corporation, 
which acquired CBS, Inc. in 1995, acquired Infinity Broadcasting in 1997. 
Westinghouse, which established modern broadcasting on November 2, 1920, 
with KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, would later change its name to CBS 
Corporation, and reorganize all of its radio properties (including its 
own Group W stations), as well as its outdoor advertising business, under 
the Infinity Broadcasting Corporation name. Westinghouse acquired American 
Radio Systems in 1997.[1] In 1999, CBS Corporation was merged into Viacom. 
On December 14, 2005, Viacom spun out its motion picture and cable television 
assets, with the remainder maintained as CBS Corporation In anticipation 
of this, Infinity Broadcasting was reorganized as CBS Radio. In August 
2006, CBS Radio announced the sale of its 15 radio stations in Cincinnati, 
Ohio; Memphis, Tennessee; Austin, Texas; and Rochester, New York to Entercom 
Communications. This group deal was granted FCC approval in mid-November 
2007 after it faced regulatory review and numerous challenges for over 
a year, and officially closed on November 30. Several other stations, most 
in smaller markets, have also been sold to companies like Border Media 
Partners and Peak Media Corporation. On April 30, 2008, CBS Radio and AOL 
entered a partnership (following the dissolution of partnership between 
AOL and XM Satellite Radio due to the change in Internet royalty rates). 
The AOL Radio player powered by CBS Radio features over 200 CBS Radio stations, 
along with over 200 AOL Radio stations, combining two of the largest online 
radio networks and giving millions of listeners unlimited and free access 
to a diverse array of music and programming including news, sports and 
talk. These stations have been folded into the AOL Radio application seen 
in the iTunes App Store for availability on the iPhone/iPod touch/iPad. 
In 2008, CBS started the process of paring down its station holdings, with 
a particular focus on ridding itself of stations in mid-sized markets, 
and markets where there are no television stations for synergistic advantages.[2] 
On July 31, 2008, CBS Radio announced that it would sell 50 more radio 
stations in 12 mid-size markets.,[3] however some companies like RBC Capital 
Markets said CBS Radio is a "melting icecube" and that CBS Corporation 
would be better off selling the entire radio unit rather than "waiting 
a couple of years and selling the rest for less."[citation needed] On December 
15, 2008, CBS Radio and Clear Channel Communications reached an agreement 
to swap seven stations. In this deal, Clear Channel acquired WQSR in Baltimore, 
Maryland, KBKS in Seattle, Washington, KLTH and KXJM in Portland, Oregon, 
and KQJK in Sacramento, California; and CBS Radio would get KHMX and KLOL 
in Houston, Texas.[4] The deal closed on April 1, 2009. On December 20, 
2008, CBS Radio announced that it would sell the entire Denver cluster 
(this includes three radio stations) to Wilks Broadcasting for $19.5 Million, 
including KIMN, KWOF, and KXKL.[5] On August 10, 2009, CBS Radio announced 
that it would sell the entire Portland cluster (this includes four radio 
stations) to Alpha Broadcasting for $40 Million. The stations included 
in the sale are KCMD, KINK, KUFO, and KUPL.[6] On February 4, 2010, all 
CBS Radio stations, as well as AOL Radio and Yahoo! Music Radio have restricted 
all non U.S. listeners from streaming online content. CBS Radio redirects 
to sister property Last.fm.[7] 2011 saw the biggest AC format removal of 
the company dropping AC for hot adult contemporary on Washington, D.C.'s 
WIAD in March, followed by New York City's WWFS on October 12 (both in 
the Eastern Time Zone). On August 1, WCFS-FM Chicago removed its AC format 
for all-news to simulcast WBBM (AM). By November 2011, WLTE in Minneapolis/St. 
Paul removed the AC format for Christmas music, only to transition to country 
music as KMNB on December 26. On April 9, 2012, CBS Radio announced that 
it was selling its West Palm Beach cluster of stations to Palm Beach Broadcasting 
for $50 Million.[8] On December 1, 2014, CBS Radio traded 14 stations—its 
Charlotte, North Carolina and Tampa Bay clusters as well as WIP in Philadelphia—to 
Beasley Broadcast Group in exchange for WRDW-FM and WXTU in Philadelphia 
and WKIS, WPOW, and WQAM in Miami.[9] On March 15, 2016, CBS CEO Leslie 
Moonves stated that the company was exploring strategic alternatives that 
could result in the sale or spin-out of CBS Radio. Cumulus Media had been 
named as one of the potential buyers.[2] As a result of the failure to 
find a buyer, CBS Radio has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
for an initial public offering to spin off its radio division. [10] In 
May 2016, Judge Percy Anderson ruled in favor of CBS Radio in a lawsuit 
filed by ABS Entertainment over the use of pre-1972 sound recordings, which 
are subject to common law state copyright and not federal law, on CBS Radio's 
oldies stations. ABS argued that because pre-1972 works are not subject 
to federal copyright, they are not subject to the federal laws providing 
compulsory licenses for performing the recordings on terrestrial radio 
and via non-interactive digital streams, and require permission. CBS, however, 
argued that it did not play pre-1972 sound recordings, but remastered versions 
of recordings published from compilations with copyrights registered after 
1972, making them separate works subject to federal copyright and eligible 
for compulsory licenses. The court ruled that the remastered recordings 
contained "multiple kinds of creative authorship, such as adjustments of 
equalization, sound editing and channel assignment", with a level of creativity 
suitable enough to generate a new copyright.[11][12] From 1985 to 2005, 
Infinity/CBS Radio was the home of controversial and top-rated talk show 
host Howard Stern, who left due to increasing FCC and station censorship. 
In January 2006, rock star David Lee Roth, Rover's Morning Glory, and talk 
show host Adam Carolla replaced Stern in most major radio markets, and 
CBS Radio launched its new "Free FM" hot talk format in many of these markets. 
Roth's show was cancelled four months later and CBS Radio announced that 
Opie and Anthony of XM Radio would replace Roth on the stations that carried 
him, despite the irony that the two were fired after the sex act controversy 
inside of St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York. Adam Carolla's show was also 
later canceled. On February 28, 2006, CBS Radio announced it had filed 
a lawsuit against Stern, his agent Don Buchwald, and Sirius, arguing that 
Stern promoted Sirius "to enrich himself unfairly."[13] It also claimed 
that Stern "repeatedly and willfully" breached his contract with CBS, "misappropriated 
millions of dollars worth [of airtime]" for his own benefit and "fraudulently 
concealed" his performance-related interests in Sirius stock. The suit, 
filed in New York State Court, sought compensatory and punitive damages. 
Stern anticipated the suit, and earlier that day, prior to CBS' announcement, 
held a press conference, discussing how CBS added to the media attention, 
even booking him for appearances on Late Show with David Letterman and 
60 Minutes. "I made them millions of dollars," Stern argued. "If I was 
hurting them, why did they keep me on the air for fourteen months? How 
can you have it both ways?"[14] When a settlement was announced on May 
26, 2006, Sirius gained exclusive rights to Stern's back catalogue of radio 
broadcasts at WXRK from November 1985 to December 2005, totalling almost 
23,000 hours.[15] The rights, costing Sirius approximately $2 million, 
equates to approximately $87 per-hour of tape.[16] As of 2009[update], 
the Free FM branding has been discontinued in all markets, and no former 
Free FM station continues to have a hot talk format.The only remaining 
show still on air is The Sports Junkies on WJFK 106.7 FM DC. All other 
shows broke up or were canceled. Some have been reborn as podcasts. CBS 
Radio owns the majority of stations in the United States that broadcast 
the Jack FM format, a radio format that incorporates all types of popular 
music from the mid-50s to the present. These include stations in Los Angeles, 
Dallas, Seattle, Minneapolis and many other cities. New York, Chicago and 
Houston had Jack FM stations, too; the New York City station, WCBS-FM has 
reverted to its traditional oldies format, and Jack (which had been renamed 
ToNY) was carried on its HD2 subchannel. CBS Radio is the largest broadcaster 
of local Major League Baseball broadcasts. In 2005 and 2007 respectively, 
CBS dropped the St. Louis Cardinals from KMOX and the Pittsburgh Pirates 
from KDKA, ending two long relationships between the teams and their flagship 
stations. However, KMOX reacquired the Cardinals' broadcast rights in 2011, 
and KDKA's FM sister all-sports station acquired the Pirates' broadcast 
rights in 2012, in addition to New York Yankees games being renewed on 
WCBS after the conclusion of the 2011 season, they would have the rights 
until the end of the 2013 season. CBS's WFAN is the flagship station of 
the New York Yankees (they had broadcast the Mets until 2014) and WSCR 
is the flagship station of the Chicago Cubs. In Philadelphia, WPHT, a frequency 
that had been the longtime home of the Philadelphia Phillies before parting 
ways after the 2001 season, reacquired the team's broadcast rights in 2005. 
As of 2012 those games are now simulcast on sister station WIP-FM . KRLD-FM 
in Dallas was the flagship station for the Texas Rangers before the 2011 
season. In 2015, the Chicago Cubs moved its radio broadcasts to CBS property 
WBBM (AM) from its longtime home of WGN (AM).[17] That same year, the Baltimore 
Orioles will begin its second stint on all-sports WJZ-FM, four years after 
it was moved back to its traditional home of WBAL (AM).[18] In 2016 the 
Cubs rights moved to sister station WSCR as part of a pre-arrangement in 
the 2015 agreement where WSCR would take over airing games after letting 
the rights to the Chicago White Sox go after the 2015 season (which now 
broadcast on WLS (AM). CBS Radio operates nearly all of the all-news radio 
stations in the United States. They include: The CBS Altitude Group manages 
advertising sales for CBS Radio. It was founded in 2003 by Richard Lobel 
and David Goodman.[19] CBS Altitude Group clients include: Charles Schwab, 
Coca-Cola, County of Los Angeles, DraftKings, GEICO, General Motors, MasterCard 
and University of Phoenix.[20] In 2011, CBS Altitude Group was awarded 
a W3 Silver Award by the International Academy of Visual Arts for their 
