The CBS Sports Network is an American digital cable and satellite television 
network that is owned by the CBS Corporation. When it launched in 2002 
as the National College Sports Network (later College Sports Television 
a.k.a. CSTV), it operated as a multi-platform media brand which also included 
its primary website, collegesports.com, and a network of websites operated 
for the athletic departments of 215 colleges and universities. After CSTV 
was acquired by CBS in 2008, the network was re-branded as the CBS College 
Sports Network. The network initially maintained its college sports focus, 
but in February 2011, the service was re-branded as CBS Sports Network 
to re-position it as a mainstream sports service. The network continues 
to have a particular focus on college sports, along with coverage of smaller 
leagues and events, simulcasts of sports radio shows from CBS-owned stations, 
and studio and analysis programming. The network's roots began in 1999 
when Chris Bevilacqua approached the co-founders of the Classic Sports 
Network, Brian Bedol and Stephen D. Greenberg (son of Hank Greenberg) – 
at that time, running Fusient Media Ventures, a New York-based sports and 
media company – with the idea for a cable network featuring college sports 
24 hours a day. Under the leadership of Bedol as CEO, the network was originally 
named the National College Sports Network in June 2002, was subsequently 
renamed College Sports Television (CSTV) and launched on February 23, 2003. 
From their headquarters and studio operations at Chelsea Piers in New York 
City, CSTV was the first independent cable channel to be distributed nationwide, 
having been carried on satellite provider DirecTV at launch. In November 
2005, College Sports Television was purchased by CBS Corporation (which 
had just recently split from Viacom at the time) for $325 million.[1] On 
January 3, 2008, it was announced that CSTV would be integrated into CBS 
Sports, with the sports division's executive vice president and executive 
producer, Tony Petitti, taking over day-to-day operational management of 
CSTV, which would be overseen by CBS News and Sports president Sean McManus. 
CSTV co-founder Brian Bedol would become a senior advisor to CBS Corporation 
president and CEO Leslie Moonves (Petitti has since left CBS to take on 
the same role for the MLB Network). In the fall of 2006, CSTV launched 
more than 100 broadband channels dedicated to college sports, which feature 
more than 10,000 live events. The subscription/pay-per-view service, called 
CBS College Sports XXL, and its portfolio of broadband channels in its 
All-Access suite, include coverage of Notre Dame, Southern California, 
Kansas, Ohio State and North Carolina. On February 12, 2008, CBS Corporation 
announced that, as part of the ongoing integration of CSTV into CBS Sports, 
that the network would be renamed the CBS College Sports Network on March 
16, coinciding with the start of CBS's coverage of the NCAA's basketball 
tournament. Studio shows moved from the original Chelsea Piers headquarters 
to the CBS Broadcast Center on West 57th Street in 2012. As part of the 
relaunch, the network added a new news program, College Sports Tonight.[2] 
That program was canceled in 2010, however other studio shows (including 
Inside College Football and Inside College Basketball) still originate 
from the Chelsea Piers location. On February 15, 2011, CBS announced that 
the network would be relaunched as CBS Sports Network on April 4 (coinciding 
with the end of the 2011 NCAA basketball tournament), repositioning it 
as a mainstream sports network.[3][4] CBS Sports Network HD is a 1080i 
high definition simulcast feed of CBS Sports Network that launched in August 
2008. Prior to the launch of the feed, the two NCAA basketball tournament 
games that aired in March 2008, which were presented in HD on CBS, were 
converted to a standard definition feed. CBS Sports Network uses the AFD 
#10 broadcast flag to present programming on its standard definition feed 
in letterboxed widescreen for viewers watching on cable television through 
4:3 television sets. Since airing its first game, CBS Sports Network has 
televised thousands of hours of original programming, features, talk shows 
and documentaries as well as extensive women’s sports coverage. Its regular 
season and championship event coverage draws from every major collegiate 
athletic conference and division, in addition to nine NCAA championships. 
CBS Sports Network televises 35 men's and women's college sports including 
football, basketball, baseball, ultimate, hockey, lacrosse, soccer, wrestling 
and volleyball from every major conference. The network holds multi-media 
and marketing rights for the Mountain West Conference, the Atlantic 10 
Conference, Conference USA, the Patriot League, Army football and Navy 
football. In April 2006, the network organized the first Collegiate Nationals, 
a festival of championships dedicated to crowning champions in a wide variety 
of collegiate action sports such as snowboarding, wakeboarding and beach 
volleyball. More than 1,000 competitors converged on Reno-Tahoe to compete, 
the largest number ever for an event of its kind. For its second installment 
in 2007, the Collegiate Nationals added sports and other events such as 
national film and music competitions, as well as a second venue – San Diego. 
The third year, 2008, brought further changes, as the winter sports events 
were moved to the Keystone Resort near Boulder, Colorado and competitive 
eating was added. In the fall of 2006, CSTV and Comcast launched the MountainWest 
Sports Network (colloquially known as The Mtn.), a network focusing exclusively 
on the Mountain West Conference. The relation with the network also gave 
CSTV exclusive online and broadcasting rights to Notre Dame's game at Air 
Force on November 11, 2006 – which caused controversy since CSTV did not 
have carriage as widely distributed as other networks that have aired Notre 
Dame games. The Irish did not revisit a Mountain West team until a 2013 
game at Air Force, which once again aired on CBSSN. On April 3, 2012, CBS 
Sports Network premiered Rome, a sports news and talk program hosted by 
nationally syndicated radio host Jim Rome; Rome had recently left ESPN 
and his previous show, Jim Rome Is Burning, after signing on a new contract 
with CBS Sports.[5] On June 7, 2012, CBS Sports Network began to air the 
remaining games of the American Hockey League's 2012 Calder Cup Final between 
the Norfolk Admirals and the Toronto Marlies, starting with Game 3.[6] 
On July 26, 2012, the network signed a deal with the United Football League 
– a second-tier professional football league that began play in October 
2009 – to televise its games for the 2012 season.[7] The UFL paid for all 
production expenses and received no rights fee from CBS Sports Network 
for the broadcasts.[8] The league lasted approximately four weeks on CBS 
Sports Network before suspending operations halfway through the season. 
In September 2012, CBS Sports Network introduced NFL Monday QB, a weekly 
NFL recap show. In September 2013, the network expanded its supplemental 
NFL coverage with That Other Pre-Game Show, a four-hour "fan-focused" program 
positioned as an interactive, "casual" counterpart to other pre-game shows, 
hosted by Adam Schein, Bart Scott, Amy Trask, and Brandon Tierney.[9] On 
April 26, 2013, the network announced that it had signed a deal with the 
GEICO Motorcycle AMA Pro Road Racing Series for the remainder of the 2013 
and the 2014 seasons. The network will air flag to flag coverage for the 
races as well as live coverage for several of the races. The network broadcast 
the FIA WTCC Race of the United States from Sonoma Raceway on September 
8, 2013.[10] On December 2, 2013, CBS Sports Network announced that it 
will begin simulcasting the Boomer and Carton morning show from co-owned 
sports talk radio station WFAN in New York City in January 2014.[11] In 
August 2014, CBSSN announced a new original talk show, We Need To Talk, 
which features an all-female cast of personalities.[12] In August 2015, 
the network premiered Time to Schein, a new program hosted by Adam Schein.[13] 
CBS Sports Network is available nationally on satellite providers DirecTV 
and Dish Network, and regionally on fiber optic television provider Verizon 
FiOS, and cable providers such as Comcast, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications, 
Cablevision, Charter Communications, Insight Communications, Bright House 
Networks, Blue Ridge Communications, Mediacom, RCN Corporation, Advanced 
Cable Communications and Bresnan. In Canada, Rogers Cable began carrying 
CBS Sports Network on October 9, 2008. Satellite provider Bell TV started 
carrying the channel on September 3, 2009 and stopped on August 21, 2014 
(they subsequently brought the channel back August 2015). Certain programs 
aired by the network (particularly NFL and NCAA basketball tournament related 
programs and other programs whose rights are owned by other broadcasters) 
are blacked out in Canada, and replaced with reruns of other events or 
studio programs. CBS Sports Network is the only U.S.-based mainstream sports 
service that is carried on pay television in Canada. In late February 2009, 
CBS Sports Network reached a new carriage agreement with DirecTV, which 
allowed the satellite provider to move the channel from its add on "Sports 
Pack" to its "Choice Xtra" base package; the move became effective on February 
25, 2009, expanding the channel's distribution to 30 million subscribers.[32] 
On July 7, 2009, Cox Communications announced that it would add the channel 
to its systems in Orange County, California and Arizona on August 1, 2009.[33] 
AT&T U-verse added the network on February 17, 2010.[34] On August 1, 2011, 
Cable One added the network in select markets.[35] Source:[36] In addition 
to its own website, CBS Sports Network also operates athletics websites 
for many college athletics organizations under its CBSSports.com College 
