Cedric Tallis (July 29, 1914 – May 8, 1991) was an American executive in 
Major League Baseball who served as the first general manager of the expansion 
Kansas City Royals and later played an important role in the New York Yankees' 
dynasty of the late 1970s. Tallis was the general manager of teams in minor 
league baseball, including the Birmingham Barons of the Double-A Southern 
Association and the Vancouver Mounties and Seattle Rainiers of the Triple-A 
Pacific Coast League, through the end of the 1960 season. His first Major 
League job was as business manager of one of the first American League 
expansion teams, the Los Angeles Angels, whom he joined in their maiden 
season, 1961. Seven years later, in 1968, Tallis was hired by Royals owner 
Ewing Kauffman to build his expansion team when it entered the AL in 1969. 
Tallis recruited a management team that included future GMs John Schuerholz, 
Lou Gorman, Syd Thrift, Jack McKeon and Herk Robinson. He drafted wisely 
in the 1968 AL Expansion Draft, supervised the founding and operation of 
the Kansas City Royals Baseball Academy, a revolutionary training ground 
for elite athletes without significant baseball experience, and built a 
strong farm system. By 1971, their third season, the Royals sported a winning 
record—earning Tallis the Executive of the Year Award from The Sporting 
News that season.[1] Two years later, the Royals moved into a state-of-the-art 
new ballpark, now called Kauffman Stadium. But in June 1974, Tallis was 
replaced as Kansas City's GM by Joe Burke, former general manager of the 
Texas Rangers. Under Burke, players signed and developed during Tallis' 
tenure—such as Baseball Hall of Famer George Brett—would mature to help 
Kansas City dominate the American League West Division during the latter 
part of the 1970s.[1] Tallis, however, soon joined the front office of 
the Yankees, reporting to George Steinbrenner and Yankee president/GM Gabe 
Paul. Tallis' first task in the Bronx was to serve as the club's supervisor 
of the successful 1974–75 renovation of Yankee Stadium. After the 1977 
season, and the Yankees' first world championship in 15 years, Paul resigned 
to become president of the Cleveland Indians. In the front office overhaul 
that followed, Tallis was named Yankee general manager. Tallis held the 
title during the 1978 and 1979 seasons, although owner Steinbrenner took 
an integral role in the team's day-to-day operations and at one point named 
manager Bob Lemon as the team's GM-designate during the middle of the 1978 
season. During Tallis' administration, the Yankees continued their aggressive 
role in baseball free agency (notably signing Hall of Fame relief pitcher 
Goose Gossage). In his first season, New York roared back from a 14½-game 
midseason deficit to beat the Boston Red Sox in a one-game playoff for 
the 1978 AL East flag, defeat Tallis' old Royals club for the third consecutive 
season in the ALCS, then take the 1978 World Series in six games from the 
Los Angeles Dodgers. The following year, however, the Yankees suffered 
the tragic loss of catcher and team captain Thurman Munson in an August 
plane crash and finished fourth, 13½ games in arrears of the Baltimore 
Orioles. Tallis was replaced as general manager by Gene Michael at the 
end of the season. He spent three more years in the Yankee front office 
as an executive vice president before leaving the organization in 1982. 
He then became executive director of the Tampa Bay Baseball Group, which 
was established to lure a Major League club to the Tampa Bay area. Although 
the group nearly convinced the Chicago White Sox to move to the Florida 
enclave, it did not succeed in its mission during Tallis' lifetime. He 
died of a heart attack in Tampa at the age of 76 in 1991. All told, Tallis 
