The Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association (CIAA) is a collegiate 
athletic conference, mostly consisting of historically black colleges and 
universities. CIAA institutions are affiliated at the Division II level 
of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). Conference members 
are primarily located in North Carolina (eight) and Virginia (two). There 
is also one school from Maryland and another from Pennsylvania. Because 
a majority of the members are in North Carolina, the CIAA moved its headquarters 
to Charlotte, North Carolina from Hampton, Virginia in August 2015.[1] 
The CIAA sponsors 16 annual championships and is divided into Northern 
and Southern divisions in every sport except track and field, cross country, 
and baseball. The CIAA recently partnered with the startup network Bounce 
TV to televise sporting events and championships. The CIAA, founded on 
the campus of Hampton Institute (now Hampton University) in 1912, is the 
oldest African-American athletic conference in the United States. It was 
originally known as the Colored Intercollegiate Athletic Association and 
adopted its current name in December 1950. Founding leaders were Allen 
Washington and C.H. Williams of Hampton Institute; Ernest J. Marshall of 
Howard University; George Johnson of Lincoln University (PA); W.E. Atkins, 
Charles Frazier, and H.P. Hargrave of Shaw University; and J.W. Barco and 
J.W. Pierce of Virginia Union University.[2] Football is experiencing a 
major resurgence after going through a period of decline at several member 
universities. Football was absent from the campus of Saint Augustine's 
University for nearly three decades, before getting reinstated by the administration 
in 2002. Shaw University then brought back its football program in 2003, 
following a hiatus of 24 years. Lincoln University, a charter member, added 
varsity football in 2008 and was readmitted to the CIAA after nearly three 
decades in Division III. Chowan University joined the CIAA in 2008 for 
football only. On October 14, 2008, the CIAA Board of Directors admitted 
Chowan as a full member effective July 1, 2009, the first non-HBCU to play 
in the conference. The CIAA, founded in 1912, is composed predominantly 
of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) spanning the east 
coast from Pennsylvania to North Carolina. On August 27, 2012, the CIAA 
announced the appointment of Jacqie Carpenter, the first African-American 
female commissioner to hold the position.[3] In 2014, a collection of records, 
including the original 1912 documents leading to the formation of the CIAA 
and meeting minutes from 1913 to 1922, were sold at auction after being 
discovered in a storage locker. The lot sold for $11,500 to an unnamed 
bidder.[4]  Full member (all sports)   Full member (non-football)   Associate 
member (football-only)   Associate member (sport)  The CIAA is the first 
NCAA Division II conference to have its tournament televised as part of 
Championship Week on ESPN. Over 100,000 fans and spectators are in attendance 
annually and it has become one of the largest college basketball events 
in the nation. During the week of the tournament, there are many social 
and celebratory events to entertain the thousands of alumni, students, 
fans and spectators in Charlotte, North Carolina.[7][8]The last day of 
the tournament is known as "Super Saturday" in which the men's and women's 
tournament champions are crowned. The tournament has a $55 million economic 
impact on Charlotte each year.[9] One of the signature events of "Super 
Saturday" at the CIAA Basketball Tournament is the Cheer Exhibition. At 
the exhibition, CIAA cheer squads showcase elaborate themes and routines 
