"Centerfield" is the title track from John Fogerty's album Centerfield, 
Fogerty's first solo album after a nine-year hiatus. Originally the b-side 
of the album's second single, "Rock And Roll Girls" (#16 US, Spring 1985), 
the song is now commonly played at baseball games across the United States.[1] 
Along with "Take Me Out To The Ballgame," it is one of the best-known baseball 
songs."[2][3] In 2010, Fogerty became the only musician to be celebrated 
at the Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony when "Centerfield" was honored by 
the National Baseball Hall of Fame.[4] Fogerty took approximately 10 years 
off from recording after leaving Creedence Clearwater Revival and releasing 
two solo albums. For his comeback album, he chose “Centerfield” as the 
name of the album before he wrote the song.[5] Fogerty said the song was 
easy to write "I was practicing a song, and I came up with that guitar 
riff that starts the song," he said. "I went into the studio, playing the 
guitar with a drumbeat and it just came out."[3] The song combines two 
of Fogerty's passions, baseball and rock & roll, and he was nervous about 
its reception.[6] "Over the years it seemed like sports songs just didn't 
qualify into the rock-and-roll lexicon," Fogerty said. "There was that 
unwritten distinction. It was never considered rock-and-roll."[2] According 
to Fogerty, he drew his inspiration from center field at Yankee Stadium. 
When Fogerty was growing up on the West Coast, there was no Major League 
Baseball team to root for, and the closest thing his area had to a team 
was the New York Yankees which had San Francisco native Joe DiMaggio on 
their team.[2] "When I was a little kid, there were no teams on the West 
Coast, so the idea of a Major League team was really mythical to me," he 
said.[2] "Through my own lore, the way I was kind of filtering this faraway 
dream, it seemed that the coolest place. The No. 1 guy seemed to be a center 
fielder, and he seemed to play in Yankee Stadium."[7] The song was also 
inspired by his frustration watching a struggling team on TV, where he 
would imagine himself to be a rookie sitting on a bench, "I would always 
yell at the TV, 'Put me in coach, put me in!' "[7] Baseball legends mentioned 
in the song include Joe DiMaggio, Willie Mays, and Ty Cobb, all of them 
center fielders. Fogerty quoted a line from Chuck Berry's "Brown Eyed Handsome 
Man" in the first verse: "rounding third, he was heading for home." The 
second verse refers to Casey from the poem "Casey at the Bat". The final 
verse quotes longtime Oakland Athletics and San Francisco Giants broadcaster 
Lon Simmons, whose home run call was "Tell it goodbye!" In a radio interview 
with Dan Patrick on October 8, 2015, Fogerty mentioned that he always pictured 
Jackie Robinson as the "brown eyed handsome man" who was "rounding third, 
headed for home". "Centerfield" reached No. 44 in the US Hot 100. Since 
it became available digitally in the 21st century, it has sold 734,000 
downloads in US.[8] "Centerfield" is a fixture at ballparks of all levels, 
frequently played either when teams take the field or in-between innings.[7][9] 
During games, the hand claps in the opening of the song are often played 
on a loop so that the fans can clap along; this practice has carried over 
to other sports. At Turner Field in Atlanta, Georgia, the song is played 
before Atlanta Braves home games as the Braves take their positions for 
the start of each game. The crowd performs the opening hand claps until 
the song begins playing. The Braves were once co-owned with Warner Bros. 
Records which released the album. The song plays continuously at the Baseball 
Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. On July 25, 2010, Fogerty performed 
it at the induction ceremonies of the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown to commemorate 
its 25th anniversary, with Mays in attendance.[9] It was the first time 
a musician or a song has been celebrated as a part of the festivities.[7] 
After completing the song, Fogerty announced that he was donating the baseball-bat-shaped 
guitar he used only for this song to the Hall of Fame. When George W. Bush 
was campaigning for president in 2000, he told a reporter this was his 
favorite song. Bush used to own part of the Texas Rangers baseball team, 
and liked the line "Put me in, coach, I'm ready to play." Former Kansas 
City Royals draftee and player and later Boston Red Sox, New York Yankees, 
Detroit Tigers, Tampa Bay Rays, and Cleveland Indians player Johnny Damon 
used "Centerfield" as his entrance theme when he was a guest host on WWE 
Raw at the time he was a free agent. In 2015, Andrew McCutchen (a center 
fielder) of the Pittsburgh Pirates stated he was tired of listening to 
"Centerfield"; he mistakenly referred to the name of the song as "Put me 
in coach" (the first four words of the chorus). "Centerfield" was used 
in the 1988 baseball movie Bull Durham, starring Susan Sarandon and Kevin 
Costner. On Day 12 of the NASA Space Shuttle Mission STS-124, "Centerfield" 
