The Central Michigan Chippewas are the sixteen men's and women's athletics 
teams of Central Michigan University. CMU was a member of the Illinois 
Intercollegiate Athletic Conference from 1950–1970. The school's athletics 
programs are affiliated with the NCAA and compete in the Mid-American Conference 
with the exception of women's lacrosse, which competes in the Atlantic 
Sun Conference. The school colors are maroon and gold, and the school, 
and its students and alumni are referred to as Chippewas which is sometimes 
shortened to Chips. This nickname is used with consent of the nearby Saginaw 
Chippewa Indian Tribe, who have a positive relationship with the university. 
The university was placed on the NCAA's list of schools with "hostile or 
abusive" nicknames in August 2005, but appealed the decision, with the 
support of the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe. On September 2, 2005 the 
university announced that their appeal of the decision had been upheld. 
The school athletics logo has changed over time, once featuring an Indian 
spear, but is now a stylized block letter "C". Within the university this 
logo is often referred to as the "flying C".The current version of the 
athletic trademark was first used in 1997. The "flying C" logo was designed 
by an IET Department undergraduate student in 1995. The Chippewas nickname 
was put forth by assistant football coach Lawrence "Doc" Sweeney in 1941 
to replace the then-current Bearcats. He argued that Bearcats not only 
had nothing to do with the school and the area, but was also a nearly extinct 
beast that none of the students had ever seen or heard of. He further argued 
that not only was Chippewa the name of the school's yearbook, but the Chippewa 
River flows through Mount Pleasant, and the "American Indian image" would 
provide "... unlimited opportunities for pageantry and showmanship for 
the band as well as athletic teams." The new name was passed by a vote 
of the student body. When negative reaction to racial stereotypes grew 
in the 1970s and '80's, it was recommended by the Michigan Civil Rights 
Commission that the Chippewas name be dropped. Instead, in 1989 the University 
instituted several measures to enhance the name, including special educational 
programs developed in conjunction with the Saginaw Chippewa Tribal Council, 
headquartered on the local Isabella Indian Reservation; orientation programs 
were set up to familiarize CMU students and staff with traditional Native 
American culture; the school's American Indian logos were eliminated along 
with tom-tom drumbeats by the pep bands and other activities that would 
reflect racial stereotypes.[2] Central's baseball team was NCAA Division 
II runner-up in 1971, having lost to Florida Southern College 4 to 0 in 
the championship game. Coach Davis was introduced by Central Michigan University 
as the Chippewas' 20th head men's basketball coach on April 3, 2012. In 
his inaugural season, he led a team of 8 new student-athletes to 11 wins. 
The seven non-conference victories match the 2002–2003 team's mark, and 
the most wins in the last 25 years. Four freshmen started for Coach Davis 
during the final 10 games of the season. Under Coach Davis, Chris Fowler 
set the program record for a freshman with 167 assists, which ranks fourth 
all-time in single season history, securing him a spot on the All-MAC Freshman 
team. Fellow guard Kyle Randall led the MAC in scoring in 2013, averaging 
18.7 points per game against conference opponents, en route to earning 
Second Team All-MAC and NABC All-District recognition. The football team 
won the second NCAA Division II national championship in 1974 by defeating 
the University of Delaware 54 to 14. The team was voted national champion 
in the Associated Press College Division poll. The Chips have also been 
national runner-up twice. In 2006, they won the MAC Championship in against 
Ohio and then defeated Middle Tennessee State in the Motor City Bowl. In 
2007, the team defended their MAC Championship title in the game against 
Miami University, but lost to Purdue in the Motor City Bowl. The team was 
also beaten by Florida Atlantic in the 2008 Motor City Bowl. The Chippewa 
softball team has appeared in two Women's College World Series in 1982 
and 1987.[3] In 1958 the men's swimming and diving team was runner-up to 
North Central College at the second annual NAIA national meet, which was 
held in Muncie, Ind. Chippewa Matmen have been at CMU dating back to 1955. 
Central Michigan Chippewa wrestling team is led by head coach Tom Borrelli 
are among the best in the nation each year competing in the NCAA Division 
I. Currently in his 22nd season with CMU wrestling, Borrelli has accomplished: 
13 Mid-American Conference titles, seven top-15 national finishes in the 
last nine years, led the first program in MAC history to qualify all 10 
wrestlers for the NCAA Championships, and named 2008 National Coach of 
the Year by two publications. Chippewa Wrestling has produced 2 Academic 
All-Americans in Mark DiSalvo (2006) & Wynn Michalak (2008), 53 NCAA All-Americans, 
and 2 individual NCAA Champions: Casey Cunningham (157) 1999, and John 
Rollins (137) 1959 & 1961 with 11 top-20 team finishes at the NCAA Wrestling 
Championships.[4] The wrestling practice facility, located at the CMU Events 
Center, opened during the 2010–11 season. The practice room includes three 
full-size mats, as well as an area adjacent to the mats for fitness equipment. 
The facility is located just steps from the competition floor at McGuirk 
Arena, providing an ideal warm-up area for the Chippewas during home dual 
meets.[5] Former Chippewa Wrestler and 2-time Junior All-American Phil 
Baroni is now a Mixed Martial Artist who was a former UFC fighter and current 
fights for the Bellator Fighting Championship. CMU currently supports the 
following club sports teams,[6] Women's lacrosse had been a club sport 
through the 2015 season, but became a full varsity sport in the 2016 season, 
playing in the Atlantic Sun Conference.[7] The roller hockey team was national 
runner-up in 2009 in the National Collegiate Roller Hockey Association 
(NCRHA) Division II tournament. The Central Michigan Rugby was initially 
established in November 1975. Originally founded as a Central Michigan 
University entity, a funding disagreement between the Club and University 
administration resulted in the club membership voting to become independent 
of the university, responsible for attaining their own autonomous funding 
sources, and become the Mount Pleasant Rugby Football Club on April 17, 
1976. The team took on the name "EXILES" because of their new-found status 
even though three quarters of the roster was Central Michigan undergrad- 
and graduate students. The team played both city and university teams across 
Michigan and southern Ontario as well as "representing Central" as participants 
in the MAC tournaments at Bowling Green and Athens, Ohio in 1977 and 1978 
as well as the Stroh's Great Lakes, Windsor Borderer's, and Traverse Cherry 
Pit tournaments. The Club returned to a "club status sport" at the University 
in 1980 after sponsorship and funding rules were relaxed by the University. 
From Fall 1977 to the late 90's, the Exiles were a division 1 team in the 
MAC. Early 2000, were then moved to DIV 2 and played instate schools such 
as Grand Valley, Ferris State, and Western Michigan as a Club sport again 
for the university. The Rugby Club did make 2 Midwest Div 2 playoff appearances 
in 2008, and in 2011. In 2011 they made it to the Elite 8 round for the 
first time in team history by Defeating Xavier Rugby, but then falling 
to Northern Illinois. In that same year, In the Spring of 2011, The MAC 
Rugby Conference was reformed and Central announced they were to join the 
Conference along with school and state rivals Western Michigan, and are 
