A center fielder, abbreviated CF, is the outfielder in baseball who plays 
defense in center field – the baseball fielding position between left field 
and right field. In the numbering system used to record defensive plays, 
the center fielder is assigned the number 8. Outfielders must cover large 
distances, so speed, instincts and quickness to react to the ball are key. 
They must be able to catch fly balls above their heads and on the run. 
They must be able to throw the ball accurately over a long distance to 
be effective. Amateur players may find it difficult to concentrate on the 
game, since they are so far from the action. Emphasizing the correct position 
will give outfield players something to concentrate on at each pitch. As 
well as the requirements above, the center fielder must be the outfielder 
who has the best combination of speed and throwing distance. The center 
fielder "covers more 'grass' than any other player" (see photo) and, most 
likely, will catch the most fly balls. The position also has the greatest 
responsibility among the three outfielders for coordinating their play 
to prevent collisions when converging on a fly ball, and on plays where 
the center fielder doesn't make the catch, he or she must position themselves 
behind the corner outfielder as backup. The center outfielder is the captain 
of the outfield and has the authority to call off the corner fielders when 
she or he has a better chance to catch the ball. Aside from requiring more 
speed and range, the center field position is slightly easier to field 
because balls tend to fly on a straight path, rather than curving as they 
do for the other outfield positions. A center fielder's vision and depth 
perception is a coveted skill and must be above average. Because the position 
requires a good arm and fast legs, center field is generally where the 
team puts its best all-around athletes; as a result, center fielders are 
often fine hitters as well. Many center fielders are renowned as excellent 
batters and base runners. When a base runner is trying to steal second 
base the center fielder must back up second base on throws from the catcher 
to second base in case the second basemen misses the catch or it is a bad 
