[2][3] There are varying descriptions as to what composes Central Jersey. 
North Jersey and South Jersey have been used to describe the northern and 
southern halves of New Jersey, in the United States. While there is agreement 
that their border is somewhere in the middle third of the state, there 
is no official delineation.[4] All descriptions of Central Jersey include 
Middlesex County, the center of population of New Jersey, and tend to include 
the region radiating from New Brunswick in Middlesex County and comprising 
much of Monmouth, Mercer, and Somerset counties. Inclusion of adjacent 
areas of Hunterdon, Union, and Ocean counties is subjective and a source 
of debate.[4][5][6][7] The intersection of the two busiest highways in 
New Jersey, namely the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, 
is located in Woodbridge, Middlesex County.[8] Trenton, the seat of Mercer 
County, is the state capital of New Jersey. New Jersey's geographic center 
is located in Hamilton Township, Mercer County. In 2011, the population 
center of the state was alongside Nenninger Lane in the western portion 
of East Brunswick Township,[9] which is also known as the "Heart of Middlesex 
County". There are other related, overlapping areas that include counties 
in the midsection of the state. While the region is considered part of 
the larger New York metropolitan area in its greatest extent, Mercer County 
constitutes a separate Metropolitan Statistical Area. The Metropolitan 
Statistical Areas of New Jersey further subdivides the middle third of 
the state into smaller groups of counties. The New Jersey Department of 
Tourism places Middlesex and Union in the Gateway Region and Mercer in 
the Delaware Valley. Monmouth and Ocean are considered part of the Jersey 
Shore, while Somerset and Hunterdon are part of Skylands Region.[10] The 
Raritan Valley is the region along the middle reaches of the Raritan River, 
and its North Branch and South Branch. Branchburg, Bridgewater, Somerville, 
Raritan, Hillsborough, Franklin, Green Brook, North Plainfield, Bound Brook, 
and South Bound Brook, which are all in Somerset, and Piscataway, South 
Plainfield, New Brunswick, Highland Park, Edison, Middlesex, Dunellen, 
and Metuchen, which are all in the northern and central portions of Middlesex 
County, New Jersey and Plainfield in southwestern Union County.[11][12][13][14][15] 
The Raritan Bayshore is used to describe the region in Monmouth County 
along the coast of the Raritan Bay from South Amboy to Sandy Hook.[16] 
Kingston is the only tri-county community in New Jersey.[17] The telephone 
area codes 732 and 848 includes Middlesex, Somerset, and Union, Monmouth 
and northern Ocean.[18] Central New Jersey, particularly Edison and surrounding 
Middlesex County, is prominently known for its significant concentration 
of Asian Indians; the growing Little India neighborhoods running along 
Oak Tree Road in Edison and neighboring Woodbridge Township encompass several 
hundred Indian-run businesses.[19] The world's largest Hindu temple was 
inaugurated in Robbinsville in 2014, a BAPS temple.[20]Edison is also home 
to a growing Chinatown, running along New Jersey Route 27. At least two 
counties in Central Jersey carry official nicknames: Mercer County is known 
as "The Capital County", [21] while Middlesex County carries the nickname, 
"The Greatest County in the Land".[22] Between 1674 and 1702, in the early 
part of New Jersey's colonial period, the border between West Jersey and 
East Jersey ran diagonally across the middle part of the state. The Keith 
Line, as the demarcation is known, ran through the center of what is now 
Mercer.[23] This border remained important in determining ownership and 
political boundaries until 1745. Remnants of that division are seen today, 
notably as the Hunterdon-Somerset, Ocean-Burlington, and Monmouth-Burlington 
county lines.[24] The division of the two provinces was cultural as well 
as geographical.[25] New Jersey's position between the major cities of 
New York and Philadelphia led Benjamin Franklin to call the state "a barrel 
tapped at both ends".[26][27] Travel between the two cities originally 
included a ferry crossing. Due to the obstacles created by the Meadowlands 
and the Hudson Palisades passengers from New York would cross the North 
River (Hudson River) and the Upper New York Bay by boat and then transfer 
to stagecoaches to travel overland through what is now Central Jersey. 
One route from Elizabethtown to Lambertville was known as Old York Road. 
Another route, from Perth Amboy through Kingston to Burlington ran along 
a portion of the Kings Highway, These roads followed Lenape paths known 
respectively as the Naritcong Trail and the Assunpink Trail. Raritan Landing, 
across from New Brunswick in today's Piscataway became was important inland 
port and commercial hub for the region.[28] Two of the nine Colonial Colleges, 
founded before the American Revolution, were the College of New Jersey 
(now Princeton University), and Queens College, (now Rutgers University). 
All of the region's counties are ranked among the highest income counties 
in the United States, as measured by median household income.[29] It has 
been called the state's "wealth belt".[30][31] For decades, Central Jersey 
was a hub for manufacturing in the eastern United States. Many industrial 
companies had major production facilities in and around the area, including 
Edison Assembly, Ford Motor Company's production plant for Rangers, Mustangs, 
Pintos, Mercurys, and Lincolns. Other notable companies include General 
Motors in Linden, Frigidaire's air-conditioner plant in Edison, Hess Corporation 
in Woodbridge, Siemens in Edison, and ExxonMobil Chemical. Starting in 
the 2000s, manufacturing began to leave Central Jersey, and many facilities 
had closed and moved overseas.[32][33][34][35] The Bell Labs Holmdel Complex 
was the site of many innovations in telecommunications and is experiencing 
a renaissance as a business incubator for high-tech startup companies.[36] 
Today Verizon Wireless, AT&T Communications, Vonage, Avaya, and Bell Labs 
are located in the region. New Brunswick is known as "the Healthcare City",[37][38] 
due to the concentration of medical facilities in Central Jersey, including 
Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital and Saint Peter's University Hospital, 
as well as the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey (UMDNJ)-Robert 
Wood Johnson Medical School. The campuses of the major pharmaceutical corporations 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson and Johnson, Merck and Sanofi-Aventis 
are located in the region. Princeton University's Frist Campus Center[a] 
is used for the aerial views of Princeton‑Plainsboro Teaching Hospital 
seen in the television series House.[39] Major shopping centers include 
Woodbridge Center, Menlo Park Mall, Bridgewater Commons, Monmouth Mall, 
Brunswick Square Mall, Quaker Bridge Mall, Princeton Market Fair, Ocean 
County Mall and Jersey Shore Premium Outlets, and the Freehold Raceway 
Mall. Rutgers-New Brunswick, Monmouth University, Princeton University, 
Rider University, New Brunswick Theological Seminary, and The College of 
New Jersey are located in Central Jersey. Each county maintains its own 
county college, with the exception of Hunterdon County - whose residents 
may attend either Raritan Valley Community College (located in Somerset 
County) or Mercer County Community College (located in Mercer County) at 
no additional cost or Monmouth County - whose residents also have the choice 
of attending Brookdale Community College which was recently listed as one 
of the top three community colleges in the state. Thomas Edison State College 
in Trenton provides extensive on line and adult education. Kean University 
is in Union County. Popular tourist attractions include, Six Flags Great 
Adventure, Gateway National Recreation Area, Monmouth Park Racetrack, Freehold 
Raceway, and the many boardwalks along the northern Jersey Shore. The New 
Brunswick music scene has produced many successful indie bands. The city 
also is home to the New Jersey Folk Festival. In an early era, the Stone 
Pony and Asbury Park Convention Hall were important venues on the rock 
scene. Major music and theater venues in the region include PNC Bank Arts 
Center, the Trenton War Memorial, the McCarter Theater, the Count Basie 
Theater, the George Street Playhouse and the Starland Ballroom. East Jersey 
Olde Towne Village, the Road Up Raritan Historic District as well as those 
in Trenton, Lawrence, and Princeton recall the colonial era. Ocean Grove 
is one of the largest national historical sites in the United States. Lambertville 
is a lgbtq+-friendly neighborhood. Depending on the location, different 
parts of Central Jersey fall into overlapping spheres of influence from 
New York media market and Philadelphia media market. Mercer County is part 
of both the New York City and Philadelphia television markets, while the 
rest of the region is part of the New York market. While the Star-Ledger 
has the largest circulation of all newspapers in New Jersey, four regional 
newspapers - Asbury Park Press, Home News Tribune and two Trenton dailies, 
The Trentonian, and The Times- and several local papers are published in 
Central Jersey. New Jersey On-Line, CentralJersey.com and MyCentralJersey.com 
are web based news services. During statewide political events like Gubernatorial 
or Senatorial election debates often held in Trenton, partner stations 
from both the New York and Philadelphia markets pool resources together 
to co-host the events and bring them to New Jersey homes. Identification 
with sports teams is also affected by the region's location, and it is 
not uncommon to find fans of major sports teams of either city. For example, 
while residents of northern New Jersey root for New York teams, those in 
the southern part of the state root for Philadelphia teams.[40][41] The 
distinction is less clear in Central Jersey.[42] Central Jersey Riptide 
was a short-lived professional soccer club.[43] The New Jersey Department 
of Transportation (NJDOT) operates three divisions in the state: North, 
South, and Central, which encompasses Hunterdon, Mercer, Middlesex, Monmouth, 
Ocean, and Somerset counties and portions of Warren County. (Routes 22, 
122, 173, 78 and including south of Route 57).[44] Apart from Mercer County, 
which comes under the auspices of the Delaware Valley Regional Planning 
Commission, all counties in the region are part of the North Jersey Transportation 
Planning Authority, a government partner which approves transportation 
projects for the state. The United New Jersey Railroad and Canal Company 
traversed the region in 1830, eventually becoming the Pennsylvania Railroad 
(PRR). NJT's Northeast Corridor Line and the North Jersey Coast were once 
part of the PRR, as was Amtrak which serves the commuter hub at Metropark, 
New Brunswick, and the Trenton Transit Center. The Central Railroad of 
New Jersey once connected Jersey City (with connecting ferries to Manhattan) 
and many Central Jersey towns. Much of that system is now included in New 
Jersey Transit rail operations to the Raritan Valley. New Brunswick is 
known as the Hub City, and at one time was a regional transportation hub 
for streetcars which converged in the city.[45] The Garden State Parkway, 
New Jersey Turnpike (Interstate 95), Interstate 287, U.S. Route 1, U.S. 
Route 9, New Jersey Route 18, and New Jersey Route 35 are major automobile 
routes through Central Jersey that pass over the Raritan River at Perth 
Amboy and New Brunswick. Interstate 195 travels through Central Jersey 
(hence the name "Central Jersey Expressway") from the Trenton area towards 
Belmar. From the Raritan Bayshore, SeaStreak catamarans travel to Pier 
11 at Wall Street and East 34th Street Ferry Landing. NY Waterway ferries 
travel to Paulus Hook Ferry Terminal in Jersey City, Battery Park City 
Ferry Terminal, and West Midtown Ferry Terminal. Trenton-Mercer Airport 
is the only airport in Central New Jersey providing long-distance commercial 
service. Monmouth Executive Airport, formerly known as Allaire Airport, 
is a public-use airport located near Allaire State Park. Central Jersey 
Regional Airport is a privately owned, public airport in Somerset County. 
Linden Airport is a small general aviation airport located along U.S. Route 
1&9 in Union County. The Route 9 BBS, the New Brunswick BRT, and the Central 
Jersey Route 1 Corridor are projects in the region intended to expand the 
use of bus rapid transit in New Jersey. Coordinates: 40°26′10″N 74°52′30″W﻿ 
