Ibero-American Exposition of 1929 in Sevilla and A Century of Progress 
International Exposition was a World's Fair held in Chicago, as The Chicago 
World's Fair, from 1933 to 1934 to celebrate the city's centennial. The 
theme of the fair was technological innovation. The fair's motto was "Science 
Finds, Industry Applies, Man Adapts"; its architectural symbol was the 
Sky Ride, a transporter bridge perpendicular to the shore on which one 
could ride from one side of the fair to the other. A Century of Progress 
was organized as an Illinois nonprofit corporation in January 1928 for 
the purpose of planning and hosting a World's Fair in Chicago in 1934. 
City officials designated three and a half miles of newly reclaimed land 
along the shore of Lake Michigan between 12th and 39th streets on the Near 
South Side for the fairgrounds.[1] Held on a 427 acres (1.73 km2) portion 
of Burnham Park the Century of Progress opened on May 27, 1933.[2] The 
fair's opening night began with a nod to the heavens. Lights were automatically 
activated when the rays of the star Arcturus were detected. The star was 
chosen as its light had started its journey at about the time of the previous 
Chicago world's fair—the World's Columbian Exposition—in 1893.[3] The rays 
were focused on photoelectric cells in a series of astronomical observatories 
and then transformed into electrical energy which was transmitted to Chicago.[4] 
The fair buildings were multi-colored, to create a "Rainbow City" as opposed 
to the "White City" of the World's Columbian Exposition. The buildings 
generally followed Moderne architecture in contrast to the neoclassical 
themes used at the 1893 fair. One famous feature of the fair were the performances 
of fan dancer Sally Rand. Other popular exhibits were the various auto 
manufacturers, the Midway (filled with nightclubs such as the Old Morocco, 
where future stars Judy Garland, The Cook Family Singers, and The Andrews 
Sisters performed), and a recreation of important scenes from Chicago's 
history. The fair also contained exhibits that would seem shocking to modern 
audiences, including offensive portrayals of African-Americans, a "Midget 
City" complete with "sixty Lilliputians",[5] and an exhibition of incubators 
containing real babies.[6] One of the highlights of the 1933 World's Fair 
was the arrival of the German airship Graf Zeppelin on October 26, 1933. 
After circling Lake Michigan near the exposition for two hours, Commander 
Hugo Eckener landed the 776-foot airship at the nearby Curtiss-Wright Airport 
in Glenview. It remained on the ground for twenty-five minutes (from 1 
to 1:25 pm)[7] then took off ahead of an approaching weather front bound 
for Akron, Ohio. For some Chicagoans, however, the appearance of the Graf 
Zeppelin over their fair city was not a welcome sight, as the airship had 
become a prominent reminder of the ascendancy of Adolf Hitler to power 
earlier that same year. This triggered dissension in the days following 
its visit, particularly within the city's large German-American population.[citation 
needed] The "dream cars" which American automobile manufacturers exhibited 
at the fair included Cadillac's introduction of its V-16 limousine; Nash's 
exhibit had a variation on the vertical (i.e., paternoster) parking garage—all 
the cars were new Nashes; Lincoln presented its rear-engined "concept car" 
precursor to the Lincoln-Zephyr, which went on the market in 1936 with 
a front engine; Pierce-Arrow presented its modernistic Pierce Silver Arrow 
for which it used the byline "Suddenly it's 1940!" But it was Packard which 
won the best of show. One interesting and enduring exhibit was the 1933 
Homes of Tomorrow Exhibition that demonstrated modern home convenience 
and creative practical new building materials and techniques with twelve 
model homes sponsored by several corporations affiliated with home decor 
and construction. Marine artist Hilda Goldblatt Gorenstein (Hilgos) painted 
twelve murals for the Navy's exhibit in the Federal Building for the fair. 
The frieze was composed of twelve murals depicting the influence of sea 
power on America, beginning with the settlement of Jamestown, Virginia 
in 1607 when sea power first reached America and carrying through World 
War I.[8] The first Major League Baseball All-Star Game was held at Comiskey 
Park (home of the Chicago White Sox) in conjunction with the fair. In May 
1934, the Union Pacific Railroad exhibited its first streamlined train, 
the M-10000, and the Burlington Route its famous Zephyr which, on May 26, 
made a record-breaking dawn-to-dusk run from Denver, Colorado, to Chicago 
in 13 hours and 5 minutes. To cap its record-breaking speed run, the Zephyr 
arrived dramatically on-stage at the fair's "Wings of a Century" transportation 
pageant.[citation needed] The two trains launched an era of industrial 
streamlining.[citation needed] Both trains later went into successful revenue 
service, the Union Pacific's as the City of Salina, and the Burlington 
Zephyr as the first Pioneer Zephyr.[citation needed] The Zephyr is now 
on exhibit at Chicago's Museum of Science and Industry.[citation needed] 
Frank Buck furnished a wild animal exhibit, Frank Buck’s Jungle Camp. Over 
two million people visited Buck’s reproduction of the camp he and his native 
assistants lived in while collecting animals in Asia. After the fair closed, 
Buck moved the camp to a compound he had created at Amityville, New York.[9] 
Planning for the design of the Exposition began over five years prior to 
Opening Day.[10] According to an official resolution, decisions regarding 
the site layout and the architectural style of the exposition were relegated 
to an architectural commission, which was led by Paul Cret and Raymond 
Hood.[11] Local architects on the committee included Edward Bennett, John 
Holabird, and Hubert Burnham. Frank Lloyd Wright was specifically left 
off the commission due to his inability to work well with others, but did 
go on to produce three conceptual schemes for the fair.[12][13] Members 
of this committee ended up designing most of the large, thematic exhibition 
pavilions.[14] From the beginning, the commission members shared a belief 
that the buildings should not reinterpret past architectural forms – as 
had been done at earlier fairs, such as Chicago's 1893 World's Columbian 
Exposition—but should instead reflect new, modern ideas, as well as suggest 
future architectural developments.[15] Because the fairgrounds was on new 
man-made land that was owned by the state and not the city, the land was 
initially free from Chicago's strict building codes, which allowed the 
architects to explore new materials and building techniques.[16] This allowed 
the design and construction of a wide array of experimental buildings, 
that eventually included large general exhibition halls, such as the Hall 
of Science (Paul Cret) and the U.S. Federal Building (Bennet, Burnham and 
Holabird); corporate pavilions, including the General Motors Building (Albert 
Kahn) and the Sears Pavilion (Nimmons, Carr, and Wright); futuristic model 
houses, most popular was the twelve-sided House of Tomorrow (George Frederick 
Keck); as well as progressive foreign pavilions,including the Italian Pavilion 
(Mario de Renzi and Adalberto Libera); and historic and ethnic entertainment 
venues, such as the Belgian Village (Burnham Brothers with Alfons deRydt) 
and the Streets of Paris (Andrew Rebori and John W. Root) where fan dancer 
Sally Rand performed.[17] These buildings were constructed out of five-ply 
Douglas fir plywood, ribbed-metal siding, and prefabricated, boards, such 
as Masonite, Sheetrock, Maizewood, as well as other new man-made materials.[18] 
Structural advances also filled the fairgrounds. These included the earliest 
catenary roof constructed in the United States, which roofed the dome of 
the Travel and Transport Building (Bennet, Burnham and Holabird) and the 
first thin shell concrete roof in the United States, on the small, multi-vaulted 
Brook Hill Farm Dairy built for the 1934 season of the fair.[19] Originally, 
the fair was scheduled only to run until November 12, 1933, but it was 
so successful that it was opened again to run from May 26 to October 31, 
1934.[20] The fair was financed through the sale of memberships, which 
allowed purchases of a certain number of admissions once the park was open. 
More than $800,000 was raised in this manner as the country came out of 
the Great Depression. A $10 million bond was issued on October 28, 1929, 
the day before the stock market crashed. By the time the fair closed in 
1933, half of these notes had been retired, with the entire debt paid by 
the time the fair closed in 1934. For the first time in American history, 
an international fair had paid for itself. In its two years, it had attracted 
48,769,227 visitors. According to James Truslow Adams's Dictionary of American 
History, during the 170 days beginning May 27, 1933, there were 22,565,859 
paid admissions; during the 163 days beginning May 26, 1934, there were 
16,486,377; a total of 39,052,236.[citation needed] Much of the fair site 
is now home to Northerly Island park (since the closing of Meigs Field) 
and McCormick Place. The Balbo Monument, given to Chicago by Benito Mussolini 
to honor General Italo Balbo's 1933 trans-Atlantic flight, still stands 
near Soldier Field. The city added a red star to its flag in 1933 to commemorate 
the Century of Progress Exposition (the Fair is now represented by the 
fourth of four stars on the flag).[21] In conjunction with the fair, Chicago's 
Italian-American community raised funds and donated the statue of the Genoese 
navigator and explorer, Christopher Columbus (Grant Park).[22] It was placed 
at the south end of Grant Park, near the site of the fair, and is located 
east of S. Columbus Drive and north of E. Roosevelt Road. The Polish Museum 
of America possesses the painting of "Pulaski at Savannah" by Stanisław 
Kaczor-Batowski, which was exhibited at the Century of Progress fair and 
where it won first place. After the close of the fair, the painting went 
on display at The Art Institute of Chicago where it was unveiled by Eleanor 
Roosevelt on July 10, 1934. The painting was on display at the Art Institute 
until its purchase by the Polish Women's Alliance on the museum's behalf.[23] 
The U.S. Post Office Department issued a special fifty-cent Air Mail postage 
stamp, (Scott catalogue number C-18) to commemorate the visit of the German 
airship depicting (l to r) the Chicago Federal Building, the Graf Zeppelin 
in flight, and its home hangar in Friedrichshafen, Germany. This stamp 
is informally known as the Baby Zep to distinguish it from the much more 
valuable 1930 Graf Zeppelin stamps (C13–15). Separate from this issue, 
for the Fair the Post Office also printed 1 and 3 cent commemorative postage 
stamps, showing respectively Fort Dearborn and the modernistic Chicago 
Federal Building. These were also printed in separate souvenir sheets as 
blocks of 25 (catalog listings 728–31). In 1935 the sheets were reprinted 
(Scott 766-67). In October 2010, the National Building Museum in Washington, 
D.C. opened an exhibition titled Designing Tomorrow: America’s World’s 
Fairs of the 1930s.[24] This exhibition, which was available for view until 
September 2011, prominently featured the Century of Progress fair in Chicago. 
The major archive for the Century of Progress International Exposition, 
including the official records from the event and the papers of Lenox Lohr, 
general manager of the fair, are housed in Special Collections at the University 
of Illinois, Chicago. A collection of materials including images is held 
by the Ryerson & Burnham Libraries at the Art Institute of Chicago. The 
Century of Progress Collection includes photographs, guidebooks, brochures, 
maps, architectural drawings, and souvenir items. Specific collections 
with material include the Chicago Architects Oral History Project; the 
Daniel H. Burnham Jr. and Hubert Burnham Papers; Edward H. Bennett Collection; 
Voorhees, Gmelin, and Walker photographs. Other collections that contain 
Century of Progress material include: the Athenaeum, Philadelphia: Paul 
Philippe Cret Archive; the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library, Columbia 
University, New York: Drawings and Archives Collection (including the former 
Taliesin Archives); the Chicago History Museum (formerly Chicago Historical 
Society): Holabird and Root Papers; Century of Progress Records and Photographs; 
the Chicago Park District, Chicago; the Frank Lloyd Wright Building Trust 
(formerly Frank Lloyd Wright Home and Studio Foundation), Oak Park, Illinois: 
Research Center Archives the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center, University 
of Texas, Austin, Texas: Norman Bel Geddes Archive the Masonite Corporation 
Archives, West Chicago, Illinois; the Museum of Science and Industry, Chicago; 
the National Archives, Washington, D.C.: Prints and Photographs Division; 
the University of Chicago, Chicago: University of Chicago Library, Special 
Collections Research Center, Cererar Collection; the University of Illinois 
at Chicago, Chicago: Department of Special Collections, A Century of Progress 
International Exposition Papers and the Lenox Lohr Papers; the University 
of Pennsylvania, Van Pelt-Dietrich Library, Philadelphia: Special Collections, 
Paul Philippe Cret Archive; Architectural Drawings Collection, Paul Philippe 
Cret Papers and the Lewis Mumford Papers. Mural Geheral Exhibit 3rd pavilion 
One of the eagles that stood on pedestals along Lakeshore Drive and Michigan 
Avenue in Downtown Chicago during the World's Fair. Poster for the fair 
