Central Park is an urban park in middle-upper Manhattan, within New York 
City. Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States, 
with 40 million visitors in 2013.[5] It is also one of the most filmed 
locations in the world. The Park was established in 1857 on 778 acres (315 ha) 
of city-owned land. In 1858, Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, a 
landscape architect and an architect, respectively, won a design competition 
to improve and expand the park with a plan they titled the "Greensward 
Plan". Construction began the same year and the park's first area was opened 
to the public in the winter of 1858.[6] Construction continued during the 
American Civil War farther north, and was expanded to its current size 
of 843 acres (341 ha) in 1873. Central Park was designated a National Historic 
Landmark (listed by the U.S. Department of the Interior and administered 
by the National Park Service) in 1962. The Park was managed for decades 
by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, and is currently 
managed by the Central Park Conservancy under contract with the municipal 
government in a public-private partnership. The Conservancy is a non-profit 
organization that contributes 75 percent of Central Park's $65 million 
annual budget and is responsible for all basic care of the 843-acre park. 
Between 1821 and 1855, New York City nearly quadrupled in population. As 
the city expanded northward up Manhattan, people were drawn to the few 
existing open spaces, mainly cemeteries, to get away from the noise and 
chaotic life in the city. Since Central Park was not part of the original 
Commissioners' Plan of 1811, John Randel, Jr., surveyed the grounds. The 
only remaining surveying bolt from his survey is still visible; it is embedded 
in a rock just north of the present Dairy and the 65th Street Transverse, 
and south of Center Drive.[7] New York City's need for a great public park 
was resounded by the famed poet and editor of the Evening Post (now the 
New York Post), William Cullen Bryant, as well as by the first American 
landscape architect, Andrew Jackson Downing, who predicted and began to 
publicize the city's need for a public park in 1844. A stylish place for 
open-air driving, similar to Paris' Bois de Boulogne or London's Hyde Park, 
was felt to be needed by many influential New Yorkers, and, after an abortive 
attempt in 1850–1851 to designate Jones's Wood, in 1853 the New York legislature 
settled upon a 700-acre (280 ha) area from 59th to 106th Streets for the 
creation of the Park, at a cost of more than US$5 million for the land 
alone.[8][9][10] The state appointed a Central Park Commission to oversee 
the development of the park, and in 1857 the commission held a landscape 
design contest. Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux developed what came 
to be known as the "Greensward Plan", which was selected as the winning 
design. According to Olmsted, the park was "of great importance as the 
first real Park made in this country—a democratic development of the highest 
significance…", a view probably inspired by his stay and various trips 
in Europe during 1850[11] (he had visited several parks during these trips 
and was particularly impressed by Birkenhead Park and Derby Arboretum in 
England).[12][13] The Greensward Plan called for some 36 bridges, all designed 
by Vaux, ranging from rugged spans of Manhattan schist or granite, to lacy 
Neo-Gothic cast iron; no two are alike. The ensemble of the formal line 
of the Mall's doubled allées of elms culminating at Bethesda Terrace, whose 
centerpiece is the Bethesda Fountain, with a composed view beyond of lake 
and woodland, was at the heart of the larger design. Execution of the Greensward 
Plan was the responsibility of a number of individuals, including Jacob 
Wrey Mould (architect), Ignaz Anton Pilat (master gardener), George E. 
Waring, Jr. (engineer), and Andrew Haswell Green (politician), in addition 
to Olmsted and Vaux.[8][9][10] Several influences came together in the 
design. Landscaped cemeteries, such as Mount Auburn (Cambridge, Massachusetts) 
and Green-Wood (Brooklyn, New York) had set examples of idyllic, naturalistic 
landscapes. The most influential innovations in the Central Park design 
were the "separate circulation" systems for pedestrians, horseback riders, 
and pleasure vehicles. The "crosstown" commercial traffic was entirely 
concealed in sunken roadways (today called "transverses"), screened with 
densely planted shrub belts so as to maintain a rustic ambiance. In 1850, 
the land was occupied by free blacks and Irish immigrants who had purchased 
land, where they raised livestock, including goats and pigs, built churches 
and cemeteries, and had lived as a community for close to 50 years.[14] 
Before the construction of the park could start, the area had to be cleared 
of its inhabitants. Rossi states that part of the impetus to schemes such 
as Central Park and others was to remove what they incorrectly deemed as 
shanty towns and their denizens,[15] who consisted of free African Americans 
and English/Irish residents, most of whom were middle-class. Most lived 
in small villages, such as Harsenville,[16] the Piggery District,[17] or 
Seneca Village; or in the school and convent at Mount St. Vincent's Academy. 
Approximately 1,600 residents were evicted under the rule of eminent domain 
during 1857. Seneca Village and parts of the other communities were razed 
to make room for the park.[18] In addition, when the commission finally 
deposited its report for public examination on October 4, 1855, taxpayers 
learned that they would be paying $5 million just for the park land, more 
than three times what they had been told the completed park as a whole 
would cost. At the same time, the portion of the bill covered by assessing 
adjacent landowners—$1.7 million, or one-third of the purchase price—would 
be considerably less than the more optimistic of the earlier estimates.[19] 
During the park's construction, Olmsted fought constant battles with the 
park commissioners, many of them also politicians. In 1860, he was forced 
out for the first of many times as Central Park's superintendent, and Andrew 
Haswell Green, the former president of New York City's Board of Education 
took over as the commission's chairman.[20] Despite his having relatively 
little experience, he managed to accelerate the construction as well as 
to finalize the negotiations to purchase an additional 65 acres (260,000 m2) 
at the north end of the park, between 106th and 110th Streets, which would 
be used as the "rugged" part of the park, its swampy northeast corner dredged, 
and reconstructed as the Harlem Meer.[21][22] Between 1860 and 1873, most 
of the major hurdles to construction were overcome and the park was substantially 
completed. Construction combined the modern with the ageless: up-to-date 
steam-powered equipment and custom-designed wheeled tree moving machines 
augmented massive numbers of unskilled laborers wielding shovels. The work 
was extensively documented with technical drawings and photographs. During 
this period, more than 18,500 cubic yards (14,100 m3) of topsoil had been 
transported in from New Jersey, because the original soil was neither fertile 
nor sufficiently substantial to sustain the various trees, shrubs, and 
plants called for by the Greensward Plan. When the park was officially 
completed in 1873, more than 10 million cartloads of material had been 
transported out of the park, including soil and rocks, and more than four 
million trees, shrubs, and plants representing approximately 1,500 species 
were transplanted to the park. More gunpowder was used to clear the area 
than was used at the Battle of Gettysburg during the American Civil War.[23] 
A proposal to have ornate, European-style entrances to the park was opposed 
by Olmsted and Vaux, who intended for the park's unadorned entrances to 
signal "that all were welcome, regardless of rank or wealth."[24] The park's 
commissioners assigned a name to each of the original 18 gates in 1862. 
The names were chosen to represent the broad diversity of New York City's 
trades; for example, "Mariner's Gate" for the entrance at 85th Street and 
Central Park West.[24] The majority of entrances did not receive an inscription, 
however, until a park restoration effort in 1999.[24] Sheep grazed on the 
Sheep Meadow from the 1860s until 1934, when they were moved to Prospect 
Park in Brooklyn, and soon thereafter moved to a farm near Otisville, New 
York in the Catskill Mountains.[25] It was feared they would be used for 
food by impoverished Depression-era New Yorkers. Officials were concerned 
that starving men would turn the sheep into lunch.[26] Following completion, 
the park quickly slipped into decline. One of the main reasons for this 
was the lack of interest from the Tammany Hall political machine, which 
was the largest political force in New York at the time. Around the turn 
of the 20th century, the park faced several new challenges. Cars were becoming 
commonplace, bringing with them their burden of pollution, and people's 
attitudes were beginning to change. No longer were parks to be used only 
for walks and picnics in an idyllic environment but now also for sports 
and similar recreation. Following the dissolution of the Central Park Commission 
in 1870 and Andrew Green's departure from the project, and Vaux's death 
in 1895, the maintenance effort gradually declined. All of this changed 
in 1934, when Republican Fiorello La Guardia was elected mayor of New York 
City and unified the five park-related departments then in existence. Robert 
Moses was given the task of cleaning up the park. Moses, about to become 
one of the most powerful men in New York City, took over what was essentially 
a relic, a leftover from a bygone era.[27] According to historian Robert 
Caro:[28] Lawns, unseeded, were expanses of bare earth, decorated with 
scraggly patches of grass and weeds, that became dust holes in dry weather 
and mud holes in wet…. The once beautiful Mall looked like a scene of a 
wild party the morning after. Benches lay on their backs, their legs jabbing 
at the sky... In a single year, Moses managed to clean up Central Park 
and other parks in New York City. Lawns and flowers were replanted, dead 
trees and bushes were replaced, walls were sandblasted, and bridges repaired. 
Another dramatic change was Moses's removal of the "Hoover Valley" shantytown, 
whose site was transformed into the 30 acres (12 ha) Great Lawn.[29] Major 
redesigning and construction also was carried out: for instance, the Croton 
Lower Reservoir was filled in so the Great Lawn could be created. The Greensward 
Plan's purpose of creating an idyllic landscape was combined with Moses' 
vision of a park to be used for recreational purposes: 19 playgrounds, 
12 ball fields, and handball courts were constructed. Moses also managed 
to secure funds from the New Deal program, as well as donations from the 
public.[30] The 1960s marked the beginning of an "Events Era" in Central 
Park that reflected the widespread cultural and political trends of the 
period. The Public Theater's annual Shakespeare in the Park festival was 
settled in the Delacorte Theater (1961), and summer performances were instituted 
on the Sheep Meadow, and then on the Great Lawn by the New York Philharmonic 
Orchestra and the Metropolitan Opera. During the late 1960s the park became 
the venue for rallies and cultural events such as the "Love-ins" and "Be-Ins" 
of the period. Increasingly through the 1970s, the park became a venue 
for events of unprecedented scale, including rallies, demonstrations, festivals, 
and concerts. In the warm months of mid-1966, two-term mayor of New York 
(1966–73) John V. Lindsay, himself an avid cyclist, initiated a weekend 
ban on automobiles in Central Park for the enjoyment of cyclists and public 
alike – a policy that continues.[31] Despite the increasing numbers of 
visitors to the park, Robert Moses' departure in 1960 marked the beginning 
of a 20-year period of decline in its management. The city was experiencing 
economic and social changes, with some residents leaving the city and moving 
to the suburbs in the wake of increased crime. The Parks Department, suffering 
from budget cuts, responded by opening the park to any and all activities 
that would bring people into it, without adequate oversight and maintenance 
follow-up. Some of these events nevertheless became milestones in the social 
history of the park and in the cultural history of the city.[32] By the 
mid-1970s, however, managerial neglect was taking a toll on the park's 
condition. "Years of poor management and inadequate maintenance had turned 
a masterpiece of landscape architecture into a virtual dustbowl by day 
and a danger zone by night", in the opinion of Douglas Blonsky, a president 
of the Central Park Conservancy.[33] Vandalism, territorial use (e.g. a 
pick-up game of softball or soccer, which commandeered open space and excluded 
others), and illicit activities were taking place in the park. Several 
volunteer citizen groups emerged, intent upon reclaiming the park by fundraising 
and organizing volunteer initiatives. One of these groups, the Central 
Park Community Fund, commissioned a study of the park's management. The 
study's conclusion was bi-linear; it called for establishment of a single 
position within the New York City Parks Department, responsible for overseeing 
both the planning and management of Central Park, as well as a board of 
guardians to provide citizen oversight.[32] In 1979, Parks Commissioner 
Gordon Davis established the Office of Central Park Administrator, appointing 
to the position the executive director of another citizen organization, 
the Central Park Task Force.[32] The Central Park Conservancy was founded 
the following year, to support the office and initiatives of the administrator, 
and to provide consistent leadership through a self-perpetuating, citizen-based 
board that also would include as ex-officio trustees, the Parks Commissioner, 
the Central Park Administrator, and mayoral appointees.[32] Under the leadership 
of the Central Park Conservancy, the park's reclamation began with modest, 
but highly significant first steps, addressing needs that could not be 
met within the existing structure and resources of the parks department. 
Interns were hired, and a small restoration staff to reconstruct and repair 
unique rustic features, undertaking horticultural projects, and removing 
graffiti under the broken windows theory;[32] currently the state of the 
park has improved, according to Conservancy president Douglas Blonsky: 
Graffiti doesn't last 24 hours in Central Park; visible litter gets carted 
off by 9 each morning and throughout the day. Our workers empty trash receptacles 
daily (at least) and maintain lawns with tremendous care. Broken benches 
and playground equipment get fixed on the spot.[33] By 1980, the Conservancy 
was also engaged in design efforts and long-term restoration planning, 
using both its own staff and external consultants. It provided the impetus 
and leadership for several early restoration projects funded by the city, 
preparing a comprehensive plan for rebuilding the park. The restoration 
was accompanied by a crucial restructuring of management, whereby the park 
was subdivided into zones, to each of which a supervisor was designated, 
responsible for maintaining restored areas. That year, the Dairy (which 
was originally designed as a refreshment stand and rest spot) was transformed 
into the Park's first visitors center, with the Conservancy using it to 
revitalize public interest in the Park through exhibits, music series and 
children's programs. The first landscape to be restored was the Sheep Meadow, 
primarily with funds provided by New York State. The next few years would 
see the restoration of Bethesda Terrace and Fountain, Belvedere Castle, 
the East Green, and Cherry Hill plaza. First, Bethesda Fountain, which 
had been dry for decades, was restored in 1980–81[34] and the Terrace was 
restored a year later, its stonework disassembled, cleaned, deteriorated 
surfaces removed, restored and patched and reset. Resodding, and fifty 
new trees, 3,500 shrubs and 3,000 ground cover plants specified by Philip 
Winslow followed in 1986,[35] most of which, having matured into dense 
blocks, were removed in 2008, to make way for plants native to the United 
States; meanwhile, the Minton encaustic tiles of the ceiling of the arcade 
between the flanking stairs, designed by Mould,[36] were removed in 1987, 
cleaned, restored, completed with additional new tiles and reinstalled 
in 2007.[37] Around the same time, the Belvedere Castle, which had been 
closed for many years, was renovated and then reopened on May 1, 1983, 
as the Henry Luce Nature Observatory. Cherry Hill, however, did not get 
fully restored until 1998. By the following year, the Chess & Checkers 
House and Frisbee Hill had been restored; thousands of shrubs and flowers 
asserted the Park as a horticultural showpiece. To tend to those plants, 
more than 1,900 volunteers contributed more than 4,000 hours of work in 
the Park. On completion of the planning stage in 1985, the conservancy 
launched its first capital campaign, assuming increasing responsibility 
for funding the park's restoration, and full responsibility for designing, 
bidding, and supervising all capital projects in the park.[32] The Conservancy 
launched its first fundraising campaign in 1986, mapping out a 15-year 
restoration plan that sought to remain true to the original design by Frederick 
Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux. Over the next several years, Campaign for 
the Central Park Conservancy restored landmarks in the southern part of 
the Park – Grand Army Plaza,[38] Shakespeare Garden, and Cedar Hill. By 
1988, Conservancy volunteers logged more than 13,000 hours in the Park, 
with the organization's volunteer program winning a citation for excellence 
from the White House. In the early 1990s, the Conservancy announced a $50 
million Capital Campaign to focus on improvements to the northern end of 
the Park. Efforts culminated in the restoration of the Mall and Concert 
Ground, Harlem Meer, and the Ravine in the North Woods. The Conservancy's 
work on the Meer and the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center was subsequently 
honored with three awards: the 1994 New York City Landmarks Preservation 
Award, the American Society of Landscape Architects' Design Merit Award 
and the Victorian Society's Citation of Merit. In 1996, the Conservancy 
embarked on its single most ambitious landscape restoration: the overhaul 
of the 55 acres (22 hectares) including and surrounding the Great Lawn 
and Turtle Pond (formerly the Great Lawn and the Belvedere Lake).[39] The 
project was the centerpiece of the Conservancy's three-year Wonder of New 
York Campaign, which raised $71.5 million and also helped restore southern 
and westside landscapes, as well as the North Meadow. The Great Lawn project 
was completed in 1997, featuring new amenities to encourage both passive 
and active recreation and nature appreciation. Citywide budget cuts in 
the early 1990s, however, resulted in attrition of the park's routine maintenance 
staff, and the conservancy began hiring staff to replace these workers. 
Management of the restored landscapes by the conservancy's "zone gardeners" 
proved so successful that core maintenance and operations staff were reorganized 
in 1996. The zone-based system of management was implemented throughout 
the park, which was divided into 49 zones. Consequently, every zone of 
the park has a specific individual accountable for its day-to-day maintenance. 
Zone gardeners supervise volunteers assigned to them; these volunteers 
commit to a consistent work schedule and are supported by specialized crews 
in areas of maintenance requiring specific expertise or equipment, or more 
effectively conducted on a park-wide basis. In 2007, there were 3,000 volunteers 
compared to just under 250 paid workers in the park.[32][33] Renovations 
continued through the early 2000s. The Conservatory Water opened after 
a six-month restoration effort, with a $4 million project beginning on 
the 59th Street Pond, one of the Park's most visible and heavily used landscapes. 
A new Reservoir fence was installed in 2003 under a $2 million capital 
project that replaced the old chain-link fence with a replica of the 8,000-foot 
steel and cast-iron one that had enclosed the Reservoir in 1926. The new 
fence, along with removal of invasive trees and shrubs, restored the panoramic 
views of the Park and Manhattan skyline. Another ambitious restoration 
effort began in 2004, when Conservancy staff and contractors worked together 
to refurbish the 15,876 Minton tiles that hang on the ceiling of the Bethesda 
Arcade. Originally designed by Calvert Vaux and Jacob Wrey Mould, the ceiling 
of the Arcade is lined by 15,876 elaborately patterned encaustic tiles. 
Made by Minton and Company, a leading 19th Century ceramic manufacturer 
in England, the ceiling tiles are divided into 49 panels, each containing 
324 tiles. Salt and water infiltration from the roadway above had badly 
damaged the tiles, leaving their backing plates so corroded they had to 
be removed in the 1980s. The tiles sat in storage for more than 20 years 
until the Conservancy received a generous private donation for their restoration. 
The Conservancy embarked on a $7 million restoration effort to return the 
Minton tiles to their original luster in 2004. A team of seven conservation 
technicians cleaned and repaired more than 14,000 original tiles by hand. 
Only three panels of replica tiles were needed to replace those that had 
been damaged beyond repair. For those recreations, the Conservancy decided 
to commission Maw and Company, Minton's successor in Stoke-on-Trent, England. 
The completed Bethesda Terrace Arcade was unveiled to much fanfare in March 
2007. In 2006, the Conservancy completed a nine-month renovation of the 
Mall in a project that returned the landscape to its original character 
and ensured the protection of its great American Elms. The Lake was the 
last of Central Park's bodies of water to be renovated by the Central Park 
Conservancy, in a project to enhance both its ecological[note 1] and scenic 
aspects. In the summer of 2007 the first phase of a restoration of the 
Lake and its shoreline plantings commenced, with replanting using native 
shrubs and understory trees around the northern end of the Lake, from Bank 
Rock Bay— a narrow cove in the northwest corner that had become a silted-up 
algae-covered stand of aggressively invasive Phragmites reeds— to Bow Bridge, 
which received replicas of its four original Italianate cast-iron vases, 
overspilling with annuals. In the earliest stages, invasive non-native 
plants like Japanese knotweed were eradicated, the slopes were regraded 
with added humus and protected with landscaping burlap to stabilize the 
slopes while root systems became established and leaf litter developed. 
During the same time, Bank Rock Bridge, also called Cabinet Bridge, across 
the mouth of the cove was recreated in carved oak with cast-iron panels 
and pine decking, its original materials, following Vaux's original design 
of 1859–60.[40] The cascade, where the Gill empties into the lake, was 
reconstructed to approximate its dramatic original form, inspired by paintings 
of Asher B. Durand. Sections of the Lake were dredged of accumulated silt 
— topsoil that has washed off the surrounding slopes — and the island formerly 
in the lake, which gradually eroded below water level, was reconstructed 
in the summer of 2007 with rugged boulders along its shoreline, graded 
wetland areas and submerged planting shelves for water-loving native plants, 
like Pickerel weed.[41] Oak Bridge, the major entrance to the Ramble from 
the Upper West Side, which spans Bank Rock Bay in the Lake's northwest 
corner, is a picturesque feature and was recreated in 2009 based off Calvert 
Vaux's original drawings. The bridge, built in 1860 of white oak with decorative 
openwork panels of cast iron, has been recreated in steel clad in ornamental 
cast iron facings, with a wooden deck. Restoration of further sections 
of the Lake's shoreline landscapes was undertaken, and the first renovated 
sections were opened to visitors in April 2008.[42] On October 23, 2012, 
hedge fund manager John A. Paulson announced a $100 million gift to the 
Central Park Conservancy, the largest ever monetary donation to New York 
City's park system.[43] Since the 1960s, there has been a grassroots campaign 
to restore the park's loop drives to their original car-free state. Over 
the years, the number of car-free hours[44] has increased, though a full 
closure is currently resisted by the New York City Department of Transportation. 
Legislation was proposed in October 2014 to conduct a study to make the 
park car-free in summer 2015.[45] In 2015, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced 
the permanent closure of West and East Drives north of 72nd Street to vehicular 
traffic as it was proven that closing the roads did not adversely impact 
traffic.[46] The law was to take into effect permanently north of 72nd 
Street.[47] Central Park, which has been a National Historic Landmark since 
1962, was designed by landscape architect and writer Frederick Law Olmsted 
and the English architect Calvert Vaux in 1858 after winning a design competition. 
They also designed Brooklyn's Prospect Park.[48][49][50] Central Park is 
one of the most famous sightseeing spots in New York. It is bordered on 
the north by Central Park North, on the south by Central Park South, on 
the west by Central Park West, and on the east by Fifth Avenue. Only Fifth 
Avenue along the park's eastern border retains its name; the other streets 
bordering the park (110th Street, 59th Street, and Eighth Avenue, respectively) 
change names while they are adjacent to the park. The park, with a perimeter 
of 6.1 miles (9.8 km),[51] was opened on 770 acres (3.1 km2) of city-owned 
land and was expanded to 843 acres (3.41 km2; 1.317 sq mi).[1][52] It is 
2.5 miles (4 km) long between 59th Street (Central Park South) and 110th 
Street (Central Park North), and is 0.5 miles (0.8 km) wide between Fifth 
Avenue and Central Park West. Central Park also constitutes its own United 
States census tract, number 143. According to Census 2000, the park's population 
is eighteen people, twelve male and six female, with a median age of 38.5 
years, and a household size of 2.33, over 3 households.[53] However Central 
Park officials have rejected the claim of anyone permanently living there.[54] 
The real estate value of Central Park was estimated by property appraisal 
firm Miller Samuel to be about $528.8 billion in December 2005.[55] Central 
Park's size and cultural position, similar to London's Hyde Park and Munich's 
Englischer Garten, has served as a model for many urban parks, including 
San Francisco's Golden Gate Park, Tokyo's Ueno Park, and Vancouver's Stanley 
Park. The park, which receives approximately 35 million visitors annually,[56] 
is the most visited urban park in the United States.[57] It is also one 
of the most filmed locations in the world.[58][59] The park is maintained 
by the Central Park Conservancy, a private, not-for-profit organization 
that manages the park under a contract with the New York City Department 
of Parks and Recreation,[60] in which the president of the Conservancy 
is ex officio Administrator of Central Park. Today, the conservancy employs 
80% of maintenance and operations staff in the park. It effectively oversees 
the work of both the private and public employees under the authority of 
the Central Park administrator (publicly appointed), who reports to the 
parks commissioner, conservancy's president. As of 2007[update], the conservancy 
had invested approximately $450 million in the restoration and management 
of the park; the organization presently contributes approximately 85% of 
Central Park's annual operating budget of over $37 million.[60] The system 
was functioning so well that in 2006 the conservancy created the Historic 
Harlem Parks initiative, providing horticultural and maintenance support 
and mentoring in Morningside Park, St. Nicholas Park, Jackie Robinson Park, 
and Marcus Garvey Park.[61] The park has its own NYPD precinct, the Central 
Park Precinct, which employs both regular police and auxiliary officers. 
In 2005, safety measures held the number of crimes in the park to fewer 
than one hundred per year (down from approximately 1,000 in the early 1980s). 
The New York City Parks Enforcement Patrol also patrols Central Park. There 
is also an all-volunteer ambulance service, the Central Park Medical Unit, 
that provides free emergency medical service to patrons of Central Park 
and the surrounding streets. It operates a rapid-response bicycle patrol, 
particularly during major events such as the New York City Marathon, the 
1998 Goodwill Games, and concerts in the park. While planting and land 
form in much of the park appear natural, it is in fact almost entirely 
landscaped. The park contains several natural-looking lakes and ponds that 
have been created artificially,[note 2] extensive walking tracks, bridle 
paths, two ice-skating rinks (one of which is a swimming pool in July and 
August), the Central Park Zoo, the Central Park Conservatory Garden, a 
wildlife sanctuary, a large area of natural woods,[62] a 106-acre (43 ha) 
billion-gallon reservoir with an encircling running track, and an outdoor 
amphitheater, the Delacorte Theater, which hosts the "Shakespeare in the 
Park" summer festivals. Indoor attractions include Belvedere Castle with 
its nature center, the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theatre, and the historic 
Carousel. In addition there are seven major lawns, the "meadows",[63] and 
many minor grassy areas; some of them are used for informal or team sports 
and some set aside as quiet areas; there are a number of enclosed playgrounds 
for children. The 6 miles (9.7 km) of drives within the park are used by 
joggers, cyclists, skateboarders, and inline skaters, especially when automobile 
traffic is prohibited, on weekends and in the evenings after 7:00 pm. Visitor 
attractions include: A total of 29 sculptures by sculptors such as Augustus 
Saint-Gaudens, Emma Stebbins, and John Quincy Adams Ward have been erected 
over the years, most donated by individuals or organizations. Much of the 
first statuary placed was of authors and poets, in an area now known as 
Literary Walk. Some of the sculptures are: Geographic features include: 
There are four different types of bedrock in Manhattan. In Central Park, 
Manhattan schist and Hartland schist, which are both metamorphosed sedimentary 
rock, are exposed in various outcroppings. The other two types, Fordham 
gneiss (an older deeper layer) and Inwood marble (metamorphosed limestone 
which overlays the gneiss), do not surface in the park.[68] Fordham gneiss, 
which consists of metamorphosed igneous rocks, was formed a billion years 
ago, during what is known as the Grenville orogeny that occurred during 
the creation of an ancient super-continent. It is the oldest rock in the 
Canadian Shield, the most ancient part of the North American tectonic plate. 
Manhattan schist and Hartland schist were formed in the Iapetus Ocean during 
the Taconic orogeny in the Paleozoic era, about 450 million years ago. 
During this period the tectonic plates began to move toward each other, 
which resulted in the creation of the supercontinent, Pangaea.[69] Cameron's 
Line is a fault zone that traverses Central Park on an east-west axis.[70] 
Various glaciers have covered the area of Central Park in the past, with 
the most recent being the Wisconsin glacier which receded about 12,000 
years ago. Evidence of past glaciers are visible throughout the park in 
the form of glacial erratics (large boulders dropped by the receding glacier) 
and north-south glacial striations visible on stone outcroppings. One such 
outcrop is Rat Rock at 40°46′10″N 73°58′40″W﻿ / ﻿40.769361°N 73.977655°W﻿ 
/ 40.769361; -73.977655, named after the rats that used to swarm there 
at night but also known as 'Umpire Rock'.[71][72] Located near the southwest 
corner of the park, the outcrop is roughly circular, about 55 feet (17 m) 
wide and 15 feet (4.6 m) tall with different east, west, and north faces.[73] 
Boulderers usually congregate there, possibly as many as fifty per day, 
with some being regulars, and others being tourists;[72] the quality of 
the stone is poor and the climbs present so little challenge that it has 
been called "one of America's most pathetic boulders".[73] The park police 
formerly ticketed climbers who climbed more than a few feet up the rock, 
but the City Climbers Club approached the park authorities and, by working 
to provide safety features such as wood chips around the base, they were 
able to legalize climbing there.[73] Central Park is home to seven bodies 
of water, all artificial. The main lake is the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis 
Reservoir, so named since 1994.[74] Its construction lasted from 1858 to 
1862. Covering an area of 42.9 hectares (106 acres) between 86th and 96th 
Streets, the reservoir reaches a depth of more than 40 feet (12 m) in places 
and contains about 1 billion US gallons (3.8 billion litres) of water.[75] 
The Reservoir is best known to New Yorkers for the jogging track around 
it. The Reservoir is by far the largest lake in Central Park, surpassing 
the other three artificial lakes. The Ramble and Lake south of the Great 
Lawn covers nearly 7.3 hectares (18 acres). Built on a former swamp, it 
was designed by Olmsted and Vaux to accommodate boats in the summer and 
ice skaters in winter. The Lake was opened to skaters in December 1858, 
while the rest of the park was still under construction.[76] At the northern 
end of the park, at 110th Street, the Harlem Meer, named in honor of one 
of the first communities in the region, covers nearly 4.5 hectares (11 
acres). A wooded area surrounded by oak, cypress, and beech trees, it was 
built after the completion of the southern portion of the park. Harlem 
Meer also allows visitors to fish, provided that they release the fish 
later.[77] In the southeast corner is the Pond, with an area of 1.4 hectares 
(3.5 acres). The Pond is located near one of the busiest entrances to Central 
Park and is under sea level, which helps mitigate the different sounds 
of the city, and create a startling atmosphere of calm in the heart of 
New York.[78] Central Park, home to over 25,000 trees, has a stand of 1,700 
American elms, one of the largest remaining stands in the northeastern 
U.S., protected by their isolation from the Dutch elm disease that devastated 
the tree throughout its native range. A partial listing of the tree species 
found in Central Park, both natives and exotics, includes: A wooded section 
of the park, called the Ramble and Lake, is popular among birders. Many 
species of woodland birds, especially warblers, may be seen in the Ramble 
in the spring and the fall. Rowboats and kayaks are rented on an hourly 
basis at the Loeb Boathouse, which also houses a restaurant overlooking 
the Lake. As early as 1922,[84] model power boating was popular on park 
waters. New York City has had carriage horses since they were revived in 
1935.[85] The carriages have appeared in many films, and the first female 
horse and carriage driver, Maggie Cogan, appeared in a Universal newsreel 
in 1967.[86] As such, they have become a symbolic institution of the city. 
After the September 11 attacks, in a much-publicized event, Mayor Rudolph 
Giuliani went to the stables himself to ask the drivers to go back to work 
to help return a sense of normality.[85] Some activists such as NYCLASS, 
as well as politicians, have questioned the ethics of this tradition.[87][88] 
The history of accidents involving spooked horses has come under scrutiny 
with recent horse deaths.[89] Protests from People for the Ethical Treatment 
of Animals, and celebrities including Alec Baldwin, Alecia Beth Moore and 
Cheryl Hines have raised the issue's profile.[90][91] Additional media 
accounts have corroborated some charges, but they have also shown that 
the standards vary from stable to stable.[92] Both activists and horse 
owners, who pride themselves on humane conditions, agree that part of the 
problem is lack of enforcement of the city code.[92] Supporters of the 
trade say it needs to be reformed, not shut down, and that carriage drivers 
deserve a raise, which the city has not authorized since 1989.[93] Paris, 
London, Beijing, and several U.S. cities have banned carriage horses.[94] 
Replacements for the carriage horses may include electric vintage cars.[95][96] 
Pedicabs operate mostly in the southern part of the park, the same part 
as horse carriages.[97] Such vehicles have more recently offered visitors 
a more dynamic way in which to view the park; covering three to ten times 
the distance of a typical Central Park horse carriage ride, pedicabs have 
become very popular with visitors and New Yorkers alike in the last five 
years;[98] also, they are being eyed as another replacement for the carriage 
horses. Park Drive, just over 6 miles (9.7 km) long, is heavily used by 
runners, joggers, pedestrians, bicyclists, and inline skaters. Most weekends 
races take place in the park, many of which are organized by the New York 
Road Runners. The New York City Marathon finishes in Central Park outside 
Tavern on the Green. Many other professional races are run in the park, 
including the recent, (2008), USA Men's 8k Championships. Baseball fields 
are numerous, and there are also courts for volleyball, tennis, croquet 
and lawn bowling. The park is home to several competitive running clubs, 
including Central Park Track Club. Central Park has two ice skating rinks, 
Wollman Rink and Lasker Rink; during summer, the former is the site of 
Victorian Gardens seasonal amusement park, and the latter converts to an 
outdoor swimming pool. The Park drives are used as the home course for 
the Century Road Club Association's racing series. The CRCA is a USA Cycling 
sanctioned amateur cycling club.[99] Central Park's glaciated rock outcroppings 
attract climbers, especially boulderers; Manhattan's bedrock, a glaciated 
schist, protrudes from the ground frequently and considerably in some parts 
of Central Park. The two most renowned spots for boulderers are at Rock 
and Cat Rock; others include Dog Rock, Duck Rock, Rock N' Roll Rock, and 
Beaver Rock, near the south end of the park.[100] The current Central Park 
Carousel, installed in 1951, is one of the largest merry-go-rounds in the 
United States. The fifty-eight hand-carved horses and two chariots were 
made by Solomon Stein and Harry Goldstein in 1908. The carousel originally 
was installed in Coney Island in Brooklyn. The Central Park Zoo is part 
of a system of four zoos and one aquarium that is managed by the Wildlife 
Conservation Society (WCS), and is accredited by the Association of Zoos 
and Aquariums (AZA). The zoo is home to an indoor rainforest, a leafcutter 
ant colony, a chilled penguin house, and a polar bear pool. Central Park 
has twenty-one playgrounds for children located throughout the park; the 
largest, at 3 acres (12,000 m2), is Heckscher Playground named for August 
Heckscher. Swedish Cottage Marionette Theatre is located in the Swedish 
Cottage. The building was originally a model schoolhouse built in Sweden. 
Made of native pine and cedar, it was disassembled and rebuilt in the U.S. 
as Sweden's exhibit for the 1876 Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. 
Frederick Law Olmsted moved the cottage to its present site in 1877. Central 
Park is home to two indoor restaurants. The famed New York City restaurant 
Tavern on the Green is located on the park's grounds at Central Park West 
and West 67th Street. It was originally the sheepfold that housed the sheep 
that grazed Sheep Meadow, built to a design by Calvert Vaux in 1870. It 
became a restaurant as part of a 1934 renovation of the park under Robert 
Moses, New York City's Commissioner of Parks. In 1974, Warner LeRoy took 
over the restaurant's lease and reopened it in 1976 after $10 million in 
renovations including the addition of a glass-enclosed Crystal Room overlooking 
the restaurant's garden (one of several dining rooms), which doubled the 
seating capacity to 800.[101] In August 2009, the New York City Department 
of Parks and Recreation announced that it had declined to renew the restaurant's 
license,[102] and a month later, the restaurant filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy 
protection in the United States District Court for the Southern District 
of New York, citing the Great Recession and the loss of the restaurant's 
operating license.[103] On December 31, 2009, the restaurant closed its 
doors in what was expected to be a permanent closure,[104] but it reopened 
on April 24, 2014 after a major renovation.[105] The Loeb Boathouse restaurant 
is the other indoor restaurant in Central Park. Located at the Loeb Boathouse 
on The Lake, it was designed in 1874, destroyed in 1950, and rebuilt in 
1954 on the East Side between 74th and 75th Streets.[106] The oldest free 
classical music concert series in the United States, the Naumburg Orchestral 
Concerts – founded in 1905 – presents concerts in the park's only neo-classical 
building, the Naumburg Bandshell on the Concert Ground, each summer. Today, 
the concerts feature promising new talent and promote the professional 
development of young composers and conductors. With the revival of the 
city and the park in the new century, Central Park has also given birth 
to other arts groups dedicated to performing in the park, notably Central 
Park Brass, which performs an annual concert series, and the New York Classical 
Theatre, which produces an annual series of plays. Each summer, there are 
several events happening in the park. The Public Theater presents free 
open-air theatre productions, often starring well-known stage and screen 
actors. The Delacorte Theater is the summer performing venue of the New 
York Shakespeare Festival, where most, although not all, of the plays presented 
are by William Shakespeare, and the performances are generally regarded 
as being of high quality since its founding by Joseph Papp in 1962. The 
New York Philharmonic also gives an open-air concert on the Great Lawn 
yearly during the summer. City Parks Foundation has offered Central Park 
Summerstage since 1985, a series of free performances including music, 
dance, spoken word, and film presentations around this time of year as 
well, often featuring famous performers; the Summerstage facility also 
has non-free concerts that are branded under different names. Since 1992, 
local singer-songwriter David Ippolito has performed almost every summer 
weekend to large crowds of passers-by and regulars and has become a New 
York icon, often simply referred to as "That guitar man from Central Park". 
From 1967 until 2007, the Metropolitan Opera presented two operas in concert 
each year. Many popular one-time concerts have been given in the park including 
Barbra Streisand, 1967; The Supremes, 1970; Carole King, 1973; Bob Marley 
& The Wailers, 1975; America, 1979; Elton John, 1980; the Simon and Garfunkel 
reunion, 1981; Diana Ross, 1983; Paul Simon, 1991; Garth Brooks, 1997; 
Sheryl Crow, 1999; Dave Matthews Band, 2003; Bon Jovi, 2008;[note 3] and 
Andrea Bocelli, 2011. Central Park was the location of the largest concert 
ever on record when country superstar Garth Brooks performed a free concert 
in August 1997, to which about 980,000 had attended, according to FDNY.[107] 
Its attendance would have been exceeded by a concert in the summer of 1985 
by Bruce Springsteen, planned to hold a free outdoor concert on the Great 
Lawn; however, the idea was scrapped when it was purported that any free 
show held by Springsteen would bring an estimated 1.3 million people, crippling 
the park and the nearby neighborhoods. The New York City Subway's IND Eighth 
Avenue Line runs along the western edge of the park, with a transfer station 
to the IRT Broadway – Seventh Avenue Line at Columbus Circle. In addition, 
the IRT Lenox Avenue Line has a station at Central Park North and 110th 
Street. From there the line curves southwest under the park, and heads 
west under 104th Street, and the BMT Broadway Line has a station at Fifth 
Avenue and 59th Street. Central Park is surrounded by four roadways: Central 
Park North, Central Park South, Central Park West, and Fifth Avenue. There 
are four plazas on each corner of the park: Frederick Douglass Circle on 
the northwest, Duke Ellington Circle on the northeast, Columbus Circle 
at the southwest, and Grand Army Plaza at the southeast. There are also 
four transverse roadways: 65th–66th Streets, 79th–81st Streets, 86th Street, 
and 96th Street. The park has three roadways that travel it vertically: 
West, Center, and East Drives (see below). West Drive is the western of 
the park's three vertical "drives". The southbound-running road is described 
as "... concealed in sunken roadways and screened with densely planted 
shrub belts, creating a country-road feel in the center of the city." In 
the early 1900s, the drive was a popular place for carriage rides.[108] 
A famous painting by Gifford Beal shows a picture of West Drive depicted 
with a horse and buggy.[109] However, the drive is also dangerous; in 2014, 
a 0.5-mile (0.80 km) stretch of West Drive was considered to be "the most 
dangerous section of Central Park" for pedestrians, with bike crashes along 
the drive leaving 15 people injured.[110] Center Drive (also known as the 
"Central Park Lower Loop"[111]) connects northbound traffic from Midtown 
at West Drive and Sixth Avenue near the 65th Street Transverse. The street 
generally goes east and then north forming the bottom part of the Central 
Park loop. The attractions along this street include the Victorian Gardens 
Amusement Park, the Central Park Carousel and the Central Park Mall. East 
Drive, the easternmost of the three drives, connects northbound traffic 
from Midtown to the Upper West Side at Lenox Avenue. The street is renowned 
for its country scenery and free concerts. It generally straddles the east 
side of the park along Fifth Avenue. The drive passes by the Central Park 
Zoo around 63rd Street and the Metropolitan Museum of Art around the 80th 
to 84th Street area. The drive is also one of the legs of the New York 
Marathon. It is known as the "Elite Carriage Parade", because at the time 
of the park's opening, only 5 percent of the city was able to afford the 
carriage; of this, Walt Whitman said that the carriage parade was an "...an 
impressive, rich, interminable circus on a grand scale, full of action 
and color", a quote written by Roy Rosenzweig and Elizabeth Blackmar in 
The Park and the People.[112] Central Park was once a very dangerous place, 
especially after dark, as measured by crime statistics. The park is considerably 
safer in the 21st century, though during prior periods it was the site 
of numerous muggings and rapes. Well-publicized incidents of sexual and 
confiscatory violence, such as the notorious 1989 "Central Park jogger" 
case,[113][114] dissuaded many from visiting one of Manhattan's most scenic 
areas. As crime has declined in the park and in the rest of New York City, 
many of the negative perceptions have begun to wane. Safety measures hold 
the number of crimes in the park to fewer than one hundred per year, down 
from approximately 1,000 in the early 1980s.[115] However, in 2013, the 
number of crimes temporarily spiked again with six rapes and six burglaries, 
compared to no rapes and one burglary in 2012, causing some fear according 
to one source.[116] On June 11, 2000, following the Puerto Rican Day Parade, 
gangs of drunken men sexually assaulted women in the park. Several arrests 
were made shortly after the attacks, but it was not until 2006 that a civil 
suit against the city for failing to provide police protection was finally 
settled.[117] Permission to hold issue-centered rallies in Central Park, 
similar to the be-ins of the 1960s, has been met with increasingly stiff 
resistance from the city. During some 2004 protests, the organization United 
for Peace and Justice wanted to hold a rally on the Great Lawn during the 
Republican National Convention. The city denied application for a permit, 
stating that such a mass gathering would be harmful to the grass and that 
such damage would make it harder to collect private donations to maintain 
the park.[118] Courts upheld the refusal.[119] During the 2000s and early 
2010s, new towers have been constructed or planned for the southern end 
of Central Park. According to a Municipal Art Society report, such buildings 
will cast shadows over the southern end of the park. There has been a little 
controversy over this.[120] Central Park, as a universal symbol of the 
city, appeared and continues to appear in numerous film productions, as 
well as in numerous television series. Among its most famous appearances: 
The Lake and San Remo apartments in the background Lower Central Park The 
Mall & Literary Walk Strawberry Fields with the Dakota behind The Pond, 
looking south, with the Plaza Hotel in view One of the park's bridges; 
no two are alike.[122] Bethesda Fountain with the Loeb Boathouse in background 
Passage under Bethesda Terrace Chess and Checkers House Aerial view of 
Central Park The Mall The buildings that line Central Park South include 
Essex House Bridge in Central Park, designed by Calvert Vaux, separates 
pedestrians from the carriage drive. Central Park viewed from atop the 
GE Building The Pond and Central Park South Wollman Skating Rink Jose de 
Creeft, Statue of Alice, 1959 Jogging in Central Park Central Park in snow 
Vista of Great Lawn from Belvedere Castle Bicycles Benches Landscape Carriage 
horse Bicyclists Shakespeare Garden Turtle Pond The Ramble Hans Christian 
Andersen Statue Sheep Meadow The Pond Roads in Central Park At dusk Notes 
