Chadwick Lee "Chad" Bradford (born September 14, 1974) is a former Major 
League Baseball (MLB) relief pitcher. He was well known for his extreme 
submarine-style pitching, and his success in MLB despite his unconventional 
delivery and the slow speed at which he threw the ball (his fastball was 
only in the mid 80-mph range). This led to him figuring prominently in 
the Michael Lewis book Moneyball, which in 2011 was made into the film 
of the same title. Bradford is played by actor Casey Bond in the film. 
Bradford was born in Byram, Mississippi. His father had suffered a stroke 
that left him partially paralyzed, so that he could only throw underhand 
when playing catch with his son. Author Michael Lewis speculates that memories 
of his father's throwing motion may have contributed to the development 
of Bradford's pitching style.[1] Bradford went to Byram High School.[2] 
Unlike most players who become major leaguers, he had not exhibited outstanding 
athletic talent through the early years of high school.[3] But his high 
school coach suggested he try sidearm pitching after learning some tips 
about the approach from a professional player.[4] This technique brought 
him enough success to get a spot on the teams of Hinds Community College 
and the University of Southern Mississippi. He was drafted by the Chicago 
White Sox in 1994, but elected to stay in college through 1996. The White 
Sox—the only major league team that had even scouted him[5]—re-drafted 
him in the 13th round of the 1996 Major League Baseball Draft. He made 
his major league debut in 1998 while 23 years old. In 1999, Bradford made 
only a brief stop in the majors with the rest of the season spent with 
the Triple-A Charlotte Knights. He was successful as a September call-up 
in 2000 and pitched in the American League Division Series. Following the 
season, the White Sox traded him to the Oakland Athletics for catcher Miguel 
Olivo. From 2001 to 2004, Bradford was a specialty reliever for the Athletics, 
having success against right-handed hitters. His ERA stayed around 3.00 
for his entire career until 2004 when he had a setback. It was said to 
be because of his mounting back pain which eventually forced him on to 
the disabled list. In July, 2005, the Boston Red Sox acquired Bradford 
from Oakland in a trade for outfielder Jay Payton. Bradford, on the disabled 
list since undergoing lower back surgery March 7, was activated after the 
All-Star break. For Boston, Bradford had a 3.86 ERA with a 1.414 WHIP in 
23⅓ innings. After the season, he became a free agent and was signed by 
the New York Mets where he was reunited with Rick Peterson, his pitching 
coach from the Athletics. He had a very solid year in 2006 as a right-handed 
specialist out of the bullpen, posting a 2.90 ERA in 70 games. On November 
28, 2006 Bradford signed a three-year, $10.5 million deal with the Baltimore 
Orioles. On May 31, 2008, Manny Ramirez hit his 500th career home run off 
of Bradford (that was one of only 3 HRs allowed all season). On August 
7, 2008, Bradford was traded to the Tampa Bay Rays for a player to be named 
later.[6] With a lot of postseason experience under his belt, Bradford 
shined in the 2008 playoffs and played a big part in Tampa Bays world series 
run. Bradford pitched in the 2008 World Series, allowing one hit in two 
innings for Tampa Bay. Bradford remained with the Rays into 2009; however, 
he began the season on the disabled list after injuring his elbow in spring 
training. Bradford returned in June but shortly thereafter returned to 
the disabled list, this time after injuring his back while warming up. 
Bradford was sidelined again at the end of the season with various pains. 
When on the mound, he was of questionable effectiveness, allowing 22 hits 
in 10 innings. Largely because of recurring injuries, Bradford told the 
St. Petersburg Times after the season that he was considering retirement. 
With no media attention and no interest from major league clubs, Bradford 
retired and went to work as a coach in Mississippi.[7] In 24 career postseason 
