In sport, a championship is a competition in which the aim is to decide 
which individual or team is the champion. Various forms of competition 
can be referred to by the term championship. In this system, a competitor 
has to challenge the current champion to win the championship. A competitor 
can challenge the current champion after defeating other challengers. This 
form of championship is used in wrestling, boxing, mixed martial arts and 
other combat sports. The term championships (in the plural) is often used 
to refer to tournament competitions, either using a knockout format, such 
as at Wimbledon and other championships in tennis, or a mixed format with 
a group stage followed by knockout rounds, such as used in the European 
Football Championships. A variation of the knockout format is the "best-of-X" 
or series format where two teams face each other for a specified number 
of times until one team wins the majority of specified games, most of the 
time the remaining games are not played anymore; only then is the losing 
team eliminated from contention and the winning team advances to the next 
level. This format is predominant in American sports such as baseball, 
ice hockey and basketball, and on test cricket. Championships in various 
sports, including rugby union and soccer use a league system in which all 
competitors in the league play each other, either once or a number of times. 
In many sport leagues, a playoff system is used to determine a championship 
winner. Teams compete in a regular season of varying formats and a limited 
number of teams qualify for playoffs. Although this system is mostly identified 
with the United States and Canada, it is frequently found in other North 
American countries, and is also standard in sports influenced by North 
America (e.g. basketball, baseball, ice hockey) as well as most football 
codes other than soccer. The playoffs (known in some countries, notably 
Australia, as the "finals series") are a tournament where teams play head-to-head 
in knockout competition. The championship is often considered the final 
of the playoffs (e.g., Super Bowl, Stanley Cup Final, NBA Finals, World 
Series, etc.). The playoff system can be seen as a hybrid between the league 
system and tournament system, where a league is used to determine qualifiers 
for the tournament. In the NFL, the term "Championship game" is used to 
refer to the matches which decide the champions of each of the two conferences, 
the NFC and AFC. These games are effectively semi-finals as they determine 
the two competitors in the Super Bowl. In English football, since the 2004-2005 
season, The Championship has been used to refer to the second level of 
league football, properly called the Football League Championship. The 
Championship is one division below the FA Premier League and a division 
above Football League One. It had previously been known as the Football 
