A changeup is a type of pitch in baseball and fastpitch softball. The changeup 
is the staple off-speed pitch, usually thrown to look like a fastball but 
arriving much more slowly to the plate. Its reduced speed coupled with 
its deceptive delivery is meant to confuse the batter's timing. It is meant 
to be thrown the same as a fastball, but farther back in the hand, which 
makes it release from the hand slower while still retaining the look of 
a fastball. A changeup is generally thrown to be 8–15 miles per hour slower 
than a fastball. If thrown correctly, the changeup will confuse the batter 
because the human eye cannot discern that the ball is coming significantly 
slower until it is around 30 feet from the plate.[1] For example, a batter 
swinging at the ball as if it were a 90 mph fastball when it is coming 
in at 75 mph means he is swinging too early to hit the ball well, making 
the changeup very effective. Other names include change-of-pace, Bugs Bunny 
change-up, the dreaded equalizer and change. The changeup is sometimes 
called an off-speed pitch, although that term can also be used simply to 
mean any pitch that is slower than a fastball. In addition, before at least 
the second half of the twentieth century, the term "slow ball" was used 
to denote pitches that were not a fastball or breaking ball, which almost 
always meant a type of changeup. Therefore, the terms slow ball and changeup 
could be used interchangeably. The changeup is analogous to the slower 
ball in cricket. The changeup is thrown with the same arm action as a fastball, 
but at a lower speed due to the pitcher holding the ball in a special grip. 
Leo Mazzone states: "When a pitcher throws his best fastball, he puts more 
in it; the changeup is such that one throws something other than his best 
fastball. By having this mindset, the pitch will have less velocity on 
it in addition to the change in grips. This difference from what is expected 
by the arm action and the velocity can confuse the batter into swinging 
the bat far too early and thus receiving a strike, or not swinging at all. 
Should a batter be fooled on the timing of the pitch and still make contact, 
it will cause a foul ball or the ball being put into play weakly, usually 
resulting in an out. In addition to the unexpectedly slow velocity, the 
changeup can also possess a significant amount of movement, which can bewilder 
the batter even further. The very best changeups utilize both deception 
and movement."[2] Since the rise of Pedro Martínez, a Dominican pitcher 
whose changeup was one of the tools that led to his three Cy Young Awards, 
the changeup has become increasingly popular in the Dominican Republic.[3] 
Dominican pitchers including Edinson Vólquez, Michael Ynoa, and Ervin Santana 
are all known to have developed effective changeups in the Dominican Republic 
after Martínez's success with the pitch.[citation needed] In recent years, 
some of the game's best pitchers have relied heavily on the changeup. In 
an article published by Sports Illustrated, it noted that Justin Verlander, 
Félix Hernández, Stephen Strasburg, David Price, and Max Scherzer have 
revolutionized the pitch and used it abundantly in their arsenal.[4] There 
are several variations of changeups, which are generated by using different 
grips on the ball during the pitch. The circle changeup is one well-known 
grip.[5] The pitcher forms a circle with his index finger and thumb and 
lays his middle and index fingers across the seams of the ball. By pronating 
his wrist upon release, the pitcher can make the pitch break in the same 
direction as a screwball. More or less break will result from the pitcher's 
arm slot. Pedro Martínez used this pitch throughout his career to great 
effect, and many considered it to be his best pitch.[6] The most common 
type is the straight change. The ball is held with three fingers (instead 
of the usual two) and closer to the palm, to kill some of the speed generated 
by the wrist and fingers. This pitch generally breaks downward slightly, 
though its motion does not differ greatly from a two-seam fastball. Other 
variations include the palmball, vulcan changeup and fosh. The split-finger 
