Charles Abraham Stoneham (July 5, 1876 – January 6, 1936) was the owner 
of the New York Giants baseball team, New York Giants soccer team, the 
center of numerous corruption scandals and the instigator of the "Soccer 
Wars" which destroyed the American Soccer League. Stoneham began his career 
as a board boy, updating stock transactions, in a New York City brokerage 
office. He quickly rose through the ranks, becoming a stock salesman in 
the company. In 1913, he established his own brokerage, Charles A. Stoneham 
& Company. In 1917, he also purchased the Sierra Nevada mine in Jefferson, 
Nevada. In 1921, Stoneham dissolved his brokerage house, convincing his 
investors to transfer their accounts to various other New York brokerage 
firms. In July 1922, E.M. Fuller & Company, one of the brokerages which 
accepted Stoneham's clients, collapsed. Allegations arose that Stoneham 
was a silent partner in the firm and had provided false testimony in the 
investigation of the collapse. He was indicted on August 31, 1923 by a 
Federal grand jury for perjury. While this case was building, another of 
the brokerage firms associated with the dissolution of Stoneham's, E.D. 
Dier & Company, also collapsed. Once again, allegations of criminal activity 
began to swirl around him and in September 1923, he was indicted by the 
Federal government for mail fraud related to defrauding the Dier company's 
clients. He was acquitted of these charges on February 6, 1925. Although 
he was cleared of most charges in each case, the taint of scandal never 
fully left him. Stoneham had a close business relationship with Arnold 
Rothstein, a notorious organized crime boss who ran numerous gambling operations. 
Rothstein, best known for fixing the 1919 World Series, brokered Stoneham's 
purchase of the New York Giants baseball team in 1919. He also co-owned 
a billiard parlour with Stoneham's right-hand man, Giants manager John 
McGraw. Stoneham himself was an inveterate gambler and the owner of numerous 
gambling operations, including the Oriental Park Racetrack, and Havana 
Casino in Havana, Cuba. He was eventually forced to sell these operations 
in 1923, as part of an anti-corruption campaign waged by baseball commissioner 
Kenesaw Mountain Landis.[1] However, he continued to operate horse racing 
operations in New York for several more years. In truth, Charles won the 
New York Giants Baseball Club in a game of poker against then owner Harry 
Hempstead. This fact comes straight from the Stoneham family. In 1919, 
Stoneham purchased the New York Giants baseball team for one million dollars.[2] 
He would own the team until his death in 1936, passing it to his son Horace 
Stoneham. During his tenure as owner, Stoneham saw the Giants win the World 
Series in 1921, 1922 and 1933. Stoneham was also involved in the aborted 
move of the New York Yankees to Boston in 1920. The Yankees, the city's 
second team, had leased the Polo Grounds from the Giants since 1913. At 
the time, the American League was riven by an internecine war, with the 
Yankees, Boston Red Sox and Chicago White Sox on one side and American 
League president Ban Johnson and the other five clubs on the other. With 
the acquisition of Babe Ruth in 1920, the once-moribund Yankees suddenly 
became competitive and outdrew the Giants. To destroy one of the three 
teams that opposed him, Johnson persuaded Stoneham to evict the Yankees. 
This would give Johnson an excuse to force a sale to a more pliable owner. 
The Yankees' owners, Jacob Ruppert and Cap Huston, responded by announcing 
they would move to Boston as tenants of the Red Sox. Stoneham realized 
that if the Yankees left town, he'd lose revenue from a valuable tenant. 
He also didn't want to be held responsible for forcing Ruth, the biggest 
star in the game, out of town. With these factors in mind, he renewed the 
Yankees' lease for one more year. The incident led the Yankees to construct 
their own park, Yankee Stadium, to ensure that no other team would have 
the power to deny them a place to play.[3] In 1919, Charles Stoneham made 
an aborted attempt to organize a professional football team to play at 
the Polo Grounds in New York City. The team was to be called the New York 
Giants.[4] Contracts and verbal agreements to play were made with a number 
of former collegiate football stars and its first game was scheduled for 
October 12, 1919. The game was to be played against Massillon Ohio, one 
of the professional powerhouses of the day.[5] Alfred O. Gennert, a former 
star for Princeton and one of the players whose name was used in promoting 
the team, publicly denounced the unauthorized use of his name and the concept 
of professional football in general. He was quoted as saying, "I would 
not play football for money on Sunday or any other afternoon. I believe 
that any attempt to professionalize football is a direct attack on the 
best traditions of the game and should be resented by all loyal devotees."[6] 
The team folded within one week of that report, before its first scheduled 
game.[7] New York City would be without a professional team until the New 
York Giants were finally organized for good in 1925. In addition to baseball, 
Stoneham also had a significant part in US soccer history. At the time, 
the American Soccer League was the second most popular professional league 
behind major league baseball, attracting large crowds and drawing many 
of Europe's best players with its excellent pay and high level of play. 
On September 8, 1927, Stoneham purchased the Indiana Flooring franchise. 
While he wanted to rename the team the Giants, he was prevented by the 
fact the league already had a Giants team. Therefore, he settled on renaming 
his team the New York Nationals.[8] His infamy in soccer came as a result 
of his role in precipitating the "Soccer Wars" which led to the destruction 
of the ASL. Soccer in the US is overseen by a single organizing body, at 
the time known as the United States Football Association. The USFA ran 
an annual national single-elimination tournament known as the National 
Challenge Cup. Even though the Nationals had won the 1928 National Challenge 
Cup over Bricklayers and Masons F.C. of Chicago, Stoneham and several other 
owners had grown frustrated by the high costs associated with this cup. 
Therefore, as league Vice President he instigated a boycott of the competition.[9] 
When three teams defied the league and entered the cup, they were expelled 
from the ASL. The USFA then labeled the ASL an "outlaw league" and bankrolled 
the creation of the Eastern Soccer League to compete directly against the 
ASL. The financial toll brought about by the Soccer War forced the capitulation 
of the ASL in 1929.[10] However, the league was permanently crippled. The 
onset of the Great Depression worsened the league's financial situation 
and it limped on for three more years before collapsing. Before that happened, 
Stoneham finally gained his New York Giants soccer team in 1931 when the 
original Giants was renamed the New York Soccer Club. Stoneham withdrew 
his team from the ASL in 1932 and disbanded it. Stoneham was also a member 
of the Tammany Hall political machine. For several years before his death, 
Stoneham had been suffering from a variety of physical ailments which were 
eventually diagnosed as symptoms of Bright's disease. He died in a hotel 
in Hot Springs, Arkansas on January 6, 1936 after spending several days 
