Charlestown is the oldest neighborhood in Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States.[1] Originally called Mishawum by the Massachusett, it is located 
on a peninsula north of the Charles River, across from downtown Boston, 
and also adjoins the Mystic River and Boston Harbor. Charlestown was laid 
out in 1629 by engineer Thomas Graves, one of its early settlers, in the 
reign of Charles I of England. It was originally a separate town and the 
first capital of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Charlestown became a city 
in 1848 and was annexed by Boston on January 5, 1874. With that, it also 
switched from Middlesex County, to which it had belonged since 1643, to 
Suffolk County. It has had a substantial Irish American population since 
the migration of Irish people during the Great Irish Famine of the 1840s. 
Since the late 1980s the neighborhood has changed dramatically because 
of its proximity to downtown and its colonial architecture. A mix of Yuppie 
and Upper-middle class gentrification has enhanced much of the area, as 
it has in many of Boston's neighborhoods, but Charlestown still maintains 
a strong Irish American population and "Townie" identity. In the 21st century, 
Charlestown's diversity has expanded dramatically, along with growing rates 
of the very poor and very wealthy. Today Charlestown is a largely residential 
neighborhood, with much housing near the waterfront, overlooking the Boston 
skyline. Charlestown is home to many historic sites, hospitals and organizations, 
with easy access from the Orange Line Community College stop or I-93 expressway. 
Thomas and Jane Walford[2] were the original English settlers of the peninsula 
between the Charles and the Mystic. They were given a grant by Sir Robert 
Gorges, with whom they had settled at Wessagusset (Weymouth) in September 
1623 and arrived at what they called Mishawaum in 1624. John Endicott, 
first governor of Massachusetts Bay Colony, sent William, Richard and Ralph 
Sprague to Mishawaum to lay out a settlement. Thomas Walford, acting as 
an interpreter with the Massachusetts Indians, negotiated with the local 
sachem Wonohaquaham for Endicott and his people to settle there. Although 
Walford had a virtual monopoly on the region's available furs, he welcomed 
the newcomers and helped them in any way he could, unaware that his Episcopalian 
religious beliefs would cause him to be banished from Massachusetts to 
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, within three years. Originally a Puritan English 
city during the Colonial era, Charlestown proper was founded in 1628 and 
settled July 4, 1629, by Thomas Graves, Increase Nowell, Simon Hoyt, the 
Rev. Francis Bright, Ralph, Richard and William Sprague, and about 100 
others who preceded the Great Migration. John Winthrop's company stopped 
here for some time in 1630, before deciding to settle across the Charles 
River at Boston. The territory of Charlestown was initially quite large. 
From it, Woburn was separated in 1642,[3] Melrose and Malden in 1649,[4] 
Stoneham in 1725,[5] and Somerville in 1842. Everett, Burlington, Medford, 
Arlington and Cambridge also acquired areas originally allocated to Charlestown.[6] 
On June 17, 1775, the Charlestown Peninsula was the site of the Battle 
of Bunker Hill, named for a hill at the northwest end of the peninsula 
near Charlestown Neck. British troops unloaded at Moulton’s Point[3] and 
much of the battle took place on Breed's Hill, which overlooked the harbor 
from about 400 yards off the southern end of the peninsula. The town, including 
its wharves and dockyards, was almost completely destroyed[7] during the 
battle by the British.[3] The town was not appreciably rebuilt until the 
end of hostilities but, in 1786, the first bridge across the Charles River 
connected Boston with Charlestown.[3] An 87-acre (35 ha) The Navy Yard 
was established in 1800; Charlestown State Prison opened in 1805.[3] The 
Bunker Hill Monument was erected from 1827 to '43 using Quincy granate 
brought to the site by purpose-built railway. Notable businesses included 
the Bunker Hill Breweries (1821) and Schrafft's candy company (1861). Around 
the 1860s an influx of Irish immigrants arrived in Charlestown. The area 
long remained an Irish and Catholic stronghold similar to South Boston, 
Somerville, and Dorchester, to the extent that the informal demonym "Townie" 
continues to imply the working-class Irish as opposed to newer immigrants. 
During the Civil War, over 26,000 men joined the Union Army and Navy at 
the Navy Yard, which was also responsible for constructing some of the 
most famous vessels of the conflict: the Merrimack, the Hartford, and the 
Monadnock.[8] Following the war, the city commissioned Martin Milmore to 
construct its civil war memorial, dedicated in 1872[3] and still standing 
in the community's Training Field.[9] The city developed a water supply 
from the Mystic Lakes[10] and, on October 7, 1873, a vote was held to determine 
whether Charlestown should leave Middlesex County and join Boston as part 
of Suffolk County. Out of its 32,040 residents,[7] 2240 voted in support 
of the merger and 1947 opposed. Boston residents also approved the question, 
5960–1868.[11] Charlestown's separate city government was dissolved the 
next year.[7] During the early 1960s, the city initiated plans to demolish 
and redevelop sixty percent of the housing in Charlestown.[12] In 1963, 
the Boston Redevelopment Authority (BRA) held a town meeting to discuss 
their development plans with the community. The BRA's dealings with Boston's 
West End had created an atmosphere of distrust towards urban renewal in 
Boston, and Charlestown residents opposed the plan by an overwhelming majority. 
By 1965, the plan had been reduced to tearing down only eleven percent 
of the neighborhood, as well as the removal of the elevated rail tracks.[13] 
Throughout the 1960s until the mid-1990s, Charlestown was infamous for 
its Irish Mob presence. Charlestown's McLaughlin Brothers were involved 
in a gang war with neighboring Somerville's Winter Hill Gang, during the 
Irish Mob Wars of the 1960s. In the late 1980s, however, Charlestown underwent 
a massive Yuppie gentrification process similar to that of the South End. 
Drawn to its proximity to downtown and its colonial, red-brick, row-house 
housing stock, similar to that of Beacon Hill, many Yuppie and upper-middle 
class professionals moved to the neighborhood. In the late 1990s, additional 
gentrification took place, similar to that in neighboring Somerville.[citation 
needed] Today the neighborhood is a mix of Yuppies, upper-middle and middle-class 
residents, housing projects, and a large working class Irish-American demographic 
and culture that is still predominant.[citation needed] One of the oldest 
neighborhoods of Boston, Charlestown is home to the Bunker Hill Monument 
and historic Charlestown Navy Yard.[14] Charlestown today is a mainly residential 
neighborhood with an institutional presence. Major institutions include 
Bunker Hill Community College, Spaulding Rehabilitation Center, and a facility 
of Massachusetts General Hospital. The Navy Yard is now a popular national 
park that marks the southern edge of the neighborhood. The waterfront has 
two marinas, Constitution Marina and Shipyard Quarters Marina. Charlestown 
is located north of downtown Boston on a peninsula extending southeastward 
between the Charles River and the Mystic River. The geographic extent of 
the neighborhood has changed dramatically from its colonial ancestor. Landfill 
operations have expanded much of Boston, lowering hills, and have expanded 
Charlestown, eliminating the narrow Charlestown Neck that connected the 
northwest end of the Charlestown Peninsula to the mainland. The original 
territory also included present-day Somerville, which was incorporated 
as a separate town in 1842, and the northern part of Arlington. At the 
time, the Charlestown Peninsula was urbanizing, while Somerville was still 
largely rural. City Square in the southern part of Charlestown is the location 
of the historic city hall. It is also the terminus of the Charlestown Bridge 
and the former Warren Bridge, and was formerly a stop on the Charlestown 
Elevated. The Central Artery was built between 1951 and 1954, routing elevated 
ramps through City Square. The Central Artery North Area (CANA) project 
moved these underground, into the City Square Tunnel, making way for a 
revitalized surface park. Thompson Square is located at the confluence 
of Main Street, Dexter Row, Green Street, and Austin Street. It was also 
formerly a stop on the Charlestown Elevated. The population of the oldest 
neighborhood in Boston has gone through many changes. According to the 
U.S Census Bureau in its 2007-2011 report, the population of Charlestown 
was 16,685. Charlestown's population includes 7,843 males and 8,842 females. 
The majority of population consists of White 12,587 (75.4%), Black or African 
1,227 (7.4%), Asian 1,253 (7.5%), Two or More Races 371 (2.2%), Hispanic 
or Latino 1,227 (7.4%). The largest age group is 25 to 29 years (14.6%), 
the second largest age group is 30 to 34 (12.3%) and the third largest 
age group is 35 to 39 (9.7%). The median household income is $89,017 and 
the median family income is $100,725. Despite this median income, 17% percent 
of the population and 37% of the children live below the Federal Poverty 
Line. The total population consists of 15.9% Foreign Born, 48.5% in Naturalized 
Citizens, and 51.5% are not U.S. Citizens. There is also a rise in the 
minority population from 4.9% in 1990 to 23.5% in 2010. The median income 
for Whites is $103,652, Black or African American is $12,143, Hispanic 
or Latino $30,833, Asian Alone $61,875 and other $16,876. For married couples, 
32.4% are living in poverty for families. For male householders with no 
wife present 3.4% live in poverty and for female householders with no husband 
64.2% live in poverty for families. Charlestown's diversity has expanded 
dramatically, along with growing rates of both the very poor and very wealthy. 
Charlestown's minority population in 2010 was 23.5%, up significantly from 
4.9% in 1990. Median income, at $76,898, is the highest in the City of 
Boston; however, 17% of the entire population and 37% of Charlestown's 
children live below the Federal Poverty Level, well above Boston's child 
poverty rate of 28%.[15] According to the Census from 2010-2014, 53.7% 
of the population will drive to work and 30.0% will take a some form of 
public transportation to get to their jobs. Charlestown is accessible by 
several forms of public transportation, including train, bus and ferry. 
The train transportation is the MBTA Orange Line. The major stop is Community 
College, located near Bunker Hill Community College. The 93 bus goes from 
Sullivan Station, downtown via Bunker Hill Street and Haymarket Station. 
The 92 bus runs from Assembly Square Mall, downtown via Sullivan Square 
Station, Main Street and Haymarket Station. Charlestown is also accessible 
via the Charlestown Navy Yard Ferry Terminal. The Massachusetts Department 
of Correction operated the Charlestown State Prison until its closure in 
1955. The former prison site is occupied by Bunker Hill Community College.[16] 
The Boston Navy Yard was located in Charlestown from 1801 until it was 
closed in 1974. The United States Postal Service operates the Charlestown 
Post Office.[17] Charlestown is well served by public transportation. On 
the MBTA Orange Line, the Community College station serves the center of 
the town and the Sullivan Square station serves the area near the Charlestown 
Neck. Two bus lines serve Charlestown. Both routes start at Sullivan Square 
and travel to the Financial District. The 93 bus travels along Bunker Hill 
Street,[18] and the 92 bus travels along Main Street.[19] The MBTA also 
operates a ferry between the Charlestown Navy Yard Ferry Terminal and Long 
Wharf (near the New England Aquarium),[20] making this a popular choice 
among both commuters and tourists.[21] Charlestown contains many places 
of historical interest, some of which are marked by the northern end of 
Boston's Freedom Trail. The Freedom Trail ends at the Bunker Hill Monument 
commemorating the famous Battle of Bunker Hill. The USS Constitution, the 
oldest commissioned vessel in the US Navy, is docked in the Charlestown 
Navy Yard. Charlestown was also the location from which Paul Revere began 
his famous "midnight ride" before the Battles of Lexington and Concord. 
A restaurant opened in 1780 and still in operation, Warren Tavern, claims 
to have been one of Revere's favorite taverns. Of Charlestown's churches, 
St. Mary's (1887–1893) is considered one of the masterpieces of Patrick 
Keely. In St. John's Episcopal Church, on Devens Street, the central stained 
glass above the altar is a notable work of William James McPherson, a Boston 
designer who later designed the stained glass for the Connecticut State 
Capitol.[22] Charlestown is home to many schools, public and private institutions. 
Charlestown public school system is run by the Boston Public Schools system. 
Boston Public Library operates the Charlestown Branch. The library first 
opened in the Warren Institution for Savings building on January 7, 1862. 
The library moved to a larger space in the new Charlestown City Hall in 
1869. In 1913 the branch moved to the intersection of Monument Avenue and 
Monument Square, in proximity to the Bunker Hill Monument. The branch moved 
to its current location in 1970.[27] The Bunker Hill Monument is located 
at Monument Square. It marks the first major battle of the American Revolution, 
on July 17, 1775. The height of the monument is 221 feet. Visitors can 
climb the 294 steps to reach the top. The USS Constitution is the oldest 
warship in the world still afloat. It was launched in 1797, one of six 
ships built by order of President George Washington to protect maritime 
interests. The location of the USS Constitution and Charlestown Navy Yard 
is at 1 Constitution Road. The Navy Yard is today under the National Park 
Service, an organization that helps preserve history. The Warren Tavern 
first opened in 1780.[28] It is located at 2 Pleasant Street. The building 
was one of the first built after the Battle of Bunker Hill. The Tavern 
took its name from Dr. Joseph Warren, American Patriot who played a key 
role in the American Revolution and was killed in the Battle of Bunker 
Hill. It was Warren who directed Paul Revere and William Dawes to send 
the message to Samuel Adams and John Hancock that the British were setting 
out to raid the town of Concord. Warren's friend Captain Eliphelet Newell 
decided to build a tavern named after his friend. George Washington visited 
the tavern when he came to Massachusetts to visit his friend Benjamin Frothingham. 
After the Tavern was closed in 1813, the building served other purposes, 
and then was saved in the 1970s. The Tavern was reopened in 1972. The Constitution 
Yacht Charter is located on Boston Harbor. The 1998 Independent drama "Monument 
Ave." directed by Ted Demme stars Denis Leary as Bobby O'Grady; an Irish-American 
criminal who becomes conflicted when the code of silence puts his loyalty 
and sense of self-preservation to the test after his two young and close 
cousins, also fellow criminals, are brutally gunned down by their boss. 
Charlestown was also the setting for the 2010 action-thriller The Town, 
directed by and starring Cambridge native Ben Affleck, which follows the 
lives of a group of Boston bank robbers and the law enforcement personnel 
attempting to stop them.[29] The Bunker Hill housing development, an area 
known for its crime and drug use, is featured on the front cover of Blood 
for Blood's album "Serenity". Other movies that were set in or filmed in 
Charlestown include:[30] But the jury they found me guilty, And the judge 
he wrote it down, "For breaking of the Union Bank, You are sent to Charlestown." 
