Charles Harris "Charley" Steiner (born July 17, 1949) is an American sportscaster 
and broadcast journalist. He is currently the main play-by-play voice for 
the Los Angeles Dodgers Radio Network, paired with Rick Monday. Originally 
from the New York City area, Steiner attended Bradley University in Peoria, 
Illinois, and began his career as a newscaster for WIRL radio in Peoria, 
in 1969. After graduating from Bradley in 1971, he hosted his first sports 
show on KSTT radio in Davenport, Iowa. A year later, Steiner moved to New 
Haven, Connecticut, and worked for WAVZ radio as its news director, before 
moving north to Hartford and WPOP radio in a similar capacity. In 1977, 
Steiner relocated to WERE (1300 AM) in Cleveland, Ohio, where he served 
as a sportscaster and later news director. While in Cleveland, he received 
his first television exposure when WKYC-TV hired him as a sports commentator. 
Steiner entered the New York market in 1978 at WXLO-FM where he did newscasts 
for, among others, then-morning host and future actor Jay Thomas.[1] He 
later moved over to sister station WOR for several years as its morning 
drive sportscaster, while working simultaneously as the sports director 
for the RKO Radio Network.[2] He was also the play-by-play voice for the 
USFL's New Jersey Generals from 1983 to 1985, and for the NFL's New York 
Jets in 1986 and 1987. It was during his time with RKO Radio that he was 
involved in a fracas at the conclusion of a press conference after John 
McEnroe had won his semifinals match at Wimbledon in 1981. Throughout the 
tournament, McEnroe had consistently requested not to discuss the status 
of his relationship with then-girlfriend Stacy Margolin.[3] When James 
Whittaker, a gossip columnist from the Daily Star persisted in broaching 
the subject, McEnroe cursed at him and the British media and prematurely 
ended the press conference by storming out of the room.[4] Steiner confronted 
Whittaker to say, "C'mon, man, you are just messing it up for everybody 
else. We want to get our quotes." Right at that point, Nigel Clarke, another 
British reporter who then worked for the Daily Mirror, stuck his index 
finger in Steiner's face.[3] Clarke then got up on a chair and attempted 
to rain punches down on Steiner,[5] who successfully wrestled his adversary 
to the floor. Surprisingly, Steiner later was personally thanked by the 
head of the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club, who also had a disdain 
for the British tabloids.[3] Steiner joined ESPN in 1988, primarily as 
an anchor on SportsCenter. In addition to those duties, he served as the 
network's lead boxing analyst. Steiner was involved in many comical situations 
during his tenure on SportsCenter, including one broadcast when Carl Lewis 
"sang" The Star-Spangled Banner prior to a New Jersey Nets game. Amused 
by hearing Lewis' terrible rendition of the song, Steiner simply could 
not contain himself and began chortling during the SportsCenter show that 
night, unable to stop until the show ended. His famous comment on the event 
was that the song had apparently been written by "Francis Scott Off-Key", 
a pun on the author of the Star-Spangled Banner, Francis Scott Key.[6] 
Steiner was featured in a series of well-known television promos from ESPN's 
This is SportsCenter comical promo campaign. In 1999, amid fears of the 
Y2K situation, Steiner starred in a promo where the SportsCenter cast spoke 
about a "contingency plan" at ESPN's studios after Y2K, and Steiner was 
featured wearing a tie as a head band (along with Braveheart-style face 
paint) and screaming the phrase "Follow me to freedom!"[7] He later screamed 
this phrase at Wrigley Field after singing Take Me Out to the Ballgame 
on August 31, 2005. A second promo featured Steiner being traded from ESPN 
to Melrose Place in exchange for actor Andrew Shue. While Shue delivers 
a straight-up report on a meeting with Paul Tagliabue, Steiner is then 
seen wearing shorts and introduces himself to Laura Leighton (in character 
as "Sidney Andrews") as the new "pool boy" in the show's apartment complex.[8] 
Steiner starred in a third promo with boxer Evander Holyfield. In the opening 
shot, Evander questions Stuart Scott about Steiner's assessment that Holyfield 
is only the "50th best heavyweight of all-time"; Stuart then deadpans that 
he meant "the 50th best heavyweight — in Georgia". In the final scene, 
an angry Holyfield is seen roaming the halls of ESPN screaming, "Charley! 
Come on out and get your whoopin'! Charley, come on out! Steiner!". Steiner 
is seen cowering under a desk. In probably his funniest promo for the This 
is SportsCenter campaign, Steiner talks about how at ESPN the personalities 
can cover the sports that they enjoy and he says that his is boxing. During 
the promo several personalities try to pick a fight with him and he walks 
away from them all until the end when Steiner is getting into his car and 
Otto the Orange comes up to him and Steiner takes out all of his frustrations 
out on Otto by punching him square in the face. A clip of this promo was 
used on SportsCenter's coverage of a 2002 Indianapolis Colts–Philadelphia 
Eagles game in which the Eagles were defeated by numerous Colts players 
who'd gone to Syracuse University, the home of the Syracuse Orange and 
Otto. On August 9, 2004, Steiner returned to ESPN to co-host an "old school" 
version of SportsCenter with Bob Ley. Steiner also hosted a program on 
the NFL Network called Football America, which ran from 2003 to 2005. He 
has also been shown in frequent cuts of interviews for the network's NFL 
Top 10 series, discussing such subjects as former Jets defensive end Mark 
Gastineau. Cuts of his play-by-play of the Jets' September 1986 overtime 
victory (51-45) over the Dolphins are used in retrospectives on that game. 
Steiner was also interviewed on the 1986 New York Jets–Cleveland Browns 
playoff game in which he proclaimed the Jets would win following a fourth-quarter 
touchdown only to see the Browns tie the game and win in double overtime. 
When ESPN Radio gained broadcast rights for Major League Baseball's national 
radio package from CBS in 1998, Steiner became its lead announcer, working 
Sunday night games, the All-Star Game, and postseason games. (Steiner never 
worked the World Series while he was calling games for ESPN Radio, however, 
as those were covered by lead TV voice Jon Miller.) Steiner's most controversial 
home run call came in the 2001 All-Star Game at Safeco Field on July 10. 
His utterance of "Who wrote this script?" to punctuate Cal Ripken, Jr.'s 
third-inning homer off Chan-Ho Park fueled speculation about whether the 
achievement was legitimate or that the pitch was grooved to enable a legendary 
sendoff.[9] Steiner left ESPN in 2002 and joined the New York Yankees' 
radio booth, replacing Michael Kay as John Sterling's play-by-play partner. 
Steiner was at the microphone when Yankees third baseman Aaron Boone won 
Game 7 of the 2003 American League Championship Series with a home run 
in the eleventh inning to defeat the Boston Red Sox. After Steiner completed 
his call, he joined Sterling in his famous "Yankees win! Theeeeeeeeeeee 
Yankees win!" call, saying he "had always wanted to do that".[10] Steiner 
left the Yankees after the following season, his last game being Game 7 
of the 2004 American League Championship Series. He was originally slated 
to move to the YES Network as a studio host, but after Ross Porter, longtime 
radio voice of the Los Angeles Dodgers (Steiner's favorite team growing 
up, with the team still based in Brooklyn) was let go by the team, Steiner 
was hired to take his place. For four years covering the 2005 through 2008 
seasons, the Dodgers' unique broadcasting arrangement had Steiner teamed 
with analyst Rick Monday and working play-by-play on radio during all home 
and intra-divisional road games. However, Steiner's duties during these 
games would begin with the fourth inning and cover the remainder of the 
game, as the first three innings were a radio/television simulcast voiced 
by Vin Scully. Steiner handled television play-by-play on all other games 
(with analyst Steve Lyons), primarily road contests east of the Rocky Mountains. 
For the 2009 season, the Dodgers had Steiner and Monday as their radio 
team for all 162 games, though the Scully simulcast of the first three 
innings would remain.[11] Starting in 2014, Steiner was paired with Orel 
Hershiser on the television broadcast for all games Scully did not call, 
and broadcast on the radio with Monday the other games. Steiner also used 
to host Baseball Beat on XM Satellite Radio's MLB Home Plate channel, where 
he talked exclusively to writers, authors, columnists, broadcasters, or 
celebrities on their thoughts and analysis of the current state of baseball.[12] 
Steiner's last episode of Baseball Beat aired on January 16, 2009. Steiner, 
an Emmy Award recipient, was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame 
on November 9, 2013, becoming the 17th sportscaster admitted into the Hall. 
In December 2010 he was awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters 
from his alma mater Bradley University, where he gave the commencement 
address. Steiner received the United Press International award for "Best 
Sportscaster for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut" in 1981, 1983, and 
1985. His football play-by-play work earned him the New York State Broadcasters 
Association Award for "Best Radio Play-by-Play" in 1983, 1984, and 1987. 
During his fourteen years at ESPN, Steiner won a CableACE award for a documentary 
on Muhammad Ali and a Clarion award for his coverage of the Mike Tyson 
rape trial. Bradley named its school of sports communication for Steiner 
at a ceremony in March, 2015.[13] Steiner's voice is the voice that people 
hear coming from the devices of sheriffs and police officers while they 
confront people in the Northwestern part of the Orlando (Florida) metro 
area (since 2002). Charlie Steiner played the role of Kirby in a movie 
version of Kirby's Dreamland in Winnie the Pooh 3 People 0 in the mid 1990s. 
