Charley Marcuse is a former hot dog vendor at Tiger Stadium and Comerica 
Park in Detroit, Michigan.[1] He became known for his distinctive yell 
while selling hot dogs as well as his refusal to serve ketchup with them, 
responding "There is no ketchup in baseball!" when asked.[2] He received 
national recognition after he was temporarily banned in 2004. He was fired 
permanently in 2013.[3] Marcuse began working at Tiger Stadium in 1999 
as a vendor with Sportservice.[4] Marcuse became well known at Comerica 
Park for his operatic hot dog chant "hoooooooooooot dooooogs" during Tigers 
games. He states that the inspiration behind the operatic chant was derived 
from Luciano Pavarotti and a Three Tenors concert at Tiger Stadium.[5] 
His characteristic chant was polarizing, drawing both praise and complaints 
from baseball fans.[6] In 2004, he was asked to stop singing on the basis 
of complaints from fans and the team's broadcast partners; his voice was 
easily picked up by the microphones in the stadium. The decision received 
national attention and he was allowed to continue singing following an 
outcry from a number of fans demanding his return.[7] Marcuse is also known 
for his refusal to serve ketchup on his hotdogs, insisting that mustard 
is the sole topping that is acceptable. When customers asked for ketchup, 
he replied: "There is no ketchup in baseball!"[8] In 2006, Charley was 
crowned "Higher Authority Hawker" by Hebrew National. The contest was for 
the best hot dog hawking. As part of his winning, Marcuse was awarded with 
an all expense paid trip to see the New York Yankees game.[9] Charley has 
been a guest member on many shows ranging from Good Morning America to 
Sports Illustrated.[citation needed] Marcuse was fired from Comerica Park 
in September 2013. Sportservice released the following statement: While 
it would be inappropriate to comment on specific confidential personnel 
action, in general Detroit Sportservice takes personnel action only after 
a complete and thorough review of an employee’s performance, all in accordance 
with its personnel policies and applicable collective bargaining agreements. 
Sportservice prides itself on providing the highest level of guest service 
to enhance the guest experience at Comerica Park. We encourage our vendors 
to interact and provide an excellent experience for the fans and are proud 
of the great vendors who are serving fans throughout Comerica Park.[10] 
Marcuse himself released this statement: "For 15 years I have tried to 
provide a unique, engaging, and fun experience for everyone. The vast majority 
of feedback and interactions have always been positive. Fans constantly 
tell me that I have added to their enjoyment of the ballgame. The Detroit 
Tigers and Sportservice, a Delaware North Company, see it differently. 
After so many years I am very sorry to see this day come." Following his 
departure from the Tigers, Marcuse developed his own brand of mustard called 
Charley's Ballpark Mustard. His mustard is now offered in 65 establishments 
