Charles Anthony Ryan Silvera (born October 13, 1924) is a retired American 
Major League Baseball player and coach. Nicknamed Swede, he was part of 
six World Series championships with the New York Yankees. Silvera was born 
in San Francisco, California, and attended St. Ignatius College Preparatory 
High School. He signed with the Yankees in 1942, and played the outfield 
for the Wellsville Yankees at just seventeen years old. He missed the 1943 
through 1945 seasons serving in World War II. When he returned for the 
1946 season, he was converted to catcher with the triple A Kansas City 
Blues. After three more seasons in the minors, Silvera debuted with the 
Yankees on September 29, 1948, and went three-for-four with a triple in 
his major league debut.[1] He followed that up with a three-for-five performance 
the next day.[2] His hot bat earned him the backup catcher job behind Yogi 
Berra for the 1949 season. A thumb injury to Berra moved him into the starting 
job for the month of August.[3] He batted .329 with eight runs batted in 
while filling in for the future Hall of Famer. For the season, he posted 
career highs in games played (58), at-bats (130) and RBIs (13). The Yankees 
faced the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1949 World Series. Silvera's only appearance 
came in game two, and he was held hitless in two at-bats by Preacher Roe.[4] 
Despite having been part of six World championship teams, this was the 
only World Series appearance he would ever make. Having only been used 
a total of 21 times in the 1955 and 1956 seasons, Silvera was dealt by 
the Yankees to the Chicago Cubs in exchange for fellow catcher Harry Chiti 
before the 1957 season. Cubs equipment manager Yosh Kawano decided to issue 
him Yogi Berra's number 8 upon his arrival in Chicago, as he had served 
as Berra's back up for eight seasons with the Yankees.[5] His only season 
in the National League was interrupted by an ankle sprain in late May that 
caused him to miss three weeks of the season.[6] He was released by the 
Cubs after just one season in which he batted .208 with two RBIs in 26 
games. In a 10-season career, Silvera earned a reputation as a fine handler 
of pitchers. His only career home run came in the first game of a July 
4 doubleheader off former teammate Fred Sanford, now with the Washington 
Senators.[7] Upon his release from the Cubs, Silvera returned to the Yankees 
as a player/manager for their Southern Association double A affiliate, 
the New Orleans Pelicans. With his team mired in last place, he was replaced 
at the helm in the middle of the 1958 season by fellow player/manager, 
Ray Yochim. He repeated the player manager role with the Binghamton Triplets 
in 1959, guiding them to a 71-68 record. Following his playing career, 
Silvera scouted for the Washington Senators. When Billy Martin got his 
first managing job with the Minnesota Twins in 1969, he named Silvera his 
bullpen coach. He rejoined Martin with the Detroit Tigers from 1971 to 
