Charles W. Somers (October 13, 1868 – June 29, 1934) was an American executive 
in Cleveland, Ohio's coal industry who also achieved prominence in Major 
League Baseball. The financial resources from his business interests allowed 
Somers to become one of the principal founders of baseball's American League 
in 1901. At the insistence of league president Ban Johnson, Somers and 
Jack Kilfoyl, who owned a popular Cleveland men's furnishings store, became 
the first owners of the Cleveland franchise. [1] Kilfoyl was Cleveland's 
first team president and treasurer, while Somers was its vice president 
and main financier. Somers was also the principal owner of the Boston Red 
Sox, a team which had no official nickname until 1908, but was initially 
sometimes called the "Somersets" in his honor. Residing in Cleveland and 
traveling to Boston, Somers was also the American League's vice-president 
during the trade war for independence of and equality with the National 
League which was won in 1903 with the playing of the first World Series.[2] 
Somers' money helped keep some American League teams afloat in their first 
years, including the St. Louis Browns, Charles Comiskey's Chicago White 
Sox and Connie Mack's Philadelphia Athletics.[3] Somers sold his interest 
in the Boston club in 1903 to Henry Killilea. In 1910 Kilfoyl took ill 
and sold his interest in Cleveland to Somers.[4] Somers invested in one 
of the first baseball minor league farm systems, ultimately controlling 
teams in Toledo, Ohio; Ironton, Ohio; Waterbury, Connecticut; Portland, 
Oregon; and the New Orleans Pelicans. Facing pressure from the newly formed 
Federal League, in 1914 Somers transferred his Toledo Mud Hens to Cleveland 
to share League Park. This was done to keep the Federals out of Cleveland 
by ensuring there was already a ball game in Cleveland virtually every 
day of the season. In 1915 the American League team, previously called 
the Cleveland Naps in reference to player/manager Nap Lajoie, was renamed 
the Cleveland Indians. Although Somers had kept the Fed at bay, the new 
league still had its influence, forcing salaries higher. This, combined 
with poor attendance at League Park, along with other investments that 
did not work out, put Somers in a precarious financial position. In 1916, 
although the Fed had disbanded, it was too late to save Somers financially. 
He went broke with debts exceeding assets of $1.75 million, and at the 
insistence of his bank creditors, sold the Indians for $500,000 to a syndicate 
headed by Jim Dunn.[5] The creditors did allow him to retain ownership 
of the Pelicans for sentimental reasons. The Mud Hens returned to Toledo 
in 1916. After selling the Indians he successfully rebuilt his business 
investments. At his death in 1934 (at the height of the Great Depression) 
his estate was worth approximately $3 million.[6] Somers was married twice. 
He had a daughter, Dorothy (Mrs. W. W. Clark) from his first marriage. 
His second wife, Mary Alice Gilbert, survived him. Somers died at Put-in-Bay, 
