Charleston is the capital and largest city of the U.S. state of West Virginia. 
It is located at the confluence of the Elk and Kanawha Rivers in Kanawha 
County. As of the 2013 Census Estimate, it had a population of 50,821, 
while its metropolitan area had 224,743. It is a center of government, 
commerce, and industry.[6] Early industries important to Charleston included 
salt and the first natural gas well.[7] Later, coal became central to economic 
prosperity in the city and the surrounding area. Today, trade, utilities, 
government, medicine, and education play central roles in the city's economy. 
The first permanent settlement, Ft. Lee, was built in 1788. In 1791, Daniel 
Boone was a member of the Kanawha County Assembly. Charleston is the home 
of the West Virginia Power (formerly the Charleston Alley Cats and the 
Charleston Wheelers) minor league baseball team, the West Virginia Wild 
minor league basketball team, and the annual 15-mile (24 km) Charleston 
Distance Run. Yeager Airport and the University of Charleston are also 
located in the city. West Virginia University and the WVU Institute of 
Technology (aka West Virginia Tech), Marshall University, and West Virginia 
State University also have higher education campuses in the area. Charleston 
is also home to McLaughlin Air National Guard Base of the West Virginia 
Air National Guard. The city also contains public parks, such as Cato Park 
and Coonskin Park, and the Kanawha State Forest, a large public state park 
that sustains a pool, camping sites, several biking/walking trails, picnic 
areas, as well as several shelters provided for recreational use. After 
the American Revolutionary War, pioneers began making their way out from 
the early settlements. Many slowly migrated into the western part of Virginia. 
Capitalizing on its many resources made Charleston an important part of 
Virginia and West Virginia history. Today, Charleston is the largest city 
in the state and the state capital. Charleston's history goes back to the 
18th century. Thomas Bullitt was deeded 1,250 acres (5 km2) of land near 
the mouth of the Elk River in 1773. It was inherited by his brother, Cuthbert 
Bullitt, upon his death in 1778, and sold to Col. George Clendenin in 1786.[8] 
The first permanent settlement, Fort Lee, was built in 1787 by Col. Savannah 
Clendenin and his company of Virginia Rangers. This structure occupied 
the area that is now the intersection of Brooks Street and Kanawha Boulevard. 
Historical conjecture indicates that Charleston is named after Col. Clendenin's 
father, Charles. Charles Town was later shortened to Charleston to avoid 
confusion with another Charles Town in eastern West Virginia, which was 
named after George Washington's brother Charles. Six years later, the Virginia 
General Assembly officially established Charleston. On the 40 acres (160,000 m2) 
that made up the town in 1794, 35 people inhabited seven houses. Charleston 
is part of Kanawha County. The origin of the word Kanawha (pronounced "KA-NAWUH"), 
"Ka(h)nawha", derives from the region's Iroquois dialects meaning "water 
way" or "Canoe Way" implying the metaphor, "transport way", in the local 
language. It was and is the name of the river that flows through Charleston. 
The grammar of the "hard H" sound soon dropped out as new arrivals of various 
European languages developed West Virginia.[9] The phrase has been a matter 
of Register (sociolinguistics). In fact, a two-story jail was the first 
county structure ever built, with the first floor literally dug into the 
bank of the Kanawha River. Daniel Boone, who was commissioned a lieutenant 
colonel of the Kanawha County militia, was elected to serve in 1791 in 
the Virginia House of Delegates. As told in historical accounts, Boone 
walked all the way to Richmond. By the early 19th century, salt brines 
were discovered along the Kanawha River and the first salt well was drilled 
in 1806. This created a prosperous time and great economic growth for the 
area. By 1808, 1,250 pounds of salt were being produced a day. An area 
adjacent to Charleston, Kanawha Salines, now Malden, would become the top 
salt producer in the world. In 1818, Kanawha Salt Company, first trust 
in United States, went into operation. Captain James Wilson, while drilling 
for salt, struck the first natural gas well in 1815. It was drilled at 
the site that is now the junction of Brooks Street and Kanawha Boulevard 
(near the present-day state capitol complex.) In 1817, coal was first discovered 
and gradually became used as the fuel for the salt works. The Kanawha salt 
industry declined in importance after 1861, until the onset of World War 
I brought a demand for chemical products. The chemicals needed were chlorine 
and sodium hydroxide, which could be made from salt brine. The town continued 
to grow until the Civil War began in 1861. The state of Virginia seceded 
from the Union, and Charleston was divided between Union and Confederate 
loyalty. On September 13, 1862, the Union and Confederate Armies met in 
the Battle of Charleston. Although the Confederate States Army was victorious, 
occupation of the city was short-lived. Union troops returned just six 
weeks later and stayed through the end of the war. The Northern hold on 
Charleston and most of the western part of Virginia created an even larger 
problem. Virginia already had seceded from the Union, but the western part 
was under Union control. The issue of statehood was raised. So amid the 
tumultuous Civil War, West Virginia officially became a state through Presidential 
Proclamation. Abraham Lincoln declared the northwestern portion of Virginia 
to be returned to the Union, and on June 20, 1863, West Virginia became 
the 35th state. In addition to the issue of slavery, West Virginia was 
also driven to separate from Virginia for economic reasons. The heavy industries 
in the North, particularly the steel business of the upper Ohio River region, 
were dependent on the coal available from western Virginia mines. Federalized 
military units were dispatched from Ohio to western Virginia early in the 
war to secure access to the coal mines and transportation resources. Although 
the state now existed, settling on a state capital location proved to be 
difficult. For several years, the capital of West Virginia intermittently 
traveled between Wheeling and Charleston. In 1877, however, state citizens 
voted on the final location of their capital. Charleston received 41, 243 
votes, Clarksburg received 29,442 and Martinsburg received 8,046. Wheeling 
was not an available option for voting. Charleston was chosen and eight 
years later, the first capitol building was opened. After a fire in 1921, 
a hastily built structure was opened but burned down in 1927. However, 
a Capitol Building Commission, created by the Legislature in 1921, authorized 
construction of the present capitol. Architect Cass Gilbert designed the 
buff Indiana limestone structure, in the Italian Renaissance style, that 
was to have a final cost of just under $10 million. After the three stages 
of construction were completed, Governor William G. Conley dedicated the 
West Virginia State Capitol on June 20, 1932. Charleston became the center 
for state government. Natural resources, such as coal and natural gas, 
along with railroad expansion also contributed to growth. New industries, 
such as chemical, glass, timber and steel migrated to the state, attracted 
by the area's natural resources. There was a huge amount of new construction 
in Charleston. A number of those buildings, including churches and office 
buildings, still stand in the heart of downtown along and bordering Capitol 
Street. During World War II, the first and largest styrene-butadiene plant 
in the U.S. opened in nearby Institute, providing a replacement for rubber 
to the war effort.[10] After the war ended, Charleston was on the brink 
of some significant construction. One of the first during this period was 
Kanawha Airport (now Yeager Airport, named after General Chuck Yeager), 
which was perhaps one of the most phenomenal engineering accomplishments 
of its time. Built in 1947, the construction encompassed clearing 360 acres 
(1.5 km2) on three mountaintops moving more than nine million cubic yards 
of earth. The Charleston Civic Center opened in 1959. In 1956, President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the Federal Aid Highway Act. Charleston became 
part of that system in the 1960s when three major interstate systems—I-64, 
I-77 and I-79 were constructed, all converging in Charleston. In 1983, 
the Charleston Town Center opened its doors downtown. It was the largest 
urban-based mall east of the Mississippi River, featuring three stories 
of shops and eateries. Downtown revitalization began in earnest in the 
late 1980s as well. Funds were set aside for streetscaping as Capitol and 
Quarrier Streets saw new building facades, trees along the streets, and 
brick walkways installed. For a time, the opening of the Charleston Town 
Center Mall had a somewhat negative impact on the main streets of downtown 
Charleston, as many businesses closed and relocated into the mall. For 
a while, the downtown business district (outside of the mall) had a "ghost 
town" feel to it which took several years to turn around. Today, Capitol 
Street, Hale Street, and other bordering streets are an eclectic mixture 
of restaurants, shops, businesses and services that many call the centerpiece 
of downtown. The new Robert C. Byrd Federal Building, Haddad Riverfront 
Park and Capitol Market are just a few new developments that have helped 
growth in the downtown area during the 1990s. Charleston also became known 
as one of the premiere healthcare spots in the state. Along with ambitious 
thinking, plans for even new entertainment and business venues kept Charleston 
moving along at a steady pace. In 1983, WV Public Radio launched a live-performance 
radio program statewide called Mountain Stage.[11] What began as a live, 
monthly statewide broadcast went on to national distribution in 1986. Now 
in its 26th season, Mountain Stage with Larry Groce records 26 two-hour 
programs each year, mostly at the Cultural Center Theater in Charleston, 
and is heard on over 100 radio stations through National Public Radio and 
around the world on the Voice of America satellite service. 2003 marked 
the opening of the Clay Center for the Arts & Sciences. The center includes 
The Maier Foundation Performance Hall, The Walker Theatre, The Avampato 
Discovery Museum and an art museum. Also on site is The ElectricSky Theater, 
which is a 175-seat combination planetarium and dome-screen cinema. Movies 
shown at the theatre include educational large format (70 mm) presentations, 
and are often seen in similar Omnimax theatres. Planetarium shows are staged 
as a combination of pre-recorded and live presentations. Many festivals 
and events were also incorporated into the calendar, including Multifest, 
Vandalia Festival, a July 4 celebration with fireworks at Haddad Riverfront 
Park, and the already popular Sternwheel Regatta, which was founded in 
1970, provided a festive atmosphere for residents to enjoy. In 2005 FestivALL 
Charleston was established and has grown into a ten-day festival offering 
a variety of performances, events and exhibits in music, dance, theatre, 
visual arts and other entertainments. Charleston West Virginia has one 
central agency for its economic development efforts, the Charleston Area 
Alliance. The Alliance works with local public officials and the private 
sector to build the economy of the region and revitalize its downtown. 
Charleston also has an economic and community development organization 
focused on the East End and West Side urban neighborhood business districts, 
Charleston Main Streets. Charleston hosted a community event in 2015 on 
collaborative strategies to combat heroin and drug trafficking in the Appalachians, 
with President Barack Obama as guest speaker.[12] Charleston is located 
at 38°20′58″N 81°38′0″W﻿ / ﻿38.34944°N 81.63333°W﻿ / 38.34944; -81.63333 
(38.349497, -81.633294).[13] It lies within the ecoregion of the Western 
Allegheny Plateau.[14] According to the United States Census Bureau, the 
city has a total area of 32.66 square miles (84.59 km2), of which, 31.52 
square miles (81.64 km2) is land and 1.14 square miles (2.95 km2) is water.[2] 
The city lies at the intersection of Interstates 79, 77, 64, and also where 
the Kanawha and Elk Rivers meet. Charleston is about 162 miles (261 km) 
southeast of Columbus, Ohio, 315 miles (507 km) west of Richmond, Virginia, 
228 miles (367 km) southwest of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 247 miles (398 km) 
east of Louisville, Kentucky, 264 miles (425 km) north of Charlotte, North 
Carolina, 252 miles (406 km) south of Cleveland, Ohio, and 210 miles (340 km) 
southeast of Cincinnati, Ohio. The following are neighborhoods and communities 
within the city limits: [15] The following communities are within the greater 
Charleston area: Charleston has a four-season climate lying on a climatic 
transitional zone between the humid subtropical climate (Köppen Cfa) and 
a humid continental climate (Köppen Dfa).[16] Especially in winter, Charleston's 
average temperatures are warmer than the rest of the state, due to the 
city being west of the higher elevations. Spring is the most unpredictable 
season, and spring-like weather usually arrives in late March or early 
April. From the beginning of March through early May, temperatures can 
vary considerably and it is not unusual at this time for day-to-day temperature 
fluctuations to exceed 20 °F (11 °C). Temperatures warm up considerably 
in late May, with warm summer-like days. Summer is warm to hot, with 23 
days of highs at or above 90 °F (32.2 °C), sometimes reaching 95 °F (35 °C), 
often accompanied by high humidity. Autumn features crisp evenings that 
warm quickly to mild to warm afternoons. Winters are chilly, with a January 
daily average of 34.4 °F (1.3 °C), but with occasional stretches of 50 °F 
(10 °C)+ temperatures, and sub-0 °F (−17.8 °C) lows are rare. Snowfall 
generally occurs from late November to early April, with the heaviest period 
being January and February. However, major snowstorms of more than 10 inches 
(25 cm) are rare. The area averages about 3.5 inches (89 mm) of precipitation 
each month. Thunderstorms are frequent during the late spring and throughout 
the summer, and occasionally they can be quite severe, producing the rare 
tornado. Extremes have ranged from −17 °F (−27 °C) in December 1917 to 
108 °F (42 °C) in July 1931 and August 1918.[17] Charleston functions under 
the Mayor-Council form of city government. The Mayor is the designated 
Chief Executive Officer of the city with the duty to see that all of the 
laws and ordinances of the city are enforced. The Mayor gives general supervision 
over all executive departments, offices and agencies of the city government 
and is the presiding officer of the Council and a voting member thereof. 
The current mayor is an Independent, Danny Jones, who was elected in 2003, 
and re-elected in 2007, 2011 and 2015. Jones was elected all four times 
as a Republican, but he announced on June 17, 2016, that he had decided 
to leave the Republican Party and register unaffiliated.[19] Charleston 
also has a City Manager who is appointed by the Mayor and approved by the 
Council. The City Manager has supervision and control of the executive 
work and management of the heads of all departments under his control as 
directed by the Mayor, makes all contracts for labor and supplies, and 
generally has the responsibility for all of the business and administrative 
work of the city. With twenty-six members, the Charleston City Council 
is somewhat larger than usual for a city with a population of less than 
50,000. Twenty of the council members are elected from a specific ward 
within the city, and an additional six members are elected by the city 
at-large. General Elections for Mayor, City Council and other city officers 
take place in May every four years (Primary Elections are held in March). 
The most recent election was in May 2015. As of the census[3] of 2010, 
there were 51,400 people, 23,453 households, and 12,587 families residing 
in the city. The population density was 1,630.7 inhabitants per square 
mile (629.6/km2). There were 26,205 housing units at an average density 
of 831.4 per square mile (321.0/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 
78.4% White, 15.5% African American, 0.2% Native American, 2.3% Asian, 
0.3% from other races, and 3.2% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 1.4% of the population. There were 23,453 households of 
which 24.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 35.6% were 
married couples living together, 14.1% had a female householder with no 
husband present, 3.9% had a male householder with no wife present, and 
46.3% were non-families. 39.4% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 13.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.11 and the average family size was 2.83. The 
median age in the city was 41.7 years. 20.1% of residents were under the 
age of 18; 9% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 24.9% were from 25 to 
44; 29.9% were from 45 to 64; and 16.1% were 65 years of age or older. 
The gender makeup of the city was 47.6% male and 52.4% female. As of the 
census of 2000, there were 53,421 people, 24,505 households, and 13,624 
families residing in the city. The population density was 1,690.4 people 
per square mile (652.7/km²). There were 27,131 housing units at an average 
density of 858.5 per square mile (331.5/km²). The racial makeup of the 
city was 80.63% White, 15.07% Black or African American, 0.24% Native American, 
1.83% Asian, 0.03% Pacific Islander, 0.30% from other races, and 1.91% 
from two or more races. 0.81% of the population were Hispanics or Latinos 
of any race. The five most common ancestries were German (12.4%), English 
(11.6%), American (11.4%), Irish (10.6%), and Italian (3.9%).[23] There 
were 24,505 households out of which 23.7% had children under the age of 
18 living with them, 38.9% were married couples living together, 13.5% 
had a female householder with no husband present, and 44.4% were non-families. 
38.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.5% had someone 
living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size 
was 2.11 and the average family size was 2.82. The age distribution was 
20.7% under 18, 8.4% from 18 to 24, 27.9% from 25 to 44, 25.3% from 45 
to 64, and 17.6% who were 65 or older. The median age was 41 years. For 
every 100 females there were 87.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and 
over, there were 83.7 males. The median income for a household in the city 
was $34,009, and the median income for a family was $47,975. Males had 
a median income of $38,257 versus $26,671 for females. The per capita income 
for the city was $26,017. About 12.7% of families and 16.7% of the population 
were below the poverty line, including 24.5% of those under age 18 and 
11.3% of those age 65 or over. The city of Charleston has numerous schools 
that are part of Kanawha County Schools. The three high schools are: Charleston 
hosts a branch campus of West Virginia University that serves as a clinical 
campus for the university's medical and dental schools. Students at either 
school must complete their class work at the main campus in Morgantown 
but can complete their clinical rotations at hospitals in Morgantown, the 
Eastern Panhandle, or Charleston. Students from West Virginia School of 
Osteopathic Medicine may also complete their clinical rotations at the 
branch campus, after completing their first two academic years at the main 
campus in Lewisburg. The city is also home to a 1,000-student private college, 
the University of Charleston, formerly Morris Harvey College. The college 
is located on MacCorkle Avenue along the banks of the Kanawha River in 
the community of South Ruffner. Located within the immediate area are West 
Virginia State University in Institute, BridgeValley Community and Technical 
College – South Charleston Campus, and the Marshall University – South 
Charleston Campus, both in South Charleston. The region is also home to 
the Charleston Branch of the Robert C. Byrd Institute for Advanced Flexible 
Manufacturing, an independent program administered by Marshall University; 
it provides access to computer numerical control (CNC) equipment for businesses 
in two states. Located approximately 30 miles (50 km) from Charleston, 
West Virginia University Institute of Technology has its campus in Montgomery, 
West Virginia. West Virginia University Institute of Technology is the 
largest regional campus of the University and focuses mainly on engineering 
programs. BridgeValley Community and Technical College – Montgomery Campus 
is also located in Montgomery. Charleston is also home to West Virginia 
Junior College's Charleston campus. Located in downtown Charleston at 1000 Virginia 
Street, WV Junior College is accredited by the Accrediting Council for 
Independent Colleges and Schools to award diplomas and associate degrees. 
Part of the Kanawha Valley for almost 115 years, WV Junior College was 
originally established as Capitol City Commercial College on September 
1, 1892. The College was originally established to train students in secretarial 
and business skills and has undergone changes in location and curriculum 
through the years. CAMC (Charleston Area Medical Center) a complex of hospitals 
throughout the city. Saint Francis Hospital (located in downtown) The City 
of Charleston recognizes the Charleston Area Alliance[28] as its economic 
development organization. Charleston is home to numerous annual events 
and fairs that take place throughout the city, from the banks of the Kanawha 
River to the capitol grounds. The West Virginia Dance Festival, held between 
April 25 and 30, features dance students from across the state that attend 
classes and workshops in ballet, jazz and modern dance. At the finale, 
the students perform in the West Virginia State Theatre; these are free 
to the public. Beginning in 1982, Symphony Sunday, held annually usually 
the first weekend in June, is a full day of music, food, and family fun, 
culminating in a free performance by the West Virginia Symphony Orchestra 
and a fireworks display following. Throughout the day, local performing 
community dance and music ensembles present a series of their own selected 
pieces with the final performance being by the West Virginia Symphony Orchestra. 
The local performing community dance and music ensembles that perform for 
Symphony Sunday include the Kanawha Valley Ringers, the West Virginia Kickers, 
the Charleston Metro Band, the West Virginia Youth Symphony, the Mountain 
State Brass Band, and the Kanawha Valley Community Band. The now defunct 
Charleston Neophonic Orchestra has also performed at the event.[29] The 
NPR program Mountain Stage was founded in Charleston in 1983. The live 
performance music program, produced by West Virginia Public Broadcasting, 
and heard on the Voice of America and via NPR Music, records episodes regularly 
at the Culture Center Theater on the West Virginia State Capitol grounds. 
Twice a year, in late April and again in early November, the West Virginia 
International Film Festival occurs, where many domestic and international 
films are shown that range from full-length feature films, shorts, documentaries, 
animation and student films. Charleston hosts the annual Gazette-Mail Kanawha 
County Majorette and Band Festival for the eight public high schools in 
Kanawha County. The festival began in 1947 and has continued on as an annual 
tradition. The festival is held at the University of Charleston Stadium 
at Laidley Field in downtown Charleston. On Memorial Day weekend, the Vandalia 
Gathering is held on the grounds of the state capitol. Thousands of visitors 
each year enjoy traditional music, art, dance, stories, crafts and food 
that stems from the "uniqueness of West Virginia's mountain culture." Since 
2005 FestivALL has provided the Charleston area with cultural and artistic 
events beginning on June 20 (West Virginia Day) and including dance, theater, 
and music. FestivALL provides local artists a valuable chance to display 
their works and help get others interested in, and involved with, the local 
artistic community. Highlights include an art fair on Capitol Street and 
local bands playing live music at stages set up throughout downtown, as 
well as a wine and jazz festival on the campus of the University of Charleston 
featuring local and nationally known jazz artists and showcasing the products 
of West Virginia vineyards. The Charleston Sternwheel Regatta founded in 
1970, is a former annual event that was held on Labor Day weekend of each 
year. The event had carnival style rides and attractions and live music 
from local and nationally known bands. It was held on the Kanawha Boulevard 
by Haddad Riverfront Park on the Kanawha River. The event started the Wednesday 
before Labor Day Weekend and ended the Sunday of Labor Day Weekend with 
a fireworks show on Sunday evening. Due to political differences between 
local sternwheel owners and factions of city government, sternwheel attendance 
declined in recent years. Once a promising regatta, rivaling Tall Stacks 
in Cincinnati, it was discontinued after the 2008 festival season. Charleston, 
home to the largest population of privately owned sternwheel vessels in 
the United States is the only city in the region not home to an annual 
river festival. Charleston possesses a number of older buildings which 
represent a variety of historical architectural styles. About fifty places 
in Charleston are included on the National Register of Historic Places.[30] 
A segment of the East End consisting of several blocks of both Virginia 
and Quarrier Streets, encompassing an area of nearly a full square mile, 
has been officially designated as a historical neighborhood. This residential 
neighborhood has many houses dating from the late 19th and early 20th century 
as well as a few art deco style apartment buildings dating from the 1920s 
and early 30s. Downtown Charleston is home to several commercial buildings 
that are between 80 and 115 years old, including such notable structures 
as the Security Building (corner of Virginia and Capitol Street), 405 Capitol 
Street (the former Daniel Boone Hotel), the Union Building (at the southern 
end of Capitol Street), the Kanawha County Courthouse, the Public Library 
(corner of Capitol and Quarrier Streets) and the Masonic Temple (corner 
of Virginia and Dickenson Street). Also of note are several historic churches 
grouped closely together in a neighborhood just to the east of downtown; 
Basilica of the Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart (one of the two cathedrals 
of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Wheeling-Charleston), First Presbyterian 
Church, Kanawha United Presbyterian Church, St. John's Episcopal Church, 
Charleston Baptist Temple, St. Paul's Evangelical Lutheran Church, and 
Christ Church United Methodist. Additional historic buildings can be found 
throughout the city, particularly in the broader East End, the West Side 
and Kanawha City. Some of these buildings include: The West Virginia Chaos 
is a soccer team that plays its home games at Schoenbaum Stadium in Charleston. 
The team plays in the USL Premier Development League (PDL) — the fourth 
tier of the American Soccer Pyramid — in the South Atlantic Division of 
the Eastern Conference. The Charleston Town Center opened in 1983, the 
Town Center Mall is a three-story shopping and dining facility, with 130 specialty 
stores. Macy's, Sears and J.C. Penney are the mall's current anchor stores. 
The fourth anchor pad is occupied by the headquarters for BrickStreet Mutual 
Insurance Co., a private West Virginia–based workers' compensation insurance 
carrier. There are also six major restaurants located on street level and 
12 fast food restaurants representing the food court, located on the third 
floor of the mall. There are five major shopping plazas located in Charleston, 
two in the Kanawha City neighborhood - The Shops at Kanawha and Kanawha 
Landing along with three in the Southridge area, divided between Charleston 
and South Charleston — Southridge Centre, Dudley Farms Plaza, and The Shops 
at Trace Fork. Major stores include The Shops at Kanawha plaza, Southridge 
Centre plaza, Dudley Farms Plaza, and The Shops at Trace Fork plaza. Charleston's 
only major newspaper is the Charleston Gazette-Mail. Charleston has a total 
of 11 radio stations (AM and FM) licensed in the city. Most of the stations 
are owned either by the West Virginia Radio Corporation or by the Bristol 
Broadcasting Company. * represents radio stations that are licensed to 
the city of Charleston. The Charleston–Huntington TV market, is the second 
largest television market (in terms of area) east of the Mississippi River 
and 64th largest in terms of households in the US serving counties in central 
West Virginia, eastern Kentucky, and southern Ohio. There are four VHF 
and ten UHF television stations in the market. There are 21 high-rise buildings 
located in Charleston. Laidley Tower is the tallest structure in the downtown 
area. Yeager Airport is West Virginia's largest airport serving more than 
twice as many passengers as all other WV airports combined. It is located 
2-mile (3 km) north of Interstate 64 and Interstate 77, accessible via 
WV 114. Amtrak, the national passenger rail service, provides tri-weekly 
service to Charleston via the Cardinal routes. The Amtrak station is on 
the south side of the Kanawha River, at 350 MacCorkle Avenue near downtown. 
Interstate 64 crosses the Kanawha River four times as it passes through 
the Charleston metropolitan area. The Elk River flows into the Kanawha 
River in downtown Charleston. Charleston is served by Interstate 64, Interstate 
77, and Interstate 79. The West Virginia Turnpike's northern terminus is 
at the southeastern end of the city. Two U.S. routes, US 60, and US 119, 
cut through the city center. US 21 and US 35 formerly ran through Charleston. 
WV 25, WV 61, WV 62, and WV 114 are all state highways that are within 
Charleston's city limits. Charleston is served by Kanawha Valley Regional 
Transportation Authority. C&H Taxi services the Kanawha valley. Charleston's 
