Charleston is the oldest and second-largest city in the U.S. state of South 
Carolina, the county seat of Charleston County,[5] and the principal city 
in the Charleston–North Charleston–Summerville Metropolitan Statistical 
Area.[6] The city lies just south of the geographical midpoint of South 
Carolina's coastline and is located on Charleston Harbor, an inlet of the 
Atlantic Ocean formed by the confluence of the Ashley and Cooper Rivers, 
or, as is locally expressed, "where the Cooper and Ashley Rivers come together 
to form the Atlantic Ocean." Charleston had an estimated population of 
132,609 in 2015.[7] The population of the Charleston metropolitan area, 
comprising Berkeley, Charleston, and Dorchester Counties, was counted by 
the 2015 estimate at 727,689—the third-largest in the state—and the 78th-largest 
metropolitan statistical area in the United States. Charleston was founded 
as Charles Town—honoring King Charles II of England—in 1670. Its initial 
location at Albemarle Point on the west bank of the Ashley River (now Charles 
Towne Landing) was abandoned in 1680 for its present site, which became 
the 5th-largest city in North America within 10 years. Despite its size, 
it remained unincorporated throughout the colonial period; its government 
was handled directly by the state legislature and by its Anglican parish 
wardens and vestries. It adopted its present spelling with its incorporation 
as a city in 1783 at the close of the Revolutionary War. Endemic bouts 
of yellow fever and malaria influenced the removal of the state government 
to Columbia in 1788, although the port remained among the 10 largest cities 
in the United States through the 1840 census.[8] The only major American 
city to have a majority-enslaved population, Antebellum Charleston was 
controlled by a militarized oligarchy of white planters and merchants who 
successfully forced the federal government to revise its 1828 and 1832 
tariffs during the Nullification Crisis and launched the Civil War by seizing 
the Arsenal, Castle Pinckney, and Fort Sumter from their federal garrisons. 
The Confederates burned the town prior to its evacuation but continued 
demand for the area's cotton and rice, along with growing industry and 
a large military presence, saw it through Reconstruction. Known for its 
rich history, well-preserved architecture, distinguished restaurants, and 
mannerly people, Charleston is a popular tourist destination and has received 
a large number of accolades, including "America's Most Friendly [City]" 
by Travel + Leisure in 2011 and in 2013 and 2014 by Condé Nast Traveler,[9][10] 
and also "the most polite and hospitable city in America" by Southern Living 
magazine.[11] The city proper consists of six distinct areas: the Peninsula 
or Downtown, West Ashley, Johns Island, James Island, Daniel Island, and 
the Cainhoy Peninsula. The old city is located on Oyster Point, where, 
as locals say, "The Ashley and the Cooper Rivers come together to form 
the Atlantic Ocean."[12] The entire peninsula is very low and presents 
a picturesque appearance from the harbor, where the buildings seem to rise 
from the sea.[13] The situation, however, does leave the city vulnerable 
to frequent floods during hurricanes, heavy rains, storm surges, and some 
high tides. The old town fit into 4–5 square miles (10–13 km2) as late 
as the First World War[13][14] but has since greatly expanded, crossing 
the Ashley and encompassing James Island and some of Johns Island. The 
city limits also have expanded across the Cooper River, encompassing Daniel 
Island and the Cainhoy area. The present city has a total area of 127.5 
square miles (330.2 km2), of which 109.0 square miles (282.2 km2) is land 
and 18.5 square miles (47.9 km2) is covered by water.[15] North Charleston 
blocks any expansion up the peninsula, and Mount Pleasant occupies the 
land directly east of the Cooper River. Charleston Harbor runs about 7 
miles (11 km) southeast to the Atlantic with an average width of about 
2 miles (3.2 km), surrounded on all sides except its entrance. Sullivan's 
Island lies to the north of the entrance and Morris Island to itself south. 
The entrance itself is about 1 mile (2 km) wide; it was originally only 
18 feet (5 m) deep, but began to be enlarged in the 1870s.[13] The tidal 
rivers (Wando, Cooper, Stono, and Ashley) are evidence of a submergent 
or drowned coastline. There is a submerged river delta off the mouth of 
the harbor and the Cooper River is deep. Charleston has a humid subtropical 
climate (Köppen climate classification Cfa), with mild winters, hot, humid 
summers, and significant rainfall all year long. Summer is the wettest 
season; almost half of the annual rainfall occurs from June to September 
in the form of thundershowers. Fall remains relatively warm through November. 
Winter is short and mild, and is characterized by occasional rain. Measurable 
snow (≥0.1 in or 0.25 cm) only occurs several times per decade at the most, 
with the last such event occurring December 26, 2010.[16] However, 6.0 in 
(15 cm) fell at the airport on December 23, 1989, the largest single-day 
fall on record, contributing to a single-storm and seasonal record of 8.0 in 
(20 cm) snowfall.[16] The highest temperature recorded within city limits 
was 104 °F (40 °C) on June 2, 1985, and June 24, 1944, and the lowest was 
7 °F (−14 °C) on February 14, 1899. At the airport, where official records 
are kept, the historical range is 105 °F (41 °C) on August 1, 1999, down 
to 6 °F (−14 °C) on January 21, 1985.[16] Hurricanes are a major threat 
to the area during the summer and early fall, with several severe hurricanes 
hitting the area—most notably Hurricane Hugo on September 21, 1989 (a category 
4 storm). The dewpoint in June to August ranges from 67.8 to 71.4 °F (19.9 
to 21.9 °C).[17] The Charleston–North Charleston–Summerville Metropolitan 
Statistical Area consists of three counties: Charleston, Berkeley, and 
Dorchester. As of the 2013 U.S. Census, the metropolitan statistical area 
had a total population of 712,239 people. North Charleston is the second-largest 
city in the Charleston–North Charleston–Summerville Metropolitan Statistical 
Area and ranks as the third-largest city in the state; Mount Pleasant and 
Summerville are the next-largest cities. These cities combined with other 
incorporated and unincorporated areas along with the city of Charleston 
form the Charleston-North Charleston Urban Area with a population of 548,404 
as of 2010[update].[21] The metropolitan statistical area also includes 
a separate and much smaller urban area within Berkeley County, Moncks Corner 
(with a 2000 population of 9,123). The traditional parish system persisted 
until the Reconstruction Era, when counties were imposed.[citation needed] 
Nevertheless, traditional parishes still exist in various capacities, mainly 
as public service districts. When the city of Charleston was formed, it 
was defined by the limits of the Parish of St. Philip and St. Michael, 
now also includes parts of St. James' Parish, St. George's Parish, St. 
Andrew's Parish, and St. John's Parish, although the last two are mostly 
still incorporated rural parishes. After Charles II was restored to the 
English throne in 1660, he granted the chartered Province of Carolina to 
eight of his loyal friends, known as the Lords Proprietors, on March 24, 
1663. It took seven years before the group arranged for settlement expeditions. 
In 1670, Governor William Sayle brought over several shiploads of settlers 
from Bermuda, which lies due east of Charleston although closer to Cape 
Hatteras in North Carolina. These settlers established Charles Town at 
Albemarle Point on the west bank of the Ashley River a few miles northwest 
of the present-day city center.[22] Charles Town became English-speaking 
America's first comprehensively-planned town with governance, settlement, 
and development were to follow a visionary plan known as the Grand Model 
prepared for the Lords Proprietors by John Locke.[23] Because the Carolina's 
Fundamental Constitutions was never ratified, however, Charles Town was 
never incorporated during the colonial period, with the British Crown disallowing 
the one attempt to do so in the 1720s.[24] Instead, local ordinances were 
passed by the provincial government, with day-to-day administration handled 
by the wardens and vestries of St Philip's and St Michael's Anglican parishes.[22][24] 
At the time of contact, the area was inhabited by the Cusabo Indians. The 
settlers declared war on them in October 1671. The Charlestonians initially 
allied with the Westo, a slaving northern tribe that had grown powerful 
trading for guns with the colonists in Virginia. The Westo had made enemies 
of nearly every other tribe in the region, however, and the English turned 
on them in 1679. Destroying them by 1680, the settlers were able to use 
their improved relations with the Cusabo and other tribes to trade, recapture 
runaway slaves, and engage in slaving raids of Spanish-allied areas.[25] 
The Earl of Shaftesbury, one of the Lords Proprietors, proclaimed that 
it would soon become a "great port towne".[citation needed] Instead, the 
initial settlement quickly dwindled away and disappeared while another 
village—established by the settlers on Oyster Point at the confluence of 
the Ashley and Cooper Rivers around 1672[22]—thrived; this settlement formally 
replaced the original Charles Town in 1680.[26] (The original site is now 
commemorated as Charles Towne Landing.) Not only was this location more 
defensible, but it also offered access to a fine natural harbor which accommodated 
trade with the West Indies. The new town was the 5th-largest in North America 
by 1690.[27] On Carolina's southern coast, transportation between the early 
communities by river and sea was so convenient that Charleston was the 
only court needed until the late 1750s,[24] but difficulty in transport 
and communications with the north meant its settlers were effectively independent 
of Charles Town as late as the governorship of Philip Ludwell; even then, 
the north was controlled through an appointed deputy governor. On December 
7, 1710, the Lords Proprietors decided to separate the Province of North 
Carolina from Charles Town's government, although they continued to own 
and control both regions. A smallpox outbreak hit in 1698, followed by 
an earthquake in February 1699 whose ensuing fire destroyed about a third 
of the town. During rebuilding,[28] a yellow fever outbreak killed about 
15% of the remaining inhabitants. Charles Town saw between 5 and 8 major 
yellow fever outbreaks over the first half of the 18th century. It developed 
a deserved reputation as one of the least healthy locations in British 
North America for whites, although mistaken observations over the period 
led some doctors to think that blacks had a natural immunity to the disease. 
In fact, both black and white locals appear to have developed a general 
immunity to the disease by 1750, with future outbreaks (lasting until 1871) 
tending to only kill new arrivals, prompting its local name "stranger's 
fever".[29] Malaria—locally known as "country fever" since yellow fever 
was largely confined to Charles Town and the coast—was endemic and, though 
not causing so much public panic, was also a major health problem through 
most of the city's history before dying out in the 1950s.[30] Charles Town 
was fortified according to a plan developed in 1704 under Governor Nathaniel 
Johnson. The early settlement was often subject to attack from sea and 
land. Both Spain and France contested England's claims to the region. Native 
Americans and pirates both raided it, though the Yamasee War of the 1710s 
did not quite reach it. In late May 1718, Charles Town was besieged by 
Edward Teach, commonly known as "Blackbeard", for nearly a week. His pirates 
plundered merchant ships and seized the passengers and crew of the Crowley 
while demanding a chest of medicine from Governor Robert Johnson. Receiving 
it, they released their nearly naked hostages and sailed up the coast for 
North Carolina.[31] The wreck of Blackbeard's flagship, the Queen Anne's 
Revenge, has since been discovered and found to include a urethral syringe 
(used to treat syphilis), pump clysters (used to provide enemas), a porringer 
(possibly for bloodletting), and a brass mortar and pestle for preparing 
medicine.[32] Around 1719, the town's name began to be generally written 
Charlestown[22] and, excepting those fronting the Cooper River, the old 
walls were largely removed over the next decade. Charlestown was a center 
for inland colonization of South Carolina, but remained the southernmost 
point of English settlement on the American mainland until the Province 
of Georgia was established in 1732. The first settlers primarily came from 
England and its colonies on Barbados and Bermuda. Protestant French, Scottish, 
Irish, and Germans immigrated, as did hundreds of Jews, predominately Sephardi.[33] 
As late as 1830, Charleston continued to house the largest and wealthiest 
Jewish community in America.[33][34] Because of the struggles of the English 
Reformation and particularly because the papacy long recognized James II's 
son as the rightful king of England, Scotland, and Ireland, openly-practicing 
Roman Catholics were prohibited from settling in South Carolina throughout 
the colonial period. (Catholic emancipation did not proceed in earnest 
until after the onset of the American Revolution.) By 1708, however, the 
majority of the colony's population were black Africans. They had been 
brought to Charlestown on the Middle Passage, first as "servants" and then 
as slaves. Of the estimated 400,000 Africans transported to North America 
for sale as slaves, 40% are thought to have landed at Sullivan's Island 
off Charlestown, a "hellish Ellis Island of sorts". With no official monument 
marking this role, the writer Toni Morrison organized a privately-funded 
commemorative bench.[35] The Bakongo, Mbundu, Wolof, Mende, and Malinke 
peoples formed the largest groups.[36] Free people of color also arrived 
from the West Indies, where wealthy whites took black consorts and color 
lines were (especially early on) looser among the working class.[37] South 
Carolina continued to have a black majority until after the Great Migration 
of the early 20th century. At the foundation of the town, the principal 
items of commerce were pine timber and pitch for ships and tobacco, but 
the early economy developed around the deerskin trade, using alliances 
with the Cherokee and Creek peoples to secure the raw material used for 
Europeans' buckskin pants, gloves, and bookbindings. Records show an average 
annual export of 54,000 skins for the years from 1699 to 1715. During the 
height of the trade from 1739 to 1761, 5,239,350 lb (2,376,530 kg) of deerskin 
were exported through Charlestown, representing between 0.5–1.25 million 
deer.[citation needed] To a lesser extent, beaver pelts were also exported. 
At the same time, the Indians were used to enslave one another. From 1680 
to 1720, approximately 40,000 native men, women, and children were sold 
through the port, principally to the West Indies but also to Boston and 
other cities in British North America.[38] The Lowcountry planters did 
not keep these slaves themselves, considering them too prone to escape 
or revolt, and instead used the proceeds of their sale to purchase black 
African slaves for their own plantations.[39] The slaveraiding—and the 
European firearms it introduced—helped destabilize Spanish Florida and 
French Louisiana in the 1700s during the War of the Spanish Succession[39] 
but also provoked the Yamasee War of the 1710s that nearly destroyed the 
colony, after which the practice was largely abandoned.[38] The area's 
unsuitability for the tobacco exported from Virginia and North Carolina 
prompted the Lowcountry planters to experiment with other cash crops ranging 
from tea to mulberries. They had discovered South Carolina's suitability 
for Asian rice cultivation by 1700 but early attempts using free or indentured 
farmers were unsuccessful. African rice, separately domesticated in Mali, 
had spread across western Africa. The profitability of growing rice for 
export to England led the planters to pay premiums for slaves from the 
"Rice Coast" who knew its cultivation; their descendants make up the Gullah 
of the South Carolina and Georgia coasts.[40] Slaves imported from the 
Caribbean showed the planter George Lucas's daughter Eliza how to raise 
and use indigo for dyeing in 1747. Within three years, British subsidies 
and high demand had already made it a leading export.[41] Throughout this 
period, the slaves were sold aboard the arriving ships or at ad hoc gatherings 
in town's taverns.[42] Runaways and minor rebellions prompted the 1739 
Security Act requiring all white men to carry weapons at all times (even 
to church on Sundays), but before it had fully taken effect the Cato or 
Stono Rebellion broke out. The white community had recently been decimated 
by a malaria outbreak and the rebels killed over forty whites before being 
stopped by the colonial militia. The planters attributed the violence to 
recently imported Africans and agreed to a 10-year moratorium on slave 
importation through Charlestown, relying on the communities they already 
possessed. The 1740 Negro Act also tightened controls, requiring one white 
for every ten blacks on any plantation and banning slaves from assembling 
together, growing their own food, earning money, or learning to read. Drums 
were banned owing to Africans' use of them for signaling, although slaves 
continued to be permitted string and other instruments.[43] When the moratorium 
expired and Charlestown reopened to the slave trade in 1750, the memory 
of the Stono Rebellion meant that slaves from the Congo and Angola were 
avoided. A large tornado in 1761 temporarily emptied the Ashley River and 
sank five warships lying offshore.[44] By the mid-18th century, Charlestown 
was the hub of the Atlantic trade of England's southern colonies. Even 
with the decade-long moratorium, its customs processed around 40% of the 
African slaves brought to North America between 1700 and 1775.[42] The 
plantations and the economy based on them made it the wealthiest city in 
British North America[45] and the largest south of Philadelphia. Its 11,000 
inhabitants—half slaves—made it the 4th-largest port after Boston, New 
York, and Philadelphia in 1770. The money also paid for cultural and social 
development. Charlestown saw America's first theater building in 1736 at 
the site of today's Dock Street Theater.[citation needed] St Michael's 
was erected in 1753.[26] Benevolent societies were formed by the Huguenots, 
free people of color,[b] Germans, and Jews. The Library Society was established 
in 1748 by well-born young men who wanted to share the financial cost to 
keep up with the scientific and philosophical issues of the day. This group 
also helped establish the town's college in 1770, the first in the colony. 
Until its transition to state ownership in 1970, it remained the oldest 
municipally-supported college in the United States. To protest the 1773 
Tea Act, Charlestonians confiscated British tea and held it in the Exchange 
and Provost. Delegates for the Continental Congress were elected in 1774 
and South Carolina declared its independence from Britain on the steps 
of the Exchange. British warships began to target Charlestown's church 
steeples, prompting the rebels to paint them black to blend with the night 
sky. As part of the Southern theater of the American Revolution, the British 
attacked the town in force three times,[26] generally assuming that the 
settlement had a large base of Loyalists who would rally to their cause 
once given some military support.[46] The loyalty of the white southerners 
had largely been forfeited, however, by British legal cases (such as the 
1772 Somerset case) and military tactics (such as Dunmore's Proclamation 
in 1775) that threatened the emancipation of the planter's slaves; the 
same practices, however, did win the allegiance of thousands of Black Loyalists. 
The Battle of Sullivan's Island saw the 9 ships and 2000 soldiers under 
Admiral Peter Parker and General Henry Clinton fail to capture a partially-constructed 
palmetto palisade from the few hundred men composing Col. William Moultrie's 
militia regiment over the course of a day's fighting on June 28, 1776. 
Moultrie had been forced to ignore the order to retreat from his general 
Charles Lee under commands from his president John Rutledge. In the end, 
the spongy palmetto-and-sand defenses completely neutralized the British 
naval bombardment and gave the Royal Navy its first defeat in a century. 
The Liberty Flag used by Moultrie's men formed the basis of the later South 
Carolina flag and the victory's anniversary continues to be commemorated 
as Carolina Day. Following the capture of Savannah in the closing days 
of 1778, forces under Brig. Gen. Augustine Prévost contested control of 
Augusta with the army under Maj. Gen. Benjamin Lincoln. In April 1779, 
Prévost instead sent 2500 men towards South Carolina, forcing Moultrie's 
militia to fall back towards Charlestown. His men didn't see resistance 
until they reached within 10 miles (16 km) of the city and begun to invest 
it,[47] but an intercepted message alerted Prévost that Lincoln had been 
informed of the assault and was returning from Augusta. Prévost began an 
orderly withdrawal and the major engagement of the affair was his rearguard's 
successful defense of the crossing at Stono Creek on June 20. The expedition's 
major effect was the antagonism its indiscriminate raiding provoked from 
ally and enemy alike. The same year, the French frigate Amazone captured 
the post ship Ariel off Charlestown on September 11. Making the capture 
of Charlestown their chief priority, the British sent Gen. Clinton south 
from New England in October 1779. Gen. Lincoln was aware of the attack 
and set about fortifying the city, but an outbreak of smallpox over the 
winter was used by local slaveholders to excuse themselves from sending 
men to assist the effort.[48] After reinforcement, Gen. Clinton approached 
the town via James Island and began his siege on April 1, 1780, with about 
14,000 troops and 90 ships. Bombardment began on March 11. De Laumoy advised 
Gen. Lincoln's surrender, as the rebels had only about 5500 men and inadequate 
fortifications to repel the forces against them. As the British cut his 
supply lines and lines of retreat through skirmishes at Monck's Corner 
and Lenud's Ferry, Lincoln held out until May 12, when his surrender became 
the greatest American defeat of the war. Gen. Clinton left Lt. Gen. Charles 
Cornwallis in Charleston with around 3000 troops to consolidate British 
control and then move north against Virginia. These troops were responsible 
for Cornwallis's decisive victory at Camden on August 16. The British continued 
to hold Charlestown for over a year following their defeat at Yorktown 
in 1781, although they alienated local elites by refusing to restore full 
civil government. General Nathanael Greene had entered the state after 
Cornwallis's pyrrhic victory at Guilford Courthouse and kept the area under 
a kind of siege. General Alexander Leslie, commanding Charlestown, requested 
a truce in March 1782 to purchase food for his garrison and the town's 
inhabitants. Greene refused and formed a brigade under Mordecai Gist to 
oppose British forays. One such foray in August led to a British victory 
at the Combahee River, but Charlestown was finally evacuated in December 
1782. Gen. Greene presented the leaders of the town with the Moultrie Flag. 
From the summer of 1782, French planters fleeing the Haitian Revolution 
began arriving in the port with their slaves.[49] The major outbreak of 
yellow fever that occurred in Philadelphia the next year probably spread 
there from an epidemic these refugees brought to Charleston, although it 
was not publicly reported at the time. Over the 19th century, the health 
officials and newspapers of the town came under repeated criticism from 
Northerners, fellow Southerners, and one another for covering up epidemics 
as long as possible in order to keep up the city's maritime traffic.[50] 
The distrust and mortal risk meant that between July and October each year 
communication nearly shut down between the city and the surrounding countryside, 
which was less susceptible to yellow fever.[51] The spelling Charleston 
was adopted in 1783[26][52] as part of the city's formal incorporation.[22] 
Although Columbia replaced it as the state capital in 1788, Charleston 
became even more prosperous as Eli Whitney's 1793 invention of the cotton 
gin sped the processing of the crop over 50 times. The development made 
short-staple cotton profitable and opened the upland Piedmont region to 
slave-based cotton plantations, previously restricted to the sea islands 
and Lowcountry. Britain's Industrial Revolution—initially built upon its 
textile industry—took up the extra production ravenously and it was swiftly 
Charleston's major export commodity. The Bank of South Carolina, the second-oldest 
building in the nation to be constructed as a bank, was established in 
1798. Branches of the First and Second Bank of the United States were also 
located in Charleston in 1800 and 1817. Throughout the Antebellum Period, 
Charleston continued to be the only major American city with a majority 
slave population.[53][c] The city's commitment to slavery was the primary 
focus of writers and visitors: a merchant from Liverpool noted in 1834 
that "almost all the working population are Negroes, all the servants, 
the carmen & porters, all the people who see at the stalls in Market, and 
most of the Journeymen in trades".[54] American traders had been prohibited 
from equipping the Atlantic slave trade in 1794 and all importation of 
slaves was banned in 1808, but American ships long refused to permit British 
inspection and smuggling remained common. The 19th century saw the city's 
first dedicated slave markets, mostly near Chalmers & State Streets.[42] 
Slave-ownership was the primary marker of class and even the town's freedmen 
and other people of color typically kept slaves if they had the wealth 
to do so.[55] Visitors commonly remarked on the sheer number of blacks 
in Charleston and their seeming freedom of movement,[56] though in fact—mindful 
of the Stono Rebellion and the violent slave revolution that established 
Haiti—the whites closely regulated the behavior of both slaves and free 
people of color. Wages and hiring practices were fixed, identifying badges 
were sometimes required, and even work songs were sometimes censored.[57] 
Punishment was handled out of sight by the city's Work House, whose fees 
netting the municipal government thousands a year.[58] In 1820, a state 
law mandated that each individual act of freeing a slave henceforth legislative 
approval, effectively halting the practice.[59] The effects of slavery 
were pronounced on white society as well. The high cost of 19th-century 
slaves and their high rate of return combined to institute an oligarchic 
society controlled by about ninety interrelated families, where 4% of the 
free population controlled half of the wealth and the lower half of the 
free population — unable to compete with owned or rented slaves — held 
no wealth at all.[53] The white middle class was minimal: Charlestonians 
generally disparaged hard work as the lot of slaves.[60] All the slaveholders 
taken together made up 82% of the city's wealth and almost all non-slaveholders 
were poor.[53] Olmsted considered their civic elections "entirely contests 
of money and personal influence" and the oligarchs dominated civic planning:[62] 
the lack of public parks and amenities was noted, as was the abundance 
of private gardens in the wealthy's walled estates.[13] In the 1810s, the 
town's churches intensified their discrimination against their black parishioners, 
culminating in Bethel Methodist's 1817 construction of a hearse house over 
its black burial ground. 4,376 black Methodists joined Morris Brown in 
establishing Hampstead Church, the African Methodist Episcopal church now 
known as Mother Emanuel.[63][64] State and city laws prohibited black literacy, 
limited black worship to daylight hours, and required that a majority of 
any church's parishioners be white. In June 1818, 140 black church members 
were arrested and eight of its leaders given fines and ten lashes; police 
raided the church again in 1820 and leaned on it in 1821.[64] In 1822, 
members of the church led by Denmark Vesey, a lay preacher[64] and carpenter 
who had bought his freedom after winning a lottery, planned a uprising 
and escape to Haiti—initially for Bastille Day—that failed when one slave 
revealed the plot to his master.[d] Over the next month, the city's intendant 
(mayor) James Hamilton Jr. organized a militia for regular patrols, initiated 
a secret and extrajudicial tribunal to investigate, and hanged 35 and exiled 
35[64] or 37 slaves to Spanish Cuba for their involvement.[65] In a sign 
of Charleston's antipathy to abolitionists, a white co-conspirator pled 
for leniency from the court on the grounds that his involvement had been 
motivated only by greed and not by any sympathy with the slaves' cause.[66] 
Governor Thomas Bennett Jr. had pressed for more compassionate and Christian 
treatment of slaves but his own had been found involved Vesey's planned 
uprising. Hamilton was able to successfully campaign for more restrictions 
on both free and enslaved blacks: South Carolina required free black sailors 
to be imprisoned while their ships were in Charleston Harbor though international 
treaties eventually required the United States to quash the practice; free 
blacks were banned from returning to the state if they left for any reason;[67] 
slaves were given a 9:15 pm curfew; the city razed Hampstead Church to 
the ground[65][67] and erected a new arsenal which later formed the Citadel's 
first campus. The AME congregation built a new church but the city banned 
it and all black worship services in 1834, following Nat Turner's 1831 
rebellion in Virginia.[68] The estimated 10% of slaves who came to America 
as Muslims[69] never had a separate mosque, although they were sometimes 
permitted beef rations in place of pork.[70] In 1832, South Carolina passed 
an ordinance of nullification, a procedure by which a state could, in effect, 
repeal a federal law; it was directed against the most recent tariff acts. 
Soon, federal soldiers were dispensed to Charleston's forts, and five United 
States Coast Guard cutters were detached to Charleston Harbor "to take 
possession of any vessel arriving from a foreign port, and defend her against 
any attempt to dispossess the Customs Officers of her custody until all 
the requirements of law have been complied with." This federal action became 
known as the Charleston incident. The state's politicians worked on a compromise 
law in Washington to gradually reduce the tariffs.[71] On 27 April 1838, 
a massive fire broke out around 9:00 in the evening. It raged until noon 
the next day, damaging over 1,000 buildings, a loss estimated at $3 million 
at the time. In efforts to put the fire out, all the water in the city 
pumps was used up. The fire ruined businesses, several churches, a new 
theater, and the entire market except for the fish section. Most famously, 
Charleston's Trinity Church was burned. Another important building that 
fell victim was the new hotel that had been recently built. Many houses 
were burnt to the ground. The damaged buildings amounted to about one-fourth 
of all the businesses in the main part of the city. The fire rendered penniless 
many who were wealthy. Several prominent store owners died attempting to 
save their establishments. When the many homes and business were rebuilt 
or repaired, a great cultural awakening occurred. In many ways, the fire 
helped put Charleston on the map as a great cultural and architectural 
center. Previous to the fire, only a few homes were styled as Greek Revival; 
many residents decided to construct new buildings in that style after the 
conflagration. This tradition continued and made Charleston one of the 
foremost places to view Greek Revival architecture. The Gothic Revival 
also made a significant appearance in the construction of many churches 
after the fire that exhibited picturesque forms and reminders of devout 
European religion.[72] By 1840, the Market Hall and Sheds, where fresh 
meat and produce were brought daily, became a hub of commercial activity. 
The slave trade also depended on the port of Charleston, where ships could 
be unloaded and the slaves bought and sold. The legal importation of African 
slaves had ended in 1808, although smuggling was significant. However, 
the domestic trade was booming. More than one million slaves were transported 
from the Upper South to the Deep South in the antebellum years, as cotton 
plantations were widely developed through what became known as the Black 
Belt. Many slaves were transported in the coastwise slave trade, with slave 
ships stopping at ports such as Charleston. On December 20, 1860, following 
the election of Abraham Lincoln, the South Carolina General Assembly voted 
to secede from the Union. On December 27, Castle Pinckney was surrendered 
by its garrison to the state militia and, on January 9, 1861, Citadel cadets 
opened fire on the USS Star of the West as it entered Charleston Harbor. 
On April 12, 1861, shore batteries under the command of General P.G.T. 
Beauregard opened fire on the US Army-held Fort Sumter in the harbor, the 
first full battle of the American Civil War.[26] After a 34-hour bombardment, 
Major Robert Anderson surrendered the fort. On December 11, 1861, an enormous 
fire burned over 500 acres (200 ha) of the city. Union control of the sea 
permitted the repeated bombardment of the city, causing vast damage.[73] 
Although Admiral Du Pont's naval assault on the town's forts in April 1863 
failed,[26] the Union navy's blockade shut down most commercial traffic. 
Over the course of the war, some blockade runners got through but not a 
single one made it into or out of the Charleston Harbor between August 
1863 and March 1864.[73] The early submarine H.L. Hunley made a night attack 
on the USS Housatonic on February 17, 1864, but the effort failed.[74] 
General Gillmore's land assault in July 1864 was unsuccessful[26] but the 
fall of Columbia and advance of General William T. Sherman's army through 
the state prompted the Confederates to evacuate the town on February 17, 
1865, burning the public buildings, cotton warehouses, and other sources 
of supply before their departure.[26] Union troops moved into the city 
within the month.[26] The War Department recovered what federal property 
remained and also confiscated the campus of the Citadel Military Academy 
and used it as a federal garrison for the next 17 years. The facilities 
were finally returned to the state and reopened as a military college in 
1882 under the direction of Lawrence E. Marichak. After the defeat of the 
Confederacy, federal forces remained in Charleston during Reconstruction. 
The war had shattered the city's prosperity, but the African-American population 
surged (from 17,000 in 1860 to over 27,000 in 1880) as freedmen moved from 
the countryside to the major city.[75] Blacks quickly left the Southern 
Baptist Church and resumed open meetings of the African Methodist Episcopal 
and AME Zion churches. They purchased dogs, guns, liquor, and better clothes—all 
previously banned—and ceased yielding the sidewalks to whites.[75] Despite 
the efforts of the state legislature to halt manumissions, Charleston had 
already had a large class of free people of color as well. At the onset 
of the war, the city had 3,785 free people of color, many of mixed race, 
making up about 18% of the city's black population and 8% of its total 
population. Many were educated and practiced skilled crafts;[37] they quickly 
became leaders of South Carolina's Republican Party and its legislators. 
Men who had been free people of color before the war comprised 26% of those 
elected to state and federal office in South Carolina from 1868 to 1876.[76][77] 
By the late 1870s, industry was bringing the city and its inhabitants back 
to a renewed vitality; new jobs attracted new residents.[26] As the city's 
commerce improved, residents worked to restore or create community institutions. 
In 1865, the Avery Normal Institute was established by the American Missionary 
Association as the first free secondary school for Charleston's African 
American population. Gen. Sherman lent his support to the conversion of 
the United States Arsenal into the Porter Military Academy, an educational 
facility for former soldiers and boys left orphaned or destitute by the 
war. Porter Military Academy later joined with Gaud School and is now a 
university-preparatory school, Porter-Gaud School. In 1875, blacks made 
up 57% of the city's and 73% of the county's population.[78] With leadership 
by members of the antebellum free black community, historian Melinda Meeks 
Hennessy described the community as "unique" in being able to defend themselves 
without provoking "massive white retaliation", as occurred in numerous 
other areas during Reconstruction.[78] In the 1876 election cycle, two 
major riots between black Republicans and white Democrats occurred in the 
city, in September and the day after the election in November, as well 
as a violent incident in Cainhoy at an October joint discussion meeting.[78] 
Violent incidents occurred throughout the Piedmont of the state as white 
insurgents struggled to maintain white supremacy in the face of social 
changes after the war and granting of citizenship to freedmen by federal 
constitutional amendments. After former Confederates were allowed to vote 
again, election campaigns from 1872 on were marked by violent intimidation 
of blacks and Republicans by white Democratic paramilitary groups, known 
as the Red Shirts. Violent incidents took place in Charleston on King Street 
in September 6 and in nearby Cainhoy on October 15, both in association 
with political meetings before the 1876 election. The Cainhoy incident 
was the only one statewide in which more whites were killed than blacks.[79] 
The Red Shirts were instrumental in suppressing the black Republican vote 
in some areas in 1876 and narrowly electing Wade Hampton as governor, and 
taking back control of the state legislature. Another riot occurred in 
Charleston the day after the election, when a prominent Republican leader 
was mistakenly reported killed.[78] On August 31, 1886, Charleston was 
nearly destroyed by an earthquake. The shock was estimated to have a moment 
magnitude of 7.0 and a maximum Mercalli intensity of X (Extreme). It was 
felt as far away as Boston to the north, Chicago and Milwaukee to the northwest, 
as far west as New Orleans, as far south as Cuba, and as far east as Bermuda. 
It damaged 2,000 buildings in Charleston and caused $6 million worth of 
damage ($133 million in 2006 dollars), at a time when all the city's buildings 
were valued around $24 million ($531 million in 2006 dollars). Investment 
in the city continued. The William Enston Home, a planned community for 
the city's aged and infirm, was built in 1889. An elaborate public building, 
the United States Post Office and Courthouse, was completed by the federal 
government in 1896 in the heart of the city. The Democrat-dominated state 
legislature passed a new constitution in 1895 that disfranchised blacks, 
effectively excluding them entirely from the political process, a second-class 
status that was maintained for more than six decades in a state that was 
majority black until about 1930. Charleston's tourism boom began in earnest 
following the publication of Albert Simons and Samuel Lapham's Architecture 
of Charleston[80] in the 1920s.[81] Charleston languished economically 
for several decades in the 20th century, though the large federal military 
presence in the region helped to shore up the city's economy. The Charleston 
Hospital Strike of 1969, in which mostly black workers protested discrimination 
and low wages, was one of the last major events of the civil rights movement. 
It attracted Ralph Abernathy, Coretta Scott King, Andrew Young, and other 
prominent figures to march with the local leader, Mary Moultrie. Its story 
is recounted in Tom Dent's book Southern Journey (1996). Joseph P. Riley, 
Jr., was elected mayor in the 1970s, and helped advance several cultural 
aspects of the city. Riley worked to revive Charleston's economic and cultural 
heritage. The last 30 years of the 20th century had major new investments 
in the city, with a number of municipal improvements and a commitment to 
historic preservation to restore the city's unique fabric. There was an 
effort to preserve working-class housing of African Americans on the historic 
peninsula, but the neighborhood has gentrified, with rising prices and 
rents. From 1980 to 2010, the peninsula's population has shifted from two-thirds 
black to two-thirds white; in 2010 residents numbered 20,668 whites to 
10,455 blacks.[82] Many African Americans have moved to the less-expensive 
suburbs in these decades.[82] The city's commitments to investment were 
not slowed down by Hurricane Hugo and continue to this day. The eye of 
Hurricane Hugo came ashore at Charleston Harbor in 1989, and though the 
worst damage was in nearby McClellanville, three-quarters of the homes 
in Charleston's historic district sustained damage of varying degrees. 
The hurricane caused over $2.8 billion in damage. The city was able to 
rebound fairly quickly after the hurricane and has grown in population, 
reaching an estimated 124,593 residents in 2009.[83] On June 17, 2015, 
21-year-old Dylann Roof entered the historic Emanuel African Methodist 
Episcopal Church and sat in on part of a Bible study before shooting and 
killing nine people.[84] Senior pastor Clementa Pinckney, who also served 
as a state senator, was among those killed during the attack. The deceased 
also included congregation members Susie Jackson, 87; Rev. Daniel Simmons 
Sr., 74; Ethel Lance, 70; Myra Thompson, 59; Cynthia Hurd, 54; Rev. Depayne 
Middleton-Doctor, 49; Rev. Sharonda Coleman-Singleton, 45; and Tywanza 
Sanders, 26.[85] The attack garnered national attention, and sparked a 
debate on historical racism, Confederate symbolism in Southern states, 
and gun violence, in part based on Roof's online postings. On July 10, 
2015, the Confederate battle flag was removed from the South Carolina State 
House. A memorial service on the campus of the College of Charleston was 
attended by President Barack Obama, Michelle Obama, Vice President Joe 
Biden, Jill Biden, and Speaker of the House John Boehner. On the weekend 
of October 3–5, 2015, a massive low pressure front settled over Charleston. 
Simultaneously, Hurricane Joaquin was passing off shore. This combination 
of low pressure and tropical moisture caused extensive rain, tidal flows 
and flooding in the Greater Charleston Area. Scientists reported that the 
tide in Charleston Harbor was higher than during Hurricane Hugo (1989). 
Damage was significant. Local tourism suffered, but only for the weekend. 
Charleston is known for its unique culture, which blends traditional Southern 
U.S., English, French, and West African elements. The downtown peninsula 
has gained a reputation for its art, music, local cuisine, and fashion. 
Spoleto Festival USA, held annually in late spring, has become one of the 
world's major performing arts festivals. It was founded in 1977 by Pulitzer 
Prize-winning composer Gian Carlo Menotti, who sought to establish a counterpart 
to the Festival dei Due Mondi (the Festival of Two Worlds) in Spoleto, 
Italy. Charleston's oldest community theater group, the Footlight Players, 
has provided theatrical productions since 1931. A variety of performing 
arts venues includes the historic Dock Street Theatre. The annual Charleston 
Fashion Week held each spring in Marion Square brings in designers, journalists, 
and clients from across the nation. Charleston is known for its local seafood, 
which plays a key role in the city's renowned cuisine, comprising staple 
dishes such as gumbo, she-crab soup, fried oysters, Lowcountry boil, deviled 
crab cakes, red rice, and shrimp and grits. Rice is the staple in many 
dishes, reflecting the rice culture of the Low Country. The cuisine in 
Charleston is also strongly influenced by British and French elements. 
Given Charleston's high concentration of African Americans who spoke the 
Gullah language, a creole language that developed on the Sea Islands and 
in the Low Country, the local speech patterns were also influenced by this 
community. Today, Gullah is still spoken by many African American residents. 
However, rapid development, especially on the surrounding Sea Islands, 
has attracted residents from outside the area and led to a decline in its 
prominence. The traditional Charleston accent has long been noted in the 
state and throughout the South. It is typically heard in wealthy white 
families who trace their families back generations in the city. It has 
ingliding or monophthongal long mid-vowels, raises ay and aw in certain 
environments, and is nonrhotic. Sylvester Primer of the College of Charleston 
wrote about aspects of the local dialect in his late 19th-century works: 
"Charleston Provincialisms" (1887) [86] and "The Huguenot Element in Charleston's 
Provincialisms", published in a German journal. He believed the accent 
was based on the English as it was spoken by the earliest settlers, therefore 
derived from Elizabethan England and preserved with modifications by Charleston 
speakers. The rapidly disappearing "Charleston accent" is still noted in 
the local pronunciation of the city's name. Some elderly (and usually upper-class) 
Charleston natives ignore the 'r' and elongate the first vowel, pronouncing 
the name as "Chah-l-ston". Charleston is known as "The Holy City",[87] 
perhaps because churches are prominent on the low-rise cityscape[88] or 
because South Carolina was among the few original colonies to tolerate 
all Christian Protestant denominations (though not Roman Catholicism).[89] 
The Anglican church was dominant in the colonial era, and the Cathedral 
of St. Luke and St. Paul is today the seat of the Episcopal Diocese of 
South Carolina. Many French Huguenot refugees settled in Charleston in 
the early 18th century.[90] The Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church 
is the oldest African Methodist Episcopal church in the Southern United 
States and houses the oldest black congregation south of Baltimore, Maryland.[91] 
South Carolina has long allowed Jews to practice their faith without restriction. 
Kahal Kadosh Beth Elohim, founded in 1749 by Sephardic Jews from London, 
is the fourth-oldest Jewish congregation in the continental United States 
and was an important site for the development of Reform Judaism.[92] Brith 
Sholom Beth Israel is the oldest Orthodox synagogue in the South, founded 
by Ashkenazi German and a Central European Jew, by the name Sam Berlin, 
in the mid-19th century.[93] The city's oldest Roman Catholic parish, Saint 
Mary of the Annunciation Roman Catholic Church, is the mother church of 
Roman Catholicism in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. In 1820, 
Charleston was established as the see city of the Roman Catholic Diocese 
of Charleston, which at the time comprised the Carolinas and Georgia and 
presently encompasses the state of South Carolina. The French Protestant 
(Huguenot) Church The St. Matthew's Lutheran Church The Roman Catholic 
Cathedral of St. John the Baptist The Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal 
Church The German St. Johannes Lutheran Church Charleston annually hosts 
Spoleto Festival USA founded by Gian Carlo Menotti, a 17-day art festival 
featuring over 100 performances by individual artists in a variety of disciplines. 
The Spoleto Festival is internationally recognized as America's premier 
performing arts festival.[94] The annual Piccolo Spoleto festival takes 
place at the same time and features local performers and artists, with 
hundreds of performances throughout the city. Other festivals and events 
include Historic Charleston Foundation's Festival of Houses and Gardens 
and Charleston Antiques Show,[95] the Taste of Charleston, The Lowcountry 
Oyster Festival, the Cooper River Bridge Run, The Charleston Marathon,[96] 
Southeastern Wildlife Exposition (SEWE),[97] Charleston Food and Wine Festival, 
Charleston Fashion Week, the MOJA Arts Festival, and the Holiday Festival 
of Lights (at James Island County Park), and the Charleston International 
Film Festival.[98] As it has on every aspect of Charleston culture, the 
Gullah community has had a tremendous influence on music in Charleston, 
especially when it comes to the early development of jazz music. In turn, 
the music of Charleston has had an influence on that of the rest of the 
country. The geechee dances that accompanied the music of the dock workers 
in Charleston followed a rhythm that inspired Eubie Blake's "Charleston 
Rag" and later James P. Johnson's "The Charleston", as well as the dance 
craze that defined a nation in the 1920s. "Ballin' the Jack", which was 
a popular dance in the years before "The Charleston", was written by native 
Charlestonian Chris Smith.[99] The Jenkins Orphanage was established in 
1891 by the Rev. Daniel J. Jenkins in Charleston. The orphanage accepted 
donations of musical instruments and Rev. Jenkins hired local Charleston 
musicians and Avery Institute Graduates to tutor the boys in music. As 
a result, Charleston musicians became proficient on a variety of instruments 
and were able to read music expertly.[100] These traits set Jenkins musicians 
apart and helped land some of them positions in big bands with Duke Ellington 
and Count Basie. William "Cat" Anderson, Jabbo Smith, and Freddie Green 
are but a few of the alumni from the Jenkins Orphanage band who became 
professional musicians in some of the best bands of the day. Orphanages 
around the country began to develop brass bands in the wake of the Jenkins 
Orphanage Band's success. At the Colored Waif's Home Brass Band in New 
Orleans, for example, a young trumpeter named Louis Armstrong first began 
to draw attention.[101] As many as five bands were on tour during the 1920s. 
The Jenkins Orphanage Band played in the inaugural parades of Presidents 
Theodore Roosevelt and William Taft and toured the USA and Europe.[102] 
The band also played on Broadway for the play "Porgy" by DuBose and Dorothy 
Heyward, a stage version of their novel of the same title. The story was 
based in Charleston and featured the Gullah community. The Heywards insisted 
on hiring the real Jenkins Orphanage Band to portray themselves on stage.[101] 
Only a few years later, DuBose Heyward collaborated with George and Ira 
Gershwin to turn his novel into the now famous opera, Porgy and Bess (so 
named so as to distinguish it from the play). George Gershwin and Heyward 
spent the summer of 1934 at Folly Beach outside of Charleston writing this 
"folk opera", as Gershwin called it. Porgy and Bess is considered the Great 
American Opera[citation needed] and is widely performed.[103] To this day, 
Charleston is home to many musicians in all genres. A unique showcase of 
Charleston's musical heritage is presented weekly. "The Sound of Charleston....from 
gospel to Gershwin", is staged at the historic Circular Congregational 
Church.[104] Charleston has a vibrant theater scene and is home to America's 
first theater. In 2010, Charleston was listed as one of the country's top 
10 cities for theater, and one of the top two in the South.[105] Most of 
the theaters are part of the League of Charleston Theatres, better known 
as Theatre Charleston.[106] Some of the city's theaters include: Pineapples 
can be seen almost everywhere in Charleston, but some question how this 
fruit became so iconic. Pineapples started to become popular when Charleston 
was more of a shipping port in the Colonial days. When Captains would come 
home from their voyages they would bring many exotic souvenirs with them, 
one of them being a pineapple. The captain would take the pineapple and 
put it outside his house on the fence; this would let all of his friends 
know he had come home safely. The pineapple became the symbol for hospitality 
because the pineapple placed on the fence outside of the captain's house 
would basically be an invitation to his friends and neighbors to join him 
for dinner and hear about his voyages.[110] Charleston has many historic 
buildings, art and historical museums, and other attractions, including: 
Charleston is home to a number of professional, minor league, and amateur 
sports teams: Other notable sports venues in Charleston include Johnson 
Hagood Stadium (home of The Citadel Bulldogs football team) and Toronto 
Dominion Bank Arena at the College of Charleston, which seats 5,700 people 
who view the school's basketball and volleyball teams. Many creative works 
have been set in Charleston. In addition, Charleston is a popular filming 
location for movies and television, both in its own right and as a stand-in 
for Southern and/or historic settings. For a full list of appearances of 
Charleston in film and television, see here. In 2010, the racial makeup 
of Charleston was 70.2% White, 25.4% African American, 1.6% Asian, and 
1.5% of two or more races; in addition, 2.9% of the population was Hispanic 
or Latino, of any race.[121] Charleston has a strong mayor-council government, 
with the mayor acting as the chief administrator and the executive officer 
of the municipality. The mayor also presides over city council meetings 
and has a vote, the same as other council members. The current mayor, since 
2016, is John Tecklenburg The council has 12 members who are elected from 
one of 12 districts. In 2006, Charleston's residents voted against Amendment 
1, which sought to ban same-sex marriage in South Carolina. Statewide, 
the measure passed by 78% to 22%, but the voters of Charleston rejected 
it by 3,563 (52%) to 3,353 votes (48%).[123] The City of Charleston Fire 
Department consists over 300 full-time firefighters. These firefighters 
operate out of 20 companies located throughout the city: 16 engine companies, 
two tower companies, and one ladder company. Training, Fire Marshall, Operations, 
and Administration are the divisions of the department.[124] The department 
operates on a 24/48 schedule and had a Class 1 ISO rating until late 2008, 
when ISO officially lowered it to Class 3.[125] Russell (Rusty) Thomas 
served as Fire Chief until June 2008, and was succeeded by Chief Thomas 
Carr in November 2008. The City of Charleston Police Department, with a 
total of 458 sworn officers, 117 civilians, and 27 reserve police officers, 
is South Carolina's largest police department.[126] Their procedures on 
cracking down on drug use and gang violence in the city are used as models 
to other cities to do the same.[citation needed] According to the final 
2005 FBI Crime Reports, Charleston crime level is worse than the national 
average in almost every major category.[127] Greg Mullen, the former Deputy 
Chief of the Virginia Beach, Virginia Police Department, serves as the 
current Chief of the Charleston Police Department. The former Charleston 
police chief was Reuben Greenberg, who resigned August 12, 2005. Greenberg 
was credited with creating a polite police force that kept police brutality 
well in check, even as it developed a visible presence in community policing 
and a significant reduction in crime rates.[128] Emergency medical services 
(EMS) for the city are provided by Charleston County Emergency Medical 
Services (CCEMS) & Berkeley County Emergency Medical Services (BCEMS). 
The city is served by the EMS and 911 services of both Charleston and Berkeley 
counties since the city is part of both counties. Charleston is the primary 
medical center for the eastern portion of the state. The city has several 
major hospitals located in the downtown area: Medical University of South 
Carolina Medical Center (MUSC), Ralph H. Johnson VA Medical Center,[129] 
and Roper Hospital.[130] MUSC is the state's first school of medicine, 
the largest medical university in the state, and the sixth-oldest continually 
operating school of medicine in the United States. The downtown medical 
district is experiencing rapid growth of biotechnology and medical research 
industries coupled with substantial expansions of all the major hospitals. 
Additionally, more expansions are planned or underway at another major 
hospital located in the West Ashley portion of the city: Bon Secours-St 
Francis Xavier Hospital.[131] The Trident Regional Medical Center[132] 
located in the City of North Charleston and East Cooper Regional Medical 
Center[133] located in Mount Pleasant also serve the needs of residents 
of the city of Charleston. Coast Guard Station Charleston responds to search 
and rescue emergencies, conducts maritime law enforcement activities, and 
Ports, Waterways, and Coastal Security (PWCS) missions. Personnel from 
Station Charleston are highly trained professionals, composed of federal 
law enforcement officers, boat crewmen, and coxswains who are capable of 
completing a wide range of missions. The following table shows Charleston's 
crime rate for six crimes that Morgan Quitno uses to calculate the ranking 
of "America's most dangerous cities", in comparison to the national average. 
The statistics shown are not for the actual number of crimes committed, 
but for the number of crimes committed per 100,000 people.[134] Since 1999, 
the overall crime rate of Charleston has begun to decline. The total crime 
index rate for Charleston in 1999 was 597.1 crimes committed per 100,000 
people, while in 2011, the total crime index rate was 236.4 per 100,000. 
(The United States average is 320.9 per 100,000.)[citation needed] Charleston 
is a major tourist destination, with a considerable number of luxury hotels, 
hotel chains, inns, and bed and breakfasts, and a large number of award-winning 
restaurants and quality shopping. The city has two shipping terminals, 
owned and operated by the South Carolina Ports Authority, which are part 
of the fourth-largest container seaport on the East Coast and the thirteenth 
largest container seaport in North America.[135] Charleston is becoming 
a prime location for information technology jobs and corporations, and 
has experienced the highest growth in this sector between 2011 and 2012 
due in large part to the Charleston Digital Corridor. In 2013, the Milken 
Institute ranked the Charleston region the ninth-best performing economy 
in the US due in large part to the growing IT sector. Notable companies 
include Blackbaud, SPARC, BoomTown, CSS, and Benefitfocus. Higher education 
is also an important sector in the local economy, with institutions such 
as the Medical University of South Carolina, College of Charleston, The 
Citadel, and Charleston School of Law. In addition, Charleston Southern 
University is located in nearby North Charleston. Charleston is also an 
important art destination, named a top-25 arts destination by AmericanStyle 
magazine.[136] Charleston also has some of the higher home prices in the 
country with an average home price of $420,000.[137] This increase has 
resulted in lower income people moving to suburbs to find housing.[82] 
The City of Charleston is served by the Charleston International Airport. 
It is located in the City of North Charleston and is about 12 miles (20 km) 
northwest of downtown Charleston. It is the busiest passenger airport in 
South Carolina (IATA: CHS, ICAO: KCHS). The airport shares runways with 
the adjacent Charleston Air Force Base. Charleston Executive Airport is 
a smaller airport located in the John's Island section of the city of Charleston 
and is used by noncommercial aircraft. Both airports are owned and operated 
by the Charleston County Aviation Authority. Charleston is served by two 
daily Amtrak trains: The Palmetto and Silver Meteor at the Amtrak station 
located at 4565 Gaynor Avenue in the City of North Charleston located around 
7.5 miles from downtown Charleston . Interstate 26 begins in downtown Charleston, 
with exits to the Septima Clark Expressway, the Arthur Ravenel, Jr. Bridge 
and Meeting Street. Heading northwest, it connects the city to North Charleston, 
the Charleston International Airport, Interstate 95, and Columbia. The 
Arthur Ravenel, Jr. Bridge and Septima Clark Expressway are part of U.S. 
Highway 17, which travels east-west through the cities of Charleston and 
Mount Pleasant. The Mark Clark Expressway, or Interstate 526, is the bypass 
around the city and begins and ends at U.S. Highway 17. U.S. Highway 52 
is Meeting Street and its spur is East Bay Street, which becomes Morrison 
Drive after leaving the east side. This highway merges with King Street 
in the city's Neck area (industrial district). U.S. Highway 78 is King 
Street in the downtown area, eventually merging with Meeting Street. The 
Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge across the Cooper River opened on July 16, 2005, 
and was the second-longest cable-stayed bridge in the Americas at the time 
of its construction.[citation needed] The bridge links Mount Pleasant with 
downtown Charleston, and has eight lanes plus a 12-foot lane shared by 
pedestrians and bicycles. It replaced the Grace Memorial Bridge (built 
in 1929) and the Silas N. Pearman Bridge (built in 1966). They were considered 
two of the more dangerous bridges in America and were demolished after 
the Ravenel Bridge opened. The city is also served by a bus system, operated 
by the Charleston Area Regional Transportation Authority (CARTA). Most 
of the urban area is served by regional fixed route buses, which are equipped 
with bike racks as part of the system's Rack and Ride program. CARTA offers 
connectivity to historic downtown attractions and accommodations with the 
Downtown Area Shuttle trolley buses, and it offers curbside pickup for 
disabled passengers with its Tel-A-Ride buses. Rural parts of the city 
and metropolitan area are served by a different bus system, operated by 
Berkeley-Charleston-Dorchester Rural Transportation Management Association. 
The system is also commonly called the TriCounty Link.[138] The Port of 
Charleston, owned and operated by the South Carolina Ports Authority, is 
one of the largest ports in the U.S. The Port of Charleston consists of 
five terminals, and a sixth terminal was to open in 2018. Despite occasional 
labor disputes, the port is ranked number one in customer satisfaction 
across North America by supply chain executives.[139] Port activity at 
the two terminals located in the city of Charleston is one of the city's 
leading sources of revenue, behind tourism. Today, the Port of Charleston 
boasts the deepest water in the southeast region and regularly handles 
ships too big to transit through the Panama Canal. A next-generation harbor-deepening 
project[140] is currently underway to take the Port of Charleston's entrance 
channel to 54 feet and harbor channel to 52 feet at mean low tide. With 
an average high tide of 6 feet, the depth clearances will become 60 feet 
and 58 feet, respectively. Union Pier, in the city of Charleston, is a 
cruise ship passenger terminal which hosts numerous cruise departures annually. 
In May 2010, the Carnival Fantasy was permanently stationed in Charleston, 
offering weekly cruises to the Bahamas and Key West, eventually to include 
Bermuda. With the addition of the weekly Carnival Fantasy sailings, Union 
Terminal hosted 67 embarkations and ports of call in 2010. With the closure 
of the Naval Base and the Charleston Naval Shipyard in 1996, Detyens, Inc. 
signed a long term lease. With three dry docks, one floating dock, and 
six piers, Detyens Shipyard, Inc. is the largest commercial facility on 
the East Coast. Projects include military, commercial, and cruise ships. 
Because most of the city of Charleston is located in Charleston County, 
it is served by the Charleston County School District. Part of the city, 
however, is served by the Berkeley County School District in northern portions 
of the city, such as the Cainhoy Industrial District, Cainhoy Historical 
District and Daniel Island. Charleston is also served by a large number 
of independent schools, including Porter-Gaud School (K-12), Charleston 
Collegiate School (K-12), Ashley Hall (Pre K-12), Charleston Day School 
(1–8), First Baptist Church School (K-12), Palmetto Christian Academy (K-12), 
Coastal Christian Preparatory School[142] (K-12), Mason Preparatory School[143] 
(K-8), and Addlestone Hebrew Academy (K-8). The Roman Catholic Diocese 
of Charleston Office of Education also operates out of the city and oversees 
several K-8 parochial schools, such as Blessed Sacrament School, Christ 
Our King School, Charleston Catholic School, Nativity School, and Divine 
Redeemer School, all of which are "feeder" schools into Bishop England 
High School, a diocesan high school within the city. Bishop England, Porter-Gaud 
School, and Ashley Hall are the city's oldest and most prominent private 
schools, and are a significant part of Charleston history, dating back 
some 150 years. Public institutions of higher education in Charleston include 
the College of Charleston (the nation's 13th-oldest university), The Citadel, 
The Military College of South Carolina, and the Medical University of South 
Carolina. The city is also home to private universities, including the 
Charleston School of Law. Charleston is also home to the Roper Hospital 
School of Practical Nursing, and the city has a downtown satellite campus 
for the region's technical school, Trident Technical College. Charleston 
is also the location for the only college in the country that offers bachelor's 
degrees in the building arts, The American College of the Building Arts.[144] 
The Art Institute of Charleston, located downtown on North Market Street, 
opened in 2007. Charleston, North Charleston, Goose Creek, and Hanahan 
are home to branches of the United States military. During the Cold War, 
the Naval Base (1902–1996) became the third largest U.S. homeport, serving 
over 80 ships and submarines. In addition, the combined facilities of the 
Naval Base and Weapons Station created the largest U.S. submarine port. 
The Charleston Naval Shipyard repaired frigates, destroyers, cruisers, 
submarine tenders, and submarines. Also during this period, the shipyard 
conducted refueling of nuclear submarines. The Weapons Station was the 
Atlantic Fleet's loadout base for all nuclear ballistic missile submarines. 
Two SSBN "Boomer" squadrons and a submarine tender were homeported at the 
Weapons Station, while one SSN attack squadron, Submarine Squadron 4, and 
a submarine tender were homeported at the Naval Base. At the 1996 closure 
of the station's Polaris Missile Facility Atlantic (POMFLANT), over 2,500 
nuclear warheads and their UGM-27 Polaris, UGM-73 Poseidon, and UGM-96 
Trident I delivery missiles (SLBM) were stored and maintained, guarded 
by a U.S. Marine Corps security force company. In 2010, the Air Force base 
(3,877 acres) and Naval Weapons Station (>17,000 acres) merged to form 
Joint Base Charleston. Today, Joint Base Charleston, supporting 53 military 
commands and federal agencies, provides service to over 79,000 airmen, 
sailors, soldiers, marines, guardsmen, Department of Defense civilians, 
dependents, and retirees. Charleston is the nation's 98th-largest Designated 
market area (DMA), with 312,770 households and 0.27% of the U.S. TV population.[145] 
These stations are licensed in Charleston and have significant operations 
or viewers in the city:[146] Charleston has one official sister city, Spoleto, 
Umbria, Italy.[147] The relationship between the two cities began when 
Pulitzer Prize-winning Italian composer Gian Carlo Menotti selected Charleston 
as the city to host the American version of Spoleto's annual Festival of 
Two Worlds. "Looking for a city that would provide the charm of Spoleto, 
as well as its wealth of theaters, churches, and other performance spaces, 
they selected Charleston, South Carolina, as the ideal location. The historic 
city provided a perfect fit: intimate enough that the Festival would captivate 
the entire city, yet cosmopolitan enough to provide an enthusiastic audience 
and robust infrastructure."[94] Charleston is also twinned with Speightstown, 
St. Peter, Barbados.[148] The original parts of Charlestown were based 
on the plans of Barbados's capital city Bridgetown.[149] Many indigo, tobacco, 
and cotton planters relocated their slaves and plantation operations from 
Speightstown to Charleston after the sugarcane industry came to dominate 
