Charles Louis "Charlie" Leibrandt, Jr. (/ˈliːbrænt/; born October 4, 1956) 
is a former Major League Baseball pitcher who played from 1979 to 1993 
for the Cincinnati Reds, Kansas City Royals, Atlanta Braves and Texas Rangers. 
Leibrandt was a productive pitcher throughout his 14-year career, and a 
member of the 1985 World Series champion Royals team. Leibrandt was born 
in Chicago, Illinois. He attended Miami University in Oxford, Ohio from 
1975–1978, where he earned four letters as a pitcher on the baseball team. 
During his senior year, Leibrandt was selected first-team All-MAC; he compiled 
a record of 7-2 with an ERA of 1.65.[1] Leibrandt was drafted by the Cincinnati 
Reds in the ninth round of the 1978 free agent draft. He made his debut 
in Major League Baseball on September 17, 1979 in a Cincinnati Reds uniform. 
A few weeks later, he made his first post-season appearance in the 1979 
National League Championship Series, recording an out of the only batter 
he faced, John Milner. In 1980, Leibrandt was the Opening Day pitcher as 
the Reds beat the Atlanta Braves, 5-0, and Leibrandt threw a five-hit shutout 
for his first career win. But Leibrandt, while 10-9 in 1980, showed little 
promise in Cincinnati and was traded to the Kansas City Royals for Bob 
Tufts on June 7, 1983. The following year, Leibrandt went 11-7 with a 3.63 
ERA as the Royals won the Western Division championship. In 1985, Leibrandt 
had the best year of his career, going 17-9 with a 2.69 ERA as the Royals 
won the World Series. Over the next three years, Leibrandt won 14, 16, 
and 13 games, but after a disastrous 1989 when he went 5-11 on a second 
place (but 92-wins) team, the Royals traded Leibrandt and Rick Luecken 
to the Atlanta Braves for Gerald Perry and Jim Lemasters. On May 16, 1987, 
Leibrandt pitched a complete game one-hitter against the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The only hit for the Brewers was a bunt hit by backup Brewers catcher Bill 
Schroeder. Schroeder would go on to become the TV color commentator for 
the Brewers.[2] On the last place Braves in 1990, Leibrandt went 9-11 with 
a 3.16 ERA, finishing behind only John Smoltz and Tom Glavine on the Braves 
staff in wins. The following year, 1991, Leibrandt was a member of one 
of two trios in MLB history of southpaws ever to win fifteen games on the 
same staff, sharing that honor with Glavine and Steve Avery, also has been 
done by the 1997 Mariners since. Leibrandt was generally regarded as a 
fourth starter on the Braves in 1991 and 1992. On September 29, 1992, Leibrandt 
recorded the 1,000th strikeout of his career against the San Francisco 
Giants. In the same game, the Braves clinched the National League West 
title for the second straight year. On December 9, 1992, Leibrandt was 
traded to the Texas Rangers along with Pat Gomez for everyday utility player 
Jose Oliva. In 1993, despite six straight road wins (which no subsequent 
Texas Rangers pitcher matched until 2009, when it was surpassed by Scott 
Feldman), he ended with a season record of 9-10 record with a 4.55 ERA, 
and subsequently retired.[3] For all of his successes as a pitcher, Leibrandt 
is best known for a series of post-season failures and suffering hard luck. 
In 1984, Leibrandt and the Royals faced elimination in the best-of-five 
American League Championship Series against the Detroit Tigers. Leibrandt 
threw a complete game three-hitter only to lose, 1-0, on a fielder's choice 
in the second inning. In the following year's ALCS, the Toronto Blue Jays 
beat Leibrandt badly in Game 1 but he turned in an effective pitching performance 
in Game 4. However, he lost when, leading 1-0 in the ninth, he walked Dámaso 
García, who scored on Lloyd Moseby's double. Responsible for Moseby, Leibrandt 
watched as the Blue Jays scored twice off reliever Dan Quisenberry and 
got tagged with the loss. He redeemed himself, however, coming out of the 
bullpen to replace the injured Bret Saberhagen in Game 7 and picking up 
the win that sent the Royals to the World Series. In the World Series against 
the St. Louis Cardinals, Leibrandt again pitched masterfully for eight 
innings and entered the ninth inning of Game 2 leading a two-hitter, 2-0. 
It all fell apart again for Leibrandt, though, as Willie McGee doubled 
to right. With two outs and McGee on second, three Cardinal hits, the last 
by future Braves teammate Terry Pendleton, scored four runs and saddled 
Leibrandt with another loss. Five nights later in Game 6, Leibrandt left 
in the eighth inning trailing 1-0 despite only allowing four hits. However, 
this time it was the Royals who rallied and won the game 2-1 on a one-out 
bases-loaded bloop single by pinch-hitter Dane Iorg. In Game 7 the following 
night, Kansas City blew the Cardinals out, 11-0, to win their first of 
two World Series titles. In 1991, Braves manager Bobby Cox designated Leibrandt 
the starter for Game 1 of the World Series against the Minnesota Twins. 
Leibrandt got the start by virtue of his long post-season rest and the 
fact he was the only Braves starter who had ever pitched in the Metrodome. 
Leibrandt lost as he pitched decently but was outpitched by Jack Morris. 
Leibrandt is best known for surrendering a walk-off home run to future 
Baseball Hall of Famer Kirby Puckett in Game 6 of that series. The first 
pitch of the inning was a change-up, which Puckett took for strike one. 
The next one was a similar high and outside fastball, which Puckett took 
for ball one; pitch three was another fastball for ball two. The fourth 
pitch, and last pitch of the game, was a weak, high change-up that failed 
to break. Puckett made solid contact and sprinted for first, as was his 
usual practice. Only after he saw first base coach Wayne Terwilliger throw 
up his hands in victory did Puckett realize he had hit a home run. Leibrandt 
was called upon to enter the game in a highly unfamiliar role – as a reliever 
late in the extra-inning game, and very late at night. Cox endured some 
criticism for the move because the Braves still had several relievers at 
their disposal including left-hander Kent Mercker and right-handers Jim 
Clancy and Mark Wohlers, but the move made sense on another level, because 
Leibrandt was the only pitcher left on their roster who had previous World 
Series experience, and although Leibrandt had been subpar in his Game 1 
start, the three hitters scheduled to bat for the Twins in the 11th had 
been a combined 0 for 6 against Leibrandt in that game, including two strikeouts 
of Puckett. Leibrandt again had the opportunity to play in the World Series 
with the Braves the following year. The Braves lost that series also, this 
time to the Toronto Blue Jays in six games. In the final game, in circumstances 
eerily similar to Game 6 of the prior year's Series, Leibrandt was called 
in as a reliever in an extra-inning game. Just as in 1991, Cox was criticized 
for using Leibrandt as a reliever with closer Jeff Reardon and relievers 
Marvin Freeman and David Nied still available. Toronto rallied for two 
runs in the top of the 11th on a hit by Dave Winfield. The Braves did manage 
to get one of those runs back in the bottom of the 11th; however, it was 
not enough and Leibrandt ended up as the losing pitcher. Leibrandt's youngest 
son, Brandon, plays in Minor League Baseball for the Philadelphia Phillies' 
organization.[4] His oldest son, Brodie, was a starter at Columbus State 
