Charley Frank Pride (born March 18, 1934[2]) is an American country music 
singer, musician/guitarist, recording artist, performer and business owner. 
His greatest musical success came in the early- to mid-1970s, when he became 
the best-selling performer for RCA Records since Elvis Presley.[3] During 
the peak years of his recording career (1966–87), he garnered 52 top-10 
hits on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts, 29 of which made it to 
number one. Pride is one of the few African Americans to have had considerable 
success in the country music industry and one of only three (along with 
DeFord Bailey and Darius Rucker) to have been inducted as a member of the 
Grand Ole Opry. He was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame in 
2000. In 2010, Pride became a special investor and minority owner of the 
Texas Rangers Major League Baseball club.[4] Pride was born in Sledge, 
Mississippi, one of 11 children of poor sharecroppers. His father intended 
to name him Charl Frank Pride, but owing to a clerical error on his birth 
certificate, his legal name is Charley Frank Pride.[5] Eight boys and three 
girls were in the family.[6] He married Rozene Cohan in 1956.[7] When Pride 
was 14, his mother purchased him his first guitar and he taught himself 
to play.[6] Though he also loved music, one of Pride's lifelong dreams 
was to become a professional baseball player. In 1952, he pitched for the 
Memphis Red Sox of the Negro American League. He pitched well, and in 1953, 
he signed a contract with the Boise Yankees, the Class C farm team of the 
New York Yankees. During that season, an injury caused him to lose the 
"mustard" on his fastball, and he was sent to the Yankees' Class D team 
in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin. Later that season, while in the Negro leagues 
with the Louisville Clippers, another player (Jesse Mitchell) and he were 
traded to the Birmingham Black Barons for a team bus. "Jesse and I may 
have the distinction of being the only players in history to be traded 
for a used motor vehicle," Pride mused in his 1994 autobiography.[8] He 
pitched for several other minor league teams, his hopes of making it to 
the big leagues still alive, but the Army derailed this. After serving 
two years in the military, he tried to return to baseball.[8] Though hindered 
by an injury to his throwing arm, Pride played three games for the Missoula 
Timberjacks of the Pioneer League[9] (a farm club of the Cincinnati Reds) 
in 1960,[10] and had tryouts with the California Angels (1961) and the 
New York Mets (1962) organizations, but was not picked up by either team.[10][11] 
When he was laid off by the Timberjacks, he moved to work construction 
in Helena, Montana, in 1960. He was recruited to pitch for the local semipro 
baseball team, the East Helena Smelterites, and the team manager helped 
him get a job at the local Asarco lead smelter.[9] The lead smelter kept 
18 jobs open specifically for baseball players, and arranged their shifts 
so they could play as a team.[7] Pride batted a .444 his first year.[9] 
Pride's singing ability soon came to the attention of the team manager, 
who also paid him to sing for 15 minutes before each game, which increased 
attendance and earned Pride another $10 on top of the $10 he earned for 
each game. He also played gigs in the local area, both solo and with a 
band called the Night Hawks,[7] and Aasarco asked him to sing at company 
picnics.[9] His job at the smelter was dangerous and difficult. He once 
broke his ankle, and routinely unloaded coal from railroad cars and shoveled 
it into a 2,400°F furnace, which he also had to keep clear of slag, a task 
which frequently gave him burns. In a 2014 interview, Pride explained, 
“I would work at the smelter, work the swing shift and then play music,” 
said Pride. “I’d work 11-7. Drive. Play Friday. Punch in. Drive. Polson. 
Philipsburg.”[6] Between his smelter job and his music, he made a good 
living in the Helena area. He moved his wife and son to join him and they 
lived in Helena until 1967, purchasing their first home there, and with 
their children Dion and Angela being born at the local hospital.[9] The 
Pride family moved to Great Falls, Montana, in 1967,[6] because Pride's 
music career was taking off and he required quicker access to an airport.[9] 
The family ultimately left Montana and moved to Texas in 1969.[7] In a 
1967 interview with the Helena Independent Record, Rozene commented that 
the family encountered minor racism in Montana, citing an incident where 
they were refused service in a restaurant and another time when a realtor 
refused to show them a home, but she felt that the family endured less 
racism than she saw leveled against local Native American people, whose 
treatment she compared to that given to black people in the south.[7] Pride 
has generally spoken with fondness of the near-decade he spent there. “Montana 
is a very conservative state...I stood out like a neon. But once they let 
you in, you become a Montanan. When the rumor was that I was leaving. They 
kept saying, ‘we will let you in, you can’t leave.’"[9] On June 5, 2008, 
Pride and his brother Mack "The Knife" Pride and 28 other living former 
Negro league players were "drafted" by each of the 30 Major League Baseball 
teams in a recognition of the on-field achievements and historical relevance 
of 30 mostly forgotten, Negro-league stars. Pride was picked by the Texas 
Rangers, with whom he has had a long affiliation, and the Colorado Rockies 
took his brother.[12][13] While he was active in baseball, Pride had been 
encouraged to join the music business by country stars such as Red Sovine 
and Red Foley, and was working towards this career. In 1958, in Memphis, 
Pride visited Sun Studios and recorded some songs.[14] One song has survived 
on tape, and was released in the United Kingdom as part of a box set. The 
song is a slow stroll in walking tempo called "Walkin' (the Stroll)."[15] 
He played music at clubs in Montana solo and with a four-piece combo called 
the Night Hawks during the time he lived in Montana.[9] His break came 
when Chet Atkins at RCA Victor heard a demonstration tape and got Pride 
a contract. In 1966, he released his first RCA Victor single, "The Snakes 
Crawl at Night"[9] Nashville manager and agent Jack D. Johnson signed Pride. 
Atkins was the longtime producer at RCA Victor who had made stars out of 
country singers such as Jim Reeves, Skeeter Davis and others. Pride was 
signed to RCA Victor in 1965. "The Snakes Crawl at Night", did not chart. 
On the records of this song submitted to radio stations for airplay, the 
singer was listed as "Country Charley Pride". At this time, country music 
was a white medium. Jack made sure that no pictures of were distributed 
for the first two years of his career, to avoid the effects of Jim Crowism.[citation 
needed] Pride disputes that the omission of a photo was deliberate; he 
stated that getting promoters to bring in a black country singer was a 
bigger problem: "people didn’t care if I was pink. RCA signed me... they 
knew I was colored...They decided to put the record out and let it speak 
for itself.”[9] While living in Montana, he continued to sing at local 
clubs, and in Great Falls had an additional boost to his career when he 
befriended local businessman Louis Allen “Al” Donohue, who owned radio 
stations including KMON, the first stations to play Pride's records in 
Montana.[9] Soon after the release of "The Snakes Crawl at Night", Pride 
released another single called "Before I Met You", which also did not chart. 
Soon after, Pride's third single, "Just Between You and Me", was released. 
This song was the one that finally brought Pride success on the country 
charts. The song reached number nine on the US country chart. The success 
of "Just Between You and Me" was enormous. He was nominated for a Grammy 
Award for the song the next year. In 1967, he became the first black performer 
to appear at the Grand Ole Opry since harmonica player DeFord Bailey, who 
was a regular cast member of the Opry from 1925 through 1941, and made 
a final appearance in 1974. Pride also appeared in 1967 on ABC's The Lawrence 
Welk Show. In 1975, he was one of the stars of Bob Hope's Stars and Stripes 
Show emceed by John Davidson and filmed in front of a live audience in 
Oklahoma City to celebrate the United States Bicentennial.[citation needed] 
Between 1969 and 1971, Pride had eight single records that simultaneously 
reached number one on the US Country Hit Parade and also charted on the 
Billboard Hot 100: "All I Have to Offer You (Is Me)", "(I'm So) Afraid 
of Losing You Again", "I Can't Believe That You've Stopped Loving Me", 
"I'd Rather Love You", "Is Anybody Goin' to San Antone", "Wonder Could 
I Live There Anymore", "I'm Just Me", and "Kiss an Angel Good Mornin'". 
The pop success of these songs reflected the country/pop crossover sound 
that was reaching country music in the 1960s and early 1970s, known as 
"Countrypolitan". In 1969, his compilation album, The Best of Charley Pride 
sold over one million copies, and was awarded a gold disc.[16] Ultimately, 
Elvis Presley was the only artist who sold more records for the RCA label 
than did Pride.[9] Pride sang the Paul Newman-directed film Sometimes a 
Great Notion's main soundtrack song "All His Children" in 1970.[17] The 
film starred Newman and Henry Fonda and received two Oscar nominations 
in 1972, one being for the song that Pride sang.[18] In 1971, he released 
what would become his biggest hit, "Kiss an Angel Good Mornin'", a million-selling 
crossover single that helped Pride land the Country Music Association's 
prestigious Entertainer of the Year award, as well as Top Male Vocalist.[19] 
He won CMA's Top Male Vocalist award again in 1972.[20] "Kiss an Angel 
Good Mornin'" became Pride's signature tune. Besides being a five-week 
country number one in late 1971 and early 1972, the song was also his only 
pop top-40 hit, hitting number 21, and reaching the top 10 of the Adult 
Contemporary charts, as well. During the rest of the 1970s and into the 
1980s, Pride continued to rack up country music hits. Other Pride standards 
then include "Mississippi Cotton Picking Delta Town", "Someone Loves You, 
Honey", "When I Stop Leavin' (I'll Be Gone)", "Burgers and Fries", "I Don't 
Think She's in Love Anymore", "Roll on Mississippi", "Never Been So Loved 
(In All My Life)", and "You're So Good When You're Bad". Like many other 
country performers, he has paid tribute to Hank Williams, with an album 
of songs that were all written by Hank entitled There's a Little Bit of 
Hank in Me, which included top-sellers of Williams' classics "Kaw-Liga", 
"Honky Tonk Blues", and "You Win Again". Pride has sold over 70 million 
records (singles, albums, and compilation included).[21] In 1975, Pride's 
agent sold a 40-date tour package to a United Kingdom booking agent, who 
onward sold four dates to Dublin-based Irish music promoter Jim Aitkien.[22] 
At the time, The Troubles (Irish: Na Trioblóidí) the ethno-nationalist 
conflict in Northern Ireland were at their height, and most nonresident 
music and sports teams were not traveling to Northern Ireland through fear 
of becoming involved or injured. Aitken subsequently traveled to Pride's 
winter 1975/'76 concert in Ohio, and persuaded Pride to play one of the 
concerts at Belfast's Ritz Cinema. Pride played the concert in November 
1976, with his album song "Crystal Chandeliers" subsequently being released 
as a single in the UK and Ireland. Pride subsequently became a hero to 
both sides of the conflict for breaking the effective touring concert ban, 
his song "Crystal Chandeliers" seen as a unity song, and he enabled Aitken 
to book further acts into Northern Ireland after his appearance.[23] Pride 
remained with RCA Records until 1986. At that point, he grew angry over 
the fact that RCA began to promote newer country artists and did not renew 
contracts with many older artists who had been with the label for years, 
such as Dolly Parton, John Denver, and Sylvia. He moved on to 16th Avenue 
Records, where Pride bounced back with the number-five hit, "Shouldn't 
it be Easier Than This". He had a few minor hits with 16th Avenue, as well. 
Pride's lifelong passion for baseball continues; he has an annual tradition 
of joining the Texas Rangers for workouts during spring training. A big 
Rangers fan (Dallas has been his home for many years), Pride is often seen 
at their games.[24] In 2008, Pride received the Mississippi Arts Commission's 
lifetime achievement award during the organization's Governor's Awards 
for Excellence in the Arts.[25][26] He performed the National Anthem at 
Super Bowl VIII and again at game five of the 2010 World Series, accompanied 
both years by the Del Rio High School JROTC Color Guard. He performed the 
National Anthem before game six of the 1980 World Series, as well.[27] 
In 2016, Pride was selected as one of 30 artists to perform on Forever 
Country, a mash-up track of "Take Me Home, Country Roads", "On the Road 
Again", and "I Will Always Love You", which celebrates 50 years of the 
CMA Awards.[28] Pride met his wife Rozene while he was playing baseball 
in the southern states. They married in 1956 and have two sons, Kraig and 
Dion, and a daughter, Angela. They currently reside in Dallas, Texas.[24] 
Kraig now goes by the name Carlton and has somewhat followed in his father's 
footsteps as a performing artist. His band, Carlton Pride and Zion started 
in San Marcos, Texas, in 1995 and they perform a variety of reggae, funk, 
and soul music throughout the United States. Dion Pride played lead guitar 
for his father, and entertained troops on USO tours in Panama, Honduras, 
Guantanamo Bay, and the island of Antigua. Dion Pride cowrote a song on 
Charley Pride's 2010 album Choices titled "I Miss My Home". In 1994, Pride 
cowrote (with Jim Henderson) his autobiography, Pride: The Charley Pride 
Story.[29] In this book, he reveals that he has struggled for years with 
manic depression. Pride had a tumor removed from his right vocal cord in 
1997 at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences. He returned to 
the site in February 2009 for a routine checkup and surprised the Arkansas 
Senate with an unplanned performance of five songs. He was joined by Governor 
Mike Beebe during the show.[30] Pride is an avid fan and part owner[31] 
of the Texas Rangers. He sang the national anthem before game five of the 
2010 World Series, played between the Texas Rangers and San Francisco Giants.[32] 
Pride sang the national anthem before game two of the 2011 ALCS between 
the Detroit Tigers and the Rangers. He also sang the national anthem and 
"America the Beautiful" prior to Super Bowl VIII. On January 20, 2014, 
he sang the national anthem and performed at halftime for the Memphis Grizzlies, 
which hosted their 12th Annual Martin Luther King, Jr. Celebration Day. 
He also was interviewed during a break in the game that was televised nationally 
on NBA TV and SportSouth. On April 29, 2011, a biographical film was announced 
to be in the works based on Pride's life and career. The film will be produced 
by and star actor and professional wrestler, Dwayne Johnson.[33] Academy 
of Country Music Awards American Music Awards Country Music Hall of Fame 
