Charles James Sweasy (November 2, 1847 – March 30, 1908), born Swasey, 
played second base for the original Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first 
fully professional baseball team. He returned to Cincinnati in 1876, hired 
by the new club that was a charter member of the National League. In the 
meantime he played for six teams during the five seasons of the National 
Association, so he may be considered one of the first "journeyman" ballplayers. 
A right-handed thrower and batter, he played second base almost exclusively. 
Born 1847 in Newark, New Jersey, Sweasy's debut with a "major" team was 
in 1866 with the New Jersey Irvingtons that hailed from Irvington, New 
Jersey about 20 miles inland. Irvington was a new member of the National 
Association of Base Ball Players, with many other clubs as the association 
tripled in size to more than 90 in its first post-war season. The Irvingtons 
frightened the champion Brooklyn Atlantics by winning their first meeting 
on June 14 and losing their third one only in extra innings on October 
29. Several team members would later play professionally including Sweasy 
and Andy Leonard, also of Newark. For 1868 Sweasy and Leonard moved to 
Cincinnati and joined the Buckeyes, the chief local rival of the Red Stockings; 
the move suggests that they were somehow compensated by club members if 
not by the club.[1] When the NABBP permitted professionalism for 1869, 
Sweasy and Leonard were two of five new men hired to complete the First 
Nine of the Cincinnati Red Stockings, the first team on salary for a season. 
All had previously played in the infield, with Harry Wright and Asa Brainard 
sharing pitcher and second base for Cincinnati. Wright put Sweasy at second 
and made center field the position shared by the two pitchers. Sweasy earned 
$800 for the eight-month season, March 15 to November 15. That was the 
standard rate with four men earning more. Years later, the son of club 
officer George Ellard recalled the skills of each player in words of praise. 
Ellard (1908: 100) covered Sweasy in the field and only in the field, with 
most attention to his grasp of flies to short center and right, where he 
was "one of the surest catchers of high fly balls to be found." The limited 
statistical record suggests that he fit comfortably in the supporting cast 
during the Red Stockings innings, hitting a little less frequently than 
team average, with a few more extra bases on hits. In two years he played 
all but one of 130 games in the record books, one of six who played essentially 
without interruption. Cincinnati toured the continent undefeated in 1869 
and may have been the strongest team in 1870, but the club dropped professional 
base ball after the second season. Wright was hired to organize a new team 
in Boston, where he signed three teammates for 1871. The other five regulars 
including Charlie Sweasy signed with Nick Young's Washington Olympics, 
an established club that also joined the new, entirely professional National 
Association (NA). The Olympics appointed Sweasy captain, meaning that he 
would have many duties of a modern field manager, speaking for the team 
during the game and making many internal decisions. Unfortunately, he missed 
two long stretches of the season with illness, barely playing and so barely 
"managing". Two other transplants, Asa Brainard and Fred Waterman, acted 
as captains in his absence. Charlie Sweasy played almost every game during 
his five NABBP seasons, through 1870 and age 22. Then he played only occasionally 
for five teams in four NA seasons. His batting record during those years 
and thereafter is unusually weak, suggesting that his skills were left 
behind by competitive improvement in the game or weakened by illness and 
forced idleness. Sweasy returned to a regular playing role and earned his 
manager's credit in 1875, when he captained the lesser of two St. Louis 
clubs that joined the NA; the "Reds" dropped out after 19 games, overmatched. 
Next year he returned to Cincinnati as the second baseman of a new club 
that was a charter member of the National League. Probably he was hired 
by old teammate Charlie Gould, the first baseman and manager. His major 
league career ended two years later as regular second baseman for the new 
Providence Grays. Apparently he was a marginal "major leaguer", able to 
hold a regular job at that level only for teams on the way in and teams 
on the way out. Sweasy died 1908 in his native Newark, 60 years old, and 
