Charles Gardner Radbourn (December 11, 1854 – February 5, 1897), nicknamed 
"Old Hoss", was an American professional baseball pitcher who played 12 
seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB). He played for the Buffalo Bisons 
(1880), Providence Grays (1881–1885), Boston Beaneaters (1886–1889), Boston 
Reds (1890), and Cincinnati Reds (1891). In 1884, Radbourn became only 
the second National League (NL) pitcher to win a Triple Crown; in the process, 
he broke the single-season wins record, which still stands today. Radbourn 
was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1939. Born in New 
York and raised in Illinois, Radbourn played semi-professional and minor 
league baseball before making his major league debut for the Buffalo Bisons 
in 1880. After a one-year stint with the club, Radbourn joined the Providence 
Grays, leading the team to an 1884 World Series championship. In 1885, 
when the team folded, the Grays roster was transferred to NL control, where 
he was claimed by the Boston Beaneaters. Radbourn spent the next four seasons 
with the club, and finished his MLB career with the Cincinnati Reds after 
a one-year tenure with the Boston Reds. Radbourn was born on December 11, 
1854, in Rochester, New York, the second of eight children to Charles and 
Caroline (Gardner) Radbourn.[1] Charles Radbourn (the elder) had immigrated 
to the United States from Bristol, England, to find work as a butcher; 
Caroline followed soon after.[2] In 1855, the Radbourn family moved to 
Bloomington, Illinois, where Radbourn was raised. As a teenager, Radbourn 
worked as a butcher with his father, and as a brakeman for the Indiana, 
Bloomington and Western Railway company.[3] In 1878 Radbourn joined the 
Peoria Reds, a barnstorming team, as their right fielder and "change pitcher". 
No substitutions were allowed at the time so if the starting pitcher became 
ineffective in the late innings the change pitcher, usually playing right 
field, would exchange positions with the starter to try to save the game. 
In 1879 he signed with Dubuque in the newly formed Northwest League. He 
finally made the major leagues in 1880 as second baseman, right fielder 
and change pitcher for the Buffalo Bisons of the National League. He played 
in six games, batted .143, never pitched an inning, but practiced so hard 
he developed a sore shoulder and was released. When he recovered he pitched 
for a pick-up Bloomington team in an exhibition game against the Providence 
Grays. He impressed everyone so much that Providence signed him on the 
spot for a salary variously reported as $1,100 or $1,400.[4] As a starting 
pitcher for the Providence Grays (1881–1885), Boston Beaneaters (1886–1889), 
Boston Reds (1890) and Cincinnati Reds (1891), Radbourn compiled a 309–194 
career record. In 1884 he won the National League's pitching Triple Crown 
with a 1.38 earned run average, 59 wins and 441 strikeouts. His 59 wins 
in a season is a record which is expected never to be broken because no 
starter has made even as many as 37 starts in a season since Greg Maddux 
in 1991.[6] Also, his 678 2⁄3 innings pitched in 1884 stands at second 
all-time, behind only Will White (680), for a single-season. It, too, is 
a record that will most likely never be touched. It was made possible by 
the mid-season expulsion of the Grays' other main pitcher, Charlie Sweeney. 
When Providence failed to win the pennant at the end of the 1883 season 
the franchise was on shaky financial ground. Ownership brought in a new 
manager, Frank Bancroft, and made it plain: win the pennant or the team 
would be disbanded. Jealousy and hatred between Radbourn and Charlie Sweeney, 
the other ace pitcher on the team, broke out into violence in the clubhouse; 
Radbourn was faulted as the initiator of the fight, and was suspended without 
pay after a poor outing on July 16, having been accused of deliberately 
losing the game by lobbing soft pitches over the plate. But on July 22, 
Sweeney had been drinking before the start of the game and continued drinking 
in the dugout between innings. Despite being obviously intoxicated, Sweeney 
managed to make it to the seventh inning with a 6–2 lead, but when Bancroft 
attempted to relieve him with the change pitcher, Sweeney stormed out of 
the park in a rage, leaving the Providence side with only eight players. 
With only two men to cover the outfield, they lost the game. [7] This left 
the team in a state of disarray with the consensus view that the team should 
be disbanded. At that point, Radbourn offered to start every game for the 
rest of the season (having pitched in 76 of 98 games the season before)[8] 
in exchange for a small raise and exemption from the reserve clause for 
the next season. From that point, July 23 to September 24 when the pennant 
was clinched, Providence played 43 games and Radbourn started 40 of them 
and won 36. Soon, pitching every other day as he was, his arm became so 
sore he couldn't raise it to comb his hair. On game day he was at the ballpark 
hours before the start, getting warmed up. He began his warm up by throwing 
just a few feet, increasing the distance gradually until he was pitching 
from second base and finally from short centerfield.[9] After the regular 
season ended, the Grays played the American Association champion New York 
Metropolitans in the 1884 World Series. Radbourn started each game of the 
series and won all three, while allowing just three runs. There is a discrepancy 
in Radbourn's victory total in 1884. The classic MacMillan Baseball Encyclopedia, 
as well as the current Sporting News Baseball Record Book both credit Radbourn 
with 60 wins (against 12 losses), as does his National Baseball Hall of 
Fame biography.[10] Other sources, including the Baseball Reference and 
Baseball Almanac links shown here, give Radbourn 59 wins. Some older sources 
(such as his tombstone plaque) counted as high as 62. There is no dispute 
about the 678⅔ innings pitched, only over the manner in which victories 
were assigned to pitchers. That can be a contentious issue, as the rules 
in the early years allowed more latitude to the official scorer than they 
do today. Providence's won–lost record in 1884 was 84–28. The stats for 
the Grays' pitchers: According to at least two accounts, in the game of 
July 28 at Philadelphia, Miller pitched five innings and left trailing, 
4–3. Providence then scored four runs in the top of the sixth. Radbourn 
came in to relieve, and pitched shutout ball over the final four innings, 
while the Grays went on to score four more and to win the game, 11–4. The 
official scorer decided that Radbourn had pitched the most effectively, 
and awarded him the win. Under the rules of the day, the scorekeeper's 
decision certainly made sense. However, under modern scoring rules, Miller 
would get the win, being the "pitcher of record" when he left the game, 
and Radbourn would have been credited with a save, for (ironically enough) 
closing the game and "pitching effectively for three or more innings". 
Some modern statisticians have retroactively awarded the win to Miller. 
On the MLB.com page about Radbourn, he is credited with 59 wins and a save 
instead of 60 wins. Edward Achorn's 2010 book, Fifty-nine in '84, adheres 
to the revisionist view of Radbourn's 1884 statistics. After retiring, 
Radbourn opened up a successful billiard parlor and saloon in Bloomington, 
Illinois. Dating back to his playing days, he had always had a reputation 
for being a bit vain. Radbourn was seriously injured in a hunting accident 
soon after retirement, in which he lost an eye, spending most of his remaining 
years shut up in a back room of the saloon he owned, too ashamed to be 
seen after the injury. Radbourn died in Bloomington in 1897 and was interred 
in Evergreen Cemetery. He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1939. 
In 1941 a plaque was placed on the back of his elaboratly headstone, detailing 
his distinguished career. It is speculated Radbourn might be the namesake 
of the charley horse, a painful leg cramp not unlike that from which he 
