Charles Oscar Finley (February 22, 1918 – February 19, 1996), nicknamed 
Charlie O or Charley O, was an American businessman who is best remembered 
for his tenure as the owner of Major League Baseball's Oakland Athletics. 
Finley purchased the franchise while it was located in Kansas City, moving 
it to Oakland in 1968. Finley was born in Ensley, Birmingham, Alabama, 
attended Ensley High School but was further raised in Gary, Indiana, and 
later lived in La Porte, 60 miles (100 km) east of Chicago. In 1946, he 
suffered a bout of tuberculosis that nearly killed him, until his wife's 
obstetrician, H. Close Hesseltine, convinced him that he could beat it, 
if he put his mind to it and he successfully did. Finley made his fortune 
in the insurance business, being among the first to write group medical 
insurance policies for those in the medical profession.[citation needed] 
Finley showed a penchant for flair and inventive business practices. Sometimes, 
when wooing prospective customers, Finley would drive the client through 
the richest section of Gary. Pointing out a large mansion, Finley would 
declare "That's my place there, but I'm having it remodeled right now." 
Finley's fortunes grew and he ended up owning a 40-story insurance building 
in downtown Chicago. When Finley bought his personal property in La Porte, 
he hired John Mihelic as his ranch caretaker. The property was a working 
cattle ranch which consisted of an 18th-century, eleven-room colonial manor 
house and nine barns with various outbuildings. Finley had a large mansion 
built on the property, which featured rounded porticoes and columns which 
resembled the White House. Mihelic and his family then moved into the original 
house and lived there as manager and caretakers.[citation needed] Finley 
had a large "Home of the Oakland A's" sign installed on the roof of another 
large barn where it could be viewed by vehicles passing on the Indiana 
toll road. It was to this place that Finley often brought the whole team 
and held picnics and pool parties attended by friends, business associates, 
and locals, who mingled with members of the team and took numerous photographs.[citation 
needed] Finley first attempted to buy the Philadelphia Athletics in 1954, 
but American League owners instead approved the sale of the team to Arnold 
Johnson, who moved the A's to Kansas City for the 1955 season.[citation 
needed] On December 19, 1960, Finley purchased a controlling interest in 
the Kansas City Athletics from Johnson's estate (Johnson having died in 
March of that year); he then bought out the minority owners a year later. 
Finley quickly started to turn the franchise around, refusing to make deals 
with the New York Yankees (for which the Athletics had been criticized) 
and searching for unheralded talent. He also made significant investments 
in the minor league (farm) system for the first time in the franchise's 
history.[citation needed] From 1961 onward, Finley was effectively his 
own general manager, though the A's had someone with that title until 1966.[citation 
needed] Finley replaced the Athletics' traditional elephant mascot with 
a live mule. "Charlie-O" was paraded about the outfield, into cocktail 
parties and hotel lobbies and into the press room after a large feeding 
to annoy reporters. (The mule died in 1976, at age 20.)[1] After supposedly 
being told by manager Ed Lopat about the Yankees' success being attributable 
to the dimensions of Yankee Stadium, Finley built the "K.C. Pennant Porch" 
in right field, which brought the right field fence in Kansas City Municipal 
Stadium to match Yankee Stadium's dimensions exactly, just 296 feet from 
home plate. However, a rule passed in 1958 held that no (new or renovated) 
major-league fence could be closer than 325 feet, so league officials forced 
Finley to move the fences back after two exhibition games. The A's owner 
then ordered a white line to be painted on the field at the original "Pennant 
Porch" distance, and told the public address announcer to announce "That 
would have been a home run in Yankee Stadium" whenever a fly ball was hit 
past that line but short of the fence. The practice was quickly abandoned 
after it turned out that the announcer was calling more "would-be" home 
runs for the opposition than the A's.[citation needed] In 1963, Finley 
changed the team's colors to Kelly Green, Gold, and White. In 1967, he 
replaced the team's traditional black cleats with white. Finley also started 
phasing out the team name "Athletics" in favor of "A's." (When Mickey Mantle 
saw the A's' green-and-gold uniforms, he jeered, "They should have come 
out of the dugout on tippy-toes, holding hands and singing," according 
to Baseball Digest.)[citation needed] The A's (as they were officially 
known from 1970) moved to California in January 1968, just as the new talent 
amassed over the years in the minors (such as Reggie Jackson, Sal Bando, 
Joe Rudi, Bert Campaneris, Catfish Hunter, Rollie Fingers, and Vida Blue) 
was starting to gel. During the early 1970s, the once-moribund A's became 
a powerhouse, winning three straight World Series from 1972 to 1974 and 
five straight division titles from 1971 to 1975, in the Oakland Coliseum. 
Though he no longer owned the team when the A's won the World Series again 
in 1989, Tony La Russa, who managed that team and outfielder Rickey Henderson 
were originally scouted by Finley.[citation needed] In 1974, after winning 
a third straight World Series championship, Finley lost ace pitcher Catfish 
Hunter to free agency over a contract dispute. The A's still managed to 
dominate throughout the 1975 regular season without Hunter, only to lose 
to Boston in the playoffs. With free agency looming at the end of the 1976 
season, Finley began dismantling the ball club. Reggie Jackson and Ken 
Holtzman were traded to Baltimore a week prior to the start of the 1976 
season. Finley attempted to sell Rudi and Fingers to the Red Sox and Blue 
to the Yankees. Major League Baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn decided to 
invoke the rarely used "best interests of baseball" clause in order to 
void Finley's sales. Finley, in turn, hired famed sports attorney Neil 
Papiano and proceeded to file a $10 million restraint-of-trade lawsuit 
against Kuhn and Major League Baseball. Papiano and Finley lost the case 
(see Finley v. Kuhn). The court ruled that the commissioner had the authority 
to determine what is in the best interest of baseball. This lawsuit is 
widely recognized as one of the most famous, influential and precedent-setting 
sports-related cases in the history of American jurisprudence.[citation 
needed] At the end of the 1976 season, most of the A's stars left the team 
as free agents. The few remaining stars from the A's dynasty years were 
traded away, with the exceptions of Vida Blue and Billy North. In 1977, 
only two years after winning a fifth straight division title and three 
years after winning a third consecutive World Series, the A's finished 
in last place in their division, with one of the worst records in baseball. 
After the 1977 season, Finley tried to sell Blue again, this time to the 
Cincinnati Reds. Kuhn vetoed this trade as well, saying that it amounted 
to a fire sale, and citing concern that if Blue joined the Reds, the balance 
of power in the National League would tilt disproportionately in favor 
of the Reds.[citation needed] Charlie O. and his "right-hand man," cousin 
Carl A. Finley started scouting for new talent in 1977. The Finleys brought 
in future stars such as Rickey Henderson, Tony Armas, Mitchell Page, Mike 
Norris, and Dwayne Murphy to rebuild the team. It was not until 1980 that 
the A's showed signs of improvement, under manager Billy Martin. However, 
after that season, Finley's wife divorced him and would not accept an interest 
in the A's as part of a settlement. With most of the Finleys' money tied 
up in either Charlie O's insurance interests or the A's, the Finleys were 
forced to sell. The Finleys had been thinking of selling the team in any 
event due to the start of free agency.[citation needed] In 1980, Charlie 
O. agreed in principle to sell to businessman Marvin Davis, who planned 
to move the Athletics to Denver. However, just before Finley and Davis 
were due to sign a contract, the NFL's Oakland Raiders announced they were 
moving to Los Angeles in 1982. Oakland and Alameda County officials, not 
wanting to be held responsible for losing Oakland's status as a big-league 
city in its own right, refused to let the A's out of their lease with the 
Coliseum. Forced to turn to local buyers, Finley agreed to sell the A's 
to Walter A. Haas, Jr., president of Levi Strauss & Co. in August 1980,[2][3][4] 
with the deal finalized before the 1981 season. Carl was asked to remain 
with the new owners as Vice President/mentor. Due in large part to the 
Finleys' efforts to rebuild the team, the A's made the playoffs in 1981.[citation 
needed] The Finley management was very effective at marketing. They changed 
the team uniforms to green and gold with white shoes and they gave some 
players fun nicknames. The Finley organization introduced ball girls (one 
of whom, the future Debbi Fields, went on to found Mrs. Fields' Original 
Cookies, Inc.[citation needed]), and advocated night games for the World 
Series to increase the ability for fans to attend. Finley also was an outspoken 
advocate of the designated hitter rule, which he advocated until it was 
adopted by the American League.[citation needed] They were always full 
of new ideas, including: Despite his reputation as a master promoter, Finley 
had less success marketing his team. According to baseball writer Rob Neyer, 
a Kansas City native, Finley thought he could sell a baseball team like 
he sold insurance. Soon after buying the A's, he sent out 600,000 brochures 
to area residents and only netted $20,000 in sales.[6] While in Oakland, 
the A's rarely had radio and television contracts, and were practically 
invisible even in the Bay Area. For the first month of the 1978 season, 
the A's radio flagship was KALX, the 10-watt college radio station of the 
University of California, Berkeley. A year later, the A's didn't sign a 
radio contract until the day before Opening Day. Largely as a result, the 
A's never drew well even in their championship years, and were even sued 
by the city of Oakland and Alameda County in 1979.[7] The A's have recently 
held promotional days with throwback uniforms from the Finley years, and 
have invited former players and play-by-play announcer Monte Moore to attend.[citation 
needed] Finley purchased the Oakland Seals of the National Hockey League 
in 1970,[8] renaming the team California Golden Seals. Mimicking the A's, 
he changed the team colors to green and gold and had the Seals wear white 
skates instead of the traditional black skates, a move deeply unpopular 
with both players and fans.[citation needed] In 1970, Finley also purchased 
the Memphis Pros of the American Basketball Association, changing the team's 
name to the Memphis Tams, the name being an acronym for Tennessee, Arkansas 
and Mississippi. As was the case with the A's, he changed the Tams' colors 
to green and gold. He hired recently retired Kentucky Wildcats basketball 
coach Adolph Rupp as team president. Finley ran it on a shoestring budget. 
After the first season, he sold the teams and returned to baseball.[citation 
needed] In March 1987, Finley proposed a new football league. The league 
would merge with the Canadian Football League and be renamed the North 
American Football League. The American cities would be made up of those 
that lost out on the United States Football League folding.[citation needed] 
Finley resided primarily in Chicago and LaPorte, even as he owned the Oakland 
A's, making frequent trips to Oakland. He was in constant contact with 
his cousin Carl A. Finley who was overseeing the management of the team 
locally. Finley was popular in his hometown of LaPorte, where he remained 
involved in the community late into his life.[citation needed] While the 
Finley organization was building a championship team in Oakland, the LaPorte 
High School baseball team was becoming a powerhouse under coach Ken Schreiber. 
Finley sent the team equipment once, including the white shoes the Oakland 
A's made famous and that the LaPorte High School team would use until the 
late 1990s.[citation needed] Finley lived his final years on his farm in 
LaPorte. He died at age 77 on February 19, 1996, three days before his 
birthday. He had suffered from heart disease and was admitted two weeks 
earlier to Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago.[9][10] When Finley 
owned the Kansas City Athletics, he promised the people of Kansas City 
that he would bring The Beatles to play in Kansas City's Municipal Stadium 
during the group's first tour of North America in the summer of 1964. Finley 
visited the group's manager, Brian Epstein, in San Francisco on August 
19, 1964, where the Beatles were playing the first date of the tour. He 
told Epstein that he was disappointed that Kansas City was not among the 
group's itinerary, and offered first $50,000 and then $100,000 if the Beatles 
would schedule a concert in the Missouri city. Epstein refused, pointing 
out that on the only free date available, September 17, the band was scheduled 
for a day of rest in New Orleans. Finley encountered Epstein again in Los 
Angeles a week later and they agreed on $150,000. The Beatles earned what 
at the time was the highest fee ever for a musical concert, a staggering 
$4,838 per minute. Finley had a photo of himself in a Beatles wig printed 
on the back of all concert tickets.[11] Source: Mark Lewisohn, The Beatles 
Live!: The Ultimate Reference Book (New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1986), 
