Charles Martin Conlon (November, 1868 – 1945) was an American photographer. 
He worked for New York City newspapers in the early 1900s, as a proof-reader 
with a photographic hobby before editor John B. Foster invited him to shoot 
photographs for The Telegram daily newspaper sporting pages and for the 
Spalding's Base Ball Guide annual. Charley Conlon took thousands of portraits 
of major league baseball players. His most famous photo is a fortunate 
action shot of Ty Cobb sliding into third base at Hilltop Park in 1910, 
upending the fielder, Jimmy Austin. Many of his photos of baseball's early 
stars are instantly recognizable, due to having been frequently reprinted 
over the years. Conlon was born in Albany, New York in 1868. He grew up 
in neighboring Troy and retired there. He died in 1945, predeceased by 
his wife and having no children or siblings. (Amedio, E8) Charles Conlons' 
original glass plate negatives are owned by North Little Rock, Arkansas 
collector John Rogers. The collection of 8,400 different Conlon glass negatives 
are housed in the John Rogers Archive www.johnrogersarchive.com. Rogers 
displayed the Conlon collection at The National Sports Collectors Convention 
in Baltimore, MD in July 2010. On July 23, 1910, Conlon snapped an action 
photo of Cobb sliding into third base. For publication, the original photo 
was cropped on the right, taking away almost half of the image. That is 
the version everyone saw until Baseball's Golden Age: The Photographs of 
Charles M. Conlon was published in 1993. The excised portion is included 
and shows more of the right-side bleachers, as well as the left arm of 
the third base coach. Conlon was actually on the field, a common practice 
of the day, "behind third base, under the hood of a large, tripod-supported 
Graflex camera" (Amedio, E1). He was positioned to the outfield side of 
the third base coach's box, in foul territory. Cobb was on second. New 
York third baseman Jimmy Austin was playing in for a possible sacrifice 
bunt. Cobb took off for third, directly toward Conlon, but the batter did 
not get the bunt down. Austin backpedaled to take the throw from the catcher. 
Cobb tripped Austin over and the catcher's throw sailed into left field. 
Presumably Cobb could have gotten up and scored, but the book does not 
elaborate. (McCabe 2003) Initially, there was an issue on whether Conlon 
got the shot or not. He changed plates, just to be safe, because he did 
not remember if he had squeezed the shutter bulb or not, and he knew it 
had potential to be a great shot. It turned out that he had, it was, and 
