Charlotte /ˈʃɑːrlət/ is the largest city in the state of North Carolina. 
It is the county seat of Mecklenburg County and the second largest city 
in the southeastern United States, just behind Jacksonville, Florida. Charlotte 
is the third fastest growing major city in the United States.[3] In 2014, 
the estimated population of Charlotte according to the U.S. Census Bureau 
was 809,958,[4] making it the 17th largest city in the United States based 
on population. The Charlotte metropolitan area ranks 22nd largest in the 
US and had a 2014 population of 2,380,314.[1] The Charlotte metropolitan 
area is part of a sixteen-county market region or combined statistical 
area with a 2014 U.S. Census population estimate of 2,537,990.[5] Residents 
of Charlotte are referred to as "Charlotteans". It is listed as a "gamma-plus" 
global city by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network.[6] 
Charlotte is home to the corporate headquarters of Bank of America and 
the east coast operations of Wells Fargo, which along with other financial 
institutions makes it the second largest banking center in the United States.[7] 
Among Charlotte's many notable attractions, some of the most popular include 
the Carolina Panthers of the National Football League (NFL), the Charlotte 
Hornets of the National Basketball Association (NBA), the Charlotte Independence 
of the United Soccer League (USL), two NASCAR Sprint Cup races and the 
NASCAR All-Star Race, the Wells Fargo Championship, the NASCAR Hall of 
Fame, the Charlotte Ballet, Carowinds amusement park, and the U.S. National 
Whitewater Center. Charlotte Douglas International Airport is a major international 
hub, and was ranked the 23rd busiest airport in the world by passenger 
traffic in 2013.[8] Charlotte has a humid subtropical climate. The city 
is located several miles east of the Catawba River and southeast of Lake 
Norman, the largest man-made lake in North Carolina. Lake Wylie and Mountain 
Island Lake are two smaller man-made lakes located near the city. The Catawba 
Native Americans were the first to settle Mecklenburg County (in the Charlotte 
area) and were first recorded in European records around 1567. By 1759 
half the Catawba tribe had been killed by smallpox. At the time of their 
largest population, Catawba people numbered 10,000, but by 1826 that number 
dropped to 110.[9] Mecklenburg County was initially part of Bath County 
(1696 to 1729) of New Hanover Precinct, which became New Hanover County 
in 1729. The western portion of New Hanover split into Bladen County in 
1734, its western portion splitting into Anson County in 1750. Mecklenburg 
County formed from Anson County in 1762, with further apportionment in 
1792, with Cabarrus County formed from Mecklenburg, and in 1842, with Union 
County formed from Mecklenburg's southeastern portion. These areas were 
all part of one of the original six judicial/military districts of North 
Carolina known as the Salisbury District.[10] The area that is now Charlotte 
was settled by people of European descent around 1755, when Thomas Spratt 
and his family settled near what is now the Elizabeth neighborhood. Thomas 
Polk (granduncle of U.S. President James K. Polk), who later married Thomas 
Spratt's daughter, built his house by the intersection of two Native American 
trading paths between the Yadkin and Catawba rivers.[11] One path ran north–south 
and was part of the Great Wagon Road; the second path ran east–west along 
what is now Trade Street. Nicknamed the Queen City,[12] like its county 
a few years earlier, Charlotte was named in honor of German princess Charlotte 
of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, who had become the Queen Consort of Great Britain 
and Ireland in 1761, just seven years before the town's incorporation. 
A second nickname derives from the American Revolutionary War, when British 
commander General Charles Cornwallis, 1st Marquess Cornwallis occupied 
the city but was driven out by hostile residents, prompting him to write 
that Charlotte was "a hornet's nest of rebellion", leading to the nickname 
The Hornet's Nest. Within decades of Polk's settling, the area grew to 
become "Charlotte Town", incorporating in 1768.[13] The crossroads, perched 
atop the Piedmont landscape, became the heart of Uptown Charlotte. In 1770, 
surveyors marked the streets in a grid pattern for future development. 
The east–west trading path became Trade Street, and the Great Wagon Road 
became Tryon Street, in honor of William Tryon, a royal governor of colonial 
North Carolina.[14] The intersection of Trade and Tryon—commonly known 
today as "Trade & Tryon", or simply "The Square"[11]—is more properly called 
"Independence Square".[15] While surveying the boundary between the Carolinas 
in 1772, William Moultrie stopped in Charlotte Town, whose five or six 
houses were "very ordinary built of logs".[16] In 1775, local leaders came 
together and signed the Mecklenburg Resolves, more popularly known as the 
Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. While not a true declaration of 
independence from British rule, it is among the first such declarations 
that eventually led to the American Revolution. May 20, the traditional 
date of the signing of the declaration, is celebrated annually in Charlotte 
as "MecDec", with musket and cannon fire by reenactors in Independence 
Square. North Carolina's state flag and state seal also bear the date. 
Charlotte is traditionally considered the home of Southern Presbyterianism, 
but in the 19th century, numerous churches, including Presbyterian, Baptist, 
Methodist, Episcopalian, Lutheran, and Roman Catholic formed, eventually 
giving Charlotte the nickname, "The City of Churches".[17] In 1799, in 
nearby Cabarrus County, 12-year-old Conrad Reed found a 17-pound rock, 
which his family used as a doorstop. Three years later, a jeweler determined 
it was nearly solid gold, paying the family a paltry $3.50.[18] The first 
documented gold find in the United States of any consequence set off the 
nation's first gold rush. Many veins of gold were found in the area throughout 
the 19th and early 20th century, leading to the 1837 founding of the Charlotte 
Mint. North Carolina was the chief producer of gold in the United States 
until the Sierra Nevada find in 1848,[19] although the volume mined in 
the Charlotte area was dwarfed by subsequent rushes. Some groups still 
pan for gold occasionally in local streams and creeks. The Reed Gold Mine 
operated until 1912. The Charlotte Mint was active until 1861, when Confederate 
forces seized it at the outbreak of the Civil War. The mint was not reopened 
at the war's end, but the building, albeit in a different location, now 
houses the Mint Museum of Art. The city's first boom came after the Civil 
War, as a cotton processing center and a railroad hub. Charlotte's city 
population at the 1880 Census grew to 7,084.[20] Population grew again 
during World War I, when the U.S. government established Camp Greene north 
of present-day Wilkinson Boulevard. Many soldiers and suppliers stayed 
after the war, launching an urban ascent that eventually overtook older 
city rivals along the Piedmont Crescent. The city's modern-day banking 
industry achieved prominence in the 1970s and 1980s, largely under the 
leadership of financier Hugh McColl. McColl transformed North Carolina 
National Bank (NCNB) into a formidable national player that through aggressive 
acquisitions became known as NationsBank, eventually merging with BankAmerica 
to become Bank of America. First Union, later Wachovia in 2001, experienced 
similar growth before it was acquired by San Francisco-based Wells Fargo 
in 2008. Measured by control of assets, Charlotte is the second largest 
banking headquarters in the United States, after New York City.[21] On 
September 22, 1989, the city took a direct hit from Hurricane Hugo. With 
sustained winds of 69 mph (111 km/h) and gusts of 87 mph (140 km/h) in 
some locations,[22] Hugo caused massive property damage, destroyed 80,000 
trees, and knocked out electrical power to most of the population. Residents 
were without power for weeks, schools were closed for a week or more, and 
cleanup took months. The city was caught unprepared; Charlotte is 200 miles 
(320 km) inland, and residents from coastal areas in both Carolinas often 
wait out hurricanes in Charlotte. In December 2002, Charlotte and much 
of central North Carolina were hit by an ice storm that resulted in more 
than 1.3 million people losing power.[23] During an abnormally cold December, 
many were without power for weeks. Much of the damage was caused by Bradford 
pear trees, splitting apart under the weight of the ice. In August 2015 
and in September 2016, the city experienced several days of protests related 
to the police shootings of Jonathan Ferrell and Keith Scott.[24][25] According 
to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 297.68 
square miles (771.0 km2), of which 297.08 square miles (769.4 km2) is land 
and 0.6 square miles (1.6 km2) is water. Charlotte lies at an elevation 
of 748 feet (228 m), as measured at Charlotte/Douglas International Airport. 
Charlotte constitutes most of Mecklenburg County in the Carolina Piedmont. 
Charlotte center city sits atop a long rise between two creeks, Sugar Creek 
and Irwin Creek and was built on the gunnies of the St. Catherine's and 
Rudisill gold mines. Though the Catawba River and its lakes lie several 
miles west, there are no significant bodies of water or other geological 
features near the city center. Consequently, development has neither been 
constrained nor helped by waterways or ports that have contributed to many 
cities of similar size. The lack of these obstructions has contributed 
to Charlotte's growth as a highway, rail, and air transportation hub. Charlotte 
has 199 neighborhoods radiating in all directions from Uptown.[26] Biddleville, 
the primary historic center of Charlotte's African-American community, 
is west of Uptown, starting at the Johnson C. Smith University campus and 
extending to the airport.[27] East of The Plaza and north of Central Avenue, 
Plaza-Midwood is known for its international population, including East 
Europeans, Greeks, Middle-Easterners, and Hispanics.[28] North Tryon and 
the Sugar Creek area include several Asian-American communities. NoDa (North 
Davidson), north of Uptown, is an emerging center for arts and entertainment.[29] 
Myers Park, Dilworth, and Eastover are home to some of Charlotte's oldest 
and largest houses, on tree-lined boulevards, with Freedom Park, arguably 
the city's favorite, nearby. In 2012, the urban section of Little Sugar 
Creek Greenway was completed. Inspired in part by the San Antonio River 
Walk, and integral to Charlotte's extensive urban park system, it is "a 
huge milestone" according to Gwen Cook, greenway planner for Mecklenburg 
County Park and Recreation.[30] Park Road and the SouthPark area have an 
extensive array of shopping and dining offerings, with SouthPark essentially 
serving as a second urban core. Blossoming neighborhoods like Sedgefield, 
Dilworth and South End are great examples of that. A prominent feature 
of the SouthPark neighborhood is the 120‑acre Park Road Park.[31] Far South 
Boulevard is home to a large Hispanic community. Many students, researchers, 
and affiliated professionals live near UNC Charlotte in the northeast area 
known as University City. The large area known as Southeast Charlotte is 
home to many golf communities, luxury developments, mega-churches, the 
Jewish community center, and private schools. As undeveloped land within 
Mecklenburg has become scarce, many of these communities have expanded 
into Weddington and Waxhaw in Union County.[32] Ballantyne, far south Charlotte, 
and nearly every area on the I‑485 perimeter, have seen extensive growth 
over the past 10 years. Since the 1980s in particular, Uptown Charlotte 
has undergone massive construction of buildings housing Bank of America, 
Wells Fargo, Hearst Corporation, Duke Energy, several hotels, and multiple 
condominium developments.[33] Charlotte, like much of the Piedmont region 
of the southeastern United States, has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen 
Cfa), with four distinct seasons; the city itself is part of USDA hardiness 
zone 8a, transitioning to 7b in the suburbs in all directions except the 
south.[34] Winters are short and generally cool, with a January daily average 
of 40.1 °F (4.5 °C). On average, there are 59 nights per year that drop 
to or below freezing, and only 1.5 days that fail to rise above freezing.[35] 
April is the driest month, with an average of 3.04 inches (7.7 cm) of precipitation. 
Summers are hot and humid, with a daily average in July of 78.5 °F (25.8 °C). 
There is an average 44 days per year with highs at or above 90 °F (32 °C).[35] 
Official record temperatures range from 104 °F (40 °C) recorded six times, 
most recently on July 1, 2012, down to −5 °F (−21 °C) as recently as January 
21, 1985, the last of three occasions; the record cold daily maximum is 
14 °F (−10 °C) on February 12 and 13, 1899, while, conversely, the record 
warm daily minimum is 82 °F (28 °C) on August 13, 1881.[35] The average 
window for freezing temperatures is November 5 thru March 30, allowing 
a growing season of 220 days.[35] Charlotte is directly in the path of 
subtropical moisture from the Gulf of Mexico as it heads up the eastern 
seaboard, thus the city receives ample precipitation throughout the year 
but also many clear, sunny days; precipitation is generally less frequent 
in autumn than spring.[35] On average, Charlotte receives 41.6 inches (1,060 mm) 
of precipitation annually, which is somewhat evenly distributed throughout 
the year, although summer is slightly wetter; annual precipitation has 
historically ranged from 26.23 in (666 mm) in 2001 to 68.44 in (1,738 mm) 
in 1884.[35] In addition, there is an average of 4.3 inches (10.9 cm) of 
snow, mainly in January and February and rarely December or March, with 
more frequent ice storms and sleet mixed in with rain; seasonal snowfall 
has historically ranged from trace amounts as recently as 2011–12 to 22.6 in 
(57 cm) in 1959–60.[35] These storms can have a major impact on the area, 
as they often pull tree limbs down on power lines and make driving hazardous. 
The most recent U.S. Census estimate (2014, released in May 2015) showed 
809,958 residents living within Charlotte's city limits and 1,012,539 in 
Mecklenburg County. The Combined Statistical Area, or trade area, of Charlotte-Concord-Gastonia, 
NC-SC had a population of 2,537,990.[1] Figures from the more comprehensive 
2010 census show Charlotte's population density to be 948.7/km² (2,457/sq mi). 
There are 319,918 housing units at an average density of 1,074.6 per square 
mile (414.9/km²).[40] According to the 2010 United States Census, the racial 
composition of Charlotte was: In 1970, the Census Bureau reported Charlotte's 
population as 30.2% Black and 68.9% White.[41] The median income for a 
household in the city is $48,670, and the median income for a family is 
$59,452. Males have a median income of $38,767 versus $29,218 for females. 
The per capita income for the city is $29,825. 10.6% of the population 
and 7.8% of families are below the poverty line. Out of the total population, 
13.8% of those under the age of 18 and 9.7% of those 65 and older are living 
below the poverty line. Charlotte has historically been a Protestant city. 
It is the birthplace of Billy Graham, and is also the historic seat of 
Southern Presbyterianism, but the changing demographics of the city's increasing 
population have brought scores of new denominations and faiths. The Billy 
Graham Evangelistic Association, Wycliffe Bible Translators' JAARS Center, 
and SIM Missions Organization make their homes in the Charlotte general 
area. In total, Charlotte proper has 700 places of worship. The Presbyterian 
Church (USA) still now is the fourth largest denomination in Charlotte, 
with 68,000 members and 206 congregations. The second largest Presbyterian 
denomination, the Presbyterian Church in America has 43 churches and 12,000 
members, followed by the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church with 63 
churches and 9,500 members.[42] The Baptist Peace Fellowship of North America 
is headquartered in Charlotte, and both Reformed Theological Seminary and 
Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary have campuses there; more recently, 
the Religious Studies academic departments of Charlotte's local colleges 
and universities have also grown considerably. The Advent Christian Church 
is headquartered in Charlotte. The Western North Carolina Annual Conference 
of the United Methodist Church is headquartered in Charlotte. The largest 
Protestant church in Charlotte, by attendance, is Elevation Church, a Southern 
Baptist church founded by lead pastor Steven Furtick. The church has over 
15,000 congregants at nine Charlotte locations.[43] Charlotte's Cathedral 
of Saint Patrick is the seat of the bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese 
of Charlotte. The Traditional Latin Mass is offered by the Society of St. 
Pius X at St. Anthony Catholic Church in nearby Mount Holly. The Traditional 
Latin Mass is also offered at St. Ann, Charlotte, a church under the jurisdiction 
of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Charlotte. St. Matthew Parish, located 
in the Ballantyne neighborhood, is the largest Catholic parish with over 
30,000 parishioners.[44] The Greek Orthodox Church's cathedral for North 
Carolina, Holy Trinity Cathedral, is located in Charlotte. Charlotte has 
the largest Jewish population in the Carolinas. Shalom Park, in south Charlotte, 
is the hub of the Jewish community, featuring two synagogues Temple Israel 
and Temple Beth El as well as a community center and the Charlotte Jewish 
Day School for grades K-5, and the headquarters of the Charlotte Jewish 
News.[45] Most African Americans in Charlotte are Baptists affiliated with 
the National Baptist Convention the largest predominantly African American 
denomination in the United States. African American Methodists are largely 
affiliated with either the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church whose 
headquarters is in Charlotte or the African Methodist Episcopal Church. 
African American Pentecostals are represented by several organizations 
such as the United House of Prayer for All People, Church of God in Christ 
and the United Holy Church of America. As of 2013[update], 51.91% of people 
in Charlotte are religiously affiliated, making it the second most religious 
city in North Carolina after Winston-Salem. The largest religion in Charlotte 
is Christianity, with Baptists (13.26%) having the most adherents. The 
second largest Christian group is Roman Catholic (9.43%), followed by Methodist 
(8.02%) and Presbyterian (5.25%). Other Christian affiliates include Pentecostal 
(2.50%), Lutheran (1.30%), Episcopalian (1.20%), Latter-Day Saints (0.84%), 
and other Christian (8.87%) churches including Eastern Orthodox and non-denominational. 
Judaism (0.57%) is the second largest religion after Christianity, followed 
by Eastern religions (0.34%) and Islam (0.32%).[46] Charlotte has become 
a major U.S. financial center and the second largest banking center in 
the United States (after New York City).[47] The nation's second largest 
financial institution by assets, Bank of America, calls the city home. 
The city was also the former corporate home of Wachovia until its 2008 
acquisition by Wells Fargo in San Francisco CA; Wells Fargo integrated 
legacy Wachovia, with the two banks fully merged at the end of 2011, which 
included transitioning all of the Wachovia branches in the Carolinas to 
Wells Fargo branches by October 2011. Since then, Charlotte became the 
regional headquarters for East Coast Operations of Wells Fargo, which is 
headquartered in San Francisco, California. Charlotte also serves as the 
headquarters for Wells Fargo's capital markets activities including sales 
and trading, equity research, and investment banking. Bank of America's 
headquarters, along with other regional banking and financial services 
companies, are located primarily in the Uptown central business district. 
Charlotte has nine Fortune 500 companies in its metropolitan area, listed 
in order of their rank: Bank of America, Lowe's in suburban Mooresville, 
Nucor (steel producer), Duke Energy, Sealed Air Corp, Sonic Automotive, 
Family Dollar, SPX Corporation (industrial technology), and Domtar (in 
suburban Fort Mill). The Charlotte area includes a very diverse range of 
businesses, including foodstuffs such as Chiquita Brands International, 
Harris Teeter, Snyder's-Lance, Carolina Foods Inc, Bojangles', Food Lion, 
Compass Group USA, and Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated (Charlotte being 
the nation's second largest Coca-Cola bottler), motor and transportation 
companies like RSC Brands, and Continental Tire the Americas, LLC., Meineke 
Car Care Center, Carlisle Companies (along with several other services), 
along with a wide array of other businesses.[48] Charlotte is the major 
center in the U.S. motorsports industry, housing multiple offices of NASCAR, 
the NASCAR Hall of Fame and Charlotte Motor Speedway in Concord. Approximately 
75% of the NASCAR industry's race teams, employees and drivers are based 
nearby. The large presence of the racing technology industry along with 
the newly built NHRA dragstrip, zMAX Dragway at Concord, is influencing 
other top professional drag racers to move their shops to Charlotte as 
well. Located in the western part of Mecklenburg County is the U.S. National 
Whitewater Center, which consists of man-made rapids of various degrees 
and is open to the public year-round.[49] The Charlotte Region has a major 
base of energy-oriented organizations and has become known as "Charlotte 
USA – The New Energy Capital". In the region there are more than 240 companies 
directly tied to energy sector collectively employing more than 26,400. 
Since 2007 more than 4,000 energy sector jobs have been announced. Major 
energy players in Charlotte include AREVA, Babcock & Wilcox, Duke Energy, 
Electric Power Research Institute, Fluor, Metso Power, Piedmont Natural 
Gas, Siemens Energy, Shaw Group, Toshiba, URS Corp., and Westinghouse. 
The University of North Carolina at Charlotte has a reputation in energy 
education and research and its Energy Production and Infrastructure Center 
(EPIC) trains energy engineers and conducts research. The area is an increasingly 
growing trucking and freight transportation hub for the East Coast. The 
Charlotte Center city has seen remarkable growth over the last decade. 
Numerous residential units continue to be built uptown, including over 
20 skyscrapers under construction, recently completed, or in the planning 
stage. Many new restaurants, bars and clubs now operate in the Uptown area. 
Several projects are transforming the Midtown Charlotte/Elizabeth area.[50] 
In 2013, Forbes named Charlotte among its list of Best Places for Business 
and Careers.[51] Charlotte was listed as the #20 largest city in the US, 
and the #60 fastest growing city in the US between 2000–2008.[52] According 
to Charlotte's 2014 Comprehensive Annual Financial Report,[53] the top 
employers in the city are: The Charlotte region is home to many annual 
festivals and special events. Carolina Renaissance Festival, operating 
Saturdays and Sundays, October and November. Located near the intersection 
of 73 and Poplar Tent Road, the Carolina Renaissance Festival is one of 
the largest renaissance themed events in the country and features 11-stages 
of outdoor variety entertainment, a 22-acre village marketplace, an interactive 
circus, an arts and crafts fair, a jousting tournament and a feast—all 
rolled into one non-stop, day-long family adventure. Charlotte is "... 
the largest metropolitan area in the United States without a zoo."[54] 
The Charlotte Zoo initiative is a proposal to allocate 250 acres (101 ha) 
of natural North Carolina land to be dedicated to the zoological foundation, 
which was incorporated in 2008. On August 18, 2012, News Channel 14 says 
that the initiative is "... still a few years away" and the plot of land 
is "... just seven miles from the center of uptown." According to the news 
channel, "... the zoo will cost roughly $300 million, and will be completely 
privately-funded."[55] The Charlotte Observer references two other zoos, 
the Riverbanks Zoo and Garden and the North Carolina Zoological Park as 
two "great zoos" that are accessible from the Charlotte-Mecklenberg area, 
both roughly more than 70 miles away.[56] Charlotte is also served by the 
Sea Life Charlotte-Concord Aquarium, in the nearby city of Concord. The 
aquarium is 30,000-square-foot in size, and is part of the Concord Mills 
mall. The aquarium opened on February 20, 2014.[57] Charlotte is home to 
two major professional sports franchises: the Carolina Panthers of the 
National Football league (NFL) and the Charlotte Hornets of the National 
Basketball Association (NBA). The Panthers have been located in Charlotte 
since their creation in 1995 and the current Hornets franchise have been 
located in Charlotte since their creation in 2004. The Panthers play their 
home games in Bank of America Stadium, while the Hornets play in the Spectrum 
Center. The original Hornets NBA franchise was established in 1988 as an 
expansion team, but relocated to New Orleans, Louisiana in 2002 after animosity 
grew between the team's fans and principal owner George Shinn.[58] The 
NBA quickly granted Charlotte an expansion franchise following the departure 
of the Hornets and the new franchise, the Charlotte Bobcats, began play 
in 2004. The team retook the Hornets name when the now-New Orleans based 
team renamed themselves the New Orleans Pelicans in 2013.[59] The name 
change became official on May 20, 2014, along with the revelation that 
the franchise would reclaim the history and records of the original 1988–2002 
Hornets.[60] Charlotte is represented in ice hockey and baseball at the 
'AAA' professional level by the Charlotte Checkers and the Charlotte Knights, 
and in professional ultimate by the Charlotte Express of the American Ultimate 
Disc League. Charlotte has a council-manager form of government. The Mayor 
and city council are elected every two years, with no term limits. The 
mayor is ex officio chairman of the city council, and only votes in case 
of a tie. Unlike other mayors in council-manager systems, Charlotte's mayor 
has the power to veto ordinances passed by the council; vetoes can be overridden 
by a two-thirds majority of the council. The council appoints a city manager 
to serve as chief administrative officer. Unlike some other cities and 
towns in North Carolina, elections are held on a partisan basis. The most 
recent mayor of Charlotte was Patrick Cannon, a member of the Democratic 
Party. Cannon was sworn in as mayor on December 2, 2013.[61] On March 26, 
2014, Mayor Patrick Cannon was arrested on public corruption charges. Later 
the same day, he resigned as mayor.[62] On April 7, the City Council held 
a special election, and selected State Senator Dan Clodfelter, also a Democrat, 
to fill out the balance of Cannon's term.[63] Charlotte tends to lean Democratic, 
but voters are friendly to moderates of both parties. Republican strength 
is concentrated in the southeastern portion of the city, while Democratic 
strength is concentrated in the south-central, eastern and northern areas. 
The city council comprises 11 members (7 from districts and 4 at-large). 
Democrats control the council with a 9-to-2 advantage, winning all four 
of the at-large seats in the November 2013 municipal election. While the 
city council is responsible for passing ordinances, many policy decisions 
must be approved by the North Carolina General Assembly as well, since 
North Carolina municipalities do not have home rule. Since the 1960s, however, 
municipal powers have been broadly construed. Charlotte is split between 
three congressional districts on the federal level—the 8th, represented 
by Republican Richard Hudson; the 9th, represented by Republican Robert 
Pittenger; and the 12th, represented by Democrat Alma Adams. Charlotte 
was selected in 2011 to host the 2012 Democratic National Convention, which 
was held at the Spectrum Center. It began September 4, 2012, and ended 
on the sixth.[1] Emergency medical services for the city of Charlotte are 
provided by MEDIC, the Mecklenburg EMS Agency. MEDIC responded to over 
93,000 calls for help in 2008, and transported over 71,000 patients to 
the major hospitals in Charlotte.[64] The Agency employs nearly 350 Paramedics, 
EMTs, and EMDs. In addition to dispatching Medic's EMS calls, the Agency 
also dispatches all county fire calls outside of the city of Charlotte.[65] 
At any given time, between 20 and 40 ambulances will be deployed to cover 
the county. The Charlotte Fire Department provides fire suppression, emergency 
medical services, public education, hazardous materials (HAZMAT) mitigation, 
technical rescues, and fire prevention and inspection with 1,164 personnel. 
Forty-two fire stations are strategically scattered throughout Charlotte 
to provide a reasonable response time to emergencies in the city limits. 
CMPD is a combined jurisdiction agency. The CMPD has law enforcement jurisdiction 
in both the city of Charlotte and the few unincorporated areas left in 
Mecklenburg County. The other small towns maintain their own law enforcement 
agencies for their own jurisdictions. The Department consists of approximately 
1,700 sworn law enforcement officers, 550 civilian personnel, and more 
than 400 volunteers.[66] The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department divides 
the city into 13 geographic areas, which vary in size both geographically 
and by the number of officers assigned to each division. The total crime 
index for Charlotte is 589.2 crimes committed per 100,000 residents as 
of 2008[update] and has shown a steady decline since 2005.[67] The national 
average is 320.9 per 100,000 residents.[67] An average of 4,939 vehicles 
are stolen every year in Charlotte.[68] According to the Congressional 
Quarterly Press; '2008 City Crime Rankings: Crime in Metropolitan America, 
Charlotte, North Carolina ranks as the 62nd most dangerous city larger 
than 75,000 inhabitants.[69] However, the entire Charlotte-Gastonia Metropolitan 
Statistical Area ranked as 27th most dangerous out of 338 metro areas.[70] 
The city's public school system, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools, is the 
second largest in North Carolina and 17th largest in the nation.[71] In 
2009, it won the NAEP Awards, the Nation's Report Card for urban school 
systems with top honors among 18 city systems for 4th grade math, 2nd place 
among 8th graders.[72][73] An estimated 144,000 students are taught in 
164 separate elementary, middle, and high schools.[74] Charlotte is home 
to a number of notable universities and colleges such as Central Piedmont 
Community College, Charlotte School of Law, Johnson C. Smith University, 
Johnson & Wales University, Queens University of Charlotte, and the University 
of North Carolina at Charlotte. Several notable colleges are located in 
the metropolitan suburbs. In Davidson, Davidson College is ranked in the 
top 10 nationally among liberal arts colleges according to U.S. News & 
World Report. Additional colleges in the area include Belmont Abbey College 
in the suburb of Belmont, North Carolina, and Wingate University in the 
suburb of Wingate, North Carolina. Also nearby are Winthrop University, 
Clinton Junior College and York Technical College in Rock Hill, South Carolina. 
UNC Charlotte is the city's largest university. It is located in University 
City, the northeastern portion of Charlotte, which is also home to University 
Research Park, a 3,200 acres (13 km2) research and corporate park. With 
more than 28,000 students, UNC Charlotte is the fastest-growing university 
in the state system and the third largest. Central Piedmont Community College 
is the largest community college in the Carolinas, with more than 70,000 
students each year and 6 campuses throughout the Charlotte-Mecklenburg 
region.[75] CPCC is part of the statewide North Carolina Community College 
System. The Charlotte School of Law opened its doors in Charlotte in 2006 
and was fully accredited by the American Bar Association in 2011. The law 
school offers the Juris Doctor degree and has affiliated programming with 
UNC Charlotte and Johnson C. Smith University. Charlotte School of Law 
is the largest law school in the Carolinas. Pfeiffer University has a satellite 
campus in Charlotte. Wake Forest University, with its main campus in Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, also operates a satellite campus of its Babcock Graduate 
School of Management in the Uptown area.[76] The Connecticut School of 
Broadcasting, DeVry University, and ECPI University all have branches in 
Charlotte. The Universal Technical Institute has the NASCAR Technical Institute 
in nearby Mooresville, serving the Charlotte area. Montreat College (Charlotte) 
maintains a School of Professional and Adult Studies in the city. The North 
Carolina Research Campus, a 350-acre biotechnology hub located northeast 
of Charlotte in the city of Kannapolis, is a public-private venture including 
eight universities, one community college, the David H. Murdock Research 
Institute (DHMRI), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and corporate 
entities that collaborate to advance the fields of human health, nutrition 
and agriculture. Partnering educational organizations include UNC Charlotte 
and Rowan-Cabarrus Community College, from the Charlotte region, as well 
as Appalachian State University, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Duke University, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, North 
Carolina A&T State University, North Carolina Central University and North 
Carolina State University.[77] The research campus is part of a larger 
effort by leaders in the Charlotte-area to attract energy, health and other 
knowledge-based industries that contribute to North Carolina's strength 
in biotechnology. The Charlotte Mecklenburg Library serves the Charlotte 
area with a large collection (more than 1.5 million) of books, CDs and 
DVDs at 15 locations in the city of Charlotte, with branches in the surrounding 
towns of Matthews, Mint Hill, Huntersville, Cornelius and Davidson. All 
locations provide free access to Internet-enabled computers and WiFi, and 
a library card from one location is accepted at all 20 locations. Although 
the Library's roots go back to the Charlotte Literary and Library Association, 
founded on January 16, 1891,[78] the state-chartered Carnegie Library which 
opened on the current North Tryon site of the Main Library was the first 
non-subscription library opened to members of the public in the city of 
Charlotte. The philanthropist Andrew Carnegie donated $25,000 dollars for 
a library building on the condition that the city of Charlotte donate a 
site, and $2500 per year for books and salaries,[79] and that the state 
grant a charter for the library. All conditions were met, and the Charlotte 
Carnegie Library opened in an imposing classical building on July 2, 1903. 
The 1903 state charter also required a library be opened for the disenfranchised 
African-American population of Charlotte. This was completed in 1905, with 
opening of the Brevard Street Library for Negroes, an independent library 
in Brooklyn, a historically black area of Charlotte, on the corner of Brevard 
and East Second Street (now Martin Luther King Boulevard).[80] The Brevard 
Street Library was the first library for African Americans in the state 
of North Carolina,[80] some sources say in the southeast.[81] The library 
was closed in 1961 when the Brooklyn neighborhood in Second Ward was redeveloped, 
but its role as a cultural center for African-Americans in Charlotte is 
continued by the Beatties Ford branch, and the West Boulevard branch of 
the library system, as well as by Charlotte's African-American Cultural 
Center. Charlotte has a municipal waste system consisting of trash pick 
up, water distribution and waste treatment. There are 5 waste water treatment 
plants operated by CMUD[82] Charlotte has a biosolids program[83] Some 
Chester residents spoke out against the program on Feb 26, 2013.[84] Charlotte's 
sludge is handled, transported and spread on farm fields in Chester by 
a company called Synagro, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Carlyle Group[85] 
Charlotte's sludge is of the "CLASS B" variety, which means it still contains 
detectable levels of pathogens.[86][87] The Charlotte Area Transit System 
(CATS) is the agency responsible for operating mass transit in Charlotte 
and Mecklenburg County. CATS operates light rail transit, historical trolleys, 
express shuttles, and bus services serving Charlotte and its immediate 
suburbs. The LYNX light rail system comprises a 9.6‑mile line north–south 
line known as the Blue Line, which saw 2025 ridership projections (18,500) 
exceeded after its first year of service. Bus ridership continues to grow 
(66% since 1998).[88] The 2030 Transit Corridor System Plan looks to supplement 
established bus service with light rail and commuter rail lines as a part 
of the system LYNX. In 2011, the city of Charlotte and CATS staff conducted 
public forums to present the Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) 
and gather public input from residents, property owners and business owners 
located in Northeastern Charlotte which is where the LYNX light rail is 
proposed to be extended from uptown Charlotte to UNC‑Charlotte campus.[89] 
Construction on this portion is expected to end in August 2017. [90] A 
2011 study by Walk Score ranked Charlotte the 49th most walkable of the 
fifty largest cities in the United States.[91] Charlotte's central location 
between the population centers of the northeast and southeast has made 
it a transportation focal point and primary distribution center, with two 
major interstate highways, I-85 and I-77, intersecting near the city's 
center. The latter highway also connects to the population centers of the 
Rust Belt. Charlotte's beltway, designated I-485 and simply called "485" 
by local residents, has been under construction for over 20 years, but 
funding problems have slowed its progress. The final segment was finished 
in mid-2015.[92] Upon completion, 485 will have a total circumference of 
approximately 67 miles (108 km). Within the city, the I-277 loop freeway 
encircles Charlotte's uptown (usually referred to by its two separate sections, 
the John Belk Freeway and the Brookshire Freeway) while Charlotte Route 
4 links major roads in a loop between I-277 and I-485. Independence Freeway, 
which carries U.S. 74 and links downtown with the Matthews area, is undergoing 
an expansion and widening in the eastern part of the city. Charlotte Douglas 
International Airport is the sixth busiest airport in both the U.S. and 
the world overall as measured by traffic (aircraft movements).[93] It is 
served by many domestic airlines, as well as international airlines Air 
Canada and Lufthansa, and is a major hub for American Airlines, having 
historically been a hub of predecessors US Airways and Piedmont Airlines. 
Nonstop flights are available to many destinations across the United States, 
as well as flights to Canada, Central America, the Caribbean, Europe, Mexico, 
and South America. Charlotte is served daily by three Amtrak routes: Charlotte 
is also served by both Greyhound and low-cost curbside carrier Megabus. 
The city is planning a new centralized multimodal train station called 
the Gateway Station. It is expected to house the future LYNX Purple Line, 
the new Greyhound bus station, and the Crescent line that passes through 
Uptown Charlotte. List of sister cities of Charlotte, designated by Sister 
