The Charlotte metropolitan area (also Metrolina, Charlotte Metro, or Charlotte 
USA) is a metropolitan area/region of North and South Carolina within and 
surrounding the city of Charlotte. Located in the Piedmont of the Southeastern 
United States, the Charlotte metropolitan area is well known for its auto 
racing history (especially NASCAR). The region is headquarters to 8 Fortune 
500 and 7 Fortune 1000 companies including Bank of America, Duke Energy, 
Sealed Air Corporation, Nucor Steel, and Lowe's Home Improvement Stores. 
Additional headquarters include Harris Teeter, Food Lion, Cheerwine and 
Sundrop.[1] It is home to one of the world's busiest airports, Charlotte 
Douglas International Airport, and is also the Carolinas' largest manufacturing 
region.[2] The Charlotte MSA is the largest in the Carolinas, and the sixth 
largest metropolitan area in the Southeastern region of the United States 
behind Washington, D.C., Miami, Atlanta, Tampa, and Baltimore. The Charlotte-Concord-Gastonia, 
NC-SC Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA)[3] is defined as seven counties 
in North Carolina and three counties in South Carolina. The population 
of the MSA was 2,426,363 according to 2015 Census estimates.[4] Charlotte 
is the 17th largest city and 22nd largest metro area in the United States. 
Charlotte is the 2nd largest city in the Southeast. The Charlotte-Concord 
Combined Statistical Area (CSA)[5] is a regional population area including 
parts of North Carolina and South Carolina with a population of 2,442,504 
according to the 2012 Census estimates.[6] The aforementioned MSA is the 
only metropolitan area (as defined since 2012) included in the CSA, but 
there are two included micropolitan areas: Albemarle and Shelby. The regional 
area around the city was at one time called Metrolina, a term which has 
fallen out of widespread general use, though it still maintains a presence 
and is used by the North Carolina Department of Transportation. The term 
does retain a marketing value, and is thus also used by many businesses 
in the area. Metrolina refers to the region that includes the cities of: 
Charlotte, Concord, Gastonia and Rock Hill. The name Metrolina came into 
fashion when North Carolina's other two large metropolitan areas took on 
nicknames— the Triangle for Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill and the Triad for 
Greensboro/Winston-Salem/High Point. (The Triad now goes by the name Piedmont 
Triad to distinguish it from other tri-cities.) The term Charlotte USA 
refers to the 16-county region, which includes 12 counties in North Carolina 
and 4 counties in South Carolina. The term is championed by the Charlotte 
Regional Partnership, a non-profit organization made up of both private- 
and public-sector members from throughout the Charlotte region. This organization 
represents one of seven officially designated economic development regions 
in North Carolina.[7] Region J of the North Carolina Councils of Government, 
of which a majority of the Charlotte area municipalities and counties belong, 
uses the term Centralina in its body's name, Centralina Council of Governments. 
This term, however, is used only sparingly among locals. The official Charlotte 
metropolitan area includes the Charlotte-Concord-Gastonia MSA (Cabarrus, 
Chester, Gaston, Iredell, Lancaster, Lincoln, Mecklenburg, Rowan, Union 
and York counties). The Charlotte CSA includes all the MSA counties along 
with the following micropolitan areas: Albemarle and Shelby. (Census Bureau 
definition for CSA) [8] The Charlotte Regional Partnership also identifies 
four additional counties to the what they refer to as the 'Charlotte Region'. 
Catawba and Alexander counties are currently part of the Hickory-Lenoir-Morganton 
Metropolitan Statistical Area or 'The Unifour', and Anson County was once 
part of the MSA and CSA, until it was removed in 2011. Changes in house 
prices for the area are publicly tracked on a regular basis using the Case–Shiller 
index; the statistic is published by Standard & Poor's and is also a component 
of S&P's 20-city composite index of the value of the U.S. residential real 
estate market. The Charlotte Area Transit System, or CATS, is the local 
public transit agency that operates bus service that serves Charlotte and 
its immediate suburban communities in both North and South Carolina. CATS 
also operates a light rail line and is also building a commuter rail network 
as a supplement to its established bus transit throughout the region. Plans 
are for it to stretch initially to Mooresville, Pineville, Matthews, the 
University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Charlotte-Douglas International 
Airport will be connected to the system by streetcar. The Charlotte region 
is also served by 2 major interstate highways (I-85 and I-77), and their 
2 spurs (I-277, and I-485). I-40 also passes through the center of Iredell 
County, which is the northern region of the Charlotte metro. Other major 
freeways include Independence Boulevard (east Charlotte to I-277), a portion 
of US 321 between Hickory and Gastonia, the proposed Garden Parkway loop 
around Gastonia, and the proposed Monroe Connector / Bypass, each projected 
to cost over $1 billion per project. Other important US highways in the 
region include: US 74 (east to Wilmington, west to Asheville and Chattanooga), 
US 52 (through the far eastern part of the region), US 321 (through Chester, 
York, Gastonia, Dallas, Lincolnton and Hickory), US 601 (passing east of 
Charlotte) and US 70 (through Salisbury, Statesville and Hickory). Primary 
state routes include NC/SC 49, NC 16 (which extends north to West Virginia), 
NC 73, NC 150, NC 18, NC 24, NC 27, SC 9 and SC 5. Charlotte Douglas International 
Airport is the main airport in the Charlotte area and the 11th busiest 
in the country. In April 2007, Charlotte was the fastest growing airport 
in the US.[9] The airport went on to surpass its sister US Airways hub 
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania as one of the 30 busiest airports in the 
world in terms of passenger traffic.[citation needed] A new terminal to 
the northwest of the center of the airport will be built in the near future, 
possibly as a Caribbean/Latin America international terminal. CLT is also 
supplemented by regional airports in Concord, Gastonia, Hickory, Monroe, 
Statesville, in North Carolina, as well as Rock Hill in South Carolina. 
The foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains begin along the western edge 
of the region; the descent (the fall line) to the coastal plain begins 
along the eastern edge. Amid this varied topography, the Daniel Stowe Botanical 
Garden and several state parks (Morrow Mountain, Crowders Mountain, South 
Mountains, Duke Power, Landsford Canal, Andrew Jackson) offer recreational 
possibilities, along with the Uwharrie National Forest just east and northeast 
of Albemarle, and the Sumter National Forest at the southwest corner of 
the area. Kings Mountain National Military Park is partially located in 
York County and in Cherokee County near Blacksburg, South Carolina. Attractions 
in Charlotte include the Harvey B. Gantt Center for African-American Arts 
+ Cultural, Discovery Place, Spirit Square, NASCAR Hall of Fame, the North 
Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center, Children's Theatre of Charlotte, 
Actor's Theatre of Charlotte, Carolina Actors Studio Theatre, Theatre Charlotte, 
the Charlotte Museum of History, Levine Museum of the New South, the McGill 
Rose Garden, and the Wing Haven Gardens. The Bechtler Museum of Modern 
Art and the Mint Museum in Uptown Charlotte are expanding the art venues 
in Charlotte. Other places of interest in the surrounding area include 
the Schiele Museum (in Gastonia), Carowinds Theme Park (in Mecklenburg 
County, North Carolina and York County, South Carolina), Charlotte Motor 
Speedway (in Concord), the Carolina Raptor Center (in Huntersville), Daniel 
Stowe Botanical Garden (in Belmont), Latta Plantation (in Huntersville), 
Brattonsville Historic District (in McConnells), the North Carolina Transportation 
Museum (in Spencer), Fort Dobbs historical site (in Statesville), Catawba 
County Firefighters Museum (in Conover), the Arts & Science Center of Catawba 
Valley/Millholland Planetarium (in Hickory) the Museum of York County (in 
Rock Hill), James K. Polk historical site (in Pineville), the Catawba Cultural 
Center (in York County), the Museum of the Waxhaws (in Waxhaw), Glencairn 
Gardens (in Rock Hill), and the Reed Gold Mine (in Locust). The PNC Music 
Pavilion is located in the University City area of Charlotte. The performing 
arts amphitheatre has hosted many popular music concerts. The U.S. National 
Whitewater Center (USNWC) is the world's premier outdoor recreation and 
environmental education center. Alongside mountain-biking and running trails, 
a climbing center, and challenge course, the park's unique feature is a 
multiple-channel, customized whitewater river for rafting and canoe/kayak 
enthusiasts of all abilities. The USNWC is only 10 minutes from downtown 
Charlotte and provides roughly 400 acres (1.6 km2) of woodlands along the 
scenic Catawba River. Olympic-caliber athletes, weekend warriors and casual 
observers share this world-class sports and training center. Inspired by 
the successful Penrith Whitewater Stadium built for the 2000 Olympics and 
the stadium built for the 2004 Athens Games, the USNWC is the world's largest 
multi-channel recirculating whitewater river. The USOC has designated the 
USNWC an official Olympic Training Site. SouthPark Mall is one of the Southern 
United States most upscale malls, including stores such as Louis Vuitton, 
Tiffany & Co., Burberry, Hermès, and American Girl. Other large regional-scale 
Shopping malls include Northlake Mall, Carolina Place Mall, Concord Mills, 
Charlotte Premium Outlets (Exit 4, I-485), Phillips Place (across from 
SouthPark), RiverGate, Westfield Eastridge, Rock Hill Galleria, Plaza Fiesta, 
Carolina Mall, Monroe Crossing Mall, Signal Hill Mall, and Valley Hills 
Mall. Concord Mills is unique in that it does not feature the typical anchor 
stores found at other malls; it focuses more on attracting outlet store 
tenants. The mall is visited by over 15 million annually. Alongside enclosed 
malls and strip centers are several other shopping districts. Several downtowns 
can claim an abundance of shopping options, along with restaurants and 
other entertainment, and a few other specific districts have emerged: Central 
Avenue, especially in the Plaza-Midwood area; the NoDa area of North Charlotte; 
and the Arboretum in southeast Charlotte (geographically, south), to offer 
a handful of examples. Several of these areas are at the center of the 
area's growing immigrant business communities. In addition to Charlotte 
Motor Speedway, there are plenty of other sports venues, including the 
BB&T Ballpark (Charlotte) (home of the Charlotte Knights, the Triple-A 
affiliate of the Chicago White Sox), Bank of America Stadium (home of the 
NFL's Carolina Panthers), and Time Warner Cable Arena (home of the NBA's 
Charlotte Hornets, and the American Hockey League's Charlotte Checkers). 
The Charlotte Eagles of the United Soccer Leagues call the area home, and 
the Kannapolis Intimidators and Hickory Crawdads are Single-A Minor-League 
Baseball teams located in this region. Among the largest employers in the 
area (listed in order by number of local employees) are:[10] Companies 
with headquarters in the region include Bank of America, Belk, BellSouth 
Telecommunications, Bojangles', The Compass Group, Carolina Beverage Corporation 
Inc. (makers of Sun Drop and Cheerwine), Duke Energy, Family Dollar, Food 
Lion, Harris Teeter, Lance, Inc, LendingTree, Lowe's, Meineke Car Care 
Centers, Muzak, Nucor, Chiquita Brands International Transbotics, Royal 
& SunAlliance (USA), SPX Corporation, Time Warner Cable (a business unit 
of Fortune 500 company Time Warner), and Wells Fargo. Charlotte has gained 
fame as the second largest banking and finance center in the U.S., and 
the area's orientation towards emerging industries is seen in the success 
of the University Research Park (the 7th largest research park in the country) 
and the redevelopment of part of the Pillowtex site in Kannapolis as a 
biotech research facility featuring the participation of University of 
North Carolina at Charlotte, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Duke University and North Carolina State University. Artist Romare Bearden, 
astronauts Charles Duke and Susan Helms, evangelist Billy Graham, musicians 
Earl Scruggs (Flatt & Scruggs), George Clinton (Parliament, Funkadelic), 
Fred Durst (Limp Bizkit), Prairie Prince (The Tubes, Todd Rundgren, Utopia), 
Blind Boy Fuller, Randy Travis, and Scott Avett and Seth Avett of The Avett 
Brothers independent filmmakers Tim Kirkman (Loggerheads, Dear Jesse) and 
Ross McElwee (Bright Leaves, Sherman's March), actor Randolph Scott, actress 
Berlinda Tolbert (she played Jenny on the long-running, classic 70's sitcom 
"The Jeffersons"), political figures Sue Myrick, Harvey Gantt, Elizabeth 
Dole and Jesse Helms, U.S. presidents Andrew Jackson and James K. Polk, 
professional wrestling legends Ric Flair and Ricky Steamboat, and NASCAR 
driver Dale Earnhardt. R&B singers Fantasia, Anthony Hamilton and K-Ci 
& JoJo of Jodeci. Novelist, playwright and screenwriter Carson McCullers 
was a Charlotte resident while writing her best known works. More recently, 
Reflections Studios in Charlotte played an important role in the emergent 
late-20th-century American musical underground – R.E.M., Pylon, Let's Active, 
Don Dixon and Charlotte's Fetchin Bones (among many others) all recorded 
influential and acclaimed albums there. Charlotte-based Ripete and Surfside 
Records maintain important catalogs of regional soul and beach music, and 
the area has also played a role in the history of gospel, bluegrass and 
country music. The Milestone, one of the first punk clubs in the South, 
is located in west Charlotte, and in the past hosted legendary appearances 
from the likes of R.E.M., Black Flag, Nirvana, The Minutemen, D.O.A., Bad 
Brains, Charlotte's Antiseen, and many others. A majority of the municipalities 
and counties in the North Carolina parts of the Charlotte metropolitan 
area belong to the Centralina Council of Governments. Cleveland County 
belongs to the Isothermal Planning and Development Commission and Alexander 
and Catawba counties belong to the Western Piedmont Council of Governments. 
