Chase Field is a baseball park located in Downtown Phoenix, Arizona. It 
is the home of the Arizona Diamondbacks, the city's Major League Baseball 
(MLB) franchise. It opened 18 years ago in 1998, in time for the Diamondbacks' 
first game as an expansion team. Chase Field was the first stadium built 
in the United States with a retractable roof over a natural-grass playing 
surface.[9] The park was built during a wave of new, baseball-only parks 
in the 1990s. Although nearly all of these parks were open-air, it was 
taken for granted that a domed stadium was a must for a major-league team 
to be a viable venture in the Phoenix area. Phoenix is by far the hottest 
major city in North America; the average high temperature during baseball's 
regular season is 99.1 °F (37.3 °C), and game-time temperatures well above 
100 °F (38 °C) are very common during the summer. In the spring of 1994, 
the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors approved a quarter percentage 
point increase in the county sales tax to pay for their portion of the 
stadium funding. This came about at a time that the county itself was facing 
huge budget deficits and lack of funding for other services. The sales 
tax being levied was very unpopular with local citizens, who were not allowed 
to vote on the issue of funding a baseball stadium with general sales tax 
revenue (usage of public subsidies for stadium projects was actually prohibited 
by a 1989 referendum). The issue was so controversial and divisive that 
in August 1997, Maricopa County Supervisor Mary Rose Wilcox was shot and 
injured while leaving a county board meeting by Larry Naman, a homeless 
man, who attempted to argue in court that her support for the tax justified 
his attack. In May 1998, Naman was found guilty of attempted first-degree 
murder.[10] Costs for the stadium were originally estimated at $279 million 
in 1995,[11] but cost overruns (in part because of rising prices for steel 
and other materials) pushed the final price to $364 million.[12] As part 
of the original stadium deal, the Diamondbacks were responsible for all 
construction costs above $253 million. These extra expenses, combined with 
the Diamondbacks and their fellow expansion franchise, the Tampa Bay Devil 
Rays, not being allowed to share in the national MLB revenue for their 
first 5 years of operations, left the Diamondbacks in a less-than-desirable 
financial situation, which would come back to haunt team founder and managing 
partner Jerry Colangelo and his group later on. Construction on the park 
began in 1996, and was finished just before the Diamondbacks' first season 
began, in 1998. It was the third MLB stadium to have a retractable roof 
and the first in the United States (at the time, only Toronto's SkyDome, 
now Rogers Centre and Montreal's Olympic Stadium had them; others are now 
at Minute Maid Park in Houston, Miller Park in Milwaukee, Safeco Field 
in Seattle and Marlins Park in Miami). It was also the first ballpark to 
feature natural grass in a retractable roof stadium. The stadium hosted 
Games 1, 2, 6, and 7 of the 2001 World Series between the Arizona Diamondbacks 
and the New York Yankees. The Diamondbacks won all four home games, winning 
the world championship in seven games, and thus denying the Yankees a fourth 
consecutive championship. It was the first time since 1991 that the home 
team won all home games of a World Series. The only other incident was 
1987, both by the Minnesota Twins. Chase Field was originally named Bank 
One Ballpark after Bank One of Chicago, Illinois, giving rise to its nickname 
"BOB". After Bank One merged with New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., 
the name change was announced on September 23, 2005. In March 2006, Chase 
Field played host to three first-round games of the World Baseball Classic. 
Chase Field hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game in 2011.[9] 
Chase Field also has a swimming pool sponsored by Dodge, located in right-center 
field, which is rented to patrons as a suite holding 35 guests for $3,500 
per game during the 2011 season. Mark Grace was the first player to "splash" 
a home run into the pool.[13] On September 19, 2013, after clinching the 
NL West, several members of the Los Angeles Dodgers climbed over the outfield 
wall and jumped into the pool after being asked by the Diamondbacks to 
not celebrate on the field after the game. In addition to baseball, the 
pool has been used by Monster Jam's Jim Koehler to continue his tradition 
of swimming after Freestyle.[14] The ballpark also features a dirt strip 
between home plate and the pitcher's mound, one of only two current ballparks 
to do so (Comerica Park in Detroit is the other). This dirt strip, sometimes 
known as the "keyhole", was very common in old-time ballparks. The park's 
foul territory is somewhat larger than is the case for most ballparks built 
in the 1990s. With 80% of the seats in foul territory, the upper deck is 
one of the highest in the majors. The park's suites are tucked far under 
the third deck, which keeps the upper deck closer to the action, with the 
exception of their Dugout Suites which sit next to the home and visitor's 
dugouts. Before the 2008 season began, a brand new High Definition scoreboard 
was installed beyond center field, replacing the original. The new scoreboard 
is 46 ft (14 m) high and 136 ft (41 m) wide and it cost $14 million. It 
is the fifth largest HD screen in Major League Baseball behind Kauffman 
Stadium. The screen at Kauffman is larger by overall area and is square 
in shape but Chase Field's screen is larger by length and is rectangular.[15][16] 
Premium seating includes 4,400 club seats, 57 suites, 6 party suites, Executive 
suite, batters box suite, two dugout suites, and the Ramtrucks.com Party 
Pool. The Diamondbacks and St. Louis Cardinals game on April 3, 2013 lasted 
16 innings. It was the longest game in Chase Field's 17-year history.[17] 
The organizers of the Insight.com Bowl elected to move their game from 
Arizona Stadium in Tucson to Phoenix beginning in 2000, and Chase Field 
became the game's host. In 2006, the bowl game moved to Sun Devil Stadium, 
to replace the Fiesta Bowl, which moved to University of Phoenix Stadium 
in Glendale, Arizona. The football configuration was notable because of 
the lack of nets behind the goalposts and the dugout behind the south end 
zone. The final Insight Bowl played at Chase was between the hometown Arizona 
State Sun Devils and the Rutgers Scarlet Knights. The bowl, now known as 
the Cactus Bowl, returned to Chase Field in January 2016. The stadium also 
hosts occasional concerts and international soccer games. For football 
and soccer, the field is set up with the end lines perpendicular to the 
third-base line and temporary bleachers added on the east side. Chase Field 
has staged nine women's college basketball games. The second game, which 
was played on December 18, 2006, was shortened by rain with four minutes 
and 18 seconds remaining and Arizona State leading Texas Tech 61–45. Venue 
staff closed the roof in an effort to finish the game, but officials deemed 
the court unsafe. In 2000, ASU played the Tennessee Volunteers at the same 
facility.[18] Chase Field was also the site of the "Challenge at Chase", 
a college baseball game between Arizona State and University of Arizona. 
Arizona won both contests.[19] There has been no game scheduled there since 
2008.[19] In February 2006, the Professional Bull Riders hosted a Built 
Ford Tough Series bull riding event at this venue. Chris Shivers won this 
event with a total score of 181.5 points (out of a possible 200) on two 
bulls, including an impressive 93.75 (out of 100) points on Taylor Made 
bucking bull, Smokeless Wardance, in the short-go round. During the long-go 
round, the roof was closed, but during the short-go, the roof was opened. 
The stadium has hosted Monster Energy Supercross rounds from 1999 to 2015.[20] 
Monster Jam came to Chase Field every year in late January about two weeks 
after Monster Energy Supercross. Both events moved to the University of 
Phoenix Stadium in 2016. Chase Field's roof is opened or closed depending 
on the game-time temperature. When the decision is made to close the roof, 
it is left open for as long as possible before game time in order to keep 
the grass growing. Even when the roof is closed, the park's windows allow 
enough sunlight to play in true daylight without overheating the stadium. 
The roof, which takes just 4½ minutes to open or close at a cost of $2–$3, 
is closed three hours before game time using two 200-horsepower motors 
triggered from a control room in the upper deck above left-center field.[9] 
A massive HVAC system then drops the temperature inside the park 30° by 
the time the gates open. The cooling system, which has the power equivalent 
of cooling 2,500 homes of 2,000 square feet, uses chilled water and is 
part of the same system that serves more than 30 buildings in downtown 
Phoenix.[9] The cooling plant is located in a separate building right outside 
the ballpark.[9] Originally, the HVAC system didn't work above row 25 of 
the upper level, exposing fans in the higher rows to the full force of 
the often-oppressive heat typical of Arizona summers.[citation needed] 
Recent changes[when?] keep virtually all of the facility in air-conditioned 
comfort. Chase Field is served by Westbound METRO Rail's Washington at 
3rd Street station and Eastbound METRO Rail's Jefferson at 3rd Street station. 
