Chattanooga is the fourth-largest city in the U.S. state of Tennessee, 
with a population of 176,588 as of 2015 census estimates.[7] It is the 
seat of Hamilton County. Located in southeastern Tennessee in East Tennessee, 
on Chickamauga Lake and Nickajack Lake, which are both part of the Tennessee 
River, Chattanooga lies approximately 120 miles (190 km) to the northwest 
of Atlanta, Georgia, 120 miles (190 km) to the southwest of Knoxville, 
Tennessee, about 135 miles (217 km) to the southeast of Nashville, Tennessee, 
about 120 miles (190 km) to the northeast of Huntsville, Alabama, and about 
148 miles (238 km) to the northeast of Birmingham, Alabama. Chattanooga 
abuts the Georgia border and there are three major interstate highways 
in its vicinity: I-24, I-75, and I-59. The city, which has a downtown elevation 
of approximately 680 feet (210 m), lies at the transition between the ridge-and-valley 
portion of the Appalachian Mountains and the Cumberland Plateau. The city 
is therefore surrounded by various mountains and ridges. The official nickname 
for Chattanooga is the Scenic City, being reinforced by the city's growing 
national reputation as a haven for numerous outdoor activities. Several 
unofficial nicknames include River City, Chatt, Nooga, Chattown, and Gig 
City, demonstrating Chattanooga's claims that it has the fastest internet 
service in the Western Hemisphere.[8][9] Chattanooga is internationally 
known for the 1941 song, the world's first gold record, "Chattanooga Choo 
Choo", by Glenn Miller and his orchestra. Chattanooga is home to the University 
of Tennessee at Chattanooga (UTC) and Chattanooga State Community College. 
A unique distinction for Chattanooga is the fact that the city has its 
own typeface, Chatype, which was launched in August 2012. This marks the 
first time that an American city has its own typeface and also the first 
time a crowd-funded custom-made typeface has been used for any municipality 
in the world.[10] Chattanooga has received numerous awards over the decades, 
including the prestigious All-America City Award in 1962 and being recognized 
as a Tree City USA community since 1990.[11][12] The first inhabitants 
of the Chattanooga area were Native Americans. Sites dating back to the 
Upper Paleolithic period showed continuous occupation through the Archaic, 
Woodland, Mississippian/Muskogean/Yuchi (900-1714 ce), and Cherokee (1776–1838). 
The Chickamauga Mound near the mouth of the Chickamauga Creek is the oldest 
remaining visible art in Chattanooga. The Citico town and mound site was 
the most significant Mississippian/Muscogee landmark in Chattanooga up 
to 1915. The first part of the name "Chattanooga" derives from the Muskogean 
word cvto /chắtȯ/ – 'rock'.[13] The latter may be derived from a regional 
suffix -nuga meaning dwelling or dwelling place. The earliest Cherokee 
occupation dates from Dragging Canoe, who in 1776 separated himself and 
moved downriver from the main tribe to establish Native American resistance 
during the Cherokee–American wars) to European settlement in the southeastern 
United States. In 1816 John Ross, who later became Principal Chief, established 
Ross's Landing. Located along what is now Broad Street, it became one of 
the centers of Cherokee Nation settlement, which also extended into Georgia 
and Alabama.[14] In 1838 the US government forced the Cherokees, along 
with other Native Americans from southeastern U.S. states, to relocate 
to the area designated as Indian Territory, in what is now the state of 
Oklahoma. Their journey west became known as the "Trail of Tears" for their 
exile and fatalities along the way. The US Army used Ross's Landing as 
the site of one of three large internment camps, or "emigration depots", 
where Native Americans were held prior to the journey on the Trail of Tears. 
One of the internment camps was located in Fort Payne, Alabama and the 
largest was at Fort Cass, Tennessee.[15] In 1839, the community of Ross's 
Landing incorporated as the city of Chattanooga. The city grew quickly, 
initially benefiting from a location well-suited for river commerce. With 
the arrival of the railroad in 1850, Chattanooga became a boom town. The 
city was known as the site "where cotton meets corn," referring to its 
location along the cultural boundary between the mountain communities of 
Southern Appalachia to the north and the cotton-growing states to the south.[14] 
During the American Civil War, Chattanooga was a center of battle. During 
the Chickamauga Campaign, Union artillery bombarded Chattanooga as a diversion 
and occupied it on September 9, 1863. Following the Battle of Chickamauga, 
the defeated Union Army retreated to safety in Chattanooga. On November 
23, 1863, the Battles for Chattanooga began when Union forces led by future 
United States President and Maj. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant reinforced troops 
at Chattanooga and advanced to Orchard Knob against Confederate troops 
besieging the city. The next day, the Battle of Lookout Mountain was fought, 
driving the Confederates off the mountain. On November 25, Grant's army 
routed the Confederates in the Battle of Missionary Ridge. These battles 
were followed the next spring by the Atlanta Campaign, beginning just over 
the nearby state line in Georgia and moving southeastward. After the war 
ended, the city became a major railroad hub and industrial and manufacturing 
center.[16] The largest flood in Chattanooga's history occurred in 1867, 
before the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) system was created in 1933 
by Congress. The flood crested at 58 feet (18 m) and completely inundated 
the city. Since the completion of the reservoir system, the highest Chattanooga 
flood stage has been nearly 37 feet (11 m), which occurred in 1973. Without 
regulation, the flood would have crested at 52.4 feet (16.0 m).[17] Chattanooga 
was a major priority in the design of the TVA reservoir system and remains 
a major operating priority in the 21st century.[17] In December 1906, Chattanooga 
was in the national headlines as the United States Supreme Court, in the 
only criminal trial in its history, ruled that Hamilton County Sheriff 
Joseph H. Shipp had violated Ed Johnson's civil rights when Shipp allowed 
a mob to enter the Hamilton County Jail and lynch Johnson on the Walnut 
Street Bridge in United States v. Shipp. Chattanooga grew with the entry 
of the United States in the First World War in 1917, as the nearest training 
camp was in Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia. Effects of the Influenza of 1918 
on Chattanooga included having movie theaters and pool halls closed.[18] 
By the 1930s Chattanooga was known as the "Dynamo of Dixie", inspiring 
the 1941 Glenn Miller big-band swing song "Chattanooga Choo Choo".[19] 
The late 1950s saw the creation of the Interstate Highway System with President 
Dwight D. Eisenhower signing legislation into law in June 1956. Due to 
Mayor P.R. Olgiati's efforts, Chattanooga became the first city in Tennessee 
to have a completed interstate system in the early 1960s.[20][21][22][23] 
In February 1958, Chattanooga became one of the smallest cities in the 
country with three VHF transmitters: WTVM (now WTVC-TV) channel 9 (ABC), 
WRGP-TV (now WRCB-TV) channel 3 (NBC), and WDEF-TV channel 12 (CBS).[24] 
The same mountains that provide Chattanooga's scenic backdrop also served 
to trap industrial pollutants which caused them to settle over the community, 
so much that in 1969, the federal government declared that Chattanooga 
had the dirtiest air in the nation.[25] But environmental crises were not 
the only problems plaguing the city. Like other early industrial cities, 
Chattanooga entered the 1980s with serious socioeconomic challenges, including 
job layoffs due to de-industrialization, deteriorating city infrastructure, 
racial tensions, and social division. Chattanooga's population declined 
by more than 10% in the 1980s. However, Chattanooga was the only major 
U.S. city to lose this proportion of its population in the 1980s and then 
regain the same proportion in the next two decades.[26] In late 20th and 
early 21st centuries, substantial private and governmental resources have 
been invested in transforming the city's tarnished image. They have worked 
to revitalize its downtown and riverfront areas, making use of its natural 
resources.[27][28] An early cornerstone of this project was a restoration 
lasting several years, from the mid-to-late 1980s to 1993, of the historic 
Walnut Street Bridge. An excellent specimen of the Camelback truss bridge, 
it is the oldest surviving bridge of its kind in the Southeastern United 
States, having been built in 1891. Efforts to improve the city include 
the "21st Century Waterfront Plan" – a $120 million redevelopment of the 
Chattanooga waterfront and downtown area, which was completed in 2005. 
The Tennessee Aquarium, which opened in 1992, has become a major waterfront 
attraction that has helped to spur neighborhood development.[29] Chattanooga 
has garnered numerous accolades for its transformation of its image. The 
city has won three national awards for outstanding "livability", and nine 
Gunther Blue Ribbon Awards for excellence in housing and consolidated planning.[30] 
In addition to winning various national and regional awards, Chattanooga 
has been in the national limelight numerous times. Chattanooga was the 
profile city of the August 2007 edition of US Airways Magazine.[31] In 
a seminal event for Chattanooga, Volkswagen announced in July 2008 the 
construction of its first U.S. auto plant in over three decades, the Volkswagen 
Chattanooga Assembly Plant.[32] In December 2009, Chattanooga was ranked 
8th out of America's 100 largest metro areas for the best "Bang For Your 
Buck" city, according to Forbes magazine, which measured overall affordability, 
housing rates, and more.[33] Chattanooga launched the first one gigabit 
a second Internet service in the United States in September 2010, provided 
through the city-owned utility of EPB.[34] In August 2012, Chattanooga 
got its own typeface, called Chatype, which marks the first time a municipality 
has its own typeface in the United States and the first crowd-funded, custom-made 
typeface in the world.[10][35][36] On July 16, 2015, a shooting occurred 
at two U.S. military facilities in Chattanooga. Six people—four U.S. Marines, 
one sailor, and the gunman—were killed and two people were wounded.[37] 
Chattanooga's economy includes a diversified and growing mix of manufacturing 
and service industries. Notable Chattanooga businesses include Access America 
Transport, BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, CBL & Associates, The Chattanooga 
Bakery, Chattem,the world's first Coca-Cola bottling plant, Coker Tire, 
U.S. Xpress Inc., Covenant Transport, Double Cola, CraftWorks Restaurants 
& Breweries, Luken Communications, Miller & Martin, the National Model 
Railroad Association, Reliance Partners, Republic Parking System, Rock/Creek, 
Tricycle Inc., and Unum. The city also hosts large branch offices of Cigna, 
AT&T, T-Mobile USA, and UBS. McKee Foods Corporation, the maker of nationally 
known Little Debbie brand snack cakes, is a privately held, family-run 
company headquartered in nearby Collegedale, Tennessee. Notable companies 
that have manufacturing or distribution facilities in the city include 
Alstom, Amazon.com, BASF, DuPont, Invista, Komatsu, Rock-Tenn, Plantronics, 
Domtar, Norfolk Southern, Ferrara Candy Company (manufacturer of Brach's 
candies), Alco Chemical, Colonial Pipeline, and Buzzi Unicem.[38] The William 
Wrigley Jr. Company has a prominent presence in Chattanooga, the sole site 
of production of Altoids breath mint products since 2005.[39][40] There 
is also a Vulcan Materials quarry in the vicinity of the city. In May 2011, 
Volkswagen Group of America inaugurated its Chattanooga Assembly Plant.[41] 
The $1 billion plant, opened in May 2011, serves as the group's North American 
manufacturing headquarters. The plant, which currently employs some 2,700 
people and will increase by another 2,000 people within the next few years 
and manufactures the Passat (since April 2011) and the Atlas (from late 
2016), will have a first-in-the-South full research and development center 
in downtown Chattanooga, employing some 200 engineers.[42][43][44] The 
plant is the first one in the United States for Volkswagen since the 1988 
closure of the Volkswagen Westmoreland Assembly Plant near New Stanton, 
Pennsylvania.[45] In addition to corporate business interests, there are 
many retail shops in Chattanooga, including two shopping malls: Hamilton 
Place Mall in East Brainerd and Northgate Mall in Hixson. Eastgate Mall 
in Brainerd used to be a shopping mall, but has changed into a multi-use 
office building. The P.F. Chang's restaurant at Hamilton Place Mall has 
had a unique theme since the restaurant opened in November 2006: water, 
based on the fundamental role the Tennessee River plays in Chattanooga 
and the fact that the CEO of P.F. Chang's since 2000, Richard Federico, 
is a 1976 alumnus of the University of Tennessee and has family in Chattanooga.[46] 
In December 2001, Chattanooga was the site of the first two Dairy Queen 
Grill and Chill restaurants in the United States.[47][48][49] Tourism and 
Hospitality has been a growing part of Chattanooga's economy, with 2014 
being the first year for Hamilton County to surpass $1 billion in revenue. 
Startups have been an increasing trend, due in part to EPB's fiber optic 
grid. Notable venture firms based in the city are Blank Slate Ventures, 
Chattanooga Renaissance Fund, Lamp Post Group, SwiftWing Ventures, and 
The Jump Fund. The city is served by several incubators, notably Co.Lab, 
the Business Development Center, and Lamp Post Group. The Business Development 
Center is among the nation's largest incubators, both in square footage 
and in the number of startups that it supports.[50] Co-working spaces have 
picked up downtown, including Society of Work and Chattanooga Workspace. 
Unique in the city is the startup accelerator Gigtank, which utilizes the 
city's gigabit capacities and focuses on 3D printing, healthcare, and smartgrid 
technologies. Notable startups include Quickcue (acquired by OpenTable 
in 2013), Reliance Partners, PriceWaiter, Bellhops Moving Help, Variable 
Inc. (NODE), Ambition, Feetz, and TransCard. Chattanooga went from zero 
investable capital in 2009 to over $50 million in 2014. Electric power 
for most of the city and surrounding area is provided by the city-run Electric 
Power Board (EPB). EPB also provides high-speed Internet service, TV, and 
telephone service to business and residential customers throughout Hamilton 
County, as well as parts of Bledsoe County, Bradley County, Catoosa County, 
Dade County, Marion County, Rhea County, Sequatchie County, and Walker 
County, via the nation's largest municipally owned fiber optic system.[51][52][53] 
TVA operates the nearby Sequoyah Nuclear Power Plant, Chickamauga Dam, 
and the Raccoon Mountain Pumped-Storage Plant, all of which provide electricity 
to the greater Chattanooga area. TVA's corporate power generation and distribution 
organization is headquartered in downtown Chattanooga. Natural gas and 
water are provided by the privately run Chattanooga Gas Company and Tennessee-American 
Water Company, respectively. In 2005, then-Mayor Ron Littlefield stated 
his desire for the city to purchase the Tennessee-American Water Company, 
which was sold in a public offering in 2007.[54][55] Former Mayor Jon Kinsey's 
attempts to have the city buy control of Tennessee-American Water were 
defeated in court. Comcast remains the dominant cable provider for most 
areas of the city. The incumbent telephone company is AT&T Inc. However, 
competing phone companies, such as EPB, cellular phones, and VoIP are making 
inroads. A major interstate fiber optics line operated by AT&T traverses 
the city, making its way from Atlanta to Cincinnati. There are more choices 
among TV, Internet, and phone service providers for Chattanooga residents 
than in most other cities its size because of the intense competition between 
AT&T, Comcast, and EPB.[56] Beginning in 2009 and continuing through March 
2011, when Haletown, Tennessee received service from EPB's fiber optic 
network, EPB began to establish its exclusive fiber optic network to its 
600 sq mi (1,600 km2) service area, which covers the greater Chattanooga 
Metropolitan Statistical Area.[57] In September 2010, EPB became the first 
municipally owned utilities company in the United States to offer internet 
access directly to the public at speeds up to one gigabit (1,000 megabits) 
per second by utilizing its fiber optic network.[58][59] The network has 
been emulated by at least six other cities in Tennessee and studied by 
other cities in the US and even internationally.[60][61] Jay Weatherill, 
South Australia's Premier, visited Chattanooga in January 2012 and "looked 
at the current gigabit network that was supporting critical city safety 
functions such as police and fire communications infrastructure, equipment 
and applications. He also inspected wastewater management, storm water 
management, traffic control and medical diagnostics applications [and] 
first-hand operations of a smart lighting and camera system that allows 
the police to control public lighting and see what is happening in heavy 
crime areas. [The article says the] use of broadband to carry the video 
and control signaling has contributed to making Chattanooga's Coolidge 
Park a safer place to visit."[62] In 2011 the expansion of EPB's network 
became a subject of major controversy in Tennessee.[63] The success of 
its network, credited with the expansion of Volkswagen's Chattanooga plant 
and the establishment of Amazon.com facilities in Chattanooga and Cleveland, 
led to a number of legal challenges by AT&T and Comcast insisting that 
public funds not be used to fund expansion of public networks in competition 
with private ones.[64][65] However, according to EPB itself, federal agencies, 
electricity industry trade sources, and other press sources, the investment 
in the fully fiber optic network is justified by electrical system benefits 
alone, including early fault detection and decreases in standby power.[66][67][68][69][70][71] 
As of 2014, there are 27 banks operating in the Chattanooga metropolitan 
area, lending to financial strength.[72] Among the heavy hitters are regional 
banks First Tennessee, SunTrust Banks, and Regions Financial Corporation, 
but the area also has offices from UBS, Chase, and Bank of America. In 
part to the strength and growing economic development, Chase recently shifted 
its East Tennessee headquarters from Knoxville to Chattanooga.[73] Within 
the first four months of 2015, Chattanooga became a very hot market for 
bank mergers with the merging of 3 locally owned banks, and 1 in nearby 
Cleveland, Tennessee. CapitalMark, formed in 2007, will be acquired by 
the Nashville-based Pinnacle Financial Partners for $187 million to have 
the fourth largest market share in the Chattanooga metro area.[74] First 
Security Group, Inc, the largest Chattanooga-based bank, formed in 2000, 
will be acquired by the Atlanta-based Atlantic Capital Bancshares, Inc., 
for $160 million. Cornerstone, started in 1985, will merge with the Knoxville-based 
SmartBank in a stock deal. Cleveland's Southern Heritage Bank was acquired 
in 2014 by First Citizens National Bank in Dyersburg, Tennessee, for $32.2 
million. All these mergers only leave one Chattanooga-based, independent 
bank, First Volunteer Bank. Others in the area locally based include Ringgold, 
Georgia-based Northwest Georgia Bank, Dunlap, Tennessee-based Citizens 
Tri-County Bank, Ooltewah-based Community Trust and Banking Co., Dayton, 
Tennessee-based Community National Bank, Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia-based 
Capital Bank, LaFayette, Georgia-based Bank of LaFayette, and Cleveland-based 
Bank of Cleveland.[75] The current mayor is Andy Berke, a former state 
senator, who won the March 2013 election.[76] The city operates under a 
charter granted by the state legislature in 1852; the charter has been 
subsequently amended. The city operates under a strong mayor system, which 
changed from a commission form of government with members voted at-large. 
In 1989 U.S. District Judge R. Allan Edgar ruled that the commission-style 
government violated the Voting Rights Act of 1965 by diluting the minority 
black vote.[77] As a result of Brown v. Board of Commissioners, Chattanooga 
abandoned the at-large voting system that it had used for the commission 
form of government, established single-member districts to represent both 
majority and minority elements of the population, eliminated voting privileges 
for non-resident property owners, and created the city's current mayor-council 
form of government. The current strong mayor system started in 1991 after 
a 1990 city-wide election that used the district system.[77] The city's 
legislative branch is represented by members from nine districts, elected 
from single-member districts in partisan elections. The current council 
members are Chip Henderson (District 1), Jerry Mitchell (District 2), Ken 
Smith (District 3), Larry Grohn (District 4), Russell Gilbert (District 
5), Carol Berz (District 6), Chris Anderson (District 7), Moses Freeman 
(District 8), and Yusuf Hakeem (District 9).[78] Chattanooga's delegation 
to the Tennessee House of Representatives includes Gerald McCormick (R), 
who represents District 26, Richard Floyd (R), who represents District 
27, JoAnne Favors (D), who represents District 28, Mike Carter (R), who 
represents District 29, Vince Dean (R), who represents District 30, and 
Jim Cobb (R), who represents District 31.[79][80][81][82][83][84] In the 
Tennessee Senate, Chattanooga is divided between Districts 10 and 11 with 
Todd Gardenhire (R) and Bo Watson (R) representing each district respectively.[85][86] 
Chattanooga is represented in the United States House of Representatives 
by Chuck Fleischmann (R), who represents the 3rd District.[87] In the United 
States Senate, both Bob Corker (R) and Lamar Alexander (R) have district 
offices in Chattanooga.[88][89] Chattanooga, as the county seat of Hamilton 
County, is home to Chattanooga's City Courts and Hamilton County's Courts. 
Chattanooga is the location of the United States District Court for the 
Eastern District of Tennessee's Southern Division, which is housed in the 
Joel W. Solomon Federal Courthouse. The Southern Division has jurisdiction 
over Bledsoe, Bradley, Hamilton, Marion, McMinn, Meigs, Polk, Rhea, and 
Sequatchie counties. The Chattanooga Police Department dates from 1852. 
Starting in 1883, it hired black police officers, making Chattanooga one 
of the first major Southern cities to have them. But after the state legislature 
imposed segregation, black police officers were dropped from the force. 
They were hired again on a permanent basis beginning on August 11, 1948, 
years before other major cities in the Southeast, such as Birmingham, Alabama 
and Jackson, Mississippi, integrated their police departments. The first 
seven black officers in 1948, Thaddeus Arnold, Singer Askins, W.B. Baulridge, 
C.E. Black, Morris Glenn, Arthur Heard, and Thomas Patterson, were initially 
restricted to walking beats in black neighborhoods. In 1960, black police 
officers were authorized to patrol all neighborhoods and arrest white citizens.[90][91][92] 
Most of Chattanooga's primary and secondary education is funded by the 
government. The public schools in Chattanooga, as well as Hamilton County, 
have fallen under the purview of the Hamilton County School System since 
the 1997 merger of the urban Chattanooga City Schools system and the rural 
Hamilton County Schools system.[93][94] The Howard School, was the first 
public school in the area, established in 1865 after the Civil War.[95] 
Tyner High School (now Tyner Academy), was the first secondary school built 
east of Missionary Ridge in 1907. It is now the home of Tyner Middle Academy 
(Hamilton County, Tennessee). The Chattanooga School for the Arts and Sciences 
and the Chattanooga High School Center for Creative Arts are additional 
public magnet schools. The city is home to several well-known private and 
parochial secondary schools, including Baylor School, Boyd-Buchanan School, 
Chattanooga Christian School, Girls Preparatory School, McCallie School, 
and Notre Dame High School. The Siskin Children's Institute in Chattanooga 
is a specialized institution in the field of early childhood special education.[96] 
A wide variety of higher education institutions can be found in Chattanooga 
and nearby. The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga is the second largest 
campus of the University of Tennessee System, with a student population 
of over 11,669 as of 2015-16 school year.[97] Chattanooga State Community 
College is a two-year community college with a total undergraduate enrollment 
of roughly 11,000 students. Tennessee Temple University is a Baptist college 
located in the Highland Park neighborhood that is no longer operating as 
of 2015. Chattanooga is also home to a branch of the University of Tennessee 
College of Medicine, which provides medical education to third- and fourth-year 
medical students, residents, and other medical professionals in southeast 
Tennessee through an affiliation with Erlanger Health System. Covenant 
College, a private liberal arts college operated by the Presbyterian Church 
in America, is located in the nearby suburb of Lookout Mountain, Georgia, 
and has a student population of about 1,000. Southern Adventist University 
is located in the suburb of Collegedale, Tennessee, and enrolls roughly 
3,000 students. Virginia College School of Business and Health offers a 
variety of programs leading to diplomas, associate degrees, and bachelor's 
degrees. The Chattanooga Public Library opened in 1905.[98] Since 1976, 
the Chattanooga-Hamilton County Bicentennial Library system had been jointly 
operated by the city and county governments; due to Chattanooga terminating 
a 1966 agreement with Hamilton County to distribute sales tax revenue equally, 
the city has taken over full funding responsibilities as of 2011.[99][100] 
The city was given a Carnegie library in 1904, and the two-story purpose-built 
marble structure survives to this day at Eighth Street and Georgia Avenue 
as commercial office space. In 1939, the library moved to Douglas Street 
and McCallie Avenue and shared the new building with the John Storrs Fletcher 
Library of the University of Chattanooga. This building is now called Fletcher 
Hall and houses classrooms and offices for the university. In 1976, the 
city library moved to its third and current location at the corner of Tenth 
and Broad streets. Chattanooga has three hospital systems: Erlanger Health 
System, Parkridge Hospital System, and Memorial Hospital System. Erlanger 
Hospital is a non-profit academic teaching center affiliated with the University 
of Tennessee's College of Medicine.[101] Erlanger is also the area's primary 
trauma center, a Level-One Trauma Center for adults, and the only provider 
of tertiary care for the residents of southeastern Tennessee, north Georgia, 
northeastern Alabama, and western North Carolina.[101] Erlanger treats 
approximately 250,000 people every year.[101] In 2008, Erlanger was named 
one of the nation's "100 Top teaching hospitals for cardiovascular care" 
by Thomson Reuters.[102] Erlanger has been operated by the Chattanooga-Hamilton 
County Hospital Authority since 1976.[103] Parkridge Hospital is located 
east of downtown in the Glenwood district and is run by Tri-Star Healthcare. 
Tri-Star also operates Parkridge East Medical Center in nearby East Ridge. 
Memorial Hospital, which is operated by Denver-based Catholic Health Initiatives, 
is located downtown. In 2004, Memorial was named one of the "100 Top Teaching 
Hospitals" by Thomson Reuters.[104] As the birthplace of the tow truck, 
Chattanooga is the home of the International Towing and Recovery Hall of 
Fame and Museum.[105] Another transportation icon, the passenger train, 
can be found at the Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum, called TVRM by locals, 
which is the largest operating historic railroad in the South. Chattanooga 
is home to the Hunter Museum of American Art. Other notable museums include 
the Chattanooga History Center, the National Medal of Honor Museum, the 
Houston Museum, the Chattanooga African American Museum, and the Creative 
Discovery Museum.[106][107][108][109][110] Chattanooga has a wide range 
of performing arts in different venues. Chattanooga's historic Tivoli Theatre, 
dating from 1921 and one of the first public air-conditioned buildings 
in the United States, is home to the Chattanooga Symphony and Opera (CSO), 
which became the first merged symphony and opera company in the United 
States in 1985. The CSO performs under the baton of Kayoko Dan.[111] The 
Chattanooga Theatre Centre offers 15 productions each year in three separate 
theater programs: the Mainstage, the Circle Theater, and the Youth Theater.[112][113] 
Another popular performance venue is Memorial Auditorium. Chattanooga hosts 
several writing conferences, including the Conference on Southern Literature 
and the Festival of Writers, both sponsored by the Arts & Education Council 
of Chattanooga.[114][115][116] Chattanooga touts many attractions, including 
the Tennessee Aquarium, caverns, and new waterfront attractions along and 
across the Tennessee River. In the downtown area is the Chattanooga Choo 
Choo Hotel, housed in the renovated Terminal Station and exhibiting the 
largest HO model train layout in the United States. Also downtown are the 
Creative Discovery Museum, a hands-on children's museum dedicated to science, 
art, and music; an IMAX 3D Theatre, and the newly expanded Hunter Museum 
of American Art. The Tennessee Riverwalk, an approximately 13-mile (21 km) 
long trail running alongside the river, is another attraction for both 
tourists and residents alike. Across the river from downtown is the North 
Shore district, roughly bounded by the Olgiati Bridge to the west and Veterans 
Bridge to the east. The newly renovated area draws locals and tourists 
to locally owned independent boutique stores and restaurants, plus attractions 
along the Chattanooga Riverpark system, including Coolidge Park and Renaissance 
Park.[117][118] The Chattanooga Zoo at Warner Park is located a short distance 
from the downtown area. Parks and natural scenic areas provide other attractions. 
The red-and-black painted "See Rock City" barns along highways in the Southeast 
are remnants of a now-classic Americana tourism campaign to attract visitors 
to the Rock City tourist attraction in nearby Lookout Mountain, Georgia. 
The mountain is also the site of Ruby Falls and Craven's House.[119] The 
Lookout Mountain Incline Railway is a steep funicular railway that rises 
from the St. Elmo Historic District to the top of the mountain, where passengers 
can visit the National Park Service's Point Park and the Battles for Chattanooga 
Museum.[120] Formerly known as Confederama, the museum includes a diorama 
that details the Battle of Chattanooga. From the military park, visitors 
can enjoy panoramic views of Moccasin Bend and the Chattanooga skyline 
from the mountain's famous "point" or from vantage points along the well-marked 
trail system.[121] The Heritage park is a park that lies in East Brainerd. 
Heritage park has a bocce ball court, a playground complete with swings, 
and a walking pavement. The park also features an off-leash dog park which 
is operated by the Friends of East Brainerd, the City of Chattanooga Parks 
and Recreation Department, McKamey Animal Center and the Goodwill Assistance 
Dog Academy. Near Chattanooga, the Raccoon Mountain Reservoir, Raccoon 
Mountain Caverns, and Reflection Riding Arboretum and Botanical Garden 
boast a number of outdoor and family fun opportunities. Other arboretums 
include Bonny Oaks Arboretum, Cherokee Arboretum at Audubon Acres, and 
Cherokee Trail Arboretum. The Ocoee River, host to a number of events at 
the 1996 Atlanta Olympics, features rafting, kayaking, camping, and hiking. 
Just outside Chattanooga is the Lake Winnepesaukah amusement park. The 
Cumberland Trail begins in Signal Mountain, just outside Chattanooga. The 
front of the Tennessee Aquarium The Tennessee Aquarium from the back Trail 
of Tears water steps off of Market Street, downtown Chattanooga Coolidge 
Park A view of the Walnut Street Bridge and the Tennessee River Looking 
South towards Lookout Mountain Chattanooga hosts the well-known Riverbend 
Festival, an annual nine-day music festival held in June in the downtown 
area. One of the most popular events is the "Bessie Smith Strut", a one-night 
showcase of blues and jazz music named for the city's most noted blues 
singer. The annual "Southern Brewer's Festival" and the "River Roast" festival 
celebrate such traditional Southern staples as beer and barbecue. New events, 
such as GoFest!, the "Between the Bridges" wakeboard competition, Heritage 
Festival, and Talespin, complement well-established events, such as Riverbend 
and the Southern Brewer's Festival, and attract their own audiences.[122][123] 
Back Row Films is a city-wide celebration of film co-sponsored by the Hunter 
Museum of American Art, the Arts & Education Council, and UTC.[124] "Nightfall" 
is a free weekly concert series in Miller Plaza on Friday nights that features 
an eclectic mix of rock, blues, jazz, reggae, zydeco, funk, bluegrass, 
and folk music from Memorial Day until the end of September.[125] The Chattanooga 
Market features events all year round as part of the "Sunday at the Southside", 
including an Oktoberfest in mid-October. The Chattanooga Dulcimer Festival, 
held each June, features workshops for mountain dulcimer, hammered dulcimer, 
and auto harp, among others, along with performances by champion performers 
from across the nation.[126] Chattanooga is also the center of much bluegrass 
music. In 1935, as well as from 1993 to 1995, the city hosted the National 
Folk Festival. Since 2007, the annual 3 Sisters Festival showcases traditional 
and contemporary bluegrass artists, and has been named on of the country's 
top 5 bluegrass festivals by Great American Country.[127] Each January, 
Chattanooga plays host to Chattacon, a science fiction and fantasy literary 
convention.[128] The convention is organized by the nonprofit Chattanooga 
Speculative Fiction Fans, Inc. First held in 1976, the convention drew 
an estimated 1,000 attendees to the Chattanooga Choo Choo Hotel in 2012, 
as well as an estimated 1,300 attendees in 2013.[129][130] Maggie the Mayfield 
cow at the Chattanooga Market. Riverbend 2013 from Market Street Bridge 
as people are arriving. Opening night of Riverbend 2013 Chattanooga has 
a large, growing, and diversified sports scene for a city of its size, 
including college sports, minor league baseball, semi-professional teams, 
professional cycling exemplified by the Volkswagen USA Cycling Professional 
Road & Time Trial National Championships, the Ironman Triathlon, and a 
large nationally renowned regatta the first weekend of November. Chattanooga 
was the home of the NCAA Division I Football Championship game, which was 
held at Finley Stadium in Chattanooga, from 1997 to 2009. From 2010 to 
2016, the Dallas, Texas suburb of Frisco hosts the NCAA Division I Football 
Championship game.[131] The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga (UTC) 
Mocs compete in NCAA Division I and the Southern Conference. UTC's athletic 
programs include football at the FCS level, women's soccer, volleyball, 
and cross country in the fall; men's and women's basketball, Wrestling, 
and indoor track & field in the winter; and softball and outdoor track 
& field in the spring. Men's and women's golf and men's and women's tennis 
play in the fall and spring. The Chattanooga Lookouts, a Class AA Southern 
League baseball team affiliated with the Minnesota Twins, boast a loyal 
following and respectable participation in season-end playoffs.[132] Games 
take center stage at the downtown riverfront AT&T Field with tickets starting 
at $5. Chattanooga is home to several semi-professional football teams, 
including the Tennessee Crush and the Chattanooga Steam. The Tennessee 
Crush plays its games at Finley Stadium in downtown Chattanooga. The Chattanooga 
Steam plays at Lookout Valley High School near Lookout Mountain. The city's 
semi-professional soccer team, Chattanooga FC, plays in the National Premier 
Soccer League and has led the league in attendance three of the four years 
of its existence.[citation needed] Chattanooga FC has also gone to the 
national finals three times since its inception, and drew a record 18,227 
fans for their 2015 NPSL title match.[133] The club has also found success 
in the U.S. Open Cup defeating the professional USL's Wilmington Hammerheads 
to reach the tournament's third round in 2014 and 2015. Chattanooga is 
also home to several rugby teams: the Chattanooga Rugby Football Club, 
Nooga Red, Nooga Black, men's Old Boys, a women's rugby team, men's and 
women's teams at UTC, and an all-city high school team.[134] The Chattanooga 
Rugby Football Club, which was established in 1978 and the 2011 and 2013 
DII Mid South champions, is affiliated with USA Rugby and USA Rugby South. 
The club fields two teams, Nooga Red, which competes in Division II, and 
Nooga Black, which competes in Division III.[135] There is also a men's 
Old Boys team, a Chattanooga women's rugby team, as well as collegiate 
men's and women's teams representing the Mocs at the University of Tennessee 
at Chattanooga. A city-wide high school rugby team, the Wolfpack, was established 
in 2012 and is open to any high school player living in the Chattanooga 
area.[134] All seven teams play their home matches at Montague Park. The 
Tennessee River, which flows through the middle of Chattanooga, is an excellent 
place to row.[citation needed] The Head of the Hooch rowing regatta takes 
place in downtown Chattanooga during the first weekend of November. The 
head race originally took place on the Chattahoochee River in Atlanta before 
moving to Chattanooga in 2005, hence the name Head of the Hooch. With 1,965 
boats in 2011 and nearly 2,000 boats in 2012, this competition ranks as 
the 2nd largest regatta in the United States,[136] with numerous college 
and youth teams, such as UNC Men's Crew, Vanderbilt Rowing Club, James 
Madison University Crew, University of Tennessee Women's Rowing, Orlando 
Rowing Club, Nashville Rowing Club, Newport Rowing Club, and Chattanooga 
Rowing, competing.[137][138][139] There are also multiple local rowing 
clubs, such as the Lookout Rowing Club for adults and the Chattanooga Junior 
Rowing Club for high school students. The weekend of the Head of the Hooch 
also sees hot-air balloon rides and other activities. In 2013, the Volkswagen 
USA Cycling Professional Road & Time Trial National Championships were 
held in Chattanooga. The schedule for the 3-day event on May 25–27 featured 
a handcycling time trail and various other cycling time trials and road 
races, including a men's road race that took the cyclists through the heart 
of downtown Chattanooga and up Lookout Mountain for a total race distance 
of 102.5 miles (165.0 km).[140] American professional cyclist Freddie Rodriguez 
won the national road race championship title for the fourth time in his 
career.[141] The Championships' debut in Chattanooga marked the first time 
in the event's 29-year history that women were allowed to compete for professional 
national titles.[142] Chattanooga will also host the Championships in 2014 
and 2015.[143] In August 2013, further cementing Chattanooga's growing 
status as a nationally recognized outdoor haven,[citation needed] the Chattanooga 
Sports Committee, an organization established in 1992 to help the city 
host major sporting events, announced that the Ironman Triathlon would 
be coming to the city in a 5-year deal. The city will become one of only 
11 cities in the United States to host the grueling competition showcasing 
Chattanooga's natural beauty, which consists of a 2.4-mile (3.9 km) swim, 
a 112-mile (180 km) bike race (which will be broken down into two 56-mile 
(90 km) loops), and a 26.2-mile (42.2 km) run (which will be broken down 
into two 13.1-mile (21.1 km) loops). The competition begins its first year 
in Chattanooga on September 26, 2014, continuing every September thereafter 
through 2018. The winner of the competition will get a $25,000 prize and 
a spot in the Ironman World Championship in Hawaii.[144][145] Due to its 
location at the junction of the Cumberland Plateau and the southern Appalachians, 
Chattanooga has become a haven for outdoor sports,[citation needed] such 
as hunting, fishing, trail running, road running, adventure racing, rock 
climbing, mountain biking, and road biking. The internationally known[146] 
StumpJump 50k has been hosted on nearby Signal Mountain since 2002. Chattanooga 
has been a member of the League of American Bicyclists' Bronze level since 
October 2003, the only city in Tennessee to be a member of the organization 
before Knoxville and Nashville joined in 2010 and 2012, respectively.[147] 
The city boasts a number of outdoor clubs: Scenic City Velo, SORBA-Chattanooga, 
the Wilderness Trail Running Association, and the Chattanooga Track Club. 
The city also funds Outdoor Chattanooga, an organization focused on promoting 
outdoor recreation. In September 2004, the city appointed its first-ever 
executive director of Outdoor Chattanooga to implement the organization's 
mission, which includes promoting bicycling for transportation, recreation, 
and active living.[148] For paddlers, Chattanooga offers the Tennessee 
River Blueway, a 50-mile (80 km) recreational section of the Tennessee 
River that flows through Chattanooga and the Tennessee River Gorge. The 
Tennessee Aquarium has a high speed catamaran, the River Gorge Explorer, 
to allow up to 70 people to explore the Tennessee River Gorge.[149] The 
Explorer departs from the Chattanooga Pier.[150] Since 2008, Chattanooga 
has hosted the Skyhoundz World Canine Disc Championship, the crowning event 
of the largest disc dog competition series in the world. As of the census[5] 
of 2010, there were 167,674 people, 70,749 households, and 40,384 families 
residing in the city. The population density was 1,222.5 people per square 
mile (472.5/km²). There were 79,607 housing units at an average density 
of 588.8 per square mile (226.0/km²). The racial makeup of the city was 
58% White, 34.9% Black, 0.4% American Indian, 2% Asian, 0.1% Pacific Islander, 
1.9% from other races, and 1.3% from two or more races. 5.5% of the population 
were Hispanic or Latino of any race. Non-Hispanic Whites were 55.9% of 
the population in 2010, down from 67.3% in 1980.[154][155] There were 70,749 
households out of which 26.7% had children under the age of 18 living with 
them, 36% were married couples living together, 17.3% had a female householder 
with no husband present, and 42% were non-families. 33.5% of all households 
were made up of individuals and 26% had someone living alone who was 65 
years of age or older. The average household size was 2.26 and the average 
family size was 2.94. In the city the population was spread out with 21.3% 
under the age of 18, 11.5% from 18 to 24, 27% from 25 to 44, 25.5% from 
45 to 64, and 14.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 
38.1 years. 46.1% of the population was male and 53.9% of the population 
was female. The median income for a household in the city was $35,817, 
and the median income for a family was $43,314. Males had a median income 
of $36,109 versus $31,077 for females. The per capita income for the city 
was $23,756. About 14% of families and 16.5% of the population were below 
the poverty line, including 27% of those under age 18 and 13.8% of those 
age 65 or over. Chattanooga's Metropolitan Statistical Area, which includes 
Hamilton, Marion, and Sequatchie counties in Tennessee and Catoosa, Dade, 
and Walker counties in Georgia, grew from 476,531 people, as of the 2000 
census, to 529,222 people, as of the 2010 census, a 9% increase during 
the 2000s.[156] The single largest religious group in Chattanooga is Christianity. 
According to the 2010 statistics the Southern Baptist Convention is the 
largest denomination with 225 congregations and 122,300 members followed 
by the United Methodist Church with 31,500 members and 83 churches. The 
third-largest denomination is the Church of God (Cleveland, Tennessee) 
with 82 churches and 17,000 members. The Roman Catholic Diocese of Knoxville 
has 12 congregations and 1,200 members. The second-largest religion is 
Islam, with 2,156 adherents.[157] The city is located at latitude 35°4' 
North, longitude 85°15' West. According to the United States Census Bureau, 
the city has a total area of 143.2 square miles (371 km2), of which 135.2 
square miles (350 km2) is land and 8.0 square miles (21 km2) (5.56%) is 
water. In terms of land area, Chattanooga ranks 68th, which is between 
Las Vegas, Nevada and Philadelphia. The total area of Chattanooga makes 
the city larger than that of many cities larger in population, such as 
Baltimore, Maryland, Atlanta, Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Salt Lake City. 
The most prominent natural features in and around Chattanooga are the Tennessee 
River and the surrounding mountains. The city is nestled between the southwestern 
Ridge-and-valley Appalachians and the foot of Walden's Ridge; the river 
separates the ridge from the western side of downtown. Several miles east, 
the city is bisected by Missionary Ridge, which is the site of an important 
battle in the Civil War. The Tennessee River is impounded by the TVA's 
Chickamauga Dam north of the downtown area. Five automobile bridges, one 
railroad trestle, and one pedestrian bridge, all described below, cross 
the river. Road transport is facilitated by Interstate 75 to Atlanta and 
Knoxville, Interstate 24 to Nashville, and Interstate 59 to Birmingham. 
Chattanooga and portions of Southeast Tennessee and North Georgia is served 
by the Chattanooga Metropolitan Airport. CSX transports rail freight to 
Atlanta and Nashville, and Norfolk Southern conveys rail cargo to Atlanta, 
Birmingham, Cincinnati, Knoxville, and Memphis. In addition to the restoration 
of downtown, many of Chattanooga's neighborhoods have experienced a rebirth 
of their own. Chattanooga has many buildings on the National Register of 
Historic Places and three neighborhoods: Ferger Place, Fort Wood, and St. 
Elmo. Additionally, Chattanooga has ten local historic districts: Fort 
Wood, Ferger Place, Glenwood, Missionary Ridge, Market and Main Streets, 
Market Street Warehouse, M.L. King Boulevard, St. Elmo, Stone Fort Land 
Company, and Stringer's Ridge. Chattanooga, like much of Tennessee, has 
a four-season humid subtropical climate (Köppen Cfa). Winter days are usually 
mild but most years have at least one day (average 3.2) where the high 
remains at or below freezing. Snow is not common, and many years may receive 
none; the 1971–2000 snowfall seasonal median was 0.6 inches (1.5 cm).[158] 
However, 11 inches (28 cm) was recorded between January 9–10, 2011.[158] 
Summers are hot and humid, with a July daily mean of 80.0 °F (26.7 °C) 
and 52 days annually with 90 °F (32 °C) or greater temperatures.[159] Average 
annual precipitation is over 52 inches. On average, November through March 
represents an extended relatively wet period, because of Chattanooga's 
frequent placement (in the winter season) in a zone of conflict between 
warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico and cold, dry air from Canada, 
amplified by jet-stream energy and abundant Gulf moisture. July presents 
a secondary maximum in precipitation, due to frequent thunderstorm activity. 
Despite the mountains that surround the city, Chattanooga can and has been 
threatened by tornadoes.[160] These tornadoes include the April 2011 tornado 
outbreak, which impacted the city and nearby locations, including Apison 
and Cherokee Valley just over the nearby state line in Catoosa County, 
Georgia, where fifteen people died, eight in Apison and seven in Cherokee 
Valley.[161][162][163] Considered to be the gateway to the Deep South, 
along with the Midwest and the Northeast for motorists from states such 
as Alabama, Florida, and Georgia, Chattanooga's extensive transportation 
infrastructure has evolved into an intricate system of interstates, streets, 
tunnels, railroad lines, bridges, and a commercial airport. See also List 
of Tennessee state highways The city is served by a publicly run bus company, 
the Chattanooga Area Regional Transportation Authority (CARTA). CARTA operates 
17 routes, including a free electric shuttle service in the downtown area, 
and free wireless Internet on certain "smartbuses".[167] The city has its 
own bicycle transit system (Bike Chattanooga)[168] with 300 bikes and 33 
docking stations, all supplied by PBSC Urban Solutions, a Canadian company.[169] 
Though Chattanooga's most famous connection to the railroad industry is 
Chattanooga Choo Choo, a song made famous by Glenn Miller & His Orchestra, 
the city serves as a major freight hub with Norfolk Southern (NS) and CSX 
running trains on their own (and each other's) lines. The Norfolk Southern 
Railway's main classification yard, DeButts Yard, is just east of downtown; 
Norfolk Southern's Shipp's Yard and CSX's Wauhatchie Yard are southwest 
of the city. Norfolk Southern maintains a large railroad repair shop in 
Chattanooga.[170] The two railroad companies are among the largest individual 
landowners in the city (the Federal Government is another).[171] The Tennessee 
Valley Railroad Museum (TVRM), the largest historic operating railroad 
in the South, and the Chattooga and Chickamauga Railway also provides railroad 
service in Chattanooga. The headquarters of the National Model Railroad 
Association (NMRA) has been in Chattanooga next to the TVRM since 1982, 
when the NMRA moved from Indianapolis, Indiana.[172] Using the AAR reporting 
marks (NS for Norfolk Southern, CSXT for CSX Transportation, TVRM for the 
Tennessee Valley Railroad Museum, TNT for subsidiary Tyner Terminal Railroad, 
and CCKY for Chattooga and Chickamauga Railway), the rail lines passing 
through Chattanooga are as follows: The Lookout Mountain Incline Railway, 
often referred to as the Incline Railway by locals, serves as a tourist 
attraction. It is also occasionally used for commuting by Lookout Mountain 
residents, particularly during wintry weather when traveling up and down 
the mountain could be very dangerous. Despite the high level of freight 
rail activity, there is no passenger rail service in the city for either 
commuters or long-distance travelers. Being bisected by the Tennessee River, 
Chattanooga has seven bridges that allow people to traverse the river; 
five of the bridges being automobile bridges, one a rail bridge, and one 
a pedestrian bridge. These are the following, from west to east: The Chattanooga 
Metropolitan Airport (CHA) offers non-stop service to various domestic 
destinations via regional and national airlines, including Allegiant Airlines, 
United Express, American Eagle, Delta Connection, and US Airways Express.[176] 
The city of Chattanooga is served by numerous local, regional, and national 
media outlets which reach approximately one million people in four states: 
Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, and North Carolina. The Chattanooga Times 
Free Press, the area's only daily newspaper, is published every morning. 
It was formed in 1999 from the merger of two papers that had been bitter 
rivals for half a century, the Times and the News-Free Press. The Times 
was owned and published by Adolph Ochs, who later bought the New York Times. 
The Times was the morning paper and had a generally more liberal editorial 
page. The News-Free Press, whose name was the result of an earlier merger, 
was an afternoon daily and its editorials were more conservative than those 
in the Times. On August 27, 1966, the News-Free Press became the first 
newspaper in the nation to dissolve a joint operating agreement.[177][178] 
In 1999, the Free Press, which had changed its name from News-Free Press 
in 1993, was bought by an Arkansas company, WEHCO Media, publisher of the 
Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, which then bought The Times from the Ochs heirs.[179] 
The Times Free Press is the only newspaper in the United States to have 
2 editorial pages, each reflecting opposite ends of the political spectrum. 
The Times' editorial page, which is liberal, is on the left page and the 
Free Press' editorial page, which is conservative, is on the right page.[180] 
The Chattanooga Pulse is a free weekly alternative newspaper, published 
every Wednesday, that focuses primarily on arts, music, film and culture.[181] 
It was formed in 2003 by Zachary Cooper and Michael Kull, running independently 
until 2008, when the paper was purchased by Brewer Media Group, which also 
owns and operates five radio stations in the city. Enigma is a free monthly 
pop culture and entertainment magazine.[182] Founded as a weekly newspaper 
in 1995 by David Weinthal, Enigma lays claim to being Chattanooga's oldest 
alternative newspaper, even though it had ceased physical publication from 
2013 until resuming as a monthly magazine in 2015. The Chattanooga News 
Chronicle is an African-American weekly newspaper.[183] The Chattanoogan 
and its website "Chattanoogan.com", established in 1999, is an online media 
outlet that concentrates on news from Chattanooga, North Georgia, and Southeast 
Tennessee. The publisher is John Wilson, previously a staff writer for 
the Chattanooga Free Press. The Chattanoogan is the oldest online newspaper 
in Chattanooga.[184][185] Nooga.com, purchased in November 2010 by local 
entrepreneur Barry Large, relaunched in 2011 as a local news website offering 
"quality daily content focusing on local business, politics, and entertainment 
in the Chattanooga area."[186] Chattanooga is served by the following AM 
and FM radio stations: AM FM Chattanooga's television stations include: 
See also List of television stations in Tennessee, List of television stations 
in Georgia. See the separate List of people from Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
Chattanooga has been referred to in pop culture numerous times over the 
decades, including in books, documentaries, films, TV shows, and more. 
In recent years, Chattanooga has appeared in more productions of blockbuster 
movies and TV shows, as well as independent films and documentaries, therefore 
bringing Chattanooga on the national stage.[226][227] Some books that have 
Chattanooga as either a major or minor plot setting are Don't Cry by Beverly 
Barton, Full Moon by Mick Winters, American Gods by Neil Gaiman, Queen 
of Wands by John Ringo.[228] Some documentaries have been filmed in Chattanooga 
over the decades, mostly related to the railroad industry or the Civil 
War battles that were fought in Chattanooga. These include the following:[229] 
Chattanooga and its environs have been featured in numerous films since 
the early 1970s, principally due to Chattanooga being the home of the Tennessee 
Valley Railroad Museum (TVRM), which has allowed its equipment to be filmed 
in various films. A partial list of movies shot with TVRM equipment follows:[239] 
In addition to the above TVRM films, the following films were filmed either 
in Chattanooga itself or in nearby locales:[229] The 1941 Glenn Miller 
song that catapulted Chattanooga to international fame, Chattanooga Choo 
Choo, has been performed in numerous movies, including the 1941 film Sun 
Valley Serenade, featuring the Miller Orchestra and a young Milton Berle, 
"The Glenn Miller Story" starring James Stewart in the 1953 title roll 
and the 1984 eponymous film Chattanooga Choo Choo.[261] A number of pro 
wrestling events, as well as other events, such as circuses, concerts, 
ice shows, monster truck rallies, and rodeos, have been held in Chattanooga 
since the late 1980s, all at UTC's McKenzie Arena, also known as The Roundhouse 
because of its round shape and the impact of the railroad industry on Chattanooga.[262] 
The events include the following:[229] Police POV, COPS, and the MTV show 
Cuff'd have shown members of the Chattanooga Police Department apprehending 
suspects.[271] In addition to police reality shows, Chattanooga and nearby 
areas have been either been featured or mentioned in several TV shows, 
including the following:[229] Numerous independent short films have been 
produced in Chattanooga over the last several years, including the following:[229] 
Some TV movies have been filmed in Chattanooga or nearby areas, as well, 
including the 1986 TV movie A Winner Never Quits.[303] In addition, the 
1999 music video Usher Live, starring Chattanooga native Usher, was filmed 
in Chattanooga.[304] Chattanooga has seven sister cities, as designated 
by Sister Cities International: [305] Chattanooga also has two twinning 
cities: In January 2007, all of the cities above, with the exception of 
Wolfsburg, had a tree native to each locale planted at Coolidge Park's 
Peace Grove, which was established to replace a 100-year-old Slippery Elm 
tree which was damaged in a lightning storm in August 2006.[315][316] Wolfsburg 
was added in September 2011.[317] The Peace Grove has eight trees: a Linden 
Tree, which represents Hamm, a Chinese Elm, which represents Wuxi, a Mediterranean 
Cedar, which represents Givatayim, a White Birch, which represents Nizhny 
Tagil, a Ginkgo Tree, which represents Gangneung, an English Elm, which 
represents Swindon, a European Hornbeam, which represents Ascoli Piceno, 
