Chatham-Kent (2011 population 103,671) is a single-tier municipality in 
Southwestern Ontario, Canada. Mostly rural, its population centres are 
Chatham, Wallaceburg, Tilbury, Blenheim, Ridgetown, Wheatley and Dresden. 
The current Municipality of Chatham-Kent was created in 1998 by the merger 
of Kent County and its municipalities. The former city of Chatham began 
as a naval dockyard in the 1790s, as it straddles the Thames River. The 
town was named after the Earl of Chatham, William Pitt (the Elder). It 
was built as a naval dockyard, a characteristic shared by Chatham, Kent, 
England. In England, the name Chatham came from the British root ceto and 
the Old English ham thus meaning a forest settlement.[2] Following the 
American Revolution and the Gnadenhutten Massacre, a group of Christian 
Munsee Indians settled in what is now Moraviantown. In the War of 1812, 
the Battle of the Thames took place between Moraviantown and Thamesville 
on October 5, 1813. During the 19th century, the area was part of the Underground 
Railroad. As a result, Chatham-Kent is now part of the African-Canadian 
Heritage Tour. Uncle Tom's Cabin Historic Site is a museum of the Dawn 
Settlement, established in 1841 by Josiah Henson near Dresden as refuge 
for the many slaves who escaped to Canada from the United States.[3] John 
Brown, the abolitionist, planned his raid on the Harpers Ferry Virginia 
Arsenal in Chatham and recruited local men to participate in the raid. 
The small village of North Buxton, part of the African Canadian Heritage 
Tour, also played an important role in the Underground Railroad. Kent County 
consisted of the townships of Camden, Chatham, Dover, Harwich, Howard, 
Orford, Raleigh, Romney, Tilbury East and Zone. In some of Canada's earliest 
post-Confederation censuses, some residences in Kent County were incorrectly 
reported as being in Bothwell "County", which was a separate electoral 
district comprising parts of Kent and Lambton counties but not a distinct 
county in its own right. In 1998 the County of Kent and the city of Chatham 
were amalgamated to form the Municipality of Chatham–Kent. Most services 
were also combined. Since then, bus service has begun to serve all of Chatham-Kent. 
Starting in 2007, routes were set up to include the former towns of Wallaceburg 
and Dresden. Before 1998, each town had their own fire department. It then 
became the Chatham-Kent Fire Department upon amalgamation. The county also 
had separate police departments until 1998. The city of Chatham, as well 
as the towns of Wallaceburg, Dresden, and Tilbury, each had their own departments. 
The Chatham-Kent Police Service was formed on September 1, 1998. Chatham 
Kent has many historic festivals throughout the year such as the Battle 
of Longwoods reenactment, which takes place on Labour Day weekend at Fairfield 
Museum on Longwoods road. Chatham Kent is also home to many historic buildings 
which are part of an annual ghost tour offered each year at Halloween. 
The participants go on a guided walk of downtown while the guide informs 
them of various ghost stories tied to the local buildings in which they 
pass. Chatham Kent was a major part of the Underground Railroad and as 
such hosts the Buxton Homecoming each September. This celebrates the areas 
black culture and the roots laid by early black settlers in the Buxton 
area. The Municipality of Chatham-Kent currently consists of the communities 
of Appledore, Arkwood, Bagnall, Baldoon, Bates Subdivision, Bearline, Beechwood, 
Blenheim, Botany, Bothwell, Bothwell Station, Bradley, Briarwood Estates, 
Cedar Springs, Charing Cross, Chatham, Clearville, Coatsworth, Croton, 
Darrell, Dawn Mills, Dealtown, Dover Centre, Doyles, Dresden, Duart, Eatonville, 
Eberts, Electric, Erie Beach, Erieau, Fargo Station, Fletcher, Florence, 
Glenwood, Grande Pointe, Guilds, Highgate, Holiday Harbour, Huffman Corners, 
Jeannette, Jeannette's Creek, Kent Bridge, Kent Centre, Lake Morningstar, 
Louisville, McKay's Corners, Merlin, Mitchell's Bay, Morpeth, Muirkirk, 
Mull, New Scotland, North Buxton, North Thamesville, Northwood, Oldfield, 
Oungah, Ouvry, Pain Court, Palmyra, Pardoville, Pinehurst, Port Alma, Port 
Crewe, Prairie Siding, Quinn, Raglan, Renwick, Rhodes, Ridgetown, Ringold, 
Rondeau, Rondeau Bay Estates, Selton, Shrewsbury, Sleepy Hollow, South 
Buxton, Stevenson, Stewart, Thamesville, Thornecliffe, Tilbury, Troy, Tupperville, 
Turin, Turnerville, Valetta, Van Horne, Vosburg, Wabash, Wallaceburg, Wheatley, 
Whitebread and Wilson's Bush. At 2,458 square kilometres, Chatham-Kent 
is the 12th largest municipality by area in Canada and the largest in southwestern 
Ontario. Over 44,000 of the 107,000 residents live in the former City of 
Chatham. Other population centres in the municipality include Wallaceburg, 
Blenheim and Tilbury, Ridgetown and Dresden. The Lower Thames River runs 
through Chatham–Kent to Lake St. Clair in the west, while the Sydenham 
River flows through Wallaceburg and Dresden. The municipality has approximately 
88 kilometres of shoreline along lake Erie and 24 kilometres along lake 
St. Clair. The Indian reserve of Bkejwanong (commonly referred to as Walpole 
Island) borders on Chatham–Kent, whereas the Indian reserve of Moravian 
47 is an enclave within the city and is part of the Chatham–Kent census 
agglomeration and census division. Chatham-Kent has a humid continental 
climate (Köppen climate classification Dfa),[4] with cold, snowy winters 
and warm to hot, humid summers. A typical summer will feature heat waves 
with temperatures exceeding 30 °C (86 °F) often. Winters are cold, and 
feature occasional cold snaps bringing temperatures below −15 °C (5 °F), 
but also commonly include mild stretches of weather above freezing. For 
all groups that comprise at least 1% of the population. Note that a person 
can report more than one ethnic origin.[9] Although most of the population 
of Chatham-Kent is English-speaking, a few of its communities and Catholic 
parishes were settled by francophone (French-speaking) farmers in the mid-nineteenth 
century. These include Pain Court, Tilbury and Grande Pointe, where French 
is still spoken by a significant percentage of the population. These communities 
are designated French language service areas under Ontario's French Language 
Services Act. Approximately 8,500 residents of Chatham-Kent have French 
as a mother tongue and 1,500 have French as their home language. Essex 
County also has a relatively large francophone population, especially in 
the municipality of Lakeshore. Together, Chatham–Kent and Essex Counties 
make up one of the concentrations of Franco-Ontarians in the province of 
Ontario. Both elementary and secondary francophone schools exist across 
the municipality. A French cultural organization, La Girouette, which is 
based in Pain Court, promotes French-Canadian culture and language in the 
area. Knowledge of official language statistics:[8] Chatham–Kent's economy 
has a base in the agricultural and automotive sectors. The municipality 
and senior levels of government are keen to promote continuing diversification. 
The CP railway splits Chatham city in two, and the unstaffed Chatham railway 
station attends to Via Rail passengers. The train from Chatham to Toronto 
takes around 3.5 hours, while Windsor is under one hour westwards. Located 
in the "industrial heartland", Chatham's roots in the automotive sector 
go back to Gray-Dort Motors Ltd., one of Canada's earliest automobile manufacturers. 
(Chatham was also the birthplace of Hank Chrysler,[10] father of Walter 
P. Chrysler, founder of the Chrysler automobile company).[11] Other auto 
industry plants in the municipality include AutoLiv Canada in Tilbury (airbags), 
Mahle in Tilbury (emissions controls and plastics). From 1923 to 2011, 
Chatham was home to a truck assembly plant for Navistar, originally International 
Harvester. Navistar had announced plans to close the plant in 2003, but 
remained open due to government funds and employee concessions. The factory 
was idled in 2009 amid contract negotiations and finally closed in 2011.[12] 
Blenheim is home to RM Auctions, the world's largest vintage automobile 
auction house and RM Restorations, the world's largest vintage automobile 
restoration company. The nickname "The Classic Car Capital of Canada" comes 
from the company's position in the industry and abundance of classic car 
events in the community. The Canada Pension Plan (CPP) Disability Unit 
is housed in the Judy Lamarsh (see Notable Residents) Building in downtown 
Chatham. This federal office is the single largest Disability processing 
centre in Canada, processing 50% of all CPP Disability benefits. The office 
also processes Old Age Security Benefits. The Canadian Federal government 
is one of the largest employers in the Chatham-Kent area with over 450 
employees in several departments in the area. At the outskirts of Chatham 
city is the headquarters for Pioneer Hi-Bred Limited (a division of DuPont), 
a major agricultural seed breeding and biotechnology company. In 1996, 
Chatham became the home of Commercial Alcohols, which is the largest ethanol 
plant in Canada, and one of the largest in the world. It produces ethanol 
for industrial, medical, and beverage uses. In January 2005, the plant 
was named as one of Canada's 50 best managed companies. There are plans 
to double the size of the current Chatham facility. The plant faced criticism 
in the past due to corn mash odour from its stack, but has installed technology 
to eliminate the problem. However, these efforts need to be readressed, 
due to the fact that this technology has been discovered to be faulty by 
many of the local residents.[13] There are many farms in the municipality, 
and a number of vineyards have been opened in the last few years. Many 
international workers come to Chatham-Kent, especially in the warmer seasons, 
to do farm labour. In the past there have been allegations of low pay and 
poor living and working conditions for these agricultural labourers.[14] 
'El Contrato', a film by The National Film Board of Canada, addresses these 
issues in depth. Chatham is home to the headquarters of Union Gas, a natural 
gas utility and Spectra Energy company. Other energy related activities 
include wind farms near the shores of Lake Erie. Chatham also serves as 
a retail centre for the municipality and surrounding area. This has included 
the development of large big-box stores particularly at the north end of 
Communication Road in Blenheim, and at the north end of St. Clair Street 
in Chatham. The long, white sandy beaches, the fishing, convenient water 
access, hiking trails and conservation areas make Erieau a popular vacation 
getaway. On May 5, 2009, it was announced that the Wheels Inn would be 
closing and downsizing into a Holiday Inn Express. There are two Provincial 
Parks in Chatham-Kent, Rondeau Provincial Park and Wheatley Provincial 
Park, and Point Pelee National Park is nearby. There are also numerous 
local conservation areas. Downtown Chatham is home to the annual "Retrofest" 
organized by the Historic Downtown Chatham BIA, in partnership with the 
Kent Historic Auto Club.[15] Hundreds of classic car enthusiasts travel 
to Downtown Chatham to showcase their classic cars and vintage vehicles. 
Downtown Chatham is also home to the Chatham Capitol Theatre, a community-based 
theatre that, when it opened in 1930, was the largest in the region. The 
renovation of the theatre was run under the auspices of the Chatham Capitol 
Theatre Association, a not-for-profit corporation with registered charitable 
status. The theatre reopened in September 2010. Due to the financial restraints 
of operation the Capitol Theater is now run and owned by St. Clair College.[16] 
Wolfe Creek BMX is a non profit BMX dirt race track located off of Creek 
Rd behind The Chatham Compost Depot. Wolfe Creek BMX is affiliated with 
American Bicycle Association (ABA) and runs sanctioned races including 
The Provincial Championship Series. www.wolfebmx.com Local citizen Tom 
Maciejowski along with the help of family friends and generous volunteers 
and contributors are responsible for the upkeep of the facility. Chatham-Kent 
is served by the Chatham-Kent Health Alliance. The Public General Hospital 
and St. Joseph Hospital in Chatham were moved to a single campus in 2004, 
while the former Sydenham District Hospital remains in Wallaceburg. The 
eastern portion of the municipality is served by the Four Counties Health 
Services in Newbury in nearby Middlesex County. Research published in 2002 
by the Heart and Stroke Foundation cited Chatham-Kent as a hotspot for 
heart disease in Ontario.[17] Further research is underway to determine 
the reasons for this and other hotspots. The Chatham-Kent Public Health 
Unit launched a campaign in fall 2007 to tackle other ailments prevalent 
throughout the community, including asthma, chronic allergies, sinus problems, 
many types of cancer, diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, alcoholism, 
and obesity.[18] In October 2008, Chatham-Kent Health Alliance was named 
one of "Canada's Top 100 Employers" by Mediacorp Canada Inc., and was featured 
in Maclean's newsmagazine.[19] Chatham-Kent features one of the 14 provincial 
Local Health Integration Networks (LHIN). The Erie St. Clair (ESC) LHIN 
services the Chatham-Kent Community as well as Sarnia/Lambton and Windsor/Essex. 
The ESC LHIN is located in the town of Chatham. Chatham-Kent is also served 
by stations coming from Windsor, London, Detroit, Toledo, and Cleveland. 
The Chatham Daily News is the only daily newspaper in Chatham-Kent. There 
are several weeklies located in Chatham and the various communities in 
the municipality, including the Chatham Voice, Wallaceburg Courier Press, 
the Blenheim News Tribune, Chatham This Week, Ridgetown Independent News, 
Tilbury Times, and the Wheatley Journal. The Chatham Daily News, Chatham 
This Week, and Wallaceburg Courier Press are all owned by Postmedia. The 
Chatham Kent Daily Post[20] and CKReview are the only daily online newspapers 
in Chatham-Kent that provide coverage of local news, sports, entertainment, 
and cultural events as well as a number of regular contributing columnists. 
The Chatham-Kent Sports Network[21] is an online sports specific news source 
covering local sports news, scores, and highlights from each of Chatham-Kent's 
communities. CKSN also follows Chatham-Kent athletes who have progressed 
to the Junior, College, International, or Professional ranks. There are 
two anglophone school boards and one francophone school board in Chatham–Kent. 
These are the Lambton Kent District School Board (headquartered in both 
Chatham and Sarnia), the St. Clair Catholic District School Board (headquartered 
in Wallaceburg) and the Conseil scolaire catholique Providence (CSC Providence).[22] 
The LKDSB is a public school board, and consists of 13 secondary and 53 
elementary schools. The St. Clair Catholic board consists of two secondary 
schools, one in Chatham and one in Sarnia, and 26 elementary schools. There 
are also independent schools, such as Wallaceburg Christian School and 
Chatham Christian Schools—an elementary and secondary school in the same 
building. The French Catholic board, headquartered in Windsor, has its 
Chatham-Kent regional office in Pain Court.[23] Chatham–Kent is the home 
of two colleges – St. Clair College and University of Guelph Ridgetown 
Campus, popularly known as Ridgetown College. St. Clair College is a satellite 
of St. Clair College of Windsor. There are two campuses located in the 
municipality - Thames Campus (located in Chatham) and the Wallaceburg Campus 
(located in Wallaceburg). More than 5,000 full-time and 12,000 part-time 
students attend the college each year. The Ridgetown Campus of the University 
of Guelph offers diplomas in agriculture, horticulture, and veterinary 
technology. It is part of the University of Guelph's Ontario Agricultural 
College, and formerly known as Ridgetown College of Agricultural Technology. 
The Chatham Maroons are a team in the Ontario Hockey Association Western 
Junior B league. There are also four teams in the Great Lakes Junior C 
Hockey League Other teams in Chatham-Kent include the Chatham Outlaws Girls 
Hockey Association, the Chatham AAA Cyclones and the AA Kent Cobras. The 
Chatham-Kent Cougars Football Club started in 2006. In 2006 Chatham-Kent 
entered a team into the inaugural season of the Allstar Peewee Football 
League, and in 2007 entered a team into the Jr. Ontario Varsity Football 
League. Now Chatham-Kent plays in the OFC with 4 spring/summer teams. Founded 
in 2001, the Chatham-Kent Havoc rugby team plays in the Southwest Rugby 
Union. Chatham-Kent is situated just off Highway 401, connecting Montreal, 
Toronto, Kitchener-Waterloo, London, and Windsor, Ontario; and Detroit, 
Michigan via the Ambassador Bridge. Blenheim, Chatham and Wallaceburg are 
linked with Sarnia, Ontario and the Blue Water Bridge to the United States 
by Highway 40. The sections of Highway 2 and Highway 3 (the Talbot Trail) 
in Chatham–Kent were downloaded by the province in 1998, becoming local 
roads 2 and 3, but they remain significant through routes and are still 
locally known by their old names. The first gas station in Canada to sell 
E85 fuel to the public is located on Park Avenue East in Chatham.[24] Chatham 
station is served by Via Rail passenger services between Toronto and Windsor, 
part of the Quebec City – Windsor Corridor with four trips in each direction 
daily, and the community is served by both the Canadian National Railway 
and the Canadian Pacific Railway for freight transportation. Within Chatham 
public bus services are provided by CK Transit. Chatham-Kent has an intercity 
bus service, also provided by CK Transit, between all communities in the 
municipality except Wheatley. In addition, Chatham-Kent also has intercity 
bus services, with Greyhound Canada services to and from Windsor, London 
and Toronto, and through Detroit, Michigan to Chicago, Illinois. These 
services stop at Thamesville, Chatham and Tilbury. There is a municipal 
airport located 14 km south east of Chatham featuring a 1500m paved, lighted 
runway, with refuelling facilities, tie-down services, pilot training and 
chartered flights. The nearest airports served by regional carriers are 
