Chavez Ravine is a shallow L-shaped canyon located in Los Angeles, California, 
United States, partially in the Elysian Park neighborhood. It sits in large 
promontory of hills north of downtown Los Angeles and was known in the 
1860s as the "Stone Quarry Hills" which had other smaller ravines such 
as Sulphur Ravine, Cemetery Ravine, Solano Canyon, and Reservoir Ravine.[1] 
It is next to Dodger Stadium, a baseball venue that opened in 1962.[2] 
The name Chavez Ravine can be used to mean either the actual ravine itself 
in a narrow sense or sometimes in a broader sense the entire promontory 
and surrounding ravines, and is also used to refer to the stadium. Dodger 
Stadium was constructed by knocking down the ridge which separated the 
nearby Sulfur and Cemetery Ravines and filling those two ravines in. Palo 
Verde Elementary School was buried in the process. Chavez Ravine was named 
for Julian Chavez, a Los Angeles councilman in the 19th century. Chavez 
originally purchased the land in the Elysian Park area, which eventually 
grew to about 315 acres, in 1844.[3] Nearby "Cemetery Ravine" was named 
after old Calvary, the first cemetery of Los Angeles.[4][5] Chavez Ravine 
was named for Julian Chavez, the first recorded land owner. He was born 
in New Mexico and moved to Los Angeles in the early 1830s. He quickly became 
a local leader. In 1844, Chavez purchased 83 acres of the long, narrow 
valley northwest of the city. There are no records of what Chavez did on 
his land, however during the 1850s and 1880s there were smallpox epidemics, 
Chavez Canyon, was the location of a "pest house" which cared for Chinese-Americans 
and Mexican-Americans suffering from the disease. The land was very rugged 
which prevented much development of the area. However the area did provide 
an important watershed and part was used by the Los Angeles Water Company 
for a canal bringing water from what is now Griffith Park and storing in 
a reservoir (today called Buena Vista Reservoir) in Reservoir Ravine. Some 
of Chavez Canyon and the surrounding hills became Elysian Park in 1886. 
That same year the two brick manufacturers moved into Chavez Ravine and 
began blasting operations in the hillsides. By the early 1900s, in the 
hills above and around the ravine, a semi-rural Mexican-American community 
had grown up. Eventually, three distinct neighborhoods formed: Bishop, 
La Loma, and Palo Verde, mostly on the ridges between the neighboring ravines. 
In 1913 a progressive lawyer named Marshall Stimson subsidized the movement 
of around 250 Mexican-Americans to these communities from the floodplain 
of the nearby Los Angeles River. There was a local grocery store, a local 
church, and Palo Verde Elementary. There was a nearby brick factory which 
caused local problems from the smoke and dust released. In 1926 the residents 
of Chavez Ravine organized to shut the company down. On August 20, 1926, 
the Los Angeles City Council unanimously adopted an ordinance prohibiting 
the blasting and zoned the area around Chavez Ravine for residential use.[6] 
Chavez Ravine was made up of the three mostly "Mexican-American" communities 
of La Loma, Palo Verde, and Bishop.[7] In the 1940s, the area was a poor, 
though cohesive, Mexican-American community. Many families lived there 
because of housing discrimination in other parts of Los Angeles. With the 
population of Los Angeles expanding, Chavez Ravine was viewed as a prime, 
underutilized location. The city began to label the area as "blighted" 
and thus ripe for redevelopment. Through a vote, the Housing Authority 
of the City of Los Angeles, with the assistance of federal funds from the 
Housing Act of 1949, was designated the task to construct public housing, 
in large part to address the severe post-World War II housing shortage. 
Prominent architects Richard Neutra and Robert Alexander developed a plan 
for "Elysian Park Heights." The city had already relocated many of the 
residents of Chavez Ravine when the entire project came to a halt. Fear 
of communism was sweeping the United States and loud voices in Los Angeles 
cried that the housing project smacked of socialism. The land for Dodger 
Stadium was purchased from local owners/inhabitants in the early 1950s 
by the City of Los Angeles using eminent domain with funds from the Federal 
Housing Act of 1949. The city had planned to develop the Elysian Park Heights 
public housing project which included two dozen 13-story buildings and 
more than 160 two-story townhouses, in addition to newly rebuilt playgrounds 
and schools. Before construction could begin, the local political climate 
changed greatly when Norris Poulson was elected mayor of Los Angeles in 
1953. Proposed public housing projects like Elysian Park Heights lost most 
of their support. Following protracted negotiations, the City of Los Angeles 
was able to purchase the Chavez Ravine property back from the Federal Housing 
Authority at a drastically reduced price, with the stipulation that the 
land be used for a public purpose. It was not until the baseball referendum 
Taxpayers Committee for Yes on Baseball, which was approved by Los Angeles 
voters on June 3, 1958 that the Dodgers were able to acquire 352 acres 
(1.42 km²) of Chavez Ravine from the City of Los Angeles. (The Dodgers, 
from 1958 to 1961, played their home games at the Los Angeles Memorial 
Coliseum.) Los Angeles-based author Mike Davis, in his controversial, often 
polemical history of the city, City of Quartz, describes the process of 
gradually convincing Chavez Ravine homeowners to sell. In his book Davis 
asserts that with nearly all of the original Spanish-speaking homeowners 
initially unwilling to sell, "developers" representing the city and its 
public housing authority resorted to offering immediate cash payments, 
distributed through their Spanish-speaking agents. Once the first sales 
had been completed, it is said that remaining homeowners were offered lesser 
amounts of money, some speculate to create a community panic of not receiving 
fair compensation, or of being left as one of the few holdouts. Some residents 
continued to hold out, despite the pressure being placed upon them by such 
"developers," resulting in the Battle of Chavez Ravine, an unsuccessful 
ten-year struggle by a small number of remaining residents of Chavez Ravine 
to maintain control of their property, after the substantial majority of 
the property had been transferred to public ownership, during the period 
in which the city intended to use the land for the Elysian Park Heights 
public housing project. In the end, the project died. A few years later, 
the city made the controversial decision to trade the land to the Brooklyn 
Dodgers and their owner Walter O'Malley, in exchange for land around the 
minor league park Wrigley Field, in a move to provide incentives for a 
migration to Los Angeles.[8] During the years when the Los Angeles Angels 
were tenants of the Dodgers (1962 through 1965), the Angels referred to 
the stadium as "Chavez Ravine Stadium" or simply "Chavez Ravine". Los Angeles 
City Council designated the property as "Dodgertown" in October 2008.[9] 
The United States Postal Service assigned postal code "Dodgertown, CA 90090" 
in April 2009.[10] A number of structures from Chavez Ravine were spared 
demolition and sold by the developers of Dodger Stadium to nearby Universal 
Studios for one dollar apiece. Universal moved the structures to its back 
lot where they subsequently appeared in various Universal productions, 
most notably the 1962 film To Kill a Mockingbird. The house of Atticus 
Finch, for example, was an erstwhile Chavez Ravine home.[11] Most of Chavez 
Ravine remains in Elysian Park where the The Chavez Ravine Arboretum still 
stands. The arboretum was founded in 1893 by the Los Angeles Horticultural 
Society where trees were added to through to the 1920s. Most of the Arboretum's 
original trees are still standing and many are the oldest and largest of 
their kind in California and even the United States .[12] Further south 
in the ravine is Barlow Respiratory Hospital which was founded in 1902 
and continues to treat patients today.[13] At the open end of the ravine 
immediately adjacent to Dodger Stadium is the Naval and Marine Corps Reserve 
Center which was built in 1937 but is today a training facility, Frank 
Hotchkin Memorial Training Center, for the Los Angeles City Fire Department.[14] 
Chavez Ravine is mentioned in The Mescaleros' song "All in a Day" in their 
2003 album Streetcore. Chavez Ravine,1949: A Los Angeles Story (1999) collects 
interviews and photos by Don Normark documenting the Ravine's culture at 
the time. Chávez Ravine is an album recorded by Ry Cooder in 2005, as a 
soundtrack to a PBS documentary directed by Jordan Mechner. The film makes 
use of the Normark photos in telling the story of how a Mexican American 
community was destroyed to make way for a low-income public housing project.[15] 
"Chávez Ravine: A Record by Ry Cooder" is the twelfth studio album by Ry 
Cooder. It is the first concept album and historical album by Ry Cooder 
which tells the story of Chávez Ravine. Sung in Spanish and English, Cooder 
sought out musicians from the era and the place, including the late Pachuco 
boogie boss Don Tosti, Lalo Guerrero, Ersi Arvizu, and Little Willie G., 
all of whom appear with Joachim Cooder, Juliette & Carla Commagere, Jim 
Keltner, Flaco Jimenez, Mike Elizondo, Gil Bernal, Ledward Kaapana, Joe 
Rotunde, Rosella Arvizu, and others. Chávez Ravine was nominated for "Grammy 
Award for Best Contemporary Folk Album" in 2006.[16] A portion of the Great 
Wall of Los Angeles, a mural by Judith F. Baca in the Tujunga Wash Drainage 
Canal in San Fernando Valley, California, is titled "The Division of the 
Barrios and Chavez Ravine." It depicts families separated by freeways and 
the Dodger Stadium in the air like a spaceship. In 2003, the Urban Performance 
Troupe Culture Clash, comprising three writers and performers Richard Montoya, 
Ric Salinas and Herbert Siguenza, premiered a stage show titled Chávez 
Ravine at the Mark Taper Forum. The 1952 crime drama film Without Warning! 
has several scenes that take place in Chavez Ravine. During Dave Dameshek's 
"Number One Sports" segment on The Adam Carolla Show, Dodger Stadium was 
often humorously referred to as Chavez Ravine. At the end of the Twilight 
Zone episode "The Whole Truth" (1961) Rod Serling says "be particularly 
careful in explaining to the boss about your grandmother's funeral when 
you are actually at Chavez Ravine watching the Dodgers." "Chavez Ravine" 
was mentioned as a suspect during a "minute mysteries" segment of the 1960s 
TV show Fractured Flickers. A group of American Indians gathered overnight 
to booze, dance and sing on a Chavez Ravine hilltop in the 1961 movie "The 
Exiles". The urban renewal conflict is the subject of the folk song "Preserven 
el Parque Elysian" by M. Kelian, recorded by Pete Seeger on the 1966 album 
God Bless the Grass. "Chavez Ravine" is mentioned in the TV police drama 
"Southland" (Season 4 Episode 3) when a fraud victim describes how he was 
"born on home plate" and lived in his family home in Chavez Ravine until 
May 9, 1959 when the city came in and bulldozed his home to make way for 
Dodger Stadium. Coordinates: 34°04′30″N 118°14′20″W﻿ / ﻿34.075°N 118.239°W﻿ 
