A checked swing is a type of motion in baseball made by a batter. A checked 
swing occurs when a batter starts to swing his bat at the ball, but stops 
the swing in order to allow the ball to pass without hitting it. If the 
swing was indeed checked, so that there was actually no swing, then if 
the bat did not touch the ball and if the ball did not go through the strike 
zone, the pitch counts as a ball; but in that circumstance if the swing 
was not checked, so that a swing actually occurred, then the pitch counts 
as a strike. Initially, the home plate umpire must determine if a swing 
was checked or not checked. If he indicates that it was checked, an appeal 
can be made by the catcher or his manager, and the home plate umpire can 
then make a request to either the 1st or 3rd base umpire to make the call 
as to whether the swing was indeed checked. (To maximize visibility, the 
1st base umpire makes the call for right-handed batters, and the 3rd base 
umpire for left-handed batters.) To indicate a checked swing, the umpire 
will make a “safe” gesture with his hands; to indicate a full swing, he 
will clench his fist. If a ball that passes the batter goes through the 
strike zone, it is a strike even if a swing is checked. A checked swing 
sometimes results in an unintentional swinging bunt, where the ball hits 
the bat and rolls a short distance, although the batter apparently stopped 
his swing. If a ball is hit during a checked swing, it is in play as long 
as it is not ruled a foul ball. The Major League Baseball rulebook does 
not contain an official definition for a checked swing, but defines a swing 
as "an attempt to strike at the ball." It is the decision of the umpire 
as to whether an attempt was made or not. Generally, factors such as whether 
the bat passes the front of the plate or the batter pulls his wrists back 
are considered in the ruling. Some umpires prefer to use the "breaking 
the wrists" criterion as the method to decide a checked swing: if the wrists 
"rolled over", a swing occurred. Check-swinging can also be used in some 
