Chelsea is a city in Suffolk County, Massachusetts, United States, directly 
across the Mystic River from the city of Boston. As of 2013, Chelsea had 
an estimated population of 36,828.[1] It is also the second most densely 
populated city in Massachusetts behind Somerville. With a total area of 
just 2.5 square miles, Chelsea is the smallest city in Massachusetts in 
terms of total area.[2] Chelsea is a diverse, working-class community that 
contains a high level of industrial activity. It is one of only 4 Massachusetts 
cities in which either the majority or a plurality of the population identifies 
as Hispanic or Latino, alongside Springfield, Lawrence and Holyoke. After 
flirting with bankruptcy in the 1990s, the once-struggling industrial city 
has reversed a prolonged decline and in recent years has enjoyed sustained 
economic growth. Thanks to its relative affordability and close proximity 
to Boston, Chelsea has added more than 1,200 homes since 2005, mostly loft-style 
apartments and condominiums suitable for small families or young professionals. 
There has also been significant office, retail and restaurant development 
throughout the city.[3] The area of Chelsea was first called Winnisimmet 
(meaning "good spring nearby") by the Massachusett tribe, which once lived 
there. It was settled in 1624 by Samuel Maverick, whose palisaded trading 
post is considered the first permanent settlement by Boston Harbor. In 
1635, Maverick sold all of Winnisimmet, except for his house and farm, 
to Richard Bellingham. The community remained part of Boston until it was 
set off and incorporated in 1739, when it was named after Chelsea, a neighborhood 
in London, England. In 1775, the Battle of Chelsea Creek was fought in 
the area, the second battle of the Revolution, at which American forces 
made one of their first captures of a British ship. Part of George Washington's 
army was stationed in Chelsea during the Siege of Boston. On February 22, 
1841, part of Chelsea was annexed by Saugus, Massachusetts. On March 19, 
1846, North Chelsea, which consists of present-day Revere and Winthrop 
was established as a separate town.[4] Reincorporated as a city in 1857, 
Chelsea developed as an industrial center and by mid-century had become 
a powerhouse in wooden sailing ship construction. As the century wore on, 
steam power began to overtake the age of the sail and industry in the town 
began to shift toward manufacturing. Factories making rubber and elastic 
goods, boots and shoes, stoves, and adhesives began to appear along the 
banks of Boston Harbor. It became home to the Chelsea Naval Hospital designed 
by Alexander Parris and home for soldiers.[5] According to local historical 
records, Nathan Morse, the first Jewish resident of Chelsea, arrived in 
1864, and by 1890 there were only 82 Jews living in the city. However, 
Chelsea was a major destination for the "great wave" of Russian and Eastern 
European immigrants, especially Russian Jews, who came to the United States 
after 1890. By 1910 the number of Jews had grown to 11,225, nearly one 
third of the entire population of the city. In the 1930s there were about 
20,000 Jewish residents in Chelsea out of a total population of almost 
46,000. Given the area of the city, Chelsea may well have had the most 
Jews per square mile of any city outside of New York City.[6] On April 
12, 1908, nearly half the city was destroyed in the first of two great 
fires that would devastate Chelsea in the 20th century. The fire left 18,000 
people, 56 percent of the population, homeless. Despite the magnitude of 
the destruction, it would only take the city about two and a half years 
to rebuild and five years to surpass the extent of 1908's infrastructure. 
The city was also laid out differently after the fire, with wider streets 
and more access for emergency vehicles. Many of the city’s residents left 
and never returned, which opened the door for many immigrants living in 
Boston to “move up” to Chelsea. To immigrants living in crowded tenements 
in Boston’s West End, East and South Ends, Chelsea was the next stop on 
their path of economic upward mobility.[7] By 1919 Chelsea’s population 
had reached the record level of 52,662, with foreign-born residents comprising 
46 percent of the population. Fully transitioned from a suburb to an industrial 
city, the waterfront flourished, with shipbuilding, lumberyards, metalworks 
and paint companies lined Marginal Street.[5] During the 1930s the first 
exodus of Jews from Chelsea to the suburbs began. As the community prospered 
and grew, many wanted to seek new opportunities in the more affluent communities 
of Newton and Brookline. By the 1950s the Jewish population had decreased 
to about 8,000 and more people began to establish roots in the seaside 
towns of Swampscott and Marblehead, Massachusetts.[8] After World War II, 
Chelsea began a long, slow decline; between 1940 and 1980, the population 
declined by 38 percent. Chelsea, however, lost more population than other 
urban areas after the 1950s because of the elevated expressway built to 
connect the North Shore to Boston, via the Mystic River Bridge (later renamed 
for Boston Mayor Maurice J. Tobin). The highway planners failed to foresee 
that the new Route 1 North Expressway would damage the city far more than 
the 1908 fire. Hundreds of homes were lost to make way for the expressway 
as it cut the city in half. The resulting out-migration took with it many 
of the small, local businesses, much of the capital and, seemingly, the 
soul of the city. Historic homes were abandoned, along with the industrial 
buildings, brownfields, salt piles and gas storage tanks dotting the cityscape. 
In 1973, disaster struck again when the Second Great Chelsea Fire burned 
18 city blocks, leaving nearly a fifth of the city in ashes. Both fires 
originated in Chelsea’s “rag shop district,” cluttered streets filled with 
junk shops hawking scraps, metal, and combustible items. Wood-frame buildings 
and three- to six-family houses were built tightly together, and quickly 
caught fire.[9] A major shift took place in the early 1970s as Chelsea 
became a center for Latino immigration. Racial conflict and tension became 
a regular part of life in Chelsea. Although the Hispanic population continued 
to grow, the city did not hire its first Spanish-speaking police officer 
until 1992. By the early 1990s, Chelsea was both the poorest and most dangerous 
city in Massachusetts. By 1990, Chelsea had collapsed economically and 
socially. Crime was rampant, not least among the police and local government 
officials. The population drain made way for more immigrants, but depleted 
the city’s tax base. The cost of running the city and maintaining its infrastructure 
did not decrease correspondingly so, in 1991, the city suffered fiscal 
collapse. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts enacted special legislation 
to place Chelsea into receivership. For the first time since the Great 
Depression, a Massachusetts city surrendered home rule and allowed a state-appointed 
receiver to control all aspects of city government. City Hall was eviscerated, 
the police and fire departments reorganized, management of the public schools 
given to Boston University, and indictments handed down. Mayor John “Butchie” 
Brennan and two former mayors were found guilty of federal crimes. Governor 
William Weld named James Carlin as the first receiver followed by Lewis 
"Harry" Spence. This was the first time since the Great Depression that 
a major United States municipality had such an action taken against it. 
Events preceding the action included failed financial intervention by the 
state, a political stalemate over the city's budget, deepening economic 
decline and a spiraling fiscal crisis. Fortunately, Chelsea had no long-term 
debt publicly held; thus, a solution to its problems could be explored 
in isolation of creditors.[10] By the summer of 1995, when the state returned 
City Hall to the people of Chelsea, a new government had been born, brought 
to live by a panel of citizens charged with drafting a new city charter. 
The new charter eliminated the position of mayor, converting management 
of the city from a strong mayor to a council–manager government system, 
where a strong city manager is selected by City Council members. As such, 
municipal government focused on improving the quality of services provided 
to residents and businesses, while establishing financial policies that 
have significantly improved the city's financial condition. With their 
leaders more accountable and efficient, Chelsea reversed its long decline 
and entered a period of population growth and economic development. In 
1998, the City Council's focused efforts earned Chelsea the distinction 
of being named one of 10 All-America City Award winners by the National 
Civic League in recognition of its grass-roots approach to solving problems. 
Since earning that honor, Chelsea has claimed other victories. The city 
weathered a recession in the early 2000s and emerged with its finances 
intact, prompting Chelsea's bond rating to improve. Chelsea's skyline has 
been transformed by the construction of the Wyndham Chelsea, built on a 
lot where junk cars once sat abandoned in the wake of the fire of 1973. 
Opened in 2001, the hotel chain was the first company to make a substantial 
investment in Chelsea after receivership. The city’s two main shopping 
centers, the Mystic Mall and Chelsea Commons, have recently undergone major 
renovations as well.[11] On July 28, 2014, a tornado touched down in northern 
Chelsea and made its way to neighboring Revere. While there was relatively 
little damage in Chelsea, it caused major damage in Revere.[12] Located 
on a small peninsula in Boston Harbor covering a mere 2.21 square miles 
(6 km2), Chelsea is the smallest city by area in Massachusetts. Chelsea 
is bordered on three sides by water, giving the city a unique character. 
The Mystic River borders Chelsea on the southwest, the Chelsea Creek and 
Mill Creek and the Island End River on the west. The topography of Chelsea 
consists primarily of coastal lowlands, punctuated by four drumlins formed 
during the last Ice Age. These drumlins are located in the southwest (Admirals 
Hill), southeast (Mount Bellingham), northeast (Powderhorn Hill) and northwest 
(Mount Washington). A smaller drumlin (Mill Hill) is located on the east 
side of Chelsea, adjacent to Mill Creek. This sloped and hilly landscape 
helps to divide the city into discernible neighborhoods, each with its 
own character, thereby giving the city a manageable sense of scale and 
orientation. Despite its small size, there are several distinct neighborhoods 
in Chelsea: Admirals Hill - Admirals Hill sits atop a point of land between 
the Mystic River and Island End River. Containing the Naval Hospital Historic 
District, the area is mostly residential development enjoying expansive 
views. On the south slope of the hill is the site of the historic Chelsea 
Naval Hospital, with several brick and granite structures that have been 
converted to other uses. Between the Naval Hospital and the shoreline is 
the Mary O'Malley Park, the largest public park in Chelsea. Addison-Orange 
Adjacent to the north side of downtown, the Addison-Orange neighborhood 
is residential, flat and densely populated. Washington Avenue runs through 
this neighborhood. Bellingham Square - This historic district became the 
center of commerce and government after the 1908 fire. The cohesiveness 
of design is the result of community planning after the Great Fire of 1908. 
The district includes City Hall, modeled after Old Independence Hall in 
Philadelphia, the Public Library and Bunker Hill Community College's Chelsea 
campus. "Google Maps- Kayem Park is in this neighborhood." Box District 
- Just over a block from City Hall, this once blighted neighborhood gets 
its name from various box manufacturing companies that operated in the 
area as early as 1903, when the Russell Box Company began operations at 
the foot of Gerrish Avenue. Abandoned in the 1960s, the area fell into 
disrepair until it was rezoned for residential use in the 2000s. It is 
now the fastest growing part of Chelsea and has enjoyed a building boom 
since 2005, with town homes and multifamily housing complexes proliferating 
in the area.[13] The Chelsea Family Dental is also located here, and the 
Kayem Food Headquarters are off Marginal Street. Carter Park- Wyndham Area 
- The neighborhood around Carter Park is a small enclave of mostly single-family 
Queen Anne style homes surrounded by heavy commercial and highly trafficked 
areas. Route 1 looms above the southeastern edge of this tree-lined neighborhood, 
and Revere Beach Parkway winds along the northern edge. The Chelsea High 
School is in this area, as well as Market Basket, the Dockside, Home Goods, 
T.J. maxx and Floramo's. The historic Chelsea Clock is also in the area. 
Chelsea Square - This historic district located in the downtown area contains 
the finest and most intact grouping of mid 19th and early 20th century 
commercial architecture in the city. Area includes a waterfront district 
(South Broadway neighborhood) with brick row houses dating to the mid to 
late 19th century. Third Street is also in the area, and becomes the industrial 
Everett Avenue. The Chelsea Police Department is located here. Chelsea 
Commons - Formerly known as Parkway Plaza, Chelsea Commons sits on a low 
flat area near the end of Mill Creek. The plaza consists of big-box retail, 
fast-food restaurants, and a large apartment building. It is bordered by 
a strip of wetlands on both sides. The new Chelsea Commons Park was just 
completed adjacent to this site. Webster Avenue is in this area. Mill Hill 
- This largely residential area consists mostly of two- and three-story 
wood frame detached buildings. Covering the smallest of the city's drumlins, 
the Mill Hill neighborhood sits on a small neck of land bounded by Chelsea 
Creek and Mill Creek. This neighborhood is on the Revere line. Eastern 
Avenue goes through his neighborhood. Prattville - is the northwestern 
section of the city. It also borders Revere, and Everett to the west. Pizza 
Lovers, The Newbridge Cafe and Orange Leaf Frozen Yogurt are located in 
this area. Garfield and Washington Avenues are in Prattville. Voke and 
Washington parks are in Prattville. Route 1 is on the east side of Prattville, 
and Route 16 is on the south side. Soldiers Home - The Soldiers Home neighborhood 
covers the steep slopes and the peak of Powderhorn Hill. This residential 
area contains some examples of Queen Anne style architecture. Soldiers 
Home is one of the least dense neighborhoods in the city. At the peak sits 
the Soldiers Home, a large structure that dominates much of this area. 
However, there are some smaller associated brick structures in the area 
as well. Waterfront District - For the first time, Chelsea is breaking 
through the heavy industry piled up along the Chelsea Creek, and reconnecting 
with its waterfront. Established to promote water-oriented industrial uses 
at Forbes Industrial Park and the lower Chelsea Creek waterfront, its use 
remains primarily industrial. Most of the waterfront from the Tobin Bridge 
to the mouth of Mill Creek is a Designated Port Area (DPA), and Chelsea 
has in the last decade embraced it. The city is encouraging industry to 
move in, but only if they help finance a new park on the waterfront.[14] 
As of the 2010 United States Census,[17] there were 35,080 people, 11,888 
households, and 7,608 families residing in the city. The population density 
was 16,036.8 people per square mile (6,184.7/km²), placing it among the 
highest in population density among U.S. cities.[18] There were 12,337 
housing units at an average density of 5,639.9 per square mile (2,175.0/km²). 
The racial makeup of the city was 48% White,[19] 8.5% Black or African 
American, 3.1% Asian, 0.48% Native American, 0.09% Pacific Islander, 34% 
from other races, and 5.9% were multiracial. In addition, 62% of residents 
identified as Hispanic or Latino, of any race (18.2% Salvadoran, 12.7% 
Puerto Rican, 8.4% Honduran, 7.3% Guatemalan, 2.8% Mexican, 2.2% Dominican, 
1.6% Colombian).[20] There were 11,888 households out of which 36.4% had 
children under the age of 18 living with them, 36.9% were married couples 
living together, 20.1% had a female householder with no husband present, 
and 36% were non-families. 28.8% of all households were made up of individuals 
and 10.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The 
average household size was 2.87 and the average family size was 3.5. The 
population was spread out with 27.3 under the age of 18, 10.6% from 18 
to 24, 34.6% from 25 to 44, 16.3% from 45 to 64, and 11.2% who were 65 
years of age or older. The median age was 31 years. For every 100 females, 
there were 100.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 
99.7 males. The median income for a household in the city was $30,161, 
and the median income for a family was $32,130. Males had a median income 
of $27,280 versus $26,010 for females. The per capita income for the city 
was $14,628. About 20.6% of families and 23.3% of the population were below 
the poverty line, including 28.8% of those under age 18 and 20.9% of those 
age 65 or over. In 2010, 38% of Chelsea residents had been born outside 
of the United States. This is the highest percentage of foreign-born residents 
in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.[21] Chelsea is served by the Massachusetts 
Bay Transit Authority. The MBTA Commuter Rail provides service from Boston's 
North Station with the Chelsea station on its Newburyport/Rockport Line. 
Additionally, Chelsea is served by many MBTA bus routes providing local 
service to East Boston, Revere, Everett and other nearby cities. Chelsea 
does not have a link to the MBTA subway or light rail systems. The Route 
1 North Expressway is a limited access highway that cuts City of Chelsea 
in half. The Tobin Bridge, a major regional transportation artery, carries 
Route 1 from Chelsea across the Mystic River to Charlestown.[22] After 
an extensive study, Governor Deval Patrick announced in October 2013 that 
MassDOT will collaborate with the MBTA to extend the Silver Line bus rapid 
transit line to Chelsea via East Boston by 2017.[23] The new route, likely 
to receive the designation of SL6, would begin at South Station and run 
through the Waterfront Tunnel, along with the SL1 and SL2 routes, to Silver 
Line Way, continuing with the SL1 through the Ted Williams Tunnel. The 
new route would then diverge to meet the Blue Line at Airport Station, 
and follow the Coughlin Bypass Road (a half-mile commercial-use-only road 
which opened in 2012)[24] to the Chelsea Street Bridge. The Silver Line 
is expected to stop at the four stations in Chelsea: Eastern Avenue, Box 
District, Downtown Chelsea, and Mystic Mall. A new $20 million Chelsea 
commuter rail station and 'transit hub' will be constructed at the Mystic 
Mall terminus of the new Silver Line route, so that trains will no longer 
block Sixth Street.[25][26] The new Silver Line and commuter rail stations 
will be fully handicapped accessible.[27] Additionally, a multi-use 0.75-mile 
(1.21 km) shared path 0.75-mile (1.21 km) linear park will be constructed 
parallel to a Silver Line bus rapid transit busway that will utilize the 
Boston & Albany Railroad's Grand Junction Branch right-of-way. Located 
within the Box District neighborhood, the path will connect Downtown Chelsea 
and Eastern Avenue stations.[28] Chelsea Public Schools has four elementary 
schools, three middle schools, and one high school, Chelsea High School. 
The Chelsea school system has historically been towards the bottom of the 
state's test score rankings. It is plagued by high turnover among students. 
A very high percentage of students move in or out over the course of the 
year, and the dropout rate is high. In 1988, the school board made the 
unprecedented move of delegating its authority for control of the school 
district to Boston University. In June 2008, a partnership with BU ended, 
and the schools returned to full local control. Chelsea has only one private 
school remaining, St. Rose School, as the others have closed. St. Rose 
is located on Broadway and. as of 2012, has an enrollment of about 220 
students. In addition, there are two public charter schools, the Excel 
Academy and Phoenix Charter Academy. Bunker Hill Community College and 
the for-profit Everest Institute hold satellite locations of their schools 
in Chelsea. Elementary, middle, and high schools in Chelsea include: There 
are also two post-secondary campuses: According to Chelsea's 2012 Comprehensive 
Annual Financial Report,[29] the top employers in the city are: The city 
of Chelsea is protected by the career professional firefighters of the 
City of Chelsea Fire Department, operating from three fire stations across 
the city, each shift commanded by a Deputy Chief. Chelsea Fire operates 
an apparatus fleet of 4 Engines, 2 Ladders, 2 Special Operations Units, 
a Maintenance Unit, a Foam Tender Unit, and several other special, support, 
and reserve units. Chelsea Fire responds to ~11,000 emergency calls annually.[30] 
The current Chief of Department is Robert Better.[31] Chelsea Engine 2 
responds to over 4,000 emergency calls annually, with 4,269 in 2011, placing 
it among the busiest engine companies in the United States, and at 120% 
of the maximum acceptable threshold for engine company call volume, as 
set by the Commission on Fire Accreditation International.[32] Founded 
in 1897, the Chelsea Clock Company is one of the oldest, largest, and few 
remaining American clock manufacturing companies in existence. For over 
a century, Chelsea's clockmakers have been designing and handcrafting distinguished, 
high quality clocks for customers in the corporate, consumer, government 
and marine markets. In 2015, the Chelsea Clock Company moved to a smaller 
building a few blocks away from the original location.[33] Today, the company 
continues to build and repair clocks from its new headquarters. The old 
building is slated for demolition to make way for a new apartment building. 
Chelsea has eight places on the National Register of Historic Places. Bellingham 
Square Historic District Bellingham-Cary House C. Henry Kimball House Chelsea 
Garden Cemetery Congregation Agudath Shalom Downtown Chelsea Residential 
Historic District Naval Hospital Boston Historic District Revere Beach 
