The Chemical Corps is the branch of the United States Army tasked with 
defending against chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) 
weapons. The corps was founded as the U.S. Chemical Warfare Service (CWS) 
during World War I. Its name was changed to the Chemical Corps in 1946. 
Discussion of the topic dates back to the American Civil War. A letter 
to the War Department dated 5 April 1862 from New York City resident John 
Doughty proposed the use of chlorine shells to drive the Confederate Army 
from its positions. Doughty included a detailed drawing of the shell with 
his letter. It is unknown how the military reacted to Doughty's proposal 
but the letter was unnoticed in a pile of old official documents until 
modern times. Another American, Forrest Shepherd, also proposed a chemical 
weapon attack against the Confederates. Shepherd's proposal involved hydrogen 
chloride, an attack that would have likely been non-lethal but may have 
succeeded in driving enemy soldiers from their positions. Shepherd was 
a well-known geologist at the time and his proposal was in the form of 
a letter directly to the White House.[1] The earliest predecessors to the 
United States Army Chemical Corps owe their existence to changes of military 
technology early in World War I. The United States War Department's first 
interest in providing individual soldiers with personal protection against 
chemical warfare came in 1915 and they tasked the Medical Department with 
developing the technology. Despite this early interest, troops were neither 
supplied with masks nor trained for offensive gas warfare until the U.S. 
became involved in World War I in 1917.[2] By 1917, the use of chemical 
weapons by both the Allied and Central Powers had become commonplace along 
the Western, Eastern and Italian Fronts, occurring daily in some regions.[3] 
In 1917, Secretary of the Interior Franklin K. Lane, directed the Bureau 
of Mines to assist the Army and Navy in creating a gas war program. After 
the Director of the Bureau of Mines formally offered the bureau's service 
to the Military Committee of the National Research Council, the council 
appointed a subcommittee on noxious gases.[2] On 5 July 1917 General John 
J. Pershing oversaw the creation of a Gas Service Section.[4][5] The predecessor 
to the 1st Gas Regiment was the 30th Engineer Regiment (Gas and Flame). 
The 30th was activated on 15 August 1917 at Camp American University, Washington, 
D.C.[6] A 17 October 1917 memorandum from the Adjutant General to the Chief 
of Engineers directed that the Gas Service Section consist of four majors, 
six captains, 10 first lieutenants and 15 second lieutenants.[5] Additional 
War Department orders established a Chemical Service Section that included 
47 commissioned officers and 95 enlisted personnel.[5] Before deploying 
to France in 1917 many of the soldiers in the 30th Engineer Regiment (Gas 
and Flame) spent their time stateside in training that did not emphasize 
any chemical warfare skills;[7] instead the training focused on drill, 
marching, guard duty, and inspections.[7][8] Despite the conventional training, 
the public perceived the 30th as dealing mainly with "poisonous gas and 
hell fire".[8] By the time those in the 30th Engineers arrived in France 
most of them knew nothing of chemical warfare and had no specialized equipment.[7] 
The 30th Engineer Regiment (Gas and Flame) was redesignated the First Gas 
Regiment in 1918 and deployed to assist and support Army gas operations, 
both offensive and defensive. The Chemical Warfare Service (CWS), the predecessor 
to the Chemical Corps, was officially formed on 28 June 1918 and encompassed 
the Gas Service and Chemical Service Sections.[4][5] By 1 November 1918 
the CWS included 1,654 commissioned officers and 18,027 enlisted personnel.[9] 
Major General William L. Sibert was appointed as the first director of 
the CWS on the day it was created.[10] He served in that post until he 
resigned in April 1920.[11] In the interwar period, the Chemical Warfare 
Service maintained its arsenal despite public pressure and presidential 
wishes in favor of disarmament. Major General Amos Fries, the CWS chief 
from 1920–29, viewed chemical disarmament as a Communist plot.[3] Through 
his instigation and lobbying, the CWS and its various Congressional, chemist, 
and chemical company allies were able to halt the U.S. Senate's ratification 
of the 1925 Geneva Protocol.[3] Even those countries who had signed the 
Geneva Protocol still produced and stockpiled chemical weapons, since the 
Protocol only forbade "first use" of chemical weapons – not retaliation 
in kind. In 1937 President Roosevelt opposed changing the name of the Service 
to Corps, stating:[12] It is my thought that the major functions of the 
Chemical Warfare Service are those of a "Service" rather than a "Corps." 
It is desirable to designate as a Corps only those supply branches of the 
Army which are included in the line of the Army. To have changed the name 
to the "Chemical Service" would have been more in keeping with its functions 
than to designate it as the "Chemical Corps." I have a far more important 
objection to this change of name. It has been and is the policy of this 
Government to do everything in its power to outlaw the use of chemicals 
in warfare. Such use is inhuman and contrary to what modern civilization 
should stand for. I am doing everything in my power to discourage the use 
of gases and other chemicals in any war between nations. While, unfortunately, 
the defensive necessities of the United States call for study of the use 
of chemicals in warfare, I do not want the Government of the United States 
to do anything to aggrandize or make permanent any special bureau of the 
Army or the Navy engaged in these studies. I hope the time will come when 
the Chemical Warfare Service can be entirely abolished. The Chemical Warfare 
Service deployed and prepared gas weapons for use throughout the world 
during World War II. However, these weapons were never used in combat.[13] 
Despite the lack of chemical warfare during the conflict, the CWS saw its 
funding and personnel increase substantially due to concerns that the Germans 
and Japanese had a formidable chemical weapons capability. By 1942 the 
CWS employed 60,000 soldiers and civilians and was appropriated $1 billion.[13] 
The CWS completed a variety of non-chemical warfare related tasks and missions 
during the war including producing incendiaries for flame throwers, flame 
tanks and other weapons. Chemical soldiers were also involved in smoke 
generation missions. Chemical mortar battalions used the 4.2 inch chemical 
mortar to support armor and infantry units.[14] Use of chemical and biological 
weapons were extremely limited, by both sides, during all parts of the 
war. Italy used mustard gas and phosgene during the short Second Italo-Abyssinian 
War, Germany employed chemical agents such as Zyklon B against Jews, political 
prisoners and other victims in extermination camps during the Holocaust, 
and Japan employed chemical and biological weapons in China.[15] In 1943 
a U.S. ship carrying a secret Chemical Warfare Service cargo of mustard 
gas as a precationary retaliatory measure was sunk in an air raid in Italy, 
causing 83 deaths and about 600 hospitalized military victims plus a larger 
number of civilian casualties. Generally speaking, World War II was conducted 
(1939–1945) without use of chemical or biological weapons on the conventional 
battlefield, and certainly not on the scale of the use of poison gas during 
World War I. Though the political leadership of the United States remained 
decidedly against the use of chemical weapons, there were those within 
the military command structure who advocated the use of such weapons. Following 
the Battle of Tarawa, during which the U.S. forces suffered more than 3,400 
casualties in three days, CWS chief Major General William N. Porter pushed 
superiors to approve the use of poison gas against Japan. "We have an overwhelming 
advantage in the use of gas. Properly used gas could shorten the war in 
the Pacific and prevent loss of many American lives," Porter said. Popular 
support was not completely lacking. Some newspaper editorials supported 
the use of chemical weapons in the Pacific theater. The New York Daily 
News proclaimed in 1943, "We Should Gas Japan", and the Washington Times 
Herald wrote in 1944, "We Should Have Used Gas at Tarawa because “You Can 
Cook ’Em Better with Gas".[15][16] Despite rising between 1944 and 1945, 
popular public opinion never rose above 40 percent in favor of the use 
of gas weapons.[16] In 1946 the Chemical Warfare Service was re-designated 
as the U.S. Army Chemical Corps, a name the branch still uses.[14] With 
the change came the added mission of defending against nuclear warfare, 
in addition, the corps continued to refine its offensive and defensive 
chemical capabilities.[14] Immediately following World War II, production 
of U.S. biological warfare (BW) agents went from "factory-level to laboratory-level".[17] 
Meanwhile, work on BW delivery systems increased.[17] Live testing in Panama 
was carried out during the San Jose Project. The Korean War required chemical 
soldiers to again man the 4.2 inch chemical mortar for smoke and high explosive 
munitions delivery.[14] During the war, the U.S. opened the Pine Bluff 
Arsenal, used for BW production, and expanded the research facilities at 
Fort Detrick.[17] North Korea, the Soviet Union and China leveled accusations 
at the United States claiming the U.S. used biological agents during the 
Korean War; an assertion the U.S. government has denied.[17] From the end 
of World War II through the Korean War, the U.S. Army, the Chemical Corps 
and the U.S. Air Force all made great strides in their biological warfare 
programs, especially concerning delivery systems.[17] Following the end 
of the Korean War, the Army decided to strip the Chemical Corps of the 
4.2 inch mortar system and made that an infantry weapon, given its utility 
against Chinese mortars. Beginning in 1962, a program that would become 
known as Operation Ranch Hand was operated, in part, by the Chemical Corps. 
Ranch Hand was a herbicidal warfare program which utilized herbicides and 
defoliants such as Agent Orange.[18] The chemicals were color-coded based 
on what compound they contained. The U.S. and its allies officially argued 
that herbicides and defoliants fall outside the definition of "chemical 
weapons" since these substances were not designed to asphyxiate or poison 
humans but to destroy plants which provided cover or concealment to the 
enemy. The Chemical Corps continued to support the force through the use 
of incendiary weapons, such as napalm, and riot control measures, among 
other missions. As the war progressed into the late 1960s public sentiment 
against the Chemical Corps increased. The sentiment was the result of the 
Army's continued use of herbicides, criticized in the press as being against 
the Geneva Protocol, napalm, and riot control agents.[19] Besides supporting 
the continued use of flame weapons, and being prepared for any eventuality 
involving weapons of mass destruction, the Vietnam era Chemical Corps also 
developed "people sniffers", a type of personnel detector. Major Herb Thornton 
led Chemical soldiers who became known as tunnel rats and developed techniques 
for clearing enemy tunnels in Vietnam.[20] As the 1960s progressed, sentiment 
against the Chemical Corps continued its rise. The Dugway sheep incident, 
in March 1968, was one of several key events which increased the growing 
public furor against the corps. An open air spraying of VX was blamed for 
killing over 4,000 sheep near Dugway Proving Ground.[19] The Army eventually 
settled the case and paid the ranchers. Meanwhile, another incident involving 
Operation CHASE (Cut Holes and Sink 'Em) was also exposed. Operation CHASE 
sought to dump chemical weapons 250 miles (400 km) off of the Florida coast, 
spurring concerns over the damage to the ocean environment and risk of 
chemical munitions washing up on shore.[19] The criticism of the Army culminated 
with the near-disbanding of the Chemical Corps in the aftermath of the 
Vietnam War.[19] Beginning during the war in the late 1960s, the chemical 
warfare capabilities of the United States began to decline due to, in part, 
a decline in public opinion concerning the corps.[19] The corps continued 
to be plagued with bad press and mishaps. A 1969 incident, in which 23 
soldiers and one Japanese civilian were exposed to sarin on the island 
of Okinawa while cleaning sarin-filled bombs, created international concern 
while revealing the presence of chemical munitions in Southeast Asia.[21] 
The same year as this sarin mishap, President Richard Nixon reaffirmed 
a no first-use policy on chemical weapons as well as renouncing the use 
of biological agents.[21] When the U.S. BW program ended in 1969, it had 
developed seven standardized biological weapons in the form of agents that 
cause anthrax, tularemia, brucellosis, Q-fever, VEE, and botulism.[17] 
In addition, Staphylococcal Enterotoxin B was produced as an incapacitating 
agent.[17] Nixon nominated General Creighton Abrams for the post of Army 
Chief of Staff during summer 1972 and upon assuming the post the general 
and others began to address the reformation of the Army in the wake of 
Vietnam.[19] As soon as Abrams was sworn in he began to investigate the 
possibility of merging Chemical Corps into other Army branches. An ad hoc 
committee, designed to study possibilities, recommended that the Chemical 
Corps' smoke and flame mission be integrated into the Engineer Corps and 
the chemical operations be integrated into the Ordnance Corps. The groups 
recommendations were accepted in December 1972 and the United States Army 
Chemical Corps was officially disbanded, but not formally disestablished, 
by the Army on 11 January 1973.[19] To formally disestablish the corps, 
the U.S. Congress had to approve the move, because it had officially established 
the Chemical Corps in 1946. Congress chose to table action on the fate 
of the Chemical Corps, leaving it in limbo for several years.[19] Recruitment 
and career advancement was halted and the Chemical School at Fort McClellan 
was shut down and moved to Aberdeen Proving Grounds.[22] Army Chief of 
Staff Abrams died in office in 1974, following the 1973 Yom Kippur War 
between Israel and a coalition of Arab states. The results of the war demonstrated 
the desire of the Soviet Union to continue its pursuit of offensive chemical 
and biological capabilities.[19] By the mid–1970s the chemical warfare 
and defense capability of the United States had degraded and by 1978 the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff characterized U.S. ability to conduct 
operations in a chemical environment as "not prepared."[23] Secretary of 
the Army Martin R. Hoffmann rescinded the 1972 recommendations and in 1976 
Army Chief of Staff General Bernard W. Rogers ordered the resumption of 
Chemical Corps officer commissioning. However, the U.S. Army Chemical School 
at Fort McClellan, Alabama did not reopen until 1980.[19] By 1982 the Chemical 
Corps was running smoothly once again.[22] In an effort to hasten chemical 
defense capabilities the corps restructured its doctrine, modernized its 
equipment, and altered its force structure. This shift led to every unit 
in the army having chemical specialists in-house by the mid-1980s. Between 
1979 and 1989 the Army established 28 active duty chemical defense companies.[22] 
After Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990 and much of the world responded by amassing 
military assets in the region, the United States Army faced the very real 
possibility of experiencing chemical or biological (CB) attack.[24] The 
possibility of CB attack forced the army to respond with NBC defense crash 
courses in theater.[24] Troops deployed to the Gulf with protective masks 
at the ready, protective clothing was made available to those troops whose 
vicinity to the enemy or mission required it.[25] Large scale drills were 
conducted in the desert to better acclimatize troops to wearing the bulky 
protective clothing (called MOPP gear) in hot weather conditions.[25] Though 
Saddam Hussein had renounced the use of chemical weapons in 1989, many 
did not believe he would really honor that during a conflict with the United 
States and the broader coalition forces.[25] As American troops headed 
to the desert, analysts speculated about their vulnerability to CB attack. 
Although the location of Hussein's chemical munitions was unknown, their 
existence was never doubted.[25] The Gulf War was fought without the Iraqi 
Army unleashing chemical or biological munitions,;[25] Eric R. Taylor, 
of the CATO Institute, maintained that the effective, U.S. threat of nuclear 
retaliation halted Hussein from employing his chemical weapons.[24] The 
locations of many of Iraq's chemical stockpiles were never uncovered and 
there is widespread speculation that U.S. troops were exposed to chemical 
munitions while destroying weapons caches,[25] particularly near the Khamisiyah 
storage site.[26] After the war, analysis suggested the chemical defense 
capabilities of U.S. forces were woefully inadequate during and after the 
conflict.[24] In addition, some experts, such as Jonathan B. Tucker, suggest 
that the Iraqis did indeed employ chemical weapons during the war.[27] 
A 1996 United States General Accounting Office report concluded that U.S. 
troops remained highly vulnerable to attack from both chemical and biological 
agents. The report blamed the U.S. Department of Defense for failure to 
address shortcoming identified five years earlier during combat in the 
Persian Gulf War. These shortcomings included inadequate training, a lack 
of decontamination kits and other equipment, and vaccine shortages.[28] 
As a result of the 1995 sarin gas attack on a Tokyo subway and the growing 
concern about a terrorist chemical attack, the U.S. Congress passed laws 
to implement a program to train civilian agencies on responding to incidents 
involving chemical agents. Further, U.S. Army Reserve Chemical units began 
fielding equipment and training Soldiers to perform mass casualty decontamination 
operations.[29] From 1952 until 1999 the Chemical Corps School was located 
at Fort McClellan. Since its closure due to Base Realignment and Closure 
in 1999, the Army's Chemical Corps and the United States Army Chemical, 
Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) School are located at Fort 
Leonard Wood, Missouri. There are approximately 22,000 members of the Chemical 
Corps in the U.S. Army, spread among the Active, Army Reserve, and Army 
National Guard.[citation needed] The school trains officers and enlisted 
personnel in CBRN warfare and defense with a mission is "To protect the 
force and allow the Army to fight and win against an CBRN threat. Develop 
doctrine, equipment and training for CBRN defense which serve as a deterrent 
to any adversary possessing weapons of mass destruction. Provide the Army 
with the combat multipliers of smoke, obscurant, and flame capabilities."[citation 
needed] The Chemical Corps, like all branches of the U.S. Army, uses specific 
insignia to indicate a soldier's affiliation with the corps. The Chemical 
Corps branch insignia consists of a cobalt blue, enamel benzene ring superimposed 
over two crossed gold retorts. The branch insignia, which was adopted in 
1918 by the fledgling Chemical Service, measures .5 inches in height by 
1.81 inches in width. Crossed shells with a dragon head was also commonly 
used in France for the Chemical service. The Chemical Warfare Service approved 
the insignia in 1921 and in 1924 the ring adopted the cobalt blue enamel. 
When the Chemical Warfare Service changed designations to the Chemical 
Corps in 1946 the symbol was retained.[30] or "Elements rule the battlefield" 
The Chemical Corps regimental insignia was approved on 2 May 1986. The 
insignia consists of a 1.2 inch shield of gold and blue emblazoned with 
a dragon and a tree. The shield is enclosed on three sides by a blue ribbon 
with Elementis Regamus Proelium written around it in gold lettering. The 
phrase translates to: "Let us (or may we) rule the battle by means of the 
elements". The regimental insignia incorporates specific symbolism in its 
design. The colors, gold and blue, are the colors of the Chemical Corps, 
while the tree's trunk is battle scarred, a reference to the historical 
beginnings of U.S. chemical warfare, battered tree trunks were often the 
only reference points that chemical mortar teams had across no man's land 
during World War I.[31] The tree design was taken from the coat of arms 
of the First Gas Regiment. The mythical chlorine breathing green dragon 
symbolizes the first use of chemical weapons in warfare (chlorine). Individual 
Chemical Corps soldiers are often referred to as "Dragon Soldiers."[32] 
The Chemical Corps Regimental Association operates the Chemical Corps Hall 
of Fame. The list includes soldiers from many different eras of the Chemical 
Corps history, including Amos Fries, Earl J. Atkisson, and William L. Sibert.[33] 
The organization conducts annual inductions, and the honor is considered 
the highest offered by the corps.[34] Baseball Hall of Fame baseball player, 
manager, and executive Branch Rickey served in the 1st Gas Regiment during 
World War I. Rickey spent over four months as a member of the CWS.[35] 
Other Hall of Famers also served in the CWS during World War I, among them 
Ty Cobb and Christy Mathewson.[36] Robert S. Mulliken served in the CWS 
making poison gas during World War I, and he later earned the Nobel Prize 
