Chewing tobacco is a type of smokeless tobacco product consumed by placing 
a portion of the tobacco between the cheek and gum or upper lip teeth and 
chewing. Unlike dipping tobacco, it is not ground and must be manually 
crushed with the teeth to release flavour and nicotine. Unwanted juices 
are then expectorated (spat). Chewing tobacco is typically manufactured 
as several varieties of product – most often as loose leaf (or scrap), 
pellets (tobacco "bites" or "bits"), and "plug" (a form of loose leaf tobacco 
condensed with a binding sweetener). Nearly all modern chewing tobaccos 
are produced via a process of leaf curing, cutting, fermentation and processing 
or sweetening. Historically, many American chewing tobacco brands (which 
were popular during the American Civil War era) were made with cigar clippings. 
Oral and spit tobacco increase the risk for leukoplakia, a precursor to 
oral cancer.[1] Chewing tobacco has been known to cause cancer, particularly 
of the mouth and throat.[2] According to International Agency for Research 
on Cancer, "Some health scientists have suggested that smokeless tobacco 
should be used in smoking cessation programs and have made implicit or 
explicit claims that its use would partly reduce the exposure of smokers 
to carcinogens and the risk for cancer. These claims, however, are not 
supported by the available evidence."[2] Chewing is one of the oldest methods 
of consuming tobacco. Indigenous peoples of the Americas in both North 
and South America chewed the leaves of the plant long before the arrival 
of Europeans, frequently mixed with the mineral lime, in the same way as 
coca leaves.[citation needed] The southern United States was distinctive 
for its production of tobacco, which earned premium prices from around 
the world. Most farmers grew a little for their own use, or traded with 
neighbours who grew it. Commercial sales became important in the late 19th 
century as major tobacco companies rose in the South, becoming one of the 
largest employers in cities like Winston-Salem, NC, Durham, NC and Richmond, 
VA. Southerners dominated the tobacco industry in the United States; even 
a concern as large as the Helme Tobacco Company, headquartered in New Jersey, 
was headed by former Confederate officer George Washington Helme. In 1938 
R.J. Reynolds marketed eighty-four brands of chewing tobacco, twelve brands 
of smoking tobacco, and the top-selling Camel brand of cigarettes. Reynolds 
sold large quantities of chewing tobacco, though that market peaked about 
1910.[3] A historian of the American South in the late 1860s reported on 
typical usage in the region where it was grown, paying close attention 
to class and gender:[4] The chewing of tobacco was well-nigh universal. 
This habit had been widespread among the agricultural population of America 
both North and South before the war. Soldiers had found the quid a solace 
in the field and continued to revolve it in their mouths upon returning 
to their homes. Out of doors where his life was principally led the chewer 
spat upon his lands without offence to other men, and his homes and public 
buildings were supplied with spittoons. Brown and yellow parabolas were 
projected to right and left toward these receivers, but very often without 
the careful aim which made for cleanly living. Even the pews of fashionable 
churches were likely to contain these familiar conveniences. The large 
numbers of Southern men, and these were of the better class (officers in 
the Confederate army and planters, worth $20,000 or more, and barred from 
general amnesty) who presented themselves for the pardon of President Johnson, 
while they sat awaiting his pleasure in the ante-room at the White House, 
covered its floor with pools and rivulets of their spittle. An observant 
traveller in the South in 1865 said that in his belief seven-tenths of 
all persons above the age of twelve years, both male and female, used tobacco 
in some form. Women could be seen at the doors of their cabins in their 
bare feet, in their dirty one-piece cotton garments, their chairs tipped 
back, smoking pipes made of corn cobs into which were fitted reed stems 
or goose quills. Boys of eight or nine years of age and half-grown girls 
smoked. Women and girls "dipped" in their houses, on their porches, in 
the public parlours of hotels and in the streets. Chewing tobacco is still 
used, predominantly by young white males in some parts of the American 
Southeast, but also in other areas and age groups. In September 2006 both 
the Republican and Democratic candidates for Senator from Virginia admitted 
to chewing tobacco and agreed that it sets a bad example for children.[5] 
In the late 19th century, during the peak in popularity of chewing tobacco 
in the western United States, a device known as the spittoon was a ubiquitous 
feature throughout places both private and public (e.g. parlours and passenger 
cars). The purpose of the spittoon was to provide a receptacle for excess 
juices and spittle accumulated from the oral use of tobacco. As chewing 
tobacco's popularity declined throughout the years, the spittoon became 
merely a relic of the Old West and is rarely seen outside museums. To this 
very day, spittoons are still present on the floor of the U.S. Senate's 
old chamber. Chewing tobacco comes in several different varieties. Loose 
leaf chewing tobacco is the most widely available and most frequently used 
type of chewing tobacco. It consists of shredded tobacco leaf, usually 
sweetened and sometimes flavored, and often sold in a sealed pouch weighing 
on average 3oz. Loose leaf chewing tobacco has a sticky texture due to 
the sweeteners added. Common loose leaf chewing tobaccos include Red Man, 
Levi Garrett, Beechnut, and Stoker's. Plug chewing tobacco is pressed tobacco 
leaves into a square, brick-like mass of tobacco. From this, bites are 
taken from the plug, or can also be cut off and then chewed. Plug tobacco 
is declining in popularity, and thus is less readily available than loose 
leaf chewing tobacco. Some brands include Cannon Ball, Days Work, and Levi 
Garrett Plug. Historically, plug tobacco could be either smoked in a pipe 
or chewed, but today these are two distinct products. Twist chewing tobacco 
is a rope-like piece of tobacco twisted together. Unlike most loose leaf 
tobaccos, twist chewing tobacco is usually not sweetened. Pieces of twist 
are either bitten off or cut and then chewed. Some brands of twist include 
Cotton Boll, Cumberland, and Warren County. Twist chewing tobacco is not 
widely available and is mostly found in Appalachia. Historically, twists 
could also be smoked in a pipe, or ground up into nasal snuff.[6] The following 
is a partial list of brands of chewing tobacco. Other tobacco products, 
such as dipping tobacco and snus, are excluded. When the rules of baseball 
were first written in 1845, the carcinogenic potential of chewing tobacco 
was unknown. At that time, it was commonly used by players and coaches 
alike.[7] Smokeless tobacco use became rampant by players by the early 
1900s. They liked chewing tobacco because it kept their mouths (and their 
mitts) moist on the dusty infield.[8] The use of chewing tobacco in baseball 
steadily increased until the mid-20th century, when cigarettes became popular 
and took the place of some players' smokeless tobacco habit. Today, however, 
more baseball players are actually using dipping tobacco, not chewing tobacco. 
As shown below, a number of notable players have died of oral cancer as 
a result. Joe Garagiola, who quit, warns about chewing tobacco: "I tell 
these guys, 'You may not like what I say, but with lung cancer you die 
of lung cancer,'" ... "With oral cancer, you die one piece at a time. They 
operate on your neck, they operate on your jaw, they operate on your throat."[9] 
Bill Tuttle was a Major League player who made a big name for himself both 
through baseball and his anti-chewing-tobacco efforts. Tuttle was an outfielder 
for the Detroit Tigers, Kansas City Athletics, and the Minnesota Twins. 
He was an avid tobacco chewer; even his baseball cards pictured him with 
a bulge in his cheek from the tobacco. Nearly forty years after he began 
using smokeless tobacco, Tuttle developed a tumor in his mouth so severe 
it protruded through his skin. A few years before he died, Tuttle had many 
of his teeth, his jawbone, his gums, and his right cheekbone removed. He 
also had his taste buds removed.[10] Tuttle dedicated the last years of 
his life to speaking with Major League teams about not using chewing tobacco 
where television cameras could see the players so that children could not 
witness and be influenced by it. He also dedicated time to the National 
Spit Tobacco Education Program, which was being run by friend and former 
Major League player, Joe Garagiola. Tuttle died July 27, 1998, after a 
five-year battle with cancer.[11] Babe Ruth, perhaps the most famous player 
of all time, also died of throat cancer. In the mid-1940s, Ruth was diagnosed 
with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (cancer of the upper throat). The top two 
causes of this disease are alcohol and tobacco; Ruth was a heavy user of 
both.[12] Rex Barney, who began his career at age 19 pitching for the Brooklyn 
Dodgers, later recounted that his coach told him he had to begin chewing 
tobacco if he ever wanted to be a Major League pitcher. Barney contracted 
a sickness from chewing and was unable to play in the first game he was 
supposed to start in.[13] Hall of fame outfielder Tony Gwynn died of salivary 
cancer on June 16, 2014. He claimed that it was caused by a lifetime use 
of chewing and dipping tobacco. 1845: Baseball rules written, chewing tobacco 
use among players already rampant.[14] 1890: Dr. Robert Koch shows that 
the spitting of chewing tobacco was leading to a spread of tuberculosis. 
This leads to a downturn in use of chewing tobacco among the general population, 
but baseball players continue use.[8] 1909: Honus Wagner, a well-known 
American baseball player, tells American Tobacco Company to take his picture 
off of their cartons. He does not want to be responsible for influencing 
children to smoke.[14] 1948: Babe Ruth dies of throat cancer at age 53.[12] 
1950s: Use of smokeless tobacco decreases as players make the switch to 
cigarettes.[13] 1970: Players' use of smokeless tobacco increases once 
again when the U.S. Government begins to warn against the potential risks 
of smoking.[13] 1984: Sean Marsee, who won 28 track medals at Talihina 
High school, in Talihina, Oklahoma, dies of oral cancer at the age of 19 
after dipping Copenhagen snuff for six years since age 12.[15] 1986: Betty 
Ann Marsee, mother of the late Sean Marsee, lost her lawsuit in Federal 
court on June 20, 1986, against the United States Tobacco Company for $137 
million plus $10 million for pain and suffering. Ms. Marsee testified during 
the trial her son believed snuff was safe because it carried no warning 
label, and because athletes like former Dallas Cowboy running back Walt 
Garrison advertised it. Dr. Carl Hook, who treated Marsee in the early 
stages of the disease, testified that the teenager's oral cancer was caused 
by snuff.[16] 1989: Betty Ann Marsee, mother of the late Sean Marsee, loses 
her appeal in the United States Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit, on January 
10, 1989.[17] 1993: Minor League players, coaches, and staff prohibited 
from smokeless tobacco use during games.[18] 1998: Bill Tuttle, anti-chewing-tobacco 
spokesperson and former MLB player, dies at the age of 69 after a five-year 
battle with cancer.[11] 2010: San Diego Padres HOFer Tony Gwynn is diagnosed 
with cancer of a salivary gland which he says is due to him still using 
chew.[19] Gwynn died of the disease in 2014. 2011: New five-year labor 
deal prevents the use of smokeless tobacco during pre and post-game interviews. 
However does not ban the use during games as long as the can or pouch is 
out of sight. There is debate over whether players should be banned from 
using tobacco products during the games. The Major League Baseball Players 
Association disagrees, claiming it is a legal substance and therefore is 
acceptable to be used during games. Harvard School of Public Health professor, 
Gregory Connolly, however, says "the use of smokeless tobacco by players 
has a powerful role model effect on youth particularly among young males 
in sport, some of whom remain addicted in future careers as professional 
athletes."[20] According to Connolly, one quarter of Minor League players 
do not support allowing the use of chewing tobacco during games, and one 
third of Major League players support abolishing it.[20] Due to health 
concerns, the MLB was asked to ban the use of chewing tobacco during the 
2011 World Series between the St. Louis Cardinals and Texas Rangers. Many 
believe that the widespread use of chewing tobacco by baseball players 
has led to a rampant increase in youth, and particularly teen, use.[citation 
needed] Additionally, teen use of smokeless tobacco has increased, while 
use of all tobacco products by teens has decreased. This is true especially 
among white and Hispanic males.[20] In 1970, five times as many 65-and-older 
males used smokeless tobacco as 18- to 24-year-olds did (12.7% of the population 
were 65+ male users, 2.2% of the population were 18–24 male users). More 
specifically, moist snuff use increased for males ages 18–24 from 1% of 
the population to 6.2% of the population, while 65+ male users decreased 
from 4% to 2.2%.[citation needed] A 2009 survey by The U.S. Center for 
Disease Control revealed that 8.9% of U.S. high school students had used 
smokeless tobacco on at least 1 day during the 30 days before the survey.[21] 
Usage was more common among males (15.0%) than females (2.2%) and among 
whites (11.9%) than blacks (3.3%) or Hispanics (5.1%). The five states 
with the highest percentage of high school users were Wyoming (16.2%) North 
Dakota (15.3%) South Dakota (14.6%) Montana (14.6%) and West Virginia (14.4%).[21] 
