Chiba (千葉市, Chiba-shi?) is the capital city of Chiba Prefecture, Japan. 
It sits about 40 kilometres (25 mi) southeast of the center of Tokyo on 
Tokyo Bay.[1] Chiba City became a government-designated city in 1992. In 
February 2016, its population was 972,861, with a population density of 
3,580 people per square kilometer. The city had an area of 271.76 square 
kilometres (104.93 sq mi). Chiba City is one of the Kantō region's primary 
seaports, and is home to Chiba Port, which handles one of the highest volumes 
of cargo in the nation. Much of the city is residential, although there 
are many factories and warehouses along the coast. There are several major 
urban centers in the city, including Makuhari, a prime waterfront business 
district in which Makuhari Messe is located, and Central Chiba, in which 
the prefectural government office and the city hall are located. Chiba 
is famous for the Chiba Urban Monorail, the longest suspended monorail 
in the world. Some popular destinations in the city include: Kasori Shell 
Midden, the largest shellmound in the world at 134,000 m2 (160,000 sq yd), 
Inage Beach, the first artificial beach in the nation which forms part 
of the longest artificial beach in Japan, and the Chiba City Zoological 
Park, popular on account of the standing red panda Futa. The name of Chiba 
in the Japanese language is formed from two kanji characters. The first, 
千, means "thousand" and the second, 葉 means "leaves". The name first appears 
as an ancient kuni no miyatsuko, or regional command office, as the Chiba 
Kuni no Miyatsuko (千葉国造?).[2] The name was adopted by a branch of the Taira 
clan, which moved to the area in present-day Chiba City in the late Heian 
period. The branch of the Taira adopted the name and became the Chiba clan, 
which held strong influence over the area of the prefecture until the Azuchi–Momoyama 
period. The name "Chiba" was chosen for Chiba Prefecture at the time its 
creation in 1873 by the Assembly of Prefectural Governors (地方官会議, Chihō 
Kankai Kaigi?), an early Meiji-period body of prefectural governors that 
met to decide the structure of local and regional administration in Japan.[3] 
The first records related to the city of Chiba record the emigration of 
Taira Tsuneshige (1083?–1088), a powerful bushi warlord of the late Heian 
period, to Shimōsa Province, which historically occupied the north of Chiba 
Prefecture. Tsuneshige was appointed as gunji administrator of Sōma District, 
but was transferred to the same position in Chiba District two years later. 
Here he proclaimed himself Chiba Tsuneshige (千葉常重?), became a kokushi governor 
of the province, and used the area around present-day Chiba City as a power 
base to rule over Shimōsa Province, Kazusa Province, as well as establish 
himself as a military force in the Kantō region.[4] Tsuneshige's son, Chiba 
Tsunetane (千葉常胤?) (1118–1201) was instrumental in aiding Minamoto Yoritomo 
(1147–1199) with the establishment of the Kamakura shogunate. Tsuneshige 
built a spacious residence and numerous temples in present-day Chiba City, 
and in the same period he transferred his power base from Ōji Castle to 
Inohana Castle on Mount Inohana.[5] The area of present-day Chiba City 
became jōkamachi (城下町?), or castle town, and prospered under the Chiba 
clan.[6] The clan's power extended in the region until the Muromachi period.[7][8] 
The Chiba clan's power and influence declined because of wars around the 
Kantō region during the Nanboku-cho and Muromachi periods. In the 16th 
century, instead of the Chiba clan, the Hara clan, which was one of the 
servants of Chiba clan, wielded power in this region. In the Sengoku period, 
the Hara clan was forcibly removed by Ashikaga Yoshiaki (足利義明, not to be 
confused with 足利義昭). Then, Ashikaga Yoshiaki was also removed by the Sakai 
(酒井 not to be confused with the Sakai clan in Mikawa) clan, which was one 
of the servants of the Satomi (里見) clan. Finally both the Chiba and Sakai 
clans were annihilated by Toyotomi Hideyoshi. In the Edo period, the Oyumi 
(生実氏?), Morikawa (森川氏?) clan, and the Sakura (佐倉氏?) clans governed the 
area now occupied by the city. A part of the area was also governed directly 
by the Tokugawa Bakufu. The Oyumi clan governed their territory stably. 
On the other hand, according to the Sakura clan, from the beginning of 
the Edo period, changed governors frequently, including Takeda Nobuyoshi, 
Matsudaira Tadateru, Ogasawara Yoshitsugu (小笠原吉次?), and Doi Toshikatsu. 
Finally the Hotta clan stabilized the governance of their territory. Chiba 
prospered in this period as a shukuba (宿場?) post-town of the Tokugawa shogunate.[6] 
After the Meiji Restoration in 1868 and the advent of the railroad in Japan 
Chiba became the political, economic, and cultural capital of the Chiba 
Prefecture. Chiba City founded on January 1, 1921.[6] Numerous small villages 
and towns were merged into the previous town of Chiba (千葉町?), a process 
that continued until 1944. Large-scale land reclamation added to the area 
of the city throughout the 20th century. The city was a major center of 
military production leading up to World War II, and as such, was a target 
of aerial bombing by the United States. The city was almost completely 
destroyed by the end of the war. Post-war industrialization led to the 
city becoming a major part of the Keiyō Industrial Zone.[6] Chiba became 
a Designated City of Japan on April 1, 1992.[1] Chiba has a humid subtropical 
climate (Köppen climate classification Cfa) with very hot summers and cool 
to mild winters. Precipitation is significant throughout the year, but 
is somewhat lower in winter. As of February 2016, the city had an estimated 
population of 972,861 and a population density of 3,580 persons per km². 
The total area of the city is 271.76 km2 (104.93 sq mi). There were 19,135 
registered foreign residents in the city as of March 31, 2007, making up 
for about 2% of the total population. It is the 14th most populated city 
in Japan. Chiba was governed by Keiichi Tsuruoka, an independent (elected 
with support of LDP and Kōmeitō), until May 1, 2009. He was arrested in 
April 2009 during a corruption investigation by the Tokyo Metropolitan 
Police. He was succeeded by Toshihito Kumagai of the DPJ, who won election 
in June 2009.[9] The city assembly has 54 elected members. Chiba Prefecture 
is famous for peanuts, or rakkasei. One of the many points of interest 
is the Experimental Station for Landscape Plants. Chiba plays host to the 
annual International Chiba Ekiden and the Chiba International Cross Country 
takes place just outside the city. Chiba Velodrome is located within the 
city. It also hosts the Bridgestone Open golf tournament. Chiba is home 
to several professional sports teams, most notably: There is no commercial 
airport within city limits. Narita International Airport and Tokyo International 
Airport (Haneda) are the closest major airports. The Chiba Urban Monorail 
runs through Chiba City. The major intercity railway stations are Chiba 
Station, (Sobu Line, Sotobō Line, Uchibo Line, Sōbu Main Line, Narita Line, 
transfer for Chiba Urban Monorail), Keisei Chiba Station (Keisei Chiba 
Line), and Soga Station, (Keiyō Line, Sotobō Line, Uchibo Line) all in 
Chūō-ku. Chiba has 20 public high schools operated by the Chiba Prefectural 
Board of Education and two public high schools operated by the Chiba City 
Board of Education, including Inage Senior High School. There are also 
nine private high schools, including the Makuhari Junior and Senior High 
School. Chiba has 114 public and one private elementary school and 59 public 
