Nippon Professional Baseball (1950–present) The Chiba Lotte Marines (千葉ロッテマリーンズ, 
Chiba Rotte Marīnzu?) are a professional baseball team in Japan's Pacific 
League based in Chiba City, Chiba Prefecture, in the Kantō region, and 
owned by the Lotte conglomerate. The Marines franchise began in 1950 as 
the Mainichi Orions, an inaugural member of the Pacific League. The Marines 
won the inaugural Japan Series in 1950. In 1958, the team was merged with 
the Daiei Unions and renamed the Daimai Orions. In 1964 they became the 
Tokyo Orions, and the Lotte Orions in 1969. The franchise was slow to duplicate 
its initial success: the Orions made the Japan Series in 1960 and 1970, 
only to lose both years. The team played in central Tokyo until 1972. From 
1973 to 1977 the Lotte Orions played in the northern Japanese city of Sendai. 
In 1974, they beat the Chunichi Dragons, becoming the first Pacific League 
team to win the Series in ten years as the Yomiuri Giants had claimed the 
prior nine titles behind the Oh–Nagashima attack. In 1978 the team returned 
to the Tokyo area, settling in Kawasaki. Finally, in 1992, the team moved 
to Chiba City on the eastern shore of Tokyo Bay and was renamed the Chiba 
Lotte Marines. The team failed to reach the Japan Series again until 2005. 
The Marines started the 2005 season in first place behind American manager 
Bobby Valentine, but fell behind the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks as the year 
progressed. Under the playoff format of the time, the preliminary five-game 
playoff round, prior to the Japan Series, saw the teams with the best first 
and second half records face off. The Marines defeated the Hawks three 
games to two in the Pacific League championship, winning the rubber match 
despite entering the eighth inning trailing 2-1. The Marines thus qualified 
for the Japan Series, the first time they had reached the tournament since 
1974, a 31-year drought. In a one-sided series, the Marines swept the Hanshin 
Tigers in four games, scoring ten runs in each of the first three games. 
The apparent ease with which the Marines defeated the Tigers added fuel 
to the ongoing debate concerning the need for a playoff system in the Central 
League, which was finally added in 2007 (see Climax Series). The Marines 
went on to defeat South Korea's Samsung Lions in the final round of the 
Konami Cup Championships. In 2010, the Marines clinched third place on 
the last day of the season to earn a berth into the Climax Series. They 
went on to become the first third place team to ever win the Climax Series,[citation 
needed] and faced off with the Chunichi Dragons in the 2010 Japan Series. 
The Marines defeated the Dragons in seven games, composed of four wins, 
two losses, and one tie, winning their second Japan Series in under ten 
