Chicago (i/ʃᵻˈkɑːɡoʊ/ or /ʃᵻˈkɔːɡoʊ/), officially the City of Chicago, 
is the third-most populous city in the United States. With over 2.7 million 
residents, it is the most populous city in the state of Illinois and the 
Midwestern United States, and the county seat of Cook County. The Chicago 
metropolitan area, often referred to as Chicagoland, has nearly 10 million 
people and is the third-largest in the U.S.[4] Chicago was incorporated 
as a city in 1837, near a portage between the Great Lakes and the Mississippi 
River watershed, and grew rapidly in the mid-nineteenth century.[5] The 
city is an international hub for finance, commerce, industry, technology, 
telecommunications, and transportation: O'Hare International Airport is 
the second-busiest airport in the world when measured by aircraft traffic; 
the region also has the largest number of U.S. highways and rail road freight.[6] 
In 2012, Chicago was listed as an alpha global city by the Globalization 
and World Cities Research Network,[7] and ranked seventh in the world in 
the 2014 Global Cities Index.[8] Chicago has the third-largest gross metropolitan 
product in the United States—about $630.3 billion according to 2014–2016 
estimates.[9] The city has one of the world's largest and most diversified 
economies with no single industry employing more than 14% of the workforce.[10] 
In 2015[update], Chicago hosted over 52 million international and domestic 
visitors, a new record for the city making it one of the top visited cities 
in the nation.[11] Chicago's culture includes the visual arts, novels, 
film, theater, especially improvisational comedy, and music, particularly 
jazz, blues, soul, gospel[12] and house music. It also has professional 
sports teams in each of the major professional leagues. Chicago has many 
nicknames, the best-known being the Windy City.[13] The name "Chicago" 
is derived from a French rendering of the Native American word shikaakwa, 
known to botanists as Allium tricoccum, from the Miami-Illinois language. 
The first known reference to the site of the current city of Chicago as 
"Checagou" was by Robert de LaSalle around 1679 in a memoir.[14] Henri 
Joutel, in his journal of 1688, noted that the wild garlic, called "chicagoua", 
grew abundantly in the area.[15] According to his diary of late September 
1687: when we arrived at the said place called Chicagou which, according 
to what we were able to learn of it, has taken this name because of the 
quantity of garlic which grows in the forests in this region.[15] In the 
mid-18th century, the area was inhabited by a Native American tribe known 
as the Potawatomi, who had taken the place of the Miami and Sauk and Fox 
peoples.[16] The first known non-indigenous permanent settler in Chicago 
was Jean Baptiste Point du Sable. Du Sable was of African and French descent 
and arrived in the 1780s.[17][18][19] He is commonly known as the "Founder 
of Chicago". In 1795, following the Northwest Indian War, an area that 
was to be part of Chicago was turned over to the United States for a military 
post by native tribes in accordance with the Treaty of Greenville. In 1803, 
the United States Army built Fort Dearborn, which was destroyed in 1812 
in the Battle of Fort Dearborn and later rebuilt.[20] The Ottawa, Ojibwe, 
and Potawatomi tribes had ceded additional land to the United States in 
the 1816 Treaty of St. Louis. The Potawatomi were forcibly removed from 
their land after the Treaty of Chicago in 1833.[21][22][23] On August 12, 
1833, the Town of Chicago was organized with a population of about 200.[23] 
Within seven years it grew to more than 4,000 people. On June 15, 1835, 
the first public land sales began with Edmund Dick Taylor as U.S. receiver 
of public moneys. The City of Chicago was incorporated on Saturday, March 
4, 1837 and for several decades was the world's fastest growing city.[24] 
As the site of the Chicago Portage,[25] the city became an important transportation 
hub between the eastern and western United States. Chicago's first railway, 
Galena and Chicago Union Railroad, and the Illinois and Michigan Canal 
opened in 1848. The canal allowed steamboats and sailing ships on the Great 
Lakes to connect to the Mississippi River.[26][27][28][29] A flourishing 
economy brought residents from rural communities and immigrants from abroad. 
Manufacturing and retail and finance sectors became dominant, influencing 
the American economy.[30] The Chicago Board of Trade (established 1848) 
listed the first ever standardized 'exchange traded' forward contracts, 
which were called futures contracts.[31] In the 1850s, Chicago gained national 
political prominence as the home of Senator Stephen Douglas, the champion 
of the Kansas–Nebraska Act and the "popular sovereignty" approach to the 
issue of the spread of slavery.[32] These issues also helped propel another 
Illinoisan, Abraham Lincoln, to the national stage. Lincoln was nominated 
in Chicago for US President at the 1860 Republican National Convention. 
He defeated Douglas in the general election, and this set the stage for 
the American Civil War.[33] To accommodate rapid population growth and 
demand for better sanitation, the city improved its infrastructure. In 
February 1856, Chicago's Common Council approved Chesbrough's plan to build 
the United States' first comprehensive sewerage system.[34] The project 
raised much of central Chicago to a new grade. While elevating Chicago, 
and at first improving the city's health, the untreated sewage and industrial 
waste now flowed into the Chicago River, then into Lake Michigan, polluting 
the city's primary freshwater source. The city responded by tunneling two 
miles (3 km) out into Lake Michigan to newly-built water cribs. In 1900, 
the problem of sewage contamination was largely resolved when the city 
completed a major engineering feat. It reversed the flow of the Chicago 
River so the water flowed away from Lake Michigan rather than into it. 
This project began with the construction and improvement of the Illinois 
and Michigan Canal, and was completed with the Chicago Sanitary and Ship 
Canal that connects to the Illinois River, which flows into the Mississippi 
River.[35][need quotation to verify], [36][need quotation to verify], [37][need 
quotation to verify] In 1871, the Great Chicago Fire destroyed an area 
of about 4 miles long and 1 mile wide, a large section of the city at the 
time.[38][39][40] Much of the city, including railroads and stockyards, 
survived intact,[41] and from the ruins of the previous wooden structures 
arose more modern constructions of steel and stone. These set a precedent 
for worldwide construction.[42][43] During its rebuilding period, Chicago 
constructed the world's first skyscraper in 1885, using steel-skeleton 
construction.[44][45] The city grew significantly in size and population 
by incorporating many neighboring townships between 1851 and 1920, with 
the largest annexation happening in 1889, with five townships joining the 
city, including the Hyde Park Township, which now comprises most of the 
South Side of Chicago and the far southeast of Chicago, and the Jefferson 
Township, which now makes up most of Chicago's Northwest Side.[46] The 
desire to join the city was driven by municipal services the city could 
provide its residents. Chicago's flourishing economy attracted huge numbers 
of new immigrants from Europe and migrants from the Eastern United States. 
Of the total population in 1900, more than 77% were either foreign-born 
or born in the United States of foreign parentage. Germans, Irish, Poles, 
Swedes and Czechs made up nearly two-thirds of the foreign-born population 
(by 1900, whites were 98.1% of the city's population).[47][48] Labor conflicts 
followed the industrial boom and the rapid expansion of the labor pool, 
including the Haymarket affair on May 4, 1886. Concern for social problems 
among Chicago's immigrant poor led Jane Addams to co‑found Hull House in 
1889.[49] Programs developed there became a model for the new field of 
social work.[50] During the 1870s and 1880s, Chicago attained national 
stature as the leader in the movement to improve public health. City, and 
later state laws, that upgraded standards for the medical profession and 
fought urban epidemics of cholera, smallpox, and yellow fever were both 
passed and enforced. These laws became templates for public health reform 
in other cities and states.[51] The city established many large, well-landscaped 
municipal parks, which also included public sanitation facilities. The 
chief advocate for improving public health in Chicago was Dr. John H. Rauch, 
M.D.. Rauch established a plan for Chicago's park system in 1866. He created 
Lincoln Park by closing a cemetery filled with shallow graves, and in 1867, 
in response to an outbreak of cholera he helped establish a new Chicago 
Board of Health. Ten years later, he became the secretary and then the 
president of the first Illinois State Board of Health, which carried out 
most of its activities in Chicago.[52] In the 19th century, Chicago became 
the nation's railroad center, and by 1910 over 20 railroads operated passenger 
service out of six different downtown terminals.[53][54] In 1883, Chicago's 
railway managers needed a general time convention, so they developed the 
standardized system of North American time zones.[55] This system for telling 
time spread throughout the continent. In 1893, Chicago hosted the World's 
Columbian Exposition on former marshland at the present location of Jackson 
Park. The Exposition drew 27.5 million visitors, and is considered the 
most influential world's fair in history.[56][57] The University of Chicago, 
formerly at another location, moved to the same South Side location in 
1892. The term "midway" for a fair or carnival referred originally to the 
Midway Plaisance, a strip of park land that still runs through the University 
of Chicago campus and connects the Washington and Jackson Parks.[58][59] 
During World War I and the 1920s there was a major expansion in industry. 
The availability of jobs attracted African-Americans from the Southern 
United States. Between 1910 and 1930, the African-American population of 
Chicago increased dramatically, from 44,103 to 233,903.[60] This Great 
Migration had an immense cultural impact, called the Chicago Black Renaissance, 
part of the New Negro Movement, in art, literature, and music.[61] Continuing 
racial tensions and violence, such as the Chicago Race Riot of 1919, also 
occurred.[62] The ratification of the 18th amendment to the Constitution 
in 1919 made the production and sale (including exportation) of alcoholic 
beverages illegal in the United States. This ushered in the beginning of 
what is known as the Gangster Era, a time that roughly spans from 1919 
until 1933 when Prohibition was repealed. The 1920s saw gangsters, including 
Al Capone, Dion O'Banion, Bugs Moran and Tony Accardo battle law enforcement 
and each other on the streets of Chicago during the Prohibition era.[63] 
Chicago was the location of the infamous St. Valentine's Day Massacre in 
1929, where Al Capone sent men to gun down members of his rival gang, North 
Side, led by Bugs Moran.[64] In 1924, Chicago was the first American city 
to have a homosexual-rights organization, the Society for Human Rights. 
This organization produced the first American publication for homosexuals, 
Friendship and Freedom. Police and political pressure caused the organization 
to disband.[65] In 1933, Chicago Mayor Anton Cermak was fatally wounded 
in Miami, Florida during a failed assassination attempt on President-elect 
Franklin D. Roosevelt. In 1933 and 1934, the city celebrated its centennial 
by hosting the Century of Progress International Exposition Worlds Fair.[66] 
The theme of the fair was technological innovation over the century since 
Chicago's founding.[67] In March 1937, there was a violent strike by about 
3,500 drivers for Checker and Yellow Cab Companies which included rioting 
that went on for weeks. The cab companies hired "strike breakers", and 
the cab drivers union hired "sluggers" who ragged through the downtown 
Chicago area looking for cabs and drivers not participating in the strike.[68] 
On December 2, 1942, physicist Enrico Fermi conducted the world's first 
controlled nuclear reaction at the University of Chicago as part of the 
top-secret Manhattan Project. This led to the creation of the atomic bomb 
by the United States, which it used in World War II in 1945.[69] Mayor 
Richard J. Daley, a Democrat, was elected in 1955, in the era of machine 
politics. Starting in the early 1960s due to blockbusting, many white residents, 
as in most American cities, left the city for the suburban areas. Whole 
neighborhoods were completely changed based on race.[70] Structural changes 
in industry, such as globalization and job outsourcing, caused heavy losses 
of jobs for lower skilled workers. In 1966, Martin Luther King, Jr. and 
Albert Raby led the Chicago Freedom Movement, which culminated in agreements 
between Mayor Richard J. Daley and the movement leaders.[71] Two years 
later, the city hosted the tumultuous 1968 Democratic National Convention, 
which featured physical confrontations both inside and outside the convention 
hall, with anti-war protesters, journalists and bystanders being savagely 
beaten by police.[72] Major construction projects, including the Sears 
Tower (now known as the Willis Tower, which in 1974 became the world's 
tallest building), University of Illinois at Chicago, McCormick Place, 
and O'Hare International Airport, were undertaken during Richard J. Daley's 
tenure.[73] In 1979, Jane Byrne, the city's first female mayor, was elected. 
She helped reduce crime in the Cabrini-Green housing project and led Chicago's 
school system out of a financial crisis.[74] In 1983, Harold Washington 
became the first black mayor of the city of Chicago. Washington's first 
term in office directed attention to poor and previously neglected minority 
neighborhoods. He was re‑elected in 1987 but died of a heart attack soon 
after.[75] Washington was succeeded by 6th ward Alderman Eugene Sawyer 
who was elected by the Chicago City Council and served until a special 
election. Richard M. Daley, son of Richard J. Daley, was elected in 1989. 
His accomplishments included improvements to parks and creating incentives 
for sustainable development. After successfully standing for re-election 
five times, and becoming Chicago's longest serving mayor, Richard M. Daley 
declined to run for a seventh term.[76][77] On February 23, 2011, former 
Illinois Congressman and White House Chief of Staff, Rahm Emanuel, won 
the mayoral election, beating five rivals with 55 percent of the vote,[78] 
and was sworn in as Mayor on May 16, 2011. Chicago is located in northeastern 
Illinois on the southwestern shores of Lake Michigan. It is the principal 
city in the Chicago Metropolitan Area, situated in the Midwestern United 
States and the Great Lakes region. Chicago rests on a continental divide 
at the site of the Chicago Portage, connecting the Mississippi River and 
the Great Lakes watersheds. The city lies beside huge freshwater Lake Michigan, 
and two rivers—the Chicago River in downtown and the Calumet River in the 
industrial far South Side—flow entirely or partially through Chicago.[79][80] 
Chicago's history and economy are closely tied to its proximity to Lake 
Michigan. While the Chicago River historically handled much of the region's 
waterborne cargo, today's huge lake freighters use the city's Lake Calumet 
Harbor on the South Side. The lake also provides another positive effect, 
moderating Chicago's climate; making waterfront neighborhoods slightly 
warmer in winter and cooler in summer.[81] When Chicago was founded in 
1833, most of the early building was around the mouth of the Chicago River, 
as can be seen on a map of the city's original 58 blocks.[82] The overall 
grade of the city's central, built-up areas, is relatively consistent with 
the natural flatness of its overall natural geography, generally exhibiting 
only slight differentiation otherwise. The average land elevation is 579 ft 
(176.5 m) above sea level. The lowest points are along the lake shore at 
578 ft (176.2 m), while the highest point, at 672 ft (205 m), is the morainal 
ridge of Blue Island in the city's far south side.[83] The Chicago Loop 
is the central business district, but Chicago is also a city of neighborhoods. 
Lake Shore Drive runs adjacent to a large portion of Chicago's lakefront. 
Some of the parks along the waterfront include Lincoln Park, Grant Park, 
Burnham Park and Jackson Park. There are twenty-four public beaches across 
26 miles (42 km) of the waterfront.[84] Landfill extends into portions 
of the lake providing space for Navy Pier, Northerly Island, the Museum 
Campus, and large portions of the McCormick Place Convention Center. Most 
of the city's high-rise commercial and residential buildings are close 
to the waterfront. An informal name for the entire Chicago metropolitan 
area is "Chicagoland". There is no precise definition for the term "Chicagoland", 
but it generally means the entire conurbation. The Chicago Tribune, which 
coined the term, includes the city of Chicago, the rest of Cook County, 
eight nearby Illinois counties: Lake, McHenry, DuPage, Kane, Kendall, Grundy, 
Will and Kankakee, and three counties in Indiana: Lake, Porter and LaPorte.[85] 
The Illinois Department of Tourism defines Chicagoland as Cook County without 
the city of Chicago, and only Lake, DuPage, Kane and Will counties.[86] 
The Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce defines it as all of Cook and DuPage, 
Kane, Lake, McHenry and Will counties.[87] Major sections of the city include 
the central business district, called The Loop, and the North, the South, 
and West Sides.[88] The three sides of the city are represented on the 
Flag of Chicago by three horizontal white stripes.[89] The North Side is 
the most densely populated residential section of the city, and many high-rises 
are located on this side of the city along the lakefront.[90] The South 
Side is the largest section of the city, encompassing roughly 60% of the 
city's land area. The South Side contains the University of Chicago and 
most of the facilities of the Port of Chicago.[91] In the late 1920s, sociologists 
at the University of Chicago subdivided the city into 77 distinct community 
areas, which can further be subdivided into over 200 informally defined 
neighborhoods.[92][93] Chicago's streets were laid out in a street grid 
that grew from the city's original townsite plat, which was bounded by 
Lake Michigan on the east, North Avenue on the north, Wood Street on the 
west, and 22nd Street on the south.[94] Streets following the Public Land 
Survey System section lines later became arterial streets in outlying sections. 
As new additions to the city were platted, city ordinance required them 
to be laid out with eight streets to the mile in one direction and sixteen 
in the other direction (about one street per 201 meters by two in the other 
direction). The grid's regularity provided an efficient means of developing 
new real estate property. A scattering of diagonal streets, many of them 
originally Native American trails, also cross the city (Elston, Milwaukee, 
Ogden, Lincoln, etc.). Many additional diagonal streets were recommended 
in the Plan of Chicago, but only the extension of Ogden Avenue was ever 
constructed.[95] In 2016, Chicago was ranked the sixth-most walkable large 
city in the United States.[96] Many of the city's residential streets have 
a wide patch of grass and/or trees between the street and the sidewalk 
itself. This helps to keep pedestrians on the sidewalk further away from 
the street traffic. Chicago's Western Avenue is the longest continuous 
urban street in the world.[97] Other famous streets include Michigan Avenue, 
State Street, Clark Street, and Belmont Avenue. The City Beautiful movement 
inspired Chicago's boulevards and parkways. The destruction caused by the 
Great Chicago Fire led to the largest building boom in the history of the 
nation. In 1885, the first steel-framed high-rise building, the Home Insurance 
Building, rose in the city as Chicago ushered in the skyscraper era,[45] 
which would then be followed by many other cities around the world.[98] 
Today, Chicago's skyline is among the world's tallest and most dense.[99] 
Some of the United States' tallest towers are located in Chicago; Willis 
Tower (formerly Sears Tower) is the second tallest building in the Western 
Hemisphere after One World Trade Center, and Trump International Hotel 
and Tower is the third tallest in the country.[100] The Loop's historic 
buildings include the Chicago Board of Trade Building, the Fine Arts Building, 
35 East Wacker, and the Chicago Building, 860-880 Lake Shore Drive Apartments 
by Mies van der Rohe. Many other architects have left their impression 
on the Chicago skyline such as Daniel Burnham, Louis Sullivan, Charles 
B. Atwood, John Root, and Helmut Jahn.[101][102] The Merchandise Mart, 
once first on the list of largest buildings in the world, currently listed 
as 44th-largest (as of September 9, 2013), had its own zip code until 2008, 
and stands near the junction of the North and South branches of the Chicago 
River.[103] Presently, the four tallest buildings in the city are Willis 
Tower (formerly the Sears Tower, also a building with its own zip code), 
Trump International Hotel and Tower, the Aon Center (previously the Standard 
Oil Building), and the John Hancock Center. Industrial districts, such 
as some areas on the South Side, the areas along the Chicago Sanitary and 
Ship Canal, and the Northwest Indiana area are clustered.[104] Chicago 
gave its name to the Chicago School and was home to the Prairie School, 
two movements in architecture.[105] Multiple kinds and scales of houses, 
townhouses, condominiums, and apartment buildings can be found throughout 
Chicago. Large swaths of the city's residential areas away from the lake 
are characterized by brick bungalows built from the early 20th century 
through the end of World War II. Chicago is also a prominent center of 
the Polish Cathedral style of church architecture. The Chicago suburb of 
Oak Park was home to famous architect Frank Lloyd Wright, who had designed 
The Robie House located near the University of Chicago.[106][107] Chicago 
is famous for its outdoor public art with donors establishing funding for 
such art as far back as Benjamin Ferguson's 1905 trust.[108] A number of 
Chicago's public art works are by modern figurative artists. Among these 
are Chagall's Four Seasons; the Chicago Picasso; Miro's Chicago; Calder's 
Flamingo; Oldenburg's Batcolumn; Moore's Large Interior Form, 1953-54, 
Man Enters the Cosmos and Nuclear Energy; Dubuffet's Monument with Standing 
Beast, Abakanowicz's Agora; and, Anish Kapoor's Cloud Gate which has become 
an icon of the city. Some events which shaped the city's history have also 
been memorialized by art works, including the Great Northern Migration 
(Saar) and the centennial of statehood for Illinois. Finally, two fountains 
near the Loop also function as monumental works of art: Plensa's Crown 
Fountain as well as Burnham and Bennett's Buckingham Fountain. More representational 
and portrait statuary includes a number of works by Lorado Taft (Fountain 
of Time, The Crusader, Eternal Silence, and the Heald Square Monument completed 
by Crunelle), French's Statue of the Republic, Edward Kemys's Lions, Saint-Gaudens's 
Abraham Lincoln: The Man (a.k.a. Standing Lincoln) and Abraham Lincoln: 
The Head of State (a.k.a. Seated Lincoln), Brioschi's Christopher Columbus, 
Meštrović's The Bowman and The Spearman, Dallin's Signal of Peace, Fairbanks's 
The Chicago Lincoln, Boyle's The Alarm, Polasek's memorial to Masaryk, 
memorials along Solidarity Promenade to Kościuszko, Havliček and Copernicus 
by Chodzinski, Strachovský, and Thorvaldsen, a memorial to General Logan 
by Saint-Gaudens, and Kearney's Moose (W-02-03). A number of statues also 
honor recent local heroes such as Michael Jordan (by Amrany and Rotblatt-Amrany), 
Stan Mikita, and Bobby Hull outside of the United Center; Harry Caray (by 
Amrany and Cella) outside Wrigley field, Jack Brickhouse (by McKenna) next 
to the WGN studios, and Irv Kupcinet at the Wabash Avenue Bridge.[109] 
There are preliminary plans to erect a 1:1‑scale replica of Wacław Szymanowski's 
Art Nouveau statue of Frédéric Chopin found in Warsaw's Royal Baths along 
Chicago's lakefront in addition to a different sculpture commemorating 
the artist in Chopin Park for the 200th anniversary of Frédéric Chopin's 
birth.[110] The city lies within the humid continental climate zone (Köppen: 
Dfa), and experiences four distinct seasons. Summers are warm to hot and 
often humid, with a July daily average of 75.8 °F (24.3 °C). In a normal 
summer, temperatures can exceed 90 °F (32 °C) as many as 21 days. Winters 
are cold and snowy with few sunny days, and the normal January high is 
just below freezing. Spring and autumn are mild seasons with low humidity. 
Dewpoint temperatures in the summer range from 55.7 °F (13.2 °C) in June 
to 61.7 °F (16.5 °C) in July.[111] The city is part of the USDA Plant Hardiness 
zone 6a, transitioning to 5b in the suburbs.[112] According to the National 
Weather Service, Chicago's highest official temperature reading of 105 °F 
(41 °C) was recorded on July 24, 1934,[113] although Midway Airport reached 
109 °F (43 °C) one day prior and recorded a heat index of 125 °F (52 °C) 
during the 1995 heatwave.[114] The lowest official temperature of −27 °F 
(−33 °C) was recorded on January 20, 1985, at O'Hare Airport.[111][114] 
The city can experience extreme winter cold waves and summer heat waves 
that may last for several consecutive days. Thunderstorms are common during 
the spring and summer months which may sometimes produce hail, high winds, 
and tornadoes.[115] Like other major cities, Chicago also experiences urban 
heat island, making the city and its suburbs milder than surrounding rural 
areas, especially at night and in winter. Also, the proximity to Lake Michigan 
keeps lakefront Chicago cooler in early summer and milder in winter than 
areas to the west.[116] During its first hundred years, Chicago was one 
of the fastest-growing cities in the world. When founded in 1833, fewer 
than 200 people had settled on what was then the American frontier. By 
the time of its first census, seven years later, the population had reached 
over 4,000. In the forty years from 1850 to 1890, the city's population 
grew from slightly under 30,000 to over 1 million. At the end of the 19th 
century, Chicago was the fifth-largest city in the world,[124] and the 
largest of the cities that did not exist at the dawn of the century. Within 
sixty years of the Great Chicago Fire of 1871, the population went from 
about 300,000 to over 3 million,[125] and reached its highest ever recorded 
population of 3.6 million for the 1950 census. From the last two decades 
of the 19th century, Chicago was the destination of waves of immigrants 
from Ireland, Southern, Central and Eastern Europe, including Italians, 
Jews, Poles, Lithuanians, Serbs and Czechs.[126] To these ethnic groups, 
the basis of the city's industrial working class, were added an additional 
influx of African-Americans from the American South — with Chicago's black 
population doubling between 1910 and 1920 and doubling again between 1920 
and 1930.[126] In the 1920s and 1930s, the great majority of African Americans 
moving to Chicago were clustered in a so‑called "Black Belt" on the city's 
South Side.[126] By 1930, two-thirds of Chicago's African-American population 
lived in sections of the city which were 90% black in racial composition.[126] 
Chicago's South Side emerged as America's second-largest urban black concentration, 
following New York's Harlem.[126] Since 2010, Chicago's population has 
rebounded adding nearly 25,000 people in the most recent 2015 population 
estimates.[127] As of the 2010 census,[131] there were 2,695,598 people 
with 1,045,560 households living in Chicago. More than half the population 
of the state of Illinois lives in the Chicago metropolitan area. Chicago 
is one of the United States' most densely populated major cities, and the 
largest city in the Great Lakes Megalopolis. The racial composition of 
the city was: Chicago has a Hispanic or Latino population of 28.9%. (Its 
members may belong to any race; 21.4% Mexican, 3.8% Puerto Rican, 0.7% 
Guatemalan, 0.6% Ecuadorian, 0.3% Cuban, 0.3% Colombian, 0.2% Honduran, 
0.2% Salvadoran, 0.2% Peruvian)[132] The city's previous largest ethnic 
group, non-Hispanic white, declined from 59% in 1970 to 31.7% in 2010.[129] 
Chicago has the third-largest LGBT population in the United States. In 
2015, roughly 4% of the population identified as LGBT.[133][134] Since 
the legalization of same-sex marriage in the State of Illinois in 2013, 
nearly 10,000 same-sex couples have wed in Cook County, a majority in Chicago.[135] 
According to the U.S. Census Bureau's American Community Survey data estimates 
for 2008–2012, the median income for a household in the city was $47,408, 
and the median income for a family was $54,188. Male full-time workers 
had a median income of $47,074 versus $42,063 for females. About 18.3% 
of families and 22.1% of the population lived below the poverty line.[136] 
According to the 2008–2012 American Community Survey, the ancestral groups 
having 10,000 or more persons in Chicago were:[137] Persons identifying 
themselves as "Other groups" were classified at 1.72 million, and unclassified 
or not reported were approximately 153,000.[137] 71% of Chicagoans identify 
as Christians, 7% identity with other faiths, and 22% have no religious 
affiliation.[138][139] Chicago also has many Jews, Muslims, Buddhists, 
Hindus, and others. Chicago is the headquarters of several religious denominations, 
including the Evangelical Covenant Church and the Evangelical Lutheran 
Church in America. The Fourth Presbyterian Church is one of the biggest 
Presbyterian congregations in the U.S.[citation needed] The first two Parliament 
of the World's Religions in 1893 and 1993 were held in Chicago.[140] Many 
international religious leaders have visited Chicago, including Mother 
Teresa, the Dalai Lama,[141] and Pope John Paul II in 1979.[142] Chicago 
has the third-largest gross metropolitan product in the United States—about 
$630.3 billion according to 2014–2016 estimates.[9] The city has also been 
rated as having the most balanced economy in the United States, due to 
its high level of diversification.[143] In 2007, Chicago was named the 
fourth-most important business center in the world in the MasterCard Worldwide 
Centers of Commerce Index.[144] Additionally, the Chicago metropolitan 
area recorded the greatest number of new or expanded corporate facilities 
in the United States for calendar year 2014.[145] The Chicago metropolitan 
area has the third-largest science and engineering work force of any metropolitan 
area in the nation.[146] In 2009 Chicago placed 9th on the UBS list of 
the world's richest cities.[147] Chicago was the base of commercial operations 
for industrialists John Crerar, John Whitfield Bunn, Richard Teller Crane, 
Marshall Field, John Farwell, Julius Rosenwald and many other commercial 
visionaries who laid the foundation for Midwestern and global industry. 
Chicago is a major world financial center, with the second-largest central 
business district in the United States.[citation needed][148] The city 
is the headquarters of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (the Seventh 
District of the Federal Reserve). The city has major financial and futures 
exchanges, including the Chicago Stock Exchange, the Chicago Board Options 
Exchange (CBOE), and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (the "Merc"), which 
is owned, along with the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) by Chicago's CME 
Group. The CME Group, in addition, owns the New York Mercantile Exchange 
(NYMEX), the Commodities Exchange Inc. (COMEX) and the Dow Jones Indexes.[149] 
Perhaps due to the influence of the Chicago school of economics, the city 
also has markets trading unusual contracts such as emissions (on the Chicago 
Climate Exchange) and equity style indices (on the U.S. Futures Exchange). 
Chase Bank has its commercial and retail banking headquarters in Chicago's 
Chase Tower.[150] The city and its surrounding metropolitan area contain 
the third-largest labor pool in the United States with about 4.48 million 
workers, as of 2014[update].[151] In addition, the state of Illinois is 
home to 66 Fortune 1000 companies, including those in Chicago.[152] The 
city of Chicago also hosts 12 Fortune Global 500 companies and 17 Financial 
Times 500 companies. The city claims one Dow 30 company: aerospace giant 
Boeing, which moved its headquarters from Seattle to the Chicago Loop in 
2001.[153][154] Two more Dow 30 companies, Kraft Foods and McDonald's are 
in the Chicago suburbs, as are Sears Holdings Corporation and the technology 
spin-offs of Motorola. The headquarters of United Continental Holdings, 
are in the United Building and its operations center and its United Airlines 
subsidiary are in the Willis Tower in Chicago. In June 2016, McDonald's 
confirmed plans to move its global headquarters to Chicago's West Loop 
neighborhood by early 2018.[155] Manufacturing, printing, publishing and 
food processing also play major roles in the city's economy. Several medical 
products and services companies are headquartered in the Chicago area, 
including Baxter International, Boeing, Abbott Laboratories, and the Healthcare 
Financial Services division of General Electric. In addition to Boeing, 
which located its headquarters in Chicago in 2001, and United Airlines 
in 2011, GE Transportation moved its offices to the city in 2013, as did 
ThyssenKrupp North America, and agriculture giant Archer Daniels Midland.[6] 
Moreover, the construction of the Illinois and Michigan Canal, which helped 
move goods from the Great Lakes south on the Mississippi River, and of 
the railroads in the 19th century made the city a major transportation 
center in the United States. In the 1840s, Chicago became a major grain 
port, and in the 1850s and 1860s Chicago's pork and beef industry expanded. 
As the major meat companies grew in Chicago many, such as Armour and Company, 
created global enterprises. Though the meatpacking industry currently plays 
a lesser role in the city's economy, Chicago continues to be a major transportation 
and distribution center. Lured by a combination of large business customers, 
federal research dollars, and a large hiring pool fed by the area's universities, 
Chicago is also the site of a growing number of web startup companies like 
CareerBuilder, Orbitz, 37signals, Groupon, Feedburner, and NowSecure.[156] 
Chicago has been a hub of the Retail sector since its early development, 
with Montgomery Ward, Sears, and Marshall Field's. Today the Chicago metropolitan 
area is the headquarters of several retailers, including Walgreens, Sears, 
Ace Hardware, Claire's, ULTA Beauty and Crate & Barrel. Late in the 19th 
century, Chicago was part of the bicycle craze, with the Western Wheel 
Company, which introduced stamping to the production process and significantly 
reduced costs,[157] while early in the 20th century, the city was part 
of the automobile revolution, hosting the Brass Era car builder Bugmobile, 
which was founded there in 1907.[158] Chicago was also the site of the 
Schwinn Bicycle Company. Chicago is a major world convention destination. 
The city's main convention center is McCormick Place. With its four interconnected 
buildings, it is the largest convention center in the nation and third-largest 
in the world.[159] Chicago also ranks third in the U.S. (behind Las Vegas 
and Orlando) in number of conventions hosted annually.[160] Chicago's minimum 
wage for non-tipped employees is one of the highest in the nation and will 
incrementally reach $13 per hour by 2019.[161] The city's waterfront location 
and nightlife has attracted residents and tourists alike. Over a third 
of the city population is concentrated in the lakefront neighborhoods from 
Rogers Park in the north to South Shore in the south.[162] The city has 
many upscale dining establishments as well as many ethnic restaurant districts. 
These districts include the Mexican American neighborhoods, such as Pilsen 
along 18th street, and La Villita along 26th Street; the Puerto Rican enclave 
of Paseo Boricua in the Humboldt Park neighborhood; Greektown, along South 
Halsted Street, immediately west of downtown;[163] Little Italy, along 
Taylor Street; Chinatown in Armour Square; Polish Patches in West Town; 
Little Seoul in Albany Park around Lawrence Avenue; Little Vietnam near 
Broadway in Uptown; and the Desi area, along Devon Avenue in West Ridge.[164] 
Downtown is the center of Chicago's financial, cultural, governmental and 
commercial institutions and the site of Grant Park and many of the city's 
skyscrapers. Many of the city's financial institutions, such as the CBOT 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, are located within a section of 
downtown called "The Loop", which is an eight-block by five-block area 
of city streets that is encircled by elevated rail tracks. The term "The 
Loop" is largely used by locals to refer to the entire downtown area as 
well. The central area includes the Near North Side, the Near South Side, 
and the Near West Side, as well as the Loop. These areas contribute famous 
skyscrapers, abundant restaurants, shopping, museums, a stadium for the 
Chicago Bears, convention facilities, parkland, and beaches. Lincoln Park 
contains the Lincoln Park Zoo and the Lincoln Park Conservatory. The River 
North Gallery District features the nation's largest concentration of contemporary 
art galleries outside of New York City. Lakeview is home to Boystown (pronounced 
boys town), which, along with Andersonville, are some of the best-known 
LGBT neighborhoods in the nation. Each year in June, Boystown hosts the 
Chicago Pride Parade, one of the world's largest with over 1,000,000 people 
in attendance. The South Side neighborhood of Hyde Park is the home of 
US President Barack Obama. It also contains the University of Chicago (U 
of C), ranked one of the world's top ten universities;[165] and the Museum 
of Science and Industry. The 6-mile (9.7 km) long Burnham Park stretches 
along the waterfront of the South Side. Two of the city's largest parks 
are also located on this side of the city: Jackson Park, bordering the 
waterfront, hosted the World's Columbian Exposition in 1893, and is the 
site of the aforementioned museum; and slightly west sits Washington Park. 
The two parks themselves are connected by a wide strip of parkland called 
the Midway Plaisance, running adjacent to the University of Chicago. The 
South Side hosts one of the city's largest parades, the annual African 
American Bud Billiken Parade and Picnic, which travels through Bronzeville 
to Washington Park. Ford Motor Company has an automobile assembly plant 
on the South Side in Hegewisch, and most of the facilities of the Port 
of Chicago are also on the South Side. The West Side holds the Garfield 
Park Conservatory, one of the largest collections of tropical plants in 
any U.S. city. Prominent Latino cultural attractions found here include 
Humboldt Park's Institute of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture and the annual 
Puerto Rican People's Parade, as well as the National Museum of Mexican 
Art and St. Adalbert's Church in Pilsen. The Near West Side holds the University 
of Illinois at Chicago and was once home to Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Studios. 
The city's distinctive accent, made famous by its use in classic films 
like The Blues Brothers and television programs like the Saturday Night 
Live skit "Bill Swerski's Superfans", is an advanced form of Inland Northern 
American English. This dialect can also be found in other cities bordering 
the Great Lakes such as Cleveland, Milwaukee, Detroit, and Rochester, New 
York, and most prominently features a rearrangement of certain vowel sounds, 
such as the short 'a' sound as in "cat", which can sound more like "kyet" 
to outsiders. The accent remains well associated with the city.[166] Renowned 
Chicago theater companies include the Goodman Theatre in the Loop; the 
Steppenwolf Theatre Company and Victory Gardens Theater in Lincoln Park; 
and the Chicago Shakespeare Theater at Navy Pier. Broadway In Chicago offers 
Broadway-style entertainment at five theaters: the Ford Center for the 
Performing Arts Oriental Theatre, Bank of America Theatre, Cadillac Palace 
Theatre, Auditorium Building of Roosevelt University, and Broadway Playhouse 
at Water Tower Place. Polish language productions for Chicago's large Polish 
speaking population can be seen at the historic Gateway Theatre in Jefferson 
Park. Since 1968, the Joseph Jefferson Awards are given annually to acknowledge 
excellence in theater in the Chicago area. Chicago's theater community 
spawned modern improvisational theater, and includes the prominent groups 
The Second City and I.O. (formerly ImprovOlympic). The Chicago Symphony 
Orchestra (CSO) performs at Symphony Center, and is recognized as one of 
the best orchestras in the world.[167] Also performing regularly at Symphony 
Center is the Chicago Sinfonietta, a more diverse and multicultural counterpart 
to the CSO. In the summer, many outdoor concerts are given in Grant Park 
and Millennium Park. Ravinia Festival, located 25 miles (40 km) north of 
Chicago, is the summer home of the CSO, and is a favorite destination for 
many Chicagoans. The Civic Opera House is home to the Lyric Opera of Chicago. 
The Lithuanian Opera Company of Chicago was founded by Lithuanian Chicagoans 
in 1956,[168] and presents operas in Lithuanian. The Joffrey Ballet and 
Chicago Festival Ballet perform in various venues, including the Harris 
Theater in Millennium Park. Chicago has several other contemporary and 
jazz dance troupes, such as the Hubbard Street Dance Chicago and Chicago 
Dance Crash. Other live-music genre which are part of the city's cultural 
heritage include Chicago blues, Chicago soul, jazz, and gospel. The city 
is the birthplace of house music, a very popular form of Electronic Dance 
Music, and industrial music and is the site of an influential hip-hop scene. 
In the 1980s and 90s, the city was the global center for house and industrial 
music, two forms of music created in Chicago, as well as being popular 
for alternative rock, punk, and new wave. The city has been an epicenter 
for rave culture, since the 1980s. A flourishing independent rock music 
culture brought forth Chicago indie. Annual festivals feature various acts, 
such as Lollapalooza and the Pitchfork Music Festival. A 2007 report on 
the Chicago music industry by the University of Chicago Cultural Policy 
Center ranked Chicago third among metropolitan U.S. areas in "size of music 
industry" and fourth among all U.S. cities in "number of concerts and performances".[169] 
Chicago has a distinctive fine art tradition. For much of the twentieth 
century, it nurtured a strong style of figurative surrealism, as in the 
works of Ivan Albright and Ed Paschke. In 1968 and 1969, members of the 
Chicago Imagists, such as Roger Brown, Leon Golub, Robert Lostutter, Jim 
Nutt, and Barbara Rossi produced bizarre representational paintings. Chicago 
contains a number of large, outdoor works by well-known artists. These 
include the Chicago Picasso, Miró's Chicago, Flamingo and Flying Dragon 
by Alexander Calder, Agora by Magdalena Abakanowicz, Monument with Standing 
Beast by Jean Dubuffet, Batcolumn by Claes Oldenburg, Cloud Gate by Anish 
Kapoor, Crown Fountain by Jaume Plensa, and the Four Seasons mosaic by 
Marc Chagall. Chicago also has a nationally televised Thanksgiving parade 
that occurs annually. The McDonald's Thanksgiving Parade is seen across 
the nation on WGN-TV and WGN America, featuring a variety of diverse acts 
from the community, marching bands from across the country, and is the 
only parade in the city to feature inflatable balloons every year.[170] 
In 2014[update], Chicago attracted 50.17 million domestic leisure travelers, 
11.09 million domestic business travelers and 1.308 million overseas visitors.[171] 
These visitors contributed more than US$13.7 billion to Chicago's economy.[171] 
Upscale shopping along the Magnificent Mile and State Street, thousands 
of restaurants, as well as Chicago's eminent architecture, continue to 
draw tourists. The city is the United States' third-largest convention 
destination. A 2011 study by Walk Score ranked Chicago the fourth-most 
walkable of fifty largest cities in the United States.[172] Most conventions 
are held at McCormick Place, just south of Soldier Field. The historic 
Chicago Cultural Center (1897), originally serving as the Chicago Public 
Library, now houses the city's Visitor Information Center, galleries and 
exhibit halls. The ceiling of its Preston Bradley Hall includes a 38-foot 
(12 m) Tiffany glass dome. Grant Park holds Millennium Park, Buckingham 
Fountain (1927), and the Art Institute of Chicago. The park also hosts 
the annual Taste of Chicago festival. In Millennium Park, there is the 
reflective Cloud Gate sculpture. Cloud Gate, a public sculpture by Indian-born 
British artist Anish Kapoor, is the centerpiece of the AT&T Plaza in Millennium 
Park. Also, an outdoor restaurant transforms into an ice rink in the winter 
season. Two tall glass sculptures make up the Crown Fountain. The fountain's 
two towers display visual effects from LED images of Chicagoans' faces, 
along with water spouting from their lips. Frank Gehry's detailed, stainless 
steel band shell, the Jay Pritzker Pavilion, hosts the classical Grant 
Park Music Festival concert series. Behind the pavilion's stage is the 
Harris Theater for Music and Dance, an indoor venue for mid-sized performing 
arts companies, including the Chicago Opera Theater and Music of the Baroque. 
Navy Pier, located just east of Streeterville, is 3,000 ft (910 m) long 
and houses retail stores, restaurants, museums, exhibition halls and auditoriums. 
In the summer of 2016, Navy Pier will have constructed their new DW60 Ferris 
wheel. Dutch Wheels a world renowned company that manufactures ferris wheels 
was selected to design the new wheel.[173] It will feature 42 navy blue 
gondolas that can hold up to eight adults and two kids. It will also have 
entertainment systems inside the gondolas as well as a climate controlled 
environment. The DW60 will stand at approximately 196 ft (60 m), which 
is 46 ft taller than the previous wheel. The new DW60 will be the first 
in the United States and will be the sixth tallest in the U.S.[174] Chicago 
was the first city in the world to ever erect a ferris wheel. On June 4, 
1998, the city officially opened the Museum Campus, a 10-acre (4.0 ha) 
lakefront park, surrounding three of the city's main museums, each of which 
is of national importance: the Adler Planetarium & Astronomy Museum, the 
Field Museum of Natural History, and the Shedd Aquarium. The Museum Campus 
joins the southern section of Grant Park, which includes the renowned Art 
Institute of Chicago. Buckingham Fountain anchors the downtown park along 
the lakefront. The University of Chicago Oriental Institute has an extensive 
collection of ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern archaeological artifacts. 
Other museums and galleries in Chicago include the Chicago History Museum, 
the Driehaus Museum, the DuSable Museum of African American History, the 
Museum of Contemporary Art, the Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum, the Polish 
Museum of America, the Museum of Broadcast Communications, the Pritzker 
Military Library, the Chicago Architecture Foundation, and the Museum of 
Science and Industry. With an estimated completion date of 2020, the Barack 
Obama Presidential Center will be housed at the University of Chicago in 
Hyde Park and include both the Obama presidential library and offices of 
the Obama Foundation.[175] The Willis Tower (formerly named Sears Tower) 
is a popular destination for tourists. The Willis Tower has an observation 
deck open to tourists year round with high up views overlooking Chicago 
and Lake Michigan. The observation deck includes an enclosed glass balcony 
that extends 10 feet out on the side of the building. Tourists are able 
to look straight down. In 2013, Chicago was chosen as one of the "Top Ten 
Cities in the United States" to visit for its restaurants, skyscrapers, 
museums, and waterfront, by the readers of Condé Nast Traveler.[176][177] 
Chicago lays claim to a large number of regional specialties that reflect 
the city's ethnic and working-class roots. Included among these are its 
nationally renowned deep-dish pizza; this style is said to have originated 
at Pizzeria Uno.[178] The Chicago-style thin crust is also popular in the 
city.[179] The Chicago-style hot dog, typically an all-beef hot dog, is 
loaded with an array of toppings that often includes pickle relish, yellow 
mustard, pickled sport peppers, tomato wedges, dill pickle spear and topped 
off with celery salt on a poppy seed bun.[180] Enthusiasts of the Chicago-style 
dog frown upon the use of ketchup as a garnish, but may prefer to add giardiniera.[181][182][183] 
There are several distinctly Chicago sandwiches, among them the Italian 
beef sandwich, which is thinly sliced beef simmered in au jus and served 
on an Italian roll with sweet peppers or spicy giardiniera. A popular modification 
is the Combo—an Italian beef sandwich with the addition of an Italian sausage. 
Another is the Maxwell Street Polish, a grilled or deep-fried kielbasa — 
on a hot dog roll, topped with grilled onions, yellow mustard, and hot 
sport peppers.[184] Ethnically originated creations include chicken Vesuvio, 
with roasted bone-in chicken cooked in oil and garlic next to garlicky 
oven-roasted potato wedges and a sprinkling of green peas. Another is the 
Puerto Rican-influenced jibarito, a sandwich made with flattened, fried 
green plantains instead of bread. There is also the mother-in-law, a tamale 
topped with chili and served on a hot dog bun.[185] The tradition of serving 
the Greek dish, saganaki while aflame, has its origins in Chicago's Greek 
community.[186] The appetizer, which consists of a square of fried cheese, 
is doused with Metaxa and flambéed table-side.[187] A number of well-known 
chefs have had restaurants in Chicago, including Charlie Trotter, Rick 
Tramonto, Grant Achatz, and Rick Bayless. In 2003, Robb Report named Chicago 
the country's "most exceptional dining destination".[188] Chicago literature 
finds its roots in the city's tradition of lucid, direct journalism, lending 
to a strong tradition of social realism. In the Encyclopedia of Chicago, 
Northwestern University Professor Bill Savage describes Chicago fiction 
as prose which tries to "capture the essence of the city, its spaces and 
its people". The challenge for early writers was that Chicago was a frontier 
outpost that transformed into a global metropolis in the span of two generations. 
Narrative fiction of that time, much of it in the style of "high-flown 
romance" and "genteel realism", needed a new approach to describe the urban 
social, political, and economic conditions of Chicago.[189] Nonetheless, 
Chicagoans worked hard to create a literary tradition that would stand 
the test of time,[190] and create a "city of feeling" out of concrete, 
steel, vast lake, and open prairie.[191] Much notable Chicago fiction focuses 
on the city itself, with social criticism keeping exultation in check. 
At least, three short periods in the history of Chicago have had a lasting 
influence on American Literature.[192] These include from the time of the 
Great Chicago Fire to about 1900, what became known as the Chicago Literary 
Renaissance in the 1910s and early 1920s, and the period of the Great Depression 
through the 1940s. What would become the influential Poetry magazine was 
founded in 1912 by Harriet Monroe, who was working as an art critic for 
the Chicago Tribune. The magazine discovered such poets as Gwendolyn Brooks, 
James Merrill, and John Ashbery.[193] T. S. Eliot's first professionally 
published poem, "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock", was first published 
by Poetry. Contributors have included Ezra Pound, William Butler Yeats, 
William Carlos Williams, Langston Hughes, and Carl Sandburg, among others. 
The magazine was instrumental in launching the Imagist and Objectivist 
poetic movements. Sporting News named Chicago the "Best Sports City" in 
the United States in 1993, 2006, and 2010.[194] Along with Boston, Chicago 
is the only city to continuously host major professional sports since 1871, 
having only taken 1872 and 1873 off due to the Great Chicago Fire. Additionally, 
Chicago is one of the six cities in the United States to have won championships 
in the four major professional leagues and, along with New York and Los 
Angeles, is one of three cities to have won soccer championships as well. 
Several major franchises have won championships within recent years – the 
Bears (1985), the Bulls (91, '92, '93, '96, '97, and '98), the White Sox 
(2005), the Cubs (2016), the Blackhawks (2010, 2013, 2015), and the Fire 
(1998). The city has two Major League Baseball (MLB) teams: the Chicago 
Cubs of the National League play in Wrigley Field on the North Side; and 
the Chicago White Sox of the American League play in Guaranteed Rate Field 
on the South Side. Chicago is the only city that has had more than one 
MLB franchise every year since the AL began in 1901 (New York hosted only 
one between 1958 and early 1962). The Cubs are the oldest Major League 
Baseball team to have never changed their city;[citation needed] they have 
played in Chicago since 1871, and continuously so since 1874 due to the 
Great Chicago Fire. They have played more games and have more wins than 
any other team in Major League baseball since 1876.[195] They have won 
three World Series titles, but had the dubious honor of having the two 
longest droughts in American professional sports: They had not won their 
sport's title since 1908, and had not participated in a World Series since 
1945, both records, until they beat the Cleveland Indians in the 2016 World 
Series. The White Sox have played on the South Side continuously since 
1901, with all three of their home fields throughout the years being within 
blocks of one another. They have won three World Series titles (1906, 1917, 
2005) and six American League pennants, including the first in 1901. The 
Sox are fifth in the American League in all-time wins, and sixth in pennants. 
The Chicago Bears, one of the last two remaining charter members of the 
National Football League (NFL), have won nine NFL Championships, including 
the 1985 Super Bowl XX. The other remaining charter franchise, the Chicago 
Cardinals, also started out in the city, but is now known as the Arizona 
Cardinals. The Bears have won more games in the history of the NFL than 
any other team,[196] and only the Green Bay Packers, their longtime rivals, 
have won more championships. The Bears play their home games at Soldier 
Field. Soldier Field re-opened in 2003 after an extensive renovation. The 
Chicago Bulls of the National Basketball Association (NBA) is one of the 
most recognized basketball teams in the world.[citation needed] During 
the 1990s, with Michael Jordan leading them, the Bulls won six NBA championships 
in eight seasons.[197][198] They also boast the youngest player to win 
the NBA Most Valuable Player Award, Derrick Rose, who won it for the 2010–11 
season.[199] The Chicago Blackhawks of the National Hockey League (NHL) 
began play in 1926, and are one of the "Original Six" teams of the NHL. 
The Blackhawks have won six Stanley Cups, including in 2010, 2013, and 
2015. Both the Bulls and the Blackhawks play at the United Center. The 
Chicago Fire Soccer Club is a member of Major League Soccer (MLS) and plays 
at Toyota Park in suburban Bridgeview, after playing its first eight seasons 
at Soldier Field. The Fire have won one league title and four U.S. Open 
Cups, since their founding in 1997. In 1994, the United States hosted a 
successful FIFA World Cup with games played at Soldier Field. The Chicago 
Sky is a professional basketball team based in Rosemont, Illinois, playing 
in the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA). They play home games 
at the Allstate Arena. The team was founded before the 2006 WNBA season 
began. The Chicago Marathon has been held each year since 1977 except for 
1987, when a half marathon was run in its place. The Chicago Marathon is 
one of six World Marathon Majors.[200] Five area colleges play in Division I 
conferences: two from major conferences — the DePaul Blue Demons (Big East 
Conference) and the Northwestern Wildcats (Big Ten Conference) — and three 
from other D1 conferences — the Chicago State Cougars (Western Athletic 
Conference); the Loyola Ramblers (Missouri Valley Conference); and the 
UIC Flames (Horizon League).[201] When Chicago was incorporated in 1837, 
it chose the motto Urbs in Horto, a Latin phrase which means "City in a 
Garden". Today, the Chicago Park District consists of more than 570 parks 
with over 8,000 acres (3,200 ha) of municipal parkland. There are 31 sand 
beaches, a plethora of museums, two world-class conservatories, and 50 
nature areas.[202] Lincoln Park, the largest of the city's parks, covers 
1,200 acres (490 ha) and has over 20 million visitors each year, making 
it third in the number of visitors after Central Park in New York City, 
and the National Mall and Memorial Parks in Washington, D.C.[203] There 
is an historic boulevard system,[204] a network of wide, tree-lined boulevards 
which connect a number of Chicago parks.[205] The boulevards and the parks 
were authorized by the Illinois legislature in 1869.[206] A number of Chicago 
neighborhoods emerged along these roadways in the 19th century.[205] The 
building of the boulevard system continued intermittently until 1942. It 
includes nineteen boulevards, eight parks, and six squares, along twenty-six 
miles of interconnected streets.[207] Part of the system in the Logan Square 
Boulevards Historic District was listed in the National Register of Historic 
Places in 1985.[208] With berths for more than 6,000 boats, the Chicago 
Park District operates the nation's largest municipal harbor system.[209] 
In addition to ongoing beautification and renewal projects for the existing 
parks, a number of new parks have been added in recent years, such as the 
Ping Tom Memorial Park in Chinatown, DuSable Park on the Near North Side, 
and most notably, Millennium Park, which is in the northwestern corner 
of one of Chicago's oldest parks, Grant Park in the Chicago Loop. The wealth 
of greenspace afforded by Chicago's parks is further augmented by the Cook 
County Forest Preserves, a network of open spaces containing forest, prairie, 
wetland, streams, and lakes that are set aside as natural areas which lie 
along the city's outskirts,[210] including both the Chicago Botanic Garden 
in Glencoe and the Brookfield Zoo in Brookfield.[211] Washington Park is 
also one of the city's biggest parks; covering nearly 400 acres (160 ha). 
The park is listed on the National Register of Historic Places listings 
in South Side Chicago. The government of the City of Chicago is divided 
into executive and legislative branches. The Mayor of Chicago is the chief 
executive, elected by general election for a term of four years, with no 
term limits. The current mayor is Rahm Emanuel. The mayor appoints commissioners 
and other officials who oversee the various departments. As well as the 
mayor, Chicago's clerk and treasurer are also elected citywide. The City 
Council is the legislative branch and is made up of 50 aldermen, one elected 
from each ward in the city.[212] The council takes official action through 
the passage of ordinances and resolutions and approves the city budget.[213] 
The Chicago Police Department provides law enforcement and the Chicago 
Fire Department provides fire suppression and emergency medical services 
for the city and its residents. Civil and criminal law cases are heard 
in the Cook County Circuit Court of the State of Illinois court system, 
or in the Northern District of Illinois, in the federal system. In the 
state court, the public prosecutor is the Illinois State's Attorney; in 
the Federal court it is the United States Attorney. During much of the 
last half of the 19th century, Chicago's politics were dominated by a growing 
Democratic Party organization. During the 1880s and 1890s, Chicago had 
a powerful radical tradition with large and highly organized socialist, 
anarchist and labor organizations.[214] For much of the 20th century, Chicago 
has been among the largest and most reliable Democratic strongholds in 
the United States; with Chicago's Democratic vote the state of Illinois 
has been "solid blue" in presidential elections since 1992. Even before 
then, it was not unheard of for Republican presidential candidates to win 
handily in downstate Illinois, only to lose statewide due to large Democratic 
margins in Chicago. The citizens of Chicago have not elected a Republican 
mayor since 1927, when William Thompson was voted into office. The strength 
of the party in the city is partly a consequence of Illinois state politics, 
where the Republicans have come to represent rural and farm concerns while 
the Democrats support urban issues such as Chicago's public school funding. 
Chicago contains less than 25% of the state's population, but 8 of Illinois' 
19 U.S. Representatives have part of Chicago in their districts. Machine 
politics persisted in Chicago after the decline of similar machines in 
other large U.S. cities.[215] During much of that time, the city administration 
found opposition mainly from a liberal "independent" faction of the Democratic 
Party. The independents finally gained control of city government in 1983 
with the election of Harold Washington (in office 1983–1987). From 1989 
until May 16, 2011, Chicago was under the leadership of its longest serving 
mayor, Richard M. Daley, the son of Richard J. Daley. On May 16, 2011, 
Rahm Emanuel was sworn in as the 55th mayor of Chicago. Because of the 
dominance of the Democratic Party in Chicago, the Democratic primary vote 
held in the spring is generally more significant than the general elections 
in November for U.S. House and Illinois State seats. The aldermanic, mayoral, 
and other city offices are filled through nonpartisan elections with runoffs 
as needed. Formerly a state legislator representing Chicago and later a 
US Senator, the city is home of United States President Barack Obama and 
First Lady Michelle Obama. The Obama's residence is located near the University 
of Chicago in Kenwood on the city's south side.[216] Chicago had a murder 
rate of 18.5 per 100,000 residents in 2012, ranking 16th among cities with 
100,000 people or more.[217] This was higher than in New York City and 
Los Angeles, the two largest cities in the United States, which have lower 
murder rates and lower total homicides. However, it was less than in many 
smaller American cities, including New Orleans, Newark, and Detroit, which 
had 53 murders per 100,000 residents in 2012.[218] According to reports 
in 2013, "most of Chicago's violent crime comes from gangs trying to maintain 
control of drug-selling territories",[219] and is specifically related 
to the activities of the Sinaloa Cartel, which by 2006 had decided to seek 
to control illicit drug distribution, against local street gangs.[220] 
Violent crime rates vary significantly by area of the city, with more economically 
developed areas having low rates, but other sections have much higher rates 
of crime.[219] In 2013, the violent crime rate was 910 per 100,000 people;[221] 
the murder rate was 10.4 – while high crime districts saw 38.9, low crime 
districts saw 2.5 murders per 100,000.[222] The number of murders in Chicago 
peaked at 970 in 1974, when the city's population was over 3 million people 
(a murder rate of about 29 per 100,000), and it reached 943 murders in 
1992, (a murder rate of 34 per 100,000).[223] However, Chicago and other 
major U.S. cities, experienced a significant reduction in violent crime 
rates through the 1990s, falling to 448 homicides in 2004, its lowest total 
since 1965 and only 15.65 murders per 100,000). Chicago's homicide tally 
remained low during 2005 (449), 2006 (452), and 2007 (435) but rose to 
510 in 2008, breaking 500 for the first time since 2003.[224][225] In 2009, 
the murder count fell to 458 (10% down).[226] and in 2010 Chicago's murder 
rate fell to 435 (16.14 per 100,000), a 5% decrease from 2009 and lowest 
levels since 1965.[227] In 2011, Chicago's murders fell another 1.2% to 
431 (a rate of 15.94 per 100,000).[228] but shot up to 506 in 2012.[229][230] 
In 2012, Chicago ranked 21st in the United States in numbers of homicides 
per person, but in the first half of 2013 there was a significant drop 
per-person, in all categories of violent crime, including homicide (down 
26%).[231] Chicago ended 2013 with 415 murders, the lowest number of murders 
since 1965, and overall crime rates dropped by 16 percent.[232] (In 1965, 
there were 397 murders.[233]) Jens Ludwig, director of the University of 
Chicago Crime Lab, estimated that shootings cost the city of Chicago $2.5 
billion in 2012.[234] In 2014, the Chicago police department reported a 
total murder count of 390 through December 20, 2014, according to the Chicago 
Sun-Times. That means that Chicago was able to record their lowest number 
of murder totals in close to five years for the second continuous calendar 
year, despite an overall increase in shootings. The Cook County medical 
examiner's office had reported a total of 410 homicides with 16 of those 
including fatal police shootings, all within the same time period. Chicago 
Public Schools (CPS) is the governing body of the school district that 
contains over 600 public elementary and high schools citywide, including 
several selective-admission magnet schools. There are eleven selective 
enrollment high schools in the Chicago Public Schools,[235] designed to 
meet the needs of Chicago's most academically advanced students. These 
schools offer a rigorous curriculum with mainly honors and Advanced Placement 
(AP) courses.[236] Northside College Preparatory High School is ranked 
number one in the city of Chicago and the state of Illinois.[237] Walter 
Payton College Prep High School is ranked second, Jones College Prep is 
third, and the oldest magnet school in the city, Whitney M. Young Magnet 
High School, which was opened in 1975, is ranked fourth.[238] The magnet 
school with the largest enrollment is Lane Technical College Prep High 
School.[citation needed] Lane is one of the oldest schools in Chicago and 
in 2012 was designated a National Blue Ribbon School by the U.S. Department 
of Education.[239] Chicago high school rankings are determined by the average 
test scores on state achievement tests.[240] The district, with an enrollment 
exceeding 400,545 students (2013–2014 20th Day Enrollment), is the third-largest 
in the U.S.[241] On September 10, 2012, teachers for the Chicago Teachers 
Union went on strike for the first time since 1987 over pay, resources 
and other issues.[242] According to data complied in 2014, Chicago's "choice 
system", where students who test or apply and may attend one of a number 
of public high schools (there are about 130), sorts students of different 
achievement levels into different schools (high performing, middle performing, 
and low performing schools).[243] Chicago has a network of Lutheran schools,[244] 
and several private schools are run by other denominations and faiths, 
such as the Ida Crown Jewish Academy in West Ridge. Several private schools 
are completely secular, such as the Latin School of Chicago in the Near 
North Side neighborhood, the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools in 
Hyde Park, the British School of Chicago and the Francis W. Parker School 
in Lincoln Park, the Lycée Français de Chicago in Uptown, the Feltre School 
in River North and the Morgan Park Academy. There are also the private 
Chicago Academy for the Arts, a high school focused on six different categories 
of the arts and the public Chicago High School for the Arts, a high school 
focused on five categories (visual arts, theatre, musical theatre, dance, 
and music) of the arts.[citation needed][245] The Roman Catholic Archdiocese 
of Chicago operates Catholic schools, that include Jesuit preparatory schools 
and others including St. Rita of Cascia High School, De La Salle Institute, 
Josephinum Academy, DePaul College Prep, Cristo Rey Jesuit High School, 
Brother Rice High School, St. Ignatius College Preparatory School, Mount 
Carmel High School, Queen of Peace High School, Mother McAuley Liberal 
Arts High School, Marist High School, St. Patrick High School and Resurrection 
High School. The Chicago Public Library system operates 79 public libraries, 
including the central library, two regional libraries, and numerous branches 
distributed throughout the city. Since the 1850s, Chicago has been a world 
center of higher education and research with several universities that 
are in the city proper or in the immediate environs. These institutions 
consistently rank among the top "National Universities" in the United States, 
as determined by U.S. News & World Report. Top universities in Chicago 
are: the University of Chicago; Illinois Institute of Technology; Northwestern 
University; Loyola University Chicago; DePaul University and University 
of Illinois at Chicago. Other notable schools include: Chicago State University; 
the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Illinois Institute of Art – 
Chicago; East–West University; National Louis University; North Park University; 
Northeastern Illinois University; Columbia College Chicago; Robert Morris 
University Illinois; Roosevelt University; Saint Xavier University; Rush 
University; and Shimer College.[citation needed] William Rainey Harper, 
the first president of the University of Chicago, was instrumental in the 
creation of the junior college concept, establishing nearby Joliet Junior 
College as the first in the nation in 1901.[246] His legacy continues with 
the multiple community colleges in the Chicago proper, including the seven 
City Colleges of Chicago: Richard J. Daley College, Kennedy–King College, 
Malcolm X College, Olive–Harvey College, Truman College, Harold Washington 
College and Wilbur Wright College, in addition to the privately held MacCormac 
College. Chicago also has a high concentration of post-baccalaureate institutions, 
graduate schools, seminaries, and theological schools, such as the Adler 
School of Professional Psychology, The Chicago School of Professional Psychology, 
the Erikson Institute, The Institute for Clinical Social Work, the Lutheran 
School of Theology at Chicago, the Catholic Theological Union, the Moody 
Bible Institute, the John Marshall Law School and the University of Chicago 
Divinity School. The Chicago metropolitan area is the third-largest media 
market in North America, after New York City and Los Angeles.[247] Each 
of the big four U.S. television networks, CBS, ABC, NBC and Fox, directly 
owns and operates a high-definition television station in Chicago (WBBM 
2, WLS 7, WMAQ 5 and WFLD 32, respectively). Former CW affiliate WGN-TV 
9, which is owned by the Tribune Media, is carried with some programming 
differences, as "WGN America" on cable and satellite TV nationwide and 
in parts of the Caribbean. The city has also been the base of several talk 
shows, including, formerly, The Oprah Winfrey Show. Chicago Public Radio 
produces programs such as PRI's This American Life and NPR's Wait Wait...Don't 
Tell Me! The city also has two PBS member stations: WTTW 11, producer of 
shows such as Sneak Previews, The Frugal Gourmet, Lamb Chop's Play-Along 
and The McLaughlin Group, just to name a few, and WYCC 20. Two major daily 
newspapers are published in Chicago: the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago 
Sun-Times, with the Tribune having the larger circulation. There are also 
several regional and special-interest newspapers and magazines, such as 
Chicago, the Dziennik Związkowy (Polish Daily News), Draugas (the Lithuanian 
daily newspaper), the Chicago Reader, the SouthtownStar, the Chicago Defender, 
the Daily Herald, Newcity,[248][249] StreetWise and the Windy City Times. 
The entertainment and cultural magazine Time Out Chicago and GRAB magazine 
are also published in the city, as well as local music magazine Chicago 
Innerview. In addition, Chicago is the recent home of satirical national 
news outlet, The Onion, as well as its sister pop-culture publication, 
The A.V. Club.[250] Since the 1980s, many motion pictures have been filmed 
in the city such as The Blues Brothers, Brewster's Millions, Ferris Bueller's 
Day Off, Sixteen Candles, Home Alone, The Fugitive, I, Robot, Mean Girls, 
Wanted, Batman Begins, The Dark Knight, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, 
Transformers: Age of Extinction, Divergent, Insurgent, Batman v Superman: 
Dawn of Justice, Sinister 2 and Suicide Squad. Chicago has also been the 
setting for many popular television shows, including the situation comedies 
Perfect Strangers and its spinoff Family Matters, Punky Brewster, Married... 
with Children, Kenan & Kel, The League, The Bob Newhart Show, and Shake 
It Up. The city served as the venue for the medical dramas ER and Chicago 
Hope, as well as the fantasy drama series Early Edition and the 2005–2009 
drama Prison Break. Discovery Channel films two shows in Chicago: Cook 
County Jail and the Chicago version of Cash Cab. Chicago is currently the 
setting for CBS's The Good Wife and Mike and Molly, Showtime's Shameless, 
and NBC's Chicago Fire, Chicago P.D. and Chicago Med.[251] Chicago has 
five 50,000 watt AM radio stations: the CBS Radio-owned WBBM and WSCR; 
the Tribune Broadcasting-owned WGN; the Cumulus Media-owned WLS; and the 
ESPN Radio-owned WMVP. Chicago is also home to a number of national radio 
shows, including Beyond the Beltway with Bruce DuMont on Sunday evenings. 
Chicago is also featured in a few video games, including Watch Dogs and 
Midtown Madness, a real-life, car-driving simulation game. In 2005, indie 
rock artist Sufjan Stevens created a concept album about Illinois titled 
Illinois; many of its songs were about Chicago and its history. Chicago 
is a major transportation hub in the United States. It is an important 
component in global distribution, as it is the third-largest inter-modal 
port in the world after Hong Kong and Singapore.[252] Seven mainline and 
four auxiliary interstate highways (55, 57, 65 (only in Indiana), 80 (also 
in Indiana), 88, 90 (also in Indiana), 94 (also in Indiana), 190, 290, 
294, and 355) run through Chicago and its suburbs. Segments that link to 
the city center are named after influential politicians, with three of 
them named after former U.S. Presidents (Eisenhower, Kennedy, and Reagan) 
and one named after two-time Democratic candidate Adlai Stevenson. The 
Kennedy and Dan Ryan Expressways are the busiest state maintained routes 
in the entire state of Illinois.[253] The Regional Transportation Authority 
(RTA) coordinates the operation of the three service boards: CTA, Metra, 
and Pace. Greyhound Lines provides inter-city bus service to and from the 
city, and Chicago is also the hub for the Midwest network of Megabus (North 
America). Amtrak long distance and commuter rail services originate from 
Union Station. Chicago is one of the largest hubs of passenger rail service 
in the nation. The services terminate in San Francisco, Washington, D.C., 
New York City, Indianapolis, New Orleans, Portland, Seattle, Milwaukee, 
Quincy, St. Louis, Carbondale, Boston, Grand Rapids, Port Huron, Pontiac, 
Los Angeles, and San Antonio. An attempt was made in the early 20th century 
to link Chicago with New York City via the Chicago – New York Electric 
Air Line Railroad. Parts of this were built, but it was never completed. 
Chicago's bike share program, Divvy bikes, was launched in 2013.[255] In 
2016, there are 5,837 bikes and 576 rental stations across the city. PBSC 
Urban Solutions Inc., provides bikes and docking stations.[256][257] Chicago 
is the largest hub in the railroad industry.[258] Six of the seven Class 
I railroads meet in Chicago, with the exception being the Kansas City Southern 
Railway.[259] As of 2002, severe freight train congestion caused trains 
to take as long to get through the Chicago region as it took to get there 
from the West Coast of the country (about 2 days).[260] According to U.S. 
Department of Transportation, the volume of imported and exported goods 
transported via rail to, from, or through Chicago is forecast to increase 
nearly 150 percent between 2010 and 2040.[261] CREATE, the Chicago Region 
Environmental and Transport Efficiency program, comprises about 70 programs, 
including crossovers, overpasses and underpasses, that intend to significantly 
improve the speed of freight movements in the Chicago area.[262] Chicago 
is served by O'Hare International Airport, the world's second-busiest airport 
measured by airline operations,[263] on the far Northwest Side, and Midway 
International Airport on the Southwest Side. In 2005, O'Hare was the world's 
busiest airport by aircraft movements and the second-busiest by total passenger 
traffic (due to government enforced flight caps).[264] Both O'Hare and 
Midway are owned and operated by the City of Chicago. Gary/Chicago International 
Airport and Chicago Rockford International Airport, located in Gary, Indiana 
and Rockford, Illinois, respectively, can serve as alternate Chicago area 
airports, however they do not offer as many commercial flights as O'Hare 
and Midway. In recent years the state of Illinois has been leaning towards 
building an entirely new airport in the Illinois suburbs of Chicago.[265] 
The City of Chicago is the world headquarters for United Airlines, the 
world's third-largest airline. The Port of Chicago consists of several 
major port facilities within the city of Chicago operated by the Illinois 
International Port District (formerly known as the Chicago Regional Port 
District). The central element of the Port District, Calumet Harbor, is 
maintained by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.[266] Electricity for most 
of northern Illinois is provided by Commonwealth Edison, also known as 
ComEd. Their service territory borders Iroquois County to the south, the 
Wisconsin border to the north, the Iowa border to the west and the Indiana 
border to the east. In northern Illinois, ComEd (a division of Exelon) 
operates the greatest number of nuclear generating plants in any US state. 
Because of this, ComEd reports indicate that Chicago receives about 75% 
of its electricity from nuclear power. Recently, the city began installing 
wind turbines on government buildings to promote renewable energy.[267][268][269] 
Natural gas is provided by Peoples Gas, a subsidiary of Integrys Energy 
Group, which is headquartered in Chicago. Domestic and industrial waste 
was once incinerated but it is now landfilled, mainly in the Calumet area. 
From 1995 to 2008, the city had a blue bag program to divert recyclable 
refuse from landfills.[270] Because of low participation in the blue bag 
programs, the city began a pilot program for blue bin recycling like other 
cities. This proved successful and blue bins were rolled out across the 
city.[271] The Illinois Medical District is on the Near West Side. It includes 
Rush University Medical Center, ranked as the second best hospital in the 
Chicago metropolitan area by U.S. News & World Report for 2014–15, the 
University of Illinois Medical Center at Chicago, Jesse Brown VA Hospital, 
and John H. Stroger, Jr. Hospital of Cook County, one of the busiest trauma 
centers in the nation.[272] Two of the country's premier academic medical 
centers reside in Chicago, including Northwestern Memorial Hospital and 
the University of Chicago Medical Center. The Chicago campus of Northwestern 
University includes the Feinberg School of Medicine; Northwestern Memorial 
Hospital, which is ranked as the best hospital in the Chicago metropolitan 
area by U.S. News & World Report for 2010–11;[273] the Rehabilitation Institute 
of Chicago, which is ranked the best U.S. rehabilitation hospital by U.S. 
News & World Report;[274] the new Prentice Women's Hospital; and Ann & 
Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago. The University of Illinois 
College of Medicine at UIC is the second largest medical school in the 
United States (2,600 students including those at campuses in Peoria, Rockford 
and Urbana–Champaign).[275] In addition, the Chicago Medical School and 
Loyola University Chicago's Stritch School of Medicine are located in the 
suburbs of North Chicago and Maywood, respectively. The Midwestern University 
Chicago College of Osteopathic Medicine is in Downers Grove. The American 
Medical Association, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, 
Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education, American Osteopathic 
Association, American Dental Association, Academy of General Dentistry, 
Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, American Association of Nurse Anesthetists, 
American College of Surgeons, American Society for Clinical Pathology, 
American College of Healthcare Executives, the American Hospital Association 
and Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association are all based in Chicago. Chicago 
has 28 sister cities around the world.[276] Like Chicago, many of them 
are or were the second-most populous city or second-most influential city 
of their country, or they are the main city of a country that has had large 
amounts of immigrants settle in Chicago. These relationships have sought 
to promote economic, cultural, educational, and other ties.[277] To celebrate 
the sister cities, Chicago hosts a yearly festival in Daley Plaza, which 
features cultural acts and food tastings from the other cities.[276] In 
addition, the Chicago Sister Cities program hosts a number of delegation 
and formal exchanges.[276] In some cases, these exchanges have led to further 
informal collaborations, such as the academic relationship between the 
Buehler Center on Aging, Health & Society at the Feinberg School of Medicine 
of Northwestern University and the Institute of Gerontology of Ukraine 
(originally of the Soviet Union), that was originally established as part 
