The Chicago Cubs Radio Network comprises 30 stations in six states.[1] 
Pat Hughes has been the play-by-play announcer since 1996. From 1996 to 
2010, Hughes was partnered with Ron Santo. After Santo's death, Keith Moreland 
took over as color analyst, lasting three seasons (2011–13). Ron Coomer 
became the color analyst in 2014. Mark Grote handles the Cubs Central pre- 
and post-game shows. Coomer takes over the play-by-play (with Hughes switching 
to color analysis) for the fifth inning of most games. Cubs television 
play-by-play announcer Len Kasper joins the radio network to call the fifth 
inning of nationally-televised games while his television color analyst 
partner Jim Deshaies does the color analysis for all nationally televised 
spring training, regular season and postseason games. All 162 regular season 
baseball games, some spring training games, and all postseason games are 
broadcast by the network, though not all affiliates distribute the entire 
slate. The games are transmitted to stations via C-Band satellite service 
on AMC-8. From 1925 to 2014 (continuously from 1958 to 2014), the Cubs' 
flagship station was WGN, 720 AM, the lone radio station of the Tribune 
Company (which for many years simultaneously owned the Cubs, TV station 
WGN-TV and its national superstation, and the local newspaper from which 
it gets its name, the Chicago Tribune). When it was part of the Tribune 
Radio Network, the network's non-sports programming included the National 
Farm Report, a farm news feature hosted by Orion Samuelson; Samuelson Sez 
(a weekly commentary hosted by Samuelson); and Farming America, a farm 
news feature hosted by Steve Alexander (previously by Max Armstrong). In 
2015, the Cubs' broadcast rights moved to CBS Radio after Tribune Co. declined 
to renew its longstanding broadcast rights.[2] The 2015 season was broadcast 
by WBBM. After sister station WSCR's loss of radio rights to broadcast 
the Chicago White Sox games to WLS in July 2015, it was widely expected 
that the Cubs would move to WSCR as a replacement. This move was confirmed 
by CBS Radio on November 11, 2015 [3][4] and finalized before the start 
of the 2016 Cubs season. Through WSCR, the games also air on the FM dial 
