The Chico Outlaws were a professional baseball team based in Chico, California, 
in the United States. The Outlaws were a member of the Northern Division 
of the independent North American League, which is not affiliated with 
either Major League Baseball or Minor League Baseball. From the 2005 season 
to the 2011 season, the Outlaws played their home games at Nettleton Stadium, 
on the campus of Chico State University. The team officially folded on 
February 29, 2012, and some of its remnants (including management and on-field 
staff) have gone to the NAL's newest team, the San Rafael Pacifics. The 
rights to the Outlaws were owned by Diamond Sports & Entertainment (DSE). 
DSE Board Chairman was Joel Yarmon and CEO was Brian MacInnes. Those rights 
are now up in the air. The Outlaws began play in May 2005, three years 
after their predecessors, the Chico Heat were forced to cease operations 
due to the folding of the Western Baseball League and not being able to 
find a new league to join. After the formation of the Golden Baseball League 
in 2004, Chico was granted one of the eight original charter teams in the 
league along with the Fullerton Flyers, Long Beach Armada and San Diego 
Surf Dawgs in California; Mesa Miners, Surprise Fightin' Falcons and Yuma 
Scorpions in Arizona and a traveling team the Japan Samurai Bears. The 
Outlaws, Flyers and Scorpions are the remaining charter teams still active 
in the league today. Chico, Long Beach and Yuma were former WBL cities. 
Former Heat minority owner and Western League president Bob Linscheid was 
the team's first president and general manager. He served those positions 
from 2004 to 2008. The Outlaws played in the GBL's Western Division. They 
opened their inaugural season on May 27, 2005, against the Flyers at Nettleton 
Stadium, bringing professional baseball back to Chico for the first time 
since the Chico Heat's 2002 championship campaign with the Western League. 
They won that inaugural ball game 9-4. Their first manager was former Major 
League Baseball catcher Mark Parent, a native of Cottonwood, California. 
Linscheid was named the league's first-ever "Executive of the Year".[1] 
Continuing the winning tradition in Chico, the Outlaws made the playoffs 
the first year but lost in the early rounds. In 2006 they were on the verge 
of winning the second half that would have put them in the Championship 
Series versus the Fullerton Flyers, but in an epic collapse they lost a 
6 game lead with 10 games to play as they were beaten in 7 of their last 
8 games by the Reno Silver Sox. The Silver Sox went on to win the 2006 
GBL Championship defeating the Flyers 3 games to 1. It would take three 
years, but the Outlaws made it to their first GBL Championship Series in 
2007 and beat the Long Beach Armada in four games, 3-1, to bring Chico 
their first professional championship since 2002. After winning the championship, 
Parent stepped down as manager and handed the reins over to former Heat 
player and Outlaws coach Jon Macalutas. The Outlaws lead the average attendance 
in the league with over 2,000 fans in 2008. On November 12, 2008, Macalutas 
realized that the job was not a good fit for him and resigned as manager 
of the Outlaws after his team went 34-51. In 2009, the Outlaws named former 
major league pitcher Greg Cadaret their manager but he failed to last the 
season and was fired midway through for his inability to be successful 
with his players on and off the field. Hitting coach Kory DeHaan took over 
and the team responded well with a much better record under DeHaan and 
improved 10 games over their dismal 2008 season. DeHaan was asked to return 
in 2010, but the San Diego Padres took note of his managing success in 
Chico and offered him a coaching job in their organization in his hometown 
of Phoenix. On January 13, 2010, the Outlaws officially named former Major 
Leaguer and former Flyers and Armada manager Garry Templeton as their new 
manager. He led the team to their best ever record as the squad won the 
South Division First Half title with a mark of 33-12. They went on to sweep 
defending Champion Calgary in the first round of the playoffs. They signed 
18-year-old female Japanese knuckleball pitcher Eri Yoshida, the first 
woman to play pro baseball in Japan, on April 9, 2010, to play the 2010 
season. She is the first female pro baseball player in the United States 
in ten years.[2] On June 24, the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum 
was on-hand and after Yoshida's start presented her with a plaque and collected 
her jersey and bat for inclusion in Cooperstown. The Outlaws were one of 
six former GBL teams to join the newly formed North American League in 
2010 and played in 2011. In February 2012, the team folded. (See below) 
On July 4, 2007, the Outlaws and Reno Silver Sox were involved in a huge 
brawl that would be considered one of the most talked about events in GBL 
history. After Outlaws pitcher Nick Singleton gave up a Juan Sanreso 2-run 
home run, he plunked the next Sox batter and words were exchanged. Next, 
Outlaws batter Ricky Bambino was struck by Sox pitcher Dusty Bergman in 
apparent retaliation. More words were then exchanged, Bambino charged the 
mound, and the brawl was on. After about a one-minute fight, order was 
restored. Bambino, Bergman and Silver Sox manager Les Lancaster were all 
ejected for the altercation. The Outlaws would win the game 6-4.[3] On 
August 27, 2008, Bob Linscheid announced that he was stepping down as president 
and chairman of the board of the Outlaws to pursue other interests. He 
will remain a priority shareholder for the league.[4][5] Curt Jacey took 
over operations following the end of the 2008 season while remaining as 
the team's now-full-time general manager, having left his GM post with 
the Reno Silver Sox. On August 30, 2008, Linscheid was honored in a post-game 
ceremony for his hard work in helping to bring professional baseball to 
Chico in 1996 and for the many years afterward. The jersey #1 (which has 
never been worn by a player from either the Chico Heat or Chico Outlaws) 
was retired at Nettleton Stadium in his honor. Linscheid says the league 
is looking to expand and they plan on using the Outlaws as a model franchise.[6] 
Though the Outlaws have averaged around 2,500 to 3,000 fans in attendance 
over their five-year existence, they made history by setting a new all-time 
attendance record at Nettleton Stadium against the Edmonton Capitals on 
July 3, 2009, when 5,037 fans packed the ballpark, including 400 seated 
inside along both the first base and third base lines next the dugouts. 
This shatters previous records held by the Chico Heat and the Outlaws. 
The Outlaws won the game, 8-5.[7] Chico Outfielder Daniel Nava was the 
2007 GBL Most Valuable Player and had his contract purchased by the Boston 
Red Sox. On June 12, 2010 against the Philadelphia Phillies he was the 
first Chico Outlaw to make it to the Major Leagues and responded by becoming 
only the fourth player in major league history in hit a grand slam in his 
first at bat as he went deep to centerfield on the first pitch thrown to 
him.[8] On June 1, 2010, Eri Yoshida, a 5 foot, 1 inch female knuckleball 
pitcher from Japan, pitched for the Outlaws.[9] The Outlaws made history 
and defied the odds to sweep the Calgary Vipers to win the GBL North Division 
Title, then sweep Na Koa Ikaika Maui to capture their second GBL Championship 
in 2010, becoming the first team in league history to accomplish that feat, 
as well as going undefeated in the playoffs. David Kaval, co-founder and 
C.E.O. of the GBL since its inception in 2005, resigned to take the job 
as team president of the San Jose Earthquakes of Major League Soccer. Kaval 
will remain on board as chairman of the GBL Board of Directors. Team president 
Mike Marshall indicated that the team will return for the 2011 season.[10][11][12][13][14] 
The Outlaws identity was given to a new expansion team in the Arizona Winter 
League, the Calexico Outlaws. The team currently plays in the International 
Division. Series. *The #1 jersey was never worn by any player from either 
the Chico Heat or Chico Outlaws. All Outlaws games were originally heard 
on NewsTalk 1290 KPAY and ESPN Radio 101.7 FM/1340 AM from 2005 to 2008 
with Rory Miller on the call. Due to declining advertising interest in 
radio, the games were made available live on the internet at the team's 
website. Broadcasts of the Outlaws games were moved from the radio to the 
internet full-time courtesy of VistaNet in 2009, with Joe Rauschenberger 
announced as the new play-by-play commentator.[16] He was later replaced 
by Scott Navarro and Levi Funderburk close to the end of the season. On 
March 26, 2010, Dan Hawkins was named as the "Voice of the Outlaws"[17] 
and called Outlaws baseball live on the internet for that season. For the 
2011 season, Marshall Kelner, a graduate of the University of Southern 
California, was named broadcaster and brought play by play action online 
at ChicoOutlaws.com The Chico Outlaws have one of the few female public 
address announcers in professional baseball, Shelly Rogers; 2011 was her 
fourth season with the Outlaws and second full-time. As of October 6, 2011, 
Outlaws VP/GM Mike Marshall told the local Chico newspaper he was laid 
off and the office closed. Meanwhile, the team, which is owned by the North 
America League, has no lease next season for Nettleton Stadium—and with 
no one working in the closed office, there are no sales efforts underway 
for 2012. On December 16 & 17, 2011, the Chico Enterprise-Record reported 
that the Outlaws will sit out the 2012 season as they regroup. But it is 
unclear if the franchise will ever return to Chico.[18][19] On January 
9, 2012, the Chico Enterprise-Record reported the Chico Outlaws are discussing 
contract options for leasing Nettleton Stadium from CSU Chico for the upcoming 
2012 season.[citation needed] On February 29, 2012, Outlaws CEO Brian MacInnes 
announced that the team would not play in Chico, or "anywhere else", in 
2012... thus, ending the franchise's run in town.[20][21][22] Though, there 
have been rumors of possible returns of professional franchises to Chico, 
