As player As manager Charles Sylvester "Chick" Stahl (January 10, 1873 
– March 28, 1907) was an American outfielder in Major League Baseball who 
was among the most feared and consistent hitters in his time. In his rookie 
1897 season with the Boston Beaneaters, he batted .354, and over his first 
six seasons, he averaged over .300. In 1899, he had six hits in a game, 
and in the 1903 World Series, he hit three triples. By 1904, including 
his time with the Beaneaters and the Boston Americans, Stahl had been a 
key part of four pennant winning teams in seven seasons. In 1906, he was 
named acting manager of the Americans after his friend Jimmy Collins was 
suspended[1] and decided to focus on his playing, and also due to the club's 
ownership opting for a change following a poor season by the club. He was 
officially named player-manager on December 4, 1906. Stahl committed suicide 
during the 1907 spring training in West Baden, Indiana, by drinking four 
ounces of carbolic acid. The reasoning behind Stahl's suicide has remained 
a mystery for over a century. He was known as a carefree, fun-loving man 
and had many love affairs going on throughout the country. He mentioned 
suicide days before in Louisville, Kentucky, prompting some teammates to 
take the carbolic acid from him. His final words to some of teammates were 
"Boys, I just couldn't help it. It drove me to it."[2] What "it" exactly 
was remains a mystery. A 1908 newspaper article claims that he was despondent 
because he had been tasked with discharging his friend Collins from the 
team.[3] Cy Young reluctantly took over as manager to start the 1907 season, 
but he was replaced six games into the season. Collins was traded to Philadelphia 
in June 1907. Stahl's widow mysteriously died a year and a half later.[4] 
Just prior to her death, Julia Stahl was seen walking in a poor area of 
Boston while lavishly dressed. However, no bystanders seem to have seen 
the events of the last moments of her life.[3] Chick Stahl was not related 
to Jake Stahl, despite contemporary baseball sources listing them as brothers. 
Stahl gained popularity again in 2004 when he was mentioned along with 
teammates Bill Dinneen and Cy Young in the revival of the song "Tessie" 
