The Chicago metropolitan area, or Chicagoland, is the metropolitan area 
associated with the city of Chicago, Illinois, and its suburbs. With a 
population of 9.9 million people, it is the third largest metropolitan 
area in the United States.[2] Chicagoland is the area that is closely linked 
to the city through geographic, social, economic, and cultural ties. The 
Chicago metropolitan area is one of the world’s largest and most diversified 
economies, with more than four million employees and generating an annual 
gross regional product (GRP) of over $561 billion. The region is home to 
more than 400 major corporate headquarters, including 31 in the Fortune 
500.[3] There are several definitions of the area, including the area defined 
by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as the Chicago-Joliet-Naperville, 
IL-IN-WI Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), and the area under the jurisdiction 
of the Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning (CMAP) (a metropolitan 
planning organization). The Chicago Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) 
was originally designated by the United States Census Bureau in 1950. It 
comprised the Illinois counties of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake and Will, along 
with Lake County in Indiana. As surrounding counties saw an increase in 
their population densities and the number of their residents employed within 
Cook County, they met Census criteria to be added to the MSA. The Chicago 
MSA, now defined as the Chicago-Naperville-Elgin, IL-IN-WI Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, is the third largest MSA by population in the United 
States with a population of 9,554,598 (2014 estimate).[4] The Chicago MSA 
is further subdivided by state boundaries into the Chicago-Naperville-Joliet, 
IL Metropolitan Division, corresponding roughly to the CMAP region; the 
Gary, IN Metropolitan Division consisting of the Indiana counties of Lake 
and Porter, as well as two surrounding counties; and the Lake County-Kenosha 
County, IL-WI Metropolitan Division. A breakdown of the 2009 estimated 
populations of the three Metropolitan Divisions of the MSA are as follows:[5] 
The OMB also defines a slightly larger region as a Combined Statistical 
Area (CSA). The Chicago-Naperville, IL-IN-WI Combined Statistical Area 
combines the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Michigan City (in Indiana), 
and Kankakee (in Illinois). This area represents the extent of the labor 
market pool for the entire region. The CSA has a population of 9,928,312 
(2014 estimate).[2] The Chicago urban agglomeration, according to the United 
Nations World Urbanization Prospects report (2011 revision), lists a population 
of 9,545,000.[6] The term “urban agglomeration” refers to the population 
contained within the contours of a contiguous territory inhabited at urban 
density levels. It usually incorporates the population in a city plus that 
in the surrounding area. Chicagoland is an informal name for the Chicago 
metropolitan area. The term Chicagoland has no official definition, and 
the region is often considered to include areas beyond the corresponding 
MSA, as well as portions of the greater CSA.[citation needed] Colonel Robert 
R. McCormick, editor and publisher of the Chicago Tribune, usually gets 
credit for placing the term in common use.[8][9] McCormick's conception 
of Chicagoland stretched all the way to nearby parts of four states (Indiana, 
Wisconsin, Michigan, and Iowa).[8] The first usage was in the Tribune's 
July 27, 1926 front page headline, "Chicagoland's Shrines: A Tour of Discoveries", 
for an article by reporter James O'Donnell Bennett.[10] He stated that 
Chicagoland comprised everything in a 200-mile (320 km) radius in every 
direction and reported on many different places in the area. The Tribune 
was the dominant newspaper in a vast area stretching to the west of the 
city, and that hinterland was closely tied to the metropolis by rail lines 
and commercial links.[11] Today, the Chicago Tribune's usage includes the 
city of Chicago, the rest of Cook County, eight nearby Illinois counties 
(Lake, McHenry, DuPage, Kane, Kendall, Grundy, Will, and Kankakee), and 
the two Indiana counties of Lake and Porter.[12] Illinois Department of 
Tourism literature uses Chicagoland for suburbs in Cook, Lake, DuPage, 
Kane, and Will counties,[13] treating the city separately. The Chicagoland 
Chamber of Commerce defines it as all of Cook, DuPage, Kane, Lake, McHenry, 
and Will counties.[14] Differing viewpoints exist, of course. For example, 
many residents who live in some of the more distant satellite counties 
nonetheless refer to themselves as being "from Chicago" or "Chicagoans". 
Until recently[when?], DeKalb County was not considered part of the region 
proper, but as the highly developed area has continued to expand, it is 
now commonly defined as the "far suburbs" of the city.[original research?][citation 
needed] In addition, company marketing programs such as Construction Data 
Company's[15] "Chicago and Vicinity" region and the Chicago Automobile 
Trade Association's "Chicagoland and Northwest Indiana" advertising campaign 
are directed at the MSA itself, as well as LaSalle, Winnebago (Rockford), 
Boone, and Ogle counties in Illinois, in addition to Jasper, Newton, and 
La Porte counties in Indiana and Kenosha, Racine, and Walworth counties 
in Wisconsin, and even as far northeast as Berrien County, Michigan. The 
region is part of the Great Lakes Megalopolis, containing an estimated 
54 million people.[citation needed] Chicago Metropolitan Agency for Planning 
(CMAP) is an Illinois state agency responsible for transportation infrastructure, 
land use, and long term economic development planning for the areas under 
its jurisdiction within Illinois.[16] The planning area has a population 
of over 8 million, which includes the following locations in Illinois:[17] 
The city of Chicago lies in the Chicago Plain, a flat and broad area characterized 
by little topographical relief. The few low hills are sand ridges. North 
of the Chicago Plain, steep bluffs and ravines run alongside Lake Michigan. 
Along the southern shore of the Chicago Plain, sand dunes run alongside 
the lake. The tallest dunes reach up to near 200 feet (61 m) and are found 
in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. Surrounding the low plain are 
bands of moraines in the south and west suburbs. These areas are higher 
and hillier than the Chicago Plain. A continental divide, separating the 
Mississippi River watershed from that of the Great Lakes and Saint Lawrence 
River, runs through the Chicago area. A 2012 survey of the urban trees 
and forests in the seven county Illinois section of the Chicago area found 
that 21% of the land is covered by the tree and shrub canopy, made up of 
about 157,142,000 trees. The five most common tree species are buckthorn, 
green ash, boxelder, black cherry, and American elm. These resources perform 
important functions in carbon storage, water recycling, and energy saving.[18][19] 
As of the 2010 Census, the metropolitan area had a population of 9,729,825. 
The population density was 1,318 per square mile. The racial makeup was 
52.8% Non-Latino White, 22.1% were Latino, 16.7% were Non-Latino African 
Americans, and 6.4% were Asian. Other ethnic groups such as Native Americans 
and Pacific Islanders made up just 2.0% of the population. [20] The suburbs, 
surrounded by easily annexed flat ground, have been expanding at a tremendous 
rate since the early 1960s. Aurora, Elgin, Joliet, and Naperville are noteworthy 
for being four of the few boomburbs outside the Sun Belt, West Coast and 
Mountain States regions, and exurban Kendall County ranked as the fastest-growing 
county (among counties with a population greater than 10,000) in the United 
States between the years 2000 and 2007.[21] Settlement patterns in the 
Chicago metropolitan area tend to follow those in the city proper: the 
northern suburbs along the shore of Lake Michigan are comparatively affluent, 
while the southern suburbs (sometimes known as Chicago Southland) are less 
so, with lower median incomes and a lower cost of living. However, there 
is a major exception to this. While Chicago's West Side is the poorest 
section of the city, the western and northwestern suburbs contain many 
affluent areas. According to the 2000 Census, DuPage County had the highest 
median household income of any county in the Midwestern United States. 
According to the 2000 U.S. Census, poverty rates of the largest counties 
from least poverty to most are as follows: McHenry 3.70%, Dupage 5.9%, 
Will 6.7%, Lake 6.9%, Kane 7.4%, Cook 14.5%. In an in-depth historical 
analysis, Keating (2004, 2005) examined the origins of 233 settlements 
that by 1900 had become suburbs or city neighborhoods of the Chicago metropolitan 
area. The settlements began as farm centers (41%), industrial towns (30%), 
residential railroad suburbs (15%), and recreational/institutional centers 
(13%). Although relations between the different settlement types were at 
times contentious, there also was cooperation in such undertakings as the 
construction of high schools. As the Chicago metropolitan area has grown, 
more counties have been partly or totally assimilated with the taking of 
each decennial census. Counties highlighted in gray were not included in 
the MSA for that census. The CSA totals in blue are the totals of all the 
counties listed above, regardless of whether they were included in the 
Chicago Combined Statistical Area at the time.[22] Within the boundary 
of the 16-county Chicago Consolidated Statistical Area lies the Chicago 
urban area, as well as 27 smaller urban areas and clusters. Smallest gap 
indicates the shortest distance between the given urban area or cluster 
and the Chicago urban area.[23] The formerly distinct urban areas of Aurora, 
Elgin, Joliet, and Waukegan were absorbed into the Chicago UA as of the 
2000 census. † These urban areas and urban clusters are expected to be 
joined to the Chicago Urban Area by the next census in 2010. ^ The Round 
Lake Beach-McHenry-Grayslake, IL-WI UA extends into Walworth County, WI, 
which lies in the Milwaukee CSA. ^^ The Michigan City-LaPorte, IN-MI UA 
extends into Berrien County, MI, which lies (for the moment) outside the 
Chicago CSA. ^^^ The Sandwich, IL UC extends into LaSalle County, IL, which 
lies (for the moment) outside the Chicago CSA. ^^^^ The Genoa City, WI-IL 
UC extends into Walworth County, WI, which lies in the Milwaukee CSA. The 
Chicago metropolitan area is home to the corporate headquarters of 57 Fortune 
1000 companies, which includes Boeing, McDonald's, Motorola, Discover Financial 
Services, United Continental Holdings, Walgreens, and Aon among others, 
representing a diverse group of industries.[24] The area is a major global 
financial center, and Chicago is home to the largest futures exchange in 
the world, the CME Group (Chicago Mercantile Exchange). In March 2008, 
the Chicago Mercantile Exchange announced its acquisition of NYMEX Holdings 
Inc, the parent company of the New York Mercantile Exchange and Commodity 
Exchange. CME'S acquisition of NYMEX was completed in August 2008. A key 
piece of infrastructure for several generations was the Union Stock Yards 
of Chicago, which from 1865 until 1971 penned and slaughtered millions 
of cattle and hogs into standardized cuts of beef and pork. The Chicago 
area, meanwhile, began to produce significant quantities of telecommunications 
gear, electronics, steel, crude oil derivatives, automobiles, and industrial 
capital goods. By the early 2000s, Illinois' economy had moved toward a 
dependence on high-value-added services, such as financial trading, higher 
education, logistics, and health care. In some cases, these services clustered 
around institutions that hearkened back to Illinois's earlier economies. 
For example, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, a trading exchange for global 
derivatives, had begun its life as an agricultural futures market. In 2007, 
the area ranked first among U.S. metro areas in the number of new and expanded 
corporate facilities.[25] It ranked third in 2008, behind the Houston–Sugar 
Land–Baytown and Dallas–Fort Worth metropolitan areas,[26] and ranked second 
behind the New York metropolitan area in 2009.[27] The Wall Street Journal 
summarized the Chicago area's economy in November 2006 with the comment 
that "Chicago has survived by repeatedly reinventing itself."[28] In addition 
to the Chicago Loop, the metro area is home to a few important subregional 
corridors of commercial activities. Among them are: Listing of the professional 
sports teams in the Chicago metropolitan area Major league professional 
teams: Other professional teams: The Chicagoland Speedway oval track has 
hosted NASCAR Cup Series and IndyCar Series races. The Chicago Marathon 
is one of the World Marathon Majors. The Western Open and BMW Championship 
are PGA Tour tournaments that have been held primarily at golf courses 
near Chicago. The two main newspapers are the Chicago Tribune and the Chicago 
Sun-Times. Local television channels include WBBM-TV 2 (CBS), WMAQ-TV 5 
(NBC), WLS-TV 7 (ABC), WGN-TV 9 (CW), WTTW 11 (PBS), WCIU 26 (Ind), WFLD 
32 (FOX), WCPX-TV 38 (Ion), WSNS-TV 44 (Telemundo) WPWR-TV 50 (MyNetworkTV), 
and WJYS-TV 62 (The Way). CLTV is a 24/7 local news provider available 
only to cable subscribers. Radio stations serving the area include: WBEZ, 
WMBI, WLS-AM, and WSCR. Elementary and secondary education within the Chicago 
metropolitan area is provided by dozens of different school districts, 
of which by far the largest is the Chicago Public Schools with 400,000 
students.[29] Numerous private and religious school systems are also found 
in the region, as well as a growing number of charter schools. Racial inequalities 
in education in the region remain widespread, often breaking along district 
boundaries;[30] for instance, educational prospects vary widely for students 
in the Chicago Public Schools compared to those in some neighboring suburban 
schools.[31] Historically, the Chicago metropolitan area has been at the 
center of a number of national educational movements, from the free-flowing 
Winnetka Plan to the regimented Taylorism of the Gary Plan.[32] In higher 
education, University of Chicago founder William Rainey Harper was a leading 
early advocate of the junior college movement; Joliet Junior College is 
the nation's oldest continuously-operating junior college today.[33] Later 
U of C president Robert Maynard Hutchins was central to the Great Books 
movement, and programs of dialogic education arising from that legacy can 
be found today at the U of C, at Shimer College,[34] and in the City Colleges 
of Chicago and Oakton Community College in the Northwest suburbs.[35] From 
1947 until 1988, the Illinois portion of the Chicago metro area was served 
by a single area code, 312, which abutted the 815 area code. In 1988 the 
708 area code was introduced and the 312 area code became exclusive to 
the city of Chicago. It became common to call suburbanites "708'ers", in 
reference to their area code. The 708 area code was partitioned in 1996 
into three area codes, serving different portions of the metro area: 630, 
708, and 847. At the same time that the 708 area code was running out of 
phone numbers, the 312 area code in Chicago was also exhausting its supply 
of available numbers. As a result, the city of Chicago was divided into 
two area codes, 312 and 773. Rather than divide the city by a north/south 
area code, the central business district retained the 312 area code, while 
the remainder of the city took the new 773 code. In 2002, the 847 area 
code was supplemented with the overlay area code 224. In February 2007, 
the 815 area code (serving outlying portions of the metro area) was supplemented 
with the overlay area code 779. In October 2007, the overlay area code 
331 was implemented to supplement the 630 area with additional numbers. 
Plans are in place for overlay codes in the 708, 773, and 312 regions as 
those area codes become exhausted in the future. Coordinates: 41°54′N 87°39′W﻿ 
