Charles Arnold "Chick" Gandil (January 19, 1888 – December 13, 1970) was 
a professional baseball player. He played for the Washington Senators, 
Cleveland Indians, and Chicago White Sox of the American League. He is 
best known as the ringleader of the players involved in the 1919 Black 
Sox scandal. Described by his contemporaries as a "professional malcontent",[1] 
he was physically well-built at 6'2" and 195 pounds, and had a mean and 
callous expression. He used both to display his toughness, and also did 
not hesitate to use sheer strength to get his point across. He was born 
in St. Paul, Minnesota, to Swiss immigrants Christian and Louise Bechel 
Gandil. He was their only child. The Gandil family migrated west and the 
1900 census (taken June 8) has their address registered as Seattle, King 
County, Washington. After 1900, the Gandils moved to California, settling 
in Berkeley. The young Gandil soon showed an interest in playing baseball. 
He joined the Oakland High School baseball team in 1902 and played all 
positions except first base. After two years at Oakland High School, Gandil 
left home to make it on his own. He took a train to Amarillo, Texas, and 
played catcher in the local semi-pro baseball league for the Amarillo team. 
In 1907, he migrated to Humboldt, Arizona, and worked as a boilermaker 
in the copper mines. He played catcher for the semipro team that was sponsored 
by the local smelting company. The Humboldt baseball club experienced financial 
problems in 1906, and Gandil moved on to a team in Cananea, Mexico, 40 
miles from the United States. "I caught on with an outlaw team in Cananea, 
Mexico, just across the Arizona border. Cananea was a wide-open mining 
town in those days, which suited me fine. I was a wild, rough kid. I did 
a little heavyweight fighting at $150 a fight. I also worked part-time 
as a boilermaker in the copper mines."[2] It was with the Cananea, Mexico, 
team that Gandil became a first baseman.[3] Gandil entered professional 
baseball in 1908. He spent the season with Shreveport (Louisiana) in the 
Texas League and batted a solid .269. That same year, he met 17-year-old 
Laurel Fay Kelly (a Mississippi native), and they were soon married. After 
the 1908 season, Gandil was drafted by the St. Louis Browns. Failing to 
make the club in the spring of 1909, the Browns ordered him back to Shreveport. 
Gandil refused to report, though. He headed back west with his new bride 
and joined the Fresno team in the outlaw California State League. For this 
offense, Gandil faced blacklisting by organized baseball. He reconsidered 
his decision and joined Sacramento of the Pacific Coast League for the 
remainder of 1909 season. He was arrested, however, for having stolen $225 
from the Fresno team coffers. Gandil was successful in Sacramento. He batted 
.282, and late in the 1909 season, was sold to the Chicago White Sox. He 
was not required to report to Chicago until the following season.[3] Gandil 
made his major league debut on April 14, 1910, with the White Sox, which 
was a disaster. He appeared in just 77 games and batted just .193. It was 
reported that he had trouble hitting the curveball. He was sold to Montreal 
in 1911 and spent the season in the Eastern League. He had a solid season 
(batting .304), and several major league clubs wanted to draft him. The 
rules at the time stated that only one player could be drafted from each 
team, so Gandil returned to Montreal to begin the 1912 season. He hit over 
.300 in the first 29 games and was sold to the Washington Senators. He 
was now better prepared to play major league baseball, and in 117 games, 
he batted .305 and was the American League leader for first basemen in 
fielding percentage. From 1912 to 1915, Gandil led the Senators in runs 
batted in three times and batted .293. In the field, he paced American 
League first basemen in fielding percentage four times and assists three 
times. Gandil remained with the Senators through the 1915 season and played 
the 1916 season for the Cleveland Indians. Early on in his major league 
career, Gandil was considered a top-notch first baseman, both for his play 
on the field and his solid work ethic. In 1916, a Cleveland newspaper described 
Gandil as "a most likeable player, and one of excellent habits."[3] During 
Gandil's first season with the Senators that he met bookie and gambler, 
Joseph "Sport" Sullivan. Sullivan later become a key figure in conspiring 
with Gandil to fix the 1919 World Series. On February 25, 1917, he was 
reacquired by the White Sox for $3,500. That season, Chicago defeated the 
New York Giants in the World Series. It was later revealed that Gandil 
and his teammate, Charles "Swede" Risberg, had allegedly collected $45 
from each member of the White Sox and paid off the Detroit Tigers in two 
crucial doubleheaders late in the season. When Tigers pitcher Bill James 
agreed that his team would go easy, the Tigers lost all four games, allowing 
the White Sox to win the American League pennant. This incident was officially 
investigated by Commissioner Landis in 1927, but due to contradictions, 
no action was taken.[4] Gandil claims that Sullivan approached him with 
the idea to fix the 1919 World Series. Sullivan assured Gandil that the 
fix was on, and that $100,000 in total would be paid to the players. In 
addition to serving as the contact for the gamblers, Gandil was responsible 
for recruiting and paying the players involved in the fix. Gandil received 
$35,000 for his role in throwing the World Series – nearly nine times his 
1919 salary of $4,000.[5] In the spring of 1920, Gandil demanded that the 
White Sox raise his salary to $6,500 per year. Owner Charles Comiskey would 
not relent, and he decided to remain in California. Gandil retired from 
the majors. According to Gandil, "Instead, I played semipro ball twice 
a week for the Elks Club in Bakersfield, Calif. I earned $75 a game." He 
was far from Chicago as investigations into the 1919 World Series began 
during the fall of 1920. Gandil and his seven White Sox teammates were 
indicted, and he came back to Chicago in July 1921 to stand trial for fixing 
the series. The jury found the eight players not guilty. Following the 
players' acquittal, Gandil said, "I guess that'll learn Ban Johnson he 
can't frame an honest bunch of ball players." However, the players' joy 
was short lived. Gandil and the others were permanently banned from organized 
baseball by new commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis.[3] After 1921, he 
continued to play semi-pro ball on the west coast. He contacted Joe Gedeon, 
Swede Risberg, Joe Jackson and Fred McMullin and attempted to put together 
a team in Southern California. In 1925, he played with Hal Chase and other 
banished players in the Frontier League in Douglas, Arizona. While presiding 
over the Douglas team in 1927, he reportedly had team manager Buck Weaver 
banned from the league. It was believed that Gandil did this because he 
had felt betrayed by his former White Sox teammate's lack of support during 
the 1921 investigation of the 1917 White Sox/Tigers situation.[4] He ended 
his playing career with semi-pro clubs in the copper mining towns of Bayard 
and Hurley, New Mexico.[3] After he ended his baseball career, Gandil settled 
in his childhood residence (Berkeley, California) with Laurel and his daughter 
Idella . His primary occupation was as a plumber. His mother and father 
still lived in Berkeley (his father Christian died in 1941 and his mother 
Louise in 1952). There is no official record of contact between them. He 
remained in the area until he retired to Calistoga in 1954 and spent the 
last part of his life in the Napa Valley region of Northern California. 
Gandil died at age 82 on December 13, 1970, in a convalescent hospital. 
He had been suffering from heart disease and emphysema, and the official 
cause of death was heart failure. Gandil was survived by his wife, his 
daughter, two grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. Laurel, who 
had been married to Gandil for 62 years, followed him in death just three 
months later. Gandil is interred at St. Helena Public Cemetery.[6] Gandil 
was portrayed by Michael Rooker in the 1988 film Eight Men Out. In 1956, 
Gandil told his version of the events of the 1919 World Series to sportswriter 
Melvin Durslag. Durslag's account of Gandil's story was published in the 
September 17, 1956 edition of Sports Illustrated. In the story, Gandil 
admitted to leading the plot to throw the Series and expressed guilt and 
remorse over having done so. However, he claimed that after an initial 
payment was made, the players actually abandoned the plan and had ultimately 
tried their best to win. According to Gandil's story, the rumors which 
had spread about the Series being fixed (triggered by a sudden influx of 
money being bet on the Reds) caused the players to conclude that they could 
never get away with throwing the Series, as their every move would be closely 
scrutinized. Instead, they decided to betray the gamblers and keep the 
cash. While he believed that Landis' decision to ban them all was draconian, 
he felt they deserved to be banned just for talking to the gamblers. In 
his account, Gandil suggested that the players were under intense pressure 
from both observers suspicious of their every move and the gamblers expecting 
them to go along with the plan. He said this may have contributed to their 
making poor plays despite their decision to abandon the fix. However, he 
was firm in his insistence that all of the players were trying their best 
throughout all eight games of the Series. Gandil also said that the original 
deal called for the conspirators to play the first game straight, since 
a White Sox win would drive the price up further; the White Sox were shelled 
in that game 9-1. Gandil further claimed in his story that he never received 
his share of any of the money paid by the gamblers, and that he had no 
idea what happened to that money. In an interview with Dwight Chapin, published 
in the Los Angeles Times on August 14, 1969, Gandil again denied that he 
threw the Series stating, "I'm going to my grave with a clear conscience."[3] 
