The Chicago American Giants were a Chicago-based Negro league baseball 
team, owned and managed from 1911 to 1926 by player-manager Andrew "Rube" 
Foster. From 1910 until the mid-1930s, the American Giants were the most 
dominant team in black baseball. Charter members of Foster's Negro National 
League, the American Giants won five pennants in that league, along with 
another pennant in the 1932 Negro Southern League and a second-half championship 
in Gus Greenlee's Negro National League in 1934. The team was disbanded 
in 1952. In 1910, Foster, captain of the Chicago Leland Giants, wrested 
legal control of the name "Leland Giants" away from the team's owner, Frank 
Leland. That season, featuring Hall of Fame shortstop John Henry Lloyd, 
outfielder Pete Hill, second baseman Grant Johnson, catcher Bruce Petway, 
and pitcher Frank Wickware, the Leland Giants reportedly won 123 games 
while losing only 6. In 1911, Foster renamed the club the "American Giants." 
Playing in spacious Schorling Park (formerly the home field of the American 
League's Chicago White Sox), Foster's club relied on fielding, pitching, 
speed, and "inside baseball" to succeed in the young Negro National League 
(NNL), winning championships in 1920, 1921, and 1922. When the Kansas City 
Monarchs supplanted the American Giants as the dominant team beginning 
in 1923, Foster tried rebuilding but by 1926 his health (physical and mental) 
was failing. Accordingly, his protégé Dave Malarcher took over on-field 
management of the team. Malarcher followed Foster's pattern, emphasizing 
pitching and defense, and led the American Giants back to the top-tier 
of the Negro leagues, winning pennants in 1926 and 1927. Both seasons also 
saw the American Giants defeat the Bacharach Giants of Atlantic City, champions 
of the Eastern Colored League, in the Negro League World Series. The NNL 
collapsed in 1931, and in 1932 the team won the Negro Southern League pennant 
as Cole's American Giants. The next season the American Giants joined the 
new Negro National League, losing the pennant to the Pittsburgh Crawfords 
in a controversial decision by league president Gus Greenlee (owner of 
the Crawfords). The 1933 season saw the Giants get kicked off of their 
home field after the end of May; the park owners preferred to use the land 
as a dog racing track for the remaining summer months. This forced the 
Giants to play the majority of their home games in Indianapolis for the 
balance of that season.[2] In 1934, the American Giants won the NNL's second-half 
title, then fell to the Philadelphia Stars in a seven-game playoff for 
the championship. In 1937, after a year spent playing as an independent 
club, the American Giants became a charter member of yet another circuit, 
the Negro American League. Ted "Double Duty" Radcliffe was appointed manager 
in 1950. The team’s owner, Dr. J.B. Martin, was concerned about black players 
joining major league teams so he instructed Radcliffe to sign white players. 
Radcliffe recruited at least five young white players (Lou Chirban, Lou 
Clarizio, Al Dubetts, Frank Dyall, and Stanley Miarka). The Chicago White 
Sox have honored the Giants by wearing replica uniforms during regular-season 
baseball games on several occasions, including July 1, 2007 (at Kansas 
City), July 26, 2008 (at home vs. Detroit) and July 16, 2011 during the 
9th Annual Negro League weekend at Detroit, where the home team also worn 
the jerseys of the Detroit Stars during the 17th Annual Negro League Tribute 
