The Chinese Professional Baseball League (Traditional Chinese: 中華職業棒球大聯盟), 
or CPBL, is the top-tier professional baseball league in Taiwan. The league 
was established in 1989.[1] CPBL eventually absorbed the competing Taiwan 
Major League in 2003. As of 2013, the CPBL has four teams with average 
attendance of approximately 6,000 per game.[2] Baseball was first introduced 
to Taiwan during Japanese rule, and gained popularity when the national 
little league baseball teams won numerous Little League World Series championships 
in the 1970s and 1980s. The national baseball team also performed exceptionally 
well in many international competitions. However, the development of baseball 
in Taiwan was limited due to the lack of a professional league, and therefore 
many players were reluctant to commit to the sport. The idea of forming 
a professional baseball league in Taiwan was first suggested by local Brother 
Hotel's chairman Hung Teng-Sheng (洪騰勝). He formed his amateur Brother Hotel 
baseball team in 1984, and intended to professionalize his team and form 
a professional league within a few years. Throughout 1988 and 1989, Hung 
visited numerous Taiwanese businesses, trying to convince them to form 
professional baseball clubs. Most of his requests were rejected, but Wei 
Chuan Corporation, Mercuries Chain Stores, and Uni-President Corporation 
all supported the idea and formed teams. The Chinese Professional Baseball 
League was established on October 23, 1989, with Hung Teng-sheng acting 
as secretary-general. Because of his contribution to professional baseball 
in Taiwan, Hung is sometimes referred to as the "Father of the CPBL." Chung 
Meng-shun (鍾孟舜) designed every original logo of the four founding teams.[3] 
In 1997, the newly founded Taiwan Major League began to compete with the 
CPBL. The two leagues were often competing with each other, but eventually, 
the TML merged with the CPBL. All teams are owned by and named after large 
Taiwanese corporations, a similar practice seen in Japan's NPB and South 
Korea's KBO. Each team manages a regional market with a home city, but 
does not play its games exclusively in that market. Other than the home 
cities, regular season games are also held in Hsinchu, Douliou, Chiayi, 
Pingtung, Luodong, Hualien, and Taitung with less frequency. Each season 
spans from March to October, with a one-week all-star break in June or 
July, which separates the season into first and second half-seasons. Playoffs 
are held in late October or early November, with three teams competing 
in two rounds. A team may qualify for playoffs either by winning a half-season 
title, or be awarded a wild card berth by attaining the highest place in 
the seasonal ranks. If a team wins a half-season title, it will not be 
considered in the seasonal ranks when the winner of the wild card is being 
decided. If both half seasons were won by the same team, another wild card 
berth will be given through the same mechanism after the first berth has 
been awarded. Due to recent reduction in the number of teams, the regulation 
above may be modified to better apply to the current situation. Since 2005 
the champion team will represent Taiwan in the Asia Series to compete with 
other champion teams from Nippon Professional Baseball (Japan Series), 
KBO League (Korean Series), Australian Baseball League (Claxton Shield), 
and the Confederation of European Baseball (European Champion Cup). A typical 
monthly salary for a foreign player is in between 5,000-12,000 USD, these 
positions are normally filled by AA, AAA, or Japanese minor leaguers. The 
number of foreign players allowed on a team's roster is limited to four. 
Of the four players only three are allowed to be activated on the major 
league roster, the remaining foreign player can practice and prepare with 
the team or play in the minors. A foreign player, once sent to the minor 
league team, must wait a week before being allowed to be recalled to the 
major league. Foreign players, from regions other than Japan and South 
Korea, are given Chinese epithets to increase familiarity with Taiwanese 
fans. These epithets, usually two to three characters in length, are generally 
loose transliterations of the players' names and are generally chosen as 
terms meant to convey strength or might. One example is Jeff Andra, whose 
epithet is Feiyong (飛勇) — meaning, literally, a flying brave man. Recently 
however, most foreign players are just simply given a direct Chinese transcription. 
Some players (mostly foreign players) have now adopted the custom in the 
rest of the world by placing their surnames on the back of their jerseys 
using the Latin alphabet. * Brother Elephants did not reach an agreement 
with Taichung City Government, but nonetheless play their home games in 
the regional market. CPBL Minor League took shape in late 2003 as a result 
of cooperation with Chinese Taipei Baseball Association. Alternative service 
draftees, players deemed eligible to complete their national service obligation 
in the field of baseball, were sent to CPBL member organizations to fill 
their roster. There are currently four minor league teams, each plays about 
80 games annually. Similar to NPB's minor leagues, the minor league teams 
are each owned by CPBL member clubs as reserve teams rather than independent 
organizations. *Taiwan Series was not held in 1992, 1994 and 1995 because 
Brother Elephants and Uni-President 7-Eleven Lions won the titles by virtue 
of winning both half-seasons, resulting in no losers in the 3 seasons' 
Taiwan Series. Cheersticks are a pair of plastic sticks, often seen at 
baseball games in Taiwan. They are banged together to make noise. Despite 
its young age, professional baseball in Taiwan had suffered game-fixing 
scandals several times. Such scandals have led to decline in attendance 
and also the disbanding of some teams. The first scandal was the "August 
3 Incident", when a group of weapon-carrying local gang members rushed 
into a Taichung hotel and threatened five Brother Elephants players, including 
star pitcher Chen Yi-Hsin (陳義信), in order for them to cooperate with the 
gang and fix games for their gambling business on the evening of August 
3, 1996. CPBL reported the incident to the police immediately and the gang 
members were soon arrested, but rumors abounded. The rumors came true in 
January 1997, just before the season started. With solid evidence, police 
arrested several CPBL players suspected of being in illegal gambling. During 
the process, many players, mostly from the China Times Eagles, were found 
to be involved the in game-fixing and were promptly expelled by CPBL. In 
June 1997, only two Taiwanese players on the roster of the China Times 
Eagles were not involved in any sort of scandal, and the rest of the league 
had to lend their players to the Eagles so that they could finish out the 
season. The China Times Eagles were eventually disbanded the next season 
as a result, and attendance declined sharply, from its peak of 6,000 in 
1994 to merely 1,500 in 1998. However, the fiasco did not end there. In 
August 1997, several Mercuries Tigers players were threatened by gambling 
gangs under similar circumstances as the August 3 Incident. In April 1999, 
the Wei Chuan Dragons' then manager Hsu Sheng-ming (徐生明) was attacked near 
his residence in Taipei. The Mercuries Tigers and the Wei Chuan Dragons 
were also badly affected by the financial loss brought on by the scandal 
and were disbanded after the 1999 season. The scandal was later nicknamed 
"The Black Eagles Incident", a reference to the Black Sox Scandal, and 
also because the China Times Eagles were the most involved in the scandal. 
In July 2005, another gambling-related scandal surfaced when the local 
Next Magazine published a story with photographs of Chinatrust Whales' 
Australian pitcher Brad Purcell at a Taipei lounge bar along with several 
local gang members. This article also pointed out several games which may 
have been fixed between May and June 2005, and listed nearly ten players 
involved, mostly from foreign countries. Local prosecutor Hsu Wei-Yueh 
(徐維嶽) took up the case and arrested La New Bears catcher Chen Chao-Ying 
(陳昭穎) and Macoto Cobras coach Tsai Sheng-Fong (蔡生豐) on July 27, both of 
whom were immediately expelled from the league. However, on August 22, 
Hsu released the two, stating that "they had made full confessions". Brad 
Purcell himself had been released earlier by the Chinatrust Whales (and 
expelled from the league) and fled Taiwan before any trial could start. 
Hsu later summoned a total of fifteen players, including Sinon Bulls American 
pitcher Jeff Andra, La New Bears Puerto Rican infielder Victor Rodriguez, 
and Chinatrust Whales Dominican pitcher Emiliano Giron, and claimed that 
they were involved in gambling. None of the players admitted to being involved 
in game-fixing but Hsu ruled that the imprisoned players needed bail of 
NT$ 100,000 to be released. CPBL immediately expelled the players who were 
arrested. Only the Brother Elephants and the Uni-President Lions were unaffected 
by this scandal. The circumstances of this scandal remain unclear, with 
the lack of evidence and confessions, and the fact that Hsu Wei-Yueh himself 
was later arrested for his involvement in bribery scandals, which led to 
his trial and sentence in 2005. On October 8, 2008, Banciao district attorney's 
office called the owner of dmedia T-REX Shih Chien-hsin, the team's GM, 
spokesperson, one coach, and three players to the office for allegedly 
being involved in game-fixing. The three players, Chen Yuen-chia (陳元甲), 
Chen Ke-fan (陳克帆), and Cory Bailey, were later released after posting bail. 
In accordance with CPBL policy, the three were immediately expelled and 
they were banned from playing professionally in the league. Due to the 
involvement of management/operation personnel in the scandal, the team 
was expelled from CPBL on October 23, 2008. The Chinatrust Whales also 
announced their disbandment on November 11, after playing twelve years 
in the CPBL. The league now only has 4 teams. The day after the final game 
of the 2009 Taiwan Series authorities raided the Brother Elephants' dormitory 
in Taipei and ordered several players to report to the prosecutors' office 
for questioning regarding game-fixing allegations. In the following weeks, 
multiple players from the Brother Elephants, Sinon Bulls, and La New Bears 
were questioned, and some of them were arrested and eventually charged. 
Furthermore, Elephants manager Shin Nakagomi was also charged and later 
plead guilty in exchange for being released and allowed to return to Japan. 
Some of the convicted players were given prison sentences ranging from 
one to four years. The CPBL has long been criticized for lacking protection 
of players' rights, and players do not have a union like the MLB, NPB, 
and KBO. Players are often given one-year contracts that sometimes include 
terms that favor team management. Unrestricted free agency does not exist 
in the CPBL, as the CPBL fears that teams with lower payrolls could be 
overtaken by high-payroll teams. If a player wishes to sign with another 
team for any reason, then he must get the consent of the team he was playing 
with before. The player's team may counteroffer. That does not apply to 
a player seeking to sign with a team in another country. The CPBL is governed 
by a General Managers' Council, which means the members of the council 
are the respective general managers (GMs) of each team. This is unlike 
any other professional baseball league around the world, where the governing 
body usually consists of a committee of selected individuals unaffiliated 
with any other franchise. The CPBL governing structure effectively renders 
the league powerless in regulation and enforcement of many policies, as 
GMs can easily veto any major resolutions. Since major reform would require 
a unanimous approval of the council, it is difficult to initiate major 
