The Chinese Taipei baseball team (Chinese: 中華臺北棒球代表隊; pinyin: Zhōnghuá 
Táiběi Bàngqiú Dàibiǎoduì), is the national team of the Republic of China 
(Taiwan). It is governed by the Chinese Taipei Baseball Association. The 
team is recognized as one of the best national baseball teams. They are 
currently the ranked third in the world by the International Baseball Federation, 
just behind United States and Japan respectively. They have consistently 
maintained top positions in international baseball competitions. The team 
is usually made of professionals from Taiwan's Chinese Professional Baseball 
League, Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball, and Major League Baseball 
or Minor League Baseball from the United States. Due to hostile political 
pressures from Mainland China on international sports organizations, the 
delegation had to reach a compromise name, changing it from the National 
Baseball Team of the Republic of China (Chinese: 中華民國棒球國家隊; pinyin: Zhōnghuá 
Mínguó Bàngqiú Guójiāduì) to Chinese Taipei Baseball Team.[1] The team 
has participated in many of the international and regional tournaments 
and has achieved many successes. It has won six titles in Asian Baseball 
Championship, a bronze medal at the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles, 
and a silver medal at the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona. Its recent success 
was the winning of the gold medal at the 2006 Asian Games in Doha in a 
sweeping victory by beating South Korea, Thailand, China, Philippines, 
and finally all-time rival Japan. They achieved an 8th place in the recent 
2013 World Baseball Classic. Chinese Taipei participated in the 2006 World 
Baseball Classic. The squad included players from Major League Baseball. 
During the Classic, the team played in Pool A but ended up being the third 
place and did not advance. Their only victory was a 12–3 win over China. 
Chinese Taipei participated in the 2009 World Baseball Classic. The squad 
included players from Major League Baseball. During the Classic, the team 
played in Pool A against the same teams as in 2006. After losses to South 
Korea and China, Chinese Taipei was eliminated from the tournament, finishing 
in 14th place. Chinese Taipei was required to participate in the WBC 2013 
Qualification as they were eliminated early in the game with 0 wins, along 
with Canada, Spain and Panama. Chinese Taipei was grouped in Qualifier 
4 with other teams invited, Thailand, Philippines and New Zealand. Chinese 
Taipei won New Zealand in the first round with a 10-0 win. It then crushed 
Philippines 16–0. In the Qualifier Round, it met New Zealand again, this 
time beating the team 9–0 to gain entry into the WBC 2013, where the team 
is grouped with South Korea, The Netherlands and Australia. The team did 
not lose any points in the qualification. Chinese Taipei participated in 
the 2009 Baseball World Cup, which occurred between September 9 and September 
27, 2009. The team went 1–2 in the first round, losing to Mexico and Australia, 
but winning against Czech Republic. Chinese Taipei would enter the second 
round as a wild card. Chinese Taipei went 5–2 in the second round, pulling 
off victories against Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Australia, and Mexico. 
The team qualified easily for the final round, but finished in 8th place, 
going 1–6 and losing the match for a 7th place title. The team's first 
appearance at the Intercontinental Cup was in 1973. Since then, the team 
has won two bronze medal, one in 1983 in Belgium and the recent one in 
2006 in Taiwan. Taiwan did not participate in the 1975, 1979, 1981, 1993 
and 1997 Intercontinental Cup. It is currently ranked 7th in the Medal 
Winner Ranking.[2] Cuba, Japan, Nicaragua and the United States remain 
Taiwan's four biggest rivals in the Intercontinental Cup. As the host of 
the recent 2006 Intercontinental Cup, Taiwan won its second bronze medal 
after beating Japan in the 2006 Intercontinental Cup final 4–0. On 26 July 
1992 and the following ten days, Chinese Taipei competed against seven 
other national teams from Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Italy, Japan, Puerto 
Rico, Spain and the United States at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. 
The teams played each other seven rounds and the top four on the table 
advance to finals. Chinese Taipei eventually advanced to the finals, beating 
Japan 5–2 in the semi-finals. It struggled in the final against Cuba, suffering 
an enormous defeat. The score was 1–11. Nonetheless, it won a silver medal 
which is still now its best result ever achieved in the Olympics. Game 
Summary 26 July 1992 - Round 1, Chinese Taipei defeated Italy 8–2. 27 July 
1992 - Round 2, Chinese Taipei lost by one run to the United States. The 
final score 9–10. 28 July 1992 - Round 3, Chinese Taipei sought its second 
victory over the Puerto Ricans. The score was 10–1. 29 July 1992 - Round 
4, Chinese Taipei dominated the Spanish. The final score was 20–0. 31 July 
1992 - Round 5, Chinese Taipei beat the Dominican Republic eleven to nothing. 
1 August 1992 - Round 6, Chinese Taipei faced one of its two main rivals 
from Asia - Japan. It acquired its fifth victory by beating Japan 2–0 2 
August 1992 - Round 7, in the final round, Chinese Taipei suffered another 
defeat to the Cubans. This time Chinese Taipei scored only one run. The 
score was 1–8. 4 August 1992 - Semi-final, Chinese Taipei defeated Japan 
5–2 and would play against Cuba in the final. 5 August 1992 - Final, Chinese 
Taipei was defeated by Cuba. Final score 1–11. Chinese Taipei qualified 
for the 2004 Olympics by finishing 2nd in the Asian Baseball Championship. 
The team ended up finishing 5th in the tournament. The team qualified for 
the 2008 Olympics by finishing 3rd place in the Final Qualifying Tournament. 
On August 15, Chinese Taipei lost to China for the first time in an international 
baseball event. However, it had been suspected by DPP legislators that 
Beijing set up the schedule unfair to Chinese Taipei. Chinese Taipei was 
scheduled to play the latest game the day before. It was estimated that 
the players could only get three hours of sleep.[3] This allegation has 
been rebuked by the governing party KMT as playing politics over baseball 
games as well as by the International Olympic Committee as common scheduling 
practice. The IOC further gave examples of other games being scheduled 
in a similar matter The team finished 5th in the tournament. Chinese Taipei 
has a very successful history in participating the Championship. It has 
twice finished in first place, 10 times in second place and 10 times in 
third. The team competed again in the 2007 Asian Baseball Championship 
which was held in Taiwan. In the 2009 Championship, Chinese Taipei sought 
their revenge against their humiliating defeat by China at the 2008 Beijing 
Olympics with an obliterating win of 13–1, crushing the Mainland Chinese 
baseball team. They proceeded on to the finals against their old time rival 
Japan. Japan won the match and took the title with a narrow score of 6–5, 
putting Chinese Taipei in second place. In the final round of the tournament, 
Chinese Taipei defeated 2008 Olympic baseball champions South Korea with 
a 5–4 victory. Their next match was played against China, whom they lost 
to for the first time in history at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. 
Chinese Taipei would end up with a 13–1 victory in 7 innings (game ended 
due to mercy rule) over China. The team would then play a final decisive 
game against their long-time rival Japan. The Japanese team won 6-5 and 
took the championship title, having gone 3–0 in the final round. Chinese 
Taipei would finish as the runner-up, with 2 wins and 1 loss in the last 
round of the tournament. Chinese Taipei has not missed any of the Asian 
Games since its first appearance in 1990 in Beijing. In Beijing, it finished 
in first place, however, it was a demonstration sport thus it did not receive 
any medals. Its second appearance was in 1994 where it finished in third 
place. In 1998, it again finished in third place. Chinese Taipei lost to 
South Korea in 2002 in Pusan, South Korea and hence finished in second. 
It was by far its best result. At the 2006 Asian Games in Doha, Qatar, 
a game-winning walk off hit by Lin Chih-sheng helped to win its first Asian 
Games baseball gold. The team received seventy million New Taiwan Dollar 
from the Republic of China (ROC)/Taiwan government for their excellent 
achievement in Doha.They have finished in second place at the 2010 Asian 
games being beaten by South Korea 7-6 in the final.[4] Home Away Home Away 
Home Away Home Away In 1954, when the team first participated in the Asian 
Baseball Championship, it competed under the name of United Team of Taiwan.[citation 
needed] Since the expulsion of the Republic of China from the United Nations 
in 1971, the National Baseball Team of the Republic of China was forced 
to compete internationally under the name of Chinese Taipei because of 
the People's Republic of China's diplomatic pressure through the One China 
Policy. In Taiwan it is both referred to as 中華隊 (hanyu pinyin: Zhōnghuá 
Duì; literally, Chinese (cultural) team) or 台灣隊 (hanyu pinyin: Táiwān Duì; 
literally, team Taiwan ). 1commonly known as 'Taiwan'; competing as 'Chinese 
