Chock full o'Nuts is a brand of coffee originating from a chain of New 
York City coffee shops. Its unusual name derives from the eighteen shelled 
nut shops founder William Black (ca. 1902-1983) had established under that 
banner in the city beginning in 1926. When the Depression struck he converted 
them to lunch counters serving a cup of coffee and a sandwich for 5 cents.[1] 
In time the brand grew popular, being introduced to the consumer market 
through grocery stores starting in 1953. Today it is owned by coffee giant 
Massimo Zanetti Beverage Group, the largest privately held firm in the 
industry. The chain was founded by immigrant William Black, who sold nuts 
in Times Square to theater-goers. In 1926, he opened a store on Broadway 
and 43rd Street, eventually adding seventeen more. When the Depression 
settled in, New Yorkers could no longer afford the luxury of shelled nuts, 
so Black converted his shops into lunch counters, selling coffee and sandwiches.[1] 
Their signature "nutted cheese" sandwich, made of cream cheese and chopped 
nuts on dark raisin bread, cost a nickel with a cup of coffee when the 
company was founded. When coffee prices went up in the 1950s, Black, like 
other restaurateurs, held to a 5-cent cup of coffee by watering it down.[2] 
But he soon broke ranks and raised the price, announcing that he refused 
to compromise on quality. In 1953, the coffee brand was introduced to supermarkets. 
Several years later baseball star Jackie Robinson became the company's 
vice president and director of personnel, after retiring from the game.[3][4] 
In 1961, Chock full o'Nuts introduced a brand of instant coffee. Within 
that decade the chain had approximately 80 restaurants in the New York 
City area. Hygiene was a selling point, with the sandwiches advertised 
as "untouched by human hands". Cooks used tongs to assemble them. In 1974, 
Chock full o'Nuts purchased Rheingold Brewery.[5] In the 1970s, the lunch 
counters gradually closed. About this time, with Black increasingly advanced 
in age, Steinfield, a major real estate operator in New York City who wanted 
the property that the restaurants occupied, declared war on Chock full 
o'Nuts. He stated that when he won his actions he would close the restaurants.[citation 
needed] After Black died, the company sold its remaining 17 restaurants 
to the restaurant company Riese Bros. In 1988, investor Martin D. Gruss 
and the companies he controlled purchased a 10-percent stake in the Chock 
full o'Nuts Corporation, saying he might seek control of the company.[6] 
In 1993, Chock Express stores were introduced. The Sara Lee Corporation 
purchased Chock full o'Nuts for $238 million in 1999.[7][8] In May 2006, 
it was purchased from Sara Lee by Massimo Zanetti Beverage USA, along with 
the MJB, Hills Bros., and Chase & Sanborn coffee brands. On September 10, 
2010, the company announced it was returning to the lunch counter business 
by opening its first store in almost 30 years, on West 23rd Street between 
Broadway and 6th Avenue in Manhattan. The company said it planned to add 
stores and kiosks in New York City serving the "nutted cheese" sandwich 
and other traditional Chock full O' Nuts menu items (plus new choices).[9] 
The current youngest franchise owner is Corey Torjesen of Staten Island, 
New York who opened a Chock full O'Nuts franchise at the age of 19 with 
his own money which he saved up from a newspaper route.[10] The 23rd Street 
store closed in 2012. To assure those with allergies to nuts, the company 
began adding the slogan "NO NUTS! 100 % Coffee" to its packaging in the 
2000s. The company also sells their single serve K-Cup variation called 
"A Better Cup by Design".[citation needed] The Chock full o’ Nuts advertising 
jingle was based on the song, "That Heavenly Feeling", written by Wayne 
and Bill Silbert. Sung by company founder William Black’s wife, cabaret 
singer Page Morton Black, it received extensive airplay on both radio and 
television in the 1950s and 1960s.[1] The original lyrics went: Chock full 
o’Nuts is that heavenly coffee, Heavenly coffee, heavenly coffee. Chock 
full o’Nuts is that heavenly coffee, However, the company had to alter 
the lyrics from “Rockefeller’s money” to “a millionaire’s money” after 
being sued by New York governor Nelson Rockefeller, who owned coffee interests 
in Latin America.[11] Mid-2000s versions of the jingle replace “millionaire” 
