Christopher Robert Coste (born February 4, 1973) is an author and former 
Major League Baseball catcher. Coste was on a Major League Baseball team 
for the first time in his career at age 33 after twelve seasons of independent 
and minor league baseball. He is currently an analyst on Post Game Live 
for the Philadelphia Phillies. After attending Fargo South High School, 
Coste went to Kishwaukee College for 1 year, a Division II college, but 
later left. He then attended classes and played baseball for Concordia 
College, a Division III school in Minnesota, where he was a three-time 
All-American. He started his professional career in 1995 playing for Brainerd, 
Minnesota in the independent North Central League. When the league folded 
in July he joined the Brandon Grey Owls in the independent Prairie League. 
From 1996 to 1999, he played four seasons for the Fargo-Moorhead RedHawks 
of the independent Northern League. In 2000, Coste signed with the Cleveland 
Indians organization, having gotten significant playing with then Triple-A 
affiliate Buffalo Bisons. He spent 2003 with the Boston Red Sox organization 
and 2004 in the Milwaukee Brewers system. Coste first signed with the Phillies 
in 2005, spending the entire season with their Triple-A affiliate, then 
known as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons. He remained with Scranton/Wilkes-Barre 
until his promotion to the Phillies, facilitated by his fantastic performance 
in 2006 spring training. After starting the 2007 season in Triple-A, Coste 
was called back up to the majors on May 12, 2007.[1] On May 25, 2007, Ryan 
Howard was re-activated off the DL and the Phillies sent Coste back to 
the minors to Double-A Reading.[1] Coste chose to go to Reading so that 
he could start and play every day, and because it would help the club if 
he was ready, rather than being Jason Jaramillo's backup at Triple-A Ottawa. 
In late June 2007, Coste was called back up from Reading as a result of 
Jon Lieber's season-ending injury and Jayson Werth's wrist injury. Coste 
finished the 2007 season with a .278 batting average, 5 home runs, and 
22 RBI in 48 games. For the 2008 season, Coste was slated as the Phillies' 
backup catcher behind Carlos Ruiz. In a game against the Mets on August 
26, 2008, Coste went 4 for 4 without even starting the game. He entered 
as a pinch hitter in the eighth inning, and became the first player in 
63 years to appear at least that late into a game but still record 4 hits. 
He delivered a game-winning walk-off single in the 13th inning. Coste was 
very popular with Phillies fans and had a fan club that was at every Phillies 
game known as the Coste Guard. They wore red bathing suits and white T-shirts. 
They also wore sunglasses, and sunscreen on their noses; fans could hear 
their whistles which they used to help cheer on the Phillies and Coste. 
On October 29, 2008, Coste became the first player that originated from 
Division III college baseball's MIAC to win a World Series. Coste was claimed 
off waivers on July 10, 2009 by the Astros.[2] Due to starting first baseman 
Lance Berkman's injured calf, Coste found playing time at first base for 
the Astros.[3] On November 30, 2009, Coste signed with the New York Mets.[4] 
On March 29, 2010, Coste was claimed off waivers by the Washington Nationals. 
Before the season began he injured his elbow which required Tommy John 
surgery in May 2010. He was released on June 5, 2010. Coste retired from 
professional baseball after that. Coste wrote his first book about his 
experiences in professional baseball: "Hey... I'm Just the Catcher: An 
Inside Look at a Northern League Season From Behind the Plate," published 
in 1997. This book covers his first few seasons in independent baseball 
leagues, mainly the RedHawks (in his hometown). This book is out of print 
and supplanted by his new book. 2008 saw the release of Coste's second 
autobiography, "The 33-Year-Old Rookie: How I Finally Made it to the Big 
Leagues After Eleven Years in the Minors." The book, which chronicles Coste's 
first season in the majors, contains a foreword by John Kruk. This book 
covers Coste's professional career up through his third season (2008) with 
the Phillies. It includes nearly all the historical material found in his 
first book (independent baseball) as well as the time in the affiliated 
minor leagues. Due to the recent success of films about athletes such as 
Vince Papale and Jim Morris, movie studio representatives have contacted 
Coste about the possibility of a movie about his struggle from career minor-leaguer 
to the majors.[5] Coste is now an in-studio analyst on Comcast SportsNet. 
He appears on Phillies Pregame Live and Postgame Live shows.[6] He also 
appears on Daily News Live. Besides this appearances, Coste is currently 
