Christopher Patrick "Chris" Myers (born March 28, 1959[1]) is an American 
sportscaster. A native of Miami, FL with more than 20 years in broadcasting, 
he has covered premiere events, including the Super Bowl, World Series, 
NBA Finals, NCAA Final Four, The Masters and U.S. Open (golf), Triple Crown, 
the Olympics, and the Daytona 500. Chris Myers, garnered his first major 
break in broadcasting as a 16-year-old high school student when he hosted 
his own show on Miami’s WKAT-AM radio, interviewing such sports heavy hitters 
as Muhammad Ali and Don Shula.[citation needed] Myers graduated from Chaminade 
High School, Hollywood, Florida, May, 1977. In the early 1980s Myers hosted 
a sports radio call-in show on WIOD-AM in Miami before moving to New Orleans 
in the mid-1980s to work for broadcast station WWL. He joined Fox Sports 
Net as an anchor in December 1998 where he hosted the National Sports Report, 
among other hosting duties. Prior to joining FOX/FSN, Myers spent ten years 
at ESPN. Prior to joining FSN/Fox Sports, Myers spent ten years (1988-1998) 
at ESPN hosting SportsCenter, Baseball Tonight, and other various shows 
including the interview program Up Close, where Myers was honored as one 
of TV's best interviewers. He also received an Emmy for his work. As host 
of Up Close, Myers was the first to conduct a live interview with O.J. 
Simpson after both his criminal trial and civil lawsuit. Myers spoke about 
this in detail in a March 2016 episode of the Bill Simmons Podcast, with 
guest host Bryan Curtis. Myers earned acclaim for his live reporting during 
the 1989 San Francisco earthquake that took place during the World Series. 
Myers was also the only on scene reporter who stayed on the air through 
the night broadcasting from Atlanta during the Centennial Olympic Park 
bombing.[citation needed] In December 1998, Myers joined Fox Sports Net, 
where he was one of the original anchors of The National Sports Report 
and the weekly sports magazine program Goin' Deep. In 2005, he debuted 
The Chris Myers Interview on FSN. In 2000, Myers joined Fox Sports Radio 
where he currently hosts his own interview show, CMI, which can be heard 
on over 200 affiliates. Myers conducted the last public interview with 
the late John Wooden in April 2010 on CMI. The legendary 99-year-old coach 
told Myers he did not fear death saying "The next life will be even better, 
and this one hasn't been too bad." Myers has been the studio host for NASCAR 
coverage on Fox since they began coverage in 2001. He also serves an announcer 
and/or a reporter for NFL on Fox, Fox College Football and Major League 
Baseball on Fox. He was also a reporter for Fox's coverage of the Bowl 
Championship Series. Myers presented the New Orleans Saints with their 
first ever NFC championship trophy after narrowly defeating the Minnesota 
Vikings 31-28 on January 24, 2010. During a Detroit Lions and New Orleans 
Saints game, on September 13, 2009, Myers made a remark while talking about 
linebacker Larry Foote's decision to leave the perennially strong Pittsburgh 
Steelers to play for Detroit, "That's like going from dating Beyoncé to 
Whoopi Goldberg!"[2][3][4][5] Frank Caliendo later impersonated Myers on 
the NFL pre-game show. Myers also visited the American armed forces in 
Qatar on behalf of Fox Sports and gave a live broadcast with the armed 
forces that was shown on the Fox pre-game show before the New Orleans Saints 
played the Dallas Cowboys on November 25, Thanksgiving Day. On a May 17, 
2010 appearance on The Dan Patrick Show, Myers made comments regarding 
the May 2010 Tennessee floods that were interpreted by some as disparaging 
toward the city of New Orleans and the victims of Hurricane Katrina: "We 
have disasters issues when people pull together and help themselves and 
I thought the people in Tennessee, unlike -- I'm not going to name names 
-- when a natural disaster hits people weren't standing on a rooftop trying 
to blame the government, okay. They helped each other out through this. 
And Mike Helton, president of NASCAR, Tony Stewart, among some drivers 
went from the race over to the middle Tennessee area where still a lot 
of hardworking, tax-paying, legal American citizens have been affected 
by the floods and are trying to rebuild their lives and they are helping 
out. And I think that other people around the country, of course the music 
industry in and around Nashville helping, without making a big deal out 
of it and I think that's a good thing." [6] On May 20, 2010, New Orleans 
Mayor Mitch Landrieu wrote a letter to Fox Sports requesting an apology, 
calling Myers' comments "offensive and unacceptable." Myers issued an official 
apology for his comments, calling them "inappropriate and insensitive."[7] 
On July 14, 2012, Myers called his first MLB on Fox game with Eric Karros 
when the New York Mets played against the Atlanta Braves at Turner Field. 
Myers called MLB games for Fox in 2012 and 2013, before moving back to 
the studio for the 2014 season. Myers also served as a field reporter for 
Fox's postseason telecasts from 2004 to 2008. This occupation included 
in-game reports until Ken Rosenthal was hired as an "MLB insider" and a 
field reporter, which relegated Myers to pre- and postgame segments, though 
he did conduct several trophy presentations for pennant-winners. Kenny 
Albert took this role in 2009, before it was eliminated in 2010. Beginning 
in 2014, Myers began hosting MLB Whiparound, a nightly show aired weeknights 
on Fox Sports 1 featuring quick turnaround-highlights, news, and analysis 
live from Los Angeles. In addition, Myers (along with Jeff Hammond and 
Michael Waltrip) hosts NASCAR RaceDay, Pizza Hut Prerace Show, and NASCAR 
Victory Lane during the Fox's coverage of NASCAR. Starting in November 
2016 Myers will become a reporter for Fox UFC. He has also hosted shows 
and events on the Discovery Channel, Tennis Channel, and the Military Channel. 
He has appeared on Jimmy Kimmel Live! numerous times. Myers also serves 
as the play-by-play commentator for Tampa Bay Buccaneers preseason games 
that air locally on WTSP-TV, after having the same role for WFLA-TV from 
2003-2010. Myers was also named as the host in 2010, for Showtime's weekly 
series Inside NASCAR. He currently resides in Hollywood, California with 
wife Sue and their son, Alex. On February 16, 2012, Myers’ 19-year-old 
son, Christopher, died in a car crash. The accident took place in Thousand 
Oaks near the Myers' residence.[8][9] While on bereavement leave, John 
Roberts took over for him for NASCAR on Fox coverage of the Budweiser Shootout 
and the 2012 Daytona 500, which was postponed to Monday night and ran into 
early morning Tuesday due to a two-hour-long red flag. Myers returned to 
