Christopher Rose (born January 27, 1971) is an American sportscaster for 
the MLB Network and NFL Network. He is currently a commentator for the 
ABC series BattleBots. Rose attended University School in Hunting Valley, 
Ohio during high school and spent his childhood summers at North Star Camp. 
Rose attended Miami University in Oxford, Ohio and graduated in 1993. He 
served as station manager at the student-run radio station, WMSR. He also 
adores the Cleveland Indians. Rose is known as one of the hosts of The 
Best Damn Sports Show Period, on Fox Sports Net. Except for a brief period 
in 2004 and 2005, Rose hosted the show from its inception in 2001. Rose 
has also hosted the poker show Million Dollar Challenge. In 2007, Rose 
became a play-by-play announcer for Fox's coverage of the NFL. In 2006, 
he did Gamebreaks for the NFL coverage while Joe Buck and Curt Menefee 
hosted the studio coverage from the game site. He was the studio host for 
Fox's BCS coverage. In 2007, he was the #7 play-by-play announcer for Fox's 
coverage of the NFL. A year later, he was demoted to #8 play-by-play but 
promoted again to #7 in 2009. On Sunday, November 8, 2009, Rose did Gamebreaks 
for the NFL on Fox while the Fox NFL Sunday crew did the pregame show from 
Bagram Airfield in Afghanistan. Trent Green and John Lynch were among the 
analysts who worked with Rose. in 2004 Rose was a fight announcer and narrator 
on the reality sports series The Next Great Champ as well late a Ringside 
Commentator for Golden Boy Boxing in 2012 airing on Fuel TV [1][2] Rose 
took over the revamped Fox Saturday Baseball pre game show in 2009. Rose 
was also the host for the World Series pre game show. He presented the 
World Series trophies from 2009 to 2011. He called select games as well 
as field reporting for MLB on FOX. He also hosted Big Shots: Titans at 
the Tee. During the 2010 Major League Baseball season he hosted the inaugural 
season of The Cheap Seats. David Cone took over the show following the 
2010 season. On March 21, 2012 it was announced Matt Vasgersian would become 
the new pre game host and Rose would no longer be working with the network. 
Rose has been criticized for appearing to be too friendly[3] with players 
he has interviewed during Fox's baseball coverage. For example, during 
the 2009 World Series, Rose referred to Derek Jeter of the New York Yankees 
as "Jeets". One year later during the World Series, Rose referred to both 
Brian Wilson and Tim Lincecum of the San Francisco Giants as "his friends." 
Rose was hired by MLB Network in April 2010. A year later, he began co-hosting 
Intentional Talk with Kevin Millar. Intentional Talk has become one of 
the most popular shows on MLB Network.[4] On August 28, 2012, NFL Network 
announced they had added Rose to their team. He currently is a studio host 
for the channel. Rose is the host of NFL GameDay Highlights, NFL GameDay 
Final, as well as the postgame edition of NFL Total Access following the 
network’s Thursday Night Football. He will continue doing Intentional Talk 
on MLB Network even though MLB Network is in New Jersey while the NFL Network 
