The following is a chronology of National Football League home stadiums, 
that is, all home stadiums of teams currently playing in the National Football 
League (NFL), and their locations and capacities. It contains all past 
and present (in bold) home stadiums used by the current 32 members of the 
National Football League since 1920, along with future home stadiums presently 
under construction (in italics immediately above the present stadium). 
It is ordered by the conference and division to which the team belongs.[1] 
Lambeau Field, built in 1957, is the oldest stadium currently in use professionally 
and the stadium with the earliest tenancy, although it has undergone extensive 
renovations during their history. The oldest NFL stadium is the Los Angeles 
Memorial Coliseum, which was built in 1921, but had been unoccupied by 
a professional team since 1994. With the Rams relocating to Los Angeles 
the Coliseum will be used as a temporary home for the team for three seasons 
until their new stadium in Inglewood is completed. The newest NFL stadium 
is U.S. Bank Stadium, the home of the Minnesota Vikings. Stadiums represent 
a considerable expense to a community, and thus their construction, use, 
and funding often enters the public discourse.[2] Also, given the perceived 
advantage a team gets from playing in their home stadium, particular attention 
is given in the media to the peculiarities of each stadium's environment. 
Weather, playing surface (either natural or artificial turf), and the presence 
or lack of a roof or dome all contribute to giving each team its home-field 
advantage. Sportexe Momentum Turf (2003–2015) Grass (1998–2002) NOTE: The 
NFL plays the Pro Bowl game every year at Aloha Stadium in Honolulu, Hawaii 
(although the 2010 edition was played at Sun Life Stadium, and the 2015 
edition was played at The University of Phoenix Stadium). The following 
stadiums have hosted, or will host, regular season games outside of the 
United States as part of the NFL International Series: Occasionally, a 
team's home games are moved from their usual site to another location, 
usually either due to natural disasters, or to the stadium being in use 
for other events. The list of temporary home stadiums is ordered by the 
