The Chronicle-Telegraph Cup was the trophy awarded to the winner of a postseason 
competition in American professional baseball in 1900. The series, played 
only once, was a precursor to the current World Series. The Pittsburg Pirates[1] 
finished in second place, 4.5 games behind the Brooklyn Superbas, in the 
1900 National League season (the only Major League in American baseball 
at the time). Fans of the Pittsburg club felt their club was every bit 
the equal of the Brooklyn nine. While Brooklyn led the league in offense, 
Pirates fans claimed their team, which led the NL in strikeouts and ERA, 
boasted the pitching to best Brooklyn. A local newspaper, the Pittsburgh 
Chronicle Telegraph, offered to award a silver cup to the winner of a best-of-five 
series between the two teams. Despite the series being held in Allegheny, 
Pennsylvania, which was annexed into Pittsburgh in 1907, the Superbas prevailed, 
3–1. The teams were evenly matched in most statistical categories — both 
totaled 15 runs apiece, batted about .230 and had comparable numbers of 
extra-base hits (neither team hit any home runs) and walks. Both teams' 
ERAs were below 1.30. However, Pittsburg committed 14 errors to Brooklyn's 
4, letting the Superbas win by comfortable margins. Three unearned runs 
in the top of the sixth inning of Game 2 allowed the Superbas to break 
a 1–1 tie, and Pirates pitcher Sam Leever's crucial fourth-inning error 
in Game 4 broke the game open for Brooklyn. A 10–0 blowout behind Deacon 
Phillippe's six-hitter in Game 3 gave the Pirates their only win in the 
series. Pirates' outfielder Honus Wagner led his team in batting average 
(.400), hits (6), doubles (1), RBIs (3) and stolen bases (2). Brooklyn's 
Wee Willie Keeler also cranked out 6 hits to lead his club, posting a .353 
average. The Superbas' Fielder Jones had 4 RBIs. The Pirates won the next 
three National League pennants and to play in the inaugural World Series 
in 1903. The Brooklyn baseball club did not win another postseason series 
until 1955, their first World Series championship. October 15, 1900 Two 
future Hall of Famers faced off as NL ERA leader Rube Waddell of the Pirates 
threw against Joe McGinnity, who led the league with 28 wins. McGinnity 
shut out the Pirates for eight innings before two unearned runs in the 
top of the ninth denied him the shutout. Waddell gave up 13 hits but only 
five runs, despite four errors by his fielders. October 16, 1900 Fielding 
flubs continued to stymie the Pirates in the second game as they held Brooklyn 
only one earned run, but allowed three unearned in the top of the sixth 
thanks to a series-high six errors in the field. Brooklyn hurler Frank 
Kitson held Pittsburg to four hits. October 17, 1900 Pittsburg avoided 
the sweep by battering Harry Howell for 13 hits — all singles — and 10 
runs. It was Brooklyn's turn to hurt themselves, as seven of the 10 runs 
were unearned. Deacon Phillippe threw a six-hit shutout. October 18, 1900 
Joe McGinnity was shaky in the final game, allowing nine hits, but the 
Brooklyn defense returned to form (they had the second-fewest errors in 
the league) as it allowed only one run to score. McGinnity did not allow 
an earned run in his two complete game wins during the series. Three Brooklyn 
singles coupled with a fielding error by Pittsburg hurler Sam Leever in 
the fourth inning gave the Superbas a comfortable 4–0 cushion which they 
