Charles Stoneham "Chub" Feeney (August 31, 1921 — January 10, 1994) was 
an American front office executive in Major League Baseball and president 
of the National League (NL) during a 40-plus year career in baseball. Born 
in Orange, New Jersey, into a baseball family, Feeney was the grandson 
of Charles Stoneham, principal owner of the New York Giants from 1919 until 
his death in 1936, and the nephew of Horace Stoneham, who owned the team 
from 1936 through 1976 and transferred it to San Francisco in 1958. Feeney 
began his association with the Giants as a batboy, and after his graduation 
from Dartmouth College and military service during World War II he joined 
the team's front office at the age of 24 as vice president in 1946. Although 
he never held the official title of general manager, Feeney would function 
as head of the Giants' baseball operations department for almost 24 years. 
The postwar Giants were a second-division team of slow-footed sluggers 
with poor fielding and mediocre pitching. On July 16, 1948, Stoneham and 
Feeney made a dramatic change. They replaced manager Mel Ott, a popular, 
Hall of Fame hitter and lifelong Giant, with the controversial and abrasive 
Leo Durocher, who had been managing their intercity rivals, the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. Asked by Stoneham to evaluate his new team, Durocher, no sentimentalist, 
reportedly replied: "Back up the truck" — meaning wholesale changes were 
needed. Within 1½ years — and with the decision to follow Brooklyn in breaking 
the color line — Durocher, Stoneham and Feeney's front office had built 
the Giants into a hard-playing, balanced team of pitching, hitting, speed 
and defense. In 1951, the Giants battled back from a 13½ game deficit on 
August 11, winning 37 of their last 44 games to force a best-of-three pennant 
playoff with Brooklyn. After splitting the first two games, the Giants 
overcame one last hurdle — a 4-1, ninth-inning Brooklyn lead in Game 3 
— to beat the Dodgers on Bobby Thomson's three-run home run, baseball's 
version of the "Shot Heard 'Round the World." The Giants had won their 
first National League pennant since 1937, but they dropped the 1951 World 
Series in six games to the New York Yankees. Brooklyn dominated the NL 
for the next two seasons, but, in 1954, Durocher's Giants — led by batting 
champion Willie Mays and the runner-up, Don Mueller — emerged as champions, 
winning the pennant by five games. They drew the Cleveland Indians, who 
had set an American League record by winning 111 games, as their opponents 
in the 1954 World Series. But the Giants won in four straight games, highlighted 
by Mays' game-saving catch of Vic Wertz' long drive in Game 1, the clutch 
hitting of obscure outfielder and pinch hitter Dusty Rhodes, and effective 
pitching from four different starters. Unfortunately, the 1954 Fall Classic 
was the last highlight of the Giants' 70-plus year history in New York 
City. Attendance plunged in the years that immediately followed, and after 
Durocher's resignation in 1955 to become a "Game of the Week" baseball 
broadcaster, the team played poorly. By 1957, owner Stoneham had decided 
to leave for greener pastures, ultimately choosing San Francisco as the 
team's destination to preserve its historic rivalry with the Dodgers, who 
simultaneously moved to Los Angeles. The Giants returned to the first division 
upon moving to the West Coast, led by players produced by the club's farm 
system. Feeney and farm director Carl Hubbell, the Hall of Fame pitcher, 
had stocked the team with outstanding young talent — especially African-American 
and Latin-American players, exploiting lingering prejudice by most other 
Major League clubs. The Giants were the first team to sign players from 
the Dominican Republic, bringing to San Francisco stars such as Juan Marichal, 
Felipe Alou and Matty Alou. The Giants also were the first MLB team to 
sign a player from Japan, Masanori Murakami, a left-handed pitcher who 
debuted in 1964. In 1962, the Giants and Dodgers engaged in a West Coast 
version of the 1951 pennant chase. The Dodgers built an early lead in the 
National League race, but began to fall to earth when ace left-hander Sandy 
Koufax was sidelined by a finger ailment. By season's end, the teams were 
deadlocked, at 101 wins and 61 defeats. Again, a best-of-three playoff 
would determine the champion, and — again — the Giants would rally in the 
ninth inning of Game 3 (this time from a 4–2 deficit) to beat the Dodgers. 
But the deciding game was played in Los Angeles, thus the winning run — 
forced in by a bases-loaded walk — was not a "walk-off" situation and lacked 
the drama of Thomson's home run. The Giants, as in '51, faced the Yankees 
in the 1962 World Series and lost, this time in seven games. Although San 
Francisco remained a first-division team, and frequent contender, during 
the rest of the 1960s, it did not win another pennant in the decade; in 
fact, the team won one division championship from 1969 through 1986 (1971), 
and did not appear in the World Series again until 1989. The Giants finished 
in second place for four successive seasons (1965–68). By 1969, the team 
was showing signs of age and decline. Concurrently, Feeney was being considered 
for prominent positions within Major League Baseball's hierarchy. After 
his candidacy for Commissioner of Baseball fell short, Feeney succeeded 
Warren Giles as National League president on December 5, 1969. During his 
17-year (1970–86) presidency, the National League continued its dominance 
of the All-Star Game, losing only in 1971, 1983 and 1986 and winning 14 
times, although the AL prevailed in the World Series, 9–8, during this 
period. Feeney rallied NL owners to resist adoption of the designated hitter 
and presided over a period of stability, as the league neither expanded 
nor moved a franchise during his term. (Ironically, the NL team that came 
closest to moving was Stoneham's Giants, which were nearly sold to a Toronto 
consortium in 1976. The owner who saved the Giants for San Francisco in 
1976, Bob Lurie, nearly moved the team to St. Petersburg, Florida in 1992.) 
Just before his tenure as NL president ended, he made an appearance on 
Jeopardy! in the revived show's second season in 1986. As he passed his 
65th birthday, Feeney was succeeded as NL president by A. Bartlett Giamatti. 
His baseball career concluded with a 15-month tour as president of the 
San Diego Padres (1987–88), which ended with his resignation the day after 
he gave the finger to fans carrying a "SCRUB CHUB" sign on Fan Appreciation 
Night in San Diego on September 24, 1988.[1] He died in January 1994 of 
a heart attack in San Francisco at the age of 72. He is interred at Skylawn 
