Charles Cloyd Hostetler (September 22, 1903 – February 18, 1971) was a 
Major League Baseball right fielder for the Detroit Tigers in 1944 and 
1945. He is remembered as baseball's oldest rookie, making his debut in 
1944 at age 40, and as the player whose baserunning error at age 42 cost 
the Tigers Game 6 of the 1945 World Series. Born in 1903 in McClellandtown, 
Pennsylvania, Hostetler was considered a great prospect with the Boston 
Braves, but he was released in 1929.[1] He later played for the Akron Tyrites 
in the Central League in 1929, hitting .360 in 104 games. He next played 
later for the Tulsa Oilers in the St. Louis Browns organization, and then 
in the Washington Senators farm system.[1] Eventually, Hostetler says, 
"I gave up the idea of playing in the majors." He noted: "When a fellow 
reaches 35 the thought of playing in the majors is wishful thinking."[1] 
After nine years in the minor leagues, Hostetler left the minor leagues 
and took on various industrial jobs. He played four or five games a week 
of semi-pro ball in Wichita, Kansas, and Texas, when his work schedule 
permitted.[1][2] World War II had decimated the rosters of most major league 
baseball teams. Players who had been passed over suddenly were in demand. 
So it was that Detroit Tigers contacted Hostetler in 1943. Hostetler noted 
that when the Tigers contacted him, "I was really a surprised rookie."[1] 
Hostetler hit .350 during spring training at Evansville, Indiana.[1] Hostetler's 
hot hitting and a leg injury to center fielder Roger Cramer, won Hostetler 
a spot on the Tigers' 1944 major league roster. Born in 1903, he was 40 
years old when he played his first major league game, making him the oldest 
rookie in the history of the game.[3] Hostetler's debut in April 1944 drew 
attention from the press. He reported his age as 38 (he was actually 40). 
The wire services ran several articles about Hostetler's unusual achievement. 
One article noted: "Chuck is a rookie at 38, something unheard of even 
in wartime baseball."[1] Another article noted: "A 38-year-old rookie who's 
been out of organized baseball for seven years is making the Detroit Tigers 
believe that life begins at 40 -- or 38 at least.[2] Yet another referred 
to Hostetler as a player "snatched out of a factory two years ago to add 
depth to a garden depleted by the war."[4] When the regular season got 
underway, Hostetler took full advantage of the opportunity and was the 
hottest hitter in baseball that spring. As of May 3, 1944, the Associated 
Press reported that "the over-age recruit has 12 hits in 26 tries for a 
fat .462 average."[2] On May 2, he collected three hits, including a triple, 
to lead the Tigers to a 4–3 win over the St. Louis Browns.[2] Three weeks 
into the season, Hostetler was still leading the league with a .444 batting 
average and had become the talk of the baseball world.[1] Baseball writer 
Chip Royal referred to Hostetler as "a 38-year-old veteran from the sandlots 
with a terrific wallop at the plate."[5] Detroit manager Steve O'Neill 
noted that Hostetler was not much of a pull hitter, "but he's hustling 
all the time. That's why Chuck is keeping some pretty good men on the bench."[1] 
By June 27, 1944, Hostetler's average had dipped to .318, but he was still 
fifth in the American League in batting average.[6] For the season, Hostetler 
played 90 games, hit for a .298 batting average, scored 42 runs, collected 
20 RBIs, 21 walks, four stolen bases, nine doubles, two triples, and a 
.350 on-base percentage. Hostetler remained with the Tigers in 1945 as 
they won the American League pennant and advanced to the 1945 World Series. 
Hostetler played only sparingly in 1945, batting just .159 in 42 games; 
still the 42-year-old "begged" Detroit manager Steve O'Neill for a chance 
to appear in the World Series. Ultimately, Hostetler appeared as a pinch 
hitter three times in the Fall Classic, failing to get a hit. However, 
it was his appearance in the sixth game for which he is best remembered: 
the infamous "Hostetler flop". In the seventh inning of Game 6, with the 
Cubs ahead 4–1, Hostetler pinch hit for Skeeter Webb to start the inning. 
He hit a ground ball and was safe on an error.[7] He advanced to second 
on a ground out by Eddie Mayo, and when Doc Cramer hit a single to left 
field, Hostetler ran through manager Steve O'Neill's stop sign at third 
base. He tried to put on his brakes half way home, lost his footing, fell 
to the ground, and was tagged out while scrambling around on all fours. 
One press account described it this way: "Hostetler fell flat on his face 
between third base and home in the seventh inning and was tagged out, helping 
break up a two-run Tiger rally."[8] Detroit sports writer Joe Falls later 
called it "the Hostetler flop."[9] Another account described Hostetler's 
efforts to swim home: "He tripped and fell rounding third base and tried 
unsuccessfully to 'swim' to the plate."[10] After Hostetler was thrown 
out, Hank Greenberg hit a home run that would have scored Hostetler if 
he had held up. Instead, the game went into extra innings, and the Tigers 
lost, 8–7. As a result, Hostetler was the goat. One writer noted that Greenberg's 
home run would have ended the Series if only Hostetler had "stayed on his 
feet."[8] After the game, a dejected Steve O'Neill said: "We would have 
won if Chuck Hostetler had only caught my signal to hold up when he was 
rounding third."[11] (Luckily for Hostetler and the Tigers, Detroit clinched 
the Series two days later with a 9-3 win at Wrigley Field.) In January 
1946, the Associated Press reported: "Chuck Hostetler, utility infielder 
who gained questionable fame for his world series high dive rounding third 
base, has been released."[12] In fact, Hostetler did not appear in another 
pro baseball game after his base running error in the 1945 World Series, 
finally retiring at age 42. Years later, Hostetler spoke with baseball 
historian Fred Smith and recalled the embarrassing incident: "I’ll never 
forget it. I played only two years in the majors with the Tigers but this 
is what anyone ever talked about." Fifty years later, baseball writer Joe 
Falls was still peeved about Hostetler's blunder. In a column in the Detroit 
News, Falls wrote: "If anyone symbolized the futility of wartime baseball 
— both in Detroit and America — it was outfielder Chuck Hostetler of the 
Tigers, the man who fell on his face in the 1945 World Series."[9] Hostetler 
died in 1971 at age 67 in Fort Collins, Colorado. His obituary noted: "Hostetler 
gained some degree of fame when he was blamed for the Tigers loss of the 
