As Player Charles William "Chuck" Tanner (July 4, 1928 – February 11, 2011) 
was an American professional baseball player and manager. He played as 
a left fielder in Major League Baseball. He was known for his unwavering 
confidence and infectious optimism.[1][2] He managed the Pittsburgh Pirates 
to a World Series championship in 1979. He last served as a senior adviser 
to Pirates general manager Neal Huntington. A left-handed batter and thrower, 
Tanner signed his first professional baseball contract with the Boston 
Braves. He played for eight seasons (1955–1962) for four different teams: 
the Milwaukee Braves, Chicago Cubs, Cleveland Indians and Los Angeles Angels. 
In 396 games played, Tanner batted .261 with 21 home runs. While with the 
Braves, Tanner hit a home run off the first pitch in his first career at-bat 
on April 12, 1955.[3] He is the only Braves player to hit a home run in 
his first at-bat in Milwaukee. Tanner is best known as a manager, having 
managed four teams from 1970 to 1988. His overall managerial record was 
1,352–1,381 in 17 full seasons and parts of two others.[4] Tanner would 
spend his entire Minor League managing career in the Angels' system. In 
1963, Tanner began his managerial career with the single-A Quad Cities 
Angels in the Midwest League. Tanner would spend the next seven season 
climbing the Angels' organizational ladder and in 1970 he led the AAA Hawaii 
Islanders to 98 wins in 146 games and a Pacific Coast League pennant. In 
late September, he received his first major league managing assignment 
guiding the Chicago White Sox for the final 16 games of the season after 
the firing of manager Don Gutteridge and interim manager Bill Adair. With 
the White Sox, Tanner managed such star players as Wilbur Wood, Carlos 
May, Bill Melton, and the temperamental Dick Allen. His most successful 
season with the Sox came in 1972, when he managed them to a close second-place 
finish behind the eventual World Series champion Oakland Athletics in the 
American League (AL) Western Division. The pitching staff was led by 24-game 
winner Wood, whom Tanner had converted from a reliever to a starter. Tanner 
was voted that year's The Sporting News Manager of the Year Award.[2] He 
also converted Rich "Goose" Gossage from a starting pitcher to a reliever, 
a role that would lead Gossage to the Hall of Fame.[2] Tanner managed the 
Sox until 1975, when he was fired and replaced by Paul Richards. He finished 
his White Sox career with a record of 401 wins and 414 losses.[4] After 
firing Alvin Dark following Oakland's three-game sweep at the hands Boston 
Red Sox in the 1975 AL Championship Series, Charlie Finley hired Tanner 
on 19 December 1975 to manage the A's.[5] With speedy players such as Bert 
Campaneris, Bill North, Claudell Washington, and Don Baylor, Tanner made 
the A's into a running team, stealing an AL league-record 341 bases.[2] 
Eight players had 20 or more steals, including 51 by pinch runners Matt 
Alexander (who only came to the plate 30 times) and Larry Lintz (who had 
one at-bat all season).[1] However, the days of the juggernaut A's of Reggie 
Jackson and Catfish Hunter had passed with the coming of free agency and 
Tanner's switch to small-ball couldn't prop up a crumbling dynasty as the 
team finished second in the AL West, 2 1⁄2 games behind the Kansas City 
Royals. He finished his Athletics career with a record of 87 wins and 74 
losses.[4] Before the 1977 season, the A's were in the process of trading 
off many of their stars of the great team that won three straight championships 
from 1972 to 1974. Part of the sell-off was the trading of Tanner's services 
to the Pittsburgh Pirates for an aging Manny Sanguillén. This was the second 
instance in major-league history where a manager has been part of a baseball 
trade (Joe Gordon and Jimmie Dykes were traded for each other in the 1960s; 
Lou Piniella of the Seattle Mariners was traded to the Tampa Bay Devil 
Rays almost 30 years later). However, Sanguillén would be traded back to 
the Pirates, reunited with Tanner in 1978. He reached the pinnacle of his 
managerial career in 1979 as the skipper of the Pirates' 1979 World Series 
champion team. The team included future Hall of Famers, first baseman Willie 
Stargell and pitcher Bert Blyleven, along with curmudgeonly stars like 
third baseman Bill Madlock and outfielder Dave Parker. Tanner guided the 
team together, and the players selected the Sister Sledge hit "We Are Family" 
as their theme song. The Pirates were able to win the World Series after 
falling behind three games to one to the Baltimore Orioles. Hall of Fame 
manager Sparky Anderson wrote of the Pirates, "They do everything with 
abandon, because that's the way Chuck Tanner wants it. He's an aggressive 
manager, a manager who doesn’t go by the book. That's why Pittsburgh is 
such an exciting team."[2] 1979 would be Tanner's only divisional winner 
as a manager. Tanner's next few teams would not match his 1979 World Series 
winner as the 1985 Pittsburgh Drug Trials showed that serious drug problems 
beset the team—arguably the worst of any major league team. The most famous 
Pirate affected by his usage was Parker, whose cocaine habit punched a 
hole in his offensive production in the middle of his career—possibly costing 
him a chance at Cooperstown. Reliever Rod Scurry had it much worse; his 
cocaine habit ultimately forced him out of baseball in 1988 and cost him 
his life in 1992. Following five years of mediocre seasons in which the 
Pirates neither lost nor won no more than 84 games, but only finished as 
high as second place in the division once, Tanner was fired following a 
104-loss season in 1985.[4] He finished his Pirates career with a record 
of 711 wins and 685 losses.[4] Tanner was hired by the Atlanta Braves prior 
to the 1986 season, but his teams would continue to muddle along near the 
bottom of their division—finishing last and second to last in the NL West 
in his two full seasons. Following a 12–27 start to the 1988 season, Tanner 
was fired by the Braves and replaced by Russ Nixon. he finished his Braves 
career with a record of 153 wins and 208 losses.[4] After spending five 
seasons as a special assistant to the general manager of the Cleveland 
Indians, Tanner was named a senior advisor to new Pittsburgh Pirates GM 
Neal Huntington in the autumn of 2007. In 2006, he was invited to be a 
coach in the 2006 All Star game by NL manager Phil Garner, who had played 
for both the A's and the Pirates during Tanner's tenure as manager. Prior 
to the start of the game, Tanner threw out the ceremonial first pitch. 
In 2007, the Rotary Club of Pittsburgh began the Chuck Tanner Baseball 
Manager of the Year Award. For the first three years, the award was given 
to a manager in Major League Baseball. In 2010, a second award was presented 
to the "Chuck Tanner Collegiate Baseball Manager of the Year"; the original 
award was renamed the "Chuck Tanner Major League Baseball Manager of the 
Year Award". He was the father of former major league player and coach 
Bruce Tanner. Tanner later opened a restaurant in his hometown of New Castle, 
Pennsylvania, that is currently run by his family. It is simply named "Chuck 
Tanner's Restaurant".[1] Tanner died at age 82 on February 11, 2011, in 
