Charles Albert Comiskey II (November 19, 1925 – August 26, 2007) was part-owner 
of the Chicago White Sox from 1956 to 1961. A native of Chicago, Comiskey 
was the grandson of the team's founder, Charles Comiskey. Comiskey's father, 
Lou, inherited the team after Charles Comiskey's death in 1931. When Lou 
died in 1939, ownership passed to his wife and Chuck's mother, Grace Comiskey. 
Chuck joined the family business in 1948 and was appointed vice president. 
During his time in the White Sox front office, Comiskey played an important 
role in developing the minor league system of the Go-Go Sox teams of the 
late 1950s, ultimately culminating with the team's winning the American 
League championship in 1959.[citation needed] In 1956, Comiskey became 
co-general manager along with his brother-in-law Johnny Rigney, replacing 
Frank Lane. His mother died later that year, and in her will control of 
the team was split between Comiskey and his older sister, Dorothy. Comiskey 
received a 46% stake, making him the team's second largest shareholder. 
However, he felt the team was his birthright, and spent the next two years 
trying to wrest control of the team from his sister. After a lengthy court 
battle, Dorothy opted to sell the team to Comiskey after the 1958 season. 
Believing that Dorothy wouldn't consider any offers from outside the family, 
Comiskey made a fairly low offer. Dorothy responded by selling her 54% 
stake to a group headed by Bill Veeck. However, Comiskey refused to sell 
his interest and remained as the team's largest single shareholder. This 
forced Veeck to incur over a million dollars in additional taxes.[1] In 
1961, Veeck sold his stake to Arthur and John Allyn. Seeing a chance to 
finally gain control of the team, Comiskey sold his stock to a group headed 
by Chicago insurance magnate William Bartholomay. Comiskey promised Bartholomay 
that he would be able to overwhelm the Allyns with an offer for total control, 
allowing him an opportunity to buy the team. However, the Allyns turned 
Bartholomay down. This ended the Comiskey family's 62-year involvement 
with the White Sox. In the early 1970s, Comiskey owned and operated Carriage 
Transfer, a Hinsdale taxi and limousine company. While baseball was no 
longer his profession, he remained a lifelong White Sox fan and season-ticket 
holder.[citation needed] He was nonetheless disappointed when Comiskey 
Park, built by his grandfather in 1910 and synonymous with South Side baseball 
for eight decades, gave way to a new Comiskey Park in 1991 (later renamed 
U.S. Cellular Field). The name change did not diminish his enthusiasm when 
Chicago won the 2005 World Series, the team's first championship since 
