Red, white, black                The Cincinnati Reds, also known as the 
Cincinnati Red Stockings, were a professional baseball team based in Cincinnati, 
Ohio that played from 1875–1880. The club predated the National League 
of which it became a charter member. John Joyce, who was an organizer of 
the Red Stockings club dismantled in 1870, reformed the club through a 
new company in 1875. Two players from the 1870 season returned as part 
of a new professional nine which played local amateur clubs.[1] Joyce then 
sold the Reds to wealthy Cincinnati meat packer Josiah "Si" Keck during 
the winter. When the National League was formed on February 2, 1876 at 
the Grand Central Hotel in New York City, eight cities were selected to 
compete in the new major league: St. Louis, Hartford, Louisville, New York, 
Philadelphia, Chicago, Boston and Keck's Cincinnati club.[2] The Reds began 
the 1876 season at Avenue Grounds. They were managed by player/manager 
Charlie Gould, and outfielder Charley Jones led the Cincinnati offense 
with 4 home runs and 38 runs batted in. The 1876 team finished a dismal 
9-56, last in the new eight-team National League. In 1877, helmed by the 
managing trio of Lip Pike, Bob Addy, and Jack Manning, the Reds finished 
6th in the National League. Pike, the second baseman, led the team with 
4 home runs and rookie pitcher Bobby Mitchell led the team with 41 strikeouts. 
In the 1878 season, player/manager Cal McVey piloted Cincinnati to second 
place in the league. Charley Jones led the team with 3 homers and Will 
White led the team with 169 strikeouts. Sharing the managing duties, catcher 
Deacon White and McVey managed the team to 5th place. Starting pitcher 
Will White hurled 232 strikeouts. Baseball Hall of Fame member King Kelly 
played on the 1878 and '79 Reds. Managed by John Clapp in 1880, the Reds 
had a 21-59 record and finished 8th in the NL. The Cincinnati team was 
banned from the National League because it was expected to eventually violate 
two recently adopted rules: the team's ballpark, the Bank Street Grounds, 
marketed beer, and the Reds did not close their ballpark on Sundays. Though 
the team was banned months before these rules came into effect, the Reds 
did not contest the legality of their expulsion. Instead, after not fielding 
a professional team in 1881, a reformed Reds team joined the American Association 
for its inaugural season in 1882. In this respect, the Reds entered the 
sort of corporate reconstruction navigated by teams such as Scotland's 
Hibernian F.C., which make a distinction between the company administering 
a club, and the club itself as a cultural entity (which might reform and 
continue playing after the corporate failure of its corporate identity).[citation 
needed] Accordingly, the current Reds organization counts the 1881 company 
as continuing the history of the 1875 club.[3] Unlike Hibernian's case, 
in which the rest of the league agrees on the club's founding date, the 
