The Kelly's Killers were a Major League baseball team that played in Cincinnati, 
Ohio during the 1891 baseball season. The team played in the American Association, 
which was a major league from 1882 to 1891. By contemporary newspaper accounts, 
the club was mainly referred to as the Cincinnati Reds, the same name as 
their cross-town rivals in the National League. This in addition to variants 
on the informal name "Kelly's Killers". It is the latter name, however, 
by which they are more broadly known today. The Cincinnati Kelly's Killers 
were a response by the American Association to fill the void that the Cincinnati 
Reds had left when the club vacated the league after the 1889 season and 
again before the 1891 season. The Reds played in the National League for 
the 1890 season but were losing money and facing bankruptcy. Reds' ownership 
sold the club to Players' League investor Albert Johnson. Johnson then 
withdrew his newly acquired Reds club and moved them to the Players' League 
for the 1891 season. After the Players' League collapsed, Johnson committed 
the Reds to the American Association. Meanwhile, the National League placed 
a new franchise in Cincinnati which was owned by John T. Brush. However, 
for reasons that are still unknown, Johnson decided to sell his Reds club 
back to the National League before the start of the season. The National 
League simply let Brush take control over the Reds as if they never left 
the league in the first place. The Association was crushed when the Reds 
left the league for a second time. The league placed a new franchise in 
the Queen City to fill the void left by the Reds' departure. The new Association 
club was owned by Chris von der Ahe, who also owned the St. Louis Browns. 
His new Cincinnati club would be captained by Mike "King" Kelly, whose 
major league career began in Cincinnati with the original National League 
Reds club of the 1870s. The new Association club was in need of a ballpark. 
Vacant lots within the city were few and far between so ownership decided 
to build a ballpark in a picturesque location along the Ohio River that 
was known as Pendleton Park, or Pendleton Grounds. The club secured a lease 
and built a small ballpark within Pendleton Park, which was dubbed East 
End Park by the media. The location of the park was off Eastern Avenue 
(now called Riverside Drive), where the Schmidt Recreation Complex is currently 
located. Many fans reached games by steamboat, coming either from the city 
or from Coney Island. East End Park was one of only a handful of major 
league parks to have access by way of a river. The club got off to a terrible 
start and many of Mike Kelly's Killers were taken with the flu. Delays 
in the construction of the ballpark also left the club on the road for 
most of April. By the time Cincinnati played their first home game (April 
25), Mike Kelly's men were 5-9. As the season progressed, Mike Kelly and 
his killers found themselves in jail frequently as a result of attempting 
to play baseball on Sundays. At the time, the National League did not allow 
Sunday baseball games to be played. As a result, the rival Association 
capitalized on this by having their teams play Sunday games. The problem 
for Cincinnati was that the city had the blue law in place which also disallowed 
Sunday games. Owners of the club made repeated attempts at playing games 
on Sundays. Sometimes the Mayor of Cincinnati, Mayor John B. Mosby, would 
enforce the law and other times he would not. When the Mayor did enforce 
the law, the Killers and the players from the opposing team found themselves 
in jail. As the season wore on the club lagged in the standings and were 
never true contenders. By August the club was 21 games out of first place 
and losing money. The inconvenient location of the club's ballpark, poor 
play on the field and the fact that they were competing for spectators 
with the Reds hurt the Kelly's Killers' attendance. By mid-August, it was 
decided by league leaders and club ownership to suspend the franchise for 
the remainder of the 1891 season and reactivate the club for the 1892 season 
in a brand new ballpark on the west side of town. With 34 games remaining 
on their schedule, the Milwaukee Brewers, of the Western League, stepped 
in and played out the Kel's remaining games. According to the Chicago Tribune, 
it was feared that the September meeting at the Latonia racetrack would 
hurt attendance. Frank Dwyer, Willie Mains, Farmer Vaughn and Jim Canavan 
all signed on to play for the Milwaukee club. Kelly returned to play for 
the Boston Reds for four games before jumping back to the National League's 
Boston Beaneaters. Unfortunately the 1891 season would be the Association's 
final year. The circuit merged with the National League, transferring St. 
Louis, Louisville, Washington and Baltimore to the senior circuit while 
