The Cincinnati Red Stockings of 1869 were baseball's first openly all-professional 
team, with ten salaried players.[1] The Cincinnati Base Ball Club formed 
in 1866 and fielded competitive teams in the National Association of Base 
Ball Players (NABBP) 1867–1870, a time of a transition that ambitious Cincinnati, 
Ohio businessmen and English-born ballplayer Harry Wright shaped as much 
as anyone. Major League Baseball recognized those events officially by 
sponsoring a centennial of professional baseball in 1969. Thanks partly 
to their on-field success and the continental scope of their tours, the 
Red Stockings established styles in team uniforms and team nicknames that 
have some currency even in the 21st century. They also established a particular 
color, red, as the color of Cincinnati, and they provide the ultimate origin 
for the use of "Red Sox" in Boston. The Cincinnati Base Ball Club, or simply 
Cincinnati Club, was established June 23, 1866 at a downtown law office, 
drawing up a constitution and by-laws and electing officers including Alfred 
T. Goshorn, President. A few years later Goshorn earned international fame 
as Director-General of the (U.S.) Centennial Exposition held 1876 in Philadelphia. 
Founding member George B. Ellard also led the Union Cricket Club, and the 
relationship between them proved decisive for the baseball club's success.[2] 
After playing four matches that summer, Cincinnati joined the NABBP for 
1867 and concluded an agreement to play at the Union Cricket Club grounds. 
George Ellard's son says that "a great number of the cricket club members" 
joined and so "the team was greatly strengthened and interest in baseball 
gained a new impetus." Plans for a new clubhouse and "more substantical" 
enclosing fence were approved in April and the commercial basis was approved 
in June: members of both clubs admitted free to all matches; otherwise 
"ten cents for home matches and twenty five cents for foreign matches. 
Ladies free." (Ellard 23-27). The team was soon nicknamed "Red Stockings" 
in reference to the main feature of the uniforms designed by Ellard; long 
stockings were then a novelty in team uniforms.[3] Harry Wright had migrated 
from New York in 1866 for a job as "club pro" at the Union Cricket Club. 
Next year he picked up similar baseball duties, but the lingo is commonly 
stretched to call him a baseball "manager" from that time. His first team 
may have been local to a man, but he both developed and imported players 
to represent the club in competitive play for the 1868 season. The first 
team won 16 matches with regional opponents, losing only to the touring 
Nationals from Washington. As for most hosts on that tour, it was a "bad 
loss" on the scorecard but an instructive one for Cincinnati: the players, 
the club, the fans, and perhaps the local newspapers. Everyone learned 
advanced points of play and, from their different perspectives, witnessed 
the gulf in playing strength. About half of the 1868 Red Stockings were 
eastern imports, presumably compensated somehow. The two leading batsmen, 
John Hatfield and Fred Waterman arrived from the New York Mutuals, one 
of the strongest teams anywhere and another team pushing the bounds of 
the amateur code. Asa Brainard had been the Brooklyn Excelsiors' regular 
pitcher for four seasons, succeeded in 1867 by Candy Cummings. Catcher 
Doug Allison was from the Geary club of Philadelphia, one of the stronger 
clubs in that city. There was one local recruit, too, from the rival Buckeye 
club: Charlie Gould at first base. Harry Wright remained the first pitcher, 
sharing that position and second base with Brainard, and three other incumbents 
remained in the outfield and at shortstop. The 1868 team played a heavy 
schedule including a late eastern tour, once again dominating the western 
teams but losing seven of 43 matches in all. When the NABBP permitted professional 
members for 1869, Harry Wright and probably George Ellard organized a fully 
professional team:[4] ten men on salary for eight months, March 15 to November 
15. Wright played center field and coordinated the team defense, a novelty 
from any position. Younger brother and shortstop George Wright, new to 
the team in 1869, was its best player, maybe the best of his time. The 
professional Cincinnati Red Stockings played their first game May 4, 1869, 
with a 45-9 win over the Great Westerns of Cincinnati. The team won 57 
games and lost zero, counting only matches with Association clubs. They 
played over 70 games counting outside teams. Its commercial tour of continental 
scope, visiting both Boston and San Francisco, was unprecedented and may 
be essentially unrepeated. The first season ended November 6 at home with 
the Cincinnatis beating the Mutuals of New York 17-8.[5] With the same 
regular nine, the 1870 team continued to win regularly, perhaps 24 games 
before losing 8-7 in eleven innings to the Brooklyn Atlantics in Brooklyn, 
June 14. The Red Stockings remained one of the few strongest teams on the 
field, losing only six games, but attendance declined badly, especially 
at home. In 1869, the Red Stockings posted a perfect 65-0 record, the only 
perfect season in professional baseball history. This was the first team 
to play on the East and West coasts in the same season. More than 2,000 
people greeted the team when it arrived in San Francisco at 10:00 p.m. 
“They really helped nationalize the game and put Cincinnati on the map 
as a baseball town,” said Greg Rhodes, a Reds historian who wrote “The 
First Boys of Summer” (Road West Publishing Company, 1994), along with 
Enquirer reporter John Erardi, about the 1869-1870 Red Stockings. On June 
14, 1870, after 84 consecutive wins since assembling the first professional 
team in, the Cincinnati Red Stockings lost 8-7 to the Brooklyn Atlantics 
before a crowd of 20,000 at the Capitoline Grounds. Bob Ferguson scores 
the winning run in the 11th inning on a hit by pitcher George Zettlein. 
The Executive Board now led by President A.P.C. Bonte recommended on November 
21, 1871, that the club not employ a nine for 1871, for that had become 
too expensive. The spokesmen anticipated "a development of the amateur 
talent of our club, such as has not been displayed since we employed professionals." 
The officers subsequently decided to disband the company (the players having 
disbanded via the market) and a public meeting of the members put that 
decision into effect (Ellard [1908]: 155-56). Harry Wright was hired by 
founder and president Ivers Whitney Adams to organize a new pro club in 
Boston and he signed three Cincinnati teammates to join the 1871 Boston 
Red Stockings in the first professional league, as it turned out. Ex-Cincinnati 
Red Stockings moved around some (see the note on Team members) but Boston 
retained both Wright brothers throughout the five years of the National 
Association. The current Cincinnati Reds club identifies itself with the 
Cincinnati Red Stockings,[6] despite reorganization and defections in the 
early years. The distinct Boston Red Stockings, beginning business with 
half of the Cincinnati team, both followed the young tradition and spread 
it to Boston. Eventually the Boston Red Stockings adopted the name Boston 
Braves; the club is now based in Atlanta, and still retains red as one 
of its uniform colors. The Boston Red Sox, established in 1901, adopted 
their version of the old nickname in 1908. Ten men composed the 1869 team 
and the First Nine returned for 1870 in the same roles. From 1867 Harry 
Wright fulfilled the duties of modern field managers, general managers, 
and traveling secretaries. In 1868 he and Brainard shared the pitcher and 
second base positions with Allison, Gould, and Waterman already manning 
the other bases. For the crosstown rival Buckeye club, Sweasy and Leonard 
played second and third with Hurley a substitute. Among them only Gould 
was a Cincinnati native; the others were from the East, presumably compensated 
somehow by club members if not by the clubs. (The Association first permitted 
professional clubs for 1869.) Meanwhile, George Wright and McVey played 
in New York and Indianapolis, primarily at shortstop and pitcher.[7] For 
1871 the Nine split between two teams in the new all-professional National 
Association: Gould, the Wright brothers, and McVey with the Boston Red 
Stockings; Brainard, Allison, Sweasy, Waterman, and Leonard with the Washington 
Olympics. Substitute Hurley is also a "major leaguer" for his brief play 
with the Olympics in 1872, although that club went out of business midseason 
and he did not return to the league. The leading substitute in the second 
season, Harry Deane joined the Fort Wayne Kekiongas in 1871 and later played 
a full season regularly. Andy Leonard rejoined Gould, the Wrights, and 
McVey in Boston for 1872, the first of four consecutive championship seasons 
there. After one miss Harry won his last two championships as a non-playing 
manager in 1877-1878 with Leonard and brother George still among his regulars. 
Gould and McVey left in 1873, although McVey returned for 1874-75 only. 
Before Cincinnati hired its team for the 1869 season, the strongest clubs 
were located from Washington to Troy, New York. In 1867 and 1868, Cincinnati 
was beaten only by clubs from that eastern corridor, winning 16 and 29 
games without defeat against western opponents.[8] Championship matches 
