In baseball, a circle changeup is a pitch thrown with a grip that includes 
a circle formation, hence the name. The circle is formed by making a circle 
with the index finger, holding the thumb at the bottom of the ball parallel 
to the middle finger and holding the ball far out in the hand. The ball 
is thrown turning the palm out (pronating the forearm). A circle change 
can also be used to provide movement like a two seam fastball but without 
the stress placed on the arm by a traditional screwball. By placing the 
index and ring fingers slightly to the inside (that is, towards the thumb) 
of the ball and sharply pronating the forearm at release, a pitcher can 
make the ball move downward and inside. Pitchers with smaller hands will 
only place the index finger slightly to the inside (that is, towards the 
thumb) of the ball. A left-handed pitcher's circle change will break down 
and away from a right-handed batter. Effective circle changeups can reduce 
the platoon split a pitcher will experience. To follow proper form, a pitcher 
releases the ball while keeping his wrist straight, then follows through 
fully. Additional change in velocity can be achieved by dragging the foot 
that would normally follow through fully with a fastball delivery. However, 
the most effective way to reduce the velocity of a changeup is by slightly 
reducing stride length. If the typical stride length for the pitcher's 
fastball is around 80-90% of pitcher's height, then the pitcher would need 
to reduce stride by 10-20%. By doing so, the pitcher eliminates the possibility 
of tipping off the pitch. Simply using a slower arm motion is undesirable, 
as it may tip off the batter, and will invariably result in less movement 
on the pitch. If this pitch is placed too high in the strike zone, it can 
be hit very hard. It is an effective pitch to throw early in the count 
to produce a groundball; it is not traditionally used to acquire a strikeout. 
By rotating the wrist (before the release) the pitcher can change the movement 
from resembling a fastball to resembling a curveball. An effective changeup 
must be thrown with an identical arm action to a fastball, to avoid tipping 
off the batter. Johan Santana, Pedro Martínez, Cole Hamels, Huston Street, 
Zack Greinke, Kyle Hendricks and Marco Estrada are pitchers who rely heavily 
on their circle changeup. Former New York Mets closer John Franco was able 
to generate so much movement on his circle changeup that it mimicked a 
screwball. Atlanta Braves pitcher Tom Glavine was known for using the outside 
corner of the plate with his circle changeup. Minnesota Twins ace Frank 
Viola also used the circle changeup to great effect, as well as former 
Atlanta Braves pitcher Charlie Leibrandt. Recently, Los Angeles Dodgers 
pitcher Hyun-jin Ryu used a circle changeup efficiently throughout his 
first MLB season, throwing a circle changeup that was gripped using the 
index finger on the seam of the ball and the thumb on the side of the ball 
to "choke" the ball. According to his autobiography, Nolan Ryan also developed 
his own circle changeup to add another off-speed pitch without having to 
throw a slider (as sliders are believed to more frequently cause injuries). 
