Left field Left center Deep left center Center field Deep right center  
Right center Right field 335 feet (102 m) 358 feet (109 m) 385 feet (117 m) 
408 feet (124 m) 398 feet (121 m) 375 feet (114 m) 330 feet (100 m) Citi 
Field is a stadium located in Flushing Meadows–Corona Park in the New York 
City borough of Queens. Completed in 2009, it is the home baseball park 
of Major League Baseball's New York Mets. Citi Field was built as a replacement 
for the formerly adjacent Shea Stadium, which opened in 1964 next to the 
site of the 1964–1965 World's Fair. Citi Field was designed by Populous 
(then HOK Sport), and is named after Citigroup, a New York financial services 
company which purchased the naming rights. The $850 million baseball park 
was funded with $615 million in public subsides,[8] including the sale 
of New York City municipal bonds which are to be repaid by the Mets plus 
interest. The payments will offset property taxes for the lifetime of the 
park.[9][10] The Mets are receiving $20 million annually from Citibank 
in exchange for naming the stadium Citi Field. The entire public cost is 
being borne by city and state taxpayers in New York. The first game at 
Citi Field was on March 29, 2009, with a college baseball game between 
St. John's and Georgetown.[11] The Mets played their first two games at 
the ballpark on April 3 and April 4, 2009 against the Boston Red Sox[12] 
as charity exhibition games. The first regular season home game was played 
on April 13, 2009, against the San Diego Padres. Citi Field hosted the 
2013 Major League Baseball All-Star Game. This marked the second time the 
Mets have hosted the game, the first being 1964, the inaugural season of 
Shea Stadium.[13] Since the 1990s, the Mets had been looking to replace 
Shea Stadium. It had originally been built as a multi-purpose stadium in 
1964. While it had been retrofitted for baseball after the NFL's New York 
Jets left for Giants Stadium after the 1983 season, it was still not optimized 
for baseball, with seating located farther away from the playing field 
compared to other major league ballparks.[14] The team unveiled a preliminary 
model of the ballpark in 1998; it featured a retractable roof and a movable 
grass field, which would have allowed it to host events including conventions 
and college basketball. The Mets also considered moving to Mitchel Field 
or Belmont Park in Nassau County, Long Island; Sunnyside Yard in Queens, 
or the West Side Yard in Manhattan.[15] In December 2001, shortly before 
leaving office, New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced "tentative 
agreements" for both the Mets and New York Yankees to build new stadiums. 
Of the $1.6 billion sought for the stadiums, city and state taxpayers would 
pick up half the tab for construction, $800 million, along with $390 million 
on extra transportation.[16] The plan also said that the teams would be 
allowed to keep all parking revenues, which state officials had already 
said they wanted to keep to compensate the state for building new garages 
for the teams.[17] The teams would keep 96% of ticket revenues and 100% 
of all other revenues, not pay sales tax or property tax on the stadium, 
and would get low-cost electricity from New York state.[17] Business officials 
criticized the plan as giving too much money to successful teams with little 
reason to move to a different city.[17] Michael Bloomberg, who succeeded 
Giuliani as mayor, exercised the escape clause in the agreements to back 
out of both deals, saying that the city could not afford to build new stadiums 
for the Mets and Yankees. Bloomberg said that unbeknownst to him, Giuliani 
had inserted a clause in this deal which loosened the teams' leases with 
the city and would allow the Mets and Yankees to leave the city on 60 days' 
notice to find a new home elsewhere if the city backed out of the agreement.[16][17] 
At the time, Bloomberg said that publicly funded stadiums were a poor investment. 
Under Bloomberg, the New York City government would only offer public financing 
for infrastructure improvements; the teams would have to pay for the stadiums 
themselves. Bloomberg called the former mayor's agreements "corporate welfare." 
Giuliani had already been instrumental in the construction of taxpayer-funded 
minor league baseball facilities MCU Park for the Mets' minor league Brooklyn 
Cyclones and Richmond County Bank Ballpark for the Staten Island Yankees. 
The final plans for what is now Citi Field were created as part of the 
New York City 2012 Olympic bid. After plans for a West Side Stadium fell 
through, New York looked for an alternate stadium to host the opening and 
closing ceremonies and track and field. The Olympic Stadium project on 
the West Side was estimated to cost $2.2 billion, with $300 million provided 
by New York City and an additional $300 million from New York State. If 
New York had won the bid, Citi Field would have been expanded to Olympic 
events while the Mets would have played at Yankee Stadium in the Bronx 
for the 2012 season.[18] The projected cost of the new ballpark and other 
infrastructure improvements is $610 million, with the Mets picking up $420 
million of that amount. The agreement includes a 40-year lease that will 
keep the Mets in New York until 2049. The Mets own the stadium through 
a wholly owned subsidiary, Queens Ballpark Company. On March 18, 2006, 
the New York Mets unveiled the official model for the new ballpark. By 
July 2006, initial construction of the new park was underway in the parking 
lot beyond Shea Stadium's left-field, with a projected finish ahead of 
Opening Day 2009 in late March. By April 13, 2008, all of the structure 
for the Jackie Robinson Rotunda was in place with the arched windows receiving 
their paneling and glass. By September 2008, most of the Citi Field signage 
had been installed.[19] By December 1, 2008, all of the seats and the playing 
field had been installed.[20] During the 2010 offseason, the bullpen area 
in right-center field underwent a complete renovation. When the edifice 
opened in time for the start of the 2009 MLB season, the Mets' bullpen 
was in front of the visiting bullpen, leading to an obstructed view of 
the field from the visiting bullpen, which the San Diego Padres complained 
about during the Mets' first regular-season home series. The bullpens were 
turned 90°, with pitchers throwing toward the field instead of parallel 
to it.[21] More Mets team colors, player banners and logos were also added 
throughout the ballpark, including revamping the "Let's Go Mets" slogan 
on the Citi Vision board so that the word "Mets" appears in its traditional 
script instead of the same font as the rest of the slogan.[22] Additionally, 
the height of the home run boundary line directly in front of the Home 
Run Apple in center field was reduced from 16 feet (4.9 m) to 8 feet (2.4 m) 
in an attempt to produce more home runs.[23] During its first three seasons, 
the large field dimensions caused Citi Field to play as an extreme "pitcher's 
park", and home-runs at the stadium were among the fewest in the Major 
Leagues. Mets' general manager Sandy Alderson changed Citi Field's dimensions 
in time for the 2012 MLB season in order to make it more friendly to hitters.[24] 
Changes include building an 8 feet (2.4 m) wall in front of the high 16 
feet (4.9 m) wall in left field that many had dubbed the "Great Wall of 
Flushing", removing the nook in the "Mo's Zone" in right field, and reducing 
the distance in right center field from 415 feet (126 m) from home plate 
to 390 feet (120 m). The new walls are colored blue in order to address 
fan complaints that the old black walls with orange trims did not reflect 
the colors of the Mets.[25] The Mets have also created a new seating section 
located in between the old and new left field walls called the Party City 
Deck and can accommodate 102 additional fans.[2] The center and right-center 
outfield wall were brought in to 380 feet (120 m) for the 2015 season.[26] 
Citi Field has a capacity of 41,922. It has over 15,000 fewer seats than 
Shea Stadium. All the seats in the park are green – in an homage to the 
Polo Grounds, longtime home of the baseball Giants and the original home 
of the Mets – as opposed to Shea's orange, blue, red and green assortment.[27] 
The exterior facade is reminiscent of Ebbets Field (which was long sought 
by Mets owner Fred Wilpon, a Brooklyn native). Citi Field's interior design 
is primarily influenced by PNC Park, which was the favorite ballpark of 
Mets COO Jeff Wilpon. Other influences include Great American Ball Park, 
Coors Field and Citizens Bank Park. Shea Stadium was the only ballpark 
in the Major Leagues to feature orange foul poles instead of the standard 
yellow, a unique characteristic that made its way into Citi Field.[28] 
Citi Field features an overarching bridge motif in its architecture, as 
New York City is linked by 2,027 bridges and is reflected in the Mets logo, 
as the team is the symbolic bridge to the city's past National League teams, 
the New York Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers.[27] In the outfield section 
of the ballpark, there is a pedestrian bridge named Shea Bridge which resembles 
the Hell Gate Bridge.[22] Similar to Shea Stadium, Citi Field's field dimensions 
make it a pitcher friendly park. The Coca-Cola Corner, originally known 
as the Pepsi Porch, hangs over the field in right field, extending far 
beyond the indentation of the Clubhouse and is inspired by Tiger Stadium's 
right field porch. The Pepsi sign that sat atop the area (2009-2015) was 
modeled after the one alongside the East River in Gantry Plaza State Park.[29] 
In 2012 The Mets added the Party City Party Deck in left field because 
they moved the fences in. The Party Deck is very similar to The Royals 
Pepsi Party Porch. Delta Air Lines signed a multiyear deal on September 
15, 2008, to sponsor an exclusive section in Citi Field. The Delta Sky360 
Club is a 22,500-square-foot (2,090 m2) restaurant-cafe-bar-lounge complex 
that also houses 1,600 premium seats behind home plate stretching from 
dugout to dugout.[30] The front entrance of Citi Field features a rotunda 
named after Brooklyn Dodgers legend Jackie Robinson and honors his life 
and accomplishments. Engraved into the rotunda's 160-foot-diameter (49 m) 
floor and etched into the archways are words and larger-than-life images 
that defined Robinson's nine values: Courage, Excellence, Persistence, 
Justice, Teamwork, Commitment, Citizenship, Determination and Integrity.[28] 
Robinson's famous quote: "A life is not important except in the impact 
it has on other lives", is engraved into the upper ring of the rotunda. 
There is also an 8-foot (2.4 m) sculpture of Robinson's number 42.[27] 
The formal dedication of the Jackie Robinson Rotunda was held as part of 
Major League Baseball's official celebration of Jackie Robinson Day on 
April 15, 2009.[31] Another tradition from Shea Stadium making an appearance 
in Citi Field is the Home Run Apple. When a Mets player hits a home run, 
a giant apple, which has a Mets logo on the front that lights up, rises 
from its housing in the center field batter's eye. The new apple that has 
been constructed for Citi Field is more than four times the size of the 
previous one and was designed by Minneapolis-based engineering firm Uni-Systems.[32] 
Shea's original apple was located inside Citi Field's bullpen entrance 
gate for the 2009 season. In 2010, the Shea apple was relocated outside 
the ballpark at Mets Plaza, in between the Jackie Robinson Rotunda and 
the entrance to the Mets–Willets Point subway station.[33] Behind the center 
field scoreboard is the FanFest area, an expanded family entertainment 
area that includes a miniature wiffleball field replica of Citi Field called 
Mr. Met's Kiddie Field, a batting cage, a dunk tank, video game kiosks 
and other attractions.[34][35] Citi Field offers a wide choice of eateries. 
Taste of the City is a food court located in the center field section of 
the ballpark. It features food from restaurateur Danny Meyer's Union Square 
Hospitality Group and includes a variety of stands, including Shake Shack 
(burgers, fries, shakes), Blue Smoke (barbecue), El Verano Taqueria (Mexican 
cuisine), Catch of the Day (featuring seafood from chef Dave Pasternack 
of Esca) and Box Frites (Belgian French fries).[27][36] The World's Fare 
Market is located on the field level in right field and features sushi 
from Daruma of Tokyo, sandwiches and pastries from Mama's of Corona, Chinese 
cuisine from Tai Pan Bakery and Korean food from Café Hanover.[36][37] 
Citi Field also offers a choice of fresh fruit at several stands around 
the stadium.[38] In 2010 Citi Field upgraded the food choices on the Promenade 
Level behind home plate. Blue Smoke BBQ and Box Frites both open a second 
location. Restaurants and clubs are also available in every level of the 
ballpark. The 350-seat Acela Club, located in left field on the Excelsior 
Level, is the dining highlight of the new park and features a full view 
of the playing field as well as food from Drew Nieporent's Myriad Restaurant 
Group, renowned for Nobu and Tribeca Grill.[27] Admission into the high-end 
luxury Acela and Delta clubs, and including the other semi-luxury clubs 
are exclusive to high-end ticket holders only, and some restaurants enforce 
that reservations be made. A McFadden's Restaurant and Saloon opened at 
Citi Field in 2010. It is located directly under the 2K Sports FanFest 
and is open to the public year-round.[39][40] The Mets Hall of Fame & Museum 
is located adjacent to the Jackie Robinson Rotunda on the first base side 
and opened on April 5, 2010. The museum includes plaques honoring the inductees 
of the New York Mets Hall of Fame, the team's World Series trophies from 
1969 and 1986, as well as artifacts on loan from noted collectors, former 
players and the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum.[41] The museum 
boasts several displays including autographed memorabilia, original scouting 
reports on players such as Darryl Strawberry, and handwritten notes from 
the team's first manager Casey Stengel. In addition to this the team has 
installed interactive touchscreens that guide visitors through various 
aspects of the franchise's 50-year history, and there are television screens 
and timelines that help weave all the disparate elements into a cohesive 
narrative. Business Insider praised the stadium for its aesthetics and 
named it one of the top 100 venues in sports, while BaseballParks.com called 
it "perfect" and especially lauded the Jackie Robinson Rotunda.[42] Reviewers 
have also praised the many culinary offerings at Citi Field's concession 
stands.[43][44][45] Despite the modern amenities, Citi Field has not been 
without criticism. Most notable have been fan complaints of obstructed 
views, as well as Mets fans' outrage at overemphasis on the celebration 
of the Brooklyn Dodgers' legacy over the history of the Mets.[46][47][48] 
Mets owner Fred Wilpon, a Brooklyn native, had grown up a Brooklyn Dodgers 
fan and admitted to going overboard; Jeffrey Toobin wrote in The New Yorker, 
In response to these criticisms, the team installed photographic imagery 
of famous players and historic moments in Mets history on the Field and 
Promenade levels as well as the display of team championship banners on 
the left-field wall during the 2009 season. They also constructed a Mets 
Hall of Fame and Museum prior to the 2010 season, located adjacent to the 
Jackie Robinson Rotunda, and changed the color of the outfield wall from 
black to Mets blue prior to the 2012 season, which many Mets fans had campaigned 
for.[50] The team also worked on fixing the obstructed views in the Promenade 
level.[51] During its first three seasons in existence, Citi Field was 
known to play as a "pitcher's park", and has been cited as the cause of 
the decreased offensive production of David Wright and Jason Bay. Wright 
hit only 10 home runs in 2009 after hitting at least 30 in the previous 
two seasons,[52] while Bay had the worst offensive production of his career 
in his first season with the Mets in 2010, only hitting 6 home runs, 47 
RBIs, and OBP of just .347, and a slugging percentage of a career low .402.[53] 
Jeff Francoeur, who played with the Mets during their first two years at 
Citi Field, criticized the ballpark's dimensions, calling it "a damn joke."[54] 
During the 2011 season, Citi Field allowed 1.33 home runs per game, the 
third lowest total out of the 16 National League ballparks.[25] The team 
responded by altering the ballpark dimensions for the 2012 season, creating 
a more neutral ballpark. Wright's 2012 offensive numbers have improved 
due to the alterations. "It's a huge difference", Wright said. "It allows 
you to relax and know you don’t have to try to hit the ball a mile to see 
results. And at the same time, if you do hit the ball well and you see 
results, instead of a 400-foot flyout, you’re 1-for-1 and feeling good 
about yourself."[55] Citi Field is located in the borough of Queens, adjacent 
to the neighborhoods of Corona, which lies to its west, and Willets Point 
and Flushing to the east. Flushing Bay is to the north, and the rest of 
Flushing Meadows–Corona Park is to the south. Because it lies within the 
Flushing postal zone, and because of its location in Flushing Meadows–Corona 
Park, Citi Field is frequently referred to as being in Flushing proper. 
Citi Field is accessible via mass transit systems such as the New York 
City Subway via the IRT Flushing Line (7 <7> trains) at the Mets – Willets 
Point station, and the Long Island Rail Road station on the Port Washington 
Branch also called Mets – Willets Point. New York Water Taxi operates a 
free ferry to the stadium from Pier 11/Wall Street and the East 34th Street 
Ferry Landing before every game.[56] For selected games, SeaStreak provides 
ferry service between Highlands, New Jersey and the stadium. Both ferry 
services use the slips at the World's Fair Marina, located approximately 
0.25 miles (0.40 km) north of Citi Field. The park is also close to several 
major thoroughfares, including the Grand Central Parkway, the Whitestone 
and Van Wyck Expressways, the Long Island Expressway, Roosevelt Avenue, 
Northern Boulevard and Astoria Boulevard. Citi Field is near to the USTA 
Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, where the annual US Open grand-slam 
tennis tournament is held. Since the construction of Citi Field began, 
satellite parking lots in Flushing Meadow Park (access from College Point 
Boulevard) have been opened. Bold indicates the winner of each game. Bold 
indicates the winner of each game. Bold indicates the winner of each game. 
On November 13, 2006, it was officially announced that the ballpark would 
be called Citi Field, named for Citigroup Inc. Citigroup will be paying 
$20 million a year for the naming rights to the park over the next 20 years. 
This made Citi Field the second major league sports venue in the area named 
for a corporate sponsor, (after Continental Airlines Arena (now Izod Center)), 
but preceding Prudential Center, MetLife Stadium, Red Bull Arena and Barclays 
Center, officially becoming the first in New York City itself, aside from 
two minor league ballparks (MCU Park in Brooklyn, and Richmond County Bank 
Ballpark in Staten Island). The deal includes an option on both sides to 
extend the contract to 40 years, and is the most expensive sports-stadium 
naming rights agreement ever, subsequently equaled by MetLife Stadium's 
$400 million deal.[57] At the groundbreaking for Citi Field, it was announced 
that the main entrance, modeled on the one in Brooklyn's old Ebbets Field, 
would be called the Jackie Robinson Rotunda, possibly due to campaigns 
to forgo naming rights revenue and name the ballpark after Robinson. The 
Mets are spending more than $600 million for the new ballpark, which New 
York City and New York state are also supporting with a total of $165 million 
for such costs as infrastructure and site preparation. On February 24, 
2008, the Mets and Citigroup unveiled the new Citi Field logo.[58] Both 
Citigroup[59] and the Mets[60] maintain that the naming rights deal is 
secure, despite Citigroup's economic troubles. This deal has been criticized 
in light of the late-2000s financial crisis and the $45 billion of taxpayer 
funds allocated to Citigroup by the U.S. federal government in two separate 
rescue packages, prompting New York City Council members Vincent Ignizio 
and James Oddo to suggest that the new ballpark be called "Citi/Taxpayer 
Field." [61] Radio talk show host Brian Lehrer suggested the name "Debits 
Field" which combines baseball history with public outrage over the Citi 
bailout.[62] Congressman Elijah Cummings of Maryland, who serves on the 
United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, stated 
in regards to the Citi Field naming rights deal, "This type of spending 
is indefensible and unacceptable to Citigroup's new partner and largest 
investor: the American taxpayer.... I strongly urge Citigroup to find a 
way out of this contract and instead spend that $400 million on retaining 
its employees and restoring confidence in its operations."[63][64][65] 
On January 29, 2009, congressmen Dennis Kucinich of Ohio and Ted Poe of 
Texas sent a letter to United States Secretary of the Treasury Timothy 
F. Geithner urging him to scrap Citigroup's $400 million naming rights 
deal. "We request that you intervene and demand that Citigroup dissolve 
the agreement they have with the New York Mets", reads the letter. "Absent 
this outcome, we feel strongly that you should compel Citigroup to return 
immediately all federal monies received to date, as well as cancel all 
loan guarantees."[66][67] However, Geithner rejected congressional demands 
to cancel the naming rights deal.[68] The Wall Street Journal reported 
on February 3, 2009, that Citigroup considered breaking the naming rights 
deal. Citi has stated that no government TARP funds would be used in the 
sponsorship deal.[69] The naming rights controversy reemerged when details 
about owner Fred Wilpon's involvement in Bernard Madoff's Ponzi scheme 
came to light when a lawsuit was filed on behalf of victims of Madoff's 
investment scandal in 2011.[70] * Home run hit in first at bat. Paul McCartney 
performed a series of three sold-out concerts at Citi Field on July 17, 
18 and 21, 2009 as a part of his Summer Live '09 tour, along with The Script. 
McCartney, as a member of The Beatles, performed in the first concert at 
Shea Stadium during their 1965 U.S. Tour and The Beatles' 1966 U.S. tour 
as well as in its final concert in 2008 along with Billy Joel, who came 
out on McCartney's first night for the Beatles' classic, "I Saw Her Standing 
There." McCartney's opening show would later be released as Good Evening 
New York City. Dave Matthews Band performed two concerts at Citi Field 
on July 16 and 17, 2010, along with the Zac Brown Band.[80] The second 
night was later released as Live in New York City. The documentary film 
Last Play at Shea, chronicling Billy Joel's final concert at Shea Stadium 
in 2008, premiered on August 21, 2010, at Citi Field.[81] On June 7, 2011, 
Citi Field hosted its first soccer game. The game was a friendly match 
between the national teams of Ecuador and Greece, who played to a 1–1 tie, 
before a crowd of 39,656. The success of the game has led the Mets to consider 
having Citi Field host future soccer games as well as the NHL Winter Classic.[82] 
Citi Field hosted another soccer match on July 26, 2011, between the Italian 
team Juventus F.C. and the Mexican Club América as part of the 2011 World 
Football Challenge. Juventus won the match 1–0, before a crowd of 20,859.[83] 
The Ecuadorian national team returned to Citi Field to play against the 
Chilean national team in a soccer match on August 15, 2012. Ecuador won 
the match 3–0, before a crowd of 31,901.[84] On June 2, 2013, the national 
teams of Israel and Honduras faced off in a friendly, with Israel winning 
2-0. The inaugural Metropolitan Lacrosse Classic, only the second time 
a major-league baseball stadium has staged college lacrosse, according 
to the Mets. In 1971, Navy played Johns Hopkins at the Houston Astrodome. 
Holy Cross plays Navy at noon on Sunday, March 17, 2013, followed by Colgate-Michigan 
at 3 p.m.[85] Holy Cross defeated Navy 7–5 and Colgate defeated Michigan 
10–7, before a crowd of 15,656.[86][87] On June 7, 2015, the first "Legends 
of Wrestling" event took place at Citi Field. It was a professional wrestling 
event, featuring veteran wrestlers such as Rob Van Dam, Lita, The Nasty 
Boys, Scott Steiner, and many more independent professional wrestlers, 
in up to six matches taking place; the event was headlined by Ric Flair, 
Bret "The Hitman" Hart, and Bill Goldberg. Foo Fighters played two concerts 
at Citi Field on July 15 and 16, 2015 as a part of their Sonic Highways 
World Tour.[88] On November 7, 2015, Citi Field hosted the first game of 
the Cricket All-Stars Series 2015, featuring many retired cricket players 
from around the world and led by great cricket legends Sachin Tendulkar 
and Shane Warne. Warne's Warriors defeated Sachin's Blasters by 6 wickets. 
Beyoncé performed at Citi Field on June 7 and 8, 2016, in front of a crowd 
of 73,486 people, as part of The Formation World Tour.[89] Citi Field was 
featured in the finale of the third season of Ugly Betty. Citi Field was 
also featured as a location in the film Sharknado 2: The Second One, in 
