Citizens Bank Park is a baseball park located in Philadelphia, within the 
South Philadelphia Sports Complex. It is the home of the Philadelphia Phillies, 
the city's Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise. It is commonly referred 
to by locals simply as "The Bank" or "CBP". Citizens Bank Park opened on 
April 3, 2004, and hosted its first regular season baseball game on April 
12 of the same year, with the Phillies losing to the Cincinnati Reds, 4–1. 
The ballpark was built to replace the now-demolished Veterans Stadium (a 
football/baseball multipurpose facility), and features natural grass and 
dirt playing field and also features a number of Philadelphia-style food 
stands, including several which serve cheesesteaks, hoagies, and other 
regional specialties. The ballpark lies on the northeast corner of the 
Sports Complex, which includes Lincoln Financial Field, Wells Fargo Center, 
and Xfinity Live!. The stadium's capacity is 43,651 seats. In 1999, the 
Phillies and the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League joined 
their Western Pennsylvania counterparts, the Pittsburgh Pirates and the 
Pittsburgh Steelers, in making requests to replace both Veterans Stadium 
and Three Rivers Stadium in Pittsburgh with separate stadiums. Pressure 
for new Philadelphia stadiums increased after a railing collapsed at The 
Vet during the 1998 Army–Navy Game, injuring eight cadets. The Pirates 
threatened to leave Pittsburgh in 1997, which helped convince the legislature 
to approve funding for the four proposed stadiums. While Allegheny County 
and the City of Pittsburgh approved the pacts swiftly, due to plans already 
being in place at the time of legislative approval, debate within Philadelphia's 
city leadership carried on as Pittsburgh opened their stadiums (PNC Park 
for the Pirates and Heinz Field for the Steelers) in 2001. The Eagles agreed 
to a site slightly southeast of Veterans Stadium, which would become Lincoln 
Financial Field. The Eagles' stadium was built on the site of an old food 
warehouse and celebrated its grand opening in August 2003. The Phillies 
originally wanted a downtown ballpark similar to Baltimore, Denver, Cincinnati, 
Cleveland, Detroit and San Francisco. Various locations were proposed, 
initially at Broad and Spring Garden streets, Spring Garden and Delaware 
Avenue and next to 30th Street Station, where the main post office was 
located. The team and the city announced that the site would be at 13th 
and Vine streets, just north of Interstate 676, within walking distance 
of the Center City downtown district. There was considerable support for 
a downtown ball park from business and labor and the city at large, but 
residents of the city's Chinatown section protested. The City and team 
eventually settled on building at the South Philadelphia Sports Complex, 
on the site of an old food warehouse much like Lincoln Financial Field. 
In the years that followed, residents, fans and owner Bill Giles expressed 
regret that the new ball park was not located in Center City. Regardless 
of location, the team set records in 2010 for attendance (3,647,249 fans, 
averaging 45,028) and sellouts (81), extending a streak dating back to 
July of 2009 to 123 straight sellouts.[9] The new stadium was designed 
by EwingCole's Stanley Cole, who was the stadium's chief architect.[7] 
The unveiling of the park and ground breaking ceremonies were on June 28, 
2001. Following the game that evening, the location of the left-field foul 
pole was unveiled at the outset of the team's annual 4 July fireworks display. 
On June 17, 2003, Citizens Bank agreed with the team to a 25-year, US $95 
million deal for naming rights and advertising on telecasts, radio broadcasts, 
publications and inside the facility.[10] The ballpark was officially topped 
off on August 12, 2003, and opened in April 2004. Shortly after the park 
opened in 2004, the bullpens were reassigned so the Phillies' pitchers 
used the lower pen and visitors use the upper pen. This was done to give 
Phillies' pitchers a better view of the game and to protect them from heckling 
by rowdy fans.[11] However, the team forgot to rewire the bullpen phones 
after the bullpens were reassigned; so during the first game, the dugout 
coaches had to communicate with the bullpens by hand signals. In its first 
years, Citizens Bank Park allowed 218 home runs in 2004 and 201 in 2005. 
More than half of those home runs were to left-field. Following the 2005 
season, the left-field wall was moved back 5 feet (1.5 m).[12] Even with 
these modifications, the park has a reputation as one of the most hitter-friendly 
parks in baseball.[13] In 2009, it gave up 149 home runs, the most in the 
National League and second in the majors behind only the new Yankee Stadium, 
but has been neutral since, with a .997 park factor in 2011.[14] On January 
2, 2012, Citizens Bank Park hosted the fifth annual NHL Winter Classic 
between the long time division rivals New York Rangers and Philadelphia 
Flyers before an SRO crowd of 46,967. The game, which was televised throughout 
the United States and Canada by NBC and CBC, was won by the Rangers, 3–2.[28][29] 
Two days earlier on New Year's Eve, 45,667 had attended an alumni game 
played between teams made up of former Flyers and Rangers who had retired 
from the NHL between the 1970s and 2011 of which eight (four on each team) 
were also members of the Hockey Hall of Fame. The Flyers' starting goalie 
for the game, which was won by the Flyers alumni, 3-1, was Hall of Famer 
Bernie Parent. He had made his first on ice appearance since his playing 
career ended prematurely due to an eye injury suffered during a game against 
the Rangers played at the neighboring (although since demolished) Spectrum 
in February 1979.[30] Four days after the 2012 NHL Winter Classic game, 
a third sell out crowd of 45,663 filled the Park on January 6 to watch 
the Flyers' AHL farm team, the Adirondack Phantoms, defeat the Hershey 
Bears, 4-3, in overtime. That crowd exceeded by a factor of more than two 
the previous largest gathering (21,673) to ever attend an AHL game since 
the league was established in 1936.[31] With the normal 43,651 baseball 
seating capacity of the Park having been increased by more than 3,000 with 
the installation of temporary bleachers built over the bullpen area in 
center field, the trio of outdoor hockey games drew a combined total of 
138,296 over the week of Winter Classic events. Behind center field is 
Ashburn Alley, named after Phillies Hall of Fame center fielder Richie 
Ashburn, who played for the team from 1948 to 1959 and was a Phillies broadcaster 
from 1963 until his death in 1997. It is seen by Phillies fans as a compromise 
between the Phillies and their fans, many of whom wanted Citizens Bank 
Park named in honor of Ashburn. Ashburn Alley is named for the slightly-overgrown 
grass which bordered the third base line at Shibe Park where Ashburn was 
famous for laying down bunts that stayed fair. The new Ashburn Alley, located 
near Ashburn's defensive position, is a walkway featuring restaurants, 
games and memorabilia from Phillies history. Ashburn Alley also features 
a memorabilia shop and a large bronze statue of Ashburn directly behind 
center field, as well as the U.S. flag, the flags of the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania and the City of Philadelphia, a POW/MIA flag and the flags 
from the Phillies' championships (below). Features of the Alley are: In 
2004 and 2005, organist Paul Richardson performed from Ashburn Alley, as 
Citizens Bank Park was built without an organ booth. The food at CBP was 
named as Best Ballpark Food in a survey of Food Network viewers in the 
first annual Food Network Awards which first aired on April 22, 2007. On 
August 14, 2007, it was announced that Citizens Bank Park was voted #1 
by PETA as America's most vegetarian-friendly ballpark, which was repeated 
in 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2012. Besides the Richie Ashburn statue in Ashburn 
Alley, statues of three other famous Phillies — Robin Roberts (at the First 
Base Gate), Mike Schmidt (at the Third Base Gate) and Steve Carlton (at 
the Left Field Gate) — ring the outside of the facility. Each of the 10-foot-high 
(3.0 m) statues were made by local sculptor Zenos Frudakis. Other art found 
throughout the park includes tile mosaics, murals and terrazzo floors with 
outlined images of famous players in Phillies history. In April 2011, the 
Phillies accepted a gift of a fan-underwritten 7.5-foot-tall (2.3 m) bronze 
statue of legendary broadcaster Harry Kalas. Created by noted local sculptor 
Lawrence Nowlan,[33] it was placed behind Section 141, near the restaurant 
that bears Kalas' name, after a dedication held on August 16, 2011 prior 
to that night's game against the Arizona Diamondbacks. The statue was unveiled 
two days later than originally scheduled (the originally-scheduled date 
is on a plaque on the ground below the statue) because of a rained-out 
game between the Phillies and the Washington Nationals.[34][35] The Philadelphia 
Phillies are the first Major League Baseball team to join the Environmental 
Protection Agency's Green Power Partnership Program which motivates organizations 
across the world to purchase green power in order to minimize environmental 
impact. The Phillies announced on April 30, 2008 that their home field, 
Citizens Bank Park, will be powered with 20 million kilowatt-hours (kWh) 
of green energy purchased in Green-e Energy Certified Renewable Certificates 
(RECs).[36][37] The EPA stated that this purchase holds the record in professional 
sports for the largest purchase of 100% renewable energy.[36] The Phillies 
are among the top three purchasers of green power in Philadelphia, and 
the executive director of the Center for Resource Solutions, Arthur O'Donnell, 
wants "other clubs to take their lead."[38] Aramark Corporation is the 
Phillies' food and beverage provider at Citizens Bank Park and they are 
taking major actions in improving the environmental impact of the Phillies' 
stadium. Glass, cardboard and plastics used during game day are recycled; 
frying oil is being recycled to produce bio-diesel fuel, and biodegradable, 
recyclable, and compostable products, serviceware, and plastics have been 
introduced.[38] The first concert at the park was Jimmy Buffett & The Coral 
Reefer Band on August 25, 2005, they returned on June 14, 2008. The Eagles, 
The Dixie Chicks and Keith Urban were scheduled to perform on June 14, 
2010, but the show was cancelled. Other performers who have played at the 
park include Billy Joel and Elton John in a duet concert, Bon Jovi and 
The Police. On July 14, 2012, former Pink Floyd member Roger Waters performed 
The Wall live as part of his world tour.[39] On September 2 and 3, Bruce 
Springsteen played two shows as part of his Wrecking Ball Tour in front 
of more than 73,000 people, and he became the first act to perform at every 
major live music venue in Philadelphia.[40] On August 1, 2014 Jason Aldean 
performed the first ever country show to be held at the ballpark. Florida 
Georgia Line & Tyler Farr were the openers for the show at the ballpark. 
Beyoncé and Jay-Z performed at the park on July 5, 2014, as part of their 
co-headlining On the Run Tour.[41] On September 7, 2016, Bruce Springsteen 
& The E Street Band performed as part of The River Tour 2016. The show 
lasted for 4 hours and 4 minutes, setting Springsteen's record for his 
longest show performed in North America, as well as his second longest 
show performed in the world. This was the first of two shows Springsteen 
performed in Philadelphia during the week, performing two days later on 
September 9, 2016.[42] Due to the City of Philadelphia's smoking ban, smoking 
is only permitted at the third base gate and the left field gate. Dan Baker, 
public address announcer for the Phillies since 1972, continues to introduce 
the players. During each player's first at-bat, Baker, in an excited voice, 
says, "Now batting for the Phillies, number (#), (position), (player's 
name)". For example, a first at-bat introduction would have Baker say, 
"Now batting for the Phillies, number 11, shortstop Jimmy Rollins!" During 
subsequent at-bats, players are only announced by their position and name, 
for example, "Phillies first baseman, Ryan Howard!" Baker only uses the 
city of the opposing team when he announces their players rather than the 
team nickname, for example, "Now batting for Atlanta, number ten, third 
baseman Chipper Jones", and makes the announcement in a more-subdued tone. 
In 2004 and 2005, Citizens Bank Park installed Daktronics video and message 
display in the park. One of the largest incandescent displays in Major 
League Baseball was installed in left field that was used as a scoreboard 
and for giving statistics. There are also out-of-town field-level displays 
installed in the park that measure approximately 10 feet high by 25 feet 
wide.[43] During the 2010–2011 offseason, the Phillies replaced their incandescent 
scoreboard with a new HD scoreboard that cost $10 million. The new screen 
measures 76 feet (23 m) high and 97 feet (30 m) wide, which nearly triples 
the size of the old screen, and is the largest HD screen in the National 
League.[44] Outfield View from Ashburn Alley Home plate side of CBP on 
Pattison Avenue Scoreboard Interior with Singer The view from I-95 Entrance 
to the Ballpark A view of the skyline from inside The front of the park 
as seen from a parking lot at Lincoln Financial Field. The scoreboard in 
left field as viewed from right field Temporary center field bleachers 
