The City College of the City University of New York (more commonly referred 
to as the City College of New York, or simply City College, CCNY, or City) 
is a public senior college of the City University of New York (CUNY) in 
New York City. Located on a hill overlooking Harlem in Manhattan, City 
College's 35-acre (14 ha) Collegiate Gothic campus spans Convent Avenue 
from 130th to 141st Streets.[2] It was initially designed by renowned architect 
George B. Post, and many of its buildings have achieved landmark status. 
Affectionately known as the "Harvard of the proletariat,"[3] the college 
has graduated more Nobel Prize winners than any other public university 
in the United States.[4][5] Among these 10 alumni, the latest is a Bronx 
native, John O'Keefe (2014 Nobel Prize in Medicine).[6] Founded in 1847, 
City College was the first free public institution of higher education 
in the United States.[7] It is the oldest of CUNY's 24 institutions of 
higher learning,[8] and is considered its flagship college.[9] Other primacies 
at City College that helped shape the culture of American higher education 
include the first student government in the nation (Academic Senate, 1867);[3] 
the first national fraternity to accept members without regard to religion, 
race, color or creed (Delta Sigma Phi, 1899);[10] the first degree-granting 
evening program (School of Education, 1907); and, with the objective of 
racially integrating the college dormitories, "the first general strike 
at a municipal institution of higher learning" led by students (1945).[11] 
The City College of New York was originally founded as the Free Academy 
of the City of New York in 1847 by wealthy businessman and president of 
the Board of Education Townsend Harris.[12] A combination prep school and 
college, it would provide children of immigrants and the poor access to 
free higher education based on academic merit alone. The Free Academy was 
the first of what would become a system of municipally-supported colleges 
– the second, Hunter College, was founded as a women's institution in 1870; 
and the third, Brooklyn College, was established as a coeducational institution 
in 1930. In 1847, New York State Governor John Young had given permission 
to the Board of Education to found the Free Academy, which was ratified 
in a statewide referendum. Founder Townsend Harris proclaimed, "Open the 
doors to all… Let the children of the rich and the poor take their seats 
together and know of no distinction save that of industry, good conduct 
and intellect." Dr. Horace Webster, a West Point graduate, was the first 
president of the Free Academy. On the occasion of The Free Academy's formal 
opening, January 21, 1849, Webster said: The experiment is to be tried, 
whether the children of the people, the children of the whole people, can 
be educated; and whether an institution of the highest grade, can be successfully 
controlled by the popular will, not by the privileged few.[13] In 1847, 
a curriculum was adopted which had nine main fields: mathematics, history, 
language, literature, drawing, natural philosophy, experimental philosophy, 
law, and political economy. The Academy's first graduation took place in 
1853 in Niblo's Garden Theatre,[14] a large theater and opera house on 
Broadway, near Houston Street at the corner of Broadway and Prince Street. 
Even in its early years, the Free Academy showed tolerance for diversity, 
especially in comparison to its urban neighbor, Columbia College, which 
was exclusive to the sons of wealthy families. The Free Academy had a framework 
of tolerance that extended beyond the admission of students from every 
social stratum. In 1854, Columbia's trustees denied Oliver Wolcott Gibbs, 
a distinguished chemist and scientist, a faculty position because of Gibbs's 
Unitarian religious beliefs. Gibbs was a professor and held an appointment 
at the Free Academy since 1848.[15] (In 1863, Gibbs went on to an appointment 
at Harvard University, the Rumsford Professorship in Chemistry, where he 
had a distinguished career. In 1873, he was awarded an honorary degree 
from Columbia with a unanimous vote by its Trustees with the strong urging 
of President Barnard.[16][17]) Later in the history of CCNY, in the early 
1900s, President John H. Finley gave the College a more secular orientation 
by abolishing mandatory chapel attendance.[18] This change occurred at 
a time when more Jewish students were enrolling in the College. In 1866, 
the Free Academy, a men's institution, was renamed the College of the City 
of New York. In 1929, the College of the City of New York became the City 
College of New York.[19][20][21] Finally, the institution became known 
as the City College of the City University of New York when CUNY was formally 
established as the umbrella institution for New York City's municipal-college 
system in 1961. The names City College of New York and City College, however, 
remain in general use. With the name change in 1866, lavender was chosen 
as the College's color. In 1867, the academic senate, the first student 
government in the nation, was formed. Having struggled over the issue for 
ten years, in 1895 the New York State legislature voted to let the College 
build a new campus. A four-square block site was chosen, located in Manhattanville, 
within the area which was enclosed by the North Campus Arches; the College, 
however, quickly expanded north of the Arches (see below). Like President 
Webster, the second president of City College was a West Point graduate. 
The second president, General Alexander S. Webb, assumed office in 1869. 
One of the Union's heroes at Gettysburg, General Webb was the commander 
of the Philadelphia Brigade. When the Union Army repulsed the Confederates 
at Cemetery Hill, General Webb played a central role in the battle. Coddington[22] 
wrote about Webb's conduct during Pickett's Charge: "Refusing to give up, 
[Webb] set an example of bravery and undaunted leadership for his men to 
follow...." In 1891, while still president of City College, he was awarded 
the Congressional Medal of Honor for heroism at Gettysburg. A full-length 
statue of Webb, in full military uniform, stands in his honor at the heart 
of the campus.[23] The College's curriculum under Webster and Webb combined 
classical training in Latin and Greek with more practical subjects like 
chemistry, physics, and engineering. One of the outstanding Nineteenth 
Century graduates of City College was the Brooklyn-born George Washington 
Goethals, who put himself through the College in three years before going 
on to West Point. He later became the chief engineer on the Panama Canal. 
General Webb was succeeded by John Huston Finley in 1903. Finley relaxed 
some of the West Point-like discipline that characterized the College, 
including compulsory chapel attendance.[18] Phi Sigma Kappa placed its 
sixth oldest chapter on the campus in 1896, flourishing until 1973, and 
whose alumni still provide scholarships to new students entering the CCNY 
system.[24] Delta Sigma Phi was founded at CCNY in 1899 as a social fraternity 
based on the principle of the brotherhood of man. It was the first national 
organization of its type to accept members without regard to religion, 
race, color or creed.[10] The chapter flourished at the college until 1932 
when it closed as a result of the Great Depression. The founding of another 
national fraternity, Zeta Beta Tau, took place at City College on December 
1898 by Dr. Richard Gottheil who aimed at establishing a Jewish Fraternity 
with Zionist ideals. This chapter, however, has become defunct.[25] Education 
courses were first offered in 1897 in response to a city law that prohibited 
the hiring of teachers who lacked a proper academic background. The School 
of Education was established in 1921. The college newspaper, The Campus, 
published its first issue in 1907, and the first degree-granting evening 
session in the United States was started. Separate Schools of Business 
and Civic Administration and of Technology (Engineering) were established 
in 1919. Students were also required to sign a loyalty oath. In 1947, the 
College celebrated its centennial year, awarding honorary degrees to Bernard 
Baruch (class of 1889) and Robert F. Wagner (class of 1898). A 100-year 
time capsule was buried in North Campus. Until 1929, City College had been 
an all-male institution. During that time, specifically in 1909, the first 
chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu fraternity was founded.[26] In 1930, CCNY admitted 
women for the first time, but only to graduate programs. In 1951, the entire 
institution became coeducational. In the years when top-flight private 
schools were restricted to the children of the Protestant establishment, 
thousands of brilliant individuals (including Jewish students) attended 
City College because they had no other option. CCNY's academic excellence 
and status as a working-class school earned it the titles "Harvard of the 
Proletariat", the "poor man's Harvard", and "Harvard-on-the-Hudson".[27] 
Even today, after three decades of controversy over its academic standards,[citation 
needed] no other public college has produced as many Nobel laureates who 
have studied and graduated with a degree from a particular public college 
(all graduated between 1935 and 1963).[4][needs update] CCNY's official 
quote on this is "Nine Nobel laureates claim CCNY as their Alma Mater, 
the most from any public college in the United States."[5][28][needs update] 
This should not be confused with Nobel laureates who teach at a public 
university; UC Berkeley boasts 19.[needs update] Many City College alumni 
also served in the U.S. Armed Forces during the Second World War. A total 
of 310 CCNY alumni were killed in the War. Prior to World War II, a large 
number of City College alumni—relative to alumni of other U.S. colleges—volunteered 
to serve on the Republican side in the Spanish Civil War. Thirteen CCNY 
alumni were killed in Spain.[29] In its heyday of the 1930s through the 
1950s, CCNY became known for its political radicalism. It was said that 
the old CCNY cafeteria in the basement of Shepard Hall, particularly in 
alcove 1, was the only place in the world where a fair debate between Trotskyists 
and Stalinists could take place.[30][31] Being part of a political debate 
that began in the morning in alcove 1, Irving Howe reported that after 
some time had passed he would leave his place among the arguing students 
in order to attend class. When he returned to the cafeteria late in the 
day, he would find that the same debate had continued but with an entirely 
different cast of students.[30] Alumni who were at City College in the 
mid-20th century said that City College in those days made UC Berkeley 
in the 1960s look like a school of conformity.[citation needed] The municipality 
of New York was considerably more conformist than CCNY students and faculty. 
The Philosophy Department, at the end of the 1939/40 academic year, invited 
the British mathematician and philosopher Bertrand Russell to become a 
professor at CCNY. Members of the Catholic Church protested Russell's appointment. 
A woman named Jean Kay filed suit against the Board of Higher Education 
to block Russell's appointment on the grounds that his views on marriage 
and sex would adversely affect her daughter's virtue, although her daughter 
was not a CCNY student. Russell wrote "a typical American witch-hunt was 
instituted against me."[32] Kay won the suit, but the Board declined to 
appeal after considering the political pressure exerted.[33] Also see The 
Bertrand Russell Case. Russell took revenge in the preface of the first 
edition of his book An Inquiry into Meaning and Truth, which was published 
by the Unwin Brothers in the UK (the preface was not included in the U.S. 
editions). In a long précis that detailed Russell's accomplishments including 
medals awarded by Columbia University and the Royal Society and faculty 
appointments at Oxford, Cambridge, UCLA, Harvard, the Sorbonne, Peking 
(the name used in that era), the LSE, Chicago, and so forth, Russell added, 
"Judicially pronounced unworthy to be Professor of Philosophy at the College 
of the City of New York." In 1945, Professor William E. Knickerbocker, 
Chairman of the Romance Languages Department, was accused of anti-semitism 
by four faculty members. They claimed that "for at least seven years they 
have been subjected to continual harassment and what looks very much like 
discrimination" by Knickerbocker.[34] Four years later Knickerbocker was 
again accused of anti-semitism, this time for denying honors to high-achieving 
Jewish students.[35] About the same time, Professor William C. Davis of 
the Economics Department was accused by students of maintaining a racially 
segregated dormitory at Army Hall.[35][36] Professor Davis was the dormitory's 
administrator. CCNY students, many of whom were World War II veterans, 
launched a massive strike in protest against Knickerbocker and Davis.[11][35] 
The New York Times called the event "the first general strike at a municipal 
institution of higher learning."[11] Also see the Knickerbocker Case. In 
1955, a City College student named Alan A. Brown founded the economics 
honor society, Omicron Chi Epsilon. The purpose of the society was to confer 
honors on outstanding economics students, organize academic meetings, and 
publish a journal. In 1963, Omicron Chi Epsilon merged with Omicron Delta 
Gamma, the other economics honor society, to form Omicron Delta Epsilon, 
the current academic honor society in economics.[37] During a 1969 takeover 
of South campus,[38] under threat of a riot, African American and Puerto 
Rican activists and their white allies demanded, among other policy changes, 
that City College implement an aggressive affirmative action program.[12] 
At some point, campus protesters began referring to CCNY as "Harlem University." 
The administration of the City University at first balked at the demands, 
but instead, came up with an open admissions or open-access program under 
which any graduate of a New York City high school would be able to matriculate 
either at City College or another college in the CUNY system. Beginning 
in 1970, the program opened doors to college to many who would not otherwise 
have been able to attend college. The increased enrollment of students, 
regardless of college preparedness, however, challenged City College's 
and the University's academic reputation and strained New York City's financial 
resources.[12][39] City College began charging tuition in 1976. In 1999, 
the CUNY Board of Trustees voted to eliminate remedial classes at all CUNYs 
Senior Colleges, thereby eliminating a central pillar of the policy of 
Open Admissions and effectively ending it.[40] Students who could not meet 
the academic entrance requirements for CUNY's Senior Colleges were forced 
to enroll in the system's community colleges, where they could prepare 
for an eventual transfer to one of the 4-year institutions. Since this 
decision, all CUNY senior colleges, especially CCNY, have begun to rise 
in prestige nationally, as evinced by school rankings and incoming freshman 
GPA and SAT scores. In addition, the end of open admissions sparked a change 
in CUNY's student demographics, with the number of Black and Hispanic students 
decreasing and the number of White and Asians students increasing.[41] 
As a result of the 1989 student protests and building takeovers concerning 
tuition increases, a community action center was opened on the campus called 
the Guillermo Morales/Assata Shakur Community and Student Center, located 
in the NAC building. The center was named after CUNY alums and radical 
freedom fighters Assata Shakur and Guillermo Morales, both of whom are 
now in political exile in Cuba.[42] Students and neighborhood residents 
who used the Center for community organizing against racism, police brutality, 
and the privatization and militarization of CUNY faced constant repression 
from the City College administration for years.[43] On October 20, 2013, 
City College seized the Guillermo Morales/Assata Shakur Community and Student 
Center in the middle of the night, provoking a student demonstration.[44] 
CCNY's new Frederick Douglass Debate Society defeated Harvard and Yale 
at the "Super Bowl" of the American Parliamentary Debate Association in 
1996. In 2003, the College's Model UN Team was awarded as an Outstanding 
Delegation at the National Model United Nations (NMUN) Conference, an honor 
that it would repeat for four years in a row. The U.S. Postal Service issued 
a postcard commemorating CCNY's 150th Anniversary, featuring Shepard Hall, 
on Charter Day, May 7, 1997. The City University of New York began recruiting 
students for the University Scholars program in the fall 2000, and admitted 
the first cohort of undergraduate scholars in the fall 2001. CCNY was one 
of five CUNY campuses, on which the program was initiated. The newly admitted 
scholars became undergraduates in the college's newly formed Honors Program. 
Students attending the CCNY Honors College are awarded free tuition, a 
cultural passport that admits them to New York City cultural institutions 
for free or at sharply reduced prices, a notebook computer, and an academic 
expense account that they can apply to such academic-related activities 
as study abroad. These undergraduates are also required to attend a number 
of specially developed honors courses. In 2001 CUNY initiated the CUNY 
Honors College, renamed Macaulay Honors College in 2007.[45] Both the CCNY 
Honors Program and the CCNY chapter of the Macaulay Honors College are 
run out of the CCNY Honors Center. In October 2005, Dr. Andrew Grove, a 
1960 graduate of the Engineering School in Chemical Engineering, and co-founder 
of Intel Corporation, donated $26 million to the Engineering School, which 
has since been renamed the Grove School of Engineering.[46] It is the largest 
donation ever given to the City College of New York. In 2009, the School 
of Architecture moved into the former Y Building,[47] which was gutted 
and completely remodeled under the design direction of architect Rafael 
Viñoly. Also in 2009, school was renamed the Bernard and Anne Spitzer School 
of Architecture in honor of the $25 million gift the Spitzers gave to the 
school.[48] City College was originally situated in downtown Manhattan, 
in the Free Academy Building, which was CCNY's home from 1849 to 1907. 
The building was designed by James Renwick, Jr. and was located at Lexington 
Avenue and 23rd Street. According to some sources, it was the first Gothic 
Revival college building on the East Coast.[49] Renwick's building was 
demolished in 1928, and replaced in 1930 with a 16-story structure that 
is part of the present-day Baruch College campus. CCNY then moved to its 
current location in the upper Manhattan village of Manhattanville in 1906, 
when the Collegiate Gothic campus was erected.[50][51][52][53] This new 
campus was designed by George Browne Post. According to CCNY's published 
history, "The Landmark neo-Gothic buildings of the North Campus Quadrangle 
were designed by the noted architect George Browne Post. They are superb 
examples of English Perpendicular Gothic style and are among the first 
buildings, as an entire campus, to be built in the U.S. in this style. 
Groundbreaking for the Gothic Quadrangle buildings took place in 1903". 
The original neo-Gothic buildings on the new upper Manhattan campus were 
as follows: Shepard Hall, the largest building and the centerpiece of the 
campus, was modeled after a Gothic cathedral plan with its main entrance 
on St. Nicholas Terrace.[54] It has a large chapel assembly hall called 
the Great Hall, which has a mural painted by Edwin Blashfield called "The 
Graduate"[55][56][57] and another mural in the Lincoln Hallway commissioned 
by the class of 1901 called "The Great Teachers" painted by Abraham Bogdanove 
in 1930. The building was named after Edward M. Shepard.[58] Harris Hall, 
named in the original architectural plans as the Sub-Freshman Building, 
housed City College's preparatory high school, Townsend Harris High School, 
from 1906 until it moved in 1930 downtown to the School of Business.[59] 
Wingate Hall was named for George Wood Wingate (Class of 1858), an attorney 
and promoter of physical fitness. It served as the College's main gymnasium 
between 1907 and 1972.[60][61][62] Baskerville Hall for many years housed 
the Chemistry Department, was also known as the Chemical Building, and 
had one of the largest original lecture halls on the campus, Doremus lecture 
hall.[63] It currently houses HSMSE, The High School for Mathematics, Science, 
and Engineering. Compton Hall was originally designed as the Mechanical 
Arts Building.[64] Five of these new Gothic campus buildings opened in 
1906. The sixth, Goethals Hall,[65] was completed in 1930. The new building 
was named for George Washington Goethals, the CCNY civil engineering alumnus 
who, as mentioned above in the section on the history of the College, went 
on to become the chief engineer of the Panama Canal. Goethals Hall housed 
the School of Technology (engineering) and adjoins the Mechanical Arts 
Building, Compton Hall. The six Gothic buildings are connected by a tunnel, 
which closed to public use in 1969.[66] Six hundred grotesques on the original 
Gothic buildings represent the practical and the fine arts.[67][68] The 
North Campus Quadrangle contains four great arches on the main avenues 
entering and exiting the campus: In the early 1900s, after most of the 
Gothic campus had been built, CCNY President John H. Finley wanted the 
College to have a stadium because the existing facilities for the College's 
athletic teams were inadequate. New York City did not provide the money 
needed to build a stadium; however, the municipal government donated to 
the College two city blocks south of the campus which were open park land. 
Finley's wish for a stadium moved forward when in 1912 businessman and 
philanthropist Adolph Lewisohn expressed interest in financing construction 
of the stadium. Lewisohn donated $75,000 for the stadium's construction 
and Finley commissioned architect Arnold W. Brunner to design Lewisohn 
Stadium, which was influenced by Finley's memories of a small rock-hewn 
theatre in the Trastevere section of Rome.[70] Lewisohn Stadium was built 
as a 6,000-seat stadium, with thousands more seats available on the infield 
during concerts, and was dedicated on May 29, 1915, two years after Dr. 
Finley had left his post at the College and Dr. Sidney Edward Mezes had 
become CCNY's fourth president. The stadium's dedication was enhanced by 
a performance of "The Trojan Women", produced by Granville Barker and Lillian 
McCarthy. College graduation services were held in Lewisohn for many years. 
Also deep under the grandstand seats was the college rifle range. It was 
used by ROTC students for basic handling of firearms. A separate library 
building originally planned in 1912 for the campus was never built but 
ground was broken on March 25, 1927 for a free-standing library to be built 
on St. Nicholas Terrace, between St. Nicholas and 141st Streets. Only 1/5 
of the original library plan was constructed at a cost of $850,000, far 
above the $150,000 alumni had collected to establish a library at the original 
Amsterdam Avenue and 140th Street site. The Bowker/Alumni Library stood 
at the present site of the Steinman Engineering building until 1957.[71] 
The Hebrew Orphan Asylum was erected in 1884 on Amsterdam Avenue between 
136th and 138th Streets, and was designed by William H. Hume.[72] It was 
already there when City College moved to upper Manhattan. When it closed 
in the 1940s, the building was used by City College to house members of 
the U.S. Armed Forces assigned to the Army Specialized Training Program 
(ASTP). From 1946 to 1955, it was used as a dormitory, library, and classroom 
space for the College. It was called "Army Hall" until it was demolished 
in 1955 and 1956.[73][74] In 1946, CCNY purchased a former Episcopal orphanage 
on 135th Street and Convent Avenue (North campus), and renamed it Klapper 
Hall, after Paul Klapper (Class of 1904) Professor and the Dean of School 
of Education and who was later the first president of Queens College/CUNY 
(1937–1952). Klapper Hall was red brick in Georgian style and it served 
until 1983 as home of the School of Education.[75] Steinman Hall, which 
houses the School of Engineering, was erected in 1962 on the north end 
of the campus, on the site of the Bowker Library and the Drill Hall to 
replace the facilities in Compton Hall and Goethals Hall, and was named 
for David Barnard Steinman (CCNY Class of 1906), a well known civil engineer 
and bridge designer.[76] The Administration Building was erected in 1963 
on the North Campus across from Wingate Hall. It houses the College's administration 
offices, including the President's, Provost's and the Registrar's offices. 
It was originally intended as a warehouse to store the huge number of records 
and transcripts of students since 1847.[77][78] In early 2007, the Administration 
Building was formally named The Howard E. Wille Administration Building, 
in honor of Howard E. Wille, class of 1955, a distinguished alumnus and 
philanthropist.[79] The Marshak Science Building was completed in 1971 
on the site of the former Jasper Oval, an open space previously used as 
a football field.[80][81] The building was named after Robert Marshak, 
renowned physicist and president of CCNY (1970–1979). The Marshak building 
houses all science labs and adjoins the Mahoney Gymnasium and its athletic 
facilities including a swimming pool and tennis courts.[82] In the 1970s, 
construction of the massive North Academic Center (NAC) was initiated. 
It was completed in 1984, and replaced Lewisohn Stadium and Klapper Hall. 
The NAC building houses hundreds of classrooms, two cafeterias, the Cohen 
Library, student lounges and centers, administrative offices, and a number 
of computer installations. Designed by architect John Carl Warnecke, the 
building has received criticism for its lack of design and outsize scale 
in comparison to the surrounding neighborhood. Within the NAC, a student 
lounge space was created outside the campus bookstore, and murals celebrating 
the history of the campus were painted on the doors of the undergraduate 
Student Government.[83] Founded in 1869, it claims to be the oldest continuously 
operating student government organization in the country. The first floor 
of the Administration Building was given a postmodern renovation in 2004. 
The first floor houses the admissions office and the registrar's office. 
The upper floors house the offices of the president and provost. The New 
York Landmarks Preservation Commission made the North Campus Quadrangle 
buildings and the College Gates official landmarks in 1981. The buildings 
in the Quadrangle were put on the State and National Register of Historic 
Places in 1984. In the summer of 2006, the historic gates on Convent Avenue 
were restored. In 1953, CCNY bought the campus of the Manhattanville College 
of the Sacred Heart (which, on a 1913 map, was shown as The Convent of 
the Sacred Heart), which added a south section to the campus. This expanded 
the campus to include many of the buildings in the area between 140th Street 
to 130th Street, from St. Nicholas Terrace in the east to Amsterdam Avenue 
in the west. Former buildings of the Manhattanville College campus to be 
used by CCNY were renamed for City College's purposes: Stieglitz Hall; 
Downer Hall; Wagner Hall, the prominent Finley Student Center, which contained 
the very active Buttenweiser Lounge; Eisner Hall; Park Gym; Mott Hall; 
and others. As a result of this expansion, the South Campus of CCNY primarily 
contained the liberal arts classes and departments of the College. The 
North Campus, also as a result of this expansion, mostly housed classes 
and departments for the sciences and engineering, as well as Klapper Hall 
(School of Education), and the Administration Building. In 1957, a new 
library building was erected in the middle of the campus, near 135th Street 
on the South Campus, and named Cohen Library, after Morris Raphael Cohen, 
an alumnus (Class of 1900) and celebrated professor of philosophy at the 
College from 1912 to 1938. When the Cohen Library moved to the North Academic 
Complex in the early 1980s, the structure was renamed the 'Y' building, 
and housed offices, supplies, the mail room, etc. The building was eventually 
gutted and renovated to become the home of the School of Architecture in 
2009 (see below). In the 1970s, many of the old buildings of the South 
Campus[84] were demolished, some that had been used by the Academy of the 
Sacred Heart. The buildings remaining on the South Campus at this time 
were the Cohen Library (later moved into the North Academic Center), Park 
Gym (now the Structural Biology Research Center (NYSBC) [85]), Eisner Hall 
(built in 1941 by Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart as a library, 
later remodeled and housed CCNY's Art Department and named for the chairman 
of the Board of Higher Education in the 1930s),[86] the Schiff House (former 
President's residence, now a child care center), and Mott Hall (formerly 
the English Department, now a New York City Department of Education primary 
school[87]). Some of the buildings that were demolished at that time were 
Finley Hall (housed The Finley Student Center, student activities center, 
originally built in 1888–1890 as Manhattanville Academy's main building, 
and purchased in 1953 by City College),[88] Wagner Hall (housed various 
social science and liberal arts departments and classes, originally built 
as a dormitory for Manhattanville Academy, and was named in honor of Robert 
F. Wagner Sr., member of the Class of 1898, who represented New York State 
for 23 years in the United States Senate),[89] Stieglitz Hall, and Downer 
Hall, among others. New buildings were erected on the South Campus, including 
Aaron Davis Hall in 1981, and the Herman Goldman sports field in 1993. 
In August 2006, the College completed the construction of a 600-bed dormitory, 
called "The Towers"[90][91][92] There are plans to rename The Towers after 
a distinguished alumnus or donor. The building that formerly housed Cohen 
Library, i.e., the 'Y' Building mentioned above, became the new home for 
the School of Architecture, with the renovation headed by architect Rafael 
Viñoly. Near the 133rd Street gate, the Herman Goldman sports field was 
eliminated in favor of two new scientific education and research facilities. 
In 2007, two new buildings had been proposed for the South Campus site 
by the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY). One was a 
four story Science Building, to serve as an adjunct to the Marshak Science 
Building on the North Campus, and the other was a six story Advanced Science 
Research Center (ASRC).[93][94][95][96] Designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, 
a pair of new buildings on the site of the Herman Goldman sports field: 
the Advanced Science Research Center (ASRC), serving visiting scientists 
and the whole CUNY system; and the Center for Discovery and Innovation. 
The buildings are linked by an underground tunnel. In total, these two 
buildings 400,000 square feet of laboratories, offices, an auditorium, 
and meeting rooms.[97] The College is located between West 130th and West 
141st Streets in Manhattan, along Convent Avenue and St. Nicholas Terrace, 
between Amsterdam and St. Nicholas Avenues. The campus is served by the 
following transportation: The City College of New York is organized into 
five schools plus The Macaulay Honors College. The five schools of the 
City College of New York are The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences, 
which is divided into three divisions (The Division of Humanities and the 
Arts, The Division of Social Science, and The Division of Science), The 
Bernard and Anne Spitzer School of Architecture, The School of Education, 
The Grove School of Engineering, and The Sophie B. Davis School of Biomedical 
Education. The College offers the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.), Bachelor of 
Science (B.S.), Bachelor of Science in Education (B.S. Ed.), Bachelor of 
Engineering (B.E.), Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.), Bachelor of Architecture 
(B.Arch.) degrees at the undergraduate level, and the Master of Arts (M.A.), 
Master of Science (M.S.), Master of Science in Education (M.S.Ed.), Master 
of Engineering (M.E.), Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.), Master of Architecture 
(M.Arch.), Master of Landscape Architecture (M.L.A.), Master of Urban Planning 
(M.U.P.) Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degrees at the graduate level. For 
the Fall 2016 entering class of freshman, the average SAT score was 1260/1600 
and the average high school GPA was 90/100%.[98] The City College of New 
York has had a long and distinguished history in physics. Three of its 
alumni went on to become Nobel laureates in physics: Robert Hofstadter 
in 1961,[99] Arno Penzias in 1978,[100] and Leon Lederman in 1988.[101] 
Albert Einstein gave the first of his series of United States lectures 
at the City College of New York in 1921.[102] Other distinguished alumni 
and past faculty in the field are Mark Zemansky, Clarence Zener, Mitchell 
Feigenbaum, and Leonard Susskind. Current faculty include Robert Alfano[103] 
and Michio Kaku.[104] CCNY hosts a research center focusing on nanotechnology, 
structural biology, photonics, neuroscience and environmental sciences.[105] 
Part of CCNY's Colin Powell School for Civic and Global Leadership, the 
CUNY Dominican Studies Institute is the nation's only university-based 
research center devoted to "the history of the Dominican Republic and people 
of Dominican descent in the United States and across the wider Dominican 
diaspora."[106] The design of the three-faced college seal has its roots 
in the 19th century, when Professor Charles Anthon was inspired by views 
of Janus, the Roman god of beginnings, whose two faces connect the past 
and the future. He broadened this image of Janus into three faces to show 
the student, and consequently, knowledge, developing from childhood through 
youth into maturity. The seal was redesigned for the college's Centennial 
Medal in 1947 by Albert P. d'Andrea (class of 1918).[107][108] Professor 
d'Andrea, having immigrated from Benevento, Italy, in 1901, joined the 
faculty immediately after graduation and was Professor of Art and Chairman 
of the Art Department from 1948 to 1968. In 2003, the college decided to 
create a logo distinct from its seal, with the stylized text "the City 
College of New York."[109] U.S. News & World Report in its 2015 rankings 
placed CCNY 65th among 620 Regional Universities in the North. ("Regional 
Universities" are defined as institutions that offer a broad range of undergraduate 
programs, some master's degree but few, if any, doctoral programs. CUNY 
uses the CUNY Graduate Center for its doctoral programs). CCNY also ranked 
#1 for racial and ethnic diversity among Regional Universities in the North.[113] 
The Princeton Review in 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015 included City College 
of New York in its annual "Best Colleges" guidebook [114] The 2015 America's 
Best Colleges ranked by Forbes.com placed City College at #177 overall 
and #78 in the Northeast, ranking CCNY #1 among all CUNYs and ahead of 
NYC privates such as Saint John's University, Yeshiva University, and Pace 
University.[115] Washington Monthly in 2013 placed CCNY 43rd among 684 
Master's Universities (defined as "institutions awarding more than 50 masters 
degrees and fewer than 20 doctoral degrees in a given year"). The rankings 
were based on the school's "contribution to social good in three broad 
categories: social mobility (recruiting and graduating low-income students), 
Research (producing cutting-edge scholarship and PhDs), and Service (encouraging 
students to give back to their country)." CCNY ranked 29th in social mobility 
and 1st in research.[116] In 2015, Academic Ranking of World Universities 
placed CCNY at #289 among all universities worldwide—amongst the top 12%. 
Among U.S. universities, CCNY placed at #111. This ranking was the highest 
among CUNY schools.[117] CCNY is the only team in men's college basketball 
history to win both the National Invitation Tournament and the NCAA Tournament 
in the same year, 1950. However, this accomplishment was overshadowed by 
the CCNY point shaving scandal in which seven CCNY basketball players were 
arrested, in 1951, for taking money from gamblers to affect the outcome 
of games. The scandal led to the decline of CCNY from a national powerhouse 
in Division I basketball to a member of Division III and damaged the national 
profile of college basketball in general. The College currently fields 
nine men's teams (Baseball, Basketball, Cross Country, Indoor/Outdoor Track 
and Field, Soccer, Tennis, Volleyball) and eight women's varsity athletic 
teams (Basketball, Cross Country, Fencing, Indoor/Outdoor Track and Field, 
Soccer, Tennis, Volleyball). The Department also offers a men's Lacrosse 
club. The Beavers have won 1 NCAA Division I championship (Men's Basketball) 
and over 70 City University of New York Athletic Conference (CUNYAC) Championships 
since 1966. The Beavers have won 2 Division III Eastern College Athletic 
Conference (ECAC) Championships in the program's history: Men's Volleyball 
and Women's Basketball. The Beavers also have a successful history in NCAA 
Division III Track and Field. The Lady Beavers have placed within the top 
3 multiple times, 5 times for Indoor Women, 2 times for Outdoor Women. 
The Men's and Women's Track teams combined have over 25 All-Americans since 
1980. The City College of New York and its resident art collection were 
founded in 1847. The collection contains roughly one thousand eight hundred 
works of art ranging from the historical to the contemporary. There were 
two major points in the college's history when most of the artwork in the 
collection was obtained; the first was at the founding of the institution 
and the second was in the 1970s when much of the campus underwent renovation 
and expansion. Also a larger portion of the collection was obtained through 
donations and the Percent for Arts program. This is a government program 
which helps institutions acquire art for their campuses. Often when new 
buildings are under construction at City College funding is provided through 
the Percent for Arts for new artwork, which is usually large sculpture 
or installation. There is currently no museum at City College, thus much 
of the collection is not on view for the student population of public. 
Works that are in the collection which can always be seen are the public 
sculptures and installations spread throughout the campus. The drawings, 
prints and photos which comprise the collection are housed within the libraries 
as a part of the City College archive, where individuals can make appointments 
to view the works. Some notable works from the collection include some 
Keith Haring prints and Edward Curtis's The North American Indian. Student 
involvement with the collection is minimum but there is some. At the moment 
graduate students in museum studies are working to develop an inventory 
of the collection. There are times when they host small exhibitions of 
works in the collection but there is no allotted gallery space for this. 
Undergraduate students mostly interact with the collection through their 
classes; aside from that most of their experiences with this collection 
come from the public sculptures around campus. Source: The Adolph Lewisohn 
