The Civil Rights Game is an annual Major League Baseball game (starting 
in 2007) that honors the history of civil rights in the United States and 
marked the unofficial end to the league's spring training. Starting in 
2009, the game became a regular season game. The first two games were held 
at AutoZone Park in Memphis, Tennessee. The intent of the game was to "embrace 
baseball's history of African-American players", as well as to generate 
interest for future black players, after a demographics survey revealed 
that the percentage of black players in the league has dwindled over the 
past twelve years to just 8.4 percent.[1] The survey also gave the diversity 
of players in Major League Baseball an A+ grade: while African-Americans 
in the sport since 1996 dropped from 17 percent to 8 percent, the percentage 
of Hispanic players (many of them blacks from the Caribbean) increased 
during that period from 20 percent to 29 percent, and Asian and other minorities 
increased from 1 percent to 3 percent. The percentage of non-Hispanic white 
players actually went down from 62 percent to 60 percent during that period.[2] 
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig commented on air during the first Civil 
Rights game that the 8 percent total for African-Americans was "a problem 
that needed to be looked at." Associated Press news releases related to 
the game focused on the drop in African-Americans, and quoted former Cleveland 
pitcher CC Sabathia on the idea that baseball must do more to promote the 
game in inner cities, saying, "It's not just a problem—it's a crisis."[1] 
In conjunction with the Civil Rights Game, Major League Baseball honors 
three pioneers of civil rights with the Beacon Awards (Beacon of Life Award, 
Beacon of Change Award and Beacon of Hope Award). The inaugural game was 
played on Saturday, March 31, 2007 at 5:30 p.m. and was broadcast nationally 
on ESPN and ESPNHD. It was announced by ESPN's #1 broadcast team of Jon 
Miller and Joe Morgan, with Peter Gammons serving as a field analyst (his 
role during Sunday Night Baseball telecasts on ESPN). The game featured 
the St. Louis Cardinals and Cleveland Indians. Both teams wore uniforms 
reminiscent of those worn in Negro League games. The Cardinals won 5–1, 
receiving a solid five-inning start out of their 2006 closer Adam Wainwright, 
who got the win. Selig came under heavy fire from Native Americans, who 
feel that the involvement of the Cleveland Indians was a slap in the face 
to the Cherokee people who still live in the Memphis area after the infamous 
Trail of Tears passed through less than 200 years ago. The New York Daily 
News called the situation a "primer on how to inadvertently stage an ironic 
insult to a local and large population of Natives" and insinuated that 
the league has (inadvertently) sabotaged the game by inviting the Indians.[3] 
The sports blog Deadspin asked the question "If the Indians win, do Native 
Americans get civil rights?"[4] On December 3, 2007, league officials announced 
details for the second annual game. It was played on March 29, 2008. The 
New York Mets beat the Chicago White Sox 3–2. Martin Luther King III threw 
out the first pitch. This has been the lowest attended game, to date, primarily 
because it was held at a minor league park during cool, rainy weather. 
On June 20, 2009, the Civil Rights Game was played for the first time as 
part of the regular season schedule. The game took place at Great American 
Ball Park in Cincinnati between the host Cincinnati Reds and the Chicago 
White Sox. The White Sox defeated the Reds, 10–8. For this game, the teams 
wore replicas of their 1965 uniforms. The White Sox became the first team 
to participate in two Civil Rights Games. The game was broadcast on MLB 
Network except in the home markets of the two teams that played in the 
game, Cincinnati (FSN Ohio) and Chicago (CSN Chicago).[5] As of the end 
of the 2011 season, this game marks the last time the White Sox have actually 
worn white socks.[citation needed] Cincinnati again hosted the Civil Rights 
Game on May 15, 2010. The Reds defeated the St. Louis Cardinals in a dramatic 
4–3 game that ended when Reds SS Orlando Cabrera took a relay throw from 
LF Chris Heisey at the base of the left field wall and gunned down Skip 
Schumaker at home plate trying to score the tying run from first base on 
Joe Mather's double.[6] Both teams wore replicas of their 1954 uniforms 
for this game, the first season both teams fielded their first black players. 
Again, MLB Network telecast the game except in Cincinnati (Fox Sports Ohio) 
and St. Louis (Fox Sports Midwest). During the 2010 season, it was announced 
that Atlanta, Georgia had been selected to host the 2011 and 2012 Civil 
Rights Games at Turner Field, home of the Atlanta Braves.[7] Prior to the 
start of the 2011 season, the 2011 Game was announced to be the May 15 
series finale between the Atlanta Braves and Philadelphia Phillies. Additionally, 
the festivities have been expanded from two days to four days.[8] TBS carried 
the game outside the Philadelphia and Atlanta DMAs. For the Civil Rights 
Game, the Braves and the Phillies wore their 1974 throwback jerseys to 
honor Hank Aaron's record-breaking 715th home run in 1974 as a member of 
the Atlanta Braves. In the previous game of the series, both teams wore 
Negro League uniforms from their respective cities, the Atlanta Black Crackers 
for the Braves and the Philadelphia Stars for the Phillies.[9] The game 
was a pitching duel against two of the National League's best pitchers, 
Tim Hudson of the Braves and Roy Halladay of the Phillies. Both pitchers 
had very good starts, with Hudson going seven and giving up just two runs 
on a John Mayberry Jr. home run. Halladay worked eight innings, giving 
up a leadoff eighth-inning home run to Dan Uggla to put the Braves in front. 
Craig Kimbrel of the Braves closed the game out, earning his tenth save 
of the season. Like the 2011 Game, the 2012 Game was held at Turner Field 
in Atlanta, Georgia. The Atlanta Braves organization announced on February 
21 that the game would be the August 19 series finale versus the Los Angeles 
Dodgers. The three-game weekend series from August 17 to 19 will again 
be incorporated into the Civil Rights Game Weekend, an event that will 
honor those on and off the field who have paved the way for equal rights 
for all Americans.[10] The 2013 Game was held at US Cellular Field in Chicago 
on August 24, when the White Sox beat the Texas Rangers by a score of 3–2. 
It was announced on November 19, 2013 that the 2014 Game will be held at 
Minute Maid Park in Houston on May 30, when the Astros host the Orioles. 
Houston beat Baltimore 2–1. For the game, the Astros were known as the 
Houston Eagles (after the only Negro League team in Texas) and Baltimore 
played as the Baltimore Elite Giants. The 2015 Game was held on April 15 
at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles which saw the Dodgers host the Mariners. 
It was the first Civil Rights Game played on the West Coast. Beacon Awards 
Luncheon Keynote Speaker: Julian Bond Beacon Awards Dinner Keynote Speaker: 
Dr. Joseph Lowery Beacon Awards Luncheon Keynote Speaker: Bill Clinton 
Beacon Awards Luncheon keynote speaker: Andrew Young Beacon Awards Luncheon 
