Coordinates: 40°42′46″N 74°00′21″W﻿ / ﻿40.71278°N 74.00583°W﻿ / 40.71278; 
-74.00583 Civic Center is the area of lower Manhattan, New York City, that 
encompasses New York City Hall, One Police Plaza, the courthouses in Foley 
Square, and the surrounding area. The district is bound on the west by 
Tribeca at Broadway, on the north by Chinatown at Worth Street or Bayard 
Street, on the east by the East River and the Brooklyn Bridge at South 
Street, and on the south by the Financial District at Ann Street. Although 
government-related activities are predominant, other pursuits also occur 
within the district, including entertainment, industrial activity, residential 
dwellings, and warehousing.[1] For example, there are Chinese restaurants 
near Civic Center's border with Chinatown, in addition to some museums 
and some residential buildings in the Civic Center area. The area is roughly 
10 blocks long and 5 blocks wide, but is far less dense than most of Manhattan, 
where the average number of residents for an area that size is 35,000; 
the Civic Center has approximately 20,000 residents.[2] The Jacob K. Javits 
Federal Building is located in the area. It includes the Federal Bureau 
of Investigation New York field office.[3] Non-government buildings include 
the 387 feet (118 m) 15 Park Row, an office and residential building which 
was the city's highest from 1899 to 1908. 150 Nassau Street, a 21-story 
granite building, was once a publisher's building, as were many in the 
area, but is now a residential building, as is 38 Park Row. The 76-story 
8 Spruce Street is among the world's tallest residential buildings. Southbridge 
Towers, once Mitchell-Lama affordable housing, is now market-rate housing.[2] 
Originally, the Lenape American Indians occupied the Civic Center due to 
its rich pastoral fields and its proximity to the East River and Hudson 
River. There was a series of marshes in the area and a big pond in what 
is now Foley Square that the early settlers called “The Collect” or “Collect 
Pond”. In fact, the area was so low lying that during the spring floods, 
the Indians could paddle from the East River to the Hudson River through 
the Collect Pond. Then in 1609, Henry Hudson, an English explorer working 
for the Dutch, came and claimed the land for the Dutch. The colony there 
grew and farms began to expand, so the demand for workers increased. The 
Dutch West Indies Company decided to import slaves in 1625 to the new colony. 
The Civic Center was known as the commons and the first recorded building 
was a windmill built by Jan de Wit and Denys Hartogveldt in 1663. The next 
year, the colony was renamed New York and the state seal was created the 
following year. Farms continued to grow and slavery expanded rapidly. The 
slaves built a burial ground in the north area of the Civic Center. The 
slaves would bury people at night even though it was illegal, to ensure 
their brethren had a proper burial service. Because of the slaves’ sneaking 
out and racism, the Trinity Church banned African burial ceremonies in 
1697. This rule was then overturned in 1773. The city continued expanding 
and the government system became increasingly powerful. The local government 
decided to finance their first public works building through public funding. 
In 1735, the Almshouse was built as a center to house the ill and impoverished, 
a jail, a workhouse and infirmary. A score later another jail was built 
called New Goal, which was a debtor prison. Soldier barracks were built 
on the western border of the commons. During the pre-Revolutionary and 
Revolutionary eras, City Hall Park, in Lower Manhattan, was the site of 
many rallies and movements. For example: During the Civil War, the old 
British soldiers’ barracks were used as temporary barracks. In 1870, a 
new post office was erected, which angered a lot of people; the new building 
obstructed the view of City Hall and demolished the Croton Fountain. The 
Tweed Courthouse, comprising 30 internal courthouses was also built then 
and completed in 1881. Though the building began construction in 1861, 
work on the building stopped in 1872 because Boss Tweed was being tried 
there. By the 1880s, the city of New York was rapidly growing in leaps 
and bounds. The population had increased to more than a million residents, 
and the government was outgrowing its offices. The mayor, Franklin Edson, 
recognized the need for more space for government offices and was reluctant 
to add onto the original City Hall building. Instead, between the years 
of 1888 and 1907, the city organized a series of competitions to choose 
designs for several new structures. On December 3, 1897, people rejoiced 
by City Hall in celebration of the consolidation of the Bronx, Brooklyn, 
Manhattan, Queens, and Staten Island. The new New York City numbered more 
than 4.5 million residents, and there was a need for a mass transit system 
and a stately building. City Hall's subway station was completed in 1903, 
a station in the New York City Subway, which later would become the largest 
mass transit system in the world. The massive 40 stories tall Municipal 
Building was completed in 1915 and has the statue of Civic Fre resting 
on top of the tower. In 1906, the Pace brothers founded the firm of Pace 
& Pace to operate their schools of accountancy and business. Taking a loan 
of $600, the Pace brothers rented a classroom on one of the floors of the 
New York Tribune Building. The city continued to innovate, and in 1908, 
City Hall Park was renovated, and the old gaslights were replaced with 
electric ones. The Civic Center’s financial power and economy were growing 
in the early 1900s. The Emigrant Savings Bank was established in 1850 to 
provide financial services for New York City's rising Irish Catholic immigrant 
population, and to enable easy transfer of funds between New York and Emigrant's 
branch offices in Dublin. In 1908, they decided to relocate their headquarters 
to the Civic Center and to create the largest bank building in the United 
States. The Surrogate's Courthouse building, originally designed to be 
the Hall of Records, was built between 1899 and 1907. Frank Winfield Woolworth, 
the owner of the "five and dime" Woolworth's retail chain, needed a new 
office building for the headquarters of his company and asked Cass Gilbert 
to build a Gothic tower with plenty of windows. In response, the Woolworth 
Building was constructed in 1913 and was the tallest building in the world 
until 1930, when New York’s Chrysler Building claimed the title. The Woolworth 
Building became an instant landmark, due both to the then very impressive 
height, and because of its Gothic ornamentation. This gave it the nickname 
"Cathedral of Commerce". The interior of the building is one of the most 
sumptuous in New York. Woolworth's private office was modeled and furnished 
after Napoleon's Palace in Compiègne. As early as 1915, Mekeel's Weekly 
Stamp News contained many advertisements for stamp dealers in Nassau Street. 
In the 1930s, stamp collecting became very popular, and Nassau Street was 
the center of New York City's "Stamp District", called its "Street of Stamps", 
with dozens of stamp and coin dealers along its short length. The Stamp 
Center Building was located at 116 Nassau Street, and the Subway Stamp 
Shop was located at 87 Nassau Street. During the Great Depression, masses 
gathered in City Hall Park as a place to protest the government. Under 
Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, Robert Moses unveiled an ambitious plan to renovate 
the park.[when?] The plan called for the Federal Post Office to be torn 
down, but this plan was stopped due to opposition from city officials and 
community groups. The Delacorte family donated the Shew Fountain.[when?] 
Twenty-one years later,[when?] Mayor Rudy Giuliani rededicated the park 
for 7.5 million dollars and removed the Shew Fountain. The Tweed Courthouse 
was also renovated and redesigned[when?] to be home to the Department of 
Education and a public school kindergarten. In 1991, while constructing 
a new building at 290 Broadway, the excavators found thousands of graves. 
Scientists believe the African Burial Ground National Monument is the largest 
cemetery in the world for people of African descent. They estimate that 
approximately 15,000 to 20,000 people are buried there, but only 419 bodies 
were found. The General Services Administration was planning on ignoring 
the discovery and continuing with the building of the Foley Square Federal 
Office Building, until the African American community rebelled against 
the GSA’s cavalier attitude toward the discovery. The conflict was resolved, 
and the building was still erected, but a memorial site was constructed 
at this location and became a national monument. Rodney Leon’s design was 
chosen for the memorial site, and it was opened in 2007. The visitor center 
was opened in 2010 and has a video on the discovery of the graves, sculptures 
of the burial process, and information on the lives of the slaves. Currently, 
the Supreme Courthouse and City Hall are being renovated. The magnificent 
Municipal Building is home to the Department of Citywide Administrative 
Services and the mayor of New York also keeps his office in this building. 
Additionally, the renowned Frank Gehry recently finished constructing the 
8 Spruce Street in 2011, a huge steel tower that is contorted in a manifold 
of directions. The building is “the tallest residential building in the 
Western Hemisphere” and is critically acclaimed as, “the first thing built 
downtown since then that actually deserves to stand beside it [the Woolworth 
Building].” The Civic Center is a crucial area in New York City with an 
extensive history and currently houses many important buildings. A wave 
of newspaper companies arose in 1835 after the invention of the steam press, 
which turned out printed sheets mechanically, replacing the old hand-cranked 
method. The convenience of mass production generated a penny press and 
mass consumption of sensational news. The Civic Center was always a desirable 
location for newspapers because it was so close to City Hall and the courts, 
but the numbers increased exponentially after the invention of the steam 
press. Park Row became known as “Newspaper Row”, and between the Civil 
War and World War I, 60 newspapers were published there. The New York Sun 
began publication in 1833, as a morning newspaper edited by Benjamin Day 
with the slogan: "It Shines for All". The newspaper's offices, a converted 
department store at 280 Broadway, between Chambers and Duane Streets in 
lower Manhattan now known as "The Sun Building" is famous for the clocks 
that bear the newspaper's masthead and motto. Horace Greeley created the 
New York Tribune in 1841 with the hopes of providing a straightforward, 
trustworthy media source in an era when newspapers such as the New York 
Sun and New York Herald thrived on sensationalism. The Tribune's original 
building was located on 30 Ann Street, but was moved to Park Row in 1875. 
The New York Times' first building was located at 113 Nassau Street in 
lower Manhattan. In 1854, it moved to 138 Nassau Street, and in 1858 it 
moved to 41 Park Row, making it the first newspaper in New York City housed 
in a building built specifically for its use. Frank Queen bought a small 
office on Nassau Street and began publishing the New York Clipper in 1853, 
making it the first American paper devoted entirely to entertainment; the 
paper eventually shortened its name to The Clipper. The paper was one of 
the earliest publications in the United States to regularly cover sports, 
and it played an important role in popularizing baseball in the country. 
In addition to more popular sporting events, the New York Clipper also 
wrote about billiards, bowling, and even chess. It began covering American 
football in 1880. The New York World was founded in 1860 but was a relatively 
unsuccessful New York newspaper from 1860 to 1883. Joseph Pulitzer purchased 
it in 1883, and a new, aggressive era of circulation building began. In 
1890, Pulitzer built the New York World Building, the tallest office building 
in the world at the time (it was razed in 1955). The New York Journal was 
established in 1868, as a paper published every other day. The paper was 
barely financially stable and in 1895, William Randolph Hearst purchased 
it. He made major changes to the paper, and adopting the approach used 
by Joseph Pulitzer, he began competing with the New York World. Each publication 
would compete by fabricating and embellishing stories more than the other. 
They increased their title font sizes, and focused more on the title than 
the actual story. The Revolution, also established in 1868, was a women's 
rights newspaper founded by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony. 
The New York Press was a New York City newspaper that began publication 
in December 1887 and published notable writers such as Stephen Crane. It 
also coined the term "yellow journalism" in early 1897, to refer to the 
work of Joseph Pulitzer's New York World and William Randolph Hearst's 
New York Journal. The Daily People was a weekly newspaper established in 
New York City in 1891, and is best remembered as a vehicle for the ideas 
of Daniel DeLeon (1852–1914), the dominant ideological leader of the Socialist 
Labor Party of America. The New York Press said, in 1898, about papers 
practicing "yellow journalism": it "We called them Yellow because they 
are Yellow." The "yellow journalism" tactics used by the New York Journal 
and the New York World increased circulation and influenced the content 
and style of newspapers in most of the America's major cities.[citation 
needed] Many aspects of yellow journalism, such as banner headlines, sensational 
stories, an emphasis on illustrations, and colored supplements, became 
a permanent feature of popular newspapers in the United States and Europe 
