The Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Pub.L. 88–352, 78 Stat. 241, enacted July 2, 
1964) is a landmark piece of civil rights and US labor law legislation 
in the United States[5] that outlawed discrimination based on race, color, 
religion, sex, or national origin.[6] It ended unequal application of voter 
registration requirements and racial segregation in schools, at the workplace 
and by facilities that served the general public (known as "public accommodations"). 
Powers given to enforce the act were initially weak, but were supplemented 
during later years. Congress asserted its authority to legislate under 
several different parts of the United States Constitution, principally 
its power to regulate interstate commerce under Article One (section 8), 
its duty to guarantee all citizens equal protection of the laws under the 
Fourteenth Amendment and its duty to protect voting rights under the Fifteenth 
Amendment. The Act was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on 
July 2, 1964, at the White House. The bill was called for by President 
John F. Kennedy in his civil rights speech of June 11, 1963,[7] in which 
he asked for legislation "giving all Americans the right to be served in 
facilities which are open to the public—hotels, restaurants, theaters, 
retail stores, and similar establishments", as well as "greater protection 
for the right to vote". Kennedy delivered this speech following a series 
of protests from the African-American community, the most famous being 
the Birmingham campaign (including the "Children's Crusade") in which students 
and children endured attacks by police dogs and high pressure fire hoses 
during their protests against segregation. Following this a wave of black 
riots swept the country in spring 1963, and the racial tensions moved Kennedy 
to action.[8] Emulating the Civil Rights Act of 1875, Kennedy's civil rights 
bill included provisions to ban discrimination in public accommodations, 
and to enable the U.S. Attorney General to join in lawsuits against state 
governments which operated segregated school systems, among other provisions. 
However, it did not include a number of provisions deemed essential by 
civil rights leaders including protection against police brutality, ending 
discrimination in private employment, or granting the Justice Department 
power to initiate desegregation or job discrimination lawsuits.[9] On June 
11, 1963, President Kennedy met with the Republican leaders to discuss 
the legislation before his television address to the nation that evening. 
Two days later, Senate Minority Leader Everett Dirksen and Senate Majority 
Leader Mike Mansfield both voiced support for the president's bill, except 
for provisions guaranteeing equal access to places of public accommodations. 
This led to several Republican Congressmen drafting a compromise bill to 
be considered. On June 19, the president sent his bill to Congress as it 
was originally written, saying legislative action was "imperative".[10][11] 
The president's bill went first to the House of Representatives, where 
it was referred to the Judiciary Committee, chaired by Emanuel Celler, 
a Democrat from New York. After a series of hearings on the bill, Celler's 
committee strengthened the act, adding provisions to ban racial discrimination 
in employment, providing greater protection to black voters, eliminating 
segregation in all publicly owned facilities (not just schools), and strengthening 
the anti-segregation clauses regarding public facilities such as lunch 
counters. They also added authorization for the Attorney General to file 
lawsuits to protect individuals against the deprivation of any rights secured 
by the Constitution or U.S. law. In essence, this was the controversial 
"Title III" that had been removed from the 1957 and 1960 Acts. Civil rights 
organizations pressed hard for this provision because it could be used 
to protect peaceful protesters and black voters from police brutality and 
suppression of free speech rights. Kennedy called the congressional leaders 
to the White House in late October, 1963 to line up the necessary votes 
in the House for passage.[12] The bill was reported out of the Judiciary 
Committee in November 1963, and referred to the Rules Committee, whose 
chairman, Howard W. Smith, a Democrat and avid segregationist from Virginia, 
indicated his intention to keep the bill bottled up indefinitely. The assassination 
of John F. Kennedy on November 22, 1963, changed the political situation. 
Kennedy's successor as president, Lyndon Johnson, made use of his experience 
in legislative politics, along with the bully pulpit he wielded as president, 
in support of the bill. In his first address to a joint session of Congress 
on November 27, 1963, Johnson told the legislators, "No memorial oration 
or eulogy could more eloquently honor President Kennedy's memory than the 
earliest possible passage of the civil rights bill for which he fought 
so long."[13] Judiciary Committee chairman Celler filed a petition to discharge 
the bill from the Rules Committee; it required the support of a majority 
of House members to move the bill to the floor. Initially Celler had a 
difficult time acquiring the signatures necessary, with many congressmen 
who supported the civil rights bill itself remaining cautious about violating 
normal House procedure with the rare use of a discharge petition. By the 
time of the 1963 winter recess, 50 signatures were still needed. After 
the return of Congress from its winter recess, however, it was apparent 
that public opinion in the North favored the bill and that the petition 
would acquire the necessary signatures. To avert the humiliation of a successful 
discharge petition, Chairman Smith relented and allowed the bill to pass 
through the Rules Committee. Johnson, who wanted the bill passed as soon 
as possible, ensured that the bill would be quickly considered by the Senate. 
Normally, the bill would have been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee, 
chaired by Senator James O. Eastland, Democrat from Mississippi. Given 
Eastland's firm opposition, it seemed impossible that the bill would reach 
the Senate floor. Senate Majority Leader Mike Mansfield took a novel approach 
to prevent the bill from being relegated to Judiciary Committee limbo. 
Having initially waived a second reading of the bill, which would have 
led to it being immediately referred to Judiciary, Mansfield gave the bill 
a second reading on February 26, 1964, and then proposed, in the absence 
of precedent for instances when a second reading did not immediately follow 
the first, that the bill bypass the Judiciary Committee and immediately 
be sent to the Senate floor for debate. When the bill came before the full 
Senate for debate on March 30, 1964, the "Southern Bloc" of 18 southern 
Democratic Senators and one Republican Senator led by Richard Russell (D-GA) 
launched a filibuster to prevent its passage.[15] Said Russell: "We will 
resist to the bitter end any measure or any movement which would have a 
tendency to bring about social equality and intermingling and amalgamation 
of the races in our (Southern) states."[16] The most fervent opposition 
to the bill came from Senator Strom Thurmond (D-SC): "This so-called Civil 
Rights Proposals, which the President has sent to Capitol Hill for enactment 
into law, are unconstitutional, unnecessary, unwise and extend beyond the 
realm of reason. This is the worst civil-rights package ever presented 
to the Congress and is reminiscent of the Reconstruction proposals and 
actions of the radical Republican Congress."[17] After 54 days of filibuster, 
Senators Everett Dirksen (R-IL), Thomas Kuchel (R-CA), Hubert Humphrey 
(D-MN), and Mike Mansfield (D-MT) introduced a substitute bill that they 
hoped would attract enough Republican swing votes to end the filibuster. 
The compromise bill was weaker than the House version in regard to government 
power to regulate the conduct of private business, but it was not so weak 
as to cause the House to reconsider the legislation.[18] On the morning 
of June 10, 1964, Senator Robert Byrd (D-W.Va.) completed a filibustering 
address that he had begun 14 hours and 13 minutes earlier opposing the 
legislation. Until then, the measure had occupied the Senate for 60 working 
days, including six Saturdays. A day earlier, Democratic Whip Hubert Humphrey 
of Minnesota, the bill's manager, concluded he had the 67 votes required 
at that time to end the debate and end the filibuster. With six wavering 
senators providing a four-vote victory margin, the final tally stood at 
71 to 29. Never in history had the Senate been able to muster enough votes 
to cut off a filibuster on a civil rights bill. And only once in the 37 
years since 1927 had it agreed to cloture for any measure.[19] On June 
19, the substitute (compromise) bill passed the Senate by a vote of 73–27, 
and quickly passed through the House-Senate conference committee, which 
adopted the Senate version of the bill. The conference bill was passed 
by both houses of Congress, and was signed into law by President Johnson 
on July 2, 1964.[20] Totals are in "Yea–Nay" format: The original House 
version:[21] Cloture in the Senate:[22] The Senate version:[21] The Senate 
version, voted on by the House:[21] Note: "Southern", as used in this section, 
refers to members of Congress from the eleven states that made up the Confederate 
States of America in the American Civil War. "Northern" refers to members 
from the other 39 states, regardless of the geographic location of those 
states.[23] The original House version: The Senate version: Just one year 
earlier, the same Congress had passed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which 
prohibited wage differentials based on sex. The prohibition on sex discrimination 
was added to the Civil Rights Act by Howard W. Smith, a powerful Virginia 
Democrat who chaired the House Rules Committee and who strongly opposed 
the legislation. Smith's amendment was passed by a teller vote of 168 to 
133. Historians debate Smith's motivation, whether it was a cynical attempt 
to defeat the bill by someone opposed to civil rights both for blacks and 
women, or an attempt to support their rights by broadening the bill to 
include women.[25][26][27][28] Smith expected that Republicans, who had 
included equal rights for women in their party's platform since 1944,[29] 
would probably vote for the amendment. Historians speculate that Smith 
was trying to embarrass northern Democrats who opposed civil rights for 
women because the clause was opposed by labor unions. Representative Carl 
Elliott of Alabama later claimed, "Smith didn't give a damn about women's 
rights...he was trying to knock off votes either then or down the line 
because there was always a hard core of men who didn't favor women's rights,"[30] 
and the Congressional Record records that Smith was greeted by laughter 
when he introduced the amendment.[31] Smith asserted that he was not joking; 
he sincerely supported the amendment and, indeed, along with Rep. Martha 
Griffiths,[32] he was the chief spokesperson for the amendment.[31] For 
twenty years Smith had sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment (with no linkage 
to racial issues) in the House because he believed in it. He for decades 
had been close to the National Woman's Party and its leader Alice Paul, 
who was also the leader in winning the right to vote for women in 1920, 
the author of the first Equal Rights Amendment, and a chief supporter of 
equal rights proposals since then. She and other feminists had worked with 
Smith since 1945 trying to find a way to include sex as a protected civil 
rights category. Now was the moment.[33] Griffiths argued that the new 
law would protect black women but not white women, and that was unfair 
to white women. Furthermore, she argued that the laws "protecting" women 
from unpleasant jobs were actually designed to enable men to monopolize 
those jobs, and that was unfair to women who were not allowed to try out 
for those jobs.[34] The amendment passed with the votes of Republicans 
and Southern Democrats. The final law passed with the votes of Republicans 
and Northern Democrats. Thus, as Justice William Rehnquist explained in 
Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, "The prohibition against discrimination 
based on sex was added to Title VII at the last minute on the floor of 
the House of Representatives... the bill quickly passed as amended, and 
we are left with little legislative history to guide us in interpreting 
the Act's prohibition against discrimination based on 'sex.'"[35] One of 
the most damaging arguments by the bill's opponents was that once passed, 
the bill would require forced busing to achieve certain racial quotas in 
schools.[36] Proponents of the bill, such as Emanuel Celler and Jacob Javits, 
said that the bill would not authorize such measures. Leading sponsor Hubert 
Humphrey wrote two amendments specifically designed to outlaw busing.[36] 
Humphrey said "if the bill were to compel it, it would be a violation [of 
the Constitution], because it would be handling the matter on the basis 
of race and we would be transporting children because of race."[36] While 
Javits said any government official who sought to use the bill for busing 
purposes "would be making a fool of himself," two years later the Department 
of Health, Education and Welfare said that Southern school districts would 
be required to meet mathematical ratios of students by busing.[36] The 
bill divided and engendered a long-term change in the demographic support 
of both parties. President Johnson realized that supporting this bill would 
risk losing the South's overwhelming support of the Democratic Party. Both 
Attorney General Robert Kennedy and Vice President Johnson had pushed for 
the introduction of the civil rights legislation. Johnson told Kennedy 
aide Ted Sorensen that "I know the risks are great and we might lose the 
South, but those sorts of states may be lost anyway."[37] Senator Richard 
Russell, Jr. later warned President Johnson that his strong support for 
the civil rights bill "will not only cost you the South, it will cost you 
the election".[38] Johnson, however, went on to win the 1964 election by 
one of the biggest landslides in American history. The South, which had 
five states swing Republican in 1964, became a stronghold of the Republican 
party by the 1990s.[39] Although majorities in both parties voted for the 
bill, there were notable exceptions. Though he opposed forced segregation,[40] 
Republican Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona voted against the bill, remarking, 
"You can't legislate morality." Goldwater had supported previous attempts 
to pass civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 as well as the 24th Amendment 
outlawing the poll tax. He stated that the reason for his opposition to 
the 1964 bill was Title II, which in his opinion violated individual liberty 
and states' rights. Most Democrats from the Southern states opposed the 
bill and led an unsuccessful 83-day filibuster, including Senators Albert 
Gore, Sr. (D-TN) and J. William Fulbright (D-AR), as well as Senator Robert 
Byrd (D-WV), who personally filibustered for 14 hours straight. (The full 
text of the Act is available online.) Barred unequal application of voter 
registration requirements. Title I did not eliminate literacy tests, which 
were one of the main methods used to exclude Black voters, other racial 
minorities, and poor Whites in the South, nor did it address economic retaliation, 
police repression, or physical violence against nonwhite voters. While 
the Act did require that voting rules and procedures be applied equally 
to all races, it did not abolish the concept of voter "qualification", 
that is to say, it accepted the idea that citizens do not have an automatic 
right to vote but rather might have to meet some standard beyond citizenship.[41][42] 
It was the Voting Rights Act, enacted one year later in 1965, that directly 
addressed and eliminated most voting qualifications beyond citizenship. 
Outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion or national origin 
in hotels, motels, restaurants, theaters, and all other public accommodations 
engaged in interstate commerce; exempted private clubs without defining 
the term "private".[43] Prohibited state and municipal governments from 
denying access to public facilities on grounds of race, color, religion 
or national origin. Encouraged the desegregation of public schools and 
authorized the U.S. Attorney General to file suits to enforce said act. 
Expanded the Civil Rights Commission established by the earlier Civil Rights 
Act of 1957 with additional powers, rules and procedures. Prevents discrimination 
by government agencies that receive federal funds. If an agency is found 
in violation of Title VI, that agency may lose its federal funding. General 
This title declares it to be the policy of the United States that discrimination 
on the ground of race, color, or national origin shall not occur in connection 
with programs and activities receiving Federal financial assistance and 
authorizes and directs the appropriate Federal departments and agencies 
to take action to carry out this policy. This title is not intended to 
apply to foreign assistance programs. Section 601 – This section states 
the general principle that no person in the United States shall be excluded 
from participation in or otherwise discriminated against on the ground 
of race, color, or national origin under any program or activity receiving 
Federal financial assistance. Section 602 directs each Federal agency administering 
a program of Federal financial assistance by way of grant, contract, or 
loan to take action pursuant to rule, regulation, or order of general applicability 
to effectuate the principle of section 601 in a manner consistent with 
the achievement of the objectives of the statute authorizing the assistance. 
In seeking the effect compliance with its requirements imposed under this 
section, an agency is authorized to terminate or to refuse to grant or 
to continue assistance under a program to any recipient as to whom there 
has been an express finding pursuant to a hearing of a failure to comply 
with the requirements under that program, and it may also employ any other 
means authorized by law. However, each agency is directed first to seek 
compliance with its requirements by voluntary means. Section 603 provides 
that any agency action taken pursuant to section 602 shall be subject to 
such judicial review as would be available for similar actions by that 
agency on other grounds. Where the agency action consists of terminating 
or refusing to grant or to continue financial assistance because of a finding 
of a failure of the recipient to comply with the agency's requirements 
imposed under section 602, and the agency action would not otherwise be 
subject to judicial review under existing law, judicial review shall nevertheless 
be available to any person aggrieved as provided in section 10 of the Administrative 
Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. § 1009). The section also states explicitly that 
in the latter situation such agency action shall not be deemed committed 
to unreviewable agency discretion within the meaning of section 10. The 
purpose of this provision is to obviate the possible argument that although 
section 603 provides for review in accordance with section 10, section 
10 itself has an exception for action "committed to agency discretion," 
which might otherwise be carried over into section 603. It is not the purpose 
of this provision of section 603, however, otherwise to alter the scope 
of judicial review as presently provided in section 10(e) of the Administrative 
Procedure Act. Title VII of the Act, codified as Subchapter VI of Chapter 
21 of title 42 of the United States Code, prohibits discrimination by covered 
employers on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin 
(see 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2[44]). Title VII applies to and covers an employer 
"who has fifteen (15) or more employees for each working day in each of 
twenty or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year" 
as written in the Definitions section under 42 U.S.C. §2000e(b). Title 
VII also prohibits discrimination against an individual because of his 
or her association with another individual of a particular race, color, 
religion, sex, or national origin, such as by an interracial marriage.[45] 
The EEO Title VII has also been supplemented with legislation prohibiting 
pregnancy, age, and disability discrimination (See Pregnancy Discrimination 
Act of 1978, Age Discrimination in Employment Act,[46] Americans with Disabilities 
Act of 1990). In very narrowly defined situations, an employer is permitted 
to discriminate on the basis of a protected trait where the trait is a 
bona fide occupational qualification (BFOQ) reasonably necessary to the 
normal operation of that particular business or enterprise. To prove the 
bona fide occupational qualifications defense, an employer must prove three 
elements: a direct relationship between the protected trait and the ability 
to perform the duties of the job, the BFOQ relates to the "essence" or 
"central mission of the employer's business", and there is no less-restrictive 
or reasonable alternative (United Automobile Workers v. Johnson Controls, 
Inc., 499 U.S. 187 (1991) 111 S.Ct. 1196). The Bona Fide Occupational Qualification 
exception is an extremely narrow exception to the general prohibition of 
discrimination based on protected traits (Dothard v. Rawlinson, 433 U.S. 
321 (1977) 97 S.Ct. 2720). An employer or customer's preference for an 
individual of a particular religion is not sufficient to establish a Bona 
Fide Occupational Qualification (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
v. Kamehameha School — Bishop Estate, 990 F.2d 458 (9th Cir. 1993)). Title 
VII allows for any employer, labor organization, joint labor-management 
committee, or employment agency to bypass the "unlawful employment practice" 
for any person involved with the Communist Party of the United States or 
of any other organization required to register as a Communist-action or 
Communist-front organization by final order of the Subversive Activities 
Control Board pursuant to the Subversive Activities Control Act of 1950.[47] 
There are partial and whole exceptions to Title VII for four types of employers: 
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) as well as certain state 
fair employment practices agencies (FEPAs) enforce Title VII (see 42 U.S.C. § 2000e-4[44]). 
The EEOC and state FEPAs investigate, mediate, and may file lawsuits on 
behalf of employees. Where a state law is contradicted by a federal law, 
it is overridden.[48] Every state, except Arkansas and Mississippi, maintains 
a state FEPA (see EEOC and state FEPA directory ). Title VII also provides 
that an individual can bring a private lawsuit. An individual must file 
a complaint of discrimination with the EEOC within 180 days of learning 
of the discrimination or the individual may lose the right to file a lawsuit. 
Title VII only applies to employers who employ 15 or more employees for 
20 or more weeks in the current or preceding calendar year (42 U.S.C. § 2000e(b)). 
In the early 1980s, the EEOC and some federal courts began holding that 
sexual harassment is also prohibited under the Act. In 1986, the Supreme 
Court held in Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, 477 U.S. 57 (1986), that 
sexual harassment is sex discrimination and is prohibited by Title VII. 
Same-sex sexual harassment has also been held in a unanimous decision written 
by Justice Scalia to be prohibited by Title VII (Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore 
Services, Inc., 523 U.S. 75 (1998), 118 S.Ct. 998). In 2012, the EEOC ruled 
that employment discrimination on the basis of gender identity or transgender 
status is prohibited under Title VII. The decision held that discrimination 
on the basis of gender identity qualified as discrimination on the basis 
of sex whether the discrimination was due to sex stereotyping, discomfort 
with the fact of an individual's transition, or discrimination due to a 
perceived change in the individual's sex.[49][50] In 2014, the EEOC initiated 
two lawsuits against private companies for discrimination on the basis 
of gender identity, with additional litigation under consideration.[51] 
As of November 2014, Commissioner Chai Feldblum is making an active effort 
to increase awareness of Title VII remedies for individuals discriminated 
on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.[52][53] Required 
compilation of voter-registration and voting data in geographic areas specified 
by the Commission on Civil Rights. Title IX made it easier to move civil 
rights cases from state courts to federal court. This was of crucial importance 
to civil rights activists[who?] who contended that they could not get fair 
trials in state courts.[citation needed] Title IX of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964 should not be confused with Title IX of the Education Amendments 
Act of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination in federally funded education 
programs and activities. Established the Community Relations Service, tasked 
with assisting in community disputes involving claims of discrimination. 
Title XI gives a defendant accused of certain categories of criminal contempt 
in a matter arising under title II, III, IV, V, VI, or VII of the Act the 
right to a jury trial. If convicted, the defendant can be fined an amount 
not to exceed $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than six months. There 
were white business owners who claimed that Congress did not have the constitutional 
authority to ban segregation in public accommodations. For example, Moreton 
Rolleston, the owner of a motel in Atlanta, Georgia, said he should not 
be forced to serve black travelers, saying, "the fundamental question…is 
whether or not Congress has the power to take away the liberty of an individual 
to run his business as he sees fit in the selection and choice of his customers".[54] 
Rolleston claimed that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was a breach of the 
Fourteenth Amendment and also violated the Fifth and Thirteenth Amendments 
by depriving him of "liberty and property without due process".[54] In 
Heart of Atlanta Motel v. United States (1964), the Supreme Court held 
that Congress drew its authority from the Constitution's Commerce Clause, 
rejecting Rolleston's claims. Resistance to the public accommodation clause 
continued for years on the ground, especially in the South.[55] When local 
college students in Orangeburg, South Carolina attempted to desegregate 
a bowling alley in 1968, they were violently attacked, leading to rioting 
and what became known as the "Orangeburg massacre."[56] Resistance by school 
boards continued into the next decade, with the most significant declines 
in black-white school segregation only occurring at the end of the 1960s 
and the start of the 1970s in the aftermath of the Green v. County School 
Board of New Kent County (1968) court decision.[57] Between 1965 and 1972, 
Title VII lacked any strong enforcement provisions. Instead, the Equal 
Employment Opportunity Commission was authorized only to investigate external 
claims of discrimination. The EEOC could then refer cases to the Justice 
Department for litigation if reasonable cause was found. The EEOC documented 
the nature and magnitude of discriminatory employment practices, the first 
study of this kind done. In 1972, Congress passed the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Act. The Act amended Title VII and gave EEOC authority to initiate 
its own enforcement litigation. The EEOC now played a major role in guiding 
judicial interpretations of civil rights legislation. The commission was 
also permitted for the first time to define "discrimination," a term excluded 
from the 1964 Act.[58] The Constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of 
1964 was, at the time, in some dispute as it applied to the private sector. 
In the landmark Civil Rights Cases the United States Supreme Court had 
ruled, in 1883, that Congress did not have the power to prohibit discrimination 
in the private sector, thus stripping the Civil Rights Act of 1875 of much 
of its ability to protect civil rights.[59] In the late 19th and early 
20th century, the legal justification for voiding the Civil Rights Act 
of 1875 was part of a larger trend by members of the United States Supreme 
Court to invalidate most government regulations of the private sector, 
except when dealing with laws designed to protect traditional public morality. 
In the 1930s, during the New Deal, the majority of the Supreme Court justices 
gradually shifted their legal theory to allow for greater government regulation 
of the private sector under the commerce clause, thus paving the way for 
the Federal government to enact civil rights laws prohibiting both public 
and private sector discrimination on the basis of the commerce clause. 
After the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed, the Supreme Court upheld 
the law's application to the private sector, on the grounds that Congress 
has the power to regulate commerce between the States. The landmark case 
Heart of Atlanta Motel v. United States established the constitutionality 
of the law, but it did not settle all of the legal questions surrounding 
the law. In a 1971 Supreme Court case regarding the gender provisions of 
the Act, the Court ruled that a company could not discriminate against 
a potential female employee because she had a preschool-age child unless 
they did the same with potential male employees.[28] A federal court overruled 
an Ohio state law that barred women from obtaining jobs which required 
the ability to lift 25 pounds and required women to take lunch breaks when 
men were not required to.[28] In Pittsburgh Press Co. v. Pittsburgh Commission 
on Human Relations, the United States Supreme Court decided that printing 
separate job listings for men and women was illegal, which ended that practice 
among the country's newspapers. The United States Civil Service Commission 
ended the practice among federal jobs which designated them "women only" 
or "men only".[28] In 1974, the Supreme Court also ruled that the San Francisco 
school district was violating non-English speaking students' rights under 
the 1964 act by placing them in regular classes rather than providing some 
sort of accommodation for them.[60] In 1975, a federal civil rights agency 
warned a Phoenix, Arizona school that its end-of-year father-son and mother-daughter 
baseball games were illegal according to the 1964 Civil Rights Act.[28] 
President Gerald Ford intervened, and the games were allowed to continue.[28] 
In 1977, the Supreme Court struck down state minimum height requirements 
for police officers as violating the Act; women usually could not meet 
these requirements.[28] Despite its lack of influence during its time, 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 had considerable impact on later civil rights 
legislation in the United States. It paved the way for future legislation 
that was not limited to African American civil rights. The Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990—which has been called "the most important piece 
of federal legislation since the Civil Rights Act of 1964"—was influenced 
both by the structure and substance of the previous Civil Rights Act of 
1964. The act was arguably of equal importance, and "draws substantially 
from the structure of that landmark legislation [Civil Rights Act of 1964]". 
The Americans With Disabilities Act paralleled its landmark predecessor 
structurally, drawing upon many of the same titles and statutes. For example, 
"Title I of the ADA, which bans employment discrimination by private employers 
on the basis of disability, parallels Title VII of the Act". Similarly, 
Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, "which proscribes discrimination 
on the basis of disability in public accommodations, tracks Title II of 
the 1964 Act while expanding upon the list of public accommodations covered." 
The Americans with Disabilities Act extended "the principle of nondiscrimination 
to people with disabilities",[61] an idea unsought in the United States 
before the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Act also influenced 
later civil rights legislation, such as the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and 
the Civil Rights Act of 1968, aiding not only African Americans, but also 
