Claire Merritt Hodgson Ruth, born Clara Mae Merritt (September 11, 1897[1] 
– October 25, 1976), was a native of Athens, Georgia, United States, who 
is most famous for having been the second wife of Babe Ruth. Claire's first 
husband, Frank Hodgson, died in 1922, leaving her with a daughter, Julia.[2] 
She met Ruth in 1923. Ruth was still married to Helen Woodford, his first 
wife, at this time. Woodford died in a house fire in January 1929, and 
Ruth and Hodgson married that April 17, staying together until Ruth's death 
in 1948. In later years, she indicated her responsibility, in part, for 
the poor relationship between her husband and teammate Lou Gehrig. According 
to Claire, Gehrig's mother indicated that the Ruths' adopted daughter, 
Dorothy, was not as well dressed as Claire's natural daughter, Julia; when 
Ruth was informed of this, he angrily demanded that Gehrig never speak 
to him off the ballfield again. Ruth and Gehrig would not make up until 
the day of Gehrig's famous "I'm the luckiest man on the face of this earth" 
speech in 1939. Later, Claire admitted that she had overreacted, apologetically 
accepting full responsibility for the rift between the two players—which, 
however, had numerous other causes besides the one indicated by Claire.[3] 
Claire lived to see two of Ruth's most famous records broken: his single 
season record of 60 home runs, superseded by Roger Maris in 1961; and his 
career record of 714 home runs, which was broken by Hank Aaron in 1974. 
In her twilight years, she sometimes attended games that Aaron was playing 
in, and was supportive of Aaron's effort. The gracious widow Ruth was quoted 
as saying: "The Babe loved baseball so very much; I know he was pulling 
for Hank Aaron to break his record."[4] Mrs. Ruth was portrayed by Claire 
Trevor in the 1948 film The Babe Ruth Story, by Lisa Zane in the 1991 TV-movie 
Babe Ruth, by Kelly McGillis in the 1992 film The Babe, and by Renee Taylor 
in 61*. Claire Ruth is buried next to her husband at Gate of Heaven Cemetery 
in Hawthorne, New York. The inscription on the headstone lists her birth 
