Clark Street is a north-south street in Chicago, Illinois that runs close 
to the shore of Lake Michigan from the northern city boundary with Evanston, 
to 2200 South in the city street numbering system.[1] At its northern end, 
Clark Street is at 1800 West; however the street runs diagonally through 
the Chicago grid for about 8 miles (13 km) to North Avenue (1600 N) and 
then runs at 100 West for the rest of its course south to Cermak Road. 
It is also seen in Riverdale beyond 127th street across the Calumet River, 
along with other nearby streets that ended just south of the Loop. The 
major length of Clark Street runs a total of 98 blocks.[1] Clark Street 
is named for George Rogers Clark, an American Revolutionary War soldier 
who captured much of the Northwest Territory from the British and was the 
elder brother of William Clark.[1][2] Within the Chicago Loop Clark Street 
is one of the original streets laid out by James Thompson in his 1830 plat 
of Chicago.[3] North of the Loop, from North Avenue, it roughly follows 
part of the path of an Indian trail called Green Bay trail (later Green 
Bay Road) that ran all the way to Green Bay, Wisconsin.[4] In the 1950s 
Clark Street between Ohio and Armitage Streets was a substantial neighborhood 
barrio home to the first Puerto Ricans in Chicago. It was unofficially 
known as La Clark by the Puerto Ricans that lived there arriving from the 
steel mills of Indiana and rural migrant camps. This was primarily during 
the Great Migration and war effort during and after World War II. They 
worked at the downtown hotels, the meat packing plants and the nearby factories 
then located near downtown industrial areas. Many original members of the 
Young Lords, a former street gang that transformed into a Latino civil 
and human rights movement, were sons and daughters of these immigrants 
and grew up in La Clark. There was another smaller community or barrio 
that developed around the same time as La Clark and stretched from Halsted 
to about Kedzie along Madison known to Puerto Ricans as just La Madison. 
It was concentrated more around Van Buren and Laflin but was displaced 
by both the construction of the Eisenhower Expressway and The University 
of Illinois Circle Campus. From the intersection with Ashland Avenue south 
to Ainslie Street, Clark Street passes through the Andersonville Commercial 
Historic District.[5] Graceland Cemetery is on the east side of Clark Street 
from Montrose Avenue to its entrance at Irving Park Road. The Metro concert 
hall is located at 3730 North Clark Street, 1½ blocks north of Addison 
Street. At the intersection of Clark and Addison is Wrigley Field, home 
of the Chicago Cubs baseball team and also occasionally used as a concert 
venue. Another commercial strip on Clark Street stretches from Diversey 
Parkway south to Armitage Avenue. 2122 North Clark Street was the site 
of the Saint Valentine's Day massacre,[6] although the building no longer 
stands. Further to the south Clark Street borders Lincoln Park, and at 
North Avenue sits the Chicago History Museum. The street then passes through 
the Near North Side, where in the River North neighborhood it passes the 
Rock & Roll McDonalds. Then it continues over the Chicago River at the 
Clark Street Bridge and through the Loop, where it passes the Thompson 
Center and its Monument with Standing Beast. Clark Street continues between 
City Hall and the Daley Center and on to its termination at Cermak Road. 
1884 Chicago - Clark and South Water Streets Clark street passes by Wrigley 
Field A view of Clark Street in Andersonville Clark street bridge in 2007 
The Wieners Circle hot dog stand is on 2622 North Clark Germania Club Building 
