As player As Manager As Owner Clark Calvin Griffith (November 20, 1869 
– October 27, 1955[1]), nicknamed "The Old Fox", was an American Major 
League Baseball (MLB) pitcher, manager and team owner. He began his MLB 
playing career with the St. Louis Browns (1891), Boston Reds (1891), and 
Chicago Colts/Orphans (1893–1900). He then served as player-manager for 
the Chicago White Stockings (1901–1902) and New York Highlanders (1903–1907). 
He retired as a player after the 1907 season, remaining manager of the 
Highlanders in 1908. He managed the Cincinnati Reds (1909–1911) and Washington 
Senators (1912–1920), making some appearances as a player with both teams. 
He owned the Senators from 1920 until his death in 1955. Sometimes known 
for being a thrifty executive, Griffith is also remembered for attracting 
talented players from the National League to play for the Senators when 
the American League was in its infancy. Griffith was elected to the National 
Baseball Hall of Fame in 1946. Griffith was born in Clear Creek, Missouri, 
to Isaiah and Sarah Anne Griffith. His parents were of Welsh ancestry. 
They had lived in Illinois prior to Clark Griffith's birth. The family 
took a covered wagon west toward the Oklahoma Territory. Along the way, 
the family encountered hungry and disenchanted people returning from the 
Oklahoma Territory, so they decided to settle in Missouri. Griffith grew 
up with five siblings, four of them older.[2] When Griffith was a small 
child, his father was killed in a hunting accident when fellow hunters 
mistook him for a deer.[3] Sarah Griffith struggled to raise her children 
as a widow, but Clark Griffith later said that his neighbors in Missouri 
had been very helpful to his mother, planting crops for her and the children. 
Fearing a malaria epidemic that was sweeping through the area, the Griffith 
family moved to Bloomington, Illinois.[4] A childhood incident taught him 
about the money side to baseball, Griffith recalled. When he was 13, he 
and a few other young boys had raised $1.25 to buy a baseball. They sent 
one of the boys 12 miles on horseback to make the purchase. The ball burst 
on the second time that it was struck. Griffith later found out that the 
boy who purchased the ball only spent a quarter, keeping the leftover dollar.[5] 
At the age of seventeen, Griffith had made ten dollars pitching in a local 
baseball game in Hoopeston, Illinois.[6] Griffith entered the American 
Association in 1891, pitching 226 1⁄3 innings and winning 14 games for 
the St. Louis Browns and Boston Reds. He began the following season with 
the Chicago Colts. In 1893, the pitchers box was moved back; it had been 
55 feet from home plate and was moved to the modern distance of 60 feet, 
six inches. Following that change, offensive numbers increased across baseball 
and many pitchers had to adjust their approaches.[7] Cap Anson was the 
player-manager of the Colts during Griffith's tenure and he utilized a 
rotation of only three starting pitchers. Just before Griffith's arrival 
on the team, pitcher Bill Hutchinson had thrown more than 600 innings in 
a single season for Anson, which may have contributed to a decline in Hutchinson's 
career. Griffith tried a new pitch to increase his longevity. By modifying 
the grip of a curveball, he threw a pitch similar to the screwball that 
Christy Mathewson had developed. He also often scuffed balls with his spikes 
or rubbed them in the grass.[7] In 1894, Griffith began a string of six 
consecutive seasons with 20 or more victories, compiling a 21–14 record 
and 4.92 earned run average (ERA). Griffith lowered his ERA over the following 
years to a low of 1.88 in 1898, the lowest mark in the league. When Ban 
Johnson, a longtime friend, announced plans to form the American League, 
Griffith was one of the ringleaders in getting National League players 
to jump ship. Using the cover of his post as vice president of the League 
Protective Players' Association (a nascent players' union), Griffith persuaded 
39 players to sign on with the new league for the 1901 season. Griffith 
himself signed on with the Chicago White Stockings as player-manager. He 
won 20 games for the final time in his career and led the White Stockings 
to the first AL pennant with an 83–53 record. At Johnson's suggestion, 
Griffith left Chicago in 1903 to take over as manager of the New York Highlanders. 
The Highlanders had just moved from Baltimore, and Johnson knew that for 
the league to be successful, it needed a strong franchise in the nation's 
biggest city. Griffith retired as a player in 1907, though he made brief 
appearances as a player for the Reds (1909–1910) and Senators (1912, 1913 
and 1914). After a falling-out with the Highlanders' ownership, Griffith 
was fired during the 1908 season.[8] The team had started strong, but the 
team's pitching faltered as the season progressed and Griffith was criticized 
for trading away Jimmy Williams in exchange for a disappointing prospect.[9] 
Griffith returned to the National League as manager of the Cincinnati Reds 
in 1909. In 1912, again at Johnson's suggestion, he returned to the American 
League as manager of the Washington Senators. When Griffith took over as 
manager of the Senators, he also bought a 10 percent interest in the team. 
At the time, the franchise had little going for it other than star pitcher 
Walter Johnson. In the American League's first 12 years, the Senators had 
never had a winning record or finished higher than sixth. To entertain 
the fans, Griffith hired Nick Altrock as a first base coach in his first 
season with Washington. Described as a "natural buffoon", Altrock engaged 
in lighthearted fun while coaching first base. He wrestled with himself, 
copied the motions of the pitcher and made the fans laugh with other antics.[10] 
Griffith also engineered one of the biggest turnarounds in major league 
history, leading the Senators to second place. In nine years, his Washington 
teams only twice finished below fifth in the eight-team league. In 1919, 
Griffith joined forces with Philadelphia grain broker William Richardson 
to buy controlling interest in the Senators. Griffith boosted his share 
to 19%, while Richardson bought a 40% interest. Richardson and Griffith 
quickly came to an agreement that allowed Griffith to vote Richardson's 
shares as well. This all but assured his election as team president that 
November. At the same time, the Senators' home park, National Park, was 
renamed Griffith Stadium. Griffith stepped down as manager after the 1920 
season to devote all his energy to the front office. He finished his managerial 
career with a 1491–1367 record. His 1491 wins ranked 19th all-time as of 
2005. During his managing tenure, Griffith had a tradition of treating 
the fans to a farce game as the final game of the season. This tradition 
is a factor in the inflation of Walter Johnson's minuscule ERA (from 1.09 
to 1.14) in 1913. Griffith was known for running the Senators on a shoestring. 
This was almost out of necessity; even with Richardson's assistance, he 
was forced to mortgage his Montana ranch to raise the money he needed to 
buy control of the team. Unlike most other owners, he had no income other 
than the Senators and Griffith Stadium. However, the Washington Redskins 
and other tenants enabled him to turn a profit for 21 years in a row. He 
was known for his faith in young players. He twice entrusted 27-year-old 
players to manage his teams—Bucky Harris in 1924 and Joe Cronin in 1933. 
Griffith's wagers appeared to pay off, as the Senators won the pennant 
in both years under their new youthful managers. In Harris' case, they 
won the 1924 World Series. Cronin came to the team as a player when Griffith's 
friend Joe Engel was placed in charge of the Chattanooga Lookouts at Engel 
Stadium. Engel was the first to scout Cronin for the club and said, "I 
knew I was watching a great player. I bought Cronin at a time he was hitting 
.221. When I told Clark Griffith what I had done, he screamed, "You paid 
$7,500 for that bum? Well, you didn't buy him for me. You bought him for 
yourself. He's not my ballplayer – he's yours. You keep him and don't either 
you or Cronin show up at the ballpark." Cronin later married Griffith's 
niece, Mildred June Robertson.[11] In 1949, after a string of mostly humdrum 
seasons, Griffith almost lost control of the team when the Richardson estate 
sold its stake to John Jachym, who in turn sold his shares six months later 
to H. Gabriel Murphy when he could not obtain a voice in the team's affairs. 
Griffith was reelected team president, but it was understood that unless 
the team improved, the next vote would go against him. Griffith proceeded 
to buy stock from Murphy until he owned 52% of the club. In 1939, sportswriter 
Bob Considine expressed disappointment that Griffith had not already been 
elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame. He referred to Griffith as "the real 
father of the American League", citing the fact that Griffith had been 
a key force in attracting National League players to join the American 
League teams in their initial years. He wrote that Griffith "belongs in 
any hall of fame where the elective body is composed of sports writers, 
for no other reason than that no sports writer ever came away from the 
old guy without a story. Some of them were even kindly stories."[13] Griffith 
had appeared on ballot for the second Baseball Hall of Fame election (1937), 
but he received 2% of the possible votes.[14] In 1938, he received votes 
on only 3.8% of the submitted ballots.[15] He received votes on 7.3% of 
ballots the next year.[16] The Hall of Fame held only triennial elections 
for a few years.[17] In 1942, 30.5% of voters submitted Griffith's name.[18] 
Griffith was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame by the Old Timers Committee 
in 1946. He was honored at the induction ceremony the following year. According 
to author Dennis Corcoran, Griffith had attended the initial Hall of Fame 
induction ceremony in 1939 but that there is no evidence that Griffith 
came to the 1947 induction or any other ceremony.[19] In October 1955, 
Griffith was in the hospital with neuritis when he suffered a stomach hemorrhage.[20] 
Though he appeared to be improving, Griffith died a few days after he was 
hospitalized. He was nearing his 86th birthday.[21] After his death, newspaper 
accounts described Griffith's longtime relationships with U.S. presidents. 
During World War I, he successfully petitioned Woodrow Wilson to allow 
the continuation of baseball. He did the same with Franklin D. Roosevelt 
during World War II. He had also begun a tradition of presidents throwing 
out the ceremonial first pitch at a season's first Opening Day game, which 
started with William Howard Taft.[21] When the Baseball Hall of Fame was 
being built and was looking for baseball memorabilia, Griffith donated 
several photographs of these presidential first pitches.[22] League president 
Will Harridge called Griffith "one of the game's all-time great figures."[23] 
Griffith was survived by his wife, who died of a heart attack two years 
later.[24] He and his wife had no children, but they raised several relatives.[25] 
A nephew who became his adopted son, Calvin Griffith, took over the team 
after his death and led efforts to have the club moved to Minnesota and 
become the Twins. Another nephew, Sherry Robertson, played infield and 
outfield for the Senators and the Philadelphia Athletics in the 1940s and 
1950s.[26] A monument was erected in honor of Griffith at Griffith Stadium. 
After the stadium was demolished in 1964, the obelisk was moved to Robert 
F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium, where the Washington Nationals played between 
2005 and 2007.[27] A collegiate baseball league, the National Capital City 
Junior League, was renamed in honor of Griffith after his death.[28] The 
