The Claxton Shield was the name of the premier baseball competition in 
Australia held between state-based teams, as well as the name of the trophy 
awarded to the champion team. From the summer of 1989–90 until 2001–02, 
and again since 2010–11, the tournament was replaced by one of three other 
competitions: the original Australian Baseball League (ABL), the International 
Baseball League of Australia (IBLA), and since the 2010–11 season the new 
ABL. Despite other competitions being held in place of the Claxton Shield, 
the physical trophy has remained the award for the winning teams.[1] Though 
city-based teams have competed for the Claxton Shield in some seasons, 
the name engraved on the shield is that of the winning state; for the 2010–11 
ABL season won by the Perth Heat, "West Australia 2011" was engraved.[2] 
The Victoria Aces were the last team to win the shield under the Claxton 
Shield format, having won the 2010 tournament by defeating South Australia 
two games to nil in the final series.[3] It was the eighteenth time the 
Aces had won the shield, and the twenty second time it had been won by 
a Victorian team—the most by any state—including three times by the Waverley 
/ Melbourne Reds and once by the Melbourne Monarchs.[4] The Perth Heat 
currently hold the shield, having won the 2014–15 season by defeating the 
Adelaide Bite two games to one in the championship series.[5] There had 
been interstate baseball tournaments held prior to the start of the Claxton 
Shield. Prior to the federation of Australia, an inter-colonial series 
was held in Melbourne in 1890 between Victoria and South Australia at the 
East Melbourne Cricket Ground. South Australia were the eventual winners 
of the series, winning two games to one. New South Wales and Victoria started 
holding an annual series between themselves in 1900, that was only called 
off for a smallpox outbreak in 1913, but would not return until 1919 because 
of World War I. The first "national" tournament was held in Hobart in 1910, 
won by New South Wales defeating Victoria and hosts Tasmania. New South 
Wales repeated the feat in 1912 in Melbourne when they won again, this 
time with the addition of South Australia.[4] None were held regularly 
though, and they did not always involve all baseball–playing states.[6] 
In 1913 and in the wake of national tournaments having already been played, 
the Australian Baseball Council was formed by representatives of the state 
controlling bodies. Because of conflict between the north and south Tasmanian 
baseball community, they were not among the states on the council, which 
included New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria.[4] Further national 
tournaments were not organised though, until the efforts of Norrie Claxton 
in 1934. Claxton, who had played for South Australia in both cricket and 
baseball, and was a patron of the South Australia Baseball Association, 
donated a shield to be awarded to the winners of the annual carnival, with 
the intention of permanently awarding the shield to the first team to win 
three consecutive tournaments, and was named the Claxton Shield.[7] The 
first tournament was held in 1934, with matches played at the Adelaide 
Oval and Hindmarsh Oval in Adelaide. The hosts South Australia won the 
tournament,[8] and would go on to win the next two editions as well.[9][10] 
At this point, all participating states agreed that it should be a perpetual 
shield awarded to the winner each year.[4] In 1936, the Western Australia 
Baseball League applied to join the other states in competing for that 
year's tournament in Sydney. However their request came too late, as the 
arrangements had already been confirmed.[11] A month after the tournament, 
Western Australia hosted Victoria in Perth for a three-game series as a 
form of preparation for their entry in the 1937 tournament in Adelaide.[12] 
In a repeat of circumstances, the Queensland Baseball Association applied 
to send a team to the 1937 tournament, but as had been the case with Western 
Australia their application was too late.[13] Queensland would make their 
Claxton Shield debut in the 1939 tournament in Melbourne.[14] The early 
part of the decade was interrupted by World War II, however the post war 
years provided many new players to the competition and brought Australian 
baseball to new heights. The Victoria Aces began their rise to the dominance 
of Claxton Shield by achieving their first hat-trick of titles between 
1947 and 1949. In 1950, the Claxton Shield was restored to a national competition 
after the Queensland Rams returned to the competition after a four-year 
absence. It was a decade of close competition with each capital city holding 
at least one series during the decade. In 1952, Western Australia won their 
first title. The series in 1961 marked an expansion in the competition 
as all teams played each other twice that year. In 1962, the longstanding 
tradition of hosting the event in August was broken when host Adelaide 
scheduled the series in October, perhaps the first step in a long march 
to create the sport's eventual move in Australia to the summer season. 
Behind starting pitcher Neil Page, South Australian teams dominated the 
decade, winning six championships. The decade also marked the introduction 
of the Helm's Award, which is presented to the Claxton Shield's MVP every 
year.[15] South Australia's decade may well have been the 1960s, but the 
1970s belonged to Western Australia who captured a title in 1975 and a 
hattrick from 1977 to 1979 thanks to what was arguably one of the strongest 
Claxton squads of all time. The era saw a new dimension of Claxton Shield 
with corporate involvement and interstate rivalries becoming strong. It 
also saw the expansion of the competition to six teams, with the admittance 
of the Northern Territory between 1981 and 1988. After a 42-year drought, 
the Queensland Rams won their first national title in 1982 before capturing 
two others in 1983 and 1987. The 1980s saw the likes of such names as Tony 
Adamson, Dave Nilsson, Graeme Lloyd, Adrian Meagher and Phil Dale. New 
South Wales Patriots won the last championship in 1988 before the introduction 
of the Australian Baseball League. After the 1988 Claxton Shield and the 
Australian Baseball League was formed to take over from the traditional 
Claxton Shield, the first game was between Perth Heat and Adelaide Giants 
at Parry Field in Perth 27 October 1989 with the Giants winning 8–5. The 
league ran for 10 seasons before being bought out by Dave Nilsson and his 
company Nilcorp due to the declining financial state of the league. In 
late 1999 Australian baseball player David Nilsson purchased the rights 
to the Australian Baseball League for A$5,000,000.[16] Nilsson, who with 
Glenn Partridge had the vision of creating the International Baseball League 
of Australia, ran the next 3 Claxton Shields each using a different format. 
The first format used was the most similar to the former Australian Baseball 
League, 6 teams divided into 2 divisions, southern and northern division 
playing home and away games with a total of 17 games, followed by a best 
of 3 division championship with the winner of each division meeting in 
the best of 3 championship series to decide the Claxton Shield champion 
and IBLA champion. The second format was a four-team competition played 
exclusively on the Gold Coast at Palm Meadows Baseball Stadium. Teams involved 
in this championship were 3 composite teams; IBLA Australia, IBLA Internationals, 
MLB All-Stars and the 4th team was the Taiwanese national team. A cut-throat 
finals system was used in this championship with a 3rd place play-off. 
The third and final format was run jointly with the Australian Baseball 
Federation, The championship was held in Melbourne at the Melbourne Ballpark 
and used a more traditional Claxton Shield format, 6 teams over 1 week 
playing each other once again using a cut-throat finals system. The "State 
vs State" format of Claxton Shield returned in 2002 during the IBLA season. 
It then truly became the top tier baseball competition in Australia again 
in 2003 when the IBLA folded. The decade has brought close to a hundred 
young Australians playing baseball in Major League Baseball and Japan, 
most of who return home to showcase their talents to local fans. The 2004 
Olympic Games signalled a coming of age for Australian baseball when the 
Australian national baseball team won silver medals. More recently, the 
2008 series saw the return of a "home & away" format so that the game can 
be showcased nationwide.[17] The Claxton Shield has followed numerous formats 
over the years. The original format saw a round-robin tournament used, 
with each of the three participating teams playing each other once over 
the course of a week. The tournament would be hosted in a single city, 
though in some cases multiple grounds were used for individual games, the 
team with the most wins being declared the winner. With the expansion to 
four teams in 1937, the addition of a final was made, with the top two 
teams playing in a championship game. Though there were many variations 
in the fine details from year to year, particularly when a team was added 
or removed from the competition, the basic concept of a round-robin followed 
by a final was continued through to the final Claxton Shield before the 
start of the Australian Baseball League in 1988. When the International 
Baseball League of Australia collapsed and the Claxton Shield resumed in 
its own right in 2003, the original format was continued. The 2008 Claxton 
Shield saw a new format for the tournament. A home and away season was 
introduced, splitting the six participating teams into two divisions of 
three teams each. The teams played within their own divisions, meeting 
both other teams twice for a three-game series: one series at home, one 
away. The division leaders then met in a best of three final series for 
the championship. 2009 marked the 75th anniversary of the inaugural Claxton 
Shield, and so a mix of old and new was used. A showcase round was held 
in Sydney, where each team met each other team once. After this, each team 
met each other once again for a three-game series on a home and away basis, 
much the same as the previous season. The finals series was expanded to 
allow three teams to reach the playoffs. The second and third placed teams 
met in a best of three series, the winner of which met the first placed 
team. The 2010 season eliminated the showcase round, and used a double 
round-robin format: each team met each other team twice—once at home, once 
away—each time for a three-game series, resulting in each team playing 
24 games over ten rounds before the finals series, the most for any Claxton 
Shield season. The three team playoff structure was kept. This season structure 
was seen as a template for the relaunch of the Australian Baseball League 
the following season: the only likely changes being the expansion to six 
teams meaning no bye rounds for any teams, and the possible change from 
