Clayton Daniel "Clay" Bellinger (born November 18, 1968 in Oneonta, New 
York) is a former Major League Baseball player. Bellinger attended Rollins 
College. Bellinger played for the New York Yankees in 1999, 2000, and 2001. 
He played every position (including designated hitter) except for catcher 
and pitcher. Perhaps Bellinger's career high point came in the ninth inning 
of Game 2 of the 2000 World Series. Put in left field in place of David 
Justice, Bellinger's glove went over the wall to rob the Mets' Todd Zeile 
of a two run home run and preserve a crucial victory for the Yankees. The 
Yankees released him when he became eligible for arbitration; Bellinger 
then signed with the Anaheim Angels. He played two games at first base 
for the Angels in 2002, had one at-bat in which he struck out, and was 
eventually demoted to the minor leagues. While playing in the Baltimore 
Orioles system in 2004, he was recruited by owner Peter Angelos to play 
for the Greek baseball team in the 2004 Summer Olympics, held in Athens. 
Bellinger has Greek grandparents and Angelos was in charge of the Greek 
national baseball team. In order to field a competitive team in his hometown 
Olympics, Angelos made the controversial decision to use experienced American 
players mostly with distant Greek ancestry (players' ancestry eligibility 
was allowed to date as far back as great-grandparents), as opposed to native 
Greeks due to their inexperience in a country where baseball was almost 
never played. Bellinger reluctantly agreed as he hoped it would earn him 
a September call-up to the Orioles' roster when the Olympics were over. 
The Greek team went 1-6 and failed to advance to the medal round. Bellinger 
was clearly the most recognizable player from that team, one of a handful 
of players with Major League experience and the only player to have won 
a World Series ring. He was not promoted to the Orioles' roster after the 
games concluded. Bellinger was the assistant coach of the Chandler, Arizona 
Little League All-Stars, who advanced to the 2007 Little League World Series. 
As of 2014, he was working for the Gilbert Fire Department in Arizona.[1] 
His son, Cody Bellinger, plays in the Los Angeles Dodgers organization.[2] 
