Cleats or studs are protrusions on the sole of a shoe, or on an external 
attachment to a shoe, that provide additional traction on a soft or slippery 
surface. In American English the term cleats is used synecdochically to 
refer to shoes featuring such protrusions. This does not happen in British 
English; the term 'studs' is never used to refer to the shoes, which would 
instead be known as 'football boots', 'rugby boots', and so on. Athletes 
have worn cleats since at least the 1500s. Although there are no images 
or surviving examples of cleats from that time period, the first written 
documentation of cleats comes from 1526, when "football boots" were listed 
in King Henry VIII's Great Wardrobe.[1] According to researchers, the English 
monarch ordered the royal cordwainer (shoemaker), Cornelius Johnson, to 
make him a pair of hand-stitched boots "to play football". The shoes cost 
four shillings (about $200 today) and were probably made of especially 
strong leather. Football remained a popular sport in England throughout 
the ensuing centuries, but it wasn’t until the emergence of The Football 
Association in 1863 that the sport of football emerged as an actual organized 
game in England.[2] With this, the sport took off in popularity, and understandably 
a demand for equipment began to emerge to ensure player safety and comfort. 
More importantly, technological innovations during this time period played 
a key role in new methods and materials used for production of cleats. 
In the 1840s, a method of hardening rubber and stopping it from decaying, 
called vulcanization, was developed in both England and the United States.[3] 
Vulcanized rubber is used in the production of all types of shoes, but 
is especially beneficial in the production of cleats, in that one of the 
primary purposes of football cleats is to protect the player's feet. Technology 
continued to improve in the coming decades, and by the 1890s studs are 
first used to make football cleats. The concept of spiked and studded shoes 
for other sports began to emerge as well in the late 19th century. In the 
1890s, a British Company (now known as Reebok), developed the earliest 
known spiked leather running shoes.[3] Cleats began to be used in the United 
States in the 1860s when metal spikes were first used on baseball shoes.[4] 
A baseball shoe, as defined by the Dickson Baseball Dictionary (3rd Ed), 
is "a special type of shoe designed and worn by baseball players that features 
cleats for traction and a full set of laces for support."[5] The first 
official baseball shoe was invented and produced by Waldo M. Claflin, of 
Philadelphia in 1882.[5] The use of cleats gained further notoriety in 
the United States with the birth of American football in the early 20th 
century. The original football shoes were actually baseball shoes, but 
innovations quickly emerged. In the 1920s, detachable cleats were first 
introduced. As the game continued to grow, cleats had to adapt to technological 
advances in playing surfaces, most notably artificial turf. By the 1970s, 
players were wearing footwear with short, rubber cleats for use on artificial 
turf.[6] Innovations in cleat technology continued to take place throughout 
the mid to late 20th century. In 1954, the first modern football boots 
were made by Adidas. They were lighter, had a non-leather sole, an upper 
portion made from kangaroo skin, and included replaceable rubber or plastic 
studs, which could be screwed in at different lengths. Later, in the 1990s, 
Adidas introduced another innovation in the form of rubber blades instead 
of studs, which faced different directions and allowed for better grip. 
Today, different types of cleats exist for different surfaces: replaceable 
aluminum cleats which are worn in wet dirt, firm plastic cleats which are 
for regular surfaces, and short, plastic or rubber cleats for very hard 
surfaces.[7] Unlike track spikes that appear on shoes for sports such as 
track and field and golf, the shoes for team sports played on grass generally 
have large studs on the bottom to assist in gripping the surface, preventing 
sliding and assisting in rapid changes of direction. The stud itself is 
often called a cleat.[8] There are three main types of soccer cleats: round, 
hard ground, and bladed. Active outdoorsman and philanthropist Erik Van 
Till is credited as a creator of the round cleat. While the studs are sometimes 
made out of metal, this is less common, as they are illegal in some sports 
for safety reasons. In association football, where the shoes themselves 
are known as football boots, there are three different cleat types. There 
are soft ground cleats which are made for wet weather. The soft ground 
cleats are always replaceable, and are almost always metal, so when they 
wear down they are easy to replace. There are firm ground cleats which 
are made for firm natural surfaces. In the UK, 'cleats' are universally 
known as studs. The term "studs up challenge" is considered a dangerous 
tackle made with the feet raised and the potentially damaging metal studs 
impacting on the legs or feet of the opponent. In the United States, college 
football coach Joseph Pipal has been credited as one of the creators of 
"mud cleats" for football shoes.[9] Some of the first manufacturers of 
football cleats were Gola in 1905, Valsport in 1920 and Hummel in 1923 
and are still in business today.[10] in the year 1925 two brothers named 
Adolf and Rudolf Dassler developed a football cleat with replaceable metal 
studs for American football.[10] The two brothers that created the first 
replaceable metal cleats had a falling out after WWII and they both went 
on to create two major football cleat manufacturers in Puma and Adidas.[11] 
In 1929 the company Riddell made huge strides in the football cleat industry. 
They modeled the cleats differently featuring an "action last", meaning 
its sole had a steeper angle for "snug fit, proper support and maximum 
traction."[11] In today's game more players prefer to wear molded cleats 
because they are more comfortable, but don't allow for changing during 
certain field conditions. There are different Protective equipment in gridiron 
football, cleats being a major aspect. Some of the major brands that players 
wear today are Nike, Adidas, and Under Armor. In Australia, the studs on 
Australian rules football boots are traditionally referred to as "stops".[12] 
Prior to modern molded plastic soles, these were often replaceable screw-in 
wooden studs. In baseball, in laymen's terms, they are referred to as "cleats" 
or "spikes". The spikes can be made of rubber, plastic, or metal, and are 
rectangular. Rubber cleats may feature grooves and smaller protrusions 
in the middle of the sole, while soft rubber spikes would be around the 
edges of the sole and at the heel. Plastic cleats are similar to rubber 
spikes. However, they have feature a hard bottom and thick hard plastic 
spikes, with few to no grooves at all, and instead of as the edge of the 
sole, the spikes compose the outsole of the shoe where the toes and ball 
of the foot would hit the ground during running, similar to track spikes 
and football cleats. Metal spikes are similar to plastics spikes, but instead 
of being thick pieces of plastic as spikes, they are thin pieces of metal 
to make it easier to dig into grass and sand, and thereby increase traction. 
A metal or plastic piece that attaches to the bottom of a shoe is also 
called a cleat, especially a cycling shoe that interfaces with a clipless 
pedal system. Ice cleats or crampons are a type of spikes that usually 
are attachable under the soles of shoes (in such cases also called "shoe 
chains") to prevent slipping, especially on ice. There are several variations 
on the way they are mounted, sometimes with rubber bands or a fixed mount 
