Cletis Leroy "Clete" Boyer (February 9, 1937 – June 4, 2007) was a Major 
League Baseball player. A third baseman who also played shortstop and second 
base occasionally, Boyer played for the Kansas City Athletics (1955–57), 
New York Yankees (1959–66), and Atlanta Braves (1967–71). Boyer also spent 
4 seasons in the Central League in Japanese baseball with the Taiyo Whales 
(now the Yokohama BayStars). In his 16-year career, Boyer hit 162 home 
runs with 654 runs batted in and a .242 batting average[1] in 1,725 games 
played. Born in Cassville, Missouri, Boyer grew up in Alba, Missouri as 
one of fourteen children, and fifth oldest son, of marble cutter Chester 
Vern Boyer (1903–1981[2]) and his wife, the former Mabel Agnes Means (1907–1971[3]), 
including sons Cloyd (born 1927), Wayne (born 1929), Ken (1931–1982), Lynn 
(born c.1935), Clete, Ronnie (born 1944) and Lenny (1946–2013[4]) and daughters 
Juanita Woodmansee, Leila, Dolores Webb, Pansy Schell, Shirley Lockhart, 
Bobbi McNary and Marcy Layton. All seven boys played professional baseball, 
with two of his older brothers also reaching the major leagues: Cloyd was 
a pitcher for the Cardinals in the early 1950s, and Ken became a third 
baseman for the St. Louis Cardinals.[1] Boyer was originally scouted by 
the New York Yankees from high school. But because the Yankees signed two 
other "bonus babies", prior to scouting Boyer; Frank Leja and Tommy Carroll, 
the Yankees decided that they couldn't sign Boyer due to the rules in which 
highly touted "bonus babies" have to be in a Major League roster for two 
seasons.[5] Knowing Boyer might become a potential star, the general manager 
of the Yankees, George Weiss contacted the general manager of the Kansas 
City Athletics, Parke Carroll who the Yankees had a friendly relationship 
with, to sign Boyer with the final intention of getting Boyer eventually.[5] 
Boyer broke into the major leagues in 1955 as a utility infielder at age 
18. With no minor league experience, he played a total of 124 games for 
the Kansas City Athletics from 1955 to 1957. On June 4, 1957 the Athletics 
traded Boyer to the Yankees to complete a deal that had been made prior 
to the start of the season. On February 19, the Athletics had dealt five 
players, including pitchers Bobby Shantz and Art Ditmar to the Yankees 
for seven players, most notably Irv Noren and Billy Hunter. The trade also 
involved three players to be named later, two going to the Yankees, and 
one to the Athletics. One of the players to be named was Boyer, succeeding 
Weiss original intent of making Boyer a Yankee.[5] After joining the Yankees, 
Boyer spent three seasons in their farm system until he was called up late 
in 1959. He became the Yankees' regular third baseman in 1960, beating 
out three others (including Gil McDougald, who in spring training had announced 
that this, his 10th season in the majors, would be his last) for the starting 
job. He batted .242 with 14 home runs and 46 RBIs as the Yankees won the 
pennant. However, he had a humbling moment in the first game of the World 
Series against the Pittsburgh Pirates. With two runners on base and the 
Yankees trailing 3–1 in the second inning, manager Casey Stengel, never 
confident in Boyer's hitting, replaced him with a pinch-hitter, Dale Long, 
who flied out to right fielder Roberto Clemente. The Yankees didn’t score 
in the inning and lost 6–4, ultimately losing the Series in Game 7 on Bill 
Mazeroski's home run off Ralph Terry in the bottom of the ninth. Boyer 
didn't play in the Series again until Game Six. After the Series, the Yankees 
fired Stengel. Ralph Houk replaced him as manager and restored some of 
the confidence in Boyer that Stengel had taken away. Whereas Stengel preferred 
other players at third base over Boyer, Houk saw something special in Boyer's 
defensive prowess and gave him the opportunity to play every day. The 1961 
team (with Mickey Mantle, Roger Maris, Elston Howard, Yogi Berra and Moose 
Skowron), which defeated the Cincinnati Reds in the World Series, was considered 
by many as the best ever, with sluggers Mantle and Maris chasing Babe Ruth's 
1927 record of 60 home runs (Maris eventually broke the record on the final 
day of a 162-game season) and pitcher Whitey Ford winning 25 games and 
losing four. Boyer batted only .224 during the regular season, but more 
than made up for it with his defense in an infield that also featured the 
double play duo of Tony Kubek at shortstop and Bobby Richardson at second 
base. In the first game of that World Series, Boyer displayed his defense 
by making two spectacular plays—one on a Gene Freese ground ball in the 
second inning, in which Boyer stopped the ball backhanded and threw Freese 
out from his knees, and another on a Dick Gernert ground ball in which 
Boyer dove to his left and threw Gernert out, also from his knees. Boyer's 
offensive numbers improved in 1962: career bests in batting average .272, 
home runs (18) and runs batted in (68). He also came within nine assists 
of the third base record of 405 set by Harlond Clift of the 1937 St. Louis 
Browns. Once again, the Yankees won the World Series, this time in seven 
games over the San Francisco Giants. In Game One of the Series, Boyer's 
seventh-inning home run off starter Billy O'Dell broke a 2–2 and gave the 
Yankees the lead for good; they won the game 6–2 in what would be the last 
of Whitey Ford's World Series-record 10 victories. The Series ended with 
Bobby Richardson catching Willie McCovey's line drive with runners on second 
and third. Just a few feet to either side, and Richardson could not have 
gotten his hands on it, and the Giants would have scored two runs and won 
the Series. In 1963 Boyer batted .251 with 12 home runs and 54 RBIs as 
the Yankees won another pennant, however, they were swept in the World 
Series by the Los Angeles Dodgers, the first time this had ever been done 
to a Yankee team in a World Series. Dodger ace Sandy Koufax won the first 
and fourth games, striking out a series record 15 batters in the opener. 
Boyer was the only Yankee regular not to strike out against Koufax. During 
each of Ralph Houk's first three seasons as Yankee manager (1961–1963), 
Boyer led all American League third basemen in putouts, assists and double 
plays, finishing ahead of even rival Brooks Robinson—yet Robinson, not 
Boyer, won the Gold Glove Award each year. After the 1963 season Houk was 
promoted to general manager and Berra replaced him as field manager. Early 
on, the 1964 team slumped under Berra, especially Boyer who batted .218 
on the season. As Berra's managing improved, the team improved with it 
and won its fifth straight pennant by one game over the Chicago White Sox 
and two over the third place Baltimore Orioles. The Yankees faced the St. 
Louis Cardinals in the World Series with Clete playing against his brother 
Ken. The Yankees lost in seven games, but not before Ken and Clete became 
the first brothers to hit home runs on opposing teams in a World Series 
game.[6] In the 7th inning of that seventh game, Ken homered off Yankee 
pitcher Steve Hamilton and exchanged nods with Clete. Clete returned the 
favor in the 9th after homering off Cardinal ace Bob Gibson. After the 
1964 Series, Houk unceremoniously fired Berra (in mid-season the management, 
dissatisfied with Berra's work, made up their mind to fire him at the end 
of the season no matter what the Yankees did) and replaced him with Johnny 
Keane, who had managed the Cardinals to the World Series victory over the 
Yankees. In spring training of 1965 Boyer was involved in a fight in a 
Fort Lauderdale bar with a male model, Jerome Modzelewski, while in spring 
training.[7] During the season, he did bat .251 with a career-tying 18 
home runs, but the Yankees slumped to sixth place, their lowest finish 
in 40 years. In 1966 the Yankees fired Keane two weeks into the season, 
and Houk returned as manager. However, Houk's second managerial stint was 
far less successful than his first. Their talent and farm system both depleted, 
the Yankees finished dead last—the first time they had done so since 1912. 
After a season in which he hit .240 with 14 home runs, Lee MacPhail, who 
replaced Houk as general manager, traded Boyer to the Atlanta Braves for 
Bill Robinson, that year's Minor League Player of the Year. During the 
off-season in 1964, Clete appeared as an imposter on To Tell The Truth.[8] 
In 1967 Boyer had his best offensive season. Playing in hitter-friendly 
Atlanta Stadium, he established career highs in home runs (26) and RBIs 
(96) in a lineup that featured the likes of Hank Aaron, Joe Torre, Felipe 
Alou, and Mack Jones; Boyer batted cleanup behind Aaron. He also continued 
his mastery of the glove, leading National League third baseman in fielding 
both in 1967 and 1969. In the latter year, he finally won the Gold Glove 
Award that had eluded him in his Yankee years; with brother Ken having 
won the award five times, the Boyers became the first brothers to win a 
Gold Glove. On August 31 of that year, he fell victim to Morganna, the 
famed buxom "Kissing Bandit." Prior to the kiss, he had been mired in a 
1-for-17 slump; in that very at-bat, Clete drove in a run with a single. 
He got two more hits later in the game, then eight more hits in his next 
15 at-bats. In the 1969 season the Braves won the Western Division title 
(both leagues now had Eastern and Western Divisions after each expanding 
from 10 teams to 12) for their first post-season berth since losing to 
the Yankees in the 1958 World Series as the Milwaukee Braves. However, 
they lost in the playoffs to the eventual World Champion New York Mets. 
Boyer continued to sparkle at third base until he was released by the Braves 
on May 28, 1971, after a bitter feud with General Manager Paul Richards 
and manager Lum Harris over mismanagement. Boyer complained that the organization 
didn’t teach the players the proper fundamentals. Richards countered that 
Boyer was a troublemaker. He left Major League Baseball and resurfaced 
in Japan, where he played professionally for the Taiyō Whales from 1972 
to 1975. His roommate was Sadaharu Oh.[9] After retiring in 1975, he was 
the defensive coach for the Whales in 1976. Afterwards, Boyer returned 
to the Major Leagues as a third-base coach with the Yankees and the Oakland 
Athletics, mostly with former teammate Billy Martin as manager. In 1989, 
Cletus Seldin who later became a champion boxer was named after Clete Boyer, 
as Seldin's grandparents were close friends with Boyer.[10][11][12] In 
2000, Boyer opened a restaurant named "Clete Boyer's Hamburger Hall of 
Fame" in Cooperstown, New York, just a few miles south of the Baseball 
Hall of Fame. The restaurant features sandwiches and hamburgers named after 
various Yankees' immortals such as: "Yogi's Special meatball sub", "the 
Mickey Mantle Cheeseburger Deluxe", "the Reggie Veggie Burger", "the Bobby 
Richardson Cheeseburger", "the Roger Maris Hamburger Deluxe", and "the 
Whitey Ford Blue Cheese Burger". Boyer could often be found at the restaurant 
chatting with visitors and graciously signing photos and other memorabilia.[13] 
Boyer died on June 4, 2007 from complications of a brain hemorrhage in 
an Atlanta area hospital.[1] Boyer was survived by six children, ten grandchildren[14] 
and older brother, Cloyd. Brother Ken Boyer (1964 National League MVP), 
former St. Louis Cardinal, predeceased Clete in 1982. Boyer is the first 
professional athlete to be interred in an Eternal Image MLB-branded urn. 
