The Cleveland sports curse was a sports superstition involving the city 
of Cleveland, Ohio, and its major league professional sports teams, from 
1964 to 2016. Cleveland has three current teams in the major North American 
professional sports leagues: the Browns of the National Football League 
(NFL), the Cavaliers of the National Basketball Association (NBA), and 
the Indians of Major League Baseball (MLB). Combined, the city's three 
current teams, plus the former Cleveland Barons of the National Hockey 
League (NHL), endured an unprecedented 147-season championship drought, 
having not won a title since the Browns defeated the Baltimore Colts in 
the 1964 NFL Championship Game two seasons prior to the first Super Bowl.[1] 
The curse was widely considered to be broken when the Cavaliers beat the 
Golden State Warriors in the 2016 NBA Finals. Much of the discussion of 
the "curse" is centered on the NFL's Cleveland Browns, who have not won 
a championship since 1964 and have suffered a series of questionable coaching 
decisions, disappointing losses and draft busts. Prior to Art Modell becoming 
majority owner of the team, the Browns had dominated the NFL and the earlier 
All-America Football Conference (AAFC), winning seven championships in 
17 years. After three non-playoff seasons, the 1964 Browns' team finished 
10–3–1 and appeared in the 1964 NFL Championship Game against a heavily 
favored Don Shula coached Baltimore Colts team with Pro Football Hall of 
Fame quarterback Johnny Unitas as its signal caller. The Browns beat the 
Colts 27–0 at Cleveland Stadium. This particular Browns team consisted 
of many players initially drafted and acquired by Brown. During the next 
30 years in Cleveland, not a single Modell team won the league or conference 
title, although they did appear in a total of seven NFL/American Football 
Conference (AFC) championship title games during the period. In 1981, trailing 
by two points to the Oakland Raiders and in field goal range with less 
than one minute remaining in the AFC divisional playoff game, the Browns 
executed a passing play that was intercepted. The play, called by Browns 
head coach Sam Rutigliano, has become known as "Red Right 88".[2] In the 
1986–87 NFL playoffs, the Browns were one game away from playing in what 
would have been the franchise's first Super Bowl when they fell short in 
one of the most memorable games in NFL history. The Browns were leading 
the Denver Broncos 20-13 in the fourth quarter when Broncos quarterback 
John Elway led a 98-yard game-tying drive in just over 5 minutes. The game 
went to overtime, and the Broncos kicked a field goal to seal the victory. 
Elway's fourth quarter march and the game itself became known as "The Drive", 
a title that both signifies Elway's brilliance in the clutch and the Browns' 
inability to close out important games. The Browns and Broncos both returned 
to the AFC Championship Game the next year. With the Browns down 38–31 
late in the fourth quarter, Browns' running back Earnest Byner was handed 
the ball near the goal line. Byner, who was in the midst of a great performance, 
was stripped of the ball and the Broncos recovered on their 2-yard line. 
The Broncos surrendered an intentional safety and went on to win 38–33, 
while Byner's blunder became known as "The Fumble".[3] The Browns returned 
to the AFC Championship game in the 1989-90 season, again losing to the 
Broncos. Through the 2015 NFL season, the Browns have not returned to the 
AFC Championship Game since and remain one of four teams to never play 
in the Super Bowl, along with the Detroit Lions, Houston Texans, and Jacksonville 
Jaguars. The Browns were at the center of a relocation controversy in 1995.[4] 
The decision by then-Browns owner Art Modell to move what was but one year 
before an 11-5 team to Baltimore infuriated and confused Browns fans.[5] 
After negotiations with the NFL and the city of Cleveland, Modell was allowed 
to move the team's personnel to Baltimore, where it became a new franchise 
known as the Baltimore Ravens. The Ravens won a Super Bowl in only their 
fifth year of existence, doing so with former Browns tight end Ozzie Newsome 
as their general manager. In addition to Newsome's success, coach Bill 
Belichick, who was relieved of his head coaching duties upon dissolution 
of the franchise, returned five seasons later as the head coach of the 
New England Patriots. With the Patriots, he has coached only one losing 
season and won six AFC Championships and four Super Bowls. The struggles 
of the Browns since rejoining the NFL, as well as the success of both Newsome 
and Belichick, were chronicled in the NFL Films feature A Football Life: 
1995 Cleveland Browns.[6] The Browns returned in 1999, after a three-year 
period of deactivation. In the 1999 NFL Draft, the Browns selected Tim 
Couch, hoping he would be a franchise quarterback. Ty Detmer was brought 
in to usher in the planned "Couch era", but after a string of dismal performances, 
Couch was rushed into the starting position.[7] Couch struggled to perform 
without a talented roster around him, which led to his eventual departure 
from the Browns after the 2003 season. Although only winning 22 games in 
59 starts, Couch led the Browns to their only playoff berth since their 
return, in 2002. By the end of the 2015 season, the Browns had started 
24 different quarterbacks since their 1999 return to the NFL, a league-high 
in that period.[8][9] The Browns have not won a playoff game since beating 
the New England Patriots on January 1, 1995, and have lost nine or more 
games each season since 2008. On November 30, 2015, the Browns played the 
Baltimore Ravens in their first Monday Night Football game in six years. 
After trailing 17-3 in the second quarter, the Browns rallied behind quarterback 
Josh McCown to tie the game at 27 with just three seconds left. Cleveland 
attempted a 51-yard field goal to win the game, only to see the attempt 
blocked and returned by the Ravens for a touchdown, handing the Browns 
their most painful loss in recent history.[10] The event was called "The 
Block" by some disgruntled fans on Twitter only moments after the end of 
the game.[11] The Cleveland Cavaliers are a professional basketball team 
who have played in the National Basketball Association (NBA) since 1970. 
Over the franchise's first 16 years, the team produced just three winning 
seasons, the highlight being the 1975-76 "Miracle at Richfield" team, whose 
improbable playoff run was doomed by an injury to Jim Chones.[12] In 1989, 
the Cavaliers faced the Chicago Bulls in the first round of the playoffs. 
In the decisive fifth game, Craig Ehlo had given the Cavs the lead with :03 
to play. However, the Bulls' Michael Jordan then jumped over Ehlo to make 
the game-winning shot, and the Bulls won the best-of-five series 3-2. The 
play, which earned the Bulls a 101-100 victory, became known simply as 
"The Shot."[13][14] Despite six trips to the playoffs between 1988 and 
1994, including a 1992 Eastern Conference Finals appearance, the Cavaliers 
never proceeded to the NBA Finals, as Jordan's Bulls defeated them in the 
playoffs five times during the Daugherty-Nance-Price era.[15] In 2007, 
Ohio native LeBron James led the Cavaliers to their first ever NBA Finals 
appearance. They lost, however, to the heavily favored San Antonio Spurs, 
who swept them in four games. Two years later, the Cavaliers, despite winning 
the most regular season games in the NBA since 2007 (66-16), lost the 2009 
Eastern Conference Finals to the Orlando Magic in six games.[5] Although 
his teams always possessed home-court advantage, the reigning two-time 
MVP James and the 2009-2010 Cavaliers (61-21) were blown out by the visiting 
Boston Celtics in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference Semifinals, 120-88. 
The Cavaliers went on to lose the series in Game 6 (4-2), which was James' 
final game with the team for more than four years.[16] During the 2010 
NBA free agency period, LeBron James was featured in a television special 
titled The Decision. Having notified the Cavaliers just moments prior to 
the television event, James announced "In this fall — this is very tough 
— in this fall I'm gonna take my talents to South Beach and join the Miami 
Heat." The quote was heavily criticized.[17][18] Three upset Cavaliers 
fans were seen burning LeBron James merchandise such as jerseys and posters 
and heavily booed James in his first game in Cleveland as a member of the 
Heat. James, along with the help of Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh, led the 
Heat to four consecutive NBA Finals appearances, winning twice, while the 
Cavaliers fell to the bottom of the NBA echelon with their record and attendance.[19] 
In those four years without LeBron, they acquired three number one picks 
(Kyrie Irving in 2011, Anthony Bennett in 2013 and Andrew Wiggins in 2014). 
Despite these windfalls the team struggled to win games, having set a record 
for most consecutive losses with 26 in the 2010–11 season. After the 2014 
season, James opted out of his contract early and rejoined the Cavaliers.[20] 
After signing James, the Cavaliers traded their two most recent number 
one draft picks, Andrew Wiggins and Anthony Bennett, for Minnesota Timberwolves 
star Kevin Love to form their own "Big 3", which was rounded out by Kyrie 
Irving. They also signed Mike Miller and James Jones to replicate the Miami 
Heat's formula and eventually made it to the 2015 Finals. However, several 
Cavaliers players were injured during the season, including Anderson Varejão 
with a ruptured Achilles tendon during the regular season, Love with a 
dislocated shoulder during the first round of the playoffs and Irving with 
a fractured patella in Game 1 of the Finals.[21] Though losing nearly all 
of James' supporting cast, the Cavaliers won Games 2 and 3 to take a 2-1 
series lead before falling to the Golden State Warriors in six games.[22] 
Even though the Cavaliers were 30-11 on January 22, 2016, the team fired 
coach David Blatt and replaced him with top assistant Tyronn Lue.[23] It 
was revealed that Blatt had a turbulent relationship with James as well 
as several other players. The Cavaliers lost to the Chicago Bulls 96-83 
at home in Lue's debut as Cavaliers' head coach.[24] After that first loss 
the Cleveland Cavaliers went on to win the division and Eastern Conference 
top seed (57-25), earning them home court throughout the first three rounds 
of the playoffs. They would face the 8 seed Detroit Pistons, sweeping the 
series 4-0, although it was a hard fought series as the Detroit Pistons 
led the Cavaliers in the 4th quarter in three of the games. The Cavaliers 
would then face the Atlanta Hawks, where they would sweep that series as 
well. During the series against the Hawks, the Cavaliers made a run at 
the record books, making 18 three-point field goals in a half that would 
give them a 38 point halftime lead over the Hawks in Game 2; the Cavaliers 
would go on to set a new record for made three-point field goals in a game 
(25).[25] In 2016, James and the Cavaliers advanced to their second consecutive 
NBA Finals after defeating the Toronto Raptors in six games.[26] The Cavs 
went on to defeat the Raptors, 4-2, to clinch the Eastern Conference title. 
The Cavaliers defeated the Golden State Warriors in the 2016 NBA Finals 
which was a rematch of the previous season's NBA Finals.[27] Through the 
first four games, the 57-win Cavaliers were trailing the record-setting 
73-win Warriors in the series, 3-1. However, the Cavaliers won the next 
three games to capture their first NBA Championship in franchise history, 
becoming the first team in NBA Finals history to overcome a 3-1 deficit, 
and the first team since 1978 to win a Finals Game 7 on the road. A particularly 
memorable moment in Game Seven was when James successfully pursued and 
blocked Andre Iguodala on a fast break late in the fourth quarter, a defensive 
play known among Cavs fans as The Block. Following would be a three point 
shot by Kyrie Irving, burying it in the face of unanimous MVP Stephen Curry, 
to put the Cavaliers ahead for good at 92-89 with exactly 53 seconds left 
in the fourth quarter.[28] This game is being called "The Comeback" and 
"The End" as this win ended Northeast Ohio's 52-year championship drought.[29] 
The Cleveland Indians, like the Browns and Cavaliers, also experienced 
the curse. The Indians' failure to win a World Series since 1948, as well 
as Willie Mays' catch in Game 1 of the 1954 World Series has led some reporters 
to dub the team's shortcomings The Curse of Chief Wahoo.[30] Chief Wahoo 
is a Native American caricature which serves as the Indians' cap insignia. 
The Chief Wahoo insignia has been controversial. The Indians considered 
changing it in 1993, but the logo was retained on the cap until 2013, when 
it was moved to the jersey sleeves and replaced on the cap with a block 
C.[31] The Curse of Rocky Colavito is another phenomenon that is supposedly 
preventing the Indians from winning a World Series.[32] The 1989 film Major 
League was based on the Indians' poor performance since 1959, finishing 
third or worse in the division for 29 of those seasons.[33] The Indians 
made it to the World Series in 1995, losing in six games to the Atlanta 
Braves. The loss was the Braves' only World Series win in 17 postseason 
appearances since 1991, including every year from 1991 to 2005. Cleveland 
returned to the World Series in 1997 and led into the bottom of the ninth 
inning of Game 7 before José Mesa blew the save, and the team wound up 
losing to the Florida Marlins.[34][35] After winning division titles six 
times in seven seasons from 1995 to 2001, the Indians have only appeared 
in the postseason twice in 14 years under the often frugal Dolan family 
ownership. In the 2007 American League Championship Series, the Indians 
were up 3-1 and one win away from advancing to the World Series, but they 
lost the last three games to the Boston Red Sox, denying their World Series 
berth.[36] The Red Sox went on to sweep the Colorado Rockies to win the 
World Series.[37] In 2013, the Indians won their final ten games of the 
season to make the playoffs again, but lost the play-in Wild Card game 
at home to the Tampa Bay Rays.[38] In 2016, riding the momentum of the 
success the Lake Erie Monsters (AHL Calder Cup) and Cleveland Cavaliers 
(NBA championship) had that year, the Indians amassed a 94–67 record, which 
clinched the AL Central division championship after a nine season drought. 
This season included a 14-game winning streak after the Cavaliers won their 
championship, and 5 games won in the last inning or extra innings coming 
from behind. The team swept the Boston Red Sox in the American League Division 
Series (ALDS) on October 10, to advance to the American League Championship 
Series (ALCS) against the Toronto Blue Jays. The Indians defeated the Blue 
Jays 4–1 to clinch their first World Series berth since 1997 and their 
sixth in team history. The Indians eventually lost the World Series to 
the Chicago Cubs (who ended their own curse) in seven games, despite having 
a 3–1 series lead. The Cleveland sports curse has generally been limited 
to its major teams.[39] However, other teams based in Cleveland won minor 
championships during the curse, and one Greater Cleveland native won a 
world championship individually.[40] On August 6, 2016, high-level amateur 
(Fourth Division) soccer franchise AFC Cleveland Royals won the National 
Premier Soccer League Championship by a 4-2 score over the Sonoma County 
Sol.[41] Antonio Manfut scored the go-ahead goal in the 87th minute for 
the fifth-year franchise. The Cleveland Crunch, later known as the Force 
(though not to be confused with the original Cleveland Force franchise), 
were an indoor soccer team from 1989 to 2005. As the Crunch, the team won 
three championships in the National Professional Soccer League (NPSL): 
1994, 1996, and 1999. On June 11, 2016, the Lake Erie Monsters of the American 
Hockey League won the Calder Cup, defeating the Hershey Bears at Quicken 
Loans Arena to win the series 4–0.[42] The team, also owned by Dan Gilbert, 
shares its arena with the Cavaliers, who won the NBA title eight days later. 
It was the tenth overall Calder Cup won by a Cleveland team. The original 
Cleveland Barons that played from 1937 to 1973 won nine Calder Cups, with 
the last in 1964, coincidentally the last time one of the major sports 
franchises in the city won a championship prior to the 2016 Cavaliers. 
On May 14, 2016, mixed martial artist Stipe Miocic, a native of Euclid, 
Ohio, a Cleveland suburb, won the UFC Heavyweight Championship at UFC 198 
in Curitiba, Brazil, knocking out Brazil's Fabricio Werdum. Three hours 
prior, ESPN had aired a 30 for 30 episode called "Believeland," documenting 
Cleveland's major-league title drought. The Indians and Cavaliers Twitter 
accounts congratulated him shortly afterwards.[43] They and the Browns 
had earlier wished him luck.[44] He tweeted encouragement to the Cavaliers, 
who hoped to keep the winning streak alive in the 2016 NBA Playoffs.[45] 
Some media outlets reported this as the breaking of the curse,[46][47][48] 
while others contended that it was the Cavs' win that did it.[49][50][51] 
