The Cleveland Browns relocation controversy, sometimes referred to by fans 
as "The Move",[1][2] was the decision by then-Browns owner Art Modell to 
move the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League (NFL) from its 
long-time home of Cleveland to Baltimore during the 1995 NFL season. Subsequent 
legal actions by the city of Cleveland and Browns season ticket holders 
led to a compromise that saw the Browns history, records, and intellectual 
property remain in Cleveland, while Modell was permitted to move to Baltimore 
and establish the Baltimore Ravens, who are officially regarded as a 1996 
expansion team. The city of Cleveland agreed to demolish Cleveland Stadium 
and build a new stadium on the same site, and the NFL agreed to reactivate 
the Browns by the 1999 season through either an expansion draft or a relocated 
franchise. The Browns were officially reactivated in 1998 through the expansion 
process and resumed play in 1999. The compromise between Cleveland, the 
NFL, and Modell was a first in North American professional sports. The 
compromise has been cited in other franchise moves and agreements, including 
those in the National Basketball Association (NBA), National Hockey League 
(NHL), Major League Soccer (MLS), and Major League Baseball (MLB). In 1975, 
knowing that Municipal Stadium was costing the city over $300,000 annually 
to operate, then-Browns owner Art Modell signed a 25-year lease whereby 
he agreed to incur these expenses in exchange for quasi ownership of the 
stadium. Under the terms of the lease he agreed to give back the City a 
portion of the profits he would realize each year, and also agreed to make 
capital improvements to the stadium at his expense.[3] Modell's newly formed 
company, Stadium Corporation, paid an annual rent of $150,000 for the first 
five years and $200,000 afterwards to the city. Modell had originally promised 
never to move the Browns. He had publicly criticized the Baltimore Colts' 
move to Indianapolis, and had testified in favor of the NFL in court cases 
where the league unsuccessfully tried to stop Al Davis from moving the 
Oakland Raiders to Los Angeles. However, Modell refused to share the suite 
revenue with the Cleveland Indians, who also played at Cleveland Stadium, 
even though much of the revenues were generated during baseball games as 
well as football games. In 1990, the Indians prevailed upon the local governments 
and voters and convinced them to build them their own facility where they 
controlled the suite revenue.[4][5] Modell, mistakenly believing that his 
revenues were not endangered, refused to participate in the Gateway Project 
that built Progressive Field for the Indians and Quicken Loans Arena for 
the Cleveland Cavaliers.[6] Modell's assumptions proved incorrect, and 
Stadium Corp's suite revenues declined sharply when the Indians moved from 
the stadium to Jacobs Field in 1994.[5] Soaring player salaries and deficits 
also contributed to Modell's financial losses. Modell lost $21 million 
between 1993 and 1994.[7] After Modell realized how much revenue he lost 
from the Indians moving out of Cleveland Stadium, he requested an issue 
be placed on the ballot to provide $175 million in tax dollars to refurbish 
the outmoded and declining Cleveland Stadium.[8] On the field, the Browns, 
coached by Bill Belichick, were coming off a playoff season in which the 
team finished 11–5 and advanced to the second round of the playoffs entering 
the 1995 season. Sports Illustrated even predicted the Browns would represent 
the AFC in Super Bowl XXX at the end of the season.[9] However, the team 
disappointed many fans by losing three straight games after starting the 
season 3–1.[10] On November 6, 1995, with the team sitting at 4–5,[10] 
Modell announced in a press conference at Camden Yards that he had signed 
a deal to relocate the Browns to Baltimore in 1996 – a move which would 
return the NFL to that city since the Colts relocated to Indianapolis after 
the 1983 season.[5][11] The reason Modell chose to relocate to Baltimore 
was because he felt the city did not have the funding to build a first-class 
stadium.[12] The very next day, on November 7, Cleveland voters overwhelmingly 
approved the aforementioned tax issue to remodel Cleveland Stadium.[13] 
The City of Cleveland sued Modell, the Browns, Stadium Corp, the Maryland 
Stadium Authority, and the authority's director, John A. Moag Jr., in City 
of Cleveland v. Cleveland Browns, et al., Cuyahoga County Court of Common 
Pleas Case No. CV-95-297833, for breaching the Browns' lease, which required 
the team to play its home games at Cleveland Stadium for several years 
beyond 1995, filing an injunction to keep the Browns in the city until 
at least 1998. Several other lawsuits were filed by fans and ticket holders.[13][14] 
The United States Congress even held hearings on the matter.[15][16] Actor/comedian 
Drew Carey returned to his hometown of Cleveland on November 26, 1995, 
to host "Fan Jam" in protest of the proposed move. A protest was held in 
Pittsburgh during the Browns' game there against the Pittsburgh Steelers 
but ABC, the network broadcasting the game (and also the home of Carey's 
new sitcom that had just premiered), declined to cover or mention the protest. 
That game was one of the few instances that Steelers fans and Browns fans 
were supportive of each other, as fans in Pittsburgh felt that Modell was 
robbing their team of their long-standing rivalry with the Browns.[13] 
Browns fans reacted with anger to the news,[14] wearing hats and T-shirts 
that read "Muck Fodell".[17] On the field, the announcement cut the legs 
out from under the Browns, as they stumbled to finish 5–11 after the announcement, 
ahead of only the expansion Jacksonville Jaguars, to whom they lost twice, 
in the AFC Central, becoming the first team in the NFL's modern era to 
lose twice to a first-year expansion team.[10] Virtually all of the team's 
sponsors pulled their support,[13] leaving Cleveland Stadium devoid of 
advertising during the team's final weeks. The final game the team played 
at Cleveland Municipal Stadium was a 26–10 victory over the Cincinnati 
Bengals, the first and only win since the announcement of the relocation.[18] 
The game itself was blacked out on television locally, but NBC did broadcast 
extensive pregame coverage from Cleveland. After extensive talks between 
the NFL, the Browns, and officials of the two cities, Cleveland accepted 
a legal settlement that would keep the Browns' legacy in Cleveland. On 
February 9, 1996, the NFL announced that the Browns would be 'deactivated' 
for three years, and that a new stadium would be built for a new Browns 
team, as either an expansion team or a team moved from another city, that 
would begin play in 1999. Modell would in turn then be granted a new franchise 
(the 31st NFL franchise), for Baltimore, retaining the current contracts 
of players and personnel. There would be a reactivated team for Cleveland, 
where the Browns' name, colors, history, records, awards, and archives 
would remain in Cleveland.[18][19] The only other current NFL team to suspend 
operations without merging with another was Cleveland's previous NFL team, 
the Rams, during the 1943 season at the height of World War II.[20] An 
additional stipulation was that in any future realignment plan, the Browns 
would automatically be placed in a division with the Pittsburgh Steelers 
and Cincinnati Bengals, because of longstanding rivalries with those two 
teams.[21] Upon their reactivation in 1999, the Browns were placed back 
in the AFC Central with the Steelers and Bengals, as well as the Ravens, 
Titans, and Jaguars. This arrangement had the effect of creating – for 
the first time in NFL history – an alignment with teams from Baltimore, 
Cleveland and Pittsburgh all playing in the same division. When the NFL 
realigned into divisions of four teams for the 2002 season, Cleveland, 
Pittsburgh, Cincinnati and Baltimore remained together, but in the newly 
created AFC North. The return of the NFL to Baltimore compelled the departure 
of the professional football team already in Baltimore at the time, the 
Grey Cup champion Baltimore Stallions of the Canadian Football League (CFL). 
Although they had generated respectable fan support during their two seasons 
in Baltimore, Stallions owner Jim Speros knew his team could not compete 
with an NFL team and opted to establish a new franchise in Montreal.[22] 
They subsequently adopted the name of the team that previously played in 
the city, the Alouettes. Focus groups, a telephone survey, and a fan contest 
were all held to help select a new name for Modell's team. Starting with 
a list of over 100 possible names, the team's management reduced it to 
17. From there, focus groups of a total of 200 Baltimore area residents 
reduced the list of names to six, and then a phone survey of 1000 people 
trimmed it down to three, Marauders, Americans, and Ravens. Finally, a 
fan contest drawing 33,288 voters picked "Ravens", a name that alludes 
to the famous poem, "The Raven", by Edgar Allan Poe, who spent the latter 
part of his life in Baltimore, and is also buried there.[23] The team also 
adopted purple and black as their team colors, a stark contrast to the 
brown and orange colors of the Browns.[24] Ex-Baltimore Colts quarterback 
Johnny Unitas disowned[25] the Colts after their move to Indianapolis. 
The former Colts Marching Band, which remained in Baltimore after the Colts 
moved, was subsequently renamed the Baltimore's Marching Ravens.[26] Along 
with the San Francisco 49ers, Buffalo Bills, and Washington Redskins, the 
Ravens are one of only four NFL teams with an official marching band. Modell's 
move to Baltimore came at the height of NFL teams relocating.[27][28] The 
move also fueled a proliferation of 12 new stadiums throughout the NFL. 
Several NFL franchises used the threat of relocation to coerce their respective 
cities to build new stadiums with public funds. Such franchises include 
the Seahawks, Buccaneers, Bengals, Lions, Cardinals, and Bears.[27][28] 
In the three-year period from 1995–1997, four NFL teams moved. In addition 
to Modell's move, Los Angeles lost both of its teams for the 1995 season, 
as the Raiders moved back to Oakland and the Rams moved east to St. Louis. 
The fourth and final move saw the Houston Oilers move to Tennessee in 1997 
to eventually become the Tennessee Titans in 1999. After several NFL teams 
used Cleveland as a relocation threat to become the reactivated Browns 
(most notably the Tampa Bay Buccaneers[29]), the NFL decided in 1998 to 
make the reactivated Browns an expansion team, which while it temporarily 
gave the league an odd number of teams (causing at least one team to be 
off in each of the 17 weeks of the NFL season from 1999–2001), it also 
eliminated any possibility of an existing franchise giving up its own identity 
for the Browns and thus prevented more lawsuits. In a somewhat ironic twist, 
Al Lerner—who helped Modell move to Baltimore—was granted ownership of 
the reactivated Browns;[30] his son Randy took over ownership after Al's 
death in 2002 before selling the team to Pilot Flying J CEO Jimmy Haslam 
in 2012. From its beginning, the odd number of teams and the ensuing awkward 
scheduling was considered a temporary arrangement pending the addition 
of a 32nd NFL franchise – although Los Angeles was heavily favored, it 
was ultimately the Houston Texans who were created as the 32nd team to 
replace the Oilers in Houston, Texas for the 2002 NFL season to give the 
league once again an even number of teams. Following this decision, Los 
Angeles became the favored destination for owners threatening to move their 
teams until the St. Louis Rams finally returned to Los Angeles for the 
2016 season.[31] The reactivated Browns have had only two winning seasons 
since returning to the NFL in 1999: a 9–7 finish in 2002 which also saw 
the team clinch a wild card spot in the playoffs, and a 10–6 finish in 
2007 while barely missing the playoffs. Meanwhile, the Ravens have been 
more successful, reaching the playoffs eight times since 2000 and winning 
Super Bowl XXXV and Super Bowl XLVII, often to the dismay of Browns fans.[18][32] 
Longtime placekicker Matt Stover was the last remaining Ravens player that 
played for the Modell-owned Browns – he departed the Ravens following the 
2008 season when the team chose not to re-sign him, finishing his career 
(somewhat ironically) with the Indianapolis Colts.[33] General manager 
and former Browns tight end Ozzie Newsome (who was in a front-office role 
under Modell in Cleveland) remains with the Ravens. The move would also 
have an effect in Pittsburgh as well. Steelers owner Dan Rooney was one 
of two owners to oppose Modell's move to Baltimore because of a mutual 
respect for the team and the fans. Because of the move, the Browns–Steelers 
rivalry, arguably one of the most heated rivalries in the NFL, has somewhat 
cooled in Pittsburgh due to the new Browns' lack of success. The Steelers–Ravens 
rivalry is considered the spiritual successor by fans in Pittsburgh and 
is one of the most heated current rivalries in the NFL.[34] Since returning 
to the NFL, the Browns and Steelers rivalry has been largely one-sided 
in favor of Pittsburgh; although the rivalry is not as intense in Pittsburgh, 
Browns fans still consider it their top rivalry despite the Browns' recent 
struggles against the Steelers. Because of continual financial hardships, 
the NFL directed Modell to initiate the sale of his franchise. On March 
27, 2000, NFL owners approved the sale of 49 percent of the Ravens to Steve 
Bisciotti.[35] In the deal, Bisciotti had an option to purchase the remaining 
51 percent for $325 million in 2004 from Art Modell. On April 8, 2004, 
the NFL approved Steve Bisciotti's purchase of the majority stake in the 
club.[36] Although Modell later retired and had relinquished control of 
the Ravens, he is still hated in Cleveland, not only for relocating the 
Browns, but also for his firing of legendary head coach Paul Brown in 1963. 
Some considered the Browns' relocation and subsequent lawsuits costing 
Modell a spot in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, which is located in Canton, 
Ohio, just 60 miles south of Cleveland and is both part of the Cleveland 
television market and part of the Browns' territorial rights.[37][38] Modell 
died in 2012, never returning to Cleveland after the move.[7] On July 23, 
2014, a video surfaced on YouTube of a unidentified Browns fan desecrating 
the grave of Modell wearing a Lyle Alzado jersey by urinating on the grave 
through a catheter, saying in the video that "he had no choice", echoing 
Modell's comments on moving his team to Baltimore.[39] Baltimore County 
filed charges for disorderly conduct at the request of Modell's son David 
