As part of the Native American mascot controversy, the Cleveland Indians 
logo, Chief Wahoo, has drawn particular criticism as an offensive racial 
caricature. However the use of "Indians" as the name of a team is also 
part of the controversy which has led over 115 professional organizations 
representing civil rights, educational, athletic, and scientific experts 
to published resolutions or policies that state that any use of Native 
American names and/or symbols by non-native sports teams is a harmful form 
of ethnic stereotyping that promote misunderstanding and prejudice which 
contributes to other problems faced by Native Americans.[1] Native Americans 
have been protesting and taking other actions opposing the name and logo 
since the 1970s. There has been a demonstration on opening day each year 
for twenty years.[2] The team owners and management have defended their 
use as having no intent to offend, but rather to honor Native Americans, 
and claiming strong support from the fans. At the beginning of 2016, the 
use of Chief Wahoo was officially reduced to secondary status in favor 
of a block "C",[3] but Chief Wahoo hats were worn during both the ALCS 
playoffs and the World Series in October and November.[4] While official 
use of the Chief Wahoo logo at the stadium has declined, fans attending 
the home games continue to wear clothing or carry signs prominently displaying 
the image.[5] Protests are expected to continue as Cleveland returns to 
the World Series for the first time in 19 years.[6] In August, a team spokesman 
said the team was "very cognizant and sensitive to both sides of the conversation" 
but had "no plans of making a change." [7] Hundreds of Native Americans 
protested outside the stadium during the first game of the series.[8] When 
MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred said that he plans to meet with Cleveland 
owner Paul Dolan about the issue when the 2016 season ends; the National 
Congress of American Indians (NCAI) requested that members of the Native 
American community be included.[9] The name "Indians" originated from a 
request by club owner Charles Somers to baseball writers to choose a new 
name to replace the "Naps" following the departure of their star player 
Nap Lajoie after the 1914 season.[10] The name "Indians" was chosen as 
it was one of the nickname previously applied to the old Cleveland Spiders 
baseball club during the time when Louis Sockalexis, a Native American, 
played in Cleveland.[11] The attribution of the new name as being in honor 
of Sockalexis, a member of the Penobscot Tribe of Maine, is generally discredited 
given the discriminatory treatment of Native Americans in general, and 
Sockalexis in particular during that era.[12] The news stories published 
to announce the selection in 1915 make no mention of Sockalexis, but do 
make many racist and insulting references to Native Americans.[13] While 
defenders often cite the intention to honor Native Americans, and claim 
that there are ways to do so while retaining their current representations; 
opponents of Native American mascots make no distinction between respectful 
or disparaging usage, both being based upon stereotypes. The resolution 
issued by the Society of Indian Psychologists in 1999 states: "Stereotypical 
and historically inaccurate images of Indians in general interfere with 
learning about them by creating, supporting and maintaining oversimplified 
and inaccurate views of indigenous peoples and their cultures. When stereotypical 
representations are taken as factual information, they contribute to the 
development of cultural biases and prejudices..."[14] This point of view 
echos the position of the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI), 
the oldest and largest organization representing enrolled tribal citizens 
in the United States: "Often citing a long held myth by non-Native people 
that 'Indian' mascots 'honor Native people,' American sports businesses 
such as the NFL’s Washington 'Redskins' and Kansas City 'Chiefs', MLB’s 
Cleveland 'Indians' and Atlanta 'Braves', and the NHL’s Chicago Black Hawks, 
continue to profit from harmful stereotypes originated during a time when 
white superiority and segregation were common place."[15] Native American 
protesters in Cleveland also state that "retiring" Chief Wahoo would not 
be a solution to the issue, since both the name and logo need to be changed 
to something that does not reference Native Americans in any way.[16] Chief 
Wahoo is part of an exhibit at the Jim Crow Museum of Racist Memorabilia 
maintained by Ferris State University in Michigan. For Dr. David Pilgrim, 
a sociology professor at Ferris State and an expert in racial imagery, 
the symbol is a "red Sambo" that hardly differs from the caricatures of 
blacks popular in the Jim Crow era in which Wahoo was created, when such 
depictions of minority races were popularly used to inflame prejudice and 
justify discriminatory laws and behavior. Pilgrim explains how the exaggerated 
features serve their discriminatory purpose by emphasizing the differences 
of the depicted race, thereby reinforcing the idea that the caricaturized 
race is inferior. The team's Vice President of Public Relations has defended 
the use of Chief Wahoo, saying that fans only associate Wahoo with baseball, 
while framing the team's decision to no longer "animate or humanize the 
logo" in terms of their "acknowledgement of the sensitivities involved".[17] 
Chief Wahoo was featured in a 2012 Ohio Historical Society exhibit called 
Controversy 2: Pieces We Don't Talk About. The exhibit featured "difficult" 
objects from Ohio Historical Society collections, including a vintage Chief 
Wahoo jacket, a Nazi flag, and 19th century prints that stereotyped African 
Americans.[18] The following year, the National Museum of the American 
Indian advertised a daylong seminar on racist stereotypes in American sport 
with a handout that featured Chief Wahoo.[19] The head of the Cleveland 
American Indian Movement (AIM) has described the use of the mascot as "exploitative, 
bigoted, racist, and shameful",[20] The Youth "Indian" Mascot and Logo 
Task Force is a group in Wisconsin that has asked high schools to retire 
Native American mascots. In a statement, the group has contrasted the relative 
acceptance of Chief Wahoo versus that of Little Black Sambo: "How is it 
that our society can agree to get rid of the image of 'Little Black Sambo', 
but allow our schools to continue to use caricatures like 'Chief Wahoo' 
or the sacred symbolism of a chief's headdress? In an age when we are teaching 
our children to be morally responsible and racially sensitive, we cannot 
continue to let this form of institutional racism be a matter of choice."[21] 
The Cleveland Indians are probably the least offensively named professional 
team, until you meet Chief Wahoo. It is like naming a team the 'African-American 
Freedom Fighters' and then making Sambo the mascot. It is like naming a 
team 'La Raza' and then resurrecting the Frito Bandito for mascot duty. 
No one can make the honor claim with a straight face, unless they seriously 
think Chief Wahoo is a straight face.[22] A particular problem with the 
logo is that it includes a feather, which has special significance to many. 
Bob Roche, director of the American Indian Education Center, has criticized 
the design of the logo: "This red feather that is worn by the so-called 
Chief Wahoo is a part of a ceremonial feather that is given to our warriors 
that have shed their own blood in battle ... It's very spiritual, the eagle 
feather; the eagle represents the messenger to the creator because it flies 
so high. And the eagle, of course, is revered. And so it's a mockery of 
our own religion, our own spirituality."[24] Ellen Baird, a Native American 
professor of sociology at the University of Dayton,[25] has criticized 
the logo on similar grounds as Roche. Baird says that the feather depicted 
in the logo is traditionally given to a warrior wounded in battle, and 
alleges that institutional racism prevents people from learning of this.[26] 
Sherman Alexie has also criticized the Cleveland team's appropriation of 
items considered sacred. After comparing Chief Wahoo to Little Black Sambo 
in an interview with the Salt Lake Tribune, Alexie added, "The feathers, 
paint and drums are part of our religion. More than just racist, those 
images are blasphemous."[27][dead link] The Penobscot Indian Nation formally 
asked the Cleveland Indians to stop using the Chief Wahoo logo in 2000, 
unanimously passing a resolution calling on the team to retire the logo. 
The resolution stated that the Penobscot Nation found Chief Wahoo "to be 
an offensive, degrading, and racist stereotype that firmly places Indian 
people in the past, separate from our contemporary cultural existence." 
It also said that the logo "emphasizes a tragic part of our history—focusing 
on wartime survival while ignoring the strength and beauty of Indian cultures 
during times of peace." Tribal Governor Barry Dana predicted that "reasoned 
discussion" would be productive and that the Cleveland franchise would 
be willing to talk with the Penobscot Nation.[28] However, although Indians 
vice-president of public relations Bob DiBiasio received a hand-delivered 
copy, as of 2009 the team had not acknowledged the resolution.[28][29] 
The Maine State Legislature then passed a bill that condemned the logo, 
making explicit reference to the team's failure to acknowledge the Penobscot 
resolution. The bill read in part: "WHEREAS, the Cleveland Indians team 
ignored a petition by the Penobscot Nation in 2000 to cease and desist 
the use of its caricature mascot "Chief Wahoo," which the Penobscot Nation 
and many other Americans consider racist and disrespectful to the memory 
of Louis Sockalexis ... [we] respectfully urge and request that the Cleveland 
Indians baseball team immediately drop the use of the mascot "Chief Wahoo," 
which would demonstrate the team understands the disrespect this symbol 
represents to the Penobscot Nation, the citizens of Maine and the legacy 
of Louis Sockalexis.[30] Donna Loring, the Penobscot Indian Nation's representative 
to the Maine State Legislature, has criticized the logo, saying that it 
"denigrated the contribution that Sockalexis made to the team and to professional 
sports."[31] Kenneth Paul, who at the time of a 1993 interview was Louis 
Sockalexis' oldest surviving relative, described his reaction to being 
photographed in a Chief Wahoo hat, saying, "They made me look like a fool." 
On the subject of the logo itself, he said, "Wahoo or Yahoo, it's more 
insulting than anything. I think they should change the whole thing to 
something else. It won't break my heart. It won't break anybody's." Paul's 
son, Kenneth Jr., has said of Chief Wahoo, "I wish they'd get rid of that 
smiling Indian head."[32] One Native American group asked Nike, Inc. to 
cease production of any items displaying the Chief Wahoo logo.[34] Nike 
responded to the request by issuing a statement that it is bound by a contractual 
agreement with Major League Baseball (MLB) to manufacture apparel, and 
each MLB team is responsible for the logos they choose.[35] When local 
Native Americans were asked to participate in the 175th anniversary of 
the founding of Cleveland in 1971, they used the occasion to protest the 
history of native mistreatment by non-natives, from massacres to Chief 
Wahoo.[36] Protests have continued on Opening Day of the baseball season 
each year since 1973.[16][37] The size of the protests grew in the 1990s. 
In 1991, a group called the Committee of 500 Years of Dignity and Resistance 
was formed to protest quincentennial Columbus Day celebrations. The next 
year, the group shifted its efforts, and since then has focused on protesting 
the Indians' team name and logo. In its early years, the group drew national 
media attention as it negotiated with team management over whether Chief 
Wahoo would continue to be used once the Indians moved to their new stadium.[38] 
When the team moved to its new ballpark, the stadium manager, Gateway Economic 
Development Corporation, attempted to prohibit demonstrations there, and 
protesters sued for access.[39][40] The logo drew renewed scrutiny during 
the 1995 World Series, when the Cleveland Indians played the Atlanta Braves.[41] 
The games were marked by protests in both cities.[42] The 1997 All-Star 
game was also home to protests; these were attended by a descendant of 
Louis Sockalexis, the Native American player in whose honor the Cleveland 
team is supposedly named.[43] The Cleveland Indians played again in the 
World Series that year; before the series began ABC News covered the Chief 
Wahoo protests and named Native American activist and artist Charlene Teters 
their person of the week.[44][45] Newspapers and other publications have 
described a tense atmosphere surrounding these protests, some of which 
resulted in legal actions (see below). Reporters have described antagonistic[40] 
behavior from game attendees (e.g, shouting "You killed Custer!", or directing 
war whoops at protesters),[37][38] and characterized fans as "ambivalent 
and sometimes belligerent".[37] According to researchers, "it is the protestors 
whose phenotypic traits correspond with stereotypical representations of 
Indians that receive the most negative attention ... [the] most vocal fans 
make darker-skinned protestors the targets of their most disparaging remarks".[38] 
Physical confrontations have included fans throwing beer on protestors,[46] 
and participants have described derogatory remarks: "Each year for the 
past six or seven years I have joined our native American brothers and 
sisters and others from the Cleveland area in protesting the use of the 
racist symbol of Chief Wahoo. Each year we stand outside the stadium, and 
hear people yell at us to 'go back home.' The irony of telling a native 
American to go back home is never understood by them it seems."[47] Protests 
remain a regular feature, but are smaller than they were in the 1990s.[38] 
Today, the Committee of 500 Years of Dignity and Resistance has 8 to 12 
core members and a total membership of approximately 150 people.[38] Researchers 
have suggested that Cleveland's low Native American population and its 
transient status, traveling to and from reservations, have contributed 
to recruiting difficulties.[38] American Indian Movement chapters elsewhere 
in the country have sometimes held protests at Cleveland's away games.[48] 
When the Cleveland Indians played in the 1997 World Series, protesters 
demonstrated against the team's use of the Chief Wahoo mascot. When American 
Indian activist Vernon Bellecourt burned an effigy of Chief Wahoo, police 
arrested him and ordered others to leave. Later, the police arrested two 
other protesters who had moved to another part of the stadium. Officials 
claimed all three had actively resisted arrest. Bellecourt was charged 
with criminal endangerment and resisting arrest, while the other two were 
charged with criminal trespass and aggravated disorderly conduct. Charges 
against the defendants were later dismissed.[49][50] During opening day 
protests in 1998, Cleveland police arrested three protesters for burning 
an effigy of Chief Wahoo, and shortly thereafter arrested two more protesters 
for burning an effigy of Little Black Sambo. They were booked and jailed 
for aggravated arson. However, no formal charges were filed after the booking, 
and the protesters were released the next day. The protesters, led by Bellecourt, 
later sued the city for violating their free speech rights. In 2004, the 
Ohio Supreme Court ruled in a 5–2 decision that the arrest did not violate 
the protesters' First Amendment rights. Justice Maureen O'Connor wrote 
in the majority opinion that "without question, the effigy burnings were 
constitutionally protected speech," but, citing the 1968 U.S. Supreme Court 
decision in United States v. O'Brien, O'Connor also wrote that "the windy 
conditions coupled with the spraying of additional accelerant on the already 
burning effigies created a hazard" and that "the police were obligated 
to protect the public, including the protesters themselves."[51] Protests 
against the use of the Chief Wahoo mascot have continued since the 1990s. 
In 2004, ruling on a lawsuit brought by protesters who wished to demonstrate 
against Chief Wahoo's use, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals decided that 
the sidewalks near Jacobs Field were a public forum and the owner could 
not place content-sensitive restrictions on its use.[52] Demonstrators 
had moved their protests to a nearby public area while the case was pending.[53] 
After the Indians' management chose to retain Chief Wahoo in 1993, Clark 
Hosick, executive director of the North American Indian Cultural Center 
in Akron, Ohio, explained his position on the logo. Hosick said he believed 
that the logo encouraged stereotypical comments, such as sports reports 
describing how "the Indians scalped" their opponents. He also said that 
he believed some of these comments would disappear if the team dropped 
the logo.[54] Charlene Teters, a Native American artist and activist, was 
interviewed for a 1997 story on Chief Wahoo and remarked, "We are the only 
group of people still used as mascots. You wouldn't have someone painted 
in blackface run on the field."[55] Teters again discussed the logo in 
a 2009 documentary produced by New Mexico PBS: "This image should have 
gone by the wayside along with Little Black Sambo and the Frito Bandito. 
... That this image honors neither Indian or non-Indian people, and that 
I think anyone who looks at this can recognize it as a blatant racist caricature, 
tells you, really, again, our place in the society. ... If it is trivial, 
as they like to say, then why is there any objection whatsoever to changing 
these images? I really feel that it has to do more with power than it has 
to do with money."[33] In a 2011 statement before the Senate, Morning Star 
Institute president Suzan Shown Harjo cited Chief Wahoo as an example of 
the "savage savage" stereotype of Native Americans (as opposed to the "noble 
savage"), describing the logo as one of several prominent "hideous, inhuman, 
insulting or just plain dumb-looking" depictions.[56] Russell Means has 
criticized Chief Wahoo, saying, "It epitomizes the stereotyped image of 
the Native American. It attacks the cultural heritage of the American Indian 
and destroys Indian pride."[57] James Fenelon, a researcher and member 
of the Dakota tribe, has described Chief Wahoo as an "unambiguous racial 
icon meant to symbolize stereotypical and usually negative images of Native 
people as "wild" but "friendly" savages."[58] Writer Jack Shakely described 
his childhood purchase of Chief Wahoo hat in a Los Angeles Times editorial 
that criticized the use of Native American mascots: "I got my first lesson 
in Indians portrayed as sports team mascots in the early 1950s when my 
father took me to a Cleveland Indians-New York Yankees game. Dad gave me 
money to buy a baseball cap, and I was conflicted. I loved the Yankees, 
primarily because fellow Oklahoman Mickey Mantle had just come up and was 
being touted as rookie of the year. But being mixed-blood Muscogee/Creek, 
I felt a (misplaced) loyalty to the Indians. So I bought the Cleveland 
cap with the famous Chief Wahoo logo on it. When we got back to Oklahoma, 
my mother took one look at the cap with its leering, big-nosed, buck-toothed 
redskin caricature just above the brim, jerked it off my head and threw 
it in the trash. She had been fighting against Indian stereotypes all her 
life, and I had just worn one home. I was only 10 years old, but the look 
of betrayal in my Creek mother's eyes is seared in my memory forever."[59] 
Native American writer and filmmaker Sherman Alexie has referenced Chief 
Wahoo when describing the impact of his book The Lone Ranger and Tonto 
Fistfight in Heaven: "To break Indians out of museums and movies and Chief 
Wahoo—that's a legacy for any book."[60] In an interview for Time magazine, 
Alexie compared the logo to Little Black Sambo: "A lot of people think 
it's a minor issue. Google search Chief Wahoo, put it up on one side of 
your screen, and then Google search Sambo, and put it on your screen. And 
this horribly racist, vile depiction of African Americans looks exactly 
like the Chief Wahoo mascot of the Cleveland Indians. Exactly. And why 
is one acceptable and the other isn't?"[61] An article in the Santa Cruz 
Sentinel described Alexie's point of view that white people have the privilege 
of being appalled at logos like Chief Wahoo, but that being appalled never 
feels like being humiliated.[62] Anton Treuer, author of Everything You 
Wanted to Know About Indians But Were Afraid to Ask, was asked in an interview 
whether "native people can be more readily imagined than known". Treuer 
replied that this was the case, and cited sports mascots as an example. 
He went on to describe the persistence of Chief Wahoo: "We've come a long 
way since, you know, Little Black Sambo, you know, effigies and things 
like that kind of dominated the cultural landscape in America, but for 
some reason Chief Wahoo has persisted."[63] The issue was framed similarly 
in The Praeger Handbook on Contemporary Issues in Native America by Bruce 
Elliott Johansen. Johansen writes: "The term Indians, on its face, is not 
overtly defamatory. Sometimes the context, not the name itself, is the 
problem. In the case of the Cleveland Indians, face value is the clincher 
— the face, that is, of the stupidly grinning, single-feathered Chief Wahoo."[64] 
A writer for The Encyclopedia of Race and Racism makes a similar point, 
writing that the "use of laudatory nicknames contrasts sharply with the 
practice of using racial caricatures as mascots—such as Chief Wahoo of 
the Cleveland Indians".[65] Indian Country Today Media Network has called 
the logo "grossly offensive".[66] There have been multiple failed legal 
and legislative attempts to end the use of Chief Wahoo. In 1972, Indian 
activist Russell Means announced a $9 million suit by the Cleveland American 
Indian Center[67] against the team for libel, slander, and defamation from 
the use of Chief Wahoo.[68] Writer Don Oakley criticized both the dollar 
amount and the grounds for the suit in an editorial article, saying, "$9-million 
is 'umpteen' dollars in anybody's vocabulary, including that of the original 
Chief Wahoo, the comic strip character who coined the word. But the suit 
is real enough, and it reads like something that might have been brought 
against a defendant at the Nuremberg trials ... Such a heavy burden for 
such a little guy to carry. The 'racism' behind Chief Wahoo will be news 
to the millions of people who have followed the baseball Indians over the 
years, and who no more associated their symbol with real Indians than they 
believe that Englishmen are short, pot-bellied, run around in knee breeches 
and wear a Union Jack for a vest."[69] Russell Means described receiving 
hate mail for the only time in his career after a TV appearance on the 
subject,[70] including letters advocating the "ethnic cleansing" of Indians,[26] 
and the legal process lasted over a decade. In 1982, both sides announced 
that they were near an agreement; one method of settlement being considered 
was an annual "Indian Day" at Cleveland Municipal Stadium. A lawyer for 
the defense said that an out-of-court settlement was preferred, but that 
he doubted a financial agreement would be part of it.[71] The suit was 
finally settled in 1983.[72] In 1993, an Ohio state lawmaker promised to 
introduce legislation that would have blocked the use of public funds for 
a new stadium if the Indians did not change their logo.[73] A similar measure 
had been introduced in 1992, but it failed to pass by six votes.[74][dead 
link] Former Cleveland Mayor Michael R. White once condemned the logo as 
a racist caricature and proposed a referendum to strip it from all city-owned 
property,[75] but the suggestion went nowhere. However, Juan Reyna, chairperson 
of a local activist group, criticized White's reasoning, saying, "There 
will never be a majority in favor of getting rid of it. There are more 
people at a single Indians game than all the Indians in the whole tri-state 
area. It needs to be done because it's the right thing to do."[76] A 1998 
article in the Cleveland State Law Review outlined several possible legal 
challenges to the use and validity of the Chief Wahoo trademark. Among 
the possible arguments was the notion that the Indians' actions in Jacobs 
Field (since renamed "Progressive Field") were a state action according 
to the symbiotic relationship test established in Burton v. Wilmington 
Parking Authority. If there was also an implicit discriminatory intent 
in the design of the logo, then its use would be a violation of the Fourteenth 
Amendment. The author indicated that this approach would face significant 
legal hurdles. An alternative and perhaps more successful approach would 
be to challenge the validity of the trademark, because trademark law bars 
the registration of disparaging or scandalous marks.[77] A 1999 article 
in the Harvard Law Review also outlined an equal protection (Fourteenth 
Amendment) strategy for suits against teams that use native American names 
and symbols.[78] Native American activists used one of these strategies—suing 
to remove trademark protection on disparaging marks—against the Washington 
Redskins in the 1990s.[79][80] After early victories for the activists, 
newspapers including the Ohio State University Lantern and The Akron Beacon 
Journal suggested that trademark protection for Chief Wahoo might be in 
jeopardy.[79][80] A pair of editorials published in 2009 by The Akron Beacon 
Journal avoided the issue of trademark protection, but raised questions 
about how Chief Wahoo might affect Major League Baseball's antitrust exemption.[81] 
One of the editorials concludes that money, not legal issues, will be the 
ultimate cause of change: "But private schools and private businesses like 
the Cleveland Indians and Washington Redskins have a constitutional right 
to call themselves whatever they want and, if they wish, they may use logos 
and mascots that offend people. When it no longer makes them any money 
they will change."[82] In February, 2016 a non-profit organization, People 
Not Mascots, Inc. filed a petition with the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) to cancel the trademark of Chief Wahoo, citing the USPTO's 
previous cancellation of the trademarks of the Washington Redskins as disparaging 
to Native Americans.[83] In 1996, the Cleveland Institute of Art opened 
an exhibit featuring the work of Hachivi Edgar Heap of Birds, a half-Arapaho, 
half-Cheyenne associate professor of art at the University of Oklahoma.[70][84] 
Among the pieces he designed for the exhibition was a 25-by-12 foot billboard 
featuring an image based upon Chief Wahoo and the text "Smile for Racism". 
Amidst controversy, the school initially announced that the piece would 
not be funded or shown. Heap of Birds announced his intent not to attend 
the opening, and alleged that the school was afraid of losing donations 
from Indians owner Richard Jacobs. The Indians' spokesman had no comment 
on the matter, while the chairman of the institute's board explained that 
he was offended by the piece and said, "I don't think that's art."[85] 
Eventually, the school reversed its position after determining that it 
was contractually obligated to fund the work.[84] Heap of Birds decided 
to attend the opening,[84] and the piece was eventually shown.[70] He produced 
at least two different variations on the work, referred to in a journal 
as American Leagues 1 and American Leagues 2, both of which used the same 
design.[86] The billboard itself was installed in 1998 near the approach 
to Jacobs Field.[87] Heap of Birds later wrote of his artwork: "Today, 
Indian people must still struggle in order to survive in America. We must 
battle against forces that have dealt us among the lowest educational opportunities, 
lowest income levels, lowest standards of health, lowest housing conditions, 
lowest political representation and highest mortality rates in America. 
Even as these grave hardships exist for the living Indian people, a mockery 
is made of us by reducing our tribal names and images to the level of insulting 
sports team mascots, brand name automobiles, camping equipment, city and 
state names, and various other commercial products produced by the dominate 
culture. This strange and insensitive custom is particularly insulting 
when one considers the great lack of attention that is given to real Indian 
concerns. It must be understood that no human being should be identified 
as subservient to another culture. To be overpowered and manipulated in 
such a way as to thought to become [sic] a team mascot is totally unthinkable."[88] 
Native American artist Charlene Teters has incorporated Chief Wahoo merchandise 
into installation pieces. She describes this art as "an extension of the 
work that I've been doing on the front lines, of the struggle to remove 
stereotypes and symbols that reinforce the stereotype of the Native people". 
Teters goes on to say, "What I do is collect these things and put them 
in a context for people to examine them. I think that we become so desensitized 
to them that we don't even see them for what they are. And so what I'm 
doing is putting them in a very concentrated space for people to feel the 
bombardment. The purpose for me is to create a forum for people to debate 
the issue."[89] In a work titled What We Know About Indians, large black 
and white portraits of the artists' family members are "blocked" by brightly 
colored overlays of mass-media depictions of Native Americans.:32 Teters' 
childhood portrait is overlaid with a Disney image of Pocahontas, and another 
portrait is overlaid with an image of Chief Wahoo.[90]:32 The controversy 
surrounding Chief Wahoo, and arguments against the logo's use were reviewed 
in a 2006 documentary called WaWHO? Nothing is Sacred. The documentary 
was completed by Dennis Atkins, an American Indian and a Cleveland native, 
and was produced by the Cleveland branch of the American Indian Movement 
(AIM). to a half-full auditorium at Ohio University. Atkins and most of 
those interviewed for the documentary conclude that money is the ultimate 
factor behind the Cleveland Indians' ongoing use of Chief Wahoo.[24][26][91] 
It was screened in October of that year[92] In 2005, the American Psychological 
Association (APA) issued a resolution "Recommending the Immediate Retirement 
of American Indian Mascots, Symbols, Images, and Personalities by Schools, 
Colleges, Universities, Athletic Teams, and Organizations" due to the harm 
done by creating a hostile environment, the negative impact on the self-esteem 
of American Indian children, and discrimination that may violate civil 
rights. It also impacts non-natives by reinforcing mainstream stereotypes, 
preventing learning about Native American culture. The APA states that 
stereotyping is disrespectful of the beliefs, traditions and values of 
Native Americans.[93] Similar resolutions have been adopted by the American 
Sociological Association,[94] the American Counseling Association,[95] 
and the American Anthropological Association.[96] Researchers have studied 
the effects of exposure to Chief Wahoo and other depictions of Native Americans. 
One study of American Indian high school students found that, although 
exposure to Chief Wahoo generated positive associations, students also 
reported depressed self-esteem and community worth scores.[97] After exposure 
to Chief Wahoo, these students' depressed scores were lower than those 
of other students who read about how depictions of Native American communities 
commonly emphasize high rates of alcoholism, suicide, and teen pregnancy.[97][98] 
Follow-up research on American Indian college students found that exposure 
to Chief Wahoo resulted in depressed predictions of future achievement.[97] 
The researchers concluded: Although these studies cannot address the process 
by which these undermining effects occur, the studies do suggest that the 
effects are not due to negative associations with mascots. We suggest that 
the negative effects of exposure to these images may, in part, be due to 
the relative absence of more contemporary positive images of American Indians 
in American society ... The only way to reduce the negative impact of these 
constraining American Indian mascot representations is to either eliminate 
them or to create, distribute, and institutionalize a broader array of 
social representations of American Indians. The latter option would communicate 
to both natives and nonnatives that, beyond the historically constituted 
roles as Indian princesses and warrior chiefs, there exist other viable 
and desirable ways to be American Indian in contemporary mainstream society.[97] 
Subsequent research has found that exposure to the Chief Wahoo image "activated 
negative, but not positive, American Indian stereotypes", and that the 
predominantly European-American study participants' "motivation to control 
prejudice, prejudice level, and experience did not predict negative stereotype 
activation".[99] In 2010, the authors of a paper published in the Journal 
of Applied Social Psychology reported the results of two studies on the 
effects of American Indian mascots on observers.[100] According to the 
authors, "both studies show that participants primed with an American Indian 
sports mascot increased their stereotyping of a different ethnic minority 
group."[100] The alternative weekly publication Cleveland Scene sardonically 
interpreted these results to mean that "looking at Chief Wahoo, the mere 
existence of Chief Wahoo, can change your opinions of a whole separate 
ethnicity", adding that the study "probably confirms that Clevelanders 
and Indians fans are inclined to stereotype and hate just about every group 
in the world."[101] The magazine Pacific Standard also framed the study 
in terms of the Indians' logo, headlining their story "Chief Wahoo's Revenge: 
One Stereotype Begets Another".[102] Richard Lapchick, director of the 
University of Central Florida's Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sports, 
has called the logo "the most blatantly offensive of all the symbols I've 
seen of Native Americans" during 40 years working in his field.[103] An 
article in a 2010 psychology text cited Chief Wahoo as an example of a 
racial microaggression.[104] The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, without 
specifically mentioning Chief Wahoo, released an advisory opinion opposing 
the use of Native American mascots by non-native teams.[105] The NAACP 
has also opposed the use of Native American symbols by sports teams.[106] 
Artist David Jakupca of the International Center for Environmental Arts 
(ICEA) is credited with designing the current Anti-Wahoo Logo in 1992.[107] 
It gained international popular attention when it was exhibited by ICEA 
at the 1993 UN World Conference on Human Rights held in Vienna, Austria. 
Stanley Miller, the executive director of the NAACP's Cleveland branch, 
has lamented the lack of response to Chief Wahoo's continued use. In an 
interview, Miller said that if black Americans were depicted in an image 
akin to Chief Wahoo, "the NAACP would be up in arms about it. The Urban 
League would be up in arms about it."[108] Renu Mandhane, chief commissioner 
of the Ontario Human Rights Commission, called upon the media outlets to 
stop using the name during Cleveland's 2016 playoff series Toronto Blue 
Jays, which is part of the commission's general policy opposing the use 
of indigenous names and images in sports.[109] Some sportscasters, such 
as Jerry Howarth, had previously stopped using names such as Indians and 
Braves.[110] Douglas Cardinal, who is of Blackfoot descent and architect 
of the National Museum of the American Indian, filed a human rights complaints 
with Ontario's Superior Court of Justice and human rights tribunal seeking 
to ban the use of both the name and logo in Ontario.[111] Judge Thomas 
McEwen of Ontario Superior Court denied a request from Cardinal to issue 
an order banning the broadcast of the name and logo until the human rights 
complaints can be heard.[112] "It destroys the self-esteem of native American 
children and it mis-educates other children. It teaches them that indigenous 
people are sports team mascots, not human beings created in the image of 
God." "I would cease being a United Methodist before I would cease wearing 
my Chief Wahoo clothing." Various religious groups have condemned the use 
of Chief Wahoo. In 1991, the United Church of Christ passed a resolution 
condemning the use of Chief Wahoo, saying that "the use and misuse of Native 
American imagery affronts basic human rights and dignity and has a negative 
impact on human self worth". The Native American head of the group's Indian 
council criticized the logo, saying, "The image that it depicts looks kind 
of sub-human. It doesn't look like someone I would consider to be Indian."[113][114] 
In an article on the resolution, the team spokesman defended the use of 
the logo, describing the team's relationship with the local Native American 
community as "very positive".[113] Two years later, the Catholic Church's 
Diocese of Cleveland denounced the use of the logo in a statement by their 
Commission on Catholic Community Action to Promote Justice.[114] The statement 
cited a 1988 Vatican document saying that acts "which lead to contempt 
and to the phenomena of exclusion must be denounced and brought to light 
without hesitation and strongly rejected in order to promote equitable 
behavior."[115] In 1997 the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility, 
calling the use of Chief Wahoo "insulting and racially insensitive marketing," 
succeeded in pressuring various companies to stop using the logo. As a 
result of their efforts, Anheuser-Busch stopped using Chief Wahoo in their 
Ohio beer ads, and Denny's Restaurants barred its Ohio employees from wearing 
the logo to work.[116] The United Methodist Church denounced the use of 
Chief Wahoo in a vote taken during their quadrennial General Conference 
that took place in Cleveland in 2000. The measure passed without debate 
by a vote of 610-293, and was similar to previous resolutions that did 
not specifically mention Chief Wahoo.[114][117][dead link][118] The East 
Ohio Conference of the United Methodist Church had previously considered 
the issue of Chief Wahoo in 1998.[119] Delegates at the conference's annual 
meeting defeated by a two-thirds majority a resolution condemning its use.[114] 
The resolution urged church members to stop wearing hats or clothing displaying 
the logo,[119] causing one delegate to say, "I would cease being a United 
Methodist before I would cease wearing my Chief Wahoo clothing."[114][119] 
The United Church of Christ reaffirmed their position in 2000, when Bernice 
Powell Jackson, the executive director of the UCC Commission for Racial 
Justice and executive minister of one of the UCC's five covenanted ministries, 
called for the logo to be discontinued. She wrote: "Chief Wahoo is a racist 
stereotype and logo. The bug-eyed, buck-toothed, grinning red figure honors 
no one. It destroys the self-esteem of native American children and it 
mis-educates other children. It teaches them that indigenous people are 
sports team mascots, not human beings created in the image of God. The 
definition of racism most often used is prejudice plus power. All of us 
have learned prejudices about other groups of people, but when we have 
the power to live out those prejudices, then it is racism. Chief Wahoo 
is a racist symbol because those in power—in this case, the sports industry 
and the mainstream media—refuse to hear the voice of the oppressed."[47] 
When stadium management made efforts to exclude protesters, the United 
Church of Christ joined others in a First Amendment suit.[120] A 2005 editorial 
appearing in Religion News Services said the UCC had been active against 
Chief Wahoo since the 1980s, and added that "no other major-league city 
has a logo with such an offensive stereotype".[121] The Religious Action 
Center of Reform Judaism has joined the UCC in their efforts.[122] According 
to Mark Pelavin, the associate director of the organization, said that 
the UCC "asked us to sign letters to team owners and to join in some quiet 
meetings with team officials, and we were glad to do so".[122] In contrast, 
a 2001 editorial in the Jewish World Review defended Chief Wahoo. In the 
piece, Cleveland-born columnist Jeff Jacoby contrasted Chief Wahoo with 
"a grinning, watermelon-munching Sambo". Jacoby said that the latter would 
be intolerable "because it promotes an ignorant view of black people as 
jovial, juvenile simpletons", whereas Chief Wahoo and other logos symbols 
are merely "stylized caricatures, cheerful cartoon figures that demean 
nobody and reinforce no negative stereotype."[123] At their 2001 general 
assembly in Cleveland, the Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations 
passed a resolution urging "the Planning Committee and the Board of Trustees 
to consult and cooperate" with the UCC's struggle against the use of the 
Chief Wahoo.[124] The secretary of the association, Wayne Arnason, described 
the church's call to witness against the use of mascots and logos like 
Chief Wahoo: "This witness is one your Board of Trustees endorsed as consistent 
and compelling in our effort to create an anti-racist Association ... This 
is about the owners of professional sports teams, the media that covers 
them, the fans that turn a blind eye—and also the political leaders who 
do not act."[124] After the opening ceremony of the 2001 Unitarian general 
assembly, more than three-quarters of the attendees participated in a vigil 
against the use of the logo,[124] with hundreds of Unitarian Universalists 
marching in solidarity with Native Americans through the rain from the 
convention center to Jacobs Field.[125][126] At a 2012 Unitarian Universalist 
workshop in Cleveland, participants suggested joining again with the yearly 
protests against Chief Wahoo.[127] Sportswriters have periodically alleged 
that the Cleveland Indians are gradually phasing out the logo. A sportswriter 
for the New York Times suggested this in 2007, noting that Chief Wahoo 
enjoyed a much-diminished presence in Cleveland's home stadium.[128] Sportswriter 
Craig Calcaterra wrote about his suspicions of a phase-out when he observed 
that the team used an alternate logo on their scoreboard,[129] and the 
Journal News of New York has alleged the team is "so embarrassed by their 
grinning Indian logo that they've all but banished it from Jacobs Field".[130] 
Changes to the batting helmets in 2013 led to renewed speculation of a 
phase-out.[131][132] This continued for 2014, when the Indians decided 
to officially re-designate their block "C" logo as their primary team logo 
and demote Chief Wahoo to secondary status.[133] Sportswriters have speculated 
that a slow phase-out allows the team to avoid a negative short-term reaction.[134] 
However, now-former Indians president Mark Shapiro and other team spokespeople 
have said there are no plans for a phase-out.[135] A survey published by 
Sports Illustrated in 2002 reported that "neither Native Americans in general 
nor a cross section of U.S. sports fans" found Indian-related team names 
and mascots offensive. The poll did not specifically investigate opinions 
about Chief Wahoo.[136] Researchers and Native American activists have 
criticized the results on the basis of Sports Illustrated's refusal to 
provide polling information. Among the questions raised are how "Indians" 
were found and contacted, if they were concentrated in urban areas or on 
reservations, if a small number of tribes were overrepresented, and the 
exact wording and order of the questions.[137] A possible flaw in random 
and anonymous polls of Native American opinion is that surveys must rely 
upon self-identification to select the target group.[138] In an editorial 
in the Bloomington Herald Times, Steve Russell, a Cherokee citizen and 
associate professor of criminal justice at Indiana University, states that 
both Sports Illustrated and Annenberg's samples of "self-identified Native 
Americans... includes plenty of people who have nothing to do with Indians".[139] 
The problem of individuals claiming to be Native American when they are 
not is well-known in academic research, and is a particular problem when 
non-natives claim Indian identity specifically to gain authority in the 
debate over sports mascots.[138] A small number of fans are "de-chiefing" 
their team apparel by removing the Chief Wahoo logo as a silent protest 
while maintaining their support of the team. Team management has declined 
to comment on the phenomenon, but pro-Wahoo fans have made angry comments 
on social media.[140][141] The Native American Journalist Association (NAJA) 
has formally called on newspapers to stop broadcasting Indian mascot names 
and images.[142] In a 2003 report, NAJA listed several other newspapers 
that "generally tend not [to] publish pictures" of Chief Wahoo. The list 
included The Oregonian, The Minneapolis Star-Tribune, the Kansas City Star, 
and the Lincoln Journal-Star, as well as The Portland Press Herald and 
The St. Cloud Times.[143][144]:11–16 An article in an American Bar Association 
publication described these policies as an example of voluntary restrictions 
on hate speech.[145] Explaining their decision to no longer print the logo, 
the Journal Star called it "an example of rank caricature".[146][147] The 
move was criticized in a book about "hard-charging leadership in politically 
correct times", which described the Journal Star's decision in a section 
titled "Into the PC Cesspool".[146] A year after the Journal Star implemented 
its original policy, it announced a broader policy wherein the paper would 
no longer print logos for teams that use Native symbols.[147] Since 1992, 
The Oregonian has had a policy banning the use of team or mascot names 
offensive to members of racial, religious, or ethnic groups, and in a 2013 
editorial column, a writer for the paper cited Chief Wahoo as a particularly 
egregious example of a logo the paper would not print.[148] The policy, 
the first of its kind in the United States, was made by then-editor Bill 
Hilliard[148] and continued by his successor Sandra Mims Rowe. Under the 
direction editor Tim McGuire, the Minneapolis Star-Tribune implemented 
a similar policy in 1994. McGuire described the 1994 policy as "easily 
the most polarizing decision I've ever made", one that resulted in 218 
cancelled subscriptions and his being called a "liberal socialist".[144]:15[149] 
Under the leadership of editor Anders Gyllenhaal, the paper reversed its 
position in 2003, although it vowed to use alternate logos for teams that 
had them.[144]:15[150][151] Describing the paper's new policy in 2003, 
Gyllenhall wrote, "If a newspaper bans the common phrases that offend one 
group of readers, how does it respond when others take issue with words 
in the news?"[150] The new policy specifically cited the Cleveland Indians' 
"script 'I'" logo as a preferable alternative to Chief Wahoo.[144]:16 In 
an editorial, the paper approved the new policy, saying that "newsrooms 
should reflect reality as accurately as possible", but nevertheless called 
on teams to drop nicknames that had been appropriated from Native Americans.[152] 
In a 1997 incident, the Seattle Times digitally erased Chief Wahoo from 
photos of Cleveland players, prompting executive editor Michael Fancher 
to apologize, "We took racial sensitivity a step too far."[153][154] Fancher 
explained that the Times' policy is to "respect Native-American complaints 
that the nicknames and mascots of some sports teams are offensive", and 
to "avoid discretionary uses of the mascot images".[154] General news editor 
Mike Stanton said that sensitivity must be addressed through inclusion 
or exclusion of option images, but that "We can't change the objective 
reality."[154] Fancher said that the appropriate solution would have been 
to choose an alternate image.[154] In 2001, the Kansas City Star implemented 
a new policy that discouraged publication of certain logos. The paper's 
vice president and editor described the rationale using Chief Wahoo as 
an example: "Chief Wahoo is a ridiculous, offensive, racist caricature. 
We would be ashamed to run it as an editorial cartoon or comic strip, so 
why should we repeatedly publish it in the sports pages of our newspaper?"[155] 
In the lead-up to the 2016 American League Championship Series between 
Cleveland and the Toronto Blue Jays, the team's radio voice Jerry Howarth 
revealed that he had vowed since 1992 to not use team names offensive to 
Native Americans on-air.[110] Educational bodies have sometimes criticized 
Chief Wahoo. In a guidebook on evaluating American Indian resources for 
classroom use, the Montana Office of Public Instruction has described Chief 
Wahoo as an example of a disrespectful image of Native Americans.[156] 
A report on the use of Native American mascots by the Oregon Superintendent 
of Public Instruction described Chief Wahoo as an example of a stereotypical 
Native American image.[157] The faculty senate at Kent State University 
has passed a resolution objecting to the use of Chief Wahoo by members 
of the school community.[158] The resolution[159] was first proposed in 
2002.[160] In the discussion around the issue, one of the faculty members 
compared the use of Chief Wahoo to a hypothetical baseball teamed named 
the Phoenix Fallen Four that uses a bright red target for its logo.[160] 
In the hypothetical scenario, the intent of the name and logo is to honor 
of the victims of the Kent State Massacre, but the result is that positive 
images of Kent State are "unable to compete".[160] The same faculty senator 
said that the American Indian Society on campus viewed the issue as a concern.[160] 
Arguments against passing the resolution were that it would generate ill 
will on campus and that the intent was fine but "we don't change beliefs 
by proclamation".[160] The 2002 resolution failed to pass by two votes.[160] 
The resolution was again brought before the faculty senate in 2004,[161] 
when it passed by a vote of seventeen to six.[162] The controversy was 
covered in an essay[163] published in Kent State's Writer Center Review, 
a journal of outstanding student papers.[164] The essay describes the sentiments 
of the author of the 2002 resolution, a professor of Shawnee descent named 
Thomas Norton-Smith.[163] Norton-Smith described negative reactions to 
his campaign, such as "nasty notes pinned to his bulletin board" and the 
removal of posters from his office door.[163] In the essay, Norton-Smith 
makes clear that the purpose of the resolution was not to ban the logo, 
but only to raise awareness of issues surrounding its use.[163] Students 
at Oberlin College have discussed the logo's use with team owner Larry 
Dolan, who serves on Oberlin's board of trustees. The head of the American 
Indian Council at Oberlin presented Dolan with a packet "containing historical, 
scholarly and position papers about American Indian team mascots",[165] 
and Dolan has met with Oberlin students and faculty who oppose the use 
of Chief Wahoo.[166] In 2000, the school's American Indian Council expressed 
its concern over Dolan's presence on the board of trustees at an open forum 
meeting.[167] Around the same time, other Oberlin students, faculty, and 
staff spoke out about Chief Wahoo. The assistant dean of students and director 
of the school's multicultural resource center said, "On finding out that 
Larry Dolan was a trustee, I almost fell out of my chair. It surprises 
me that Oberlin would get a trustee that was related to a racist symbol 
like that."[168] A professor of history said, "It's clearly offensive. 
And I am as flabbergasted as I was when I first moved to Ohio every time 
I see that logo. I'm also flabbergasted that all Indian fans don't recognize 
its offensiveness."[168] The college secretary was more ambivalent, saying, 
"I'm not a big baseball fan, but I've always found the anti-Indians/Wahoo 
argument non-convincing. I don't see it as racist, but I'm not an Indian."[168] 
In 1999, Cuyahoga County Public Library barred its workers from wearing 
the Chief Wahoo logo to work.[169] A memo issued to employees said that 
the logo was not the image that the library wants to project.[170] The 
policy drew approval from local Indian groups but caused the executive 
director of the library to receive "a lot of grief" from employees,[169] 
one of whom complained that "the library prides itself on not censoring".[170] 
Nevertheless, a library spokesperson later said that the staff was "accepting 
the directive".[171] The ACLU protested the decision, and the legal director 
for ACLU Ohio said that the issue was one of free speech, not racism.[172] 
The ban prompted Ohio state legislator James Trakas (R-Independence) to 
propose legislation that would cut public funding to any agency that bans 
a sports logo.[173] The legislation did not pass.[174] Trakas described 
the ban as "political correctness at its extreme".[171] In response to 
concerns that some might feel denigrated by the logo, Trakas said, "America 
certainly has a scattered history when it comes to Indians, but we're talking 
about a sports team here. Get over it."[175] "Whether or not [Chief Wahoo] 
is offensive is not really a debate. Whether it's racist is really the 
crux of the issue." Former owner Richard Jacobs vowed not to drop the logo 
as long as he owned the team.[176][177] When owner Larry Dolan bought the 
team in 2000, he said, "I have no problem with Chief Wahoo. I don't think 
there is any disrespect meant. If I did, I would consider a change."[178] 
Asked if the strength of the argument was more important than the size 
of the protest, team owner Larry Dolan agreed that it was, and said that 
"you can whip a group of non-thoughtful people to come up and protest anything". 
Later, in the same interview, Dolan described the protests in greater detail: 
"It frankly bothers me when I see protestors out there, every opening day. 
Invariably in the last few days, they want to go to the court to say they 
ought to be able to protest closer to where the folks are. Now, people 
who are serious about what they're about don't do it that way. It's difficult 
for me to give them a whole lot of credence when they just show up, television 
cameras are there, they do their thing, and they're gone. I'm not encouraging 
them to come back, you understand, but if we're going to have a possible 
dialogue, they need to understand where we're coming from."[179] The Oberlin 
student newspaper recorded the interview and quoted Dolan as saying, "I 
firmly reject that Wahoo is racist. I see that it makes some Natives uncomfortable—clearly 
not all. I think I understand racism when I see it." The paper reported 
that Dolan claimed his incentive to action was weakened by the fact that 
Native Americans do not universally find the logo offensive. Larry Dolan's 
son, Paul Dolan, was at the meeting, and was quoted as saying, "Whether 
or not [Chief Wahoo] is offensive is not really a debate. Whether it's 
racist is really the crux of the issue."[180] Team spokesman Bob DiBiasio 
has defended the use of Chief Wahoo, saying that while the logo is a caricature, 
it is "not meant to represent anyone or any group." He has also stated 
that Chief Wahoo is not meant to be racist, and asked "if there is no intent 
to demean, how can something demean?"[181] DiBiasio has expanded on these 
statements elsewhere. In another interview, he said: "We believe this is 
an issue of perception. We think people look at the logo and they think 
about baseball—they think about C.C. Sabathia, Bob Feller, Larry Doby, 
and Omar Vizquel. The Wall Street Journal did an editorial about the Jeep 
Cherokee and concluded that something cannot be demeaned if there is no 
intent to demean. We still believe the vast majority of our fans like Chief 
Wahoo."[178] Statements from other members of Cleveland management have 
ranged from noncommittal to very supportive. Kurt Schloss, former director 
of merchandising[182] and now vice president of concessions,[183] has defended 
the use of the logo as part of the team's identity: "Chief Wahoo is a piece 
of who we are. ... It's not about representing a person or a group, it's 
about our history."[182] In 2007, while working as general manager of the 
team, Mark Shapiro stated, "It's not an area I have control over or choose 
to focus."[178] In 2013, after becoming president of the Indians, Shapiro 
was asked by an interviewer about "the official position of the club on 
the, on the whole, you know, Chief Wahoo thing".[184] He explained: "I 
think you always want to be sensitive to anybody that finds it offensive, 
that, you know ultimately the Indians name and the team, ah, is in recognition 
of our pride and affiliation with the first Native American baseball player. 
So I think what we choose to do is celebrate, you know, Louis Sockalexis 
and his history and tradition with the Indians and, and not to focus on 
uh anything that we would view, that, you know, anything that we don't 
view and certainly don't want to put, uh, be offensive to anyone."[184] 
DiBiasio has described conversations about Chief Wahoo with the Cleveland 
American Indian Movement and others as "an exchange of ideas, concepts, 
philosophies". The Cleveland American Indian Movement also sought comment 
from Progressive Insurance, owners of the naming rights to the Cleveland 
stadium. The group's request had gone unanswered for several months as 
of May 2013, when a Progressive spokesperson claimed to have no knowledge 
