The Climax Series (クライマックスシリーズ, Kuraimakkusu Shirīzu?) is the annual playoff 
system employed by Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). It determines 
which two teams from the Central League (CL) and the Pacific League (PL) 
will compete in the Japan Series for the national championship. Since the 
creation of the NPB's two-league system in 1950, the leagues have used 
several different methods to determine entry to the Japan Series. The current 
system has been used since the 2007 season. Both leagues play a 144-game 
regular season, after which the top three teams in each league compete 
against one another in a two-stage playoff. In Stage 1, the teams that 
finish the regular season with the second- and third-best records play 
one another in a best-of-three series. The winners of these three-game 
series advance to Stage 2 to face each league's regular-season champion 
in a six-game series, which the regular-season champion starts with a one-game 
advantage. The winners of each league's Stage 2 series compete against 
one another in that year's Japan Series. Since the creation of the NPB's 
two-league system, the regular-season winner of the CL had always advanced 
to the Japan Series, where it competed against the PL champion. The PL 
used the same system until 1973, when the league created NPB's only postseason 
play prior to 2004 (other than the Japan Series). This system matched the 
team with the best first-half record against the team with the best second-half 
record. The winner of this best-of-five series advanced to the Japan Series, 
where they played against the CL champion.[1][2] This system proved problematic 
when the Hankyu Braves won both the first and second halves of the 1976 
and 1978 seasons, making a playoff series unnecessary. The system was eliminated 
after the 1982 season.[2] Instead, the PL announced the following season 
that the first- and second-place teams would compete in a best-of-five 
playoff series after the 130-game regular season if five or fewer games 
separated the two teams. Unpopular with most baseball media and fans, the 
idea was scrapped after three seasons with a series never needing to be 
played.[2] The two leagues returned to sending the team with the best regular 
season record in their respective league to compete against each other 
in the championship series.[3] It's stupid for the other league to be operating 
under a different system. If we win the C.L. pennant next year, we'll boycott 
the [Japan] Series. In February 2003, the PL board of directors agreed 
to reintroduce a playoff system to be used for the 2004 NPB season.[4] 
If a first-place team had a substantial lead in the standings nearing the 
end of the regular season, there was no pennant race and little excitement 
until the Japan Series began.[3] The decision to add a PL playoff was an 
attempt to rectify this problem and increase the league's popularity.[4] 
The new postseason plan initiated a two-stage playoff in which the top 
three PL teams competed. In Stage 1, the teams that finished the newly 
shortened, 135-game regular season with the second- and third-best records 
played each other in a best-of-three series. The winner of this series 
faced the league's top finisher in the second and final stage. The Stage 2 
winner advanced to the Japan Series, where they competed against the CL's 
first-place team. Originally, the top finisher in the league at the end 
of the season was supposed to receive home-field advantage throughout Stage 2, 
but in August 2003, PL officials announced that if the first-place team 
led the second-place team by more than five games at the end of the regular 
season, that team would also receive a one-game winning advantage in Stage 2's 
best-of-five series.[5] For the 2006 season, PL officials removed the five-game 
lead requirement in favor of automatically awarding the first-place team 
the one-win advantage. In conjunction with this change, the first-place 
team no longer had home-field advantage for the entirety of Stage 2; instead, 
the remaining four games were to be split evenly between both teams' stadiums.[6] 
This rule change became a non-factor after the eventual first-place Hokkaido 
Nippon-Ham Fighters clinched a Japan Series berth in two straight games. 
During the three years of the PL's playoff system, the winner of the PL's 
postseason tournament competed against the CL team who finished the regular 
season with the best record.[7] The disparity between the two leagues' 
postseasons provoked some criticism from baseball analysts. During the 
2005 Japan Series, The Japan Times' Stephen Ellsesser called NPB's unbalanced 
postseason a "bad system" and believed that the CL's decision to not implement 
a playoff system of their own was "foolish".[8] Citing the Hanshin Tigers' 
poor Japan Series performance, he speculated that the CL's lack of postseason 
play was a disadvantage. Ellsesser believed that the 17 days between their 
last regular-season game and the first Japan Series game did nothing to 
prepare the Tigers for the eventual championship series against the Chiba 
Lotte Marines, who had played continuously.[8] We stuck with the principle 
of not having playoffs for a long time, but it's true that the playoffs 
in the Pacific League have had positive effects. We've decided to add some 
thrills and excitement to the postseason. The CL had situational playoff 
scenarios written into its bylaws that required either a tie in the standings 
or a team with more wins finishing with a worse winning percentage than 
the top team, but a permanent playoff plan had never been created.[8] In 
March 2006, encouraged by the success of the PL's playoff series, CL officials 
announced their intention to introduce postseason playoffs for the 2007 
season to help boost declining attendance.[1] During meetings held later 
that year, PL and CL officials disagreed over proposed plans detailing 
the new playoff system. Since the creation of the PL playoffs in 2004, 
the league awarded its pennant titles to the playoff winners rather than 
the team who finished the regular season with the best record.[9] The PL 
disapproved of the CL's intentions to continue awarding their league title 
to the first-place finisher in the regular season while using the playoffs 
to determine which team would compete against in the Japan Series, as the 
PL had been awarding its pennant to its playoff champion.[10] In September 
2006, both leagues agreed on a unified postseason system.[9] The CL implemented 
a playoff system identical to the PL's, and the entire playoff series was 
dubbed the "Climax Series".[3] The PL agreed to name the regular season 
first-place finishers league champions rather than the team that won the 
leagues' respective playoffs—a reversal from the previous three seasons.[9] 
It was decided that both leagues would play 144 regular-season games, the 
first time both leagues would play the same number of games since the PL 
introduced its playoff system in 2004.[11] The two leagues agreed that 
neither regular-season champion should receive a one-game advantage in 
Stage 2 of the Climax Series, claiming that it was unnecessary from a business 
point of view.[12] This decision was overturned when each league awarded 
its champion a one-win advantage in Stage 2 starting with the 2008 Climax 
Series. At the same time, the series became a best-of-six series, where 
the first team to win four games advances to the Japan Series.[13] This 
format has drawn some criticism, with some players describing the rule 
as "unfair", "bull" and "messed up", but it is still in use.[3] Both leagues 
employ the same two-series playoff format, with the top three teams from 
each league participating in their own two-stage playoff. If two teams 
vying for a third Climax Series spot finish the regular season with identical 
records, the team that finished the previous season with a better record 
is allowed to advance to the playoffs, unless if both teams finished with 
the same previous season record. This contrasts with Major League Baseball 
(MLB), which employs a one-game playoff, or other professional leagues 
that may use head-to-head season records (and further tiebreakers such 
as non-interleague play records, second half records, et al.).[14] The 
first series, Stage 1, is a best-of-three series involving the regular 
season's second- and third-place finishers, with all games played at the 
second-place team's home field. The winner of this series goes on to face 
the league's pennant-winner in Stage 2. This series is best-of-six. The 
league champion is awarded a one-win advantage as well as home field advantage 
for the entire series, unlike most professional leagues where a 5-game 
playoff series runs 2-2-1 or 2-3 or a 7-game playoff series that runs 2-3-2 
with the higher seed receiving the extra game. The winning teams advance 
to the Japan Series, where they compete against one another. Unlike MLB, 
NPB games may end in a tie if there is no winner after 12 innings of play. 
If a Climax Series game results in a tie, the win is credited to neither 
team. If this causes the series to end in a tie, the team who finished 
higher in the regular-season standings advances, unless if both teams finished 
with the same regular-season record. If both teams finished with the same 
regular season record, the team who won the most matches against the other 
