A club (also known as a cudgel, baton, truncheon, cosh, nightstick, or 
bludgeon) is among the simplest of all weapons: a short staff or stick, 
usually made of wood, wielded as a weapon since prehistoric times. There 
are several examples of blunt-force trauma caused by clubs in the past, 
including at the site of Nataruk in Turkana, Kenya, described as the scene 
of a prehistoric conflict between bands of hunter-gatherers 10,000 years 
ago.[1] In popular culture, clubs are associated with primitive cultures, 
especially cavemen. Most clubs are small enough to be swung with one hand, 
although larger clubs may require the use of two to be effective. Various 
specialized clubs are used in martial arts and other fields, including 
the law-enforcement baton. The military mace is a more sophisticated descendant 
of the club, typically made of metal and featuring a spiked, knobbed or 
flanged head attached to a shaft. The wounds inflicted by a club are generally 
known as bludgeoning or blunt-force trauma injuries. Police forces and 
their predecessors have traditionally favored the use, whenever possible, 
of less-lethal weapons than guns or blades to impose public order or to 
subdue and arrest law-violators. Until recent times, when alternatives 
such as tasers and capsicum spray became available, this category of policing 
weapon has generally been filled by some form of wooden club variously 
termed a truncheon, baton, nightstick or lathi. Short, flexible clubs are 
also often used, especially by plainclothes officers who need to avoid 
notice. These are known colloquially as blackjacks, saps, or coshes. Conversely, 
criminals have been known to arm themselves with an array of homemade or 
improvised clubs, generally of easily concealable sizes, or which can be 
explained as being carried for legitimate purposes (such as baseball bats). 
In addition, Shaolin monks and members of other religious orders around 
the world have employed cudgels from time to time as defensive weapons. 
Though perhaps the simplest of all weapons, there are many varieties of 
club, including: Ball-headed War Club with Spike, Menominee (Native American),early 
19th century, Brooklyn Museum An iron jutte from Japan. Small Japanese 
Tetsubo, an iron club with a leather grip. Various assorted Shillelagh 
(club). Traditional Māori mere (weapon), made from pounamu (nephrite jade). 
