A clutch hitter is a baseball player with a knack for coming up with the 
"big" hit. The big hit is typically a game-deciding hit, sometimes a home 
run, often coming with two outs, although it can be any hit or play with 
a significant impact late in a game. However, a clutch hit could come as 
early as the first inning. Being known as a clutch hitter is a position 
of high honor and responsibility, as the clutch hitter is recognized as 
the "go-to guy" for the team, and his exploits in pressure situations are 
celebrated by both fans and players alike. Various baseball analysts, including 
Bill James, Pete Palmer, Dick Cramer, and the Baseball Prospectus editors, 
have found so-called "clutch hitting" ability to be a myth. This is not 
to say that clutch hits, like those listed above, do not exist, but rather 
that some kind of innate ability for a player to perform above his true 
talent level in high-pressure situations is nothing but an illusion. In 
his 1984 Baseball Abstract, James framed the problem with clutch hitting 
this way: "How is it that a player who possesses the reflexes and the batting 
stroke and the knowledge and the experience to be a .262 hitter in other 
circumstances magically becomes a .300 hitter when the game is on the line? 
How does that happen? What is the process? What are the effects? Until 
we can answer those questions, I see little point in talking about clutch 
ability." Most studies on the matter involved comparing performance in 
the "clutch" category of statistics (production with runners in scoring 
position, performance late in close games, etc.) between seasons; if clutch 
hitting were an actual skill, it would follow that the same players would 
do well in the clutch statistics year in and year out (the correlation 
coefficient between players' performances over multiple seasons would be 
high). Cramer's study was the first of its kind, and it found that clutch 
hitting numbers between seasons for the same player varied wildly; in fact, 
the variance was the kind one would expect if the numbers had been selected 
randomly. Since Cramer published his results, many others have tried to 
find some evidence that clutch hitting is a skill, but almost every study 
has confirmed Cramer's initial findings: that "clutch hitting," in terms 
of certain players being able to "rise to the occasion" under pressure, 
is an illusion. Despite the evidence, though, most people in baseball steadfastly 
cling to the idea of the clutch hitter. "You can take those stat guys," 
Derek Jeter once told Sports Illustrated after SI informed the Yankees 
shortstop that many analysts deny clutch hitting as a skill, "and throw 
them out the window." While many do not believe clutch hitting actually 
exists, supporters of it cite Jeter's teammate, Alex Rodriguez's (A-Rod) 
perceived struggles in clutch situations as proof that even great statistical 
hitters like A-Rod (who was the 2003, 2005, and 2007 AL MVP) are different 
players in the clutch. Jeter is perhaps a prime example of the difference 
between perception and reality when it comes to "clutch hitting." Widely 
considered a "clutch player," Jeter's career BA/OBP/SLG (through the end 
of the 2007 season) numbers are .317/.388/.462, while his playoff numbers 
are in fact marginally worse at .309/.377/.469. Teammate Bernie Williams 
had equal or better numbers to Jeter in the time they played together but 
it is Jeter who is deemed 'clutch'. Jeter's home run to win Game 4 of the 
2001 World Series helped earn him the nickname "Mr. November," but his 
offensive numbers for the series were very poor .148/.179/.259. (It is 
notable that few of the Yankees were able to produce at their normal level 
in this series, in part due to Arizona's pitching, which included the co- 
World Series MVP's of Randy Johnson and Curt Schilling. The New York Yankees 
ultimately went on to lose the series in seven games.) The problem with 
clutch hitting is that some people interpret it as always getting that 
big hit in a critical situation, while the reality is that it is unreasonable 
to think a player can get a hit each time out. To many, being "clutch" 
is being able to handle the pressure and getting that game tying/go ahead/ 
or winning hit. No one remembers a poor batting average in a series where 
a player hits a game-winning home run. The fact that a player shows improved 
statistics in "clutch" situations is also not proof that clutch hitting 
exists, because random statistical variations can produce such occurrences. 
For example, using the binomial probability distribution, one can calculate 
that there is about a 4.8% chance that a .300 hitter will bat .500 or better 
in 20 at-bats, based merely on random chance. This is analogous to the 
fact that there is always some nonzero probability that a fair coin will 
produce a surprising amount of consecutive flips, e.g. there is a chance 
that one will get 20 straight flips of "tails", without attributing any 
"clutch" characteristics to the coin. Given the great number of players 
who have played the game, players who have average career statistics but 
seemingly exceptional statistics in certain situations (e.g. the playoffs 
or with the bases loaded) are expected without providing proof that "clutch 
hitting" skills exist. Conversely, the perceived struggles of Alex Rodriguez 
are easily explained as a statistical anomaly. Rodriguez is a career .306 
hitter in the regular season with 41 hits in 147 post-season at bats (.279). 
Based on a binomial probability distribution, one can calculate that there 
is a 26.9% chance that a career .306 hitter like Rodriguez would have 41 
or fewer hits in 147 post-season at-bats. While this does not prove that 
Rodriguez is exactly the same player in the post-season that he is in the 
regular season, the statistical arguments that say otherwise are not particularly 
strong. In addition, the cause of "clutch" situations must be considered. 
For example, if a player hits better with the bases loaded, it may be in 
part because the bases are only loaded because the other team's pitcher 
is not pitching well at that time, thus giving the batter a better-than-average 
chance for a hit in the first place. Furthermore, a pitcher may pitch differently 
with runners on (from "the stretch" rather than a full wind-up pitching 
motion), resulting in a strategic advantage for a batter. This is not to 
say that it is impossible for a player's mental state to have some impact, 
either positively or negatively, on their performance—e.g. confidence leading 
to "clutch hits" or a lack of confidence leading to "choking". However, 
there is little-to-no statistical evidence that shows this to be common, 
favoring the idea that any such impact is frequently overstated and most 
"clutch hits" are simply cases where success occurred at fortunate moments, 
and players perceived as "clutch" are simply players who have been lucky 
