Clyde Leroy Sukeforth (November 30, 1901 – September 3, 2000), nicknamed 
"Sukey", was a Major League Baseball (MLB) catcher, coach, scout and manager. 
He was best known for signing the first black MLB player in the modern 
era, Jackie Robinson, after Robinson was scouted by Tom Greenwade in the 
Negro leagues. Sukeforth was born in Washington, Maine.[1] After two years 
at Georgetown University, followed by a year in the New England League 
with the Nashua Millionaires and the Manchester Blue Sox, he was signed 
by the Cincinnati Reds as a catcher in 1926. His best year was 1929 when 
he batted .354. Two years later he lost partial sight of his right eye 
from being hit by a shotgun pellet while bird hunting on November 16.[2] 
He continued to play, but not as well, and in 1932 was traded to the Brooklyn 
Dodgers. Sukeforth, who batted left-handed and threw right-handed, appeared 
in 486 games over all or parts of ten big-league seasons (1926–34 and 1945 
as a fill-in-during the World War II manpower shortage), compiling a batting 
average of .264 with two home runs and 96 runs batted in. Sukeforth managed 
in the Brooklyn farm system from 1937–42 with the Clinton Owls of the Class 
B Three-I League, the Elmira Pioneers of the Class A Eastern League and 
the Montreal Royals of the AA International League before his promotion 
to the Dodger coaching staff in 1943. In late August 1945, Sukeforth was 
the only other person in the room when Dodger president Branch Rickey told 
Robinson of his plans to sign him to a contract to play in Montreal in 
1946. He had been sent by Rickey to Chicago, where Robinson's team, the 
Kansas City Monarchs of the Negro Leagues, was slated to play the Chicago 
American Giants, with the instruction to urge Robinson to come back with 
him to Brooklyn for a meeting with Rickey and the Dodgers. Sukeforth was 
officially listed as a coach on Brooklyn's major league staff at the time, 
but also performed scouting duties for the club. In addition to serving 
on Leo Durocher's coaching staff and his scouting assignments for Dodgers 
president Rickey, he worked behind the scenes in 1946 to help create the 
new Nashua Dodgers of the Class B New England League. Sukeforth helped 
the Nashua team forge ties with the New Hampshire community, easing the 
racial integration of the league when Roy Campanella and Don Newcombe were 
assigned to that club. Sukeforth managed the Dodgers for the first two 
games of the 1947 regular season, replacing Durocher, who a week earlier 
had been suspended for the season by National League president Happy Chandler 
because of "conduct detrimental to baseball." In the process, he managed 
Robinson's first major league game. But Sukeforth and a fellow coach, Ray 
Blades, both turned down the opportunity to serve as acting manager for 
the rest of the season; ultimately, Brooklyn scout and longtime Rickey 
associate Burt Shotton assumed that role, and Shotton led the Dodgers to 
the 1947 National League pennant. In 1951, when Dodger manager Chuck Dressen 
needed a reliever to face the New York Giants' Bobby Thomson in the ninth 
inning of the decisive third game of the National League pennant playoff, 
Sukeforth, coaching in the Dodger bullpen, passed over Carl Erskine and 
sent in Ralph Branca, who gave up Thomson's "shot heard 'round the world". 
Sukeforth resigned as a Dodgers coach,[3] then a few days later signed 
to be a coach with the Pittsburgh Pirates,[4] where Rickey was executive 
vice president and general manager, in 1952. There, as a coach and occasional 
scout, he played a role in the drafting of Roberto Clemente from the Brooklyn 
organization in the 1954 Rule 5 draft. Once again passing up a Major League 
managing assignment after turning down the chance to succeed Pirate skipper 
Bobby Bragan[5] on August 3, 1957, Sukeforth retired as a coach at the 
end of the 1957 season.[6] Sukeforth remained in the Pirates organization 
as a scout and occasional minor league manager through 1965. He then worked 
as a scout for the Atlanta Braves. Sukeforth died at the age of ninety-eight 
at his home in Waldoboro, Maine.[7] In 42, the 2013 theatrical sports film 
about Robinson's breaking of the baseball color line, Sukeforth — played 
by actor Toby Huss — is portrayed as meeting Robinson at a rural filling 
station where the Monarchs' team bus had stopped (rather than the actual 
locale, Comiskey Park in Chicago), and urging Robinson to travel with him 
to Brooklyn for his meeting with Rickey. Another scene has Huss/Sukeforth 
(hitting fungos right-handed) teaching Robinson how to play first base, 
an unfamiliar position for the shortstop and second baseman, but the one 
Robinson played as a rookie in 1947. In addition, the on-screen Sukeforth, 
wearing uniform #40, is shown in one of the film's last scenes as the Dodgers' 
third base coach who congratulates Robinson on hitting a dramatic home 
