Co-op City (short for Cooperative City), located in the Baychester section 
of the borough of the Bronx in northeast New York City, is the largest 
cooperative housing development in the world.[4] Situated at the intersection 
of Interstate 95 and the Hutchinson River Parkway, the community is part 
of Bronx Community Board 10. If it were a distinct municipality, it would 
be the 10th largest city in New York State. Nearby attractions include 
Pelham Bay Park, Orchard Beach and City Island. The community's Zip code 
is 10475. Originally a swamp, the site was formerly the home of a 205-acre 
amusement park named Freedomland that operated from July 1960[5][6] to 
September 1964.[7] Construction on Co-op City began in May 1966.[8] Residents 
began moving in during December 1968,[9] and construction was completed 
in 1973. Its 15,372 residential units, in 35 high rise buildings and seven 
clusters of townhouses, make it the largest single residential development 
in the United States.[10] It sits on 320 acres (1.3 km2) but only 20% of 
the land was developed, leaving many green spaces. The apartment buildings, 
referred to by number, range from 24 floors to as high as 33. There are 
four types of buildings; Triple Core, Chevron, Tower and Town House. The 
236 townhouses, referred to by their street-name cluster, are three stories 
high and have a separate garden apartment and upper duplex three-bedroom 
apartment. Co-op City is divided into five sections. Sections one to four 
are connected and section five is separated from the main area by the Hutchinson 
River Parkway. Each street in a section is denoted by a letter of the alphabet. 
All streets in section one begin with the letter "D", section two begins 
with the letter "C", section three with the letter "A", section four with 
the letter "B" and section five with the letter "E". Most streets in the 
community are named after notable historical personalities such as Earhart 
Lane for Amelia Earhart, Einstein Loop for Albert Einstein, Casals Place 
for Pablo Casals and Dreiser Loop for Theodore Dreiser. This "city within 
a city" also has eight parking garages, three shopping centers, a 25-acre 
(100,000 m2) educational park, including a high school, two middle schools 
and three grade schools (the high school, Harry S. Truman High School, 
is unusual for having a planetarium on the premises), power plant, a 4-story 
air conditioning generator and a firehouse. More than 40 offices within 
the development are rented by doctors, lawyers, and other professionals 
and there are at least 15 houses of worship. Spread throughout the community 
are six nursery schools and day care centers, four basketball courts and 
five baseball diamonds. The adjacent Bay Plaza Shopping Center has a 13-screen 
multiplex movie theater, department stores, and a supermarket. The development 
was built on landfill; the original marshland still surrounds it. The building 
foundations extend down to bedrock through 50,000 pilings,[11] but the 
land surrounding Co-op's structures settles and sinks a fraction of an 
inch each year, creating cracks in sidewalks and entrances to buildings.[12] 
Co-op City is on the site of Freedomland, a former amusement park which 
closed in 1964.[13] Prior to housing that theme park, the land north of 
the Hutchinson River Parkway was a large area known by residents as "the 
dump". By the '50s, most of the land on the north side of the Hutchinson 
River was flat land used for recreation; for example, model airplane flying 
meets were held there. It was possible to drive up to the Hutchinson River 
and walk along several paths through the reeds and swim in the Hutchinson 
River. The land to the south of the Hutchinson River (Section 5 of Co-op 
City) was unspoiled swamp land from the '50s up through the time Co-op 
City was constructed. A tidal estuary reached from the Hutchinson River 
at the New Haven Railroad along a route just north of Hunter and Boller 
Avenue to pass under the Hutchinson River parkway. The estuary was the 
site of boat yards and canoe rental sites during the 1950s. A well known 
restaurant at that site was Gus's Barge, operated by Gus and Francis Erickson. 
Gus's Barge was a restaurant and a night club featuring jazz combos and 
other forms of live music. The Ericksons also operated a boat yard that 
not only rented slips but specialized in refurbishing wooden boats, primarily 
motor boats made from teak and mahogany. The Ericksons sold their property 
in 1961–62. The project was sponsored and built by the United Housing Foundation, 
an organization established in 1951 by Abraham Kazan and the Amalgamated 
Clothing Workers of America. It was designed by cooperative architect Herman 
J. Jessor. The name of the complex's corporation itself was later changed 
to RiverBay at Co-op City. The construction of the community was financed 
with a mortgage loan from New York State's Housing Finance Agency (HFA). 
The complex defaulted on the loan in 1975 and has had ongoing agreements 
to pay back HFA, until 2004 when it was financially unable to continue 
payments due to the huge costs of emergency repairs. New York Community 
Bank helped RiverBay satisfy its $57 million mortgage obligation, except 
for $95 million in arrears, by refinancing the loan later that same year. 
This led to the agreement that Co-op City would remain in the Mitchell-Lama 
Housing Program for at least seven more years as a concession on the arrears 
and that any rehabilitation that Co-op City took on to improve the original 
poor construction (which happened under the State's watch) would earn credit 
toward eliminating the debt. By 2008, RiverBay had submitted enough proof 
of construction repairs to pay off the balance of arrears to New York State. 
Mismanagement, shoddy construction and corruption led to the community 
defaulting on its loan in 1975. The original Kazan board resigned and the 
state took over control. Cooperators were faced with a 25 percent increase 
in their monthly maintenance fees. Instead, a rent-strike was organized. 
New York State threatened to foreclose on the property, and evict the tenants 
— which would mean the loss of their equity. But Cooperators stayed united 
and held out for 13 months (the longest and largest rent-strike in United 
States history) before a compromise was finally reached, with mediation 
from then Bronx Borough President, Robert Abrams, and then Secretary of 
State, Mario Cuomo. Cooperators would remit $20 million in back pay, but 
they would get to take over management of the complex and set their own 
fees.[14] The shares of stock that prospective purchasers bought to enable 
them to occupy Co-op City apartments became the subject of protracted litigation 
culminating in a United States Supreme Court decision United Housing Foundation, 
Inc. v. Forman, 421 U.S. 837 (1975). Within the first decade of the 2000s, 
the aging development began undergoing a complex-wide $240 million renovation, 
replacing piping and garbage compactors, rehabilitating garages and roofs, 
upgrading the power plant, making facade and terrace repairs, switching 
to energy-efficient lighting and water-conserving technologies, replacing 
all 130,000 windows and 4,000 terrace doors (costing $57.9 million in material 
and labor) and all 179 elevators. The word "renaissance" is being used 
to describe this period in Co-op City history. Many of these efforts are 
also helping in the "greening" of the complex: the power-plant will be 
less polluting, the buildings will be more efficient and recycling efforts 
will become more extensive. The New York State Energy Research and Development 
Authority (NYSERDA) awarded its largest ever grant—$5.2 million—to the 
community under its NY Energy $mart Assisted Multifamily Program. In 2003, 
after a partial collapse in one garage, inspectors found 5 of the 8 garages 
to be unsafe and ordered them closed for extensive repairs. The other 3 
garages were able to remain partially open during repairs. To deal with 
the parking crisis, New York City allowed angled parking in the community, 
the large greenways in the complex were paved over to make outdoor parking 
lots and agreements were made with nearby shopping centers to use their 
extra parking spaces. January 2008 was the first time in over 4 1⁄2 years 
that all the garages were back open. The greenways are in the process of 
being restored. Financial responsibility for these upgrades was the subject 
of a protracted dispute between RiverBay and the State of New York.[15] 
Co-op City was developed under New York's Mitchell-Lama Program, which 
subsidizes affordable housing. RiverBay charged that the state should help 
with the costs because of severe infrastructure failures stemming from 
the development's original shoddy construction, which occurred under the 
supervision of the state. The state countered that RiverBay was responsible 
for the costs because of its lack of maintenance over the years. In the 
end, a compromise had the state supplying money and RiverBay refinancing 
the mortgage, borrowing $480 million from New York Community Bank in 2004, 
to cover the rest of the capital costs.[16] In 2007, the power plant was 
in the process of upgrading from solely managing the electricity brought 
in from Con Edison to a 40-megawatt tri-generation facility with the ability 
to use oil, gas or steam (depending on market conditions) to power turbines 
to produce its own energy. The final cost of this energy independence could 
be as much as $90 million, but it is hoped to pay for itself with the savings 
earned—with conservative estimates at $18 million annually—within several 
years. Also, whatever excess power generated after satisfying the community's 
needs will be sold back to the electrical grid, adding another source of 
income for RiverBay. In September 2007, a report by the New York Inspector 
General, Kristine Hamann, charged that the Division of Housing and Community 
Renewal (DHCR), which is responsible for overseeing Mitchel-Lama developments, 
was negligent in its duties to supervise the contracting, financial reporting, 
budgeting and the enforcement of regulations in Co-op City (and other M-L 
participants) during the period of January 2003 to October 2006. The report 
also chided Marion Scott management for trying to influence the RiverBay 
Board by financing election candidates and providing jobs and sports tickets 
to Board members and their family/friends—all violations of DHCR and/or 
RiverBay regulations. The DHCR was instructed to overhaul its system of 
oversight to better protect the residents and taxpayer money.[17] In October 
2007, a former board president, Iris Herskowitz Baez, and a former painting 
contractor, Nickhoulas Vitale, pleaded guilty to involvement in a kickback 
scheme. While on the RiverBay Board, Baez steered $3.5 million in subsidized 
painting contracts for needed work in Co-op City apartments, to Vitale's 
company, Stadium Interior Painting, in exchange for $100,000 in taxpayer 
money.[18] Ms. Herskowitz Baez was sentenced to 6 months in jail, 12 months 
probation and given a $10,000 fine in March 2008.[19] RiverBay Corporation 
is the corporation that operates the community and is led by a 15-member 
board of directors. As a cooperative development, the tenants run the complex 
through this elected board. There is no pay for serving on the board. The 
corporation employs over 1000 people and has 32 administrative and operational 
departments to serve the development. The complex has its own Public Safety 
Department with more than 100 sworn officers, which include field patrol, 
plainclothes detectives and EMT/AED certified members of the force. All 
members have also attained peace officer status by NY State because of 
their special training. In December 2007, the cable television company 
Cablevision gave RiverBay permission to use its fiber optic cables in order 
to install additional surveillance cameras throughout the complex to be 
viewed at the Public Safety Command Center. In 2008, trained supervisors 
were granted the power to write summonses for parking and noise violations 
and Segways were acquired–along with bikes–to help the officers patrol 
during the warmer months. Co-op City was managed by Marion Scott Real Estate, 
Inc. from October 1999 to November 2014. Before then the property was run 
by in-house general managers. The development is currently managed by in-house 
General Managers. There are two weekly newspapers serving the community: 
Co-op City Times (the official RiverBay paper) and City News. As of November 
2007 those who wish to move into Co-op City must meet the following requirements: 
Sales prices: Income requirement: Monthly maintenance: The Co-op City Department 
of Public Safety, a private public safety force, enforces state and city 
laws on Co-op City property in order to protect them. The Co-op City Department 
of Public Safety currently employs more than 100 Public Safety officers 
and 10 civilian employees.[21][22][23] Based on data from the 2010 United 
States Census, the population of Co-Op City was 43,752, an increase of 
3,076 (7.6%) from the 40,676 counted in 2000. Covering an area of 857.55 
acres (347.04 ha), the neighborhood had a population density of 51.0 inhabitants 
per acre (32,600/sq mi; 12,600/km2).[2] The racial makeup of the neighborhood 
was 8.5% (3,723) White, 60.5% (26,452) African American, 0.2% (108) Native 
American, 1.2% (522) Asian, 0.0% (7) Pacific Islander, 0.3% (125) from 
other races, and 1.6% (681) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino 
of any race were 27.7% (12,134) of the population.[3] Because of its large 
senior citizen block—well over 8,300 residents above the age of sixty as 
of 2007[24]—it is considered the largest naturally occurring retirement 
community (NORC) in the nation and its Senior Services Program has extensive 
outreach to help its aging residents, most of whom moved in as workers 
and remained after retiring.[25] Co-op City was home to a large Jewish 
community during its early years, as well as Italian Americans and Irish 
Americans; many of them had relocated from other areas of the Bronx, such 
as the Grand Concourse. With African Americans making up a large minority, 
the community became known for its ethnic diversity. As early tenants grew 
older and moved away, the newer residents reflected the current population 
of the Bronx, with African American and Hispanic residents comprising the 
majority of residents by 1987.[26] In the 1990s, after the fall of the 
Soviet Union, the neighborhood received an influx of former Eastern Bloc 
émigrés, especially from Russia and Albania.[27] Co-op City is served by 
New York City Bus routes Bx5, Bx12, Bx26, Bx28, Bx29, Bx30, and MTA Bus 
routes Bx23, Q50, BxM7.[28] These local city buses, with the exception 
of the BxM7 which is an express bus to Manhattan, connects Co-op City with 
subway services. While there are no subway or commuter rail stations in 
Co-op City (a plan to extend the 6 <6> trains of the IRT Pelham Line to 
Co-op City in the 1970s ran out of money[29][30]), the MTA is planning 
to extend Metro-North Railroad service to Penn Station, and included in 
that plan is a station at Co-op City, an idea that has been proposed since 
