The Coal Region is a historically important coal-mining area in Northeastern 
Pennsylvania in the central Appalachian Mountains, comprising Lackawanna, 
Luzerne, Columbia, Carbon, Schuylkill, Northumberland, and the extreme 
northeast corner of Dauphin counties. Academics have made the distinction 
North Anthracite Coal Field and South Anthracite Coal Field (each of Pennsylvania),[1] 
the lower region bearing the further classification Anthracite Uplands[2] 
in physical geology. The region's combined population was 890,121 people 
as of the 2010 census. Many of the place names in the region are from the 
Delaware Indians (the self-named Lenape peoples) and the powerful Susquehannock 
nation, an Iroquoian people who dominated the Susquehanna valley in the 
16th and 17th century when Dutch, Swedish and French migrants were exploring 
North America and founding settlements along the Atlantic Seaboard. The 
Coal region or Pennsylvania Anthracite region or fields is home to the 
largest known deposits of anthracite coal found in the Americas, with an 
estimated reserve of seven billion short tons.[3] It is these deposits 
that provide the region with its nickname. The discovery of anthracite 
coal was first made in the Schuylkill County by a hunter in 1791, 16 years 
after the North Field saw its first mine. The Region lies north of the 
Lehigh Valley and Berks County Regions, south of the Endless Mountains, 
west of the Pocono Mountains, and east of the region known in Pennsylvania 
as the Susquehanna Valley. The Region lies at the northern edge of the 
Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians, and draws its name from the vast deposits 
of anthracite coal that can be found under several of the valleys in the 
region. The Wyoming Valley is the most densely populated of these valleys, 
and contains the cities of Wilkes-Barre and Scranton. Hazleton and Pottsville 
are two of the larger cities in the southern portion of the region. The 
Lehigh and Schuylkill Rivers both originate within the region, while the 
much larger Susquehanna River skirts the northern edge. The population 
of the Amerindian tribesmen of the Susquehannock nation was reduced 90 
percent[4] in three years of a plague of diseases and possibly war,[4] 
opening up the Susquehanna Valley and all of Pennsylvania to settlement 
as the tribe was all but eliminated, the survivors adopted[4] into a quasi-enemy 
but related Iroquois by formal treaty in 1870.[4] Settlement in the region 
predates the American Revolution: both Delaware and Susquehannock power 
had been broken by disease and Indian-on-Indian warfare before the British 
took over the Dutch and Swedish colonies and settled Pennsylvania. The 
first discovery of the anthracite coal occurred in 1762, and the first 
mine was established in 1775 near Pittston, Pennsylvania.[5] In 1791 Anthracite 
was discovered by a hunter atop Pisgah Ridge, and by 1792 the Lehigh Coal 
Mining Company began producing and shipping coal to Philadelphia via Mauch 
Chunk from the Southern Anthracite Field and Summit Hill, Pennsylvania 
built atop the line between Schuylkill County and what would be renamed 
Carbon County. By 1818, customers fed up with the inconsistent mismanagement, 
leased the Lehigh Coal Mining Company and founded the Lehigh Navigation 
Company: construction soon began for navigation; the locks and dams on 
the Lehigh River rapids stretches, later known as the Lehigh Canal (finished 
in 1820). In 1822, the two companies merged as the Lehigh Coal & Navigation 
Company (LC&N) and by 1824 were turning heads with the volume of coal shipped 
down the Lehigh and Delaware Canals. Meanwhile, three brothers had similar 
ideas from near the turn of the century, and about the same time began 
mining coal in Carbondale, 15 miles (24.1 km) northeast of Scranton, but 
high enough to run a gravity railroad to the Delaware River and feed New 
York City via the Delaware and Hudson Canal. Pennsylvania began the Delaware 
Canal to connect the Lehigh Canal to Philladelphia and environs, while 
funding to build a canal across the Appalachians' Allegheny Mountains to 
Pittsburgh. In 1827, LC&N built the second railroad in the country, a gravity 
railroad from Mauch Chunk Switchback Railway, running Summit Hill to Mauch 
Chunk. Population rapidly grew in the period following the American Civil 
War, with the expansion of the mining and railroad industries. English, 
Welsh, Irish and German immigrants formed a large portion of this increase, 
followed by Polish, Slovak, Ruthenian, Ukrainian, Hungarian, Italian, Russian, 
Jewish,[6] and Lithuanian immigrants. The influence of these immigrant 
populations is still strongly felt in the region, with various towns possessing 
pronounced ethnic characters and cuisine. The anthracite mining industry 
loomed over the region until its decline in the 1950s. Strip mines and 
fires, most notably in Centralia remain visible. Several violent incidences 
in the history of the U.S. labor movement occurred within the coal region 
as this was the location of the Lattimer Massacre and the home of the Molly 
Maguires. The Knox Mine Disaster in 1959 served as the death knell for 
deep mining which faded away in the mid 1960s; almost all current anthracite 
mining is done via strip mining. Tours of underground mines can be taken 
in Ashland, Scranton, and Lansford, each of them also having museums dedicated 
to the mining industry. Also evident are patch towns, small villages affiliated 
with a particular mine. These towns were owned by the mining company. Though 
no longer company owned, many hamlets survive; one of them, the Eckley 
Miners' Village, is a museum and preserved historical town owned and administered 
by the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, which seeks to restore 
