Coca-Cola Park is an 8,278-seat baseball park in Allentown, Pennsylvania, 
in the Lehigh Valley region of Pennsylvania. It is the home field for the 
Lehigh Valley IronPigs, the Triple-A level minor league baseball affiliate 
of the Philadelphia Phillies. Coca-Cola Park accommodates 10,178 fans, 
including auxiliary areas (Capital BlueCross Lawn, Dugout Suites and Red 
Robin Tiki Terrace), and cost $50.25 million to build.[2] Naming rights 
to the stadium were awarded to Coca-Cola Bottling Co. of the Lehigh Valley 
on March 7, 2007.[6] The stadium features the Majestic Clubhouse, which 
houses all team apparel. The Bud Light Trough is an area immediately behind 
the right field wall that provides patrons the opportunity to stand and 
socialize game. The "pig" theme is used in the majority of concession stands 
and stores. The PPL Picnic Patio is an area immediately adjacent to left 
field that features buffet style food and can be booked for group outings. 
The club level of the stadium features an indoor concourse with access 
to the club level seats, the suites and the two PenTeleData Party Porches. 
The VIP Dugout Suites are situated immediately behind home plate and provide 
a unique viewing experience. The Red Robin KidsZone features a free playground 
area. In addition, kids can take advantage of a number of games, including 
speed pitch, slides and more. In 2012, the park added the Red Robin Tiki 
Terrace in Left Field over the bullpens which features large group seating, 
tables for four, and a bar area accessible to all ticketed fans.[7] The 
stadium maximum capacity is 10,178 (8,278 seats plus seating for 1,900 
on the grass berm in center field). There is one main scoreboard which 
is located at the 400' mark on the field. The scoreboard consists of a 
20' x 50' high definition video board, a 76' x 4' LED ribbon board, as 
well as the park's iconic classic Coca-Cola bottle which also serves as 
a firework launcher when a run is scored.[8] Coca-Cola Park has a wide 
variety of seating including a grass berm, picnic benches, fold-down seats, 
and standing room. The initial estimate of the IronPigs stadium was $48.4 
million. Its final price tag of $50.25 million, just 4 percent over the 
estimate, makes the minor league field one of the most expensive in the 
U.S.[2] Groundbreaking ceremonies for the new ballpark were held on September 
6, 2006,[9] and construction was completed in February 2008. Coca-Cola 
Park was built on land formerly owned by LSI Corporation.[10] The field 
dimensions and wall heights are the same as Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, 
except left field is six feet closer (323 feet, with the addition of the 
new "Pig Pen" seating section in 2015, to the foul pole compared to 329), 
center field is one foot shorter and the right field foul pole is five 
feet closer (325 feet in Allentown compared to 330 feet at Citizens Bank 
Park).[11] With its completion, Coca-Cola Park is Allentown's newest stadium, 
but it is not the city's largest. That distinction belongs to J. Birney 
Crum Stadium, which has a seating capacity in excess of 15,000,[12] and 
is the second largest outdoor high school stadium in Pennsylvania.[citation 
needed] The layout of Coca-Cola Park is slightly different from most ballparks, 
as the main entrance is located on the right field line rather than the 
common location behind home plate. Fans with club seating tickets, however, 
do have a designated entrance behind home plate. A surprising moment of 
the park's opening season came on July 2, 2008, when musician John Mayer 
attended a Lehigh Valley IronPigs game and caught a foul ball. Mayer had 
kept a low profile until the television cameras spotted him with the ball. 
Mayer eventually autographed the ball, which now sits in the Majestic Clubhouse 
Store. The park hosted its first major non-sporting event on July 14, 2009, 
with a concert headlined by Bob Dylan, Willie Nelson and John Mellencamp. 
More than 10,000 people attended the five-hour show, which was sold out. 
Following the event's success, Coca-Cola Park management indicated there 
was a good possibility other concerts would be held at the park in the 
future.[13] Tickets for seats at Coca-Cola Park are much less expensive 
than those at major league ballparks. The stadium is located on the east 
side of Allentown, near two buildings owned by LSI Corporation. The eastern 
segment of American Parkway provides access to the main entrance to the 
stadium. U.S. Route 22, one of the primary thoroughfares in the Lehigh 
Valley, serves outside visitors. Union Boulevard and Airport Road serve 
as local arterials to the stadium.[15][16] Parking is available via several 
