Covelli Loyce "Coco" Crisp[1] (born November 1, 1979) is an American professional 
baseball outfielder who is currently a free agent. Crisp is a switch-hitter 
and throws right-handed. He has played for the Cleveland Indians, Boston 
Red Sox, Kansas City Royals, and Oakland Athletics of Major League Baseball. 
While primarily a center fielder throughout his career, Crisp also played 
left field for the Athletics and during his second stint with the Indians. 
Crisp was born in Los Angeles on November 1, 1979. He is the son of Loyce 
Crisp, a fast food restaurant owner and former amateur boxer, and Pamela 
Crisp, a former champion sprinter.[2] He is a graduate of Major League 
Baseball's Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities Program.[3] He played on the 
1995 Senior Division RBI World Series champions from Los Angeles. Crisp 
was originally nicknamed "Coco" by his sister and brother who teased him 
that he looked like one of the characters on the Cocoa Krispies cereal 
box. The nickname was short-lived, until he started playing AA baseball 
when the team had all the players fill out a questionnaire to get to know 
one another. Covelli listed "Coco" as his nickname on the form and his 
teammates thought the name was funny so they had it put on the scoreboard 
during the game. He was traded to another team after a week and a half, 
but the nickname stuck and he has been "Coco Crisp" ever since. He officially 
changed his name on March 5, 2013.[4] The St. Louis Cardinals selected 
Crisp in the seventh round of the 1999 MLB Draft. In his minor league career, 
Crisp played for Cardinals affiliates in four different leagues from 1999 
to 2001. He opened the 2002 season with the New Haven Ravens, then the 
Double-A Eastern League affiliate of the Cardinals. He was traded to the 
Cleveland Indians on August 7, 2002, to complete an earlier trade for pitcher 
Chuck Finley. In the Indians organization, he played for their Double-A 
affiliate, the Akron Aeros, and their Triple-A affiliate, the Buffalo Bisons. 
Crisp had 69 hits, one home run, and 24 RBI before being called up by the 
Indians. Crisp never had any major league experience with the Cardinals. 
Crisp became the starting center fielder with the Indians in mid-2002, 
replacing the injured Matt Lawton. For the next few seasons, Crisp established 
a reputation as an excellent fielder and speedy baserunner. Despite his 
success, Crisp had to fight for his roster spot each spring. In 2005, Crisp 
moved to left field following the emergence of another young outfielder, 
Grady Sizemore. In his final two seasons with the Indians, Crisp showcased 
his offensive talent by batting .297 and .300 with 31 total home runs and 
35 steals. After Johnny Damon signed with the New York Yankees, the Red 
Sox sought Crisp to fill Damon's role as both leadoff hitter and in center 
field. In January 2006, the Red Sox sent prospect third baseman Andy Marte, 
pitcher Guillermo Mota, catcher Kelly Shoppach, a player to be named later 
(Minor Leaguer Randy Newsom), and cash considerations to the Indians for 
Crisp, catcher Josh Bard and pitcher David Riske.[citation needed][5] Crisp 
signed a three-year contract extension worth $15.5 million.[citation needed][6] 
Crisp broke his left index finger attempting to steal third base and spent 
the next 42 games on the disabled list. After returning to the Red Sox 
outfield on May 28, Kevin Youkilis had taken over the leadoff spot, and 
Crisp usually batted 7th or 8th in the line-up for the rest of the year. 
In 105 games, he had a .264 batting average with 8 home runs and 36 RBI. 
Besides his injury, Crisp's 2006 season may be best remembered for a fantastic 
catch against the New York Mets on June 29. Crisp began the 2007 season 
struggling offensively. On April 20, 2007, Crisp fell over a short wall 
at Fenway Park while trying to catch a home run by Alex Rodriguez. Although 
he was unable to make the catch, missing by inches, he hit a game-tying 
triple off Mariano Rivera in the bottom of the eighth, then scored the 
go-ahead run on Alex Cora's soft line drive single. The Red Sox went on 
to win 7–6. During this season, he made numerous impressive catches in 
the outfield. It has even been claimed by one major league club that Crisp 
is easily the best defensive center fielder in all of Major League Baseball.[7] 
Although he struggled at the plate throughout much of the season, between 
June 13 and July 23, Crisp raised his batting average from .221 to .284, 
a .402 average during that span. On June 18, entering the game with only 
two home runs in the season, Crisp belted two homers in the first multi-HR 
game of his career in a 9–4 loss to the Atlanta Braves. On August 5, Crisp 
was almost run over by the Seattle Mariners' mascot, the Mariner Moose. 
The Moose, driving a lap around Safeco Field's warning track on an ATV, 
nearly collided with Crisp as he was leaving the dugout for his position 
in the middle of the fifth inning; Crisp had to jump out of the way to 
avoid being hit. Red Sox pitching coach John Farrell was incensed by the 
mascot's actions and voiced his displeasure to both the mascot and Seattle's 
head groundskeeper. Immediately following the incident, the Red Sox received 
an apology from Mariners GM Bill Bavasi.[8] On October 21, in Game 7 of 
the American League Championship Series, Crisp made the catch that sent 
Boston to their second World Series in four seasons. He hit the wall shortly 
after making the catch, minorly injuring himself in the process. Despite 
this, he was well enough to play in the World Series. Although he was the 
team's starting center fielder throughout the 2007 season, he was benched 
mid-series during the ALCS for rookie Jacoby Ellsbury. He remained benched 
for the 2007 World Series, only appearing late in games for defensive substitutions. 
On June 4, Crisp was the center of controversy in a game against the Tampa 
Bay Rays. While Crisp was trying to steal second base in the bottom of 
the sixth inning, Rays shortstop Jason Bartlett placed his knee in front 
of the bag in an attempt to prevent Crisp from stealing the base.[9] Crisp 
stole the base, but was not happy with this. On base again in the bottom 
of the eighth inning, he attempted another steal, this time taking out 
second baseman Akinori Iwamura on a hard slide. His slide was controversial 
and catalyzed the "payback pitch" the following game. During a pitching 
change in that inning, Rays manager Joe Maddon and Crisp argued, with Crisp 
in the dugout and Maddon on the pitching mound. After the game, Crisp said 
that he thought it was Bartlett in the play in the eighth inning, not Iwamura. 
Crisp described Bartlett's knee in front of the bag as a "shady" play.[10] 
The very next game, in Crisp's first at bat in the bottom of the second, 
leading off the inning with the Sox up 3–1, Rays starter James Shields 
hit him on the thigh on the second pitch. Crisp charged the mound and first 
dodged a punch from Shields, and then threw a punch at Shields but also 
missed, which set off a bench-clearing brawl. Crisp, Jonny Gomes, and Shields 
were ejected from the game.[11][12] Major League Baseball suspended Crisp 
for seven games due to his actions in the brawl.[13] Upon appeal, the suspension 
was reduced to five games, which he had served as of June 28, 2008.[14] 
In Game 5 of the ALCS, Coco Crisp had a game-tying hit in the bottom of 
the 8th inning to cap Boston's 7-run comeback. Boston would go on to win 
the game 8–7 with a walk-off single in the ninth inning by J. D. Drew, 
but lose the series in 7 games. On November 19, 2008, Crisp was traded 
to the Kansas City Royals for relief pitcher Ramón Ramírez.[15] During 
his lone season with the Royals, Crisp's batting average was at a career 
low .228. On June 23, 2009, Royals manager Trey Hillman announced that 
Crisp would receive season ending surgery to repair a labrum tear in his 
shoulder.[16] After the 2009 season, Crisp signed a one-year contract with 
the Oakland Athletics worth $5 million, with a club option for 2011.[17][18] 
Crisp began the 2010 season on the 15-day DL with a fractured left pinkie 
finger.[19] Crisp entered the 2011 season exercising his one-year option 
with the Oakland Athletics. On August 24, Crisp homered from both sides 
of the plate against the New York Yankees. In that game, he hit a game-winning 
three-run home run in the top of the 10th inning on the first pitch he 
saw against reliever Rafael Soriano.[20] Crisp re-signed with Athletics 
on January 3, 2012, on a two-year, $14 million deal with a club option 
for 2014. Crisp had received other offers from clubs such as the Baltimore 
Orioles and Chicago White Sox as well, but declined them both.[21] On October 
10, 2012, in Game 4 of the 2012 American League Division Series against 
the Detroit Tigers, Crisp came to bat in the bottom of the ninth inning. 
The score was tied 3–3, there were 2 outs and a runner on second base (Seth 
Smith). The A's were down 3–1 entering the inning, but subsequently tied 
the game with three straight hits off Detroit pitcher José Valverde, thus 
setting the stage for Crisp. He came through with a walk-off single to 
right field that scored Smith, giving the A's a 4–3 win and forcing a decisive 
Game 5. On October 11, 2012 the Tigers finished off the series with a 6–0 
victory over the A's. After the 2013 season, the Athletics exercised their 
club option on Crisp for the 2014 season.[22] Before the 2014 season, Crisp 
signed an extension with the Athletics covering the 2015 and 2016 seasons. 
The contract guarantees him $11 million in each of the 2015 and 2016 seasons, 
and has a vesting option for the 2017 season.[23] Crisp's playing time 
was reduced in 2016, leading him to believe that the Athletics were intentionally 
preventing his 2017 option from vesting.[24] On August 31, 2016, the Athletics 
traded Crisp with cash considerations to the Indians for Colt Hynes. Before 
he agreed to waive his no-trade clause, Chris Antonetti, the Indians' general 
manager, spoke with Crisp to tell him that he would not receive enough 
playing time in Cleveland for his option to vest.[25] On October 10, 2016, 
against the Boston Red Sox in Game 3 of the ALDS, Crisp hit a go-ahead 
two-run home run, which would eventually be the game-winner after the Indians 
won 4-3. The Indians' win propelled them to the ALCS against the Toronto 
Blue Jays. It was Crisp's second career postseason home run. However, he 
and the Cleveland Indians could not hold on in the World Series, losing 
the Series in Game 7 to the Chicago Cubs. Crisp became a free agent following 
the 2016 season after he failed to meet the contractual incentives that 
would have caused his vesting option for 2017 to trigger. Crisp is known 
for having good range in center field, but also for having a very weak 
throwing arm as a result of numerous shoulder surgeries. At the height 
of his career, he was considered a good base-stealer and a generally aggressive 
baserunner. He has a .281 career postseason batting average. He owns the 
Athletics franchise record for most consecutive stolen bases without being 
caught.[26] He is known to be a good "small-ball" type player because of 
his good bunting skills. Crisp has also only been hit five times in his 
fifteen-year career. Crisp is of Puerto Rican descent. His father is of 
Puerto Rican and Italian descent and his mother is African American. He 
is married and has four children: three sons and a daughter. His family 
lives in Desert Hot Springs, California and he has had a home in Rancho 
