Coffee Pot Park was a ballpark in St. Petersburg, Florida home to the St. 
Petersburg Saints minor-league baseball team until 1928, and spring training 
home of the St. Louis Browns and Philadelphia Phillies. Capacity was approximately 
850 for baseball. The park was called by the name of Coffee Pot Bayou to 
which it was near. The field was also used by local high school teams and 
for amateur softball. The ballpark was replaced in 1922 by Waterfront Park 
as the home to spring training in St. Pete. John C. Skipper, in his book 
Wicked Curve, describes Coffee Pot Park as follows, The park itself was 
about as plain as its name, with one shower (that produced only cold water) 
and a wooden grandstand that held about 500 people – if 400 of them were 
thin. The park was on a bayou, and many of the players brought fishing 
poles to the ballpark and threw in a line to relax between practices.[2] 
A 1929 article in the Evening Independent cites the location of the diamond 
as being "built where the Snell Isle golf course now reposes."[3] The Snell 
Isle was incorporated into the Sunset Golf Club which was eventually absorbed 
into what today is the Renaissance Vinoy Resort and Golf Club. But in 1965, 
Fred Lieb wrote that the park was located at First Street North and 22nd 
Avenue in the "Granada Terrace" section of the city.[4] In 1966, Ken Goldman 
also wrote that the address of the ballpark had been at "First Street North 
and 22nd Avenue" which by today's map would place the park southwest of 
Coffee Pot Bayou. Mayor Al Lang attracted the St. Louis Browns to St. Petersburg 
in 1914. The Chicago Cubs came by boat from their base in Tampa and beat 
the Browns 3-2 in the first game, as 4,000 fans paid from 25 cents (for 
bleachers) to $1 (for a box seat) and filed into the brand new Sunshine 
Park on Coffee Pot Bayou.[5] The Philadelphia Phillies trained at the ballpark 
from 1915 through 1918. It is said that manager Pat Moran made the players 
walk the two miles from their hotel in downtown St. Petersburg to the ballpark 
every day.[6] Top minor league clubs used to hold their own spring training 
camps; the Indianapolis Indians trained at the ballpark in 1921.[3] The 
Saint Petersburg Saints minor-league team played at the ballpark from as 
early as the 1914 season.[7] An account of a 1916 game against Tampa recounts 
that the game was called in the seventh-inning "in order that the visitors 
could catch the boat back to Tampa."[8] The Saints joined the Florida State 
