The College of Mount Saint Vincent (CMSV) is a Catholic liberal arts college 
located in the northwest[3] corner of the Riverdale section of The Bronx, 
New York, adjacent to the Yonkers border. It is the northernmost location 
in New York City. It was founded by the Sisters of Charity of New York. 
Today, the school serves over 1,800 students, with professional undergraduate 
programs in nursing, business, communication, and education. In addition, 
the college offers a strong undergraduate curriculum with distinctive strengths 
in biology, biochemistry, English, psychology, and sociology. The College 
also offers graduate degree programs in nursing, business, TESOL and education. 
The College is the peak of the educational network under the care of the 
Sisters of Charity of New York, one of several Sisters of Charity congregations 
of Catholic women that trace their lineage back to Saint Elizabeth Ann 
Seton. The College was founded in 1847 as the Academy of Mount Saint Vincent, 
a school for women. It took its name from Saint Vincent de Paul, the 17th-century 
French priest who worked with the poor and founded the original Sisters 
of Charity, and from the geographic high point along Fifth Avenue in Manhattan 
known as McGowan's Pass. When New York City began acquiring land for Central 
Park in 1855, the sister, under the leadership of Mother Angela Hughes, 
sister of Archbishop John Hughes, purchased the 70-acre (280,000 m2) "Fonthill," 
the estate of famed Shakespearean actor Edwin Forrest, in the Riverdale 
neighborhood of the Bronx. On April 25, 1865, the funeral train carrying 
Abraham Lincoln back to Springfield, Illinois passed by the College.[4] 
In 1911, the Academy became a degree-granting institution, and changed 
its name to the College of Mount Saint Vincent. The Campus Record, the 
original college newspaper (named the Alembic in 1970), published its first 
issue in 1922. Just five years later, the first issue of the College's 
literary magazine, the Fonthill Dial, was published. The end of the decade 
saw the first issue of the College yearbook, the Parapet. In 1943, the 
College began working in conjunction with St. Vincent's Hospital in New 
York City to provide a nursing education program for its students. In 1964 
the Mount joined forces with Manhattan College in a Cooperative Program 
that ran until 2006. Also in 1964, the Mount granted its first degrees 
in Fine Arts. In 1974, the College of Mount Saint Vincent became a co-educational 
institution, as it began admitting men. In 1976, the College Emeritus program 
was started to provide courses for mature students. The Mount began offering 
a new baccalaureate nursing program in 1975. It integrated business as 
an independent major in 1983. In 1988, almost 80 years after the College 
first amended its charter to confer Master of Science degrees. At the end 
of the decade, in 1989, the Honors Program was established. The College 
of Mount Saint Vincent recently completed the installation of solar panels 
in Villa Lot–the College's largest parking facility–making it one of the 
biggest solar arrays in New York City. The project, coordinated in partnership 
with the nation's top solar provider SolarCity, will significantly reduce 
the College's carbon footprint and–along with other green initiatives–cut 
its electrical consumption by over $100,000 per year. The Fonthill Castle, 
dramatically sited above the Hudson River, was the centerpiece of the estate 
of actor Edwin Forrest. Forrest built Fonthill in Riverdale, the Bronx, 
New York, from 1848 to 1852 for his wife, but before they could occupy 
it, they divorced and Forrest sold the estate to the Sisters of Charity. 
Fonthill was named after the castle of William Beckford (the younger) in 
England, Fonthill Abbey. The design of Mr. Forrest's Fonthill Castle has 
been attributed to Thomas C. Smith of New York City. The castle housed 
the college library from 1942 to 1968. Fonthill forms the architectural 
symbol of the college and houses the Office of Admissions and Financial 
Aid. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.[5] 
One of the original buildings on site, the Villa (or gardener's cottage) 
was built of ashlar, sometime prior to 1856 in mid-19th century "bracketed" 
style.[6] From 1887 to 1911 the "Stone Cottage" (originally called "Lourdes 
Villa") housed the St. Aloysius Academy for Boys. Many of the boys attending 
had sisters who were students at Mt. St. Vincent Academy. Actor Lionel 
Barrymore enrolled at the age of 10. At the turn of the century, American 
playwright Eugene O'Neill was enrolled in 1895[7] and received his First 
Communion in the Chapel in 1900. In 1911 the Villa, which no longer educated 
boys, was used as a college residence for the ladies. Founders Hall was 
built between 1857 and 1859 and subsequently expanded in 1865, 1883, 1906–1908, 
and in 1951. The original building is a five story red brick building on 
a fieldstone base. It features a six story square tower topped by a copper 
lantern and spire. The tower is flanked by five story gabled sections. 
The Chapel of the Immaculate Conception was enlarged to its present size 
in 1874. The crucifixion scene over the altar was painted by Constantino 
Brumidi, who also worked on the Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. The 
stained glass windows were created by Meyer of Munich. The organ was built 
by Hilborne L. Roosevelt of New York City in 1873.[8] In 1877, Thomas Edison 
came to campus to demonstrate inventions for the Academy students in South 
Hall.[4] In 1978 a former locker room in the Administration Building was 
converted into Cahill Lounge. The Administration Building was listed on 
National Registrar of Historic Places in 1980. Today, The Administration 
Building has been renamed to "Founders Hall" in honor of all those who 
founded the college. Maryvale was constructed in 1859; it originally served 
as a laundry. In 1906 the laundry moved to the newly constructed Rosary 
Hall and Maryvale housed science classes. In 1954, Science classes moved 
to the new science building and Maryvale became the Library Annex and Studio 
Annex. Today, it mainly houses the communications and fine arts departments. 
In 1873 the Lourdes Grotto was built. It is now considered the oldest outdoor 
grotto still in existence in the United States. The grotto is situated 
on a little island in a small lake in an area at one time known as "Lourdes 
Park".[4] In 1875, Le Gras Hall, named after Louise le Gras de Marillac, 
was built as St. Vincent Free School for the Catholic Children of Riverdale. 
This brought more young children onto the campus which at that time was 
filled with orchards and vegetable gardens. In 1911, with the opening of 
a parochial school in Riverdale, Le Gras was remodeled to house the college 
gymnasium with an auditorium on the second floor.[4] It also housed the 
commuter students' cafeteria. In 1931 the library moved from the Administration 
building to Le Gras, before relocating in 1942 to Fonthill Castle. In 1951, 
the commuter students' cafeteria moved from Le Gras Hall to the first floor 
of the Administration Building. In 1906 Rosary Hall was constructed to 
house the boiler and laundry. The Sisters made room for the new building 
by using land in the lower orchard. In 1930 Hayes Auditorium and Gym were 
built on the site of the vegetable field. This building was renovated in 
the early 1990s and is now known as the Grace Center. In 1954 science classes 
moved from Maryvale to the new Science Hall on the hill, which had been 
built on the former sports field. In 1968, the new Elizabeth Seton Library, 
or Seton Library, was opened. The College's community spirit was evident 
as many books were moved from the Castle to Seton Library via a human chain 
stretching up the hill.[citation needed]The library is named after Saint 
Elizabeth Seton, the first native-born American to be canonized. Elizabeth 
Seton founded the Sisters of Charity. CMSV is registered by the New York 
State Education Department, Office of Higher Education, in Albany, NY. 
and is independently chartered to grant degrees by the Regents of the State 
of New York. The student-faculty ratio at CMSV is 13:1. The most popular 
majors at College of Mount St. Vincent include: Registered Nursing/Registered 
Nurse; Business/Commerce, General; Speech Communication and Rhetoric; and 
Psychology, General.[9] Mount Saint Vincent teams participate as a member 
of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division III. The Dolphins 
are a member of the Skyline Conference. Men's sports include baseball, 
basketball, cross country, lacrosse, soccer, swimming and diving, volleyball 
and wrestling, while women's sports include basketball, cross country, 
