College baseball is baseball that is played on the intercollegiate level 
at institutions of higher education. In comparison to football and basketball, 
college competition in the United States plays a smaller role in developing 
professional players, as baseball's professional minor leagues are more 
extensive. Moving directly from high school to the professional level is 
more common in baseball than in football or basketball. However, if players 
enroll at a four-year college, they must complete three years to regain 
eligibility, unless they reach age 21 before starting their third year 
of attendance. Players who enroll at junior colleges (i.e., two-year institutions) 
regain eligibility after one year at that level. In the most recently completed 
2016 season, there were 300 NCAA Division I teams in the United States 
(including schools transitioning from Division II to Division I). As with 
most other U.S. intercollegiate sports, competitive college baseball is 
played under the auspices of the NCAA or the NAIA. The NCAA writes the 
rules of play, while each sanctioning body supervises season-ending tournaments. 
The final rounds of the NCAA tournaments are known as the College World 
Series; one is held on each of the three levels of competition sanctioned 
by the NCAA. The College World Series for Division I takes place in Omaha, 
Nebraska in June, following the regular season. The playoff bracket for 
Division I consists of 64 teams, with four teams playing at each of 16 
regional sites (in a double-elimination format). The 16 winners advance 
to the Super Regionals at eight sites, played head-to-head in a best-of-three 
series. The eight winners then advance to the College World Series, a double 
elimination tournament (actually two separate four-team brackets) to determine 
the two national finalists. The finalists play a best-of-three series to 
determine the Division I national champion. In 2016, Coastal Carolina won 
the College World Series. The first intercollegiate baseball game took 
place in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, on July 1, 1859, between squads representing 
Amherst College and Williams College. Amherst won, 73–32. This game was 
one of the last played under an earlier version of the game known as "Massachusetts 
rules", which prevailed in New England until the "Knickerbocker Rules" 
(or "New York Rules") developed in the 1840s gradually became accepted.[1] 
The first ever nine-man team college baseball game under the Knickerbocker 
Rules still in use today was played in New York on November 3, 1859 between 
the Fordham Rose Hill Baseball Club of St. John's College (now Fordham 
University) against The College of St. Francis Xavier, now known as Xavier 
High School. Traditionally, college baseball has been played in the early 
part of the year, with a relatively short schedule and during a time when 
cold (and/or rainy) weather hinders the ability for games to be played, 
particularly in the northern and midwestern parts of the U.S. These and 
other factors have historically led colleges and universities across the 
nation to effectively consider baseball a minor sport, both in scholarships 
as well as money and other points of emphasis. College baseball has grown 
phenomenally in popularity since the 1980s, as coaches and athletic directors 
in warm-weather regions of the nation began to recognize the unrealized 
potential appeal of the sport. These coaches went out and aggressively 
recruited the sport to potential athletes, as well as made various upgrades 
to their programs; such as bigger and better stadiums, more money for staff 
and support salaries, and promotions. As these efforts resulted in better 
players and overall programs, more television and print media coverage 
began to emerge. The ESPN family of networks greatly increased television 
coverage of the NCAA playoffs and the College World Series. Soon, in many 
warm-weather regions, baseball came to be considered a major sport, approaching 
the level of football and basketball.[citation needed] And even non-warm 
weather schools started to recognize baseball's potential and began to 
put considerably more emphasis on it. Nebraska, Notre Dame, and Oregon 
State are three notable examples of cold (or rainy) weather schools with 
very successful programs. The first two made the College World Series when 
warm-weather schools placed major emphasis on baseball as well as had the 
advantage of playing earlier and more games because of favorable climates. 
Oregon State won back-to-back national championships in 2006 and 2007; 
at that time, archrival Oregon had been without baseball for a quarter-century, 
having dropped its program in 1981. Many credit the Beavers' success as 
a primary factor in the University of Oregon's later decision to revive 
baseball in 2009.[citation needed] Before the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome 
was demolished in early 2014, Minnesota took advantage of it to play the 
majority of their games, including hosting a prestigious preseason tournament. 
With the 2010 departure of the MLB Minnesota Twins for the new Target Field, 
the school hoped to use the Metrodome for future Big Ten tournaments and 
bids on the NCAA tournament. Along with that, many smaller conferences 
(not in Division I) played games at the Metrodome during February in order 
to keep up with schools in warm-weather locations. While the Metrodome's 
replacement, U.S. Bank Stadium, was designed mainly for the NFL's Minnesota 
Vikings, it has movable seating banks that allow it to be configured for 
baseball. For 2008 and succeeding seasons, the NCAA mandated the first 
ever start date for Division I baseball, thirteen weeks before the selection 
of the NCAA tournament field, which takes place on Memorial Day.[citation 
needed] The rules of college baseball are similar to the Official Baseball 
Rules. Exceptions include the following: Though a wood bat is legal in 
NCAA competition, players overwhelmingly prefer and use a metal bat. The 
metal bat was implemented in college baseball in 1975.[2] Use of a metal 
bat is somewhat controversial. Supporters of an aluminum or composite bat 
note that it can increase offensive performance, as the speed of a ball 
off a metal bat is generally faster than off a wood bat. Those against 
metal, and for wood, argue that a metal bat is not safe to use, and that 
a metal bat doesn't prepare players for the next level, as professional 
baseball uses a wood bat exclusively. In the 2011 season the NCAA changed 
the requirements for a metal bat, reducing the maximum allowed exit speed 
in a way that is said to produce a feeling more like a wood bat.[3] As 
a result, in 2011 there was a drop-off in overall "long" drives or home 
runs relative to past years.[4] All players resident in the U.S. and its 
territories are eligible to be selected in Major League Baseball's Rule 
4 Draft upon graduating from high school. However, once a player enrolls 
in a four-year college or university, he is not allowed to be drafted (or 
re-drafted) until completing three years of school or reaching age 21, 
whichever comes first. By contrast, players who enroll in junior colleges 
(i.e., two-year institutions) are eligible for selection at any time. The 
Rule 4 Draft of eligible college and high school players consists of 40 
rounds.[5] Despite MLB's draft being considerably longer than that of the 
NFL or NBA, only about 9.1% of all NCAA senior baseball players are drafted 
by an MLB team.[6] One of the biggest controversies with the draft and 
these amateur athletes is the use of agents. There have been many cases 
of college athletes consulting or hiring an agent prematurely in direct 
violation of NCAA rules. The NCAA came up with the "no agent rule" as a 
result of this, claiming it was to benefit the amateur athletes. The rule 
states that "[a]n individual shall be ineligible for participation in an 
intercollegiate sport if he or she has agreed (orally or in writing) to 
be represented by an agent for the purpose of marketing his or her athletics 
ability or reputation in that sport".[7][8] Representation of an agent 
is considered to be any direct contact with the professional team during 
the contract negotiations. This contact can be made many different ways, 
whether through direct conversation, via mail or through the telephone.[9] 
This rule is strongly enforced by the NCAA and has harsh consequences if 
broken. The recruitment process is similar to that of the Major League 
Draft in that a high school athlete is taking the next step in his career. 
The NCAA places restrictions on the coaches that are trying to convince 
athletes to come play for them and attend their university. College baseball 
programs are only allowed to offer a limited number of scholarships each 
year, so the process of earning a scholarship is quite competitive. Baseball 
is classified by the NCAA as an "equivalency" sport, meaning that limits 
on athletic financial aid are set to the equivalent of a fixed number of 
full scholarships. Division I schools are allowed the equivalent of 11.7 
full scholarships;[10] Division II schools, only 9.0.[11] Schools generally 
choose to award multiple partial scholarships rather than exclusively full 
scholarships.[12] In Division I, the NCAA also limits the total number 
of players receiving baseball-related financial aid to 27,[10] and also 
requires that each of these players receive athletic aid equal to at least 
25% of a full scholarship.[13] The 25% rule does not apply to schools that 
offer aid based solely on financial need (most notably Ivy League members),[14] 
and also does not apply to a player in his final year of athletic eligibility 
who has not previously received athletically related aid in baseball at 
any college.[15] Before September 1 of a potential college player's 11th 
grade year, it is illegal for a college program to give any kind of recruiting 
materials to the prospect. A phone call is not even permitted to the prospect 
until July 1 of the student's 11th grade year.[16] Once the player is committed 
to the school of his choice, he must sign his letter of intent during one 
of several signing periods. The early signing period for a Division I baseball 
player is between November 8 and 15; the late signing period dates for 
these players are April 11 to August 1.[16] The substance policies for 
college baseball are very strict and set by the NCAA. There is a set list 
of substances a college baseball player is forbidden to put in his body, 
and there is severe punishment for those that defy it, whether it be intentional 
or unintentional. There is a very long list of these substances, including 
alcohol, marijuana, anabolic steroids, and heroin, to name just a few. 
These substances fit into categories such as stimulants, anabolic steroids, 
diuretics, street drugs, hormones, anti-estrogens, and more.[17] Failure 
to pass scheduled or random drug tests can result in ineligibility.[18] 
The longest college baseball game was played between Texas and Boston College 
on May 30, 2009, during the NCAA Division I Baseball Championship regional 
tournament at Austin, Texas. Texas – which was designated the visiting 
team despite playing on its home field – won the game, 3–2, in 25 innings. 
The game lasted seven hours three minutes.[30][31] After losing its license 
for Major League Baseball, EA Sports released MVP 06 NCAA Baseball, the 
first college baseball video game. A second game, MVP 07: NCAA Baseball, 
was also released before the series was discontinued due to low sales.[32] 
