The National College Baseball Hall of Fame, located in Lubbock, Texas, 
is a museum operated by the College Baseball Foundation serving as the 
central point for the study of the history of college baseball in the United 
States. In partnership with the Southwest Collection/Special Collections 
Library on the campus of Texas Tech University, the National College Baseball 
Hall of Fame inducts five former collegiate players and five former coaches 
in addition to two veteran players (from the pre-1947 era), annually. The 
College Baseball Foundation was formed in 2004 as a non-profit organization, 
with the dual aims of continuing the Brooks Wallace Award and creating 
a national college baseball hall of fame. The inaugural Wallace Award was 
bestowed in 2004, but the inaugural Hall of Fame induction class was not 
chosen until 2006. A permanent building is planned for the near future.[1] 
As of January 2013, the Foundation had raised approximately $7 million 
of the $13 million goal, after receiving a $5 million grant from the Moody 
Foundation.[2] The 2006 inaugural class for the National College Baseball 
Hall of Fame consisted of five former coaches and five former players.[3] 
Every year thereafter, more players and coaches have been enshrined.[4] 
Coaches become eligible after ending active collegiate career, not to include 
an active coach on a professional baseball team. Coaches must have achieved 
300 career wins, or have won at least 65% of his games. Players become 
eligible 5 years after the student-athlete's final collegiate season, not 
to include any active player or coach on a professional baseball team roster. 
Players must have completed one year of competition at a 4-year institution. 
Players must have made an All-American team (post-1947), an All-League 
team (pre-1947), or have earned verifiable national acclaim. Veteran and 
Historical Committees have the right to nominate individuals from pre-1947 
era. Players and coaches are also be evaluated for their citizenship both 
during and after their active career.[5] The induction ceremony for the 
inaugural class inductees occurred on July 4, 2006, which is usually the 
day after the Brooks Wallace Award winner is announced. Coordinates: 33°34′49″N 
