Collegiate School is an independent school for boys in New York City and 
is the oldest school of any kind in the United States.[1][2] It is located 
on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and is a member of both the New York 
Interschool and the Ivy Preparatory School League. It is ranked one of 
the best K-12 all boys prep schools in the United States.[3] Collegiate 
was founded in the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam in 1628 by the Dutch West 
India Company and the Classis of Amsterdam. The school’s initial incarnation 
was located south of Canal Street and was an academic institution for both 
sexes. The school's location has changed sixteen times over the last four 
centuries, although the school has been at its current location, next to 
the West End Collegiate Church on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, since 
1892.[citation needed] Collegiate is the oldest school of any kind in the 
United States. Prior to 1984, the common belief was that the school had 
been founded in 1638, placing it two years later than the founding of Harvard 
University and three years after the founding date of Boston Latin School. 
Massimo Maglione, a historian and Upper School teacher at Collegiate, conducted 
research into the accuracy of this date and found that Collegiate's founder—the 
Reverend Jonas Michaëlius, the first minister of the Dutch Reformed Church 
in America—had written of his efforts to teach the catechism to Indian 
children as early as 1628. Based on this evidence, the school in 1984 officially 
moved up its founding to the earlier date.[citation needed] On February 
5, 2013, the Collegiate School board announced relocation plans for the 
institution. The school has acquired land for a new facility, situated 
between West End Avenue and Riverside Boulevard and between West 61st and 
62nd Streets in New York's Riverside South neighborhood (a.k.a. Trump Place). 
Board Chairman George R. Bason Jr. '72 said the new 178,000-square-foot 
school would provide 30 percent more indoor space and 613 percent more 
outdoor space (16,268 square feet) for its 648 students from kindergarten 
through 12th grade than the current lodgings provide. He estimated the 
new school's construction cost at $125–$135 million, with a targeted move 
time of the summer of 2017.[4] Collegiate's official seal is an adaptation 
of the coat of arms of William of Orange, who was the founder of the Dutch 
Republic and of the Reformed Church in that country and led the cause of 
independence and of freedom for the Reformed Church against Philip II of 
Spain. Included in the school's seal are two mottos: Eendracht Maakt Macht, 
Dutch for "In unity there is strength", and Nisi Dominus Frustra, Latin 
for "unless God, then in vain." Currently, the school teaches students 
in grades K-12. The school's mission is the following: Collegiate School 
strives to educate each boy to reach his highest level of intellectual, 
ethical, artistic, and physical development. Drawing on what is known about 
boys' growth and learning, the school offers a rigorous K-12 program rich 
in opportunities for cultivating individual talents and interests in a 
climate of collaboration and respect. The campus, located between 77th 
and 78th Streets and West End Avenue, consists of four separate buildings: 
The “Old Building,” Platten Hall, West End Plaza, and a new six-story extension 
that bridges Platten Hall with West End Plaza. The four-story “Old Building” 
is part of the original church and is home to the “Upper School,” grades 
9-12. Platten Hall, originally nine stories, was extended in 1990 by two 
floors. It includes two gyms (in addition to the “Alumni” Gym located next 
to the “Old Building”), the recently renovated Ann and Edgar Bronfman Theatre, 
the Black Box Studio theatre, the “Lower School” (grades 1-4), the "Middle 
School" (grades 5-8), a full-service library, music and art studio facilities, 
a dark room, two computer labs, a weight-lifting room, and the science 
department. West End Plaza is a hotel that was purchased by the school 
in 1977. Though it still serves in part as a residence for teachers, Collegiate 
has renovated several floors into administrative offices, classrooms for 
the Kindergarten (added in 1997), “Lower School” and the "Middle School" 
(grades 5-8), and two cafeterias. All four buildings border a courtyard 
where students of all grades play various games ranging from Handball commonly 
played by the Lower School (although there has been a recent resurgence 
in the Upper School) students to Courtyard Football played by the Middle 
School students to Courtyard Soccer played by the Upper School students. 
Each grade has approximately 50 boys, many of whom attend Collegiate for 
the full course of study, thirteen years (these students are nicknamed 
"Survivors"). More than a quarter of Collegiate teachers hold a Ph.D. The 
school is private, and it functions under a New York City non-profit statute 
enacted in the 1940s. Collegiate is controlled by a Board of Trustees, 
and the school is administered by a Headmaster. Collegiate's Board of Trustees 
selected Lee M. Levison to serve as the school's 28th Headmaster, replacing 
W. Lee Pierson, who served as interim headmaster for two years after Kerry 
Brennan left to become headmaster at Roxbury Latin School, following a 
four-year tenure at Collegiate. Levison, who was head of school at the 
Kingswood-Oxford School for many years, began serving at Collegiate July 
1, 2006. Collegiate's Upper School (high school) curriculum consists of 
English, Math, Science, History, Modern Foreign Languages (Spanish, French, 
or Chinese), Classics (Latin and Ancient Greek), Religion & Ethics, Music, 
Visual Art, Drama, Technology, and Physical Education. In 2007, The Wall 
Street Journal ranked Collegiate number one in the world in terms of percent 
of the senior class matriculating to eight selective American colleges.[5] 
In 2002, Worth ranked Collegiate third among the nation's independent schools 
in terms of percentage of graduates attending Harvard University, Yale 
University, and Princeton University.[6] The school's athletic success 
has mainly been with the varsity basketball, baseball, track and field, 
soccer, and cross country teams. The Collegiate soccer team won the NYSAIS 
state championship in 2010, 2011, and 2012. The Collegiate varsity basketball 
team won five straight state championships in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 
2012. The Collegiate cross country team won 25 Ivy League Championships 
in a row from 1990–2014, until Trinity School won the championship in 2015.[citation 
needed] Collegiate also has wrestling, lacrosse, and tennis teams. Students 
not participating in a sport take either physical education, yoga, or weightlifting. 
Yearly fitness tests are administered in the lower and middle schools. 
The school has a number of clubs, especially in the Upper School. Coordinates: 
40°47′00″N 73°58′52″W﻿ / ﻿40.78333°N 73.98111°W﻿ / 40.78333; -73.98111 
