College softball is softball as played on the intercollegiate level at 
institutions of higher education, predominantly in the United States. College 
softball is normally played by women at the Intercollegiate level, whereas 
college baseball is normally played by men. As with other intercollegiate 
sports, most college softball in the United States is played under the 
auspices of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) or the 
National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA). The NCAA writes 
the rules of play, while each sanctioning body supervises season-ending 
tournaments. The final rounds of the NCAA tournaments are known as the 
Women's College World Series (WCWS); one is held on each of the three levels 
of competition sanctioned by the NCAA. The 2007 Women's College World Series 
took place in Don E. Porter Hall of Fame Stadium in Oklahoma City near 
the site of the National Softball Hall of Fame in June, after the regular 
season was over. The first NCAA Women's College World Series was held in 
1982, while the first-ever WCWS was held in 1969 in Omaha, Nebraska (sponsored 
by the Amateur Softball Association and the Division of Girls' and Women's 
Sports) and annually thereafter.[1][2] The tournament now starts with 64 
teams from 16 different regions that compete in a double elimination round 
to start off the championship. The sixteen winners then enter a 'super 
regional', usually held at the higher seed's home ground, for a best-of-3 
series. The eight winners then enter a modified double elimination tournament 
to determine which team is the national champion. Instead of being a 'true' 
double-elimination tournament, the tournament is split up so there are 
two brackets, though the losers switch brackets. The winners of each of 
the brackets move onto a best-of-3 championship. The tournament is largely 
dominated by Pac-12 Conference teams, who have combined to win 21 of the 
27 NCAA Division I championships through 2008, including 10 wins from UCLA 
(1995 championship vacated) and 8 from University of Arizona. From 1969–79 
and 1982–87, the WCWS was held in Omaha, Nebraska, where the Men's College 
World Series originated. In 1980–81, it was played in Norman, Oklahoma. 
In 1988–89, it was held in Sunnyvale, California. The finals have been 
played at the Amateur Softball Association's Don E. Porter Hall of Fame 
Stadium in Oklahoma City since 1990. Over 600 NCAA member colleges are 
sponsors of women's softball programs. The women's softball championships 
are held in divisions I, II, and III. Fast-pitch softball became an Olympic 
discipline starting with the XXVI Olympiad of 1996. However, the International 
Olympic Committee discontinued both softball and baseball as Olympics sports 
after the XXVIII Olympiad in 2008.[3] In 2004 the International Softball 
Federation (ISF) held the first World University Softball Championship 
just two months after the 2004 Olympic competition.[4] It was an eight 
country championship, with Team USA defeating Chinese Taipei for the gold 
medal.[5] In 2006 the Fédération Internationale du Sport Universitaire 
(FISU) held the second World University Softball Championship in Taiwan,[5] 
and in 2007 softball was added to the World University Games of FISU.[4][6] 
