College athletics in the United States refers primarily to sports and athletic 
competition organized and funded by institutions of tertiary education 
(universities, or colleges in American English). In the United States, 
college athletics is a two-tiered system.[1] The first tier includes the 
sports that are sanctioned by one of the collegiate sport governing bodies. 
The major sanctioning organizations include the National Collegiate Athletic 
Association (NCAA), the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics 
(NAIA) and the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA). Individual 
sports not governed by umbrella organizations like the NCAA, NAIA, and 
NJCAA are governed by their own organizations, such as the Intercollegiate 
Sailing Association, National Collegiate Boxing Association, USA Rugby, 
National Collegiate Roller Hockey Association and Intercollegiate Rowing 
Association. Additionally, the first tier is characterized by selective 
participation, since only the elite athletes in their sport are able to 
participate; some colleges offer athletic scholarships to intercollegiate 
sports competitors. The second tier includes all intramural and recreational 
sports clubs, which are available to a larger portion of the student body. 
Competition between student clubs from different colleges, not organized 
by and therefore not representing the institutions or their faculties, 
may also be called "intercollegiate" athletics or simply college sports. 
College sports originated in ancient Greece. Unlike in the rest of the 
world, in the United States today, many college sports are extremely popular 
on both regional and national scales, in many cases competing with professional 
championships for prime broadcast and print coverage, and for the top athletes. 
The average university will sponsor at least twenty different sports and 
offer a wide variety of intramural sports as well. In total, there are 
approximately 400,000 men and women student-athletes that participate in 
sanctioned athletics each year.[2] Principles for inter-collegiate athletics 
include "gender equity, sportsmanship and ethical conduct, sound academic 
standards, nondiscrimination, diversity within governance, rules compliance, 
amateurism, competitive equity, recruiting, eligibility, financial aid, 
playing and practice seasons, postseason competition and contests sponsored 
by noncollegiate organizations, and the economy of athletic program operations."[3] 
The first organized college sports club was formed in 1843 when Yale University 
created a boat club.[4] Harvard University then followed in their footsteps, 
creating a similar boat club a year later. The creation of these organizations 
set the stage for the first intercollegiate sporting event in the U.S. 
This event took place in 1852, when the rowing team from Yale competed 
against the rowing team from Harvard at Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire.[4] 
This marked the beginning of intercollegiate competition and triggered 
the creation of numerous college athletic organizations.[citation needed] 
In the late 1850s, bat and ball games had started to become widely known 
and the sport of baseball was starting to become an establishment at U.S. 
universities. The first intercollegiate baseball game took place in 1859 
between Amherst College and Williams College.[5] The popularity of collegiate 
baseball increased from this point, and by 1870, college teams were playing 
extensive schedules. In 1879, the first official intercollegiate baseball 
league was formed. Track and field also grew in popularity during this 
time, and the first intercollegiate track and field event occurred in 1873. 
This competition featured a two-mile race between athletes from Amherst 
College, Cornell University, and McGill University of Montreal, Canada.[5] 
The first intercollegiate soccer match in the U.S. took place on November 
6, 1869, in New Brunswick, New Jersey, when clubs from Princeton and Rutgers 
played under rules modified from those of association football.[6] The 
first intercollegiate rugby game took place on May 15, 1874, at Cambridge, 
Massachusetts when Harvard played against McGill University. The first 
intercollegiate football game between teams from Rutgers College (now Rutgers 
University) and the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) took 
place on November 6, 1869 at College Field (now the site of the College 
Avenue Gymnasium at Rutgers University) in New Brunswick, New Jersey.[citation 
needed] In addition to the National Collegiate Athletic Association, there 
are other collegiate multi-sport athletic organizations, some of which 
also have hundreds of member schools. These include: There are a number 
of single sport-organizations, including leagues and conferences (see "List 
of college athletic conferences in the United States"), as well as governing 
bodies that sponsor collegiate championships (see "Intercollegiate sports 
team champions"). During the early 1840s, student-athletes contributed 
actively to all phases of administration and control.[9] Student athletes 
were involved in the sporting process, made athletic procedures and regulations 
for universities and also played an important role in determining which 
sporting events would and would not happen on universities. Today, the 
kind of involvement on the part of the athlete is virtually unheard of, 
with the only remnants of student participation in athlete administration 
being programs in which student governments have some control over the 
distribution of free allocations to athletics.[9] Furthermore, this movement 
today focuses on the role of intercollegiate sports in the United States 
rather than the contributions of the student athlete.[citation needed] 
Academic curricula and requirements affect student athletes: College student 
athletes are required to attend classes, have certain criteria for academic 
success, and complete specific requirements to earn a degree.[3] "When 
academic and athletic departments have conflicting aims, problems arise 
that affect the entire institution. American society values the elitism 
of academics and athletics in a manner that provokes conflict for participants 
in both domains. At various colleges, it is believed that academic elitism 
can be constructed on athletic elitism: Athletic teams aspire to be national 
champions, while their affiliate academic institutions seek national rankings. 
However, the means by which coaches and faculty achieve national reputations 
can create conflict for student athletes attempting to exist in both environments. 
Although both aspire to excel, the different measures of excellence for 
academics and athletics necessitates compromise by those who are placed 
in both settings."[3] This policy, attempted by a large number of colleges, 
works for only a few.[citation needed] College administrators have the 
challenge of balancing university values while maximizing the revenues 
generated by their athletic department. To maintain financial sustainability, 
several athletic directors have stated that the elimination of men’s non-revenue 
programs is the only way to balance their athletic budgets.[citation needed] 
Men’s non-revenue sport teams will likely be facing declining financial 
support in future generations.[10] "Division I institutions are required 
to have seven athletic teams for men and seven for women (or six for men 
and eighth for women). As well, there must be two team sports for each 
gender, and each gender must have a team in each of the three season (i. 
e., Fall, Winter, Spring). Excluding basketball and football, teams must 
play 100% of their minimum number of games against Division 1 opponents, 
and 50% of games above the minimum number must be played against Division 
I teams. Men’s and women’s basketball teams must play all but two of their 
contests against Division 1 opponents, and men must play at least one third 
of their games in their home arena. In Division I, football is further 
sectioned into FBS (NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision), and FCS 
(Football Championship Subdivision). FBS schools must play at least 60% 
of their games against other FBS opponents, and demonstrate their ability 
to attract a high level of spectatorship."[11] Additionally, college football 
bowl eligibility rules mandate that only one win over an FCS team can be 
counted toward the six required for eligibility; this in turn means that 
FBS teams typically schedule at most one game against an FCS team in a 
given season. Intercollegiate athletics have an impact and significant 
popularity in the United States. The reasons for this are both cultural 
and economic. American colleges seek the publicity of being successful 
in college sports, believing it to be good at increasing interest from 
potential students and donations from alumni, whereas a university's athletic 
history is considered unimportant by students in most of the rest of the 
world and alumni donations are much less substantial.[citation needed] 
As well, in the United States, college athletics is run much like a business 
and ticket and merchandise sales and broadcast contracts provide a source 
of income for the institution, whereas in other countries universities 
are primarily government-funded.[citation needed] The scale of college 
sports in the US is measured by the great number of universities that participate, 
the number of both male and female athletes that participate, and the number 
of sports being played. Furthermore, the great scope of college athletics 
in the United States can be seen merely by examining the number of people 
who are fully employed and make a living contributing to college athletics, 
including coaches, referees, and so forth.[citation needed] Several American 
colleges offer scholarships to athletes. Elite international athletes may 
move to the United States for their higher education, particularly if they 
are offered a "full-ride" scholarship. Another reason for the importance 
of college athletics in the U.S. is the important role it plays in the 
hierarchy of sport organizations. In his article about collegiate sports 
programs, Thomas Rosandich refers to a "performance pyramid", which shows 
the general progression of athletic organizations in the United States.[21] 
At the bottom of this pyramid is youth sports organizations, since these 
organizations have participation open to nearly everyone. As the pyramid 
progresses, the level of competition increases, while the number of competitors 
decreases until the highest level of organized sport, professional sports, 
is reached. In many respects, the intercollegiate sports level serves as 
a feeder system to the professional level, as the elite college athletes 
are chosen to compete at the next level. This system differs greatly from 
nearly all other countries in the world, which generally have government-funded 
sports organizations that serve as a feeder system for professional competition. 
As well, in many countries professional clubs recruit athletes as children 
and develop them in their own academies, rather than through high school 
sports, signing them to professional contracts before they are done secondary 
school.[citation needed] "Although there is no one certain cause explaining 
how sports in America became institutionalized within the university, three 
societal forces have been identified that played a role: the growth of 
the entertainment industry and the commercialization of athletics, the 
increased competitiveness of college admissions and efforts to create well-rounded 
student bodies and the increased competence and specialization of pre-college 
athletic talent. Viewed retrospectively over the past 100-plus years of 
its history, intercollegiate athletics has moved from mainly providing 
an avenue for student athletes and fans to enjoy sports participation to 
predominantly focusing on increases in revenue and institutional prestige 
that can be generated through a high-profile team."[22] College athletics 
have a significant economic impact on their schools and local communities. 
Universities produce substantial revenue from their intercollegiate athletic 
programs in ticket and merchandise sales. The NCAA earned $989 million 
in revenue in 2014 and netted a surplus of roughly $80.5 million.[23] "The 
NCAA brings in millions of dollars each year in television, advertising 
and licensing revenue, and the schools benefit from ticket and merchandising 
sales and donations."[24] The NCAA earned approximately $753.5 million 
in revenue from various television and marketing rights fees in 2014.[23] 
In 2010, two of the most profitable college conferences—the Southeastern 
Conference (SEC) and the Big Ten—earned over one billion dollars and $905 
million, respectively.[25] The University of Texas' football program, the 
most valuable in college sports, is estimated by forbes.com to be worth 
over 133 million dollars, totaling over a billion dollars in the last decade.[26] 
The University of Notre Dame made $6.3 million per home game from their 
broadcasting contract. The average revenue per conference in 1999 was $13.5 
million.[27] In 2012, a ticket to watch a popular football game could cost 
from $100 to $3,000, depending on the team. Tickets to a basketball game 
could cost from $5 to $500.[28] Universities spend a very large amount 
of money on their college organizations in the facilities, coaches, equipment, 
and other aspects, and as a result many Division I athletic directors and 
basketball and football coaches have annual multimillion-dollar salaries. 
The highest paid NCAA basketball coach in 2014 was Duke University's Mike 
Krzyzewski at $9,682,032[29] and the highest paid football coach the University 
of Alabama's Nick Saban at $7,160,187.[30] As of 2015[update], "most large 
school" have established single-source contracts for supplies and apparel 
across all sport franchises,[clarification needed] the most lucrative of 
which was a US$200,000,000, 11-year contract involving the University of 
Michigan.[31] Athletics are increasingly subsidized by tuition. Only one 
in eight of the 202 Division I colleges actually netted more money than 
they spent on athletics between the years 2005 and 2010. At the few money 
making schools, football and sometimes basketball sales support the school's 
other athletic programs. The amount spent on an athlete in one of the six 
highest-profile football conferences, on average, is six times more than 
the amount spent to educate the non-athlete. Spending per student varied 
from $10,012 to $19,225; cost per athlete varied from $41,796 to $163,931.[32] 
Title IX (of the Education Amendments of 1972) — which requires gender 
equity for boys and girls in every educational program that receives federal 
funding — has specifically made an impact on the distribution of college 
athletes by sex since its passing in 1972. The law states that: No person 
in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation 
in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under 
any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance... 
In 1975, the final clause of Title IX was signed into law and included 
provisions prohibiting sex discrimination in athletics. The regulations 
pertaining to athletics require that an institution which sponsors interscholastic, 
intercollegiate, club or intramural athletics shall provide "equal athletic 
opportunity" for members of both sexes.[34] Since the passing of Title 
IX, many NCAA institutions have had problems with the compliance of these 
regulations. In order to successfully comply with Title IX requirements, 
NCAA institutions must meet one of the requirements in the "three prong 
test" as follows: OCR (Office of Civil Rights) is one of the governing 
bodies that attempts to ensure that title IX is enforced. They have the 
power to pull federal funding from schools or organizations that are found 
to be non-compliant with title IX, although this power has never been exercised. 
The OCR will usually work with the school or organization that is non-compliant 
to set up a schedule or plan to follow to become compliant.[35] Research 
concerning Title IX institutional compliance and gender equity issues has 
found that: Title IX has had a considerable impact on college athletics. 
Since its passing, Title IX has allowed for female participation to almost 
double in college sports. Before the law was passed in 1972 fewer than 
30,000 girls participated in college sports; as of 2011 more than 200,000 
girls participated in college sports.[39] Title IX has been both credited 
with and blamed for a lot of things that have happened in college athletics 
since 1972.[40] Studies on the gender equity of sports found on college 
campuses have provided an examination of how Title IX is perceived. Questions 
have been raised over the equity between male and female student athletes. 
Females, regardless of whether an administrator, coach, or athlete, thought 
there to be less equity than males when it comes to these five factors: 
program support, financial support, sports offerings, scheduling, and changes 
in the past two to three years.[41] In regards to the concept of "pay-for-play," 
(see section below, "Debate over paying athletes") Title IX is generally 
seen as a substantial roadblock, only because of the differences between 
big-time men’s sports (football/men's basketball) and women's sports, but 
also because of the gap between those "big two" sports' profit-producing 
programs and virtually all other collegiate sports, both male and female.[40] 
Depending on how one views "pay for play," this can be either a positive 
of negative effect of Title IX. In addition, Title IX legislation has affected 
male athletes as well as male coaches. Title IX has been associated with 
the cutting of opportunities available for men and boys. As budgets are 
stretched to accommodate additional programming requirements for women 
and girls. More than 2,200 men’s athletic teams have been eliminated since 
1981 to comply with the proportionality prong of Title IX requirements.[34] 
Thousands of male athletes have been kept from participating in collegiate 
sports while men’s athletic scholarships and coaching positions have diminished 
as well.[34] Increases in opportunities for male coaches, however, have 
resulted from Title IX legislation. Before Title IX, 90 percent of women's 
intercollegiate teams were coached by women.[42] By 1978, when all educational 
institutions were required to comply with Title IX, the percentage of same 
sex coaching had plunged to 58 percent. Although the actual number of female 
coaches increased between 1979 and 1986, the percentage of female coaches 
continued to decline over that same period.[43] The all-time low of 47 
percent of women coaching female sports was achieved in 1990. In addition, 
although men have broken into coaching female athletes, female coaches 
have not experienced the same opportunities to coach male athletes. In 
1972, 99 percent of collegiate men's teams were coached by men, and the 
same is true today.[43] Title IX has increased opportunities for women 
in college athletic participation. Increasing female participation in sports 
has had a direct effect on women’s education and employment.[44] The changes 
set in motion by Title IX have explained about 20 percent of the increase 
in women’s education and about 40 percent of the rise in employment for 
25-to-34-year-old women.[44] In recent years[when?] a debate has arisen 
over whether college athletes should be paid.[45] Although the earliest 
of star athletes were known to have received a variety of types of compensation 
(including endorsement fees), benefits to college athletes outside of academic 
scholarships have largely been prohibited under NCAA governance. In the 
21st century, the high, rising income paid to some colleges by the media 
for transmitting games to their television audiences, has led some people 
to complain that the athletes should share in the colleges income.[25] 
There are arguments in favor of paying athletes. A few schools benefit 
from owning their own networks. The University of Texas owns The Longhorn 
Network and Brigham Young University owns BYUtv.[46] Paying college athletes 
would present several legal issues for the NCAA and its member institutions.[24] 
If paid, the athletes would lose their amateur status and become university 
employees.[24] As employees, these athletes would be entitled the National 
Labor Relations Act to form or join labor organizations and collectively 
bargain.[24] Advocacy groups for college players could certify as a union 
given the revenue involved in college athletics."[24] Students are not 
professional athletes who are paid salaries and incentives for a career 
in sports. They are students receiving access to a college education through 
their participation in sports, for which they earn scholarships to pay 
tuition, fees, room and board, and other allowable expenses. They chose 
to play sports, if they don't want to play they don't have to. Also, an 
athlete needs a college more than the college needs them. A college can 
replace the athlete easily[47] Collegiate sports is not a career or profession, 
paying college athletes would present issues under Title IX, which requires 
that institutions accepting federal funds offer equal opportunities to 
men and women."[24] About one in ten college teams help to generate a large 
net amount of revenue for their school, but the athletes are not personally 
rewarded for their contribution. This money is spread through administrators, 
athletic directors, coaches, media outlets, and other parties. None is 
given directly to the players. Collegiate athletics entails time-consuming, 
intense commitment to practice and play.[48] Only some athletic scholarships 
are "full rides", and many student-athletes are not able to afford dining, 
entertainment, and even some educational expenses.[49] Outside of summertime, 
when work is permitted, student-athletes have no extra time for work in 
addition to practice, training, and classes.[49] Paying student-athletes 
would give the athletes an incentive to stay in school and complete their 
degree programs, rather than leave early for the professional leagues.[49] 
They would be much less tempted to earn money by taking illegal payments 
and shaving points.[49] By not paying their athletes, colleges avoid paying 
workmen's-compensation benefits to the "hundreds" of college athletes incapacitated 
by injuries each year.[25] Furthermore, if an athlete receives a serious 
injury while on the field, the scholarship does not pay for the bill of 
the surgery. Colleges such as University of Connecticut (UConn), Syracuse 
University, and Kansas State University have some of the worst graduation 
rates in the country for their student-athletes. UConn has had a 25% graduation 
rate until recently[when?] when they improved to 50%. Yet, UConn still 
receives $1.4 million competing in the NCAA tournament, despite the low 
amount of graduates. Paying these athletes would give some incentive to 
stay and finish college.[50] In 2013, Steve Spurrier, the head football 
coach of the South Carolina Gamecocks, said that all 28 men's football 
and basketball coaches in South Carolina's conference, the SEC, favored 
paying athletes up to $300 per game for football players and a little less 
for basketball players. It would cost the SEC about $280,000 per year.[51][52] 
The College Athletes Players Association (CAPA) focuses on the idea of 
giving compensation to football and basketball players. The CACA has not 
decided if this will affect sports that do not make money for schools. 
The NCAA has rejected the definition of student-athletes a "employees".[53] 
Several college athletes have been accused of financial improprieties, 
including Reggie Bush, Cam Newton, and Johnny Manziel. A USA Today article 
takes issue with the critics because the terms had been drawn up by the 
colleges: For college athletes to be held to the terms and conditions of 
a one-year scholarship that have been set by the very authorities who financially 
benefit the most and render the athletes involved voiceless in the process 
is a glaring conflict of interest. In an article by usa today they state 
"Players in the NCAA's top-tier Division I bowl subdivision say they devote 
more than 43 hours a week to the sport during the season, and those in 
a couple of other sports — baseball and men's basketball — approach that 
commitment, an NCAA study shows." (Wieberg, USA Today) . . . The conditions 
of the athletic scholarship and transfer rules, prohibitions against agents, 
limits on due process, failure to deliver on the promise to educate, the 
unobstructed selling of athlete images, and the like are tools of exploitation 
that benefit college sport leaders while oppressing those who perform on 
the field."[54] Because of their demanding schedules most athletes have 
no time to make any additional money, making it difficult to help support 
needy family members. In 2010 ESPN published an article about Ohio State 
football players that had been sanctioned by the NCAA for accepting free 
tattoos and selling memorabilia they had earned.[55] However, there are 
many that argue that student athletes selling of personal and earned memorabilia 
is their right, with gray-areas where which the NCAA has a hard time justifying 
their punishments.[citation needed] After a number of efforts to go to 
trial against the NCAA's incoming revenue, a court date has been set. Former 
UCLA Bruin Ed O'Bannon along with Oscar Robertson and Bill Russell lead 
the lawsuit. The trial is scheduled to begin during the summer of 2014. 
Although the NCAA claims that their athletes have amateur status, the organization 
has made billions of dollars off of merchandise licenses. The NCAA has 
earned billions from broadcast revenues annually. By selling the image 
of their players, the NCAA is able to make money from each sport. O'Bannon 
has stated that some of this revenue should be spread out among the players 
who help bring in this cash to the NCAA.[56] ESPN analyst Jay Bilas showed 
how a person could search the NCAA website by player name and have the 
resulting school jersey appear.[57] In a 2014 court case brought by a few 
Northwestern University football players against the NCAA, argued that 
the players should be able to unionize and bargain collectively.[58] The 
court ruled in the players favor. The court's decision only applied to 
those football players at Northwestern on a scholarship. Required football 
practice and playing had reduced the time students could use to pursue 
their studies. Former player Kain Colter argued that athletic departments 
should decrease the maximum amount of hours a player must participate in 
a sport to remain part of the team and retain a scholarship. As it stands, 
50 hours a week is the maximum.[59] College athletes that receive a full 
scholarship to college already benefit from perks that the general student 
body does not receive. College athletes are able to take advantage of free 
room and board, the best dorm rooms on campus, free books and classes, 
and first choice of classes they want.[48] A college athlete can receive 
up to $120,000 in total scholarships; they already are being paid for their 
participation. "The average fair market value of top-tier college football 
and men’s basketball players is over $100,000 each. If college sports shared 
their revenues the way pro sports do, the average Football Bowl Subdivision 
player would be worth $121,000 per year, while the average basketball player 
at that level would be worth $265,000.[60] Out of 332 schools currently 
competing in the NCAA Division I, fewer than a dozen have athletic departments 
that are making a profit.[citation needed] 14 of the 120 programs that 
comprise the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) are profitable.[citation needed] 
88% of the top football programs in the country are losing money.[citation 
needed] Most universities are unable to pay for these athletes, along with 
the coaches and renovations on stadiums, out of money earned from athletics.[50] 
Kenny Mossman of the University of Oklahoma (OU), estimated that the cost 
to OU would be $3.6 million a year if stipends were $1,000 a month.[61] 
College athletes currently receive an enormous amount benefits when they 
step on campus. They are able to pick their classes before any other students. 
They also receive the best tutoring possible to ensure they will be eligible 
for their respective sport season. Many people make the argument today 
that they should be paid for all they do for the university. Some people 
also believe that they are already being paid. They are on the receiving 
end of more than a few benefits. Today, some schools can cost up $100,000 
by the end of a students senior year. College athletes have the benefit 
of not having the burden of paying their college off after school. They 
receive one of the most important assets an individual can receive for 
little or no cost. The current system is working fine, and college athletes 
do not need to be paid. Works Cited: O’shaugnessy, Lynn. “8 things you 
should know about sports scholarships.” CBSmoneywatch. CBS moneywatch, 
20 September 2012. Web. Apr. 17. 2016. <http://www.cbsnews.com/news/8-things-you-should-know-about-sports-scholarships/> 
"The NCAA also is setting up a $17 million Student-Athlete Opportunity 
Fund that has no financial-need restrictions. It's to be used for "educational 
and developmental opportunities." [Nebraska Proposal, 2009]. This debate 
has caused certain elite colleges to take caution asking athletes to sign 
forms that prevent them from suing the college. The signed forms gives 
the college full imagery benefits, allowing them to use their names to 
sell team T-shirts and jerseys. Insurance wise - a plan proposed by William 
E. Kirwan, Ohio State University President, would insure athletes against 
injuries and mishaps during workouts, practices and games.[62] Because 
of title IX, all college athletes would have to be paid, including athletes 
playing for teams that do not produce a lot of revenue.[citation needed] 
College sponsored sports would be cut in order to make a business case 
for paying athletes work economically.[citation needed] Colleges would 
still be able to field "club teams" for those sports. "Club team" players 
almost never receive scholarships and are truly amateur athletes in every 
sense of the word. Non-revenue sports would suffer. Over all the sports 
available to division one programs, only Football and Basketball actually 
make a profit, with the exception of Baseball in very few instances. The 
rest of the sports either break even or, more often than not, cost the 
school more than they contribute. Larger universities would be the only 
ones able to pay their football/basketball players while supporting smaller 
market sports and are very few colleges fall into this category.[63] The 
colleges that do happen to fall into this category are in five out of the 
33 division one conferences. Non-revenue sports likely will be thinned 
out, high school athletes will lose the chance to continue competing and 
a larger emphasis on collegiate competition will take place within the 
power five conferences. Every year, the United States Military Academy 
(Army) Black Knights face the Royal Military College of Canada (RMC) Paladins 
in the annual West Point Weekend ice hockey game.[68] This series, conceived 
in 1923, is claimed as the longest-running uninterrupted annual international 
