The College of Coaches was an unorthodox strategy employed by the Chicago 
Cubs in 1961 and 1962. After the Cubs finished 60–94 in 1960, their 14th 
straight second-division finish, Cubs owner P. K. Wrigley announced in 
December 1960 that the Cubs would no longer have a manager, but would be 
led by an eight-man committee. The experiment was widely ridiculed in baseball 
circles, and was effectively ended in 1962 before being completely abandoned 
in 1965. After the 1960 season, Wrigley went to backup catcher and coach 
El Tappe for his input on a successor to Charlie Grimm. Tappe said years 
later that he suggested Wrigley not allow the manager to bring in his own 
coaches, as was standard practice. Rather, he suggested Wrigley bring in 
eight veterans from the Cubs organization as coaches—four for the minors 
and four for the Cubs. Tappe believed that if the coaches remained the 
same during inevitable managerial changes, the franchise would still have 
some consistency. Wrigley liked this idea, but added a twist—one of the 
coaches should also fill the manager's role.[1] The Cubs officially rolled 
out the College of Coaches during 1961 spring training. The original "faculty" 
included Tappe, Grimm, Goldie Holt, Bobby Adams, Harry Craft, Verlon Walker, 
Ripper Collins and Vedie Himsl. Each coach would serve as "head coach" 
for part of the season. The original concept called for the eight coaches 
to rotate through the entire organization from the low minors all the way 
to the Cubs, ensuring a standard system of play. Additionally, Wrigley 
argued that it would be better for the players to be exposed to the wisdom 
and experience of eight men rather than just one. In announcing the experiment, 
Wrigley argued, "Managers are expendable. I believe there should be relief 
managers just like relief pitchers." He also contended that the manager 
system was nepotistic and led to constant turnover. However, there was 
no discernible pattern in the coaching rotation. The head coach position 
rotated among four different men in 1961 and three more in 1962. Occasionally 
the various coaches were at odds with each other. Each coach brought a 
different playing style and a different lineup. Additionally, according 
to relief pitcher Don Elston, the other coaches didn't bother to help the 
"head coach", leaving whoever was in charge to fend for himself.[2] Without 
firm and consistent leadership, chaos reigned in the Cubs' dugout. Most 
of the Cubs farm teams also employed multiple managers because of the College 
of Coaches concept. For instance, Lou Klein, who joined the College midway 
through the 1961 season, found himself leading teams ranging from Class 
D (the equivalent of a Rookie-level team today) to the parent club during 
the 1961 season. Under the circumstances, the result was predictable. In 
1961, the Cubs finished with a 64–90 record, seventh in the eight-team 
National League, which was actually a slight improvement over the previous 
year. The 1962 season brought the worst record in Cubs history, as they 
finished 59–103, in ninth place in the expanded NL; only the first-year 
New York Mets, who lost 120 games, finished lower. Chicago finished six 
games behind the second expansion team, the Houston Colt .45s, in the standings. 
One anonymous player told the Chicago Tribune that he'd never been on a 
club with lower morale in his career. Before the 1963 season, Wrigley designated 
one member of the College, Bob Kennedy, as sole head coach for at least 
two seasons. As early as the 1961–62 offseason, however, Wrigley had hinted 
that the Cubs might have a single head coach for an entire season. At the 
same time, Wrigley named an "athletic director" to coordinate the system, 
a concept borrowed from American universities. He hired Bob Whitlow, a 
former United States Air Force colonel with no baseball experience, to 
fill the post, although team vice president John Holland remained the club's 
nominal general manager.[3] Whitlow was disliked by the players for a number 
of reasons. In a move that particularly rankled the players, he tried to 
improve the batters' background at Wrigley Field by constructing a fence 
atop the wall in straightaway center field and allowed the ivy to twine 
its way up, thus forming a solid background of ivy. This resulted in several 
would-be home runs staying in play. To the minds of players, sportswriters 
and fans, this was proof that Whitlow was in over his head. Under Kennedy, 
the Cubs finished 82–80 in 1963—their first winning campaign since 1946. 
This led Kennedy to assert a more traditional managerial authority over 
the team, though he still retained the title of head coach. However, they 
would sink back toward the bottom of the NL standings in 1964, when they 
went 76–86 and finished eighth. Kennedy was shifted to the front office 
in June 1965 and replaced by Klein, who finished out the season; the Cubs 
went 72–90 and remained in eighth place. In November, Wrigley hired Leo 
Durocher to replace Klein. At his press conference, Durocher emphatically 
ended the College of Coaches experiment by declaring himself manager, with 
Wrigley's blessing. The College of Coaches, which has never been attempted 
by another Major League Baseball team, remains widely ridiculed to this 
day. Despite having several Cubs legends and fan favorites in the lineup 
during this time—such as Ernie Banks, Billy Williams and Ron Santo—the 
Cubs never finished higher than seventh during the four-year experiment, 
tallied only one winning record, and were never fewer than 17 games out 
of first. However, the concept of a "system" throughout all levels of the 
farm clubs, and of a significant number of specialty coaches, pioneered 
by the Brooklyn Dodgers, Baltimore Orioles, and other teams before the 
College of Coaches was created, is used by every major league club today. 
* Craft, Himsl, Klein, Lockman, Tappe and Walker also served as Chicago 
coaches either immediately before or immediately after the College of Coaches 
experiment. ** In 1960, the season before the College was implemented, 
Grimm was the manager of the Cubs from April 12 to May 4; he then was succeeded 
by Lou Boudreau and finished the year as a Cubs' broadcaster, before returning 
