                    The Colorado Rockies were an American professional 
ice hockey team in the National Hockey League (NHL) that played in Denver, 
Colorado, from 1976 to 1982. They were originally founded as the Kansas 
City Scouts, an expansion team that began play in the NHL in the 1974–75 season. 
The Scouts moved from Kansas City, Missouri to Denver for the 1976–77 season. 
The franchise moved to East Rutherford, New Jersey, for the 1982–83 season 
and was renamed as the New Jersey Devils. The NHL would not return to Denver 
until the Quebec Nordiques moved there to become the Colorado Avalanche 
following the 1994–95 season. Ivan Mullenix, owner of the Central Hockey 
League's Denver Spurs, had been awarded a "conditional" NHL franchise for 
the 1976–77 season. With McNichols Sports Arena already complete by 1975, 
he looked to enter the NHL a year early, and the league attempted to broker 
an arrangement by which he would acquire the struggling California Golden 
Seals franchise and move them to Denver in lieu of an expansion team. At 
the same time, the Pittsburgh Penguins would be sold to a Seattle-based 
group that had also won a conditional franchise for that city. The proposed 
arrangement fell through, and with the continuing franchise difficulties, 
the NHL called off the 1976–77 expansion. The Spurs then elected to move 
to the World Hockey Association (WHA) for the 1975–76 season, but low attendance, 
financial difficulties and rumors that the NHL was preparing to move the 
Seals or Kansas City Scouts to Denver prompted Mullenix to move the Spurs 
to Ottawa almost halfway through the season. The Ottawa Civics lasted only 
two weeks before folding. The Seals ultimately relocated to Cleveland for 
the 1976–77 season, where they played for two years as the Barons before 
merging with the Minnesota North Stars prior to the 1978–79 season. Meanwhile, 
the Scouts were on the verge of collapse despite having entered the NHL 
only two years earlier. Although they suffered a 12 win season in 1975–76, 
they had fared somewhat better on the ice over their first two years than 
their expansion cousins, the Washington Capitals. However, their ownership 
group lacked the resources and patience to handle the typical struggles 
of an expansion team. Additionally, the Scouts were hobbled by an economic 
downturn in the Midwest. Facing almost $1 million in debt, the Scouts mounted 
a season ticket drive to raise revenue. However, when they only managed 
to sell 2,000 tickets, the Scouts' owners decided to pull up stakes and 
get out. The team was sold to a Denver-based group headed by Jack Vickers, 
who moved the team to Denver as the Rockies. Unfortunately, the situation 
did not improve significantly. In six seasons in Denver, the Rockies made 
the Stanley Cup playoffs only once, in the 1977–78 season. Even then, they 
finished with the sixth-worst record in the league, 21 games under .500. 
However, the Smythe Division was so weak that year that the team finished 
second behind the Chicago Black Hawks, the only team in the division with 
a .500 record. This allowed them to edge out the Vancouver Canucks for 
the last playoff spot by only two points (in those days, the division runners-up 
were guaranteed a playoff spot). The Rockies went down rather meekly in 
the first round, losing to the Philadelphia Flyers in a two-game sweep. 
They would not make the playoffs again until 1988 – their sixth year in 
New Jersey. They not only never had a winning record in their six years 
in Denver, but never even approached the .500 mark. The Rockies did have 
some star players for a short time. Barry Beck set a record in his rookie 
year for goals by a rookie defenseman, and Lanny McDonald was traded to 
the Rockies by Toronto. In addition, the team at various times had such 
players as Chico Resch, Wilf Paiement, Rene Robert, Rob Ramage and Bobby 
Schmautz. However, the team always had a lack of overall depth and traded 
such quality for quantity. The team was also plagued by instability. In 
four years, the Rockies had seven coaches, none lasting more than one full 
season. Ownership changed hands twice in four years. Attendance was fairly 
respectable, considering that the team was barely competitive on the ice 
and unstable off it. One of the few bright spots in the franchise's history 
was during the 1979–80 season when the flamboyant Don Cherry, a former 
Jack Adams Award winner, was named head coach after being fired by the 
Boston Bruins. Under Cherry, the Rockies adopted the motto "Come to the 
fights and watch a Rockies game break out!" This could be seen on billboards 
all over Denver in the 1979–80 season. However, as he later admitted, Cherry's 
outspokenness and feuding with Rockies general manager Ray Miron did not 
endear him to the front office. While Cherry did much to motivate the players, 
goaltending was still the team's weakness as Miron refused to replace Hardy 
Astrom, whom Cherry dubbed "The Swedish Sieve". Cherry recalled one game 
where his players had got ten shots on goal without scoring, but Astrom 
then conceded a goal from the opponent's first shot and so was yanked from 
net. The Rockies finished with 51 points, tied for the worst record in 
the league. In their final game, which was held at home, Cherry's team 
defeated the Penguins 5–0. As it was already known that Cherry would not 
be back next season, he wore a cowboy hat and cowboy boots for what would 
be his last NHL game. After the final buzzer sounded his players formed 
two lines for him, with sticks raised to form an arch to walk between while 
he acknowledged the cheers of the crowd. In 1978, New Jersey trucking magnate 
Arthur Imperatore, Sr. bought the Rockies with the intention of moving 
them to northern New Jersey. However, the NHL vetoed the move because the 
Brendan Byrne Arena, where Imperatore intended to have the team play, was 
still under construction, and there was no arena in New Jersey that was 
suitable even for temporary use. Finally in 1982, after a bid by an Ottawa-based 
ownership group intent on moving the Rockies to the Canadian capital fell 
through, Imperatore sold the Rockies to another New Jersey multi-millionaire, 
shipping tycoon John McMullen (who, at the time, also owned the Houston 
Astros). He announced that he had "big plans" for the franchise, but they 
involved making the long-awaited move to New Jersey. The team was relocated 
for the 1982–83 season and renamed the New Jersey Devils. The last active 
NHL player who had played for the Rockies was Joe Cirella, who retired 
from the NHL following the 1995–96 NHL season and played his final professional 
season for the Cologne Sharks in Germany. In that season, incidentally, 
Colorado saw hockey return to Denver as the Quebec Nordiques moved to the 
city and became known as the Colorado Avalanche. As well, Rockies draft 
pick Bruce Driver played in the NHL until 1998, but did not join the team 
until 1983, after their move to New Jersey. Two other former Rockies, Paul 
Gagne and Rich Chernomaz, played until 1999 in the Swiss and German leagues, 
respectively. The 2001 Stanley Cup Finals pitted both teams that had called 
Colorado home in their histories, with the Avalanche defeating the Devils 
in seven games. The Avalanche won game seven in Denver, and the victory 
enabled Ray Bourque to retire as a Stanley Cup champion (to that point, 
he had yet to win the Cup). The Rockies are credited as being the first 
team to use the Gary Glitter song "Rock and Roll, Part 2" at a sporting 
event. The team played it after every goal scored by a Rockies player. 
Other NHL teams picked up on this practice, as did teams in other leagues,[1] 
until Glitter's child sex offenses caused teams to distance themselves 
from Glitter's music.[2] The NHL Colorado Rockies should not be confused 
with the Major League Baseball team of the same name that began playing 
in the National League in 1993. Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = 
Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM 
= Penalties in minutes Note: This list does not include selections as the 
