Colorado (i/kɒləˈrædoʊ/,[8] or /kɒləˈrɑːdoʊ/[9]) is a state in the United 
States encompassing most of the Southern Rocky Mountains as well as the 
northeastern portion of the Colorado Plateau and the western edge of the 
Great Plains. Colorado is part of the Western United States, the Southwestern 
United States, and the Mountain States. Colorado is the 8th most extensive 
and the 22nd most populous of the 50 United States. The United States Census 
Bureau estimates that the population of Colorado was 5,456,574 on July 
1, 2015, an increase of 8.50% since the 2010 United States Census.[2] The 
state was named for the Colorado River, which Spanish travelers named the 
Río Colorado for the ruddy (Spanish: colorado) silt the river carried from 
the mountains. The Territory of Colorado was organized on February 28, 
1861, and on August 1, 1876, U.S. President Ulysses S. Grant signed Proclamation 
230 admitting Colorado to the Union as the 38th state. Colorado is nicknamed 
the "Centennial State" because it became a state in the same year as the 
centennial of the United States Declaration of Independence. Colorado is 
bordered by Wyoming to the north, Nebraska to the northeast, Kansas to 
the east, Oklahoma to the southeast, New Mexico to the south, Utah to the 
west, and Arizona to the southwest, at the Four Corners. Colorado is noted 
for its vivid landscape of mountains, forests, high plains, mesas, canyons, 
plateaus, rivers, and desert lands. Denver is the capital and the most 
populous city of Colorado. Residents of the state are properly known as 
"Coloradans", although the term "Coloradoan" has been used archaically 
and lives on in the title of Fort Collins' newspaper, the Coloradoan.[10][11] 
Colorado is notable for its diverse geography, ranging from alpine mountains, 
arid plains and deserts with huge sand dunes, deep canyons, sandstone and 
granite rock formations, rivers, lakes, and lush forests. The borders of 
Colorado were originally defined to be lines of latitude and longitude, 
making its shape a latitude-longitude quadrangle which stretches from 37°N 
to 41°N latitude and from 102°03'W to 109°03'W longitude (25°W to 32°W 
from the Washington Meridian).[12] Colorado, Wyoming and Utah are the only 
states which have boundaries defined solely by lines of latitude and longitude. 
The summit of Mount Elbert at 14,440 feet (4,401.2 m) elevation in Lake 
County is the highest point in Colorado and the Rocky Mountains of North 
America.[4] Colorado is the only U.S. state that lies entirely above 1,000 
meters elevation. The point where the Arikaree River flows out of Yuma 
County, Colorado, and into Cheyenne County, Kansas, is the lowest point 
in Colorado at 3,317 feet (1,011 m) elevation. This point, which holds 
the distinction of being the highest low elevation point of any state,[5][13] 
is higher than the high elevation points of 18 states and the District 
of Columbia. A little less than one half of the area of Colorado is flat 
and rolling land. East of the Rocky Mountains are the Colorado Eastern 
Plains of the High Plains, the section of the Great Plains within Nebraska 
at elevations ranging from roughly 3,350 to 7,500 feet (1,020 to 2,290 m).[14] 
The Colorado plains are usually thought of as prairies, but actually they 
have many patches of deciduous forests, buttes, and canyons, much like 
the high plains in New Mexico as well. Eastern Colorado is presently mainly 
covered in farmland, along with small farming villages and towns. Precipitation 
is fair, averaging from 15 to 25 inches (380 to 640 mm) annually.[15] Corn, 
wheat, hay, soybeans, and oats are all typical crops, and most of the villages 
and towns in this region boast both a water tower and a grain elevator. 
As well as the farming of crops, Eastern Colorado has a good deal of livestock 
raising, such as at cattle ranches and hog farms and irrigation water is 
available from the South Platte, the Arkansas River, and a few other streams, 
and also from subterranean sources, including artesian wells. However, 
heavy use of ground water from wells for irrigation has caused underground 
water reserves to decline. Roughly 70% of Colorado's population resides 
along the eastern edge of the Rocky Mountains in the Front Range Urban 
Corridor between Cheyenne, Wyoming, and Pueblo, Colorado. This region is 
partially protected from prevailing storms that blow in from the Pacific 
Ocean region by the high Rockies in the middle of Colorado. The "Front 
Range" includes Denver, Boulder, Fort Collins, Loveland, Colorado Springs, 
Pueblo, Greeley and other townships and municipalities in between. On the 
other side of the Rockies, the significant population centers in Western 
Colorado (which is not considered the "Front Range") are the cities of 
Grand Junction, Durango, and Montrose. The Continental Divide of the Americas 
extends along the crest of the Rocky Mountains. The area of Colorado to 
the west of the Continental Divide is called the Western Slope of Colorado. 
Drainage water west of the Continental Divide flows to the southwest via 
the Colorado River and the Green River into the Gulf of California. Within 
the interior of the Rocky Mountains are several large parks which are high 
broad basins. In the north, on the east side of the Continental Divide 
is the North Park of Colorado. The North Park is drained by the North Platte 
River, which flows north into Wyoming and Nebraska. Just to the south of 
North Park, but on the western side of the Continental Divide, is the Middle 
Park of Colorado, which is drained by the Colorado River. The South Park 
of Colorado is the region of the headwaters of the South Platte River. 
In southmost Colorado is the large San Luis Valley, where the headwaters 
of the Rio Grande are located. The valley sits between the Sangre De Cristo 
Mountains and San Juan Mountains, and consists of large desert lands that 
eventually run into the mountains. The Rio Grande drains due south into 
New Mexico, Mexico, and Texas. Across the Sangre de Cristo Range to the 
east of the San Luis Valley lies the Wet Mountain Valley. These basins, 
particularly the San Luis Valley, lie along the Rio Grande Rift, a major 
geological formation of the Rocky Mountains, and its branches. To the west 
of the Great Plains of Colorado rises the eastern slope of the Rocky Mountains. 
Notable peaks of the Rocky Mountains include Longs Peak, Mount Evans, Pikes 
Peak, and the Spanish Peaks near Walsenburg, in southern Colorado. This 
area drains to the east and the southeast, ultimately either via the Mississippi 
River or the Rio Grande into the Gulf of Mexico. The Rocky Mountains within 
Colorado contain about 53 peaks that are 14,000 feet (4,267 m) or higher 
in elevation above sea level, known as fourteeners.[16] These mountains 
are largely covered with trees such as conifers and aspens up to the tree 
line, at an elevation of about 12,140 feet (3,700 m) in southern Colorado 
to about 10,500 feet (3,200 m) in northern Colorado. Above this only alpine 
vegetation grows. Only small parts of the Colorado Rockies are snow-covered 
year round. Much of the alpine snow melts by mid-August with the exception 
of a few snowcapped peaks and a few small glaciers. The Colorado Mineral 
Belt, stretching from the San Juan Mountains in the southwest to Boulder 
and Central City on the front range, contains most of the historic gold- 
and silver-mining districts of Colorado. Mount Elbert is the highest summit 
of the Rocky Mountains. The 30 highest major summits of the Rocky Mountains 
of North America all lie within the state. The Western Slope of Colorado 
is drained by the Colorado River and its tributaries (primarily the Gunnison 
River, Green River and the San Juan River) or by evaporation in its arid 
areas. The Colorado River flows through Glenwood Canyon and then through 
an arid valley made up of desert from Rifle to Parachute, through the desert 
canyon of De Beque Canyon, and into the arid desert of Grand Valley, where 
the city of Grand Junction is located. Also prominent in or near the southern 
portion of the Western Slope are the Grand Mesa, which lies to the southeast 
of Grand Junction; the high San Juan Mountains, a rugged mountain range; 
and to the west of the San Juan Mountains, the Colorado Plateau, a high 
arid region that borders Southern Utah. The city of Grand Junction, Colorado 
is the largest city on the Western Slope. Grand Junction and Durango are 
the only major centers of television broadcasting west of the Continental 
Divide in Colorado, though most mountain resort communities publish daily 
newspapers. Higher education in and near the Western Slope can be found 
at Colorado Mesa University in Grand Junction, Western State College of 
Colorado in Gunnison, Fort Lewis College in Durango, and Colorado Mountain 
College in Glenwood Springs and Steamboat Springs. Grand Junction is located 
along Interstate 70, the only major highway in Western Colorado. Grand 
Junction is also along the major railroad of the Western Slope, the Union 
Pacific. This railroad also provides the tracks for Amtrak's California 
Zephyr passenger train, which crosses the Rocky Mountains between Denver 
and Grand Junction via a route on which there are no continuous highways. 
The Western Slope lies in close proximity to multiple notable destinations 
in the Colorado Rocky Mountains, including Glenwood Springs, with its resort 
hot springs, and the ski resorts of Aspen, Breckenridge, Vail, Crested 
Butte, Steamboat Springs, and Telluride. The northwestern corner of Colorado 
is a sparsely populated region, and it contains part of the noted Dinosaur 
National Monument, which is not only a paleontological area, but is also 
a scenic area of rocky hills, canyons, arid desert, and streambeds. Here, 
the Green River briefly crosses over into Colorado. From west to east, 
the land of Colorado consists of desert lands, desert plateaus, alpine 
mountains, National Forests, relatively flat grasslands, scattered forests, 
buttes, and canyons in the western edge of the Great Plains. The famous 
Pikes Peak is located just west of Colorado Springs. Its isolated peak 
is visible from nearly the Kansas border on clear days, and also far to 
the north and the south.[17] Desert lands in Colorado are located in and 
around areas such as the Pueblo, Canon City, Florence, Great Sand Dunes 
National Park and Preserve, San Luis Valley, Cortez, Canyon of the Ancients 
National Monument, Hovenweep National Monument, Ute Mountain, Delta, Grand 
Junction, Colorado National Monument, and other areas surrounding the Uncompahgre 
Plateau and Uncompahgre National Forest. Colorado is one of four states 
in the United States that share a common geographic point the Four Corners 
together with Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah. At this intersection, it is 
possible to stand in four states at once. The climate of Colorado is more 
complex than states outside of the Mountain States region. Unlike most 
other states, southern Colorado is not always warmer than northern Colorado. 
Most of Colorado is made up of mountains, foothills, high plains, and desert 
lands. Mountains and surrounding valleys greatly affect local climate. 
As a general rule, with an increase in elevation comes a decrease in temperature 
and an increase in precipitation. Northeast, east, and southeast Colorado 
are mostly the high plains, while Northern Colorado is a mix of high plains, 
foothills, and mountains. Northwest and west Colorado are predominantly 
mountainous, with some desert lands mixed in. Southwest and southern Colorado 
are a complex mixture of desert and mountain areas. The climate of the 
Eastern Plains is semiarid (Köppen climate classification: BSk) with low 
humidity and moderate precipitation, usually from 15 to 25 in (380 to 640 mm) 
annually. The area is known for its abundant sunshine and cool, clear nights, 
which give this area a great average diurnal temperature range. The difference 
between the highs of the days and the lows of the nights can be considerable 
as warmth dissipates to the space during clear nights, the heat radiation 
not being trapped by clouds. The Front Range urban corridor, where most 
of the population of Colorado resides, lies in a pronounced precipitation 
shadow as a result of being on the lee side of the Rocky Mountains.[18] 
In summer, this area can have many days above 95 °F (35 °C) and often 100 °F 
(38 °C).[19] On the plains, the winter lows usually range from 25 to −10 °F 
(−4 to −23 °C). About 75% of the precipitation falls within the growing 
season, from April to September, but this area is very prone to droughts. 
Most of the precipitation comes from thunderstorms, which can be severe, 
and from major snowstorms that occur in the winter and early spring. Otherwise, 
winters tend to be mostly dry and cold.[20] In much of the region, March 
is the snowiest month. April and May are normally the rainiest months, 
while April is the wettest month overall. The Front Range cities closer 
to the mountains tend to be warmer in the winter due to Chinook winds which 
warm the area, sometimes bringing temperatures of 70 °F (21 °C) or higher 
in the winter.[20] The average July temperature is 55 °F (13 °C) in the 
morning and 90 °F (32 °C) in the afternoon. The average January temperature 
is 18 °F (−8 °C) in the morning and 48 °F (9 °C) in the afternoon, although 
variation between consecutive days can be 40 °F (20 °C). West of the plains 
and foothills, the weather of Colorado is much less uniform. Even places 
a few miles apart can experience entirely different weather depending on 
the topography of the area. Most valleys have a semi-arid climate, which 
becomes an alpine climate at higher elevations. Humid microclimates also 
exist in some areas. Generally, the wettest season in western Colorado 
is winter while June is the driest month. The mountains have mild summers 
with many days of high temperatures between 60 and 85 °F (16 and 29 °C), 
although thunderstorms can cause sudden but brief drops in temperature. 
The winters bring abundant, powdery snowfall to the mountains with plenty 
of sunshine between major storms. The western slope has high summer temperatures 
similar to those found on the plains, while the winters tend to be slightly 
cooler due to the lack of warming winds common to the plains and Front 
Range. Other areas in the west have their own unique climate. Extreme weather 
changes are common in Colorado, although the majority of extreme weather 
occurs in the least populated areas of the state. Thunderstorms are common 
east of the Continental Divide in the spring and summer, yet are usually 
brief. Hail is a common sight in the mountains east of the divide and in 
the northwest part of the state. The Eastern Plains have had some of the 
biggest hail storms in North America.[15] The Eastern Plains are part of 
the extreme western portion of Tornado Alley; some damaging tornadoes in 
the Eastern Plains include the 1990 Limon F3 tornado and the 2008 Windsor 
EF3 tornado, which devastated the small town.[21] The plains are also susceptible 
to occasional floods, which are caused both by thunderstorms and by the 
rapid melting of snow in the mountains during warm weather. Notable examples 
include the Big Thompson River flooding of 1976 and the 2013 Colorado floods. 
Denver's record in 1901 for the number of consecutive days above 90 °F 
(32 °C) was broken during the summer of 2008. The new record of 24 consecutive 
days surpassed the previous record by almost a week.[22] Much of Colorado 
is a very dry state averaging only 17 in (430 mm) of precipitation per 
year statewide and rarely experiences a time when some portion of the state 
is not in some degree of drought.[23] The lack of precipitation contributes 
to the severity of wildfires in the state, such as the Hayman Fire, one 
of the largest wildfires in American history, and the Fourmile Canyon Fire 
of 2010, which until the Waldo Canyon Fire and High Park Fire of June 2012, 
and the Black Forest Fire of June 2013, was the most destructive wildfire 
in Colorado's recorded history. However, some of the mountainous regions 
of Colorado receive a huge amount of moisture from winter snowfalls. The 
spring melts of these snows often cause great waterflows in the Yampa River, 
the Colorado River, the Rio Grande, the Arkansas River, the North Platte 
River, and the South Platte River. Water flowing out of the Colorado Rocky 
Mountains is a very significant source of water for the farms, towns, and 
cities of the southwest states of New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, and Nevada, 
as well as the Midwest, such as Nebraska and Kansas, and the southern states 
of Oklahoma and Texas. A significant amount of water is also diverted for 
use in California; occasionally (formerly naturally and consistently), 
the flow of water reaches northern Mexico. The highest ambient air temperature 
ever recorded in Colorado was 118 °F (48 °C) on July 11, 1888, at Bennett. 
The lowest air temperature was −61 °F (−52 °C) on February 1, 1985, at 
Maybell.[24][25] Despite its mountainous terrain, Colorado is relatively 
quiescent seismically. The U.S. National Earthquake Information Center 
is located in Golden. On August 22, 2011, a 5.3 magnitude earthquake occurred 
nine miles west-southwest of the city of Trinidad.[27] There were no casualties 
and only a small amount of damage was reported. It was the second largest 
earthquake in Colorado. A magnitude 5.7 earthquake was recorded in 1973.[28] 
The region that is today the state of Colorado has been inhabited by Native 
Americans for more than 13,000 years. The Lindenmeier Site in Larimer County 
contains artifacts dating from approximately 11200 BC to 3000 BC. The eastern 
edge of the Rocky Mountains was a major migration route that was important 
to the spread of early peoples throughout the Americas. The Ancient Pueblo 
peoples lived in the valleys and mesas of the Colorado Plateau.[29] The 
Ute Nation inhabited the mountain valleys of the Southern Rocky Mountains 
and the Western Rocky Mountains, even as far east as the Front Range of 
present day. The Apache and the Comanche also inhabited Eastern and Southeastern 
parts of the state. At times, the Arapaho Nation and the Cheyenne Nation 
moved west to hunt across the High Plains. The U.S. acquired a territorial 
claim to the eastern Rocky Mountains with the Louisiana Purchase from France 
in 1803. This U.S. claim conflicted with the claim by Spain to the upper 
Arkansas River Basin as the exclusive trading zone of its colony of Santa 
Fé de Nuevo Méjico. In 1806, Zebulon Pike led a U.S. Army reconnaissance 
expedition into the disputed region. Colonel Pike and his men were arrested 
by Spanish cavalrymen in the San Luis Valley the following February, taken 
to Chihuahua, and expelled from Mexico the following July. The U.S. relinquished 
its claim to all land south and west of the Arkansas River and south of 
42nd parallel north and west of the 100th meridian west as part of its 
purchase of Florida from Spain with the Adams-Onís Treaty of 1819. The 
treaty took effect February 22, 1821. Having settled its border with Spain, 
the U.S. admitted the southeastern portion of the Territory of Missouri 
to the Union as the state of Missouri on August 10, 1821. The remainder 
of Missouri Territory, including what would become northeastern Colorado, 
became unorganized territory, and remained so for 33 years over the question 
of slavery. After 11 years of war, Spain finally recognized the independence 
of Mexico with the Treaty of Córdoba signed on August 24, 1821. Mexico 
eventually ratified the Adams-Onís Treaty in 1831. The Texian Revolt of 
1835–36 fomented a dispute between the U.S. and Mexico which eventually 
erupted into the Mexican–American War in 1846. Mexico surrendered its northern 
territory to the U.S. with the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo at the conclusion 
of the war in 1848. Most American settlers traveling overland west to the 
Oregon Country, namely the new goldfields of California, or the new Mormon 
settlements of the State of Deseret in the Salt Lake Valley, avoided the 
rugged Southern Rocky Mountains, and instead followed the North Platte 
River and Sweetwater River to South Pass (Wyoming), the lowest crossing 
of the Continental Divide between the Southern Rocky Mountains and the 
Central Rocky Mountains. In 1849, the Mormons of the Salt Lake Valley organized 
the extralegal State of Deseret, claiming the entire Great Basin and all 
lands drained by the rivers Green, Grand, and Colorado. The federal government 
of the U.S. flatly refused to recognize the new Mormon government, because 
it was theocratic and sanctioned plural marriage. Instead, the Compromise 
of 1850 divided the Mexican Cession and the northwestern claims of Texas 
into a new state and two new territories, the state of California, the 
Territory of New Mexico, and the Territory of Utah. On April 9, 1851, Mexican 
American settlers from the area of Taos settled the village of San Luis, 
then in the New Mexico Territory, later to become Colorado's first permanent 
Euro-American settlement. In 1854, Senator Stephen A. Douglas persuaded 
the U.S. Congress to divide the unorganized territory east of the Continental 
Divide into two new organized territories, the Territory of Kansas and 
the Territory of Nebraska, and an unorganized southern region known as 
the Indian territory. Each new territory was to decide the fate of slavery 
within its boundaries, but this compromise merely served to fuel animosity 
between free soil and pro-slavery factions. The gold seekers organized 
the Provisional Government of the Territory of Jefferson on August 24, 
1859, but this new territory failed to secure approval from the Congress 
of the United States embroiled in the debate over slavery. The election 
of Abraham Lincoln for the President of the United States on November 6, 
1860, led to the secession of nine southern slave states and the threat 
of civil war among the states. Seeking to augment the political power of 
the Union states, the Republican Party-dominated Congress quickly admitted 
the eastern portion of the Territory of Kansas into the Union as the free 
State of Kansas on January 29, 1861, leaving the western portion of the 
Kansas Territory, and its gold-mining areas, as unorganized territory. 
Thirty days later on February 28, 1861, outgoing U.S. President James Buchanan 
signed an Act of Congress organizing the free Territory of Colorado.[30] 
The original boundaries of Colorado remain unchanged today. The name Colorado 
was chosen because it was commonly believed that the Colorado River originated 
in the territory.[31] In 1776, Spanish priest Silvestre Vélez de Escalante 
recorded that Native Americans in the area knew the river as el Rio Colorado 
for the red-brown silt that the river carried from the mountains.[32] In 
1859, a U.S. Army topographic expedition led by Captain John Macomb located 
the confluence of the Green River with the Grand River in what is now Canyonlands 
National Park in Utah.[33] The Macomb party designated the confluence as 
the source of the Colorado River. On April 12, 1861, South Carolina artillery 
opened fire on Fort Sumter to start the American Civil War. While many 
gold seekers held sympathies for the Confederacy, the vast majority remained 
fiercely loyal to the Union cause. In 1862, a force of Texas cavalry invaded 
the Territory of New Mexico and captured Santa Fe on March 10. The object 
of this Western Campaign was to seize or disrupt the gold fields of Colorado 
and California and to seize ports on the Pacific Ocean for the Confederacy. 
A hastily organized force of Colorado volunteers force-marched from Denver 
City, Colorado Territory, to Glorieta Pass, New Mexico Territory, in an 
attempt to block the Texans. On March 28, the Coloradans and local New 
Mexico volunteers stopped the Texans at the Battle of Glorieta Pass, destroyed 
their cannon and supply wagons, and dispersed 500 of their horses and mules. 
The Texans were forced to retreat to Santa Fe. Having lost the supplies 
for their campaign and finding little support in New Mexico, the Texans 
abandoned Santa Fe and returned to San Antonio in defeat. The Confederacy 
made no further attempts to seize the Southwestern United States. In 1864, 
Territorial Governor John Evans appointed the Reverend John Chivington 
as Colonel of the Colorado Volunteers with orders to protect white settlers 
from Cheyenne and Arapaho warriors who were accused of stealing cattle. 
Colonel Chivington ordered his men to attack a band of Cheyenne and Arapaho 
encamped along Sand Creek. Chivington reported that his troops killed more 
than 500 warriors. The militia returned to Denver City in triumph, but 
several officers reported that the so-called battle was a blatant massacre 
of Indians at peace, that most of the dead were women and children, and 
that bodies of the dead had been hideously mutilated and desecrated. Three 
U.S. Army inquiries condemned the action, and incoming President Andrew 
Johnson asked Governor Evans for his resignation, but none of the perpetrators 
was ever punished. This event is now known as the Sand Creek massacre. 
In the midst and aftermath of Civil War, many discouraged prospectors returned 
to their homes, but a few stayed and developed mines, mills, farms, ranches, 
roads, and towns in Colorado Territory. On September 14, 1864, James Huff 
discovered silver near Argentine Pass, the first of many silver strikes. 
In 1867, the Union Pacific Railroad laid its tracks west to Weir, now Julesburg, 
in the northeast corner of the Territory. The Union Pacific linked up with 
the Central Pacific Railroad at Promontory Summit, Utah, on May 10, 1869, 
to form the First Transcontinental Railroad. The Denver Pacific Railway 
reached Denver in June the following year, and the Kansas Pacific arrived 
two months later to forge the second line across the continent. In 1872, 
rich veins of silver were discovered in the San Juan Mountains on the Ute 
Indian reservation in southwestern Colorado. The Ute people were removed 
from the San Juans the following year. The United States Congress passed 
an enabling act on March 3, 1875, specifying the requirements for the Territory 
of Colorado to become a state.[12] On August 1, 1876 (28 days after the 
Centennial of the United States), U.S. President Ulysses S. Grant signed 
a proclamation admitting Colorado to the Union as the 38th state and earning 
it the moniker "Centennial State".[34] The discovery of a major silver 
lode near Leadville in 1878 triggered the Colorado Silver Boom. The Sherman 
Silver Purchase Act of 1890 invigorated silver mining, and Colorado's last, 
but greatest, gold strike at Cripple Creek a few months later lured a new 
generation of gold seekers. Colorado women were granted the right to vote 
beginning on November 7, 1893, making Colorado the second state to grant 
universal suffrage and the first one by a popular vote (of Colorado men). 
The repeal of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act in 1893 led to a staggering 
collapse of the mining and agricultural economy of Colorado, but the state 
slowly and steadily recovered. Between the 1880s and 1930s, Denver's floriculture 
industry developed into a major industry in Colorado.[35][36] This period 
became known locally as the Carnation Gold Rush.[37] Colorado became the 
first western state to host a major political convention when the Democratic 
Party met in Denver in 1908. By the U.S. Census in 1930, the population 
of Colorado first exceeded one million residents. Colorado suffered greatly 
through the Great Depression and the Dust Bowl of the 1930s, but a major 
wave of immigration following World War II boosted Colorado's fortune. 
Tourism became a mainstay of the state economy, and high technology became 
an important economic engine. The United States Census Bureau estimated 
that the population of Colorado exceeded five million in 2009. Three warships 
of the U.S. Navy have been named the USS Colorado. The first USS Colorado 
was named for the Colorado River. The later two ships were named in honor 
of the state, including the battleship USS Colorado which served in World 
War II in the Pacific beginning in 1941. At the time of the Attack on Pearl 
Harbor, this USS Colorado was located at the naval base in San Diego, Calif. 
and hence went unscathed. The United States Census Bureau estimates that 
the population of Colorado was 5,456,574 on July 1, 2015, a 8.5% increase 
since the 2010 United States Census.[2] Colorado's most populous city, 
and capital, is Denver. The Denver-Aurora-Boulder Combined Statistical 
Area with an estimated 2013 population of 3,277,309, has 60% of the state's 
residents. The largest increases are expected in the Front Range Urban 
Corridor, especially in the Denver metropolitan area. The state's fastest-growing 
counties are Douglas and Weld.[39] The center of population of Colorado 
is located just north of the village of Critchell in Jefferson County.[40] 
According to the 2010 United States Census, Colorado had a population of 
5,029,196. Racial composition of the state's population was: People of 
Hispanic and Latino American (of any race made) heritage, made up 20.7% 
of the population.[44] According to the 2000 Census, the largest ancestry 
groups in Colorado are German (22%) including of Swiss and Austrian nationalities, 
Mexican (18%), Irish (12%), and English (12%). Persons reporting German 
ancestry are especially numerous in the Front Range, the Rockies (west-central 
counties) and Eastern parts/High Plains. Colorado has a high proportion 
of Hispanic, mostly Mexican-American, citizens in Metropolitan Denver, 
Colorado Springs, as well as the smaller cities of Greeley and Pueblo, 
and elsewhere. Colorado is well known for its strong Latino culture and 
presence. Southern, Southwestern, and Southeastern Colorado has a large 
number of Hispanos, the descendants of the early Mexican settlers of colonial 
Spanish origin. In 1940, the Census Bureau reported Colorado's population 
as 8.2% Hispanic and 90.3% non-Hispanic white.[45] The Hispanic population 
of Colorado has continued to grow quickly over the past decades. By 2012, 
Hispanics made up 21% of Colorado's population, and Non-Hispanic Whites 
made up 69%.[3] Colorado, like New Mexico, is very rich in Spanish idioms.[46] 
Colorado also has some large African-American communities located in Denver, 
in the neighborhoods of Montbello, Five Points, Whittier, and many other 
East Denver areas. A relatively large population of African Americans are 
also found in Colorado Springs on the east and southeast side of the city. 
The state has sizable numbers of Asian-Americans of Mongolian, Chinese, 
Filipino, Korean, Southeast Asian and Japanese descent. The highest population 
of Asian Americans can be found on the south and southeast side of Denver, 
as well as some on Denver's southwest side. The Denver metropolitan area 
is considered more liberal and diverse than much of the state when it comes 
to political issues and environmental concerns. There were a total of 70,331 
births in Colorado in 2006. (Birth rate of 14.6 per thousand.) In 2007, 
non-Hispanic whites were involved in 59.1% of all the births.[47] Some 
14.06% of those births involved a non-Hispanic white person and someone 
of a different race, most often with a couple including one Hispanic. A 
birth where at least one Hispanic person was involved counted for 43% of 
the births in Colorado.[48] As of the 2010 Census, Colorado has the seventh 
highest percentage of Hispanics (20.7%) in the U.S. behind New Mexico (46.3%), 
California (37.6%), Texas (37.6%), Arizona (29.6%), Nevada (26.5%), and 
Florida (22.5%). Per the 2000 census, the Hispanic population is estimated 
to be 918,899 or approximately 20% of the state total population. Colorado 
has the 5th largest population of Mexican-Americans behind California, 
Texas, Arizona, and Illinois. In percentages, Colorado has the 6th highest 
percentage of Mexican-Americans behind New Mexico, California, Texas, Arizona, 
and Nevada.[49] In 2011, 46% of Colorado's population younger than the 
age of one were minorities, meaning that they had at least one parent who 
was not non-Hispanic white.[50] Spanish is the second-most-spoken language 
in Colorado, after English [3]. There is one Native Coloradan language 
still spoken in Colorado, Colorado River Numic. Major religious affiliations 
of the people of Colorado are 64% Christian, of whom there are 44% Protestants, 
19% Roman Catholics, 3% Latter Day Saint/Mormon,[51] 2% Jews, 1% Muslim, 
1% Buddhist and 0.5% Hindu. The religiously unaffiliated make up 25% of 
the population.[52] The largest denominations by number of adherents in 
2010 were the Catholic Church with 811,630; non-denominational Evangelical 
Protestants with 229,981; and The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints with 142,473.[53] According to several studies, Coloradans have 
the lowest rates of obesity of any state in the US.[54] As of 2007[update], 
18% of the population was considered medically obese, and while the lowest 
in the nation, the percentage had increased from 17% in 2004. Former Colorado 
Governor Bill Ritter commented: "As an avid fisherman and bike rider, I 
know first-hand that Colorado provides a great environment for active, 
healthy lifestyles", although he highlighted the need for continued education 
and support to slow the growth of obesity in the state.[55] A number of 
film productions have shot on location in Colorado, especially prominent 
Westerns like True Grit, The Searchers and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance 
Kid. A number of historic military forts, railways with trains still operating, 
mining ghost towns have been utilized and transformed for historical accuracy 
in well known films. There are also a number of scenic highways and mountain 
passes that helped to feature the open road in films such as Vanishing 
Point, Bingo and Starman. Some Colorado landmarks have been featured in 
films, such as The Stanley Hotel in Dumb and Dumber and The Shining and 
the Sculptured House in Sleeper. In 2015, Furious 7 to film driving sequences 
Pikes Peak Highway in Colorado. The TV Series, Good Luck Charlie was being 
filmed in Denver, Colorado. The Colorado Office of Film and Television 
has noted that over 400 films have been shot in Colorado.[56] There are 
also a number of established film festivals in Colorado, including Aspen 
Shortsfest, Boulder International Film Festival, Castle Rock Film Festival, 
Denver Film Festival, Festivus film festival, Mile High Horror Film Festival, 
Moondance International Film Festival, Mountainfilm in Telluride, Rocky 
Mountain Women's Film Festival, and Telluride Film Festival. Colorado is 
known for its Southwest and Rocky Mountain cuisine. Mexican restaurants 
are prominent throughout the state. Boulder, Colorado was named America's 
Foodiest Town 2010 by Bon Appétit.[57] Boulder, and Colorado in general, 
is home to a number of national food and beverage companies, top-tier restaurants 
and farmers' markets. Boulder, Colorado also has more Master Sommeliers 
per capita than any other city, including San Francisco and New York.[58] 
The Food & Wine Classic is held annually each June in Aspen, Colorado. 
Aspen also has a reputation as the culinary capital of the Rocky Mountain 
region.[59] Denver is known for steak, but now has a diverse culinary scene 
with many top-tier restaurants.[60] Colorado wines include award-winning 
varietals that have attracted favorable notice from outside the state.[61] 
With wines made from traditional Vitis vinifera grapes along with wines 
made from cherries, peaches, plums and honey, Colorado wines have won top 
national and international awards for their quality.[62] Colorado's grape 
growing regions contain the highest elevation vineyards in the United States,[63] 
with most viticulture in the state practiced between 4,000 and 7,000 feet 
(1,219 and 2,134 m) above sea level. The mountain climate ensures warm 
summer days and cool nights. Colorado is home to two designated American 
Viticultural Areas of the Grand Valley AVA and the West Elks AVA,[64] where 
most of the vineyards in the state are located. However, an increasing 
number of wineries are located along the Front Range.[65] Colorado is home 
to many nationally praised microbreweries,[66] including New Belgium Brewing 
Company, Odell Brewing Company, Great Divide Brewing Company, and Oskar 
Blues Brewery. The area of northern Colorado near the between the cities 
of Denver, Boulder, and Fort Collins is known as the "Napa Valley of Beer" 
due to its high density of craft breweries.[67] Colorado is open to pot 
tourism.[68] With the adoption of their 64th state amendment In 2013 Colorado 
became the first state in the union to legalize the medicinal (2000), industrial 
(2013), and recreational (2014) use of marijuana. Colorado's marijuana 
industry sold 996 million dollars worth of marijuana in 2015.[69] Colorado 
regulates hemp as any part of the plant with less than 0.03% THC.[70] Amendment 
64, adopted by the voters in the 2014 general election, forces the Colorado 
state legislature to enact legislation governing the cultivation, processing 
and sale of recreational marijuana and industrial hemp.[71] On April 4, 
2014 Senate Bill 14-184 addressing oversight of Colorado's industrial hemp 
program was first introduced, ultimately being signed into law by Governor 
John Hickenlooper on May 31, 2014.[72] On November 7, 2000, 54% of Colorado 
voters passed Amendment 20, which amends the Colorado State constitution 
to allow the medical use of marijuana.[73] A patient's medical use of marijuana, 
within the following limits, is lawful: Currently Colorado has listed "eight 
medical conditions for which patients can use marijuana – cancer, glaucoma, 
HIV/AIDS, muscle spasms, seizures, severe pain, severe nausea and cachexia 
or dramatic weight loss and muscle atrophy."[75] Colorado Governor John 
Hickenlooper has allocated about half of the state's $13 million "Medical 
Marijuana Program Cash Fund"[76] to medical research in the 2014 budget.[77][78] 
On November 6, 2012, voters amended the state constitution to protect "personal 
use" of marijuana for adults, establishing a framework to regulate marijuana 
in a manner similar to alcohol.[79] The first recreational marijuana shops 
in Colorado, and by extension the United States, opened their doors on 
January 1, 2014.[80] In Colorado marijuana sales generate high amounts 
of tax money to be used for repairs, schools etc.[81] CNBC's list of "Top 
States for Business for 2010" has recognized Colorado as the third best 
state in the nation, falling short to only Texas and Virginia.[82] The 
total state product in 2015 was $318,600 billion.[83] Per capita personal 
income in 2010 was $51 940, ranking Colorado 11th in the nation.[84] The 
state's economy broadened from its mid-19th century roots in mining when 
irrigated agriculture developed, and by the late 19th century, raising 
livestock had become important. Early industry was based on the extraction 
and processing of minerals and agricultural products. Current agricultural 
products are cattle, wheat, dairy products, corn, and hay. The federal 
government is also a major economic force in the state with many important 
federal facilities including NORAD (North American Aerospace Defense Command), 
United States Air Force Academy, Schriever Air Force Base located approximately 
10 miles (16 kilometers) east of Peterson Air Force Base, and Fort Carson, 
both located in Colorado Springs within El Paso County; NOAA, the National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in Golden, and the National Institute 
of Standards and Technology in Boulder; U.S. Geological Survey and other 
government agencies at the Denver Federal Center near Lakewood; the Denver 
Mint, Buckley Air Force Base, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals and the 
Byron G. Rogers Federal Building and United States Courthouse in Denver; 
and a federal Supermax Prison and other federal prisons near Cañon City. 
In addition to these and other federal agencies, Colorado has abundant 
National Forest land and four National Parks that contribute to federal 
ownership of 24,615,788 acres (99,617 km2) of land in Colorado, or 37% 
of the total area of the state.[85] In the second half of the 20th century, 
the industrial and service sectors have expanded greatly. The state's economy 
is diversified and is notable for its concentration of scientific research 
and high-technology industries. Other industries include food processing, 
transportation equipment, machinery, chemical products, the extraction 
of metals such as gold (see Gold mining in Colorado), silver, and molybdenum. 
Colorado now also has the largest annual production of beer of any state.[86] 
Denver is an important financial center. A number of nationally known brand 
names have originated in Colorado factories and laboratories. From Denver 
came the forerunner of telecommunications giant Qwest in 1879, Samsonite 
luggage in 1910, Gates belts and hoses in 1911, and Russell Stover Candies 
in 1923. Kuner canned vegetables began in Brighton in 1864. From Golden 
came Coors beer in 1873, CoorsTek industrial ceramics in 1920, and Jolly 
Rancher candy in 1949. CF&I railroad rails, wire, nails and pipe debuted 
in Pueblo in 1892. Holly Sugar was first milled from beets in Holly in 
1905, and later moved its headquarters to Colorado Springs. The present-day 
Swift packed meat of Greeley evolved from Monfort of Colorado, Inc., established 
in 1930. Estes model rockets were launched in Penrose in 1958. Fort Collins 
has been the home of Woodward Governor Company's motor controllers (governors) 
since 1870, and Waterpik dental water jets and showerheads since 1962. 
Celestial Seasonings herbal teas have been made in Boulder since 1969. 
Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory made its first candy in Durango in 1981. 
Colorado has a flat 4.63% income tax, regardless of income level. Unlike 
most states, which calculate taxes based on federal adjusted gross income, 
Colorado taxes are based on taxable income – income after federal exemptions 
and federal itemized (or standard) deductions.[87][88] Colorado's state 
sales tax is 2.9% on retail sales. When state revenues exceed state constitutional 
limits, according to Colorado's Taxpayer Bill of Rights legislation, full-year 
Colorado residents can claim a sales tax refund on their individual state 
income tax return. Many counties and cities charge their own rates in addition 
to the base state rate. There are also certain county and special district 
taxes that may apply. Real estate and personal business property are taxable 
in Colorado. The state's senior property tax exemption was temporarily 
suspended by the Colorado Legislature in 2003. The tax break is scheduled 
to return for assessment year 2006, payable in 2007. As of August 2014, 
the state's unemployment rate is 5.3%.[89] Major philanthropic organizations 
based in Colorado, include the Daniels Fund, the Anschutz Family Foundation, 
the Gates Family Foundation, the El Pomar Foundation and the Boettcher 
Foundation grant each year from approximately $7 billion[90] of assets. 
Colorado has significant hydrocarbon resources. According to the Energy 
Information Administration, Colorado hosts seven of the Nation's 100 largest 
natural gas fields and two of its 100 largest oil fields. Conventional 
and unconventional natural gas output from several Colorado basins typically 
account for more than 5 percent of annual U.S. natural gas production. 
Colorado's oil shale deposits hold an estimated 1 trillion barrels (160 km3) 
of oil – nearly as much oil as the entire world's proven oil reserves; 
the economic viability of the oil shale, however, has not been demonstrated.[91] 
Substantial deposits of bituminous, subbituminous, and lignite coal are 
found in the state. Uranium mining in Colorado, United States, goes back 
to 1872, when pitchblende ore was taken from gold mines near Central City, 
Colorado. The Colorado uranium industry has seen booms and busts, but continues 
to this day. Not counting byproduct uranium from phosphate, Colorado is 
considered to have the third largest uranium reserves of any US state, 
behind Wyoming and New Mexico. Uranium price increases from 2001 to 2007 
prompted a number of companies to revive uranium mining in Colorado. However, 
price drops and financing problems in late 2008 forced these companies 
to cancel or scale back uranium-mining projects. There are no currently 
producing uranium mines in Colorado. Colorado's high Rocky Mountain ridges 
and eastern plains offer wind power potential, and geologic activity in 
the mountain areas provides potential for geothermal power development. 
Much of the state is sunny and could produce solar power. Major rivers 
flowing from the Rocky Mountains offer hydroelectric power resources. Corn 
grown in the flat eastern part of the state offers potential resources 
for ethanol production. Colorado's primary mode of transportation (in terms 
of passengers) is its highway system. Interstate 25 (I-25) is the primary 
north–south highway in the state, connecting Pueblo, Colorado Springs, 
Denver, and Fort Collins, and extending north to Wyoming and south to New 
Mexico. I-70 is the primary east–west corridor. It connects Grand Junction 
and the mountain communities with Denver, and enters Utah and Kansas. The 
state is home to a network of US and Colorado highways that provide access 
to all principal areas of the state. Smaller communities are only connected 
to this network via county roads. Denver International Airport (DIA) is 
the fourth busiest domestic U.S. airport and thirteenth busiest world airport[92] 
DIA handles by far the largest volume of commercial air traffic in Colorado, 
and is the busiest U.S. hub airport between Chicago and the Pacific coast, 
making Denver the most important airport for connecting passenger traffic 
in the western United States. Extensive public transportation bus services 
are offered both intra-city and inter-city—including the Denver metro area's 
extensive RTD services. The Regional Transportation District (RTD) operates 
the popular RTD Bus & Rail transit system in the Denver Metropolitan Area. 
As of January 2013 the RTD rail system had 170 light rail vehicles, serving 
47 miles (76 km) of track. Amtrak operates two legendary passenger rail 
lines in Colorado, the California Zephyr and Southwest Chief. Colorado's 
contribution to world railroad history was forged principally by the Denver 
and Rio Grande Western Railroad which began in 1870 and wrote the book 
on mountain railroading. In 1988 the "Rio Grande" acquired, but was merged 
into, the Southern Pacific Railroad by their joint owner Philip Anschutz. 
On September 11, 1996, Anschutz sold the combined company to the Union 
Pacific Railroad, creating the largest railroad network in the United States. 
The Anschutz sale was partly in response to the earlier merger of Burlington 
Northern and Santa Fe which formed the large Burlington Northern and Santa 
Fe Railway (BNSF), Union Pacific's principal competitor in western U.S. 
railroading. Both Union Pacific and BNSF have extensive freight operations 
in Colorado. Colorado's freight railroad network consists of 2,688 miles 
of Class I trackage. It is integral to the U.S. economy, being a critical 
artery for the movement of energy, agriculture, mining, and industrial 
commodities as well as general freight and manufactured products between 
the East and Midwest and the Pacific coast states.[93] In August 2014, 
Colorado began to issue driver licenses to aliens not lawfully in the United 
States who lived in Colorado.[94] In September 2014, KCNC reported that 
524 non-citizens were issued licenses issued to U.S. Citizens living in 
Colorado.[95] Like the federal government and all other U.S. states, Colorado's 
state constitution provides for three branches of government: the legislative, 
the executive, and the judicial branches. The Governor of Colorado heads 
the state's executive branch. The current governor is John Hickenlooper, 
a Democrat. Colorado's other statewide elected executive officers are the 
Lieutenant Governor of Colorado (elected on a ticket with the Governor), 
Secretary of State of Colorado, Colorado State Treasurer, and Attorney 
General of Colorado, all of whom serve four-year terms. The seven-member 
Colorado Supreme Court is the highest judicial court in the state. The 
state legislative body is the Colorado General Assembly, which is made 
up of two houses, the House of Representatives and the Senate. The House 
has 65 members and the Senate has 35. As of 2014[update], the Republican 
Party holds an 18 to 17 majority in the Senate and a 31 to 34 minority 
in the House. Most Coloradans are native to other states (nearly 60% according 
to the 2000 census),[97] and this is illustrated by the fact that the state 
did not have a native-born governor from 1975 (when John David Vanderhoof 
left office) until 2007, when Bill Ritter took office; his election the 
previous year marked the first electoral victory for a native-born Coloradan 
in a gubernatorial race since 1958 (Vanderhoof had ascended from the Lieutenant 
Governorship when John Arthur Love was given a position in Richard Nixon's 
administration in 1973). The State of Colorado is divided into 64 counties.[98] 
Counties are important units of government in Colorado since the state 
has no secondary civil subdivisions such as townships. Two of these counties, 
the City and County of Denver and the City and County of Broomfield, have 
consolidated city and county governments. Nine Colorado counties have a 
population in excess of 250,000 each, while eight Colorado counties have 
a population of less than 2,500 each. The ten most populous Colorado counties 
are all located in the Front Range Urban Corridor. The United States Office 
of Management and Budget (OMB) has defined one Combined Statistical Area 
(CSA),[99] seven Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs),[100] and seven 
Micropolitan Statistical Areas (μSAs)[101] in the state of Colorado.[102] 
The most populous of the 14 Core Based Statistical Areas in Colorado is 
the Denver-Aurora-Broomfield, CO Metropolitan Statistical Area. This area 
had an estimated population of 2,599,504 on July 1, 2011, an increase of 
+2.20% since the 2010 United States Census.[103] The more extensive Denver-Aurora-Boulder, 
CO Combined Statistical Area had an estimated population of 3,157,520 on 
July 1, 2011, an increase of +2.16% since the 2010 United States Census.[103] 
The most populous extended metropolitan region in Rocky Mountain Region 
is the Front Range Urban Corridor along the northeast face of the Southern 
Rocky Mountains. This region with Denver at its center had an estimated 
population of 4,495,181 on July 1, 2012, an increase of +3.73% since the 
2010 United States Census.[103] The state of Colorado currently has 271 
active incorporated municipalities, including 196 towns, 73 cities, and 
two consolidated city and county governments.[104][105] Colorado municipalities 
operate under one of five types of municipal governing authority. Colorado 
has one town with a territorial charter, 160 statutory towns, 12 statutory 
cities, 96 home rule municipalities (61 cities and 35 towns), and 2 consolidated 
city and county governments. In addition to its 271 municipalities, Colorado 
has 187 unincorporated Census Designated Places and many other small communities. 
The state of Colorado has more than 3,000 districts with taxing authority. 
These districts may provide schools, law enforcement, fire protection, 
water, sewage, drainage, irrigation, transportation, recreation, infrastructure, 
cultural facilities, business support, redevelopment, or other services. 
Some of these districts have authority to levy sales tax and well as property 
tax and use fees. This has led to a hodgepodge of sales tax and property 
tax rates in Colorado. There are some street intersections in Colorado 
with a different sales tax rate on each corner, sometimes substantially 
different. Some of the more notable Colorado districts are: Colorado is 
considered a swing state in both state and federal elections. Coloradans 
have elected 17 Democrats and 12 Republicans to the governorship in the 
last 100 years. In presidential politics, Colorado was considered a reliably 
Republican state during the post-World War II era, only voting for the 
Democratic candidate in 1948, 1964 and 1992. However, it became a competitive 
swing state by the turn of the century, and voted consecutively for Democrat 
Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012, as well as Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016. 
Colorado politics has the contrast of conservative cities such as Colorado 
Springs and liberal cities such as Boulder and Denver. Democrats are strongest 
in metropolitan Denver, the college towns of Fort Collins and Boulder, 
southern Colorado (including Pueblo), and a few western ski resort counties. 
The Republicans are strongest in the Eastern Plains, Colorado Springs, 
Greeley, and far Western Colorado near Grand Junction. The state of Colorado 
is represented by its two United States Senators: Colorado is represented 
by seven Representatives to the United States House of Representatives: 
On the November 8, 1932 ballot, Colorado approved the repeal of alcohol 
prohibition more than a year before the Twenty-first Amendment to the United 
States Constitution was ratified. In 2012, voters amended the state constitution 
protecting "personal use" of marijuana for adults, establishing a framework 
to regulate cannabis in a manner similar to alcohol. The first recreational 
marijuana shops in Colorado, and by extension the United States, opened 
their doors on January 1, 2014.[80] Colleges and universities in Colorado: 
Colorado is currently the home of seven major military bases and installations. 
Former Military installations and outposts include: Colorado is home to 
4 national parks, 8 national monuments, 2 national recreation areas, 2 
national historic sites, 3 national historic trails, a national scenic 
trail, 11 national forests, 2 national grasslands, 42 national wilderness 
areas, 2 national conservation areas, 8 national wildlife refuges, 44 state 
parks, 307 state wildlife areas, and numerous other scenic, historic, and 
recreational areas. Units of the National Park System in Colorado: Colorado 
has five major professional sports leagues, all based in the Denver metropolitan 
area. Colorado is the least populous state with a franchise in each of 
the major professional sports leagues. The Pikes Peak International Hill 
Climb is a major hillclimbing motor race held at the Pikes Peak Highway. 
The Cherry Hills Country Club has hosted several professional golf tournaments, 
including the U.S. Open, U.S. Senior Open, U.S. Women's Open, PGA Championship 
and BMW Championship. The following universities and colleges participate 
in the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I. The most popular 
college sports program is the University of Colorado Buffaloes, who used 
to play in the Big-12 but now play in the Pac-12. They have won the 1957 
and 1991 Orange Bowl, 1995 Fiesta Bowl and 1996 Cotton Bowl Classic. Coordinates: 
