The Colorado Rockies are an American professional baseball team based in 
Denver, Colorado. The Rockies compete in Major League Baseball (MLB) as 
a member club of the National League (NL) West division. The team's home 
venue is Coors Field, located in the LoDo (Lower Downtown) area of Denver. 
The Rockies have won one National League championship (2007). The team 
mounted a rally in the last month of the 2007 regular season, winning 21 
of their final 22 games, and reached the 2007 World Series. However, they 
were swept by the American League (AL) champion Boston Red Sox in four 
games. They are one of two MLB franchises to have never won a division 
title (the other team are the Rockies' expansion brethren, the Miami Marlins). 
Denver had long been a hotbed of Denver Bears/Zephyrs Minor League Baseball 
and many in the area desired a Major League team. Following the Pittsburgh 
drug trials, an unsuccessful attempt was made to purchase the Pittsburgh 
Pirates and relocate them. However, in 1991, as part of Major League Baseball's 
two-team expansion (they also added the Florida (now Miami) Marlins), an 
ownership group representing Denver led by John Antonucci and Michael I. 
Monus were granted a franchise; they took the name "Rockies" due to Denver's 
proximity to the Rocky Mountains, which is reflected in their logo. Monus 
and Antonucci were forced to drop out in 1992 after Monus' reputation was 
ruined by an accounting scandal. Trucking magnate Jerry McMorris stepped 
in at the 11th hour to save the franchise, allowing the team to begin play 
in 1993. The Rockies shared Mile High Stadium (which had originally been 
built for the Bears) with the National Football League (NFL)'s Denver Broncos 
for their first two seasons while Coors Field was constructed. It was completed 
for the 1995 Major League Baseball season. In 1993, they started play in 
the Western division of the National League. Since that date, the Rockies 
have reached the Major League Baseball postseason three times, each time 
as the National League wild card team. Twice (1995 and 2009) they were 
eliminated in the first round of the playoffs. In 2007, the Rockies advanced 
to the World Series, only to be swept by the Boston Red Sox. The Rockies 
have played their home games at Coors Field since 1995. Their newest Spring 
training home, Salt River Fields at Talking Stick in Scottsdale, Arizona, 
opened in March 2011 and is shared with the Arizona Diamondbacks. At the 
start of the 2012 season, the Rockies introduced "Purple Mondays" in which 
the team wears its purple uniform every Monday game day.[2][3] No inducted 
members of the Baseball Hall of Fame have played for or managed the Rockies. 
Todd Helton is the sole Colorado player to have his number (17) retired, 
which was done on Sunday, August 17, 2014. Jackie Robinson's number, 42, 
was retired throughout all of baseball in 1997.[5] Keli McGregor had worked 
with the Rockies since their inception in 1993, rising from senior director 
of operations to team president in 2002, until his death on April 20, 2010. 
He is honored at Coors Field alongside Helton and Robinson with his initials.[6] 
Pitchers Catchers Infielders Outfielders Manager Coaches 34 active, 0 inactive, 
0 non-roster invitees 7- or 15-day disabled list * Not on active roster 
† Suspended list Roster, coaches, and NRIs updated November 7, 2016 Transactions 
• Depth Chart → All MLB rosters As of 2010, Rockies' flagship radio station 
is KOA 850AM, with some late-season games broadcast on KHOW 630 AM due 
to conflicts with Denver Broncos games. Jerry Schemmel and Jack Corrigan 
are the radio announcers which both serve as backup TV announcers whenever 
Drew Goodman is not on the broadcast. The Rockies Radio Network is composed 
of 38 affiliate stations in eight states. As of 2013, Spanish broadcasts 
of the Rockies are heard on KNRV 1150 AM. As of 2013, all games will be 
produced and televised by Root Sports Rocky Mountain. All 150 games produced 
by Root Sports Rocky Mountain will be broadcast in HD. Jeff Huson, Drew 
Goodman and George Frazier form the TV broadcast team with Marc Stout, 
Jenny Cavnar, Ryan Spilborghs, Jason Hirsh and Cory Sullivan handling the 
